I '

'.%v-

^r.

-<, /:<.'

OF Thou

N 1VER.51TY

or ILLINOIS

The person charging this material is responsible
for its renewal or its return to
the library from which it was borrowed
on or before the Latest Date stamped
below. You may be charged a minimum
fee of $75.00 for each lost book.

Ihoft, mutilation ami undermining of i9eolu or* reason
for disciplinary action and may result In dltmtotal from
the University.
TO RENEW CALL TELEPHONE Center 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS Library AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

^g£^:^^

NOV i S1998

When renewing by phone, write new due date below
previous due date. L162

VOL. III.

3. romance of ista-bau iinir festering.

BLANCHE ROOSEVELT,

AUTHOR OF

LIFE AND REMINISCENCES OF Octave DORE," " LONGFELLOW's HOME LIFE,

"STAGE Struck," ETC.

"For time at last sets all things even,
And if we do but watch the hour,
There never yet was human power
Which could evade, if unforgiven,
The patient search, and vigil long,
Of him who treasures up a wi-long."

Mazeppa. Canto V. Byron.

VOL. III.

Wed AND DOWNEY, PUBLISHERS,

12, YORK STREET, Covent GARDEN.

1886.

Bread STREET HILL, London

Bv.'iujay, Suffolk.

THE Copper QUEEN.

CHAPTER 1.

Enilda and Flora had been but a few days in
London when the mail brought them letters from
home ; amongst others from Mr. Rozen and Florestan,
and a very long one from Mrs. Chromo. Mr. Rozen
was full of regret for his dear girl's departure, and
fuller yet of his multitude of cares and troubles ; whilst
Florestan's letter, although couched in friendly terms,
in every word breathed an under-current of love
which amounted to a passion ; for if Enilda had
known before that he cared for her, she now read
between the lines, and saw in every space a newer
declaration of his affection.

Since her meeting with Claremont she had been
a prey to such strange sensations that not only she
scarcely dared to define them, but she scarcely dared
admit even to herself what she felt now to be the

VOL. III. B

truth — that Claremont held as of old the first place
in her heart. The day following her arrival she had
refused to see him, and Flora had given him the
coveted dish of tea ; but if Enilda refused one morning,
fate threw him in her path the next; whilst
Lady Mildred, unsuspicious and unwearying in hospitality,
so managed that not a day passed but they
either lunched, dined, or went to the play together.
Enilda could not plead ill health as an excuse for
not accepting Lady Mildred's invitations, for in
reality she had never been so well before in her
whole life. Then, too, since their meeting on the
steamer, at sight of his face or sound of his voice,
that strange old fascination would creep over her,
and as helplessly enfold her in its toils as the boa-constrictor
enfolds its victim. She had never yet
seen him alone — so far fortune had befriended her
yet she dreaded to think of what that meeting
might be, for she felt sure come it must some day.
She was turning Florestan's letter over idly in her
hand, and thinking — not of him, but of Claremont.
She was suddenly startled out of her thoughts by
a shriek of laughter from Flora.

My dearest child," she cried, " jvdiat on earth
are you laughing at ? "

Flora continued laughing, but explained that
she was reading Mrs. Chromo's letter, and the news

Was too funny. " Stays'* she added ; " I'll read it to
you entire. If you aren't surprised I'll give in. Lucy
Chromo is a dear, but between ourselves, 'Enilda
chile as Charlotte Corday says, she's no chicken,
and ought to know better. Now, Miss Chandos-
Cressy, for instance : she's old enough to eat grass,
but I don't believe even she would be as idiotic
as Lucy is. Listen :

"dearest Flora,

"you wondered why I didn't come to Europe
with you ; why at the last moment I had to stop at
home ? Well, I may as well tell you the truth, first
as last. Nearly a year ago I determined that if
Adam Chromo wouldn't give up the glue business
in short, retire on his laurels and money — that I
would be divorced from him, as I could no longer
stand the sight of those filthy, brazen carts, chirping
up and down the Avenue constantly before my very
eyes. The end of all is, he wouldn't sacrifice them ;
he preferred to sacrifice me : not unusual, dear, when
you marry simply that compound of nature's cunning,
classically called — man. I did not care to let New
York into the secret of my domestic affairs, so have
always kept the matter extremely quiet. Before the
world Adam and myself have ever preserved an
outward semblance of harmony; behind it — well,

not a semblance, but a reality of awful discord.
Every word I have spoken to him at meals, or before
a servant, has been taken down for me by my
faithful Zenobia; for Adam, by his equally faithful
Tristram. These conversations, I need not tell you,
are destined as evidence when our case comes up
for trial; the which trial, I need not say, comes
off the first of September next. You can imagine
how I feel, and what I have borne during the past
year. My lawyer, Mr. Harkins, a sweet, angelic man,
has heard all my pros and cons. I believe that is
the legal way to put it, and he thinks that Adam
Chromo is a brute, and has morally mopped the
floor up with me for years. Absolute incompatibility
of temper is the least I have against him. Oh,
Flora ! pity me. Tell Enilda all, and whatever you
do, either of you, never marry an idiotic, opinionated,
self-made American. Other races of men change —
American men — never. Adam could not forget that
he had, so to speak, manufactured himself. He used
to boast of what he was — a Virginian stable-boy in
extreme youth — and what he is novo. I have often
told him, that to a proud, even haughty — you know
me, Flora, I have often been haughty, but never
with you ; — a proud, even haughty woman like myself,
a Mayflower descendant, he was not Hercules,
and those Augean reminiscences had an unsavoury

smell in the millionnaire's parlour. I have even said,
Leave me out of the question ; but you — you yourself,
have you no pride ? " Result ! Well, girls, both of
you — you see he hasn't. I wish you could have seen
the lawyer's face when he took in our breakfast-table
conversation, faithfully reported by Zenobia — too
faithfully for Adam, — which was but one speaking
instance of the brutality and humiliation we women
are subject to at times. Mind, I say at times, for
although the race in general deserves wholesale
reprobation, I have known some masculine exceptions,
of which I could name three or four on the
spot. I have more news, which will keep until my
arrival. What sort of a house is it ? Park Lane
sounds very nice. Mr. Rozen told me all about
it. How many servants are there ? They say
June and July are the months in London, so I
am counting on a lovely time. By the way, we
come over in a large party — Mr. Florestan, the
Count, Mr. Cherubini, and your humble servant.
Let me not forget Miss Chances-Cressy, who has
just told me that she is great-aunt to a titled lady —
married to an old flame of mine, John Claremont — ' "

"Ah!"

What is it ? "

I — I thought some one came in ; I see I was
mistaken. Go on."

' John Claremont, whom I was once — may I say
completely gone on ? It wasn't the man, but his
manners, they were so different from those of all
American men : but that's over — " All's well — that —
is worth two in the bush," I shouldn't be at all surprised
if Professor Protoplasm came with us after all.
I believe he's sweet on Miss C.-C. Something else
also has happened, but that must be a secret until
after my divorce has been pronounced. I am going
to be presented at Court with you girls this season,
as no woman, I hear, can go to Court after the little
affair above-mentioned has been consummated.
Ridiculous, isn't it ? — but I suppose in England they
must draw the line somewhere. I am nearly dead,
but must add a word to say that Enilda's papa looks
very worried and anxious. I see there has been some
law-suit on for that Vane, and perhaps Mr. Rozen
was worried about it. That comes of being a silent
partner. Pve always said they have all the fretting,
all the responsibility, and all the work. If Adam
would only become a silent partner in his own
concern — but that is a dream.

' Don't think I regret the step I have taken. I
don't love him, but I still have a sneaking kind of
regard for him, and sometimes wonder what will
become of him without me ; but he deserves it. Perhaps
when he finds me firm he will listen to reason.

He will settle ten million dollars on me, so that I
shan't starve ; but it seems little compared to what I
have been in the habit of commanding. Of course
one can live upon that, but it will be an odious
thought to say to myself every day and every
minute, as I know I shall be obliged to say, " Lucy
Chromo, deny yourself this, deny yourself that ; your
exchequer is now miserably limited."

"ewe sail in the "Electra;" lovely steamer. I
have the bridal chambers, — alas ! strange mockery of
a happy past. Forgive me, girls, for wilting now at
the last moment, so to speak, but I cannot help
it. If I don't leave New York soon, I shall
rupture a blood-vessel in the brain, or somewhere
else. I have said good-bye to Adam, and — goodbye
I feel it is. Will telegraph arrival from
Queenstown.

' With fond love, ever the same,

"lucy Chromo.'

'• Now, Enilda, what can you say to a woman like
Lucy Chromo ? " Flora laughed as she spoke. " Isn't
she a fool to give up all that money, and — and as
decent a man as one could find in the whole of
America, hunt where you may ? What do you repose
the secret is ? "

I haven't an idea "

Perhaps she is going to marry again."

Perhaps."

"Enilda, how oddly you answer me; aren't yon
well?"

"Perfectly."

"Perfectly? Let me see." Flora took Enilda's
chin in her hand and turned the fair face up to the
light.

The object of this scrutiny blushed.

Nonsense, Flora," she cried petulantly ; " I am
perfectly Avell, only — only I was wondering about —
about papa. I confess I am worried. Do you think
he is seriously ill ? "

Enilda's eyes filled with tears.

"I think Lucy Chromo is an idiot," cried
Flora. "I'm out of patience with her. Of course
your father isn't ill; at worst it could only be
some stock sone wronoj. What is he — a bull or a
bear ? "

I — ^I really don't know ; perhaps he's both. Perhaps
he may be a bear for one kind and a bull for
the other; but I've heard people who know Wall
Street as well as their pocket-books say that bull is
one profession and bear is another. It's as different
as being a chemist and botanist, you know,"

"It is all strange talk to me, dear; but I don't
believe it is stock ; in fact I know it isn't. I asked

him once, and he said distinctly, No. Perhaps hein
love."

"Flora!"

Well, dear, have you never dreamed that some
such elinor misfht be the case ? "

Never. Papa adored mamma. Her awful death
made him a chant-ed man. He has since devoted

o

himself to me, and couldn't look at another woman :
every day he seems to love me more. No one ever
had a father like mine — like — "

Enilda stopped abruptly, although her eyes were
still overrun with tears. In fancy she went back
to a year ago. She was reading Claremont's letter
her father was consoling her — then she was in
Naples, in Rome, wandering here, there, everywhere;
he always silencing her heartaches by his
infinite tenderness, his watchfulness, his constant
care.

Flora kissed her.

"Dear," she said, "I won't quarrel with you
about parents, although I think my own are the
best 'as ever was;' only you mustn't worry about
him; crying and so on: besides, you'll spoil your
eyes — 'the loveliest eyes in the world,' as Mr.
Claremont says."

Flora, what do you mean ? "

"Enilda, don't fly at me like that. What do

you mean ? Can't a man admire your eyes ? A
'cat may look at a king.' I only say if a man
admires my eyes, I don't see why he can't come
directly to me, and tell me, instead of waltzing
around to other women and saying what he thinks of
me ! What's that ? — a ' gram ' ; — give it here. Oh,
it's for you, Enilda."

A servant handed Enilda the regulation yellow
envelope.

"They've arrived," she said; "read. Lucy will be
here tomorrow, and — and Mr. Florestan."

Flora jumped joyfully about like a school-girl.

'eat last," she said; "now we can besoin to
have some fun. But two things we'll prohibit;
no talking divorce; no abusing Adam Chromo
behind his back. What do you say, 'Nilda? — and
and — no talking about your pater, and — and
worries."

I must know exactly how papa is ; but as to
talking over her proposed divorce — that — well, that
is out of the question."

"Perhaps she'll abandon the idea if we have a
good go at her about it."

My dear child, what business is it of yours or
mine ? At least leave her to the enjoyment of her
own private affairs. Now I have something to
confide in you. I have taken a growing dislike to

Count de Marcie. I see him in dreams mixed up
with papa, and I can't make it out; after such a
night I really wake up with — with — well, with a
bad taste in my mouth, if you know what I mean
by that."

I know exactly ; an encyclopaedia in ten volumes
couldn't have expressed it better."

I see that Lucy Chromo is getting as thick with
the Count as two peas in a pod, and I hope she
won't have him here all the time; I feel I couldn't
stand it."

My dear, the house is yours."

Oh no ; I don't mean that. Of course, Lucy is
kind enough to chaperone us. The house is hers ; she
spoke something about taking it together, and so on ;
but that is all nonsense. The best friends in the
world fight after a month of having kept house
together ; dividing household expenses, and so on. I
know of nothing more fatal to mutual esteem."

Perhaps as you are not devoted chums it would
work all right."

"Yes; that might be an antidote, but I am not
going to try it. Papa has arranged everything. He
has invited her to be my guest, but practically to
be the head of the house."

"So we girls are on a visit to Lucy. How
funny ! "

It is funny when you think of it ; but as papa
couldn't come, and your mamma wouldn't come —
and he — papa — insisted on my coming to Europe,
and so did Charlotte Corday — "

"My dearest Enilda, what has she to do with
it?"

Oh nothing ; only — only I love her dearly. She
has been like a mother to me."

Happily she didn't nurse you ; you might have
been black."

Nonsense." Enilda smiled faintly for the first
time since reading her letters. "Nonsense; only
Charlotte had a strange fainting-fit ; and after that
she kept saying, ' Let's go away, honey chile — away
from New York ; ' and when I said papa wishes me
to go to London, she seemed tickled to death, and
she was so broken-down, poor thing, I thought we
might as well come, so — here we are."

She seems to enjoy London hugely, and now I
think of it looks as spry as a 'possum' — to quote
her words. But come, are we o^oingj to the Row or
not this morning ? "

Oh yes, of course ; I had quite forgotten our
engagement."

Lady Mildred is a dear, not a bit like the stiff
Englishmen you read about — but wdiat a funny
country ! — she, my Lady ; he, plain Mister. Imagine

a husband taking a back seat in America — being
only—"

Only the husband of madam."

"Yes; and — and do you know, Enilda, I don't
believe they're happy together. She loves him, and
he don't love her. If I didn't know better, I should
sa" he's mashed on you. It's the clearest case of — "

In spite of herself Enilda trembled as she thought :
What ! had she alone been blind ? Did John
Claremont still care for her ? — and did he respect her
his wife — so little that he let all the world see it ?
Could it be possible ? "

Heavens upon earth," cried Flora, " what fools weare
! The ship is in ; this gram isn't from Queenstown
at all, but from Liverpool. Why, they'll be
here in no time."

Enilda looked again, then rang and began giving
directions about Lucy's rooms, the dinner, and — then
she reflected. The Claremont were dining there
that very night; should she put them off? Flora
divined her brown study.

Let's have a grand square-toed dinner in the
impromptu line, all together. Lady Mildred is sure
to like Lucy, and she won't be too tired after the
trip. What fun ! what fun ! Do give orders at
once."

Enilda demurred, but Flora finally had her warders

were given ; the girls went to the park ;
kicked with Lady Mildred afterwards, and two
hours later were embracing Lucy and Miss Chandos-
Cressy at the railway-terminus. They were nil
lauofhino: and chattering 'thirteen to the dozen"
about the trip.

Florestan shook Enilda's hand warmly, and looked
into her eyes with so glad a light in his that she
felt a thrill leaping in every vein. She was sorry
for him, and yet she could not tell why ; only John
Claremont's face always came between hers and any
others, if that other happened to be a man's. Would
it be ever so ? She had intended welcoming Florestan
warmly ; instead, she turned her face away and
greeted him coldly.

"Something has happened," he thought, and his
heart died within him. He had counted the hours
of the long voyage. Every plash of the waves
against the steamer's paddle, every opaline tint which
crested the little hills receding from the stern, had
said to him, "You are leaving me behind, but you
are going to her;" and on those fair nights when
the silver moonlight made an endless track across
the broad expanse of water he repeated, " One day
more which separated us is gone. I am one day
nearer to her." He had looked at the last crests
flashing from the bow, and almost heard the last

sound of the screw as the all-potent iron cleaved the
impuissant Atlantic ; he had heard " All's well ! "
cried out for the last time ; he was landed in London
at last, and she — she was standing by his side saying
coldly :

So glad to see you. I hope you had a charming
trip ; you must dine with us to-night. Flora
insists on our having a real family party."

Flora," he thought ; " ah ! — she it was who asked
me, — who cared to see me 1 "

And, dear Cyril, you haven't brought him ? "
Florestan smiled sadly.

'cyril is with his grand mamma. I shall miss
him, but mother wouldn't hear of my bringing such
a little fellow so far."

"Oh, I'm sorry; I had so hoped to see him. I
love him dearly."

At that moment Florestan was near hating him.
"Even my child," he thought bitterly, "she loves
him, but — she has no love for me." He was going
to refuse the dinner; he conceived the wild project of
returning to New York by the next steamer. "She
is a heartless woman," he thought, " and I will think
of her no more." He looked up brusquely. She
was speaking to him in a softer voice ; only a softer
voice, one little cadence sweeter than a moment since,
and at its music all his latent resolutions vanished.

"I am sure you won't plead a prior engagement,"
she said; "I can't let you say no. There
will be some old friends; amongst others the Lady
Mildred Claremont, and — and her husband, — delightful
people ; — also some new acquaintances, Lord and
Lady St. Ermine, Baron d'Alfredi, and many others.
Lady St. Ermine is a lovely woman, a poetess — not a
bit of the has blue."

He lifted his hands in horror.

"Prepare yourself," she said laughingly, "for a
very young woman, fair, lovely, adorable; eyes like
wood-violets shining with morning dew, and a face
like an unfinished sketch by an old master — Raphael,
for instance, — and she the Sitting Madonna in — in
English—"

"My dear," interrupted Lucy Chromo, "don't
spring old masters on me at this stage of the game."
Then she added quickly, " How foggy it is ! The
Count got off at Queenstown, wasn't it odious of him ?
but — he is coming on tomorrow or the day after."

Enilda some way breathed a sigh of relief. She
was happy to think that even forty-eight hours had
come between them. Florestan's voice sounded in
her ears.

You know your wishes are, as ever, my law. Of
course I shall come. Eight, you say? and I add
eight sharp.' "

The dinner was finished and the men dawdJino-
over wine, cigars, and scandal; perhaps political,
but certainly scandal. John Claremont was looking
at Florestan. His brow was clouded, and a dark
light sombre his eyes. He had been thus studying
him ever since he had revived a very slight acquaintanceship
began in New York months since. When
Enilda left the room he surprised a glance on
Florestan's face which roused every bad passion in
his nature.

He loves her," he thought ; " and she — she has
forgotten me. She loves him ; but I would kill her
with my own hand before she should ever marry
him."

VOL. Ill,

Chapter II.

At last the great affair was over. Mrs. Chromo,
Enilda, and Flora had gone bare-necked on a bitter
day to pay court to a Sovereign whose virtues like
her name were world-wide. They did not regret
the biting east wind, the lonsc drive to Buckins^haiu
Palace, the long wait before presentation, nor the
gradual deepening of the skin from rose to violet,
and the standing for hours before their turns came.
The three had previously taken lessons from a
fashionable drawing-room teacher, and at home they
had rehearsed their parts ; Lucy Chromo being the
queen, Flora the wife of the Minister for Foreign
Affairs, Enilda the victim. Then the roles were
reversed, each in turn assuming the state of queen,
mistress of ceremonies, and young lady to be presented.
Enilda certainly excelled in grace, Flora in
audacity, and Lucy in dignity. At last the teacher
pronounced them perfect, and declared that from

their ease and manner they might have passed their
lives at Court. " It is astonishing," she said, " how
Americans get on," and added, " Ladies, I never
before had such pupils. It is as if you were born to
the purple."

When they saw their noses and shoulders growing
so high-coloured in broad daylight, they began to
think that not only were they born to it, but that
they had inherited it then and there.

Few women can stand the crucial test of the
Drawing-room, and long before they reached the
Palace Lucy began to grumble, Flora to fret, and
Enilda to declare that " it might as well be in the
evening anyway ; " but their murmuring were " a
vain thing," and after hours of unavoidable peripatetic
they finally found themselves in the Royal
apartment, where the members of the Royal Family
in brilliant automatic guard stood to the risfht and
left of her most gracious Majesty the Queen.

When the important moment came Enilda trembled
like a leaf in the storm.

I know I shall do something awful," whispered
Flora, whilst Lucy preserved such a dignity that her
bosom heaved and threatened to burst the bounds
of her corsage, whose scantness, the fashion, the
dressmaker, and her own personal courage had all
mutually agreed upon. It was over : the page had

c 2

held Enilda's train ; she had advanced as if she were
walking on eggs; she had bowed she never could
tell how; had stretched out her arm she never knew
Ashen ; the Queen had placed a gentle hand thereon ;
and she had kissed it she never realized where.

Flora, in spite of her presentiment, had creditably
gone through the same performance ; but Lucy, her
face in a glow, her breast in a storm, and her heart
like a stone, at the last instant had dropped her
superb dignity. As a super drops his mantle at the
very moment he should have kept it on, so all her
fine airs fled from her the instant she most needed
them ; she stumbled in her petticoats ; she couldn't
get near enough to the Queen. And the kiss that
should have exploded on the royal hand rent the
air a few fathoms off like a signal falling foul at sea.
Then the agony about the dress was unendurable.
She bent, she heard it strain, strain again, then a
cunning sound like the splitting of ship's timbers ina
gale smote her ear ; in spite of a pound of hairdresser
s pins, her hair, not particular which end it
stood on, raised, and the prickling at the roots drove
all the blood from her heart to the upper part of her
arms. Oh, to dare to look up ; to scream, to do anything!
— but impossible. Had anything happened?
Happily nothing ; for in spite of warnings her bodice
proved stronger than her nerves. She finished her

salutation in a whole frock, but a dead faint ; and if
she had not created a sensation at her appearance,
she certainly did on her disappearance. Proper
restoratives brought her to, and when she got away
from the Palace she realized the blessedness of
exceptions to rules, viz. Tennyson's —

Of all sad words of tongue or 'pen,
The saddest are these, ' it might have been.' "

It was indeed over. " The agony was somewhat
abated." Happily, although the circumstances were
not the same as those Byron describes in — in one of
his poems —

Alas, we must awake before,
We know such vision comes no more ; "

Lucy knew that her Drawing-room if not her day
was ended, and as they drove down the Mall in the
budding twilight Enilda consoled and Flora comforted
: but she for the first time in her life remarked
'That she was glad America was a Republic," and
grateful tears bursting from her eyes, a calm followed
the storm, and she began to think not about her
presentation but her dinner. When she fully recovered
the effects of her fright at what might have
been, she was so grateful for the escape that she
even contemplated making herself a British subject,
and paved the way by sending cheques to all the

London hospitals, until her enthusiasm, like her
money, gradually grew *' beautifully less."

Enilda was now in the full swing of the London
season. Her title of " Copper Queen " had followed
her from America; she was oftener called that than
by her name. Her beauty, modesty, and manners
won all hearts. Royalty smiled upon her, and
the upper ten bore her upon its classic but tired
shoulders. She was invited to luncheons, dinners,
balls, suppers, to routs and to races, to Henley and
Buckingham, to attend fish-dinners at Greenwich
and fruit-stalls at Kew, Her life was one whirl of
pleasurable excitement. London was so adorable
that she wondered how she had ever even liked
New York:

And John Claremont ! As yet they had never
been alone together. When they met he was full
of a grave politeness, which, as she became accustomed
to it, daily threw her more and more off her
guard. After that farewell at Euston, where he had
pressed her hand with such violence, he had never
betrayed himself by a similar movement. They
met as people meet who have nothing in common
beyond the civilities of ordinary friendship. Enilda
no longer trembled in secret, no longer pictured to
herself any time when she would hear from his lips
an explanation that she had once thought him bound

to give her. But would he ever make that explanation
? Was there anything to say ? He had married
another woman, not for that other one's money — that
she would never admit, but because he no longer
truly loved her. It was very simple : men had done
those things since the world began. " Perhaps it
was half my fault," she would say. " I didn't throw
myself at his head, but I certainly made no objection
to his throwing; himself at mine." Then she would
go on thinking, and lose herself in a maze of fancy,
whose end was what its bemnnino^ had been —
irritation. Irritation against herself, against Claremont,
his wife, Flora, Charlotte, everybody in general,
and — Florestan in particular.

She could not forgive this latter for loving her.
She treated him more coldly every day, and yet he
did not seem to love her less. She could not understand
it, and at such times invariably wondered if
Claremont still cared for her. Her former lovers
passiveness was more galling then she had ever
dreamed his hatred could be. Did he love Lady
Mildred ? No — she was sure he did not. Women
have only to spend ten minutes in the society of a
man and his wife, of a lover and his mistress, to
know which is the one to love. When a man loves
a woman, he instinctively wants to touch her — her
hair, her shoulder, her hand, or a fold of her garment ;

and the merest nothing tells his passion to all the
air around him. Long before he comes near her
some occult power draws him slowly but surely to
her. This moral expansiveness is the expression of
the finest spiritual, not material, feeling, and says
more for the parity of a man's affection than could
a volume of the most eloquent words. The natural
instinct of the soul is a finer, subtler sense than the
natural instinct of the heart, and in men it is infallible,
whether shown by the King towards his
favourite maid of honour, or the humble student
towards his Latin-Quarter grisette.

And when women love ? Ah ! they may have as
many spiritual and natural instincts, but they are
more varied, and much more difficult to define.
Woman may not knoAV her own heart, but she can
tell directly what lies in another woman's. Enilda
felt that if there were any passion in this case it was
all on Lady Mildred's side.

She knew it was wrong, wholly wicked and detestable,
yet she longed to break the icy barrier between
Claremont and herself; loosed to see him once
betrayed out of that calm which he wore with such
constant, uncham^^ino- grace. Then she thought :

*' He does not care ; he does it to madden me ; but
I will show that I can be more indifferent still."

So the days wore on, and nothing was changed.

If possible, there was only more calm; but experienced
mariners know when the sea looks like a o-reat
plain of oil, the smoother it seems to-night the
fiercer the tempest tomorrow. Enilda, for all she
had bought experience with sorrow, was still as
unversed in many of the world's signs and warnings
as dien she plucked the flower which grew so wild
in the little old Laramie garden. She realized that
Florestan loved her, worshipped her, and in the
tumult of her heart she often surprised herself,
wondering why she treated him so coldly — why she
did not give him in return one-tenth the affection
he GO generously bestowed ; yet her wonderment
finished there. She cried bitterly to herself that no
man was worth a woman's pure, honest affection ;
she took up her life in its glittering skein, became
daily more worldly, and tried to stifle in society's
distractions her present, and best thoughts, those
which had been bought with the price of her youthful
hopes and inestimable youthful illusions.

Enilda was thinking of this one afternoon, when
she was interrupted by a visitor — none other than
Florestan himself. Flora and Lucy had gone out
shopping, and for the first time, so to speak, since
their arrival in London, she found herself alone.
When the servant announced Mr. Florestan, her first
thought was to say, " Not at home ; " but on reflection

she decided to receive him. He came in with so
bright a smile that some way it seemed to lighten
up even her own gloomy feelings. " What ! " ho
said, " alone — I am lucky ! " Then he kissed her
hand tenderly.

Alone ! " she re-echoed. " I am so glad you came
in; I was boring myself to death thinking of —
myself."

He looked anxiously in her face, but he could not
make his eyes sad ; some way they were filled with a
merry humour.

Gaze upon me," he said ; " I don't appear like
the orthodox classical Hermes, but I am a modern
Mercury, and bring you messages infinite, from at
least four very important persons."

Enilda smiled. " Come and sit down," she said,
leading him to a favourite corner, "and let me hear
your news."

'first' he said, "a letter from your father, who
misses you, but is well and very happy."

Ah," she said ; " dear papa ! — that is indeed good
news ; — and next ? "

Next," he said, " a letter for you from Cyril
written by his own hand."

"No!" she cried; 'give it to me this very
minute." She held out her hand. He gave her a
very small square of paper, rose-coloured, with a

tiny monogram in the corner, and an enormous bird
with an outstretched scroll in its beak. On this sheet
of paper were written the words :

To my dearest Miss 'Nilda, who I love very much,
and send all my love to at once. My terrier was lost
Ipr three days, and a wicked boy round the corner said
if 1 ever see him any more it would be in a sausage.
I miss you very much, and miss my father. I've had
my hair cut; and this winter, granny says, I'm to
wear pants. I love you very much, and wish you
were here to be my mother.

With great respect, truly yours,

Cyril Florestan."

Don't say my child isn't a wonder," said he
when she had finished reading ; "and — and the last
part of it."

Enilda blushed and looked down. "You have not
told me the rest of your news," she said. He bit his
lip, and an expression of sadness overclouded his
face.

You are right," he said calmly. " The rest is —
well, I shan't keep you in suspense — Miss Chandos-
Cressy has arrived, and so has Professor Protoplasm.
I've just come from Lady Mildred's and witnessed
the meeting, the first meeting between aunt and
niece."

*' You don't say ! What was it like ? "

Like ! Well, it was most curious ; it was like
nothing else I have ever seen in my life. You
know I'm not much of a gossip; but, shall I tell
you all about it ? "

She nodded a bright affirmative.

I'm not betraying any confidence, so I think I
may tell you exactly what happened. I was lunching
at Allison House ; Lady Mildred was showing me
some new plants, when we looked up, and at the
open door of the conservatory saw — Miss Chandos-
Cressy. She stood there — "

For Heaven's sake ! "

Yes ; wasn't it odd ? You know — Lady Mildred
had never seen her; she had been shown by mistake
into Claremont's room, he recognized her, and sent
her in as a surprise to his wife, wondering how Lady
Mildred would take the apparition. She turned
pale and grasped my arm. ' Who can it be ? ' she
ejaculated in an altered voice; then the apparition,
leaning on her ebony cane, said, ' Don't you know
me ? I'm your great-aunt and namesake, Mildred
Chances-Cressy.' "

What a surprise 1 Why how on earth did she
take it?"

"Take it; she took it as the little joker takes the
right bower in euchre. She went up to her, and

held out both hands, but seemed somewhat in doubt
where to kiss her, till looking over Miss Chandos-
Cressy's shoulder she saw her husband smiling: she
cried, ' Oh, John ! ' Then all three burst into a
scream of laughter, and they hugged and kissed all
round. It was very funny, I assure you. You know
Lady Mildred is an awfully good sort, not a bit like
a stiff Englishwoman, so she got on tremendously
well with her American great-aunt, and when I left
they were talking thirteen to the dozen "

"And you've no more news," said Enilda slily.

No ; but I've a favour to ask."

Well, what is it ? "

You once promised to play something for me ;
will you do it now ? "

Enilda breathed a half-sigh of relief. At that
moment the footman announced, " Professor Protoplasm."
In his heart Florestan condemned him to
the nethermost regions, but Enilda welcomed him
with a cordiality that bordered on enthusiasm. She
shook both his hands, and asked him a dozen questions
in a breath. Was he well ? Had he had a
pleasant voyage ? Were there any nice people on
the steamer ? He had come with Miss Chandos-
Cressy — quite shocking. Had he seen her papa
lately? — and how long was he going to stay in
London ?

Professor Protoplasm seemed to say yes to everything.


Let me give you some tea," she said, then added
in a stage aside : " I don't dare say a cock-tail ; this is
England you know — straight laced England."

The Professor smiled as he seated himself, and
drew from his pocket a gorgeous silk handkerchief,
with which he wiped his lined and unusually moist
forehead.

'Til have some tea," he said ; '' I'm devoted to tea.
isn't it odd, speaking of that plant, that although
it possesses such stimulating qualities, we, the
English-speaking races of to-day, drink it as freely
as we do water. Of course this taste has grown and
strengthened, a sort of an inheritance handed down
for generations, I should say. We could drink quarts
of tea and it would have no effect upon us ; but I
have every reason to believe that if William the
Conqueror were here to-day, and drank a single cup,
as strong as we drink it, it would knock him down
lifeless, if not stone dead, upon the pavement."

Enilda raised her hands in holy horror.

Happily," she said, " no tea was sprung on him
at the time of the Conquest, or — where would we all
be now ? "

"Tis a serious thing to think of," continued the
Professor, "and yet the question is a very simple

one — to think that perhaps the whole glorious Conquest
depended at one time upon William taking or
noi taking a cup of tea."

I don't know about taking tea," said Enilda ;
'• but if we are to believe history he took matilda
by the hair of her head, and, to quote Charlotte,
ranked ' her from her house into the very streets
of Dives before a whole assembled populace."

Are you sure ? " said Florestan. " I never heard
of that ; and where on earth is Dives ? "

Ah ! Mr. Florestan," said the Professor, " you
won't mind my saying it, but the Avorld is very
ignorant. Few people have heard of Dives ; but those
who have not only heard of but seen it, can never
forget it; then, too, I have another reason ever to
remember it; — but was I interrupting you when I
came in ? What were you doing ? "

Doing ! " said Florestan, " I was begging Miss
Rozen to play for me. Long as I have known her,
she has never yet given me that pleasure. I had
almost prevailed upon her just as you entered."

Let me add my entreaties," said the Professor.

Very well," said Enikla, " I promise. Let us have
tea first, and then you will regret you ever said play
to me ; however, I shall make one condition. Professor
that you tell us your special reason for remembering
Dives. Ah ! here's the tea ; shall I play first,

or will you tell the story whilst we are having tea ?
Which shall it be, Mr. Florestan ? "

The story by all means," and sipping his favourite
beverage, the Professor began.

It isn't much of a story," he said, " and it happened
just one j^ear ago. I was staying at Trouville, where
I met American friends staying in the same hotel.
One fair man, who was accompanied by a lady of
great beauty, came up to me, and finding me
disengaged insisted on my dining with him and
his party at Dives, in the house of William the
Conqueror."

* Do you know the lady ? ' he said. I confessed
my ignorance, but added how proud I should be to
know a person of such surpassing loveliness. He
then introduced me to Mrs. Haller, and we were soon
bowling over the smooth roads leading to the little
fishing village of Dives, which claims the honour of
having given birth to William the Conqueror. The
house he is said to have been born in is still standing.
It is a quaint old inn or hostelry, and in one
threat room there is a mammoth chimney-place, and
on a brick of one of the panels is scratched the names
of Matilda and William'*

I wonder how many times that brick has been
renewed since 1300," said Florestan, putting more
sugar into his tea.

The Professor looked severe. " I have every
reason to believe it to be the original tile, and would
not insult history by casting reflections on that
battered but time-honoured relic. But to continue.
After we had looked at everything in the house,
peered out u23on street and courtyard from the little
diamond-paned windows, dined at a rickety table
off ancient and no less rickety pottery, Mrs. Haller
suggested we should inspect the rear of the cottage,
and take coffee at the little tables in the back courtyard.
No sooner said than done ; when we got
there, seeing a rustic vine and flower-clad balcony
running the whole length of the house she clapped
her hands together and said, ' Oh, girls, what an ideal
balcony for Juliet ! ' Then she sprang up the quaint
staircase, leaned over an arching buttress, cried out,
Mr. Malcolm, you be Romeo ; ' and before one could
realize what it was all about, she struck an attitude,
and stretching forth the jewelled hands began, *0h
Romeo, Romeo, wherefore art thou Romeo ? ' I can
see her before me now as she stood there then, and
were I to live a thousand years could never forget
the picture ; — the twilight just fading into night ;
the little low house; the vine-clad balcony; the
grim courtyard with a hostler's lamp — just one — lit
up, and shining through a chink of the barn; and a
woman, the most beautiful I had ever seen, leaning

VOL. III. D

against a little trellis one mass of rich blossom,
matchless frame to her own matchless beauty, speaking
those incomparable words in her own incomparable
voice. I'm not given to remember wdiat
women wear, but I remember well what she wore. A
dress of palest yellow silk floated after her, and
seemed to lose itself in the amber-hued leaves on the
house wall; it was cut in a piece from her neck
down, and the shoulders were a mass of Indian muslin
and rare lace. A large Leghorn flat covered her
head, and two pale plumes floated down her back,
mingling their gold with the auburn of her tawny
hair. A knot of amber ribbon and deep red roses
fastened an old-fashioned girdle, and a fan of yellow
feathers swung lightly from a rich chatelaine at her
belt. She leant so gracefully, so idly, against her ,
that it seemed as if she were not only
a part of the balcony itself, but some gorgeous flower
bursting into bloom amidst those other flowers, one
and all master-pieces from great nature's hand. She
seemed utterly oblivious to our presence, but went
on and on in an inspired measure, which sent strange
thrills all over me. She never moved from her first
seemingly unconscious position. One jewelled hand
was slightly upraised, whilst the other, firmly imbedded
in the festoons of the balcony, clutched a
handkerchief of priceless lace between its fingers.

After ' what's in a name ? ' she changed her posture

to one, if possible, of still rarer grace, she went on

and on, and finally breaking into a shriek of laughter,

seized her girdle-knot and threw it full into Mr.

Malcolm's face, crying — "

Ah ! " cried Enilda ; " and you did not know, you

dii not guess — why, she was Adeline Nilsson." The

Professor wiped his brow.

** Yes," he replied quietly. " It broke upon me all

at once, and you may imagine whose hand led the

applause ; but — "

But what ? " said Florestan.

There's a sequel to the story," he added sadly ;

I must tell you that. The next night she left
Trouville, and as we all said good-bye at the Thence
Hotel in Paris, she seemed strange and wild. Malcolm
left her with peculiar politeness, and that same
evening she fell ill. She was ill more than a month,
and once tried to kill herself by jumping from a
high window facing the new Opera ! No one could
ever find the reason of her madness until she finally
told it. ' My heart is broken,' she said ; ' I felt it
breaking on that night I recited Juliet at Dives, and
the next day my only friend abandoned me.' She
said, ' I felt the strings snap then ; I will get over it,
but I shall never really love again.' She got over
it, and even had an unexpected revenge. A year

D 2

later she was playing an engagement in America, in
say Cincinnati — and coming down the steps of
the hotel, on her way to perform Juliet, saw a
familiar face behind the glass entrance-doors. It
was our old friend Malcolm, reduced from passion to
poverty, and from swelling style in the Grand at
Trouville to sweeping out hotel-bars in * The Queen
City ' of America."

"Well, I never!" cried Flora, suddenly appearing
on the scene. "I know servants give themselves
such airs in Cincinnati that they won't sweep out
offices, so I suppose now and then the clerks and
proprietors have to. I hope she played Juliet well
that night, however, if she never did before. Don't
stir. Professor ; I have been at the door listening to
the Avhole of your tale, and would have wept, but
the end was too — prosaic. Lucy's gone up-stairs ;
she'll be here in a minute. I'm tired to death ; do
give me some tea."

The Professor was staring silently at Flora.

Prosaic ! " he repeated ; " and yet they say
vengeance is a pleasure of the gods.' "

"Undoubtedly, when it is a personally directed
affair," said Enilda ; " and—"

"My dear," interrupted Flora, "don't mention
gods or goddesses, nor immortals — but us poor
mortals. I too shall quote poetry :

' Hark ! what light through yonder window breaks ?
It is a fog, and London is the town.' "

No," said a chorus of voices. " No ; it was so fine
an hour asjo. A foot — a real foot ? "

Yes — yes — yes ; and — yellow. By the way, how
could Shakespeare ever have seen such a dawn in
England ? I've never struck such an one."

Enilda explained. " He didn't see it in England ;
he saw it in Juliet ; and — "

Florestan got up.

"There is no longer any excuse," he said; "your
eyes said, ' and I will play you something from that
Opera.' "

She went to the piano. Lucy came in dragging
the Count with her, and after hasty mutual greetings
Enilda's fingers executed the usual up and down preliminaries,
and she began an arrangement from the
old Bellini and Vacaj's dual score, going from ' Ove
sei tu E-omeo,' to the grand finale of the second act ;
thence to the still greater page where Romeo arrives
at the tomb, and finds his bride in her last mortal
resting-place.

Enilda played as she had never before played,
and one by one her guests fell into the spirit of her
reverie.

Were they in London ? Was a yellow fog creeping
over the earth ? was it five of a June day ? — or were

they in old Verona, and was the last sleep stealing
over " this palace of dim night ? " Was daylight
gone out into " inauspicious stars," was Juliet lying
on her placid bier, and Romeo singing in that
divinest of all inspirations, "Ah, se tu dormi,
seveglia ti ? "

"There was the old house in this city of the
Recent; the deep garden where a thousand flowers
were in bloom, and vines loaded with the reckless
wealth of a "vvhole summer's grape ; there was a lowly
arbour at the foot of a serpentine walk, and underneath
this arbour, standing beside a stone sepulchre lighted
by midnight stars, was that young lover upon whose
fair head the last star had set. Then came a rustling
amongst the vines, an incautious footstep, a hurried
altercation, one long wailing sob — that of a soul
precipitated before its Maker. The sad sighing of
the night-wind, the breath of a despairing lover, ashe
drinks from the imperial chalice, drinks, and —
Juliet awakes."

For Heaven's sake, stop ! " cried Florestan ; '' I
can hear no more. You have filled me with such
a presentiment of evil that — that — " He stopped
abruptly, in spite of himself a prey to violent
emotion.

Enilda looked up wonderingly, whilst her fingers
still held down the keys of that last chord. Her

face was whiter than her white hands, or the ivory
enamel which gleamed from the oaken case.

Flora got up.

I should think so," she said, " and I propose — "

"What?"

That we all go to the Hay market to-night and
see her play the part."

Florestan came back to the piano.

"The very thing," he said. "I am like a woman,
"Romeo and Juliet always breaks my heart, but I
can never forego revelling in the luxury of profound
sentiment. And as to her, Miss Flora, of course you
mean only one — "

The inexpressible she," interrupted Mrs. Chromo
laughing. " We'll send at once for a box, and if you
break up there to-night, my friend, we'll send you
back to New York by the next steamer." She was
looking steadily at Florestan as she spoke.

Somehow, no one could ever tell how, he was
beside Enilda, talking to her in a low voice. He
turned and smiled upon Lucy, but continued his
conversation with the former. Was she angry or
pleased with his words ? Evidently angry, for her
face flushed and her manner expressed anything but
pleasure. She left the piano hastily.

Nonsense," she said, " you know I cannot answer
now.' '

Flora looked up.

"My dearest Florestan," she said, "pardon the
frankness of an early friend, but — but I believe you
are making love to Enilda. Confess, is it so ? "

The Professor stared. What had happened ? He
was in Dives, looking at a beautiful woman on a
vine-clad balcony. Love ! What did Miss Grayson
mean ? What could she be talking about ?

Florestan came bravely forward.

"I always make, love to her," he said, "every
chance I get; and just then — "

Just then," mimicked Flora. " Suppose we all
retire."

But Enilda wouldn't hear of that. Suddenly she
smiled and said brightly :

"You are a privileged person, Mr. Florestan, and
you know I couldn't endure a man who had the
poor taste not to make love to me. Yes ; you may
accompany us to the Haymarket."

The party was made up, even to the Count, who
at that moment insisted on coming. The evening
was spent at the little old theatre, and never
had the lovely actress played better. Once, before
she came to the great potion scene, catching sight
of the Professor she stopped and put her hand suddenly
to her forehead. Was she too thinking of the
past — of the home of William the Conqueror — and a

page in her life Avhicli lie never had dared nor cared
to repeat ?

Fiorestan and Enilda both noticed her france and

o

expression. The latter seemed some way to reflect
itself on Enilda's hitherto calm face, and until
the end of the play never wholly left her countenance.
The audience was roused to such a pitch
of enthusiasm as she had never before seen. Flowers
were hailed from. the front to the footlights. Lucy
and Flora were left without either courage or hand-bouquets,
and Enilda not alone divested herself of
her fairest roses, but unclasping a bracelet from
her arm, flung it with her lace handkerchief so
straight that it dropped fairly at the actress's feet.
She was too impressed for words, and too much
moved when the performance was concluded to quite
realize that it was all over, and they must return
home. She got up in a dazed sort of way, and only
when the fair Juliet came before the curtains again
and again to bow her acknowledgment, could she
seem to recollect what it was all about.

Florestan said nothing, but his fine face was overshadowed
as Enilda had never before seen it. Flora's
voice kept rippling forth as they made their way
from the theatre. Her eulogia was something to
make the accepted vocabulary of adjectives turn
pale for very incompleteness.

It's all right, because Shakespeare wrote it," she
said ; " but have two people ever died like that for
love ? "

"I don't know about two," said Enilda; "but —
but — " She hesitated.

Don't mention it," said Flora. " Mr. Florestan
seems determined to be your companion in everything.
If you can't hit it off single, I should say
the Blackfriars bridge isn't much out of our way
the night is dark — stars — out of the Haymarket
at a premium — and — "

"There are two plays which always affect me
strangely," interrupted Enilda irrelevantly ; " one
is — well, this one, and the other is, ' La Dame aux
Camels,' — I can never see them too often."

"My dear," said Flora quickly; "you can hear
Nilsson or Patti, or — or that American girl in the
Traviata ' tomorrow if you like. Then there is
another nice cheerful piece on at the Strand, same
style, where buckets of tears fall nightly ; but shall
it be—"

' Traviata/ " said Enilda laughing. " Mr. Florestan,
shall you be free ? "

My life is one long rendez-vous," he said ; " or
rather rendez-moi, and naturally you may dispose of
it and me. Which theatre shall it be, and which
star ? "

The Count, who had scarcely spoken during the
Avhole evening, lifted up a warning finger, for he
noticed that Florestan was about making a mem. on
his shirt-cuffs.

My dear sir," he said, " that we will never allow.
This is not New York. And ' Traviata ' — the artists ?
bah ! it doesn't much matter ; they all begin by
singing ' Traviata ' at Covent Garden, and end by —
by acting it in the Haymarket."

CHAPTER III.

It was the first day of Ascot. Flora was in a
state of indescribable excitement, Lucy Chromo ina
flutter over her dress, and Enilda pursued by a
train of vague thought inexplicable to herself, and
undesirable to any one preparing for the delights
of the great races.

"Enilda," cried Flora, "come and help me write'
this note. It's to Baron d'Alfredi ; he says races
are almost out of his line ; but if I reminded him
the very day, hour, and minute of our departure
he might turn up. What shall I say to him ? "

Say — oh, say anything."

Shall I write to him in the first or third person.
I rather prefer the third. I have got as far as this.
Listen :

' Miss Grayson presents her most distinguished
compliments to Baron d'Alfredi, and begs to tell

him that she is very well, very much obliged for his
beautiful flowers, which shall be worn on her breast
this very morning ; and I do hope you won't forget
that you promised to come to Ascot the first day —
that is to say if I let you know myself; and we are
croinor now, this very minute.

' Always yours sincerely,

'flora Grayson.'

Well, what do you think of it ? "

Enilda was absent-minded : she replied :

Why, it reads all right. Do you care about his
coming ? "

Yes I do ; he's too sweet."

And Mr. Pastor ? "

Pastor ? my dear child, when a man loves you to
that extent it becomes laborious. Life is a struggle.
I rnio^ht as well be a washerwoman livings in Turk's
Row, with eleven small children on my hands to look
after, and this — this is affection. I'm fond of him,
so I am of chocolate, but I don't live on chocolate asa
steady diet, do I ? "

Enilda agreed that she did not.

So of course I must vary my existence somewhat
with the society of other men."

My dear Flora, do you intend to marry young
Pastor or not ? "

*' Yes, yes ; I suppose I do in time."

'' Then why treat him so ? "

Why do you treat Ythan Florestan so ? '

Enilda blushed.

The case is not the fame."

Oh yes, it is ; he adores you, and you like him just
as much as I do Pastor. I really think, Enilda, that
John Claremont is more in your line. I believe hein
love with you. What a pity he's already married !
I like Lady Mildred; she's a real trump, but he —
dark, silent, unsmiling, or smiling frigidly — "

Flora, stop, how can you ? "

Thanks, Miss Rozen," said a voice at Enilda's
elbow. She started violently, for John Claremont
stood beside her.

Thanks," he continued ; " what have I done, Miss
Flora, to deserve such a character at your hands ? "

Enilda turned pale with annoyance. How much
of Flora's chatter had he heard ; how much ?

Flora laughed.

Well, it's the truth ; you know it is. Did you hear
me say — well, what were the first words you heard ?
confess."

He smiled gravely.

The first were : ' I like Lady Mildred ; she's a real
trump, but — ' "

Ah ! no more ; nothing before that ? "

Nothing."

He laid a hand mockingly on his heart.

Ah ! ' 'Tis well, Horatio.' Enilda, isn't it nearly
time to start ? I am going to put on my things."

Mr. Clare mont, what do you think of her dress
and mine ? Which do you prefer ? Now look well
at us both, and then decide."

She stood him off at arms-length.

He put a hand distractedly to his forehead.

How can I ? — both are so perfect. The one I
decide against I — "

Oh, you make an enemy for life of the other,"
Flora interrupted. " Beware of me." Flora tapped
him cheerily on the shoulder.

Nonsense," she continued ; " speak out like a
man. Say that Enilda's is the sweetest, prettiest,
most adorable gown, and that in it she is—"

The prettiest, sweetest, most adorable woman,"
cried another voice. Then the Count came forward,
superb in racing flannels, holding a bouquet of white
roses which he presented to Enilda with elaborate
ceremony.

She took them with thanks, but turned paler than
their waxen petals.

Claremont looked at her for one moment, then he
went towards her.

You are ill," he said ; " what is it ? "

She was turning her flowers in her hand, and
made him no answer. There was an angry pain in
her heart. How calm he was, — how cold ! At last
she knew that she was nothing to him.

"Girls, I am going to put on my things," cried
Flora, "and send this note to the Baron. I'll be
back in a moment, then we can all start off. I must
hunt up Lucy too, or she'll be late. "

May I come too, Miss Flora ? "

The Count was calling out to her through the
opened door; but her voice answered ringing down
the staircase as her heels rang up :

"Come! — I should think not; but Til kiss Lucy
for you in the " — her voice was getting higher and
higher — "in the — mean time."

Count," said Claremont, " may I have one of
your flowers ? Miss Rozen, won't you offer me a
rose in — in the mean time ? "

He went nearer to her this time and looked
straight into her eyes.

Just one," he murmured ; " one for old times'
sake."

Her heart bounded, and as if in a vision she saw
the old garden at Laramie ; the moon on the water ;
she heard the rushes sing under the bridge, and
the cry of the toad who sent one long flute-like
note through the still air; she heard a man's

voice say "for ever," felt a kiss on her cheek,
and —

"No," she cried sharply, "I cannot."

The Count came forward.

This," he said, " is a compliment I never expected
; you refuse to give one of my flowers to
another man ? "

Claremont looked up with glittering eyes.

Enilda remarked their light; in an instant her
attitude changed.

Ah, Count, that idea alters the case ; now I
must give him one " — she tendered Claremont the
bouquet ; — " will you choose yourself ? "

Thanks, no ; you must choose for me, and — give
it me."

She selected the most perfect flower and handed
it to him. By this time she had almost recovered
her composure.

"Permit me," — she looked him full in the face.
I will even decorate you myself."

Then she fastened the rose in his button-hole ;
and he — he bent his head and kissed her hand, at
the same time murmuring :

Flora was right. I have never changed ; I can
stand it no longer ; I must see you alone."

Enilda staggered backwards.

"Oh!" she gasped, — "oh!" Then in spite of

VOL. HI. E

herself a look of triumph darkened her eyes and
lit up her face to a hitherto unknown brightness.
"Oh!"

Sh — ! " he murmured, and turned quickly aside.
Another head appeared in the doorway. "Mr.
Florestan," he muttered, then he gave her a hasty
glance which said, " I know all ; he loves you," and
went to the window ostensibly to look out on the
street.

Florestan came up to Enilda. "Ah," he said,
looking at the Count briefly, "some one has outwitted
me. I too had brought some flowers." He
held a small parcel in his hand.

Enilda smiled recklessly; what mattered now she
knew the truth ? She would wear all which might
be given her.

"Thanks," she cried gladly, "you know I love
flowers, and these are — "

John Claremont came from the window and held
out a hand to Florestan.

"These are your favourites," cried the latter,
shaking hands with Claremont. " Lily of the valley
and white roses." He was so happy that he scarcely
noticed Claremont, whose face was gathering into a
dark cloud, and whose eyes began to burn with a
dangerous light.

The Count came forward.

"You must also decorate Mr. Florestan," he said
blandly, "not with one of my flowers, but — one of
his own."

Again the reckless smile came over Enilda's face.
"Quite right," she cried. "Here is a white rose
in — in remembrance of one which Cyril sent me —
long ago. Ah," — Flora came in with Lucy, — " is
it time to go ? " She was fastening the rose into
Florestan's coat. " Then I must put on my things.
Excuse me one moment and I will be back directly."
Before Florestan could more than look this gratitude
she had flown from the room, and Mrs. Chromo's
voice was trilling out as clear as a cricket's ; chirping
about Ascot, the Royal Enclosure, the Royalties,
the luncheon, the horses, the house Lady Mildred
had taken at the Heath, the weather, the races ;
whether or no it would rain ; and what a too heavenly
time she intended to have.

John Claremont looked at Florestan, and the
latter looked at him ; neither spoke, but Claremont
smiled a bitter smile," and then turned again
towards the window.

"The horses are o^ettincr restless," he said. "I
think I'll run down and wait for you on the box."

Oh, we are all ready now," cried Flora ; " let's go
out together. Enilda's coming along directly, and
Mr. Pastor—"

E 2

** Mr. Pastor is here ! " cried out that youth.
Here, and — and he brings you some flowers."

Well, I never ! " cried Mrs. Chromo ; " this is
quite like a fete in the Botanical Gardens."

'^ Isn't it curious' said Flora, sniffing her bouquet
violently, " that Englishmen and foreigners never
give a lady flowers ? Now in New York, if a man
don't send a lady a bouquet, leave it with his card
the very day after she's introduced to him, why, she
thinks he doesn't know the usages of decent society."

But I — I was an apt pupil ! " cried Pastor
delightedly. " I did exactly that."

"Well, naturally, after I had nearly hinted my
head off the night before. You see I liked you,"
Flora added with adorable candour. " I was awfully
afraid you'd be found lacking, and the thing I never
would have overlooked would have been that very
thing. So when I saw the flowers — oh 1 here's Euilda ;
now I suppose we nay be off."

Pastor slipped an arm through Flora's. Then
they made their way laughing into the street. There
was some demur about seating them all.

"Everybody wants to be beside everybody else,"
cried Enilda. " What shall we do ? "

At last it was settled. She was placed beside
Claremont. Florestan sat near, whilst Mrs. Chromo
and the Count sat side by side. They were to pickup

Lady Mildred on the way, and the party would
be complete.

Enilda now almost feared a tete-astute with her
old lover. She could scarcely realize what he had
said a little while ago. Was it true he had not forgotten
her ? But now that he had told her of the
fact in so many words, her heart grew alternately
light and heavy with apprehension. See him alone ?
No ; that she would never do. What could he say
to explain the past ? what that could change their
present ? The assurance that he still loved her,
suddenly became a care, a responsibility, which
leaded her will and damped her splits. She feared
another disclosure, and felt her heart leap into her
mouth as she took her seat beside him ; yet one
look at his face might have reassured her. It was
grave, calm, impassive as ever; and later, as she
dared to look at him, he was so cool, so matter-of-fact,
that she wondered if he had really told her he
was unchanged, or if she had dreamt it.

His talk was not of an amorous turn. He spoke
of his horses, of a favourite mare who had broken
her knees, and said that the right leader was a
spirited beast; he hoped he wouldn't give him trouble;
Then they picked up Lady Mildred, who took her
place beside Florestan; and in a few moments
London, with its unpoetic rows of working-men's

houses, its solitary church spires looming up now
and then amidst the monotony of brown tiles and
brick facings, even its outskirts were left far behind.
The smoke of a distant city still floated mist-like
over the moor ; and the sky, now and then breaking
into patches of opaline blue, told them that they
were really away from the great Babylon ; away into
the country, where men's souls are not always like
the skies — clearer, but where they seemed to be in
contrast with what they had left behind.

Flora, Lucy, Pastor, and Lady Mildred kept up a
constant chattering; Florestan was too engrossed
with his own happiness to speak. He was thinking
about the rose she had given him, and her own
reference to Cyril's flower. Why had she spoken
of it if it had not been a pleasant remembrance ?
The very first opportunity he determined to ask
her to marry him, and this time surely she would
not misunderstand.

At last they reached Ascot Heath. The road for
some way back had been one brilliant line of drags
and carriages, filled with richly-dressed women,
pretty girls in smart toilettes, wearing veils which
floated away from chip hats, like happy clouds in a
summer sky. A light dust arose like a vapour from
a hot bath, flashing eyes glanced into other eyes;
the ready " Halloa ! " and mirthful " How are you ? "

were flung to passing acquaintances, while the confused
clamour of a thousand voices — laughing, chatting,
jesting, or singing all in one, made the air
resound to the echo of good humour, as it resounds
to the rappel of martial music. There were organs
by the wayside ; pianos, harps, and guitars without
number; dancing men in black and white, zingaras
from Granada, and zitellas from Naples ; flower-girls
from Paris, and orange-girls from Seviglia; pale
frauleins from Holland, and swarthy thanes from
Hungary. There were white-aproned models from
Rome, with dark brows and bead-bespangled collars ;
monkey-like Sicilians with crafty almond eyes, and
the coloured soiled stays which forms a corselet over
their chemise-bodies. There were Italian babes, like
the Sistine cherubs, stretching out unformed hands,
which like their unformed tongues still managed to
articulate — money, not to mention the orthodox
beggar who constantly begs, and as constantly appears
with new offspring at her prolific breast.
There were minstrels, whose colour changed with
their song, and who twanged banjos with immoderate
hand and all too moderate skill, urchins who
threw missiles at passers-by, and responsive objects
which were hurled back from over-crowded carts ;
whilst not unfrequent oath exploded like a rocket
in the air.

Finally a band struck up at a distance ; outriders
with their chargers pranced along the open ; there
was a wild cry from the crowd, which was hurled
deep down, and brought as high up again in every
throat : " There they come — there are the Royalties."
Claremont had barely time to w!]eel out of the way,
when a noble pageant lighted the heath anew with
colour, and the heir-apparent, with his all too lovely
consort, was seen bowing and smiling? from the
depths of his frank eyes — bowing here, there, everywhere,
upon his friends and future subjects. The
crush of the crowd to get a sight of him was something
truly incredible. It was as if they had never
before seen a Royal personage. The air was filled
With cries.

*•' Ah ! that's the Princess ; isn't she lovely ? "
*' Oh, she smiled on me ; " and another — " No ; it was
me. She bowed right at me." Then more disputing
and shrieking ; applause from enthusiastic souls ; more
cries — " That's Lady so-and-so — did you see her ?
Isn't she too sweet ! " and an infinity of similar
expressions all truly unique and appropriate, only
to be heard on a typical race-course within the
confines of Her Majesty's typical domain.

Enilda, Flora, and Mrs. Chromo had never seen
anything like this before, and their vocabulary of
complimentary adjectives was soon exhausted.

As they wished to see everything, the drag was
stationed with other drags, aud the ^urtj soon found
themselves on the hewn outside the tribune, where
men were anon rushing to the telegraph-office ; anon
tearing over the turf, rushing to the grand stand ;
shaking hands with friends here, there, everywhere ;
drinking a glass of champagne from over the ledge of
some Maecenas's box, and discussing the jockeys as
they came from the paddock. One was pale, another
flushed ; one looked tired, another triumphant. Then,
there were the horses and the races, and the odds and
the owners. Some had seen the Duke of Tyburn ;
he seemed solemn. Perhaps Fairy was lamed. It
was a well-known fact that she had refused good half-and-half
after her last trial the day before ; perhaps
Shrimp had sold her out. It was a put-up job.
Shrimp was a known scoundrel. Another would win
the race, etc. etc. There was her Grace of Ormond
walking with her jockey ; she looking very anxious,
he certainly very angry. There was a Prince of
the blood talking confidentially with a book-maker ;
and my lady Garfield, white as a sheet, leaning
on my lord's arm, drinking a brandy-and-soda, and
talking' with a voice as hoarse as a rook's cawing.
There were crowds, and crowds, and crowds; and
Enilda noticed that they never ran twice up against
the same people. The Anglo-saxon physiognomy

was certainly predominant, and the conversation, if
witty, was certainly not without a certain monotony
of expression. At one time everybody seemed
saying " 'Pon me word;" at another, thousands
of "Really nows" broke on the air; and at
another, as at a given signal a whole tableau
became yellow in a pantomime, so every mouth
seemed to utter with one breath, " You don't
say so?"

Flora was enchanted, and Mrs. Chromo's delight
knew no bounds. After they had gone over every
part of the ground they went to the Royal Enclosure,
and paid a visit to the pavilion, where the Court
stood or sat like a cluster of flowering vines on a
garden wall. Enilda, as usual, Alas especially honoured
with II. R. H.'s attention. She strolled over the
peruse with him ; she talked horse to the best of
her ability ; she nearly killed him with her Americanisms;
and they sometimes laughed so loudly
together, that vinegar-eyed prudes stared right
and left, and smooth-browed dowagers nodded little
malicious nods with their top-knots of flaky hair
in a distinct rhetoric, which seemed to say, '' You
see the audacity; those Americans will dare, will do,
will say anything."

Florestan stood at one side sulky and silent. He
was furious With Enilda. Why should she talk so

long or ^valk so long with His Highness ? His
American hood boiled.

Claremont, however, only laughed ; he thought it
great sport. " She amuses him," he said ; " you can't
tell what a pleasure it is to people who are tied down
to a rigid etiquette, who are accustomed to time-servers,
and subjects who dare not call their souls
their own, to now and then run across frank specimens
of a race who know no more than to consider
themselves everybody's equal ; who say what they
mean without fear ; who contradict a Royal Highness
if they see fit as they would a plain mister ; who have
their own opinions about people and things ; and who
do not hesitate to express them freely; dio treat
princes — "

Just as if they were human beings like ourselves,"
said Flora.

"And," continued Claremont, "who, by their simplicity
and non-affectation, pay the greatest compliment
they can to royal intelligences, ' one and all.' "

Bravo ! " said the Count, and " Bravo ! " said other
voices, as Lord and Lady St. Ermine and Baron
d'Alfredi came up towards them.

Oh, Baron d'Alfredi, here you are — of course you
got my note."

He tapped his breast lightly. " It shall be found
glazed and hung up before my— inner temple."

Don't," said Pastor. " Inner temple reminds me
of briefless barristers and soulless solicitors. I am
the former ; and my best friend is the latter."

Flora interrupted irrelevantly :

Baron, which one do you bet on ? "

I — oh, I always take the field against the
favourites."

"But how are we to do that? You are just intime
for luncheon."

'thanks; it's easy enough; we must make up
some private pools. I am rather hungry."

Making up pools was no sooner said than done.
Between sandwiches, salads, shrimps, and champagne,
a respectable sum was collected ; the horses' names
were written on slips of paper, lots were drawn, and
luncheon went on uninterruptedly.

Enilda did not return ; she was honoured with
an offer to take food in the pavilion.

Nonsense," said Flora ; " why didn't she refuse ? "
But Eiiilda hadn't refused, and half-an-hour later
she was telling her experiences to her friends.

I am afraid I did dreadful things," she said.
When the princess got up and spoke to me I took
that moment to sit down : you see I felt kind of
tired, then Countess d'Ammuuille, — you know that
American who married a French General — well, she
screamed out to me with a loud voice, quite over

everybody's head, ' You must stand when she speaks
to you;' — the screaming her idea of manners, you
see. I jumped up so quickly that I tipped over a
little table with flowers on it, and the vater ran allover
her Highness's dress. Then I got so nervous
that I fanned myself all the time she was talking tome,
and really heard the stick of my fan break in
her face. It was awful ; I don't know when I have
felt so uncomfortable before in the whole of my life."

The Baron laughed.

What a chapter of horrors ! " he said ; " but there
is nothing' to feel uncomfortable about. The things is
to have acted there as you would have acted in your
own home."

"Yes," added Enilda, smiling; "but I don't think
I would upset tables in my own home, any more
than I would fan myself and break the sticks of my
fan in any one's face.

Florestan was interested.

It was awkward," he said, " but you meant
to do everything quite right;" then added, "Here
I've been keeping this place for you. You must
have some luncheon."

He was interrupted by a violent clamour; bells,
shouting, screaming, and untold excitement.

Oh, the race, the first race ! " cried Lucy. Then
she jumped about, seized a glass, and looked long

and earnestly at some dozen slender animals shooting
alone: the track.

Which is my horse ? — I can't make him out."

I see mine' cried Flora.

Oh," said Enilda, " I can't tell one from the
other."

Then there was more bell-rinmno- more shouting ;
some names and figures run up on a tablet, and
all was over. A crowd of people then poured into
the track, swarmed up into the Royal Enclosure,
and stood with flattened noses against the rails, and
wide eyes staring through the fence, trying to get a
glimpse of the Royalties and distinguished heads
which so smartly went back and forth in the charmed
circle. Every one that passed in or out was gazed at
with sad but earnest gaze, and commented on in
that regretful way the English masses have when
speaking of or watching their ' upper ten ' on a race
day.

Flora turned to Lucy.

"I'm tickled to death at this," she said, as they
passed out of the gate leading on to the course. " I
suppose they take me at least for a Countess in
my own right. Look back at the enclosure, Lucy !
isn't it a sight ? It's as thickly dotted with Highnesses
as a meadow with daisies. This is too
heavenly — Baron, have I won ? "

The Baron smiled.

You have lost," he said cheerfully ; " but you may
have a better chance for the next race."

Lady Mildred had won the pool.

It's a pot of money," she said, when the stakes
were counted. " I — what shall I buy with it,
John ? "

Keep it," suggested Flora. Claremont shook his
head.

Buy a new dress of Worth," said Lucy Chromo.
Oh ! by the way, speaking of him, have you ever
seen his house at Serene near Paris ? "

A chorus of ^' No ! no ! — tell us about it," was her
answer.

It's perfectly wonderful, and bears the stamp of
a most original mind. I advise every woman who
has ever paid a long bill to see where her money
has finished. The house is a palace of about five
different piles; Versailles or Schonbrunn scarcely
equal it. There is one room a porcelain gallery, so
filled with plates incrusted in fluted columns or
pillars : so many that I wonder any are left for the
world to eat on. There is one room with portraits,
immense pictures, framed in double frames of
Venetian point only a quarter of a yard wide each
frame — "

Dear heaven, hear ! " said Enilda ; " and we poor

creatures who have felfc rich with one or two dress-panels,
a collar, perhaps cuffs of the rare work."

Oh, that's nothing ! Besides the frames there are
chairs and bed-spreads, and even table-cloths. The
hangings and tapestries would not disgrace an
Oriental palace. The hot-houses are princely. The
library is correct, beau ti full y-bound books, and some
old MS., with a floor of marqueterie. You know
that floor in the '67 Exhibition that no one could
afford to buy; well, he's bought it, and it was
so bio" that he had to take the roof off his house
and one wall down in order to get it in ; but there
it is, and these feet walked over it." Lucy Chromo
stretched out her Mayflower No. 2's in illustration.
But the new mansion in the garden, my dear, that
is amazing. Why, he's got all those fluted columns
that belonged to the Tuileries built up with brick
and beautiful marbles into such a fantastic creation."

Enilda lifted both hands.

What is it that you are surprised at — the
columns ? "

Oh no ; he began with the Tuileries ; it is but
just that he should end there."

Lucy smiled and continued :

"Oh, I don't think he's ended anywhere yet; and
the gardens — why, I never saw such gardens, such
style, such flowers. He's made a sort of staircase of

marble with three landings going up to the central
palace, with a wall to the left incrusted with — well,
guess-what ? "

"We never could guess," said D' Alfred! and
Florestan in a breath.

Oh, another historical trifle. All the bas-relief
medallions of the old Hotel de la Ville. What do you
think of that for classical research ? "

M. Worth is a genius," said Enilda. "I always
thought he was the most original man in the world ;
now I am sure of it. He alone shall be my future
dressmaker. What's that ? '*

A loud ringing of bells was heard.

Dear me, the next race ! " cried Flora. " I had
forgotten all about this being Ascot — and my bet."

Then there was a repetition of scrambling to seethe
horses, another hasty pool made up, another five
minutes of breath-holding, and all was over.

Flora this time bad won. She counted her money
with eminent satisfaction.

"I shall put it by," she said, "and spend it ti
dear New York ; that's where most of England's
guineas go now-a-days."

At last the races finished. Lauohino^, chattering,

and occasionally shrieking with excitement, they

reached Lady Mildred's cottage. Dinner followed

tea. A band played in the gardens. Not a cloud

VOL. III. F

obscured the blue of the evening sky. There was a
dance in an old oaken gallery, and a walk on the
terrace at midnight, when heaven seemed one glittering
circle of jewels. Crowds of visitors had
dropped in, and Lady Mildred had to put up half-a-dozen
unexpected guests. She Alas equal to the
occasion, however, and even Enilda's eyes opened
wide on seeing this impromptu version of English
hospitality.

Neither Claremont nor FJorestan had seen Enilda
alone. Each waited for his turn to come, and each
waited that day in vain.

The last two figures to walk on the terrace were
those of Flora and Pastor.

He kissed her hand complainingly.

Nonsense !" she said; "jealous of the Baron.
Well you may be, however, but I fear he's not a
marrying man. I suppose, Willis, I must marry you
to — to get rid of you."

If you only would ; will you never give me an
answer ? "

'eyes, good-night; tomorrow, — tomorrow you
shall know your fate."

CHAPTER IV.

Ascot week was over ; Lady Mildred's guests were
dispersed ; and most of them back in town ready to
begin the okl treadmill of society.

Enilda was in a state of feverish excitement, atone
moment wildly gay, at another in a state of the
deepest despondency. She had not seen Claremont
alone, and had prettily baffled every effort of Flore stan's
to get a chance to speak to her in private. He
was not unhappy about this, however, as he some way
felt that she was no longer indifferent to him. He
saw her every day ; he could touch her hand, her
dress, a fold of her garment; could now and then
look into her eyes across a crowded dinner-table ;
perhaps meet her accidentally flitting along some
corridor ; — could give her a flower, or ask for one.
Then too, there was always Cyril to talk about. He
was an endless theme, and never failed to attract
and keep her attention. The hours slipped by, and

r F 2

yet Florestan did not seek to hurry events. He lived
in sweet security, and a certain dreamy unconsciousness
of the lapse of time. He said to himself:

I will not worry her ; I feel, I know, she must love
me. Perhaps she will be the first to let me know
that she will accept her fate. Perhaps that day will
come soon." Then he fell to dreaming again, and
built castles in the air like a school-girl who packs
her boxes to the happy tune, " This is my last term,
now for the future."

The following Monday there was to be a great
musicale at Baron d'Alfredi's. The Baron and
Enildawere almost neighbours; and the latter's house
in Park Lane was only removed from hers by a few
numbers. In fact Flora declared that she had been
the means of the acquaintanceship ; for she had
noticed the fair nobleman standing on his terrace of
a morning. They had exchanged looks across the
leads, and later when they had met at a party a
swift pact of friendship was concluded on the
spot.

The Baron was fair, handsome, agreeable, and
had a certain gentleness which was more like a
woman than a man. His eyes were blue, deep,
and soft ; his face was pale and overspread with an
habitual tired expression, which attracted every one's
immediate attention and sympathy. His features

were clear-cut and tired-looking ; his blonde whiskers
waved with an air of supreme indifference ; his
smile was soft and slow ; his laugh perfectly cadenced
but not contagious; when he smiled he exposed a
small mouth opening wearily over very white and
perfect teeth. His whole appearance was one of
extreme naturalness, extreme sensitiveness, extreme
nervousness, extreme gentlemanliness — but extreme
weariness.

Flora adored him. She told him as much on one
occasion, but he had laughed and said :

I am old enough to be your father ; just think
how proud I should be to be papa to such a pretty
child ; " but Flora wouldn't hear of that at all. She
alternately teased and tormented him. She asked
him the most personal questions, and one morning
invited herself to chip in to breakfast with him, in
order, as she said, to see every bit of his 'house, and
have him tell her all about it, which he did most
modestly ; declaring there was little to see, and
nothing at all to tell. By the time the day arrived
for the musical party, Flora could scarcely decide in
her mind which number in Park Lane she really
lived in — whether in Enilda's great mansion or in
the Baron's spacious and lovely home.

The morning of the party both the girls were
sitting with Lucy discussing their dresses — an endless

theme — and some invitations which they were about
to answer.

"Now," said Lucy, "just listen to this, and they
call English a language. Why, it's like the weather
in London — there's no climate, only samples. How
can one ever spell names rightly when they're. all
pronounced wrongly ? I'm going to spell every name
just as it sounds; — here you are to Miss Charley —
to Mrs. Beechen — to Mrs. Lesson-Gore, and to my
Lady Cooper ; — they'll go fast enough."

Why, Lucy, how queer ! Who would ever have
dreamed in dear America that Cholmondeley was
pronounced Charley ; Beauchamp, Beechen ;
Cowper, Cooper, and so on ? How did you find it
out ? "

The Count told me."

Seems to me you're very intimate with him,"
hazarded Enilda.

Lucy flushed.

I value his good opinion above that of all other
men," she said.

Have you ever told him so ? " said Enilda.

I didn't need to tell him," said Lucy courageously ;
a man of his superfine instinct could not but feel
the appreciation he is held in by every woman."

Flora and Enilda exchanged glances, but said
nothing. The morning was spent dawdling in the

Row ; lunching for a change at an Italian cafe, and
the afternoon at the Academy, where the President's
pretty women were duly admired; likewise Master
Tadema's Greek figures, classic alphonse, and natural
mosaics, and Millais's cherubs, which remind us of
the Breezes and Reynolds of the olden time. They
paid several calls, drank five cups of tea with
five different acquaintances, took a turn in the
Park, received callers between six and seven, dressed,
dined, and finally found themselves walking between
a row of correct lacqueys in the vestibule of the
Baron's very perfectly-ordered mansion.

The Baron was a man — a true man in every sense
of the word — and yet he was unlike other men. There
was a something womanish in his nature, which
betrayed itself not only in his person but in his
house. In the adornment of the rooms, in the
decoration of his furniture there was little evidence
of masculinity, but everywhere the touch of a
woman's hand. The mansion from cellar to garret
was distinguished by that aroma of daintiness which
usually is the sex's sole province. There was a refinement
and elegance in the smallest object which
bespoke his supersensitive nature, and fastidiousness
seemed as distinctly a part of his person as perfume
is a part of the rose.

On this particular occasion one recognized everywhere

this subtle odour of finality. One felt it in
the books and fragile bric-a-brac; in the pictures
which were hung on the walls; in the statuettes
and inlaid cabinets filled wdtli a thousand trifles
collected by a palm seemingly as delicate as Eve's
or fatal as Helen's ; in the tables heaped with costly
trinkets ; in the little brackets here and there,
holding vases carelessly filled with flowers, a blossom
hanging over the side perhaps, or a vine trailing
unconsciously on some tapestry cover; in a little
writing-desk in an out-of-the-way corner, whose wax
and seals, violet ink, crystal paper-weight, and torn
envelope, suggested some hastily-begun and as
hastily finished letter. There were divans, with lace
antimaccassars and monogrammcd cushions ; a footstool
peeping forth from the carved legs of an
easy chair, and a book open, with a paper-cutter
between its leaves ; there were numerous jewelled
frames enclosing innumerable fair faces ; miniatures
smiling forth from dark velvet backgrounds, anon
reposing on golden brackets, anon encrusted in
some dainty panel of the daintier walls; a piano
with ivory keys borrowed a deeper tint from the
pale marqueterie of its case, and a music-rack with
the sheets of music all awry, held a page of Costa's
j\rignon,' and Tost's ' Ti rapine,' folded in together,
as if a hasty voice had tried one after the other,

and thrown both aside with equal impatience. A
jardiniere of graceful palms in a corner cast tiickerin^^
shadows on the tinted walls ; a box of ferns and fine
grasses stood near an open window whose heavy
curtains were drawn aside, even the inner lace was
caught back with knots of amber ribbon; the
jalousies vere uplifted, and through one crystal
half-opened pane, the brightness of a starry night
gleamed on the white and green of a matchless
terrace, whose flowers, like an endless garden, lost
thei' verdure in the verdure of the Park beyond.
This light fell steady on the marble floor, graciously
adding its silvery radiance to the roseate tints
which streamed gently from the shaded waxen tapers
of the drawing-room.

As Enilda ami Flora went forward, they were
received by the Baron's sister and family doing the
honours of the evenings, whilst standing to her
right were Florestan, Lady Mildred, and her husband.
The rooms were already crowded ; the Prince had
just arrived, and the music just begun. There was
an incessant hum of polite chatter; a few brief
chords were heard on the piano ; and the notes of a
clear soprano beginning the inevitable ' Una voce
poco fa.'

The Count, who was just entering with Mrs.
Chromo on his arm, stopped suddenly.

Surely," he said to the Baron, " I know that
voice."

The Baron laughed gaily, and turned to Enilda.

A little surprise which I had planned for you.
We have Patti and Scalcbi, and numbers of other
singers, but I thought you would like to hear an
American soprano — Signora Forest."

Charmed, I'm sure," murmured Enilda, while
Mrs. Chromo harshly interrupted :

"Count," she said brusquely, "why didn't you
tell me Miss Forestii was in London ? "

She opened her fan with a whirl, and began to
fan herself violently. Flora stared open-mouthed.
What a strange tone of voice ! Had Lucy gone
crazy ?

For the best reason in the world," the Count
replied cheerily ; " I did not know it myself."

At that moment young Pastor came up to
Flora.

Mind," he said, " I am to take you in to supper ; "
then he added in a whisper, *' Have you told them

yet?"

Nonsense," said Flora, sharply. " Don't breathe
on my hair like that ; you're positively walking up
my dress. Of course I haven't told them ; perhaps
I've changed my mind."

He turned really pale.

What are you two quarrelling about ? " said
D'Alfredi.

I was telling him perhaps I'd changed my mind
about having supper," answered Flora promptly

Chromo caught the word supper.

What, are you hungry already ? Well, T suppose
it's not poetic to say so, but I am — I'm starved," she
cried.

"To think such words should ever be heard in
my house," said the Baron.

*just the place to hear them," proffered the
Count quickly. " One should bring an appetite
here, as one brings a fan or a button-hole flower'

Clareraont offered his arm to Enilda. The soprano
had just reached the ' lo sono docile.'

May I tell you something ? " said Claremont
earnestly. " I thought I had often seen you looking
well before, but to-night you are positively lovely."

She smiled. "I'm glad of that!" she answered.
It always makes me feel happy to know that I am
looking well." Her eye fell on her dress.

It's my favourite colour," he said, his own following
her glance. " Blue is true, you know."

"Ah, I suppose being a colour it knows no
better than to be true ; now, were it a man, for
instance."

"You are unjust," he said shortly; then he added

in a softer tone, " It's very hot ; suppose we try
and make our way tlii-ougb that crush to the
terrace."

No ! " she reigned. " I don't feel the heat, and —
I don't care to walk on the terrace." She was interrupted
by a cadenza of such miraculous elaboration
that every one involuntarily held their breaths.

She's singing admirably to-night ! " said Florestan,
coming up and holding out a careless hand. " I
thought I should get a chance to speak to you sooner
or later." He nodded coldly but politely to Claremont.
"You are looking, need I say it— charmingly."

I did my best," she interrupted.

"Your worst would have been anybody else's
best," said Claremont, not to be outdone by Florestan
in civility. Then he added :

It is so hot that I've just been trying to induce
Miss Rozen to take a turn upon the terrace."

Then he stopped abruptly, whilst Florestan could
not prevent a look of intense anxiety coming into his
eyes. Claremont noticed it, and purposely said no
more ; he seemed to enjoy Florestan's suspense.
Enilda was the first to speak.

"Don't be jealous; he asked me to go, but — I
declined."

Florestan quickly caught her bantering tone.

It was quite right of you," he replied. " You

know you would have broken my heart had you
walked alone with any man on any terrace."

Claremont could not help a deep flush passing
over his face. He was about to make some remark
when a hand lightly tapped his shoulder; his wife
stood beside him.

I came up," she said, " to say we are to go to
the royal table to supper together. H. R. H. proposed
it. Patti is going to sing after, then we can
all get into a quiet corner. She's to sing four songs
the Ernani cavatina ; bohea from the ' Sicilian
Vespers ; ' the Romeo and Juliet waltz ; and Dinah
shadow sons. Isn't it wonderful her sing^ins^ so
often ? "

The cloud had left Claremont's face. " As wonderful
as it is agreeable," he said. " One can never hear
too much of that golden voice. How did Forrest!
dare to sing ' Una voce ' when Patti was in the room ? "

Americans will dare to do and say anything ! "
said Enildci, and for an instant all talk was at a
standstill.

Then a dark-eyed, handsome young man made his
way through the crowd, and seated himself at the
piano.

Whom are we to hear now ? " said Lady Mildred.
At that moment Miss Chances-Cressy came up on
the arm of Professor Protoplasm.

Oh, is that you, auntie ? " said Lady Mildred.
You look as if you knew the young man ; do you ? "

"That I do," said Miss Chances-Cressy cordially.
His name is Eugene Hope, and he is one of the
sweetest singers in the world ; his father was a
Baltimore-Huguenot, an old friend of mine " —
then Miss Chances-Cressy sighed as if in memory
of a tender past. The young man began to sing,
whilst she lifted her glass, the famous French lorgnon
that used so to impress Flora in days gone by in
Chicago, and as of old the enamelled handle threw a
dark shadow on the rose of her delicate cheeks : she
stared idly not at the son of her old friend, but at
the famous Madame du Barry who hung in pink and
white perfection on the opposite wall. Professor
Protoplasm followed her glance.

When he has finished singing," he whispered ;
I will tell you my private opinion of the du Barry."
The song stopped suddenly. " I don't believe
D'Aiguillon was her confident ; I don't think she had
anything to do with the dismissal of the Parliament
in '71. I don't believe she wasted the treasures of
the State, and she must have been so fascinating
that Robespierre was a brute for arresting her."

Miss Chances-Cressy dropped her glass. "Professor,"
she said severely, " I am afraid you were won
over by her pretty face." Then she lifted her glass

and stared long and earnestly at the painted
courtesan.

No, indeed, not her beauty," he responded ; " but
she really had some good traits; you know she
protected men of letters and artists of the time."

Stop," said Miss Chances-Cressy again severely ;
she only did that because she feared their ridicule."

What are you discussing ? " said Enilda. Miss
Chances-Cressy's tone changed from severity to
graciousness.

Only discussing one of Louis Xv's favourites,
a person who lived many years ago, and whom you
never would have met in society, unless in Chicago,
or New York,"

Flora was standing near Baron D'Alfredi; she did
not point, but she looked at the old gentlewoman and
said slily to her host :

•' Gaze at her and take her in — in penny numbers.
Isn't she wonderful ? I call her the little old woman
who lived in a shoe."

D'Alfredi shook his head. " You're a wicked srirl,"
he said, but he laughed and smiled with her just
the same.

Miss Chances-Cressy had altered but little in
appearance. She still wore her white hair piled
immoderately high on her small head ; her complexion
was still the same pasty mixture of bismuth

and Oriental cream ; her violet eyes, shaded by brows
like two bands of black velvet, were as luminous of
belladonna as of yore, and as heavily shaded underneath
with artificial black as they ever had been ; the
same unfading rose bloomed on her withered cheeks ;
the same cherry paste incarnadined her lips ; the
same ebony cane supported her limping footsteps ;
and the same jewelled chatelaine for fan, handkerchief,
and lorgnon depended from her shapely
waist. If anything she seemed younger in appearance.
There were a brightness in her eye, a cheeriness
in her smile, and an airiness in her gesture
which betokened that season when the earth bursts
into verdure, the tree into blossom, and the bird into
song. As she made her way through the rooms she
was followed by the remarks, looks, and opinions,
which follow in the wake of a shooting-star, or some
agreeable phenomena in nature. No one knew how
she got herself up, but every one respected that
effort to put the best foot forward, which the world
not alone exacts, but alone knows how to appreciate.
Assume a virtue if yow have it not, or assume a complexion
if you have it not. Miss Chances-Cressy
certainly did the latter, and by so doing was convinced
that she had fulfilled all obligations towards a
generous world but an incomplete nature.

She knew every artist who had ever sung. She

spoke of Grist as if she were still carolling * Qui la
voce ' on some back staircase. She remembered Pasta
and Pared i, and even told tales of Catalans, whose
song like whose motto was gold. She remembered
Persian's music-box and Sontag's silvery voice, and
stopped the Professor as they n eared the piano to
tell him that an Italian singer named Tedeschi
had such a mercenary father, that one night he
kept the house waiting three-quarters of an hour
before the opera began, to weigh his daughter's
salary to a fraction, exacted and paid the moment
before she began to dress; on this interesting
occasion the scales had broken down during the
operation, and the audience, she amongst the number,
had to wait whilst another pair of weights was
fetched.

They're adorable to listen to, these singers," she
said ; " but it is heart-breaking to think that their
one idea is money. They're grasping, one and all,
and every note that comes from their throats must
have its equivalent in filthy lucre. Why don't people
since as birds minor ? "

"Most of them do," said Flora, who came up at
this moment, "just about as wildly, with just about
as much sense, and always when you don't want 'em
to. The genuine canary is the average opera-singer
of the day. Shut him up, he howls ; put him in the

VOL. III. G

sun, he feeds ; sit down to table yourself, and he
begins yelling."

Flora's remarks were suddenly stopped. The Diva
began, and a sudden silence fell on the assembly.
One song after another followed. H. R. H. led the
applause, congratulated her enough to turn anybody's
head, and her music ended, the signal for
supper was given by H. E H, leading the way to a
brilliant room panelled in white and gold, hung with
superb portraits, and lit up with a perfection as rare
as original. Cunning globes of electric light, peeping
forth from branches of waxen tapers, shone as conspicuous
in their setting as the Regent amongst
crown jewels.

Lady Mildred, Claremont, Enilda, Flora, Florestan,
and their party found themselves at the daintiest
board, where wit flowed with wine, good-humour
was the bill of fare, and laughter rang as freely out
as the bursting of champagne corks.

There was a great deal of disgust felt amongst
other guests who had not been asked to sup with
royalty. The Americans were loudly condemned ;
their names sneered at; their fortunes discussed, and
their beauty questioned; their manners execrated,
and their general conduct be-rated; their clothes
alone "sot off" without the wholesale scathino-.
Enilda received the lion's share of condemnation.

The name, the Copper Queen, was echoed on all
sides. "What is it?" said one; "mines, tallow, petroleum,
or pinchbeck ? '' and after supper, when
she passed through the room on the Prince's arm,
remarks were made in her very face, not all complimentary,
but all more or less vulgar. It had been
bruited about that she possessed wit with wealth.
Her beauty none could gainsay; her fortune was
reputed colossal ; her toilette was the richest in the
room; her jewels the rarest; — in fact, it was a home
blow that night to many an illustrious 
whose family diamonds but not her pride had
diminished, to see perhaps one of the heirlooms of
her house glittering on the bosom of this younger
child of a younger branch, belonging to a younger
country and a younger race.

Count de Marcie and D'Orbach overheard some
of the grumbling. Lucy was on his arm, and once
she stopped suddenly and turned pale ; she declared
she heard the word " glue."

What ! " she cried, " even here. Why, I thought
all one needed to-day in London was money."

"It's about all one needs anywhere," replied the
Count; "and here, having everything else, — birth,
title, and position, one may permit oneself the
luxury of tolerating that which is all the world
anywhere else, yet when you come down to it will

G 2

never be anything but money in England. It's a
caprice like any other — ah ! "

The Count stopped abruptly. The Prima Donna,
Mademoiselle Forestii, was coming towards him, accompanied
by her lady companion. Lucy looked
sufficiently annoyed, but the noble D'Orbach was
quite equal to the occasion. He stretched forth his
hand with a very grand air, and his face was
wreathed in smiles as he thanked the artist for her
sino'ina-, told Fraulein Marx that she " was lookiucr
extremely well," remarked "that it was a magnificent
evening, he was surprised to see them in
London, and — could he be of any service ? "

Yes," said Mademoiselle Forestii, half-curtly,
Fraulein Marx is feeling rather faint, and — and —
I hardly know how to say, but — will you take her
to have some refreshment ? "

Lucy started, and D'Orbach murmured a few
unintelligible words. The last were plainer :

Quite at Mademoiselle's service." Then without
more ado he offered his arm and walked away with
the Fraulein.

CHAPTER V.

Fraulein Marx had black eyes, fair hair, a clear-cut
profile, and a mouth that betrayed an indomitable
will. A smile, the very autumn of perfidy,
traversed her face as she walked along through the
now half-deserted rooms. All the world was at
supper, and yet there where still crowds everywhere.
A delicious band sent tender strains out upon the
air. The French windows were open, and an odour
of heliotrope and mignonette stole through, mingling
their fragrance with the heat of the drawing-room,
that smell of bouquets of every conceivable flower,
of perfumed robes and old laces, toilette-powder
puffs, and Oriental cosmetics; in short, the indescribable,
commingled cosmopolitan perfume of a
crowded drawing-room, in a great city, on a hot
night.

'let us go to the terrace," said the Fraulein
softly; "I do not care for refreshment other thana

breath of fresh air. I think it will be less crowded
there than here ; — but, Count, you are looking pale,
the change will do you good."

"You are a fiend incarnate," he muttered under
his breath ; " at least speak German."

She raised her heavy black brows.

Shall it be the terrace ? "

No," he answered ; " I wish to talk with you.
There is a tiny library here that I know well ; we
will go to it ; but we must first seem to take some
supper."

They re-threaded their way through the rooms
via the dining-room, and finally crossing a wide antechamber,
reached a little apartment, dim, silent, cool,
and shadowy ; it was unoccupied, and the Count
had chosen wisely in thinking that they could there
converse undisturbed. The room was like the rest of
the house, a gem in its way ; only to-night it seemed
strangely deserted, and the very sort of place in
which to talk secretly. A shaded lamp cast flickering
shadows on the wall; the heavy curtains w-ere
hermetically sealed ; a bronze clock on the chimney-piece
had run down ; and the walls were tapestried
so thick that no sound of the outer world could by
any chance penetrate. Graceful curtains fell before
the opened door in such idleness, that it might as
well have been shut for all one could tell outside

what was going on within. The Count motioned
his companion to a seat. She looked at it, at him,
and then deliberately sat down in another. She
opened her fan, and began fanning herself in silence.
Was she waiting for him to speak ? Evidently.
She had not long to wait. His words were brief,
but to the point.

You are a clever woman," he said ; "how did you
jet to New York, how find me ? I — I thought — I
had hoped that you were — dead."

She still fanned herself, but responded with the
utmost graciousness.

Naturally ; but shall I tell you ? Yes ? You see
I am not dead, and — and it was not difficult to find
you ; the difficult thing was to get away from —
Toulon."

Hush ! " he said, glancing warily around ; " hush !
walls have ears ; not that name here."

You are sensitive," she sneered. " Toulon nowadays
means cholera, or — anything rather than — "

'•' Go on."

"After you left me on that night, to do as best
I could, I only fell from the frying-pan into the fire.
I was arrested, tried, and transported ; but by making
love to one of the keepers, I managed to make my
escape. I got to a river and a boat, and — a boatman
took me in."

'< Wi I — that is how I heard you were drowned."

Most Hkely ; but the boat was none other than
the one prepared for you, and the boatman none
other than Ricard who loved me, but whom you
were fool enough to hire to put me out of the way."

The Count turned ghastly with rage.

"Don't tell me that," he said; 'ris there then no
more honour amongst thieves ? "

No ; this is an age of progress ; there used to be,
but dishonour pays better."

Spare me your wit ; but he shall pay me well for
this."

You owe him a deal," she said calmly. " It was
through him I heard of your escape, your arrival in
New York, your combination with — "

I defy you to speak that name here."

Oh, as you will ; but — you don't ask me what
I want."

I received your letters in New York ; they were
plain enough ? "

I think my speech can be plainer. I thought I
was your wife, a countess, — ha ! ha ! "

Then she laughed so long and so loudly that the
very light seemed to flicker anew on the ceiling.

Are you mad ? Tell me what you want ; I can't
stop here for ever. Is it money ? "

"No."

Is it position ? "

No."

Is it — " Then a sinister look crept into this
eyes.

Yes," she said ; " it is revenge."

He began rapidly pacing the floor, up and down,
up and down, until the room seemed rocking.

"You might have trusted me," she continued. " I
was your creature body and soul ; did you imagine
for one moment that such crimes as yours, such a
life as yours, could ever remain long hidden ? They
say — •"

'' Never mind what they say. I want to know
all you have to say, and to end this conversation."


"' You are impatient. Why did you run away
from New York ? Why did you leave your interests,
and — and that idiot of a Forestii ; — but now rest in
peace. She knows all ! "

All ! — good God, are you mad ? What do you
mean ? "

He abruptly ceased his walking up and down.
All what ? Has she dared—? "

Oh, nothing ! She came across one of your
letters to me, and thinking you were in love with
some other woman, fell into hysterics, and confessed
everything. She couldn't have come to a better

person, your own lawful wife ; I — I assure you I
consoled her."

How did you come to be with her at all ? "

I followed you to Ems ; but being interested ina
good-looking young banker, hadn't time then to
interfere with your love-making; only when you
went to New York, Picard, who still adores me,
told me I had better be on hand in — well, in case of
need. I didn't know you had gone so far with the
singer. Bigamy was the one crime of which you
were not guilty. And now — "

And now ? "

'' Well now, what do you propose to do about it ?
Well, I'll not be hard upon you; I said I wanted my
revenge, but I want more than that."

You want money ? "

Yes ; I want money, but no paltry sum."

Well ! "

I want you to give me two hundred thousand
dollars."

He interrupted her with an oath. "Are you
crazy ? Two hundred thousand dollars ! Where am
I to get the money ? And if I could get it, why
should I pay you such a sum ? "

You will pay me that to get rid of me for ever !
I promise to give you every jmper I possess that
could criminate you. I promise to give you our

marriage certificate, and to deny ever having known
you, and I promise to take myself out of your sight
for evermore."

And the consequences if I refuse ? "

Ah, if you refuse ! — but you won't refuse."

I tell you I must refuse for the best of reasons ;
it is absolutely impossible for me to get together
such a sum of money."

You have rich friends ; you can borrow it. Mr.
Rozen, for instance."

He lifted a warning finger. " Hush ! " he said ; '' I
thought I heard some one coming this way."

She stopped, and held her open fan uplifted in the
air. For a moment both listened attentively. Footsteps
were heard coming towards the door, then
passing it, and were finally lost in the corridor
beyond.

Fraulein Marx was the first to speak.

Whether you can get it or not, you'll have to, for
I'll not take a cent less, and I must have it soon."

He made no reply, and for an instant seemed to
be reflecting deeply.

'you are thinking it over," she hazarded, and
again began fanning herself. " I will give you time
to consider."

Devil ! — if I could believe you. No, no, Adele, it
won't do ; I've no assurance that you would not play

me false. What proof can I have besides those
papers ? "

She hesitated a moment. "You forget that my
position in one sense is not all that heart might
desire — that I am, like yourself, an escaped convict."

D — m it ! " he said, " will you stop using those
names here ? "

Well, perhaps you're right ; we ought to understand
e:\ch other almost without speaking. I will
tell you the truth ; I want to go away with somebody ;
I want to marry, and lead a respectable life."

Ah, how touching ! "

Yes, isn't it ? Besides, America is crettinor too
hot to hold me, and — I don't wish to be personal, but
I think you yourself had better be looking out."

Did he turn a shade paler, or did she imagine
it?

Nonsense ! " he said. " You are the only person
who stands in my way, and — "

"And I suppose you'd like to put me out of it.
That game won't do, Fritz ; and let me tell you here
that if anything happens to me your head won't
be safe an hour. I hope you won't think that
anybody could make me forego my revenge, nor anything
less than the sum I have named. Ah ! " — she
got up quickly — "we must be going back to the
drawing-room; it is so long since I have had the

pleasure of a conversation with you, that I had really
forgotten the lapse of time."

Don't say that again. I'm in no temper to stand
your sarcasm ; don't drive me too far. I tell you I cannot
give you two hundred thousand dollars — Ah !
permit me" — here several persons sauntered idly
into the room. She accepted his offered arm. " I
think I once saw the miniature here, the most
perfect likeness of Madame de Lamballe, they say,
that exists."

The Count and Fraulein Marx made the usual
salutations as they passed from the room.

They could not have overheard us ? " she
whispered.

"No." Then he added in a louder voice, as if
proceeding with an ordinary conversation : " And if I
get it, it could not possibly be before my arrival in
New York." They were getting into the crowd
again. " And when do you return ? — shortly ? "

Shortly."

I thought it was most imperative. Shall you be
leaving this week ? "

"Scarcely; that is to say, I have not decided;
but — " A strong pressure on his arm finished his
sentence in a more decided manner. "I think it
just possible I may go on Saturday," he added.

Pray," she said with an eager voice, " do not go

without letting us hear from you beforehand ; you
know Mille. Forestii regards you as her most valued
friend."

At that moment Mille. Forestii was seen coming
towards them. She bestowed an angry glance on
the Count.

"Where have you been so long?" she said
querulously. " I'm tired to-death, and my carriage
has been waiting more than an hour 1 "

Must you go ? " said the Count. " At least let
me see you out."

Thanks," said Fraulein Marx, cordially, " we
could not think of taking you away so early."

Ah ! you insist on coming," said Forestii. " It is
indeed good of you."

Then the Count offered his arm, and the three left
the room together.

The Baron, Lady Mildred, Enilda, and several
others were taking ices on the terrace. Flora's voice,
as usual, was heard high above the rest.

It's the dodges thing I ever heard of Baron,
tell Enilda about your house."

Oh, there's nothing to tell."

Except that it's all a delusion and a snare," put
in Flora.

"Quite right; all a delusion and a snare," he
repeated. " You know, as Hamlet says, ' Look at

this picture, and then on that.' Here, for instance,
we have a marble pavement, lovely ladies in lovely
dresses, roses, trees, palms, and flowers; but turnover
this marble, and what do you see on the other
side ? Palms, roses, and lovely forms ? Nothing of
the kind. Sweltering cooks in white caps, joints of
beef, legs of mutton, featherless birds, bunches of
asparagus; and instead of this lovely panorama
under a sky filled with midnight stars, a long low
kitchen bustling with ranges, and the walls decorated
with endless pots and pans."

"Yes; I know," said Flora; "like that old
diplomatist who has just left, who' had" a whole
latter che cuisine on his breast in the shape of
decorations."

Exactly," laughed the Baron.

A polite way," said Enilda, " of suggesting that
the heart of your house resembles the venerable
diplomatist's breast."

"And shows conclusively that, like your terrace,
there are two sides to every question," added
Florestan.

"But, happily, like the terrace, you only see
upon one side at a time."

Though, like the Baron," said Lady Mildred,
we know how to appreciate both."

The sounds of a waltz came floating through a

window. A celebrated pianist was playing ; not one
of Chopin's immortal inspirations, but a rollicking-tune.


Dear me," said Flora ; " I'm dying for an
American three-step ! Baron, may we dance ? Whoever
that is playing, he has a perfect Vienna beer
accent. You know, Enilda, just the way they play
in the garden next the Thalia Theatre in New York.
But, Baron, may we ? "

You may do anything you like in my house."

Flora was too late. The Prince had already set the
example, and was whirling round with Enilda's
predecessor, the last but one imported Transatlantic
professional beauty. Soon the floor was filled with
flying couples.

Dancing on the carpet ? " cried the Baron.
"Never!"

Oh, that doesn't matter a bit," said Enilda, as his
arm encircled her slender waist. " Dancing, like
gambling, is a passion ; who loves dancing will dance
anywhere."

By this time the band had taken their cue from
the pianist. Dancing was the order of the night,
and the concert bid fair to develop into a full-blown
ball. Never before had votaries to Terpsichore
kept time to a more inspiring measure ; never
had fairer forms languished on happier shoulders,

or brighter eyes shone into deeper and more
passionate ones, than on the spur of this improvised
round. Fans, flowers, gloves, charms, rings, and
handkerchiefs, made the proudest favours ever bestowed
at any cotillon. The rooms were one whirl
of laughing women and enthusiastic men, and the
grave musicale suddenly became a very Babel of
voices, each voice seemingly louder, clearer, gayer
than its predecessor. The evening finally ended like
the breaking-up of a children's party. There were
more flights to the terrace, and renewed flights to
the supper-room ; the sound of rattling Sevres,
tinkling crystal, and trickling magnums. There was
such hubbub and unceasing echo of merriment,
that the contagion spread up and down, even
seemed to break through the flooring of the terrace,
and descend to the kitchen on the heads of cook-aids
and cooks' devils. The whole house was invaded ;
footmen were choking with laughter in their white
velvet collars ; the pages looked like imps of fun ina
pantomime ; and the staid butler, who had wished
his master the same unvarying good-night and good-morning
for three decades, wore so dazzling a smile,
that when he approached a lamp he seemed to
totally extinguish its light.

The Baron was ubiquitous — here, there, everywhere;
whilst the various members of his family

VOL. III. . H

seemed social reproductions of himself. The same
ease, thoughtfulness, good-humour, and unflagging
hospitality were directed towards their brother's
guests as if they had been their own ; instead of
one host there seemed half-a-dozen, all attending
to every one's wants at the same time, spurring
on the dancers, whipping up the musicians ; not
alone interesting themselves in withered w^allflowers,
but even flirting if necessary with maiden ladies
of uncertain years and heretofore most uncertain
temper. At last the evening came to an end. The
Prince had waltzed his last waltz, and a galop that
would have resuscitated a dying Taglioni, so there
was nothing for it but to say good-night to the hosts,
good-night to friends, and good-bye to one of the
happiest days in the year ; the maddest, merriest day,
and one which Flora vowed she would never forget

o

whilst she lived.

The Baron was looking a little paler, a little more
tired, and seemed a little more nervous than when
his party had begun ; but think you any part of his
house bore the stamp of an evening's wear and tear ?
Not a bit of it. The lights dreamed as brio-ht aso

o o

ever; the flowers bloomed as fair in their magic
vases ; the rooms were filled with the same mysterious
perfume — that subtle odour of finality ; yet
there were no morsels of lace petticoats decorating

the carved feet of chairs ; no floating ribbons, and
no stray flying curls here, there, or in odd corners ;
there were no crushed exotics on the carpets, and
no stemless gardenias trodden into the dining-room's
marqueterie. Enilda thought to herself as she bade
their friend good-night :

Has there been a musicale ? — has there been a
party, a supper, a dance ? — or have we dreamed it ?
Have we heard Patti's siren voice, and the waltz's
siren strains ? — or have we been asleep in fairyland,
and lived through an Arabian night's entertainment
? " Then when the chill morning air blew
on her forehead she repeated vaguely to herself:

'•'Yes; that is it. We have been dreaming under
the stars, the dawn has overtaken us, and daybreak
has come ; our fairy companions have fled
with the night; and this — this is the awakening;
this is morning: in London."

H 2

CHAPTER VI.

Several days after the Baron's party Enilda
wrote her father the following : —

"Dearest Papa,

First, a scolding, because you never hardly
ever write to me ; second, a good, long, loving letter
to tell you that you are wrong not to let me hear
from you oftener, and to repeat that I miss you more
and more, and mo-are, as Charles Thorn used to say to
Clara Morris in ' Camille.' London is such a big place,
such a world ; there is everybody and everything in
it but my own dear papa, whose face is constantly
before mine, whose voice I constantly hear, and
whose kind care I constantly miss. I wish you'd
send for me to come home, — won't you ? I dream
of you often — so often; and in my dreams you look
tired and worried. I am not superstitious, but I
wish you'd appear happier when you pay me those

little impromptu nocturnal visits — I wish you would.
I have told Charlotte Corday all about them — my
dreams, you know — and she rolls her eyes higher
than ever and says — can't you just hear her ?

' Honey chile, who knows ? — 'specs Massa Rozen's
got things to worry him like, an' if he don't ses skip
and chip about in dem car visions, don't you go
for to fretting' ; lev a good time while you can, and
don't sorry trouble at a dollar a hundred ; real ornaments
come sass 'muff 'thou scooping' 'em up from
dreams,' etc. etc.

There, isn't that Charlotte all over ? Bless her !
But I must tell you she is changed, is grown sad
and silent ; I've given her a new Methodist prayer-book,
which scarcely ever leaves her hands. A funny
thing happened yesterday. Count de Marcie — for
whom, by the way, I cannot overcome my aversion
called, and as there were none of the servants
about, she went to the door. The bell had rung
so often that in desperation I had started to go myself,
so we met in the hall. Charlotte opened the
door, and when she saw the Count her face went quite
green under her skin ; she put her hand to her heart,
and nearly had one of those fainting-fits that she
had one day in New York. You must remember it.
Oh no, you wouldn't; for she expressly begged me
to say nothing to you about it then, but yesterday

I was really alarmed. However, she wouldn't see a
doctor, and I suppose it was just as well, for this
morning she seems all right again, good soul ! You
know, papa, I think she is sicker than we realize,
for we shall lose her some day — the dear black link
that binds us to the long ago. I must stop this tone
or I shall be dropping tears on the paper, and you
wouldn't like that, would you ?

"Now, 'just fancy,' as they say here, you're deliberately
asking me to tell you everything I do in
London, every one I see, everywhere I go, every
friend I make, every book I read, every — why every
dress I wear ; and yet they say men are not curious.
It comes to this, you love me; — you have no one
but me ; you miss me, and you want to see me absolutely
every minute of the twenty-four hours, just as
if I were a little girl once more ; just as if I were in
well, in New Ulm ; just as if it were five o'clock,
and you were coming home, and going to tell me a
fairy story, kiss me, give me some candies, and
perhaps a new silver dollar, which you would quietly
hunt for, find, and lose again, and then pretend that
it dropped from the ceiling whilst my head was
turned ! Oh ! I know you, old pater, and I can see
through all your dodges just — well, just as easily as
I can see myself when I look at myself in the glass.
By the way, I do that very often. ' I'm in beauty,'

as they say in London, and, isn't it funny ? — they call
me ' The Copper Queen ' almost to my very face ;
they make remarks on my appearance just as if I
were a statue ; speak of our money and my manners
quite as if I were the third person singular, and not
myself at all. But I like it ; I adore it. I'm getting
so vain you wouldn't know me. Ah ! before we go
any further, am I spending too much money ? You
don't complain. The bills seem something enormous.
I thought New York the dearest city in the world,
but London is ahead on the spending question. In
America, after all, one spends only dollars ; but here
it is guineas, right and left; and really a pound
isn't a pound, but — five dollars.

Ah ! enough of money — talking shop. You
want to know where I have been ; well, I will tell
you — oh no ! I can't now, for some one has just
come, and Flora is shrieking up the balusters for me
to go down to the drawing-room. I must dress for
dinner afterwards; then after that for the Queen's
Ball in Buckingham Palace. July 4th, just think of
it. I suppose you are in the Quaker City celebrating
the great event of— 1776. How odd it is — we had
utterly forgotten our centenary, and in speaking of it
at luncheon to-day an old friend said, ' 187(3 — aw,
yes — but — but what — aw — has to-day to do with a
hundred years ago ? ' ' Nothing,' said Flora— she's

such a quick creature — ' nothing.' Then we all
laughed.

"Good-bye. Don't work too hard, and don't fail
to write oftener.

Always the same, your own,

Enilda."

At ten o'clock Enilda, Flora, and Mrs. Chromo
were on their way to Buckingham Palace. They
kept up a lively chatter, in which the dress the
Princess might wear, and the tea thrown in Boston
Harbour so many years back, where discussed in terms
of equal enthusiasm. But time has brought about
many changes, and one that of a native-born
American, spending the evening of the 4th of July,
the glorious anniversary day of their independence,
where ? At the great Centenary Ball in Philadelphia
? Nothing of the sort. At an English
Queen's Ball in an English Palace ; if a hundred
years has brought about such a thing, what shall
we not see in another hundred ? A Queen in
America, or England a Republic ?

Enilda and her friends were asked to dine before
the ball to meet the New American Minister, but
refused the distinguished honour. They did well :
this individual, one of the greatest snobs America
has ever produced, was well calculated to give the

British a nice idea of what some American ropes
are.

But the Ball ! Their carriage was so long in the
line they thought they never should get in. Before
they arrived it began to rain, as it almost always
does when one is going to a ball in London, and they
were in a fearful fright lest they should get their
gowns bespattered ; fears, however, were groundless,
for they alighted under a covered portico, whence,
without fuss or bother, they were ushered in to the
ground-floor of the palace.

Somehow there was no excitement such as there
is at the White House balls in America ; no laughing
and talking and chattering amongst a crush of
people come prepared to have a good time. The
attendant who removed their wraps was unsmiling ;
and when they reached the foot of the grand staircase
Enilda really had a- fright. The Yeomen of the
Guard, dressed in their quaint Elizabethan costume,
standing around, looked as if they had stepped out
of some old picture-frame, and reminded her of
Madame Tussaud's; she didn't realize they were
Imman beings till one moved. It struck her as
incongruous, men and women wearing modern clothes,
and the attendants appearing in the costume of three
hundred years ago.

Americans ought to have very tender memories

on coming into any English palace ; being strangers,
and only having guide-books to go by, they scarcely
ever think of a present, and only think of it as
it recalls a past. Although Buckingham Palace has
few historical associations, Enilda had half imagined
she should run across King George the Third in
one corner, Queen Charlotte in another, or Queen
Adelaide in another ; yet she found to-day very near,
and once having paid a private visit to the palace,
instead of a George's Court, saw only the young
Queen and her Consort, heard the careless laughter
of happy children, and youthful voices echoing and
re-echoing through now silent corridors. In one
room — one should scarcely speak of it now, except
it came so persistently into her mind ? — she remembered
in this great chamber curtains were drawn,
and the light was scarcely ever permitted to enter :
that every object was covered with dust, and a long
table drawn up near the fireside was left with every
article untouched, just as it was when the Prince
Consort died ! There were the writing-desk and
open ink-bottle, the half-used quill, and an arm-chair
turned aside from the table, as if its occupier had
been looking at a little portrait just to his right : the
picture of a fair young woman with bright eyes, rosy
lips, attired in a low dress of apple-green trimmed
with white lace, the picture, not of a Queen, but of

his loving wife Victoria " ; and, strange it was, that
passing through all the other rooms, and even when
she came to the beautiful ball-room, this silent deserted
chamber kept constantly coming into her mind.

The Court came in punctually at a quarter before
eleven : — The Prince and Princess of Wales ; Princess
Louise with Lord Lome ; the Princess Mary Adelaide,
Duchess of Teck, such a sweet-looking woman; the
Duke of Teck, Prince Edward of Saxe Weimar ; and
Heaven knows how many others besides. Enilda
stood in the diplomatic circle, much to Flora's and
Lucy's disgust, as they had not, like her, been specially
asked and taken there by some Diplomat. The
number of the attendants on the Royalties seemed to
her very fabulous. The Prince and Princess of Wales,
followed by the Court, went to a raised dais and
stood up before a row of gilt chairs ; whilst the ladies
of the Court raised themselves around against the
wall in a semicircle of courtly effigies. The dancing
began immediately after, and such a quadrille was
danced ! The band were all dressed in red, up
in a gallery at one end of the room, facing the Court,
and Flora declared they reminded her of the organ-loft
in the Union Park Congregational Church in
Chicago, and the Oratorio Society getting ready to
shout " Hallelujah ! " The arrangement of the guests
also seemed curious.

The general idea prevails in America that if one
goes to a Queen's Ball, one hob-nobs with everybody,
even the Royalties; and that every one present is
just as good as every one else. On the contrary,
the stars of the evening — meaning their Highnesses
are, so to speak, on the platform; to the left
is the diplomatic circle ; to the right the Bi->- Wio-s,
Duchesses, etc. ; and a line morally drawn from the
entrance-door where the Royalties come in, separates
these privileged few from every other human being
at the ball. Of course the other people really are
all herded together ; they have no more to do with
Royalty than one has with the planet Jupiter ; they
pack, crane their necks, and stare right and left in
vain, for not a hundredth part of the guests get
even a glimpse of the Prince and Princess. When
they dance it is amongst themselves, and they never
go into the Royal circle unless brought there by the
Prince or by some Foreign Ambassador ; in reality,
with the exception of seeing their names printed
beside Royalty in the 'Morning Post' on the ensuing
day, they might as well have been at a ball at a great
brewer's, or any of the other fashionable London
entertainers. They indeed have funny ideas of
things in America. Now, even Enilda supposed that
Princes and Princesses would be floating about the
floor here, there, and everywhere, like the President

and cabinet in Washington, making themselves
generally agreeable, but — she was mistaken.

The ball-room had never been more brilliant : it
was exquisitely lighted, and presented a scene of
bewildering beauty. The dresses and jewels were
such, Lucy Chromo said her eyes were blinded only
to look upon them. Such orders, decorations, and
stars, from St. John to Catherine of Russia, from
Persia to Portugal, from the " Garter " to the
Golden Fleece," and the Annunziata to the Black
Eagle of Prussia, and heraldry alone knows what
more besides ! The prettiest sight was when the
daucino- beo[an. There was nothing but valses and
quadrilles ; not as in America, — no polka, no ,
no schottische, no mazurka, and no Prairie-queen.
The Royalties danced every set ; it seemed
to Enilda that the Princess never sat down once ;
whilst she was so tired standing, she thought she
should faint before midnight. She could scarcely
realize that she was looking upon so many distinguished
people, and unconsciously her thoughts
flew to the old days, when m America she used to
read about lords and ladies, and wondered what they
looked like. She had a vague idea that there would
be something about them which would distinguish
them from other people; but she had found them
exactly like other gentlefolk in England, neither

more nor less well-bred, neither handsomer nor
homelier; yet, had she told the truth, would have
said " they have a little something in their manner
which is like the varnish on a picture ; it gives ita
glaze and helps to preserve, but does not radically
change it."

There were numbers of lovely women in the room,
the Princess the loveliest of all. Enilda had never
before realized what a beauty she was ; for in fairness
she stands out amongst other women as conspicuous
as a white lily in a bunch of buttercups.

She had a fine face, with soft expression and
marked aristocratic mien; dark, blue-grey eyes,
with arched brows ; a low forehead, slightly Grecian
nose, small mouth, and a pale complexion, reflecting
innumerable lights and shadows. Her figure
was not only slight and graceful, but so extremely
youthful that it was hard to believe her the
mother of big boys and girls; her carriage was so
distinctly her own that even with her back towards
one, amongst five hundred, one could single her out.
She dressed exquisitely. No other woman in England
could touch her for the way she puts on her clothes.
She wore a black dress with bands of silver looped
up with garlands and bouquets of black currants,
black corsage trimmed with Spanish fringe, an
incomparable tiara of diamonds, and her breast

covered with orders like a statesman. One never
tired of looking at her; from the tips of her
fingers to the last fold of her tulle robe, her
person was interesting. She was very gracious, yet
Enilda thought her face sometimes impassive. She
knew she was a woman and mother, yet could much
easier fancy her a vestal kneeling at some shrine,
than rocking babies in her arms, or perhaps playing
cat's-cradle to amuse them.

The Princess Louise was the prettiest of the
Queen's daughters ; fair, with regular features, with
blue eyes, and a most winning smile ; and Lord Lome
standing beside her looked as happy and contented
as a great school-boy.

After the first few dances danced in the royal circle

Enilda slipped out with kind Lord Alfred P , who

showed her around and interested her tremendously.
Of course he was full of India and the trip, and the
Prince's first tiger, which she was disloyal enough to
declare she believed had in his homage courted his
death. Lord Alfred laughed pleasantly and said,
Little lady, you may rally a Prince, but beware
how you libel a tiger." She ran up against Flora
and Mrs. Chromo, both looking charmingly; both
"their eyes in fine frenzy rolling" because they
could not get near the Royal circle.

It's a delusion and a snare ! " said Flora. " I

wouldn't know what the Royalties were like if T
hadn't seen their photos in every shop-window in
Regent Street."

Flora was hanging on the arm of the Equerry
of the Duke of Albany, the Earl of H.'s younger
brother. A charming man, such a good fellow, and
the best imitator of popular artists in the world ;
Enilda couldn't look at him without hearing History's
fearful throat-rattle as Lady Macbeth, or Frou-Frou's
plaintive death-wail, " 2cne j^etit — ef-fleur." She was
dying to hear him then and there, but supposed it
wouldn't have been quite the correct thing at a
State Ball. However, she whispered what had been
in her mind to the young Equerry, who rolled his
eyes in holy horror at the very thought. Young
Pastor was walking behind Flora, following at her
heels like a greyhound. Poor young fellow, he was
so much in love ! Flora was looking, by the way,
wonderfully pretty; and Enilda came very near
being jealous of her.

Lucy Chron had the arm of the Russian
Ambassador. He was a distinguished-looking man ;
tall, broad-chested, straight as a poplar; with very
wide-awake eyes, a real Slav look, and a moustache
as white as the snow on Mont Blanc. His Excellency
was too amusing; he spoke English just as well
as most English people ; but pretended not to be able

to, and the things English-women had taught him
to say ! Well ! — well, a volume would not suffice to
put all down. One of his favourite expressions was,
Shut up I" When he first came to London he used
to go and sit by the Prince when he was ill with
fever ; and his delight was to tell every one to " shut
up," from H. R. H. downwards. Taking pattern of
English ladies, Enilda had also taught him a few
words which he was to use on the first convenient
occasion ; so he stopped her to repeat them, to see if
they were all right.

Lucy Chromo had been and was still talking
about the Grand Duke's di-symonds, and the wretched
American, Fanny Lear. All admitted that she was
wonderfully handsome, but wished — wished she were
not a compatriot. As for him, Lucy declared he was
secretly married to her, but Enilda would not believe
a word of it.

Then they ran up against Florestan with Lady
Mildred, who looked very bored. Enilda instantly
wondered where Claremont was ! She didn't see him,
and thought he was probably talking to some

]duchess in the corner. The Duchess of M

perhaps; she knew he admired her greatly. Her
Grace had been the theme of European Courts for
two decades, and no wonder, for she was still one of
the most beautiful women in the world, with a face

VOL. III. I

and figure that Francis I. might have had reproduced,
like that of Diane de Poictiers, for one of the
*' Three Graces." Her son, Lord M — , had just married
a lovely American, with eyes like stars, and hair
like Lady Godiva's ; and, speaking of that marriage,
another Duke's son, uho all said was destined to a
great future, had also married an American, equally
charming, but totally different in appearance ; a
strange, Juno-like creature, whose deep gray eyes
had inky lights in them like quicksilver; she had
blue-black hair, and a beautiful face — the very
essence of pride and warm blood. Euilda thought
at times she looked rather sad, and began, as usual,
to wonder, then said to herself, — " No, never mind ;
at a Court Ball I won't wonder."

She walked through room after room , but they
were all empty, and she was surprised, as out of
the thousands composing the upper ten, there did not
seem to be more than one thousand present, and
that one huddled into the ball-room. The other
apartments were beautiful, but had an uninhabited
look ; a got-up-for-the-occasion sort of air, like the
houses smart people hire in London to give balls in.
All the chimney-places were filled with banks of
exquisite flowers — flowers were here and there on
mantelpieces, but they seemed so little alive, that
when a lady passed through the room with a bouquet

ill her Land, they gave one the idea of being artificial.
Indeed, the decorations, floral and otherwise, seemed
to vie with the guests in the solemn state and
dignity of their deportment.

At half past one the Royalties went out to supper,
followed by the diplomatic body, and it was a sight
to see the people staring, drawn up in lines on either
side, with the same insatiable curiosity as if they had
never gazed on Royalty before. As to Enilda, when
it got to the supper hour, she was so tired she felt
ready to drop. Many other ladies looked worn-out, but
the Princess was as fresh as if she had just stepped
into the ball. Enilda forgot her fatigue, however, when
she caught sight of the glittering tables, and such a
service of gold plate as her eyes had. never before
rested upon ; and small wonder either, as it has been
gradually accumulating for centuries. She declared
the wall looked like a his^h trellis, studded with gold
vines, branches of gold, flowers of gold, leaves of gold,
and panels literally encrusted with gold; whilst Flora
insisted that she would never be happy till she had
eaten an American ice-cream off each separate dish.

The Princess was very gracious, and spoke with
them several times. Enilda remarked that one stood
very still whilst she was speaking ; called her, as well
as the other Royal Princesses, " Ma'am " (Madame) ;
and when one came up or went away, dropped a kind

I 2

uf a cheese-curtsey, called a charity bob, a sort of flap
down and spring up like a jack-in-a-box ; which
Enilda had previously thought very odd, but had
been told was necessary.

Finally she danced with the Prince ! He was very
agreeable, frank, and handsome, and wore a most
winning smile, which lit up his face wonder: fully.
Enilda thought this smile explained his extraordinary
success with women ; it was really not too much
to say, that he was as handsome for a man as his
wife was for a woman, and his tact, bonhommie,
and consideration for all had justly made him one of
the most popular men in Europe. She must also do
him the justice to admit it wasn't a bit because he
was a Prince, but simply because he was a nice
cheery man, as faithful to old caprices as to new,
with a chivalrous fidelity which compelled a respect
for whomsoever he had honoured or still honours
with his special attentions.

Of course Enilda met everybody, and tried her
best to recollect what people talked about. After
supper the Ball was a little less ceremonious, and

she noticed that Miss , an old friend, was

brought into the circle by H. R. H., and danced twice
with him. It is all nonsense about Americans
taking up all the Prince's time. If they amuse him,
which is more than most people do, it becomes a

question of give and take. The world in general is
tired of hearing that the only reason Americans go to
any place is because they have money ; after seeing
all these Peers and Peeresses, and their hereditary
rank and precedence, which no amount of wealth
could purchase, Enilda came to the conclusion that
here there is this distinction and difference — money
is a king in every other country, but in England
must play second fiddle to birth. And what people
talked about? There was such a jumble she had
but a confused idea of the whole, only noticed that
not one person remembered it was the centenary
of America's independence ; fifty people, however,
spoke of a war being declared between Servia and
Turkey, and as Count S. looked very wise, she supposed
it meant that Russia would henceforth be on
the look-out.

Florestan came up, and as he could not make
love to Enilda, thought he would talk politics ; however,
after a few random speeches, he only remarked,
All Dizzy's sympathies are with Turkey."

Enilda then looked well at the Egyptian Sphinx,
whom she saw perfectly well to-night for the first
time. She looked many times at his cold, impassive
face, and asked herself in vain, " Is this the impersonation
as well as the author of ' Contain
Fleming ' ? — this astute, calculating statesman the

expanded blossom of that impetuous, impassioned
youth ? "

The Premier was speaking very earnestly with a
remarkable person, and — on every subject but the
one lying nearest the heart. She thought she had
never before seen a man such a very quintessence of
insolent grace and ease. He half dropped his eyes
whilst he was speaking ; his voice was slow and
cadenced, he even seemed to smile as he spoke in
iambics. She could scan his response to the Russian
Ambassador, just then in conversation with him,
beginning, "Ah, Count, you know — the hour is such,
etc., etc."

A brilliant and rising young poet passed and said
to him, " Good evening, sir ; I hope you're quite well."

The Sphinx slipped his hand into his breast,
reflected for an instant, and then replied, " I think,
sir, we are none of us ever quite well."

One of the chief topics of discussion seemed to
be my Lord Londonderry's son, who nearly broke his
head in the polo match the day before — naturally one
of the most interesting of the season, and the squabble
about the Marquis de Staple's child, whether it
should be brought up a Catholic or no ; the Exhibition
at Brussels; and a necklace which Prince
Dhulup Sling had thrown at a Prima Donna in a
bouquet which had broken her head open ; the blood

only ceased flowing, and the smile only returned to
her lips, when she learned that the hard object
which had so injured her was a diamond riviere of
the purest water.

For the first time in her life Enilda saw the Scotch
Feel danced by the Court, to the music of the
Queen's and Prince of Wales's pipers — a most maddening
affair; it made her think of heather and
snowstorms, plaids and philabegs, and a subtle odour
of whiskey-punch perfuming the night.

Lord Dudley Alas present, as amiable as ever, with
his young and beautiful wife on his arm. She
certainly took the palm as being the fairest of London
beauties present. The band was most delicious.
Enilda had never heard of Liddell before ; and never
heard D' Albert's " Sweetheart's Valse " better played.

A sudden passage in the flutes caused Lord D

to exclaim to Baron F. de Rothschild, " Dear me,
how like Persian ! — she sang with the perfection of a
music-box, you know."

The diplomatic circle was unusually brilliant, and
Enilda evinced not a little curiosity to know the
names " and record " of the various envoys. Count

S described the men with his usual wit and

pungency, and Michele or Tiers could never have
equalled him in facts: he may not have been
diplomatic, but he certainly was historic. He was

interrupted by Madame de Florian, who sauntered by
on M. harcourt's arm ; one could see she was a
great favourite, for smiles followed her on every side ;
she had only just come to London, and found it
almost as much of a novelty as did Enihla. She
was dressed in a robe of genuine French make,
which showed her superb form to perfection, added
fairness to her skin, and a deeper violet to her eyes.
She even wore jewels whose colour seemed to repeat
them in clearness ; and Enilda was so puzzled to
know what they could be, that she came very near
asking the Countess to tell her about them then and
there ; that, however, would have been difficult, as the
dancing was going vigorously on, and every instant
an elbow knocked against her shoulder, a patent
leather cast a shadow on her train, or the sticks of
some vagrant fan threatened to dislocate one of lier
plumes, which up to the present had remained very
upright and stationary in her golden hair.

Just then the new American Minister passed,
and Flora nearly went into screams when she remembered
and told about a dinner he once gave
the British Minister in Washington. There wasn't a
plate that had not three Marquis's coronets on it,
painted on a shield with more quarterings than the
oldest peerage since the Conquest. His Excellency
was staggered when he saw the porcelain, and

wondered who Lad lent it for the occasion; but he
was much more staggered when he was informed
that it belonged to his host, and represented the
family he pretended to be a member of in England.
Perhaps he was; but considering even a Duke's son
bears only a title by courtesy, one wonders what
right a hundredth American cousin had to full-fledged
coronets.

Lady X was pointed out to Enilda, and her

hair reminded one of an autumn leaf, brown yesterday,
red to-day, and yellow tomorrow ; certainly her
locks were warranted to wash and change their
colour. Gossip handled the names of well-known
people most freely ; one would scarcely write in
one's diary one-tenth of the things one heard. All
Feminine London declared it to be the smartest ball
given at the palace for years — but an end conies to
most things, and this Royal entertainment closed only
too soon. The court went away before three. There
was the same craning of necks and crushing of
dresses to look at them ; other's followed, then others,
until the ball-room was deserted. Liddell packed
away his baton ; only the Yeoman of the Guard still
si 'od at the foot of the grand staircase, and the
unsmiling maids held waiting wraps in the ladies
cloak-room.

When Erttlda reached home she tore open her

letter, described all she had seen, and added this
post scriptum : —

I must say it was the loveliest ball I've ever been
to. It has just struck me I didn't dance once with
Florestan ; in fact, very little with anybody, and I'm
so tired I can't write another word. Five A.M. ! — the
time I used to get up when I was a little girl, and
now just going to bed !

Dearest papa, don't say after this that you
haven't at least heard all about the party and everything.
Take care of yourself Write very soon.
Accept love from Flora and Mrs. Chromo, regards
from everybody, and a fond kiss from

Your own Enilda."

CHAPTER VII.

Two weeks had passed since the ball at Buckingham
Palace. Lady Mildred coidd not disguise to
herself the fact that of late her husband had seemed
farther and farther away from her each day ; he had
never been a passionate lover, and after this return
from America she knew that his heart was still
more estranged, but as he found her ill, presumably
on her death-bed, the change she felt in him was not
from his own showing, but her own intuition, which
told lier that absence had quenched rather than
kindled love's flame. However, from the moment of
their first meeting until he had put his hand in hers
with the vow " till death do us part," his care of her
had been unceasing, and his attentions filled with a
grave thoughtfulness which had become monotonous
in their daily sameness. She had often questioned
him of his life in America, but had elicited little
from him beyond his trip, his accident, his being

cared for by the Rozen family, and the casual friends
he had made in New York. She loved Lin passionately,
devotedly, disinterestedly, but the unvarying
excellence of his treatment of and manner towards
her, instead of sowing contentment seemed only to
sow the seeds of discord. Her life flowed on with
such cain, that she began to feel that irritation
one feels at sea when in tropical climes day follows
day, and week succeeds week, with the same constancy
of cloudless sky, dazzling sun, gentle winds,
and red gold sunsets. Lady Mildred used to say to
herself:

'' If he would only be angry with me, would
only quarrel now and then ; would refuse me when
I ask him a favour, or contradict me when I tell
him anything ! I should think then that he cared
something' for me ; but to see him oroinGf on in the
same unchanging way makes me feel as if I could
throw myself from a window, or jump into the
Thames for excitement. His kiss night and mornings
is always the same ; the tone of his voice never alters
when he says, " I hope you slept well last night,
Mildred ; I hope you feel well this morning ; " the
same courteousness before the world, the same
civility but coldness behind it. No; he does not
love me; he never loved me; he merely tolerates
me ; and I am breaking my heart for a man

who will never be any more to me than he is
now."

lady Mildred read Claremont's indifference but
too well ; he had accepted his destiny blindly, and
finding himself hopelessly entangled in the net
fate had cast for him, lived on from day to day
taking things as they came, trying to forget yesterday,
trying to ignore tomorrow. He had never
forgiven his wife the way she had won him ; he
treated her well, because it was as easy to treat her
well as badly : he was like the man who said to a
friend, " It is utterly immaterial to me whether I live
or die ; " and in response to the query, " Then why
don't you die ? " replied, " Because it is immaterial."
Claremont's indifference had reached this point when
he again met Enilda Dozen ; and since her arrival in
London he found his life an impossible one. When
alone with his wife it was all he could do to retain
his impassive calm ; before the world the task was
less difficult. That dissimulation which we absorb
with our mother's milk had become a second nature
to him, as it has to all society of men and women.
Lady Mildred had made him many unreasonable
scenes of jealousy as unwarranted as unreasonable;
for since knowing Enilda be bad never been sufficiently
interested in any one woman, in his attentions
to Tier, to ever exceed the law of accepted commonplace

and society civilities. But strange to say, the
one woman be had loved, the woman he still adored,
was his wife's chosen friend and companion, and the
only woman for whom Lady Mildred had never
seemed to feel an atom of jealousy.

It was the 21st of July, and Allison House vas
being made ready for a splendid dinner and ball,
the last important entertainment of the year, which
Lady mildred offered in special compliment to " the
belle of the season," Enilda Rozen, the '" Copper
Queen." For days it had been filled with carpenters,
florists, upholsterers, and decorators — that galaxy of
utilities who have nothing to do with the routine of
a well-ordered establishment, yet on occasions of this
kind, like the extras in an hotel bill, make a more
important item in the end, than the sum-total of
the original account. So it was that Allison House,
which it had seemed impossible to improve upon
before, came forth from these myriad artistic Lands
so beautified and embellished, as to bear no more
resemblance to its former self, than the low-necked
ball-room beauty at midnight resembles her twelve
o'clock prototype who walked in a tailor-made dress
in the Row that same morning.

John Claremont awoke in such a frame of mind
as he had not experienced for many a long day.
Had he been a working man, despair would have

been a luxury he could ill afford, but the aimlessness
of his existence, so to speak, brought with it all
that bitterness which comes to those who live without
a serious object in life. Had he been obliged
to yield obedience to any master-spirit, the material
exigencies, the duty he was bound iu honour to
yield another, would have come between himself
and any sentiment emanating from purely personal
motives and desires; but although Claremont was
his own master, and had lived a life of such absolute
selfishness in one sense, there had come, as there
always will, a momentary revulsion of feeling, and
on this particular day he had awakened with one
idea paramount in his mind. He realized that his
love for Enilda was no longer a mild sentiment,
whose emotions he could check at will, but a dominant
passion, which, like the drift of the Alpine
avalanche, would sweep) everything before it, and he
determined on this very day, on this very night, to
put her love like his own to the test.

After this decision he felt freer, and had not
been in such spirits for a long time. He spent
most of the day in his room, putting his papers
in order, and preparing for a step whose issue
meant the happiness cf one as well as wreckage of
three lives ; he was ffoinf^ to ask Enilda Rozen to
run away with him, and did not even calculate the

chance of her refusal. Manlike, it was impossible
for him to realize this influence could ever be less
over the woman who had once devotedly loved him.
It seemed as if the evening would never come ; and
he finally grew so impatient to see her, to hear her
voice, to touch something that belonged to lier, tithe
went to a little box long hidden from view,
dragged it to light, and took therefrom some letters
which were neither old nor musty, but were sweet,
fresh, and dainty-looking, as if they had been written
yesterday rather than a year ago. He read them
over and over again, then he put there one by one
back in the box, until all had been restored to their
former position. Suddenly he changed his mind.

"No," he thought, ''I shall take one and keep it
by me until I see her. I'll take the last." Then he
hastily run them over until he found the one, the
last she had ever written him. He had but just
taken it away from the others when he heard his
wife's voice calling him in the hall. He slipped the
letter into his pocket, closed the box, and had barely
time to put it out of sight when he heard Lady
Mildred again, this time accompanied by a tap on
the door, and the sound of the handle being softly
turned.

May I come in ? " she said in a cheery tone. " I
didn't know you were here, and I'm awfully glad, for

I want to ask your idea about something. You
know, John, you have not taken a bit of interest in
the house, and it looks so pretty : I've made the
old picture-gallery into a sort of conservatory. The
way I've arranged, it now has four exits and
entrances, but it seems so barren that I want to
divide it, and have come to ask your advice about
hanging up some tapestry curtains. The workmen
say they ought to be one way, I say another, so I
thought I'd ask you, and let you settle it. Are you
busy ? "

Oh dear no ! " he replied cheerfully. " What is it
I can do for you ? "

She came towards him, but stopped abruptly.

What a strange perfume there is 1 " She sniffed
the air daintily. " What is it ? — something new ? — it
smells like — "

Claremont flushed deeply.

Perfume ! — I don't know ; isn't it the same old
thing ? White Rose or opoponax ? "

No, no ; it's a dead scent, you know, and reminds
me of a line of poetry :

' Oh, the faint sweet smell of that jessamine flower ! '

But come aloncj, the men are waitincr- there'll be
such a crush to-night."

She slipped her arm around his waist, and
VOL. ill. K

together they descended the great oaken staircase ;
she chattering in the liveliest fashion, he listening
with a smile on his lips, but a mind whose thoughts
were anywhere but there. They made their way
through numerous rooms, wearing so gay an aspect,
that even Clare mont could not refrain from expressing
his admiration ; as they neared the old
picture-gallery, he even complimented his wife on
her taste in the admirable changes she had made.
This unwonted kindness so filled her heart with joy
that she felt tears rushing into her eyes, and could
scarcely keep from throwing her arms round his
neck and telling him how much she loved him ; but
knowing how he detested scenes, she stifled all
thought of sentiment, and continued talking of the
preparations for the ball as if she had noticed
nothing unusual in his speech or tone.

"I really don't know where we'll put all the
people," she said. "You won't believe it, but I'm
already tired to death; however, Aunt Chandos-
Cressy will do the honours in the drawing-room after
dinner, and I'll slip away and get a little rest before
the ball begins."

"Ah !" thought Claremont, "that is the time I'll
ask her to see me — a most opportune moment."

By this time they had reached the gallery. It
was no longer a cold, bare place, but had been

transformed from a single room into a labyrinthine
apartment divided by screens, hangings, and lofty
palms and shrubs; arranging the tapestry-curtains
to every one's satisfaction, however, was easier said
than done. One way was tried, then another ; Lady
Mildred suggested, and the workmen explained ; but
they were readier with their tongues than their
hands, and were so clumsy that finally Claremont
mounted the ladder and adjusted them himself.
When the last touch was added, Lady Mildred cried
out with evident satisfaction :

There, that's just it, John ; now let me see," she
said, mounting a few steps on the ladder. "All
those festoons make the room look like an open rose.
Lots of places for flirtations here, eh ? Such quiet
nooks and corners ! I'll get out of your way
now. Come down. That's all right," she said to
the men, " you can go now. Thanks awfully, John.
Now I must run away;" and she moved towards
the door. " How hot you look ! " she said, casting
a backward glance on him.

Hot ! by Jove, I should think I was. As Miss
Grayson says, ' I've been working like a nigger.' Are
you going now ? "

'eyes," she said, calling through the doorway.
" I hadn't an idea it was so late. You'll
have to take your tea alone, for I'm so fagged ;

K 2

I'll get a little rest, and have a bath before
dinner."

Instead of my tub," he called after her, " I'm
having a Turkish bath up here."

Then he pulled his handkerchief from his pocket,
began mopping his brow, and idly took in the
result of his late exertions. He was so busily
occupied that he did not observe a paper he had
taken out with his handkerchief, which had fluttered
silently down and settled unperceived at the roots
of one of the palm-trees. Without giving another
glance around he quitted the apartment. He intended
taking a turn before dinner in the Park, but
was interrupted by the arrival of an old college
friend, whose unexpected visit, although not most
opportune, gave him so much pleasure that time
fairly flew, and so engrossed were they by reminiscences
of the past, that even the dressing-bell rang
unheeded. Urging upon his friend to come in good
time for the evening, he flew to his room, and in
frantic haste began to dress.

Before Lady Mildred went to the drawing-room,
womanlike, she bestowed one last look round to see
that everything was in proper order. Passing
through the rooms she gave a second glance to her
improvised conservatory, and felt proud of the skill
and taste shown in its arrangement. She was just

saying to herself, " How dodge it all looks," when
she caught sight of a white object gleaming through
the shrubs near one of the palms. She hastily
picked it up, and saw it was a letter in Enilda
Rozen's handwriting, beginning, " Dearest."

She put her hand to her head, and a vague
indefinite pain shot through her heart. " What can
it be ? " she thought ; " to whom can it be addressed ?
But before she could read further, Flora and Mrs.
Chromo appeared in the doorway. She hastily thrust
the paper into her pocket. They were both talking
and praising the beauty of the house, and Flora
added :

As we have remarked in London, everybody
arrives from a quarter of an hour to an hour late for
dinner. I bet Lucy a dozen of Bertin's best, that if,
like good Americans, we strolled in in strict time,
not only should we be the first, but not even the
hostess would be ready to receive us ; and you see
how it is."

Lady Mildred smiled good-humouredly, shook
hands with them, and making the slightest sort of
an apology they proceeded to the drawing-room.
In spite of Flora's prediction no one was more than
half an hour late, and soon they were all seated at a
brilliant table, where Lady Mildred took her place
with Florestan at her risfht. As the dinner was

given to Enilda, Claremont, according to American
custom, would have placed her on his right. On the
contrary, he was obliged to take in the first lady in
rank in the room ; but was agreeably surprised to
find that Enilda, on the arm of the Count, was
happily seated on his immediate left.

Lady Mildred never could tell how she got
through the dinner. Lons^ before it finished, her
eyes wandered in her husband's direction, and
each time he seemed just at that moment to be
in earnest conversation with Enilda ; even seemed
pleading with her for something, for she suddenly
lifted her head and answered his question by an
affirmative nod. In that last movement a veil
seemed suddenly torn from Lady Mildred's eyes.

I see it all now," she murmured ; " his coldness
to me, his going off to America ; his return and
altered manner after having lived in that girl's house
are proof enough. How blind I have been ! — oh,
how blind, how idiotic ! "

Her only thought now was to get away from table
and read the letter. It seemed as if the courses
would never finish ; the dessert was endless ; but at
last she saw her way clear to give the signal for
rising. To her surprise Florestan offered his
arm.

It is the American fashion," he explained, half-apologetically;

"I brought you in, and must see you
safe out again."

'what'" she said, half faintly; "you don't want
to stop with the men ? You don't want to smoke ?

■\-r })

lOU

Indeed I do not. I'll take you to the drawing-room."


"Yes," cried Flora; "you'll be the lion in a den
of Daniels. We don't want you."

At that moment Miss Chances-Cressy took her
cue from her niece's tired expression and pale face.
I am sure you're tired, Mildred," she said ; " you
must let me replace you while you take a little rest."

Why, naturally," cried Flora, Mrs. Chromo, and
others in a breath ; and the former added, " a day
like this is enough to break up a washerwoman."

Lady Mildred murmured her thanks, and said
she would retire for a little while. She was burning
to read the letter, and scarcely heard Florestan ashe
said compassionately :

Do accept my arm. You look so pale ; are you
ill ? Don't mind me. The house is so lovely I shall
lose myself in these beautiful rooms, and think I amin
Fairyland. Are you sure there is not an Aladdin's
lamp concealed somewhere ? " Then he kissed Lady
Mildred's hand with stately grace as he left her at
the door of the drawings-room.

Lady Mildred flew to her own apartments, and
with trembling Anglers took the letter from her
pocket. She turned np the gas, and full under its
limit, with beating heart and dilated eves, read it
from beginning to end ; then it suddenly struck her
that she had not once seen her husband's name.
Perhaps it was not addressed to him ; but, then,
how came it into his possession ? But had it been
in his possession ? The events of the day then
rapidly passed before her — as in a vision she saw her
husband mounting the ladder to arrange the tapestry
curtains, and she heard him say, " By Jove, how hot
it is!"** "That is it," she said; "he has been shut
up in his room all day reading old letters, he put
this one in his pocket, and drew it out with his
handkerchief when he complained of the heat, and
it fell at the foot of the palm-tree. He will look for
it first in his coat which he changed for dinner, and
not finding it he'll so back to the conservator to
look for it; — he'll go there. Ah, if I only knew
when ; — perhaps he will go now. \Yhat better time
than the present ? At any rate, I have a clear
hour before me ; I shall go there myself and hide ina
corner, and if he comes in to look for anything I
shall then know the letter was addressed to him.
First, I must give orders to my maid that I am not
to De disturbed"'

In the mean time Florestan wandered from one
room to another, until he found himself in the old
picture-gallery which Lady Mildred's ingenuity had
transformed into so fantastic a creation ; he broke a
tiny waxen flower from a full-blown tree that stood
in a corner, and took the blossom tenderly in his
hands.

"It looks like her face," he murmured, "as rare,
as fair, as sweet, as daintily cut; what if I should
ask her the great question to-night, and — why not
in this very room ? At least I may imagine she is
coming, and sit down in the shadow of this curtain
to dream of her. If this flower really were an
Aladdin's lamp, and by wishing I could realize all
my heart's desires, I should ask for her love and bethe
happiest man on earth."

Espying a half-rustic divan that might have
tempted even an Endymion to repose, he threw
himself upon it, the curtain concealed his recumbent
form, and he was soon lost in visionary dreams of
Enilda.

Lady Mildred having given orders not to be disturbed,
had stealthily left her room, and by means
of an almost disused passage found herself by
one sudden turning, at the further end of the conservatory.
She had barely hidden herself when she
heard not only approaching footsteps but voices.

and to her surprise her husband came towards
her.

Her heart gave a jump, and seemed to leap into
her throat, but sure of her hiding-place she stifled
her emotions and chilly watched Claremont.

He looked cautiously around. " There's no one
here," he said quickly. " Come in ; I told you I
must see you alone."

A smile of triumph lit up Lady Mildred's face as
she saw Enilda Rozen come in through the doorway.
She was deathly pale, and her eyes burned with
a wild light, yet never had she looked so lovely.
Her dress of soft crape trailed mysteriously after
her, the dimly-lighted conservatory, the flickering
shadows from the waving palms and fantastic
tapestries seemed to envelop her with a something
so unreal, so unearthly, that Lady Mildred wondered
if she were really standing before her, or if she
herself were not the dupe of her own over excited
imagination. No; it was no deception, no delusion;
at that instant Claremont spoke again :

Can you have been so blind as not to have seen
all along how I loved you — how I adored you ? "

Stop," she said faintly, placing her hands before
her eyes and walking towards him as one walks
in a dream. " I cannot realize that you — you of
all the world — are saying this to me. Surely I

have fallen very low in your estimation ; you can
have very little respect for me after what has passed
between us to say again, ' I love you. ' "

"Ah!" gasped Lady Mildred, "after what has
passed between them. I thought as much. God
help me not to betray myself, but to hear them
through to the end."

Florestan was awakened from his reverie in a
manner he had little imagined. Hearing voices he
cautiously lifted his head and was about to reveal
himself, when to his horror he saw John Claremont
seize Enilda's hand and throw himself on his knees
at her feet. To listen was unworthy, to retire was
impossible ; a thousand thoughts flashed through his
mind, the first of which was, "She does not love me,"
and seemed to place all her indifference and coldness
before his eyes in their true meaning. " My heart is
broken," he groaned ; " at least, whatever I may be
compelled to overhear, I will never look upon her
face again." Then sinking wearily back on his now
disenchanted couch, he buried his face in his hands.

"Enilda," said Claremont, seizing her hands and
covering them with . passionate kisses, " for God's
sake hear me. I swear to you I loved you ; I swear
to you I never have loved, I never shall love another
woman. Fate came between us — a bitter Fate ; and
yet, so help me heaven, I was innocent."

She tried to disengage her hands.

Hush ! " she said in a breathless voice, " hush !
sou forget yourself, — you forget me, — you forget
your wife. I must not, will not, listen to you, — let
me go."

No ; you shall not go till you have heard all I
have got to say."

You are mad, I tell you. Unhand me ; I must
go. What if we are overheard ? Can you realize
what you are doing ? What if some one were to
come in ? "

No one can come in from three entrances at
least," he said brutally, '"'for I have locked the
doors. If they come they must face us ; — and you,
can you deny that you still remember the past? —
that you once loved me — that you still love me ?"

The past ! " In spite of herself the wild look left
her eyes, and a tender flush stole over her face
making it soft and roseate, as a cloud that is kissed
by the dawn. "The past!" she murmured. "Ah,
if I only could forget it ! — that I loved you, John
Claremont ? Yes ; that I shall never deny — that I
love you still ? " She laughed a bitter laugh. " If
we are to go by the Away of the world, I ought to
adore you. You have treated me badly enough ; —
but who shall say whether I do or do not love ? At
least you have no right to question me."

I have a right," he answered, his Ups again
touching her hand. " A triple right ; that of love in
the past, of adoration in the present, and devotion for
the future. I am yours; you shall do with me as
you will."

And I was once yours, and I gave you my whole
heart when you appreciated me, and it is so little
that you left me with the words ' For ever ' on your
lips, and went straight away and married another
woman : that, too, without ever even telling me
the reason why. You wrote me a letter; — such a
letter ! I have it still, and whenever I find myself
in danger of thinking too much of any man, I read
it over."

Spare me," he murmured ; " for God's sake spare
me. He alone knows what it cost me to write that
letter."

Enilda violently wrenched her hands from his, and
uplifting them impressively said :

'■' And what it cost me to read it ! Oh, it was the
old story. You gave no reason for changing ; you had
no need to ; you simply preferred another woman tome,
and you took a perfectly straightforward way
of telling me of it. I can't complain. I never complained.
Am I the first woman who has been
abandoned by a so-called lover? Was the art of
deception invented for you any more than the gift of

credulity was invented for me? — and yet — and yet,
you never can know how truly I loved you. This is
probably the last time we shall ever meet. I am not
so weak as to wish it. nor you so base as to wish to
bring it about. I will tell you now, if you care to
hear it, how I received your letter. I was so sure
that you loved me as I loved you, that I read it
through and thrush before I could realize its
meaning, and even then cried to myself, ' There is
some mistake, some fearful dream ; it can't be true ;
he is only trying me ; he wants to see if I love him.
He another woman's husband ! No ! I cannot believe
it, and yet? — how could you jest so cruelly? You
wonder if I suffered ? — I knew not where to put my
head for very shame. My veins ran fire and ice,
and my eyes — I could not see out of them; they
were bursting — bursting : there were do tears, only
thousands of grains of sand cut like needles into the
bal's. I could not cry ; even that woman's resource
was denied me ; tears used to well up in my heart
to flow back again in blood, without once having
wet the lids of my poor dazed eyes. Ah, it was
because I had tried to see too much. I had strained
my eyes to look upon a prospect of happiness that
rarely comes to mortals, and like the one who would
gaze upon the immortal, my temerity was punished.
It seemed so little, the happiness of but two people

ill all this great universe — yours and mine ! why
in all this world of misery could not two poor
creatures hope to be exempt from the common
lot ? Days passed. I tried to think, but could not
realize what would become of me; I only used to
repeat to myself as each sun rose and set, ' I shall
not see him to-day, nor tomorrow, nor yet the day
after. I must wake in the morning, and go to sleep
at night ; ' always thinking, ' I love him ; he is alive,
yet deaf to me. I shall never see him again ; his
words were nothing, only so many lies, and his vows
and kisses, lies, — all lies.' As I took up my life
at sunrise my prayer was forgetfulness ; at sunset,
oblivion. Oh, sir, I was too poor, too weak a
creature to have been honoured with so rich a jest ; —
only a miner's daughter, and yet you treated me as
you might have treated a woman of the world."
Enilda, for heaven's sake spare me."
Spare you ! You had the world to choose from,
why not have spared me ? One poor creature, whose
worst fault was loving you but too well — that was it
perhaps. I did not mask my love, I let you see it
too plainly ; but how could I hide what everyone
seemed to see ? Charlotte — and the gardener,
and even that old man Ricard, whenever he looked
at me, seemed to know that I was thinking of you.
I was so happy ; but you — you have never known

what it is to love, or you could never have thrown
away such a love as mine ! Why, I was yours,
body and soul. You became such a part of my daily
life, that in every man's face I saw your face ; in
every voice I heard your voice ; in every song of
nature I heard the music of my love for you, and
your answering love for me ; in every book I opened
I only read your name ; every word I spelled only
said, ' He loves me and we will be happy together ! '
Now that I have everything in the world, I know
how little, yet how much I asked of Fate. Then I
would have been your slave ; you might have beaten,
or starved, or kicked me. I would have accepted
all for one crumb of love : I would have gone
hungry and cold, and have begged in the streets,
only to have been always by your side. Before you
went away I knew that my father's position was
changed, but I said, ' This money which has come at
last, which came yesterday, well, it may go tomorrow
for all I care ; he loves me for what I am, and
all I ask is his love.' Then when I realized that
your letter was true, my heart was deader, colder,
heavier, than any leaded sack which has ever leapt
into the sea. Then when I could think — "

Stop ! " he cried. " I can bear no more. Can
you pretend that if you loved me as you say you did,
such a love can be dead ? — that one short year can

have so blotted out a past that not one trace of the
old feeling is left ? Do you think I, too, can have
forgotten it ? A fatal chain of circumstances made
me a villain in your eyes and my own. You ask
me to tell you why ; alas ! I cannot tell you without
betraying a woman, and that woman — "

"Hush" she said; "her name should be sacred.
Do not intrude it in such a scene as this. Now let
me go."

No ; not until you have heard me. Oh, Enilda,
what I have suffered since our parting no words can
ever tell ! I tried to forget you; I tried to accept my
fate ; to live an honest life, and be if not a loving, at
least a faithful, husband to the woman I had married.
I had so schooled myself into saying, ' She is dead tome
for ever,' that even my memories of you became
like the flowers we place on the grave of our dead ;
but when a relentless destiny threw you again
in my path, I felt from the first, that my year of
agony of patience and of striving had gone for nothing.
Do you think in that first sound of your voice, in
that first look into your eyes, in that first hand-clasp,
I, too, did not live over and over again every moment
of our past ? Oh, Enilda, do you think forgetfulness
is so easily bought ? Believe me, love in this world
is everything. Don't be cruel; you still care forme
; I throw myself at your feet ; let us give up the

VOL. III. L

world, and live only for each other. We ^vill go back
to Laramie, and re-live the old life ; to the little
lantern-like room overlooking the wide, dear river ;
and the soft air, perfumed with a thousand happy
odours; to hear the murmuring reeds and rushes
under the old bridge, and see the moon from her
sapphire sea, entangle the weeds and water-lilies in
her long silver shafts, magic cypher which only lovers
can read. Enilda, will you come ? can't you see
two figures leaning on a balcony overlooking the
river, their lips and e3'es meeting, their arms roundabout
each other, their very shadows one, their very
sighs breathing a love eternal as eternity. Those
two figures, Enilda, are yours and mine ; those
vows, those kisses, those transports are yours and
mine. You were my first love. Fate has again
thrown us together, you must be my last."

"No, no; you were faithless; all is changed; —
and — and as things are now, I do not res-ret the
past."

Not regret the past ! — and as things are now ;
what do you mean ? "

I mean," she said, slowly pushing him from her
and gazing steadily into his face ; " I mean that I no
longer love you ; that every word we have said tonight
is an insult to your wife, although, God
knows, I never dreamed when I consented to see

you that we ever should have spoken as we have.
It is true I have often feared that some time —
some explanation must come between you and me.
It has come ; — it is passed. Know, John Claremont,
that I love your wife dearly; and she — Heaven help
her ! — she loves you. I shall never willingly see
you again, even if by so doing I could buy a perfect
future ; for I have so suffered myself, that I would
never purchase one hour's happiness at the expense
of another woman's broken heart. Even were I to
love you — which — I do not — I — "

Speak ! You repeat, and to me, that you no
longer love me ! — that your love, such a love, is dead ?
No, no; I'll not believe it." In his anger and
unbelief he laughed almost aloud.

I am to blame for coming ; — I have struggled
with myself since our meeting on the steamer. I
could not analyze my feelings. The sentiment I
took for remembrance, was merely the bitterness of a
self-love, a self-esteem which had been too cruelly
wounded for any true woman easily to forget. I tell
you plainly, for the last time, when I heard you say,
Let us live for each other,' I realized then, John
Claremont, that I do not love you, — you may
believe me or not — I do not love you ; I — I love
another. Forget me ; go back to your wife, and tell
her—"

L 2

"And tell her," he interrupted fiercely, "the
truth, perhaps? — "

Which she already knows," said Lady Mildred,
suddenly throwing aside the curtain, and as suddenly
revealing herself to their astonished gaze.

Enilda screamed, but did not attempt to move ; the
sudden apparition seemed to freeze her into stone.

Florestan, startled by Enilda's shriek, rushed forward,
but either his footfall was so licht or their
excitement so intense, that none of the three perceived
him : Lady Mildred continued,

My husband could not speak against a woman,
but there is no reason why a woman may not speak
against herself. My presence here to-night was not
undesigned. I found this," — she held up Enilda's
letter in her trembling fingers ; — " I could not help
reading it, and I felt that apprehension a woman
always feels \xhen on the brink of some calamity.
I had a fatal presentiment that all my destiny
was written in those lines. Miss Rozen, you wrote
that letter to a man whom I tricked into marrying
me.

** Mildred," began her husband, " for God's sake — "

Do not stop me," she said, looking at him coldly
and scornfully ; " Miss Rozen's frankness at least
deserves mine."

At this point Florestan, in honour, could no longer

conceal himself. He stepped forward. Lady Mildred
was the first to perceive him ; she evinced no surprise.
Enilda, who seemed still under the influence of some
horrid dream, saw him as one sees in a vision, whilst
Claremont murmured to himself: " Flore stan ! He
too has heard all;" — and before the former could
step forward to demand, or the latter to explain
his position, Lady Mildred spoke again :

"It is just that he too should know all; and
I repeat, I tricked my husband into marrying me. I
feigned an accident which never happened; an illness
which fell upon me only in imagination ; and a
possible death of which I stood in no peril. You will
ask why I did all this ? It is very simple. I loved
him ; I felt him drifting each day farther from me,
and determined to win him at any cost. I did — at
a great one ; but I thought once married that my
love would beget at least some responsive passion ;
that when he realized how much I cared for him he
would grow to like me. I did not know what had
happened, and, — and I never dreamed until — I read
this letter, that he had in any way ever bound
himself to another."

At that moment the joyous strains of the Blue
Danube waltz burst forth. Lady Mildred started, and
pressed her hand to her forehead in a dazed manner.

Ah ! " she exclaimed. " It is true I have a ballon

to-night. I had quite forgotten; can it be so
late ? But what have our private feelings to do
with the role we must play before the world ? I am
not the only woman who must take a broken heart
into the glare of flaring lights, the crush and din of
an indifferent throng — " At this juncture Florestan
stepped forward.

"Excuse me, Miss Rozen, this house is no longer
a place for you ; allow me to conduct you to your
carriage."

Enilda advanced a step, but was stopped by Lady
Mildred's tremulous voice and outstretched hand.

Miss Rozen," she said, " believe me, whenever or
wherever we may meet, I shall cherish for you the
warmest feelings of admiration, friendship, and gratitude.
You are not to blame for this night's work
any more than I, or perhaps even my husband. I
see now that no one can escape his destiny. Ah !
the music again ! I am sure if you have any regard
for me, you will not go away now ; as the only favour
you can ever do me will be to save a scandal here
to-night; we must all play our parts a few hours
more, we will at least open the ball together, and
after that — "

Enilda bowed assent to her ladyship's words,
placed an icy hand upon Florestan's, and stepped
forward. Lady Mildred made way for them to pass.

"After you," she said, smiling curiously; then
turned to her husband with the same strange
look.

Mr. Clare mont, perhaps for the last time — your
arm ? "

CHAPTER YIIL

Although the excitement of this eventful evening
had been enough to upset the strongest-minded
person, Enilda, who had heretofore betrayed but
little of the heroic in her nature, on this occasion
proved that she was made of the stuff that models
heroes, not cowards. The revulsion of her own
feelings on listening to Clare mont's outburst, the
final letting go of that cable which up to an hour
ago had anchored the present to the past, the shock
of Lady Mildred's appearance and Florestan's discovery
of her long-hidden secret, were such vivid
realities, that like the brightest flash of lio-htnino-
before she had completely realized their portent,
they had as completely ceased to be. An hour ago
might have been yesterday — or dead with seven
thousand years.

She never knew how she left the ball-room nor
how she reached home : as she re-entered her
house she was met at the door by Charlotte Cardan,

whose face expressed the liveliest anxiety and concern.
She began talking at once, expressing her
surprise at Miss 'Nilda's getting home so much
.eciriier than usual.

A messenger has been twice to seek you," she
said ; " he left a note and 'claimed it was a matter of
life and death ; but you look pale, honey chile."

"Yes, I feel faint, Charlotte; get me a glass of
wine ; and what about a letter ? "

Take off your things first," she urged, but this
Euilda declined to do, and sinking into a chair hastily
opened the envelope. As she read a cry escaped
her. The letter was as follows :

You are a woman, Enilda Rozen, and I know,
although sou can't have any love for me, you won't
refuse to go to any one in trouble, certainly not to
a compatriot who is ill — perhaps dying — 'in a strange
land. For Heaven's sake come to me as soon as you
get this. I have a terrible story to tell you. Come
alone ; or, if you will, bring a servant with you, but
neither Flora nor Mrs. Chromo ; some way I could
not bear to see them ; but you — you've always
heaped coals of fire on ray head, and I turn to you
as the only woman in idiom I can confide. Lose no
time, for my strength is fast leaving me.

"Ida Forrester."

Enilda read and re-read the letter. At first she
thought it a trick, but at last was convinced of its
sincerity. Charlotte returned with the wine, which
she swallowed at a draught, and then announced
that she was going out that very moment, and bade
her put on her things to accompany her. On
their way to Forestii's house she explained as much
as she knew, and for the first time noticed that the
negress's face wore a strange look. She eagerly
questioned her, but Charlotte responded only vaguely
until so pressed by Enilda that she said :

Yes ; something has happened, Miss 'Nilda dear.
Have patience ; you can't know no more to-night. It
contains all on us ; but good news '11 keep, and bad
conies fast enough. Wild horses won't fetch nothing'
more from me now, so just simmer down, and in good
time you'll know all about it."

Enilda was so wrapped up in thoughts of Ida
Forrester, and speculations as to the nature of the
confidences she was about to hear, that she did not
insist upon Charlotte's explaining further. They
threaded their way through dismal streets; for although
it was barely midnight the great city wore
a strangely deserted aspect, and the occasional lamps
were about as sufficient to light up London, as a
single signal to light up the Atlantic. A light
vapour streamed up from the earth ; it was neither

fog nor mist, but that indescribable blueish atmosphere
common to London between the hours of
twelve and two : which thickens and renders indistinct
street corners, and makes the various houses
in their facings of brown or white or grey, stand
forth in the haze like spectres haunting a death-strewn
battle-field.

At last they reached Forestii's house, one of those
prolific mansions redolent of lodgings, in the neighbourhood
of Bloomsbury Square. The house was
very dimly lighted from the front, but from the
windows of the second story a steady light seemed
to indicate the sick woman's room. In a few
moments Enilda and Charlotte were admitted to a
lofty chamber, where on a bed in the corner of the
room lay the poor opera-singer. The pillow was
scarcely whiter than her cheek ; and her long black
hair seemed to curl in endless serpentine rings on
the pillow ; her eyes burned with a strange brightness
; and her lips, from which every vestige of colour
had fled, twitched nervously, keeping company with
her hands, which incessantly plucked at the coverlet :
this was elaborately trimmed with lace, and to
Enilda's surprise a large coronet and monogram were
conspicuous in the centre. A night-lamp was on a
table beside the bed, and standing beside this table,
in a respectful attitude, was Fraulein Marx, the lady

companion. Enilda bowed civilly to her, and went
straight to Ida ; she took one hand in hers, kissed
her cheek, and said tenderly :

You were right to send for me ; I am more
grieved than I can tell to find you in this state."

Ida attempted to speak, but no words came ; tears
only rolled from her large black eyes and sank
silently into the frills of her night-dress.

Don't try to speak now," said Enilda. " I shall
not leave you ; I only want to know how to help you,
to befriend you if you need a friend."

Ida murmured a few words about forgiveness —
about the past and the old school in Chicago ; — then
Enilda began to take off her things, and wdjen she
had removed her last wrap, sank down by the bedside
and caressingly took Ida's hands.

You must not worry or fret, dear ; perhaps things
are not so bad as you think. You are with friends,
and you must not tell me anything now, because
you're ill, that — that you might be sorry for after-war
Js; 1 mean when you get well, you know, things
may seem different."

Ida shook her head wearily, and made an effort
to rise from her pillow. Both Enilda and Fraulein
sprang forward to help her ; but assuming a strange
energy she waved the latter from her with a gesture
of such horror and loathing: that Enilda raised her

eyes in wonder. The movement lent the same
energy to her voice, for she almost screamed as she
said :

Don't let her touch me, don't let her come near
me, she is the bane of my life ; I look upon her as
the cause of all my misfortunes. Don't stop me now,
Enilda; while I have the strength, I must tell you
everything."

At this moment Fraulein Marx came close to the
bedside.

Miss Rozen," she said, " I beg you will pay no
attention to her ravings, she is utterly mad. She has
had a fever, which has left her in such a state of
mind that she is not responsible for her words. She
has quarrelled with me, with her best friend ; she
has got hold of a letter which I held in my possession,
addressed not to me but to some one else ; she read
it, and her imagination has run away with her to
such an extent she almost calls white black."

Enilda looked up coldly. Charlotte, who had been
sitting in a distant corner of the room, drew her
chair nearer to the bedside.

"I scarce know what to believe," said Enilda
haughtily; "your words are strong enough, Fraulein,
and yet, I'm sure Ida knows perfectly what she is
saying."

'that I do," said the sick woman, quickly. "I've

sent for you because I want you to help me.
It's no use, Fraulein Marx, you saying I am
mad, and trying to shut me up. I haven't a
friend in the world, Enilda, and I'll tell you
everything."

Ida then began with a voice which was fairly
strong at first, but dropped steadily lower as she
proceeded with her story. She went back to the
time she first came to Europe to study, told of her
trials and hardships, the dog's life she had to lead
on the stage, and the people she had to cringe and
make up to, from a parson to a penny-aliter : she
said when she knew there was no couleur de rose
about the stage, she still loved it; its fascination
was so much more than its degradation, that she had
never resented the career she had chosen. At last

o

she spoke of Ems. " You won't believe it, Enilda,"
she continued in a sobbing voice ; " but I was so
alone, so friendless, that I did as many another
woman has done before me."

Enilda pressed her hand softly. " Don't go on,
dear," she said, " it will tire you too much. I know
what you are going to say."

It isn't as bad as that, Enilda, — only perhaps it
is, for it has turned out the same. I met him, and
finally consented to a secret marriage."

Enilda drew away her hand, then instinctively

put it back again. " And so you are married," she
said softly. " Go on."

Ah ! married — yes ; but can't you understand, it
was all a wretched farce ? I used to beg him to
acknowledge me, to give me my proper position
before the world as his wife. He never would. I
can't say that he ill-treated me, but of late he had
changed so much that I felt he no longer loved me.
His ways became mere and more mysterious, until
finally the other day he brutally told me never again
to speak of his acknowledging my marriage, and
in spite of my tears abandoned me when I was
wretchedly ill in New York. But that's not all. Oh I
Enilda, I'm not his wife at all; he's married to
another woman, and Fraulein Marx knows all about
it, for I've found some letters in her possession,
written by my husband years ago, and addressed,
My dearest wife.' "

Enilda started up. " Great Heaven ! can it be
possible ? The wretch ! to so ruin and betray a helpless
girl ! — but are you sure, — quite sure ? This is a
dreadful charge to bring against any man. Is this
true ? " And she turned abruptly to Fraulein Marx.

The Fraulein's face was impassive. " I told, you
she was raving," she replied ; " but what if I were to
say. Yes, it is true ? "

At this Ida broke into frantic sobbing. She

turned her head on her pillow, and wejDt so bitterly
that for a few moments Enilda was afraid she would
do herself some harm.

It is too late now," she murmured ; " but it is
so hard to have misspent my life, to die when I am
so young, just when I thought I had a bright future
spreading out before me. The Fraulein says I have
killed myself, because I took on so when I realized
the awful truth : I broke a blood-vessel at the
same time I broke my heart. What have I to
live for? He can't marry me now, and I am disgraced
for ever."

There you're wrong," said Enilda. " You have
everything to live for, above all to punish the man
who has so betrayed you, and to prove to the world
that your misfortune was not your fault."

Fraulein Marx stood still impassive by the bedside,
but Charlotte Corday's head was bowed upon her
bosom, and stifled sobs shook her old withered
form. Ida was calmer, and her head was half-losing
on Euilda's bosom, when the door suddenly opened,
and a man entered the apartment. Enilda looked
up. " What does this intrusion mean ? " she cried, —
what — ? " But the words died on her lips as she
recognized in the intruder the Count de Marcie and
D'Orbach.

"You!" she cried, her arm still supporting Ida's

head. " Can anything have happened, — Flora ! Mrs.
Chromo ! Lady Mildred ? "

He stepped forward gallantly with hat in hand.
A light half-opened summer overcoat disclosed the
irreproachable dress-suit, and still more faultless
gardenia which adorned his button-hole. He bowed
with pantomimic assurance, and in the most casual
manner in the world came towards the bed whereon
Ida was lying. Enilda flushed and half-arose ; his
manner was in itself an offence.

He made her no answer.

You do not speak," she cried ; "what means your
appearance at this hour, in this place ? "

At this point Ida raised her head, and pointing a
finger, slowly murmured,

It is but natural, a husband may seek his wife
at any hour; but he — he is no more my husband
than I am — "

What do you mean ? " cried Enilda. " Ida,
speak ! It can't be true ; — this — this then is the
wretch who betrayed you ? "

The Count stopped short in the middle of the
room; his face wore an expression of mingled rage
and astonishment. He swore a vile oath, then
rushing forward, seized Ida by the hand.

What do you mean ? " he cried. " Haven't I
been tormented enough of late, without the addition

VOL. III. M

of your infernal whining and nonsense ? So you've
told her ! A pretty mess, truly — and you think I will
forgive such a breach of faith as that ? No — never;
and if you were to get well tomorrow, and I were a
thousand times free, I wouldn't marry you."

Fraulein Marx came forward and pulled him away
from Ida by main force.

Are you drunk or crazy ! " she cried. " Be careful,
be careful ; another syllable may be too much."

Shocked and disgusted, Enilda prepared to leave
the room; but Ida implored her not to go away.
The Count, evidently under the influence of liquor,
turned to the sick woman with such brutality
of gesture and manner that she felt her very soul
sicken as she gazed upon him, and before she knew
how it came about, she had thrust him from the
bedside and stood between him and the girl he had
so foully wronged.

"Ha, Miss Rozen!" he laughed; 'the Copper
Queen,' — perhaps some day we will not give ourselves
such airs."

Sir," cried Enilda, " leave the room this instant,
your very presence is an insult to an honest woman ;
as far as I am concerned, never dare to speak to or
address me again. Know that I shall have this
matter thoroughly sifted ; the world shall hear of
your vileness. Ida henceforth is under my protection

; — no — perhaps I am too harsh ; I do not think
you are yourself now, but if you are a gentleman
and have one spark of honour left tell me the truth :
Is or is she not your wife ? "

I am as sick of subterfuge as she is," he replied
angrily. " My wife ! No ; — and never was."

Whilst lie was speaking no one had noticed
Charlotte Corday, who had gradually drawn near,
and w\^s staring at him with wild dilated eyes ; her
face wore the same livid look Enilda had twice
seen upon it, and suddenly she began to speak:
her voice sounded hoarse and unnatural whilst she
cried :

Come home, honey chile, come home ; don't go
for to mixing' yer self up in odder folkes affairs."

The Count turned towards her with a hard laugh,
which rang out awfully in the hushed room.

"That's right, Auntie, take her home," he said;
there are some people whose affairs she had best
let alone — I am one of those people."

I shall never let you alone' cried Enilda,
until I see justice done. I will tell the world — "

"No, no, honey chile, come home," pleaded old
Charlotte.

Ida," asked Enilda, " what do you wish ? — shall I
go or stay ? "

Fraulein Marx answered for the singer.

M 2

I think, Miss Rozen," she said civilly, " that
you had best go ; the doctor ordered quiet. This
scene is enough to make even a well woman ill.
Trust me : I am her friend, although she doesn't
know it, and refuses to believe it."

Enilda," said a faint voice.

In an instant she flew to the bedside.

"Ida dear, what is it?" she cried, throwing her
arm tenderly around her. " Do you wish me to go
now ? Tell the truth ; I'll come to you again in the
morning, but not if he is here. Think well before
you send me away. Can I trust you alone with —
with them ? "

Put your ear down close to mine," said Ida
softly. " Go now, dear, it's better so ; and remember
that whatever happens I've told you the truth. I've
been vain and foolish, but not wicked. I thought I
should be a royal countess, and now — and now; — kiss
me just once, Enilda ; I've never been worthy of you,
of your friendship, but I ask it for — for to-night
anyway. I can't thank you enough for coming ; God
won't overlook your goodness to me."

Enilda felt the tears coming; she strusfo-led
vainly, but they would fall. She signed to Charlotte
to fetch her wraps, and giving Ida one
more kiss, one more hand-press, turned to leave the
room.

The Count mockingly stood aside to let lier pass,
whilst Franklin Marx had resumed her old position
at the little table.

This scion of a royal race bowed his Versailles
bow as Enilda reached the doorway. His
heartlessness and whole manner were so loathsome
that she could not forbear turning back once
more.

Do not think, sir," she said, " that this night
shall ever be forgotten. To you at least I and mine
say good-bye for ever."

"You think so; alas, I fear that this is not a
case of what woman wills, etc.; for I, on the contrary,
have already forgotten your words, your very
presence here this evening ; as my friend Isabella — I
beg her pardon. Her Majesty — said when she left
Spain, ' I distinctly do not say good-bye for ever ;
but — au re voir.' "

As soon as Enilda reached home Charlotte
Corday put a little paper in her hands. It was
a telegram.

Ye muss jess read dat, honey chile ; for now's the
time, and bear up under it. Massa Rozen needs us ;
he sent it to me."

"My God!" interrupted Enilda, "what has
happened ? — surely misfortunes never come singly."
She snatched the paper and read :

Tell Enikla that I am ruined — disgraced ; break
it to ber; take the next steamer bone without fail
if you still love me.

'eric Rozen."

Enilda folded the missive in ber fingers.

Is that all, Charlotte ? I — I thought be was
dead. Ruined ! — what is that to me ? Money never
brought us any happiness. Disgraced ? — that be
could never be in my eyes. Ob Charlotte. let u^o
leave London at once and go to bim ; let us go
tomorrow morning. I am ill, miserable, unhappy ;
everything bas gone wrong ; — ob, let us go away ! "

Enilda fell rather than flung herself on to the
negress's broad bosom.

"Honey chile, don't take on like dot ; saint ye got
me and yer sadder en yer frees all jess de same ?
Chair up, en we'll be off quicken a possum ud skip
a gum-stump; but Miss Flora, en — en Miss Lucy
bow 'bout dem ? "

"about dem," said a voice at the door. "They're
bere to speak for themselves." Flora appeared.
"Enilda, what on earth happened at the ball, you
disappeared so early ? Lady Mildred said you bad a
bad headache and might be lying down ; then when
you didn't turn up at the last we grew anxious, and
sbe explained calmly that sbe feared you bad returned

home ; — said it in the coolest way I ever saw.
You know dien you come down to it and want to
know anything from an Englishwoman she doesn't
want you to find out, you might as well question the
rock of Gibraltar. Of course we stayed to the end,
and I may say I never spent a more gorgeous
evening. I have more cotillon trinkets than — why,
what's the matter ? "

Flora stopped as suddenly as she had begun. Ina
few moments she would have been told all, but
Charlotte peremptorily stopped Enilda's talking.

Read this, Miss Flora," she said, handing her the
cablegi'am. " Read dot, case you 're a friend." Then
she whispered to Enilda and forbade her speaking
of Ida. " I lev reasons, honey chile, wich I'll
gub yer later on — trust old Charlotte, she knows
best." She was interrupted by Flora :

"Well, I repose we'll chip off tomorrow. I say
we, for you don't imagine I'll let you go alone,
do you, Enilda? Not I, although I haven't seen
the Tower, or the Crown Jewels, or the Church
where there is a tablet to Lady Jane Grey, or the
field of the forty footsteps. Thank Heaven, I have
done Madame Toussaud's, otherwise I could not
leave London. Enilda, cheer up. What's a failure
in America ? — only one more stepping-stone to
success. Pa's the only man who's never failed,

because be never amounted to anytliin^]^ more than
respectable citizenship, and he always bad a blind
sort of luck wblcb even helped bim on in that.
Ruin ! disgrace ! — nonsense ; the words ought to be
struck out of the American vocabulary''

Flora chattered on; kissed and caressed Enilda
until the latter even smiled.

"Lucy's in bed," she added, "and I wouldn't be
here, but I was so hungry; give me a dinner and
ball the same night for pure starvation diet; so
hungry, as I say, that I was on my way to the
kitchen to see what I could devour. Come along,
let's interview the pantry, and we can pack up after
I've had some food, which, by the way, dearest,
you look as if you stood mildly in need of. It's
broad daylight." She went to the window and lifted
a curtain. " Look at this ; I believe I've struck
the first sunrise which has occurred to my knowledge
since I left dear New York. This early dawn is the
explanation of England's power. She not alone lets
in daylight on her own affairs, but has enough and
to spare to see through the affairs of the whole
civilized world."

She continued chattering, and finally dragged both
Enilda and Charlotte to the dining-room, whence the
latter was sent on an exploring tour to the larder.

Flora danced around in glee, and fairly screamed

with joy when Charlotte reappeared with ample
edibles. She seized a chicken-wing. " Look at me
now, ball dress and all ; oh ! shades of—

'Born in the garret, in the kitchen bred.'

Enilda, why don't you laugh ? — this is such a lark,
and what have you done to Florestan ? — he looked
like a ghost at the ball, — Avhat ? "

Then Enilda sobbed aloud, and stretched out her
hand warningly. The remembrance of that evening
passed over her : it was too bitter. She started to
tell Flora all, but broke down crying,

Oh, Flora, can't you understand ? I— T like him,
and he is lost to me for ever."

CHAPTER IX.

Lucy Chromo awakened abruptly, was aghast
when informed that Enilda and Flora were on
their way that very moment to America. Enilda
showed her father's cable, and Lucy's good heart
instantly pleaded Mr. Rozen's cause. Nothing had
been said of Ida except that she was very ill, and
Enilda begged Lucy to look after her. She did
not explain what had taken place the night before
for two reasons — one her fine sense of honour, which
could not betray Ida even to such friends as Flora and
Lucy ; and the other an indescribable feeling that all
was not yet known, a vague sense of walking in the
dark, of being on the edge of a precipice where a false
step at any moment might launch her into eternity.
She was too troubled, too dazed, to fully appreciate
Charlotte Corday's zeal in begging her not to interfere
with the Count's or any one's affairs. She
never questioned the good soul, but went about
making preparations for her immediate departure, as

one goes about in a dream. Even the memory' of the
night before was intangible, and only as they were
starting off and a certain letter was placed in her
hands, did she realize all that had taken place. The
letter was from Florestan. He wrote :

I know you will believe me when I toll you that
my presence in the conservatory was one of those
purely fatal accidents which no human power has
ever yet been able to avert. I went there to dream
of you, the only woman I have ever loved. I intended
on that very night to ask you, for the last time,
to share my fate — to be my wife. How did my dream
end ? Great Heaven I was ever such an awakening
? I say no more. A vague idea had often haunted
me, the idea that perhaps you had at some time of
your life loved or cared for another; but I never
speculated upon it; I never encouraged it to come
back ; your past was as sacred to me as your present
is, as your future shall be, I still love you, but we
shall not meet again, not now, unless destiny
throws me once more in your path. I am leaving
London, I don't even know where I am going, but
you shall hear from me some time when I can command
my feelings. You ask me perhaps why I am
going ? Oh ! Enilda, can't you see that I have no
more hope ? I heard you say, ' I love another

and I am not such a fool as not to realize aU
your indifference has meant, how little you care forme,
and low really slight a place I have in your
heart. No, no, I can't h)p3 any longer, and as I
cherish sour good-will I don't want to bother you,
and shall never tell you again that I love you. Only
know that I am your friend, yours till death ; whereever
I may be you have only to call and I shall
answer. The world is not wide enough to separate
us ; I am taking myself out of your sight for a time,
because I think that you do not care even to see me.
My presence might stir up sad memories : not bitter
ones to you, dear ; you are not to blame ; you have
nothing to blame yourself with. You but followed
your inclination, and that was so like all your sex.
The crown of true womanhood is when the heart
speaks, and you — when have you ever been aught
that was not most woman ? — when shall you ever be
anything else in my eyes ? Forgive my love for you,
forgive my bluntness, my stupidity, my persistence,
my persecution. All is over now, and in the reverential
kiss I place upon the hand I once proudly
hoped to call my own, receive the assurance of my
undying regard, and believe that whatever may
happen to you and yours, myself and all I possess are
ever at your service. Farewell !

"Ythan Florestan."

They had barely arrived in Liverpool when a
telegram from Lucy Chromo announced Ida's death.
Euilda then told Flora as much as she dared, and
although her own heart was filled with trouble it
still held a tear of regret for the unfortunate young
woman — alone, betrayed, almost friendless, dead in a
foreign land, cut down in the midst of youth's priceless
hopes and priceless illusions. It seemed cruel,
even wicked, but Enilda scarcely thought of other
than her own trouble ; misfortune makes us all more
or less selfish.

The early train had come in, but just before the
sailing of the ' Arragon.' They had neither berths
nor tickets; but the purser was found, and promised
to do the best he could for them ; and
Enilda fancied there was something of pity in his
manner as he reassured her that he would do all
in his power to make her comfortable. A large
room was found at the last moment, an ex-pantry
made for cabin accommodation when the steamer
was overcrowded. The first night Flora's maid
and Charlotte Cord ay passed on the cushions of
the ladies' cabin, whilst two strangers, bound only
to Queenstown, shared the room assigned to Enilda
and Flora. They had fondly hoped that chance
would leave them to themselves ; but the next day,
when they were well out of Queenstown, this

illusion ^va3 promptly dispelled, as the purser showed
a lady into the cabin, briefly announcing that
she was the occupant of No. 3 berth; and half-an-hour
later the door opened and another woman
stood on the threshold. As she hesitated for some
moments, and seemed scarcely to know whether to
go or stay, Enilda civilly invited her to come in.
Lie took a step forward, saying apologetically as she
did so :

I don't know why I'm here ; I'm an intermediate ! "
Enilda looked surprised, but replied :
An intermediate ! Are you not a first-class
passenger ? "

Not a bit of it ; but the purser said I was to
come here, and here I am. I hope I'm not disturbing
of yer ? "

"I don't understand," said Enilda; 'perhaps you
do belong here. How much did you pay for your
ticket ? "

The intruder mentioned a sum about one-third
of what Enilda had paid, which left no doubt as to
the position she would occupy in the steamer; but
having been sent there by the purser, she was as
much entitled to her berth as Enilda herself.
Considering the stranger was a very portly female,
Enilda adjudged it prudent to resign the lower
bern to her, and take the upper one opposite Flora's,

besides she was nearer to the port-hole, and she
specially disliked any one over her head. Flora
was disgusted when she learned they were to be
four in a room, but Enilda was too thankful to get
home at any cost to complain of either ship-companions
or ship-quarters. She and Flora were both
deathly sea-sick, and as usual with human beings
in this state, wished for only one of two things — -
either that they would get better, or that the ship
would go to the bottom. The Intermediate happily
did not suffer from this almost universal ocean complaint,
but the fourth occupier of the state room,
after vacillating for two days between the saloon
and the ladies' cabin, finally yielded to the inevitable
and held constant possession of her berth, thus
adding to Enilda's and Flora's annoyance by preventing
the small consolation that they might have
found in talking things over confidentially.

The weather became fearful, although in the
month of July. There was incessant rain, and when
the clouds lifted they only seemed to gather themselves
together but to break again, to be followed by
violent gusts of wind and tempest. The ship rocked,
plunged fearfully forward, or again danced on the
wave with the lightness of a cockle-shell. In the
mean time Enilda and Flora became not only on
speaking, but on very friendly, terms with their room-mates,

and the Intermediate, though not sea-sick,
found herself obliged to obey orders and keep in
her cabin. No one had thought of danger, but one
could not help a certain disagreeable feeling when
told that the weather-needle marked a gale, and
the steerage were already battened down under their
hatches. As soon as the idea of danger came uppermost,
as usual all sea-sickness vanished. Flora even
got about, and as far as the saloon, when a sight met
her fjaze which sent a cold shudder all over her.
Every breakable object was shivered to atoms; the
floor and lounf^^es were covered with wrecka^^e of
every sort, from a biscuit-dish to a table-rack; and
she seemed wading through piles of broken crockery
The room was almost in stitch darkness ; and added
to the terrible roar of the waves, was the dire rattle
of swinging brackets and such stationary objects as
still held fast, but which threatened every moment
to wrench themselves from their fastenings and
complete the work of general destruction. A skylight
in the elinor was broken, and the tables were
covered with a light powder of pulverized glass, every
now and then quantities of salt water poured in,
drenching everything and enveloping the room in a
cloud of spray, not unlike the steam of a vapour-bath.
Flora did not stand, but — rolled aghast. Only one
human being was in sight — a steward, — who, in Site

of a certain experience of gales, evidently Lad all
he could do to keep this balance. Suddenly there
was a terrible suction sound, as if the ship were
being irresistibly drawn into some narrow compressed
space, followed by a roar passing all description, and
a sudden darkness fell upon them.

Heavens," cried Flora, " we are lost ; what's
that ? "

The steward smiled glumly. " Only shipping a
rover, Miss," he said, and he clutched a near sideboard
as he continued his rocking.

Is it dangerous ? "

•' I never saw it when it was, which means that
when it is dangerous people don't live to tell the
tales'

Flora heard no more, but with one awful shriek
turned to make her way back to the state room. Her
terror was so great that she almost walked straight,
she finally pitched headlong into her room, just
as there was another frightful suction sound ; but
again the darkness lifted, and the gallant ship leaped
forth from the caverns of the deep. Flora began
excitedly to tell all she had seen, and described
the saloon in such terms that Enilda almost laughed
at her description.

"Hear it!" she cried; "just listen to the smashing
! You see they had the tables just set for dinner ;

VOL. III. N

I don't believe there's another dish left aboard.
This last little act is what they call shipping a rover.
I suppose that's the way the ' City of Boston ' disappeared."


Flora clambered into her berth with the utmost
difficulty, chatting volubly all the while; she was as
comfortably settled as could be, when she made the
discovery that water was pouring into the stateroom,
and was already two inches deep upon the
floor. In vain she rang the bell for the stewardess ;
the water kept coming in faster and faster, until
finally the cabin trunks, the handbags and articles
of wearing apparel deposited in the corner were
positively floating about like rafts ; to add to their
consternation the same terrible suction sound was
heard again, and the same ominous blackness obscured
the room; the suspense was horrible; scarcely a
moment had passed, yet it seemed ages.

Ladies," said Flora with solemnity' we've shipped
another rover, and as we don't come out of it, I
guess this time it's dangerous. I don't want to
frighten you, but if I'm not mistaken we stand a
show of passing in our cheques this very minute."

At that moment a howl louder than the howl of
wind or wave burst from the lower berth, and the
Intermediate sprang from her bed : with the words,
I think it's time some one was a praying," she

flung herself on her knees in the middle of the
floor, her skirts flapping and splashing in the water
about her, and wildly clasping her hands above her
dishevelled hair, the darkness lifting but slightly in
the mean while, cried :

*"' Oh, father bryant, I'm praying' now for many
raisons, thanking' ye for all savers, and requesting' that
this night may turn out only as ye wish. I'm one
of twelve more or less dead and gone. I left ould
Ireland young, but I've never forgotten it, nor the
ould mither as brought me into this world of sin ;
and although I'm a poor woman and cud ill afford it,
I tuk one trip and left mee husband as is a first
liquor taylor in New York, to go to the ould
farm and save me mither from want. And, oh Lord,
lay it to my favour, take it into account that I've
settled upon the ould woman party pounds a year,
which God knows I could ill spare, and which if
I'm saved this night I'll make forty pounds more,
as sure as me name's Bridget Finery. Forty
pounds" — then the voice was lost in violent sobs,
while Flora, raising herself in her berth, screamed
out at full pitch of her voice :

Bridget, Bridget, get off your knees, turn round
and look at me this very minute. Don't you know
me ? I'm Flora Grayson ; I thought your face was
familiar, but I couldn't place it."

N 2

Mrs. Grayson's former cook — for it was none other
heard the voice, and made an effort to get up ; but
she only managed to half-raise herself, and clinging
on to the valise, turned a startled face towards Flora.
By this time the darkness was completely lifted, but
the storm raged on, accompanied by such a torrent
of words from Bridget that a stranger assisting at
the scene might easily have feared himself in Pandemonium.
The generous woman who had innocently
requested of Omnipotence that the footstep of the
Mighty Destroyer might be stayed in virtue of the
modest settlement of forty pounds which she had
bestowed on her mother's declining years, with the
addition of another forty in case she were saved, at
last managed to struggle to her feet, and with
somewhat the security of a weather-vane in a gale,
she clutched the foot of Flora's berth, and began
pouring forth the history of her life since the
Chicago fire : she went on with such joy and
exuberance that Enilda and the fourth occupant of
the cabin. Miss Walsh, nearly choked in their efforts
to subdue their laughter.

As there is only a step from the sublime to
the ridiculous, Bridget's impromptu prayer had
absolutely annulled the possible horrors of their
situation. There are some people with so keen a
sense of humour that, if the occasion presents itself,

they must laugh, even with death staring them in
the face; not alone Flora and Enilda but evidently
Miss Walsh belonged to that category, for from the
moment Bridget began her petition until the storm
abated in its violence, all thought of danger seemed
to have passed ; even Enilda's grave mental preoccupation
had to give way before the combed
chatter of three such room-mates as Flora, Bridget,
and Miss Walsh.

They had been out six days, and head winds
having stopped, considering the weather, they were
mains fairly o^ood time. Enilda and Flora had
both been able to get up, but Bridget steadily
declined to leave her cabin.

Miss Walsh although still ill had aired most of
her family history, as well as received sundry visits
from her aunt and uncle, whom, she informed Enilda,
occupied the bridal chamber on board the steamer.
Enilda listened to her talk without either interest
or indifference, for as they drew nearer New York
she gradually realized the difference between her
starting away two months before and her present
almost ignominious return. The excitement of the
last day in London and her enthusiastic love for
her father had almost blinded her to the real meaning
of his cable, and she began now vaguely to
wonder what his words meant — what she was coming

Lome to. Of Florestan she could not think without
commingled feelings of humiliation, pain, and love,
and when she remembered the conversation between
herself and her former lover which he had overheard,
she thought she must die for very shame. She did
not for a moment think the change in her position
would make any change in him ; even had she not
received his letter, she knew but too well the truth
and loyalty of his nature, still on this last day, as
they were nearing the shores of Staten Island, her
heart was filled with very bitter memories. She had
lost him for ever, and all through her own fault.
She could now look back upon her conduct with
that unflinching microscopic gaze, which a hopeless
present always flashes upon the past. She saw
every act, every word recorded in letters of fire, and
felt that while she had blindly followed her destiny,
at the same time her own self-love was the immediate
cause of the ruin she had sown about her.
He will despise me," she murmured ; " and I merit
it. We will probably go away from New York forever,
but some day I shall write and tell him how I
cherish his friendship and goodwill. I shall always
love him, but he shall never know it."

She was thinking all this over as she dressed
herself to go on deck for the first and last time
during the voyage; they were veering straight

r

for the horse-shoe point of water which separates
Long Island from Staten Island, and makes the port
of New York second in beauty only to Naples or
Constantinople. The sun was setting in gorgeous
points of brilliant colour which seemed to light up
every individual tree, shrub, and flower gleaming
from the banks of these water works. As Enilda
went out Flora came in, and Miss Wash said to her
briefly :

Is there land in sight ? "

Yes," said Flora cheerfully " Do you Avant a
look at your native clime ? "

No," she replied ; then there was a pause. '' Are
there any ships in sight ? "

Not many. What do you ask for ? Do you mean
to say this is your first coming home, and you don't
want to look out on the island ? "

At this juncture Bridget, who had been asleep
in her berth, suddenly awoke, and stared sleepily
out.

"No; the truth is," said Miss Walsh, "I hope
there are not many ships near, for I want to throw
all my soiled linen overboard."

What ! " said Flora, thinking she had not heard
aright.

o

Miss Walsh repeated her remark, adding : " You
see it costs so much carrying baggage around on

the Continent, and we've been travelling for five
months, over Italy, France, and Belgium, so aunt
and I got in the habit of wearing our clothes — well,
a sufficient length of time, then throwing them away
when too dirty, and buying new ones in the next
town we came to. It was the easiest and cheapest
in the end. Most people, I hear, give their ship-things
to the stewardess ; but I think I'd rather
throw mine overboard. Don't you understand ? "

"No," said Flora hotly; "I don't understand.
If that is the style of Americans you know, I hope
they'd never speak to me in Broadway, for they'd
be cut dead as sure as my name is Flora Grayson."

It was Miss Walsh's turn to stare.

Heavens and earth ! " said Bridget, rolling her
eyes and clasping her hands. "I'm only a poor
woman, and I've settled forty pounds a year on my
mother, that I can ill-afford, not to mention another
forty already promised, but I'd be ashamed to live
like that. Thank heaven, I have mee own clothes,
mee own shinimees, and mee own pocket-handkerchiefs
with mee own initials B. F. marked clear and
strong on rich corner."

Miss Walsh, like the soldier in the Light Brigade,
felt that "some one had blundered." Flora and
Bridget began their packing, utterly ignoring the
economical American. Bridget did not spare her.

She fondly overhauled the various under-garments
comprising her luggage, and gazing lovingly on the
felted B. F. in the corner, chirped oat in tones loud
enough to reach the ears of at least one Transatlantic
traveller :

I'm no millionnaire ; I've not seen Holland, or
Belgium, or Italy. I don't have bridal chambers
on steamers, and couriers traveling first-class, but
I chintz to mee own linen, and mee own initials B.
F., as fondly as the wife of a first-class New York
liquor merchant ought to do."

Night fell and the ship got in sight of New York,
but too late to go over the bar; the tired passengers
had the prospect of spending another twelve hours
on the steamer, as no one could go ashore until the
next morning. Some hours previous there had been
the usual excitement of taking the pilot aboard.
He was an extraordinary individual, wearing a tall
hat, frock-coat, spotted neck-tie, and kid gloves of
the most approved cut ; his smile was equally
fashionable, and an enormous cigar tightly wedged
between his lips seemed stuck so fast that it would
never come out.

To everybody's surprise, and to many passengers'
disgust, he could bring no news from New York,
having been out himself fifteen days, even his small
stock of newspapers and necessaries having been

washed overboard the very day of his starting. Inconsequence
those New World fanatics, who had been
obliged to give their minds and bodies ten days
absolute rest, who had been beyond the hourly persecution
of telegrams, letters, messenger-boys, telephone,
and newspapers, and to whom this enforced
repose, however beneficial after two or three days,
seemed a waste of valuable time, found themselves
oblige 1 to submit to twelve more hours of rest
before hurling themselves into the whirlpool of
agitation called life in New York.

After the latest table d'hote. Flora declared she
was sleepy, and the night being very fine Enilda
decided to take a walk with Charlotte on the
hurricane-deck. The saloon was filled with a happy
crowd of people. Whist, poker, and euchre parties
occupied every available place ; in passing the
smoking-room, men's voices in animated discussion
rang out on the night, and the combined odours of
vesuvius and delicate Havana made the air more
redolent of the billiard-room than of the sea.

Enilda stopped involuntarily; she could never
smell tobacco-smoke without seeing before her a
lawn, a fair man stretched idly on the grass, and a
hundred idle cigarette-rings circling as idly in the
summer air. What ! — would she never be able to
get away from the past ? — a past which was now

mocking and loathsome. She longed to do something
desperate — to scream, to stretch out her arms,
to jump from some great height, or indulge in
some violent physical action which would burst the
band she had for the last few days felt tightening
round her heart. She longed to be alone ; even the
laboured breathing of the old negress was irritating
and painful ; so she placed her in a sheltered seat
to leeward, and began a brisk rapid march up and
down the lonely deck. She was quite alone. In
the distance she could see the Captain on the bridge,
and farther on, the shadow of the officer told off for
the watch of four bells. The night was so peaceful,
so calm, so lovely. She leaned over the taffrail,
and with hands idly clasped, looked not shore-ward,
but sea-ward. The sky was already seeded with
stars, and the mingled expanse of broad firmament
and great waste of water, seemed in the distance to
blend together in one great, one infinite realm :
beyond whose confines alone the weary mortal could
ever hope for peace. Then she looked again towards
the land, and saw the shores of two islands, whose
lights glimmering here and there seemed to stretch
forth glittering arms to clasp a semicircle of as
glittering a sea, and still farther beyond the sky
was coloured with that mysterious reflection which
streams heavenward from the myriad lights of a

great city. Eiiilda was still lost in thought when
she heard a man's measured footsteps pacing wearily
up and down. The steps drew nearer, then receded,
but continued backwards and forwards, up and down,
with the same methodical lassitude.

"Ah," she thought, "some one who like myself
longed to get away from the heat and glare and
fulsome chatter of the saloon. His step is slow,
perhaps he too has brought a breaking heart out to
commune with the stars, the silence, and the wonder
of this beautiful night." Suddenly the footsteps
paused ; she heard a smothered exclamation. In spite
of herself she turned hastily around, but recoiled
with a scream, for a man stood before her, sfazinof
at her with a look of bewildered and supreme
astonishment.

Mr. Florestan ! " she gasped. " You here ! " She
raised both her hands, and placed them before her
face, as if to shut out the shame which she felt must
cover it. He too stepped forward and placed one
hand on the railing as if to steady himself, the other
he stretched towards her.

Enilda," he said, in a voice which trembled with
emotion ; " Enilda, God knows this meeting was not
of my seeking. Can it mean, dear, that fate has
wished once more to throw us together ? Can it
mean that destiny has at last taken in her hands

those links which are to bind my Hfe to yours ?
Listen to me. I left London intending to go abroad,
when a longing came over me to see my mother, the
house where I was born, and the child who was the
means of bringing you into my life. I came aboard
at Queenstown, and induced the Captain to give
me his upper deck cabin. I have never spoken to
a soul, I have lived with the sunshine and shadow,
storm and tempest; my only companions my hopeless
thoughts of you. I said to myself, 'This is the
last niorht on board ; for the last time I shall feed
my soul with thoughts of her love. In each bright
star I shall read the brightness of a dream for ever
past ; but from this night forth, I shall put her out
of my hfe.^ Why has fate thrown you once more
in my path ? Why ? "

Why," she repeated ; "don't you know? Can't
you guess ? " Then she withdrew her hands from her
lace, and coming slowly towards him placed them
both on his still outstretched palms. This time it
was his turn to recoil.

Stop," he said faintly ; " I could not bear to be
deceived again ; tell me quickly what you mean ; did
I not hear you say, ' 1 love another ? ' "

She gazed straight into his eyes with a look he
had never before seen in hers.

And you did not guess ! — you did not realize

when I said I loved another, who that other
was (

''Be careful, Enilda, you don't know what you are
saying."

Then she came closer to him. " Ythan, dear," she
said, in a low voice, "when I read your letter I
intended to write and tell you the truth ; all the
past, all my blindness, all my awakening ; and how
without knowing it my heart had gone out to you ;
but all is changed now; — not that I love you less,
but our positions have changed. Before I received
your letter a cable from my father told me he was
ruined — perhaps disgraced. Ruin means loss of
money. I would not insult you by supposing that
that could make any difference to you; but the
other word " — she shuddered — " disgrace ! that is
another thing."

Then for the first time since they had known each
other, Florestan spoke to her as a true man speaks
to the woman he loves.

God has been too good to me ; your sorrows are
mine, and if there be any joy, please Him we shall
share it together; if there be aught else, my name
shall protect you and yours before the world."

Early the next morning they went ashore. Flora
was so upset by the news of Enilda's reconciliation

with Florestan that she scarcely knew whether she
was on her head or on her heels. There was the
usual bustle of looking after luggage, the nuisance of
the Custom House officers, and the final landing on
the crowded wharf. Enilda in her precipitation had
entirely forgotten to warn her father of her arrival,
but a carriage was soon found, and she and Flora
with their maids and luggage were packed off to
their respective destinations. The carriage was
stopped at the last moment by Bridget, who gave
Flora her address, and begged her not to forget that
her husband sold the best Kentucky Bourbon to be
found north of Mason and Dixon's line.

Florestan was looking after the last of his luo-craore,
when he was slapped on the shoulder and confronted
by none other than Arundel — the same old Arundel,
but younger, happier, and more elegant than the
former ever imagined it possible he could appear.

My dear Florestan," he cried, almost flinging
himself into his arms, " I had no idea you were
coming ; I came here with a friend who expected
relatives to arrive by this steamer; but you don't
congratulate me, — you have not heard the news?
Why, it's victory, my friend, victory."
Florestan stared.

"What," continued Arundel; "you haven't seen
the telegrams or • the papers or heard anything ?

Stand aside, there's such a crush, I don't want people
to look at me. You see I'm a sort of hero ; my
picture has been in all the illustrated papers, even
in the * Police Gazette.' I'm a rich man now, worth
millions; — we've won. You remember the trunk,
the letters, and the papers ? Well, the trial came on
again ; Rozen came up as a witness. That last day
when I looked at him, something in his appearance,
his manner, voice — I don't know what — the man
himself, — but I had a sudden inspiration — it came
over me like a flash, and while he was crivinoj his
evidence, I stood up in the court and screamed withall
my might and main, ' That's him ; I knows him ; he
can't deceive me any more ; that's the man himself.'
Then I rushed up and denounced him then and
there. I and Perkins quietly drew forth a letter
from Rozen speaking about copper-mines, etc. The
Court compared that one with those I had, and —
the handwriting was identical. I must say he was
same. He was terribly startled at first, then he
just threw back his head, while a strange smile ran
over his face ; he put his hand to his lips, twirled his
moustache and said, more calmly than I'm talking to
you now, ' Well, and if I am, what are you going to do
about it ? ' Of course that was the end. The letters
I had, completely criminated him, and the judge
settled in my favour in less than ten minutes. Not

only was I his partner in the copper business, but
everything he had gone into from that day ice first
met and made our agreement. I was to share equally
in every affair, profit and loss, until the time I instituted
the suit against him, which was just five years
ago. Of course Rozen repudiated everything ; the
whole of the world is talking about it; even your
name is mixed up in the affair; and — the papers are
something to read. He was game, that I'll say for
him ; but think of him being the man himself all the
time ! "

"The man himself," echoed Florestan; "he — who
what do you mean ? "

He — who — what ? " mimicked Arundel, fairly
jumping around in his excitement. "Can't you
understand ? Why, it was a put-up job, the biggest
swindle ever known ; they are one and the same person,
don't you see ? — the silent partner all bosh — there
wasn't any ; Rozen was Vane and — Vane is Rozen."

What do you mean ? " Florestan stood back and
stared in helpless amazement.

"What do I mean? — and you helped me to do it.
What do you mean ? — what I've said is clear enough. '*

Go ! " said Florestan, " and never let me look
upon your face again; through you I've spent the
best years of my life to ruin the father of the one
woman in the world I love."

VOL. III. O

CHAPTER X.

Eric Rozen had played his best tramp and failed.
From that moment in the crowded court-room, when
Arundel had stripped the mask from his face, and
the mask from his life, his one idea had been
revenge; revenge not on the man he had betrayed,
but on the man who had so insulted his self-love
five years before, by giving all the money he had
won from him to the Children's Hospital in San
Francisco. He cared nothing for the loss of fortune,
nothing for the disgrace, he only faltered when he
thought of Enilda, and how he had made himself a
criminal for her sake; but even his great love and
the humiliation that unsuccessful iniquity brings
were nothing to the vengeful torrent that now overwhelmed
him. He determined to hunt his enemy
down, as he himself had been hunted down.

The meeting with Enilda had been one brief
hurried interview. When she arrived home she

found him so busily occupied in his study that he
did not even hear her open the door. When she
rushed forward and threw her arms around him, he
broke down for the first time since that awful day,
his head fell on her shoulder, and he could only
gasp :

Oh ! Enilda, I am unworthy of any honest person's
thoughts. You — of course you know all ? — you have
read the papers ? "

I know nothing but what you cabled me. I have
read no papers ; I want to read none. Nothing, dear,
can change you in my eyes ; don't fret over the loss
of money ; we were poor once and — and honest. We
must take up our lives in the old way. There is still
the cottage at Laramie — "

He sprang front her with a cry that she could
never forget.

Don't ever speak of Laramie," he said ; " it was
there I met my ruin. Laramie was destined to be
fatal to both of us. No, no, Enilda, we — we will
think of some future, but — but not yet. I can't
scheme very far ahead ; besides, there is this house
to get rid of. Most of the servants are gone ; they
were too good to stop on with a criminal."

Papa, hush ! never that word to me. I don't
know what you have done, but had you committee
murder you are still my own dLtrliug father. I shall

O 2

cling to you in the face of everything and everybody."


Then she stopped as she thought — everybody !
Everybody ? there was one — what would he say ?
She was about to tell her father all, but hesitated, as
once before in her lifetime she had hesitated. " Not
now," she thought ; " now I cannot tell him that anyone
else is in my mind, that any one else shares my
heart or hopes," — so it was that a second time she
kept silence. She determined to send an immediate
line to Florestan, begging him to say nothing for the
present of their changed position, but was so fearful
he might call, or write to her father, that she hastily
excused herself and ran off to her room to write the
letter. Five minutes later a messenger was carrying
a note to Florestan, contain nor the folio wing :

''My Love,

I find him changed — old, sorrowful, ill.
I don't know what has happened. I have heard of
men failing before now, but did not dream that anyone
could be so affected merely by the loss of money.
Can't you understand that this is not the moment
to speak to him of our love — perhaps we may later,
when his business affairs are settled, we may then,
but not now. I have said nothing, and if you care
for me you will respect my wishes, and keep absolute

silence. Do not come and see me yet. I will write
soon. Kiss darling Cyril for me, and accept for
yourself

All my fondest thoughts,

Enilda."

When Florestan heard all that had happened,
when he realized the innocent although fatal part
he had played, he was as nearly distracted as a man
can he. He refused to see Arundel — in fact everybody.
He shut himself up to think ; to think how
he could help the man he had unconsciously betrayed.
He could not reason and say that in unmasking a
villain he had done service to the world at large,
for like the world at large, Ythan Florestan allowed
his sympathies to relegate his moral belief. As we
all refuse to recognize the shortcomings of those
whom we find personally agreeable or useful, and
find ample excuse for not only the faults the world
lends them, but the faults they really possess, so
Florestan found a million excuses for Rozen, and
looked upon him as a man who although once even
antipathetic, was no longer a malefactor, but an
unfortunate man, and above all the father of the
woman he loved.

After hours of communing, he decided to make
over the major portion of his fortune to repair the

decision of the Court, and wrote to Rozen appointing
an interview. He hoped to make Rozen accept
this money, and also to make him realize that all
he had done in the disastrous affair was not from
personal motive, but merely to help a man whom
fate had sent to his door, and who, by the most
inhuman persistence, had succeeded in interesting
him in a tale which for strangeness and intricacy
he had never before heard equalled. He knew it
would be no easy task to convince a man whom he
had almost openly insulted five years before that he
had been innocent of any wish to work against him,
but he determined at least to make the attempt.
He could not yet realize what Enilda would say
when she learned the part he had played ? Would
she not despise him, and likewise refuse to believe
that he had been an innocent worker in the affair ?

I will go away," he cried, " and not see her face
again. If she ever forgive me, if she ever send forme
to come back, but — no, that will be impossible.
In ruining him the blow has fallen heaviest on her,
as usual, on the innocent. I dare not tell Rozen
that I love her. He would see in my effort at
reparation a motive that does not exist. He would
think I offered him money to buy his daughter; and
she — God help me, she, after all, might think me
base enough to buy her at any price."

His meditations were interrupted by the arrival of
her letter. He almost screamed for joy when he
read it. Unconsciously she had left him free to
act; free for a little while to collect his thoughts
to prepare for his interview with Rozen. He
argued that if one man took him by the 'hand
another would follow, and things might not seem
so bad, time and proper influence would bridge
over a scandal at present open and gaping like a
fresh sabre-cut. As to remembering it — why, the
world moves on so fast that yesterday's horrors fade
with yesterday. No one in America has time to
think of anything but the present. To-day is dying
tomorrow not yet born. Florestan knew what
his influence could be, what his personal support
could be worth to any man in a difficult position,
and did not underrate the good he hoped to do.
If only Rozen would prove tractable !

Whilst he was turning these things over in
his mind for the hundredth time, Eric Rozen sat
alone in his study. His dark eyes were filled with
an unwonted fire, his face was stamped with a
sinister smile, and his firmly set jaw never once
relaxed its rigidity. He had written several letters,
and was writings another when Arnold brought him
a note. He read it hastily, and as Florestan had
cried aloud after learning the contents of Enilda's

letter, so her father cried aloud when he learned the
contents of this.

Fate has arranged it for me' he thought ; and
he read :

I beg you will come and meet me, as I have
something to propose to you which no one but
ourselves must hear. God knows I was innocent of
any wish to hurt you ; He made me a blind instrument
in the hands of another. I do not expect you
to believe my words, but let me prove them to you.
Meet me to-night in West Central Park, between
seven and eight, near the clump of beeches at
the open space just back of the little hill. We
cannot, must not, be seen talking at either your
house or mine. I depend upon your secrecy. I beg
you will come for — for your daughter's sake, if not
for your own. Believe me I would lay down my
life for you at any time. My grief for the role I
have played in this terrible case never can have
words. Perhaps some day you will feel that I am
your friend. I have named the hour, seven to
eifrht; at that time there's not a soul in the Park,
and we can be free to have a long talk. Don't fail
me.

Yours,

"Ythan Florentines

Kozen read, the light in his eyes deepened,
the smile on his face grew even more sinister, and
his jaw, if possible, clapped more firmly together.
I shan't fail you," he muttered ; " have no fear of
that." Then he denied himself even to Enilda, had
some slight refreshment brought to his room, and
went on with his interminable writing until the
clock struck six. After that he arose, went to another
table, and took from the drawer two pistols — seven-shooters.
These he loaded, primed, and placed in
his pocket, then he dressed himself as if for a
journey.

He went to his desk, and taking up a little picture
of Enilda as a child, looked long and earnestly at
every feature, at the luminous eyes, and smiling
mouth, at the slim hands, the quaintly-dressed hair,
and the little old-fashioned dress ; then with it still in
his hand, he went towards the wall, whence a maiden
in the first flush of womanhood smiled down upon
him. Each robes covered the lovely form ; flowers
bloomed on neck and bosom ; the hair was caught
back in a newer fashion from the fair forehead, but
the face was the same, the eyes were the same, the
expression the same — it was his own little Enilda,
who looked lovingly at him from the old picture,
whose earnest gaze followed him everywhere from
the new. He bestowed one more tender unfathomable

glance, then a sudden film came before his
vision.

Good-bye," he said tenderly ; " good-bye," and he
kissed the lips of the miniature. "I ask pardon of
this Enilda, of the little girl I held on my knee, of
the little child who used to read to me from her
primer, of the little girl who loved her father and
knew him when — he was an honest man. Goodbye,
dear, and when he is gone try and think of him
as he was then; — not — not as the world knows him
now."

Then he falteringly placed the little picture back
on his desk, gave one last look around, and prepared
to leave the chamber.

A knock came at that moment, and Charlotte
Corday's voice was heard outside.

Massa Rozen, massa Eric, may I come in ? " she
said.

He started. " Poor Charlotte I " he muttered. " Yes;
why not ? — she's a faithful creature." Then he opened
the door ; she came in and closed it quickly behind
her.

"This letter was brought, massa, a moment since,
addressed to me, shut up in another, and I was
to give it to you immediately. There's no answer."
Then she smiled on him, pushed it into his face,
and was about to retire. He called her back

as lie opened bis letter, and started as lie saw its
contents.

I might have known he'd turn up ; it comes at a
wrong moment, I've no time for him," he thought;
then he turned to the old negress with a look of
kindness on his face which even she had never seen.

'charlotte," he said, "I'm going out for a little
while ; I shan't see Enilda before I go ; I don't like to
disturb her. I — I've been thinking of you to-day.
You've served me and mine long and faithfully, and
I want you to promise if anything ever happens, you
you will never desert her while life lasts."

"Oh, Massa Rozen, what do you mean? What's
going to happen ? You ain't nothing' like your ole self.
I'll call her now."

No, no," he interrupted, " I'm all right, I only
need a little air. I'm going for a walk."

But you'll be in for dinner, massa ? "

Dinner ! " — he smiled strangely. " Oh yes, I'll be
in then, or at any rate before it's over, that's all.
Good-bye ; — I mean, you may go."

Charlotte could only obey. She withdrew silently,
but with a presentiment of evil, went to her room
and dressed herself, descended and prepared to follow
her master as soon as he should leave the house.
She did not need to read the newspapers or to be
told that some calamity had overtaken the house, for

since that night when she had been an unwilling
listener in her master's apartment, she had lived in
daily, hourly expectancy of a storm which should
burst and engulf them all in ruin.

Rozen read his letter, which was a single sheet
of paper wrapped round the half of a blank visiting-card
torn irregularly in the middle. On the paper
was written :

I must see j'ou at once. As you come out of
your house a man will walk up to you carelessly,
will not recognize you, but v/ill give you the corresponding
half of the enclosed card. Follow him ; I
shall arrive at the rendezvous as near as possible
at a quarter to seven; don't fail me. The man
after indicating to you the place of meeting wall
leave you. And as soon as he is out of sight I will
appear."

Rozen with an oath crushed the letter in his hand.

What ! he has been my ruin body and soul, and
hasn't done with me yet ! The worst is known, and as
to other transactions he doesn't know it, but he's out
of them altogether." Then he held the bit of pasteboard
disdainfully up in his fingers. " His old trick,
his old signal, — well ! so be it. I'll see him to-night,
but I'll send him off in short order, and if he wants
another meeting, I'm not sure that it wouldn't be as

well to give it to him after I have seen Mr. Florestan.
Why not ? " He put the letter in one pocket and the
bit of pasteboard in his watch-pocket, and this time
prepared to go out, but he went back again to take
Florestan's letter, which he had left on his desk.

When he reached the door he stopped yet again
on the threshold.

"Good-bye," he said softly, looking at the little
picture. "When I am gone the world will soon
forget what a villain your father was."

He closed the door and in another moment was
in the street; he did not see a dark shadow
which kept him closely in view and followed him
stealthily step by step, and had reached the corner
of the street farthest from his house when a man
brushed by him, held something up between his
fingers, then passed on before him. Kozen nodded
involuntarily, seized the bit of torn card and followed
him. The man, after many circuitous windings in
and out, to Rozen's surprise led the way into Seventh
Avenue ; he scarcely noticed his conductor was taking
the road to the Park, but followed him mechanically.
He was filled with such dark, desperate, and reckless
thoughts that he scarcely realized what he was benton
doing. He was a godless man, and had little fear
of death; and yet he could not think without a
shudder that perhaps this was his last night on

earth; he vaguely remembered the time, not long
since — when he was honest; perhaps more honest
than many another; but now he was tired of life,
of these five long years of deceit, lying, and villainy.
He loved his daughter so well that he had committed
crime for her sake. He said to himself,
** What is this old man's money ? He's a drivelling
fool ; he'll be in his grave shortly, and no one will
ever be the wiser. Many a man has done worse
than I, and has never been found out. What are
the successful men of to-day — if you look into their
intimate records — other than thieves, liars, and
swindlers ? Every railway stock, every mining stock,
every new bubble blown on the market, is inflated
with the cries of widows and orphans, of starving
men, women, and children. The crime to-day is not
the being a villain — but in being found out."

Then he quickened his pace, but stopped suddenly,
for his guide indicated a rustic bench half hidden
between low branching trees, and a mask of shrubbery
as wild and uncultivated as any virgin forest
in the heart of the Great West.

Rozen sank into the seat and smiled bitterly ashe
reflected that at that very moment, perhaps nota
hundred yards away, fashionable New York was
driving up and down the . stately avenues of her
beautiful promenade; for Central Park is as distinctly

American in its civilization as any of tLe
New World's cities, betraying on one hand a perfected
cultivation which would not disgrace the
famous Bois de Bologna, and on the other a savage
luxuriance of primitive uncouthness. Not a person
Alas in sight, and the only sounds heard were the
falling of some leaflet, and the rustling of a gentle
breeze through the dense foliage ; the incessant call
of birds* voices, with the occasional refrain of a
mocking-bird, who had brought its notes and song
from some magnolia vale of the distant South. The
air was perfumed with the indescribable fragrance
of ripe summer, but the softness of the scene had
little effect on Rozen's remorseless mood. He started
once as he heard a carriage roll by evidently very
near; he suddenly recollected that the 'jeunesse
stage-donee" of New York were in the habit of
driving out to dine at High Bridge, a chalet
restaurant on the Hudson some distance beyond the
Park, and to various similar places of resort dotted
here and there about the environs of Gotham. He
knew he was safe from observation ; and was calculating
on the improbability of being disturbed by
any one coming that way without a purpose, when
he heard a hasty footstep and the Count stood before
Lin.

Ah well, here you are," he said with a smile.

"Thanks for being prompt." He held out his
hand.

Rozen got up and his face wore a very black look ;
he drew back as he saw the Count's outstretched
palm.

Never again," said he. " I may be fallen very
low, but I'm too good ever to touch the hand of such
a blackguard as you are ; and you may as well know
first as last that I've done with you for ever. Be
brief — my time is short. What do you want with
me?"

Ah ! not shake hands with me ? As you will.
That's scarcely a welcome to a pal who has come
straight from the steamer, and hasn't even had time
to change his travelling-suit. This is one of your
high saluting' ' days, Rozen. I hope you don't object
to my smoking ? I'm dying for a cigar."

Say what you have to say, and be brief. You
have no more claim on me ; and now that everything
is over, what more can you expect from me ?
I didn't think it even worth while to mention your
collaboration, your name at the trial."

"There was good enough reason for that," interrupted
the Count. " What was the use of dragging
in a person who has been so useful to you in the
past, and who, if not necessary to you in the present,
certainly will be so in the immediate future ? "

Rozen laughed scornfully. "You are only right
in one thing: there is no past, no future for me;
the present is now, and I don't need you."

'' What were your reasons then for not speaking
of me at the trial ? "

"Very simple. I considered you beneath my
notice. My own position was bad enough ; there'll
be enough obloquy attached to my name, and I
didn't care when you are found out — as you will
be sooner or later — to have hed the honour of a long
acquaintance with you, added to the number of my
crime? — "

Take care," interrupted the Count. " Don't try
me too far." Then he blew some rings of smoke into
the air, and with his slender bamboo cane began
writing the initials of his name in the gravel at his
feet. " Don't talk nonsense ! " he went on. "What's
a failure ? What's this infernal law-suit any way ?
the fat's in the fire now, but I've thought of a plan
by which you can not only recoup yourself and get
even with everybody, but revenge yourself on two
persons, one that hound Florestan — "

"Ah!" gasped Rozen, suddenly remembering his
appointment to meet the latter. It was drawing
near the hour. "I've no time to hear any of your
plans," he said brutally. "If you wish a future
partner, that partner will not be me. You certainly

VOL. III. P

ought to be thankful enough to get off free yourself
not to bear me any ill-will for thus abruptly terminating
our heretofore close relationship. You must
have money enough by this time to keep you from
want, and you certainly have ingenuity enough if not
to suggest new and lucrative fields of adventure, at
least to return to your old livelihood, surely. Black
Bill—"

The Count dug his cane more deeply into the
gravel, destroying the symmetry of his name which
he was writing in elegant scrip, then he jumped upas
suddenly.

Don't push me too far, Rozen, and don't speak
that name here. You are not in a mood for joking ?
Well, neither am I. You want me to be brief; you
ask me what I want. Well, I'll tell you; I want
two hundred thousand dollars, and I want it to-night,
and you — you're going to give it to me."

He did not even wait for an answer to his words,
but for the first time during the interview began
pacing up and down, and switching his stick right
and left at the trees and shrubs bordering the path.
He was so excited and Rozen so pre-occupied that
neither heard a hurried whispering and half-indistinct
rumour of footsteps evidently in their immediate
vicinity.

Rozen laughed a short hard laugh and also got

up. He mechanically shook down and settled this
trousers as a man always does after having been
seated for five minutes or fifty ; then he spoke hotly,
harshly, soothingly, and to the point.

What do you take me for ? Two hundred thousand
dollars ! — why, I wouldn't give you two hundred
thousand cents to save you from hell. Henceforth
you go your way and I go mine ; besides, you've no
right to ask me for money ; I've more than fulfilled
my contract with you. Where would I get such a
sum to give you ? — you forget you're speaking to a
ruined man."

"But those other transactions — the bonds, the
mortgages on the new Leadville mines, the shares
in that Pittsburgh coal company, all started this last
year, they are worth — "

"The paper they are printed on — nothing more;
and if they were you have nothing to do with them.
Know for the last time, that if I had fifty millions
I'd see you dead at my feet, I'd see you rotting
before I'd give you a cent."

The Count stopped his restless walk and adopted
another tone; this time his was the humble pleading
voice.

"You are not right!" he said. "Were we not
partners in everything? Was not I the sole and
unique means of your making such a fortune ? Didn't

P 2

I suggest to you months ago what was coming; and
even offer to get that devil Florestan out of your
road ? You helped me at a desperate time, and
I come now to help you to suggest a plan ; but not
until you've helped me first, and you must help me
because I'm in danger; that fiend Ricard and a
woman you know a little about have determined
to ruin me. You'll say, ' What's that to me ? *
Nothing ; except that if I'm done for I can't be of
any more help to you. You can't get two hundred
thousand ? — well, one hundred thousand then ; — that
I must have or, by G — d ! " — and he stepped threateningly
in front of Rozen — " I'll know the reason
why."

Stand aside ! " said Rozen hoarsely. " I want topick
no quarrel with you ; — you forget I'm a beggar
a disgraced and ruined man ; you at least are free.
Stand aside and let me pass. I wish you no harm ;
you've been the bane of my life, but we meet tonight
for the last time. "Will you let me pass ? I
have other work on hand : we are quits."

Are those your final words ? "

Yes ! — No ! I say once more, hope for no money
from me — "

But the words died in his throat, for the Count
sprang at him, seized both wrists in a vice, and
before he could even cry for help whipped out a

bowie-knife and planted it to the Lilt in dozen's
body. The latter gave one scream, and divining the
Count's movement, the instant his hand was free,
seized one of his pistols and fired blindly at the
murderer.

At that instant the bushes parted back of them,
and Fiorestan and Charlotte Cor day, with loud
cries for help, rushed into the pathway ; the former
pinioned the Count's arms from behind, and threw
him violently to the ground. Meanwhile the victim,
half-leaning against the bench, with a steady hand
withdrew the knife from his wound, but at the same
moment with a faint cry sank to earth.

Charlotte — Enilda ! " he gasped ; '•' this is my
death-blow."

In an instant the path was filled with men,
attracted by the noise of the shot and cries for help.
A policeman dashed through the covert, but before
the Count's illustrious person could be secured other
officers arrived upon the scene, and Fiorestan was
soon relieved of his painful position.

The next thought was for the victim. His head
was on Charlotte's bosom. The ground was dabbled,
a pool lay beside the bench, and Charlotte's hand
and handkerchief, with which she had vainly attempted
to staunch the wound, were reeking with
blood. The officers explained to Charlotte that

Rozen must be carried to the nearest house, and
a shutter fetched from a neighbouring; chalet was
already at hand, whilst a messenger despatched by
Florestan's thoughtfulness had already rushed off for
Enilda.

The Count, as soon as he saw himself surrounded,
protested his innocence, and declared he had only
assaulted Rozen in self-defence. His protestations,
however, elicited no response beyond a dangerous
look from Florestan, and a lowering glare from
Charlotte Corday.

Gentlemen," said the Count to his captors, " pray
let me give you my name, and you will see that
I am a gentleman, and you have no need to detain
me by force. I shall be very pleased to give myself
into your custody, and see the end of this very
painful affair. You forget Mr. Rozen was one of
my most cherished friends. I cannot doubt that
his attack on me was a sort of temporary madness,
and I, alas ! like my esteemed friend Louis — I beg
your pardon, the late Emperor Louis Napoleon — by
no fault of mine I find myself a prisoner."

In spite of the nobleman's remarks and self-assertions
of innocence he was regarded with no special
leniency by his guard. These gentlemen, like most
of the New York police, being mostly Irishmen, two-thirds
Fenians, and the other third Nationalists or

Radicals, had no respect for titles, none whatever
for gentlemen, and very little for individuals of any
class. As they reached the chalet where Rozen, still
unconscious, was laid on a bed, the Count looked
back for the last time, waved his hand in touching
farewell, and as he was walked away, said :

•' Alas ! my poor friend, who would ever have
believed that he could have turned upon me as he
did ? I who have been such a friend, as soon expect
a doo in a fit of indiscretion to bite his master. God
knows, it were almost better to have him murder
me than to have retaliated even by a blow directed
at my best friend."

Charlotte and two officers took their place beside
Rozen. Happily a doctor, a resident physician, was
at that very moment found who succeeded in bringing
him back to consciousness. He took Florestan
aside and told him, after examination of the wound,
that the blow was fatal, and that at best Rozen had
but a few hours to live.

He is a powerful man," he continued ; " otherwise
death would have been instantaneous. I'm going
to give him a stimulant, and if he has any earthly
affairs to settle they must be attended to to-night,
and as soon as possible, for his time is very short."

Florestan then explained the name, position,
and estate of the injured man; said that his only

daughter had been sent for, and as their house
almost adjoined the Park she might be expected
at any moment; then as the victim showed signs
of returning life the doctor hastened towards him.

Eric Rozen opened his eyes.

Mr. Dozens' said the physician, with grave courtesy,
"I am deeply grieved, but it is my duty to
inform you that you have received a fatal blow.
Are you prepared for death ? "

Rozen stared strangely at him. The, doctor then
told him that whatever statement he made would
be regarded as an oath, and after several moments
had passed Rozen realized the purport of these words,
and raising his hand gave solemn utterance to the
formula.

Knowing and believing that I am a dyeing man,
I solemnly swear all I say is the truth — the solemn
truth." Then he sunk back seemingly overcome,
and silence reigned whilst the doctor administered
a second stimulation draught.

Where is he ? " said Rozen, half-opening his eyes
and speaking in a faint voice. " Ah ! he has done
for me at last. I call upon all to witness that I
didn't wish to harm him. I begged him to leave
me; he was levying black mail I could no longer
submit to, and he has murdered me. A Count
indeed ; he may be a Count for all I know, but I

know him better as the thief, forger, and criminal,
Black Bill, I was weak enough to help to assist
to escape from the jail of Chicago when the city was
burnt five years ago."

Florestan started with horror.

Black Bill ! " he exclaimed. " Impossible 1 "

At the sound of that voice Rozen attempted to
open his eyes. " Who's there ? " he asked hoarsely.
Is that Ythan Florestan' s voice ? "

"Yes, yes," said the latter, pressing forward
eagerly. " My poor friend, can I do anything for
you ? At least you shall be avenged, for not alone
I, but Charlotte Corday is a witness ; we overheard
all your conversation, and saw that villain strike the
blow."

You ! " he murmured, — " you ! Fate is indeed
strange, — you a friend. Oh no ! — but Charlotte
Corday and Enilda ! Where is Enilda ? "

Oh massa, hare I am," cried Charlotte, throwing
herself on her knees ; " and Miss 'Nilda's a coming.
Dat limb o' Satan has struck you; but please God
you'll get right again soon."

No, no, Charlotte, I shall never be better in this
world, and before I leave it I only want to see 'Nilda
and tell her all the truth."

Mr. Rozen," said the doctor solemnly, " we must
be prepared for the worst ; your earthly affairs — "

Are all in onler. I am going out of the world
not exactly as I intended, for I came to this Park to
meet a man who has been my enemy for long years ;
he had nothing against me, and yet he has succeeded
in ruining: and dissfracinor me and mine. You think
I've got a settler, doctor; well, it's as easy dying
with a clear conscience as a cloudy one, so I'll make
a clean breast of it. I wanted to be revenged on the
man who ruined me. I came here to do for Ythan
Florestan what another has done for me, and then
make away with myself — end a life that he has
rendered no longer bearable to me."

"Impossible," gasped Florestan, starting back in
horror. " I pray you, gentlemen, take no heed of
what he says ; his mind wanders."

No, no," murmured Rozen faintly ; " it won't do.
I know exactly what I'm saying, and — what's
that ? "

His quick ear had caught a footstep on the gravel
outside; and before he could says another word
Enilda burst into the room and flew to her father's
side. His face lit up with a radiance which might
have beamed from the face of a seraph. At this
juncture the doctor insisted on his swallowing a
stimulant. He seemed to revive after that, partially
raised his head, and lifted his arm, which he tried
to place round Enilda's neck ; his eyes seemed still

covered bj the same film, but his voice was a little
stronger.

Eailda," he said ; " don't cry, child ; we all have to
go some time, and it's better for you that my time
has come now."

Oh papa, don't say that — don't say that 1 "

He closed his eyes and went on, meanwhile
threading his fingers softly through her hair as he
had been wont to do when she Alas a little girl,
and used to sit upon his knee.

"I know I'm going to shock you, and break you
all up by what I'm going to say, but I can't go
before I've told you the truth ; I can't face your
mother — for I hope I'm going to meet her — with
one lie left on my soul. After she died I went to
the bad, but you never knew it. It was out of my
love for you. I tried honest means; they didn't
work ; then dishonest. I wanted to make a fortune
for you, Enilda, so you should hold up your head with
any lady in the land. You know you're nobody in
America unless you've got money. It don't make
much difference how you get it, and I was only
worse than other men because I got found out.
I met Black Bill at Laramie ; he called himself a
Baron; and we had only struck up a sort of a
partnership when I found out who he was in
Chicago. Then it was too late to back out. I helped

to free him the night of the fire. He ha-j named me
Vane long before : it was easier having two names ;
it was his idea about doing Arundel ; it was — "

His voice faltered and his head fell on his breast.

Enilda," he murmured ; " where are you ? "

Here, papa ; — oh, don't tell me any more — what
can it matter now ! — you are so ill, don't think
of it."

Where was I ? " he said, half raising his head.
Oh yes ; we played euchre in the train, and
Florestan — has always been my enemy."

For the first time Eiiilda seemed to become aware
of the latter's presence. Without a word she
motioned him to her side.

Papa," she said softly, " there's something I want
to tell you ; Mr. Florestan — "

Oh, sir," cried Florestan, springing forward,
pray forgive me the great wrong I have unintentionally
done you. I am your friend, I swear it.
I love your daughter — do you hear me ? — my one
wish on earth is to make her my wife ; — forgive — "

"Forgive — forgive," murmured the dying man;
yes — all — Enilda, are you there ? It's growing
dark, oh, so dark — I'm cold — what's that? — the
forest — the Indians, — they could not kill you, my
beloved — stand back, she's there, waiting — I hear the
brook, and the bird — that mocking bird that used to

sing. We are poor, 'Nilda; but you say we'll be
honest, and when we have each other; — ah — •
ah—"

His head fell backwards, and Eric Rozen's soul
passed into the dark valley.

They lifted him and bore him through the Park,
now wrapped in the tenderest hues of that fair but
dying summer day. Love-birds chanted to their
mates, crystal waters cooed and sang in soundless
basins, perfumed breezes sighed through arching
trees, and as they neared the main avenue faint
murmurs of the distant city were borne towards
them on the soft night air. The cortege was stopped
but once.

A gaudy break loaded with a party of pleasures
on their way to High Bridge dashed into the
path, but so intent where they on their evening's
prospective amusement, that not one look was
bestowed upon the silent group drawn up by the
roadside.

"You think so," screamed the voice of a celebrated
operatic courtesan. 'not if I know it; I
bet before the day is ended I too will hold a
diamond — "

Hush ! " cried a companion peremptorily, who
at that moment had caught a glimpse of the shutter
with its veiled and silent burden. "Hush," he

continued more softly ; " can't you see that is the
body of a dead man ? "

As the break whirled by voices were stilled and
hats reverently lifted. Thus Eric Rozen was saluted
for the last time, by any members of the New York
Stock Exchange.

CHAPTER XI.

The civilized world was ringing with the Rosen
scandal ; even the London press was filled with
leaders and articles touching upon America, Americans,
and American society women in general. The
illustrated papers contained portraits of the Copper
Queen and her father; society was informed that
the lessons to be learnt from this extraordinary lawsuit
were not few ; that it was time Americans were
received with more reserve; that money, beauty,
and even brains were not enough, etc., etc.

Whilst the American newspapers from Maine to
California and Minnesota to Mexico teemed with
stories of the Copper Queen, her introduction to
New York life, her family, her father, her position,
herself, one daily had devoted columns to their
peculiar position and the terrible deception practised
upon, not alone all their friends, but upon one in
particular: a nobleman of such birth and position

as the Count de Marcie and D'Orbach, "who, it
was feared, would gain the lamentable impression
that every luxuriant banquet in New York spread
in his honour, was presided over by swindlers, gamblers,
and diddlers in general." But the climax of
excitement was reached when Gotham, which had
not recovered the shock of the scandal, learned
that Rozen was a dead man, murdered, and by none
other than the above-named gentleman. When she
realized that her beloved guest, her distinguished
model in all that was elegant, exact, and irreproachable
was an assassin, excitement knew no bounds,
and the city seemed absolutely one voice talking
over a murderer and his victim.

Pending the Count's indictment before the grand
jury, for a month he was held in durance vile, namely,
a series of perfumed, richly-furnished chambers in
the Tombs, with attendance, food, and comforts
hitherto unknown to him in America. The city was
divided against itself into partisans or non-partisans,
for while America would believe any iniquity preferred
against an American, it was most cautious in
entertaining opinions derogatory to a titled foreigner,
whose name and presence alone for two seasons had
given the city such new social impetus : whose mind
had directed Congress and commerce, whose taste
had pointed out dishes welcome to even a Lucullus's

palate, whose waltzing was perfection, whose insolence
was delicious, whose clothes were perfection,
and whose manner upon every occasion breathed the
quintessence of an Old World refinement which even
the most ancient of American towns could in vain
attempt to imitate.

August passed, and part of September; Newport,
Long Branch, Saratoga, and Swampscott had one
theme — the Eric-rosen scandal; one refrain — the
Rozen murder, and the noble assassin. Count de
Marcie and D'Orbach.

In the mean time Enilda lived with Flora, and
was personally ignored by the city, which but three
months before had yielded her that homage the
world always yields to the favoured of nature and
fortune ; but like the world, dien Fortune had
withdrawn her smiles, the innocent victim to popular
caprice became the criminal. Those who had
basked in the sunshine of her society, who had drank
her father's wine and partaken of his hospitality
were the first to denounce both him and her ; those
who had danced at her balls and ridiculed the rest
of mankind now danced in other circles and ridiculed
her. Only a few old friends remained true —
the Chromic, the Graysons, the Professor, and Miss
Chances-Cressy ; and last but not least, Florestan ;
Florestan, who since the night of the murder had

VOL III. Q

been her shadow, her very second self, but who had
never urged his love upon her. He had only said
once after the funeral :

Enilda, I am always yours. I ask nothing now.
Look upon me as your friend only. When your
father's death is avenged, then I shall come to you."

He had longed to protect her with his name, but
common sense clearly pointed out to him that however
much Enilda might love him, then was not
the moment to take advantage of her helplessness.
It was perfectly understood at Dr. Grayson's, however,
that he was her accepted lover, and some day they
would be married.

Mrs. Chromo had returned from Europe and
brought scant news of Ida's death. The world looked
upon a broken blood-vessel as the apparent cause,
but Enilda and her world knew the real reason to
be a broken heart. A slight paragraph in a leading
theatrical journal was consecrated to her obituary ;
it was read in the morning, ignored at noon, and
forgotten by night. Lucy Chromo's stock of gossip
also comprised the news that John Claremont had
gone for a year on a yachting tour in the Mediterranean,
and that Baron d'Alfredi was much chagrined
at Flora's abrupt departure. She Herself, however,
was ill and out of sorts. Her affairs were still in
the same state ; with the exception that she had Lad

various interviews with her counsel, Lawyer Harkins,
her application for. divorce had been published,
commented upon, and formed , a happy pendant
to the forthcoming murder trial. Harkins had
explained to Mrs. Chromo that her case being a
delicate one, the witnesses being the same as those
subpoenaed f(jr the great affair, she must absolutely
keep her own counsel, confide in and talk with no
one before she appeared personally in court. The
first hearing of Chromo versus Chromo was set down
for the first divorce suit at the opening of the
autumn sessions, but as Lucy saw the time approach
she began to wish more and more that she had not
pushed matters to a crisis.

New York was in a fair way to have plenty to
talk about; and on the first day of September, in
the court of Oyer and Terminer, Fritz de Marcie,
known as the Count de Marcie and d'Orbach, was
brought up to be tried for the murder of his friend,
the late Copper King, Eric Yane Rozen.

Business of the day was given over to attend the
trial. Female Gotham had ordered new bonnets and
frocks, male Gotham the latest thing in beavers and
neckties. Wall Street was even forgotten ; Pacific
Mail hadn't budget for days, and the best of preferred
stock slumbered on its units as a tired child slumbers
on its mother's bosom. The only topic was the

Q 2

murder, the only person talked of de Marcie. Dinners
were commanded at clubs, and luncheons at down-town
restaurants. Parties were made up to attend
at the Criminal Court as they are made up for
Henley or Buckingham : the Attorney-general foreseeing
the crush to fi^et into the court-room had
issued personal invitations for the ceremonies, without
which invitation no outsider could be admitted
these cards, in pasteboard of ominous red, were
printed in black, with ''' De Marcie Trial " in capitals
at the head, and the name of the guest, Mr. or Mrs.
so-and-so, Written in elegant scrip in the corner, with
the centre-line in blank, to be filled in, like the
usual invitation to a ball or dinner.

New York had talked itself hoarse over the Yane-
Kozen scandal ; the new millionnaire Arundel was
the hero in financial circles, the well-known millionnaire
Florestan the hero in social ones, but the
attempted murder of the defendant by Gotham's
pride, in the way of excitement, had actually paralyzed
the cosmopolitan community : although having
survived centuries of surprises, having been suitably
stirred by one horse-scandals, and moderately moved
by esclandres on a grander scale, America still yielded
the palm to this latest event as the most interesting
affair which had been known in the States since
George Washington interviewed that cherry tree, or

Wilkes Booth immortalized a family of hitherto only
passable comedians, by his Good Friday impromptu
in Ford's old Baltimore theatre.

There was as much sass, jealousy, scheming, and
rankling to get tickets for that trial as there is to
procure invitations to a State Concert in Buckingham
Palace or a ball at Marlborough House. Although
marked " personal," these happy bits of crimson card
were begged, borrowed, and stolen ; were sold at the
court-house door from two dollars a single admission
and upwards, were advertised in the daily papers as
Mitchell advertises his opera-boxes; and one enterprising
firm in Broadway had opened a successor
near the court-house where everything was furnished
at a moderate price, from an invitation to a bouquet
for the murderer, from opera-glasses down to fans
and salts, from photographs of the victim and assassin,
to autographs and complete biographies of
all parties concerned in the case. There was even a
short biographical sketch and profile of the jury,
and an hourly bulletin was issued with accounts of
the noble murderer's well-being.

It was a lovely days in September. The air without
was balmy, anl bad a suspicion of salt in it, like
the air that blows over Sussex from the South
Downs. The great court-house was filled with one
of the most fashionable and distinguished audiences

Which had ever assembled at any criminal trial in
Gotham. The windows were thrown open, a fine
series of golden rays filled the room with sunshine,
and birds' voices floated in happy trills through the
airy casements ; within were the commingled odours
of mignonette, lily of the valley, and gardening, while
at one time the atmosphere seemed one sole breath
of Gotham's pet Jacqueminot, which lay in great
crimson heaps on the murderer's table.

The judge sat cheery and smiling behind his
judicial table. He wore a suit of new and stylish
plaid in happy checks ; his hair was loaded, curled,
and jaunty, his moustache had a Victor Emanuelian
cut ; and his cat's-eye studs, like his watch, were
new for the occasion; an orchid loomed in his
button-hole, his boots were of patent leather, and to
the right of his shapely feet an enamelled spittoon
reposed in insolent although customary splendour.

The jury in their box looked like a party of
gentlemen sitting on a race. They kept up a lively
hum of conversation between themselves, whilst
every now and then one nodded in friendly license
to some acquaintance in the audience, another made
notes on his shirt-cuff, or another sent hasty signals
to some crowing child : evidently his tender offspring,
come to take lessons in the science of murder
and American jurisprudence. The Attorney-general

and prosecuting lawyers sat at a square polished
table, the former idly cutting quills, the latter engaged
in conversation with Flora, ^vho looked her
brightest and prettiest. In a seat beside her sat
Enilda, closely veiled ; to her right at some little
distance sat Mr. Florestan, while here and therein
close proximity were Prof. Protoplasm, Miss
Chances-Cressy, and Mr. Pastor, naturally arrived
from London, with Adam Chromo and others more
or less interested in the case. Alone Lucy Chromo
Lad not appeared at the trial. She was fretting
about her own divorce suit, and waiting at home
until she should be notified to appear in that case,
of whose judiciousness at the present moment she
began to entertain various and perplexing opinions.
She was racked between her love for Euilda and
regard fur the Count, whose innocence, however, she
doubted not, would sooner or later be established.

The judge was seen to yawn, the jury to consult
together, the Attorney-general to take up a
morning paper. There was a rustle of silks and a
confused hum of voices in the outer hall; those voices
grew louder and louder, and finally there was a
general cry of " Here he comes ; here's the prisoner ! "

The doors were thrown open and the assassin
appeared, walking blandly and upright between
two officers, followed by a crowd of pretty women

-who tried frantically to touch the lice of his garments,
or to kiss his fat white hand. Those ladies
would individually have given a year of their lives
to have had his autograph, and have gone without
ice-cream a whole summer to have received from his
noble lips one smile or word which could he treasured
up in memory's immemorial store-house. There
were dozens of youths who followed in the train,
with eye-glass and the latest cut of dittos, with early
winter flowers in their button-holes, and pearl kids
whose wilderness would have shamed even a Beau
Crammed's. But all this passed for naught; the
only one " who held the house " was the star of the
occasion, the m )st noble Count de Marcie and
d'Orbach who still walked with firm tread, until he
neared a table on the rio^ht, identical with that of
the prosecution.

As the Saxon law permits criminals to defend
themselves, the Count, being a gentleman of average
intelligence, was not slow to avail himself of this
privilege. There was something so courtly in his
gait and manner as he strode down the narrow aisle
which separated the Attorney-general from the
judge and reporters, that a murmur of admiration
rose from the crowd : this he acknowledged by
frequent bows and bland smiles, as Royalties b )W^
from their carriage in the Park, or the Hippodrome

stars in their Roman chariots bow to the public at
the Paris circus. He first saluted his honour most
civilly, and his ho :our returned the courtesy in an
equally civil fashion ; for it had no more been proved
that the prisoner at the bar was a murderer than
that he was a Count. He also bowed gravely to the
jury and the prosecuting attorney, receiving anon
civil salutations, anon half-dazed stares, from the
general assembly. He smiled as he passed Flora, and
said cheerily :

How do you do, Miss Grayson ? " — and to another
old friend — "Ah, Stuart, glad to see you; lovely
day, isn't it ? Family well ? — that's right ! — all here
naturally. I am glad to see my friends in force
on such a memorable occasion." Then he placed
his hand on his heart with an air which would not
have disgraced Versailles, and turned towards Miss
Chances-Cressy, saying : " Thanks, dear friend, for
your touching little note. Ah ! so soon as this unpleasant
little affair is over, we will re-live the i3a?t
in an old-fashioned chat in Mrs. Chrome's porcelain
gallery."

A few more nods and gentle salutations final-y
brought him to a table which was heaped with
bouquets, love-letters, letters of sympathy, letters
requesting his autograph, and letters from theatrical
managers bef]C2:inor the first refusal of a stirrings tour

over America just as soon as the little affair should
be satisfactorily terminated.

The attendance being complete, the crier got up
with the usual formula — '' Oyez, oyez. Hear ye, all
3^8 persons who have business in this court now
opening — draw near and ye shall be heard."

The court was then declared open, and the clerk
of the court called the case. The prosecuting
attorney began his case with the usual formula:

"Mr. Foreman and gentleman of the jury, weare
here to inquire into the manner in which the
deceased, Eric Rozen, met his death ; and I expect
to prove to you that the said deceased was foully
murdered on the night of August 5th, in the west
side of Central Park by the prisoner at the bar,
Fritz de Marcie ; known as the Count de Marcie
and d'Orbach."

The District Attorney then marshalled his facts
and presented the case to the jury in language of
unusual eloquence, then read the deceased's dying
declaration, which caused the greatest sensation in
the court. The prisoner at the bar, who sat at his
flower-bedecked table, retained at first a passive demeanour
; but he turned very pale when the prosecution
read the statement regarding the late trial, and
that the Count was none other than the notorious
criminal " Black Bill." The audience broke into

threatening demonstrations towards the prisoner, who
glanced warily around for a moment, then burst into
such a series of ironical shrieks that the court-room
became a scene of wild confusion : the hearing of the
case was almost impossible. Order finally restored,
the District Attorney concluded by an offer of
evidence direct — eye-witnesses, not alone of the
murder, but witnesses who had overheard a conversation
held between the deceased and the prisoner
at the bar, the which conversation absolutely nullified
prisoner's pretence of justification, self-defence, etc.
The first witness was then called.

Ythan Florestan took his place in the box, and
after the usual formula began to give his testimony.
He related all that had transpired already known,
but when he came to the question of going to the
Park, he was interrupted by the prisoner :

Prisoner. — " Mr. Florestan, you know you have
always hated my late cherished friend ; you asked
him to meet you in the Park, — can you tell why ? "

Florestan flushed.

Must I answer that ? " he asked.

The judge ruled that the question was one which
required an answer. Florestan began to explain,
when be stopped again.

The Count smiled.

*'My good fellow," he said, "you asked him to

meet you in the Park for one purpose ; — ycai hated
him, you hated me, and you longed to get him out
of the country. When a man is in love with another
man's daughter — "

Cries of " Shame, shame," re-echoed throughout
the court-room. " Silence, silence ! " screamed the
crier. Then the Count continued :

"Well, we'll drop that. What did you want to
meet him for ? "

Florestan looked around helplessly for a moment ;
then lifting his head haughtily spoke :

I know what I am going to say."

Never mind what you are going to say," interrupted
the prisoner; "damn it, say what you
did."

Witness. — " I wrote, making an appointment with
the deceased to meet me in West Central Park, as
I intended offering — "

Prisoner. — " Never mind what you intended ; what
did you do ? "

The court interposed. The prisoner's interruptions
made any statement impossible. The judge gave
a ruling that the witness's intentions must be
accepted as evidence, as they explained the reason
of h's having made an appointment with deceased.
After that Florestan continued, and not without a
certain embarrassment managed to say why he had

written to Rozen. As he finished, the Count arose
with a laugh.

"Gentlemen of the jury," he said, "I am franker
even than the witness. I can't gain sympathy by
saying I went to offer my dear friend a fortune. I
didn't ; on the contrary, 1 went to ask my late
cherished chum for a trifling sum of money ; my
own, note, due to me on account of certain mutual
business transactions which had not been settled ;
but it seems if a man asks for his own now-a-days
he's insulted and treated as I have been."

The court here interposed and informed the
prisoner that his reflections had nothing to do with
the case in hand ; and he was ordered either to
Continue his cross-examination or to dismiss the
witness.

Florestan was obliged to have recourse to all his
patience. The Count's insolence was unbounded;
and it was impossible not to see that his coolness
and cleverness were producing an immense impression
in his favour. The most damning facts were
received with perfect equanimity; he turned every
phrase against him with a suspicion against the
witness, and Florestan was finally so nonplussed
as to be unable to speak without saying exactly
the opposite of what he originally intended, or contradictions
himself where contradiction was the one

thing to be avoided. The Count delayed with him
as a cat plays with a mouse. At last he said :

"I have nothing more to ask you, Mr, Florestan;
only beg to remark that you painfully exaggerate
that last scene. Yoii certainly verified the old saw,
that listeners hear no good of themselves."

A murmur ran through the court-room. Flores-tan's
evidence had excited such enthusiasm that
little more was left to verbal expression.

Charlotte Corday next took the stand. As is
usual when a negro or negress is seen in any
prominent position, the air resounded with rude
speeches : " How are you, auntie ? " " Guess it's going
to rain to-day." "The air is filled with thunder,"
etc., etc., but, silence finally imposed, Charlotte began
her recital. She took the oath with such solemnity
that a hush suddenly fell on the multitude. The
prosecution had put but few questions when the
Count, proof as usual against any sentiment, broke
out :

Well, auntie, it grieves me profoundly to see
you in this painful position. How things have
changed since last we met, eh ? I suppose you
have the same cock-and-bull story as Mr. Florestan
to relate. Well — when did you first sea me to know
me?"

Charlotte looked disdainfully at him, as if reflecting

whether or no she would answer, then
replied :

The first time I seed you, woz won day wen I
was in my massa's room — his study ; I was looking
for—"

My God !" interrupted the prisoner, jumping up.
You were there ? — it was you ? If I had known
that you — "

"Silence!" screamed the crier; "dont interrupt
the witness."

Go on ! " cried the Count ; " go on ; — what else ? "

He vainly tried to hide his impatience, but when
Charlotte Corday described her visit to her master's
room, her hunt for the picture, and her long concealment
behind the curtain, he suddenly cried :

"That won't do! That is no evidence. If you
were hidden behind curtains, absolutely out of sight,
you couldn't have seen me — or, well, I admit I was
there ; but even had you tried — confess you're lying
you never saw any one but yourself ; and you were
gentlemen of the jury, I beg you will not pay any
attention to this evidence ; in fact, the old woman's
crazy. It's irreparable being black, but it's abominable
being crazy, and I — "

The judge interrupted, and ordered the prisoner
to use more polite language. The prosecution finally
elicited an important fact from Charlotte Corday in

answer to the question as to her recognition of the
prisoner.

When Massa Rozen thought he heard some one,
and came to look, he ses pulled dem curtains onside ;
but few 'em back in such a way he left a creak —
wich I could see few perfectly, but he couldn't seeme."


The prosecution here explained to the court's
satisfaction the way in which such a thing could
have taken place. The prisoner interrupted with
scoffing remarks, and finally Charlotte turned upon
him :

Tes she up, varmint. I leered everything then.
I saw you want to kill massa den and car. Massa
said, * I ain't word it ' ; — but you — golly, ef you're a
gub me a chance, I've a thought no more a putting'
you out of sight nor stamping' my heel on a saint's
head in de walk. I ses took yer disable face in, and
saw it as'in and ao^'in in Lunnen too, and said then
the earth '11 never be clean till it's rid of you ! "

Charlotte's voice rose to such a pitch of rage that
it was impossible not to be impressed. The examination
continued, while the Count laughed
uproariously.

P. A. Question. — "What did the prisoner at the
bar say to the deceased ? Try and remember his
exact words."

Witness. — " He called Massa Vane, and made him
mad. Then he axed massa fur fifty thousand dollars,
and he said, ' I wanted to have dot last transaction
absolutely in my name.' Massa replied, ' You're
modest — is that all ? ' ' No,' ses the Count ; ' a man
muss be put out of the way, and — ' "

"That's a lie!" interrupted the prisoner; "a lie
blacker, if possible, than your face ! "

'silence in the court!" said the crier, while a
thrill of horror ran over the audience : the prisoner
was seen to chancre colour, and anon fretful drum
his fingers on the table, or rake them through his
hair.

Charlotte continued :

Massa wus struck, and said, ' A man — not
Arundel : ' but dot vivian 'plied — ' Suppose I should
say Mr. Florestan — ' "

This is too much ! " screamed the prisoner ; " am
I to have my life lied away by that low-lived
wench ? Were I in England I should be tried
by Peers; here — this civilized country, gentlemen
of the jury, I protest : wait till I cross-examine
her."

The judge arose, but for some moments tried in
vain to enforce silence. Charlotte's words had produced
an indescribable excitement, and none could
doubt their authenticity. Whilst her examination

VOL. III. R

went on, one could have heard a pin drop in the
room.

P. A. Question — " What did the deceased reply ? "

Answer. — " Massa went white, and sed, ' You are a
fiend incarnate. You think all the world like herself !
Why did I fall so low ? — you're a murderer, a villain,
and a scoundrel ! ' Then lie — massa — said : ' The end
muss com' som' time, why not now ? ' Golly, my hair
stud on end, but I didn't dare move, 'cause I said to
myself, ' Honey, you muss listen now to defend — ' "

The defence here interrupted the witness, and the
Judge ordered her to be more relevant. Poor
Charlotte's eyes rolled to their widest when she
heard the word relevant, and her facial and bodily
contortions were something beyond words. The
prisoner, court, and audience were in fits, whilst
the prosecution vainly tried to explain to her what
the word meant. The Count blandly interrupted
between his shrieks of laughter :

"It's all right, auntie. When one lies by the
yard as you do, it doesn't make the slightest difference
whether they do it clearly or not ! " Then he
was seized with another paroxysm, smelt his salts,
and finally gasped out, " Oh, this is too much ! I
shall certainly die of cramp ! "

The step between the sublime and ridiculous was
so slight a one that judge, jury, court, counsel, and

audience went off into one long scream ; the room
re-echoed again and again to the sound of hysterical
laughter. Flora nearly choked, trying to keep her
countenance. Adam Chromo was positively convulsed
; whilst Miss Chances-Cressy laughed till the
tears cane and watered her cheeks in long streaks
with a mixture of black, red, and white — a triple
combination of kohl, diluted bismuth, and cherry-paste.


The judge was the first to recover, whilst Charlotte,
dignified, although fuming with inward rage
at the interruption, was in such absolute ignorance
of its cause, that her attitude was only the more
amusing; but to look at her was to begin again.
Finally order was restored, but not silence, and her
examination recommenced. The above-named incident
had so changed the current of her recital,
however, that imagination kept pace with her words,
and saw fun in everything she did and said. One
could even see her skulking in the study, and
almost feel the contortions she must have made in
her forced concealment. Little by little, however,
she regained lost ground. A nothing sways a mob
or a criminal court, and when she neared the end of
her recital, and told how she had followed her master
to the Park, the excitement knew no bounds.

I followed 'im like a cat," she continued ; " he

R 2

met a man who gave 'im a slip of paper — a piece of
a torn card, den dis man went to the Park. Massa
Dozen followed him and I followed massa : in the
mean time massa sot down on a bench, and I naked
in a thicket right near back of him. Then I saw the
Count come up." Here followed a confused but
sufficiently clear statement of the conversation which
had taken place between the deceased and prisoner
at the bar up to the last scene. The prisoner's
interruptions were fabulous, but the witness went
bravely on :

He told massa he must have two hundred thousand
dollars ; then massa refused. Then I suddenly
saw Massa Florestan near, and I beckoned 'im to
come softly up to me — which he did — and heard all
the rest of the conversation. We was looking
anxiously when, lo and behold ! dot Count seized
Massa R-ozen, whipped out his bowie-knife, and stuck
him then and there. Self-defence ! Massa Eric
wouldn't have harmed a worm in his path. He had
begged the Count before to leave 'im, but he wouldn't ;
and the Count killed him, as he wanted to do that
day in massa' s own library, only he didn't dare. But
God 'full punish sou." She shook her fist at the
prisoner. " Spec's my skin's black, but your soul's
blacker den my whole body."

At this the audience burst into applause. The

crier in vain demanded order. There were screams
of " Lynch him, lynch him ! " — and even the prisoner
began to show a changing colour. The judge suddenly
ruled that unless silence were obtained the trial
would be conducted in secret, and the hubbub
finally subsided.

The Count tried in vain to cross-question
Charlotte ; she replied with such infinite cunning and
skill that, for the moment, he was absolutely quelled.
The prosecution certainly had a strong case, and as
one after another cave direct evidence it seemed
as though the prisoner were a maniac even to
attempt any defence.

Enilda's examination although short was a most
painful one, and tended mainly to prove the constancy
of the Count's visits to her father's house, his
friendly relationship with herself and father, and
the deceased's dying declaration which she had
witnessed ; what she thought of the Count of late,
etc. The Count's cross-examination was merely in
name.

Question. — bliss Rozen, you say you have seen me
many times: at present I will not ask you where
nor when ; I will merely remark that whether you
did or did not like me has nothing to do with the
case. On the contrary, I should have imagined you
did from your manners, than which those prevailing

at Schonbrun were not move courtly. I have always
admired you immensely, and so much regret giving a
lady trouble, that I beg you to believe me when I
repeat that I should be ashamed to put any questions
whatsoever to you, and beg you will consider yourself
dismissed."

The prisoner arose as he said these last words, and
bowing with the most courtly gravity, placed a hand
on his heart with a gesture which would not have
shamed Talma.

Enilda's examination closed the day's proceedings,
and the court adjourned until the following morning.
As the Count went out he threw kisses to several
ladies in the audience, bowed with his usual courtesy
to every human being he had ever known, and
stopping an instant said to the jury :

Gentlemen, believe me I am sorry to give you
such trouble. I shall drink your health this evening
in a bottle of Mother Aliquot's yellow label, and
only regret that I cannot have the pleasure of your
company — that I must drink alone. Good evening ;
ta, ta" — and his retreating figure was lost in the
crowd which closed around him, as his words were
lost in the storm of hisses which their frivolity had
aroused.

CHAPTER XII.

It was the fifth day of the trial, and the prosecution
were on the point of closing their case.

Early in the morning the court-room was densely
crowded. The weather was if possible brighter than
on the day previous ; there was a hum of cheerful
conversation, while now and then the echo of a
happy laugh rang around the vaulted chamber.
The judge, jury, and court were seated awaiting the
prisoner, who at last appeared in faultless attire,
scattering smiles right and left as he came in. His
exquisite form and airy motion exhaled the unconscious
fragrance that emanates from the waving
honeysuckle or the mountain-rose, he scented the
very air as he walked. As he passed by, the jury
sniffed, and the prosecuting attorney lifted his head
with the instinctive gesture of a desk-bound clerk
who after ten consecutive months of areas, pigeon-holes
and tiles, finds himself taking in a full

breath of sea or meadow air. The prisoner reached
his table, as usual heaped with jDiles of letters and
superb flowers, but no sooner sat down than he
jumped wp, declaring some one had put a pin in the
seat of the chair. He turned with a beaming look
towards the prosecution, and shook a playful finger
in Lawyer Harkins's face.

Confess," he said playfully ; " Harkins, you did it ;
you alone are capable of such a little joke ; but the
next time remember that — well, T am not like the
British soldier — padded ; and I not only see but
feel deeply the point of your little scheme."

The audience were in shrieks; even Harkins
laughed till he cried. The prisoner continued :

This is a droll country. Some devils wanted
me to start a new paper to describe my wrongs,
brought capital to the jail, and said I would have
all America at my feet when it was known how a
man of my rank was being treated, etc., etc. They
were journalists, poor fellows — wretched trade, but I
suppose a necessary one in an enlightened country.
I need not say I refused the proffered capital and
honour."

The Count sat down with a gentle sigh, and whilst
the clerk began the usual ceremony of declaring the
court opened, he " ah'd " — " eh'd " — smelt of first
one bouquet then another — murmured rapturously to

himself over the contents of one letter, or smiled
over the wit of another. He talked with his counsel,
who sat modestly at his right, or flung uncalled-for
sarcasms at the prosecuting attorney over the heads
of his nearest neighbours. His humour was something
so gay, so infectious, that its contagion spread
like a prairie fire ; even the judge found himself
smiling every now and then without the slightest
notion why. Ladies in the audience told risky
stories to their neighbours, and the jury looked as if
out on a holiday. The Attorney-general sat somewhat
away from his table, and with elaborate emphasis
dread special attention to the Count's witty
remarks; each time the assassin was particularly
brilliant he said joyfully :

Just listen to him — isn't he funny ? Isn't it justa
circus to Ijear him g^o on like that ? " etc., etc.

At last the trial resumed. Florestan and Enilda
having already given their evidence, as well as the
officers who had assisted at Rozen's death, the witness
to be examined to-day Alas Ricard, a certain
agent of the Rosen-Vane Copper Company. Many
witnesses had inadvertently helped the Count by
their testimony ; even Adam Chromo had been
obliged to state that in mutual affairs with the
deceased and prisoner, the latter's dealings had ever
been of the most honourable and cordial character.

The prosecution, sure of their case the first day, now
could not help feeling alarmed at the Count's growing
popularity. In short this gentleman so won
over court, jury, witnesses, and audience, that a
vague idea was current that he was a much-injured
man; — he had done well to put such a wretch as
Rozen out of the way, etc., etc.

Ricard entered the witness-box and was handed
the Bible.

As soon as the Count saw him he put his hands
on his hips and burst into such fits of laughter that
the court in vain called " Order-silence — order!"
When the prisoner could speak from choking, he
pointed a finger at Ricard, and gasped out :

*' Oh ! this is too rich ! — look at him, do look at
him!"

Every one looked. The clerk snatched away the
Holy Book, and was about to present it a second
time with the usual formula, when a second outburst
from the Count and the audience caused him to
withdraw it with a bewildered but also gradually
dawning smile.

Look at the witness," continued the prisoner.

Do you know him ? " interrupted the counsel for
the State, addressing himself to the Count.

Do I know him ? Well, I've kicked him out of
my house often enough to know him ; but, by the

way, excuse my smile, and pardon the frankness of
an early friend. I know you, Harkins ; it's no use —
that last little racket we had at High Bridge, etc.,
etc. But to continue ; — you hand him a Bible, you
ask him to swear ; — oh no, that's really too good ! "

The Count burst into another scream, and buried
his head deep amongst the Jacqueminots on his
table. A third time the clerk put the question,
'' You hereby swear to," etc., and presented the sacred
book. Ricard this time really took it into his hands,
when the prisoner suddenly jumped to his feet, and
slapping his hand vigorously on his table, cried :

This performance is too much, it is an insult to
ny gentleman. Women and men of America, it's
an insult to you and to your religion, bought with
the price of the blood of millions of Christians. He
swear ! — he know the value of an oath ! Let him
swear, if he wants to, on a package of some of his
old clothes sold in Chatham Street. He know the
nature of an oath ! Why, you only want one glance
at him to know that his ancestors took part in the
Crucifixion, and that he himself has never been
baptized on the forehead. Oh no, — oh no, Harkins,
that won't do."

The Count sat calmly down ; but the court and
witness were so much moved that for a moment
nothing could be heard but a pro and con hubbub of

explanation. After im possible interruptions the witness
announced that he was of Israelite descent, but
now a Catholic, and perfectly capable of taking the
oath ; whereupon it was administered to the accompaniment
of a Babel of voices and such ejaculations
from every one near the Count, that a stranger to
the solemnity of American murder trials turned to
a friend, and said :

Really one might perfectly well take the scene
for a most animated conversazione."

The prosecuting attorney questioned Ricard.

Q. — "How long have you known prisoner at the
bar ? "

A. — "Longer than ever I should like to tell."

Yes, damn it I " interrupted the Count, " I
should think so ; I have been his best friend. I —
go on."

Qiocstion. P. A. — "When did you first meet the
prisoner at the bar ? "

A. — Nervously. " Must I answer that ? "

The court. " Decidedly."

Oh, I'll answer for him," interrupted the Count.
"Ricard's a poor devil; I met him years ago in
Hamburg. He was a footman; seemed to have
some disposition for the career, so I took him into
my service, and finally kicked him out for — for being
a fool. He ran across me in America, and told a

tale of how he had not got on in life, and be«-£fed
me to help him to some new place."

P. A. — "And he really helped yon ?" — to witness.

Prisoner. — " Look here, Harkins, don't speak of
me in that stand-offish fashion. Pray remember my
birth. Help him ? — why I got him a place with
Rozen. Look here, you vile brute, didn't I — haven't
I done everything for you ? Say what you've got
to say and leave the box, I'm tired of looking at
you."

The audience burst into applause. " Silence ! "
thundered the clerk of the court. The examination
went on.

P. A. — " Now, Mr. Ricard, will you kindly tell me
what you know of the prisoner at the bar at the
time you first met in Hamburg ? "

Ricard paled, rubbed his hands, and looking
anxiously around as if seeking some familiar eye,
began :

"When I knew him at Hamburg, he called
himself the Baron Marcie. I was his footman. He
lived in grand style, but was arrested for swindling,
implication in a murder, and was — "

"You're a d — d bar!" shrieked the Count; "and
if I could get near to you, you'd never say that again
to me. Gentlemen, thes is a put-up job," he said,
addressing the court and jury ; " he tried to black mail

me the other day. T wouldn't stand it ; he tried
the same thing on with my dear friend Rozen, and
you see now ; — look at him — the man is mad, and
I call upon the court to remove this witness."

Judge — "Prisoner at the bar, silence! Mr. Ricard,
be good enough to continue your evidence."

W. — " A murder, and — "

That a lie," said the Count.

W. — "A murder, and was tried — "

That's another lie " — same interruption, this time
without looking up from his table.

P. A. — " Witness, continue."

W. — " He was tried and sentenced to — "

'will you shut up!" screamed the prisoner;
what do you want to lie like that for ? Say that
you where sentenced, that you got the galleys for life,
or at least merited them, but — "

The judge suddenly sat bolt upright.

Order ! " his honour cried. " The prisoner at the
bar must observe the rules of the court, or be
removed."

A loud and emphatic general chorus of "Yes —
yes — yes " followed this announcement. Ricard assumed
a waiting attitude, and was again requested
to continue.

At this juncture the Count began to hum in an
undertone, " Mother, may I go out to swim ? " beating

the measure in a gentle tattoo on the leg of the
table.

Ricard continued his testimony, and the Count his
refrain ; but, like Florestan, the former was soon
completely off his balance. He recapitulated and
wavered to such an extent that even the judge
offered ruling, and was obliged to put questions
categorically as to their recent connection with the
prisoner. In spite of this Ricard was back on the
subject of Hamburg, and repeated himself so prodigiously
that Harkins began to despair.

Question. P. A. — '' How long were you in the service
of, not the prisoner at the bar, but of deceased ? "

W. " Well, if I had stayed with the — the prisoner
as I had at first intended ; but he lived in grand
style only for a — "

Interruption. Prisoner again without looking up :
"That's stale; we've heard that twenty times; —
give us something fresh, my good Ricard." "^
Witness. — " For a year."

Well — well — well ! " screamed the Count, this
time raising his head ; — " a year ! Why, you've more
cheek than an army mule ; a year ! — you weren't
with me three months."

District Attorney, ignoring prisoner's interruption,
continued :

Guinea trial, Washington, 1882.

P. A. — "I asked you how long you were in the
service of deceased ? "

Witness. — " 1 — I — well — I met Mr. Rozen, and he
liked me very much. I worked for him six years or
more ; the Count spoke of Hamburg — "

Curse Hamburg," interrupted the prisoner.
Ricard, I guess if you don't want to hang yourself
you'd better shut up; you're making more rope for
yourself out of nothing than a year's crop of hemp
on a Texas farm would produce."

This little sally was received with general laughter.

Ricard went on talking, the Count humming ;
finally the latter said good-naturedly :

Oh, go on with your lies, Ricard, if you like.
I don't bear malice. Look here ; how much have the
other side paid you to come here and chirp those
infernal Hamburg reminiscences ? but — gad, I may
say thanks, for it serves to remind me of those
adorable days of the past. However, I must add,
when my dear friend Joe — I beg your pardon, His
Majesty — "

Hear him," whispered the Attorney-general,
nudging Mr. Pastor ; " what do you think of him ? "

'' Oh," rejoined Pastor, " delightful ; quite like the
Palais Royal; are all American murder trials like
this ? "

*'0h, not quite all," frankly admitted the man of

law ; " but this is a special one, from the fact of the
exalted station of all parties concerned. But that
man — clever, you know — foreign name or not, he
defends himself like an American. Listen to him ;
see how he tries to amuse the jury."

How he does amuse the jury ! " cried Pastor.

Come now," interrupted the Count, " I still have
a blank cheque-book ; I bear no malice ; let us — but
judge, by the way, why should wee hurry this
gentleman ? What do you say to a bit of luncheon ? "

The audience seemed struck by the wisdom of
this remark. The judge hemmed — hawed — and
after spitting into the enamelled cuspidor at his left,
really started to take out his watch, but compromised
by only glancing up at a huge uncouth clock,
modelled after the first Strasbourg effort, jauntily
bracketed between two windows on the east side of
the court-room. The hour of one marked on the
open face of this primitive time-keeper spoke in
eloquent favour of the prisoner's motion.

"Well," said Adam Chromo, "not to put too fine
a point upon it, the old clock on the stairs seems
to be the only clear-headed thing in this concern.
I think I'll just chip out and have a blue point stew
and get in again. What do you think of Ricard's
testimony ? "

He addressed himself to Florestan, who muttered
VOL. III. / s

a few words in response, then turned to Flora,
Enilda, and Miss Chances-Cressy, the former answered
by a " Yes' and for the next few moments
nothing was heard but lively chatter all around.

The court adjourned for half-an-hour for luncheon.
The Count made his way out under his escort as
smilingly as he had come in. A cloud of waiters
suddenly seemed floating about with suspicious-looking
baskets filled with fruits and food for the
many who did not care to leave the court-room.
Benches were turned into tables, and the air was filled
with the cheerful buzz and hum of a perfectly contented
crowd. Men, women, and children rushed
laughing and talking, hither and thither, and some
little boys tried sly games of ball or marbles on the
court-room floor. Had there been giant trees, a lawn
and a river in sight in the distance, without the
slightest difficulty one could have imagined the scene
an American Sunday School picnic. As it was, its
hilarity was undeniable, and no amount of bare walls,
benches, or instruments of the law could detract
from the gaiety of this typical reunion. Punctually
to the moment the Court and public re-entered.

Ricard was still in the witness-box, but he seemed
suddenly possessed with a bad memory. " The murder
rumour," he said, " was unimportant. The Baron ashe
then was, went away, and some said he'd gone to

his country seat; others that he had been transported."
The prisoner at the bar simply laughed
at every word Ricard said, and finally added :

Ricard, I guess you'd better let up on the Hamburg
business, or — "

I protest," said the counsel for the prosecution,
"the prisoner is intimidating the witness."

The judge, as is usual after the jury have calmly
taken in the things they ought not to hear, spoke
up energetically, admonishing that august body
that the remarks about Hamburg were irrelevant,
and could not be admitted as evidence. " ' Somebody
said ' is not evidence," declared his honour. " The
witness must either know or not know personally,
how and in what manner the prisoner at the bar
left Hamburg, otherwise his remarks cannot be considered
relevant." The judge sat down.

Then," said the Count, addressing the witness,
"you blundering old blockhead, can't you get up
now and flit before you're called off."

"Silence in the court!" The crier was beginning
to look pale, anxious, and haggard-eyed ; even his
voice faltered as he pronounced the last word.

The Count turned angrily round and addressed
himself to the clerk. "Shut up yourself; it strikes
me this is my funeral, and if any one has got a
right to say anything, I have."

S 2

This speech was followed by a general series of
expostulations from court, judge, and attorneys.
Whilst the excitement was at its height, a lady,
closely-veiled and dressed in black, quietly entered
the room ; she was ushered in by a mysterious youth
wearing a bland but rather idiotic smile.

Mr. Harkins arose and addressed himself to the
judge.

"I think, your honour, the witness Ricard maybe
dismissed for the present, but we will call for
him tomorrow; meanwhile I have the names of
several other witnesses who might be re-examined,
amongst others, Mr. Chromo." The court repeated
the name without receiving any response ; Mr.
Chromo was called again. "Not here!" some one
answered. '' He has not returned to the court since
luncheon."

"But I am here," called out a muffled voice; and
the veiled lady, who had entered a few moments
previously, quietly made her way round back of the
jury, and before any one could expostulate was
hastily conducted into the witness-box.

"What's this?" said Harkins. " Voluntary testimony
? From whom ? " The lady raised her veil.
•' Mrs. Chromo ! " he ejaculated. " Impossible ! you
were too ill to leave your bed."

Sensation in the Court. At that very moment

Adam Chromo entered the room, saw his wife in
the box, and gasped :

Lucy Chromo, what are you doing there ? "

The Count half rose in his seat, and waved a
ringed white hand towards her.

My cherished friend ! " he cried ; " this is indeed
kind. Welcome, welcome ! "

"Silence in the court!" thundered the clerk; at
the same time the oath was administered to the
lady. Absolutely ignoring the nature of Mrs. Chrome's
testimony, the prosecution cautiously began :

Q. — " When did you first meet the defendant in
this case ? "

Lucy clasped her hands, and raised her eyes
towards heaven.

Sir," she responded, " this is unkind ; you begin
by touching such a tender chord. Where did I first
meet him ? Years ago, when I was a happy child
in my mother's house in Schonhegan, and he told
me that he loved me ! "

What ! " screamed Adam Chromo, " and you
dare* to speak of a thing like that at a time like
this ! "

Silence ! " thundered the clerk, brin^incy his mace
to the floor in a terrible thud.

Mr. Harkins tried in vain to get near enough to
Lucy Chromo to stop her; but a new order, "Do

not interrupt the witness," this time from the judge,
was followed by a momentary silence.

Q. P. A. — "You say you met the prisoner at the
bar ? "

Lucy raised her eyes, and murmured to herself:
'' Think of his being called that, and all on my
account ! "

At the bar," continued the prosecution, '•' when
sou were a young girl ? We do not like to put indelicate
questions to a lady, but could you tell — ?"

Oh, you mean how old am I ? " burst out Lucy,
sobbing. " What can it matter if I tell the truth ?
Thirty-seven; — it was twenty years ago, and I've
loved him all my life. Oh sir ! I'm a miserable
woman ; I'm utterly wretched ! It's all along of
glue. Now that I'm here I wish I wasn't. Don't
stop me ; let me go on ; let me tell the truth — God
knows I truly love him 1 "

The judge, jury, court, and public truly wondered
what was coming.

At this juncture Lucy lifted a lace handkerchief
to her deluged eyes, and for an instant nothing was
heard but short and hysterical muttering.

Amazement kept Adam Chromo speechless in his
seat, whilst the court seemed equally struck dumb.
Before one could address her, however, she tore the
morsel of linen from her face and went on :

"I think I've used him very badly, and I now say
here before everybody — I mean I really love him
and none other ! "

Q. P. A. — " We must beg the witness to be rather
more relevant. I beg your pardon, but what has
that to do with this case ? You say you have known
the prisoner at the bar — "

Twenty years," interrupted Lucy with dignity.

A low whistle echoed through the court-room.
The Count rose hastily, followed by his counsel, who
at this juncture thought proper to put a question
to the witness; and before his client could speak he
said :

You say yon have known him twenty years ? "
The prisoner at the bar turned pale. " Let up on
that," he whispered ; '' when the time comes I'll
cross question her' motioning the indiscreet questioner
back into his seat.

Mr. Hark ins rose. " I think we may safely ask
one question : How long — "

"Ask me anything you like!" wailed Lucy. "I
shall still repeat, ' Long enough to have known how
to treat him better.' Don't stop me ; let me speak
now and tell all the truth. He would not give up
business; I said then it must be a divorce. If he
prefers glue to me, then let him stick to it. But
now the Count has betrayed me; he is married to

two women, and one dead — " The Count vainly
tried to stop the witness ; she continued, turning to
the latter, whom she saw smiling at his table.

Oh, laugh ! heartless monster, laugh ! I know
all ; Fraulein Marx has told all, and I — do you
think if I were fifty times free, I would ever marry
you ? No. I give up the idea for ever. I hate
glue ; but I shall stick to it. I swear I will not be
divorced ; — I — "

Stop ! " thundered the judge, rising and spitting
with violence in the gorgeous cuspidor. " Stop ! —
this is ofoino' too far ; remove the witness ! "

The wildest excitement prevailed. Adam Chromo
rushed to his wife ; Harkins rushed to Chromo ; Lucy
screamed, and refused to leave the witness-box.
The Count kept yelling, " Quite right ; stay there,
stay there ! "

How dare you treat me so ! " she ejaculated
between her sobs. " I — I — haven't I a right to say
what I want to at my own divorce suit ? "

"Divorce!" said the judge. "Divorce!" echoed
Flora. '' Divorce ! " echoed the Count ; — " the
woman's mad ! "

Lucy turned pale.

Oh ! " she gasped ; " what do you mean ? Going
mad ? Ah ! ah 1 I see it all now. A young man
took me by the arm, — ' In here,' he said ; ' explain

nothing ; then when you're name is called, rush into
the witness-box.' I knew you were deceiving me !
You too, Harkins ; you didn't want to tell me when
the day was, but I accidentally read in the ' Herald's '
law list — Chromo vs. Chromo, and I felt at once that
you wanted the case to come off and not let me
know. Then too — I — I felt sorry for him. But
you" — she shook her fist in the face of judge, jury,
and court — " fiends incarnate ! you have gone and
divorced me without my knowledge ! I am — but I
refuse to go till I've had my say; I swear I love
him, let all the world hear it ; — I am still his wife,
and refuse to leave him, I will not be Divorced
there" — and sobbing she flung herself into her
husband's outstretched arms, and buried her head
on his shoulder.

Remove the witness ! " again thundered the judge.
No ; let her stay ! " screamed the audience. " Remove
the witness!" yelled his honour; "is the
sanctity of a murder trial — "

Lucy suddenly came to.

"What!" she cried; "what do I hear? Isn't
this my divorce going on ? What is this suit
any way ? "

"This, madam," said the prosecuting attorney
pleasantly ; " this is the Rozen murder trial ; you
are evidently labouring under some little mistake."

"Mistake? — murder!" screamed Lucy. *'Alil I
see now, ah ! — ah ! — with what I've gone through.
This isn't my divorce after all ! Husband — help ! I
faint, I die ! " and pawing the air frantically, Lucy
Chromo fell in a dead swoon back in Adam Chromo's
arms. It is impossible to describe the effect of Lucy
Chromo's words ; and equally impossible to describe
the scene which ensued. When the reason of her
appearance was thoroughly understood, in spite of
her fainting, the court could no longer contain itself,
and joined with the public in the general uproar.

Enildci, Flora, Miss Chances-Cressy, Florestan and
Professor Protoplasm hastily followed Adam Chromo
out. He bore his wife in his strong arms as if she
had been a feather weight, and the expression on
his face would have baffled a Rembrandt.

This episode really closed the day's proceedings.
Several unimportant witnesses were examined, but
their irrelevance threw the court in such disarray
that the judge abruptly announced adjournment
till the morrow, and thus closed the fifth day of the
celebrated Rozen murder trial.

CHAPTER XIII.

The sixth day began with testimony from Chicago
detectives come to establish the identity of the
prisoner with that of the notorious Black Bill, who
years before had escaped from the jail on the night
of the great fire of '71. This was not easy; and
Pinkerton's police, although as celebrated as the
Russian " Third Section," Scotland Yard, or the
famous Parisian Bureaux, were obliged to admit
they could not swear that the Count de Marcie and
D'Orbach and the ruffian, forger, and criminal
Black Bill, were one and the same man. Having
had no photograph of the villain, it was impossible
to say positively that the detained nobleman was
really the one whose name had become such a terror
in the ^\^est. Black Bill was known to have had a
slight scar on his left arm, whilst the nobleman De
Marcie had not alone a scar but a curious, cut or
blister which extended nearly to the elbow, and was

altogether different from the one worn by Black Bill.
As to the officers who would swear to this identity
through having seen him in the Chicago jail, two
were dead and one a lunatic ; hence the prisoner at
the bar need fear nothing from them.

The trial dragged on. It seemed as if half New
York were subpoenaed either for the prosecution or
the defence. The former were still hard at it, and the
court-room if possible was more crowded than ever ;
perhaps a waiting world came also in the hopes of
assisting at another Lucy Chromo episode. In vain
the daily press teemed with news of the trial. The
Chromo divorce furnished, if possible, a more ample
theme, until the announcement was publicly made
that the suit was withdrawn, and Lucy Chromo as
suddenly surprised Gotham by appearing at the trial
on — Adam Chrome's arm.

The weeks had dwindled into months, and still the
Count de Marcie was held in durance vile. After the
failure of Pinkerton to prove that he was Black Bill
public opinion changed, and people asked one another
if the noble prisoner were not really a victim to
personal spite and revenge, and speculation became
rife as to the probable issue of the trial.

December came with its snow and sleet, and the
succeeding weeks witnessed the same brilliant audiences,
the same enthusiasm, and the same light,

cheerful conversation which had been noticeable on
former occasions. On the morning of the '31st, a
bright, crisp day had attracted a very full house, more
than half the public being ladies. When the Count
came in, his appearance was somewhat comical owing
to the extreme cold. He was shivering, and muffled up
in a great-coat. He complained of the cold, and the
audience heartily concurred with him, for the room
was enormous, and lack of heat caused every one to
shiver. Of late the noble prisoner had been somewhat
crusty and coldhearted, but the cheerful
sunlight that streamed through the great windows
seemed to exercise a joyous influence over him ; and
the court, jury, the counsel and audience laughed
and re-laughed as he with earnest simplicity shouted
out that one of his guards, a member of the New"
York police, "had had an eleven pound little baby
presented to him as a New Year's gift"*

After this the Count's interruptions where casual
and far apart. Whilst examining his mail he would
alternately read and write. Owing to the absence of
Lawyer Harkins and the Judge there were no very
exciting scenes. It was believed that the able
Harkins and the Judge were not on very good
terms, as it was only yesterday when Judge W —
with a friend entering a restaurant near Del's to get
Report, Guinea Trial, 1882.

a dozen on the half-shell and a bottle of porter for
lunch, espying Harkins said disgustedly, " Let us go
somewhere else." It seemed evident to all that the
Judge had a liking on the quiet for the Count, and
yet at times, during the prisoner's cross-examination,
his voice rolled thunder and his eye flashed
hire.

The witnesses were well under way giving important
testimony, when the prisoner at the bar took
the opportunity of saying that two men had called at
the jail to see him, and after the honour of being
presented had refused to shake hands with him.

They're loafers and cranks," he said irately ;
they are perfect dogs ; they came to insult a high-toned
gentleman, and when I get out I'll know how
to be even with them."

In vain the crier ordered silence in the court ; the
prisoner remarked, " that this was his funeral, and
he was going to see the corpse safe through."

Finally the prisoner's counsel began the defence,
and called witness after witness. They were all
more or less unimportant, until the name Friiulein
Marx was heard, and Ida's lady companion made
her way into the box.

In the mean time the prosecution and defence
remarked that it was not known when the trial
would finish, as after the ordinary defence would

come evidence in sur-rebuttal, and there were still
an hundred witnesses.

Oh ! I don't mind," cried out the Count, " my
time is well spent here, and in jail I do little else
than to write autographs."

He stopped abruptly as Fraulein Marx took the
oath and prepared to answer the questions which
might be put to her.

The Count's attitude was one of eager expectancy.
It was noticed that he had become thinner these
latter days, and his face wore a strange smile. The
question : " When did you first know the prisoner at
the bar ? " put by the prosecution elicited a prompt
response :

A. — " I met him in Hamburg twenty years ago.
He was a robber and a scoundrel, called himself a
Baron, and was transported with me for criminal
complication in a murder."

The prisoner's eager look turned to one of blank
disappointment, rage, then bitter hate ; a cold glitter
crept into his eyes. He stretched out his hand and
laughed as he said :

So you betray me at last ; you want revenge.
Well — well — well ; — curse you, get it if you can."

The excitement amongst the audience became
intense. His counsel hastily conferred with him and
several waiting? friends. There was a confused murmur

throiiffliout the room, whilst the witness stood with
an impassive face and calmly folded hands, looking
neither to the right nor left, but seemingly in air.
After more discussion a second question was asked.
The answer came with amazing promptitude.

I married you because I loved you and wanted
to be a Baroness, but you betrayed even me. I got
away from Toulon in a way intended for your escape
came to sew York — and very soon recognized in
the Count de Marcie the ex-Baron de Maine of
Hamburg."

Stop the witness," screamed the prisoner, turning
of a still more awfid pallor. " Stop her ; she's the
bif:caest liar — "

Fraulein Marx smiled scornfully.

Nothing can stop me," she said. " I escaped —
as you did afterwards ; and the German Government
has since bestowed a free pardon on me."

"Which explains your cheek now," cried the
prisoner ; " and you knew it — when ? "

Before I saw you in London," she replied calmly,
'' when I wanted the two hundred thousand dollars."

The Count laughed ; — laughed until the tears
rolled down his cheeks.

Look at her," he said ; " isn't she a wife any man
might be proud of? Look at her and realize how
worthy a woman I married."

Oh I " interrupted Lucy Chromo in a loud
voice ; " oh ! — and to think that he not only married
Ida Forestii, and broke her heart, but boo-ed
me to get a divorce in order to marry him ! — the
wretch ! "

It was impossible not to understand and fully
appreciate Lucy's words. The court re-echoed with
exclamations, and the witness was not able to cro on
until order was restored.

She told the history of her life, and the noble
prisoner's; of the meeting with Ricard ; the plot to
make Rozen rob and betray Arundel; the final
rupture, and the meeting in the Park. The public
were roused to the highest pitch of enthusiasm by
her recital, yet with the exception of the prisoner's
scornful and frequent interruption, the dropping of
a pin could easily have been heard.

I let him — the prisoner — think that I was for
him," she added with a rising voice ; " but revenge is
sweeter than mone3\"

"Yes," cried the prisoner, "when you have all
the latter you want, and are sure about the
former."

"Then a fire of mutual abuse and retort took
place between witness and prisoner. The crier no
longer cried silence; the judge no longer gave any
ruling; the questions and answers were categories or

VOL. III. T

were not; the same mutual>olley of recrimination
and insult went on between these two strange and
strangely-related human beings.

At last the prisoner arose with a threatening look,
but suddenly sank backwards.

Take her away," he cried ; " she'll be my death."
Then he placed a hand to his side and looked wildly
about.

The witness continued, and shrewd cross-questions
brought out such alarming statements that the
prisoner had little show for mercy. The tale of Ida
Forestii's life caused a profound sensation, and many
an eye filled with tears when she described her
death. The witness's cold voice but added to the
pitifulness of the story, and after that there was little
to tell : she was dismissed and other witnesses were
brought forth ; each and all more or less fatal to the
defence. Suddenly the prisoner's counsel announced
their case was closed.

The surprise was so great that judge, prosecution,
and jury stared for some moments in a helpless sort
of maze ; an indefinable murmur ran through the
court-room; and at last his honour comprehended
that the trial was really at an end. The prosecuting
attorney looked upon the announcement as a practical
joke, and was so unbounded at the trial's abrupt
termination that he could scarcely find suitable words

in which to argue the case to the jury. His peroration,
however, was a brilliant affair, although when
he had concluded it was difficult to make out
whether he thought the prisoner guilty or not.
Happily his honour then gently hinted at murder,
and gave the jury to understand that a crime of
some sort had been committed in which the prisoner
was implicated.

The Count next arose with a beaming smile, and
remarked that he had a few words to say; whereupon
he bowed to the audience, nodded to the jury,
and blowing a white rose open to its fullest, adjusted
it in his button-hole and began :

Ladies, and gentlemen of the jury, you see
before you not a criminal, but an unsuccessful man.
I don't need to plead not guilty, because I'm going
to tell you truthfully the real story of my life ; and
I know, in a land where struggle is known and
appreciated, when you have heard mine you will one
and all but sympathize with me the more. I shall
be obliged to inflict some painful disillusions upon
you, but in a land where success must be bought
at any price, you will realize that I am indeed
worthy to be one of you. I early took for my motto
the words of Horace, ' Nil mortality artium est,'
and determined to make my way in life and prove
them at any cost. I shall be brief: the worthy

T 2

witnesses' pros and cons that you have heard are one
and all incomplete, idiotic, no one so far having told
you my whole career from the beginning ; helpless
blunders have so exasperated the artistic in my
nature, that I feel it a duty I owe my talent, my
exceptional education, and the world in general,
to explain more fully; in fact I owe it to the
gracious interest Gotham has ever taken in me,
to tell her all I can about myself; and that all
shall be told as faithfully as I know how to tell it :
as Brutus said, 'If ye have any tears, prepare to
shed them now.' My life has been a long conflict,
a bitter struggle to succeed and put the best foot
forward in the world. It has been short in one
sense, but prolific of adventure. I was born a
beggar in the streets of Mayence; parents, first in
particular — unknown. In early youth I rose to the
estate of barber: not caring to continue that humble
but happy life, I longed to adventure and seethe
world. I am still young and — I have seen it.
In a Mayence barbers-shop a client used to come
to whom I bore a startling resemblance ; an absurd
intimacy grew up between ns, and one day the idea
struck me to put him out of the way, adopt his name,
title, and estate. This I did with great punctuality,
and became in twelve short hours the Baron de
Maine. I do not seek to affect you here, although

any one with a spark of soul or feeling Las only
to reflect on the audacity of my first stroke, not
to also realize what fears, what agonies of mind
and body I endured; not alone that of being
found out, but of checking in its birth a career
destined to reflect honour on any beggar, and do
good in any world where courage, talent, and heart
go hand in hand. Born to the gutter I tired of the
palace, went to Hamburg, and there met and adored
the gentle being you have just listened to, whose
wit never equalled either her heart or her beauty. I
married her. We became partners in — not iniquity
but the modern commerce of getting on in life.
Frau Marx-maine soon began to bore me. Money
was low, spirits were lower; a robbery and murder
done in Lyons with sure intentions, but not sure
hands — alas 1 interrupted our career for a little while.
Toulon was not a disagreeable place, but my venturesome
spirit longed to attempt new deeds of
daring. I felt the ardour of a Napoleon or a
Bernadotte glowing in my veins, and bitterly chafed
at the dungeon's restriction. I escaped f heard the
dear wife was dead ; then became confidential
adviser, butler, valet, I don't know what, to several
sovereigns : couldn't stand the routine of royal life.
Slavery? — why the galleys was ease compared toit.
I longed to see the home of my youth,

returned to Mayence, and found an old uncle, who
kindly removed the ' T. F.' so wickedly branded on
my arm ; convenient slashes now and then, added to
a real scald — result of a railway smash-up — effectually
obliterated all traces of the convict's signature.
Dear uncle, he is since dead — "

At this there was a visible interruption, and loud
murmurs echoed and re-echoed in the court-room.

Your uncle," inadvertently called out the prosecuting
attorney ; " surely not the late Count ? "

Visions of a cathedral draped in black ; a choir
of mortals sinoincr celestial music ; the rich baritone
of a sainted voice ; the smell of incense — even the
odour of violets — and the stately congregation of
Gotham's best — a weeping world, passed in instantaneous
panorama before the minds of all present.
The prisoner took up and finished the lawyer's
phrase.

The same," he said gently ; " a good man — alas !
no Count — although well worthy to be one. He
died as he had lived — a simple sausage-maker of
Mayence." '

What ! " screamed Mrs. Chromo. " What ! " cried
the lawyer ; and " What I " were repeated on all
sides.

The prisoner smiled blandly and reiterated his
words.

"This is too much," groaned Lucy; "and my crape
dress, amethyst necklace, and the flowers, the postponing
of two balls, and as many as ten quiet
luncheons — all, all for a sausage-maker ! "

The club flags at half-mast," murmured Florestan.

"The city-bell tolling down town," said Adam
Chromo.

"Yes," echoed Lawyer Harkins, "and Gotham's
Common Council meeting solely to pass resolutions
of condolence to be offered to the Count."

The postponement of our Chromo Literary Society
for a month," groaned Prof. Protoplasm, wiping his
brow with a lemon-coloured handkerchief.

"The condolences telegraphed by the President,"
said the head juror.

He was interrupted by a violent fit of coughing
and half-strangled sobs which emanated from the
judicial chair. His honour did not need to say
what his and his wife's expression of regret had
been. What they had cost ! Every one present remembered
them. In a vision he saw himself sending
word to the Bench, " Too ill to sit to-day," — saw
himself flying to the tailor's to try on a new black
suit ; saw a fond wife and mother sacrificing the one
public dinner she gave during the year; and as ina
horrid nightmare felt himself writing, signing, and
sending, an elaborate epistle attached to a basket of

orchids, ^Yllose every shade of colour was worth a
fortune to a modest horticulturist : — all these efforts,
and not for a defunct Count, but for a dropsical,
dirty — ah !

He fanned himself Violently, gasped, threw back
his head as much as to say, "I am better now,"
then waving his hand wdtli graceful ease directed
the prisoner to continue.

I am really grieved," said this latter honestly,
to have given you all such a shock ; but how can
you appreciate the noble efforts I have made to
get on unless you know the truth of those efforts ?
Judge, Mrs. Chromo, Mr. Florestan, ladies and
gentlemen, let me thank you all here now for those
expressions of woe ; letters, flowers, and hand-pressures
of silent sympathy bestowed upon me at that
critical moment; for, believe me, it Alas a critical
moment, and required no small energy, misgivings,
and art, to play it upon Nev York as I played it ;
especially when you realize that that uncle died
fifteen years ago, and the wheels of memory almost
refused to run backward. But to my tale : — I came
to America; I met Rozen, an honest man but weak;
he wanted speedy wealth, but hated great risks. I
finally won him over, named him Vane for a travelling
name, got him in my power, and only put him
out of it dien — I put him out of the way. Oh !

don't look horrified ! — remember that I felt bound,
some way, to elevate Gotham and her moral society.
I felt that here I had found my true vocation and
right place ; here a title and such talent as I possessed
could find the fittest scope for action. I have
done five years of good service here in every branch
of social life. Rozen stole money ; I spent it, in
first helping myself and then doing good to others.
Mind, I am not the first man nor the last who
personally applies Machiavelli's saying, ' The first
law of every human being is to protect himself — to
live — and — to look out for number one.' That is
just what I have always rigorously done, and I
advise you all to follow in my footsteps. Be careful,
however, never to have anything to do with white-livered
fools and soft-hearted ones. Rozen was
sentimental even when he helped Black Bill to
escape."

Black Bill ! " echoed a dozen voices.

Yes, gentlemen. Black Bill ; I am that distinguished
individual Sorry I can't tell you all
his history here ; but as this is the century for
memoirs, I have no doubt you will before long be
speedily enlightened as to all his proceedings. As
to the little Prima Donna, I am sorry that she took
the affair to heart ; but j^ou remember Julia and the
Don: 'Man's love is of man's life,' etc. etc. Most

jurymen have a weakness for Byron, and all seem
to know the lines. I won't repeat them here, but
women are all alike, take an episode for — an eternity,
etcetera. I fear I am tiring you : but a few words
more. I don't ask for my life, as you are sure to
give me that; but I do ask the court to restore
a trunk of relics, carried wantonly off — stolen probably
by the police ; these relics I need not say are a
souvenir of my tender past, my earliest youth, when
ambition warmed me with her glowing fires, and
hope was the one lamp of my barber's existence.
That trunk contains all my shaving implements ; the
razors with which I shaved the Baron ; the old
clothes I wore; some letters from my wife Adele,
when love was our sole collateral, and a bunch of
faded flowers, which alone have power to awaken
in me glad memories of a hapj^y coast. How many
times after an evening at some ball the Baron would
return home, look at his razors, and laugh as the
barber at the way he had fooled the world as the
Baron 1 Oh ! my friends, those were sweet and invaluable,
unpurchasable hours ! Restore me that
trunk, that even in my cell I may re-live them. I
cannot say I found society-life agreeable, — jostling
with fools, hob-robbing with snobs, associating with
idiots. Alas ! how often, tired of the whole game,
have I cried out with Mirabeau : 'My God, give me

mediocrity,' but my cry was never heeded. So I
kept on the treadmill, repeating in my heart with
Telemachus : ' Services ! talents 1 merit — bah ! belong
to a cotery ' — and I did. I must say I have found
New York the easiest of all society, as here only two
things are required — money and title. I have told
you my faithful but partial history, as to the last
wishing to do good, I see no earthly reason why every
enterprising American may not alone follow in my
footsteps but profit by my career ; but let him beware
of three things, however, any one of which may at
any moment wreck the brightest of futures ; — satiety
of too much money — indigestion — and not keeping
cool. The first engendered irritation ; the second, bad
temper ; and the third, for the first time in my life,
caused me to stand in my own light, to forget myself,
and — and I struck the blow which brought me here.
I take leave of you, gentlemen of the jury, and beg
you will restore my cherished trunk, and bear in
mind that I am merely a faithful follower, as all
Americans should be, of the Macchiavellian precept :
'The first law of every human being is to protect
himself, and — to live.

The prisoner sat down amidst deafening cheers.
His defence had indeed touched the enterprising
American soul. After a charge from the Judge the
jury retired; hours passed; his Honour looked

heavenward with vacant face but strangely questioning
eyes ; counsel and prosecution consulted together.
The wildest chattering went on in the audience
when the foreman re-appeared.

The chief juryman waved his hand and announced
neither acquittal nor condemnation, but the disagreement
of the jury — ten being for acquittal,
two for condemnation. • There was a general murmur.
The Judge smiled broadly ; counsel, witnesses
and public joined in a violent altercation, whilst
the prisoner at the bar, amidst repeated thanks
and protestations of affection for New York, was
led away amidst dense enthusiastic throngs to await
a new trial.

:^ >lc il ifs >|c

The next morning Gotham received another shock.
The Count had died in the night; possibly stricken
down by heart disease ; but more probably by his
first violent and sustained effort at telling the truth.
He left this assumed will :

I go to join the sausage-maker. Gotham, farewell
! I leave to the New York Central Park Museum
my trunk, containing the faithful toys of m}^ youth.
I bequeath these cherished souvenirs to budding
America, begging it, every time it looks upon them,
to aspire, to reflect, to emulate, to remember.
Gotham, farewell ! The end of this trial has brought

repose, repose has brought back the old ambition —
the love of adventure is still so strong in mc,
that to make the acquaintance of a new world, I
quit this one with pleasure. Alas ! no nobleman
dies in cell 16 of the Tombs, but a simple mortal,
known to the world as the Baron, Count de Marcie
and d'Orbach, but best to himself as the Barber of
Mayence."

There is little left to tell to finish this history.
New York, even the civilized world, wept the sudden
quenching of a bright light, and never ceased reiterating
-what might have been. But, however
much other metropolises may wail and refuse to
be comforted, Gotham may still take heart : she
cherishes innumerable noblemen in other forms
and guises ; perhaps with less classic memories, but
with stronger digestions, colder hearts, and no less
authentic titles.

Lucy Chromo has Avon; Adam will never give up
the glue business, but has compromised by driving
his carts down every Avenue excepting the Fifth,
Flora married Pastor, and was thrown into, not a
convulsion, but a marquisate, five days after the
wedding; legitimate heritage early assumed by her
honourable spouse. Every noah and then she threatens
her husband to leave him to marry Baron

d' Alfred!, still the unique object of her affections —
best man at her wedding, best friend of her heart.
Professor Protoplasm and Miss Chances-Cressy are
still but betrothed. The Chromo-Literary Society
foes on much the same as ever, and at the last
meeting brought up the origin of cats. The Professor
shone.

And Arundel ? He never recovered the shock he
had received on the quay, when Florestan told him
the result of his victory. He fell ill, and was taken
to his old hydropathic establishment, where he
made a will, and left everything he possessed to
Enilda. The great trial ended, in a moment of
enthusiasm , still attached to water, he jumped into
the river, and his body was recovered, but too late ;
life was extinct. Enilda in vain refused the fortune ;
but as it was left, not to her, but to her children if
she ever had any, and after that to Florestan and
his heirs, there seemed no way of getting rid of
the money, which, by some peculiar destiny, was
bound to be her inheritance. Charlotte Corday
seemed to stow voucher, although she never grew
whiter; while Fraulein Marx respectably married
Ricard, and went to Australia to build up a new home,
a new house, and a new reputation.

And Florestan ?

There was a quiet wedding in Grace Church

one morning in early January. Dr. Grandson
gave away the bride, and Enilda Rozen took
Ythan Florestan for better or worse. When her
husband gave her his first kiss, Httle Cyril came up
timidly :

"Here is a rose," he said, "a white rose for my
new mamma!" Then they walked towards the
sacristy to sign the moral doomsday book.

Adam Chromo and Professor Protoplasm wrote
their names as witnesses, in a flourishing hand ; then
one by one the party left the church.

That night Florestan and his young wife arm-in-arm
stood in the open doorway of the old house
in Tenth Street, looking at the bright crescent
wdjch glittered in a pale semicircle in the starlit
sky.

"Enilda?"

"Yes, darling."

Shall I tell you something which will make you
happy?"

That you love me ? "

Yes, always that, but — something else. Perhaps
our prayers have been answered."

Ythan, what can you mean ? "

Shall I tell you ? No ; read for yourself," and
leaning on his strong breast she read a paragraph ina
London newspaper, which brought a look of perfect

happiness into lier eyes. Only a simple notice of
four lines, and yet it said volumes :

The Lady Mildred Claremont has given birth
to a son, born at Allison House. Mr. Claremont is
hourly expected in town. Mother and child are
doing well."

THE END.

fl

Richard Clay and cons, London and Bwiujay.

II

S^^f^^^-::->;:

3 0112 041502136

'iSt'

^.]:^;fVr-

c;, ';■^.^v<;v^*^■<^^^;■ " - "*;-:>'5!^-;if'

;?^-''^^v-'^^

1>-1'

Si

,^^^f■-fe^-.

'./■■■<

MJW SssB

L162

VOL. II.

% Hfomiuutt of Sa-emir ante festering.

BY

BLANCHE ROOSEVELT,

AUTHOR OF
LIFE end REMINISCENCES OF GUSTAVE DORE," " LONGFELLOW'S HOME LIFE,
STAGE STRUCK," ETC.

"For time at last sets all things even,
And if we do but watch the hour,
There never yet was human power
Which could evade, if unforgiven,
The patient search, and vigil long,
Of him who treasures up a wrong."

Mazkppa. Canto V. Byron.

VOL. II.

WARD AND DOWNEY, PUBLISHERS,

12, YORK STREET, CO VENT GARDEN.

1886.

bread street hill, london,

Bungay, Suffolk.

THE COPPER QUEEN,

CHAPTER I.

Exilda soon found herself a queen in a small
sovereignty. Her father had so well prepared the
way for her reception, that Gotham's best opened its
doors wide to the young stranger. Besides her
reputed great wealth, she possessed beauty of so
perfect a type, that in a land of pretty women it
was still only the more remarkable. Her manners
were a strange mixture of western frankness and
acquired New York graciousness. There was a
sweetness in her disposition, a simplicity in her
deportment, which won all hearts. Heaven having
given her beauty, the world accorded her wit; Ht
in reality her intelligence was such, that after a conversation
with her one forgot her appearance. There
is no doubt that beauty is the magnet which draws

VOL. IT. B

the steel, but it must lie in the superior underlying
power of the magnet to hold that which it has drawn.
There is also no doubt that superior personal charms
may attract and hold men ; but the age is progressive,
and if the nineteenth-century woman, who lives,
thinks, is of her time, add to beauty intelligence, she
may laugh at fabled Castlemaines and their fabulous
triumphs; to-day shall see as many. Man is not
stronger, but woman is : although, truthfully, a
woman need know no more, do no more, than be
beautiful, and indubitably one was first attracted by
Enilda's fair exterior. Beauty is the world's passport
signed by the Master Ruler's own hand : all
nations yield to its right-of-way, all countries bow
to its charms, all history extols its virtues : even
the microscope, contemporaneousness, cannot detect
the mote in beauty's eye. The world's lens may be
turned on individuals, on their spiritual attainments,
their intellectual gifts, their moral and material
achievements ; the brutality of means shows in the
detail of every-day life : we are permitted to extol or
condemn, especially to discuss; but beauty is, or is
not : it admits of no discussion. It is its own herald,
its own reflector. It calls, commands, desires; all
hasten to obey its voice, its will, even its unexpressed
wish ; hence Enilda's sovereignty was unquestioned.
She took New York by storm, first by the picture,

then confirmed her triumphs by the picture's
wondrous setting.

Perhaps in personal appearance you may see a
thousand American girls like, but not one just like,
her. She was tall, straight, supple, slender, and
compactly built ; youth easing every joint, she moved
with the unconscious grace of a flower growing
in the forest, or a lily floating on the waterside.
Her face was a tender oval, lit up with eyes
like lamps. They were of such extraordinary luminousness,
that a bluish-white light seemed eternally
reflecting back of their lids, hovering over the iris,
as that indescribable light hovers over the blue
grotto of famed Capri — in both cases adding to the
beauty and blueness, as shadows steal over the
firmament of the grotto, so shadows also steal
over these miniature spheres ; shadows thrown upon
shadows by long, dark lashes, their penumbra emphasized
by straight brows of a darker, subtler hue.
These slender bands lifting above her eyes, like
sentinels, seemed to guard them with a patrol of
eternal melancholy; and beyond these sentinels,
beyond this sad vigilance, they seemed powerless
ever to escape. In vain the light cleared or
deepened back of the blue-veined lids. It seemed
as if a soul were beyond imprisoned, whose struggle
would be ever mortal, but whose spirit was destined

B 2

some day to break into immortal song. Laughing
or weary, glad or sorry, this look, or rather frontal
physiognomy, never belied itself. It was a sort of
nature's hall-mark which made Enilda's face different
from every other woman, the soul which
illumined, the mind which beautified the sanctuary.
Her other features were beautiful, but not equally
remarkable. Her nose would have been a perfect
Greek, but was corrected at the brows by a slight
indenture. Her mouth, not too small, Lad the
short, curved upper lip which has nothing of the
Anglo-saxon, but everything of those old Norse
goddesses, or the reminiscence of a purer Danish
race. Her teeth were rows of pearl; her complexion,
of a distinct pallor, was scarcely ever lighted by
colour. Now and then a fleeting wave swept over
and slightly tinged its surface, but this wave showed
from underneath, only as the pink momentarily
shows through the white cloud's lining. Her forehead
was like the Foramina's : a wreath of golden fair, not
black, hair, rippled from the crown of her small head,
and fell nearly to her feet. This hair was so fine
that it could be twisted into the smallest knot, like
those ancient webs which, although large enough to
cover a princess's body, could easily be drawn through
a signet-ring. These detail of form and feature,
however, were not Enilda's chief beauty ; they would

have been another woman's, here they were not
auxiliaries, but accessories, and accessories of such
material shape and suggestion that they were in
utter contradiction to the spirituality of the upper
part of her face ; still, however much the heart spoke
in one, the soul shone stronger in the other, and
when the soul elects to shine, it puts out other
lights, as the moon quenches other astral, or the
sun shames the flame of the waxen taper.

Enilda had often regretted her loneliness in those
long days at Laramie. She little thought that
solitude, to a naturally pure and reflective mind, is
the greatest of all teachers, and that good books
may often be better companions than men. Living
at such a court her manners had shaped themselves
from Her occupations, as her face had borrowed its
character from her mind. As debauch changes the
virgin's look into that of the wanton, so one who
thinks good and noble thoughts is bound with
time to mould her features into an expression of
goodness and nobility.

Thus it was that Enilda's combined graces spoke
an universal tongue, and it is little wonder that a
world's metropolis yielded her the palm for a beauty
as spiritual as it was exceptional.

Her first pleasure had been in meeting her old friend
Flora ; — Flora, who was unchanged in affection, only

changed in appearance as a lovely bud expands
into a beautiful blossom. Flora's laughing dark eyes,
clear skin, and nut-brown hair, were a marked contrast
to Enilda's more ethereal beauty. The girls
were constantly together. Enilda had met Mrs.
Chromo, in short, had been introduced to her set,
and so multiple were amusements and distraction
in Gotham, that days flew like hours and hours like
seconds. Still she found that w T earth and its attendant
privileges was not all. Her whole soul was
wrapped up in Claremont. After the excitement of
the first few days had worn off, she began to feel
the reaction of an existence whose corner-stone w T as
hollowness, and whose structure was tinsel.

Every man she met she compared unfavourably
with Claremont. She dreamt of him, thought of
him, and when she was alone with her dear old
nurse, spoke of him as women alone know how to
speak of those they love. Her faith in him was so
unbounded that she wrote him as her fancy dictated,
without once ever waiting for answers to her letters.
She had told him from the first of their removal to
New York, of her father's accession to wealth, and
of their changed prospects. At last, as weeks flew r
by and she received no response, her mind began
to misgive her. She counted the days which must
elapse for letters to go and come from England ; she

looked out ships' arrivals and steamers' departures,
in fact, the book of her life more resembled the
pages of a merchantman's diary than a young lady's
journal. The suspense finally began to tell upon her,
to obscure the clearness of her eyes, to add a heavier
shade of melancholy to her already shaded brow —
and still no news came. None, none ! What could
it all mean ?

She had determined, as soon as Claremont's letter
should arrive, to tell her father all, and beg his
consent to their union. This decision had been
made the second morning of her arrival in New
York, and so it was that she could meet him day
after day without deceit in her heart. She only said to
herself: " I have made up my mind to tell him everything,"
and after that one determination there was
no wavering — no change. She really looked forward
to the confidence, for to the innocent mind passive
complicity seems as wicked as actual crime. Enilda
loathed herself whilst she had a secret from her
father ; she took no pleasure in her life, and saw no
beauty in her face. It seemed that the latter must
betray her every time he looked into it, and she

began to regard it as a mask still more deceitful
© ©

than her soul. Perhaps it was; but it is the
mask nature has given us all to hide our real selves.
It is an resolvable problem. Could we read our

neighbour's life in his face, who knows whether we
would most love or loathe, most respect or most
despise him ?

The day of probation finally ended. Seven weeks
had passed since Claremont had left Laramie,
when one morning Charlotte Corday put a letter
into Enilda's hand. It had just come, and bore the
English postmark.

The seal was quickly broken, and Enilda read
eagerly; then her face changed — a wildness came
into her eyes, the paper drifted from her hands to
the floor, and she fell forward into Charlotte's arms.

Oh ! Charlotte, Charlotte ! — my heart is broken !
I shall die ; I know I shall. He is married, — married
to some one else, and I shall go on for ever loving
him ! "

Between tears and sobs Charlotte got at the truth.
Claremont's letter was plain enough.

He wrote —

Enilda,

There may have been in my lifetime a
few instants when I was worthy of you, but they
were very few. Accident brought me to your door,
and design would have kept me ever at your side,
but my destiny decreed otherwise. When I arrived
in Laramie I was engaged to the Lady Mildred

Allison; the telegram which called me back to
England was from her companion. I arrived in
London to find her at death's-door, from a carriage
accident. It was her request that before she died we
should be married. Don't refuse to read further. So
I married her, and this is being written you by a
man who is trebly perjured ; for I love you with all my
soul, all my life, all my being, and I have tied myself
to another woman. I know you can only hate me for
what I am writing you, but believe at least that I
was honest while with you. As God is my judge,
when I left you I determined to break off with my
old engagement, to tell her fairly that I was bound
heart and soul to another woman. Can you realize
all that is meant by the word honour ? I was bound
in honour to you but first to her. I was horrified,
dazed, bewildered, to find her in such a state, and
myself in such a situation. What more can I tell
you ? — and yet the worst is to come. I yielded to
fate, thinking blindly that it in time would help me ;
but we never bind destiny to us except we first make
it the accomplice to our ambition and then ally to
our own strength : my wife has recovered, — strange
irony of fatal illnesses ! Perhaps the superior power
of mortal will overcame the suspicion of — I dare
not say I am a victim, and yet —

Good-bye, Enilda. You may never think of me

but with horror, I shall never think of you but with
love; and I swear to you, should we meet even in
years hence you will find me unchanged. This unchanging
will not be an insult to your virtue, but a
tribute to your memory. You are young, you will
forget me, you may love a worthier man ; but I am
not young, I cannot forget you, and I could never
love a worthier woman. Dare I ask one remembrance
not hate ? You once spoke of your mother, and said
that she always prayed for you. I have no one now
who bears towards me a holy relationship. When
you invoke the prayers of your God, beg him to
teach me patience. We shall meet again. Until
then, farewell !

"John Claremont'

That was all. Euilda passed the hours as has
many another abandoned by the man she loves.
After the first outbreak of sorrow, the first snapping
of love's chord, her heart's tension seemed eased. It
was the relief we feel when deaths are confirmed,
funeral rites ended, and the grave has closed over
mortals whj, although best loved, have henceforward
no more part in our daily lives. And yet she knew
he was alive. In her anguish she could only mutter
and moan :

He is dead to me for ever, — dead ! And I

loved hint so. I still love him ; I still love
him ! "

Charlotte Corday said nothing, but offered the
silent sympathy which alone knows how to soothe.
As the day wore on she heard a knock at the door.
She disengaged her arms from Enilda's waist, and
went quickly to open it, when the latter starred up.
It is papa," she said ; "leave us together, Charlotte.
I — now is the time to tell him all."

"All ! honey chile?"

"Yes'"

Enilda stood up with firmness. The door half-opened,
a head peered in. It was Mr. Rozen's.
May I come in, dear ? " he said ; " I am lonesome.
Why, I haven't seen my beauty all day. I've been
thinking about her, but I'll venture to say she hasn't
given even a thought to her deserted father."

As he spoke he entered the room softly, warily,
with the assurance of one certain of a welcome.
One glance at Enilda's face changed his own. " My
God ! " he cried, " what has happened ? " — and he
caught her in his arms.

She hid her face.

Papa," she said, " I cannot look at you, but I
must tell you something Don't be angry; it's allover
now 7 ." Then little by little, pillowed on his
strong breast, she told him the story of her life. For

was not all her life summed up in those last three
months — those little months of which he knew
nothing ?

The story was long — day grew into twilight, and
twilight filled the room with its myriads of misty
shadows, still she talked on. Nothing was forgotten,

» Dono

detail omitted ; for there is an unconscious luxury
in dwelling on sorrow that the old can never resist
and the young unconsciously glide into. As she
reached the end only her father gave evidence that
he understood all. His face was stern and unbending
as he put her from him and went towards the fatal
letter which all this time had lain unheeded on the
floor. Taking it up sternly he read it once — twice —
thrice. He crushed it slowly in his hand, and was
about to tear it, when a pleading look in Enilda's
eyes stopped him.

"Yes; you are right. Such letters should not be
destroyed. Keep it if you will, but out of my sight."

He handed it to her. As he did so an indescribable
look came into his face.

So," he said, " fate was not kind to him. It has
been kinder to me, and always will be, for I not only
make an ally of, but I meet destiny half-way. My
love was stronger than his, Euilda, and mine shall
never fail you whilst I live."

The days which followed were almost a blank.

Enilda ate, drank, slept; each day a repetition of
the one gone by, each night a repetition of the one
gone before. Waking and sleeping dreams were one
slow torture ; every sound in her ears was the name
of the man she loved, and who had been faithless
; his name was repeated on every breeze, his face
in every man's face. In every book she but turned
the pages and read — to his memory. Every word,
every line said, " I love him, and he has married
another woman." In vain she tried to put him out
of her mind. Added to the horror of loving him, there
was before her the ever-present thought that he was
no longer hers; that she was thinking of another
woman's husband. At last her health began to fail.
The rose-tint never came now to her cheek ; her eyes
were still luminous, but with an unspoken sorrow
which but added to their light. With all her
grief Enilda could not fail to notice her father's
tenderness. He seemed a thousand-fold more watchful
than he had ever been ; a thousand-fold kinder ;
a thousand-fold dearer. Claremont's name had never
been spoken between them since that night, when
her heart's chords had so suddenly snapped in
the midst of singing love's eternal melody. She had
put away his letter; but as the murderer returns to
the spot where crime not only lured but possessed
him, so Enilda re-read her cruel sentence, and

re-lived all its agonizing purport. This self-torture
was fatal, but feminine. It is a question whether
a true woman is happier in the reminiscence of
pleasure or in the reminiscence of pain. There is to
her an exquisite despair in absolute, irremediable
misery, which man's best balanced medium of sadness
never know?, and which the ordinary mortal, with
ordinary joys and sorrows, never attains.

Although Enilda never voluntarily uncovered the
tomb of her past, still if it ever happened that she
did so, her father always seemed to know it.

One day, three weeks after the receipt of that
fatal letter, Eric Rozen came suddenly up to his
daughter.

Enilda," he said, " would you like to travel ?
Would you like to go — to, to Europe ? "

Europe ! Oh papa ! " Her voice faltered, and
her colour rose.

"Europe — not England," he said. "I have some
business on hand in Paris, which I may as well look
after in person."

Oh papa ! — yes, Paris ; I would love to see Paris.
When can we go ? "

"To-morrow if you like."

They started the next day.

That tomorrow had run into many. Enilda
and her father, with her faithful Charlotte Corda,

had " done " the Continent, with the exception of
London. For all its magnitude. Enilda could not
help fearing that the first man she saw there would
be Claremont. London is a world ; but those who
have never seen it cannot realize what a world.
No matter where we have travelled, or what we have
seen, grief makes us all more or less provincial.

They were days in the great metropolis, and did
not meet him.

Enilda half-suspected her father of having laid a
trap, as she did not see that business occupied him
much in Paris. Still, as she had naturally a healthy
and not a morbid spirit — new sights, new scenes,
new contemplations, and the real wish to overcome
herself, at least to appear cheerful, soon had the
desired effect. Her father's devotion became more
evident than her lover's desertion. She had not the
heart to continue sad when he was gay ; she had not
the ingratitude, at her time of life, to dwell upon
herself when she saw him, after all he had passed
through, at his time of life, only thinking of her
perhaps sacrificing himself to her comfort. Days
and weeks passed, and as Byron says :

Oh Time ! the beautifier of the dead,
Adorner of the ruin, comforter,
And only healer, when the heart hath bled ; —
Time ! the corrector when our judgments err,
The test of truth, love — sole philosopher ! "

Time, the great healer, gradually poured his balm
into her soul. She travelled far and wide; she
loitered in shadows where queens had walked with
hearts far more troubled than hers had ever been ; she
gazed upon gleaming stars and glittering boulevards,
on mighty monuments of nature and art; she stood
in the dead city lying at the volcano's base, and
realized that nature had healed even the scars of
this her most gigantic wound. For Time has
smoothed the proud columns dissevered by the
earthquake's shock ; grass grows in arbours whose
vine was petrified in their hideous mould of lava
flowers bloom where the wanton was overwhelmed
in a living grave, and airy ferns shoot and play
through, the calcined limbs of the bondsman, now
for ever freed.

In the Eternal City she walked where Brevi's
waters murmur their ceaseless legend, and stood on
mounds made of Caesar's clay. Lifting her eyes
in the pale light which streamed over the Amphitheatre,
she seemed to see the ghostly line of imperial
shadows slowly wending their way to haunts long
since immortal : listening, she seemed to hear in
the wild birds' unconscious treble those voices of
the mighty past which float on and ever; which
sing and re-sing their undying triumphs through
the vast arches of Flavian's sublime monument. At

first mechanically, at last naturally, Enilda outlived
her pain ; and although the void remained in her
life, gradually it moaned less from its emptiness.
She killed hope, but could she kill memory ? Ah,
no ! For her heart, like the Roman Forum whose
stately precincts had resounded to god-like voices ;
like that temple was now filled but with broken
columns, and the sad echo of syren songs : temple
perhaps impervious to further shock, fallen, not
abased, wreckage in all its helplessness but more
unimpeachable witness to a hallowed past.

After four months of wandering, which to Enilda
had seemed an eternity, they returned home.
Gotham, with its busy world, was preparing to don
its winter purple, and its fairest ermine was spread
out for the feet of the heiress to walk upon. She
took up the threads of her life as the weaver picks
up the threads in his tapestry, and continued to
spin it out in the unbroken web of commonplace,
which social existence in this metropolis
entails. She often thought of Claremont, but
since her return from Europe had never re-read
his letter. These self-communing were offerings to
her love, and to his memory ; the living flowers we
strew on the graves of our dead ; but they were
hopeless remembrances destined to live only as long
as lives the blossom which is detached from the

VOL. II. G

parent stem. She had nothing to feed her love
upon but despair ; and regrets to the young, although
a facile, are not an all-sufficient, nourishment.

Flora found Enilda changed. She could not tell
why, but still she found her changed. One day she
abruptly said to her :

My dear, you are prettier than ever, but too sad-looking.
What a change since you first came to
New York ! I can't understand it. Enilda, are — are
you in love ? Did you fall in love in Europe ? "
Enilda laughed uneasily.

"My dear Flora, yes — no; — I fell in love with
Europe."

Nonsense ; I am serious ; — what is it ? Past —
present — future — future-conditional ? "
Future-conditional."

Very well, dear : but he must have black eyes
and hair ; and, according to Schopenhauer, must be
as short as. you are tall, as homely as you are pretty,
as ignorant as you are intelligent, and as obstinate
as you are yielding."
"My dear Flora!"

I am in dead earnest. Professor Protoplasm Las
explained it all, and I shall follow the rule of contrast"
when I many. There will probably be neither brilliancy
nor daggers in my existence ; but husband
and I shall be able to talk art, philosophy, and

astronomy together. I shall set up an heir, and at
the acre of seven will take him to see Bunker Hill
Monument, and G. W.'s cherry-tree; at ten to the
circus; and — "

And — when will you send him to school, Flora ? "
"Never. His father and mother will know and
have known enough to permit one of their branch
the luxury of complete ignorance. He shall bring
himself up and go through life as he chooses : I have
said it, but you, Enilda, I am always rather afraid of
you ; there is a blue melancholy that every now and
then seems to make wax figures on your face. I
expect something desperate of you one of these days.
An infusion of hemlock in your afternoon tea ; some
ratsbane in your scalloped oysters; and, by way of
new jewellery, a poisoned ring, or an animated
Tommy-axe on finger or bosom to show that the age
of Juliet and idiots is not wholly past. I believe
you've been telling me stories ; that you've been in
love and — and it didn't work. Act ; and look anything
despairing you like, my love ; but not for a
man. They're not worth it ; they're not worth, in husbands,
anything beyond bread-and-butter existence,
and paying one's bills ; in lovers, flowers and — flirtations
: but don't let us talk about them. The opera
season begins early, and you must go to every matinee
with me : there is one on Saturday next. Do you

c 2

hear ? They say Nilsson was a bare-footed peasant
once."

Do you believe it ? "

My dear, I believe everything I hear of opera-singers.
It is of no importance whether she was a
peasant and bare-footed, but it is of importance
that she has talent, and knows how to sing, and isn't
bare-footed now."

Oh, she can do that fast enough : she can sing."

How do you know ? "

"Why — why she and Patti scarcely speak. Isn't
that reason enough ? "

Naturally, that settles it."

By the way, Flora, I haven't asked you about
your voice. You remember in Chicago that — "

My dear Enilda, I have learned to be an accomplished
artist, and sing well with a slim voice ; but in
America, unless you yell and scream, and reflect gore
in your eyes every time you take a high note, why,
you are not supposed to have any talent : people
don't insult you, but they don't cultivate you.
Knowing myself that I am an exquisite and simple
singer, I never fret over what Gotham thinks of me,
but go on my winding way, mentioning everything but
music, unless in my own home. But the matinee ?
To-day is Monday : I have taken tickets, and invite
myself to lunch with you at one sharp — and mind you

are ready. It's Lucia — and I want to hear every note.
They say Nilsson lets her hair all down in one Act,
and it is such a sight."

Flora kissed Enilda and ran away, and this was the
nearest she had ever been to knowing the secret of
the latter's life.

CHAPTER II.

MR. AND MRS. CHROMO AT BREAKFAST.

It was just nine, and Mrs. Chromo was not yet
down to breakfast. Adam Chromo stood in front
of the fire, with one foot on the polished fender, his
watch in his hand, and an anxious expression on his
lined and care-experienced countenance.

Not yet down," he muttered ; " and she knows
the only thing I require of her — as early as this — is
punctuality." Then he left his position at the
chimney, and stalked towards the window.

It was a cold but beautiful day. A first November
frost had nipped the trees opposite, and covered
Adam Chromo's great panes of plate-glass with a
finer fresco than any done by the old masters :
a wonderful arabesque in white and silver ran
up and down and round and about in forms of
beauty unknown even to Edgar Poe, for frost-flowers
no more repeat themselves than roses re-bloom once

they are withered. The warmth of the room
had not as yet blighted one single bud. Lilies
grew upon lilies, vines clambered upon vines, trees
intertwined their branches with other trees, and fantastic
wreaths of silver seemed floating in white
laurels, ready at any moment to crown the Frost
King, whose kingdom was as real as his shadow
ephemeral.

Adam Chromo stared at his arabesques: "the
only ones which haven't cost me a fortune," he
thought; "but I hope the 7- won't crack the glass —
that was dear enough, heaven knows. Twenty
minutes past nine ! — this is inexcusable : I will have
my breakfast ; Lucy is going too far."

Then he went to a solemn patriarch whose bust
was set in a chimney-panel, but whose body had
never been set anywhere, he pressed his finger
upon the lips of this effigy, and in an instant several
footmen appeared.

My breakfast at once," he said ; " I cannot wait
for Mrs. Chromo ; and, Tristram, bring me the morning
papers."

Yes, sir ; which ones ? "

All of them."

Tristram disappeared. There are only forty morning
journals published in Gotham; but Mr. Chromo
thought he would have a little look at all of them.

Tristram was his personal attendant, major-domo
factotum, and really bead chamberlain of the Chromo
household. He was not very happy at present,
because there were palpable differences existing
between his master and his master's wife. Things
had been groins wrong for some time ; things which
were not so difficult to say as to define; things
which took place in the drawing-room, and were
echoed, strange to say, in the kitchen. There were
whispers of a separation, perhaps a divorce, and
it had reached such a point that every word
Mrs. Chromo said in private or at meals to Mr.
Chromo was taken down at the instant of speaking
by Mrs. Chromo' s first maid, Zenobia, personal attendant,
body-guard, legion-less, and — well, as we are
speaking of a kingdom where all the women are
queens and some may vote, let us say, first lady-in-waiting
to her Majesty, " sweet Mrs, Chromo." Tristram,
for his master, was equally occupied. Every
word addressed to Mrs. Chromo by Mr. Chromo
in private, or at meals, was also taken down at the
instant of speaking by the first-named attendant,
Tristram.

Zenobia had learned shorthand in order to acquire
a brevity of style ; Tristram had composed a cipher
of Lis own with special alphabet, reduced capitals,
and subdued vowels. Besides, it was odd, but not

unusual, Mr. Chromo, being a man, some way said
less than Mrs. Chromo, being a woman. All Zenobia's
stenography and acquired art of saying much ina
few words was nothing compared to Tristram's
nature and natural habit of reducing much to little.
There are such contrasts in the world. We often
find them at Christ Church College, and quite as
often in the servants' hall. This system had been
going on now more than two months in the Chromo
household ; and there was some— not much — but
some little excitement abroad, to know the meaning
of these elaborate and precautionary steps.

Tristram brought the papers. Mrs. Chromo appeared
with breakfast, followed by Zenobia, and
Adam Chromo looked at his wife for a moment.
Was there a little of sadness in his look ? Perhaps.
He addressed her :

You are late, Mrs. Chromo'*

Tristram, with pencil and tablet, wrote in cipher,
You are late, Mrs. Chromo."

"I think I am a little," responded Mrs. Chromo
proudly.

Zenobia wrote in shorthand.

I think I am— but not much." I may here say
that Zenobia often gave her mistress's words exact,
and as often changed them, but gave the exact meaning
— vide above. Some minds are so original they

cannot even repeat what others have dictated and
said without repeating what they think and would
have said themselves, but — "circumstances gather
no moss," to quote Mrs. Chromo.

"A little, Mrs. Chromo! — do you call twenty
minutes a little ? Why, breakfast is quite spoiled.
The fish-balls are blue — the hash horrid — the muffins
cold. Twenty minutes a little ! — why, it's the third
of an hour."

Writing by Zenobia and Tristram. Interruption
by Mrs. Chromo.

"Yes; that's just what it is. I never do things
by halves."

Which means that you should have been ten
minutes later, or twenty earlier ; but there must be a
reason for this. Are — are you not well ? Some broiled
ham, Matthew, with some fresh eggs, a baked potato,
some salad, a little succotash, some buttered toast,
and while you are about it, bring a few things here ;
let 'em stand around if you will, but be kind enough
to do me the favour of bringing them. I am not
hungry, but I may see something to tempt my
appetite. By the way, there is a cold pie on the
sideboard, and some anchovies; you may as well
bring them along ; and I will take some coffee, this
chocolate is too sweet. Yes; well, my love — ah —
ahem I "

Mr. Chromo frantically put a finger in his mouth.
Mrs. Chromo looked .anxious, Zenobia wrote, and
Tristram was agonized between desire to write and
desire to slap his master on the back. No wonder,
my love," indeed, such forgetfulness was enough to
strangle a boa-constrictor.

You were saying, Mr. Chromo — "

Oh, nothing ! A thread got into my throat. I
was thinking that you were late perhaps because you
you were tired."

Mr. Chromo waved his hand towards the butter-dish
as he spoke. " These raffles are cold," he added,
then subsided.

As before mentioned I may say here, each time
that Zenobia wrote Tristram ciphered.

Tired ? — indeed I am ; our meeting let out early
for us — it was only three when I got home. Vexed
questions sometimes find me awake with the dawn ;
but — I am not so tired as — give me some hot tea,
Martin, this isn't fit for a tramp in Bellevue Hospital.
As I was saying, it isn't because I am tired,
but I — I am dispirited."

Dispirited, in what way ? How ? Some pickles,
please, Matthew. How, may I ask ? "

Oh you may ask, and I don't mind answering
you, although I might as well publish it in the New
York Herald's personal column. The fact is, with all

our money there are a few things I don't know.
This wilful ignorance grieves me. Last night, for
instance, Professor Protoplasm propounded problems
provoking peculiarly profound portent. None could
answer him ; but I — I should have been able to.
Are we not as rich as any one else in New York ?
I couldn't answer him. The fact is a bitter one,
but — I have no Greek foundation."

Zenobia wrote.

A Greek foundation ; new fabric to make lace
bonnets on."

Tristram held his pencil in air and awaited his
master's words. He waited some minutes.

Adam Chromo lifted his eyebrows. The above
damning observation was not so startling as unexpected.
Cultured Boston would not have been so
unprepared at ten A.M. No Beacon-Street merchant
would have ever raised his eyebrows at such a
remark, but New York gentlemen are different.

Mrs. Chromo continued :

Why, I don't even know all about Homer."

Well, I guess you know as much about him as
anybody else — don't you ? "

Anybody else — that depends. Whom do you
mean by anybody else ? Do you know about him,
Adam Chromo ? "

I know all I want to know about him. Matthew,

kindly give me some fried oysters, they might tempt
my appetite."

All you want to know about him ! I am ashamed,
Mr. Chromo, to hear you, an enlightened glue-merchant,
speak thus of that immortal but much-maligned
old blind minstrel. All you know about
anything or anybody is glue, and — what makes glue.
Cause and effect ; horses and glue. Why, if you had
the Trojan steed here in person, he'd be cut up and
boiled, labelled, and sold before nightfall. And to
think that I have tied myself for life to a man
with so little soul. Martin, give me some water-biscuits
! "

Tied for life, ah ! — who knows, Mrs. Chromo !
Life is sometimes long, and sometimes short; besides,
there are other ways of getting rid of people."

Ah, monster ! Would you murder ? "

Would I murder ? Nonsense ! Of course I
wouldn't — not a fly. I referred to — to — well, to the
little scheme we had originally planned out. As I
say, there are other ways of getting rid of people
admit you, one is — these fried oysters go to the
spot — one is — ahem ! — the footstep of the great destroyer.
For instance, I thought I should never get
rid of my mother-in-law the late, but by me — not
lamented Mrs. "

Adam Chromo, this is disgraceful ; attack me

if you will, but allow the sacred bones of my family
to repose in peace."

Mrs. Chromo sobbed. Zenobia handed her a pineapple
lace handkerchief; she wiped away a tear, and
continued.

One would think, sir, with one's poor mother
dead and in her grave — "

In her grave ? Being dead where else should
she be ? You wouldn't have her in the parlour bay-window,
would you ? Since you've been to Europe
you're filled with new-fangled frills ; I suppose you've
been ruminating on that continental idiot who starred
even to Copenhagen with his wife's bones. Well,
now I think of it, he wasn't such a fool after all.
I'd do as much, only I — Matthew, some devilled
kidneys."

Enough, sir ! This degrading conversation is only
fit for your shop or your factory, or to be heard by the
carcases of your diluted ex-thoroughbreds. Insult
me if you will. I can defend myself. Insult my poor
dear dead mother ; I can still defend her memory ;
but don't insult history, for no one can defend it.
Don't pass for a fool before your own household,
and your own help ! Oh, I can stand a great deal,
but let me tell you, Adam Chromo, I am not
thinning but fattening under your barbarity. Sir, it
will freeze in August before you go starring in

Europe with my bones in any crystallized coffin ; your
allusion to my probable demise was far away, but
your meaning was very near. Martin, a glass of ice-water.
Perhaps you don't think of the terribly
unkind things, the awful things, you hint at and
never say — and a man who hints, well — I have my
opinion of him."

And what is that opinion, Mrs. Chromo ? "

"Sir, I decline to tell you. I have been insulted,
but I won't be cornered. The time has not yet
come for me to say, or for you to hear, what I really
think of you."

The time has come for me to go to my office,
if you will permit me to say it, and your ears will
permit you to hear it."

Office — ugh ! " Mrs. Chromo shuddered.

"Well — why didn't you say it? Lady Macbeth
and her damned spot aren't a patching' to you, Lucy.
What about my office ? What about it ? "

Adam Chromo, a time comes in the life of every
married woman when the ties, and cares, and troubles,
and worries, AND insults can no longer be borne,
especially when these ties, and cares, and insults are
the special result of her husband's wilful wiles. The
last stone to break the cabman's neck is that word
office. I said I would go on living, but how can I ? —
how can I ? A lovely home, wealth, refinement, even

signed bas-reliefs scattered about, a look-out on the
streets with a full view of my neighbours' front doors,
so when not occupied in works of charity, philosophy,
or art, I can not only see but recognize every human
being — aud God knows I have no curiosity — but
without effort can recognize every man, woman, and
child who knocks at my neighbours' doors ; all these
advantages of time, place, wealth, and circumstance,
yet doomed — doomed, sir, never to look forth from
my own plate-glass windows, never to breathe the
air of heaven from a marble front like this — and
why ? Why ? Why, because, sir, you have blotted
the landscape of Gotham with your glue-carts. They
pass and repass. If I forget myself for one instant
and look out, ah ha ! — follow my hand ; there's one
now. What is that painted, bedecked, yellow, circus-looking
cart? Modelled after a Roman chariot indeed!
I don't care if Nero went to heaven in just
such a car, yours are only fit for Barnum's ; and then
Nero, all European as he was, hadn't tacked his name
on to his cars in swinging signs with jumping eyes
which made all Rome wink and tremble. But you
have ; the name, Adam Chromo, is universal. You
have no honour, no sense of fitness ; in short, Adam
Chromo, you have no style. Most men who had
made their money in glue would be ashamed of it;
but you — you glory in it, you wallow in it, you revel

in it, and — and glue sticks to you. Yes, and soit
will, as long as you stick to it. Why ? Because
everything is relative. I can't go to the Park in
my finest turn-out but I run up against one of
my own husband's carts."

Yes, I have ordered them all to drive once daily
in Central Park. The place is dull ; my chariots light
it up a bit. Besides, New York lives and breathes
and has her being in that very park. Couldn't have
a better advertisement than that individual drive."

Oh, Adam Chromo, how low, how Boston-like,
how commercial, have you fallen ! — and with it all,
you don't think so. How many times have I
begged you to give up business ? You have now
twenty-five millions of dollars in six per cents, in a
bureau-drawer up-stairs, besides other trifling bonds
and railway stocks which don't count ; still more, the
million dollars of your life insurance, all you say to
benefit me ; but how am I to be benefited, especially
by the latter, while you live, and things are to goon
like this ? We have no children."

Xo, thank God ! " He spoke in an undertone.

Thank Him ! Oh yes, but you'll have to thank
Him a great deal louder than that, you heartless
brute, if you ever expect Him to hear you. Besides,
if I haven't any children, whose fault is that ? Mine,
perhaps — "

VOL. II. D

"No; Providence !"

Ah, dear Providence ! As that Frenchwoman said
of liberty — what crimes are not laid at thy door ?
Chrome, be a man, and don't save yourself at others'
expense ; and those others — that I should live to say
it of any native-born American ! — those others, one
God and one a woman, — a woman, and your own
lawful wife ! My fault, sir ? Adam Chromo, I beg
to remark that my mother had children."

"Yes; so I perceive."

"Sir, beware; you are treading on holy ground.
But, I repeat, as we have no— no offspring, I repeat,
all your wealth is for me. Well, I would rather take
a quarter on account and call it square, and never
see one of those vile carts again ; to have you give
up business, than to have all Vanderbilt's dirty, but
ready, money."

"Mrs. Chromo, this is nonsense. Don't — don't
excite yourself."

But Mrs. Chromo continued :

Adam, you took me from a happy home. You
know my family, none is older in America ; we came
before, and with the ' Mayflower.' Are these considerations
nothing ? Is ancestry nothing ? Is heraldry
nothing ? Can any coat-of-arms in America make a
better show than ours ? Are any monkeys, mushrooms,
or eagles better designed ? Could any religious

principle be more fully put forth than in
Quails artifex Spiro ? And don't I live up to it ?
Do I, sole inheritor of all these virtues, count for
nothing in your jaundiced eyes ? I married a man
who could boast of none of these qualities when I
married him, no matter what he can boast of now ; a
man who is proud to say that he sprung from nothing,
and who has been keeping it up ever since —
who has made his own way in life ; and this he calls
his American pride. I don't care a rap for American
pride. Know, sir, that there is pride and pride ; and
I have never known in any country the varieties of
pride that exist in this, or the gulfs which yawn
between these varieties. Considering we are all
Americans, these gulfs are not astonishing, but
their width is. Take your pride and mine, for
instance. Our ambitions are — are as far apart as
the poles. Believe me, I am right. Men work for
money in America for women to spend. But
what do women in New York do in the mean time ?
They cultivate themselves, sir; they accomplish
themselves, sir ; they study up their ancestry and
the British Peerage. Why, do you think my Bible,
last edition, cost me as much as that smuggled
but elegant book called 'The Ancestral Homes of
Great Britain ' ? I repeat, women in New York pass
their time in thought and reverie when not shopping

D 2

or eating ice-cream. They study how to forget the
vulgar detail of money-making. They learn — they
learn to hallow it — the money, not the cream."

Yes ; they study to forget the ways, but not the
means. They acquire just enough to learn to abhor,
to despise, and to insult their fathers, brothers, and
husbands who toil to get money for them to spend.
A woman here don't care if her husband gets ten
years on Blackwell Island if she can only wear a silk
dress of the latest cut, have bigger diamonds than
the Regent, horses and a carriage with panels whose
quarterings would shame the present Royal Family of
England, and the latest frills for the Sunday Side-show
on Fifth Avenue. Have all these things, if
you like ; buy 'em, but don't insult the man and the
money which pays for 'em. Don't insult the bridge
which carries you over. Your bridge, Mrs. Chromo,
like mine, is — "

"Glue!"

Precisely."

And you won't give it up ; you still stick to it."

No ; it sticks to me, and I have not the smallest
intention of reading any other man's name all over
New York at the head of the unique business
which is to my honour and to your advantage, but,
alas ! not to your taste. Matthew, I will smoke a
two-dollar cigar this morning — one with my own

stamp en it — one, madam, made to present to customers
of my house — one which will exhale a mild
but ten-dollar odour in this very room."

Adam, have mercy."

Mrs. Chromo lifted her head, then seized the table-napkin,
and put it to her mouth. A slender red filet
soon stained its whiteness.

Zenobia sprang forward.

Sir," she said sharply to Mr. Chromo, " this is
your work : Madame was ill last night. On the way
to her classical meeting the carriage was run into by
what ?— one of your carts, sir."

My God ! this is horrible. Lucy." He attempted
to approach his wife, but she was well enough to wave
him off. He sat down, vulgarly speaking, " squelched."

Speak, Zenobia," she said ; " not only have I
burst a blood-vessel, but my heart is likewise
ruptured."

By one of your carts, sir. Madame was so upset."

What ! — the carriage ? " Mr. Chromo turned pale
as he spoke. " Why didn't you mention it before ? "

Not the carriage, sir, but madame's mind ; and
when she got to the meeting held at Miss Grayson's,
she was morally wrecked. Her answers to great
questions were lucid, but — but not brilliant. This
morning, after a troubled niodrt, madame went to the
window for a little air, and just as she looked out

saw ten of the carts one after the other rolling
leisurely along the Avenue. That was the last blow,
sir. Madame threw up a coal-scuttle full of blood,
and went back to bed."

Oh, Lucy, Lucy, why did you not speak of this ?
Was it for this you were late to breakfast ? "

Yes ; only this and nothing more ; and, Adam, I
fear it was arterial blood. But I am all right now.
I shall soon be well if — if you will give up — "

Mrs. Chromo, no more. Ask me anything but
that. I cannot give up my business. We live on
glue ; besides, glue is our bread-and-butter."

Sir, you may live on it, but I won't. I tell
you plainly that in six months we shall be
separated : this is the final word. I have spoken
it; I give you that time in which to consider.
Zenobia, your arm. Go to your office, sir; go to
your vats and your boiling down of animals whose
ghosts ought to, and probably do, haunt you ! We
shall not discuss the subject again unless — unless
something brings it up in my mind. I shall not
worry any more. God has given me uncommon
resources. I have many friends, and a mind which
comprehends the infinite. I never lack for suitable
distractions. I may be a woman, but I shall never
brood. I have a mind above all sordid considerations.
I once loved you, however too much glue has not

cemented but rent asunder our future lives. I have
tried to bring you to a sense of your position, to the
debt you owe progress, and the rapid accumulation
of enormous wealth. I have tried to show you that
you are now — well, to put it plainly, above your
business. Sir, I am still your wife, and shall not
forget my wifely duties; but as to the word love,
Adam Chromo, never expect to hear it from my
lips again. That's all I've got to say. Good
morning ! " — and Lucy, leaning on Zenobia's arm,
flaunted from the room, leaving Adam Chromo
alone with a twenty-five-million-dollar smile on
his lips, and an equally valuable cigar of its kind
in his mouth.

CHAPTER III.

It was four p.m. on an unusually fine day in
November. New York was bustling, busy, noisy,
and in a hurry. The city was alive with people, the
omnibuses and street-cars clattered through every
available avenue and lane, the air was filled with
shrill ■ voices, and the clamour of workmen building
the elevated roads. Scaffolding and ladders hung
from graceless buildings, and the long vista of
streets seemed one perspective of wire cobweb : no
heaven was in sight, only a canopy of iron, steel,
wood, and brass frame-work.

Jean Arundel had been wandering aimlessly about
the streets since early morning. He has altered
much since we last saw him. Five years have
deepened the lines in his forehead, have changed the
pepper of his hair mostly to salt, have added a dual
expression of querulousness and settled melancholy
which clouded his face with a veil of invincible,

never-to-be lifted despair. He walked idly down
Third Avenue?, he crossed Broadway at Fourteenth
Street, went to Fourth Avenue, then came back
to Broadway. He was alternately swinging an old
umbrella in his hand and stroking his long beard,
which was not tucked in his coat as of old, but now,
like Michel Angelo's Moses, rippled to his waist or
floated freely in the brisk December wind. Jean
heeded nothing and nobody. He muttered to himself
or talked to himself, a habit of long standing,
and one of which the future seemed very unlikely
to cure him. He spoke sometimes loudly, sometimes
softly, but went on and on with a certain step, although
an uncertain gait. At Fourteenth Street he
was jostled by the crowd, yelled at by policemen,
was under horses' heads and over them, always pushing
forward, always swinging his umbrella, and always
talking to himself.

"I think I will go to the Aquarium," he said,
catching up abruptly at the corner of Union Square
and Broadway; wherewith he hailed a passing up-town
bus. It stopped. He started towards it, then
he stopped again.

"Go on," he said abruptly to the driver, swinging
his umbrella in that worthy's face. " Go on. I
thought I would go to the Aquarium, but I have
changed my mind."

Go to the Aquarium ! " waved the irritated Jehu :
"you had better go to — "

Then followed the usual word, now called Sheol by
those who respect energy, money, time, patience, and
religious enterprise.

Jean smiled blandly, and waved his umbrella
higher. It was as if the driver had invited him to
go to heaven. He gaily crossed the street.

"I don't see why I should go to the Aquarium,"
he said ; " there's neither water, fish, minerals, nor
sea weed there, only an empty tank and the carcase
of a devil-fish caught in Boston Harbour, cured on
Boston Common, combed at Cambridge, and tanned
at Cape Cod. I think I will go to the Academy of
Music and see the Nilsson opera crowd come out.
Ah ! that's an idea. If I wasn't so poor I'd have
gone to hear her sing — but alas ! alas ! Oh ! if I ever
catch that villain — "

Then he raised his umbrella high in air and shook
it, at the same time knocking off a man's hat who
was leisurely reading the Union Square Theatre bill.
This man's hands were in his pockets, his head was
thrown back, and "Clara Morris" was on his lips.

In an instant the favourite actress's name changed
to an oath. It flew at Arundel with such heat that
the air smelt of brimstone, and seemed cut by a
rocket's flight.

I beg your pardon a thousand times," said
Arundel hastily ; " I — I was thinking of — of something."


The man looked at him in silence, then stooped
and picked up his hat. Arundel went on bowing to
right and left, and waved the umbrella afterwards
with an air of such elaborate apology that the object
of so much zeal could not forbear addressing a
passer-by :

Mad as a March hare, I guess," he said. Then he
clapt his hat on his head, turned again to his playbill,
whilst Jean, still muttering to himself and still
waving his umbrella, continued his course down
Fourteenth Street. At last he turned into Irving
Place and went towards the Academy of Music. He
had judged aright; the matinee was just over.
Crowds of lovely women were pouring from the
door; a mob of men lined the steps and pavement,
and a hundred carriages blocked the street; there
was a yelling of footmen, and a general murmur of
women's shrill chatter.

Oh, isn't Nilsson sweet ? Isn't she adorable ?
Did you ever hear such a voice ? Did you ever see
such clothes, such flowers, or such jewels ? Isn't
she beautiful ? What eyes ! — what hair ! "

And the tenor — Capoul is too perfect ; they say
he sleeps in rose-coloured flannel, and washes his

face in gruel for his complexion. Do you believe it ?
How tight he hugged her in the last act ! Do you
think it was real ? " Then Arundel overheard a knot
of men talking and a name pronounced that sent
the blood tingling into his cheeks and stopped his
heart's beating.

"Here she comes." said a fair man. " It's Vane
and Co. ; they call her ' The Copper Queen.' Her
father's got money enough to line the Mammoth
Cave. She's always with her friend, Flora Grayson.
Vane "

Arundel staggered forward. He addressed the
speaker :

"I beg your pardon." He laid a hand on the
latter' s arm.

"My good fellow — gently; what is it? Don't
paw me so."

You spoke a name just now — a name that is
familiar to me. You spoke of a Mr. Vane — I once
had a friend named Vane. Is — is it his daughter
they call The Copper Queen ? "

Arundel's voice was husky and his lips trembled
; the umbrella was still., so great was his
emotion.

"My good man, you're crazy. No; that is Miss
Enilda Rozen, the daughter of Vane's partner,
Kozen ; but — oh ! — here she comes. Aside, please ! "

He addressed the crowd liberally, and stepped
towards Enilda hat in hand.

Dear Miss Rozen, can I be of any service ?
How do you do, Miss Grayson ? "

"Oh, there you are, Baron — a thousand thanks,"
said Enilda. "Yes, — no. I don't see Arnold — nor
carriage — nor in fact anything but a crush."

Flora was shaking hands with the Baron.

The Opera was too lovely," continued Enilda. " I
always cry my eyes out when I see Clara Morris as
Camilla ; and I have wept just as much over Nilsson
in La Traviata. See " — she held up a morsel of
lace — w you could wring it."

Arundel was leaning against the bill-board of the
Academy. He never took his eyes from Enilda's
face ; they were gazing hungrily at her, and an
unsatisfied look came into his own.

I don't know why she should interest me," he
muttered ; " she has nothing to do with him." Still
he went on looking, looking.

Wring it ? " repeated the Baron ; " allow me " —
he jestingly attempted to take it from her; — "and
you liked Christine ? I beg your pardon, she's such
an old friend. I always call her Christine ; — yes,
Traviata not bad. I think her Ophelia, however,
not alone the best thing she does, but the best thing
done on the lyric stage."

My dear," interrupted Flora, " I can't come
home with you. I have just remembered that I
must make a call for mamma; besides, one other
thing absolutely cannot be put off until tomorrow.
You know the programme for the meeting; Lucy
wo - Id never forgive me."

Enilda demurred.

My dearest Flora, what nonsense ! I'll take you
anywhere you want to go."

Flora was resolute.

Good-bye, dear," she sa:"d ; " I am going to the
printer's ; but you will see me tomorrow at luncheon,
sure." Then she kissed Enilda, shook hands with
Baron de Marcie, and turned away.

The Baron chatted with Enilda. Was her carriage
the very last? It seemed so; he surely hoped so.
Finally, Arnold came up.

To-morrow night week, Friday, Baron ; don't
forget — my first 'Small and Early," said Enilda.
Then she bade him good-bye, smiled pleasantly, and
her carriage drove off.

As soon as it was out of sight, Jean Arundel
hurriedly went towards Broadway. He was about
to get into a down-town bus, when a smart-looking
individual came forward, followed by some attendant
satellites. " Make way for His Excellency the
Governor of New York," they cried, "and leave a

seat ; " then the smart individual aforementioned
galloped into the vehicle.

"Well," said Arundel, testily, "he can't take up
more than one seat at a time, can he ? — and I guess
there's two in the bus. If there ain't — "

But there were two seats, and Jean clambering
in after the Governor, took possession of one, and
was soon clattering down Broadway seated beside
this republican monarch, whose linen was not a
whit finer than his subjects'; whose watch-chain
might be heavier, but the lines of whose brow
were not lighter. Responsibility is the universal
American facial expression. Children cultivate and
take it in with their milk ; pretty women wear it with
their smiles ; fathers, sons, husbands, and brothers
put it on with their shirts, but, alas ! do not take
it off at night with their boots ; the Broadway bus
was a coup of carling worries, tired bodies, thin
and anxious voices. In vain his Excellency took
an evening paper from his pocket and tried to read ;
he soon put it back, and instead began to jot down
figures on his shirt-cuffs. His nearest neighbour
didn't even try to read them, he was more interested
in his own improved flax tablets.

Arundel was busily employed thinking, ever thinking,
upon one subject, and the name Vane was
constant! v running in his head. He read it under

actresses' photographs which decorated the bus's
ceiling ; he read it in soap advertisements on street-comers
and street-crossings. Once only he lost
sight of it. Some men were talking alternate mines,
stocks, and yachts. He caught one clear sentence :
Ythan Floiestan is the best fellow in New York,
if I ever wanted a favour granted I would ask it
of him."

Then the name Vane stopped running in Arundel's
head. The wheels of memory went backwards.
"Florestan," he muttered; "I have heard that
name before, but where ? where ? — only now I shall
not forget it." As he said this, a writing appeared
before him in great gold letters. The bus had
turned into another street. This time he was not
dreaming; he rubbed his eyes, and looked again
at the gilded sign ; he looked and read the name
that had become the waking and sleeping phantasm
of his life. Then he jumped up wildly, pulled the
check-rein, and in another moment was standing
before the building which bore this magic sign.
In another, he was talking to an oily-faced individual
who was looking calmly at him from out a small
enclosure.

•• Mr. Vane. He's in Europe : rather difficult to
get at to-day."

Arundel cried out in his despair : What, after

all those years had he found him only to lose
him ?

You are not speaking the truth," he said firmly :
he is here — he will not see me."

My good man," said the oily-visaged youth, " let
up, can't you ? He isn't here, and probably wouldn't
see you if he were." Then like the coquette in
'Beware,' " he gave a side glance and looked down."

That look calmed yet exasperated Arundel.

"And — and the Co. — his partners?" he queried.

The Co. ? Well, one part of it is Mr. Kozen ;
you'd like to see him I suppose, but — "

But what ? "

He's gone to the up-town office. Left here at
three."

Arundel turned pale. " When is he to be found
here ? " he asked. " I will call again."

"You might catch him at lunch-time, but you'd
better write and make an appointment."

Write ! That is a good idea," said Arundel. " I
will write to Mr. Rozen, then when I see him I will
find out about Vane." So he thanked his informant,
and sadly walked away. As he left the office a
happier thought seemed to strike him.

"I will call at his private residence," he said to
himself. " Who knows but I may see him to-day ? " —
and he went into a chemist's to look in the Directory
VOL. II. E

for the address of a Mr. Rozen. After diligent search
he found one — only one. His business address was
that of Vane & Co. ; his private number was up in
the hundreds of Madison Avenue. Arundel got into
another omnibus ; nearing the corner of Union
Square he caught sight of a clock, and to his
astonishment found that it was nearly seven. Time
had flown so quickly, he scarcely realized that it
was so late, yet he saw twinkling lights already
glimmering in the streets, and whilst he was yet
looking about, night seemed to close in around
him all at once, as mysteriously as the curtain
of our eyelids drops over our eyes when w r e fall
asleep.

Arundel w r as not to be daunted by the darkness.
He called at Rozen's house. He was footsore, worn,
and fainting. After waiting some time the door was
opened ; a polite footman informed him that Mr.
Rozen had just gone to see one of his partners in
Philadelphia, and would not be back to New York
for two days. This last blow was too much ; Arundel
reeled, but turned away.

Stop, sir," said the footman ; " you're ill — come in.
The master isn't here, it's true, but won't you take a
glass of. wine ? I'll have it for you in a minute, — or
maybe a cocktail would set you up better."

Arundel shaded his eyes with his hands. Ill ? —

was he ill ? Yes, undoubtedly. Somehow these latter
days had been more wearing upon him than the
last five years ; he must keep up his health and
strength, otherwise, when the moment of revenge
came, he would be dead, or worse than dead — mad
perhaps, and shut up with other lunatics, to drag
out a living death in dungeon and chains, whilst
his betrayer lived in the purple and fine linen of
successful vice.

The footman returned whilst he was reflecting.

Here you are, sir ; fine old brandy, and a biscuit
with it. I've brought it here because you didn't look
some way as if you could get into the dining-room ;
but — won't you come in now ? "

Arundel thanked him, and shook his head ; however,
he took the glass in his trembling hand, and
drained it to the bottom. The footman looked
nervously about. No one was in sight ; and had there
been any one it was so dark it would have been
difficult to make oat the peculiar performance taking
place on a millionnaire's door-step, or to distinguish
who the performers were.

No sooner had Arundel drank off the brandy than
he started as if thrilled with electric fire.

It is strange," he muttered, rubbing his hands
over his shabby vest ; " it is strange, but it has put
new life into my veins. I swear now, here on this

E 2

The Copper Queen.

very spot, never to relinquish my aim, whilst he and
I both shall live."

Then his eyes burned with a fierce light. He
handed back the empty glass, and lifted his umbrella
towards heaven, while as his beard streamed out on
the air, his whole presence became suddenly imbued
with the majesty of a sacred vendetta. The footman
started forward. " He's mad," he murmured ; " as
mad as a March hare — poor wretch ! "

"No — no," said Arundel gaily, " not mad ; no man
was ever more sane. Thanks — thanks, my good fellow,
I will call again ; " and once more waving aloft his
faithful umbrella he started down the stairs leading
into the street.

Enilcla had nearly reached home when she too
remembered some trifling thing yet to be done that
day. She turned back and went to a great Broadway
store and was busy shopping when she ran up against
Mrs. Chromo.

There were a thousand things to talk about ; — the
proposed meeting of the Chromo-Literary Club; a
theatre party for the ensuing week ; a supper at
Delmonico's, and Enilda's own party for the following
Friday. At last the ladies said good-bye, and Enilda
found herself again on the way home.

There was some obstruction in the street, and
looking out she found that they were in a, to her,

unknown Avenue. She saw few signs of life, but
noticed a dark object sitting on the curbstone ; she
looked again, and to her horror saw that it was a
little child crying pitifully. Hastily stopping her
carriage she got out and ran towards him, Arnold
following her closely. Enilda tried in vain to get the
child to tell her what his name was, or where he
lived.

This is dreadful," she said to Arnold. " I must
take him home with me, and we will send immediately
to notify the police. Poor child — poor child ! — perhaps
he has a mother, who is now frantically searching
everywhere for him ; " but at the word " mother" he
stopped crying and looked upwards.

Mother went up there," he said, pointing to the
sky, " and she don't love little boys who cry. But I
was lonesome. I was sick, and I came to find her.
I am so unhappy. Papa loves Cyril, and grandma
loves Cyril; but Cyril wants his own mamma."

Will you come with me ? " said Enilda caressingly.
" Cyril — so your name is Cyril ? Will you
come with me — and can't you, won't you, tell me
the other name ? "

Will you take me to mamma ? "

Enilda hesitated. " I will try and take you to
your papa," she said, "if you will only tell me
your other name, and where you live."

"No," he said stoutly, but with a quivering of his
baby mouth. " No ; papa is busy, and I want my
own mamma."

How strange the street was so deserted ! The child
might have been carried off, and no one the wiser.
Enilda exhausted all her power of persuasion, and
was at her wits' end to know what to do.

I must take him by force," she said. " Come,
Arundel, and help me." She was about to lift him,
when he pointed a slow finger at the horses.

Papa has two," he said, " prettier than those, and
my own pony is grey, *nd so high." He stretched
out the tiny hands about three feet from the ground.
"Ah!" Enilda breathed freer. Then she looked
at his little petticoats, and saw that his dress was of
velvet, and his linen as fine as her own. She realized
that he was no poor man's child, and began to runover
the list of her acquaintances in her mind.
Impossible ; — she thought of no one who had children,
and New York was a world.

Cyril is cold," he said shivering. " It is raining.
He will come with the pretty lady."

Enilda sighed thankfully. " Come then," she said ;
come quickly, and we will try and find papa."
Arnold went to take him up.

No, no ; you must carry me ! " he said. " Cyril
is cold and hungry ; " then he clung to Enilda frantically.

She lifted him in her strong young arms, and
as she did so a nameless thrill shot through her
heart, and a rush of blood flooded her cheek. What
was it ? Only the remembrance of a day that was
dead, of forgotten vows, and of a lover who had been
faithless.

Instinctively she pressed the child closer to her
bosom, then she placed him in the carriage and got
in herself. While the pain in her heart died away
and the colour faded from her face, little Cyril moved
forward and peered into her troubled eyes.

1 love you," he said ; " please take me home, and
rock me in your arms now as my own mamma did."

Cyril," she said, kissing him, " I will do all you
wish, — only try and remember where your home is —
and your name."

u My name is Florestan," he said proudly, " and I
live in a great big, big house, higher than any other
house in New York."

Florestan — Florestan." Enilda repeated the name
to herself again and again, yet it said nothing to her ;
however, she thought of a plan.

"Will you come home with me? I am going to
dine out, and whilst I dress you shall have some
cakes and sweets."

I want some bread and milk and candy."

a Very well ; bread and milk and candy you shall

have, then I will take you to your papa on my
way to dinner — will that do ? "

"Yes," he answered, and buried his head again in
her gown.

When she reached home she set Arnold to looking
iu the directory for Mr. Florestan's address, and crave
Cyril into Charlotte Corday's care. After informing
her that she was black and he wasn't, he put his
little hand in hers, and allowed himself to be taken
to the dining-room.

Enilda was putting the finishing-touches to a
hasty toilette when Charlotte burst into the room,
and informed her that little Cyril was very ill.

"He has a fever, I am sure, honey chile; he's just
lopped on to the sofa, and all the earth won't budge
'im, — he's crying' for you, and hasn't so much as
looked at his candles; hear the address — the only
Florestan in New York."

Enilda seized the paper.

I must go with him at once," she said ; " send an
excuse to Mrs. Chromo, and say that I will come to
her later : " she read the street and number. " He
lives miles from here," she added. " I oughtn't to
keep dinner waiting, yet I must give this child into
his father's own hands."

The carriage was w r waiting, the coachman looked
anything but agreeable, and Arnold's face would not

have served Raphael for a model of any one of his
Transfiguration saints. Enilda paid little attention
to this, however, and merely giving her orders,
drove off.

In a little while they reached an old-fashioned
spacious mansion in West Tenth Street, built like a
Roman palace, with square high front and a deep
corniced roof; this house was set in a garden surrounded
by a high wall, where mammoth trees grew
as plenteous as in a Californian forest. There was a
fountain in the heart of the garden; walks where
hedges made deep-green shadows against the night's
young darkness ; an obscure rocky structure, some
distance back of the house, looked like a natural
grotto or ruin; vines clambered in and out of it;
shelves and chambers, rustic benches, seemed to grow
into the very rock ; and like St. Peter's peopled
colonnades here and there, at distant intervals,
white statues, single and in groups, stood alone or
held counsel with each other, wrapping white
mantles around their silent limbs, and eternally
stretching white fingers forth into the starry night.

Enilda could scarcely conceal her astonishment :
here in the heart of New York to find such a
residence, such a private domain. Then she remembered
that this was the old aristocratic portion
of the city, where the vaunted Knickerbockers used

to live, and still live to this day. She had never
seen a Knickerbocker, to her knowledge; she had
ideas as to what the) 7 looked like, and visions of
Dutch Barons, Mein Hosts, Heinrich Hudson, and
the whole of his never-disposable crew, floated
before her; continuing the ghostly reveries, the
statues all appeared to take on life and descend from
their tiles to walk with the other forms in the
garden. She was as amazed as Hephaestus, when
Pandora stepped from inanimate life into a creature
of animate clay. As she went on thinking and
looking at the now animated beings, the carriage,
which had entered a carriage walk, drove sharply
up to a side entrance-door. A nameless thrill shot
through her breast, and the strange indefinable
sensation sent a new current through the stagnant
waters of her soul.

Arnold rang, and after some moments the door
opened. Cyril said nothing as Enilda took him
from the carriage ; he only moaned, and put out his
little hand trying to find hers to clasp it in his own.

The servant who answered the summons stared
at them in stupefied amazement. He looked like a
man rudely awakened from his sleep, and did not
venture a word until he saw the child.

Master Cyril ! " he gasped ; " how on earth ? —
what does this mean ? — you are not in your bed ? "

Enilda explained all.

Mr. Florestan has a dinner-party," the man said.
I — I will take Master Cyril to his room. I can't
think what Letty means ; or what she can have been
about."

Letty was asleep," said the child ; " and Cyril
wanted to walk out alone." He spoke sadly and
faintly.

Poor baby," said Enilda, " you are tired ! I will
leave you, now that you are safe at home."

No, no ; you mustn't go away — Cyril wants
you."

During this conversation Enilda had been standing
in a wide ante-chamber, but Cyril dragged her
forward by the hand.

"Cyril is sick," he said; "he wants you to undress
him and put him to bed ; come up-stairs."

Enilda flushed. " It is ver T odd," she murmured ;
children take such strange fancies into their heads."

The footman interrupted :

<: Oh miss, if you only would. I — I dare not disturb
my master, they're all at dinner; — twenty
gentlemen."

Enilda rapidly took in the situation. She did
not reflect upon her own position, but followed
Cyril up-stairs, two long flights, and was shown
into a large low room filled with a child's playthings

— horses, locomotives, swords, drums, and a
whole series of stock from Southron to zebra, and
that peopled ark which never has failed toy-reproduction
since a man and a dove first celebrated it
alas ! this one a pitiful wreck, leaning sad and
lop-sided against the chimney.

Enilda went forward. The room was in semi-darkness.
She turned up the gas. No Letty was
in sight. She sighed, but cheerfully assumed responsibilities.


Now, Cyril," she said, " will you let me put you
to bed?"

Then she turned and spoke severely in an undertone
to the footman who stood in the doorway, large-eyed
and casting anxious glances about him.

I think he is more tired than ill. Say nothing
to Mr. Florestan ; only don't imagine that such terrible
carelessness could be unknown a second time. Goto
your duties. I will watch with him till he sleeps.
Send my carriage home, and tell my coachman to
send back the first brougham he finds in the street
to wait for me here. Don't trouble to let me out;
I shall find my way down-stairs. If you find his
nurse send her here at once."

The man hurriedly explained that Master Cyril's
grandmother had left him only two days before ;
that he was never alone ; that usually he slept in his

father's room, but that Mr. Florestan had not seen him
to-day; that Letty never lost sight of him for a
moment ; only there had been so much on hand this
day of all others; — the dinner-party, and — and speaking
of dinner — could he bring her anything ? etc. etc.

But Enilda had taken some refreshment at home,
and cared for nothing, so he finally disappeared,
and she was alone in the room with the little
boy.

She did not quite like his looks. There was the
expression of a hunted animal in his large lovely
eyes which went to her heart. Enilda knew very
little about children ; but like every true woman, she
had the natural maternal instinct, and everything she
did for them seemed done with a practised hand.
She had thrown off her wraps, and was a strange
vision as she flitted about the room — her dress a cloud
of white, diamonds glowing on her throat and arms.
By some strange chance she had put on the lace
frock her father had given her — the one she had
worn at their first dinner in the new home. It
robed her now, as then, in beauty, and its priceless
folds trailed silently after her as she went back and
forth in the chamber.

Cyril eyed her with eminent satisfaction.
I Eke to look at you, pretty lady," he cried. " I
wish you were my mamma ! "

She smiled at this and said nothing, only put away
his little garments and his shoes which he had kicked
half-heartedly under the couch. She went to put
him to bed, when he stopped her suddenly.

Cyril hasn't said his prayers." Then he fell
on his knees before her, clasping his little hands,
and looking full into her face and began :

God bless papa, and mamma in heaven, and
grandma, and Cyril, and make him a good boy ; and
Letty ; — no, Cyril won't pray for Letty ; she's a wicked
thing."

Cyril, dear, that is the very reason then you must
pray for her ! "

He was obdurate. " No," he said, " Cyril won't
pray for her ; he leaves her name out ; but he will
pray for you. What is your name ? "

"Enilda."

What's the other name ? "

Rozen ; — Enilda Rozen."

Is that your father's name too ? "

Yes ; that is my father's name too."

I will pray for him. I like your name, and your
father's name." Then he began again :

God bless—"

But his mind began to wander. He sighed profoundly
and said :

"Cyril is tired. God knows all the rest." Then

Enilda kissed him and raised him tenderly, and went
again to put him to bed.

u No," he said ; " Cyril wants to be rocked to sleep ;
he's hot ; he don't want his ' nighty ' on." Then he tore
petulantly at his little night-gown. " Cyril is thirsty,"
he continued; "he wants some water." Enilda
gave him some water, turned the gas lower, and
patiently took him up in her arms. He tried one side,
then the other, and finally determined on lying across
her lap ; this position satisfied him but a moment.
He seemed suddenly struck with her bracelets.
Cyril wants to put them on," he said ; and playfully
snatched at them. She was beginning to get
worried and to lose patience, but it was no use,
the bracelets he would have. Finally he lay down
on her right shoulder and put one arm half-round
her neck, but the bracelets at once slipped to her
dress; he paid no attention, only nestled closer to her.

At last," she thought, " he is going to sleep."

She moved a little so that the light would not fall
upon his eyes, and began rocking him slowly and
tenderly, crooning a little song that her own mother
crooned and sung to her in the days of long ago.

Strange to say, Enilda thought not of her present,
but of her past ; of the days when she was rocked to
sleep on her mother's knee ; of her death, of their
wanderings from pillar to post in Chicago, and of

the Well-born Seminary ! She thought of Flora and
the little grey kitten that jumped on the piano topick
out the keys that hopped up when Flora played
the march to Massinaello ; then she went on and on
in reverie until she seemed again a girl flying with
others before the leviathan of fire which swept the
city in its whirlwinds of flame. Cyril slept, but
his breathing was heavy and his skin hot. She
could feel his body and limbs like fire-brands
scorching through the light tissue of her gown.

I will put him down in a moment," she thought.
It is strange no one comes to disturb us. I am afraid
he is ill ; children, they say, have an extraordinary
amount of heat in their bodies ; still — " Then she
looked at him again. His face was flushed, but not
unnaturally; long lashes swept the tinted checks,
and the rose-bud lips were half-opened ; the tiny
neck a slender w T amen column, so slight, so frail, that
it seemed scarce strong enough to support the curly
head lying so tired on her bosom. " I will put him
in his bed in an instant," she murmured. Then she
rocked softly back and forth again, and went on with
her musing.

As we often dream, awaken, fall asleep again,
and take up the thread of our dream where consciousness
broke it off, so Enilda, taking her old
position, insensibly dropped into the old reverie.

She saw the hurrying feet, and heard the roar of
the flames, her father's arrival — and then she was
back in Laramie. The sun was setting, and she
saw a figure brought on a stretcher along the garden-walk,
a man with ashen features was lying on this
stretcher. His eyes were closed, and he seemed
dead ; — but it was not death. In another instant
the moonlight swept over the valley, the evening
wind stirred the trees ; the waving roses and jessamine
fanned a new fragrance into the air. A voice
whispered " Enilda ! " then a real voice sounded in
her ears, and a man stood before her.

"How dark it is!" it said. "I couldn't stand
it any longer, Letty. I haven't seen my boy all
day. Oh, is he asleep ? Never mind," he went
quickly and turned up the gas, then came towards
her. " I must give him one kiss" — but he stopped
suddenly as if petrified. He staggered at the picture
before him — a woman of dazzling beauty holding in
her arms a sleeping child.

Not Letty!" he gasped! "Am I dreaming?" Then
he put his hand helplessly to his forehead, and stared
at Enilda. She placed her finger to her lips, but
otherwise made no movement.

Sh — shl" she murmured; "he has just fallen
asleep ; if you kiss him you may wake him up. I
suppose you are his father, Mr. Florestan ? "

vol. ir. F

CHAPTER IV.

Ythan Florestan was in his thirtieth year —
tall, well-built, and handsome ; men envied, and
women adored him. His forehead, broad and intellectual,
was crowned by hair of a rich brown. His
eyes, a deep, soft grey, were shadowed by straight
black brows, and shaded by long equally black
lashes : frank eyes which looked you straight in the
face — eyes to be loved, to be trusted, perhaps feared,
certainly not forgotten. His mouth with its firm
but sensitive upper-lip, half-hidden by a long fair
moustache, bespoke character and humour; the
whole face stamped with loyalty — a face to be
trusted.

Male Gotham adored him, and female Gotham
made love to him, bat he made love to no one.
He was one of the best matches in the city, and
knew that he had but to choose to be accepted. Still,
to tell the truth, until he had seen the beautiful

Copper Queen, the idea of re-marrying had never
entered his head ; at last, however, he was in love.
Since that night he had seen Enilda Rozen holding
his sleeping child in her arms he had before him
lut one picture. The low, toy-bettered room, a
beautiful fair woman, and his baby Cyril slumbering
on her breast. He had heard the story of how the
child had ran away, and been brought back home ;
he had exhausted himself in expressions of gratitude
towards Enilda, and had immediately sought her
father's acquaintance. As yet he had not had the
good fortune to meet him, but his introduction to
the daughter — that he could never forget.

He learned that they had mutual friends. In
fact, that same evening Florestan was goings to Mrs.
Chromo's. Their second meeting was curious. Mrs.
Chromo brought Florestan up to Enilda and presented
him. Thon there was a little lauodi, and Mrs.
Chromo was told the whole story. The whole ? —
no ; not quite. Florestan was about to say how he
had first seen Enilda, but he stopped suddenly.
When Mrs. Chromo turned to speak to another guest
Enilda thanked him by a look.

That shall be a secret between us," the look said,
and he nodded lightly in the affirmative.

After that Florestan was happier ! Fate threw
them so much together, that he met Enilda conf

2

scanty. He could scarcely realize that she had been
in New York even a day and he had not known her.

Ythan Florestan was what is called in Gotham " a
man about town." He had been a great deal in
society before his wife's death, but as he since had
abandoned it, it was not strange he had not met
Enilda Rozen.

His married life had been brief. At the wish of
his parents, he had married the daughter of an old
friend, a young girl whose satchel of books he had
often carried home from the public school; whose
skates he had fastened on at the rink, at whose feet
he had laid the trophies of various cotillions, and on
whose finger, from pure friendship, he had placed a
wedding-ring. Only when married did he realize
that respect for one's wife is not love, that friendship
is not love, that affection is not love. That which
had been delightful in a school-companion was uninteresting
in a life-companion. He never let his
wife know that he had made a mistake, and when
little Cyril was born, the passion he had dreamed of
for her was quickly and proudly bestowed on her
son. Two years and a half later she left him, and
was laid to her eternal rest. His grief was more
than he had ever imagined it could be. His mother
took care of Cyril, but in his own house, for at first
he would not allow the boy a moment from his sight.

Then time with its healing wand gradually seared
over the wound and accustomed Florestan to his
loss ; to the empty chair at the table ; to the
darkened boudoir and the closed cabinets. A year
and a half had now elapsed since Mrs. Florestan's
death ; he had begun going in the world, but only
to old familiar friends.

He went now and then to the theatre, always to
the Opera, and the rest of his time was spent in
Wall Street — Wall Street and its vicinity, the world
where fortunes are made and lost in an hour; whose
confines look like the narrow confines of Pompeii ;
whose streets are filled with swarms of men like
army-ants running in the same direction; whose
atmosphere is gold ; whose high-pressure existence
is the only oxygen breathed after nine A. M. ; whose
pulse beats to the pulse of mercenary demagogues,
whose voices are those yards of white paper running
in replica by the mile, oat of wise but oftener
infernal machines ; silently repeating talismanic
numerals and letters, which strip the rich man of his
yesterday's purple, to clothe the beggar in to-day's
fine linen.

Florestan had followed the New York current,
and had once given himself up to money-making;
after long and arduous work he found himself with a
clear income of fifty thousand a year.

I am tired of America," he had said to his wife.
I am tired of making money, and of the din of
Wall Street, let us go to Europe for a little while
or for a long while, whatever you like; but let
us go."

"Ythan," she said, "you must be crazy. Go to
Europe now, just when I have money to spend here
and take my position, and show New York what I
can do ? Ever."

"That settles it," he said; "but at least I won't
work. I will do nothing for a while;" and Wall
Street saw no more of him for many days. A man
in New York is ashamed to do nothing. Idleness
in America is a sort of stain — an ignominy. In
speaking of a man one never says, " Who is he ?
What is his family ? " but— " What does he do ? "

The example of other men going to their places
of business, the daily constant meetings, the question
to be answered, the excuse to be made, the
habit of excessive work suddenly thrown off, and
its attendant irritating lassitude, the having nothing
to do, absolutely drove Florestan, as it has many
a man, back into his old haunts. The influence
of an entire population which works, soon had its
effect on one born an American, and consequently
a working man.

Mrs. Florestan stayed to enjoy her position ; and

after a few weeks her husband was back in Wall
Street. The speculation epidemic was too strong
for him. He took the fever ; was down in the city
at half-past nine; at twelve, he was yelling with
other men in the great Stock Exchange ; at one, he
was snatching food standing at Delmonico's down-town
restaurant; at two, he had meetings; at three,
railway syndicates; at four, mines to be discussed,
and at five, more meetings. He began to drink
cock-tails at half-past five ; he drank one with every
man he met till dinner-time; then, to please his
wife, after dinner he began the social existence —
theatres, parties, suppers, etc. etc.

In two weeks he had reduced his income by a
third ; in ten, by two-thirds ; and in five months he
was thinking of mortgaging his property to get ready-money.
Then, not only his wife, but his father died,
and he stepped into another fortune, with the house
in Tenth Street, where he had been born and had
spent his early life. Florestan kept out of Wall
Street long enough for his bad luck to turn, then
he went back again. Chance favoured him ; his
fortune was soon nearly equal to its old figure. He
would have kept on for ever this way, but one day he
began to think of the past, and realized that he was
following in his old footsteps. He began to see that
the passion of money-making was none other than

the passion of the gambler who risks everything on
the hazard of the die ; his mines and railways and
stocks were only other names for the green cloth.
One day he lost heavily, and remembered the morning
he had asked his wife to go with him to Europe.
This last loss decides me," he said ; " I have done
with Wall Street for ever." He left off stock speculation
; but it required the same effort of will as
the drunkard's leaving off brandy, or the opium
eater's breaking away from the charm of opium.

He began to occupy himself with other things ;
set up a yacht ; became President of the New York
Yacht Club, and even went so far as to occupy
himself with local and municipal affairs. He cured
himself of Wall Street by these antidotes. An
American may break off any habit as long as he
is occupied with work of some kind — but work
he must. After a short time he can easily persuade
himself that the pursuit he has taken up is as good,
perhaps better, than the one he has abandoned.
Flore.stan was filled as soon with cares as he had
been previously engrossed by the slaving exigencies
of the former. He was deep in these pursuits and
occupations when he met Enilda Rozen.

For the first time in his life he had fallen irretrievably
in love. He thought of nothing but her
" the inexpressible she." He could only go where

she went ; only go where she had been ; only want
to go where she was likely to go ; only live from day
to day in the hope of seeing her.

How had she come thus completely into his life ?
Alas ! he never could tell. He would break any
engagement if he thought he could not see or be near
her. In an instant his whole existence was changed :
Mrs. Cbromo could not get over it. Florestan, once
before so rare, was now as everyday as the rose-geraniums
in her back parlour. She had but to say :

Mr. Florestan, there is a theatre party on for tonight
; a few friends — Miss Rozen — "

And before she had finished Ythan Florestan
was thanking her and accepting with the greatest
pleasure. She had procured him invitations when
he might meet her always without knowing it ; but
when fate wishes to throw two people together, the
population of any metropolis, no matter how great,
seems individually employed in providing ways and
means to help them to come together. Now that
Florestan had heard Enilda's name once, he never
seemed to hear any other name than hers, and never
to run across a human being who did not know her.

One week only had passed since that memorable
night, and he was now so much her slave that he
could only count time by the hours when they were
to meet. He would 1 say to himself, " At such a time

I shall see her," and until that moment arrived his
day was a blank.

On this morning he was particularly happy, for he
held in his hand a little note written the day before,
inviting him to her first party.

They call them ' Small and Early,' she wrote ;
"but that does not mean that we shall not be
numerous and c very late.' I am sorry Cyril cannot
come. What a blessing he was only tired, not ill, on
that evening ! I shall never get over my worry and
fright. Papa says at last he shall have the pleasure
of making your acquaintance. You may come as
early as ten — earlier if you like.

Yours most cordially,

"Enilda Rozen."

How had the day passed ? He scarcely knew, and
when evening came he put on no less than ten white
chokers before one was tied to suit him. His valet
perfumed his handkerchief with white rose. He smelt
of it. "Take it away," he said brusquely; "white
rose is too strong; give — give me something more
delicate ;" and he finally chose some white jessamine,
not because of its odour, but because he remembered
the lines of a poem which had always gone to his
heart, one verse beginning —

Oh, the faint sweet smell of that jessamine flower ! "

At last ten o'clock came, and he ventured to think
of starting. He had dished at home because he felt
himself absolutely incapable of talking to any one
he had ever known ; of asking, answering, or even
discussing the simplest question of the day.

Cyril came for his usual good-night kiss before he
was to be put to bed. He presented his papa with a
button-hole bouquet. It was a lovely white rose
with the faintest pink flush in its centre, half
hidden in its leaves, and surrounded by sprays of
tine fern.

I know, papa," he said ; " it's for you now, then
afterwards you must give it to the pretty lady with
my love, and kiss her for me. Kiss End da for me."

Florestan started. Was Cyril a sorcerer ?

Cyril, child," he said abruptly, taking the flower,
why do you say that ? What makes you think I
am going to see the — the pretty lady ? "

Because, papa, Walter said so." Walter was
Florestan's valet. " And, besides, I think you — you
see her every day, because you look so happy now.
I am glad ; I love her. Do you love her too, papa ? "

"Nonsense, Cyril. You talk too much — goodnight;
you must run away, I want to smoke." So
Cyril kissed his papa again, and was led away by
Letty, restored to favour but scarcely to confidence.

Kiss her for me ! " — a child's words, and yet how

they burned into Florestan's heart. He blushed
unconsciously as he repeated them ; and looked at
the rose long and lovingly before he put it in his
coat; then as he idly adjusted it in the silken loop
he heard Cyril's voice again saying, "I think you
see her every day, because you look so happy now."

Was he happy ? He scarcely knew. At times he
was the proudest of men — again the most self-humbled.
He had not spoken to her of love ; to be
sure he had known her but a week. A week ! — it
seemed as if he had always known her; as if she
were a part of himself. A week ! — as though days
counted in love. Love's hour-glass marks only sighs
and tears; true love has no such dial; near the
object beloved, the sands of happiness run together
like the sands of the sea-shore. There is no shifting
of the glass until all have run out, and then —
there is no more need of counting. Florestan had as
yet neither sighed nor sorrowed. His love had come
upon him so suddenly, so strongly, that he never
once thought of combating it. It was a happiness in
itself. There was a devotion in its slightest fancy
which made him feel as if he had never before known
the meaning of the word. What would he not do
for her? He never said to himself, "What if she
should not love me ! " There was a strange security
in his happiness, born of its purity and disinterestedness

; he only said to himself, " I love her." These
three words were his world — his past, present, and
future.

Ten minutes later he was ringing at Mr. Rozen's
door. The night was dark, the wind had risen high,
and the air was bitter cold.

We shall have early winter," he said ; and whilst
he was reflecting on the seasons the door opened.

CHAPTER V.

Florestan looked about with some curiosity, but
even bis practised eye saw that nothing had been
spared in the sumptuousness of the decorations. The
rooms were already crowded ; the light, warmth, and
flowers formed a cheery contrast with the outer cold
and darkness. The rooms were thrown one into the
other: the back drawing-rooms alone arranged for
dancing. A deep conservatory formed an octagonal
to the right of the dancing-hall, and looking about it
seemed difficult to say where one room began and
the other left off. The mirrors were so cunningly
placed that they reflected not one but countless
chambers ; the ceilings were garlanded with natural
vines and clambering flowers ; the open door of the
conservatory disclosed an arbour growing above a
fountain whose waters tinkled melodiously, and
whose spray floated rather than fell into a miniature
lake, filled with pink pond-lilies and maiden-hair
ferns.

Florestan wandered through the rooms ; in the
third he found Enilda. Contrary to American fashion
she was seated, receiving her guests.

She stretched out a hand, and welcomed him
with a bright smile. What was it that reminded
him of the salons of the old Paris Faubourg; of
great ladies receiving their guests, and of the homage
usually paid to the lady of the house ? Thinking
of this he came forward and kissed her hand. Then
he raised his eyes to hers, and murmured some
words of thanks for her gracious welcome.

Will you believe it," she said, " papa has just
this moment — oh ! here he is. Papa," — and she
beckoned him with a glance, — "papa, this is Mr.
Florestan ; Mr. Florestan, my father." Then the men
bowed and shook hands, the former repeating the
story of Cyril being lost and found, his gratitude, and
what he owed Miss Rozen.

Eric Rozen responded with polite commonplace,
and added how proud he was to think that his
daughter had been the means of adding so much to
Mr. Florestan's happiness, etcetera; — then more
guests came up, and Mr. Rozen was obliged to bow
hastily and turn his attention to them.

Florestan looked at him. Did he imagine it ? Was
it only fancy, or had they already met ? There was
a tone in Eric Rozen's voice that sounded familiar.

He looked at him again and said to himself: "Nowe
have never met before. Faces I cannot remember,
but voices always — and yet — "

What a brown study you are in, Mr. Florestan !
a penny for your thoughts."

Florestan started.

'* My dearest Mrs. Chromo, had you only been
here a moment since, they might have been worth
millions."

Lucy opened her fan with a whirl.

"Don't begin so early," she said coquettishly, "or
you will spoil my evening. No one else ever makes
me such pretty speeches, and once accustomed to
yours, — you know the rest."

"My dear" — she stooped to Enilda — "you have
outdone us all. The whole of New York will be
here ; you are looking perfectly lovely ; the house is
transformed. It looks like some marvellous palace
in the Arabian Nights. I shall never be able to
hold up my head in Gotham again."

Nonsense ! " Enilda blushed faintly. " Do you
really mean it ? I am so glad ; the idea of the decorations
was — "

Now, don't tell me ; I know perfectly well they
were the Baron's idea. Thank me again for having
presented him to you. Gotham swears by him. No
dinner can be given but he corrects the menu, and he

always suggests original dishes ; — only to his friends
of course. His advice is asked on every occasion by
everybody ; his counsel sought ; his opinions quoted,
and his criticism waited for. Why, until he says a
thing is worth seeing, worth doing, or worth having,
no one will move until he gives the signal ; no one
goes to opera, theatre, or concert until he praises
the artists; he is at the head of every social committee,
every hospital dinner, heads every charity
concert, arranges every ball in New York, and if the
truth were known — "

"Which it will be where lives a Mrs. Chorus."

Exactly ; if the truth were known, Mr. Florestan,
people could never get married, buried, nor transported
without his aid; and his greatest virtue T
have yet to name."

Name it." Florestan pressed his gibus to his
heart. " Name it, and we bow to the conqueror."

He is the best waltzer in New York, and leads
the German like no one but — himself. Confess,
Enilda, he is going to — "

•' Yes, he leads it to-night. Oh, a moment." Then
she spoke to a knot of arrivals, and turned again to
Lucy Chromo.

He was going to open the ball with me ; but the

hostess — I can't think of such a thing. First, weare

going to have some music, you know."
VOL. II. G

Miss Rozen ? "

Mr. Florestan ? "

Now or never' thought he. It was worth trying
for.

Might I hope — might I ask that, if you are not
engaged — "

Lucy Chromo helped him out.

"Yes, Enilda, he's a splendid dancer; almost as
good as the Baron."

Oh, madam ! " He bowed deprecatingly.

Enilda looked at him for a moment, then she said
carelessly :

The German ! — you mean the German ? Well, if
you like ; only you must promise to take another
partner when I am tired. I never danced much.
The truth is" — and she lowered her voice — "I don't
believe I know how to dance at all. I couldn't
make myself ridiculous with the Baron, but I don't
mind some way with you." Then she looked deep
into his eyes.

His heart bounded.

Don't thank me," she said ; " and Cyril, my little
pet, how is he ? "

He sent you a message. He told me — "

Then he stopped suddenly. He had come near
blurting it all out.

Enilda opened her eyes very. wide.

Why, did he know you were coming here ? "

Yes ; and — and he told me — to give you — his
love."

Now you see," she replied gaily, " how I have
captured that innocent heart, Lucy."

Yes, dear. This house is too lovely." She sighed
and adjusted a flower in her bosom.

"Cyril has sent me his love. What a pity he is
not older."

Florestan looked at her.

His is a happy age. Four ; — think of it."

"I do; and — and I wouldn't be four again anymore
than I would be forty this minute. Oh ! here
comes Flora and her friend ; now you see I shall
soon be elbowed out of my place. I am tired of
sitting."

Will you walk—"

' Into my parlour ? said the spider to the fly.'
No, thank you. I may be a fly — a butterfly — but
I cannot be entrapped in your parlour. Still — "
She got up and took his arm.

They drew near Flora. " Isn't she beautiful ? "
said Enilda, looking towards her friend.

Florestan, on the contrary, looked at Enilda, but
said nothing. She fluttered her fan uneasily. His
deep glance had something disturbing in it. Had
he spoken he would have said :

G 2

I do not see other women when I am by your
side." As it was, his eyes spoke for him ; they said
practically the same thing.

She smiled.

"Well!"

"Well!"

I didn't mean that — "

"What?"

What — what you meant."

What did I mean ? "

Was she begging the question ? She made him
no answer.

You want me to say in words just what I mean ?
That — that no woman can be beautiful or even
attractive where you are."

He tried in vain to steady his voice. He longed,
there and then, to take her in his arms and tell
her he adored her ; and she — " perhaps she is
flirting with me," he thought. The bare idea made
his heart cease beating. He turned pale, and half-stopped
walking.

"Are you faint?" she said suddenly. "What
is it ? " and an anxious cloud passed over her
face.

She took away her hand which had pressed his
arm but too lightly.

Perhaps it is the heat ? " she added. " Come, you

shall take me to the supper-room ; we will have some
wine. You — you are not ill ? "

No indeed," he said ; " I — I can't tell what
it is." Then he smiled. " You will laugh ; but I
am like a woman. I surely felt a pain in my
heart."

Yes ; like most women. Not like me ; thank
Heaven, I have no heart. Heart disease doesn't run
in my family ! " She fanned herself recklessly. " I
wish it did."

Ah ! it does in mine ; but why do you wish
that ? "

She gave him a strange look which seemed for a
moment to throw a shadow across his face ; then she
laughed — a hard, unmusical laugh.

You mustn't ask questions. Let me speak to
Flora, and we will go to the supper-room. Here she
is now ! "

Flora came forward ; she presented half-a-dozen
friends, and went into ecstasies over the rooms.

Mamma is coming late," she said, " so is papa,
if he can get away. My dear, this young man" —
she indicated a fair youth standing to her left — " is
the Honourable Mr. Willis Pastor, a great friend
of an old friend of Lucy's. I don't know that you
ever heard of him, but he was an Englishman, and
his name was Claremont — "

This time it was EDikla who stopped and turned
pale.

She reeled and would have fallen had Florestan
not caught her.

For God's sake ! " he said, " what is the matter ? "

Flora rushed towards her, Mr. Pastor looked
anxious, and immediately a crowd swarmed around.

Enilda was herself in a moment.

Oh ! indeed it is nothing, — thanks. I — felt
giddy, and caught my foot in a flounce of my dress.
See, it is torn ! "

She put out her foot, and the point of her slipper
showed through the lace which lay an inch on the
carpet, in front of her frock.

I should think so," said Flora hastily. " Enough
to have tripped any one up. The next auto-da-fe at
which I would like to assist would be a funeral pile
of dressmakers."

Enilda laughed. She had recovered her composure
and held out her hand to Mr. Pastor.

Any friend of Mr. Claremont's is welcome," she
said, but Flora hastily interrupted :

Why, Enilda, I — when did you meet ? You
never told me you knew him."

u I never knew him well," she replied strangely ;
that is to say, we met on the Continent ; he once
came to see us in Laramie, but returned rather

suddenly to England, did he not ? " She was holding
her dress up carelessly as she spoke ; " I was
also going to say that any of Mrs. Chromo's
friends are doubly welcome. Is — do you like New
York ? "

"I think it delightful," — instinctively be glanced
at Flora.

Enilda smiled.

She liked this boy. He was helping her out.
One word more. Had she betrayed herself? She
thought not. Yet she fancied she saw a strange
light in Florestan's eyes.

I suppose you know Claremont is married ? "

Mr. Pastor's voice was ringing in her ears.

Ah, indeed ! " She fanned herself airily.

"Yes, to Lady Mildred Allison — rich, and such
a good sort. She's awfully nice, you know,
'pon my word — takes a five-barred gate like a
man."

Aha — she remembered the letter at Laramie — the
name Mildred. She felt her strength leaving her;
this time Flora came to the rescue.

My dear, you look too pale, do go and have some
wine, and have your maid fasten up that lace. Take
her away, Mr. Florestan. Oh, there's Mr. Rozen !
I'll be the lady of the house, dear, till you come
back. Don't hurry ; you are in good hands."

Enilda walked through the rooms, nodding right
and left to her smiling guests. They finally reached
the supper-room.

Odd, isn't it ? " she said. " The lady of the house
coming in first to take refreshments."

He placed a chair, she sank wearily into it. At
that moment a band struck up.

She lifted her head.

"The Huguenots," she continued, leaning forward.
Don't you hear the beginning of the famous duet ?
I] think I will take a glass of champagne; the
selection of music before the German was made by
me. I hope you like the Huguenots ? — it is one of
my favourite operas. Let me drink to your health
and happiness."

,*f She touched his glass lightly, but trembled so
that she spilt the wine. A few drops fell on his
hand. He lifted it to his lips.

'they say it is lucky to spill champagne," she
said. "You should put one drop on each temple,
and make a wish, your wish will surely come true.
See — do as I do ; but by good rights I suppose I
ought to perform the ceremony for both, 'cause —
cause, as my old nurse, Charlotte Corday, says, ' I
am the 'inquest, I spilled the fluid.' Bend over.
No ; on second thought I dare not : you must take
the will for the deed."

She touched her forehead lightly at both temples.
Then he touched his likewise.

"Now wish," she said, solemnly. "Have you
wished ? "

Yes. Have you ? "

She lifted her eyes; they seemed a "blaze of
living light."

Yes ; and my wish will come true, I hope."

I am curious," he said laughingly ; " I beg your
pardon — I am curious — men all are, but — may I
know your wish ? "

"It is very simple. I wished for — forge tfulne ss ;
and you ? "

He looked at her steadily.

"And I, for — remembrance."

She laughed.

How serious you are ! — and, seriously, is there —
can there be such a thing as real remembrance ? I
don't believe in it. Why should one remember ? I
don't let me shock you ; but I don't believe much
in anything."

Her voice stung him. It was cold and desperate ;
there was a recklessness in it which ill became her
youth ; and now for the first time he noticed something
unusual in her look. He thought, " Is it true
that there is no perfect beauty which has no strangeness
in it ? " Aloud he said :

"You don't believe in anything — have you then
no illusions ? "

"None." •

Was she in earnest or joking ? Probably the
latter. He imitated her tone :

And — how long since, may I ask ? "

Oh, ages, Mr. Florestan. Don't you know when
we have our first all-powerful, supreme disillusion ?
I mean — we women."

He confessed his ignorance.

"It is when we find out that our stockings are
not filled at Christmas time by Santa Claus in — in
person. Are you satisfied ? Now take me back.
Oh, my dress! — I had forgotten it." She sent a
servant for her maid, and continued :

Yes ; that is the first and most lasting disillusion
; after that deception comes easy." She leant
back in her chair and laughed. " Most women won't
confess the truth, but I will. I was heartbroken
then, and — and I have never gotten over it."

He looked at her.

Here comes your maid," he said, and turned away
his face with a pained expression. The flounce was
restored to its former place. By this time a couple
came into the room, then another, and in a moment
dozens were seen coming in stately file through the
arched doorway.

Come," she said, rising imperiously ; " come and
see my conservatory. The pink pond-lilies were
sent me from Boston. Let us go this way, and we
will avoid the crowd. I am tired. My first party
is only begun, and I feel as if I could scarcely stand.
But you — you don't say anything ; are you fond of
flowers ? "

Very." Unconsciously he looked at Cyril's rose.

Her thoughts followed his eyes.

It is beautiful," she said.

May — may I tell you about it ? " he said eagerly.

She looked curious.

Has it then a history ? "

"It will have, if — if you accept it. Don't be
offended, but — Cyril brought it to me this evening,
and said that I might wear it ; but it was ultimately
destined for you. I was to give it to you with his
love."

Did he ? — the dear child ! Now fancy his
thinking of me. Well, and you don't fulfil his
wishes ? "

She spoke laughingly and stretched out her hand.
Florestan's heart beat strangely. She was only
trifling with him, of course ; and yet —

How long you are ! He who hesitates, and so
forth. Now I am not unkind ; a fair exchange is —
you know the rest. You shall have the sweetest

flower in my bouquet, or — would you like one of
these V *

She lightly touched her bodice.

Would I ? How can you ask such a question ? "

Woman can do anything. I mean — I mean

woman is or should be capable of anything; but

here we are. What do you think of the pink lilies ?

Oh, the flower ; yes, of course ; but give me the

rose first. I think I will give you these sprays of

valley lily — or, this." She touched some stephanotis.

No ; the first."

Then she gave him two tiny blossoms and a bit of
mignonette. He carefully placed them where Cyril's
rose had been.

She surveyed him critically.

You are the loser — that single rose had something
royal, something superior in its loneness.'
Shall I ? — would you like it back ? Tell me, were
you preparing to make a conquest to-night."
"Yes; and the rose was the medium."
Poor Mr. Florestan, and its destiny is changed.
I have come between the object of your love and
your ambition. Will j^ou ever forgive me ? But we
mustn't stop here so long. People will think that "
she looked at him audaciously ; " people will think
that you are making love to me, a thing I should
say most unlikely ever to happen."

11 Why ? "

She stared at him ; the tone of his voice changed
her, her face grew cloudy.

"Why?" He repeated the question with a more
determined voice.

"You're never in earnest. No; don't make love
to me ; it isn't worth while ; I — I think too much of
you to allow you to waste your time in anything
beyond — beyond an everyday flirtation. Come, let
us go. Do you wish to make me angry ? " Then
she stopped suddenly. "Ythan Florestan, it's no
use; I believe, my soul, you've fallen in love with
me; and — and it's a pity. I — I had counted on
you for one of my good friends, and now — "

She twisted some moss nervously in her
fingers.

"Don't say any more," she continued strangely.
We mustn't quarrel : remember that we have still
the joys of the German before us. If you look
sulky I shall choose another partner."

I would never permit you. I tell you — "

Don't tell me — anything."

I will ; I adore the ground — "

A scornful look flashed over her face.

11 1 know the lines," she said, and turned away. .

What can you mean ? You — is it possible ? I
am too late — you love another."

Love ! I hate the whole human race. No ; hate
is a strong word ; I mean that — I am indifferent."

"To be indifferent one must have loved." He
looked steadily at her — he spoke sadly. Was it this
sadness which touched her ?

Have loved ? I don't know. Don't ask me. It
is not possible that you care for me. It is only
a fancy — you will get over it. Believe me you will ;
they all do. Friendship is good ; flirting is better
anything better which is not — '

Love, — the superlative best. But I love you
devotedly."

She laughed and said,

I shan't listen. The verb ' to love ' admits no
adverb. Would you like your rose now ? "

Thank you — no," he said dryly.

At that instant Flora rushed into Enilda's arms.

My dearest child, where on earth have you
been? We thought you and Mr. Florestan had
eloped."

They were in the drawing-room by this time.
Florestan spoke up boldly :

The truth is, Miss Grayson, had you given me
another moment I would have proposed it to Miss
Rozen."

Now, Mr. Florestan, that's just like you — and me,
and my broken heart. I might have known that

Enilda would have cut me out the first thing. Enilda,
do you know who has just come in ? "

No."

"Prof. Protoplasm and Miss Chances-Cressy ; I
heard some one at my elbow say :

' That will do well enough, dearest sister, but the
origin of maccaroni is unknown. History thus far has
failed to enlighten the world as to the first human
being on record who divined, made, cooked, or ate the
Italian national dish. I fear before we know, Orion
will burst — ' Well, my love, I thought I should
burst, so I escaped, and — here I am. Note Miss
C.-C. She is in half-mourning still, and her eyebrows
are not as black to-night as usual."

Flora," said Enilda, " how can you ? " Florestan
laughed, and looked ahead of him at two figures
standing — not unlike the Campidoglian Psyche and
Cupid.

Flora explained.

She was our schoolmistress, or rather the head of
the Well-born Seminary. He was our Latin Professor.
She is now a millionnaire ; he — a judge of maccaroni.
Oh, law goes fast in this country. Enilda ! "

Yes, dear."

Isn't young Pastor charming ? "

To judge from his looks and your enthusiasm —
yes."

I suppose you are jealous because he has already
escaped your net and fallen into mine."

Poor youth ! " said Florestan — " a second Scylla
and Charybdis."

I have heard of them before' said Mrs. Chromo,
coming up and catching Florestan's last words, " but

1 can never remember what family they belonged to.
Of course we all have a general idea of the Penchant
even Lucretia Borgia."

The Siamese twins," added Flora, "and Hero and
Leander ; but I confess the S. and C. combination are
rather hazy even in my mind."

I wouldn't try to make them any clearer for the
world, were I you, Miss Flora," suggested the Baron.
<: There is the same delightful uncertainty attending
most of the ancient families of to-day, and even we
who inherit old names and traditions are particular
to refer to them, but very careful not to — "

Ventilate them," interrupted Florestan.

The Baron shrugged his shoulders.

Ventilate is an ugly word," he said ; " it suggests
sewers and factories, and so forth. But if you like
the word, pray use it."

Mr. Rozen came forward.

How well you speak English, Baron," he said ;
where can you have learned it ? "

Oh ! my old friend Grizzy — I beg her pardon, the

Arch-Duchess Grisekla — and I had the same teacher
when I was a child near Schonbrunn. She — the
teacher — was related to Lady Jane Grey indirectly.
Her hair was certainly as long — "

And evidently her memory," said Florestan ;
but, is the music about to begin ? " a slim, black-eyed
youth seated himself at a piano in one corner of
the drawing-room.

'' It's William Russel," said Flora; "he plays like
an artist — the greatest compliment I can pay him."

There was unusual silence, and the pianist delicately
threaded his way through a mazy Chopin
inspiration.

I always feel sentimental when I hear Chopin,"
said Enilda. " Flora, do you remember Kitty Harper
and the Massanaello march — not a propos of Chopin,
but of Chicago ? "

Flora remembered, and Florestan begged to hear
the story, which was told him with great gusto by
the latter.

Then came more music — from the distance; the
players were out of sight. The music rippled on,
tender, soft; indescribably soft, indescribably enchanting.


The Baron's idea " explained Enilda, noticing
Florestan's delight and astonishment.
Do you like it ? "
VOL. II. H

He looked more than he could ever say, and yet
he said a good deal.

It is Royal," he replied. " I think in music most
Americans can claim a birthright almost as noble as
that of the Baron ; but I hear that you are an exquisite
pianist — that you play beautifully. When
will you play for me ? "

Some day when we are alone."

His heart bounded ; that meant that he was to see
her again — and alone.

Ah ! " he cried, " how can I thank you enough !
When shall that be — soon ? "

Soon — ah ! who knows. Perhaps yes — perhaps
no."

You are cruel."

I am kind ; and we bonn dancing in a few
minutes."

I claim my partner," he said with a sigh ; " and
and before the evening is over you must name the
day—"

Flora came up humming,

' My pretty Jane, my pretty Jay — a — a — a — ane, —
Oh never, etc. etc' "

Name the day indeed ! Mr. Florestan — here,
now ! could anything be more unromantic ? I give
in ; you're the clearest case of mash I have ever seen ;

but Enikla knows how to treat you. Her time is
spent giving unsuccessful lovers their walking-papers,
signed, sealed, and countersigned by her noble right
hand."

Nonsense," cried Enikla. " Flora, how can you ?
Mr. Florestan is asking me to say when — "

Naturally, but I protest ; the haste is indecent."


Flora, do be quiet; he is asking me to say when
when I will play him a — a — "

Moonlight sonata," suggested Mrs. Chromo.

Come away," said Enilda, taking Florestan's arm ;
"they are a barbarous set. I prefer even your
society."

It's an ill wind, etc," said Florestan laughingly.

Then he offered his arm and led her away.

The cotillon, or, as it is called in America, the
German, began with the usual graceful dances. The
room was a crush of beautiful women and handsome
men ; the music perfection, the cotillon favours a
revelation.

They must have cost a cool two thou' at least,"
whispered Pastor to Flora. " Is Mr. Rozen, then, so
rich ? "

Rich, yes. So so : not over rich for New York
Why, how many millions do you think there are
standing in this room to-night ? Guess."

H 2

Impossible. I was plucked at nineteen even in
simple algebra."

I can't point, it isn't polite ; but you follow my
head, and look about ; each nod means ten. Don't
forget."

Forget you ! Never."
- " Nonsense. Ten — now count."

She began.

Stop, stop ! " he cried ; " I can't follow you. A
polka ? — come." He quickly swung his arm around
her waist. " Don' 4 ; nod " — they were whirling around
to a merry measure — " but tell me plainly how much.
This suspense is awful. v

I believe you," she said. " Well, suppose we say
five hundred millions."

What,— sterling ! "

No ; dollars," she said, in a disgusted tone. " Mr.
Pastor, do you English want the earth ? "

"They have most of it," cried Mrs. Chromo, who
came up at that moment; "but there is one patch
which slipped through their fingers in the long ago,
viz. 17 — 76. What a heavenly polka ! "

"Not so long ago but that we still regret it," said
Mr. Pastor politely. " I am a poker enrage and
this is — a dream."

I shall regret only one thing," cried Flora, — " the
end of this ball." Then another figure came up, and

before she knew what it was all about, Professor
Protoplasm shot forth from a distant corner, as a
vagrant star shoots through the midnight heavens,
seized Flora, and whirled her along with him in a
headlong, dazzling, and irresistible flight. Mr.
Pastor's mouth was still open. His jaws seemed to
have sprang from the concussion of the shock.

Rozen, the Count, and a number of men were
walking through the rooms. The host stopped
before a pale Bougoureau.

It ought to be real," he explained quietly ; " it
cost me fifty thousand dollars. And that one
there — ■" — he pointed to a very Andrea-del-Sarto-like
Raphael, — " is called the ' Madonna della Ro-persia,'
or something like that in Italian, and it cost me
two hundred thousand."

"Really !" said lawyer Harkins, a small man with
compressed lids, compressed lips, and compressed
unmentionables. " Jimmy ! how these things do run
up, to be sure. I'm not much on classics, and those
naked women — "

Oh," said Adam Chromo, " Lucy — ahem ! my
wife, Mrs. Chromo — says it's all right ; if they're
class they're covered. The old story of the Carter,
I suppose, ' Honey sat to ma's prepense,' or words to
that effect. We brought home half the Palatine
Gallery, and I vow, old masters or young, some of

'em I'm ashamed to look at when I'm alone by
myself. We had some trouble in oettin' 'em, but a
Custom-house man I squared on the docks said that
whatever disappears now-a-days from famous galleries
is spoken of as — ' Carried away by Napoleon when
he visited Florence the first time.' "

By George ! " cried Rozen, " how cute they are !
Poor Nap — won't even let him sleep in peace in his
grave."

My dear Rozen, celebrities have to pay for their
fame," replied Adam Chromo. "Now I for one
think it's much decanter to accuse a dead thana
live man of theft, and a man who would get rid
of a nice woman like Josephine in the way Nap did,
would have done as he did, and that settles it" —
Adam Chromo forgot his own pending suit — "but
I have the pictures. There's a rain of old masters
at home ; and in a country where money is planter
than classics I 'spoke I oughtn't to complain."

How is G. and G. to-day ? " asked the small compressed
man ; " do you believe in it."

Oh, it's good stock enough, if that brute Levis
don't water it too much to-night. Some plants — Wall
Street exotics — require little watering," said Adam
Chromo, reflectively. " And yet they're treated like
the common or garden flower, not alone deluged, but
diluted when the sun ores down."

"A lovely party," said Harkins irrelevantly; "it
must have cost a lot, Rozen."

Oh, a mere nothing," responded the host ; " not
worth mentioning — a few thousands."

Isn't it strange," suggested Adam Chromo, " that
you get better champagne in New York than any
place else in the world; excepting, perhaps, Russia
and England ? "

Not strange, when you think how much we pay
for it ! " put in Rozen. " Now I gave for my last lot,
brut '6^, six dollars a bottle in the dozen ; but of
course money is nothing when you get what you
want."

Well, flowers now ! " hazarded Harkins. " I've
never seen such flowers anywhere in the world as
I have seen in America ; and they're not dear considering."


Why, they're for nothing ! " said Rozen. " Why,
all that ceiling decoration to-night only cost five
thousand dollars, and — and — "

"It's good enough for Queen Victoria at home,"
cried Chromo sententiously, " but talking of flowers — "

The conversation was abruptly stopped. A hundred
young couples came waltzing through the rooms,
flinging airy cotillon favours right and left. The
dancing was going on in one mad carnival. There
were sounds of stirring music, laughing voices here

and there, women standing in circles, and men flying
around in startling figures. The crowds rushed pele-mere
into one room, and rushed as pele-mere out into
another. The hours were wearing on ; daylight was
insinuating her faint beams between closed shutter
and draped curtain, yet the flowers never drooped,
the lights never flickered, and the only signs that a
ball had been oroing on were those mementos left
like the wounded on a battle-field — a shining gem
gleaming on the waxen floor ; shreds of lace, petals,
and fallen flowers; an opaline scrap of mother-of-pearl
chipped from some dainty fan ; the ribbon from
a cotillon favour; or a ball-programme unconsciously
dropped from some fair dancer's chatelaine.

Enilda finished the last figure. She was slightly
apart from the others, but Florestan was by her side
speaking earnestly.

You are quite right," he was saying ; " but I
can't help telling you. You may not love me ; but
I know, I feel that I shall love you as long as I live.
Can you — will you give me some hope ? "

Sh — ! some one will hear you ; some one — "

You are not answering me. Oh ! " he cried, " I
have feared this — to fall in love at last, for the first
time in my life, and to love in vain ! "

His anguish was so real that his words were scarcely
distinguishable.

For Heaven's sake," she cried, " don't press me
for an answer; don't ask me questions. Let us befriends."


Friends — friends only ? "

Good night," she said hurriedly. " I am not
trifling with you, I like you too well. Friends only ! "
She echoed his words with a strange intonation.
i! Friends only ! Is there anything in this world so
pure, so true, so holy, as friendship ? — Good night."

He bowed low over her hand, and in another
moment was sone.

CHAPTER VI.

It was early in the morning of the day following
Enilda's first party. Florestan had not yet risen ;
contrary to his usual custom, ten o'clock found him
still in bed; he was nervous, ill at ease, and his
mind was constantly running on the events of the
previous evening. He could scarcely tell where he
stood with Enilda Rozen. Did she like or dislike
him ? Was she an arrant coquette ? — or was she
simply like thousands of girls, light-hearted and
careless ? — an acknowledged beauty, treating all men
alike ; chaffing with one and flirting with another,
caring so little about men as to be absolutely indifferent
to them one and all. Indifference — ah, that
is the worst rival a man may have ; and Florestan
sighed as he reflected that perhaps after all he was
only the same to her as any other who had the
proud honour of leaving his bits of pasteboard at her
father's house in Madison Avenue.

Florestan wanted to get up, but somehow he felt

very ill; there was a heaviness in his head and a
heaviness in his limbs which seemed to press them
down as if with weights. He lazily tried to turnover;
he felt a severe twinge in his right shoulder.
I have taken cold," he muttered ; " I hope it is
nothing serious ; nothing that will keep me in the
house so that I cannot see her!'

His thoughts were interrupted by a knock at the
door. "Come in," he said pettishly. His valet
advanced to his bedside.

"What is it, Walter?" he queried. "I believe I
am ill. What is that ? — a card ? No one to see me
now, I hope ! "

Well, that's just what it is, sir; but I trust you
are not ill," replied Walter.

No — yes, I believe I am ; but what is it ? — something
important ? What time is it ? "

Well, sir, I don't know how important it is. It
is a strange old man, who begs most earnestly to see
you. He is waiting in the hall, and it is just about
ten." As he finished speaking he handed the card
to his master.

Florestan took it. Half-raised on his pillow he
read the name wonderingly. " Arundel," he said to
himself. "Arundel! I must have heard the name
before somewhere ; and yet I can't say where, to save
my life."

"He seems an old chap, sir," hazarded Walter,
and looks to me as if he were not right in his head.
I feel kinder sorry for him."

Florestan laughed good-humour redly. " I have
spoilt you, Walter, your heart is softer than mine ;
but I can't get up. I suppose he might come in here
and see me. Tell him I am not feeling well, and if
he does not mind my being in bed I will see him fora
few minutes."

I think you had better have your breakfast in
bed, sir ; the ball was very late."

I think I'll have to have it in bed if I have it
anywhere." He moved his arm uneasily. "Oh, just
my luck, I suppose; to set up an inflammatory
rheumatism, and the winter only beginning. Was I
home late ? It did not seem so." He was back again
in the ball-room, saying good night to Enilda Rozen ;
looking into her fair face, and imprinting a kiss on
the tips of her fairy fingers.

In the mean time Walter was showing in Mr.
Fiorestan's morning visitor. Jean Arundel came
awkwardly into the room and stopped half-way
between the door and the bed. An umbrella was
under his arm, and he was twirling a hat slowly in
his hands.

Florestan addressed him cheerily.

Mr. Arundel, I believe." Arundel nodded.

Just draw up a chair. Can I do anything for
you? You find me in rather an awkward strait;
I am not often in bed at this hour, but I was out
late last night. Walter, just place a chair for Mr.
Arundel." Jean seated himself near the bed ; he
stood the umbrella up beside him against the chair,
and turned his hat top downwards between his
knees ; this pantomime finished, Florestan resumed.

"Out late last night, and whether it be laziness or
rheumatism I can't tell; I only know that I feel
like a fool, and ache all over."

Perhaps it is ague," suggested his visitor, and
he twirled his shabby hat in his hands. " Quinine
is good for it, but I don't believe much in quinine
myself; in the long run it is as bad a habit as
opium or arsenic; it makes you light-headed too,
and I can't afford to be that now. I need all my
wits about me. All ! " he repeated absently, and he
re-twirled his hat into its former position.

Florestan looked compassionately at him.

ec You came to see me," he ventured ; " can I be of
any service ? Would you mind telling me exactly
what you want in as few words as possible, and why
you came to me ? "

Why I came to you ? It is very easy to tell why
I came to you," replied Arundel, with a choking
voice. " I am old and broken-down ; I trusted in a

man, and he betrayed me ; I have been robbed and
ruined ; I have not a friend in the world ; and I am
trying to hunt down the man who has wronged
me. I went down town to find him the other day,
for you see he lives here, and as I got into the
omnibus, I overheard some men talking. They
mentioned your name, and said you were the best
fellow in New York, and that if they ever wanted a
favour done they would come to you to do it. Well,
I suppose you take it rather strange. I have not a
friend in the world ; I don't know which way to turn,
nor what to do ; " and then he dropped his eyes, folded
his hands over his hat, and assumed an attitude of
despondency.

Florestan moved slightly on his pillows. " I can't
quite understand," he murmured gently ; he wondered
to himself whether or no his strange visitant were
not a little hazy in his mind. " If you could explain
more fully," he continued in a louder voice, "perhaps
we might come to something definite."

Had Jean Arundel at length found a friend ? It
seemed so. There was something in the tone of
Florestan's voice which changed his despondent attitude
to one of expectancy, and he lifted his drooping
eyes full and clear into Florestan's face. " God bless
you for ever!" he exclaimed, and he dashed his fist
into his eyes as if to wipe away a tear. " God bless

you, sir, whether you help me or not. I'll tell you
as quickly as I can the whole story. My name is
Arundel — "

Arundel ? "

"Yes; what about it?"

Why, it's a common name ; I seem to have heard
it before."

Just what I thought about yours," said Arundel,
more heartily than he had hitherto spoken ; " but I
can't place it. However, you hear my story in the
mean time, perhaps you'll recollect all about it. As
I said, my name's Arundel. My father was a very
well-to-do Eastern farmer. We were three children,
and father and mother both stepped off early,
Heaven bless 'em ! and the property was equally
divided between us three. Somehow we could not
make it work together, so we just decided to go
snooks on it ; that is to say, divide it up between us ;
each taking his share and going his own way. My
pile was about three thousand dollars ; and I had
a funny dream. Are you listening to all this ? "

Go on," said Florestan, politely.

I dreamed the same thing twice over. My
mother and father were in it, and my brother and
sister, and this dream advised me to stop in my
old home. Well, I'm not much on visions ; I always
believe those things go by contraries; so I packed

up everything, took all my collateral, and started
out West to seek my fortune. I met a man on the
train, and I struck up friends with him right off.
Well, sir, you won't believe it, but that man ruined
me. I once thought he was dead, and even after
he'd betrayed me I still had such a sneaking kind
of regard for him, that I wept like a child."
Arundel's voice slightly faltered. " But this feeling
is nonsense. If the man's alive he is the bio-cr e st

DO

villain that I know of — unhung ; and I'm determined
to get even with him, if it takes me a lifetime todo
it. Well, to make a long story short, sir, this
man and I entered into a sort of a partnership in
San Francisco, to go into the mining business
together. We were to hunt up and explore this new
copper region in Lower California, you know, between
Stockton and Fort Miller. I was to furnish
the money, and he the experience."

"Ah!" said Florestan. "I see; the old story.
Go on."

Ah ! you know something about it, sir. I know
there are lots of villains in this world, but I never
could bring myself to think that man one. Well,
we entered into a compact, then and there ; this was
in — let me see — September, I think, of '71 ; you
know the year of that big blaze in Chicago. I gave
him five hundred dollars to start with, and he went

off to look for the mines, while I was to look about
forming a company — a stock company of course — in
San Francisco, but went to Chicago, and by the
way, just saved my life and no more in the fire."
"Terrible affair," interrupted Florestan; "but — "
Luckily we had nothing well under way then, as
it was only about five weeks after we had started our
scheme, and I knew a man in the Garden City
whom I thought I could strike for a bi interest in
the business ; but that fire sickened me. I returned
to Frisco. And as soon as we got the thing into
working order, my partner was to put the stock on ■
the market. You know how all those things work.
I wasn't in any hurry about this ; I thought I'd work
on the strict Q. T. for a while ; then when we'd got
things in fine order, why, we'd spring the mine on the
market, and make a big splurge all at once. Well, he,
Vane, went off. He went prospecting here and there,
writing first from one place and then another, nice
letters I must say, and hopeful too ; then he said he'd
found a place to settle down, and asked for another
thousand dollars, which I sent him. In a few
months more — all the while, mind you, I was working
quietly to get up this company — he wrote the lead
was no good; a thief of an overseer had bolted
with the money, and he was going to try another
digging farther down the river. He wanted another
VOL. II. I

thousand dollars. I sent it. In a few months more
he wrote me that fortune had favoured us, we would
soon be millionnaires, and that I ought soon to think
of putting the company before the world. He did
not ask for any money this time ; but two days
later a letter came saying he wanted a thousand
dollars on the spot ; it was all right, and so forth ; and
not having all the money, I sent what I had of my
own, and made up the rest with those pals who w r ere
going to form part of our company. Well, Mr.
Florestan, would you believe what I'm going to tell

you?"

"I have no reason to disbelieve you, Mr. Arundel.
I suppose you're going to tell me you have been
hardly used ; but go on, Mr. Arundel ; I'm interested
in your story ; you have evidently been — "

Hardly used you're going to say ! That isn't the
name for it ; Vane treated me like a dog. He got
more money out of me even than that last. I'd have
forgiven him cheating me, if he'd been unlucky and
owned up to it like a man. It was my fault ; I needn't
have given him my money, but I couldn't forgive his
deceiving me. I w 7 as living on credit in a boardinghouse
in San Francisco ; I was sick and worried ; the
company didn't form as I expected. I hadn't twenty-five
cents in my pocket, and I've seen the time
when I didn't know where to get a square meal ; but

I kept hoping against hope. Things went getting
blacker and blacker until the smash came, and
one morning I received a letter saying :

I am heart-broken. I've spent my time and your
m ney, and we are ruined ; I'm a desperate man.
You are old, and may not live long, but I am young,
so to speak, and so I shan't live lone ; I'm going to
blow my brains out. Forgive me if you can, and forget
me. I'm telling you the truth ; it will be no use your
trying to hunt me up, for I'm as sick of life as you
must be of our bargain.

Vane."

Well, I wept when I read that letter, and I felt
sorry for him. The company went to smash, and I
had a fever, and was taken to the hospital."

Did you never hear from him again ? Perhaps he
really killed himself. I think I would if I had been
he ; and how can I help you, Mr. Arundel ? "

The latter jumped up, crying in a piercing voice :

Help me ! You can do everything. Don't you
understand it was only mere villainy ? He didn't kill
himself at all ; he is alive and well, and is a king in
Wall Street. The house is Vane & Co., flourishing
to-day on my money."

Vane & Co. ! — what do you mean ? Not The Vane
surely? Don't walk about; come closer and explain."

I 2

Yes ; yes; The Vane. I can't be mistaken; some
of the old friends saw him and knew him. I gave him
up for dead for three years, then I began to get welland
I vowed to hunt him down. I was flat on my
back another six months in the hospital, and I fairly
begged my way from San Francisco to New York."

But, Mr. Arundel, these are grave charges to
make against a man in his position, unless you have
proofs of what you are saying." Florestan stopped
short. It was all very strange, very unusual, very
incoherent, and yet in spite of himself he listened
attentively, and his very act of listening was of such
patience that it encouraged Arundel to continue. In
spite of this, however, at the word proofs Arundel's
face had slightly fallen.

I have them in my pocket"* he muttered.
Letters and notes and things, and I've got a printed
statement besides." He began taking slips of paper
from a portfolio hidden in his breast. " The truth is, I
know these are proofs; I know they're all right; but
I may as well tell you the truth, Mr. Florestan, that's
where I want you to help me. These proofs ain't
considered strong enough." Arundel was interrupted
by a rap on the door. Walter came into the room
carrying a breakfast tray in his hands ; he looked
severely at Arundel, then cast an equally irate glance
on his master.

"You've had no breakfast, sir," he said; "you're
ill ; it is cvoinor on for eleven, and I've brought it in."

Arundel looked up shamefacedly. " Oh, I beg your
pardon," he cried, " I've been very thoughtless. Just
go on and eat — do ; my time's yours ; I am sorry."

Florestan smiled good-humouredly. In the meanwhile
Walter had placed a small table with the tray
by the bedside. " But you, Mr. Arundel ; it's very
late, but can I offer you any breakfast ? "

The fragrant coffee was tempting. Arundel looked
into Florestnn's face, and his eyes spoke before his
lips could form the words. " Yes ? " said Florestan
inquiringly. " Another cup, Walter, and don't come
again until I ring. Now," he continued cheerily to
Arundel, "tell me the rest as quickly as possible,
and let me see your papers."

Was Florestan better, or had he forgotten his pain ?
He moved quite briskly in his bed, and began to
make the coffee. Arundel looked at him humbly,
and put his hand on his wrist, the wrist of the hand
that was holding the coffee-pot. "You're a goodman,"
he said, " and God '11 reward you. Before we
break bread together, would you mind shaking hands
with me ? " Florestan put down the coffee-pot and
extended his hand wonderingly; a slight flush came
into his face; he shook hands with him, and then
there was an awkward pause.

"Don't mention it! Do you take sugar? Ah,
here is Walter with another cup," and Florestan
half-nervously stretched out his hand. Did he wish
to change the conversation ?

I'll take two bits of sugar, Mr. Florestan, and I
don't mind if I do eat something ; the truth is, I've
not touched food to-day." Florestan felt ashamed ;
he scarcely knew why. Arundel's voice went to his
heart, and he felt that he was telling him the truth ;
he so rich, and this man with nothing. He felt an
inward pang ; he would help him ; he would do something
for him ; and yet it was clear if he helped
every one who came to him, a near morrow would
surely find him a beggar. Aloud he said cheerfully :
All right ; eat away, and show me the papers ;
all the documents you have; I'll just swallow my
coffee, and I'll read the statement over. Don't
speak a word to me for a minute or two ; if you'd
like anything else, you know, just order what you
want."

Arundel waved his hand negatively towards the
tray. " I am more starved for sympathy than I am
for food," he said gravely. " I can do with very
little when I have hope to go on with," and at the
same time he washed down his words with a gulp
of coffee.

Florestan was running his eye rapidly over the

statement, but answered casually. " Bacon says hope
is a good breakfast, but an ill supper."

"Yes; well, Bacon said a good many things he
didn't believe in himself," said Arundel, " and more
that none care to believe in ; but hope to me is what
ballast is to a balloon, I couldn't go straight without
it." Then he took another gulp of coffee and began
spreading some butter on an already richly-furnished
raffle. Florestan said nothing, but went on alternately
reading the statement and taking his breakfast.
The only sound heard in the room was the
tinkle of the porcelain and silver, and the rustle of
Arundel's papers. Florestan finally looked up.

Well ? " said Arundel.

Well," responded the former ; " I am sorry to say
that all this is not proof enough against any man."

Arundel paled. "Don't say that, for God's sake;
you are my last hope." Then he burst forth in a
wilder tone, and stretched his hands towards heaven.
"How many times I have cursed that euchre party
on the Union Pacific Railway ! "

Florestan dropped the papers on the bed and
leaned eagerly forward. " Ah ! " he said ; " I know
you now. Don't you remember me, Mr. Arundel?
I was one of that party too, and the man Vane — "
Florestan spanned his forehead with his thumb and
forefinger as if thinking deeply — " and the man

Vane was the individual I won all that money from.
Yes ; I see it all now, and it was after that you went
into that partnership in San Francisco ? "

Arundel looked dazed. "Stop," lie said; "I can't
place it ; I'm forgetting again. You see I had a brain-fever,
and when I talk so much about it, and think
so much about it, I lose my head ; besides, this has
been a day of emotions. I can't recollect any more.
I think I'll go home and rest myself. I'll leave you
all the papers, but may I come again and talk it
over ? "

Florestan looked at him pityingly, and touched
the electric bell at his head. " Have you a lawyer ? "
he inquired.

"No."

Have you any money ? "

"No."

Where are you going now ? "

Home."

What do you call home, Mr. Arundel ? "

I — I'm living in a hydropathic establishment for
my health. The director is an old friend of mine ; this
is his address," and he drew a square card from his
pocket. Florestan took it; Walter appeared in the
doorway. " My carriage for Mr. Arundel. I am going
to send you home," he said, turning to the latter ;
and Fll call on you to-day about five, or tomorrow

at the same hour. It's a bad business ; I don't quite
see our way out of it ; but I promise you my help.
Don't lose heart, and you'll hear from me very soon.
Can I do anything for you ? Are you in want ot
anything now ? "

Arundel looked up nervously. " I think a shower-bath
is the best thing I can haven"' he said. " My
friend Dr. Parsons understands just how to treat me
when one of these spells come on."

Poor man," thought Florestan, " his sorrows have
driven him out of his mind. It is a strange story."

It's a long time since I've had one," continued
Arundel. "I'm hazy, sure; but I know enough to
know that you are befriending me. You'll never
regret it, sir, never ! Good-bye, and heaven bless
you !

CHAPTER VII.

The winter was well over ; Enilda had given many
successful " At Homes ; " the world flocked to the
young heiress's feet as the moth flies into the flame
of the candle. Amongst all her admirers, if Enilda
showed a preference for one, that preference was for
Florestan — and yet, did she love him ? It was hard
very hard — to say. She always met him with
pleasure, and bade him farewell with regret; he was
certainly the most welcome visitor at her father's
house. No entertainment could be complete without
him. She might not remark his presence, but she
never failed to notice his absence. She asked herself
whether this were love or friendship, but instantly
she imagined it might be the former her soul was up
in arms, she loathed the whole human race, with the
exception of one man, the one who had so cruelly
betrayed her. When she thought of Florestan as a
friend she forgot everything but the memory of his

ever-present, ever-ready friendship. No word of love
had been spoken between them since the night of
her first " Small and Early," yet she knew that he
cared for her. She could not define her own feelings,
but like every woman, or certainly nine hundred and
ninety-nine thousand out of a million, she could
perfectly well define the feelings of those who loved
or professed to love her. She could weigh their
every sentiment to the nicety of a hair, she could
sound and feel the profoundest depths of their hearts,
yet she could respond neither to the one nor to the
other. The names of her adorers filled her card-baskets,
yet even the alphabet of their adoration was
as bewildering to her as ancient Greek or Sanscrit
would have been.

To this wholesale indifference, as I have said,
there was one exception, yet in all her moods and
tenses she could read none of those s : gns which
had betrayed her love for Claremont. No matter
how sudden a meeting might be with Florestan,
she neither flushed, paled, nor trembled at his
approach. Her eye grew no clearer, her voice and
laugh no softer, her speech no less steady at the
sound of his voice. She sometimes pictured to
herself what the world would be without him, and
everything became suddenly indistinct, as when after
year s of blindness one suddenly sees the light.

"What nonsense!" she murmured; "what's the

use of my borrowing trouble at 150 percent.? He
is in love with me, but hell get over it; I'm not in
love with him or any one, and I shall never get over
it. We'll go on beings good friends for the next
thirty or forty years to come."

About the middle of January, New York had been
startled by a general reception of deep black-edged
cards — Baron de Marcie invited all his friends to a
special mass to be sung at the new cathedral in
memory of the death of his beloved uncle, the Count
D'Orbach, whose loss he deplored, but whose title and
estates he succeeded to. The church had been a
marvel on this sad but memorable morning. There
were more violets than had been worn by all the
Buonapartists since Byron's prophecy in his ' Ode to
the island of St. Helena'; there were flowers whose
perfume would have put to shame the gardens of an
Oriental sovereign ; names and condolences were
attached to this wealth of blossom with a richness if
not Oriental at least American. Monsignor the
Cardinal of New York read the mass. One hundred
youths, whose voices would have immortalized the
olden-time Sistine Chapel, sang the innumerable
glories and virtues of the noble defunct ; the stained
glass windows were draped in violet and black ; even
the great organ pedals were covered with stamped

jetty velvet. The pews and aisles were filled with
stately women robed in the blackest and newest of
crape. The streets outside the cathedral door were
filled with an eager respectful mas?. Not alone the
Governor of New York, but the Mayor, Aldermen,
and City Council had telegraphed letters of condolence.
Even the President of the United States had
sent' stereotyped regrets, and the flag which so
joyously floated from the Baron's club, fluttered at
half-mast, its grief-stricken Stars and Stripes, in red,
white, and blue.

Three months had flown since then, and the Baron
was beginning again to go into the world ; Lent was
just over. Enilda was about giving her first theatre
party, when she received a perfumed, connected
note, from her friend, once the Baron, now the Count
de Marcie and D'Orbach. It ran thus :

"My Dear Miss Dozen,

Yes ; I will accept your friendly invitation.
Since receiving it I have reflected long and deeply. I
have said to myself again and again, How can I
laugh when he is no more ? But as the most gaping
wounds cauterize with the march of human events,
so I hope will this, my profound pleasure, disappear,
and leave no other traces of my hurt than the indelible
scar which, although scarcely visible on the surface, is

alas I to me much more than skin-deep. Yes ; I will
join your theatre party ; I will dine with you in your
s} T pathetic home ; we will laugh at the merry antics
of those players at the Casino, and sup afterwards at
the favourite ' Del's ' Pray present my honoured
regards to your distinguished father, accept my best
wishes for your own health and happiness, and
believe me always grovelling at your feet, your
servant and admirer,

De Marcie and D'Orbach."

It was the 5th of April, and one of the loveliest
days possible, even in New York. An early spring
sang anew the legend of perennial beauty. Evening
came, and the sun set in a crimson glory full on the
waves of the silvery immemorial Hudson; birds'
voices were heard singing in the Avenue trees, and
the twilight was as late as the morning is early in
England.

Enilda was busily awaiting her guests. She was
flitting here and there, cnvino- those unnatural and
unnecessary orders which the young mistress of a
house delights in, which were as promptly executed
or disregarded by the staff of domestics. One by
one the guests arrived. The Count, a picture of
correct gloom, cast a sombre shadow as he came
into the hall; the crape on his hat was so pathetic

and appealing, that it not only seemed to stain the
valet's hands with an ebon stain, but it brought to
all minds the late mass in the cathedral, and Gotham's
grief over the Baron's irreparable lo s. More than
any one the Count seemed to feel that his present
air of gloom might be a pall on the general spirits.
When the guests were seated at table, he said :

"My friends, let me speak frankly. We cannot
always be buried in the night of a profound grief;
forget my revered relative's demise; I have put him
out of my mind, as I have hung my crape-banded
hat on the hat-rack, and put this amethyst ring, a
family sign of hope, on my little finger."

They were all very merry after the Count's speech,
with the exception of Mr. Kozen, who sat ill at
ease at the head of his table, who replied in monosyllables
to the banter of his guests, and who every
now and then cast a sidelong but deep, inexpressible
glance at the Count.

Enilda was looking very lovely. She had donned
a spring dress of emerald crape, and beryl-tinted
satin merveilleux." Fine grasses were interwoven
with emeralds and diamonds in her blonde hair,
waves of crape and clusters of water lilies, blended
together and floated from her gracious limbs, as
shadows blend and float on a mirrored stream. She
seemed a very Undine coming forth from the Rhine's

enchanted rocks, beautiful to behold, but fatal to
whomsoever should listen to her syren songs and
charms. So Florestan thought as he looked, and
wondered whether he would ever be any nearer to
her. Whilst he was thinking she addressed him :

A penny for your thoughts, Mr. Florestan ; you
looked as far away just then as a man I once saw
hanging from a balloon ; he went ujd, however, and
was never heard of since. You may put on any
expression you like, but there's not the slightest
danger of your going through one of my ceilings.
Leave your bubbles, balloons, and air-castles, and
come back to earth ! Have you heard what the
Count has just been saying ? Not a word —
naturally. Well, he has been telling me all about
the performances at the Casino. The Prima Donna
is a protegee of his, an American girl whose father
was a bishop ; whilst the Tenor is a human creation
of such divine attributes that every woman in New
York is in love with him. I expect to be his next
victim''

"Ah indeed!" said Florestan. "Well, I think I
must drink to the health of this theatrical Adonis."

"And to my falling a victim, Mr. Florestan. I
thought you'd take the announcement to heart; perhaps
turn pale and ask for salts or something like
that."

Salts are not much in his line," interrupted trie
Count. " I can recommend olives," and he laughingly
pointed to Florestan, who was toying with the sombre
fruit which garnished his breast of canvas-back
duck. Enilda went on talking.

I am rather anxious to go to the Casino to-night,
and doubly so now there is a chance of my falling
in Jove with the Tenor ; I'm afraid I've been dreadfully
unfashionable. I hear of women all over the
world making fools of themselves for actors and
singers, yet I confess I never could understand it.
Now listen ! If you want to hear some of my good
act. ns — most people's are what they have done —
mine are what I have not done ! Now listen ! Let
me see ; I hope you're paying attention, Count, and
you too, Mr. Florestan ? "

The latter bowed, the former tossed off a glass of
champagne, and replied, "As the donkey said, I'm
all ears ! Go on."

Well, I never pawned my jewellery to buy J.
Wilkes Booth's photograph after he murdered Lincoln.
I never wanted to join a circus and jump through
hoops with the bare-backed rider Stickles. I never
offered to elope with Edwin Booth after seeing him
in 'The Stranger.' I never ordered new volumes
of Tennyson after seeing Edwin Adams in ' Enoch
Arden.' I never sent a perfumed billet-doux to
VOL. II. K

compromise the character or to impair the peace of
mind of the silver-voiced Brignoli."

Nonsense ! nonsense ! — draw the line there," said
the Count; "every woman and female child in
America past the age of ten has written love-letters
to Brignoli."

You doubt my word, Count ? In that case I
shall say no more ! "

Flora's voice came floating from the other end of
the table.

"My dear Enilda, did I hear something about the
silver-voiced ? — the wretch ! — he nearly ran over me.
I was a child, and he was driving four-in-hand like
any other millionnaire in Saratoga. I never have
forgiven him, and wouldn't if he sang high C's with
the ease of Mario and Giggling combined. Mr.
Rozen, don't you think I am right ? "

Quite right, Miss Flora ; quite right ; still in his
palmy days I suppose he wasn't bad. He's poor
now, isn't he ? They are all alike, those artists,
especially those Italian tenors, buying the Paris
Arch of Triumph for the first five years of glory, and
the next twenty selling their shirts for a square meal."

Mrs. Chromo hemmed, opened and shut her fan
w r with peculiar significance ; then she looked at Flora
and bestowed a peculiar glance on her lord and
master, Adam Chromo.

The latter smiled gloomily.

Better stop on the silver-voiced business, Miss
Flora," he said courageously. " This is not a case of
present company excepted."

u I suppose you mean me," interrupted Mrs.
Chromo languidly. " Yes, I must confess to a weakness
for any man who lives as he lived in the
ethereal world of art. He had a profession, it is true,
but it was not a degrading one." She looked her
husband full in the face. " It was a career devoted
to noble thoughts and aspirations ; the career of
music, which purifies, ennobles, and uplifts, and
whilst listening to his song" — she gave her husband
another severe glance — " one forgot the vulgar details
of every-day life and ordinary money-grubbing."

Adam Chromo poured himself out a glass of claret
and drank it to the dregs; he felt that every eye
was upon him.

That's a family dab for him," whispered Flora to
Mr. Rozen.

Ordinary money-grubbing," repeated Mrs.
Chromo ; " and I have every reason to believe — to
judge from the quality of his voice — that he lived
purely on his art alone."

u And I," interrupted the Count cheerily, " to
believe that he lived on the world in general, and on
maccaroni in particular."

K 2

"Happily everybody knows Mr. Chromo," said
Mrs. Chromo severely; "and every one — surely
every one here can make allowance for his lack of
enthusiasm for art and artists."

Adam Chromo began to breathe more freely.
"My dear Lucy, fill your parlours with the whole
Sistine Chapel if you like; it is nothing to me.
My opinion is worth nothing, and one does not
need to be an art dilettante in order to foot
bills."

Flora spoke up. " Quite right, Mr. Chromo ;
nothing is more odious than pretending to know all
about things that you know nothing about. I only
ask my husband — when I get him — to be as amiable
as you are."

The Hon. Willis Pastor sat at Flora's left; he
shoved a salt-cellar towards her, and whispered under
his breath :

"This is the first time I have ever heard you
mention husband ; } 7 ou know I will do everything on
earth you wish. You may have an aquarium with
professional swimmers in your back drawing-room,
you may have the whole of the Christy Minstrels
at tea, and a list of Covent Garden singers to give
you a concert every night."

Flora looked at him. "Don't give me salt," she
said, "I'm not a Russian; and don't press me to

answer your question. I said you'd have to wait a
month, and so you shall."

He sighed, looked down, and took a second help
of sweets.

Enilda grave the signal for rising. " You men will

O o o

have no time to smoke," she said, " if you want to
see the first act of the play — however, that's your
own look-out."

Well," said Florestan, " I, for one, have never
seen the first act of a play. Are there first acts to
plays?"

There used to be," said the Count ; " but now
they are only prologues."

There was a general rising, men as well as women.

<( What, you are all coming ! " said Enilda. " Very
well ; I guess you'll have time for one little cigarette
while we are putting on our things." She looked
laughingly round the table, and caught sight of her
father's face, pale, stern, and wearing an unusual
expression of anxiety.

"Excuse me," she said, passing by Florestan, and
in a moment was at his side. Suddenly she turned
again to her guests.

Don't wait for me," she said. " Flora, lead the
way ; do, dear, I'll come directly."

What's the matter, papa ? Are you ill ? Aren't
you coming to the theatre with us ? "

Well, Enilda, I'm afraid I can't to-night."
"You look worried ; has anything o-one wrong ? "
No ; nothing has gone wrong, but I've had a
great deal to do to-day."

"Papa, I think it's a shame; you work like a
slave. I shall begin to scold ; where is that man
Vane ? You a silent partner ! — why he's the silent
partner. Not only have I never heard the sound of
his voice, but I have never laid eyes upon him. Is
he still away ? "

Dozen slipped his arm round his daughter's waist,
and kissed a little curl that lay lightly on her
forehead.

Quite right, dear, I do have too much to do ; but
go to the theatre without me to-night ; I'll chip in
later, in time for supper at Delmonico's."

"Well, don't work too hard, and don't forget to
come."

She turned away.

Oh, Enilda ! " he called her back again, and put
his thumb and finger nervously into his pocket,
taking thence a card. "Arnold gave me this just
before we went in to dinner; he said the person
asked for me, and when he heard I was out he asked
for you. Did you see him ? Arnold said he had
been here before."

Enilda looked at it. " Oh, I remember," she said ;

u lie came once before, when you were in Philadelphia,
and to-day I would have seen him, but — "

Her father took the card from her fingers and
crushed it in his pocket. " You must never see him
if he calls again," he said ; " nor — nor ever speak to
him if you meet him anywhere ; he has no right to
come here."

But — do you know him, papa ? "

No one knows him. I've seen him many times ;
he's a poor half-witted creature, and really ought to
be under lock and key."

I must run away now. Poor old man ; I'll
remember what you say. Arnold told me he thought
he was half-crazy — I am glad you mentioned it, for
I certainly would have seen him some time. Goodbye
; I expect I shall fall in love with the new
tenor." She ran forward a few steps and then
stopped. " The supper is sure to be very nice ; the
Count told me of two new dishes at dinner, the
latest agony for parties in the Faubourg St. Germain.
I fairly wormed them out of him, for you know he's
still in deep mourning ; Arnold is taking a private
note to the chef while we are at the theatre. Don't
work too hard, and don't be too late." Then she
threw him a little kiss and disappeared through the
doorway.

CHAPTER VIII.

The Casino of New York is one of the most
beautiful theatres in the world. Like the better
kind of American structures it has no decided style
of architecture, but may safely be termed a nineteenth
century morocco ; the interior is a progressive
blending of the Gothic, the Italian, Ionic, Mauresque
Saracenic styles.

The eye leaves one splendid mass of gilding in
gorgeous design, but to fall upon another equally
gorgeous and equally splendid. Golden palms wave
in arabesques, whose lightness would put to shame
the airiest fancies of the Chinese pagoda ; ceilings,
whose blue firmaments are studded with brighter
stars than ever glittered in the hackneyed empyrean,
are supported by Corinthian columns, from whose
base the stately palmetto rears its slender limbs,
and outstretched its fan-like arms. The richness of
the decorations, the velvet-hung boxes and gilded

Venetian chairs, reflect a softened light, which fairly
seems to float from the crystal chandelier, giving
the horse-shoe the effect of a gigantic illuminated
bouquet. When the rich curtain unrolled, whether
displaying a forest which might have been Arden,
grottos where Indies might have sung, or balls
at a prince's palace where Cinderella might have
danced, the scene was of such beauty, that it was
difficult to say where art began and nature left off.

Enilda and her party had three boxes thrown
together on the grand tier, and arrived as the
curtain went up on the first act. The usual sorcerer,
villain, and peasant' who becomes a prince, were
going mechanically through the first scene, repeating
their words without knowing what they meant,
sinoinof their music without an idea of its tone, and
glancing furtively about the house to see if the
friends to whom they had given free tickets were
there to applaud them. The orchestra was playing
in fitting strains, when suddenly the usual chorus
of village maidens came forward. All pure and lowly,
but dressed in point-lace petticoats, with silken hose,
diamond shoe-buckles, jewelled garters, and satin
frocks, appropriately accompanied by marquise rings,
sapphire bracelets, rivers of brilliant, and earrings
whose stones were fitting rivals of the Regent, all
provided — needless to say — out of the modest salary

of two guineas weekly. These young ladies, whose
voices were fresher than those of reeds sighing in a
river, jumped about with amazing lightness, bestowed
frequent gratuitous smiles on the bald-headed first
and second and the dudes of the third and fourth
rows, and as a slender youth glided gracefully forward,
mechanically fell back into their places, on one
sustained indescribable upper B flat.

His large black eyes looked like almond loops of
velvet; ringlets of soft black hair clung graciously
to a marble forehead ; coral lips opened lightly over
teeth of pearl, whence a voice floated forth like a
Mario's; one hand rested lightly on the jewelled hilt
of a sword, whilst one, a rainbow of light, stretched
from a fall of priceless lace, and waving gently back'
and forth, anon seemed to send out the sound as it
escaped from his lips, anon to bring it back to that
fount whose source was inexhaustible.

As the youth appeared the house burst into wild
applause. He stopped abruptly ; the leader held his
baton in the air, till the star signified his intention
of going on. He languidly rolled his eyes to heaven,
waved the rainbow of light in the conductor's face,
the reception ended, and the song concluded.

The Count whispered to Enilda. " There he is !
what do you think of him ? "

Mrs. Chromo sighed. * Oh ; he is too sweet ! " she

said. Florestan looked at Enilda; she opened her
fan and returned his look inquiringly.

What am I to say ? " she hazarded. " You know
I was to be his latest victim. Am J to be struck
foudroyec, as the French say, all at once ? — or am
I to fall in love by gentle stages ? "

The question is how you feel," said Florestan,
whether or no you believe in love at first sight."

Ah, that, Mr. Florestan, is a leading question."

"Hush!" said Mrs. Chromo ; "how can you talk
whilst he is sinking ? "

The Count came nearer and whispered in Enilda's
ear : " They say Howard has ordered a new box of
diamond rings, so that his admirers may have a new
choice; you know he has one every night. You
watch the bouquets as they come on, and you'll see
a square piece of white paper, fastened tight to the
holder; well, in that paper lies a jewelled gaud."

At that moment the singer approached their box
and cast a respectful glance of recognition at Mrs.
Chromo. Flora noticed it; all noticed it in the
box ; in fact, its discretion and unobtrusiveness were
such that everybody noticed it.

Lucy," said Enilda, gently tapping her on the
elbow ; " I believe I feel the throes working in me.
Can this be love ? "

Lucy gently squeezed her hand. " You're a dear,"

she said. " Make the Count ask him to supper,
when he goes behind to speak to the ballet-girls."

Ah ! " said the Count, " I am the protector of
the New York Terpsichorean Academy. I am father,
mother, brother, even photographer if need be ; but
the young lady I am especially looking after, you
will see in the Prima Donna ; she is due about now."

Why, Count, you talk of her as if she were the
lightning express," said Flora.

Well, she is just about that," he replied. " Shea
charming girl, I assure you • all. Ah ! here she
comes."

A young woman in tangled hair and high-heeled
boots here bounded on to the stage. She slapped
the tenor on the back, chucked the sorcerer under
the chin, and scowled at the villain. The Count,
being in mourning, slightly retired behind the
curtain, produced a black-bordered handkerchief
sadly perfumed with violet, and gracefully drew it
across his forehead, the while the Prima Donna
was screaming in a series of drunken chromatics
with a voice sharp enough to cut glass, and an
accent which savoured of the Rhine, " The freer I
am, the happier I am." She got to the end of the
andante, and started a cadenza, but there was evidently
some trouble in the orchestra. The soprano
went one way, the flutes another; one first violin

stopped short, and a second first was seen to drop
his instrument, turn frightfully pale, and put his
hand to his mouth with an attitude painfully suggestive
of a Trans-Atlantic steamer in a heavy gale.
The Prima Donna glared into the orchestra, and
with wicked readiness cut the lyrics of the first
measure and the final cadenza; then a few words
were heard in an undertone from the leader, the
hiatus was filled up, and the opera went on.

Before any one could ask or understand what it all
meant, the stage was filled with well-to-do bandits,
the Prima Donna flung; herself into the arms of the
velvet-eyed tenor, and was as quickly torn from them
by the villain. A witch came through a rock in the
depths of the forest and myriads of beautiful nymphs
appeared sporting on the green. The dark-eyed
young tenor fell into the arms of an unknown pirate,
who suddenly appeared in the flies, the while the
beautiful maiden, the Prima Donna, was borne away
struggling in the arms of two giants of haughty mien.
The curtain fell to thunders of applause. The
artists reappeared in repeated acknowledgment ; the
young tenor bowed with courtly grace to the box in
the right. The curtain redescended, and the entrance
was fairly under weigh.

There was a breath of relief, and the theatre soon
re-echoed to the hum of lively and incessant chatter.

Well," said the Count, " I must say that finale
was disgraceful ; I wonder Signorina Forestii could
ever get through with it. I will go on the stage and
see what it was all about."

Don't forget, Count ! Enilda, you know " — Mrs.
Chromo's voice was sweetly insinuating.

Enilda spoke quickly. " Why, of course, give my
special compliments to Mr. Cherubim, and tell him
how charmed we shall be if he will join us at
supper."

The Count went out"; Flora and young Pastor
began to talk in a corner ; Mrs. Chromo took up her
opera-glass to look at the house ; Adam Chromo
followed her example, and Florestan came and sat
beside Enilda.

It is a delightful theatre," he said ; " do you like
the opera ? "

Why, I can make neither head nor tail out of it
so far ; I suppose he carries her off in the end ; and in
the mean time — "

"And in the mean time" echoed Enilda, "she is
powdering her nose, and he is changing his diamond
rings. I remember my illusions about the theatre."

You once told me you had no illusions."

Ah, did I ? Well, I certainly have few about the
stage. I was one night at the opera in Paris sitting ina
stage-box with the composer and a daughter of the •

great Laplace. The opera was * Romeo and Juliet.'
Hebron and Capoulwere playing. I made sure they
were in love with each other. When they came to the
farewell duet, you know, where the nightingale sings,
Romeo hung on to a rope ladder on the balcony,
when Juliet with heart-broken accents threw her
arms round his neck, struggled, and in a distinct
voice sung not the wife's but the Hebrew's
lament, ' Decidedly I can only give you seven hundred
francs for those costumes.' The composer nearly
fainted as he explained there had been a row in the
theatre that day between the tenor and soprano
about the question of some braid, which had cost
five sous a yard. You see Romeo was the director,
and thought braid at three sous was good enough,
but Juliet wouldn't have it because her predecessor's
had cost four sous, and she determined to have braid
which cost one sou more or die."

And how did they settle the question ? " said
Florestan.

"Oh, Shylock wasn't in it with the Prima Donna.
But the composer excused her, because, he said,
having no voice, and less talent than other artists,
she was at least bound to have better clothes. Now
I never sit very near the stage ; that lesson cost me
too dear."

"Enilda," cried Flora, "what do you think Mr.

Pastor has just been telling me ? He knows six
Duchesses of the same name in England — Duchess
Dowager, the Duke's three divorced wives, the
deceased brother's widow, and the present Duke's
fourth wife — and all these ladies took tea with his
grandmother, who was just out of mourning for
her fifth husband."

"Impossible," exclaimed Florestan.

Oh, nothing is impossible in England," said
Enilda ; " remember Henry VIII. had six wives."

"My God!" said Adam Chromo, dropping his
glass ; " thank Heaven there is no royal blood in my
veins."

"Adam," said his wife, "you've grown religious
all of a sudden ; you've taken to thanking Him much
too often. There's no occasion to have royal blood in
your veins ; but if, like myself, you were the descendant
of a ' Ma T flower ' descendant, you'd have some
satisfaction in feeling that at least, if your blood
wasn't royal, it was bluer than that of most people
about the farm."

Adam Chromo shrugged his shoulders and was
about to respond, when the door opened, and the
Count came back to the box.

It's the most outrageous treatment I ever heard
off," he blurted out ; " you never would believe what
I'm going to tell you, but it is a positive fact.

That Musical Trades' Union is a disgrace to any
country."

My dear Count," said Enilda, " pray explain ;
what can have so excited you ? "

I hope they haven't done anything to hurt
Cherubini's feelings," said Mrs. Chromo.

What on earth has happened, Count ? " said
Flora. " You burst into the box like a squall bursting
over a canoe on Lake Michigan. Mr. Pastor,
will you kindly give me that box of chocolate ? To
judge from the Count's face, we are going to hear
something terrible, and I may as well brace up
beforehand with a few sweets."

"You'd better take my seat next Miss Rozen,
Count!" said Florestan, "and sit a little in the
shade, for if any one catches sight of your face
there'll be a panic ; they'll think the house is on
lire, or some dire calamity — "

"Calamity! — dire calamity!" interrupted the
Count dropping into Florestan's seat, and waving his
violet-scented handkerchief with imperious scorn.
"It's not only a calamity, but I say an outrage.
Now listen, for I'm going to tell you the affair
clean through. This is the whole story in a nutshell.
I met the Prima Donna, Ida Forrester — "

Ida Forrester ! " cried Enilda and Flora in a
breath. " Why, that's the girl we went to school

VOL. II. L

with at the Well-born Seminary ! I thought you
called her Forestii just now," added Flora.

So I did, but Forestii is her stage name." Whilst
Enilda was thinking to herself : " And that is the
Western drug-clerk's daughter ! — who did not think
me good enough to speak to in school, because I did
not wear bracelets and a gold watch and chain. But
how has the Western Forrester become the noble
Signora Forestii ? "

Poor Enilda ! She little knew that Italianizing a
name, going from a poor to a high-sounding title, is
the easiest scale to ascend in the musical profession.
The Count continued ;

Well, as I said, I met the Prima Donna in the
first fly ; she'd just been attending the second
violinist, poor boy, who was ill. ' Go and see him,'
she cried; 'Providence sends you; I can't speak
German and you can, and he can't speak one word of
English.' Well, I went to him, and it seems — well,
to put it plainly, he was still sea-sick. Don't look
shocked, ladies, but he had thrown up everything
except his courage to keep his engagement to-night.
It seems he only arrived this afternoon in the second-class
steerage from Hamburg. He has been deadly
ill all the way over, and the first thing he did when
he arrived was to do what all the German musicians
do — sell his old violin at the dock, and take in

exchange a nice new fiddle of green wood, worth
about thirteen dollars, and a few more gulden in
money. Then with a letter in his pocket he started
off to find the head of the Musical Trades' Union.
The man who bought his fiddle told him to lose
no time, for reasons which you shall see. He found
the chief in, who, on learning that he could read
music at sight, and had played first fiddle in a band
at Carlsruhe, said, ' My boy, you're in luck, you're
just the man I want. You shall be the substitute
of my friend Mr. Ratsbane in the Casino orchestra
this very night; I will give you twenty-five cents
for your trouble." You see he was to be the substitute
for twenty-five cents ; and as any member of
the Musical Trades' Union has a right to send any
kind of substitute at a moment's notice, why, you
see, Ratsbane just collared five dollars for twenty-five
cents, and sent this sick boy to take his place ; and
I suppose, in the mean time, the former has an engagement
to play at some beer-garden or midnight-supper
; that will add a few more dollars to the chief
store. So this poor boy comes at a moment's notice
hasn't even time to get any dinner — comes into the
orchestra with a fiddle he has never played upon
before, and has to read manuscript music he has
never seen before; consequence — what you've probably
never heard before."

L 2

"And you mean to say," demanded Enilda indignantly,
"that such things can be in a civilized
community ? Outrage ! — why it ought to be published
tomorrow morning in every newspaper of
New York. I hope you'll expose the — "

Expose him," reiterated the Count ; "on the
contrary, I shall do everything I can to hush it up.
I'm of German birth, and it reflects much more on
me than on any one else. First violins have to put
up with everything in the Old World ; seconds can't
expect any better treatment in the New. I'm never
for interfering with co-operations, and especially
with Trades' Unions. The little hair I have on my
head I want to keep, and I have no desire to be
found floating on the slime of the Charles river,
instead of sleeping peacefully with my ancestors in
the family vault at Schonbrunn. I have no wish
to throw the Austrian Imperial Court into mourning
through any ill-advised defence on my part of
individual itinerant emigrants."

Mrs. Chromo shuddered. " How horrible ! " she
said ; " don't speak of such a thing." In imagination
she already saw not only her own Chromo-literary
society, but the first society of all Gotham, denuded
of its one bright and particular star ; the eventuality
was too appalling. She opened her fan before her
eyes as if to shut out the dreadful vision.

The orchestra are coming in," said Florestan ;
but I don't see the substitute."

"Oh, tell us more, do, Count ! " cried Flora eagerly ;
"you've lots of time before the overture. Enilda,
dear, these camels are perfectly delicious, but I
think I'll try a few of these raisins places. Brat
makes them quite as well as that man in North
Wells Street in Chicago."

Well, as you insist ! " continued the Count.
There isn't much more to say, except that when I
don't insult co-operations, I don't often insult individuals.
The best kindness to persons like the substitute
is to give them a genteel letting alone;
you can't help them, and simply have the entire
Trades' Union down upon both them and yourself.
I've seen as many as six subs in the theatre on one
evening — such subs too ! — hard on the composer,
wasn't it ? "

And his fiddle," said Enilda ; " the bands all play
well enough, but I suppose this little transaction you
have just mentioned explains the scraping sound
peculiar to the American orchestras, and you hear
it from Thomas's down.

"Poor lad!" said Florestan. "Ah, there's the
curtain."

I hope," said the Count, hastily turning to the
latter, " that you won't mention what I've said hereabout

the Trades' Unions, and especially the German
musicians ; it wouldn't do for me, you know, closely
allied as I am to the German and Austrian Imperial
families, — it wouldn't do ! Alas ! we pay a heavy
price for our nobility ! Words which amount to
nothing coining from other people, from us carry
tremendous weight. I may praise my country's
Johannisburgher, but I cannot dispraise the villain
who robs me in the vat."

"Well," said Adam Chromo, shaking himself,
I never before realized what it is to be a free and
independent American citizen."

"But, my dear sir, you are not a free and independent
American citizen. You never dare mention
glue to anybody," said his wife, interrupting him.

"It's not a question of what I dare to do, but
what I care to do," retorted her husband. Then he
stopped suddenly, for the band broke in, and music
put a stop as it usually does to the general conversation.


The opera went on, dragging out three acts
in a gorgeous panoply of stage pictures, the plot
becoming more and more incomprehensible as the
music became more and more recognizable. For the
composer, an enterprising youth, although born without
any especial talent, had had the luck to be born
after Rossini, Donizetti. Bellini, and Bale, and like

all the composers of the present day, happily knew
how to benefit by it. In operatic parlance this
modern heritage is called musical reminiscence. The
librettist had been in his fashion equally happy —
having had the entire repertory of classics to draw
upon for situations, from the wood scene in the
1 Faithful Shepherdess,' and Romani's lyrics, to the
1 Gendre de M. Porter,' or Meilhac's graceful metrical,
divorced, alas ! but too irrevocably divorced,
from Offenbach's merry measures.

I delight in this opera," said Enilda ; " I've heard

nearly all my favourite melodies since we sat down."

"Ah, yes ! " said Flora. " Listen, as the man said

when he woke up and found himself in jail, ' I

dreamt that I dwelt in marble halls.' "

"Well," said the Count, "I'm not one of those
people who are hunting for reminiscences. A good
thing is a good thing anywhere; but I confess I
was staggered when I recognized in ' Salve chimera '
the andante of one of Beethoven's Concertos, taken
body and bones, and the ' Chanson de Fortune,
which as we all know is from Spohr's ' Jessonda,
the tempo changed perhaps, but I'll swear not
one of the notes. One night when Bill and I had
a little music at the Palace — of course you know
who I mean — His Majesty and so forth — Offenbach
said to me, ' How do you like that ? — my new song,

the Chanson of — and so forth ? ' Well, Bill wouldn't
have had the courage, but I had. I said to 0., ' Do
I like it ? Why, it's the oldest friend I have in music
Spohr.' Then the wily dog ran his fingers up and
down the piano in a brilliant arpeggio. ' Oh ! ' he
replied, shutting his blue eyes and looking modestly
at his hands, 'you recognize it? Mais nest ce pas
que je Vcd lien hahilU t" s

Count," said Mrs. Chromo, " I wouldn't have
your memory for anything ; I should have no more
pleasure or enjoyment in life."

What can have become of papa ? " said Enilda,
half to herself.

The Count turned to Mrs. Chromo. " My memory
oh yes, you would, if you also had my friends ; "
and he gave Lucy one of his most flattering smiles.

Enilda," said Flora, " why should we wait for
the very end of the opera ? If the lovers are reconciled
it will be all right any way, and if they're not,
I don't want to assist at any such unhappy affair."

As you will," said Enilda rising.

Mrs. Chromo made a little grimace. " Oh, not
wait till the end ! — and the Tenor has such a divine
phrase just here ! "

Enilda re-seated herself. " He's singing it now,"
interrupted Lucy, " and after those few bars we mayas
well go."

Is lie coming to supper with us, Count ? " asked
Enikla quickly.

Bless my soul." said De Marcie. " He's tickled to
death of course to come, and as soon as he has taken
off his make-up — "

"Oh, delightful!" ejaculated Lucy. "See, the
curtain is just coming down, so we haven't missed
anything ; but how are we all going to Del's ? "

The way we came," said Flora cheerily.

Florestan looked imploringly at Enilda ; she understood
his glance. " Well, as papa hasn't turned up,
Mr. Florestan, suppose you give me an arm ? "

"Oh, Miss Flora," said Mr. Pastor eagerly, "will
you give me a lift ? "

Nonsense," said Mrs. Chromo ; " do you leave me
to go alone with my husband to a restaurant ? Scandalous
; worse than the Parterre affair in Paris, and
the cabinet particulier.

Mrs. Chromo," said the Count ; " may I be your
cavalier servante ? " Then he smiled a wicked smile,
and clapped his gibus firmly under his left arm.

'•' Poor Mr. Chromo, left entirely alone ! Well, I'll
take you with me ! You needn't look glum, Willis
Pastor ; I suppose you saw a fine opportunity for a
quiet flirtation on the way to Del's."

Adam Chromo laughed good-humouredly. "Thanks,
Flora, but I wouldn't have it on my conscience to

spoil your tete-astute, besides, I want to walk, and
have a quiet smoke."

Life-long gratitude leapt from young Pastor's eyes.

You're too sweet," he said to Flora in an undertone
as he cave her a little nudsre.

As they reached the crush-room Enilda stopped a
moment to speak to and congratulate the director of
the theatre, a tall, broad-shouldered, dark eyed, handsome
man, ex-Colonel in the Confederate Service,
who had smelt powder and tasted grape-shot, from
Bull's Run to Gettysburg; he retained his title,
which rank he had bravely won and still bravely
wore ! He stood surrounded by a concourse of
people, and received his honours and congratulations
with much the same manner as the Member for Midlothian,
when, after one of his rhetorical outbursts,
he has exhausted his country's but not his constituents'
patience.

What a crowd there was to be sure ! Enilda' s head
scarcely ceased nodding, not even when she stepped
into her carriage.

Were she mine I should still have to dispute her
with half New York," thought Florestan; then he
took his seat beside her and they drove off.

Flora followed with Mr. Pastor ; but Mrs. Chromo
was still standing on the wide staircase, her rich robes
trailing gracefully on the pure marble steps, her voice

loudest and merriest amidst the cheerful cosmopolitan
hum. " He is perfection," she was heard to
say, and she enthusiastically lifted one tiny gloved
hand; "he's perfection, and is just now coming round
to supper with us at Delmonico's." She was still
speaking of the Tenor, and holding forth on his grace
and charms.

CHAPTER IX.

Who that has ever heard of New York has not
heard of Delmonico's, one of the most delightful
restaurants in the world, where Gotham breakfasts,
dines, sups, and even dances, to her heart's
content? many of the smartest balls and parties
are given in this spacious house, even by Gotham's
best? She can boast of magnificent dancing-halls,
superb mansions, and series of apartments which
would not disgrace Versailles, but the fashion exists
for people to receive their guests at a restaurant, the
same as it exists for the best of New York to shut
up magnificent houses in the winter time, to live,
say rather board, at hotels. It will never be known
whether for the doubtful delights of the table-d'hote,
called society, or whether from a spirit of enterprise
peculiar to the American mind. Still the fact
remains, — it is done, and probably will continue to
be done, as long as New York sits throned on her
solitary isle.

It must not be imagined that because Delmonico's
is as French as the Cafe Anglais in one sense, it
resembles that or any of the Paris restaurants in
any other; on the contrary, its morals are as perfumed
as its mushrooms, and its virtues as celebrated
as its vintage ; unlike most modern descendants of
ancient class, it inherits all the good qualities and
none of the vices of its ancestors. Three may occupy
any cabinet particulier, but two never ; women may
come alone to luncheon, but not to dinner; and a
famishing mother and daughter could no more be
refreshed after six p.m., than a model husband and
wife could have supper together in a private room
at midnight.

The ground-floor, a spacious, gorgeous apartment
looking out on Fifth Avenue and Twenty-sixth Street,
brilliant with light, fresco, gilding, and colour, was
already filled almost to repletion, and in the hall
beside the lift stood one of the smiling proprietors
holding a levee, as it were, at the foot of his own
staircase, and chatting cordially with the smartest
people who passed by.

As Enilda approached the gentleman saluted her
with a friendly and cordial yet courteous air, whilst
Florestan stretched out his hand with a smile and
said :

Good evening, Charley ; got some one in thereto

look after us all right ? " then passed on between
a defile of correct waiters, who threw black shadows
some distance from the doorway, to a superbly-decorated
table, which occupied a conspicuous place
in the angle nearest the street.

Ah, here's papa ! " said Enilda ; and Mr. Rozen
came forward to o-reet his daughter.

Shan't I scold him, Mr. Florestan, for not coming
to the theatre ? " and she placed her hand lightly on
her father's arm. " I missed you so much. It was
a lovely performance ! — and I'm starving to death.
Have you been waiting lone '? "

Only about five minutes. I couldn't get to the
theatre. Ah ! here are the rest of the party ; we can
■ begin our supper at once," and he began seating his
guests.

Heavens upon earth ! give me a glass of champagne,
do," said Mrs Chromo. "The Count has
been telling me such stories coming down; he was
so witty ; he said such good things."

Count, I thought you never forgot yourself," said
Flora laughing.

And I never do," he replied gaily. " I suppose
I say many good things, but I never know it myself."

"And I have always insisted it's that way with
genius," said Mrs. Chromo. "It's what Professor
Protoplasm calls unconscious celebration."

Every one looked at Lucy. There was an awkward
pause.

Shall I be your Boswell ? " said Pastor, turning
to the Count.

Who on earth was Boswell ? " interrupted Lucy.
Oh, I know ; something about a battle-field. But,
heavens ! how hungry I am ; the only carnage I
shall go in for to-night will be a slaughter of those
birds. Enilda, ain't you starved to death ? Music
like that takes it out of one, I must say. But where
is Adam ? — he hasn't turned up yet. I suppose he's
gone off to hunt up his partner, his silent partner,
perhaps."

At that moment Florestan and Rozen both raised
their heads. Instinctively they glanced at each other.
Rozen's face was pale, but his gaze was unfaltering.
Florestan was the first to turn away his eyes.

"It's a strange affair," he thought; "we're no
farther ahead than we were. I wonder when Vane
is coming back ? I can't have any misgivings, because
I think it right that Rozen should know what a
wretch his partner is."

His reverie was interrupted by a little shriek from
Mrs. Chromo. Every one looked up. A graceful
youth, followed by Adam Chromo and Professor
Protoplasm, were advancing towards them. The
Tenor was presented, and compliments flowed as

freely as champagne. He was placed at Mrs.
Chrome's right at table. Soon the party were eating,
drinking, and chatting merrily.

"Tell me," said Enilda, with ingenuous curiosity,
"is it true that artists can do nothing that they want
to ? — that they are perfect slaves ? — that they can
neither eat, drink, sleep, dance, nor amuse themselves
as they like ? — that they have to take care of themselves
on every possible occasion ? — that they can't
accept luncheons, or teas, or dinners, and rarely
suppers ? — and that their lives from the cradle to the
grave, that is to say, from their homes to the theatre,
are one long self-sacrifice ? — that all their time is
spent in studying, practising scales, rehearsing parts,
and taking care of their throats. I have heard that
all great singers have been slaves to their voices. Is
it true ? "

"True! Oh dear me no!" said the Tenor with a
little musical laugh, rolling heavenward his velvety
black eyes. " It used to be so, no doubt ; but all
that is an exploded idea. Now-a-days the actor or
singer has social pre-occupations and pretensions
that he never used to have, so, of course, art must
take care of itself. Do nothing we want to ! Why,
my dear Miss Rozen, we're the only people in the
world who do everything we want to. Society is
now a slave to the artist, not the artist to society. I

oat, drink, sleep, dance, and amuse myself in every
way I want ; and as to taking care of myself, why
New York takes care of me, simply kills me with
kindness. As to luncheons, teas, dinners, suppers,
and so forth, well ! I am simply overwhelmed with
invitations, most of which I certainly make a point
of accepting. Now, I would not have missed this
occasion for anything! I never study; I lo the
practising scales ; I never need to rehearse, I
wouldn't even if I needed to ; and my voice is always
the same, — do what I may ; especially anything that
pleases me has never been known to hurt my voice."
Delightful ! " said Enilda. " This is indeed an
age of progress ; and what an improvement on the
old system."

"Dear me! "cried Mrs. Chron. "I don't know
anything of what was and is, I only beg of you to do
nothing that could injure that precious — Pray don't
be imprudent."

Cherubini laughed lightly, and quaffed a glass of
Extra Dry.

•• Plectra is particularly bright this evening," proffered
Professor Protoplasm. "We are expecting a
great many friends over for the Transit of Venus."

Transit of Venus ! " said Flora. " I'm up in
astronomy: when's that coming off? Enilda, we
ought to make up a party for the Observatory."
VOL. II. M

"It is several years hence," said the Professor
pathetically.

Yes ; we may all be dead by that time," said
Mrs. Chromo. "I think the best salad I've ever
tasted is this salad Del makes. Eat freely of it,
Adam ; as George Augustus Sala once said of a similar
Russian dish, ' There's death in a teaspoonful.' "

I suppose you'll all laugh ? " said Rozen, " but
when the Professor said, ' Transit of Venus,' I thought
he referred to a new mine going to be sprung on us.
Upon my soul I did."

Papa, how can you ? " said Enilda laughing. " I
shall immediately drink to your increase of knowledge
on the astronomy question."

"Well, Mr. Rozen, you can extend your knowledge
if you like," said Mrs. Chromo. " My firmament
is the stage, and the only stars I care about are
theatrical stars."

Good ! " said Florestan. " I propose Mr. Cherubim's
health.' '

A general clinking of glasses followed. There were
many supper-tables in the room, but none apparently
so gay as this. It seemed as if all Gotham's best
had given one general rendezvous at Delmonico's on
that particular evening. Enilda nodded to a dozen
friends here and there, while as many more came
up to speak to her. Mr. Rozen kept adding to his

invitations, and one by one the number of guests at
the table increased, until Enilda could scarcely move
without a morsel of her frock or a hand or an arm
touching Florentine

scarcely regretted the overflowing company.
Adam Chromo was evidently pondering the theatrical
business.

Lucy ! " he said abruptly. " You're so gone now
on the theatre, how about your Chromo-Literary
Society ? Have you forgotten all about that ? "

Flora nudged Pastor. "I believe Adam Chromo
is jealous of the Tenor." Then she opened out her
fan against her cheek, thus hiding not alone her own
but Pastor's face from view. He gave her an indescribable
look.

Lucy Chromo answered her husband with a smile
of unusual acrimony. " ' Spouse adored,' as Eve
sings in the ' Creation,' and always out of tune, I
never forget anything, and our very next meeting is
to be at the Count's ; it is to be a most important one
too."

Electing new members, or directors, or what ? "
inquired Mr. Rozen politely.

Directors ; dear, no ! " said Florestan. " As I
understand it, this is the only reasonable society inexistence
; its members and directors are, like the
French Senate, elected for life."

M 2

Professor Protoplasm sighed. "What a difference
there is in Republics," he said ; " here, in the greatest
of all Republics, your senators and members are
elected for such short terms, that not as much importance
as should be is attached to so high an
office."

High ! " said Rozen. " It's ' high, low, Jack and
the game,' as they say in playing Old Sledge. As
there are neither members nor senators present at
this table, I may remark that for some of the men
we've had on the top notch, it's a very good job
they were only elected for four or five years ; they've
stolen enough as it is. Fancy what it would have
been had they been there for life ! "

"The country would have been pawned to England,"
said Florestan shortly.

"Dear me," said the Count, reflectively heaping
his glass full of cracked ice, " everything is relative
with one exception. You can't compare American
politics with foreign politics any more than you can
compare American politicians with foreign politicians,
or the Capitol at Washington with the French Senate
at Versailles. Here it is a question of money, and
there a question of honour."

Perhaps you're right," interrupted Florestan, " in
one sense at least, There a man is elected for life,
and his life's work is laid out before him. He is

usually so old when he is finally elected, there is little
chance of his making anything beyond a name, the
only property he will hand down to posterity."

While here," jut in Adam Chromo, irreverently,
11 a young man is made the tool of his party, sent to
Washington as a stop-gap, knowing he may be kicked
out as soon as a more unscrupulous figure looms up ;
he'll get the G. B., classic for grand bounce, and ashe
is sure to retire covered with insult and opprobrium,
the least he can do is to collar all he can
lay his hands on in the mean time. Honour ! — why,
an American politician is taking Martha Washington
down to dinner to-night, and driving a Broadway
bus tomorrow."

Hip, hurrah ! " said Rozen ; " them's my sentiments."


What is your opinion, Miss Enilda ? " said the
Count, politely.

My opinion ! " she responded. " What about ?
The French Senate, Washington politics, collaring
all they can get, and handing not their probity, but
their property down to posterity ? Well, frankly, I
haven't any opinion. And there are two things I
never discuss — women's rights and politics. The
former have all the rights they ought to have, and
more than they know how to employ well; and the
latter—"

ct And the latter ? " interrupted Florestan.

And the latter," said Flora, " are beneath any
respectable woman's notice."

Hear, hear ! " said Florestan.

It's a lovely night," said Mrs. Chromo, peering
out through the plate-glass windows, on to the
Avenue and Madison Square beyond, filled by a
pale moonlight which sets forth every object with
noonday distinctness.

It reminds me of Venice," said the Count ;
Venice, not a city, but a dream." He sighed as if
in tender memory of a tender past.

Nonsense," said Mrs. Chromo. " I think it's
high time all this romance about Venice and those
old cities should be exploded ; Venice may have
been a dream once, but when I saw it, it was a
nightmare."

I agree with you," said Flora. " Now, look at
Naples, for instance ; they say objects become bright
by being brightly shone upon. Of course, the same
rule works both ways. The sky has been so long
reflecting the filth of Naples, that instead of the
streets becoming purer they have become dirtier.
There are few flowers, and those few amazing. They
smell bad, and bloom withered. What can it be, —
a too ardent sun ? "

"No; a too ardent civilization," said the Count.

Progress will kill Italy. The B.C. epoch was really
more in its line."

Dreadful ! " laughed Enilda. " Happily you can
say nothing against Rome ; even the wildest heretic
cannot parody the Eternal City ! "

"Well," said Flora, "I don't know what you call
parodying ; but if there was a comical side to anything
in Rome I saw it."

"As to that," said Enilda, "they say there is buta
step between the sublime and the ridiculous.
When I was looking into the ' Foro Trajan ' I
could see no past, only a present — of three or four
hundred cats."

Nonsense," said Florestan ; " I can't believe that."

I assure you it's true," she said. " This ancient
Forum serves the same purpose for cats as the New
York pound does for stray dogs ; every stray cat
found in the streets of Rome is thrown into-this
place, and "

The poor things ! " cried Mrs. Chromo. " I hate
cats ; but how do they live ? "

"Live," echoed Enilda; "oh, they live very well.
In t'.ie afternoon all the noble populace, women
and children, dukes, nurses, and everybody come to
feed them ; it's a curious sight. When I first looked
down into the place I thought I saw things moving.
Whether I was too imbued with the spirit of the pastor

not, I did not know; but not a bit of it, — not
headless trunks and bodiless heads were jumping
about, but hundreds of cats, fat, thin, long, short,
scraggy, and some positive skeletons ; some creeping
along under the dark arches, some with bright eyes
peering out at me from holes in the wall, whilst
others were gleefully running round the broken
slabs, playing like Juliet with their forefathers'
joints."

"Perhaps the bones of the early Christians,"
suggested Mrs. Chromo ; " and all with a cheery,
eager, expectant look, did you say ? Chromo, why
didn't you show me that when I was in Rome ? "

Because it wasn't there then," answered her
husband.

"Wasn't there," echoed Flora, aghast. "What
can you be thinking of, Mr. Chromo ? Do you mean
the Forum or the cats ? We are told the former was
built B.C., and, by the way, who knows where the
first cat came from ? "

We are told anything now-a-days, but don't ask
me to believe it," said Adam Chromo. " If we
could only settle our credulity as we do our board
bills in these foreign show towns, it would be a good
job. Don't ask me where the first cat came from ;
that's more in Protoplasm's line ; but I can tell you
where the last one would go to if I found it starring

on my premises." And he made a movement with
his two fingers which might be made by any
poulterer in a back-yard on a sunny morning.

Adam," said Mrs. Chromo, " I think you've had
champagne enough."

Oh, nonsense ! " cried Mr. Rozen. " I think we'll
want, more if the Professor is 2foin^ to tell us the
origin of cats."

The Professor looked humble, but happy. " The
world is so ignorant," he began slowly ; " no one
really knows when the first cat, or 'felix cantus
domestica to give it its right name, appeared.
Professor Owen has advanced many theories, and
many think that we ought to look for its origin with
the rushes on the banks of the Nile."

Heavens ! Professor," cried the Count. " Are we
to sit here while you go as far back as that ? "

We couldn't sit in a better place," said Florestan ;
"but tell me," he said in a low T er tone to Enilda,
"did you not find Italy the divinest place in thew
T old ? I should like to see it again — with you. Is
Italy more beautiful in its past than in its present ?
Does one go there to recall "

Her face assumed a scornful expression, and a
bitter light came into her eyes.

I can't say," she said, coldly ; " I know I went
there to forget it."

He started ; this was twice she had spoken of
forgetting — had she any reason? His heart stirred
within him, and a spasm of indescribable jealousy
sent the quick blood leaping madly through every
vein. She never looked at him, but lifted her glass,
and seemed intently to study the crystal liquid
which kept bubbling from the centre of the vase, as
waters bubble from the heart of a mountain cascade.

Florestan sighed. " I shall never see it aofain
unless I see it with you," said he, and then stopped
abruptly, for the Count laid a heavy hand on Mr.
Rozen's arm, and his face wore a startled, terrified
look. Every one stared in amazement, whilst Rozen
drew himself up, and looked at De Marcie in haughty
surprise ; but on noting the latter's agonized look,
his own face assumed an expression of a sympathetic
alarm.

For God's sake, what is the matter ? Are you
ill?" he exclaimed.

The Count quickly recovered his composure, and
his eyes lost their distended look.

Oh, it's nothing," he said faintly. " I — I've been
subject to these attacks lately; it may be the heart.
I am subject to these attacks; my uncle went off
that way."

Tut, tut, nonsense ! " said Chromo, briskly. " More
likely it's indigestion."

Iced pineapple is so cold at midnight," said
Flora; "you know the old adage about fruit being
gold in the morning, silver at noon, etcetera."

Here — you'd better drink this," said Florestan,
quickly giving him a glass of brandy.

Ah," said Cherubini, looking round and bowing
pleasantly to a lady who had entered unperceived
with a party of friends, and sat supping at a distant
table ; " it's the Prima Donna with her new companion."


Why, sure enough," said Mrs. Chromo, who sat on
the same side of the table as the Count; "I needn't
turn my head to look at them, as I can see the
whole party plainly in the looking-glass opposite."

"Flora," said Eniida, "do you suppose she remembers
us ? I don't think I shall ever forget
her."

I should think not indeed," responded Flora.
"Times have changed since the school, haven't
they ? 1 guess it's your turn now to wear bracelets
and sport silk dresses."

Florestan looked wonderingly at Eniida. She
explained as she gave the signal for rising.

You see that was when I was a poor little girl at
school, and only a miner's daughter."

She was drawing on her gloves. " I hope you
feel better, Count " — she turned to him politely. .

Oh ! quite well now, thanks ; indeed I'm all right,
I assure you." he responded ; but his face belied his
words. It was still pale, drawn, and anxious.

Lucy Chromo looked up from a rendezvous she
was making with the Tenor.

Oh dear ! Count, I hope you're not going to
be ill, — and now about our next literary meeting ?
Shall we come the day after tomorrow, as was
arranged ? "

By all means," he said hastily. " Three sharp,
and dinner afterwards."

The night air was chilly.

I sincerely hope you'll not suffer from this
evening, sir."

Indeed, no. I have enjoyed myself immensely."

Mr. Rozen had addressed his distinguished guest
with more than usual courtesy.

By this time all reached the outer door.

I must say Electra holds her own," said the
Professor; " it's such a clear night I think I shall goon
to the Observatory." No one offered to accompany
him. "And with reference to the origin of
cats," he continued, " I'm glad you spoke of it. I
shall now prepare a paper for one of our meetings,
in which I shall hope to elucidate some hitherto
extremely doubtful points. Ah, the world is very
ignorant — very ignorant."

Florestan was putting Enilda into her carriage.
Good-night," he said tenderly ; " shall I see you
tomorrow ? You're spoiling me, but you know I
threatened some time past that not a clay should
pass without your seeing me ; you know it is one of
the privileges of friendship to be tyrannical."

CHAPTER X.

The Count sat alone in the richly-furnished flat
in Twenty-eight Street; it was the second day
following the supper, yet he still looked a little pale.
He wore an Oriental smoking suit, with an embroidered
fez on his head, and his feet were encased
in Turkish slippers. The day was bitterly cold, and
a biting mid winter wind was sweeping across New
York, stirring the young leaves in Central Park,
even ruffling the feathers of the white swans who
sailed so timidly on the pretty inland lakes. Although
it was fairly late, the Count's heavy window-curtains
were drawn ; a single jet of gas gleamed strangely
yellow through the white globe, and a candelabra
with shaded waxen tapers w r as placed on a table,
heaped with papers, drawn beside the Count's armchair,
his feet reposed on the fender, and the smoke
from a Turkish cigarette curled in light rings in the
air above his head. He was handling some of the

papers, and his face wore a very cynical, sinister
look.

w It beats the devil," he muttered, as he fumbled
them over, " bow she can have turned up in
America after all these years." He opened some
letters, old and musty with age. " But can it be
she ? I thought I'd left her in a place that she
wouldn't get out of in a hurry. Oh, I'll be bound
it is. I thought it was about time my luck was
changing. I've been prosperous so many years there
must be a change, I feel it in the air, just as
Listeners know when a cyclone is coming, or a
rheumatics man knows when it is going to rain."

Then he read his letters over, lit a fresh cigarette,
pondered and smoked for some little time in silence ;
suddenly he broke out. The Count had a bad habit
of talking to himself; it was as if he needed words,
his unspoken thoughts were not distinguished enough
to keep him proper company.

"I wonder if she has kept my letters," he said,
and then he laughed ironically. " Naturally she
has kept them for the same reason that I have kept
hers — none at all. Women like Adele don't throw
away letter?. Strange," he continued, as he turned
over the pages, reading aloud at hazard. " ' My
beloved, fate has thrown us together for better or
for worse.' Faugh ! it's positively sickening, to think

how I used to wait for her notes, re-read them a
hundred times, hang on every word she said, and
be ready to — " He stopped abruptly, and looked
around, folded the papers in his hand, jumped up,
at the same time brushing away some ashes which
had fallen on his trousers, and went towards the
door. " I thought I heard some one," he muttered ;
I must break myself of that nasty trick of talking
aloud. I don't think Sharpe can have been listening;
he well knows an unusual foot fall would cost
him his place ; I think I'll put them away." He took
up the letters. " Now she's as dead to me as if she
had never been. By gad ! she isn't though : I wish
she were."

He went towards an oaken cabinet, or chest, ina
corner of the room, and opened a secret lock with
a golden key which hung to his watch-chain. He
threw back the lid, knelt on the floor, and began
overhauling the contents of the box. There were
curious odds and ends — a set of razors with a
strop, a pair of curling-tongs, a bouquet of withered
flowers tied with a faded green ribbon, an old dark-blue
vest, a shabby cut-away coat, and a pair of
hob-nailed shoes. The Count looked at these things,
took them one by one in his hand, whilst a sinister
smile anon played across his features, as heat lightning
in summer-time plays across the thunder-cloud.

He was holding the razor-strop in his hand, and
even affectionately slapped it against his cheek,
when he started again. This time there was no
mistake ; he distinctly heard a footstep in the outer
hall. He put the letters into the chest, restored the
things he had disturbed to their former position,
hastily locked it, and arose. He heard the footsteps
coming nearer.

It's devilish odd," he said ; " I can't have time
enough in this busy life to take even ten minutes
to look back on the past; but I suppose reminiscence
is a luxury which, were I to indulge in
often, might prove very costly. I haven't opened
that chest for years, and it's very strange, I remember
the last time I opened it the calamity which followed.
I'm getting superstitious in my old age — "

There was a rap at the door. " Come in," he said,
and his valet Sharpe entered the room.

She's here, sir," he said abruptly.

Who ? " screamed the Count, for once betrayed
out of his ordinary calm.

sot a muscle of Sharpe's face quivered. "It's — "
he began.

:< Naturally," said the Baron. '" Signora Forest;

I'll come to her at once. I will dress myself. Xo ;

I'll go as I am."
•t
Sharpe disappeared. The Count placed a hand

vol. ir. x

on his heart. " I'd utterly forgotten," he muttered.
Gad, how nervous I am ; I need something to
steady myself;" and he poured out a glass of brandy
from a decanter in a richly-chased Bohemian liqueur-case
which stood on his smoking-table. As he lifted
the dainty crystal the touching strain of l Ah chela
morte ' came tinkling from the recesses of the
casket.

Natiirlich," he said, " there's only one death tune
in the box, and of course that would turn up on this
occasion." Then dashing some perfume over his
face and hair he went into the library.

Ida Forrester had changed greatly since we last
saw her in Chicago. Ruined by the fire, her parents
could not survive the shock, and followed each other
within a year to the last home they would ever
occupy in the Garden City. Ida did not inherit the
anticipated fortune from her great aunt. The latter,
after tearing up many wills, living on the fat of the
land, being treated like a queen, putting not only
family relatives but friends to any amount of
trouble, finally died — insolvent. Ida was left alone
to get a living as best she could ; and having a
pretty voice, a pretty face, and shapely limbs, the
stage suggested itself to her as the most enterprising
field for a lucrative future. She had managed to
go abroad ; had " made " several unimportant theatres

in Italy. She had met the Count at Ems' renowned
resort for singers and artists. He lost his heart, and
after a vain siege of this formidable *citadel, found
this fortress of American virtue as impregnable as
the Rock of Gibraltar. Ida only yielded to the
persuasion of a wedding-ring. The marriage was
secret, as the Count explained that his position was
such that his royal relatives would never forgive him
were he to marry a professional singer. Ida, who saw
a glowing future not only of theatrical but imperial
laurels, readily consented ; on condition, however,
that until their marriage should be acknowledged,
she might continue her singing. Although devoted
to her, and unreasonably jealous, his affairs were
at that time in such a position that it suited him in
every way to accede to her desires. He had returned
to New York ; a year had passed, and his pretty wife
was still warbling on the Continent. Ida, who had
always been singing in grand opera, conceived a
wild freak to return to her native country ; but there
being no Italian musical season at that time in
New York, she being still stage-struck accepted
a lucrative engagement to sing at the Casino.
Whether or not Ida was very much in love with her
husband remains to be seen. He certainly was more
in love with her than ever, and as much enamoured of
her as a man of his nature could be enamoured of

N 2

any one besides himself. Their long separation had
but added to his passion, in singular proof of the old
adage, "Absence quenches small flames, and rekindles
great ones." She had been in America three
months, and had often asked him when he would
announce their marriage to the world. The Count
could only reiterate the old reason — his family's
opposition, and their constantly-repeated wishes that
he should make a brilliant match.

It was strange, but he had been so filled with
the past and Adele, that all thought of Ida had
flown from his mind. He went to meet her with
more trepidation than eagerness. The Count was
not in the first flower of youth, and noticed with
some alarm that little things affected him more
deeply now than of old. He was still thinking of
the supper party and his emotion.

C'est gal" he muttered, " it was an awful shock,
and I feel shaky over it yet. Were I only mistaken !
But, alas ! a kind of cold feeling in the inside marrow
of my bones tells me that I am not. I — "

He stopped abruptly, for the drawing-room door
was open, and Signora Forestii sat before him.

What a time you've kept me waiting ! " she said.
I've invited myself to come to lunch with you. You
don't seem overheated to see me ! Am I in the
way (

In the way ! — as if my darling could ever be in
the way ! " said he, giving her an affectionate kiss,
and slipping his arm round her slender waist. "But
it isn't luncheon time, surely ? Have I kept you
waiting ? "

Luncheon time ! Why, it's nearly one o'clock."
'impossible !" he said, lifting his hands in holy
horror; "and the Chromo-Literary Society meets
here this afternoon. Where can the morning have
gone to ? "

A shadow came over Ida's face. " As if I knew
where your time goes to ! Surely I take up very
little of it ! I didn't see you yesterday, and you
didn't come to the theatre last night. What's this
Chromo-Literary Society ? May I come to it ? And
who were those people in the box with you the other
night ? The girl nearest the stage is very beautiful."
Is my pet jealous ? She ought not to be. Stop !
First I'll. tell Sharpe to get our luncheon, and not tolet
any one in while you're here ; in the meanwhile
we'll discuss the literary meeting. Do you really
want to come to it ? It will be very dull, you know ! "
"Yes; I do."

The Count reflected. " In most civilized countries
artists nowadays are received everywhere; America
draws the line at the stage. New York, in virtue
of her pride of birth, and remote ancestry, is not only

more difficult than other cities, but is almost inaccessible."
He explained this to Ida.

Nonsense ! " she said. " Am I not as good as
the wife of any glue merchant ? Besides, I was born
a lady ; my loss of fortune sent me on the stage, it
is true, but my love for art is such that I would
still sing if I had a million. Besides, am I not a
Countess ? Am I not your wife ? "

My dearest, silly little Ida, of course you are ;
but, alas ! you are not yet my wife before the world.
You are only Signora Forestii, the opera-singer, and
must continue so until I can claim you proudly before
every one. Will my dearest little Countess listen to
her husband, not fret, and not make him unhappy,
but listen patiently to what he has to say ? " Then
he slipped on one knee before her, kissed her hand,
as Rizzio might have kissed Marie Stuart's.

Ida was mollified ; calling her Countess had rarely
failed in its softening effect. The Count jumped up
gaily.

It's a bit your own fault," he said ; " you would
continue singing."

And am I never to go into the world — into your
world, I mean ? "

Why, my dear, were you in London, or Paris, or
St. Petersburg, you could go now, but in New York it
is very different. They are very strict, very straightlaced

here, and there are hundreds of women in the
City who have never seen an actress off the stage in
their lives, and would no more receive one in their
house than they would receive an untamed gorilla
from the wilds of Africa. I can't reform society ; it
isn't my fault."

You can't reform society ! Well, I don't know
anybody in New York who can if you can't. You
know you head everything in the City, and there's
not a paper published that does not chronicle your
name and your doings ; if you wanted to, Fritz, you
could perfectly well introduce me to some balls or
parties; if you don't I'll begin accepting theatrical
supper-parties ! I don't see why I shouldn't have
some fun as well as you."

That I will never permit ! " he said hotly.

I'm invited to one to-night, and will go to it —
with my lady companion, of course."

The Count turned abruptly towards her. "Ah,
yes, your lady companion " — he repeated her words
slowly.

She was at supper with me the other night at
Del's. She's a most superior person."

He raised his eyebrows incredulously. " How does
it happen I've never seen her before ? I thought
Miss what's-her-name was still with you ? "

That shows how much attention you pay to me !

Miss St. Amant died of croup two weeks ago, and
Frauleio — "

Ah ! M

What's the matter ? Yes, Fraulein Adele Marx
What's the matter ? You look pale ; another ball,
I suppose, and dancing till five A.M."

You're unkind, dearest Ida. I've been really ill
since the night I was at the theatre, and was in
bed all day yesterday and all the evening. Haven't
you a word of sympathy for me ? " He hypocritically
dropped his sea-green eyes.

"Of course I have, you old clear ! I didn't mean
it ; forgive me, won't you ? You were really ill ? —
why didn't you send for me to take care of you ? "

Sharpe announced the luncheon. The Count led
the way, still talking. He was saying how strict New
York was; how beautifully she had sung the night
he was at the theatre ; and how ill he had been the
day before. " I couldn't send for you," he added ;
besides, it might have affected your voice."

"By the way," said Ida abruptly, "you've not
told me who the beautiful girl in the box was — an
heiress or great lady, I suppose ; you never have
any others in your train; you can't propose to her,
that's one satisfaction."

I wouldn't marry her were I twenty times free.
Still, you're right ; she is a great lady. Her name is

Enilda Rozen ; she is a great heiress, and they call
her in New York ' The Copper Queen.' "

Ida turned very pale. " Enilda Rozen ! what do
you mean ? "

Do you know her ? " he asked eagerly.

I knew one girl named Enilda Rozen. We went
to school together in Chicago, but this can't be the
same, for she was very poor, and her father only a
miner."

But it is ; indeed it's the same ; her luck changed
for the better."

"As mine did for the worse — at least until I met
you," she added somewhat less bitterly.

On the contrary, at least luck befriends you
now. You went to school with her. Girls generally
have an inordinate affection for their school friends;
she'll remember you, of course, and — what a lucky
thing that I mentioned her name ! She's the very
person of all others who could introduce you into
society ; and, by the way, something was said about
knowing you."

Ah ! " said Ida sneeringly. " What did she say
about me ? — nothing nice, I'll be bound."

My dear child, you don't think I'd allow her to
speak ill of you in my presence ! — besides, she's a lady,
and wouldn't speak ill of any one ; but — I don't
understand, — were you not friends ? "

Well, I may as well tell you the truth about it.
We were not. She was poor. I couldn't associate with
her then. Besides, I didn't like her. Of course, it's
just my luck, but she was about the only girl in
the school I didn't get on with. Naturally, if I had
imagined she would ever have had such a position,
I should have treated her better."

There was a moment's pause. " My dearest child,
I fall from heaven; it's most awkward. I really don't
see what you can do."

Another silence ensued, broken only by the clattering
of the breakfast things. Ida was the first to
speak.

Can't you suggest anything ? " she said humbly.

I suppose I can." His voice was not encouraging.

"Well, you must think of something, for I'm
determined to be presented in New York society."

The Count reflected. " There's only one way that I
can see, and that is, come to the literary meeting today.
I'll introduce you to Miss Kozen, and you'd
better make a clean breast of it. Take the bull by the
horns; speak of your past; say you hope she has
forgotten your school chaff. I don't know — you're a
woman, and ought to know best what to say. As
you're determined upon this thing, why, trust to
luck."

Suppose she cuts me S "

My dear child, that's impossible. I'll ask a pianist
to come, I might even ask the Tenor. I'll present you
specially to her, and say we enjoyed the performance
so much the other night, I made a point of asking
you to come and sing ; that I thought we would vary
our programme with some music.' ,

Me ! I sing ! You're crazy, Fritz ; I'm not in voice.
I did my usual exercises this morning, and I never
sing in the afternoon."

He looked at her. " Oh, very well; do as you please."

Now you're angry."

"My dear child, I'm not angry; but if you don't
want to sing, there's no excuse for your coming."

She burst into tears. " Ah, now for a scene ! " said
he. It is strange how differently the tears of a woman
he loves affect a man before and after marriage.
Ida had once cried at Ems, and the Count had
kissed away the salt-water drops, and drank them asa
rose drinks the morning dew. Now, although as
real and pearly as ever, they were suffered to trickle
unheeded down her face ; and being tears of rage, not
sorrow, they spurted forth, instead of falling with
tender grace. The Count rose hastily from the
table, beofan to hum 'The Watch on the Rhine,'
made himself a cigarette, and began to smoke. Ida
suddenly stopped crying; she went to him, and put
one arm tenderly round his neck. "You know I

don't want to make a scene," she said, vaguely kissing
his perfumed hair ; " only I am nervous and anxious,
and you oughtn't to treat me badly. Fritz, I have a
secret to tell you. I'm — "

He took his cigarette from his mouth. " Damn
it ! — surely not," he ejaculated.

"Yes," she replied; "I'm learning a new part."
And she stared into the fire as if pondering some
weighty affair.

The Count heaved a sigh of relief.

And that means ? "

That means, money for clothes."

' Do you wear few or many ? "

Oh, you naughty boy ! — many. This time I'm to
be a queen; so of course I must have props and
things, and jewels to match."

There was a sharp ring at the outer door. u My
dear," he said, " you must go now, and we'll talk it
over some other time ; but will you come back and
sins I

Will you give me everything I want ? "

Everything ! Does that mean you're going to
ruin me ? "

Nonsense ! I'll do very well with five thousand
dollars for my dresses ; and that necklace at Tiffany's
you promised me. And — well, I'll come back and
sing." There was another loud peal at the bell.

"Perhaps some of the people who are coming,"
she said tremblingly. "What will they think if
they see me ? "

Oh, nothing ! " he said. " I'm a sort of high art
protector, as you know; dozens of young women,
artists, actresses, and professionals of all sorts, come
to sing and to recite to me, to see if I can get them
engagements or good press notices. One must try
to do some good in the world, and happily my
position is such that with little trouble I can do
more than most others. But I'll see you out myself,
that's the best way."

Most others ! — modest Fritz ; you know you have
more influence than any man in New York; and,
by the bye, I heard our managers say they were
going to get you to interest yourself in a great
theatrical charity. They want Gilmore's band — why,
that's one of the very things I came to see you about
to-day ; but naturally the most important comes
last, like the postscript to a letter. They want me
to sing — all of our company take part — but they
want the Academy of Music, and you must get it
from the directors — free, of course. Now I'll runaway
; I hear Sharpe opening the door."

"All right, I'll do my best; but give me a kiss
before you go ; mind, no flirting with tenors, and no
theatrical supper-parties."

She embraced him heartily. " Of course not, old
goosey," then they went quickly into the hall — a
messenger boy stood at the door.

You'd better run while you can," said the Count
in French; then he politely bowed her into the
street, and came back to the waiting lad.

Are you Count de Marcie ? " said the boy. " I
was to deliver this only into his hands."

The Count nodded in the affirmative. As he took
the letter a nameless thrill shot through him, but
as he chanced at the handwriting his worst fears
were realized.

She has found me out quickly," he muttered.
Now it will be war to the knife."

"Sign this receipt, sir, please," said the boy.

The Count started, hastily scrawled his name on
the yellow paper, gave the lad some silver, and sent
him off. Then he fled to his room and sank into a
chair.

Her presence means ruin," he murmured. " I'm
dazed, yet — I won't read it now, I'll read it after
dinner. If it be good news it will keep, if bad,
there is time enough to learn it."

CHAPTER XL

At four the guests began punctually to arrive-professor
Protoplasm was among the first, he being-president
of the society ; Mrs. Chromo was the Vice-president,
the Count was treasurer, and Miss Chandos-
Cressy was the Honorary Secretary. Flora and Enilda
were sparkling lights, occupying the position of 
on special occasions. Florestan
and Mr. Pastor had both become members, and the
Chromo-Literary Society was as well known in
Gotham as the " Sorosis," or the " New York Stock
Exchange." This Society was formed on the general
principle of promoting knowledge and research in
every art, profession, and science. While it was very
exclusive, there was little red tape ceremony in its
constitution and bye-laws. Persons presented with
one voucher could be made passive members for five
dollars a year — active, for ten ; the latter, as their
title explained, being permitted to take part in all
speeches, discussions, and questions appertaining to

the welfare and proper promulgation of the Society.
Mrs. Chromo being the founder, on state occasions
her name was still printed in Latin, " Lucia Chromo
fondatrix," and although too ardent duties compelled
her to resign the Presidency in favour of Professor
Protoplasm, she was still looked upon as chief
member and dictator, and the organization was still
known by her honoured name.

Not only was the Count's house a spacious one,
but the ante-chamber was as large as an ordinary
drawing-room, and the drawing-room was as vast as
any ordinary dancing-hall. The peristyle or court
was in the centre, and chambers opened out of it on
all sides as in an ancient Pompeii dwelling. A
frescoed loggia was supported by slender fluted
columns, and in the centre was a fountain where
nymphs and faun sported gracefully amidst water
which tinkled more musically than the waters of
Rome's far-famed Brevi. Very often preceding and
during the intervals of the Society's meetings the
honoured members w r ere seen arm-in-arm walking up
and down the peristyle, conversing like Caesar of
old, or lounging carelessly against the mosaics gleaming
in a faint turquoise from the quadrangle's golden
panels. The women's quaintly-cut and richly-flowing
garments might easily suggest old time Aspasia;
but as to the men, to quote one of the lady member's

words, " One could scarcely tell the difference
between them and the waiters." Whether in
swallow-tail, or in irreproachable cut-away, the
modern New Yorker has everything of the Caesar
about him but his clothes.

Professor Protoplasm after prayers called the
Society to order. There were the usual references to
motions which had been proposed and set aside at
the last meeting; there were the usual congratulatory
letters from all parts of the world ; there was a sonnet
addressed to the Society by a reclaimed native of
the Fiji Islands ; an analysis and report from a
chemical student in Berlin; and several bills to be
discussed relative to the framing and glazing copies
of the Society's regulations, which were to be
presented with a letter of thanks to each member of
the committee ; whilst others were to be offered, at
a reduced rate, to such members of the Society as
should desire to possess themselves of so immortal
and immemorial a memento.

Mrs. Chromo, strange to say, was late, and the
Count took it upon himself to remark that having
the honour to receive the Society for the first time
this season, he had taken the liberty of offering an
extra attraction to vary the proceedings. He was
interrupted by loud cheers. Gracefully acknowledging
them, he continued :

Vol. ii. O

I have invited the young American Prima Donna ,
Signora Forestii, who has consented to sing; Mr.
William Russell, the eminent pianist; and Mr. Cherubim,
the favourite tenor." Each of these names was
received with enthusiastic applause. "With your
]> mission we will precede our day's work by the
performance of the celebrated duet from Wagner's
Tristan and Isolde ; ' and in the midst of deafening
acclamations the young artists were led forward.

This number, which is moderately long for an
operatic selection, was given in its entirety.

New York in days gone by might have murmured
at an hour of unparalleled, continuous, dual yelling,
but New York of to-day suffers as much from
Wagner-mania as from Anglo-mania. Each phrase
excited immeasurable plaudits. Art and even science
would have been forgotten, were it not that this
composition has much more distinct relation to the
latter than to the former, and thus reminded all
present that even music is more dependent for effect
upon science tljan upon inspiration.

The artists had retired after their fifth recall,
when Mrs. Chromo burst into the room. She rushed
wildly to her accustomed place, and reeled or rather
staggered into her seat. Several members started
up with anxious gestures and inquiring looks. Professor
Protoplasm turned pale, and Miss Chandos-

Cressy drained with one gulp the whole pitcher of
iced water which had been placed for the refection
and delectation of the honourable President.

There was one gasp. " What is it ? " " What is
it ? " " What can have happened ? " were echoed
and re-echoed on all sides. Mrs. Chromo, pale, with
troubled eyes and dishevelled hair, was fanning herself,
and slowly recovering her composure. Flora, with
ready tact and silent sympathy, presented a bottle
of salts. Without saying a word, Lucy Chromo took
them, sniffing violently. Half-rising, and steadying
herself on the back of her chair, she addressed the
meeting extempore :

I speak to you in the name of every tradition
that Americans have heretofore been wont to hold
sacred. I call upon you, men and women of New
York, not to flinch, but to face the damning blow,
with the same courage that our glorious Northerners
faced Bull's Run. I call upon you in the name of all
you hold most dear, one and all to prepare yourselves
with the buckler and shield of midnight oil. Words
fail me ; but know that I have received a mortal
blow. I have just been told that Christopher
Columbus did not discover America."

We have heard of the excitement when the trick
of the Trojan steed was discovered ; also of the disturbance
among the ladies of the Court, when the

o 2

enterprising Elizabeth inadvertently interviewed
some of the mantle-famed Raleigh's Virginia tobacco,
and insisted upon her household following the Royal
example; and in our own humble and no less
historic times, of the throwing of the first bomb from
the little Monitor. Any or all of these events have
been supposed to produce adequate and varied stages
of emotion ; but each and all were poor displays compared
to that which followed Mrs. Chromo's words.
For some moments little was heard in the room
beyond a storm of w r ailing voices, some shrieking,
some half-sobbing, but all engaged in violent clamour,
and heretofore unknown corporeal gesticulation.

Mrs. Chromo was surrounded by a crowd of excited,
anxious friends, none daring to question, but all
vainly trying to comfort her. To the right and left,
people were gathered together in groups, with ardent
faces and gleaming eyes, individually discussing the
question.

At last the meeting was called to order by the
Count, who, after having retired suddenly, and as
suddenly returned from an inner room, took it
upon himself to order an immediate debate on the
important question. He was received with cheers,
and loud cries of " Hear, hear." He said that he felt
deeply his difficult position, and was assured that all
present would agree with him that the shock which

their honour 1 sister, Mrs. Chromo, had received, was
one which fell with equally telling force not alone
upon a refined, delicate, and sensitive woman, whom
every American was bound in honour to defend,
cherish, and protect — "

Long and loud interruptions of " Yes, yes," and
vociferous cheers :

And protect," continued the Count, clearing his
throat, and continuing with a very loud Ahem ! " But
I say, men, women, and children of America, this
blow falls with equal force upon you and me, upon
our families and friends; upon" — and the Count's
voice trembled with slight emotion — ' : not alone
those who come after us, but upon those revered
beings who have gone before."

A hush fell upon the vast assembly. The Count
dropped his eyes to the floor, and mechanically toyed
with a twenty-four carat gold chain which dangled
from his waistcoat.

Adam Chromo looked at Florestan. "I bet a
dollar he's thinking of his late uncle," he whispered.
Then the noble gentleman's voice was again heard :

With all my will and wish to speak, far be it
from me at such a time to take upon myself the
responsibility of addressing you on this august occasion.
I remember once, when a question of some
importance was discussed in Vienna a few years ago,

I said to roy friend Joe — I beg your pardon, His
Majesty Francis Joseph — ' There are matters of
greater importance in your Empire than whether a
Hungarian may be represented in Parliament in
Hungary, or whether he comes up to Vienna to
have a voice in the Imperial Parliament there; for
who cares what Hungarians do any way when you
come down to it ? '"

The murmur of approbation this time was threaded
with a slight hum of disapproval. Hearing the latter,
the Count coughed and continued : " But I see weare
on dangerous ground, and I may say that this
is a question of neither Austrians, Barbarians, nor
Hungarians, but — Americans." (Frantic cheers.)
Although not born in this happy land, timely expatriation
from my own noble country has gained forme
here the double right of naturalization and citizenship.
I am proud to call myself an American — "
(screams of " Bravo ! " and thunders of applause) —
and my interest in her birth, history, progress, and
well-being, is as deep as my interest in my own
individual birth, history, progress, and well-being."

At this Mrs. Chromo, who had gradually recovered
from the effects of her emotion, rose hastily, and
waving a delicate point-lace handkerchief, cried :

Before we go any further, I propose three cheers
for the most noble Count of Marcie and D'Orbach,

who, out of a pure love for the people and institutions
of America, has waived all those hereditary rights,
castles and lands belonging to his ancestors, and has
set aside royal friends and more royal associates, to
make himself a plain everyday citizen of our great
and glorious Republic."

While she was yet standing, the whole assembly
arose and united in a triple " Hip, hip, hurrah ! " for
the Count of Marcie and D'Orbach. The latter
bowed repeatedly to right and left, whilst Mrs.
Chromo sat down and had her well-gloved five and
three-quarters vigorously shaken in congratulation
by those in her immediate neighbourhood who
could practically express their appreciation of this
last able and felicitous motion. The Count still
had the floor, and the hubbub having somewhat
subsided, he addressed his concluding words to the
assembly :

Having, as an American, individually America's
interest at heart, and although my wish may be as
great, if not greater than any one's present, not only
to establish but to maintain that interest, I would
not for worlds that words of mine, however warm,
should fall short, by one single intonation or degree
of heat, of that convincing eloquence which should
uphold anew not only America's present rights, but
her inherited rights and traditions. Even knowing

and feeling as I do ; longing, even bursting as I am
to defend this great country, I realize that if ever
in her life America needed an eloquent and able
defender, she needs that defender now. Ladies and
gentlemen; I sacrifice myself to the situation, and
yield the parole to the only man on this or any other
continent I deem worthy of it, to our most honoured
President, Professor Protoplasm, M.A.S.L.C."

Professor Protoplasm arose amidst prolonged
cheering. The room at this time had somewhat the
appearance of the Senate at Versailles, when France's
war debt to Germany was paid, and Gambetta hailed
M. Tiers as the Saviour of his country. With a
happy instinct the young pianist seated at the piano
broke into an impromptu of " See the conquering
hero comes," while the Professor, pale and much
affected by the spontaneous outburst that had
followed the mention of his name, stood nervously
at the President's desk, anon gently wiping his forehead
with a yellow silk handkerchief; anon rubbing
his glasses, with that material foresight which always
suggests grave if not strained mental pre-occupation.
Men with elaborate study of a single glass have
often been known to keep the entire House of
Commons at bay for a quarter of an hour ; saving
nations perhaps, whilst they were only reflecting on
a yesterday's indigestion, or the folly of to-day's

income tax ; but Professor Protoplasm was not gaining
time by paltry subterfuge, he was really and
truly pondering the weighty question at stake; and
as the last chords of " See the conquering, etc,"
died away with their accompanying salvoes of applause,
the distinguished man opened his mouth and
began to speak.

"Before proceeding any further," he said, "and
while thanking you all most profoundly for the great
honour you have bestowed upon me, and it is indeed
rare, for ' Nemo prophets in patria,' I wish, while
gratefully accepting the grave responsibility thrown
upon me, to disclaim any special qualification for this
honour, beyond a little learning and the practice
which the habitual discussion of serious questions
has long imposed upon me. Our friend the Count
has been far too modest ; and although I benefit by
his modesty, I must preface my remarks with an
ardent although too unworthily expressed eulogy, not
only on the talents, and the natural gifts, but on the
wonderful and miraculous culture with which this
gifted man has supplemented them. Everything
is relative in America; we all work, because our
tradition is work, and we cannot specially esteem
men who do only what they have been brought upto
do, and in fact who do only what they know how
to do. They have no other idea than work. But

for a nobleman brought up with old world traditions
and responsibilities the question becomes a very
different one. Lord Macaulay has specially remarked
that ' Industry and a taste for intellectual pleasures
are peculiarly respectable in those who can afford to
be idle, and have every temptation to be dissipated.'
The Count can afford to be idle, aud has every
temptation to be dissipated."

With these words the Professor gave a side glance
at the ladies aud locked down. "But," he went on,
instead, he is the hardest-worked man in New
York. His name, with that of my friend our hon.
treasurer, Mr. Florestan, heads half the charitable
and philosophic societies in the city. He has as
great a power in the social as in the philanthropic
world. His protection of artists in every profession
and of every degree, has earned for him not only
individual benedictions, but more than this, the proud
title of New York's Maecenas. Not more valuable
were those counsels given to the city of Athens, when
presumptuous Phryne's offer was so subtly rejected,
than are the counsels which the Count has so wisely
and generously bestowed in his multiple positions
in Gotham, standing as he does at the head of
her multiple inhabitants."

The Professor paused an instant and studiously
wiped his glasses ; he then continued :

"That the Count could have handled this subject
better than myself none of us can for a moment
doubt, and I feel, as he did, his difficult position. I
am also positively of opinion that the shock which
our honoured sister, Mrs. Chromo, has received —
Sister Chromo, a refined, delicate, and sensitive
woman — not alone crushes the j:>ast and present, but
the future. I feel that it is no longer a question
of an Empire, but of a Great Republic; as my
distinguished friend said, ' It is not a question
of Austrians, Barbarians, or Hungarians, but — of
Americans.' "

The Professor stopped. Whilst the room re-echoed
to prolonged cheering, he turned to take a drink of
water, but one pathetic glance into the empty pitcher
reduced to this condition by the recent very natural
emotion of Miss Chances-Cressy, caused him hastily
to withdraw his hand, and without refreshment recommence
his defence of Columbia. In the meanwhile
the word was sent hastily down the line, and
a fresh supply of iced water was speedily commanded,
whilst the speaker patiently resumed :

There may be many people in this ignorant world
for, as I have always said, the world in general,
alas ! is very ignorant — I repeat, there may be many
people to whom the question which we are just debating
would have come home without the slightest

emotion ; but you or I, or any enlightened person, can
well understand and appreciate Sister Lucy Chromo's
shock on hearing that Columbus did not discover
America. Professor Longfellow tells us that it is
no matter who does a good thing, provided that a
good thing is done. But I don't agree with him ; in
this case it does matter a very great deal. I'm sure
I represent the sentiments of every man, woman, and
child, in this great country when I say that individually
we all distinctly desire that Columbus
himself and none other should have discovered
America. I am sure no one will have the heart to
ask me why, but without asking I think I can tell
the why and wherefore, and that, too, without any
very elaborate struggle. In the first plate, 
killed and kills most people, but
it did not kill Columbus. We all know what a brute
Charlemagne was, and how he ill-treated his two
wives ; and all remember how Napoleon trod upon
poor Josephine ; and there are countless similar
examples which I need not name, all of which, alas !
hold up great names to the light of particular reprobation
; but who can cast one blighting shadow upon
the personal name or fame of Columbus? I ask
you who can do this ? Echo answers, ' No one ' — ' not
one ! ' We have all heard of his boyish fancies and
flighty tricks ; of his toying with the egg ; and even

of the royal dissension and squabbles occasioned by
his precocity and prescience of mental capacity ; but
if any one knew anything against Columbus he had
the decency never to say it, and the discoverer was
one of the few great men upon whom the superhuman
progress of a precocious civilization can cast
no slur. Shall I tell you the truth ? I, too, had
heard this doubt of Columbus hinted at years since ;
but although devoted to the pursuit of historical and
scientific research, still cherishing, as I do, a few
illusions, I would have been ashamed to have pushed
this matter any further, and I took very good care
not to let it prey upon my mind. I, too, had heard
of a Chinese priest, a millennium or two since, who
lived for forty years away from his own country, and
then returned and presented a few books of travel,
maps, and things to China, and led this tea-pot
Empire to believe that during his little trip he had
discovered new continents. Experts, not satisfied with
the noble Genoese and what they know, descant on this
fanatic and what they don't know, and try to prove
that whilst revelling in mystic Buddhist rites and
antique religious orgies, he was engaged in the noble
pastime of bringing new worlds to light. Snobbish
]Sew Englanders, not satisfied with a Puritan descent
of four hundred years in a direct line, have raked up
another story about Scandinavians having discovered

America in the year 900, and of most of these people
with old Odin in person having settled— naturally
at Boston, Massachusetts, and thereabouts. Well,
of course, I know that few Americans are content to
date their ancestry back to 1492, and that the units
belonging to the year 900 make a much more respectable
figure on the escutcheon of any family
coat of arms ; but all these statements, memoranda,
or other documenta which a curious and invidious
world has seized upon and regretted out, are, alas !
only suppositions, and not facts : for certain people
have not the gift of building, but the art of tearing
down.

It is a very odd coincidence, but in traditions of
all countries there rests the universal doubt as to
their birth; and this same ignorance is noticeable
as to people and to races. No one can tell exactly
who was the first Frenchman, the first Italian, the
first German, or the first Russian ; but all the world
knows or ought to know who was the first American ;
and I repeat, the birth of different countries, with
the exception of our own. is scarcely more authentic.
Who can fix on any one man and say he discovered
Russia, or Africa, or Asia ; but every one knows that
Columbus discovered America, as we have positive
and documentary evidence as to that fact. Most
countries have a great many traditions to go on

with ; America has very few. She begins her career
with the square-toed tradition of Columbus ; she
follows it up with that of Pocahontas and Captain
John Smith — the story of Heinrich Hudson, and Rip
Van Winkle's sleep of twenty years — George Washington
and the immortal cherry-tree ; and while I
am uj:>on that subject — destroy the tradition of
Columbus, and where would America be ? Destroy
the tradition of that cherry-tree, and where would
Washington be ? Shall the blighting breath of research
in one fell aspiration doom not alone a
country, but two of that country's noblest names ? "

Loud cries of " No, no ; never," rang over the
house ; at the same time a pitcher of iced water was
handed up, and the Professor, during the momentary
enthusiasm, perennially excited by the dual mention
of America and that cherry-tree, seized the opportunity
to refresh himself with a prolonged drink, and
then continued :

I say, were any of these traditions to be destroyed,
the fabric of American: civilization would shatter
in its structure, as a house goes to pieces whose
foundation stones have been removed. I am the
first man in the world to urge research in every
possible branch — historical, scientific, philosophical,
and philanthropical ; but on this point, men and
women of New York — I may ray of America — take

my advice, leave the path which idiotic research
strews with shattered idols as the autumn wind
strews the autumnal path with leaves; continue on
in the wide roadway of ancient tradition and customs ;
and as President of this society, I distinctly set my
foot down against any further sifting or elucidating
of this Columbus matter. If research were only a
disease that could be cured by physic, or science an
excrescence which when too prominent could be cutaway
by a surgeon's knife, then I say the world
might still be saved. My friends, a few more words,
and I have concluded. This world is a very good
world ; there haven't been as many mistakes made in
its whole get-up as people imagine. Believe me, it
is altogether a clever world, and the whole American
scheme is all in all a good one. We are naturally a
polite peo t le ; we do not gratuitously hurt the feelings
of any brother nation; but you needn't tell me
that the Old World, even financially speaking, would
have been very clever to have left this great, this
valuable country, so long undiscovered. Every century
since Homer sang ballads in the streets has produced
its Columbus : but what kind of Columbus were
they ? And as t j the Old World, why, my friends,
the Old World, too, is no such fool as she looks
compared with this leaping, surging civilization. I
ask you, What does the Old World live on ? Her

new-fangled ideas? — No; her traditions. Does she
shatter her idols? — No. Will those idols shatter?
No. Should those idols shatter ? — Distinctly, indubitably
No. But we — we, a young race — what are
we doing ? With a mistaken idea of progress and
truth, we spend our time shattering our idols.

I repeat, the Old World may not be as quick as
the New — perhaps not as clever — but it certainly is
more artificial than ours ; more dodge, more out and
out malicious. Catch England, Russia, Prussia, or
Austria, letting the liodit of a too strong research
upon their civilization. The day they do it they
are doomed ; people as well as time-honoured institutions
— especially the first-named. But let us
speak of England. Shall we, the sole speakers of
her language, the unique inheritors of her race, the
younger sons of the mother country, inherit the vices
and none of the prejudices of our ancestors? Shall
we be less crafty, less clever, less patriotic than she ?
Shall we uproot the few solid, indisputable, unimpeachable
traditions we have, and denude our houses,
homes, and country of the only things which add
to their lustre and greatness? My friends, beware
of indecent haste in research ! Individuals may lookup
any family heritage, lands, titles, privilege, and
estates, but if America wants to hold her head up
amongst other nations, to wear the purple of a

VOL. II. p

corrupted but agreeable civilization, let her beware
the demon progress. Let her limit her historical research
as she does her Chinese immigration, and
then the American Eagle will with time flap more
immortal wings than Jupiter soaring perennially in
space from the heights of ancient Hymettus. My last
words are these : — The villain America Yespuccio
has robbed the modest Genoese of the honour of
lending his name to the land he discovered ; let
not ungrateful Americans — I should even call them
Columbian — add to the dastardly combination of
stripping from that inspired head those dearly-earned
laurels so universally bestowed on the great, virtuous,
and irreproachable Columbus."

When the Professor finished there was not a dry
eye in the house. Silent emotion burst its narrow
confines, and the room re-echoed to long, enthusiastic
cheering; the Professor's hand was nearly shaken
off. Not alone he, but every one was congratulated
on the speech; — the President and Committee on
such a Society — the Society on such a President and
Committee. On a motion of Mrs. Chromo's, the
lyric stars furnished an interim of delightful music ;
and on a second motion of Mr. Florestan, the vexed
question of Columbus was to come before the meeting
that very day, and then be set at rest for ever,
or until such time as the President and members

should by unanimous consent agree to again occupy
themselves with it.

Let us strike while the iron is hot," said Mrs.
Chromo, " and settle it now." She spoke excitedly,
and her enthusiasm was so infectious that Florestan's
motion was carried by storm on the spot; it was
decided that while the name of Columbus would beheld
in as great reverence as heretofore, the question
of whether or no he discovered America, should rest
tabooed for ever in the society's discussions.

The President rose and spoke a few more words ;
and without the length of red tape usually unwound
on such occasions, the subject was dismissed, and the
affair pigeon-holed — perhaps for eternity. After the
discussion of a few minor matters, the meeting
broke up into a delightful conversazione, which terminated
in a banquet whose sumptuousness would
have inflamed Lucullus's heart with envy.

Before the company were seated the Count came
graciously towards Enilda.

"Dear Miss Rozen," he said, "permit me to
present to you our } r young American Prima Donna,
Signora Forestii."

Oh," interrupted the Artist, looking sweetly at
Enilda, "perhaps you will remember me better by
my name of Ida Forrester."

Enilda slightly flushed ; the moment was a critical

P 2

one — but audacity usually triumphs. She cordially
held out her hand.

I do remember you," she said ; "we were at
school together in Chicago. Let me thank you for
your beautiful singing, and wish you success in
your career."

Even Ida could not refrain from bestowing a
momentary glance upon the Count.

Permit me," said the latter, offering his arm to
Enilda, and they seated themselves at the festive
board. At that moment a band of music struck up.

Dear me ! " said Mrs. Chromo to Florestan, who
sat on her right; "dear me, how well that music
sounds! I must say that I like it at dinner; not
that I can eat more, but I can eat better."

CHAPTER XII.

Charlotte Corday was not exactly happy in
her new home. She had everything that heart
could wish for, and yet something was lacking : that
something was to be back asrain on the old farm
at Laramie. There she was mistress and a very
queen ; here she was not only a servant, but, worst
of all, a negro. She had never felt her blackness
so much before as now, for she was the only coloured
woman in the house, and although Enilda desired
and commanded that she should be treated with
every respect, still wishes and commands were alike
disobeyed, and Charlotte was made to feel not alone
her insidious complexion, but her isolated position.

Enilda had made Charlotte Corday a sort of
housekeeper, but she remained so only about twelve
hours. First one servant then another declared
they wouldn't be bossed by any carrie wench."
The chef at the outset, being a Parisian, and like

most Frenchmen used to calling blacks Brazilians,
did not at all object to Charlotte's position; but
New York is democratic, not republican, and now ina
fair way to becoming Hibernian. Most of the
help is Irish, and who ever has known a descendant
of Curran to mix with " augurs " ? Charlotte's
unpopularity became patent, when, like the faithful
servant she was, she not alone ruled the household,
but tried to check waste in the kitchen, and bring
before her mistress's eyes the style of creature the
New York domestic was — her extravagancies, her
airs, her graces, her lies, and general unvarnished
impudence. One after another had given notice,
left, and had been replaced, until finally Mr. Rozen
took things in hand ; relegated Charlotte Corday to
an upper story — gave her not alone a separate
table, but a separate hour for meals. The chef at
first obligingly cooked these repasts with the regular
bill of fare, but afterwards charged extra for them,
as his wife pointed out to him that their son would
soon need to be sent to Oxford, and one was not
always chief cook to a Rozen or to a Khedive.
Charlotte had scored once ahead of a first chambermaid
— chambermaid is the name given all housemaids
in America, while the article known here as
the fatal still-room-maid, in Gotham rejoices in the
appellation of M second help." Charlotte Corday had

assisted at the engagement of these nymphs, and
her blood boiled even now when she called to mind
the catechism they had put her dear Miss Enilda
through.

Was there a bath-room with shower-bath and
spray ? Was there hot and cold water in the bath ?
Was the tub of silver or zinc ? Were their friends
free to dine every day ? Was the house High
Church or Low — protestant or Catholic ? Was their
plate real, or only ' a Roger's combination ' ? Did
1 Miss ' dine at one or at seven ? What families did
Miss Rozen frequent in New York ? What 
did she frequent in summer-time, &c. &c.
&c. Why did the last chambermaid leave ? Were
the drains healthy ? And how often in the month
could the maids spend the evening at the opera ? "

These arid many other questions had been put to
Enilda. In the Old World the mistress of the house
usually goes through this domestic catechism, butin
the New one the thing is not the same. There
a servant must be on her dignity. In a land of
freedom she considers herself not only as good as
anybody else, but better than most people. Pamela's
destiny was poor compared to that which the American
slavey marks out for herself. She comes to America
with principles of equality, and for aim the White
House. Her starting-point is Queenstown, her goal

if not the Senate, at least the House of Representatives
at Washington.

Charlotte had assisted with rage at several intimate
servant-hall scenes; the last chambermaid, Agnes,
betrothed to one of the New York common council,
and a rising young politician, had not exceeded the
limits of her position, but she had been uncommonly
impolite, and the negress could not brook personal
attack.

One afternoon Enilda and her father were sone to
the Park. Agnes, in a blue velvet dress copied after
one of Enilda's, sat in the drawing-room playing the
piano, and entertaining her lover, who was smoking
a cigar with his heels on a little papier-mace table ;
one of the few articles of furniture, by the way,
Charlotte doted upon. Coming into the room to
look for one of her mistress's lace handkerchiefs left
that morning on the "grand," she beheld fair Agnes
mistress not alone of the situation, but the handkerchief,
and in a moment of forgetfulness called her
peremptorily to order.

Agnes responded, " Black wench, let up. You
know if your skeleton were strung and set a-going
the back-bone would be a series of links, put together
like the rings in a monkey's tail. You are
not a human being, but — "

Then Charlotte Corday, if she'd Lad a pocketknife,

would have come very near to her famous
namesake ; the member of the common council also
had an occasion to distinguish himself, which, like
most of that honourable body, he ignore!. It was
the chance of his life, and he didn't take it. Instead
of fleeing he remained and took the part of "Agnes
of Killarney." A row ensued ; the house was in an
uproar, and when the sun set on Staten Island
the politician was preparing for flight, and Agnes
for a week of swelled forehead and black eyes ;
explained in foreign diplomacy as the result of a
coup d'air.

After that there wasn't a nook or cranny which
Charlotte didn't daily look into, or a thing in the
house she didn't look after. She even penetrated
to Mr. Rozen's private "den," and on one occasion
went so far as to attempt putting his papers in
order. This he soon vetoed however, and the poor
negress found that she had little place in the realm
where she was wont to be the ruler. Enilda was
kinder than ever, but her time was constantly occupied.
There were none of the long talks that made
her so happy at Laramie ; no consultations overdresses
— that was with the new maid Melbourne ;
only a little good-day now and then, a hasty tap
on the shoulder, or a quick affectionate kiss on
the withered dark cheek, followed by as quick a

good-bye." Charlotte Corday's eyes lost their lustre,
and her lips their once stereotyped grin ; a wan smile
sometimes played over her features, as sunlight
occasionally falls across a hidden mountain cavern,
but this lighting-up was almost as rare as the lighting
up with Bengal lights of the Roman Coliseum.
She never told her grief; only a settled melancholy
cast its sombre veil over her dusky features, —
she went about like a shadow, and shunned the
neighbourhood of her fellows as a ticket-of-leave
man shuns the neighbourhood of the Old Bailey.

The day following the Chromo-literary meeting,
Charlotte, thinking over and dreaming of the past,
conceived the idea of looking once again at her dead
mistress's portrait. She couldn't find the one which
Enilda always had in her room, and after a vain
search up-stairs, decided to go down to Mr. Rozen's
private study, where she hoped she might come
across it.

Enilda was spending the day w T with Flora, and as
little Cyril was taking tea and dining with them,
the negress knew she w r ould not be disturbed for
some time, and could enjoy the luxury of her reminiscences
with all the solitude which such a perusal
of life's pages required. She suited her actions to
her thoughts, and went cautiously to Mr. Rozen's
apartment.

This latter was a series of small rooms on the first
floor back of the drawing-room, and to the left of
the conservatory. They were fitted up in the usual
way with desks, lounges, book-cases, and sofas ; but
their quality and arrangement savoured more of a
lady's boudoir than a man's " den." A dressing-room
opened out of the principal chamber ; there were no
doors, only alcoves, and the arches were hung with
the thickest of tapestry curtains. The walls even
were padded, for Mr. Rozen was a light sleeper, and
so nervous that he could not bear to hear a sound
from the outer world. The silence was profound.
A clock on the mantel-piece marked, but did not
tell the time, for so far as mortal ears could affirm,
it neither struck nor ticked.

Charlotte found the one door to the study open,
an unusual occurrence, which she was too pensive
to notice. She passed through, closing it mechanically,
then went to Mr. Rozen's table and began
looking about for the picture. She searched in vain,
then examined book-shelf and bracket, still it did
not turn up. It was getting dark, and the last
gleams of a purple twilight rent a sinister reflection
back of one curtain, evidently through a window
looking on the side-street; otherwise the room was
robed in shadow, and by some mysterious combination
of material and spiritual sympathy, its sadness

lent itself to peculiar harmony with Charlotte Corday's
spirit.

She sank deep in a chair and began again to think
over the past, when the idea of seeing her dead
mistress's face so possessed her, that she determined
to find the picture if it were in the room. She
jumped up and conceived the notion of searching
for it in the compartments of the writing-desk ; and
without reflecting on the strangeness of her proceedings,
finding them unlocked, began one after the
other to ransack them.

She had opened a fourth and fifth when she
heard a man's voice in the outer hall. Her first
thought was flight, but where to go ? Hastily
closing the drawer she ran wildly about, and finally
flun* herself into the dressing-room, whose alcove
curtains were an ample, if momentary, refuge. She
had but just ensconced herself behind their friendly
folds and lay crouching on the floor, when she heard
a second voice, and the study-door precipitately open
and close. The first speaker was her master, the
second she could not at first recognize.

Charlotte was, strange to say, one of those servants,
rare enough, perhaps extinct, now-a-days, who had
never listened at doors, and whose curiosity was
the least human thing in her composition ; for the
above reasons she felt her unnatural and unusual

position all the more bitterly. But how to avoid it ?
Had she come out boldly at first nothing would have
been thought of it. There was nothing Strong? in
being in her master's room, only that of late, reprimanded
for interfering with his papers, she had been
there so very seldom. There is a certain animal
instinct in the negro, and skulking behind trees,
chairs, doors, curtains, or any similar thing, is as natural
to them, one and all, as for a baboon to run up a tree.
Speak to a negro and he will look about to skulk,
leave him alone and he will do it instinctively.

Charlotte Corday hoped that her master and his
friend would only stop a moment, for it was not the
former's usual hour of coming to his study : she
hoped in vain; Mr. Rozen's words were the first to
assure her of that.

At least," he said, " we can talk here undisturbed."

His voice was not pleasant, and Charlotte thought
it even had a pitiful sound.

'•' I am seeing too much of you," he said, " of late.
I'm not in the best of tempers. Why do you come
to-day ? "

Then she heard the second respond :

Are you crazy, or playing with fire ? Can't you
see that Florestan — "

Charlotte Corday held her breath. Florestan, — ah,
she knew all about him.

Rozen laughed a short hard laugh.

I guess you're crazy. What can he do ? "

But you forget that he's helping Arundel."

"Ah! is that so? Mr. Vane had better lookout,"


This time the other laughed, and spoke a few
words which made Charlotte Corday's breath come
so fast she was afraid that they would hear it ; the
curtains seemed to stir with its force. " Oh," she
thought, — "the shame of spying on my beloved
master ! "

Rozen spoke again.

Why should you bother ? No one on earth can
hear us. These walls wouldn't betray the wildest
ravings of a lunatic."

Ah, yes ; your nerves are so bad."

D— d bad."

You don't sleep well ? How different from me,
and yet — "

Then followed more talking. The words grew
stronger, the voices louder. At last things were
said which made poor Charlotte Corday wish herself
in her grave rather than to have heard them. Once
her heart beat so loudly that she felt she must be
discovered. It gave a jump, and seemed to leap
through the silk of her kerchief into her throat, she
seemed to hear the silk tear.

What's that ? " said Rozen. " I thought I heard
some one sigh."

He arose quickly and walked about. Charlotte
could have screamed from very anguish.

"Your nerves are bad, my friend. My ears are as
good as any one's, — I heard nothing."

Rozen replied strangely :

"I must assure myself there is no one here."
Then he went towards the dressing-room, hastily
threw back one curtain, peered in, but seeing nothing
seemed satisfied, and returned to his seat.

Charlotte was saved. Her master had lifted one
curtain in such a manner that she was only more
completely enveloped by the other. She began to
breathe freely. At last she discovered that one edge
of the tapestry was pulled away from the alcove,
leaving a slender aperture through which she could
not be seen, but could perfectly well see both the
faces of her master and his visitor. The latter,
however, was absolutely unknown to her. Mr. Rozen
began talking, while she studied the stranger's countenance.
It was a pale, handsome face, innocent of
beard, with a clear frank expression ; an adorable
look of candour in the eyes appealed very strongly to
Charlotte, who, as she looked at him, kept repeating
to herself, " That is a man I could never forget. I'd
know him, golly, I would, I'd recognize that ere

pliisamahogany if I didn't strike it for a thousand
years to come." Once he dropped his burning eyes
suddenly, and lifted them quite as suddenly in her
direction. A cold chill ran over her, and made the
roots of her hair prickle into her head with very
terror; it seemed as if he must have seen her.
Now-a-days it was not a question of flogging, of
going without her hoe-cake, or being shut up on
bread-and-water ; she was no longer a slave ; she was
free, but she knew her master and feared his quick
temper and stern nature ; what would he do to her
were he to find her, of all others, hidden and playing
the spy on him in his own private apartment ?
Mr. Rozen spoke again, got up, lit a cigar, and
walked excitedly about the room. If Charlotte's soul
had sickened at the thought of her own equivocal
position, it grew still more faint on listening to her
master's words, for he poured them forth with such
volley and rage that it seemed as if the very windows
rattled at the sound of his voice. What was she
hearing ? Great God ! Had it come to this ? Her
very breath seemed to stop from emotion, and yet
the man to whom her master had addressed these
words alone sat calm and evidently unmoved. At
last he spoke.

Let me interrupt you," he said ; " and — give
me a cigar. What's the use of going over that

old ground ? Were you a child, or your own
master ? "

Rozen made no reply.

The thing is not what is past," he continued,
with calm deliberation ; " but two things to be considered
are — "

11 To-day and tomorrow," interrupted Rozen.

Precisely," continued his visitor, puffing at his
cigar with eminent satisfaction. "You worry, fuss,
and fret, but you don't suggest any remedy. What
am I to do about it ? — or rather what is Vane todo
about it ? "

"Drop that name here," said Rozen, angrily;
only tell me, what is it you want now, and let us
get to the end of this business as soon as possible."

His visitor smiled. * A cheque for fifty thousand
to-day," he said ; " the last transaction to be put
absolutely and wholly in my name, and — "

"You're modest' said Rozen, sarcastically. "Is
that all ? "

"No, that's not all; a man must be put out of
the way."

Ah ! " Rozen gasped. " What do you mean ? " he
said in a husky voice ; " not — not Arundel surely ? "

No ; not Arundel."

Rozen stopped abruptly, and knocked the ashes
from his cigar.

VOL. II. Q

I don't understand you," he said.

No ? Well, suppose I should say Mr. Florestan."

Rozen started, and his face grew as white as his
wristbands.

You are a fiend incarnate," he cried. " Do you
think all the world as bad as yourself? Oh that
I should have fallen so low ! " Then he raised his
voice, and began again in a vehement strain :

Why do I ever look at you again ? A murderer,
villain, and a scoundrel. Why don't I order you
from my doors this very minute? An end must
come some time, why— why not that end now?"
He threw away his cigar, and put his hand to his
breast-pocket as he spoke.

Charlotte could scarcely refrain from screaming
aloud.

u Why," said the other, excitedly rising and laying
a heavy hand on his arm — "why, hem ! because
you're not a fool, Mr. Rozen, any more than I am.
You are playing a great game; comparatively all
in your own hands; you needn't fling hard words
at me because you're evidently suffering from indigestion."


"An indigestion of Pacific Mail in particular,"
said Dozen shortly ; " and — life in general."

"Well." continued his visitor, "you persist in
looking upon me as your enemy, when I'm your

friend. Come now, let's talk business ; I've a
dearer head than you have, Rozen, although I
mayn't have as clear a record, and I say, once for
all, will you get rid of the man Florestan?"

No."

Will you make out the last transaction in my
name ? "

No."

My friend, you're a foolish man. Your interest
may be mine, but up to a certain point, and when
you come down to it, it's a d — d sight more your
own than it can be anybody else's. Once I get — "

Once you get all the money you can out of me,
our pact is ended."

Perhaps."

What do you mean ? Let me tell you there are
no perhaps's that count. You asked just now for
money — fifty thousand dollars; — here take them," he
seized his cheque-book rudely ; " and there still is to
your credit — "

There is still to my credit — more than you think,
Mr. Rozen; you've had your say, now I'm going to
have mine."

Then followed words, if possible, hotter and more
violent than those which had so stirred Charlotte
at first. She still was crouched on the floor, her
limbs so stiffened by their stereotyped position, that

Q 2

she seemed paralyzed, and doubted her ability to
move, even were she to make the trial. Her burning
eyes were still fastened on the face of the strange
man who was speaking so strangely to her master.
His words grew hotter and hotter, whilst Rozen
retaliated with equal heat and invective; finally,
the latter started up with a great cry, and stretching
out his hands said :

"No; once for all, no: take your cheque and
leave me. I don't doubt the truth of all you say,
nor the advisability of what you suggest. I hate
him like poison, but I love her and — "

Well, at least send her away, and leave the rest
to me, since you're so chicken-heart ed."

Rozen raised his head, and a gleam of relief broke
over his face. " I can do that," he said eagerly.
She said she wanted to go to London this spring ;
now if what you say is going to happen is true, the
sooner the better."

Ah ! that sounds more like it. Now I must
leave you; had we better go out together, by the
way—"

No," said Rozen sullenly. " Let yourself out as
you came in, by the street-door; I shall go to my
window and watch for you. When I see you on the
opposite corner, then I shall leave the room."

Mr. Rozen's visitor took up his hat, his gloves, his

cheque, and threw away his cigar. " When shall I
see you again ? " he said, preparing to go.

Well, I suppose you'll send one of your usual
messengers, and the torn visiting-card seems to have
worked very well so far. Good-bye, and reflect on
what I've told you."

Without a word Rozen got up and went to the
window, and his visitor departed so silently that
he seemed to fade from before Charlotte Corday's
very eyes. The room was in deep obscurity, yet she
could see her master standing at the window. He
withdrew the curtains, and for some moments looked
silently into the street, but he dropped them
suddenly, and came towards the door of his dressing-room
; then he stopped again, and went towards his
table.

No," he muttered ; " I'll lock up the things and
leave the cursed place ; every time he comes here he
seems to taint it with new infamy. Until I met him
I was an honest man." With that he closed the desk,
and after a hurried glance around, left the apartment.

Once sure that he was well away, Charlotte Corday
thought of leaving her hiding-place. A cry escaped
her as she moved, and yet another, for her poor old
limbs were aching in every joint. She felt faint and
giddy, her head swam, and as she walked, the room
seemed to reel about her. What she had seen and

heard, although so recent, was like visions of a nightmare.
She let herself out this time without even
thinking she limit meet Mr. Rozen face to face in
the next chamber, and with difficulty made her way
towards her own apartments ; however, her strength
gradually failed her, and as she reached Enilda's
door, with a sudden inspiration of coming evil she
hastily turned the knob and entered.

Enilda was seated at her dressing-table, but she
started up quickly and went towards her. " Charlotte,"
she cried; "what on earth is the matter?
Are you ill ? "

I 'specs I am, honey child," she cried ; " I guess
I'm going to Kingdom come, sure" — and she fell
headlong on the floor at her young mistress's feet.

CHAPTER XIII.

Three weeks after Mr. Rozen's reception of his
strange visitor, a great ocean steamer was just
putting into Liverpool. Enilda, Flora, and Charlotte
Corday were amongst the passengers ; there were
besides the usual crowd of human beings, representing
from most civilized and many uncivilized races.
English and American however predominated, and
there was an Anglo-saxon hum which would not
have discredited Broadway in May, or Rotten Row
on a June morning. The deck was a constantly
going and coming throng, opera-glassed and carpet-bagged.
American women — I beg their pardon,
ladies — had donned smart frocks in silk or cloth, for
the final disembarkment, whilst the men sported tall
hats and new frock-coats, handkerchiefs with conspicuous
initials, and gloves whose purity would not
have been amiss at a Trinity Church wedding.
English women and men, wearing their customary

daily travelling dress, looked askance at their companions,
so suddenly blossomed out into birds of
exceptional feather, and with wondering eye took in
the new and elaborate articles of wearing apparel
thus suddenly sprung upon them by their cousins
and Trans Atlantic neighbours. There is an old
Italian proverb, probably of Latin origin, before
that Greek, and before that — pre-historic, which
says : " Dimmi con chi tu vai, e ti dire chi sei." The
American translates thus : "Show me the clothes you
wear, and I will tell you who you are." Landing
in England for a first, second, or even one hundredth
time, he has no intention of appearing at a disadvantage
in so small a matter as the above-named.

Enilda, as American in this as she was in
appearance, smartly-dressed, stood in the companion-way,
talking with an English lady whose acquaintance
she had made but two days previously; for the
Trans Atlantic steamer is a world in which everyday
of its trip from Liverpool to New York, or New
York to Liverpool, new denizens constantly appear,
as children put forth in a metropolis's poor quarter,
or blossoms come cut on the white hawthorn; no
one is surprised at these apparitions, when cabins
give up their sick, and the deck promenade daily
offers new physical attractions.

Enilda had spoken with the above-mentioned lady

several times. Twice their steamer-chairs had been
side by side, and once they had walked together up
and down the hurricane-deck ; but the acquaintance
had gone no farther, neither knowing the other's
name ; at least Enilda, up to the present, had
ignored that of her companion, and if her companion
knew hers, she had betrayed that knowledge by
no possible sign. From the first there seemed to
exist a strange sympathy between them, and as the
moment of separation arrived, Enilda expressed the
wish that they might meet again.

I am going to spend the season in London," she
said. u May I give you my card ? It would give
me the greatest pleasure to see you in the c gathering
place of souls.' " Saying which she tendered a little
card, which the lady without looking at slipped into
her pocket.

"I too," she replied cordially, " would be most
happy to meet you again. I have been to Canada
on a visit to a cousin; my health was so bad it
was thought a sea voyage would benefit me."

I do hope you are better."

Oh yes, I am another woman. I had a nasty
fall from my horse about a year ago, and feared atone
time that I should be an incurable."

Enilda murmured some words of polite sympathy.


My husband is coming aboard to fetch me," the
lady continued. " I must present him to you, and
you mustn't fail to look us up in Town. Don't forget
my name," and she smiled pleasantly — "Lady
Mildred Claremont, Allison House, Grosvenor
Square."

Lady Mildred Claremont. John Claremont's wife !
Enilda felt her heart stop beating ; and he — perhaps
at that very moment — was near her, standing on the
same deck with her ; — he — he of all men, and the
woman he had preferred to her was now her friend.
She herself had sought the acquaintance ; and at any
moment Lady Mildred might present her husband —
the man who had so nearly wrecked her life. Fate
was too cruel. She had feared perhaps they might
meet, but had never dared to think how — of the
where, nor when? And now — now it had come
about at a time when she least expected it, and
flight was impossible.

Is the world then so small ? " she thought. " And
I ! am I so poor, so weak a creature as still to care
for a man who treated me so basely ? "

She had little time for reflection. Lady Mildred
spoke again.

You look so very pale," she said ; " suppose we sit
down. Those revenue-officers are such a bore ! I
expect Mr. Claremont every moment — and, by the

way, if he can be of any service — men are useful
sometimes about luggage, etc."

Oh, thanks ! " said Enilda faintly. " I have my
courier and maids, so that I shall get on very well.
Pray don't think of troubling yourself."

I must know to whom I am speaking, however,"
said Lady Mildred politely, and she took Enilda' s
card from her pocket. At that instant a hand
touched her shoulder.

Mildred ! " said a deep, sweet voice. Enilda was
forgotten.

Oh John ! " she burst out. " Here you are, like
a dear to come so far; how do you find me
looking ? "

He kissed her lightly.

As fit as possible," he replied gaily. " Are your
traps all right — boxes and so on ? We are just going
ashore."

"You don't ask me anything about my health,"
she said reproachfully, " nor my trip. I have actually
been sea-sick, and didn't stir out of my cabin for
days."

How can I ask about your health when I see you
looking so jolly well ? "

She laughed. " Well, I was dull enough any way,
not knowing a soul aboard. I didn't come with
Aunt Chances-Cressy after all — and oh ! but I must

present you to a young lady who lias promised to
come and see us in Town."

She turned brusquely to Enilda, who had been too
staggered by the succession of fatalities to even think
of running away.

"It is evidently to be — it must come some time,"
she murmured. " Why not now as well as any
other ? "

Lady Mildred's voice was heard. She held the
card in her hand, whilst her husband, with an extremely
bored look, was standing at her side.

Miss Rozen," — began Lady Mildred.

John Claremont started violently, and an ashen
hue crept over his bronze cheek. He stood for an
instant without speaking. Dared he address her ?
Suddenly a wave of old time feeling swept over him.
In spite of himself he went forward eagerly. One
glance into Enilda's face decided him.

Surely I cannot be mistaken," he said. " Mildred,
do you know to whom you are presenting me ? None
other than the good Samaritan who saved my life
in America, Miss Enilda Rozen, in whose father's
house I was received and cared for after my accident.
I have never forgotten the debt I owe her."

The debt ! Enilda's heart cried shame. If he
were equal to the occasion she surely ought to
be.

She stretched forth a hand whose trembling at
best but he alone could notice.

Don't speak of it," she said lightly.

The world is indeed small. Whoever would have
dreamed of meeting you in this fashion ? "

Lady Mildred was full of enthusiasm : for an
Englishwoman her thanks were really demonstrative.
I have often thought about you," she said, " and
questioned my husband a dozen times about America
and his American friends, but he was as dumb as if
he had passed his time with savages on the plains,
and had not known a civilized person. But, upon
my word, if the truth were known, with the exception
of his illness I suppose he spent his time at balls and
parties, and flirted outrageously with every pretty
girl he saw. Tell me, didn't he ? You ought to
know."

John Clare mont's face darkened, and he looked
seawards.

"Shall I tell you the truth, Lady Mildred? It
ought to make you happy. I believe that's just what
he did ; flirted outrageously, and — you know the
more a man flirts the less serious it becomes ; at least
that's what we think in America."

Ah ! " said her ladyship, " you seem to know
all about it. Confess the truth, John, did you flirt with
Miss Rozen ? Oh, never mind," and she looked at

Enilda with an affectionate little glance, "it is one
case for which you are pardoned beforehand."

My dear Mildred," said Claremont harshly,
"I don't want to hurry you, but hadn't we better be
going ? — every one is leaving the steamer. I beg your
pardon, Miss Rozen, can I be of any service ? "

Oh, thanks, no," said Enilda very quickly, " I
have my servants with me, and my old nurse."

Charlotte Corday ? " he said eagerly.

Involuntarily his voice dropped as he pronounced
her name, for memory with invisible wings flew back
to a year ago ; to a rose-garden ripe with bloom and
beauty ; to a girl looking into his eyes, and plighting
her troth ; to the voice of an aged negress, murmuring
a benediction, accompanied by the wind which
stirred the trees' young leaves, and the purling sound
of a merry brooklet which ran on, ran ever, at the
foot of a garden wall. Enilda's voice interrupted :

Yes, dear Charlotte Corday " — then stopped
abruptly. She Alas going to say, " She will be glad
to see you again," when she checked herself, for she
well knew the contrary. " By the way, your arm ? "
she added ; " is it quite well ? " Lady Mildred
interrupted, tapping his coat-sleeve lightly. 'poor
old arm," she said ; " it isn't much good, is it, John ?
No more shooting ; no more fishing ; the best he
can do is to carry a stick or an umbrella, and write

an occasional scrawl to his wife whilst she is
away."

"Although now she has come back she won't need
it," said Enilda calmly. She remembered one letter
John Claremont had written; evidently his arm was
equal to that ; whilst he, looking in her face, wished it
had been paralyzed before it had ever penned those
lines — and yet, the least he could do was to tell her
the truth. A scraping sound was heard.

Ah, fairly in at last," said Enilda quickly. What
a relief that grating anchor was ! " With a big
steamer like this we are awfully lucky to catch the
tide. The last time I crossed the herring-pond, as
we call it, we were left away out; it was pouring
with rain, and there was the most dreadful confusion
and excitement. A mail-bag was lost overboard, and
we went ashore in such a filthy tug, that I was as
seasick, well — as I was when crossing the Channel
to go to Paris."

Ah ! " thought John Claremont, " then she has
been abroad ; has been to Paris."

My dear Enilda, what on earth has become of
you ? " cried Flora, breaking through the companion-way,
and coming towards them. " Charlotte Corday's
below crying her eyes out. And Arnold is civilly
enough trying to console her. Oh, I beg your
pardon, I hope I'm not interrupting. Isn't this too

perfectly elegant for anything ? It's just like New
York, only different. I can't understand a word the
people say rushing about here ; however, I suppose
this is the pure undefiled English of our ancestors."

Lady Mildred smiled pleasantly. " Do, Miss Rozen,
make me acquainted with your friend."

Flora bowed with becoming grace, shook Lady
Mildred's hand warmly, and gave Claremont's a most
decided grip. " It's very heathenish of you," she
said ; " I believe you've utterly forgotten me ! Don't
you remember we met at Mrs. Chromo's ? By the way,
she's coming over immediately with Miss Chandos-
Cressy — "

Miss Chances-Cressy — do you know her ? " interrupted
Lady Mildred ; " why, she is an aunt of mine,
that curiously enough I have never seen ; we were to
have met in America, in Canada."

You don't say," said Flora. " Well, I never ;
this is the oddest world for running up against
people. Do I know her ? Well, I should just shiver !
Does a child know its mother ? — dear old C.-C. ! "

A wondering expression stole over Lady Mildred's
face. " Why she was my — ahem ! — she was an old
friend of ours in Chicago," — Flora had very nearly
said, " my old schoolmistress," — " and some time ago
we all heard she came into a fortune; and that
she — " Flora was getting into deep water — "and

we were all tickled to death — not that she was poor
before, you know, but — " Flora looked desperately
around ; would no one help her out ?

Oh dear me, Miss Grayson," said Lady Mildred
with a musical little laugh, " it isn't any disgrace
to be poor in England. I've heaps of relations,,
cousins, and so forth, who haven't a halfpenny."

"Is it possible?" said Flora. "Well, it's a disgrace
in America, in New York, to be poor. People
would forgive it in you because you have a title ; — oh
I beg your pardon, Enilda, I must run down-stairs;
I've left my last new diamond ring beside the wash-basin.
I'm fairly fagged to death. Do you realize
that we've been prowling around in sight of land
these last four hours, getting in every minute and
yet never striking land ? "

I think we'd better have a glass of sherry before
we sro ashore," said Claremont.

Oh, a good idea," said Lady Mildred. " By the
way, Miss Grayson, you must come and see me in
Town ; and do tell me something more about my
aunt ; is she nice ? "

Whilst her ladyship was speaking they wended
their w r ay to the now almost deserted saloon. Half-a-dozen
stewards w T ere coming and going ; knots of
men and women were talking in corners; hand-bags,
shawl-straps, books, and parcels of various
VOL. II. E

descriptions encumbered the long dining tables. The
chief steward was making notes and memoranda;
ship acquaintances were exchanging cards, and the
half-emptied bottles of wine in their respective racks,
with the numbers of the cabins still hanging round
their necks, wore the air of general abandonment
usual to the situation. Enilda excused herself from
taking any refreshment, and acting on a sudden
impulse was about to say good-bye to Lady Mildred
and her husband. Flora had already forgotten herring,
and was clamouring for sherry.

'• Nonsense," said Lady Mildred ; " I can't hear of
saying good-bye now. We'll all go. ashore together ;
at least John must look after your luggage and see
you into a carriage. Are you going to stop in Liverpool,
or are you going straight on to London ? "

"There is no train to Town till 7.30," interrupted
John Claremont, " that, or the midnight express."

We're going to an hotel," said Flora quickly ;
"the north-western I believe they call it — pity we
can't go straight on to London. I suppose there's
nothing to be seen in Liverpool ? Now if it were a
one house town in America, they'd at least have a
new graveyard to spring on you."

My dear Flora ! " interrupted Enilda chidingly.
Oh, I forgot, I mustn't be American now, as Mr.
Pastor says ; by the way, Mr. Claremont, he's a cousin

of yours, isn't he? He's too lovely; — well, let me
inform you on the strict Q.T.," she said, lowering her
voice, " that he and I have just gone up together ;
he's my latest mash. Enilda, you needn't look
horrified, as this is probably the last chance I'll have
of speaking my mother tongue for some time. I'm
going to improve the shining hour; the fact is he
and I have been waltzing and conveying around
New York together till you can't rest. He's coming
over, — follows me in the next steamer at my special
invitation."

Claremont smiled, and Lady Mildred burst into
screams of laughter.

My dear," she said to her husband, " what does
she mean? Isn't it too delightful? Is this the
American language I have heard so much about ?
How odd it is," she added reflectively, " that English
people most always speak alike, so do Russians,
French, and Italians, and so on ; at least the general
intonation is the same; but I've known some
Americans, and I've noticed if a dozen people are
together in a room, each of the dozen will speak
differently — different phrases, different expressions;
in fact, each one has his own individual language.
Now, for instance, take Miss Grayson and Miss
Rozen."

"Oh, Enilda ain't a pure American," said Flora,

R 2

with marked disgust. "Even in America she's
supposed to give herself tremendous airs. Enilda,
you needn't be looking at me in that tone of voice,
for you know you do ; but as long as you're to be
my chaperone, I suppose it's just as well there
should be one serious person in the party. Oh ! I
forgot to tell you about your aunt, Lady Mildred ;
she's awfully nice ; and do you know what sh looks
like ? "

I confess I haven't an idea."

Well, I don't want to hurt your feelings, 'cause —
because, now I love her to death ; but she looks
exactly like the little old woman who lived in a shoe,
or — well, like a fairy godmother going to a Cinderella's
ball in a pantomime."

Lady Mildred flushed slightly. "What a very
singular description!" she said with a chilly voice,
But had we not better be going ? " she got up.

I should think so ! " said Enilda. " I must run
off to poor Charlotte ; or else she'll have a fit."

It suddenly struck her ladyship as odd that two
young women, well-born and well-bred, should becoming
to a great city like London without a
chaperone. She was not curious, she found Miss
Rozen charming, and being in complete ignorance
of one page in her husband's past, had stifled even
the momentary jealousy which came over her on

seeing her beautiful face, and realizing that Clare-moat
had passed so many days under her father's
roof — how many days, happily for her peace of
mind, she had never known. She determined to
question her husband again as soon as they were
ashore. Something, however, was wrong, for he had
spoken of this girl as a poor miner's daughter; still
that was nothing — American fortunes she knew were
made as they are lost, in twenty-four hours. It was
but natural that the poor miner of yesterday should
be the millionnaire of to-day. This girl was evidently
rich now. Lady Mildred found her manners as beautiful
as her face; and in virtue of the kindness her
husband had received at a moment when he most
needed it, determined to do all in her power to repay
that debt of gratitude. She did not see her way
clear just then, but she determined to make herself
so agreeable to the girl, that she could scarcely forbear
speaking of herself and where she intended to
stop in London. At that very moment Enilda appeared.


1 think I ought to tell you, Lady Mildred," she
said calmly, "that Flora and I are almost alone for
the present, although we shall only be so for a few
days. Papa thought he was coming with me, and
at the last moment had to let me start without him ;
isn't it annoying ? But we girls came on just the

same, and next week a New York friend arrives,
Mrs. Chrome, whom I think Mr. Claremont will
remember." He bowed heartily in the affirmative.
'papa has taken a large house, and we are all to
live together. Everything is arranged, it is ready,
and waiting for us now."

But, good heavens ! " said Lady Mildred, " you
two can't be going to live in a large house
alone ? "

"Really," said Enilda smiling, "and why not? I
remember — " She checked herself suddenly ; she
had very nearly said, " I lived alone for months at a
time in a small one at Laramie, and was alone in
the house with him for six weeks."

You can't go to an hotel," said Lady Mildred,
reflectively ; " so, I suppose, there is nothing for it
but you must go to your own place."

Oh ! we'll have a lovely time," interrupted Flora.
'•' Charlotte Corday is a good enough chaperone for
anybody; besides, I have a lady companion with
me who was with mamma even before I was born.
We'd utterly forgotten her, hadn't we, Enilda ? Ma
wouldn't come to Europe for a farm ; she knew she'd
die of sickness and have to be thrown overboard, so
I just chipped off on my own hook. Ma can trust
me anywhere. Besides, Enilda and I are like cats,
we always fall on our feet. London isn't so dreadful,

I guess, when you come down to it ; it's not much
bigger than New York, is it?"

Flora was irrepressible. Even Lady Mildred laughed
as she said, " 1 have scarcely seen New York, but I
think you'll find London big enough."

The chief steward came towards them; his errand
was plain enough. "Ah, so it's really good-bye to
the ship, and good-bye to you, Allan," she said
pleasantly ; " and thanks for adding so much to my
comfort." She nodded graciously as she went up the
companion-way for the last time.

There was the usual bustle the last moment before
going ashore ; hand luggage to be looked after, and
the famous diamond ring to be recovered, which,
in the heat of conversation, Flora had again forgotten.
Finally, everything was in order, and they
were really landed. A carriage was waiting on the
wharf for Lady Mildred, and one for Enilda thoughtfully
telegraphed for by her father, through his
London agent, who at that moment was about
boarding the ship to meet her. Enilda greeted him
coldly, and replied with infinite civility to his inquiries
after her father's health and her own
passage.

Dear me," said Lady Mildred cheerfully, " you
have enough people to look after you, Miss Rozen !
I think w r e had better dine, and go up to Town

together. My husband and I can look after yon,
and it will be much better than your going up by
yourselves."

Lady Mildred was not ordinarily so gracious ; she
was still striving to win her husband's love, and
could not think of a better way than by being
unusually civil to those for whom he had often professed
the sincerest regard. Enilda courteously
accepted the offer to go on to London together, but
positively declined the dinner, pleading a headache
and excessive fatigue; the day had been so long
and so — and so tiring.

No wonder," said Lady Mildred, " we've been on
the qui vive for hours, and I begin to feel the reaction
myself. Good-bye till we meet at the station later
on. John, just put me in the carriage, then I'll
wait for you while you look after Miss Rozen a bit.
There's such a noise and such a bustle on this quay,
I am feeling quite knocked up." John Claremont
lifted his hat, and walked away with his wife.

Ten hours later they were in London. " It is
too funny," said Lady Mildred as they separated at
Euston ; " it's too odd to think of you two girls going
alone to — but where did you say your house was ? "

"Park Lane," replied Enilda quickly, and she
ad<lcd the number.

"I shall look you up tomorrow," said her ladyship,

" if I feel equal to it; if I don't, I'll send John ;
you can give him a dish of tea, and talk over old
times. Oh ! he hasn't forgotten how to flirt," she
added laughingly ; " and I give him full liberty
with you ; he'll have every club man in London
deadly jealous before a week rolls over his head.
Good night ; you must not be dull ; we'll go to the
play together, and see about heaps of things all in
good time. And you," she said, turning pleasantly to
Flora ; " you seem as fresh as a daisy. I never
saw such spirits. What do you propose doing now ?
not sight-seeing I hope ? "

Well, I should remark," said Flora laughing,
my present intention, as Lady Mary Worsley would
have said, is to interview some ' chicken and champagne
' at the shortest order possible. I may look a
daisy, but I begin to feel like a trampled one ; and
as you said yourself in Liverpool — a trifle knocked
up."

She added this last with a very wry face. John
Claremont handed Enilda into the carriage. He
longed for one glance into her eyes. Would she look
at him? Since their meeting on the steamer she
had never once gazed full in his face, but had
persistently and' intentionally averted her eyes every
time his own had sought hers. At that instant the
old love that he had been trying so hard to master

rushed over him in one headlong tide. And she — had
she forgotten him ? He knew he had treated her
basely ; lie remembered the power he once held over
her, and with all a man's inconsistency and impatience,
he determined to know now, at once, if that
power were gone for ever. At that moment he
would have shrunk before no baseness could he but
have called her back to him ; " at least," he thought
to himself, " she shall look at me, if only for a
second," nd he grasped her hand at parting with
such a grasp that she almost recoiled at the touch,
but it had the desired effect.

She raised her eyes suddenly, and looked with a
burning passionate glance into his own. In that look
he was answered.

Good night," he said, suddenly dropping her hand.
Good night again, Miss Grayson," and the carriage-door
closed on his retreating form.

CHAPTER XIV.

Florestan had kept his word, having befriended
Arundel in every possible way, but he had done it
on condition that his name should not appear
in connection with the affair, at least any more
than was possible. After that first meeting they
had had a great many, Arundel each time appearing
with various letters and statements, none of
which, however, were sufficient in Florestan' s eyes to
legally condemn Vane. That he was morally guilty
he felt certain, and with regard to Mr. Rozen, having,
as he had, the highest respect for him, he hoped with
time that not only would he see his partner in
his true light, but that before long that partnership
would be dissolved. He had even contemplated conferring
with Rozen on the subject, but it was no light
matter without legal proofs, only upon moral convictions,
to brand a man in Mr. Vane's position with
so startling an infamy as that with which Arundel

branded him ; for were even a tithe of Arundel's
story true, not only was Mr. Vane the veriest wretch
unhung, but surely, in whatever way the law might
regard it, morally he had forfeited for ever the right
to have his hand shaken by an honest man. But the
proofs — ah ! there was the rub. Instead of gaining,
Arundel seemed almost losing ground. He had even
made one bold stroke, and had entered a suit for
recovery of certain rights and properties from Mr.
Vane, by virtue of an agreement entered into some
five years previously for the mutual working of
copper mines in the Lower California Valley; and if
that site proved unsuccessful, it was to be changed
to one in the Superior Country, where rich veins
were known to abound in the vicinity of the Great
Lakes.

Florestan had presented Arundel to a rising young
New York lawyer, a man of culture and talent, but
above all a successful man. His method was not
unlike that of professionals who enter any career for
which they think nature has specially gifted them.
John Harkins was a lawyer, a criminal lawyer if you
will, and he accepted his clients and their cases solely
through inspiration. He was one of the ablest men
at the New York bar, as far as law-lore goes, but
he trusted more to his intuition than even to his
practical or theoretical knowledge. Florestan had

explained all this to Arundel, and the lawyer, after
having heard every possible side of the story that
the latter could give, looked for some moments
thoughtfully into Arundel's face, then said briefly :

Very well, it's settled ; I'll undertake your case.
I don't deny," he continued, " we must trust to luck,
but I'm a fatalist — what is to be will be. The
evidence you have at present w T ould condemn no
mortal man."

But if you undertake the case," interrupted
Florestan.

If I get the money," said Arundel quickly, " I'll
give you half of every dollar of it ; I swear I will. I
don't care for money, but I do care for revenge. I'd
be willing to die a pauper to get even with that
man."

I hope you will," said Harkins, pleasantly, " but
nonsense about half the money. You shall give me
if I win what any one would give me for an ordinary
affair of the kind. Nothing if I lose, — that
settles it."

Some way, even with the scanty materials at
hand, Harkins had made out a case ; it had come to
trial, and failed. Mr. Vane, still absent in Europe,
had been represented by his own counsel, who were
not only legally employed, but holding a power of
attorney from Mr. Vane, represented that gentleman

even more absolutely. Not only had they conducted
their case very cleverly, but they had managed
with no little skill to throw such doubts upon the
plaintiff's sanity as to elicit from the presiding judge
public instruction that Mr. Arundel's mental health
be looked after. Mr. Rozen was not present at the
trial, but as one of the partners of the firm of Vane
and Company, was necessarily represented by counsel.
Even Florestan had scarcely expected so quick or
decided a turn of affairs, but Harkins, from the
instant he heard the exordium of the defence, knew
what it would turn upon, and felt that they had lost
their case. Although he did not say so at the
time, he even feared that worse might happen. The
absurd Lunacy Laws which exist in England do not
exist in America, no two men can swear out a
warrant against a third, and without further evidence
confine him in durance vile. Still no one
ever knows what to expect from the quips and
quibbles of the law, and Harkins having had some
experience of the excitability of Arundel's nature,
feared were the case to go against him he would
make such an exhibition of himself individually,
that without the usual prior witnesses he would
be dragged then and there to a lunatic asylum.
Contrary, however, to all expectation, the plaintiff
watched the proceedings with unusual calmness, and

listened to all the innuendoes against his mental
condition with impassive demeanour. Only when he
heard his Honour's decision, ruling the case out
of Court, and dismissing it with costs for plaintiff,
he jumped up, and seizing his counsel's arm
screamed aloud, " It's a disgrace and a shame ; you've
beat me now, but I'll get even with him yet." The
rapping on the table, and the clerk's cry of " Silence
in the Court ! " was followed by " Arrest him for
contempt of Court," before which latter possibility
even Arundel recoiled ; before he could utter another
word Harkins whispered to him, " For God's sake
leave the room; any further excitement might be
your ruin."

Arundel never understood how he got away. He
only knew that there was a crowd of people around
him, and that Florestan, who was waiting at the
door, peremptorily waved them all aside, without
a word led him to his carriage, and took him home.

The following day the morning papers contained
a few lines in the record of the day's " Law Intelligence"
to the effect that an unsuccessful suit had
been brought against Mr. Vane personally, of Vane
and Company, for the recovery of certain rights
and properties accruing from an assumed agreement
entered into between plaintiff and' defendant to find
and work copper mines for their mutual benefit,

sharing equally any profits which should be therefrom
derived, but there was some doubt as to
plaintiffs sanity, the case was ruled out of court, and
dismissed with costs against plaintiff. That wad
about all; and with the exception of two or three
floating paragraphs in society journals to the effect
that the rich Mr. Vane, who by the way had been
an unusually long time absent from New York, had
been a victim to the intrigues of a supposed lunatic,
whose original idea was probably black mail, cause
unknown, although it was supposed there was a
woman in the matter, &c. &c, the affair died out
without even causing the ordinary nine days' wonder.
That was two months ago. Harkins said little ;
Arundel seemed a prey to a dumb sort of despair ;
whilst Florestan was obliged to confess that even
he was losing heart. The more he argued against
himself, strange to say, the stronger was his inner
conviction that Arundel was in the right. He
even began to see deeper into the affair, and ideas
dawned upon him to which, in connection with the
case, he had never previously given a thought. He
grew as nervous, unsettled, and anxious as even
Arundel himself. Was there more in the background
than even he had dreamed ? Was Arundel,
and perhaps even Rozen himself, the victim of a
deeper and a viler plot ? The father of the woman he

loved perhaps at that very moment in the clutches
of the man Vane. " Vane," he repeated to himself;
it's very odd that I have never seen him since
that meeting in the train five years ago. Perhaps
it's only a coincidence, but now that I think of it,
he has been abroad ever since I promised to help
Arundel. I'll give Harkins a hint of that." Then
his mind flew off into other channels, and he lost
himself in such a maze of speculation, that he grew
not only excited but angry, to think that he, with
cares enough of his own, should not only mix himself
up with other people's affairs, but finish by actually
borrowing trouble for others. He had scarcely ever
seen it in this light before, but now that he reasoned
upon it, it was absolutely too ridiculous, and he
determined to have no more of it.

I w T ill give Arundel money enough to make him
comfortable," he said, " and seriously beg him to
give up the whole affair for a time at least. I'm a
rich man, and if I can marry Enilda Rozen, shall
be the happiest man in New York."

Florestan w T as thinking of all this one June morning.
He could not say he had advanced much further
with Enilda, but this much he knew — he was not
indifferent to her; he would have even gone to
Europe on the same steamer, but this affair of
Arundel's had prevented him : although, personally,

VOL. II. s

he could not appear in the case, he knew he was
the only friend the latter had in New York, and on
the eve of so momentous an occasion had not the
heart to leave hin in the lurch. But now that all
was over, he saw nothing that need detain him
another day in Gotham. Even had the suit gone
well, he realized that without Enilda the city was
unbearable.

With Florestan, to think was to act. He determined
to arrange his affairs and depart at once. His
mother and Cyril could go with him or remain in
America, just as they chose ; he only knew one thing,
that the uncertainty and suspense of his position were
becoming daily more and mure insupportable ; he
must know his fate at once. He did not, as foreigners
do, go to the father and say, " May I marry your
daughter ? " — but being an ordinary straightforward
American, he intended to go directly to the daughter,
the party with himself most concerned, and say, " Will
you be my wife ? "

Florestan had made all his preparations, and this
was Saturday morning — the first Saturday in June.
He had written to Arundel to say good-bye, and at
twelve o'clock on that day was to start for Europe.
He had not been so happy for a long time. The prospect
of soon seeing Enilda, of being free from this
wretched business, and of perhaps months passing

without Arundel prowling in daily to tell how things
were ^oino- on, was one which he contemplated with
positive joy. It was but a little past nine ; he had
just finished his breakfast, and nearly everything was
in readiness for his departure.

He wore a smoking suit, and was just about preparing
to dress for his voyage, when the bell rang
sharply, and in a few moments Walter announced a
visitor. Florestan's intuition said it was Arundel.
Although he had written to him to say farewell,
something told him that the latter would never
allow him to quit America without seeking one
final personal interview. It was as he had surmised,
and as before, on the occasion of their first
meeting in New York, Florestan received him in his
bed-room. Arundel came forward with a more hangdog
look than ever. This look exasperated Florestan,
and put a gulf between his visitor and himself. He
turned abruptly, and addressed him with an irritability
which he had never shown in all their previous
intercourse. He hastily shook hands with
him and said :

My good friend, I scarcely expected to see you
this morning, and wrote to say good-bye, knowing
I had fifty things yet to do, and at the last moment
before leaving I should not have an instant to
myself." He looked round the room. " We start at

S 2

twelve ; I must go to Wall Street this morning, and
and you see I'm not even dressed yet."

Arundel glanced up half-humbly ; his eyes had a
far-away look in them, and his face wore a vague
expression which Florestan remembered to have
sometimes seen upon it; his manner, however, was
more composed than usual. He still carried his old
umbrella and toyed with it while speaking as he
had a habit of doing.

I don't want to bother you," he said softly, " but
you've been so good to me I couldn't let you go
without saying good-bye, for who knows — Europe is
a long way off — I am old and shattered — and perhaps
we may never meet again." Then he laid his umbrella
tenderly on the floor, and whipped from his pocket
a spotless handkerchief, which he slowly raised in
the direction of his eyes.

Florestan was speechless ; this was a turn of affairs
he had certainly not expected. Without knowing why,
he insensibly softened, and his irritability vanished
before Arundel's attitude, as dew vanishes before the
morning sun.

Oh, nonsense ! " he cried cheerily. " Never meet
again ! Don't say that, Arundel, or you'll make me as
blue as an indigo-bag ; the fact is, I'm feeling rather
upset myself. I don't deny the fact ; 1 need a change,
and so do you. By the way, why don't you leave

New York ? I think it would do you good ; you —
you know you're a free man now, and can do what
you please. Have you seen Harkins ? — yes ! "

Arundel nodded in the affirmative.

Well, that's all square then. Just look upon the
matter as a loan, and pay me back whenever you
like ; for sooner or later of course the case must
come up again, but I beg of you, let it rest now fora
good year to come."

Arundel still did not move.

Come," said Florestan, kindly placing his hand
on his shoulder, " don't take it to heart so ; you're no
worse off now than you were six months ago. You
know I'm your friend, and I'll stand by you through
thick and thin ; but there is absolutely nothing more
to be done at present, and I cannot think of taking
any more steps in the matter now. It must rest."

Arundel drew his handkerchief away from his eyes.
It's true," he murmured. " We can do no more ;
every effort has been exhausted. You don't know,"
he said, with a still faltering voice, " what it was tome
to lose that lawsuit. I never had a son, but you
I love you as if you were one of my own, and your
going away just breaks me all up." He smiled
faintly. " I — I think I take it more to heart than
anything else that ever happened to me in the whole
course of my life. Besides, what will I do with myself ?

I used to potter in here constantly. When you're
gone where shall I spend my time ? "

My poor Arundel," said Florestan laughing,
"you remind me of a Frenchman who had been
paying daily court to a woman for ten years. At last
a friend advised him to marry her. ' Marry her,'
he said. ' Good heavens ! where shall I spend my
evenings ?'"

"It's all very well for you," said Arundel, "to be
smiling and gay ; you — you — why your life seems an
endless panorama of fair scenes, bright hopes, and
pleasant prospects ; but I — what have I to look
forward to ? And to think with it all that when I
look back on my life I've never been anything but
an honest man. I've never done any one a turn that
wasn't a good one ; and yet — and yet, Mr. Florestan,
with the single exception of having met you, I've
been down on my luck ever since I was born."

"Well, suppose you have," said Florestan, cheerfully
; " many a man has been innocently condemned
to death, and his innocence never discovered until
too late."

"Yes," interrupted Arundel; "but the treatment
I've had from the world has been enough to have
made an out and out villain of me."

Florestan looked at him steadily. " You are wrong
there, Arundel. It may sound to you like a Sunday

school catechism, and — I'm a man of the world — but,
believe me, men and women must be good for their
own sakes, for the inherent good there is in them,
not for the rewards, either good or bad, which may
come after. I'm not given to boasting, but I say,
no circumstances in life could ever make a villain out
of me. And now, I must dress. You don't mind ?
Don't disturb yourself; I'll just go on whilst you're
here. Gad, it's after ten, and I have no time to
lose. Make yourself at home. Smoke if you want
to. Have some breakfast ? Ring for anything you
like. There are the morning papers. I'll be back
in a minute."

Florestan disappeared into the dressing-room, but
kept up a constant going backwards and forwards
during the next few moments. Arundel sat quietly
in a chair ; he neither smoked, took breakfast, nor
read the papers; he merely folded his hands placidly
across his knees, and seemed wrapped in the deepest
of deep meditation.

At last minor preparations were finished, and
Florestan curae cheerfully forth. He had donned a
travelling-suit of homespun, common enough in
England, but rather the contrary in America ; he
was just drawing on his coat, and putting his left
arm through its armhole in most vigorous fashion.
He picked up his fob and watch, and put them on,

then he picked up a pocket-book which had been
lying beside them, ran his eye hastily over the
contents, and slipped it into the breast of his coat ;
he slapped his chest here and there, and finished by
slopping his pockets, saying with an air of excessive
relief:

"At last everything is ready. Well, Arundel, old
chap, I hate to say good-bye, but I think I must be
going ; — why, what's the matter ? " Florestan stopped
abruptly, for Arundel was gazing at him with an
indescribable look, and one slender finger was pointed
towards him.

That suit of clothes," he gasped ; " it's very odd,
they rake up strange memories in me. I seem to
have seen them somewhere ; I know I had a suit
just like them once."

Ah," said Florestan thinking, " I must <*et out of
this ; I must get away. Is he going off again ? Poor
devil, I hate to leave him, and yet — " But whilst he
walked up and down the room, scrutinizing a thing
here, examining another there, giving that indiscriminate
last look around habitual to the human
race on the eve of a long absence from home, he
only echoed idly enough :

Ah, a suit like this," and added, scarcely knowing
what to add, " what has become of it now ? "

"Ah," screamed Arundel, jumping up and raving

round like a madman. "What has become of it ? I
know now. Everything is clear ; that suit of clothes
brings it all back to me. I remember everything,
Ah ! thank God, I'm saved — it has all come back tome
at last."

"He's mad," thought Florestan; "I'll ring for
Walter ; " and he went towards the bell.

Arundel understood his movement.

Oh, I can't blame you, but don't ring, for God's
sake. I'm not mad — I'm not losing my reason ; on
the contrary, everything has come back to me — all
those long months I passed in the hospital. Since
then I had forgotten almost everything that had
happened. I watched you dressing ; the pantaloons
first struck me, then the vest, and when I saw you
drawing on the coat I wasn't here, Mr. Florestan,
but I was back in San Francisco, reading that
villain's letters, and locking them up in my trunk
so that no one should get hold of them. Can't you
see ? Can't you see it all ? The clothes and letters
are together, and both, — and both, so help me
Heaven — are still in that trunk in San Francisco."

Florestan made a movement as if to interrupt
him.

Don't stop me," he cried — " the trunk — let me
see;" — he looked steadily at Florestan's travelling-suit,
as if to compel from those nondescript threads

some hint, some recollection, which could throw a
strong light upon memory's hidden recesses. " Ah,"
lie cried, throwing his arms round Florestan's neck,
now I remember all. The trunk is still in San
Francisco, at a boarding-house. The landlady kept it
because I couldn't pay my bill the last time I went
to the hospital, and in that trunk, I swear to you.
are letters and proofs, any one of which would
criminate Vane a thousand times over."

Arundel," said Florestan, putting the latter away
from him sternly, " look me in the face : are you
telling me the truth or not ? I'll stand no more
trifling."

"As God hears me," said Arundel slowly, "I am
telling you the truth."

Very well ; to prove that I believe you, I'll give
up going to Europe."

Arundel started forward. " Can you mean it ? " he
gasped.

Florestan rang the bell ; his valet appeared.

My plans are changed," he said, " I have indefinitely
postponed my departure for Europe. Telegraph
at once to the steamer."

Now, Mr. Arundel," he said, when Walter had
disappeared, "you're either mad, or this, if true, is
one of the most extraordinary coincidences it has
ever been my lot to experience. Before, you were

anxious ; now I am determined to see this thing
through. Tell me as quickly as you can all about
that trunk, and the letters, the boarding-house
keeper, and where she is — if she's alive."

Arundel began : " She was alive two years ago.
Her name is Symons, and she lives in Montgomery
Street, San Francisco, number — number 53. I believe
it is 53. When I went away I couldn't pay
her ; that is, when I was taken away, you know."

Whilst Arundel was speaking Florestan was rapidly
making notes. " Go on," he said briefly ; Arundel
continued :

Miss Symons was real good to me ; she wouldn't
have kept 'em, but it was more ' to take care of 'em
like she said. 'You'll find 'em safe when you
come after 'em again, Mr. Arundel; even if you can't
pay all the money, you'll give me what you can.' "

Did you owe her much ? "

Well, yes ; it was rather a large bill — fourteen
hundred dollars. You see I was there off and on for
nearly two years ; but she'll never expect me to give
her that."

Florestan looked up. " Is that all ? " he said.

That's all."

Florestan rose abruptly. "Now come with me,"
he said. " We're going to the Telegraph Office, and
we won't leave it till we find out about this affair ;

at least, if Miss Symons is in San Francisco she'll
be found. I'll just go and change my clothes
first."

Stop ! Don't change them ; they are going to
bring me luck."

Nonsense ! " laughed Florestan. " If they do I'll
have them framed, glazed, and hung where I can
always look at them ; but if you believe in a little
thing like that I won't change them. Come, we
must be off at once."

And if we don't find her ? " said Arundel hoarsely.

If she's alive we'll find her : now for the Union
Telegraph. We must go to the down town office,
and I'll get my special wire."

On the way there Arundel talked freely to Florestan,
while the latter took copious notes. Poor Arundel !
He seemed another man. In all the months of
their intercourse Florestan had never known him so
expansive, so easy, nor yet so rational ; the cobwebs
seemed lifted from his brain, and his mind as free
as his speech was lucid. How strange it is that
the powerful mental mechanism of human intelligence
may be swung on its pivot through the most
trivial of material circumstances ! The sight of a
once familiar suit of homespun had awakened the
dormant memories of years, had stirred the torpidity
of this enfeebled brain; had done more towards

restoring this intellect to its former state, than years
of hydropathy, and "all the king's doctors, and all
the king's men."

After half-an-hour's driving they reached the down
town Telegraph Office. Florestan had a few words
with the chief director, and was soon installed at a
table."

The first message," he said to Arundel, " is to
the Chief of Police in San Francisco, and the next
to an agent of mine, Harry Dodge, who will act with
him." Then Florestan began to write.

"Stop!" said Arundel. "Just to humour me,
let me send off that first telegram ; I want you to
see how steady I am."

"Very well; as you will — here's the first blank?"
and he almost laughed aloud as he pushed it towards
him.

Florestan had not felt so light-hearted for days ;
and although Enilda never left his mind, on this
momentous morning, if he saw her at all, it was only
in a dreamy sort of way. Now and then an angel-like
vision, fair and soft as a cloud in a summer sky,
flitted before him and seemed to say, "I am ever
near you ; ever thinking of you ; ever protecting
you."

Scarcely half-an-hour had passed when the first
return message came.

As I expected," read Florestan :

Symons moved — looking her up. All right.

(Signed) Dodge."

An hour passed, and the " grams " began to pour
in thick and fast ; luncheon hour came and went,
hundreds of people rushed into the office to send a
hasty " wire," and as hastily rushed out again, but
no one noticed two quiet figures busily engaged ina
distant corner. Two o'clock came, half-past two,
and at a quarter before three a clerk wrote out
word by word the longest of all previous messages.
Arundel, grown feverish with impatience, stretched
out his hand towards the paper.

No," said Florestan, drawing it away. " You
sent the first, let me have the pleasure of reading
the last," and he took the telegram slowly in his
hands.

Listen, Arundel," he said. " Americans are right,
never to say die. I guess Miss Symons is the most
startled boarding-house-keeper that San Francisco
or any other town has seen for years. He read :

Symons paid in full. Trunk, contents, letters
absolutely as left by Arundel, sealed and registered,
leaves Wells Fargo Express next train New York.
Last message.

Dodge."

Take it — read it," said FJorestan.

Arundel dazed, turning paler and paler, without
looking at the paper clutched it in his fingers.

At last," he cried. " Mr. Florestan, you see what
even your wish to help me has done. When I was
a lad at school I used to read in Emerson : ' When a
god wishes to ride, any chip or pebble will bud and
shoot out winged ^ ee * an d serve him for a horse.' I
didn't know what it meant then, but I know now."

I'm very hungry," said Florestan, laughing.
'* We'll slip over the way into ' Del's ' down town
restaurant and get some luncheon. You shall take
these to Harkins yourself, and tell him the whole
story. When the trunk arrives, and I see every
paper safe in your hands, I shall take the next
steamer to Europe. Is it agreed ? But before I go
I shall seriously consider dressing every boy and girl
in the New York public schools in homespun, and
setting them to study Emerson."

END OF VOL. II.

SKSfi

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois-URBANA

3 0112 041502128

^mlm^t^M

111;

•-■

m.:':

The person charging this material is responsible
for its renewal or its return to
the library from which it was borrowed
on or before the Latest Date stamped
below. You may be charged a minimum
fee of $75.00 for each lost book.

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.

TO RENEW CALL TELEPHONE CENTER, 333-8400
UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

JUNO 8 1998
N0V1S1998

When renewing by phone, write new due date below
previous due date. L162

VOL. I.

|i ilomiina of (JTo-tiun aub i:)cstcrtran.

BLANCHE ROOSEVELT,

AUTHOR OK

LIFE AND RKillNiyLKXCE« OK GUSTAVE DORE," " LONGFELLOW's HOME LIFE,

"stage Struck," ETC.

For time at lust acts all thighs even,
And if we do but watch the hour,
There never yet was human power
Which could evade, if unforgiven.
The patient search, and vigil long.
Of hia win* treasures up a wrong."

Mazepfa. (ante V. Byron.

VOL. I.

WARD AND DOWNEY, PUBLISHERS,
^12, YORK STREET, COVENT GARDEN.

188G.

BKEAJJ bTREKT HILL, London,

Bunyuif, Hi'Jfhlk:

Sf ®iJ Jflorcstan

- Lmulon, Oct. 2iicL 1886.

CHAPTER I.

It was early morning, and the Union Pacific
Express was just starting from " the Garden City," as
Americans call Chicago, the famous western metropolis
lying so close upon the border of Lake Michigan, the
fairest, bluest, but perhaps most treacherous of all
the chain of great lakes. The train was crowded to
overflowing, and yet there was room for more. An
extra sleeper and dining-car had to be added, much
to the disgust of the station officials. It was a clear
day in September, and the air was just freshened by
the autumn's incoming chill. The loner line of
swinging villages finally put out of the station, and
the passengers began speedily to prepare themselves,
as most Americans do when booked for a long journey.
Men took off their tall hats, and donned round caps ;
women laid aside their bonnets, and took up crochet

VOL. I. B

or knitting, or perhaps a sea-side novel ; children ran
pattering along laughing gleefully as they bumped up
against the iron seals : — one wanted a draught of ice-water;
another screamed for a dough-nut; another
wanted to play ball in the face of a tired-looking old
man with a very long beard; whilst another went
up to every man, woman, and child to announce that
her father was the richest man in that car at any
rate, and to ask confidentially how much they thought
the aggregate of wealth in their coach might be.
This enterprising child's inquiries set people thinking ;
they began to look at each other with half-defined
curiosity, wondering if a neighbour were "going
through " to " Frisco " — who would stop on the way
how many were travelling for health, how many
for pleasure, and how many for filthy lucre.

The least picturesque part of the U. P. Railway
is that just beyond "the Garden City." Broad
plains stretch away for miles and miles, losing their
flat outline only on the far-away horizon: think of
forty-eight hours of unchanging level, the monotony
only varied by sight of a solitary herd of buffalo or
cattle — by occasional stopping at a small station —
or watching the thin smoke curl away from the
engine to mingle with a cloud of dust left by the
now-a-days far-distant bison.

The hours dragged slowly, and after luncheon a

party of four men sat in close proximity at their
tables in the dining-car, now and then addressing
each other, now and then dropping conversation
in a desultory fashion. Americans usually have a
ofreat' deal to talk about, and it matters little to
whom they speak, as they look upon the world
as one great brotherhood ; and amongst Americans
an utter lack of ceremony invariably prevails.

At a farther table or shelf sat an aged man. His
hair was salt-and-peppery, his eyes were lambent
hazel, his mouth weak yet anxious in expression, his
lips pale and thin, his skin a livid olive, and his face
a picture of long-drawn-out despair. A long shaggy
beard, also salt-and-peppery, waved away from his
chin, and was folded negligently under the second
button of a shabby frock-coat. His fingers were
claw-like, and his hands of unusual length. He
looked sadly and in a disheartened manner at the
other passengers. Once he half-rose from his table,
and took a step towards his nearest neighbour, but
on reconsideration returned and sank back into
his place. He stared idly out of the window,
drummed with his fingers on the table, and seemed
plunged in such dulness that one of the occupants of
the other tables got up and came towards him. He
looked keenly into the anxious man's eyes and spoke.

Father much of a muchness this sort of thing,

B 2

ain't it ? Are you going far, stranger ? Got room
there beside you ? Yes, thank you, I will sit down.
I have done this route till I'm sick and tired of it.
I don't mind the mountains, but I hate this infernal
flat country, and the continual sight of plains — plains
and yet again plains. Have a cigar ? I repose we
may smoke here if we like. Smoking is a comfort,
I must say ; ah, thank you : don't crowd yourself —
oceans of room. I can stick on to anything, even
the bare tail of a trained circus mule, and this seat's
an independent platform compared to that. Is this
your first trip to California ? "

The sad man smiled an eager " Yes," and continued
: " Yes ; this is my first trip ; I — I am going
to California to seek my fortune ? "

His self-invited companion took his cigar from his
lips, and a peculiar expression crossed his countenance.
He looked at the fortune-seeker again, An

o

expressive " Oh " escaped him ; he returned his weed
to his mouth and awaited further confidences.

"Yes; to seek my fortune!" the man continued.
I suppose you laugh because I'm not young, but
that's nothing. It's a question of luck, and — and will
you believe it ? — I had an inspiration to come out
West; so I realized all the collateral I could; and
here I am. What do you think of me ? — of my
plan ? — of my — my inspiration ? "

The new-comer looked steadily at him.

"You are pretty confident," he responded, "and
if you are like me you will always follow your
inspirations."

How glad I am to hear you say so ! I presume
you will be surprised at my speaking out so frank-like,
but I was longing to say something to some one
as you came up, and I think it's most curious that
you should also believe in inspirations. Good Lord,
I thought it wouldn't be anything, a little run from
Maine to California, but I am beginning to get pretty
tired, and we're only half-way. What do you do
during such a long trip ? How do you spend your
time ? "

Oh, pleasantly enough — smoking, talking, and
playing cards, usually — "

Yes ; but I am alone, and ' solitary ' isn't much
of a game ? "

Alone ! that's odd. So am I. I made sure I
would run across some friend ; but for the first time
in my life I find myself quite an orphan. Excepting
yourself I don't know a soul ; but I guess we can
keep the moss from growing back of our ears ; and if
we strike any others we can easy make up a four-hinder
to anything you like."

Just at that moment the two other occupants of
the dining-car looked up, and simultaneously the

four men glanced at one another. Moved by an irresistible
impulse the grey-bearded man half rose and
looked a greeting towards the second couple, and one
man came towards him. He looked and looked, the
fortune-seeker looked and looked, then they smiled,
and the first spoke.

Would you join us — our party ? We might makeup
a euchre hand. It's dull enough, but I think we
ought to be able to do something between us to pass
away a couple of hours." The car-porter passed by
just at that moment. " Here, my man," he continued,
can't you get us a deck of cards ? "

"Yes, sir." Then "my man" spun out of the
car without waiting for another word. The grey-bearded
speaker went on, and this time addressed
himself to the fourth occupant of the nearest table.

"Might I persuade you ? — won't you have a hand ?
Cut-throat euchre is like playing whist with a
dummy, only a little more so. I myself don't mind
a three-handed game, but we might as well make
it four as three." The last spoken to stepped good-naturedly
forward.

Quite right, quite right. I am sure I don't
mind a hand ; " and getting up cheerfully he approached
the party.

The afternoon was wearing on, and the sight from
thou was almost the same; only the sun was

losing its strong brightness, and the light cloud
of mist, which never quite forsakes the level country,
was banking itself up into a haze with the distant
horizon. The men seated themselves on either side
of the little shelf-like table and began to play.

Hoyle has so well described all his games, that
I shall say nothing here of this favourite one. The
throwing around for the deal, decided in favour of
the fortune-seeker; and his partner, strange to say,
proved to be the man who had first come up to
speak to him. This being a trial game the stakes
were not very high ; but the play promised to be
most interesting. The dealer turned up a knave,
in the midst of general oh-oiling.

Look out — bad beginning — etc. etc," were echoed
on all sides.

The grey-bearded man laughed. His partner
looked quickly at him.

*' The best I've got," he said deliberately ; " and I
guess I can do without you, pard. I'll play this alone."

The gentlemanly knave of hearts was turned face
downwards, and the first play brought out the second
bower. In a moment four points were scored, and
the victor smiled. The game went on, and after the
fourth lone hand he smiled again ; but after a fifth
and sixth the other three began to look curiously
at him. The stakes were not high enough to make

the play an object, but his kick was truly marvellous.
He finally dealt himself such a hand that the cards
were not even played. He threw them laughingly
on the table, and said :

'•'A straight sequence and another bower, as sure
as my name's Vane." i

*'Yane," said his partner; "what a pretty name,
and high-toned too ! — Vane — Vane." He repeated it
idly, and then said : " Well, my own ain't so bad when
you come down to it. Arundel — Jean Arundel — the
oldest family, if I do say it myself — the oldest name
in the Green Mountain State. It was my father's
name, his father's before him, and firstly worn by — "

He was interrupted by the player at his right.

Firstly and lastly, your ancestors', and let us
hope that of your descendants. But don't you
think it's time my partner had a decent hand ? "
He turned to the winner. " I am not such a bad
player as I seem ; in short we are not as bad players
as we seem. We really haven't any chance at all;
but, pardon me, your name seems English, and you
yourself are an American."

Vane nodded a very dec". dell Yes.

Now that is the difference ; I am of German
descent, but have a French name — Marcie, at your
service, gentlemen — Baron de Marcie, although I
don't care fer titles much, I must say."

He looked at his partner as he spoke, as much
as to say, "But you haven't told us your name yet;"
and he glanced very politely towards the fourth of
the group, who looked slightly bored, but answered
with careless courtesy.

Naturally — Florestan, Ythan Florestan."

Ythan. Well, that is a droll name " — the play
had recommenced — ■' I think I must order you ; it is
the best I have," addressing himself to the Baron,
Florestan's partner. " The best I have " — he laid
down a bower, continuing — "but your name, you
spell it — "

With an ' I ' — of course," answered Florestan. '' I
believe I am named after a Scotch saint — a good old
name, and a very good old man, I believe."

The Baron laughed. ''I see you pronounce they
' as an ' I ','' he said. "■ I must say that my first
name is the everyday, simple, well-known one of
Fritz, and added to that are twelve others which
were considered necessary to a man of — well, I don't
like to boast — but to a man of long and important
lineage, like myself. When as a child I played —
what, we have taken a trick ? — some mistake, Mr.
Florestan, some mistake. But as I was saying, when
I played as a child in the palace gardens of Scions
with a dear little friend whom I called
Grizzy ' for short — "

"Grizzy," interrupted Arundel, 'what a name fora
child ! Was she fair or dark ? Ahem ! — this is
ours, partner, and I have the concluding two tricks.
That makes two for our side, and — and your deal.
Did you say whether she was fair or dark ? — and —
Grizzy ! — Heavens, what a name ! "

The Baron hemmed and looked modestly down
towards two very plebeian hands weighted with rings
which were covering his cards on the little table.

She was fair," he answered, " and her real name
was ' Griselda,' the — ahem ! she was the Archduchess
Griselda-Brunnhikla — bat I was on such
familiar terms with her that she was only gay Grizzy
or sweet Brunny to me, and her father Joe — ah,
excuse me, you understand, his Majesty Franz Joseph

of , but I knew him so well, he always insisted

on my calling him Joe when we were alone."

Well, Baron, I must say you were thick enough
with royalties. How can you make up your mind
to live in America (or do you live here ?) after such a
start in life as that ? "

Vane eyed the Baron as he spoke, and the game
became quite a second-rate affair whilst this part of
De Marcie's history was being aired. The Baron
looked the picture of virtuous self-deprecation ashe
answered :

Yes, I know. It seemed a sad change ; but I now

confess I call America my home, and New York, of
course, Gotham ; dear Gotham has resources which
Averse denied me even in the palace at Schonbrunn.
Besides, New York society cannot fail appealing to
that which we of noble and hereditary title never
despise ; I refer to — "

"I suppose you refer to money," said Florestan
calmly.

Oh no, I wasn't thinking of money. That is
taken for granted. I referred to the noble and self-sacrificing
who give up everything to make New
York society exactly what it is : in Gotham all
aspire. The one idea is to get on in life in whatever
way you can ; but principally in the way that is
open to all — equality of riches. And then it is no
uncommon thing to find more titles than Americans
in the highest society. I found myself quite at
home — "

"Yes, but you didn't find more Barons in New
York than in Austria, I'll be bound," interrupted
Vane, " Not but what we'd make the whole lot
of them welcome ; there are no limits to American
civilization, but, somehow, it sounds more natural
to say Mister than Monsieur le Baron, or Count, or
Prince, or — "

I quite agree with you," said De Marcie hastily,
and 1 never think of using my title. I am the most

Republican man in sentiment you've ever seen, and
I beg you will all treat me as if I were — well, as
if I were one of you in fact."

Florestan looked at him, then a sliofbt smile
curved his lips. He said nothing, but Jean Arundel
blushed and looked nervously up — then he spoke.

Don't mention it. It is very kind of you, but
I think I prefer calling you by your title; then,
Baron is a nice short word to say."

De Marcie again looked the picture of modesty.
He was about to speak when Florestan rose coldly.
He drew out his watch, saying :

Thanks for a pleasant game ; but I think, gentlemen,
if you will excuse my breaking up the party,
that I will go into the smoking-car; we drill meet
again without doubt." He turned to Yane. " It is
a pity we were not playing for something more
considerable ; you are in wonderful luck. I shouldn't
complain, however, as I am the gainer by a great
deal. I must say I should like a hand at ' Draw '
with you. I am better at poker than euchre, and
am considered very lucky at that. What do you
say to a game after dinner in the smoker ? I wouldn't
mind pitting my chances against yours."

With all my heart," said Vane ; " but it's a pity
we can't go on now. It sometimes spoils one's luck
by leaving a table."

Oh, go on now," interrupted Arundel. " I would
enjoy you both at it ever so much."

Florestan half laughed. " Well I don't mind, but
not here," he answered ; '•' let's get out of this ; I am
dying for a smoke and a breath of fresh air."

The change was decided upon, and the men made
their way to the smoking-car.

The gentle autumnal wind had changed to a fierce
blast, and the men had difficulty in keeping their
hats on. The sun had almost reached the horizon,
and already the gathering mist of twilight threw a
bluish tinge over the plains; the petty shrubs and
occasional bits of brush were stirred to their very
roots by the strong wind, which had every appearance
of an advancing cyclone.

Not a cheerful outlook," said Florestan. " I am
not anxious to see the train lifted bodily from the
track, but it's all in a lifetime, I suppose. Shall we
begin our game ? "

Yane nodded a yes, or rather the wind performed
that duty for him, A smart gust eddied around the
car with a whistle that would have startled even a
thorough-bred " sou'wester."

The men reached the smoking-car and began their
play to the cheerful accompaniment of ominous
groaning, rattling of seats, of axles, and of swinging
lamps.

No war of the elements can stop a born poker
player when he is filled with the idea of a good
game. On land, on water, in city or village, in a
balloon or in a train, the man under the influence of
poker's charms will be oblivious to all other earthly
distraction. His opponent playing a Hoyle flush
might startle him — or even four aces when he held
four kings — but otherwise he will not change colour
at a cyclone, or even an earthquake.

It was really difficult to play. Every moment a
fresh gust came with such violence that the train
seemed floating in air. Vane and Florestan began,
and went steadily on, the former always winning.
They finally decided to try it four-handed ; the winners
this time being Yane and Arundel. Florestan
coolly laid his last greenback on the table.

"There, if that goes," he said, ''I will not play
poker again for a year. I hate to lose. It isn't
the money, but — Mr. Vane, your luck is ahead of
mine to-day. Let me congratulate you."

Don't mention it," responded Vane. " I am sorry
to have so one-sided a matinee." Then he laughed
good-naturedly. " Is there any game you play butter
than this ? I don't mind if — "

Thanks," said Florestan somewhat stiffly ; " I
think I will stop after another hand."

Vane flunsr down a diamond flush.

"That settles it' said Florestan; "no. What,
Arundel, you beating him ? Well, I leave you two to
finish it; I never saw such hands played before in
my life : — Great Heaven ! "

At that moment an appalling darkness blinded
the face of the earth. There was a swaying motion
a cracking sound — a roar as if Barnum's entire
menagerie were let loose — a smashing of glass — a
deluge of^vater — and a whirring buzz as of objects
being carried bodily and with supernatural velocity
through the air. There was another crack ; the
timbers of the car groaned, creaked, and were strained
to the utmost : then in a moment the darkness lifted,
and the cyclone had passed.

Vane's hand still covered his diamond flush.

'•' That was a crasher," he said coolly ; " but I guess
we've weathered it all right. What have you,
Arundel ? Ah ! beats me by one, beats me by one,
and so finishes our little game, unless you like to
keep on with me awhile ! "

Arundel seemed as delighted as a child to have
been 'sone better" than Vane. He was not an old
player, and like a child he feared losing if he kept
on. The storm had also somewhat disturbed him ;
he even handled his money nervously.

Thanks, no ; no more for me," he answered ; " but
we must have a little talk. I have been thinldnGf of

something. Our hands ran wonderfully well together
in that euchre, didn't they ? Why shouldn't we
think of other things."

In the mean time Florestan and the Baron had
gone to the other side of the car. They were staring
half-unconsciously out of the window, looking at the
drifting clouds which covered the plains. Florestan
was smoking, and the Baron had drawn a little book
from his pocket.

Arundel continued to Vane :

We min^ht think of other things — "

Florestan listened to Arundel's clatter and said
half-carelessly :

What ! afraid to go on, Mr. Arundel ? Suppose
you try one more hand, and if you are beaten I will
take your place. I said I wouldn't play any more,
but" — he turned abruptly to Vane as he went on
speaking — "but I am rather anxious, sir, to beat you
once."

Vane bowed. " Too much honour," he said half-ironically
; " I am at your service in case — "

"In case I throw up the sponge, said Arundel
half-anxiously. " Well, I will play, but — for only
part of what I have now."

You are no gambler," said Vane, " but as you will ;
and you. Baron" — he turned half-apologetically towards
the azure-blooded nobleman.

Thanks' said De Marcie ; " I am usually interested
in no one's game but my own. Patience
runs in my family; I drank it with my mother's
milk!"

Arundel began his play.

"I was brought up on the bottle' he said, "and
usually got left, for other babes in my neighbourhood
had rented the Alderney, and when my nurse got her
quart it was always diluted." He fingered his cards
nervously. Yane cut him the deal, turned a Jack,
and began the game. He scored twice two points,
and Arundel threw up his hand. " It's a white-wash,"
he said pathetically. " I can't beat him ; happily 1
still have half of my pile." He prepared to make way
for Florestan. " I throw up the sponge' he added.

You were wrong," said Florestan ; " you had one
point, and might have beaten him, but — shall I try,
Mr. Yane ? "

The latter smiled victoriously. " At sour service,"
he answered. "The best hand, without a draw.
What stakes ? "

Florestan placed a blank cheque-book on the
table, and pointed to the pile of money at his opponent's
right.

Yane raised his eyebrows. "That and double,
if you like, Mr. Florestan, which would make ten
thousand dollars."

VOL. I. C

Florestan bowed ; they played a last hand, and —
lie won.

The cards were abandoned for the day — arundel,
who had watched the two with eager interest, and
finally turned again to Vane, taking up the old
subject which he had so abruptly broken Ois.

Our hands ran so well together that we might
think of other things."

Yes, so we might." He looked curiously at the
old man as he made answer.

Our hands run so well together, it seems a good
omen," continued Arundel. " Why not go into some
other partnership ? "

Vane still looked at him; then he spoke almost
enthusiastically :

With pleasure. I have no money to spend, and
my own business is such that I cannot neglect it ;
but we will talk if you like, and in the mean time I
will have a quiet smoke."

The men began talking. They finished the day
together; they exchanged cards, and later on confidences.
Arundel's faith in his new friend was
unbounded. Vane's faith in himself had always
been unexampled. The next day they were constantly
together. Florestan and the Baron also
paired off, but at Omaha the former received a
tele :aram which called him back to New York. He

o

took the return train, and said farewell to this
travelling-companions with the politely-expressed
hope of a future meeting. The Baron stopped over
at Salt Lake City, so Arundel and Vane continued
alone to San Francisco.

Before they reached the " Golden Gate " they
were fast friends. When they separated for the night
at the doors of their respective sleeping apartments
in Baldwin's Hotel, Arundel took Vane's hand half-nervously,
half-affectionately.

It was to be," he said ; " I knew it when you
came up and spoke first ; then when our hands went
so well together at that euchre party; then again
when I ran you so close in that diamond flush ; and
now since we have talked up other things, I say
unhesitatingly that it was to be. We were cut out
to be friends ; and I hope that life will be long enough
to prove it. I am sure we can't fail. I will learn
your whole plan to-night, and we can begin at once.
Breakfast at nine tomorrow, eh ? — well, I'll be down
sharp. Good-night and pleasant dreams, and again
let me say that I hope we'll never regret that first
lone hand on the U. P. R. B. Good-night, God
bless us both, or, as Captain Cuttle would have
said, ' Here's towards us ! '" He waved his hand as if
invoking the protection of some invisible deity ; his
long beard partially emancipated itself from his

C 2

shabby redingote ; he slipped beyond an opened door,
and was lost to Vane's sight.

At that moment the car-conductor came through
the passage. Like most American railroad men he
put up at the best hotels ; and like all conductors at
the end of a long trip, was not only friendly with all
the passengers, but intimate with most of them. He
stopped and talked with Yane not alone as if he had
known him all his life, but as if he were at least a
foster-brother.

Queer chap that Florestan," he said. " Will you
believe it, when he left the train he handed me his
pile won from you, you know, and said, ' Give this
in my name to the new children's hospital in San
Francisco — that one just started for the orphans of
working-men on the U. P. R. R.' That man's one of
a thousand — "

One of ten thousand, you mean," laughed Vane
uneasily ; then as he reached his room he drew down
the blind and muttered :

So, Ythan Florestan, you're too fine and stuck-up
a gentleman to keep my money. I owe you one
for this; I shan't forget it" — and hastily undressing
he threw himself into his bed.

CHAPTER II.

Chicago is the most remarkable city of North
America, perhaps the most remarkable city of the
world. It is on a slightly elevated plain, and is
bordered on the southern boundary by fair Lake
Michigan — the most smiling but perhaps most
dangerous of all the chain of great lakes.

The stories of Chicago's origin should not be
doubtful, but many of them are. History tells us
that Parrot, a Frenchman, first visited it in 1671 ;
but from that time until the beginning of our
century little or nothing was heard of Chicago. By
the way, this Indian name signifies " Wild Onion "
not poetic, but useful. Already Chicago evinced a
taste for the utilities. In 1803 Fort Dearborn was
established, but Chicago remained only a frontier
town until about 1830. Then it commenced to
grow — grow with a rapidity which has never been
equalled or approached since the world was made;
and the people who went to settle this town it has

been said were originally made of cliain-lightninor
and cast-iron. In a few years they bought all of
the surrounding land of the Pottowatamies, a band
of seven thousand redden, whose naked, painted,
and feather-bedecked chiefs bargained away their
homes; sold vast farms for half wool blankets;
thatched homesteads for a jug of " fire-water," and
clear-gliding peopled rivers for strings of beads and
wampum belts. Besides these minor transactions
the city sold them some territory which did not
belong to Chicago, but to civilization ; and the seven
thousand, last of a great tribe, departed like a storm in
the night, took the' wiry warns from the banks of fair
Lake Michigan, the squaws tied their papooses to their
backs, and abandoned their canoes, which floated down
the river to the dip of a stranger paddle, and that
was the last Chicago heard of " Lo, the poor Indian."

Once the median routed, the work of building up
a city began. What fertility of brain, what energy
of incessant labour, what scheming by night and
completing by day ! What a fever running like
quicksilver in the heart and brain of this boiling,
turbulent mass of settlers !

First, the city was low ; in some parts there were
still swamps ; and in many a back street the intrepid
countryman was actually warned. His lumber wagon
and yoke of oxen were stopped before a large, inelegant,

but authoritative sif^^n — " No bottom here."
This sign was visible as late as 1860, so imagine
how many such holes there were when the noble
Pottowatamies received their " mess of pottage ! "
Long before this the city had grown beyond
belief. The greatest natural facilities of any town
in the "West belonged to Chicago. Did not a river
run in three branches through the town ? Did not
great Lake Michigan bring all her freight and ships
of lading to Chicago's port ? Did not fruit come
from St. Joseph, and every other fructuous town
from east, west, north, or south ? Was not the
summer air and the breath of the water heavy
with the fragrance of Prosperity ?

Yes ; all good things poured into Chicago's coffers ;
and with the right spirit of sharp western enterprise
things which did not pour in were grimly invited
to come in, and if they did not come in were finally
forced : Chicago always has had her own way.

This three-branched river, which watered so many
parts of the city, was of a colour as yet unknown to
the painter's brush, and the stench which issued from
this useful river was something which drove the rats
to the shore — for the Chicago river was peopled with
rats and not with fish, which are usually supposed to
inhabit bodies of fresh (sic) water. This river has
drawbridges at different streets, which every inhabitant

finds invariably open when lie is in a hurry.
After a ship or a tug had passed through there
exhaled such a smell that children cried and dogs
barked, not knowing what had happened. At last
an alderman was taken ill, and some one suf]^orested
that the river might be the cause. It flowed into
the lake, but Chicago now willed that the lake
should flow into and cleanse the river. This was
done. Then a tunnel was conceived underneath the
stream to facilitate foot-passengers and commerce, so
that apoplexy and enterprise should go hand-in-hand.


The tunnel was commenced ; then finding that
the river was bound to leak through the tunnel's roof,
it was put together with a cement which required
constant wetting to make it solid ; so now the toiler
through the tunnel carries an anathema on his lips
and an umbrella in his hand, for tall hats are worn at
any and all hours of the day by all classes in Chicago.
The tunnel is a picturesque but — not a pretty sight. I
remember it well, Horatio." The low roof glistening
with slime in seventeen shades — stones leaning and
jutting diabolically forth, threatening to drop on one
every moment. A strong current sweeps from one
end of it to the other; this current establishes relations
with the ventilation that comes through
various shafts here and there in the paint underlying

the street; which with the fine natural dampness
and wicked humidity, has added not alone to the
mortality but to the immortality of the Garden
City.

Chicago may be proud of her lake, her ,
her tunnel, and her warehouses, but she
really prides herself on her waters, her prize-fighters,
her public schools and her colleges, her High School,
and her young ladies' seminaries. Of these latter the
Well-born Seminary was considered the first finishing
school in the West, and here Chicago's azure-blooded
came yearly and knelt at Minerva's feet.

The building itself was a massive structure in
brown stone, six stories in height, and took up nearly
an eighth of a block in the heart of one of the city
squares. It was an old-fashioned house, and the
march of commercial progress having driven old
residents further up-town, it stood alone in its aristocratic
abandonment. It was surrounded by great
buildings devoted to the wholesale interests of
chemists, dry goods and leather-merchants, carriage-builders,
and shipping or grain-dealers. The Well-bon
Seminary still held its own as a part of that
wonderful dynasty founded by early residency in a
marvellous and rapidly-grown metropolis. The early
settlers of every town constituted a laurel of aristocracy
which shall descend in evergreen verdant upon the

heads of all their families who shall have successfully
"doubled up" on their real estate stolen from the
noble red man, who shall have sold grain short on the
stock-market, who shall have made pigs into persians,
and thorough-bred into glue.

This dynasty sends its daughters to the Well-born
Seminary.

The interior of the Seminary was that of the ordinary
American school. The wide staircases were
covered with Turkish carpeting, the balustrades
were of old oak, the octagonal-shaped landings were
lined With plate-glass mirrors, and the parlours or
recreation-rooms would not have disgraced Grosvenor
House. The small rooms allotted to class studies
were models of gentle thought and aristocratic fancy.
Even the black-boards were hidden by priceless
Persian curtains and the chalk-box was a revelation
of Attic art. The benches were not benches, but
easy-chairs of fine insinuation and redundant comfort.
Lying back in one of those chairs, who could not
sooner master intricacies of irregular verbs, or family
conjugations of still more irregular descent ?

The teachers in the Well-born Seminary were all
decayed gentlewomen, women of noble birth, and —
women with expectations ; the professors men of practical
intelligence, of rare commercial instincts, with a
nostril ever on the alert for the predestined of Pluto.

Even the music masters had been Hoffi)ianists, and
the Imp-teacher had been taught by the descendant of
the Virgin Queen's own master on the virginals. The
professor of mathematics had a grandfather intimate
with Newton, and the singing-teacher had written a
ten volume book on " The Vocal Rushes of the Nile "
or " The Art of Song 70 B.C." With such instructors
where would not the mind shoot entrusted to the
care and comfort of the " first 3"oung ladies' finishing
school in the West ? " There was one room which
was long and imposing. With even the most refined
intentions, this apartment suggested a school-room.
There were rows of high-backed chairs and little
desks in white maple, looking like miniature writing-desks.
In order not to chase away historical fancy
these desks were all modelled after Marie Antoinette's
famous table suggestive of guillotine and glory; and
a sort of platform, covered with choice carved furniture,
held a chair which was like a thine, and a
table like a monarch's Atlas. In this chair and at
this table, in the year of our Lord A.D. October 6 th,
1871, sat Miss Chances-Cressy, the head of the
young ladies' finishing seminary.

Miss Chances-Cressy might have been any age
over thirty and under seventy. She was small, finely
made, and dressed with remarkable taste. She was
called the Marquise in the school, because of her

foreign manners and extraordinary Reign of-Terror
look.

Her shapely head was crowned with innumerable
puffs of powdered white hair, the last puff rearing
itself up like a small coronet, and lending a queenly
air to the elaborate dressing. Her face was a
pure oval, her forehead low, her chin piquant, her
mouth smiling and well cut, her nose a faint aquiline,
her brows arched, and her eyes of an ethereal-celestial
blue. Her lashes were improved in indians,
her orbs encircled with a heavier line in dark
blue, and a drop of belladonna, mingled with the water
of the clear iris, gave that luminous Look v.liich
belongs either to the child or to the courtesan. Miss
Chances-Cressy's brows were a study. They were
so blackened that even her frowns were artistic.
When she drew the former together a shadow of
cultivated rage loomed over the aquiline nose, and
the indigo line of blue took on a fateful heaviness
which threatened to become blacker and more appalling
did not these master arches lift the menace
of their continued displeasure. At such moments
no one dared approach the Atlas. Her cheeks were
divided into four distinct parts, each part lending a
distinct character to her physiognomy. The seven
ages were written on those cheeks ; but nearest the
nose two round spots like pomegranates flushed

with reckless liberality, suggested that the flower of
youth may be painted only by " He who paints the
lily." That rose-tint deceived none but the lady
herself. The other respective portions of her face
were covered with a mixture of chalk and cream
which did double duty — to hide and to point out the
footprints of time. Where the layer of cream was
thinnest a dozen malicious wrinkles struggled to the
surface, and slily announced that although out of
sight they were not out of mind ; and downwards
towards the slim throat an uncanny yellow mingled
with and tinged the white, which defied the suggestion
of even Ninon's bloom. Oh the ingratitude of
Nature when her handmaid Art runs her too closely !
Miss Chances-Cressy's ears still defied the march
of time, and unwittingly lent themselves to the
deception practised by this cultivated monumental
ruin. They were small, and lined with the capricious
pink which comes and goes in the sea-shell. Ears
which suggested that soft nothings had often been
poured into them ; which spoke of moonlight wanderings
and mythological musings ; and, above all, which
denoted that their owner was a woman whose aristocratic
lineage might never with impunity be denied.
I pass over the sloping bust and obedient waist :
Her hands were hands — Miss Chances-Cressy's pride
• — and were always folded in her lap with grave

pre-occupation. These hands looked like chiseled
marble, were slender, yet negatived the idea of a chisel,
showing their humanity in being so perfectly cared
for. Such tinted nails — such crescents — such rounded
and filed tips ! Her fingers were guiltless of rings
in the morning, and covered with jewels in the
afternoon. No one ever knew exactly when they were
put on, but one felt a peculiar helplessness on seeing
those still white unhinged hands before twelve A.M. ;
and after the recreation hour seeing them one
flashing kaleidoscope of diamonds, emeralds, and
opals. They seemed to speak of occult power. She
always had more to explain and point out, once the
family brilliant were shining in their legitimate
sphere. Her dress was of stiff black moire, with a
fine tucker and cuffs of yellow Valenciennes ; and
after two P.M. she brought forth a cobweb of lace and
pineapple stuff, which did duty as and was called
handkerchief. Her lorgnon was a French affair that
ladies of grand tone affect. Two glasses were coaxed
into a setting of enamelled gold, perched upon a
handle whose surface gloried in hieroglyphical emblem,
and at whose base a glittering serpent coiled in
arrogant and tortuous venomness. Near to hand, and
half-hidden in the folds of her skirt, was a strong

o

ebon stick with a medusa head. You will have
divined that Miss Chances-Cressy wa=i a second

Mademoiselle de la Villiers in one sense. She was
slightly lame, and her stick was as much a part of
her toilette as were her petticoats.

In the Well-born Seminary it was approaching the
hour for the noon recreation. A Swiss clock dropped
out its mellow tones in twelve strokes of imitative
harmony ; a cuckoo invention at one side of the room
echoed the time with its tutored accents. When
Miss Chances-Cressy arose — her hand grasped her
stick, her glass went to her eye, and her voice
floated out in the air in a cadence of well-bred
sound and irreproachable English.

"Young ladies, I have the pleasure to announce
to you your mid-day recreation-hour. Disperse
quietly, and although I do not need to say it, ina
ladylike manner. Those who lunch at home maybe
excused at once ; those who lunch at the seminary
may retire to the north drawing-room, from thence
to the blue buffet. Dio toledo, we meet again at
half-past one. To-day's list of questions have more
or less grave import. Some of those questions I shall
be pleased to answer at a quarter before one in my
private study. The others I shall postpone for
three days. I mention the stated time, three days,
as it is always well in this life to fix a time
for everything; whether of importance or not is
shown by the respect with which we treat the said

things, and the gravity of our conclusion and opinion
is much more apt to be of culminating importance
if we reflect upon them during a stated time. I aman
enemy to hap-hazard. The young ladies whose
names I mention, should they feel so inclined, may
present themselves at my private boudoir at the
hour above stated. The others will hear from meat
my earliest convenience. I am glad to see that
amongst the questions on my list are many which
have heretofore stirred the profoundest depths of
civilized intelligence — questions which Lucretius
asked of his master Epicurus, and questions which
crystallized thought of even the Douglas University
have failed to answer satisfactorily. I have stated
the time required, three days, in which I hope to
give a fair approximate answer. As Ave are none
of us infallible, at the end of those three days, should
my exhaustive research not find fitting response, I
shall beg a further and this time unlimited space
in which to continue my studies. Young ladies, you
are dismissed. I will receive Miss Flora Grayson
and Miss Stanhope at a quarter before one."

Miss Chances-Cressy waved her hand in signs of
benediction and dismissal. There was a simultaneous
rising of young women, a muffled sound of
stifled voices, a fluttering of petticoats and the
rustle of youthful silks; then the inhabitants of

the Well-born Seminary, in twos and threes, gilded
through the great doors, and were soon dispersed
to their various destinations.

Two young girls found themselves mounting the
grand staircase side by side. One was viciously
slapping her tinted palm on the carved balustrade
and muttering ominously. Her companion, who
seemed much younger, looked at her curiously and
half-laughed. The other turned quickly towards her.

Why do you laugh ? " she asked brusquely.

Because you seem in such a temper."

"Well, and so I am. Mean old cat, calling me
up just because she can't answer the other questions.
Mine was the simplest of all, and I only went on her
wretched list because she expected it of me. SL^
got it up for no earthly reason, and she keeps it up
for the same cause. I have never asked anything
because I know enough now ; but the other day she
met me and said, ' Miss Grayson — ' "

*' Oh, are you Miss Flora Grayson ? "

Yes ; and what is your name ? " They had reached
the top of the staircase by this time. Her companion
lifted her head proudly.

I am called Enilda Rozen."

Oh; what a pretty name ! Have you been long in
the seminary ? "

It seems long — three days." Enilda sighed ; Flora

VOL. I. D

stopped abruptly. " Three days ! " she echoed ; " you
call that long, and I have been here nearly as many
years. This is my last term, thank goodness. But
you — have you any friends here ? "

Not one."

Yes, you have me," said Flora stoutly. " I like
you ; I'll be your friend."

Enilda clasped the shapely outstretched hand and
tears welled into her eyes.

Flora looked at her ; then kissed her affectionately.

What have you for lunch ? " she said suddenly.
Come with me, and we will have ours together.
Let's go into a corner of the blue buffet, and there we
can talk ; and as for that old Chances-Cressy — "

You didn't finish what you were sang about her."

Oh, didn't I ? Well, I will. Only this, that the
other morning she stopped me at the gate with a serpentine
smile, and said, ' Miss Grayson, I haven't seen
your name on my question-list. I should like to report
to your father a marked advance over last term ; but I
find your mind runs pretty much in the same groove.
Is there nothing which puzzles or perplexes in your
daily life V So I told her one thing puzzled me very
much, and I would put it down on her list as a question
as soon as I could shape it into words — and I
guess when she read it her hair stood on end."

Enilda laughed.

What did you ask her ? "

I put it in this way — ' Miss Flora Grayson, after
three years in the Well-born Seminary, has learnt the
age of the most noted antiquities. She has never yet
learned the age of Miss Chances-Cressy, head of the
Well-born Seminary. She begs to put this question
in the name of science and natural history, and
requests a» early an answer as possible to her very
simple question.' "

Oh, how could you ! She must have been furious.
She seems a dear old thing. I — I rather like her."

Oh, you do, do you ? Well, I give you one week
in which to get a genteel sufficiency of her. Wait till
you are put into regular classes, then you will see
where her niceness comes in."

By this time they had traversed the north drawing-room
and reached the small apartment known as
the blue buffet. There were little tables as at a
fashionable Paris restaurant; there were lounges
and easy-chairs, and at one end a bay-window with
a balcony Flora selected a comfortable corner,
brought up a little table, then went into an adjoining
toilet and cloak-room, where the luncheon-baskets
were hung up on pegs underneath the wraps. She
found her number and Enilda found hers, then they
settled down for a cosy chat.

What have you for luncheon ? '* said Flora.

D 2

Enilda blushed, but answered honestly' :

I have some sandwiches — and — and a piece of
cheese."

Haven't you any cake, or pie, or nuts, or apples ? "

"No."

Haven't you any raisins ? "

No."

"Are your sandwiches chicken or ham ?"

Neither. They're of cold beef."

Cold beef. Let me have one. I like beef — cold
beef I'll divide with you ; you may have anything of
mine you like, and I'll take anything I like of yours."

Yes ; but it won't be fair. I have so little, and
you have so much."

Flora looked up and answered carelessly :

Yes, too much ; and it just happens that to-day I
hate everything I've got." Enilda pushed her basket
towards her. Flora unconsciously took the whole
contents in her hands.

Now let us begin ; this is just what I like." She
was eating Enilda's poor little sandwiches with evident
relish. " You take mine ; I've got yours ; then let's
talk."

Nothing loath, they began at once. Enilda emptied
the contents of Flora's little basket out on the table,
and was soon deep into the pile of dainties. She was
just about to take up a tart when Flora stopped her.

*' Is there another ? I am so fond of those tarts."
EnilJa reddened furiously.

"I — I — don't know; take this. I don't care for
tarts."

"Nonsense; yes, you do," responded Flora; "but
if there's only one we'll draw lots to see which shall
have it. It's great fun drawing lots. I'll tear the
paper, then you shut your eyes. I'll hold out my hand
with the papers in it, and you shall choose which
hand you'll take."

Enilda agreed cheerfully and shut her eyes tight.
Flora turned her back on her, took some paper from
one of the baskets, and for an instant nothing was
heard but the tearing sound of reducing it into
strips. Flora turned around gravely. She held out
two white hands. " Ready 1 Well now, which will you
take — right or left? The longest piece gets it. I
hope you didn't peak."

Enilda opened her eyes, which from having been
so tightly shut blinked like a rabbit's. " I'll take the
left," she said, and laid her little hand on Flora's
wrist.

"You've got it," said she in a tone of disgust;
not that I care for the tart, but it just struck me
that I could eat that one with relish."

Enilda refused to take it. She was authoritative.
I won't touch it," she said ; " I don't care if I did get

the longest strip. Will— will you not take it ?— do, to
}. lease me."

xso ; it wouldn't be fair ; the tart is yours. What,
you insist ! Well, we'll divide, although it is honestly
yours. Guess who makes these tarts ? "

Your — your mother."

*' Oh, you've guessed at once, you dear. That's the
reason they're so nice. Have you a mother ? Tell
me all about her ? "

Enilda ha If rose, then sank back in her seat.

A long time ago," she said, " there was a massacre
of whites at New Lui. You know New Ulm in
Minnesota. I was a little child. We had a lost
cabin on the Mississippi, and mamma went away to
get something in the village, and left me with my old
black nurse, Charlotte Corday. It was a beautiful
night, and she didn't come back. Papa was so unhappy,
and Charlotte Corday cried. Then when the
stars were shining and the moon was, oh so bright i
two men brought her body through the woods on a
plank. She was dead, and her hair was all tumbling
over the plank, and her hands held a little branch
and a knife. She was all wet, and her clothes were
torn. The men told papa she had been chased by
the Indians, and she ran and ran and then she fell
into the river and was drowned. So I never saw her
again, and papa never smiled for a long time. We

were left alone — he and I and Charlotte Corday — so
I haven't got any mother now to kiss me or to love
me or to make me tarts."

Enilda's voice died away in sobs, and her head
dropped on her bosom. Flora was in tears, and took
her into her arms with penitential effusion.

"You poor, unhappy, miserable little being. I
didn't imagine such a story, or I wouldn't have
asked you. Cheer up; you shall come home with
me. My own dear mamma shall be your mother
too, and do everything for you, and my father — "

Enilda raised her head. She wiped her deluged
eyes with a morsel of linen, and said half-proudly
between her teeth and her sobs :

I am obliged to you, but — but I have my own
father, and — and nobody else's mother could be my
own again — could she ? "

Flora agreed to that.

Who is your father ? " she then asked, with
curiosity.

My father is a miner," Enilda replied, with a
proud accent. " We live in the West — I and my old
black nurse. My father is poor, but he will be rich
some day, and he comes very often to see me. I am
such a big girl now that he said I must go to a
finishing school, and lie brought me here."

How old are you ? "

Fourteen — and you ? "

Fourteen last March. When is your birthday ? "

"My birthday is in October? Is — is your father
rich V

*' Very," said Flora promptly. " He is a great doctor,
and knows more than the whole town put together ;
and he owns a block of buildings called ' Grayson's
Block.' I am an only child. My mother is so lovely,
and such a dear. She always wears silk dresses,
and gives me everything I want ; and even to please
me goes into the kitchen and makes pies and cakes
and tarts, and there is a wash-boiler full of cookies
just such as I used to get at my auntie's when I was
a little teenty-taunty thing."

Oh, look ! " said Enilda ; " look at that girl
standing by the balcony. What is she doing ? "

Flora turned abruptly and saw Miss Stanhope
leaning dangerously against the side of the bay-window.
One hand supported her head, the other
waved a white handkerchief back and forth. She
seemed utterly unconscious of any one's presence, and
continued her signals with arch smiles and sly glances
enough to melt the heart of Prometheus in person.

Now watch," said Flora. " The girls all do that.
It is one of the elementary studies, and is called
Handkerchief Flirtation.' You can say all sorts of
things to men in that way. When she waves her

handkerchief gently it means, ' Yes ' ; when she throws
it over her right shoulder, ' Follow me ' ; and when
she lets it drop, ' Excuse me, I am in no hurry ' ; over
her left shoulder means * Danger ' ; and twisting it in
her hands, ' We are betrayed.' Putting it to her
mouth three times in succession and coughing a
little means, ' Charmed to make your acquaintance.' "

Is it possible ? " gasped Enilda ; " but who do the
girls flirt with ? "

Oh, lots of fellows — chemists, dry goods clerks
and the like; that great building opposite is filled with
young men. We see them when we come to school,
and we meet them when we come out. I don't pay
much attention, but the other girls do. Oh, look;
now she's picked up her handkerchief; that means
that she has no more time — and, and neither have I.
She's gone away without once looking. I had forgotten
about my question and Miss Chances-Cressy
but to continue about the flirtation. It's really lots
of fun. When you see one of the girls hold up her
hands in the class-room and say, ' Please may I be
excused ? ' Miss Chances-Cressy puts up her glass and
asks, ' Is it important ? ' in a very icy voice. She
answers, 'Most important;' then Miss C.-C. says,
'You are excused for ten minutes;' then the girl
goes out and comes up here as straight as a die to
flirt with some fellow, and — "

Miss Chances-Cressy's compliments, and she
awaits Miss Grayson in the private study." A footman
stood in front of the young girls; as he spoke
his well-ordered features might have been of wood,
they were so expressionless, and his mouth was shut
so tight that it was difficult to realize that it had
ever been opened. It looked like an unsprung
rat-trap.

Flora was the picture of annoyance.

It's no use," she said, " I must go. Oh that I
ever meddled with her question-list ! " She turned
to the footman : " Miss Grayson presents her compliments
to Miss Chances-Cressy, and she weill come
directly." The man bowed and withdrew.

Now," continued Flora, " I must talk awful
quick so as to finish about the handkerchief flirtations.
It's about the only thing I have learned by
heart since I have been here. I'll find out where
you are in the big school-room, and have my seat
next to yours. Good-bye, you dear; Pm off now
to ask the cat her age. Won't she be angry —
oh— oh 1 "

Enilda was troubled. " I am so afraid for you.
What will she say? Do come and tell me. How
could you ask such a question? I shouldn't have
dared."

Eh — eh. I must go ; but I'll tell you all about it

when we meet. Don't make friends with any one
until you ask me or I shall be jealous; good-bye,
I must go."

Flora ran quickly towards the north drawing-room.
In an instant she was lost to sio-ht.

o

CHAPTER III.

At the afternoon recreation Flora made sicjns
to her friend, but did not come to her. Enilda sat
alone until a young girl came and eyed her curiously,
then she seated herself near' and said with marked
simplicity :

What time is it by your gold watch and chain ? "

Enilda flushed, but answered sturdily: "I have
no gold watch — and no chain."

I have," her interlocutor responded. " My
father gave it me for my last birthday. My watch
is enamelled ; my initials are set in diamonds on
the back ; and my chain is more than a yard long.
Look ! "

She drew forth a tiny piece of mechanism which
might comfortably have slept on a silver quarter of
a dollar. Enilda looked calmly at it.

Well ? " said the girl.

Well ? " responded Enilda.

What do you think of it ? "

It looks as if it could talk'*

It ought to ; it cost three hundred and ninety-nine
dollars without the initials. My name is Ida
Forrester ; and, as you see, ' I. F.' are there in style
in real diamonds. What is your name ? The
diamonds cost two hundred dollars more."

Enilda told her name. Ida continued to scan her
with supercilious curiosity.

It's a Dutch name," she said icily. " Dutch or
German. Do you live on the north side ? "

Enilda opened her eyes. " The north side of
what ? " she hazarded.

Why the north side of Chicago, of course, goosey.
The whole of that part of the city is as German as .
You hear all the people in the streets talking
German. Then you see men at tables drinking lager,
and fat women selling cabbages instead of flowers.
Then they have music-halls open on Sunday nights,
and play ' The Watch on the Rhine,' and ' The
Fatherland,' just as we do 'John Brown's Body.'
The north side isn't aristocratic. The south side is —
I live on the south side. Have you any bracelets ? "

Ida took occasion as she posed this question to
throw back a silk sleeve which revealed a slim wrist
imprisoned by a glittering banneret. Before Enilda
could take it all in Ida negligently threw back the
other sleeve. Two porte-bonheurs of different style

but equal richness glowed on her arm with insolent
splendour.

I — I don't wear bracelets," said Enilda half
haughtily ; " but "

But she can if she likes," interrupted a voice
breaking in. "Enilda's father will be richer than
yours some day, Miss Ida; and besides, she's got
plenty at home if she wants to wear them."

Flora's was the voice to break in. Before Enilda
could respond Ida turned languidly to Flora.

Why don't she wear 'em then ? It's the fashion
in this school."

She will wear them when she gets a good ready
there. In the mean time, Miss Stuck-up, sou just
mind your own business and let my friend Enilda
alone. ' Proud I ' ' Smart 1 ' "

Your friend ! " Ida sneered. " Since when your
friend ? Why, she hasn't even got on a silk dress, let
alone talk of a watch and chain, and I never knew
you to be so friendly before on such short acquaintance
— with a poor person too."

Flora looked very angry, and Enilda very mortified.

Before one or the other could speak, the Latin
teacher passed. " Ah ! " he said, lifting his brows and
smiling classically ; " ah ! three girls talking together
that reminds me of the market-women. What did
the poet say ?

Et hie convenient Camilla, Liicilla, et Term-illa,
Et eloquent et ab hoc, et ab hac, et ab ilia."

As the Professor spoke he rabbet his hands
together and looked wise. He pronounced his Latin
with an Italian accent which, had he heard him,
would have driven the nearest street organ-grinder
into a frenzy of despair. He would think that he
had heard a sound from far-off Italy ; but he could
never exactly place that fleeting delusive intonation
nor that unctuous, insinuating Professor. Where
had he learned that way of speaking Latin ?
Where ? His words for an instant silenced the
young girls. Ida, with apt pretension, smiled blandly,
ignored her bangles, and said :

Yes ; exactly that ; exactly — did — did you know
the poet ? "

Not in the flesh," sighed the wise man, " but I
hope that he — "

He is dead," said Flora, calmly nodding to the
Professor.

"I was not going to say that, Miss Grayson. I
was going to say that I hope that he knows me inspirit,
for although dead several hundred years ago
I feel the affinity between us, and he ever lives in
my heart. Good afternoon, young ladies. I shall
see you at a quarter to four; but before I go let
me express my surprise. Miss Forrester, I scarcely

expected you to have understood me so perfectly'.
Although this term is but in the bud, I see that it is
destined to put forth in rare blossom — Patrie similis
est filius. Remember that — remember that youth
gives evidence of what we shall be in old age.
Good afternoon, young ladies ; think of your studies,
and felix vives''

The good Professor looked affectionately at them,
gave Enilda a . second glance seasoned with mild
curiosity, then turning on his heel ^vith a mediaeval
salutation — Haec loculus, obiit.

Ida laughed softly. Flora bit her lip, and Enilda
spoke.

"What did he mean when he said all those
strange words ? " She addressed herself to Flora,
but Ida answered.

I don't know what he meant. I never do know
what he means when he speaks Latin, but I always
pretend to understand. He is so well paid that
he never asks his pupils questions out of class. He
is bound to teach so much, which he does, and
Latin we have by the yard ; then, dien he has
reeled off a few feet a day, he has earned his money ;
whether we learn anything or not does not matter.
But Flora understands him. Her father is a doctor,
and he Writes prescriptions in Latin. My aunt had
one, but she isn't much better."

Flora fired up.

You know you're tickled to death ; but tell her
if she wants to get well to take her prescription
like her illness, in earnest; then she'll understand
my lather and get better at once ; then, too, she
ought to have quiet. With all you people about
her 1 Besides, she — she tears up two wills a day."

Flora — how can you ? " Enilda spoke in a mortified
tone.

Oh, I don't care," said Ida carelessly. " Flora's
only mad because she hasn't got an aunt who has
wills to tear up, who is bound to die, and to leave
her a fortune. I have ; I am the only heiress. My
aunt — she is my great-aunt — is over eighty. She is
an aristocratic dear ; no one wants her to — to say
good-bye ; but I almost hope she will, just to spite
Dr. Grayson. He thinks she'll live for ever, and goon
paying him twenty dollars a visit ; but she won't ;
she said she wouldn't. She cried yesterday with
joy. and said she had one foot already in the grave."

"Oh, much good her money '11 do you," said
Flora ; " before she'd give you twenty-five cents to
buy pea-nuts, she'd squeeze the eagle until he'd
scream."

Just then a bell rung. Flora started, and further
remarks were cut short.

There was a scuffling sound as of hurriedly treading
VOL. I. E

feet, a rustling ©f silk, the opening of a door back
of the platform, and Miss Chances-Cressy appeared
limping with her ebony cane. All knew that the
last hour of the daily lessons was to begin.

To Enilda' s surprise Flora took the seat next hers,
and as soon as possible, under pretext of showing
her various things, began whispering. They had an
enormous geography opened between them.

*' Ida Forrester is too stuck-up to live. The next
lesson is on South America. Can you draw maps ?
Well, it's real easy. Just grease a sheet of writing-paper
with lard or butter, then put it over the map,
and you can see every line through it as plain as
day. Naturally you copy it. That was an idea given
me by the teacher. Should she dare to ask questions,
hand her a certificate for sore-throat, and declare
that you can't talk for a week. By that time of
course she will have forgotten all about it. What
shall you study here ? "

This — geography, arithmetic, English grammar."

Flora stared at her; then laid her hand flat over
the Peruvian Andes.

English — you're crazy ; what will you study that
for ? Besides, there is no class in English grammar
in this school — that is to say, in this part of the
seminary. Why, we learn nothing here but how to
dance, how to work tapestry, how to put on style

and mash the boys, how to enter and leave a parlour,
how to manage our trains, a few dead languages here
and there, and astronomy of course, so as to know
how to talk stars to the fellows walking to church
on Sunday nights. Then some botany, so as to
converse with them in the language of flowers. I
have that down to a fine point'

In her earnestness Flora's hand slipped away
from Peru and inadvertently covered Patagonia.
She continued :

Once I was talking and walking with a friend of
my father's, a nice man, but old as Methuselah, so
I gave him a spray of mignonette, which said, ' Your
qualities surpass your charms;' then I asked him
if he could point out the big and the little dipper,
or the great bear, or something, and he was so
surprised with my knowledge that he begged my
father to take me out of the Well-born Seminary
He said I would be a bas bleu, and there could be
no greater disgrace attached to any distinguished
Chicago family. / am so afraid that I will learn
too much here. Miss Chances-Cressy — "

Oh, you did not tell me what she said," interrupted
Enilda. " Did she scold when she read your
question ? "

Scold ! I should blush to murmur ; I guess she
didn't. She read the question, and ventured a smile

e 2

LIBRARY

that would lijtve soured milk at six a.m. in the
milking. She said, ' Come to me, my child. I understand
your interest in me ; I ' — then she looked down,
Enilda, and her tenderness would have melted beeswax
— ' I ought not to answer your question, my dear,'
she said, 'but, I have not yet seen my tenth birthday.'
Then some one came and interrupted her. I
was wondering, when it struck me. She was born on
leap year, Feb. 29th, and four times ten you know — "

Flora was interrupted by a few notes from the
cuckoo, and an announcement by Miss Chandos-
Cressy.

'•'The Latin class will now proceed to room No. 10.
Room No. 10 is more comfortable than room No. 9.
The young ladies who complained of the hardness of
the chains in room No. 9 will find easy-chairs
and dos-a-dos in room No. 10. Young ladies, you
are dismissed."

Miss Clan los-Cressy having risen to deliver this
speech, sank back in her chair of state. There was
one little flutter of the moire skirts, one dull thud
made by the point of the ebon cane touching the
floor, and in an instant one could have heard a pin
drop in the room.

Several young ladies arose and moved noiselessly
towards the door. Amongst them were Ida Forrester
and Alice Stanhope. Flora got up and seemed to

ponder an instant, then she turned and half-dragged
Euilda from her seat.

'come with me," she said briskly; "sou must do
everything I do, and be in all of my classes ; besides,
Latin's lots of fun, and you will soon know as much
as the rest of us. If the Marquise asks questions,
you insist on Latin. I will explain later."

While yet speaking Flora had walked briskly
towards the door, and kept on talking just as briskly
under her breath. As soon as the girls were outside,
Ida Forrester pointed to Enilda and whispered with
some of the others. They sickened, pinched each
other comprehensively, and made their way in a band
to No. 10.

Flora was at the head of her class. She selected
a fine old arm-chair and installed Enilda next. At
this there was an outcry from one girl, then from
another, then another.

The Professor, who sat at a carved mediaeval table,
looked up timidly. He looked again and ventured a
word.

Salut, may I ask the meaning of this clamour,
3'oung ladies ? "

The voices grew louder. " No ; she shan't sit there ;
no" — and, "I won't have her next to me, because
she's poor."

I don't associate — with — beggars " — voice number

two. " Any girl who hasn't got gold bracelets must
go to the foot of the class."

The Professor looked annoyed, and seeing the
azure-blooded each refuse in turn to sit next Enilda,
he thought it time to repeat his question.

Young ladies, ah 1 — why this clamour ? Pray be
seated."

Ida Forrester spoke up boldly.

I wasn't sent here to associate with nobodies, and
I won't sit next Enilda Rozen."

Flora flounced up, and Enilda turned a deathly
pallor.

It's a shame," said Flora hotly ; " you think, Ida
Forrester, because your pa turns everything into lard
and makes money by it, you can make as much if
you can turn everybody into ridicule. Enilda's just
as well off as you are, and a good sight better behaved.
Her father doesn't boil up bones and young puppies
to make patent cements — "

"And if he did that's better than being a pill-broker,"
put in another voice — Alice Stanhope's.

Flora flushed. " Well, miss, that's royal compared
with being a tooth carpenter, and I guess your
father '11 wait a long while before he'd have the
pleasure of pulling teeth for any of ny family — "

Flora stopped an instant to get breath. There was
an ominous murmur of voices, then all the girls

shouted at once pro and con. Enilda alone remained
silent.

A faint " Pax, Pax, tutti " was wailed forth from
the Professor's desk, but for all the good effect it had
this^«x might better have been strangled at birth.
The three or four girls who were grouped together
burst into a louder hubbub than ever, and the poor
Professor's plaint was destined to remain unheeded.

Enilda arose stiffly.

Flora, I think I won't study the dead languages ;
I don't like the looks of this Latin class — I want to
go home."

One girl heard the remark, and took it up.

Oh, you don't like our class. Well, to show you I
don't care who you are, nor who I associate with, I'll
sit next to you myself. Come on, girls, let's commence
our lesson. Flora's head, the girl with the Dutch
name is next, and / come next."

Now that isn't fair ; my father's the richest after
Flora's, and I'm going to be next."

A dark girl with an insinuating smile came forward
and laid a hand on Enilda's chair as she said
these words. In the mean time Ida whispered to the
Professor. He thought it the moment to interfere.

He arose, sneezed three times, and sent a few
more ^^ftx'^ to follow after the first.

^' I would suggest — Pax ! — that the young stranger

Pax, ahem !— sit at the extreme end of the outer
sequence of the — the arm-chairs. Pax ! It is true,
my dear pupils, that everything in the world — on this
continent — ahem ! — I speak of North America — Pax !
of the Great United States — and we all know — E
pluribus unum — it is true that the young lady with
the high-sounding foreign, nay perhaps Flemish, name
I do not wish to be hard on her — is not as yet
entitled to a seat next Miss Grayson. We do not
think we err in pronouncing this quick decision. As
the richest man in Chicago, Dr. Grandson's daughter is
obliged to be at the head of every class, to take
precedence of every young lady in the Well-bon
Seminary, and to have the choice of prizes. Here it
is well known — Pax ! — there exists no partiality, no
vulgar classification with regard to mental worth —
only redundance of solid collateral and dollars may
place in her proper sphere the nineteenth-century
aspirant to knowledge of the world ; and until we
know the — the Flemish parent's banker we must
relegate his offspring to the foot of her class. Fait
sit, young ladies, we may now begin our lesson.
Sahib flat et Pax''

Enilda felt the justice of the Professor's decision.
In a country where Minerva's brows are bound with
a golden, not green, laurel, people should prefer the
distinction, which now-a-days is a more useful aureole

than Virgil's bay-leaves, or even Midi el Angelo's
various crowns.

Enilda wore a dress of stuff; her collar and cuffs
were of stamped paper, but remarkably white. How
could lie hope to be placed above girls whose
intelligence oozed forth from pliant silks; who
craned their necks in old rose-point ; whose speech
was accompanied by seductive bangles ; whose very
beings breathed luxury, abundance, and the insolent
aroma of untold wealth ? Flora took Enilda's hand
and pressed it softly.

Never mind, dear," she said ; " tomorrow we'll see
what is to be done. It is not my fault if my father's
so rich, nor his neither. He always said it. You are
under my patronage here, and I can always befriend
you. However, the rules are so strict. I forgot to
tell you. No one cm study the fine arts or the dead
languages without she is very rich. Only the poorest
study English, arithmetic, and grammar ; and as soon
as it is known that any girl studies English, or is in one
of those classes, all the rest cut her stone dead. Sh — sh,
we are going to commence. I will talk with you when
school is out, because this lesson is the last to-day."

Miss Grayson ceased speaking, and Enilda took
a seat pointed out by the Professor. As she passed,
several young ladies sickened and pulled aside their
skirts as if from contact with a leper.

A smile crept over Enilda's face. She seated
herself demurely in her chair, clasped her little
hands in her lap, and prepared to listen to the lesson.

The Professor hemmed and hawed — then began :

Young ladies, at the end of last session I believe
we had mastered the first part of the well-known
verb * To chew,' manducare. Will the new pupil.

Miss — ah, I really forget the name — Miss " He

looked at Enilda.

Her name is Enilda Rozen," said Flora haughtily,
"and she is my friend." Flora sat down.

"Ah, Miss Rozen," continued the Professor,
smiling, " I think you can easily master the first
person singular; the second is easier, and the third
should come by instinct. Shall we try ? "

Enilda flushed — flushed deeper, and clasped her
hands. She had not heard one word the Professor
had said ; she was only unhappy because she had
no bracelets, and mortified because her dress was
woollen, and not silk. She had never thought those
things necessary, but now — she realized to the full
how bitterly her education had been neglected.

Oh, for one gold watch and chain — just one ! She
sighed, but could not answer the Professor's question.
How could she think of first persons singular when
her mind was running on her unhappy lot, and
herself first person peculiar in this school ? What

demon had possessed her father to send her here ?
Why had he ever answered that advertisement in
the ' Denver Refrigerator ? ' Why had he sent one
dollar's worth of stamps for a gilded prospectus?
why — why ? Now she would be despised, looked
down upon — all — all because he had not yet thrown
his mines on the stock market ; because he had no
corner lots in Chicago ; and because she had no
jewellery, and could not wear silk dresses. Enilda
heard the Professor's voice repeating,

Shall we try ? "

She blushed, but stammered,

If — if sou please."

The sentence is this : ' Chicago is a prosperous
city.' Now we have Chicago in Latin — "

"Please, Mr. Professor," interrupted' Flora Grayson,
"you can't put Chicago in Latin. Chicago is an
Indian name, and means ' wild onion.' "

The Professor bowed.

Thanks, Miss Grayson ; quite right ; but I can
put ' wild onion ' in Latin if I like. What do we
have ? — wild onion should be — "

Garlic," suggested Miss Forrester.

The Professor clasped his hands in horror.

My dear Miss Forrester, you are wide from the
mark. As I said before, I can put wild onion
into — "

Into your soup if you like, Professor," interrupted
Miss Grayson with distinct graciousness.
Flora's words were followed by a faint snigger. The
Professor rubbed his hands.

''Ah," he said, " the giddiness of the Chicago maid !
And yet neither the vit, the wild onion, nor the soup
are to be despised. If we have two we may be sure
the other will not long be wanting."

Enilda was enchanted. What a nice man the
Professor was — what a cheerful way he had of rubbing
his hands together — and what a lovely way to study
the classics ! She was sure she would out Latin the
Lady Jane Grey in person if this style of lesson were
to be the rule in Well-born Seminary.

Alice Stanhope held up her hand. The Professor
saw it and bowed ; he addressed her gravely.

What is it — a question ? " he asked.

No ! Please may I be excused ? "

The Professor hemmed.

Is — is it something important ? "

Very ; I want to ask a friend in the next classroom
if she will go with me to the circus this evening;
besides, I want to know what dress she'll wear."

By all means ; by all means. You may be excused
at once ; the question of circus is already
important. That of dress one of still greater moment.
You may go at once."

Alice arose with alacrity. As she passed out of
the room the girls looked at each other. Then she
commenced talking on her fingers, and soon the
whole class were conversing in the deaf and dumb
alphabet. The next thing Enilda expected was to
have some of the aeneid in letters for the blind ; she
was surprise. but soon realized that this was no
ordinary school. She had never seen so much before
in so short a time, and had already written out a
letter in her head to send to her father, when Flora
came up and spoke.

Did you understand when we commenced to
talk a moment since on our fingers ? "

Enilda coloured but answered readily :

"No, I did not understand; but I knew I would learn
some day. Wasn't that the deaf and dumb alphabet ? "

Yes, goosey, of course it was, and I'll tell you
what wee said : ' Alice has gone to study style on
the Avenue and flirt with a chemist. Professor
Protoplasm bores us to-day.' Then I spelt out, ' I
want to go home ; shall I break up the class ? '
Answer, 'yes' unanimous. So home we go. My
dear, no more Latin for me to-day. I have had three
years of it, and I have now got to page six in my
primer, which is as far as an heiress ought to go.
The Professor wants us to be thorough, and I defy
any school in the West to produce more thorough or

zealous scholars, for such as we are. I never could
understand page three. I got stuck there, and the
sweet, good Professor, he's perfectly elegant, my dear,
once you know him. And his great-grandfather was
a knight without a garter, or lost his stocking or
something historic ; and once you know him you will
see how thorough he is. When he found page three
stuck in my throat, he said, ' Dear enfant, I am sorry
to say that until you have mastered the intricacies
of that page we cannot advance ; but I will start you
on page four with a margin of ten."

Oh, what a kind man ! " Enilda's voice shook
with emotion.

Kind I — well, I should shiver — butter wouldn't melt
in his mouth, he's so soft. But to continue: I, notions
this unexampled goodness, one day forgetting myself
learned page three by heart, skipped the margin, and
here I am at the head of my class and at page six,
not obliged to learn any more until I get a good
ready, which will be — never. Now, let's go home."

Enilda started. " Oh, I am home," she said,
smiling; 'don't you know that I live next door to
the seminary ? "

Flora was amazed. " I never heard of such a
thing," she said. " I should think you'd die instead
of live in the seminary ? "

Enilda laughed, a soft little laugh, then explained

that Miss Chances-Cressy had taken her as a boarder
for a little while until her father knew just what
he was going to do. She was very happy, only very
lonesome.

Flora was surprised, but said no more. In fact the
Professor's eye had been in her direction for some
moments, and she saw that her whisper was growing
too lengthy, so immediately returned to her place.

The Professor was answering a question put by
Miss Forrester.

I should say this in explanation, that in olden
times ladies spoke Latin and Greek — principally the
former — as we now speak modern languages. In
short, a lady then had little choice but to speak
Latin. She either knew that or nothing, as the
language of continental Europe was Latin; and as
most women have wished to be understood since the
world began and woman was made woman, there was
nothing strange in her making herself familiar with
the current literature of the day."

"Do you suppose Lady Jane Grey ever read a
dime novel ? " hazarded a timid retailing tea-broker's
daughter.

Undoubtedly," replied Prof. Protoplasm. " She
probably both read and wrote dime novels. I consider
cheap literature a great boon, and slang the language
of the day in America. Were Lady Jane here, I

could recommend a most intricate tale called ' Nellie ;
or, the Companions of the Chain.' The way that
hapless Nellie was caught by her enemies, the
numerous times she escaped, and the thrilling tale of
her recaptures, would have melted any gaoler's heart,
and have given poor Lady Jane an idea how to escape
her tormentors. I am now on my third year of this
story. It is now nearly twenty-nine months, and is
so thrilling that I hope it will run as many more."

I don't think there is a doubt of it," said Flora.
"All Chicago is reading it, and I heard my father
say to my mother, ' My heavens, Eleanor, they've
caught her again,' meaning Nellie ; and if he was
worked up over a New York Weekly story you maybe
bound that the whole town will get it; and as
long as people ask for that one thing, the man's
going to keep on writing that one thing for ever.
It reminds me of * One lotus ate up one grain of corn,
another lotus ate another grain of corn, and so on.' "

The Professor was charmed with Flora's aptness.
Youno^ ladies," he said, " I should like now that
we are on the subject of literature to indicate a
few books not Latin whose wholesomeness cannot
be denied, because their binding and whole get-up
speak for their great value. One is Wilkie's ' Walks
about Chicago ' ; the other ' The Ancestral Homes of
America'; another, 'How to Learn your Neighbour's

Wash bill ' ; and last but not least, ' Who Rules
Chicago Society ' What is necessary in order to go
with Chicago's best,' &c., &c. The last is absolutely
essential to any inhabitant of the Well-born Seminary.
You are now dismissed, and tomorrow I
hope to see the same blooming, smiling faces I have
seen to-day. The Latin lesson is finished."

The docile maids saluted the Professor, and as
they passed out they watched Enilda closely ; when
they approached her they half-shrugged their
shoulders, and Ida Forrester, staring boldly, took
her in from top to toe.

Enilda blushed and felt most uncomfortable.
Flora noticed this, but not getting a chance to speak,
sent her a little note as she was going home. It
ran thus :

"Dearest little Enilda,

"If you have a silk dress, wear it tomorrow
to please me. Ask no questions. Wasn't
the Latin class perfectly elegant ? All of our lessons
are just like that. You never can tell exactly what
you've learned, but your mind is filled with everything.
Good-bye until tomorrow.

Your affectionate

F. G."

VOL. I. F

CHAPTER IV.

Enilda could not understand ^vhy she was to put
on a silk dress the next day; but Flora was so
kind she did not like to displease her by refusing
so slight a request. She only had one pretty frock ;
it was of silk, with a blue ground covered with
beautiful flowers. It was her very, very best; and
she trembled fearing that something might happen
to it. Still worrying was out of the question. The
cherished gown had to be put on.

She was one of the first in the school-room the
next morning. Miss Chances-Cressy was already
down. They had met at breakfast. That lady had
imprinted a frosty kiss on Enilda' s forehead, had
left two stains of cherry paste over her right eye,
and had complimented her on her beautiful frock.
Still she was not happy. A little before nine as
the school-room was rapidly filling Flora rushed in.
She espied Enilda.

Oh, you dear ! " she gasped; "but I didn't mean

a ball dress — Lave you no other ? However, that will
do beautifully," seeing a puzzled look un Eriilda'a
face. ** That is perfection. Do you know who you
look like now ? "

No."

"The breathing, drawn and scratched image of
Marie Antoinette ; I have her on a china tea-cup
I bought in Clark Street. Now I have brought
something for you ; shut up your eyes and guess —
then look into your lap."

Enilda did as she was bidden, then opened her eyes,
and a cry escaped her.

Oh 1 what beautiful things ! — are they all yours ? "

Flora kissed her.

They're yours, or just as good ; you're to wear them
as long as you like. I have given you all mine, and
I helped myself to mamma's jewel-box. Now we will
see w4io will be head in all the classes. Ida Forrester
wull die with rao^e. These diamond earrings — "

Enilda flushed deeply.

Thanks, dear Flora, I love you, but I cannot accept
your kind offer. I cannot wear jewellery not my
own ; besides, I won't deprive you ; I shall never beat
the head of the class if I can't get there without
wearing diamonds."

Flora could not believe her senses.

I think it's real mean," she insisted. " I don't care

F 2

for them, and I nearly run my legs off to get here intime,
so that you could put on style, and lord it overall
the girls. I think you're as mean as ' purely '
there ; not to take them to please me ? Will you
take some of them ? "
No."

Will you wear my pearl ring ? "
"No."

"You are an obstinate little wretch, that's what
you are, and I was a fool to think of trying to please
you."

Enilda softened.

Not a fool, dear," she said in a low tone ; " but you
don't understand why I refuse. I know in my heart
that the rings are not mine. I know my father can't
give me any bracelets or diamond-cased watches ; and
once I should get used to them it would be awfully
hard to give them up ; besides, it would not be honest,
pretending to the world that such things were mine
when they weren't."

Pshaw ! — what does the world care ! the world
only asks to see you well dressed, and to look as if
you could buy and sell it outright."
"Outside show isn't everything."
"Well, it's everything in Chicago, and I advise
you, if you ever wish to hold your head up in the
Garden City,' to let people think you are rich,

whether you are or not, you know. ' Assume a virtue
if you have it not'"

** Or assume a bracelet if you have it not, and
presume bracelets virtues if they can be got," retorted
Enilda, lausfhincr. " No, Flora dear, I shan't touch
your gewgaws, so take them away, but I thank you
just the same."

Flora looked extremely mortified. 'you won't ? "
she said.

No, I won't."

Now, Enilda Rozen, this is the last time — one !
two 1 "

No, no, no ; that settles it."

Flora put the jewels back in a little box, then she
looked into Enilda's face and spoke.

I think I like you better, although you have hurt
my feelings ; but to show you I believe you're right,
I'll never put even my own jewellery on again in
school. We first commenced with rings — two, then
three; then a watch, then bracelets; then each day
the girls compared their things, and it has got so
now, that the only things we think of are dress, fine
clothes, and jewellery : putting on style, and mashing
the boys. We girls pass most of our time deciding
what we will wear one day so as to show off the next,
and put some one else in the shade. I must say I did
not care particularly about fine trinkets, but T got into

the habit of wearing: them. It came easier than being:
laughed at. Of course if you ivont follow our example,
why, I must follow yours, that all. I'm your only
friend here, and I am bound to stand by you ; but
I warn you we shall both be ignored and insulted."

As Flora finished speaking she heaved a tremendous
sio^h — took off o^oro^eous rino-s which adorned
the first and third fingers of her left hand, leaned
her elbows on the desk with her hands clasped, and
looked the picture of despair.

Enilda was most unhappy. She could not bear to
have a thought different from Flora's ; yet she had
the natural instinct which in youth protests against
much that old age sanctions. She already felt ill at
ease in this school.

The magnificence of her bed-room appalled her.
She scarcely dared touch her wash-basin for fear
of breaking it ; its splendour weighed upon her
spirits. The mirrors reflected her face in tinted wax
instead of chalk. The rustle of the stiff silks and
satins worn by girls, not one of whom had perhaps
overstepped the bounds of girlhood, the continual
glare of flashing fingers and bright raiment disturbed
her. Instead of studying from books she was
studying from human nature. It was all very
wonderful, very splendid, very high-toned ; but she
felt as one would feel who, accustomed to the

perfume of wild flowers and natural gardens, suddenly
found oneself transplanted to a hot-house — •
obliged to breathe artificial air and live the life consequent
upon artificial surroundings. Enilda thought
of all this, and much more ; she had been a week in
the Well-born Seminary. What had she learned ?

That Lady Jane Grey was not clever; that
Chicago was ruled by Mammon; that the richest
man's daughter was at the head of every class;
that handkerchiefs were used mostly for flirtations
with young men ; that the dead languages only were
worth teaching; that there had never been an
English class known in the school ; that Chicago was
the Indian name for " Wild Onion " ; and that Miss
Chances-Cressy was born " of a leap year."

She would have continued her meditation, but
Flora interrupted her.

"Enilda—"

Yes, dear."

I have one favour to ask which you cannot
refuse. I have told mamma all about you, and she
thinks it perfectly awful that you are to be cooped
up in this school all the time. You are to come
home with me to stay over Sunday, and as this is
Saturday and half-holiday, we are to go out during
this afternoon and have a lovely drive together.
If you don't come I'll think you awfully mean.

Mamma insists upon it I have told her all about
you, and that you are the first girl I ever took a
fancy to. Besides, she says that — that she will bea
mother to you, and — and anything else I wish.
Will you say yes ? — will you come ? "

Enilda s face lightened. Then a tear dimmed her
eye. She went close up to Flora, softly kissed her
cheek, and murmured :

Your mamma is too kind : I think she must belike
my own dear mother. I love her and you too
for being so good. I will come with pleasure — that
is to say, if Miss Chances-Cressy should not object."

Flora was triumphant, and her eyes fairly danced.

Object ! " she responded. " She wouldn't dare.
Mamma wrote her a note last night and sent it by
the post. So she could not make any observations
to me. Mamma thinks your name is perfectly
lovely, and she asked Miss C.-C. to let you come
and spend Sunday with me."

"Oh, how kind!" said Enilda; "how perfectly
sweet of her ! Flora — I think I like you very much."

'•' Well, I should think you might. Missy. I have
only known you twenty-four hours, and already weare
as thick as honey. However, I still think you
have behaved meanly about the jewellery."

They were stopped by the bell which announced
prayer and the beginning of the day's exercises.

In due time Enilda was called up to Miss Chandos-
Cressy, who graciously informed her of Mrs. Grayson's
note, and gave her full permission to spend Sunday
with Flora. She bade her a very affectionate farewell,
said that she had a charming account to send
to her father of his daughter's progress, and hoped
that she would be very happy with the Graysons ;
adding, "They are the richest and most elegant
family in Chicago."

Enilda was delighted to go, but pondered on what
Miss Chances-Cressy could possibly write her father
of her progress. She had been daily in as many
as eight classes, and as yet had not the slightest
idea what was taught in any one of them. She
enjoyed the Latin class, as there the circus was
discussed ; and she learned that, in all probability,
Nero himself was none other than an ex-bus-driver,
or, if the truth were known, a hoop-jumper on a
small scale long before he borrowed the Imperial
purple. Her classical idols cannot be said to have been
shattered, as she had none on entering the school.

She was gravely wondering what Flora's home
was like when Ida Forrester, touching the new silk
dress, stopped and sneered in her ear :

Where did you get it ? Out of Genera's chest ?
It must have figured at the mistletoe bough celebration
centuries ago."

Enilda blushed, but. answered courageously : "It
did figure at a celebration a long time ago, but it
was my grandmother's wedding."

Ida held up her hands.

''No'? So we had a grandmother. I also had a
grandmother, but she didn't rag herself out in chintz
curtains with immigrants dancing on hop-poles."

I am glad to know that you had a grandmother,"
replied Enilda calmly, "as I never should have
supposed it from your manners. Let us hope you
also had a grandfather. It is a wholesome legacy
to some families'*

Ida crimsoned with ras^e.

How dare you say such a thing to me ? I shall
tell Miss C.-C. that you've insulted me, you western
savage."

Enilda retorted. " Tell her what jo\x please'; but,
Miss Forrester, would 3'OU mind giving me a genteel
letting alone. I wish to be friends with you, but
I have not the best temper in the world ; that much
is western savage, I can tell you."

"Ah — we fight, do we. We lift hair perhaps.
Why did you not come down with a tomahawk
and a few bloody scalps hanging at your belt ? Ah !
we are of the fighting kind ! Where do you bury
your dead, Miss Rozen ? "

Enilda was too angry to make any answer, and

happily at that moment Ida was obliged to go to her
class. Every other member had left the room, and
Miss Chances-Cressy was ah'cady casting glances of
surprise in Enilda's direction. The morning seemed
interminable, and the luncheon hour was a happy
relief.

Flora took her away, and they went to the buffet
as before. Although staying in the house Enilda's
luncheon was given her, as before, in a tiny basket.
It was easy enough to see that outside show was
everything at Miss Chances-Cressy 's fashionable
finishing school.

We are required to write compositions," said Flora,
beginning the conversation when they were comfortably
seated. " I have brought one of mine to show
you. It is called ' Curious Caroline,' is very short, but I
think quite original. The lessons on composition are
about the most instructive in this Seminary. You may
choose your own subjects, but one rule is strict — that
it is not so much what you say as the way you say it.
1 tell you here we have to put on style. You couldn't
even mash a potato without doing it in hog-Latin."

What is hog-Latin ? " Enilda looked surprised.

Oh, you know. Augury, go-fury, downgury,
togury— "

Well, I should think it was H. L. Who teaches
that branch of the Latin tongue ? "

Oh, we girls invented it so as to have one language
spoken in this school that nobody but ourselves
could understand. The one who invents a
new word has a good mark given by the last inventor.
I was the last inventor, and Alice Stanhope
Alas the last before me."

Enilda reflected a moment, then the puzzled look
left her face.

Oh, I know how you happened to think up that
language," she said. " Don't you remember the
rhyme :

Higgledy-piggledy, my black hen,
She lays eggs for gentlemen ;
Sometimes nine, and sometimes ten,
Higgledy-piggledy, my black hen.' "

Flora laughed.

"Oh, you cute thing;" she said, "of course that
was our starting-point, our classic so to speak ; but
don't you want to hear my composition ? It gained
the first prize last year."

Of course ; do begin."

Flora unrolled a mysterious-looking paper, hemmed
and hawed, smoothed out her skirts, looked down
at her neatly-buttoned boots, adjusted her tunic,
ran her fingers lovingly through her bangs, gave
the paper one final shake as a preliminary, and
began.

Curious Caroline's Contemporaneous Comedy.

"Curious Caroline caught cold culling crocuses.
Caroline's cousin called, ' Come, Caroline ; come ;
cease culling crocuses.' Caroline continued ; croup
came, croup congested, croup conquered : Caroline
collapsed. Consequently Caroline's clouded corpse,
closed Caroline's curious career. Candlemas celebrated
concluding ceremonies : chilly crocuses, carelessly
climbing columbine covered Caroline's catafalque
: Caroline canonized, cloud-carried, chaunts
chorals commemorating Caroline's costly correction.
Caroline comedian consummate, continence.

F. G

Well-horn Seminary, June, 1871."

Enilda was charmed with ' Curious Caroline.'

I am sure you will be a great author, Flora, some
day," she said; "the first thing we know you will
write a book on astronomy, or some easy science.
Perhaps you'll be like Elizabeth Barrett Browning
or George Eliot."

Flora folded up her paper, and replied with great
complacence :

'* There's little left for me to solve now the apple
and the egg theories are exploded ; still I really fear
learning too much in this school, and every time

I have a rash on ni' forehead I know just as well
as can be that it's my knowledge coming out. When
I have a fearful headache there's not a doubt but
some of those irregular verbs and things are trying
to place themselves comfortably in my brain. After
every headache I systematically try to forget everything
I have ever learned ; then I say to myself,
Now, brains, take a new pack, a new shuffle-up, and
a new deal.' "

And does it — I mean do they — I don't quite
know whether brain is a he, she, or it; a we, you, or
they. Which — "

Flora responded :

I guess he's a which, and that's all we will ever
know about her. Come along ; there's the bell ; and
iu an hour more the carriage will call to take us home."

The girls ran back to the school-room. Enilda
found that the hour passed but too quickly. She
wrote a line to her dear papa, sent her love to
Charlotte Corday, her old black nurse, and then went
to change her frock. She hardly dared venture to
wear her present one to Mrs. Grayson's. She put
on a pretty gown in dark stuff, and made up a little
bundle for Monday which she put in a small leather
hand-bag.

Flora came to her room and-watched the preparation.


Well, my dear," she said as she entered, " here
you are in your sky parlour, and these are your goods
and chattels ! What all are you putting into that
outlandish-looking: bar ? "

Enilda explained. " This is a letter mamma wrote
about me a long time ago ; this is her picture, and
that is papa's ; there's my bible and prayer-book ; and
this is a talisman that Charlotte Corday gave me
when I came away."

Flora looked askance at the prayer-book.

"What are you?" she asked; " Baptist, Hard or
Soft-shell, Methodist, Presbyterian, Congregationalist,
Dutch-Reformed, Universalist, Unitarian, Episcopalian,
High Church or Low, Greek, Catholic or — "

I am a Catholic," said Enilda, smiling ; " but nota
Roman Catholic. I am a very High Church
Episcopalian."

Flora nodded.

I know ; I've seen them at the Cathedral. I ama
Methodist, but shall at once belong to your Church.
Mother says that our religion is disgraced by camp
meetings, routs and rabbles, and she is ashamed to
say that she is a Methodist. Besides, there's only
one door to heaven, and I guess I can find it, if
I'm a good girl, no matter what religion I profess.
But why do you take all those things ? — they will
be safe here until you come back."

"Take them!" repeated Enilda, opening her eyes.
'' Why, do you know that I am never without them !
I sleep with mamma's picture where I can see it
when I open my eyes the first thing in the morning.
Papa's must be near by. Besides, I should be unhappy
to be without them for two whole days. You
you don't mind, I hope ? "

Enilda asked this question anxiously.

Mind, little goosey ! Of course not ; I only asked
you to see what you'd say. 1 like you because you
are just your little self — there ! I told mamma about
your love for your parents, and that pleased her.
I tell you what it is, Enilda ; I guess, no matter what
they are, we'll never have anybody in this world to
love us for keeps like our fathers and mothers, will
we ? — and you may put that in your pipe and smoke
it. Are you ready ? — all right ; come along. You'll
find that my mamma's the sweetest, dearest woman
in the world, and she'll let us have a perfectly elegant
time together."

When Enilda had finished her preparations they
ran down the stairs, and after bidding Miss Chandos-
Cressy a good-natured farewell, jumped into the.
carriage, and were rapidly driven away.

CHAPTER Y.

Dr. Grayson lived in one of the handsomest and
most comfortable houses in The Garden City. It was
an old-fashioned mansion of wood built with massive
beams and rafters, solid oak facings, with a roof
innocent of Mansard's art. The house was beautifully
placed in a quadruple lot, and surrounded by
magnificent trees. Wabash and Michigan Avenues
were at that time "the most fashionable residence
streets in Chicago. The early settler had decided
not to hew timber in this quarter, and the consequence
was a really fine street bordered on either side
with grand old oaks, acacias, and maples. Wabash
Avenue in summer-time was a perfect bower of
beauty, forming a promenade which would scarcely
have disgraced Versailles. There were miles of
shadow — and the air was scented by that mysterious
balm which exhales from redundant and happy
nature.

VOL. I. G

Michigan Avenue, running parallel to Wabash
Avenue, was magnificently built up on one side ;
whilst the other lay upon the very waters-edge.
Lake Michigan showed in all its insolent beauty,
clear, seductive as the sea, and in some places almost
as fathomless; a dark line of breakwater lapped
the shore to the very side-walks of the Avenue.
This pool was not pretty, and besides was a source
of constant terror to fond mothers and owners of
valuable lap-dogs.

The lake breezes were fresh, but rarely balmy ; so
Dr. Grayson preferred living on Wabash Avenue.
It was perhaps one shade less aristocratic than
Michigan, but certainly healthier.

Flora explained this as they drew near home.
''My father's no idiot," she said; "he says Michigan
Avenue is damp, and he won't hear of any of his
people or patients living there. It's beautiful —
though sometimes it gives me a sore throat just
putting my head around the corner of the street.
Here we are at home, and there's my dear mother
waiting for me."

Flora rejected the footman's help both for herself
and Enilda. She jumped out of the carriage, dashed
into the house and into her mother's very face ; then
drasfofed Enilda forward.

"Mamma," said Flora breathlessly, 'this is my

dear new friend, Enilda Rozen — now kiss her just as
you do me, and make her feel at home."

Mrs. Grayson looked at Enilda, then she came
gently up to her.

Flora is such a whirlwind," she said, '* she takes
my very breath away. I am glad to know you, my
dear. Flora's friends are all welcome to her home ;
and you doubly so."

Then she kissed Enilda cordially, and began
questioning her about Chicago and her school. Did
she like the teachers ? — did she find Miss Chandos-
Cressy agreeable ? — and, above all, was she comfortable
at the Well-born Seminary ? "

Enilda answered "Yes" to everything. Flora
interrupted when the question of comfort was
broached.

"No such thug, mamma. She ain't a bit comfortable.
She lives in a sky-parlour next to the roof;
she hasn't an easy-chair in her room; her wash-pitcher
is so heavy you couldn't lift it with a patent
derrick ; and the luncheons they give her well ! "

Flora stopped short. Perhaps the remembrance
of how she had devoured one came into her mind.

"Well," she continued. "They are not so bad,
but so vilely scrimpy, and — she had no tarts. I wish
she could live here with us. Can she, mamma ?
Do say yes at once."

G 2

Flora bought all her favours and paid for them in
advance by a profusion of hugs, kisses, and various
caresses. She attempted the same commerce to-day,
but her mamma laughingly put her off.

"Don't tease, dear. Enilda shall do just as she
likes; but perhaps her papa wouldn't wish her to
leave the school. However, we will discuss that
some other time. E-un and get some lunch, then
take Enilda for a long drive. I am going to visit
my poor people, and won't be home until dinner-time.
Good-bye, my dear; now be off. I am so
busy — oh, Flora, where is your little grey dress ?
I want it for one of my sick sewing-girls." Flora
pouted.

"You shan't have my grey dress; I like it best
of all my clothes ; it's so soft and clings."

Flora ! " — Mrs Grayson opened her ej^es. " Do
you remember what you said yesterday when you
asked nne a favour ? With so many dresses, you
refuse to give up one ! "

Flora coloured, then laughed.

"I was only joking; of course you may have it;
only you always take away the things I like best.
I'll get it now ; naturally you couldn't find it. I saw
you had your eye on it this A.M., and I quietly hid it ;
but I think you're real mean just the same — there ;
and I'll never let you know again when I like any

particular dress. I'd meet it face to face in State
Street in less than a week."

Mrs. Grayson said no more, and Enilda maintained
a discreet silence.

When Flora returned with a. neat bundle, her
mamma kissed her gravely, saying :

I don't like you to set your heart on any one of
your dre ses, more than another. You must remember
that you have everything, and many poor girls in
Chicago have nothing but rags. I take away from
you something you like, as there is little virtue in a
charity which requires no self-sacrifice."

Flora understood. Later she and Enilda were
driving along the smooth pavements towards Lincoln
Park. Enilda admired the beautiful city, and exclaimed
" Oh, how lovely I " with every other breath.
When they reached the enclosure her rapture was
boundless. Flora explained.

Yes, my dear, it is an ex-graveyard. My father
says people in Chicago are in such a hurry they
won't even let the dead sleep in peace ; so the raking
process has begun. Now, look at that tombstone !
Isn't it old and grey and unhappy-looking ? — all jagged
to one side, and just waiting its turn to be torn up and
have something alive planted in its stead. It almost
looks as if it knew what was to be its fate"*

The girls were but just entering the Park, and on

either side, dotted here and there, were countless
ancient slabs marking the relics of many gone before ;
many once young and bright as they, sleeping in that
unhallowed ground, now resonant with the sound of
pick-axe, careless laughter, and ribald jest. Heaps of
autumn leaves had fallen, hundred-hued, and covered
the soft turf with a carpet of oriental richness and
beauty : the wind was high, and at the end of the
poplar walk there was a perfect kaleidoscope of
leaves and sand tearing through the air as if impelled
by some occult power. Eniida was half-frightened,
and could scarcely keep her bonnet on. Flora laughed
at her fears.

"My dear Eniida/' she said, "Chicago is dry
enough to blow away. It hasn't rained in five
weeks, but I like the wind. Papa says it's healthy.
The lake and the prairie together sweep all the
miasma away from the city, and you couldn't be sick
here if you tried."

"I shan't try," said Eniida laughing. Then they
left the carriage and went to see the animals, of
which Lincoln Park boasted a few benighted specimens.
There were deer to whom any forest was
unknown, confined in a sort of provincial circus
collection; on the miniature lakes, which were
spasmodic, slimy, and stagnant, swans floated, "ill-fed,
ill-bred, and ill-kept."

The monkeys in their cages were sad and unlawful,
the bears were blind and boorish, the birds were
perky and insolent, the snakes were ordinary and
somnolent. In short, the zoological efforts in Lincoln
Park of ^71 were on a par with everything else ina
hurriedly-built miraculous city. They were enterprising,
but not wholly satisfactory. Alas 1 there was
no Barnum disposed to winter his show in the Garden
City and lend as to Gotham his ex-attractions. After
spending an hour in looking about — feeding the
swans — for in this Chicago was as civilized as Paris
swans will stuff the world over — they re-entered
the landau and went to the then uncompleted lake
shore drive.

No city in the world can boast a more beautiful
natural promenade. The boundless stretch of water,
like a vast inland sea, breaks into myriad weaves
from the pearly beach, and as far as eye can see
shines an enchanted stream, where Aphrodite herself
might have bathed, or Diana's chaste image been
reflected ; the banks of the lake are bordered by a
majestic forest, whose trees like their years are
unnumbered ; these are bright with a living green,
or tinted with those rare colours which alone grace
the autumnal woods of North America.

Flora looked tenderly around.

Isn't it the dearest spot in the world, Enilda ?

I just love it. I think Queen Elizabeth would not
have accepted even Sir Walter Raleigh's cloak to
walk upon could she have had this beautiful carpet;
the ground looks like old tapestry, doesn't it ? There
is a little mound near that great tree ; let us sit
down and chat 1 "

"No, first I must gather some flowers for your
mamma, then I shall make a chaplet of leaves for
you. I am famous for making wreaths; you will be
decorated like a May queen."

All right. Mamma loves wild flowers ; she will
be tickled to death to have you give her some.
She's the best woman in this world ; do you know
what her name is ? "

No."

Her name is Elizabeth, which means God-given,
and I think no one ever had a truer name."

She was such a gift to your father, and join
where such another gift to your parents," said Enilda
smiling.

Enilda wove a beautiful wreath, and crowned
Flora with mock earnestness, then they made their
way towards the beach.

Here the wind Hew so much stronger it was with
difficulty they could keep on their feet. The waves
ran up to the shore, then dashed away in angry
breakers with a sullen roar like the sound of

distant cannonading. There were white caps visible
just as at sea, and the water had an inky reflection
which spread like quicksilver over its troubled
surface.

Flora looked wise.

I guess there's going to be a storm, Enilda. I
know old Lake Michigan. When it looks like my
grey kitten then I say to myself, ' Beware of the
rolling deep ! ' Why, you don't even dare go out
for a little row in the breakwater; gales blow up
so sudden that before you know where you are,
you're being dragged round and round, just like an
Indian canoe in a whirlpool, and the boat cracks
like pop-corn on the kitchen fire, then — save yourself
if you can. Ugh ! " — she shuddered — " what a wind !
Let's pick up a few shells, and then hurry home."

They had gathered a quantity when the footman
came up and interrupted them.

"Pardon me, Miss Flora, but it is perhaps later
than you think. You have but just time to get home
for the dinner-hour. Excuse the liberty of my
reminding you."

Flora gasped out :

Impossible ! Why, of course we must go at once.
Papa cannot endure sitting down without me ; thanks,
Joe,' you Averse quite right to tell me. Shall we go,
Enilda ? "

When they reached the carriage Flora was quite
out of breath.

Enilda clambered in and said :

One would think we had been to a Sunday
school picnic. Look at our trophies"'

"Yes. Just think how surprised mamma will
be to see us so loaded down. Speaking of Sunday
school reminds me of a friend of mine in my class.
She is so little. One day the teacher said to her,
Mary, who made the world ? ' Mary was scared
to death and did not answer. The teacher, she was
so strict, said again, ' Mary, I wish you to tell me
who made the world ? ' Mary's lips trembled, but
she did not say anything, and the teacher was so
mad, she fired up and cried out, ' Mary, this
ignorance is wilful and unbecoming ; answer me at
once or I shall whip you, and make an example of
you before the class ; now who made the world ? '
Mary cried, and said, ' I did, but I'll never do it
ao^ain.' So mamma said such little jjirls oughtn't
to be sent to school ; and Mary's mother has taken
her out of the class."

Poor Mary ! — how old was she ? "

Why, my dear, only four, and that is too young
to send children to school; but in Chicago some
are in the second reader at six. Now, like me, for
instance, I learned so much before I was ten that

I outgrew the grade, and I would have had four
years' solid vacation until time for the High School,
where we go at fourteen ; but ma got the idea of the
Well-born Seminary in her head, and I was marched
off there without a thought of High School or anything
else."

What does it all mean ? " persisted Enilda. " I
don't know what you mean by High School — and
grades."

The carriage was rapidly nearing Clark Street, and
they had to wait while the bridge was being opened
and shut."

Flora seized her flowers and held them to Enilda's
nose without answering her question.

Quick ! " she said. " Smell of these or you will
faint ; the river has some odour on earth undefined,
and in perfume unrefined. I told papa once that
I thought the river on the north side was mad
because so many Germans emptied beer and stale
sour-trout into it. Now what did you say about
grades ? You don't understand the Chicago school.
Well, I will explain, now or never. I guess there are
about thirty-five public schools in Chicago. I went
to one — The Skinner School on the West side. We
lived there then. I loved the Principal ; such a dear
good man ! When I got there, I was unfortunately so
advanced that they put me at once into the second

grade ; you know there are ten or sometimes twelve
grades, although I never saw anybody in the twelfth."

Mary would have been in the twelfth," interrupted
Enilda.

Oh no ; I am not sure ; I think everybody in
the twelfth grade knew who male the world. Some
even knew it in the first ; but, to continue, that is the
lowest. Then you go up, and up, and up, until you
get to the third or second, which is already nothing
to be sneezed at. The building was enormous — square
and I cress six stories hicrh. At least I was on the
fourth floor. The funniest part is that the higher
up you are in your class the more stairs you have to
meant; but no one minds that. I thought it fun,
but we didn't dare slide down the banisters 'cause
we'd have been reported. I used to go to school at
eight o'clock every morning with my luncheon-basket
and my bag of books ; then I always met some sweet
dear of a boy, Who, on seeing me, immediately said,
Good morning, Miss Grayson.' One thing, Enilda, I
was always called Miss at a very early age. It was
more proper, and I alvmys encouraged the notion with
people that I thought a good deal of myself — Adhere
was I ? At ' Good morning, Miss Grayson.' Oh, yes ;
then of course I answered back, and he would say at
once, just like a little gentleman, 'Pray let me carry
your books, or your basket, or both ? ' "

I would have given him both," said Enilda.
"Which I did with great punctiiahty," returned
Flora. " Then we would walk side-beside to school ;
meeting all the other girls and boys on the way
of course."

Did they laugh to see you two together ? "
Lauo-h ! What was there to lauo^h at ? No indeed,
wee were all in the same boat. Of course if I went
a dozen times with that identical boy, he was called
my beau ; but nothing was said about me. That's the
beauty of Chicago — scandal is unknown. Naturally,
he was proud and honoured to be my cavalier. When
we got to school, we formed in line, if the first bell
had rung. Then side-beside we marched up-stairs.
The warning bell rang a quarter of an hour afterwards,
and any one coming in then was called late,
had a bad mark, and had to bring an excuse the next
day or an apology. I once came late."

Why, didn't they know your father was rich ; and
wouldn't they excuse you, just as the Well-born
Seminary ? "
flora laughed.

Enilda, you are a goose ! I guess anybody could
see that the public schools are different. My father
might be able to buy and sell Chicago outright,
and I might spring him on them every day, but I
wouldn't be treated any better for that. White or

black we are all equals in republic schools, and the
one who gets ahead must do it by his scholarship.
Well now, I must hurry and finish, as we are nearly
home.

We march to our class-room in silence; then we
take our seats together; one row of boys, and next
one row of girls, and so on naturally side-beside. We
have prayers, and the day's work begins. We learn
all sorts of vulgar things: English grammar, arithmetic,
geography, algebra, common history, history
of the United States, and I don't know what. But
you may imagine the everyday style of books that
are taught in the common schools. Then eve have
lessons on great people dead and gone hundreds
and thousands of sears ago. These are called oral
lessons. The teacher writes on a black board about
some one, one day ; then wee copy it in our books, and
learn it to repeat by heart the next. It's real fun.
I learned all about Homer while I was in the second
grade. How he was blind and sung in the streets ;
how he wrote two books — I've forgotten their names
now, but everybody else knows 'em ; they were written
on the bark of trees after, because there wasn't any
paper, you know, and a lot of other things, oh, so interesting
! Then other mornings we 2:0 to" the sino-iriOf
hall."

What is that ? "

Well, I was just going to tell you, A big room
with black boards all around, and a piano. The
smartest girl plays a march while we enter and
seat ourselves. The Professor is always, or most
always, a German. He sings and talks through his
nose, and I was going to say looks through his nose,
'cause he certainly wears his glasses over them. He
makes a lot of notes and tells us to read them. Then
the Professor begs us to study hard to go some day
to Europe to learn to be opera-singers, because we
can't learn in America ; there are no good conservatories.
Then we all march out again, and go through
this performance year after year. I never learned
anything. It was always the same girl who read the
notes best and sang alone ; I was perfectly willing,
but no one ever offered me a solo."

Perhaps you had no voice," mildly suggested
Enilda.

Well, that was one reason," Flora good-naturedly
asserted ; " but voice doesn't always make such a big
difference ; on the contrary, anybody can sing with a
voice; the clever thing is to sing without one, so the
Professor said ; and naturally I was willing to try,
and wanted some encouragement, but I never crop
it. One reason was, one girl named Garnet bossed
the whole class because she sung in a church choir
and was going to be an opera-singer. Well, never

mind the music, I will finish-about the other things's.
At the end of the tern, you know, ten months, weare
examined, and if we pass, go into higher classes.
When we have left the first grade we are ready for
the High School, but I think cannot be admitted
there after eighteen or sixteen, nor much before
fourteen. There you learn one modern language,
French or German ; one classic, Greek or Latin ; get
your diploma, an I are ready to teach. You can be
engaged at any school in America, and be paid lots
of money. Then if you are good-looking you may
marry the Principal, have your pick of classes, and
boss the whole concern ; or marry the mayor and boss
the town. That has also been done."

I think I would like to graduate from the
Chicago High School, and — "

And boss the town ? Well, you are pretty
enough to marry a mayor; only judging, as my pa
says, from our last samples, I wouldn't wish even an
enemy such luck as that."

What do mayors do ? "

Oh, nothing. Before they are elected they make
men drunk dio vote for them, then they promise to
help the city with bills. They steal all they can ;
they engage a lot of paupers who do all of their
work for them; then their term expires, and they
are turned out. Sometimes, to get the bills passed,

so my father says, they wheedle the same drunkards
into getting them into Congress. Then good-bye
bills, but not good-bye drunkards. Enilda, don't
ask me any more questions. I have Literally talked
myself to death — and here we are at home. I'm
starved ; aren't you ? Come on in : ma and pa will
be waiting."

VOL. I. H

CHAPTER VI.

Ma " was waiting, but " pa " was not. Dr. Grayson
had been called out just as be was sitting down
to dinner. The usual fate of doctors. He would
not be home until late, as he had gone to Evanston,
a suburb of the " Garden City," to attend a poor
woman whose case baffled science and the most
extraordinary medical skill.

I know," said Flora ; " I know all about her.
She is a woman who sleeps for years at a time, and
wakes up every few months to take some nourishment.
She always asks for pie, then falls asleep
again. All the doctors want to be there when
she wakes ; they know about the time, because she
rolls about in bed beforehand — heaves awful sighs ;
then she moves her hands and opens her eyes. She
always says much the same thing."

Flora, are you not mistaken about her asking for
pie ? " said her mamma. " You know I wish you to
be exact. Perhaps she asked for cake."

No, mamma — pie, or at least it sounds like that ;
then she stuffs down a lot of other things and shoes to
sleep again."

It is hard to benefit science with a woman who
asks for pie all the time," said Enilda; "even if
she does sleep eight or ten years at a stretch. I
think I should ask for something else occasionally ;
wouldn't you, Flora?"

"Now," said Mrs. Grayson smilingly; "now let us
go on with our dinner."

Enilda thought she had never had a pleasant
day. Mrs. Grayson questioned her about herself, her
parents — and said that she hoped her papa would
let her make their house her home while in Chicago.
Flora was alone — there was plenty of room — she
would be a mother to her during her stay.

Enilda was touched by Mrs. Grayson's kindness.
How good God had been to raise up for her such
friends and such a home in a great city where she was
the veriest stranger imaginable ! She thanked her
warmly, and with tears in her eyes. Mrs. Grayson
kissed her tenderly, and told her not to think of
thanks ; she and Flora were the obliged ones. She
only hoped Enilda would be happy, and find a sister
and companion in Flora.

Mrs. Grayson was so honest a woman herself that
she believed ardently in the honesty of all the world.

H 2

She did not need any letters, to recommend Enilda to
her care and protection. She believed that nature
rarely missed her landmark, and after one glance
into Eni Ida's face was contented to make her a
companion to Flora. Enilda's clear skilful eyes, like
wells of azure, reflected a soul as clear. Her brow
beamed with intelligence ; her mouth was moulded
with candour and earnestness ; her smile was as sweet
as the dawn; and her voice, although low and
cadenced, had a ring of such sincerity that her word
could never be doubted.

Mrs. Grayson's instinct was unerring, and she followed
her intuitions almost blindly; the person
whom she did not wish to know could never under
any circumstances be admitted to her intimacy. For
so amiable and seemingly simple a woman she was
invulnerable with regard to her intuitions. She had
a lovable disposition and was kind to a fault to every
creature with whom she came in contact. She had
excuses for the frailties of all the world excepting herself.
She exerted an influence over Flora which was
of the happiest. Her daughter yielded implicit
obedience without ever realizing that she was doing
so. She was guided by a hand gloved but, indeed, so
firm that resistance would have been less desirable
than obedience.

Flora had inherited her mother's sweet nature, and

even at early age showed the same instinct in the
choice of friends. Enilda was the first stranger she
had ever invited to share her heart and home.

The dinner, which was late, was just at its end
when the sharp alarm of " Fire ! " rang out on the
night air. Flora wished at once to rush off.

Mamma," she begged, " do let us go and see the
fire." Then she commenced counting the strokes of
the bells ; the first number telling the ward or district,
the second the number of the box, the third the
street, and so on.

Mrs Grayson would not hear of such a thing,
although the fire was not far off.

Every girl and boy in Chicago will go to that fire
excepting me. Just hear the bells — a third alarm ;
may I go to the next if I don't to this ? It's such
fun to see the firemen, and the water pouring from
the hose — do let us go."

No. It's not to be thought of," said Mrs. Grayson ;
you have had a long day, and after a little music
you must both be off to bed. Enilda,- do you play or
sing ? "

Both— a little."

"That's right; come now into the parlour and we
will hear you first; what do you play?"

Chopin, and — "

Don't tell me that you play him ? " interrupted

Flora; "he's so hard. I think he must have been a
dear. I heard that he was in love with George Sand
for a long long time ; then when he was dying she
left him. I wouldn't have done that. Can you play
the Scherzo ? I would never have left Chopin."

No. I don't play the Scherzo ; only some of his
simplest things — a waltz, a nocturne — and — and I'm
like you, I never would have left him either. I adore
him."

The conversation became quite Chopiny-ish, Enilda
played exquisitely and wonderfully for so young a
girL Where had she been taught ? lull's. Grayson
asked her the question.

I inherited my love of music from mamma,"
she explained ; " and a Frenchman, a friend of my
father's, gave me lessons for two years. He was
a miner, and worked with papa on his claim. I
played first by ear when I was six years old. I had
a few lessons with a strolling teacher. 1 learned to
read notes, and passed' all of my time studying the
piano when I could have one. You know I am a
little girl from the backwoods," she continued
laughingly, " and I never lived long enough in one
place to have a piano of my own."

Mrs. Grayson was too delicate to show any curiosity
regarding Enilda's former life, so she deftly changed
the subject.

Flora played a march from Massaniello, when to
Enilda's surprise a grey kitten sprung into the room,
up into Flora's lap, and then on top of the piano,
where she commenced lifting her pretty paws and
trying to catch the keys at the back, as they came
up from the sounding-board. Flora played hard
and harder, the kitten grew wild and wilder; then
Flora explained.

When I play this one bit Kitty Harper knows
it, and wherever she is, in the house or garden, she
runs in and jumps on to the piano. She has never
learned but that one air, but she never misses it, and
al\va3^s acts just the same when she hears me play it."

The evening finished with a discussion on cats and
various animals. Mrs. Grayson admitted that Kitty
Harper's love and recognition of the march from
Massaniello was extraordinary, but she did not believe
it possible to carry the cat's musical knowledge any
further.

•' Yes, you can," said Flora. " She gets into the
parlour at night and plays the piano all by herself.
She walks over the keys in perfect chords, and never
strikes a false note. She keeps that up about an
hour, then she runs off to sleep. We used to hear
music ate night, because I lead the bad habit of
leaving my piano open. When I saw that she was
the nocturnal serenader, I have left it open on

purpose ever since. Now I am going to try and
teach her another piece. She already has an ear
for ' Home, sweet Home although I must say that
is disgraceful even in a cat — to like that old
thing ! "

That's because you play it in the same key,"
said Enihla. " I once owned a dog who screamed
regularly on F — np or down."

Let's try now with the kitten," said Flora eagerly.

No, no, dear," said Mrs. Grayson ; " it is so late
that both of you young girls must trot off to bed.
Remember the beauty sleep comes before twelve ;
don't forget that; and never sit up until after midnight
if you wish to wear roses early and late.
Come, kiss me both of you, and say good night !
Flora, you will show Enilda her room."

"Enilda's going to sleep with me."

'' Yes ; well, any way you like ; only don't talk late
mind, I shall hear you if you do. Good night,
darling ; God bless you." She kissed Flora fervently.

And me too ? " asked Enilda timidly.

And you too, dear, of course ; sleep well, and don't
talk late."

The girls silently withdrew. The next day they
were down early. Enilda went to the Cathedral and
Flora accompanied her. The beautiful service, the
choir of boys, the white-and-purple robed bishop,

interested Flora very deeply. She made Enilda
promise to go to her church that evening.

The minister doesn't wear white," she explained ;
but he is a good man, and papa says his rhetoric
is without a flaw. That's a good deal to say of a
Methodist ; isn't it ? We rarely hear anything from
or about the Bible. He preaches against the stage,
the circus, and all sorts of social questions and evils,
and it is just the same going to hear him as going to
the Town Hall to hear a lecture, or to the theatre to
see a play. You'd never think you were in a church,
he says such smart things — now and then the congregation
laugh outright. He is paid twenty thousand
dollars a year, and a marble-front house was presented
him by the parish on Christmas Day four
years ago. He owns some Artesian oil well stock ;
is interested in a packing-house : more than that,
he and his brother run a large wholesale grocery in
Water Street. In fact, to sum it all up, he is the
most fashionable preacher in Chicago , and so many
strangers come to hear him that the subject of his
sermon is always announced in the daily papers, and
he is obliged to hold forth in a circus or a theatre
because his church is no longer big enough, especially
on Sunday evenings. We will go and hear him
to-night ; "

Enilda gladly assented.

Dr. Grayson was kept away all day again at the
bedside of the erratic somnambulist. A great
conclave of Chicago's most distinguished medical
faculty had been deceived. The famous Evanston
patient had picked several bed-quilts to pieces, besides
demolishing two Nottingham lace coverlets, had
sighed " like a furnace," but to the loss of scientific
discovery, no command for pie had as yet issued
from her annual-hermetically sealed lips.

Mrs. Grayson was occupied after morning church
in writing letters. The girls went for a drive in an
open buggy, but the wind was so terrible that they
were obliged to come in very shortly.

After dinner, in spite of wind. Flora took Enilda
to the theatre to hear her popular preacher.

There where crowds about the street-door, and
when they finally made an entrance into the
auditorium, Enilda was nearly crushed. They could
only find seats near the entrance, and were so faraway
from the preacher that he looked like a
maronite, and his pulpit resembled a cake of brown
maple sugar. There were crowds of young men
with their sweethearts ; old sinners and middle-aged ;
grandmothers and lassies, all come to hear the man
who said Thee and Thou to the Saviour ; who invited
Him to walk down those isles, and who treated Him
with the familiarity of an old friend ; one of those

friends who might be expected to pay a little
unceremonious visit in person, to drop in at any
moment, in any place, at any hour of the day.

The preacher, for a wonder, took his text from the
Bible, Rev. viii. 1 : " There was silence in heaven
about the space of half an hour."

After a very lucid explanation of the way the text
was to be understood, he commenced a diversion to
the effect that there was too much liberty for the
press, and that the whole world would be better
if newspaper-reading were suppressed for one month
at least. He then referred to the different dailies
in Chicago which had objected to his sermon of the
previous Sandals, and remarked if they ever expected
to be represented in any other world to their advantage,
they would have done well to have kept
silence at least one day in this. Every one understood
why, wherefore, and which day. His sermon
was about finishing when the fire alarm-bells began
rinfjinf^.

Flora got up quickly. "Enilda," she whispered ;
let us get out before the crowd."

Before Enilda could answer she found herself
following Flora, and after some little difficulty they
were outside.

CHAPTER VII.

"ExiLDA," said Flora.

"Yes?"

Now ma isn't here to say No, I'm going to seethe
fire. It won't be disobedient, as she hasn't told
me not to go."

Would she like it ? I think—" Enilda hesitated.

Candidly I don't think she would ; but we will
go just the same. In fact I think it's on our way
home ; when we get back I will tell the truth about
where we have been, and she will forgive me. She
only exacts the truth."

That settled it. Enilda could no longer object.
Fire is very deceptive ; they ran along street after
street following the flame as an enthusiast would a
new stock in Wall Street. The bells rang louder
and louder — first in one quarter, then another. It
seemed as if the city were one vast cathedral, tolling
bells for an eternity to come.

On and on they ran. "We shall never get

there'' said Flora ; " it must be on the west side."
They pressed forward, and at last reached a street
parallel with the river. They fled in the direction
of the flame? ; were lured nearer ; anon repulsed by
darkening clouds of smoke, until they finally found
themselves south of the fire, and as near as they
could get with safety.

Enilda was terrified. The streets were filled with
one mass of human beings — talking various tongues
as at the Tower of Babel. Some were laughing;
some shrieking; some were cursing and swearing;
whilst all were labouring under intense excitement,
discussing the way the fire had broken out and the
terrible misfortune of the wind raging with such
force.

Bad luck to Mrs. O'Leary and her enterprising
cow that kicked over that lamp," yelled an Irishman.
Faith it's a malkin' she wez at none p.m., whin
the craythur disloikin' o' the shell o' the unrefined
kerysine, sneezed to the right o' her tail and
lifted the lantern higher than Joe Murphy's
illusions. Faith but I think the lane town's
a-going' and no mistake."

Flora heard this, and was wild with excitement.
She dragged Enilda after her, and they mounted the
stairs to the second story of a house, which from its
vicinity to Mrs. O'Leary, had been totally deserted

by its occupants. They looked out of the windows,
and gazed upon a field of flame.

The river looked like burning oil; the dockyards
on either side were blazing masses of coals. The
great grain-elevators, lifting their chimneys to the
skies, were deluged and overrun with liquid fire ;
the flames leaped over scores of streets at a time ;
the wind fanning those flames, fanned from them
clouds which mounted upwards, and like tapestry
hanging from invisible alcoves, these angry cloud -
curtains overhung the earth, floating to the riojht
and left in arabesques, each one seeming to bear on
its surface moving signs of occult meaning : these
signs shaping themselves yet again into awful scrolls,
upon whose cabalistic front one read the doom of the
stricken city. Not more terrifying could have been
the handwriting on the wall at Belshazzar's feast
than those graven omens floating in fire, with one
portentous breath, blighting the brightest hopes of a
New World's civilization.

Let us run home, Enilda," cried Flora sobbingly.
*' I've never seen anything like this before ; perhaps,
as the Adventists have predicted, the world is coming
to an end. Oh, if we only get home safe to mamma,
I'll never ask to go to another fire as long as I live —
never, never, never."

It was with great difficulty that they made their

way from the deserted house. Flora knew Chicago
as well as possible, and realized that to get home she
must cross some bridge — but which one ? The fire
of the night before had destroyed the Adam Street
drawbridge, and their only chance was to try at Van
Buren, or 12th Street. Flora clasped Enilda's hand
tightly. They could scarcely reach the river for the
crowd which hemmed them in on every side. As
they stepped on the quay at Van Buren Street a
great cry as from one throat swelled up from the
assembled mass of people.

Too late ! — the bridge is on fire 1 "

A policeman started to cross, and despite warning
voices, Flora and Enilda fastened themselves
desperately to this coat-tails. Others following in
their track, the bridge was soon alive with moving
forms.

"We must get to the other side, Enilda," said
Flora between her shut teeth, " or I'll never see my
home again."

Enilda shrieked, for at that moment a fragment of
burning timber whizzed through the air, striking her
shoulder, and setting her little pelisse on fire. Flora
instantaneously snatched at the garment, and threw
it into the river. They ran on still protected by the
policeman, who, although storming in pure Chicago-hibernian
Sunday-night dialect, had no other

alternative than to pilot them as best he could to
the other side.

By this time the heavens were redly obscured,
and fire floated to earth like snow in an Alpine
storm. The heat was so intense that the girls drew
the skirts of their frocks over their heads to protect
their faces from the fiery deluge ; the bridge trembled
under the multitude of hurrying feet, and many had
not passed the centre, when a tongue of flame shot
up from the wooden flooring, and an ominous sound
was heard — the cracking of heavy timbers.

Great God ! " cried the policeman, " we must
run like the wind or we are lost."

Another equally ominous sound echoed on the
night: one of the bridge's supports cracked, swayed,
and sprung with a hissing noise into the water; a
cloud of steam arose, mysteriously mingling with the
fire which was coming down thicker and thicker,
and in great flakes, more like a storm than ever.
The suspense was terrible. At every step the bridge
trembled and creaked, whilst flames played through
the iron trellis as lightning plays through the fissures
of the thunder-cloud. Would they ever get across ?
Frantically they hurried on : one step — but one
more — and they would be safe on the other side.

Enilda gave one glance at the awe-hushed crowd
breathlessly awaiting on the opposite shore. She

heard the ever-increasing roar of the mighty conflagration,
the agonized splitting apart of the bridge's
powerful timbers. She saw the suspending chains
glow and bend with the awful heat; a hundred
desperate human beings were pushing and crushing
past her, but she clung tightly to the policeman,
with a grip which fairly sent her nails through the
cloth of his coat. Her skirt completely covered her
face, suffocating, choking, with the smoke and hot
air, she groped blindly before her, stumbling as one
who gropes in absolute darkness. At last she felt
she was not walking, but was being dragged, or
rather lifted from her feet by the policeman. Something
gave way : she staggered and was thrown
violently to the ground. Making one great effort,
she tore her petticoat from her head, and saw that
she, Flora, and the policeman were lying almost on
their faces in a heap, within but a few feet of the
river, which was no longer spanned by the faithful
bridge. A huge iron hulk, grim and shapeless, raised
its ghastly head above the water : it was surrounded
by floating bits of timber, glowing on the stream
like dusky pond lilies, or the firefly which glows at
night in the depths of dark forests; most horrible
of all, however, was the sight of human beings thus
prematurely hurled into a pitiless grave. The air was
rent with shrieks ; and from beneath the waves, heads

VOL. I. I

and upraised arms appeared for one single instant in
wild and helpless gesticulation ! Then the cries grew
fainter, faces and forms more indistinct; until at last
the black waters bubbled up in hideous melody, and
swept peacefully on over their numberless victims.
As for those who escaped, they ran flying from the
river's-edge like madmen. Wild exclamations of
joy and gratitude were flung like rockets into the
face of heaven : some chanted hymns, some sang
snatches of wild songs, whilst men, women, and
children brandished their arms about in the telling
rhetoric of temporary insanity — that hysterical eloquence
which bursts from those who have been
miraculously snatched from sudden death : from
that enforced glance into a possible future, they had
shrank back screaming, like affrighted children, who
for the first time see themselves in a shattered
looking-glass.

Enilda and Flora, less demonstrative, scarcely even
thanked the policeman who had been so skilful a
pilot. He told them to hurry home and not get lost,
as he could no longer look after them.

Going home was easier said than done ; the streets
by this time were not only filled with people, but
with a heterogeneous mass of goods of every description.
The fire having originated in a poor quarter
of the city, many wretched victims tried to save what

little they could of their household furniture, and
had dragged everything possible pell-mell into the
common thoroughfares.

A child came along pulling after her a mattress
so heavy that its weight bent her little body nearly
double. She was shrieking at the pitch of her voice
as she ran up against Flora.

Kane's house is burnt ! Kane's house is burnt ! "
Good heavens ! " cried Flora, '' doii't tip me over !
Who is Kane ? — isn't your house burnt too ? "

Oh yes," shrieked the imp ; " we went first, but
Kane came after; and he's all burned out."

No other response could be elicited from her. Kane
was probably some well-to-do neighbour whose magnificence
had so appalled her in prosperous days, that
she could not understand hoar a common misfortune
had levelled his rank to hers ; for the first time since
Chicago had been built, rich and poor were equal not
alone in the sight of God but of man — although the
latter even in such a moment would scarcely have
been induced to admit the fact.

After long circuitous turnings. Flora found they
were nearing home. The fire no longer fell in such*
storms, although the air was filled with vagabond
sparks and flying missiles, whilst the streets were
anon, opaque sheets of flame, or shadowed by cyclones
of wind-blown smoke. As they reached Lascelles

Street they stopped to take one look at this Avenue,
never so beautiful as now. As far as eye could reach,
north and south, it rested on vast stone buildings,
many yet unfinished, rising up fair and stately, row
after row, no longer white, but pink as a rose-coloured
Georgia marble, o-lowingf with a thousand
hues of reflected flame. This street, silent and
almost deserted, seemed like an endless funeral pile,
only waiting the victim and torch.

The girls looked again and assail. '•' It's most
beautiful," said Enilda. " I don't believe any one has
ever seen such a sio-ht even in the Arabian Nights.
Do let us hurry home — I am so tired."

It was long after midnight when they reached
Wabash Avenue. Mrs. Grayson was too glad to see
them back to scold, and Flora eagerly told all that
had happened.

Just think, ma, the Avhole town is (rhino; to burn
up," she exclaimed, " and the fire is coming straight
to us. The one last night was the biggest blaze known
in Chicago for years. The Adam's Street bridge was
burnt down, and the new water-works spoiled ; four
engines were destroyed, and the whole fire-brigade
worked like niggers till six of this evening ; so you see
when the first alarm was given about nine there were
no men ready — they were all tired out. You know
it hasn't rained for five weeks; the wind is blowing a

perfect hurricane ; and that's how the fire got such
headway. Now it is just sailing over blocks at a time,
and they don't even attempt to put it out, and — "

My dear Flora," cried her mother, " take breath.
Sit down, and tell me how it started. How tired jo\i
must be ! — and how anxious I have been — and you
too, Enilda," she added, slipping her arm round the
latter's waist, continuing —

But where did it break out ? — it seemed so near."
Near," cried Flora ; " miles off. It broke out in the
Irish quarter, in one of those shanties, or liquor saloons.
It's all the fault of sirs. O'Leary's cow. Mrs. O'Leary,
you see, was at a wake, and milked the cow so late,
that she got mad and kicked over a kerosene lamp,
and that set the barn on fire, and I guess she's sorry
she didn't treat old Brindle better. They're telegraphing
to Milwaukee and all over for engines and
help, but I don't see how anything's going to get
into the city, because most of the depots are already
on fire. Do come, ma; let's go again; you never
saw such a sight in your life."

sirs. Grayson was horrified ; the doctor had not yet
returned, and her anxiety was beyond words. She
could not disguise it, however, and feeling she must
do something or lose her senses, she finally allowed
herself to be persuaded by Flora. Accompanied by
a near neighbour they all started out, in order

to obtain if possible a true account of what-was
going on.

The streets were a moving mass. They walked
rapidly towards the northern end of the city, followed
by a singularly dazed and silent crowd. On they
went, crossing first one Avenue and then another,
in and out, with a curiosity as fascinating as it
was horrible. People seemed scarcely to realize
what was happening, but one and all felt they were
looking their last on a doomed city. Every now and
then they changed their course ; the wind changed
with equal vacillation ; the fire was continually breaking
out at unexpected points ; and the horror of the
awful conflagration only grew in intensity.

Aimlessly wandering on, Mrs. Grayson finally
reached a quarter known only as the haunt of prostitution
and corruption. The air rung with cries of
ribald jest and vile unseemliness, which awakened
in her mind the echo of long-forgotten stories of
Chicago's vices and wickedness ; at last the midnight
revel had been stayed by a voice whose omnipotent
command none dared to disobey.

A daughter of sin, aroused from inebriate-slumber,
had reeled with her paramour into the street. An
aureole of golden hair floated back from her once
Madonna-like face, and crowned a low brow, whereon
shame was ashamed to sit." Bleared eyes emitted

sullen sparks of anger, and her breath, hot with
intoxication's fumes, poisoned anew the already
pestilential air. Swearing, gibing, and yelling, she
gradually neared Mrs. Grayson. Her flaunting
chemise of soft silk and cobweb lace waved about
her corrupted forum with the supremacy of prosperous
and glorified vice ; her defamed beauty looked
a strange mockery, coming from out those reeking
houses filled with humanity's lowest and vilest. She
staggered aloof with a drunken accent which would
have immortalized a Bacchanalian. Her tiny feet
were shod in mismated satin slippers of black and
yellow, her ankles were cinder-stained and blackened,
as if she had waded through piles of smoking ash-heaps
; her rose-coloured limbs gleamed shapely
through the gossamer of her garment, with an insolent
beauty which would have stayed Nero's step in
burning Rome. The woman came nearer and nearer,
whilst Mrs. Grayson, repelled yet charmed in spite
of herself, gazed upon her with that morbid curiosity
for putrefaction which a woman sometimes experiences
whose whole life has been passed in an
atmosphere of purity. She touched her skirts by
instinct as if to draw them aside, but her hand fell
powerless, and she shuddered. On such a night as
this '. She hardly dared. This lost wretch was one
of God's creatures. Who could tell they might not

meet together at the judgment-bar when her own
morning of eternity should dawn ? At last the
wanton came closer. " Damn my eyes ! " she hissed

with a viper's venom. " May I be , but when

any one catches me in a fifth story of a house in
Clark Street hell will freeze over and no mistake.
I wouldn't risk it again for all Moll Mitchell's
diamonds."

Her companion laughed brutally, saying :

I guess you and all of us will be there before we
see another Clark Street, or the end of this bonfire ;
and as to her diamonds, if she don't look a little lively
they might better have been paste."

A third interrupted as he looked at the wanton.

Ah, my pretty one, no need of Pinkerton's force
to-night. You're all of you smoked out like ferrets ina
mare's nest ; pass on, and make way for your betters."

The woman flung an oath at him, followed by such
vituperation that even he turned away disgusted.
A middle-aged man then spoke. His form was
emaciated; his voice escaped from a long beard asa
sound escapes from a mountain cave; he shook
a warning finger in her face saying :

Go your way, unholy pleasure ; you and your vile
companions have brought this chastisement on our
city. Chicago grew too prosperous ; too much prosperity
begets corruption; corruption sin, and sin —

punishment. The Garden City was rolling in wealth
and wickedness, now let it grow better froQi the ashes
of a purifying fire."

Mrs. G.'ayson shuddered as another volley of oaths
escaped from the woman's lips. Her neighbour
could ill shield her from the scene, for the same
was being enacted on all sides, and each individual
of this miserable mass of humanity seemed, if possible,
lower and more depraved than her predecessor.
Jostled to right and left, borne along by the impetuous
crowd, they finally found themselves near
the public Square. This great enclosure, nearly
as large as the Place de la Concorde in Paris,
was bounded by many streets, built up in massive
stone structures surrounding the great Court House,
which stood as yet untouched in the middle of the
quadrangle. Its solid walls, grey wings, and tall
tower stood out clear-cut against the dazzling sky,
like pearls set in a ruby crown. The bell was ringing
loud clamorous peals ; these mingled with the yells
of the multitude, the din of crunching timbers, the
ceaseless surorinsj of the flames, the noise of fresh-cracking
tiles and crashing glass, together made a
perfect pandemonium of sound.

As they drew nearer the Court House, a more
appalling sight met their eyes. The basement
or lower floor was used as a prison for common

convicts. Here the condemned murderer, the white-handed
forger, and the wily pickpocket alike shared
homes furnished at the State's expense. From the
windows of these cells wretched men were peering
helplessly through the barred apertures; they
were beating their heads madly about; their unsettled
eyeballs were wildly glaring and starting from
their sockets, as with unutterable horror they watched
the approaching Leviathan which doomed them to
the most terrible of deaths.

At that moment a ball of fire swept over the
square and lit like a star on the cupola of the bell-tower.


Oh the miserable wretches ! " cried out a voice.
God help them ! "

Flora turned quickly. It was Professor Protoplasm
who spoke. Although his words had come to her so
distinctly, he was separated from her by many burly
forms. A pair of glassless spectacles made two gold
festoons on his forehead ; oue eye was black and
blue; his face was pale, and his beard filled with
wisps of straw, an improvised contribution from some
broken mattress which had soared over his head.

On one arm hung a huge bag, and on the other
the relics of what was once Miss Chances-Cressy,
in elegant but most disordered attire. The poor
lady's face was only partly recognizable, one side

retaining its Greek brow, Kohl-shadowed eye, tinted
cheek, and classic profile, whilst the other, deluged
by the untimely bursting of a family hose kept in the
Seminary in case of fire, appeared in a state of
nature, which none of the present generation had
ever yet beheld. Flora was about to call attention
to this, when the Professor cried out assail,

' Parole di colore accent dira.' Hear them
scream! *Loci alter e pioche, e simon di man' con
elle ; ' the windows of the corridor are open, but
they say the night watchman has the keys, and he,
alas ! cannot be found."

Oh, mamma, how awful ! " cried Flora ; " it
makes the marrow run cold in my bones ; they are
paying dearly for their crimes in this one night of
agony."

That they are," cried a stranger voice ; " they do
say some have gone stark mad, and are eating the
flesh away from their hand-cafes trying to escape."

Make way in the name of the law," called oat a
trumpet-toned voice ; and an officer passed followed
by a squad of soldiers.

At last 1 at last ! " raged the crowd ; " they are
going to break open the jail and take out the
prisoners."

"A fine time they'll have," sneered a rough.
Kick my head for a football all over Chicago if

Black Bill don't escape and get off with his gang as
clear as a whistle. Sometimes other things besides
keys unlock prisoners' doors, and he's had time
enough for that one-horse burglary in State Street ;
it's a disgrace being caught for a sneaking Utile
affair like that."

"My man," said another stranger, "them sentiments
had better sleep where they lodge. None of us
want to see men cooked alive ; the police will get a
helping hand from every honest citizen in this
crowd before we let one of that band get loose.
We're none of us too anxious to have our windpipes
slit for the honour of having it done by a
sleek-skinned swell turned bandit and blackguard,
although half the women in town are in love with
him, weeping at his trial, mashed on his devil-cool
face, and petitioning the Governor by the 3'ard tolet
him off. Oh no, Gentleman Jemmy or Black
Bill or whatever other alias he goes by, if he don't
burn to-night, will swing from a gallows higher
than Human's long before Chicago's ruins have
stopped smoking."

The speaker addressed these last words to the
throng, for the burglar's friend was no longer insight;
he had unconsciously given vent to his
feelings, with the air of one of those graceless
champions who lend the greatest encouragement to

vice by mistaking notoriety for fame. Black Bill's
neck was not clear of the hangman's noose, for all a
Mayor's daughter and several of the richest heiresses
of the Garden City had persisted in flinging themselves
in desponding attitudes and weeping copiously
at the Governor's feet.

A sinister flame broke thrush the roof of the
Court House, which began burning from the top
down. As the soldiers approached the jail, the
crowd followed thick and fast at their heels. The
doors were burst open ; a few moments more, and a
band of terror-stricken faces reappeared, this time
through the vaulted entrance. Suddenly a shrill
whistle was heard ; hundreds of figures sprang into
sudden motion; there was a cry from the soldiers,
and the prisoners where seen struggling and breaking
through the crowd. The wildest confusion reigned.
At that moment tongues of flame leaped into the
Square, followed by clouds of blinding smoke ; a
flying missile struck the chief of the squad full in
the face ; a slender man with eager eyes, aristocratic
features, and supple limbs, threw himself forward
to protect the officer. When the latter slightly recovered
from the shock, he opened his eyes and
looked wildly around him.

'' Where is he ? " he cried. " My God 1 Black Bill
has escaped once more."

CHAPTER VIII.

Mrs. Grayson began to think of returning
home. Every step was marked by the same panic ;
house-tops and balconies yere alive with human
beings; men were hanging by ropes from roofs and
windows, clinging to water-spouts, and many descending
by sheet ladders into the streets ; whilst
many, having been surprised in their sleep, lost their
heads, and with appalling shrieks flung themselves
half-dressed on to the pavement below. Little
naked children with tearful eyes and waving locks,
stood alone , high up in great buildings; whilst two
tiny waifs abandoned by their parents, leaning over
a balcony were calling piteously for help.

Mrs. Grayson's neighbour stopped. " I'd give a year
of my life for a ladder," he said ; " but ten wouldn't
buy one."

At that moment a fireman appeared beside the
children, and went to take the girl by the hand.

''No," she said; "save my little brother first; he's
only four, and I'll wait till some one comes for me."

It was with the greatest difficulty that Mrs. Grayson
got home. By order of the police no more furniture
could be brought from the houses, as there was
scarcely room in the streets for the people.

Lonof before mornings dawned there was no more
hope of saving the city. It was as if the Atlantic
Ocean were turned upside down and disembowelling
itself in waves of fire. There was but one
voice in all that night of terror, and that the voice of
woe ! Many lost their reason at seeing their life's
labour thus swallowed up in one hour of horror. Now
that the first excitement was past, the shrieks of the
victims, the shrill frantic cries of children, the never-ceasing
tumult of falling buildings, struck terror to
the stoutest heart. The only question now was how
to save life. The night wore away in awful suspense,
and about six o'clock in the morning a policeman
announced there was no hope of saving Wabash
Avenue, and that they must prepare for flight, the
sooner the better.

And so they must see the old house go ; bid
farewell to the familiar walls, whose rooms had
echoed to sounds of sorrow as well as sounds of joy !
Here'l\Irs. Grayson had come when yet a girl-bride ;
and here Flora's gay laughter had carolled forth

since the hour of her birth. 'Good-bye to the books,
the pictures, and the thousand dear associations
which had made up her happy home for so many
years ! But there was no time for sentiment, she
must try and collect some of the doctor's valuable
papers; yet how to make a selection at such a
moment ? Although in fair possession of her senses,
she felt she was incapable of any concentration of
thought. So she swept an indiscriminate mass into
a bag; put with it all her jewellery, and was
hurriedly getting together some other personal trifles,
when Enilda came towards her. She carried a little
satchel containing, with other things, her mother's
picture ; her face was pale, but her voice was calm,
and only a slight quiver of the lip betrayed her
emotion.

Give me something, Mrs. Grayson," she said ;
"I've lots more room in my bag, and nothing but
death will make me lose hold of it ? "

Mrs. Grayson looked wildly about, then suddenly
snatched a small parcel. " This is Flora's future," she
said, " if she ever have any. I trust it to you ; God
help us all ! — and my poor husband, who knows if I
shall ever see him again ? " Then she burst into a
flood of tears and sank helplessly to the floor.

Enilda kissed her solely. " We are in His hands,"
she said ; " don't cry ; He will rcAvard you for your

goodness to me. Something tells me we shall all be
saved."

Flora rushed into the room, " Ma," she cried, " such
things are happening iw the Avenue ! People tear up
flights of stairs to save some treasure, then they
throw it out of the windows into the street. Our
neighbour Rankin went to the fourth story to get
Mrs. Rankin's diamond necklace, and down he came
with a tooth-brush firmly clenched in his fingers. Mrs.
Gentry is half-crazy, for they're going to blow up her
house ; she went to the dining-room for her apostle
spoons and some family plate, forgot what she went
for, and came back with a pewter salad bowl. Come ;
come down-stairs quick." Then Flora dashed out,
scarcely heeding her mother's tearful attitude.

Mrs. Grayson dried her eyes, seized a bag, and
with Enilda hastily descended. They ran to the
front-door. There was the same hurrying, bewildered
mob ; men and women dropping down on every side as
if dead, and some had really shuffled off this mortal
coil ; but the dead were unheeded ; as for the living,
who could tell what horror th^!s night held in store ?
The light was something brighter than noonday ; the
earth was one fearful glare ; and the air, to catch it
in the fingers seemed to leave behind a crimson
stain; whilst every object the eye fell upon wore
the same unnatural colour.

VOL. I. K

My eyes are blinded," said Enilda, shading them
with her fingers. " I once wondered why nature was
green, but I guess God tried beforehand, and soon
decided that we'd get tired enough of any other
colour. It has only been red ten hours, and I can
scarcely see."

The very next door to Mrs. Gibson was a block
of marble buildings, divided into the usual Chicago
separate tenement. The one adjoining the doctor's
house was a first-class family hotel, filled with many
distracted human beings. Amongst others an Irish
prima donna, and her uncle or so-called agent, Paddy
McGrab. A New York lady, come to pay a visit to
relatives in the Garden City, Mrs. Adam Chromo,
with her maid Zenobia, were not the least excited
amongst that terror-stricken crowd. They were constantly
rushing up and down the outer stairs, expostulating
with the police, begging them to save
this or that, but their pleadings were of little avail.

Only my small Saratoga trunk," groaned Mrs.
Chromo ; " only find me a horse — an express waggon
I will pay for them their weight in gold, provided
that I live to save that one trunk. Man alive ! — do
you know what's in that Saratoga ? Nothing more
nor less than the coat of arms and parchment belonging
to my ' May Flower' ancestors, and a tin cup
out of which George Washington drank smj). Oh,

to think that the wife of Adam Chromo, who can
bay every horse in America, and who owns most of
them, should ever live to see this day ! " She then
stripped some rings from her fingers. " Here, take
these — "

"My good woman, it's useless. I couldn't get you
a horse for a kingdom; besides, this street can't be
blocked up with baggage ; there's only room for
human beings, every one on the south side being
driven to the Lake Shore. If the wind changes
again sharp, you'll all have little time to look after
Saratoga."

A long-haired poet leaned against a tree wailing :

"Fire to right of his, fire to left of us, fire all round us,
volleyed and — "

"What the devil are you quoting poetry for at
a time like this ? " snarled his neighbour, one of the
boarders. " As though any Balaclava ever equalled
this scene ; or any Poet Laureate on earth could do
justice to it. Ah, poor wretch — "

A man dashed by, his eyes gleaming wildly ; striking
his breast heavily, he staggered forward, staggered
yet again, then rolled with a curse in a deadened
mass at the foot of the staircase.

No one offered to touch him.

"He has passed in his checks at the last station

K 2

on the mortal route," continued the last speaker,
"and by Heaven if I'm not mistaken the fire is
upon us."

As he spoke a mass of smoke cleared the roofs of
the buildings opposite, and scattered in sharp tongues
of flame. "M}^ God," he cried, "we'll have to make
for the Lake Shore ; sure — now — we can get to it
by the alley back of Trinity Church."

Mrs. Grayson was still standing in the doorway,
and little by little was surrounded by many old
friends, whom the fire had driven straight to her
house. They were talking wildly and confusedly, but
saying there was still some hope of saving part of
the south side. Whilst they were talking Mrs. Grayson's
cook appeared with an illuminated face at the
door.

"Come in, ma'am," she screamed; "for it's during
of hunger ye must be. Although it's Sunday night,
and there's nothing in the house, I've made a gentleman
fetch a ham and a hateful of eo^g^s from State
Street; they're cooked, and waiting on the table.
I've made the picnic coffee-pot full of coffee, having
discovered some water left over in the reservoir of
the kitchen-stove ; it's now ready."

Bridget waved them forward with a knotted and
brawny arm.

"Mrs. Grayson," said an old friend, when they

were at the table, "we are starved and exhausted.
This meal will save our lives. Bridget shall have a
medal struck off by the Chicago Humane Society.
Bridget" — he turned towards her — "you've got the
only level head in Chicago ; here's to your good
health." She was surveying her improvised feast
with great satisfaction. " How did you happen to
think of it ? " — and he lifted a cup filled with fragrant
coffee, and waved it toast-like in her direction.

Faith, sir, I don't know. I didn't think at all, at
all. My own insides was a screaming with nothing
in 'em barring terror, so ses I to myself, says I,
Bridget, mavourneen, your business in this house is
to cook, specially when hunger is gnawing your own
sweet vitals ; ' then I thought a nate little square
like this wouldn't ferrum the best o' yes after such
a night of surprises."

"I like Bridget's idea of surprises," laughed
Charley Roberts, a fair, handsome young man ; " but
I've had enough to eat. Come, Flora, let's go to
the front door, and see how the fire is getting on.
We bo's have worked like slaves to-night. Mrs.
Grayson, if you could only have seen the fire in
the heart of the city, about the warehouses, and
those great dry goods establishments ; about the old
Court House too; I thought it was as solid as the
Rock of Gibraltar — it went as quickly as the rest ;

the very stones seemed to melt. A narrow escape
those prisoners had. By George ! — my blood ran
cold ; and they say Black Bill has escaped. It's an
ill wind, and so forth. How astonishing; the air
to-night is like a holocaust; it makes no difference
whether the houses are granite or wood, they're
bound to go just the same. Saw the Court House
fall in. Heavens, what a roar followed ! "

*' The prettiest sight I ever saw," said a Mr.
Herman, " was when the great Water Street chemist
went. Black Crook was nowhere for show ; colours
shot up into the sky like those Bengal lights — you
know — those fireworks on the great 4th of July
celebration many years ago on the Lake Shore, in
honour of General McClellan, before Grant stole his
plans and captured Richmond."

I guess the Lake Shore will see a greater sight
to-night," cried Mrs. Grayson ; " happily Grant isn't
here now, or he oughtn't confine his helps to
McClellan's ideas, the butcher — when I think of
his cries for ' a hundred thousand more.' "

And his taking them," laughed a Mr. de Barman.
"But let us face the enemy; he did that at any
rate."

While he was speaking a fearful explosion shook
the house to its foundation. All started to their feet
with a cry of wonder.

One of the men calmed the women. " That's
nothing specially dangerous," he said, " they're blowing
up all the buildings south of us ; the only way
to stop the fire, you know ; but we might look out on
the Avenue just the same. I think the wind has
changed."

They all went to the front door, the fair man first ;
he was holding a cup in his hand — it dropped with
a crash.

My Coil ! " cried Mrs. Grayson. " Whilst we
have been talking and resting for a moment, perhaps
the delay may have been fatal ; we must run for
our lives."

They swarmed out of the front-door into the large
garden surrounding the doctor's house. A glorious
but terrible sight met their eyes. The buildings
opposite were one mass of fire vomiting forth flame
as Vesuvius might have vomited forth lava on that
last day at Pompeii. The giant trees, whose branches
interlaced and formed a natural arbour the entire
length of the Avenue, were as perfect a lace-work
of fire on the sky, as Venetian point on a doge's
mantle. As far as eye could reach, the street was
one blazing: arch, a orlitterincr trellis, writliinoj in
demoniacal shapes and stretching fiendish arms aloft.
The stars in heaven's tiara shone but lack-lustre
jewels through this whirlpool of flame. The young

moon, brighter by contrast ^vith the garish earth,
a glittering crescent of pale emerald, swung back
and forth upon the edge of the angry clouds, as an
eardrop swings back and forth in a lady's ears; it
was poised so airily that it seemed every moment
as if it must lose its hold and leap like a shooting
star into the seething caldron below. Ever and anon
there was no sight of heaven, of moon, or stars, or
trees ; for the clouds with awful swiftness lowered
in a dense mass, and the wind with terrible clamour
packed and shaped this mass into distorted caverns,
from whose chambers there was no outlet, and from
whose hideous low-hung roof missiles of burning
stalactite darted right and left, dealing death and
ruin wherever they fell. Human beings grovelled
in terror to the ground, uttering strange sounds
which echoed and re-echoed in this unnatural tenement
: they were crying and raging like wild beasts
imprisoned in a burning jungle, or despairing creatures
caught in the crumbling fastnesses of torrent-swept
mountains.

These agonizing moments were, however, of short
duration, for the wind, ever capricious, built and
knocked down her toy fabrications as children build
and knock down their card houses. Finally the ,
pall lifted, the air cleared, and only a smouldering
skeleton of the point-lace arbour remained, and little

by little tins disappeared in the long perspective
of flame which marked the path of the fated
Avenue.

Mrs. Grayson, alternately fascinated and appalled,
stood with Flora and Enilda, leaning against the
gate-posts. A policeman rushed by. " Get out of
that," he screamed ; " there's not a minute to be lost;
leave by the back-door, and get into Michigan
Avenue ; escape is cut off from the front, and south
of Van Buren Street."

Mamma," said Flora, " we can get out by our own
back-yard better, and climb over the wall into Trinity
Church alley."

The one who had any idea at all was the one to
be followed, and Flora as commander-in-chief was
obeyed at once.

At the Family Hotel all was confusion. The
dead man still lay at the foot of the marble steps,
and the prima donna had just come floating out of
the house. Her short arms were heaped with gaudy
theatrical dresses; her head was covered with a
battered laurel, from which the colours of Ireland
floated off in soiled ribbons, mingling ironically with
her streaming gipsy hair and tawdry, faded skirts.
The laurel was a patriotic trophy from Chicago
Fenians suitably presented at her last Ballad Concert
in Farewell Hall. Her bead-like black eyes blazed

with belladonna and terror, and her breast, wrists,
and fingers with necklaces, bracelets, and rings in
Rhine stones. Her uncle, McGrab, was palpitating
at her side ; he looked at her thus standing in her
fortune, when a cry like the war-whoop of a wild
Indian burst from him.

"By the powers of Shut," he yelled, "I've
forgotten ' The Opinions of the Press.' Let me fly, me
love, to fetch 'em. The book was left on the grand
planned, for I'd been showing: it to the manager
Who lives on our floor. Without this book, me love,
your career is ruined for ever. Let me fly — let me

.

McGrab had an artificial W, but what member
from Cork or Woodstock could impede the flight of
such a swallow in such a cause ? Perhaps his leg was
of stone ; everything was of stone in Chicago at that
time, so Chicagoans swore ; but up he stamped, step
by step, until he was violently pushed back by a
troop of people still hurrying from the house. Those
ominous lights gleaming back from the heavy plate
windows said plainly it was already on fire.

A voice came from the crowd. " Damn it ! "
shrieked the manager, for it was none other, " out of
the way McGrab, with your old stone calves ! — what
in God's name are you turning back for now ? "

Oh ! " wailed McGrab, " the Opinions of the Press !

Oh, you're a crushing the corpse ! " — the manager
had been pushed on to the body of the dead man.
Aught ! " — hastily crossing himself — "let me fly for
the love of St. Patrick, who charmed every blessed
snake out of ould Ireland ; the Opinions of — "

Damn 'em ! " roared the manager. " She sing !
Why, the girl at her best cries like a starved Banshee
at a fifth-class wake ; but git up and git if you will "
and he handed poor McGrab a lift in the shape
of a peculiarly well-directed kick, which at any other
time would have excited the latter' s ire, but which
was now received with gratitude, as it punctually
impelled him towards the coveted Opinions. He fell,
hit his nose, but scrambled up, and scattering people
right and left, finally disappeared through the open
doorway.

The faithful Star waited at the foot of the stairs,
her bejewelled arms still holding theatrically to her
gauze skirts ; her streaming hair, laurels, and finery
suggesting some escaped but not wholly harmless
lunatic. In an incredibly short space of time
McGrab reappeared with punctured eye, scratched
nose, and cinder-stained face; a greasy book was in
his hand, which he waved as he cried with a
voice of triumph : " There, love, we're saved ! With
such Opinions of the Press we have the world
before us."

The united pair were the last to leave the street ;
McGrab yelling, "Make way for the successor of
Catherine Hayes ! — make way for the Song Star of
Erin I "

Before they reached the corner McGrab's coat
caught fire from the Star's skirts, which had been
surreptitiously and venomously smoking. With an
oath the wicked garment was discarded, followed by
the lyric costumes. They wended their way slowly
to the Lake Shore, when suddenly McGrab stopped
again and yelled with rage. A kind passer-by calmly
informed him of the awful fact that smoke was
issuing from one leg of his pants. Whether of stone
or cork, the artificial limb was certainly on fire. In
less time than it takes to tell it, the Judas-like
member was unscrewed ; another passer-by seized
McGrab by the arm, and together . with Catharine
Hayes' successor, dragged him along with the crowd
towards Michigan Avenue.

Mrs. Grayson, her family and friends, had escaped
by the alley at the back of the church, and soon
reached Van Buren Street. There rows of horses
were drawn up like sentinels beside the side-walks.
These faithful creatures stood like Centaurs; some
people had fairly to crawl under their legs ; but like
Centaurs they never moved. The smoke, dust, and
flying fire were fairly maddening. At last they

reached the breakwater. There a Avide sandy beach
was positively seeded with human beings ; every
moment burning missiles shot through the air, and
the frightened horde swarmed frantically to the
waters-edge, wading up to their necks, even to the
risk of drowning; anything rather than be burned
alive.

Men and Avoient had lost all semblance of humanity,
and looked more like wild animals than specimens of
a civilized race. The sand from the beach was hurled
back and forth by the fierce blasts ; it clung in scars
to the dampened garments; filled face, hair, and
moustache with a leprous mask. The men's beards
would have shamed Heinrich Hudson's ghostly crew,
or the weird hags who chaunted new destinies to the
Thane of Candor. The lake was only recognizable
through the lurid darkness by the burning steamers
freighted with a more precious cargo than the wines
of Catawba or fruits of St. Joseph. Many fled to
the ships, little thinking that the implacable fire
would follow them to the water. Once there, death
was almost certain. The young crescent still hung
like a tremulous emerald-drop in the sky, and only
when it disappeared could one realize that day had
dawned.

The beach was strewn with a heterogeneous mass
of objects — plate-glass, marble-topped tables, gold

and ebon and rare pieces of furniture, side by side
with barrels of brandy, casks of whiskey, and Lager
beer, which had been brought from the neighbouring
cribs long before there was an idea that the fire
would have spread so far. These comestibles saved
the lives of many on that horrid night. Glass after
glass of raw whiskey or brandy was drunk off like
water, and had as little effect as water on the person
drinking it.

At last an awful silence fell upon the multitude.
People no longer shrieked and bewailed their bitter
fate ; some had sunk to the ground exhausted and
reckless ; the struggle to keep awake was no longer
possible. Life or death, whichever came, would be
welcomed with gratitude. Human nature could hold
out no longer. The fire had passed to the north
side after devastating every object within reach.
The stones of the exploded buildings were one mass
of fire, for even the rocks could not withstand the
raging element ; they seemed to melt, and ran along
the streets like molten lava.

After a morning spent on the Lake Shore, Mrs.
Grayson and family made their way south, where
every house left standing was thrown open to the
weary victims. Some went without either food or
drink during the whole of that day; and about nine
of that evening, Mrs. Grayson, Flora, and Enilda

started with some friends to the west side. She was
frantic, and imagined the state of her husband's
feelings, not knowing whether they were ave or
dead. She felt, however, that he would at once goto
their old friends, who happily lived in a portion
of the city that had suffered but little, and a sure
asylum would be vouchsafed them until something
could be done.

The fire was still rao^inoj on the north side, and
the sight of the streets as they walked along was
something which beggared description. The sky
was still one canopy of red ; everything around and
about was red — human beings, animals, trees, houses,
carts — everything glowed with that sullen and unnatural
flame, which Milton might have imagined, or
Dante have seen in his ' Inferno.' The roaring of the
wind still continued, and the honos train of windings
vehicles laden with human and vulgar freight, unreal,
grim, and vacillating, looked like some endless band
of expatriated immigrants. They went mysteriously
onward, moving in the ruby light, like those
weird shadows of the magic-lantern which appear
back of an illuminated screen ; unrecognizable in
figure — now monstrous and grotesque in shape — ■
again dwindling to the spider-like object, which
after exaggerated length suddenly leaps forward and
IS lost in space.

Enilda could scarcely drag one foot after the other,
and labored so behind that she was in danger of beings
lost. As they reached Halstead Street she heaved a
sigh of joy, for the street-cars were running, and they
might hope to get a little respite from foot travel.
The car was so full, however, that they could not get
seats, and were obliged to stand on the front platform.
The bell was ringing violently for a loaded
cart ahead to leave the track. This vehicle was
piled high with furniture, and at the very summit,
on a e^orsteous arm-chair, sat a beautiful woman
nursing: a babe. A tremulous licht fell on the
tiny face and flaxen curls, and the mother gazing
on the infant's face recalled one of Raphael's
Madonnas. She started slightly as she heard the
bell, but remained in sweet, security, as her chair was
so wedged in it seemed impossible anything could
move it. Whilst a smile was still playing over her
face, the horses, alarmed at the noise and continued
ringing, started forward with a sudden jerk,
the waggon-load was overturned, the baby rolled
under the car, and the mother under the horse's
head.

There was one general cry of horror.

"That's what I call infernal luck," said a familiar
voice; "to live through a fire like this, even save
some goods and chattels, to be run over and mangled

by a Halstead street car ; but it's all in a lifetime.
I guess none of us '11 escape our destiny."

Enilda leaned forward. The speaker was almost
by lier side.

"Ob, papa," she cried, " God has sent you ! " and
fell fainting into his arms.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER IX.

That night Enilcia and her father and friends
slept on the west side in a dry goods store, whose
proprietor was an old friend of the Graysons. The
first incident of the evening threatened to utterly
disturb their peace of mind. There was the sound of
commotion without, yelling and screaming, which was
soon explained. A dealer in coals who had lost
his all in the city, finding himself a pauper at the
age of sixty, went mad, and began to fire every
building he found unguarded in his neighbourhood.
He was just applying a torch to the west end shop,
when he was discovered and strung up to a lamp-post.
His case was one of many. Men who had seen their
lives and life's work swept away in that awful fire,
lost their wits and thought only of revenge and
depredations. Not a wink of sleep was to be had all
the night through by any of the party. Mr. Kozen
explained his miraculous appearance — how he had
come to the city on Sunday — how he had escaped
death in his burning hotel ; but of the fate which had

brought liirn straight to his daughter, he could only

see in it, as did every one else, one of those mysterious

chance meetings which chance alone knows how to

effect. Mrs. Grayson was in a state of great worry,

not knowing how to let her husband know of their

safety, and as soon as day dawned she proposed that

they should attempt to return to Wabash Avenue,

to the ruins of the old house. Perhaps chance

might help them to discover her husband ; so they all

set out, and in a short time found themselves at the.

foot of Madison Street. The bridge being burned, the

only hope of reaching the south side was by the

famous tunnel, or one of the bridges left standing

further southward. The tunnel was too hot and too

choked up to admit of regular traffic, and it must

needs be a stout heart which would dare attempt its

passage. There were stories afloat that it had fallen

in ; others that it might fall in at any moment ; and

whilst debating as to the most feasible plan to

adopt, they reached the place where the bridge had

been, and stopped speechless and amazed at the

spectacle which spread out before them.

At their feet was the yellow river, like an oily mirror,
freighted with refuse timber, floating articles of household
furniture, branches of trees, and wood-carvings
which still bore the tracery of delicate chiselling or
hand-painted figures. The stream was hemmed in

L 2

between a long double line of burning quays, where
the huge carcases of the grain elevators towered aloft
in grim skeletons ; these misshapen bodies cast fantastic
shadows on the water, and threatened momentarily
to collapse and bestrew the wharf with their
rotten remains ; the river line was marked on either
side by a margin of fire, where countless tons of coal
self-fed burned with ferocity and desperation.

Away from the river, east, north, and south,
stretched the burnt district, a tract of land covering
nearly three hundred acres — a wilderness of 'Turn,
a panorama of such phenomenal desolation as
the civilized world has never before seen ; for
in twenty-four hours the fairest portion of the
Garden City" had been swept away — razed to the
very ground. Where marble palaces had gleamed
heaps of discoloured stone encumbered the earth ;
where her great iron-bound warehouses had filled
corner after corner, and street after street, fantastic
cobwebs of reddened distorted metal covered the
ground, molten and infused with the stone or
wooden pavement, hammered into the earth in all
forms and shapes, as the gold-beaters in the
time of Sharon hammered effigies into the yellow
metal, whose united links made necklaces for
immortals. The stone edifices whose powerful
structure promised to withstand the wear and tear

of a thousand years of time, had crumbled before
the holocaust, and their whitened ashes now mingled
with the pale sands of the Lake Shore, or rested
lightly on some tombstone in the Lincoln Park
Cemetery, grimly left standing in capricious relic
of a capricious visitation. Was there no mockery
in the gilded letters, "Sacred to the memory of"?
What had that fire held sacred ? — only one thing ;
the levelling of all humanity's estate. For the rich
man of yesterday was the pauper of to-day, and the
pauper of yesterday was neither poorer nor richer than
he ever had been before the setting of yesterday's sun.

Mrs. Grayson, Flora, Mr. Rozen, and Eiiilda finally
made their way along the river bank, and crossing
the 12th Street bridge tlie}^ found themselves fast
Rearing the site of the old home. The streets were
alive with people, .and besides the hundred thousand
left homeless by the fire, every person in the city
who could get out had come to look upon the ruins
of their bei^.uti.'ul metropolis. A strange desperation
was on every countenance ; people talked of themselves
as though they were dead, and this was their
resurrection morning.

Each human being who passed told his or her tale
of the fire in a different way; each one had escaped
death an hundred times ; each one had snatched
babes and sucklings from terrible deaths ; each one

had foretold from the first the city's doom; each
one had seen the fire as no one else had seen it ; his
or her conflagration had been the one that paled
the crescent, and dimmed the stars which lit heaven
so ineffectually on that night of the 8th of October,
in the year of our Lord 1871.

The calamity had indeed been terrible; but the
ruin to the city, the national and individual loss, was
nothing compared to the personal satisfaction felt by
every human being in the town when it-was realized
beyond a doubt that the greatest fire the world had
ever known had taken place in Chicago. Even in
that the " Garden City " could take precedence of
the civilized world. London's essay was a bonfire,
and Pekin's blaze a one-horse fourth of July celebration
compared to Chicago. Chicago did things
properly and well : hers was the real and true spirit
of enterprise. Could any town henceforth ever dare
to speak of a terrible fire? Could any one even
presume to tell a Chicagoanan what a fire was like ?
Never after such an experience — and each individual
surveyed the smoking ruins of his devastated city
with a far greater pride than Nero could have
displayed when he saw his fruitful efforts and Rome
yielding to the embrace of the fiery element.

A group of excited people kept pace with our party
almost every step of the way, and one voice cried out :

I repeat it was the finest sight I ever saw. I
am a Cbicagoan to the backbone, and I tell you that
after all the fuss, and hustle, and scurry, if that fire
hadn't been the biggest blaze on record, I'd have
just been absolutely heart-broken ; I'd lev hung my
head under a weeping willow, and don't you forget it."

Oh," said a second speaker, " right you are ! I'm
not one of the boasting kind, but I must say that
Chicago did up that fire just as she does up everything
— in first-class style. As long as we had to
be burned out, we might just as well all go together :
at least misery loves company. Your stone house
burned just as lively as my wooden one."

Third voice : " That's so. I suppose all America —
the whole world, in fact — is talking about us now;
but gracious me, just think of the jealousy of
Milwaukee, and Cincinnati, and Cleveland, New
York, and those other one-horse towns ! I suppose
they are tickled to death over the whole scheme
glad we're burnt out — but mad to think we scared
up such a tremendous blaze in such a short space of
time — twenty-four hours."

Oh, nonsense ! " said the first speaker. " Twenty-four
hours and be blessed ! — the whole thing burned
down in less than twelve ; that's the truth of it. In
fact, I think we did it up shorten that — about eight
or ten, I should say."

Even less," said the second voice. " Before you
knew what had happened the town was gone. I
vow Chicago takes the cake. Her enterprise is positively
astounding. Now take in the whole of this
scene. It's as cut and dried as if the fire had been a
whole year ago 'stead of yesterday. For instance,
those ruins ! — why they're old when you look at 'em."

It's well I haven't much time to spend in looking
at ruins," said the first speaker. " I have already
planned out a new house, and propose rebuilding this
afternoon or tomorrow."

No. Well, you're right." replied the second
speaker. " It might seem rather sudden in another
man; but I don't see any use of sentiment in a
Chicagoanan. ' Do unto others, or they'll do you before
you get a chance ' — that's my motto — build, and be
blessed."

The speaker half-stumbled as Enilda with her
friends passed him. He was rnildl}^ swearing, and
trying to extricate himself from a hole in the pavement
which had been half-hidden by ash and stones.

Eric Rozen lent a helping hand.

Thanks," said the man ; " thanks ; but don't it
beat all ? The only wooden thing in the city which
didn't burn are those same pavements ; nice mess
for me to escape the fire just to break my legs on
a chij^jed Nicholson."

The grumbler was finally free. He said good-bye,
and Rozen walked on with his party. They had to
wade knee-deep in ash and smoking cinders, anon
passing cold heaps of ruins, which wore a Porapeian
calm, as if they had been made years before — not
yesternight.

They finally reached the site where the doctor's
house once stood. Not a vestige of it remained ; butin
a little earthen hollow was a piano-key and a
memento of poor "Kitty Harper" — a tuft of her coat
and a snip end of her tail lay beside the bit of
yellow ivory. Poor kitten ! — 'to the last she had
clung to the memories of Massaniello.

Enilda stopped suddenly and picked up a little gold
locket. She opened it with difficulty, when for a moment
two old faces therein stood out grave and perfect.

Look, Flora ! " she said.

Flora snatched the little medallion.

It's grandma and grandpa," she said, then stopped
abruptly with a dazed expression. "They've disappeared,"
she murmured sadly, " while I was looking
at 'em. Perhaps that's the way we disappear when
we're dead."

"Or when the air strikes us after we've been buried
and dug up," said Mr. Rozen, smiling. " Children
mustn't discuss such questions — come ! " — and they
continued their way along the deserted Avenue.

CHAPTER X.

Five years had elapsed since the night of the great
fire. Enilda was at home with her good old nurse,
Charlotte Corday, and could still talk as she always
did of that awful experience ; of her father's miraculous
arrival ; of their chance meeting ; of the nights they
had spent in the back of a dry goods store, sleeping
on the floor; of the madmen who fired and robbed
the city ; of the arrival of thousands of malefactors
from every part of the United States, come to thieve
and plunder; how the city was under martial law,
and the arrival of the troops ; how she had scarcely
any water to drink, and only a tea-cupful a day to
wash her face in : how she had to get a ticket and
stand in a long line before the Rink, where food,
sent from all parts of the world, was doled out
equally to the millionnaire or the pauper of that
fatal yesterday.

She never tired talking of the two hundred

thousand people without a roof and bread ; of the
misery, the desolation ; and last but not least, how
Dr. Grayson had found his family, and how finally
she had come West with her papa, "and how the
Graysons had moved to New York to live for ever."

Glory to God, Miss honey chile," said Charlotte
Corday ; " guess that 'ere fire would 'a turned even
me white ; but the blessed Massa 'bove all tuk keep
o' my Nilda, ses de same and no mistake. Don't think
no more about it, honey chile ; ye're here safe in
your own palace, an' never agen ken ye leave my
eyesight 'thou my knowing it, and coming' 'long too."

Charlotte Corday was convinced that her presence
in Chicago would have stayed the conflagration.
She was a full-blooded negress, and like most of her
race rejoiced in a high-sounding name. She was as
black as the ace of spades ; had been a slave until
the general emancipation in America; and, having
her liberty, knew so little what to do with it, that
she rejected it as something utterly malevolent and
useless. She was born on a plantation in Georgia,
and was given to Enilda's mother, the daughter of
a rich Southern planter, who, when but a girl in her
teens, fell in love, ran away with, and married Eric
Rozen, an engineer who "came down South" to
survey a railroad crossing some portion of her father's
plantation. The faithful negress followed her mistress

to newer land, to newer fate. She bad taken no
Lire, and like many of this sable race who alone have
made servility an art, she had stuck through thick
and thin to her mistress. When the latter died she
had watered her grave with her tears, accepted the
trust of the motherless child, and had guarded her
with that brute instinct of jealous love and fear
which the tigress shows her cubs, or the slave its
loved master's offspring.

Enilda had passed part of her girlhood with different
paternal relatives, and once an aunt had stayed with
her a year, and had kept house for her father.
When she went away Enilda was taken to the Wellborn
Seminary, but after the fire she had been
mistress at home. She was sent to no more schools,
but led a vagabond sort of life, first in one place and
then another, until at last her father installed her ina
pretty house just outside the flourishing town of
Laramie on the Union Pacific Road. She had been
there four years, and lived indeed a desolate life in this
far West. With the exception of a few neighbours,
few and far between," she was without other companion
than her faithful Charlotte Corday. She had
a piano and books without number, and sometimes
without choice, which she had read time and again.
Her father had been home but twice, and only
stopped for a few days. Each time he had brought

her something pretty, and on the hist occasion a ring
of rare value and beauty. How she had laughed as
she realized the supremacy such a jewel would have
bought her at the Well-born Seminary.

She could not quite understand her father. He
was at times wildly gay, at others desperately unhappy.
In one thing he never changed — his love
for her. She did not think he was rich, but their
circumstances were certainly bettered of late.

The house was a new but ample cottage or chalet,
built in a grove almost a forest. At the foot of a lovely
garden ran a slender stream which had furtively
escaped from the neighbouring Platte river. It crept
in and out with a merry trickling sound, singing all
day long like a bird in a tree. A number of willows
fretted its banks, and their branches lovingly dipped
into the silver water. The ground was rugged,
uneven, and often hilly, and from the top of the
cottage Enilda could see an endless chain of emerald
mountains lifting their summits to the very sky.
She wondered if heaven did not sometimes commune
with those great heights, and often sat watching
the clouds which gathered from all parts of the
heavens to settle on Laramie Peak, until they would
break, lift, and float valiantly away, so many white
Hermes bearing messages to immortal Pan. She
loved the hour of sunset when the golden colours

ran into the green of the hills, and the hour of nightfall
when the flocks grazing in the near valleys
attuned their bells to the herdsman's footsteps. For
every voice of nature her heart held a responsive
echo. Every animal, every living and breathing
thing, had some claim upon her affections. She
listened with love to the trilling cricket, the lone
night-owl, and to the lark who sang in the trees
under her windows to announce the morn had
come Enilda loved her beautiful home ; still she felt
often lonely and unhappy, and grew to wondering
whether or no she would spend all her days at
Laramie. In her happiest moments she sometimes
fancied herself an enchanted Princess living in an
enchanted castle ; but when would the Prince come
and take her away ? She had not always been a
dreamer, yet she often fell into reverie ; the solitariness
of her life lengthened the shortest day. She went
to Chicago a child, she left it a woman, and like a
woman she longed for life, to see the world — to be
happy — to be miserable — to be anything rather than
what she was, a nonentity shut up in the backwoods
leading an existence month in and month out as
monotonous as it was inoffensive. She often thought
of Flora and pictured to herself the latter's brilliant
life in New York. Was she happy ? Was she
married ? Hud she forgotten her ?

Charlotte," she said, one afternoon in April, " I
think I will send a letter to New York addressed as
Kate did her love-letter, * To my sweet friend Flora
whom I love so dearly.' "

"Bless my soul, Miss 'Nilda, she'd get it sure.
I've heard tell on that New York. There ain't much
love lost in that place ; and by golly if she's the kind
you've told me — a streak o' chain lightening '11 fetch
it along in his 'electric hand to the very door. Write
it ; I'll clap it into the post sure, honey chile, an
she'll a have it in her lilly white han afore I kin
sneeze kingdom come."

Day after day passed, and Enilda grew more lonely.
She was not so hopeful as Charlotte, and never wrote
the letter. One afternoon she strolled to a favourite
place in the pretty garden, and sat down on a rustic
bench. She felt unhappy, oppressed. What a life I
Would it ever change ? Little news from her father —
none of the outer world; few acquaintances, none
to her taste ; her only neighbour miles away in person
planets away in comprehension and sympathy.

She sighed, and opened a volume which she had
carelessly taken from a new box lately arrived. A
page arrested her eye, and she read :

Now books of this kind have been written in all
ages by their greatest men — by great readers, great
statesmen, and great thinkers. These are all at your

choice ; and life is short, you have heard as much
before ; — yet have you measured and mapped out
this short life and its possibilities ? Do you know if
you read this, that you cannot read that ; — that what
you lose to-day you cannot gain tomorrow ? Will you
go and gossip with your housemaid or your stable-boy
when you may talk with Queens and Kings ? — or
flatter yourself that it is with any worthy consciousness
of your own claims to respect, that you jostle
with the hungry and common crowd for entry here,
and audience there, when all the while this eternal
court is open to you, with its society wide as the
world, multitudinous as its days, the chosen and the
mighty of every place and time ? Into that you may
enter always ; in that you may take fellowship and
rank according to your wish; from that, once entered
into it, you can never be an outcast but by your
own fault; by your aristocracy of companionship
there, your own inherent aristocracy will be assuredly
tested, and the motives with which you strive to take
high place in the society of the living, measured, as
to all the truth and sincerity that are in them, by
the place you desire to take in this company of the
dead."

Enilda read and re-read. What could it all mean ?
She turned over the pages, looked at the volume,
and found that it was an advertising medium for a

New York stationer. The book contained fifty selections
from choice authors. She read Ruskin on one
leaf, and a page further on came to :

We sell none but the choicest goods. Look atour
heraldry. Any insignia manufactured for any
family at the shortest notice. Se7id for price list.
Entire satisfaction guaranteed. X and X, Broadway."

She read further on, but returned to her first
selection. And she had longed for the world, had
begun to hate her solitude, had complained because
she had no friends, no society, while perhaps in her
very home "the greatest of the earth were offering
their silent companionship ! "

She ran into the house, and opened an old cupboard
where she remembered to have seen quantities
of musty volumes. She clambered on to a chair,
took them down, and dropped them one by one on
the floor at her feet : when she had cleared the cupboard,
she shut the door and sat down on the carpet
to examine them. These volumes had belonged to
her mother, and she now remembered that in bygone
days her father had often read them. She found,
amongst others, copies of Shakspeare, Shelley, of
Byron, Plato, Alla Rook, Petrarch's Letters, Macaulay,
Pope, Bacon's Essays, Moore's Life of Byron,
Boswell's Johnson, and Milton. She handled them
reverently. These were the friends, the companions

VOL. I. M

she would find in lier solitude. She understood what
Ruskin had meant. She was a miner's daughter, yet
she could hold court with Queens and sit at Kings'
tables.

She went from room to room and continued her discoveries.
Everything between two covers was brought
to light, and eagerly placed beside the other books.
She found many more than she had anticipated.
There were heaps of novels with glaring title-pages,
illustrated with pictures of women hanging by the
hair of their heads over frightful precipices ; women
roasting at stakes ; victims tied to railroad tracks with
floating hair, distended eyes, and the train, naturally,
just coming through the tunnel. Enilda had read
many novels, but had been little impressed by them.
She had tired of the factory girl who began life in the
gutter, and finished by marrying the man who owned
the gutter. She had tired of the thrilling escapes of
the whole human race by field and flood as pictured
by the modern sensationalist; she had tired of the
good girl who wanted to be an angel, and the bad
boy who tried cats by juries and hung them up by
their necks in the back-yard. She had read all
these thrilling tales, and yet one passage in an advertising
pamphlet had had power to arrest her thoughts
and turn them into a channel whose current promised
to bear her along to a new life. Surely those musty

volumes must be the kind of friends meant by the
great philosopher ! Henceforth she would begin a
course of reading. She would never more lack companionship.
She would commune with great minds
and great people ; she would no longer live in solitude.
Her backwoods home would be a palace. Every clay
she would prepare a table and sit down to feast with
her honoured guests.

Days passed, and weeks ; she was as good as her
word, and still in a state of enchantment. One
day whilst she was reading and reflecting, the door
opened quickly, and Charlotte Corday's head peeped
Id.

Miss honey chile, come quick. Glory to God,
but something awful has happened. The cars has
skipped the track, and is a total wreck just outside
the station. The' re a fetching along the killed and
mangled, and dividing of 'em up to the neighbourhood,
and one young limb's a coming' here to be
nursed : he's nigh killed, and 'is arm is squashed to
cooked hominy. Don't be altered, honey chile ; but
thar he is right thar again the door, anti here
he's a wine to stop till he's wafted to kingdom
come, or gits better."

Enilda jumped up and ran towards the open door
Four men were walking up the long garden-path,
and coming straight towards her. They carried a

M 2

shutter, and on it lay the body of a man. His face
was covered with a wet cloth, and a rough coat of
homespun was thrown over the upper part of his
person. He was as motionless as if dead. Enilda
shuddered, but stepped quickly forward — she remembered
the fire. How this poor wretch brought
back that awful night I

"This way," she said softly. "Is — is he quite
dead ? " A man put his finger to his lips.

"Not dead, only fainted. Miss," he answered;
"fainted from the shock. We hope he will be all
right soon ; but I guess one arm won't hit from the
shoulder for some time to come."

Enilda led the way into the house. Charlotte
Cord ay whispered :

Miss 'Nilda, they'll lev to fetch 'im to your bed,
case none other's ready. Massa Rozen — "

Yes, yes, Charlotte, of course." She then spoke
to the men : " Bring him this way : follow me."

She turned to the left of the little room and
led the way into a large airy chamber, whither
in a few moments their burden was brought, and
finally deposited on the bed. Enilda saw that the
victim was a young man with a marble-like face, a
silken moustache, and hair just a shade darker. The
men lifted him with great tenderness. As yet he
showed no signs of returning consciousness. Charlotte

Corday was ready with vinegar, hartshorn, and
the usual ornaments towards resuscitation.

"I guess the doctor's on the way here by this
time," said one of the men, "though I wish he'd
perk up and come to. He must be all-fired delight
to go off like a woman in that fashion. The train is
a total wreck — telescope. Tried to pass the lightning
express on the same line at the same mint."

Enilda was standings over the victim with a bottle
of Strong salts, whilst Charlotte Corday was fanning
him. Finally there was a slight motion of the
body, followed by a deep sigh, and he opened his
eyes. He looked amazed and started forward, but a
twinge from his arm speedily sent him back into his
place. The usual " Where am I ? " was not forthcoming
; on the contrary, a sufficiently loud " Damn
it ! " broke the stillness of the apartment.

The men were delighted.

That's right, my friend, you're no fool if you do
lev fits," said a tawny-bearded labourer. "Now
you're shouting', behaving' suthin like. In some pain,
hey ? Just thank your stars 'taint no worse. The
bone-carpenter '11 be here in a few mints, and you'll
be as right as a trivet in h month or so." He turned
to the others : " Well, I guess we can't do no more
good here, we'd better be off as — "

Stop ! " interrupted the sick man. " What has

happened to the others ? What a frightful accident
ugh ! " he shuddered. " I think I can see it all
now, I — "

Well," interrupted one of the men, " no one
objects to you're seeing it ; death is death, but ita
disgrace being run into by a wild freight. Great
heavens ! — squash me if you will, but do it in
America at least with a palace car."

The injured man covered his face with his left
hand and groaned.

Enilda was horrified; she turned her head away
half in disgust. When the surgeon entered the
room he hastily but carefully examined the maimed
limb, and began immediately to set it. The invalid
was in a bad temper, however, all of his humour
could not keep him in countenance, and he fainted
repeatedly during the operation. The arm was badly
fractured in three places, and the poor man so weak
from loss of blood that it seemed as if he would
never rally; but they finally brought him to. He
was given a glass of brandy — the arm was well
splintered — and the doctor resigned him to the care
of one of the men, who promised to watch all
night. ■*

Enilda outgrew her first feeling of disgust ; she could
not help pitying him. " Poor young man 1 " lie said ;
and to think that he mifi^ht have been killed ! No

wonder he swore when he first opened his lips.
Such an accident was enough to make a saint swear.
How lucky that this house was so near ! He can at
least have proper food and care until he gets quite
well. I will nurse him myself; I am a born nurse —
but if he should die — "

Oh, that could scarcely be possible; men rarely
die from broken arms : and yet he was very low.
The days passed ; the doctor's visits were constant.
Wound-fever set in — then inflammation, and there
was even at one time a question of amputation.
After ten days of almost constant delirium, the
young man was pronounced out of danger ; although
he was told that recovery would be a slow process.

Enilda was the nurse by day; Charlotte Corday
and some neighbour, perhaps the doctor, the nurse by
nio^ht. The railroad accident had been bad enough ;
many were killed and many more wounded — none,
however, so badly as this young man.

There was no news from Mr. Rozen, and the house
went on the same as before his arrival. Enilda had
had little time to put into practice her promised
course of reading. The days were monotonous.
Sitting by the bedside of a stranger, and keeping
the flies off in hot weather, may be a charitable
but not an amusing occupation. Still she did not
half dislike the change, but kept wondering who

he was ; where he came from ; and, like a second
Margaret after the first meeting with Faust, said
constantly to herself, ''I long to know all about this
young man; is he rich? — is he well-born? — and
what may his name be ? "

One afternoon as she was sitting beside him, she
felt that he must be better, for he slept like a child
the first natural sleep since the accident.

She had filled the room with flowers, and her
hands still idly held a few blossoms. She began
as usual conjecturing who he could be, and going
very near the bed looked softly over him to look yet
closer into his face. It was such a beautiful face.
Was she already interested in it ? Before she could
withdraw her gaze he opened his eyes and looked
into hers ; at first with a gentle surprise, and then
a look of eager gladness. She turned to runaway,
whilst her face out-bloomed the roses in her
hand.

Stay ! " said his pleading voice. " Who are you ?
and — and where am I ? "

Enilda turned again towards him, and sank half-unconsciously
into her chair.

"I am Enilda Dozens'* she answered simply.
"There was a bad railroad accident, and — and you
were brought to my father's house. I — I hope that
you are very much better?" She was gradually

regaining her ease, and her colour as gradually
receded.

Better," he murmured ; " I certainly feel better,
but I thought I should never be allowed to speak
again. Every time I have ventured to open my
mouth some one has closed it."

"That's because you have been dangerously ill,
and you were not allowed to talk."

I do not understand," he stammered. '^ But
have I not seen you before to-day ? — and yet you do
not look the same." He paused, and seemed to
reflect deeply.

I am the same, but you look at me with different
eyes ; you have been delirious most of the time, and
rarely conscious." She smiled kindly as she spoke.

He sighed, and for a moment remained silent.

How long have I been laid up ? "

Nearly three weeks."

How long does the doctor say it will be before
I am well ? "

Enilda hesitated a moment, but answered quietly:

Of course, you know, your arm — it was a compound
fracture. You are to get about as — as soon
as you are able."

He laughed aloud.

"I like that — as soon as I am able; but who
knows when that may be ? "

Oh, in two weeks more, perhaps; that is to say,
if you are very good, and do everything I tell you."

You tell me ? "

*' Yes ; I am head nurse.

Indeed." He looked admiringly at her. " Then
I refuse to get well. I don't want to walk about
unless — unless it be with you."

Enilda looked at him to see whether or no he
were in earnest. He must have been, for her colour
returned.

Would — would you like a rose ? " she said ; " the
flowers are so sweet now."

He bent his head over the blossom she put on
the coverlet. Her hand placed the flower nearer;
he placed a kiss lightly on her hand. She pulled
it away sharply. The kiss burned her skin, and
sent a nameless thrill to her heart.

He looked wonderingly at her, and said, " I have
offended you."

"Yes."

In her heart she felt enchanted.

"And yet it is a common fashion in Europe," he
continued.

Oh, it was a common fashion ! " she thought.
She had preferred it uncommon.

I am grateful to you," he continued. "I said to
myself, ' Thanks, sweet nurse,' and set them in a lifelong

seal on your white hand. Are you still offended ?
I am to be grateful to you for ever, you know."

She laughed half-uneasily, but answered :

I am not offended. I accept your gratitude and
grateful thanks."

Will you prove it ? "

"Yes."

*' Pray, give me not another rose, but — a cigarette ;
do — that's a dear nurse."

But I am not sure that you may smoke. It
might make you sick."

His face fell, and his voice assumed an accent of
supreme irritation.

Nonsense ; nothing on earth could do me as
much good."

She reflected, "If he frets he may bring on the
fever ;" she said,

Do you really think so ? Then you may have it."

She ran to her father's room and shortly returned
with an opened box and some matches, which she
offered him with a smile. He raised himself and
took a cigarette awkwardly with his left hand.

I didn't mean to trouble you," he said. " I
thought my cigarette-case might have been found
in my pockets. I am just as obliged, but — do you
smoke ? "

He was puzzled; he had seen no man about the

house who seemed to belong to it, and yet here
were cigarettes.

**No. I never smoke, but papa does sometimes
when he is here." Then she told him about her
father, herself, and Charlotte Cord ay. " But you must
have your head higher to smoke." She arranged his
pillows, and had the satisfaction of seeing a bright
look in his eyes. He puffed away with such relish
that she felt half-offended, and remarked :

'' How you seem to enjoy it ! "

Seem to ! Now I do enjoy it."

I shall never offer a man flowers afjain."

Oh yes, you will ; only try him first with a weed."

He smiled good-naturedly. His humour was infectious.
Ab Jove 2^Tinci2rLum — how little it takes
to make a man happy, especially when that little
is exactly what he wants, coming at the very
moment he wants it !

"Your father is a judge of cigarettes," he continued;
'these are real Turkish" — the thin smoke
curled away in ephemeral rings. " May I have
another ? " He seemed so contented.

'* Yes, on condition."

"That's— ?"

That you won't ask for a third."

He sighed.

"You are inexorable, I fear; but look at it in

this lifjlit : — one did me food — two will have done
me much more good — three — "

Should have, according to that, completed your
cure ; but I am obdurate. Having few or no reasoning
powers whatever, I go by my natural woman's
instinct, which says plainly, ' No ; three cigarettes
one after the other — immediately one after the other,
mind — to a sick man, when he hasn't smoked for
weeks, must necessarily be hurtful.' You shan't
have any more ; now, don't tease." She took away
the box and sat down by the bed, laughing.

Look cross if you like," she continued. " What a
great overgrown schoolboy you are to be sure ; but
I am not wholly heartless — if anything else would
please you, you may have it. Does your arm hurt —
much ? "

He took the remnant of his second cigarette from
his mouth and looked steadily at her, thinking and
saying to himself: "Anything? That is so like a
woman. She will deny you a simple thing because
she cannot resolve small problems, and throw away
a world, because a great one has been solved by her
sex in general." " Yes," he said aloud, " I do want
something else, and my arm hurts like — like — "

A sore conscience."

Enilda finished his phrase. He had near said,
hurts like the devil." Her simile startled him.

Sore conscience perhaps, if one possessed such a
thing."

*aie you too old or too wicked to have a conscience
? "

Both."

She looked amusedly into his face.

I don't believe you. One thing perhaps, but not
the other; you don't look much older than I."

Ah, but I am ; besides, like Macbeth, I feel old
we grow old fast in Europe."

You have spoken twice of Europe. I know that
you are an Englishman."

How did you know ? "

By your accent in speaking English."

Accent ! — by Jove, I like that. I thought Americans
had an accent ; I never supposed the mother
country had not given birth to her own offspring."

Perhaps she did," retorted Enilda ; *^ but the nurse
dropped her while young, and she was maimed for
life."

"Ah — but go on: I am an Englishman; what
else?"

Why, can't you see I am dying to know all about
you. I mean we are all so interested ; and, as they
say in the newspaper reports, ' there were no papers
or books found on your person when the accident
occurred.' "

No. I remember I transferred my pocket-book
to a small hand-bag, and a smaller thief transferred
the bag to his person at the last station before this.
However, at some time or another I must have
spoken of myself; some one must have heard
me."

I heard you speak once. When you were brought
here. You opened your eyes and — "

Ah ! — what did I say ? — were my words intelligible
1 "

Very. The first one began with the fourth letter
of the alphabet. I scarcely thought it your family
name ; but to judge from the emphasis it began with
a capital."

He laughed outright.

You are a naughty, wicked nurse." He turned
half-wearily on his side. " T suppose I said — "

Yes ; that is just what you said."

Must I apologize ? I really feel remorse."

I think you had better ; but in case you should,
you will owe me a double apology."

I do not understand." He opened his eyes very
wide.

You allowed me to think you had no conscience."

And if I feel remorse ? — ah, I see. We are
getting into deep water." He attempted to raise
himself, when a spasm crossed his features. He

seemed in agony, and sinking back on his pillow his
eyes closed unconsciously.

Enilda started forward, seized the salts and fan,
and began to fan him vigorously. " I am a wretch,"
she murmured; "you will never forgive me, and I never
shall forgive myself; here I've been talking you to
death." He opened his eyes and feebly protested.
Sh — don't speak ; don't open your lips ; — and you
never even hinted that you were tired. Dear me,
how sorry I am ! I believe it is time for your cordial,
or your beef-tea, or your chicken-broth, or your jelly,
or, or — something."

He made no response.
" What shall I do ? I believe he has fainted. I'll
call Charlotte."

She started to leave the bedside when he opened
his eyes.

Don't leave me," he murmured. " I hadn't
fainted ; only that last twinge took the very marrow
from my bones. Don't speak of going away. As to
those other things you mentioned — •"

Oh ! you mean thing, you've been playing off
just to gain my sympathy, have you ? You have
heard every word I said, and are laughing in your
sleeve to think that you cheated me so easily. I
will leave you now in good earnest, to pay you for
frightening me." She left him this time and stood

in the middle of the chamber looking at him with
half-earnest, half-angry eyes.

"You must rest," she continued authoritatively;
besides, I shan't forgive you easily. The idea of
laughing at me m your sleeve."

Not my sleeve. In my splinters ; I wish you
would be exact."

She laughed. " Well, in your splinters then ; and
now, to pay you for this last injury, your broth shall
be watered, your jelly weakened, your cordial diluted,
and your beef-tea — washed. Now I am going to leave
you and send Charlotte Corday."

'•' This has been a day of surprises. Will you kindly
explain ? The only Charlotte Corday I ever heard of
lived in the last century, and left the guillotine a
head shorter. By leaving me you are plunging a
dagger in my heart. Beware of her fate."

Possibly," laughed Enilda, " and I am doing it as
she did, with the best of intentions. To save you
from yourself and — my province. Good-bye and —
here comes Charlotte ! " Before he could answer
she slipped out of the room.

To his surprise a powerful negress advanced towards
him. Her eyes gleamed like black diamonds ;
her skin, like a seal's coat, was brown and shining ;
her ears, which would have been " an open book " to
Darwin, were pulled down and distorted by massive

VOL. I. N

hoops of gold ; her mouth, wide as Christianity,
stretched from one ear to the other over a laughing
expanse of gleaming ivory ; her nose, flattened like a
pancake, with its wide nostrils and thick lip, suggested
neither Greece nor Aquila, but Africa and Gorilla.
In short, Charlotte Corday, like her famous predecessor,
was a beauty of her kind, but her kind
was not exactly that of fair St. Saturnin's revolutionary
heroine. Enilda's Charlotte was black
helplessly, hopelessly, irremediably black — but her
heart vas white as — as were the palms of her hands.
Her gown was a violet, by nature woollen stuff. Her
kerchief, an affair of yellow silk, was worn over her
breast a la Madame Holland ; and on her serpentine
hair, which curled tighter than the bark to a tree, was
perched a turban of flaming red and canary calico,
fashioned with real " niggah " skill, and worn with true
African persistence.

She neared the bed ; a smile like a gleam from a
thunder-cloud wrinkled her seal skin. The smile
became a giggle ; the giggle a chuckle ; and a " He !
he 1 he ! " broke from her which shook her body as a
terrier would shake a rat. The hoops jingled back
and forth in her ears until rays danced in front of
the sick man's vision like flashes from a hand-mirror
held in the sun's face by a wicked maid in carnival
time.

Dazed, the invalid dropped his " tired eyelids o'er
tired eyes," and dumbly awaited his fate.

"He! he! he!" chuckled Charlotte. "Bless my
soul, massa, but yer coming' on shore. I've heard
ye chirping' along o' Miss 'Nilda like a chipmunk ina
tamarack. Ye'll be up and about in no time.
Miss 'Nilda's a famous nurse, she is. Thank yer
blessed stars ye fell 'mongst us. Lor, on this line
thar's none but low white trash ; barren' Massa
Rozen and his family ye couldn't be surprised by a
'spectacle human been', let alone talk o' a lady o'
kullah, no what round. I'm almighty tickled to
find you better, massa, short's my name's Charlotte
Corday."

He opened his eyes, and a vague smile lit up his
face. So this was the American heroine !

Thanks, my good Charlotte," he said heartily. " I
owe my life to your mistress's and to your kind care.
Believe me, I shall not forget it. I can never repay
such attention — never ! "

''Oh yes, ye can, massa; git well and fly about
like a butter grub, then we'll all be as happy as bees
in clover. How's dot limb ? Better ? " He nodded
"Yes." "Now you must sally dis bros. Golly,
I ses know Miss 'Nilda 'ud fetch you long once
she draught a mint or so with you. Coming' back
directly, massa; muss fetch dat broth 'fore the

N 2

doctor comes. I'll be back 'fore a opossum 'ud jump a
gum-stump."

Charlotte went out and returned with a cup of
fragrant soup. He drank it eagerly,

"Now, my good girl," he said, "you kindly give
me a pen, ink, and paper ; I want to send a telegram."
They were given him. He attempted to
write with his left hand.

"Massa, don't do dot," said Charlotte Corday;
Miss 'Nilda's got more book larnin' nor any o' us ;
she'll dash it off quicken a pent 'ud go down dis
throat; 'sides, her hands ain't — ain't weakened like
your. I'll fetch 'er 'ere in no time."

Charlotte disappeared and returned shortly. Enilda
was only too happy to be of service. He smiled
sweetly upon her as she came back to his bedside.
"I am such a helpless wretch," he murmured
well, then, if you will be so good, write to

Adam Chromo,

91, Broadway, New York'"

Enilda followed his dictation.

Bad fractured arm — late railway accident — after
Cheyenne. All right. Getting better. AVrite soon.
Wire care of — "

He looked at Enilda inquiringly.

"Eric Rozen," she added aloud, "River Bank,
Laramie, Wyoming Territory."

Thanks."

He wrote the address, adding, " Send on letters
money. Cordial regards, madame.

"John Claremont."

Enilda looked curiously at him.

Claremont is a pretty name," she said smilingly,
and it — it suits you ; now you must go to sleep ; "
and before he could speak she followed Charlotte
Corday out of the room.

CHAPTER XL

There was considerable excitement at 91, Broadway,
when Claremont's dispatch reached Adam
Chromo. For several weeks the former had given no
sign of life. He had written from Chicago that he
was off for San Francisco, and news having come to
New York of a smash up on the U. P. R. R., Chromo
feared that his friend had been on that identical
train. He had been much puzzled over his silence,
and had begun to worry about him. This dispatch
had come in the nick of time.

I will show it to Lucy," he muttered ; " she will
be tickled to death to know that he's all right. I
thought he couldn't be dead, because dead men
generally leave corpses behind them ; but now-a-days
when there's a smash up, you only see a brief notice,
Accident — and so forth ; cars completely telescope :
so many dead, and so many injured ; more details
tomorrow ; ' and by tomorrow who has time to look

and see whether or no his best friend died yesterday ?
We're all too anxious to watch the 'little ticker' in
Wall Street. Still I'm glad that the fellow's alive
and well; and I'll show this to Lucy when I go
home to-night ; perhaps it will put her in a better
temper. Claremont's a prime favourite ; I half-envy
him."

Adam Chromo was one of New York's leading
satellites. He was fifty years of age ; had commenced
life as a stable-boy on a Virginia plantation ; and
now found himself the richest glue merchant in
America. He had married rather late in life, and
his wife was the daughter of a Maine cotton
sinner and ex-miller, with a sufficient amount of
beauty, and any amount of tact. She now led
society in Gotham. She was young compared with
her husband, and fully verified the French saying,
That a woman is only as old as she looks."

Mrs. Adam Chromo seemed about five-and-twenty,
and possessed the open sesame to everything that
was best in America — money. Her husband's coffers
were full to overflowing, and with a generous hand
she helped to empty them. She gave the rarest
dinners, the richest balls, the most sumptuous
suppers. Her kettle-drums were the envy of every
society-leader in Gotham, and the carriages at her
"Small and Early" not only lined Fifth Avenue,

but the adjacent streets up in the Fifties. These
vehicles, with their richlj^-decorateJ panels, shields
with a hundred quarterings and animal bearings
which would have shamed a Tudor, indicated the
distinction of Mrs. Adam Chromo's guests. Her
luncheons, private theatricals, and sewing parties
roused the ire of the pale knickerbocker who condescended,
not out of curiosity, but out of charity, to
occasionally frequent the rich glue merchant's wife.
The greatest shops had only to show a new stuff,
and say, "Well, to prove to you how choice it is,
I sold some this very day to Mrs. Chromo." By
nightfall the stockholder of that dry goods house
declared a dividend, bat a week later, Mrs. Chromo's
maid sported the frock at a Sixth Avenue "Large
and Late." The florist on Broadway had but to
decorate his window with a single double "Jack," and
say to the casual purchaser, '' Ah, I had ten thousand
at nine this morning, but Mrs. Adam Chromo took
them all for her Chinese luncheon ; this is the only
one left. I might procure you a very few at — never
mind the price ? Certainly, sir, or madam, in that
case yours to command." x^nd so the velvety Jacque-minot
spent its fragrance for one day in every highway
and byway of New York ; and for a sear after
faded into oblivion, or worse, like the roses in Naples,
it bloomed withered.

It was the same story with the grocer, the confectioner,
the butcher, and the baker, and yet Mrs.
Adam Chromo was not a happy woman. One palpable
and evident fact was a stiletto in her heart ; a
thorn in her side ; a nightmare in her dreams ; and
a bete-noir in her waking hours. This sword of
Damocles was Adam Chromo still a working man :
Adam Chromo talking glue, making glue, selling glue,
and most of all, sticking to glue : Adam Chromo's
enormous vans insolently clattering past her Fifth
Avenue mansion at any hour of the day and night.
Were she to go to her balcony to see her neighbour
Mrs. Starch's new turn-out, side by side would
arrive a gaudy equipage with golden letters fit to
write a sonnet to Pluto: "Buy your glue of Adam
Chromo, the only first-class house in America."
Then she would see her neighbour sneer because
lier husband was a Wall Street king, and nota
glorified of glue. She even noticed that Adam
Chromo's cart-drivers in passing all looked at her
house, nodded, smiled, and turned away as much
as to say, " He began by driving a cart ; perhaps we
shall also finish in a marble front on Fifth Avenue ;
perhaps in his." Such things as the employer and
employe changing places have been known before.
But again, Chromo with all his wealth would not
retire from business : Lucy Chromo realized that

she might eat lier heart out for all he cared, but
he wild not give in. She was to suffer daily,
hourly humiliations; and he, the low-born, mathematic,
phlegmatic, erratic, anything but aristocratic,
would still stick to his trade, and even had the insolence
to feel proud and honoured of the way he had
made himself: of how he had come up in life from
nothing — he to be a ruler in the commercial, and his
wife with his money to be a ruler in the social, world.

This was what he dinned into her ears from
morn till night. Her ears — the ears of a descendant
of a haughty Mayflower-relic. It was indeed a
bitter fate. She had decided to divorce herself from
Adam Chromo ; at least she would separate herself
from him for a time. Perhaps then J^e would hear
reason. She was sure he cared little for her, perhaps
nothing; but that awful step would bring him to his
senses. Even after that terrible fire in Chicago the
only words he had said were :

You're safe, Lucy, it's all right ; but, my goodness !
I hope Crack and Snap haven't gone by the board.
I would be let in for a genteel sum." Crack and
Snap were the first glue merchants of the Garden
City.

That was all. Decidedly Adam Chromo was a
brute ; she had had a faint suspicion of it some time
ago ; now she was sure of it — to think that he could

possibly have a thought for any old glue firm when
her life had been in danger? When she had lost
eleven Saratoga trunks, not to speak of her family
parchment and George Washington's soup-cup ; when
a dress trimmed with twelve yards of old rose-point
had been consumed by the raging flames before her
very eyes ; when she had lost a marquise ring, a
cat's-eye brooch, and a diamond comb ; when a solid
silver dressing-case, every article marked with her
own family coat-of-arms, had melted almost in sight
of her very eyes — to think when these things had
been sacrificed, and she had escaped with her existence
only — to think that after all that Adam Chromo
would not yield one atom to her wish — that the
joy of having her back would not overflow his heart
with a new interest at cent, per cent., and that he
would not retire from business and live ever after
on the wealth which was already the envy of half
Gotham !

No ; it was too hard — too hard ; so after these
reflections, Mrs. Chromo fretted the pink from her
pretty cheeks, and would immediately send out
invitations for a reception which would cost at
least twenty thousand dollars, and would order a
dress from Lonely which without the lining represented
a thousand more. If she were to be continually
humiliated with one thing she would find

consoLation in another; and, although the novelty
had somewhat worn off, spending money was still
one escape-valve to her pent-up feelings.

Her last ball had been a great success. Besides
the first of Gotharaites, she had secured the presence
of a young Englishman descended from those
blue-blooded who had followed in William the
Conqueror's train to England. John Clare mont had
met her husband " down town ; " Chromo had asked
him to dine. Being previously engaged he had refused
the dinner, but an invitation to a ball had not
been so disregarded. By some strange chance he
and Chromo had taken to each other. She could
not understand it — he a refined, elegant, English
gentleman, and Adam Chromo — ? It passed comprehension;
but so it was. And stranger still, her
husband vas the only friend Claremont had made in
New York. Her husband advised him about money
affairs, and they had even talked " Great Western "
and " Glue " together.

Lucy Chromo had found herself irresistibly drawn
towards John Claremont. After the ball he had
made his etiquette visit ; one day Adam fetched him
home unceremoniously to luncheon; once he had
dined ; then after that he grew into the habit of
dropping in of an afternoon at tea-time, invariably
finding Mrs. Chromo at home. For five o'clock tea

in New York is now quite an institution; and being
usually supplemented, although surreptitiously, with
the favourite whiskey or gin cocktail, men find it
quite convenient, on their way home from Wall
Street, to pay party or dinner calls on their friends'
pretty wives. Gotham early suffered from Anglo-mania,
and that which John Claremont had done all
his lifetime from habit, he was surprised to find was
the latest fashion in this great new world's metropolis.
He had only to follows in the old beaten path ;
sit in a dim, flowered boudoir beside a pretty
woman — make love to her in approved English
fashion, and say to himself, " This is not New York,
but London ; the world is indeed small".

We are all more or less creatures of habit, but an
Englishman is habit itself. A Londoner knows that
he cannot live out of London. He might exist in
Paris for a short time ; but beyond that city of the
world none other stands the slightest chance of
alienating the Cockney from the sound of the Bow-bells
; or the Londoner from his Mall, his club, his
races, his Rotten Row, his afternoon tennis, his five
o'clock tea, his visits and his flirtations, his dinners,
his opera, his suppers, his yachting, and his Thames.
There are other rivers in the world, but an Englishman
does not think so ; at least if he does think so
he never admits the fact.

John Claremont found America a country which
contains many elements of charm to an Englishman
the first one that his daily life could be almost
exactly what it was in England. Commencing with
his arrival at New York, he could speak his own
tongue. He was not always understood, but he,
expected to be, and this added greatly to his comfort;
for I have known Englishmen who could speak
many languages — whose French would not have
shamed Rousseau — yet who would see a frog-eater
strangle — swallow his palate trying to pronounce one
word in English — before he would grive himself the
trouble to help him out with a " bon jour" or an
au re voir."

The next things, personal cleanliness and comfort,
air and water, were, strange to say, free in
New York, and all superior to London. However,
such details were accepted without gratitude ; for
things which exist as a matter of course are to betaken
— as a matter of course. He could breakfast
at six A.M. if he liked, and lunch at two ; have the
same underdone joint that he could get in London, the
same tender lamb — ay, even with mint-since ; the
same vegetables, the same rich puddings, the same
cheese, the same wine, the same brandies and various
other spirits ; he might have objected to Kentucky
Bourbon, but he would drink old Rye without constraint

and without compunction. He may not have
a rare — in one sense — after-dinner glass of port ; but
by the time he has arrived at that luxury, his day
having fairly imitated the English one, his habits
not having been broken into in the slightest manner
he will not grumble, but will obediently get up
with the ladies. For in New York men and women
leave a table as they come to it, together, and in
the transit from dining to drawing-room in Gotham
as well as in London may even manage surreptitious
rendezvous without fear and without number.

John Claremont had breakfasted, lunched, kettle-drummed,
dined, and danced in New York ; he had
flirted and frittered away six weeks of time, and
although he was not free, had amused himself in
society in a thoroughly heart whole and disciplined
manner; before he had realized how it all came
about, he found himself even making love to Lucy
Chromo !

One afternoon — perhaps the dozenth that he had
dropped into the Fifth Avenue mansion — he had
sat quite near Lucy in the rose-tinted boudoir. She
was cloud-gathering, he was attentive ; she gave
him some tea, and as she reflectively dropped a
lump of sugar in the cup a long-drawn sigh escaped
her. Before he could tell how it came about, the
tea-cup and saucer were abandoned and he was

kneeling at her feet. She was wary enough to show
surprise, an J subtle enough to appear indignant;
but from that time forth Chronic had enjoyed little
favour in his wife's eyes. Tired of his flirtation,
Claremont at last announced by letter that he was
going to San Francisco, and determined not to tell
his friends the day of his intended departure. He
left New York suddenly, and sent a telegram from
Chicago to say that he was already on the way
to the "Golden Gate." "^

Lucy Chromo cried alone in her rose-tinted boudoir,
and treated her husband more coldly than ever ; and
to console herself had a kettle-drum every three
days, with plenty of miscellaneous friends and much
miscellaneous gossip. Two weeks had passed without
news of Claremont. She was furious. It was bad
enough to have to fret over her husband and glue,
but it was idiotic to worry about an indifferent
stranger who had amused himself at her expense,
and who during all of his stay in Gotham had probably
only been laughing at both herself and Adam
Chromo.

Lucy was in a bad temper on that very day when

Claremont's telegram reached her husband. She was

sitting in the lovely little room, which was heavy with

the perfume of rare exotics and doubly freighted with

San Francisco.

a sweet regret — the memory of one who had lately
filled her life with so intoxicating a fragrance.

She would have given half her wealth for one
sight of his dark face, and half her diamonds for
one glance of love from his passionate eyes : yet it
was not to be. She did not love him but he
interested her, and it is dangerous to awaken
interest in the breast of an idle woman. At half-past
three she decided that she adored John
Clareraont; at a quarter to four she despised both
him, herself, and the whole human race; at four
o'clock she was in doubt, when cheery voices in the
adjoining apartment startled her from her reverie.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER XII.

She arose hastily, and went in the direction
whence the sounds came.

A footman at the same instant threw open the
door of the boudoir, announcing :

Miss Grayson. Baron de Marcie. Mr. Florestan."

This is indeed a pleasure," cried Lucy, imprinting
a warm kiss upon Flora's cheek. "You, Baron — I
am honoured ; — and Mr. Florestan too ! But how
does it happen that you all come together ? "

Happen I " said Flora laughing. " Why, I met
the Baron at the florist's near the Windsor Hotel ; I
had been ordering flowers for mamma's sick people.
Then we walked down Fifth Avenue together, and
met Mr. Florestan on your door-step in the very act
of ringing the bell. Was it not quite like a rendezvous
? But you, my dear low are you, and what
have you been doing ? It is as dark in this room
as a black cat's back. You look surprised to see us ? "

I am surprised and delighted," said Lucy. " I was

so dull before you came in — I had been reading
Tennyson."

Reading in this room ! Well, I give up — you
must have good eyes."

Oh no. I had been reading, and then my head
began to ache. My book " — she took a volume from
a little table — "here it is, you see, it was near
enough ; but I just finished it, drew down the curtains,
and thought I might doze away until some
good angel or angels like yourselves would come into
chat and save a poor lone body from dying of
loneliness."

Mr. Florestan came nearer. Whilst Lucy had
been talking she had drawn aside the heavy curtains,
and a rose-tinted "light flooded the chamber. He
looked at her with frank interest.

Poor little woman ! " he said ; " I can see you
now ; are you not quite well ? "

"Oh yes, perfectly; only I — I think I had the
blues."

Baron de Marcie spoke.

The blues, with such a mine as that ! — with such
a house, with such a toilette, with such weather !
Impossible. Yoyons — tell us all about it. I see" —
he drew a chair near as he spoke, and seated himself
with magnificent ease — " I see you have had no
company since breakfast — you lunched alone."

o 2

"No, I haven't lunched. I breakfasted at one today
alone ; I — "

"Dear me, Lucy," Flora interrupted, "why didn't
sou come to me ? I was alone too, and I was bored
to death. I did not even think of Tennyson" — she
took up the volume idly — " or I should have passed
a pleasant hour." She opened the book. "Ah,
the Idols of the King — Garth and Enid; how
curious ! That name Enid reminds me of a dear,
sweet, lovely friend I once had, whom I would
give all this world to find again. Her name was
Enilda Rozen."

Rozen," said Mrs. Chromo ; " ^vhy, isn't that
the name of the new Copper King who is paralyzing
Wall Street, and whom Adam brought here to dine
a week ago ? Besides, he said he had a daughter
named Enilda."

Lucy, I will love you for evermore if you tell me
immediately which is his address. Of course he is
her father. Enilda told me he was a miner, and
some day would be awfully rich. That must be the
very man. How glad I am ! Do tell me at once,"
Flora raved on about Enilda.

My dear child, I don't know the address, but my
second secretary is sure to have written it down."
She rang the bell — a servant appeared. " Tell Mr.
King to look among the Rs, and bring me at once

the address of a Mr. E. Rozen." The man disappeared.
" It is a curious name. He is sure to have
written it down. I am obliged to have one book
for each letter of the alphabet, as my visiting-list
is now three thousand; besides, I know heaps of
people, aod I don't like to mix them up with other
people, not even in an address-book. One cannot
be too particular in New York, you know, where
all sorts of parvenues are continually forcing their
way into the best society. I find it daily a more
and more difficult task ; but this weeding process is
really a necessity, and must be done morally at first,
and after materially."

Oh ! I know," acquiesced the Baron. " I remember
that even at Compiegne, when I was visiting
Eugene — I .mean her Majesty; but of course I was
so intimate with the Court that I never thought of
saying Majesty to her — even there it was almost
impossible to keep out the nobodies. Naturally
Louis and I were awfully bored ; but he used to
say to me, ' Fritz ' — you see, I did not care to mix
with everybody, and I sometimes expressed myself to
that effect — ' Fritz,' he would say, ' uneasy the head
that wears a crown. I am forced to receive a mass
of wretches who are unfit to lace up the shoes of
my hundredth footman — especially those scoundrels
presented by the Metternich gang. Those thin-skinned

Germans, those blear-e3'ed Prussians, are
enough to make me walk in my sleep and talk in
m}^ cups.' I gave him what advice I could ; but you
see how it has all turned out. He wouldn't accept
it. Alas ! — he dead, and my old friend a widow — I
can scarcely realize it 1"

Poor thing ! " said Lucy. '' However, she must
look well in black. I envy you, Baron" — she sighed
as she spoke ; — " how I envy you your noble descent
and noble title 1 Just think of sitting with empresses
and queens and passing your life at courts, giving
advice to emperors, and I don't know what besides I
I don't see how you can live in New York after that,
Baron — I don't indeed."

My dear — may I say it, dearest Mrs. Chromo ? —
there is not an atom of difference with this country
except that here you are all queens and kings in your
own right, and even in the most unpretentious society
you find two-thirds of it made up of titled foreigners
and grandees from every part of the world. I really
must say that I am charmed with Gotham ; however,
to m}^ surprise, I must allow I find everything here
but Americans."

Flora interrupted.

Now, Mr. Florestan, you never could have made
as pretty a speech as that about us all being kings
and queens ; but you will when you see my friend •

Eailda Rozen ; if you ever do, just think of it — queens
in our own right."

Florestan looked at Flora with a curious expression

You are right," he said ; " I don't think I could
have made such a speech as that; I have not been
brought up at courts. The Baron has us all at a disadvantage.
I am a simple American, and in spite of
my vile extraction still manage to enjoy myself in a
republican land of freedom. By the way," he addressed
the Baron, " I have often wondered where we
had met, and never could before place the circumstance.
Do you remember a trip to San Francisco
four years ago, and a euchre hand made up in the
train ? "

"I should think I did, rather," said the Baron;
and you — you were one of that party. Who knows
what has become of the other two ? " He arose and
offered his hand with great cordiality to Florestan,
who took it coldly. '' Can you imagine how charmed
I am to Sie you again ? " he continued ; " but those
others — "

One — ah ! I can't remember his name now," said
Florestan ; " but I was thinking of the heavy man who
played so well, and finally lost with me."

And the other," interrupted the Baron — " let me
see ! — his name was Arrow — Ar — "

"Arundel — Jean Amndel. I have a memory for

some names. His was some way so unsuited to his
person. He must be dead now ; he looked then as if
one foot were in the grave."

Flora began to talk to Mrs. Chromo, while Florestan
and the Baron continued on in a desultory fashion.
A footman came into the room silently, and began to
lay the cloth for five o'clock tea ; at the same time
another servant brought Mrs. Chromo a slip of paper
on a gold salver.

"Here, my dear" — she lauded the slip to Flora
" here is the name and address in full : ' Eric Rozen,
Windsor Hotel.' "

Ah, that is the same name," said Flora. " And
if he has a daughter named Enilda, it may be our
old friend. Oh, how glad I am ! — I will send at
once." Flora thanked Mrs. Chromo again and again,
then she broke into enthusiastic talk about Enilda.

The Baron could not understand the love of
school-girls for each other, nor of school-boys for
that matter. " It is not strange, never having been
regularly to school myself," he said. " I always had
one tutor after another ; they were always sons of
princes reduced to want, or professors induced to
work; besides," he added reflectively, "five years
since you have seen her ! Wh}^ dear Miss Grayson,
she may be — she may be no more."

How can you suggest such a thing ? " said

Florestan severely. " Bad news travels quickly, Miss
Flora; you would have heard of it sooner or later
had such been the case. I am sure you will find her
alive, well, and beautiful."

Flora became serious.

I believe you," she answered. " I have never
thought of her but as I knew her — a dear little girl.
At the time of the fire in — "

Don't speak of that fire, or you will get me
started," interrupted Lucy Chromo. "That fire ! — ugh !
When I realize how much I lost and how little I
saved ! " She began busying herself about her teacups.

"No, no," said Florestan lauo^hino^, "that won't
do, Mrs Chromo. Is my tea ready ? — thanks." He
took his cup from her hands and began dropping
lumps of sugar into it. Men always put two pieces
into a cup of tea. Florestan put in two. " That
won't do. Little ! Why, you saved yourself ; — as
if the whole of Chicago could be worth so much."

I call that a prettier speech than the Baron's," said
she smiling ; " but I was furious to sacrifice anything
t© that town ; I always hated it. I was quite a heroine,
however, when I returned to New York. The papers
were full of my escape ; and even the London ' Times '
had a thrilling notice. But fancy this. I read in one
London journal that the fire was carried along the
streets by the wooden pavements, which ignited so

rapidly, and so forth. Now the only things in Chicago
which did not burn were those very pavements
They are all there to-day, and most of them as good
as new. I hate the town, but I will do justice to its
streets. It's a pity Fifth Avenue isn't the same.
Flora, I am afraid I interrupted you ! What ware
you saying ? Oh yes, about the fire : but wasn't it
funny about those English newspapers ? "

"English newspapers will say anything," said the
Baron. " Liberty of the press is only enjoyed in the
United States. Indeed the only country I have ever
seen where the press is dignified and honourable is
in America. Here such a thing as misrepresentation,
or a false statement of even the most trifling
thing, would be impossible ; and the meaning of the
words ' abuse,' ' black-mail,' or ' exaggeration ' are
unknown. No, no : from Maine to the Pacific
coast the American press is above reproach or
suspicion."

Florestan spoke.

America is Caesar, and the press Caesar's wife — is
that what you mean. Baron ? But have you not mixed
your tenses ? If I remember rightly, ' should be,' not
is,' would be the reading."

"For heaven's sake," interrupted Mrs. Chromo,
whatever you do, don't talk grammar, or spring
tenses, or Caesar's — or— or any of his relatives on

me : Flora was trying to say something, and you
won't any of you let her speak."

I was only going to talk about my little friend,
Enilda," said Flora, colouring slightly, '' but it is of no
consequence. I will take this address, and we will
speak of her another time."

"Oh no; let us talk of her now. Is your tea
right, Flora ? " said Mrs. Chromo.

I haven't had any yet."

Bless me, child, why did you not say so ? "

The Baron precipitated himself towards the teapot
; Florestan upset a china bull-pup in his haste to
serve the lady ; whilst Mrs. Chromo in her anxiety to
remedy her failure as a, hostess, made a rush forward
and inadvertently tipped over the table. Everything
went by the board. There was a dainty crash; such
a crash as only could be made by breaking Sevres
china. The silver teapot executed several evolutions
in its downward course, and at last fell sideways to
the floor, whilst a cloud of bohea steam indicated its
neighbourhood and mal destination.

Flora, the Baron, and Florestan were loud in their
exclamations of regret, displeasure, and even horror.

It is my fault," said Flora. " I should have
helped myself."

It is mine," said the Baron ; " I should have
helped you."

"No, no; you are wrong; it is mine; I should
have helped Mrs. Chromo," said Florestan.

"We are all wrong," said Mrs. Chromo. "We
should have been served by the footmen, or all
helped ourselves; however, it's not of the slightest
consequence."

'' If we had only broken some others ; but those
real Sevres cups " — said Flora, groaning.

Others ! — why, I have none other in the house'*
said Lucy Chromo, lifting her eyebrows. " There is
some old Wedgwood and Dresden for the kitchen,
and old Chelsea in the bath-rooms, but I use only
Sevres for e very-day life."

The carpet was calmly stewing and steaming;
Florestan and the Baron were hunting for the bell-rope.
" Naturally you can't find it," said she, laughing
at and watching their vain efforts, " because there
is not one in the house. Do you see that coat-of-arms
near the chimney ? In the centre of that
eaglet's eye is a button — touch that, and you will
see how quickly you will be answered."

"Of course," said Florestan; "a house like this
without electric bell service — never ! I might have
known it."

He scanned the family blazonry. "Not at all
bad," he said, as he looked at the bird — "an eagle
devouring mushrooms. I didn't know they liked

them. Quite ingenious: your idea, of course, Mrs.
Chromo."

A dozen servants came into the room. " Clear
away," said the mistress of the Louse briefly, " and
brings another tea-table. But won't you have some
wine or — or something, — a cocktail ? Bring both,
Jackson" — she addressed an individual in appearance
something between a prime minister and an
ambassador, then turned to Florestan. "Yes; it
was my idea, and I am glad you like it. You see,
when a new house vas thought of, I wanted it all
marble. There was none good enough in America,
so Adam and I went to Europe to find some. We
went straight to Carrara, Italy, after spending a
month in London and one in Paris, and Mr. Chromo
bought all the marble there was in the town —

o

that is to say, all the best. There were about
twenty other hills, as they call them, and the
houses in Carrara are made of the marble from
those hills; but I wanted the kind the sculptors
use, so Adam had to buy it. He then wanted to
bring over men from the very town to cut, build,
and make our house; but I said to him, 'Adam
Chromo, you are an idiot ! Now that you have
spent so much for your marble, get back some of
your money by having cheap workmen to work it'
and he did. We came home, brought our Plutonic

stone with us, and hired the very cheapest and most
inexperienced men Ave could find. No one in New
York ever knew the difference. Adam also had ideas
about architecture. He had a plan of some kind,
but I said to him, 'Have your house as you like
outside, and I will have mine to suit myself inside.'
We had a word about windows, and he finally
allowed me to have some carvings to imitate sea-shells
made to put at the top, which took off that
severe up and down look. They called it Italian ;
but my windows just set this house off to perfection.
I don't tell this to everybody, but I do to you.
You all know that I never speak of my own things.
Oh, but about the interior, you ask ? I planned it
all myself, — ah, here is the wine and tea — and other
things ! Help yourselves everybody, or let them help
you " — she indicated the footmen — " I am too lazy to
stir, and I must tell you about the interior of this
house. I had rooms wherever I liked, and whatever
shape I liked. We stumbled on one architect who
was a rare specimen. I said to Adam Chromo,
Just our luck ; there's only one such conscientious
fool in America, and we have hit on him.' Why,
just think ; I wanted a winding staircase straight
up through the house, built in Gothic style, surrounded
with the plainest kind of doors, walls, and
windows, with disagrees and things. He said, ' Mrs.

Chromo, I can't do it; you hurt my feelings. I
can't put five styles of architecture in one stone
step of one marble staircase — of one Gothic structure
built in — Doric — ' "

"Ha, ha, ha!" said the Baron. "In — door — ic :
not bad — not bad." He tossed off a glass of wine."

Baron, what do you mean ? " said Mrs. Chromo,
severely.

In Doric ? Yes, I said in Doric — isn't that the
right word ? — or would you say in — Ionic — "

Flora interrupted. " Dearest Mrs. Chromo, you
know you were telling about the interior of the
house — don't you see what the Baron means ? "

Mrs. Chromo drew a full breath, and then laughed
uneasily. Florestan was mixing himself a cocktail.

"Ob, Baron, you are so witty; but to proceed.
He said, ' Doric architecture outside, or Gothic or
Ionic, or Morocco, or anything else inside ; but I aman
honest stone-cutter from the Vermont quarries,
and this promiscuous style of slashing into good
imported marble hurts my feelings.' I said, ' Mr.
Graves, you will be paid jour price for your work,
but that work must suit me. Whoever heard of
Vermont ? Who's going to live in this house — you or
I ? If you refuse the job upon the ground of conscience,
you may starve in America — that's all.'
Money is money."

And marble, marble," said Florestan ; " but I
think you were quite right, Mrs. Chromo, although
your heart was harder than his conscience. Will
you have some tea ? "

"No, thanks, I will have a gin sour. Give Flora
what she likes, and let me tell you the rest about
this house. I had my way. After a minute's reflection
he said, ' Mrs. Chromo, I'll build you a
leaning tower of Pisa in your bath-room if you like.
I am a childless widower, but I am educating a
young lady to go upon the stage.' Ah, by the way,
Mr. Florestan, I didn't mean to hurt your feelings.
You are a widower, but not childless. How is Cyril ?
The first time he saw this room, he said to me,
Where's your parlour ? ' I replied, ' You're in it,
dear.' Then he answered, ' Oh, I thought this was a
shop.' Wasn't it funny ? but — how is he ? "

Mr. Florestan was a widower, he had one child,
a boy six years of age; who although an only
son, was not destined to the foot-lights.

"Doing well, thanks, Mrs. Chromo. He will becoming
back to me in a week or so. His grandmother
has him with her at Saratoga."

"I shall be so glad to see the dear," continued
Mrs. Chromo ; " but where was I ? "

Tower of Pisa in bath-room," said the Baron.

Oh yes ; so of course that settled it. The

architect went on following my instructions, and the
result is — what you see. I only made one or two
little mistakes. For instance, I had made all of the
bed-rooms without windows, and my dressing-room a
mile off over the kitchen. It was a little odd, but
we managed it at last."

And now there's nothing but windows," suggested
Flora, " your dressing-room is off the drawing-room,
and your kitchen is on the roof."

Precisely," assented Mrs. Chromo. " Now about
the floors. Well, I wanted them of mosaic. So when
we were in Italy I said, * Adam, let us take a few
mosaic floors over to America. If we can strike a
second-hand stock we will buy the lot cheap.' Well,
Flora, imagine my astonishment. We went to a man
in Florence, and I at once told him what I wanted.
He looked surprised, but said, ' Certainly.' Then
he commenced showing us tables, and pictures of
Madonnas with fat babies, and so on, so I nudged
Adam, and said * Floors ' in a stage-whisper. He
offered to send a man to make them, and I finally
made him explain the whole scheme. I said, 'Buy
a shipload of different stones, and we will piece them
together in America. We will take all kinds naturally,
and we will mix in New York to suit our taste.' "

Did you have any trouble in getting them ? "
asked Florestan.

VOL. I. p

"Oil no; in Italy now they would sell you St.
Peter's if you could pay enough for it. We simply
bought all the material at the different factories, and
we didn't even pay duty at the custom-house here.
Adam knows all the Revenue officers so well ; or I
should say, they know Adam so well. We brought
bags and bags, and I having selected several fancy
sketches which pleased me in Rome, we put the men
to work here, headed by a photographer, and, result
not another such a lot of mosaic floors in the
world."

Where are they ? " asked Flora.

My dear, one is under your very feet. I will
tell you why I have covered them with carpets.
Mosaic isn't fashionable in New York ; and people
when they came to see me stared so much and made
such a fuss over it that I felt as if we were not only
making a show of our money, but we were hurting
all Gotham's feelings, besides making enemies right
and left. I had supposed the word 'envy' unknown
here ; but people seemed to think that I wanted to
set the fashion ; and Heaven knows of all the women
in the world I am the most modest and unassuming,
so I just put carpets over all my mosaics. Adam
agreed with me that it was satisfaction enough to
know that we had them without showing them off;
but, dear me, I have been talking all of this while."

Flora made a move as if to go. " What, really
going ? Do stop a little longer; you were past about
to tell me of your friend Enilda."

*' My dear, I will let you know if I hear from her ;
but I must go."

The men arose.

What, you all abandon me at once ? " said Mrs.
Cbromo. "Well, I must not complain — such a
charming tea visit as I have had. Do come again
very soon. Oh, by the way, do we not meet this
evening at the Opera, and the supper party after at
Dell's ? * You are sure to be there all of you. Flora,
I can't let you go now ; I have something very
particular to say. Afterwards I will take you home;
my carriage is already at the door."

In that case," said Florestan gaily, '' we leave
you to your secrets."

"About toilette, of course," hazarded the Baron.
Mrs. Chromo is the best-dressed woman in New
York."

Oh, nonsense. Baron," cried Lucy, a blush of
pleasure animating her cheek. " I don't pretend to
have things better than any one else. I simply try
to keep up with the fashion in my own little modest
way. What — really going ? Au revoir then, and we
meet this evening."

Delmonico's restaurant.

P 2

The men shook hands all around.

Another glass of wine, Baron ? do, — or I should
say, a glass of wine. An old friend of mine, who, alas 1
compelled by the neighbourhood, summed up his life
in an inadvertent moment, impelled from a branch
of the nearest tree, always explained to me this —
When you help any one a second time to anything,
never say, ' Will you have some more .? ' — it indicates
that he has already had enough. But I lose myself
in reminiscence, Baron, Mr. Florestan — "

"Really, madam," said the Baron, "as you insist
a glass of that wine — to follow your launched but
lamented friend's advice ; a glass of that delicious
sherry would not be at all disagreeable."

Lucy, all smiles, helped her guest. Mr. Florestan,
invulnerable, refused further refreshment. The
adieux were finally made, and the men went away
together.

No sooner had the outer door closed behind them
than the Baron heaved a profound sigh, and put his
hand to his temple.

Alas ! " he groaned. " This rich America :
Wedgwood in the kitchen and logwood in the

woes

!"

CHAPTER XIII.

John Claremont was able to get about. He
still wore his arm in a sling, and probably would fora
long time to come. He had written and received
letters from London, still he lingered at Rozen's
house. The reason why was evident enough : he had
fallen in love with Enilda Rozen. From the day
when they had first spoken up to the present he had
allowed this new fancy to take complete possession
of his soul.

The strangeness of their respective positions only
added to the charm of his life. He was, so to speak,
alone in the house with a beautiful, innocent young
creature ; she living with him in daily and constant
companionship ; their only attendant a black woman,
whose delight seemed to be in watching his return
to health, and in throwing them constantly together.

The only visitors to the cottage had been some
railway officials, the doctor, and one neighbour, a very

old woman without guile and without gossip. No
one seemed to find it strange that Claremont stopped'
so long at River-Bank, for in the United States
there is a civilization which puts older countries
to shame. The difference between American anl
European morals is a radical but simple one. Men
and women are constantly seen together without
causing ill-comment on either side. An American's
tradition is respect for woman ; an European's is the
contrary ; besides, in a country where work, not idleness,
is the mainspring of existence, man has little
time to spend discussing his neighbour ; to say that
the race in one sense is purer and better in the
New World than in the Old is to say a great deal ;
but one thing we can say, that if Americans do not
do less, they certainly talk less.

John Claremont knew the world, and realized the
delicious danger of his position. Enilda was like a
fair young flower growing iu the wood, lifting its
head and perfume to every passer-by. Since his
presence in the house she hid lived a new life, and
before she could say to herself " Beware ! " love caught
her in its flowery net, and each effort to disentano-le
herself only enmeshed her the more deeply.

How had it all come about ? The thousand and
one little events in their daily life, seemingly without
importance, she now saw recorded in an unerring

of fatal consequences. When she had read to
John Claremont, he had interrupted and explained
her page, adding a new light to even her oldest and
best known tales. He had told her about great
writers, great poets, and great painters, and his one
idea seemed to interest whilst he improved her
mind ; he had indeed changed from that first day,
and from a trifling: man had become a serious one.
He seemed to take an unbounded interest in her life.
Her simplest word stayed his thoughts ; the slightest
attempt to please or divert him met with a warm
and cordial recognition. He delighted in music, and
would listen to her playing by the hour — sometimes
correcting her reading of a phrase, and oftener practically
explaining as best he could with his one hand,
for Claremont was also a fair pianist. He told her
of the great musicians of the past and present; he
told her of the famous opera-houses of the world ;
and for the first time in his life opened the storehouses
of his memory and imagination to distribute
from both with a lavish and unconscious charm. Ashe
did this without vanity and without egotism,
in its unconsciousness it only interested her the
more.

In all this time he had spoken no word of love.
There was something so pure and confiding in her
nature, something so different fi-om other women in

its very frankness, that he hesitated before laying
perhaps an unworthy offering upon a sacred shrine. •

He was a man of the world; heretofore women
lead been his sport, his plaything ; he had never cared
seriously enough for any one to trouble himself about
her mental or moral worth. All women in his walk
of life had seemed perfect. He gave them the benefit
of the doubt, took the world as he found it, and
society women especially as he had found them.
He had even gone farther, and had engaged himself
to one whose name, riches, and beauty had been the
theme of two consecutive London seasons. John
Claremont had shown so little enthusiasm in the
general chase after the heiress that she had asked
to have him presented. So it happened as it does
always, the very person who showed most indifference
was the very one most to attract and to charm.

John Claremont had methodically run through
three large fortunes. His last exploit was betting
on the fate of two drops, which one rainy day were
slowly trickling doAvn a window-pane at his club.
First it was an hundred pounds which drop got to
the bottom first ; then it was twenty-five hundred ;
and at last twenty five thousand. His drop dallied
with cruel deliberation, and he decided to marry the
heiress.

One fine day, at a garden party at the Chelsea

Hospital, he learned that he had but to aspire to win.
The temptation was great, his exchequer low, and
he thought what a fool he was not to follow the
fashion of the world and replenish his coffers at
Pluto's shrine ; especially a shrine so well garnished
with other than golden guineas. Here were beauty,
birth, and brains, all waiting to fall, a rich natural
harvest, into his autumnal arms. Should he refuse
them ? Never! So it all came about, and Claremont
found himself the accepted suitor to my Lady
Mildred Allison. But she was exacting; and as is
always the case where only one loves, the more
affection she sowed the more indifference she reaped.
One day John Claremont, who had gradually grown
to accept the idea of marrying, took enough interest
in her to quarrel over some insignificant affair. The
woman in love cannot well study the stars in love's
astronomy. Instead of tailing this slight quarrel asa
real zodiacal sign, Lady Mildred made a planet
out of a very small astral, and the next week
received the following :

Dear Mildred,

We seem to understand less and less of
each other. The fault is mine undoubtedly. Perhaps
I am unreasonable. It seems strange to me to
be engaged to any one. I loved my liberty, and

cannot easily reconcile myself to the idea that I
shall some day be a married man ; that even now"
I am already as good as married. Can it be that
I do not appreciate my joy? I know I shall never
be as fond of any one as I am of you ; but perhaps
I am like the children at the Cape, who played
with pebbles for years, and only long afterwards
discovered that they were diamonds. Do not be
offended — but I am going away for a little. I amin
a bad humour, and although I cordially hate the
whole human race, have not even an enemy on whom
I would thrust my company, so cordially do I hate
myself. The greatest compliment I ever paid you
was to relieve you of my society in its present
unsatisfactory state. I am on my way to America.
Do not start. America is near, and I shall be no
farther away from you there than here. Indeed,
dear, at heart, I am awfully fond of you : I am
only at Queenstown, and begin to realize the truth
of the old saying, 'Absence quenches small flames
and rekindles great ones.' Pray forgive my unceremoniousness.
Some American friends at the club
were going to 'fly over' to New York for a little
salt-water and a clam-bake on Coney Island ; I had
never seen a clam-bake, so at a moment's notice
decided to join them. Will wire you from New
York. Say that you forgive me, and — name the

day. I have always been a vagabond and an idler ;
but you will see what a good husband I shall make
when you really take me for better or worse. May
I kiss your pretty hand and whisper a more loving
farewell? Do not forget me; I shall be back
soon.

Yours ever,

"John Claremont."

Lady Mildred ate her heart out during ten days
whilst he was at sea. She was too thorough an
Englishwoman to have any fear of the ocean trip ;
and when she received from the new land those
magic words transmitted by a more electric than
love's dart, heiress-self-love came to her relief.

He was evidently happy without her. Let him
stay ! She name a day ? She would not even answer
his message. It was time to show him that although
lightly won, a peeress in her own right was not so
to be trifled with ; and yet — She sighed. John
Claremont's very lukewarmness exasperated in hera
double thrill of passion. She was a woman of
the world ; he a man of the world. He was treating
her as she had treated thousands. Any two
flints may strike a flame, it does not always follow
that both flames shall be of equal fire. John Claremont
thought it strange that his betrothed had not

o o

answered his message. Then he laughed, and his
appreciation of her went up fifty per cent.

She has more spirit than I thought," he said.
'' I am sure once married we shall get on famously-together."


He had done New York, had had his clam-bake,
and had made one acquaintance in Gotham who
had ripened quickly into a real friend. Honest
Adam Chromo had pleased him from the first.
What Claremont liked in him was that natural
simplicity which no amount of worldly prosperity
had ever altered. Claremont had written thus of
him to a friend in London :

'amongst many New York business men whom
I have met, none have pleased me so much as Adam
Cliromo, the great glue merchant of the New World.
He is an honest, simple fellow, and the very type
by which the race should be known : an American in
his natural state, in the raw, not giving himself airs
and graces, or trying to put on Old World fashions
as we would put on a new coat or hat, is a man
that cannot fail to please the world over. I strongly
suspect that we shall become great friends."

It had been as Claremont predicted. After a
short stay in New York, he started for the Golden
Gate, ai]^ after a charming trip, met with the bad
accident which had laid him up at River Bank.

He \Yas thinking over all these things one lazy
afternoon in May. It was the last day of the month,
and the air had a June balminess which stole upon
his senses with a half-sort of intoxication. He
stretched his six feet at full length under a mammoth
oak, and gave himself up to reverie. His body sank
in the soft new turf which was like velvet to the
touch. He pulled himself nearer the trunk of the
tree, and leaning his head against the rough bark,
looked about him with the air of one in a state of
perfect happiness. To be sure his arm troubled him
a little, but now that he no louder suffered, he could
readily put up with the inconvenience of a sling;
besides, he could use his hand slightly, and his
previous feeling of utter helplessness had vanished :
a man feels such a fool when he is dependent. He
lighted a cigarette, and was soon lost in a thousand
fancies. He scarcely heard the birds singing, or the
tic-tic of the merry insects buzzing and skimming
through the summer air ; he was insensible to the
odour of the sweetest flowers, and never heard the
patient brook which was rippling away so indefatigably
at the foot of the garden, nor the voices of
the fowl cooing and chucking: in the neighbouring

o o o o

barn-yard. He was only sensible of an ineffable
quietness lately come into his life, and his thousand
fancies were melted into the golden crucible of one

fast-growing idea. What if lie were to give up
the world — his world ? What if he were to leave the
Lady Mildred, were to settle in the Far West, and
were to marry Enilda Rozen ?

This thought, after turnings and turnings in its
golden realm, condensed itself into a startling discovery.
He found that he really cared for this one
above all other women, and that he would give
anything in the world to call her his. And yet, to
marry a miner's daughter ; — he could scarcely realize
that he was so much in love. He thought about her,
and then about — her family. He shuddered : a
miner's daughter ! She was lovely ; but how could
he tell what her father might be like ? Perhaps
he resembled one of those dreadful men who had
brought him to the cottage. Perhaps he smelt of
rum, spat tobacco-juice on the floor, swore like a
pirate, and put his feet on the table when he was
illustrating backwoods speeches. Not that he cared
about those trifles, provided he did not spit upon
him, nor waft his gentle rum-steeped breath zephyr-like
into his face ; besides, he had heard that those
little things often happened even in the House of

Congress, but was it worth while ? Why should

he put up with disagreeable people, when with a
little common sense he could marry another woman,
and live in the world which pleased him ? He was

half-angry that a thought of Enilda had ever come
into his head. His accident was bad enough ; now
he was in a fair way of making a fool of Himself, and
by so doing a further and more irreparable injury.
He reflected on love-matches, and especially on ill-assorted
unions. He said to himself whilst the
smoke-rinsrs from his cigarette curled in the air :

"Yes; marry a ^\ild-rose, to have it fade in the
transplanting. I have five hundred a-year, and expectations.
By marrying Mildred, I shall find myself
a millionnaire, and the husband of a woman that any
man might marry for love alone ; but I — in this as
in other things most unfortunate — do not happen
to love her. There is always some bitter to my
sweet. I now have found a woman whom I do love,
and her only wealth is in her charms. Besides,
how in decency can I break off with Mildred ? — and
were I to marry Enilda what could we live on ? I
might work at — at farming."

He laughed aloud at the idea. " Me a farmer," he
continued ; " oh, bother it ! why can't I have everything
I want in this world any way ? Two women
in my head : love pointing one direction — interest
another; I think I shall go off and settle the
question where I shall be far from the influence of
this pretty wild-flower. Then again, why should I
leave this spot where I am really happier than I

have been for years? No — in decency I must go;
I have been here five whole weeks; I cannot stop
for ever, and my illness can no longer be a pretext."

He sighed and lit another cigarette. One moment
he said, "I will propose to her;" the next, "I will
go away."

Thus, alternately thinking and smoking, he fell
soundly asleep, the way men usually settle a knotty
question on a summer's day.

In a short time he was awakened by the sound
of voices. Enilda was standing near him with some
letters in her hand, and Charlotte Corday was in the
path with her turban shaking and her eyes shining
like diamonds. He sprang to his feet with a half-apology.


Don't mention it," said Enilda ; " naturally you
fell asleep ; this air is so hot one feels quite drowsy.
But you must know we did not intend to awaken
you, only I have had such good news, and a letter
from such a dear friend. It made me so happy.
You know I told you about one — Flora Grayson —
and now I have heard from her after all these years.
I am so glad ; but I am forgetting you. Here is
quite a parcel of letters ; are you not anxious to read
them ? Perhaps this is a love-letter " — she playfully
shook one in his face — " this one. It's a lady's handwriting,
T can see that; besides, there is a crown on

the envelope stamped in black wax ; and I don't
know Avliy — but it smells so sweet. It must bea
love-letter." She waved it in the air as lie spoke,
and then handed it to him.

A flush mounted to his brow. She had divined
the truth. It was from Lady Mildred. How strange
it should have come at that very moment !

Enilda laughed half-uneasily.

You see I was right ; you are blushing. Has
has she named the day ? May I come to the
wedding ? "

As she spoke she turned her head away and
snatched a piece of ribbon-grass growing near the
walk. She drew the white-striped blade back and
forth through her fingers with nervous quickness,
but she did not look towards him.

Nonsense ! " He spoke idly, but his tone had a
sound of constraint. " Nonsense ; it is only a letter
from an old friend. A bit of London gossip, probably.
I am not so lucky as to receive love-letters. Perhaps
I may some day if ever any one love me enough to
write me any. Perhaps when I am away — for I am
going — very soon,"

She started quickly towards him, and her breath
came so hard that she feared he must notice her
emotion.

You — you are going away I " She twirled the
VOL. I. Q

grass desperately in her fingers as she spoke.
"Naturally I supposed you must some time." She
gathered courage, and even laughed as she went on :
How do you know but I shall be very glad ? You
have been an awful bother; you have grumbled
and grunted, and been the cause of the assassination
of all the spring chickens on the farm. There's nota
bird singing in the trees but trembles for fear we
shall make a pie out of him, feathers and all, before
nightfall ; you have turned the house upside down ;
and — and my lace-curtains smell so of smoke that
moth or rust will not corrupt them for some time
to come. I have blistered my tongue tasting your
gruel, and my fingers making your toast ; I — •"

Hold, inhospitable woman ! Have I not repaid all
this with gratitude, with interest ?" — he came towards
her — " and — and even now, Enilda — may I not call
you Enilda ? — I was just thinking of — "

Diana's ready, Massa Claremont," shrieked Charlotte
Corday. The trout's red-breasted and growed
in a creek which is fed on shadows and pond-lilies
'sides dem birds — golly, massa, dem car birds what
sing—"

What did I say ? " laughed Enilda who had quite
recovered her composure. " What did I say ? Your
further stopping here means annihilation to every
living eatable think: in the neighbourhood. I have

o o o

sent m}' canary to the village, fearing that you may
have already longed to pick its bones."

He slipped his letters into his pocket without
reading them, and walked leisurely towards the house
repeating her words :

"Pick its bones; indeed not. I have tasted its
song ; what could be better ? But you are not serious.
I was just about to say something — something — "

"That I shouldn't like to hear — probably," she
interrupted, "but thanks for not having designs on
my canary. Are you hungry ? " Saying this she ran
towards the cottage without awaiting his answer.

He looked at her with a curious expression. He
felt that he was about to make a fool of himself.
Strange that this knowledge never yet stopped a
man when his heart instead of his head was bound
to speak ! John Claremont looked at Enilda standing
in all her young loveliness somewhat as we study
or look at a beautiful flower before we pluck it. The
thought always comes — " To pluck it means a short
fragrance and an eternity of blight for an hour's
perfume. Why not leave the blossom and enjoy its
delights from the parent stem ? " Why not be friends
with this beautiful girl ? Friends, life-long friends,
they would be ever, he was sure of that; but — most
men usually prefer the hour's perfume. He felt sure
that she cared for him, and he said to himself,

Q 2

"The man who offers his friendship to a womfm
really makes a gratuitous ass of himself" He
thought of the story of the French coquette and the
speaking " Imbecile " which closed the episode. No ;
he was bound to tell Enilda that he loved her. He
knew that, betrothed to one woman, he had no right
to make love to another, still he could not resist the
temptation to follow his heart's urging, and that
heart said plainly, " There is only one woman in the
world to whom you shall ever swear allegiance; that
woman is — Enilda Rozen."

They had reached the house-door by this time. It
was a perfect arch of beauty. Clematis and pink
honeysuckle entwined their branches and blossoms
in innumerable festoons, and a thousand tendrils
clambered in every direction over the side of the
portico; around the little old-fashioned stoop great
bushes of wild rose and syringa had sprung into a
perfect forest of blossom. There were no hot-house
flowers, but a wilderness of plants that we have all
known and loved in childhood — mignonette, purple
pansies, wild violets, sweet lyceum, the orange and
velvety marigold and dainty forget-me-nots, with a
hundred others rich in varied hue, perfuming the air
with a myriad unseen censers.

The sun was setting in a crimson glory, staining
the heavens and distant hill-tops with an aureole of

flaming gold ; a patch of glittering colour crested the
summit of Laramie Peak ; whilst purple and yellow
cloudlets swam one into the other in an imperial
chain, whose rings like jewels in a necklace were
bound with links of diamond light ; a violet mist rose
from the valley and spread over the gigantic pines,
where shadows like the shadows of Norse giants
seemed darkly to come and go on the mountain-side
: a veil of rarer beauty than any spun from
mortal loom floated silently earthward from some
invisible realm, hushing all nature in the satiric of
its soft embrace. Who that has seen a sunset in
the Far West will ever give a second thought to
fabled Como ? So John Claremont thought as he
reached the door and turned his eyes unconsciously
heavenward.

Enilda looked up laughingly. He had not
answered her question, but his thought was far
from the materialism of eating or drinking. He
was gazing on the beautiful scene spread out before
him, and thinking — " Nature is always true to herself;
I will be true to myself. I shall not marry
one woman when I love another."

In the heart of this boundless West he felt someway
alone with an unseen, yet ever-present, good
angel who was constantly appealing to all that was
best in his nature. This beautiful creation, fresh

from the hands of its Maker, as yet untainted with
the vices of civilization, brought back to him the days
when he prayed at his mother's knee, when he saw
truth and loveliness in every object. How he had
changed since then ! — and now he was going to barter
himself for the purpose and fine linen of the world,
and to strangle in their birth the purest and noblest
sentiments he had known since childhood. He
thought again — " Nature is true to herself; shall
man, nature's greatest work, alone be untrue ? No ; I
love her. I shall not marry one woman when I love
another."

"Mr. Claremont!"

He started : Enilda was standing beside him

o

speaking.

A penny for your thoughts," she said ; " and you
have not yet answered my question; — are you
hungry ? "

My thoughts were worth millions ; I — "

Are you so like all the world that even your
vagrant ideas must command a great price ? "

"I am like all men, I set great price on what
commands my thoughts. This time they should be
beyond all idea of money, for I was thinking
of you."

She looked uneasy, and leaning forward broke a
branch of flower from the honeysuckle. She held it

for an instant in her fingers, then it dropped to the
ground, but she made him no answer.

"You do not speak," he continued. "Yes; I was
thinking of you. I was thinking how much I love
you."

He turned quickly towards her and looked into her
face with glowing eyes — then his left hand fell upon
her shoulder. She averted her head, but his hand
followed, and before she knew how it had happened
he was turning her face up to his. What a blushing
face it was, and how earnestly he looked into it !

Enilda, child," he said quickly, *' you still give no
answer. Have I presumed too much ? Do — do you
mean that you do not care for me ? "

She struggled slightly, and his hand again sought
her shoulder. Her breath came and went heavily.
She shaded her eyes with her slight fingers, then
spoke in a strange tremulous voice.

I — I cannot say that I do not like you — that
would be an untruth ; but — love — ah ! " She sighed.
Are you quite sure that you are not joking ? It is
so much to say that you love some one. Would you
like to take it back ? I won't think it mean, for it is
really preposterous. You know I am a little girl in
the backwoods ; — and — and — I think that — dinner is
waiting. Come along."

She made a desperate move as she said this, and

tried to run away, but his hand held her as in a
vice ; a sweet smile stole over his face, and a merry
look came into his eyes.

As you yourself once remarked, ' There is no
"come along" that counts,' and as to the question
of waiting, between dinner and myself you are bound
to choose in my favour. I can't wait — the other
must ; I want an answer to my question."

You have not asked me one yet."

I said I loved you ! "

Well, that was a statement, which is altogether
another thing."

"A statement which I repeat. Eoilda, dearest, I
love and adore you. I am in 'dead' earnest. Do
you think you can care for me a little ? "

"No; I don't think I can — I don't often care for
people a little."

He looked questioningly at her, and withdrew his
hand from her shoulder.

Your answer is vague," he said coldly. " I beg
you will pardon my bluntness and — and inconsiderate
ness. Why should you care for me ? There is no
reason, and you know nothing of me."

"No; there is no reason ; but — I know as much of
you—"

Miss Rozen — Enilda, don't say that. I cannot
understand. I thought you cared for me — I hoped

that you did." He was beginning to feel ill at ease,
and his was now the hand to grasp a branch of
honeysuckle. " I have ill repaid your hospitality,"
he continued uncomfortably ; " and yet my excuse is
the old one. I love you — I shall not bore you with
any further protestations, however'' He crushed the
fragrant blossoms in his hand, then seeing that they
were crushed, hastily threw them to the ground.
I — I love you so dearly ; and I had made up my
mind to sacrifice everything in the world to you."

That was very kind,"

Her irony stung him, and yet he loved her a
thousandfold more. It is strange how a refusal will
enhance a woman's value in a man's eyes. He had
been weighing many circumstances, yet had never
counted upon this one. Still he was too honestly
in love with her not to realize that she had as yet
made him no answer which he could construe into
a proof that she loved him. His concern was so
great that he forgot her slight irony. It is so
true that our own thoughts, by their purity or
baseness, are the reflectors which light up our
neighbours' characters ; and knowing all he was
giving up to marry this woman, it seemed someway
as if, instinctively, she should appreciate the
magnitude of his sacrifice. Yet of all words the
one he should have last used to the woman he

loved was that one word. Women like men to.
sacrifice themselves for them — like to know that
they have power enough over them to make them
commit even crime — and like to feel that if the
world were not already made, men would fabricate
a new sphere wholly and solely to gratify a whim or
caprice of she object of their adoration. But a woman
also likes to feel that her power is occult ; and that
her victims yield blindly to feminine charm. The
moment a suspicion dawns upon her that man
knows the full extent of his undoing, that moment
the delight of hidden power becomes a prosaic
feeling of two playing at one game. Doubting she
hesitates, hesitating she loses, and losing power she
loses interest; when that sentiment is gone love's
fire may neither ignite nor rekindle. Marc Antony
reminded Cleopatra so often that he was Marc
Antony, and of a world which he had thrown away,
that she began to think of a Caesar who had ever
been a Caesar, and of other worlds which might
as well be thrown away.

CHAPTER XIV.

John Claremont in an instant realized that he
had bordered, yet could scarcely tell how. He
made another attempt ; this time a better one. Her
words, " That was very kind," still rang in his
ear, and fate helped him as she often helps the
unworthy. " Nothing is kind in me where you are
concerned," he said bluntly. " I love you — love the
very ground you walk on. I spoke of sacrifice, but I
was wrong. Forgive me : the only sacrifice on earth
would be to give you up.'^

Charlotte Corday's voice interrupted : " Miss 'Nil da,
honey chile, dot grub's awaiting Massa Claremont,"
she said. " Rom along this mint ; dot burt '11 leave
de pie an' sing in heaven, please God, uf you keep
'im stewing any longer."

Enilda looked up into Claremont's eyes. Her own
were half-laughing, half-tearful. As she did so he
seized her hand. The negress's clear voice was heard
again : " Miss 'Nilda ! "

"Damn that black heroine!" uttered Ceremony
under his breath ; but to Enilda he said, " You still
do not answer my question."

I shall have to accept you to get rid of you," she
thought ; but said aloud, " The pie is spoiling, and
Charlotte Corday will be very angry."

John Claremont was disposed to be angry himself,
but the situation was too much even for him : at
that moment Charlotte appeared at the door with a
steaming dish in her band. One broad ray from the
setting sun flashed in her face, and she looked like
one illuminated grease-spot, with her black eyes
shining, her black skin shining, and her gold hoops
shining and dangling in her ears.

She spoke. " 'Clare to God, Massa Claremont,
Miss 'Nilda, if you don't come in t' eat that dinner
I'll fetch it out here. Now, begin with the pie."
Claremont was equal to this, and said :

The wisest thing you could do, Charlotte. Bring
the dinner, and we'll eat it out here. What do you
say, Enilda ? " Then Charlotte, who had disappeared
delighted With the idea, turned back for a parting
word and one last glance at Claremont.

The fact of it is," said she, " I 'spec's I'm in the
way. Don't you go for to make love to Miss 'Nilda ;
but I'll be back in five minutes all the same."

"No doubt she will," said Claremont; "in the

mean time, would you mind answering my question ?
Let me take the pie."

Well," said Enilda, " I suppose I ought to pretend
not to understand what you mean ; but — but I
really have forgotten what it was, and then, besides "
as she said this she lifted up the pie which
Charlotte had deposited near the door on a table —
and, besides, you haven't asked me any special
question yet ; you merely said, ' Let me relieve you
of that pie.' "

I merely said " — he took the pie — " I merely
said something about loving you, I believe, or words
to that effect."

I think we'd better have our dinner under the
tree," said Enilda.

Yes," he answered ; " but I shan't touch food till
you have answered my question. We can dine anywhere
you like."

And I insist," said Enilda, " that you have never
asked me any question."

Claremont looked at her and said nothing. They
walked towards the old tree, where he gravely
deposited the pasty on a rustic bench.

You're right," he said ; " I don't believe I did ask
you a question ; but I will now. Would you mind
letting me smoke ? ''

Oh pray," she said, " don't mention it."

Claremont deliberately drew his cigarette-case
from his pocket ; he opened it, and out of the little
box drew out a cigarette and struck a match. " Now,"
he said, " I have another question to ask you. Are
you trifling with my feelings ? — or do you wish wilfully
to misunderstand me ? Will you permit me ? "

He lit a cigarette, and was about to put it to his
lips, Ashen he caught sight of her eyes which she
had inadvertently lifted to his face with a mingled
expression of tenderness and fear. He threw away
both cigarette and light; he seized one hand with
his lamed one, then the other went boldly to her
shoulder. His voice trembled as he uttered these
words :

Do you wish to misunderstand me ? Do you not
see that I adore you — that I love you beyond
words ? "her gaze fell and her cheek paled — " beyond
any words but these : Enilda, will you be my
wife ? Do you — can you — "

'' Miss 'Nilda, honey chile," broke in the negress's
clear voice ; *' can you come and fetch these fails ?
Hears the cloth, and hears — " «

Claremont groaned. Enilda lifted her eyes to his
and a smile broke over her face, as she put a finger
to her lips, and said softly :

"Wait, — wait until Charlotte can no longer interrupt
— when dinner is ready."

I shall do nothing of the sort," he cried delightedly.
You are not trifling with me ? — you love
me— ? '■'

Miss 'Nilda," interrupted a voice.

** You love me ! — curse that woman ! — and you
mean to — " He kissed her, and put his arms about
her.

I meant to tell you so," she replied, half-pettishly,
half tearfully ; " but this is a curious time to ask
such a question : in broad daylight, just as we were
going to dine."

In broad daylight he kissed her again, and replied -:
Dear, if a man tells sou he loves you when the sun
is shining, be assured that he realizes what he's
about; and if he tells you just before dinner, you
may conclude that he is doubly in earnest. But
why do you struggle so ? "

Enilda was an American, and Americans struggle
under any and every circumstance in life. Struggle
is the backbone of the country, the genesis of the
race. So she struorcrled.

"I struggle," she murmured, "because — because
— "

Do you love me ? " he asked.
"Yes" — his clasp redoubled in firmness; "yes,"
she answered ; " but some one will see us. We — weare
doing exactly like everybody else in the world ;

you — you holding me in your arms : I — I am standing
in them — "

"Exactly," he murmured, half-laughing, "in my
arms. It is a very natural conclusion that you are
not out of them ; and as to all the rest of the world,
why, all the rest have done and will do as we do."

Oh — oh, let me go — quick ! " interrupted Enilda.'
There comes Charlotte Corday ; she has seen us.
Ah ! " Enilda's head and voice dropped.

Claremont turned bravely towards the negress, who
was solemnly coming down the path. Her face was
sombre with amazement, her eyes were rolling
proudly in their yellowish disks, and her arms were
filled with table-linen and sundries. These latter
were in imminent danger of bestowing the path, for
in the intensity of her inarticulate excitement the
above-named members moved with a swaying
motion, which at sea might have proved fatal to
even a Captain Cook. She advanced with speechless
pompousness and the pride of an outraged
servant, who seeks any and every occasion to defend
the family honour. Charlotte felt and looked as
if she had wrongs to avenge. Claremont stared
for a moment, then he approached her swaying body
with a certain air of command. His eyes were grave
and steady, his face full of a quiet dignity, which
bespoke a man with a distinct purpose in view.

Charlotte Corday," he said, stepping in front of
the negress's path — " Charlotte, I love your young
mistress, and have asked her to be my wife. You
are her guardian and faithful protector, and I ask
you to give her to me."

Whilst Claremont was speaking, Charlotte's distended
eyes gradually grew less wide, her face lost
its vengeful expression, and as he spoke these last
words a wonderful " He ! he ! haw ! haw ! " escaped her
lips. She opened her arms, the linen flew in every
direction, and she rushed up to Claremont, slapping
him vigorously on each shoulder.

"Bless my soul, Massa John," she said, "I hasn't
her mother nor her father, but I gib 'er to you, sure.
When my awes first sot on your's I 'spect 's much.
'Nilda, honey chile, hear, hear, quick, and 'clive my
blessings." Enilda came half-wonderingly forward.
Massa Claremont, I — I know you just luv the
ground wheresoever she's a sot her foot, and I giber
to you, case — case I know she's been a thinking
heaps on you, and — you must be kind as — as I've
been. Since her poor murder was fetched long in
dem woods, ded — ded and killed — 'Nilda's had me for
her murder, and — and I hub 'er; I hub 'er ses 's if
she's my very own gore." Charlotte's eyes were
growing dimmer, for over their black a silver. mist
was slowly but surely creeping. " I hub 'er to death,"

VOL. I. R

she continued, in a broken voice ; " but you take' er,
Massa Claremont ; and, 'Nilda, chile, don't you go long
und forget me now wen you're married. Maybe you'll
go far off and leave me — leave pore old Charlotte
Corday, who tubs you so, den — den I'll be a saying'
good-bye too ; fur even car's no more Miss 'Nilda, I'll
put on my wings and my golden slippers, and — and
my canoe '1 float down de rubber wot runs into dot
oder shore. I'm glad you're happy, honey chile ;
but you'll soon have no more place in you're heart
for Charlotte Corday. I — I feel already like de
breaking' up of a hard winter ; but, Miss 'Nilda, don't
you go and forget."

Oh, Charlotte ! " interrupted Enilda, throwing her
arms around the nurse's neck ; " how can you go on
so ? Of course you will never leave me. I shall
never leave you ; we shall never leave each other."

Claremont looked at the faithful old woman.
Charlotte," he said, " your young mistress will be
my wife some day, please God ; and please Him also
you shall never leave her until He wills it." Charlotte
seized his hand and covered it with kisses. He continued
: " And now, Enilda, won't you give me your
answer ? Will you say that you will marry me ?
or do you still pretend that I haven't asked you a
the question ? "

And I still pretend," retorted Enilda, " that

only this very instant have you asked me the
question ; but, dear, I — are you not very hungry ? "

Very," he assented. Charlotte was looking
anxiously on. She suddenly assumed an authoritative
tone, and said, "Miss 'Nilda, is it Yes or
No?"

Why, Charlotte, hoar you behave ! " said Enilda ;
give me time to think."

No, honey chile ; you know right off if you hub
'im — it's yes ; if not, 'Nilda, chile, I 'spec's you don't
'prelate de gravity o' dis affaire. Wen I was young
and was axed dot question, I truffled wit Henry Clay
and 'sighted ; I guessed I woz right smart to snicker
und put 'im off. Wot did I see ? Consequences ? "
Charlotte's voice rose like the wind in a growing
storm. " A new barber-pole sot up under my very nose
on the main street, and my rival, a plantation niggah
as hed never sot eyes on any but low white trash.
I hed de 'humiliation to observe dot ex-swamp carrie
mistress of dot barber-pole and 'stablishment. Dot
was what my hub fur ruffling fetched me to. I don't
mind adding' dot I suffered much, and I beg you,
honey chile, don't do it — don't truffle."

Enilda was half-laughing, half-crying.

Dear old Charlotte," she said, " I will do anything
you say. Here, Mr. Claremont " — she held out her
hand — " I do give this hand to you, and do promise to
• R 2

be your wife, and do add that — that I love you very
dearly. Now are you both satisfied ? — and please —
please, Charlotte dear, I won't truffle, and — may we
have something to eat ? " Claremont caught her in
his arms whilst she was yet speaking.

You are a wicked girl," he said, " and your levity
shall be punished as you little dream." Then with a
fond light in his eyes, he added laughingly : " Henceforth
you shall have no pie and little dinner ; you \\ ill
marry and be tied down to me for life ; and I shall
oblige you to tell me every day that you love me.
Pause and consider whether or no you accept these
conditions. They represent your future."

'' It is a hard outlook," said Enilda ; " but I think
I will accept. Then I will read you a letter that
will please you. No ; don't look curious ; don't ask
questions; don't — "

I don't intend to."

Please, don't interrupt. If you are good, and —
and — would you mind just now telling me how
much you love me ? "

I would mind very much."

But — sacrifice yourself."

Ahem ! — men never do that."

No; I know they don't, but they ought to."

Ah, indeed. Then if you make it a question of
obligation, it changes from pleasure to purpose."

And men have no pleasure in — in — I think I am
losing myself; where was I ? "

In my arms a moment since."

Nonsense ; I mean where was I in theory ? "

Lost, practically ; but theoretically, how much do
you love me ? "

Oh, 'heaps as Charlotte Corday would say."

Will you take your old place, then, practically ? "

My old place ? "

Yes." He opened his arms.

Enilda blushed. " You are very silly," she said,
and — glided into them.

He kissed her as his arms closed about her. He
kissed her again, and led her to the old tree. Together
they sat on the velvety grass ; together they looked
into each other's eyes, — looked long and lovingly,
and — forgot Charlotte Corday's dinner. John Claremont's
blood ran fire, and his breath came quick and
troubled. Enilda still looked into his face, but he
rose abruptly and pushed her from him.

You are a sorceress," he cried abruptly, " a witch ;
and you shall be burned as in Salem of old, — burned
for bewitching men's souls. Beware; and yet look
at me again. I love you. I am hungry for your
glances. I am — when shall we be married ? "

Married ! — how strangely you talk ! Why, not
for acres, of course."

Let us be married now; at once. Why should we
wait ? Come ; we will find a parson in the village ;
come."

Enilda half-shrank from him. " You are crazy,"
she murmured. " How can you imagine that I could
believe you in earnest ; that I could dream of marrying
you right off in this fashion ? Besides, it would
not be possible."

What would not be possible ? "

Why — why, to do what you said."

Naturally not. You do not love me."

She looked gravely at him and answered :

I do love you with all my soul ; but — but I don't
understand you. A moment since you spoke of sacrifice,
now you wish to marry me at once."

Yes ; at once."

I say no, then, at once."

You will reconsider."

"Shall I? When?"

Before I go."

Ah ! " — she turned pale, — " that is true ; you are
going. I had forgotten you are going soon."

"Yes, very, unless — unless j^ou many me. Are
you strong of purpose ? Have you a will ? Would
you — would you do anything for a man you loved ? "
He had grasped her hand and held it as in a vice.

'•' You hurt me — you hurt my hand. Would I do

anything for the man I loved? I — I don't know.
I have never loved."

He bent closer down to her and whispered :

Yes — yes, you have ; you love now. Do what I
say. Marry me to-night ; — will you ? We will go to
the village. I shall find a priest, and he will unite
us ; — will you ? "

Enilda still shrank from him. The light had died
from the heavens ; the violet mists had deepened in
the valleys; a wind, gentle at first then stronger,
came murmuring through the trees, and stirred some
leaves which fell at her feet. She started.

I cannot do wdiat you ask," she replied steadily.
"You forget — my father. I owe him more than
such treatment. If you really love me you will wait
until he comes ; you shall tell him all, and then if he
consents, I will marry you."

Claremont looked doggedly at her, and thought
to himself: "Her father! No; the sight of him
would turn me from my purpose. Once married to
her I might learn to tolerate him. I must marry
her now — now whilst I am in the humour. She is
poor ; he a miner ; and I — a fool ; — yet I love her. I
adore the ground she walks on."

Enilda scanned his face, and hazarded :

"You are thinking it over. You see that I am
right. My father has but me in all the world. I

can't leave him ; I can't do what you wish. I — I.
think Charlotte Corday is coming. I don't like to
hurt your feelings, but — "

"1 am going away," he said slowly; 'but I swear
that I love you, and. that I will come to claim you
when you say that I may."

Where will you come — here ? "

Yes, here ; where else should you be ? "

*' Oh, I don't know. America is wide ; we may
move away from this ; and yet papa — "

"Your father is — is — well, has he been a lucky
man ? "

He has never been lucky." She spoke gravely.
But do you mind ? Would you really dare and care
to marry a poor girl ? "

He did not hesitate. Love fills the breast of
virtue and vice with moments of equal audacity.

"I want only you," he cried; "you yourself; but I
must go away. I have some affairs to put in order.
I must leave at once, then when all is arranged I
will come back. Believe me, dearest, I love you ;
but I must 0^0 — cro to England ! "

"To England! Oh, England is so far; don't go
so far." She clung to him. "Don't," she reiterated ;
"something may happen. You won't come back.
I shall never see you again ; you will forget me ; you
will fall in love with some other woman. I — I am

not beautiful enough. I know you will forget me;
don't go." She burst into tears.

I must," he replied half-sadly. " I must Don't
make the parting harder. I never intended to tell
you of my love. There were so many reasons why I
should not ; and yet — don't be afraid ; I shan't forget
you. Not beautiful enough ? Why, I have never seen
as pretty a woman as you before in all my life. Don't
cry; don't." He bent to kiss away her tears.

Enilda looked up, her eyes glistening, and a smile
broke over her face as the sun bursts through a dark
cloud.

Do you mean it ? " she murmured. " Am I really
the prettiest woman you have ever seen ? "

His words had indeed consoled her.

Any woman's grief may be healed by telling her
she is the loveliest or the most fascinating of her
sex : at nineteen or ninety the remedy is alike infallible.
Enilda was nineteen.

So she smiled thrush her tears, and Claremont
petted and caressed her. Still he did not say, " I
am not going away."

The sun disappeared, the mist settled lower and
lower in the valley, and warned the young people
that it would be prudent to go into the house. All
this time they had talked, talked — as only lovers can
talk ; had built and demolished castles in the air ; had

lived and died for each other ; had been through fire
and flood, always remaining true to each other; in
short, had run the gamut of love's extravagances,
dictated and taken down in the facile rhetoric of
first love's shorthand.

At last Enilda cried :

And my letters — and yours ; you have quite forgotten
to read them."

Claremont replied :

You are right ; but not now ; I will read them
before I sleep."

No, you must not. When you leave me you
must think of nothing but me — of no one but me —
must dream of nothing and no one but me ; and if
you read your letters then all thought of me would
vanish."

Little silly Enilda ! How shall we go through
life if you have no faith in me ? — none even now ?
Don't you know that if I had a pile of love-letters — "

How high ? "

He smiled.

As high as — well, do you see Laramie Peak ?
As high and — "

Not higher than Laramie ? "

Yes ; higher even than Laramie ; even than,

suppose we say ah, Cotopaxi ; don't you realize

that I wouldn't nor couldn't read a since one without

seeing your face on every page — without feeling
your love in every word — and without reading your
name in every signature ? Can't you realize that ? "

She half-hung her head.

Shall I read them now ? '*

Yes," she answered ; " and — and the one with the
black wax and — and the coronet." Her eyes scanned
his face eagerly.

John Claremont's never fell, and yet an indefinable
thrill coursed through his veins. Why that
letter of all others ? In metropolis or backwoods
woman's instinct in love is equally infallible. Enilda
had unerringly put her sex's intuition to the test,
and it had responded as unerringly.

"As you will," he replied indifferently; then he
broke the seal.

What had the Lady Mildred written ? Could he
read and keep his countenance ? Ah ! he did read,
and could not help a sigh of relief escaping him. He
glanced towards Enilda, who stood anxiously regarding
him.

Forgive me," she cried, " I could not help it. I am
jealous, — and — and ill-bred ; but I feared I — fear I — "

Calm your fears," said he quietly ; " here is the
letter. Would you like to see it ? "

She blushed hotly and answered :

'' Oh, no. I am not so rude as that. Pray forgive

me. Only I have been thinking about it ever since I
gave it you, and my heart stopped beating when you
opened it. Something told me that — that the writer
loves you."

John Claremont gazed earnestly into her face.
"It beats the devil," he murmured to himself; "how
women are keen on the scent of an old love affair ; a
harrier couldn't run a fox quicker to ground." To
her he said :

Let me read it to you, then you will see how
mistaken you have been." She protested. " No,
no," he continued ; " listen." He read :

"Dear Friend,

Sorry you went off without seeing me.
When do you return to town ? Grouse shooting
begins the twelfth, and we have made up a large
house-party. Wire if sou can't come, as I shall turn
your room over to an American friend. How do you
find America, and is it true that it is full of pretty
women ? Do bring me back a nice selection of
Mora's and Barony's photographs ; no album is
complete without them. I leave the choice to you.
How long have you been gone ? It seems an age.
London is dull ; I am duller, but
Yours ever,

Mildred Allison.

Pes. — Don't stand under Niagara to be photographed
; they all do it, and I am beginning to tire
of these water-bound souvenirs. London, I repeat,
has been deadly dull this season. I don't know
why ! Perhaps it's because we have had neither
Shah nor Sultans to inflict Royal visits. I said
dull — I meant to say that it has been dull for everyone
but me. I have been enjoying myself immensely;
and awfully keen on music — Opera,
concert, and band. Then we have been having
amateur theatricals — a pity you missed them.

Yours,

M. A."

He read the letter calmly. There was the slightest
touch of irony in his voice as he finished the Pes. ;
perhaps more than irony ; a half-veiled bitterness
that clouded his accents as a vagrant thread of
muddy water clouds a clear stream. Enilda felt
all those various intonations, and yet could not
define them. He interrupted her thoughts.

Not a love-letter. Are you satisfied ? We are
old friends ; only old friends."

•' I — I have no right to ask — and yet old friends.
Does that mean that — that — "

How she stammered !

That — that we might have been more ? " He

finished her phrase for her. " Yes and No. We
have never been anything to each other, and* we
never shall be." He accented each word with a
certain determination.

Do you mean it, on your word — your word of
honour ? You love me, and me alone ? "

He arose abruptly, slipped the letter carelessly
into his pocket, and came gravely towards her.

"As God hears me," he answered, with a low
voice, " if you will accept me, I am yours for ever.
Shall we go in, the air is already chill? Charlotte
Corday will scold me for keeping you out so late."

I — I don't want to go in yet ; still it is getting
late. Come to the terrace — to the place I call my
lantern — where we can see down the river. It's
lovely when the moon's up. We can talk for hours
there. You shall tell me all about yourself, and
and how much you love me."

She led the way, and in a few moments they
were side by side leaning over a rustic balcony
which opened out of a little gable room overhanging
the garden. At their feet the Platte river stretched
away into miles of silver belting, while the moon,
like a great Chinese globe, threw a track of glittering
oj fantastic fissures on the water. Beyond there
was a glimmer of white houses, and one tall spire
rising in the <^loom of the distant village. To the

right a rustic bridge spanned the stream; beneath
its arches reeds, rushes, and water-fowl joined their
murmuring; a faint breeze stirred the trees lining
the bank, frosts croaked their eternal crick, crick,
crick, whilst ever and anon the toad's short flute-like
cry broke sharply on the air like the cry of a human
being in an ecstasy of joy or of pain.

Long they stood thus drinking in the beauty of
the scene. Claremont's arm encircled Enilda's
waist; her head on his shoulder was lost in the halo
of her own golden hair. Her starry eyes shone in
her waxen face as dew-drops shine on the lilly's
petals. The soft wind came and went, its melody as
rhythmical as the endless swish-swish of the grasses
singing under the bridge, or that chorus of nature's
voices ever chanting in unison to the night. Now
and then a bird shot from some neighbouring; cover
and winged its happy flight towards the land of the
moon ; the nightingale lifted its voice, and as if to
teach its melody to unknown worlds, a shooting-star,
like a celestial Hermes, burst the confines of the
pathless ether, caught up the song, and carried it in
golden numbers to still more immortal spheres. The
great globe soared higher and higher; the figures
grew more and more fantastic on the wave ; the
voices of the night dropped to a deeper diapason, and
yet they still stood together : heart beating against

heart, eye seeking eye, smile answering smile, and
sigh echoing sigh. A step was heard in the passage.

It is Charlotte," cried Enilda. " She will be wondering
what on earth has become of us. I must ^o."

"No, no; not yet; one kiss — only one." He
clasped her tightly to his breast.

Tell me you love me," she cried ; " swear it.
AVill your love last? Will it stand all trials and
changes, and be mine for ever ? "

For ever."

Oh, my darling, I am too happy ; it can't last.
See, the moon's face is already covered, it is a bad
omen," and she pointed a slender finger in the
direction of a cloud which at that instant veiled
the golden globe.

A bad omen ! Nonsense ; nothing shall ever
part us. Ah ! "

Charlotte Curtsy stood in the doorway behind
them.

Here, honey chile," she cried ; " here's heaps -o'
letters, and a message fetched from the telegraph
and a shawl. Lord hub us, you'll cote yer death
o' cole out so late in the night ; and this message's
fur Massa Claremont."

For me, Charlotte ? " said the young man. " Pray
give it me — quick. Permit me," he said, and he
tore it open.

Enilda watched him anxiously. He flushed, then
paled.

What is it ? Although I am an American, the
sight of a telegram always terrifies me ? "

Enilda' s voice was sharp as she spoke.

I am called away at once, — at once," repeated
Clare mont, " on the most urgent business. Read !
What shall I do?"

Enilda read :

You are wanted in London — matter most urgent
lose no time — take first train to New York.
Come without fail. M. at death's door. — Answer.

Murray."

"Enilda, dearest, I must go. This matter is one
of vital importance. I cannot explain ; but I must
ceo. Ts there a train to-night ? "

^' There is the midnight express ; you could catch
that ; but I can't let you rush off in this fashion. I
can't ; besides, there were so many things I wanted
to tell you — something about myself, something
about — about my father."

His face took on a cold expression.

"Dearest, anything you like about yourself, but
nothing about your father. I mean that — that I can
only think now of you."

VOL. I. S

"And yet you leave me at a moment's notice."
She spoke with ill-concealed bitterness.

Claremont hesitated.

Listen, Enilda," he said. " I have been for days
on the point of going. God knows, even the idea of
leaving you was hard to bear, and I have kept putting
it from me day after day ; but now, in reason, I must
go. I never intended to tell you of my love ; again
I have done exactly what I did not wish to do. This
last half day of my existence has changed my whole
life. I am going to become another man, am going to
turn over a new leaf; the first turning of that leaf is
to be — true to myself, and to you. My life has always
been that of an idler, of a man of the world who
made his present, his past, and future all in his
present. I will tell you the truth. When I came to
America I had many and other ideas. Some were
vague, some tangible. I had shaped my life one
way, destiny has shaped it another. I have met you ;
you are my fate ; I love you for what you are. I ask
nothing of your surroundings, naught of your parents,
naught of your past. If you are willing to take me
upon trust, I am yours. If you love me you will help
me to leave you, to — to — "

To begin the new life ? "

To begin the new life."

She kissed him with grave tenderness. " You

may go," she said, " and God bless you ! Begin your
life anew if you will, for I think you must be in
the right way. I was only a tiny child, and I
remember my mamma said that I must always be
true to myself. Perhaps she hears me now, and
blesses us both. Perhaps — "

Enilda was interrupted by a violent sob. She and
Claremont both started, and saw Charlotte Corday
standing at a little distance from them, her hands
waving with a leaf-like motion, and her eyes glistening
with tears and shining through the night like
the head-lights of a locomotive.

So she does, Miss 'Nilda, honey chile," gasped the
negress ; " so she does bless you both, and please God,
Massa Claremont '11 come back and fetch you, and
we'll all live in heaven together. Chilled, bless you —
bless you ! — come and receive my 'tarnal benediction."

Instinctively Enilda and Claremont approached.
The aged negress joined their hands and printed a
kiss on Enilda's forehead, saying with a sobbing voice :

God bless us all, and smile 'pon dis hear union.
Oh, Massa Claremont, don't ever forget her. Be kind
to her ; hub her ; she hasn't got no madder, and her
sadder ain't great shocks. I'm bof murder and
sadder, and I ain't never given to 'part dis chile
longs life lasts. When I skip de gutter den goodbye's
got a be said; till den she's my own honeys

2

chile, and when I forget her, may de good God
forget me."

Claremont bowed his head over Enilda's hand,
and kissed it.

"As God hears me," he said, "I swear to be true
to her for ever."

Then a light appeared in the sky, and the moon
sailed gloriously forth from its cloud-curtain free,
as a bird sails forth from a long-closed cage. A
minor of liofht hovered over three solemn faces,
and this heavenly benediction was Enilda E-ozen's
betrothal.

Once again John Claremont turned to his futuu
wife,

One more kiss, oh, my darling," he said ; '•' one
more, and remember my love is for ever."

CHAPTER XV.

John Claremont was gone. He had taken the
last train that very night, and the next morning
Eniida sat re-reading a letter from her father, the
one received the day of Claremont's departure. She
smiled happily as she folded and refolded it in her
lingers, and murmured to herself that she had done
well not to tell him its contents. Now she was sure
that he loved her for herself alone. For Eniida
was no longer poor. That bit of paper which she
so lovingly threaded in and out of her fingers had
words written thereon which opened to her a new
vista of life. The words said that they were now
rich ; that the long-hoped-for prosperity had come
at last ; that her father had found his luck, and that
mines of untold wealth had been discovered. They
were not only well off, but enormously rich, and
Eric Rozen had set up a new home in the great
metropolis of New York. Eniida could no longer

keep the good news to herself; she called Charlotte
Corday and told her at once, then without further
preliminary began to read.

"Dearest little girl,

Pack up, and come to your father. I am
rich, Enilda, rich ; we may do what we please, and
go where we please. Thank God, I have at last
struck oil, and I have settled on our new home. Weare
to live in New York, and I have already bought
a bro^vn stone front in Madison Avenue. Do anything
you like with the little cottage. Perhaps i you
had better send for Ricard to help you, and give
the house into his charge. There is no time to lose.
Tell Charlotte Corday to shake herself and take the
next train after you receive this. What's to hinder ?
I have my reasons for hurrying you. How about the
stranger who was laid up at the house ? I hope
he's better. If he hasn't skipped yet, he might kindly
pilot you both on to New York. I hope he didn't
make love to you while you two were alone in the
house. I have other views for you, Enilda. You
will be a great heiress ; you are one now in fact; and
I don't want any old attachments hanging to your
skirts when you come on here. You know there's
only one creature in this world I love — that creature's
yourself; and I am going to keep you by my side

for some time to come. My one idea has been to
make a fortune for you, and to see you spend it like
a lady. But, about the house. Discharge the men
with three months wages; say you are coming tome
; get the enclosed cheque cashed at the Laramie
Bank, and take the night — "

Glory to Heaven, Miss 'Nilda," interrupted
Charlotte Corday with a shriek of joy; "going to live
in New York ! We rich ! I alius know'd as Massa
Rozen *ud turn up trumps on that last hand. I
guess all dem poor while trash in de village 11 chaw
der nails off from pure bitterness ; and I'll now make
it my bounding booty to swoop down upon dot settlement
and let 'em know far and wide that we're
wine to flit — wine to live in brown stones — wine
to 'joy life — wine to knock de spots of all Laramie
creation."

My dear Charlotte, let me finish the letter.
We will do all that, of course. Dear papa, how
happy I am ! He says :

' Take the night express, and come straight
through, stopping only at Chicago'"

Chicago," growled Charlotte ; " dot windy, singed
hole."

'•'Yes, Chicago. 'Then come on to New York,'m^
Buffalo, Niagara, etc. etc., and I will meet you at the
train. Ah, darling, no more gadding here and therefor

me ; no more separations. We will spend our
days together until you step off with some gocJd
fellow; but don't let us think of that yet. I have
telegraphed Ricard to attend to everything — to put
you in the train, and to secure your berths in the
sleeping-cars straight through. All you have to do is
to put on your best bib and tucker, and to fly like a
bird to your father.' "

"We have lost a day," said Enilda thoughtfully;
and — and, dear John ! How shall I tell papa,
Charlotte ? He says he wants me to come to him
free. Do you think he would be pleased ? "

Charlotte considered.

Honey chile, don't spring it on 'im all at once,
but tell him wen you find de right occasion. Tell 'im
free like, ses as ef it mounted to nothing 't all, and
he'll take kindly to it. Never deceive your father ;
but don't go now and hurt his feelings afore you ken
explain everything comfortable like. I like Massa
Claremont, and if I like him dot settles it; Massa
Rozen's shore to be content ! "

Enilda smiled and finished reading her letter ; then
she arose and set to work to prepare for their immediate
departure. She was going to leave the little
house which of late had grown so dear. Lie was
sure no brown stone palace could ever give her
happier hours than she had passed in this lonely

western home. Here lie had first seen him brought
down the garden-path on a stretcher, ill or dead
she knew not; and woman-like she glanced down
the walk as though she expected to see a ghostly
cortege filing slowly towards the house. Then she
put her hand before her eyes to shut out the vision.
Why did she think of him thus ? It seemed a bad
omen. She went to the room where he had been so
long a prisoner, and looked lovingly at every object.
She even touched the hem of the lace-curtains, and
smiled as an odour of tobacco mingled with the
fainter smell of heliotrope and jessamine. She remembered
how she had chaffed him about those very
curtains. She buried her face in her hands and
wept. "Perhaps I shall never see him again," she
murmured. " Why did I let him go ? Why did I not
say that I was rich ? Why did I want to put his love
to the test ? Why — " Then as her tears began to
flow faster and faster she stopped and asked herself
why she was cr3dng. It suddenly struck her that
there was no earthly reason for tears ; on the contrary,
she ought to be joyful. The man she loved, loved her.
The present seemed filled with roseate clouds full
of promise for complete happiness in the future.
Enilda had often pictured to herself the pleasure the
possession of wealth would bring ; but that was before
she loved, before her heart had been awakened. Now

she could only think of one man. He was her universe.
His presence, his soft voice, his words, his
hest kiss still enthralled her. She would have given
up all prospects of riches and everything she possessed
on earth once more to look into his eyes ; once
more to feel the touch of his hand ; once more to hear
him say, " I love you." He had promised to Avrite ;
but now that she was going away from River Bank
how could she hear from him ? If the letter should
be lost — his first love-letter ! The idea started her
tears afresh. Women weep for real troubles, but
oftener for imaginary ones. Then her letters by some
mischance would also be lost, and he thinking himself
abandoned would marry some one else out of
pure spite. She saw the wedding procession, the
bride and groom, and heard the organ, of course,
playing Mendelssohn's wedding-march. In the meantime,
waiting day by day, she would be slowly dying
of unrequited love. She saw herself pale and
emaciated; she thought how she could neither eat
nor sleep; how food would choke, and fitful nightmares
suffocate her, and full of her fancied misery
she uttered a cry that curdled her own blood, and so
startled a cat who was drowsing on the hearth that
he jumped with one bound through the opened
window to the grass-plot outside.

Charlotte appeared on the threshold anxious and

agitated. Enilda explained that she had screamed
at her own thoughts. Charlotte Corday was patient,
but firm."

'Nilda, honey chile, your nervous and upset like ;
once in the train you'll perk up lively. Everything's
done, and we muss be out of dis in a mighty short
time ; so make haste, honey, and we'll bid these
digging a long farewell. Think of it, — rich, and a
brown stone front in New York — and you nervous
wit all dat prospects ? Muss get over dat. Miss
'Nilda. We're on the go again, but dis time it's rale
luck and no mistake. Massa Claremont '11 come
back, and we'll all live as happy as clams in high
water. Now, no more nerves. I'm all ready ; you
muss come."

Enilda gave one dumb, helpless look all around.
Good-bye must be said ; — good-bye to the house, to
the old garden, to the little river at the foot of the
hill; good-bye to the flowers, and to the old tree at
whose foot he had sate when he had told her that
he loved her. Good-bye ; — and perhaps good-bye
also to all her dreams of happiness. Would she ever
again be so happy ?

At last all was over. The gardener was bowing
with his hat in his hand; the humble friends of
the village were assembled at the station to wish
her farewell. Ricard was sullen, but ubiquitous;

Charlotte Corday was radiant in a new gown and
bright yellow turban. There was a whistle, a shriek, a
train rushing up to the platform ; a handful of square
pieces of brass were thrust into Enilda's hands — they
were the checks for her luggage ; — she was bundled
into a gaudy gold and brown car, Charlotte Corday
followed at her heels, and in another moment they
were really off.

Three days later they were in Chicago. There
were no remains of the late fire ; five times three
hundred and sixty-five days had reared as many
marble palaces. The streets were lined with the
same old cheery, energetic faces ; men tore up to the
drawbridges to find them closed that very moment,
and as usual risked apoplexy to gain time in a land
where sixty seconds must do the work of twenty-four
hours.

A Chicagoanan never asks any better luck than to
be permitted, on principle, to take fate upon trust.
He will meet any destiny that ever lived over halfway
; give him a bonus of another quarter, and in his
extreme generosity will risk the remaining chance
on a toss up of head or tails — the latter winning.

Enilda had been told of the Garden City's resuscitation,
but could not help feeling and expressing
amazement that such a Phoenix had risen from such
ashes. The burnt city could not even be regretted,

and she found that her exclamations of surprise
only elicited raised eyebrows and curious glances
from her hotel-bus companions ; for she was on her
way to one of those great western caravansaries in
the hotel's own carriage, and long before she arrived
she was informed of the peculiar qualifications of
this fashionable house to command favour of the
travelling public. It was ten stories high; thereof
was a Mansard; the halls were mosaic in thirty
shades of American — even the Georgia pink — marble.
The chandeliers were of rock-crystal, the mirrors of
abnormal size in solid plates of glass, the tapestries
from Persia, and the designs from Paris. The stairs
were of Carrara; and the balustrades, life-extracts
from California, one-hundred-feet-high oaks. The
proprietor owned three squares of buildings on the
Lake Shore. He suffered from gout and race-horses.
His wife was the most beautiful woman in the world,
was the daughter of a Southern planter, who after
leading all the bread-and-butter of the Wellborn
Seminary, equally led the Christmas plum-cake of
Chicago's upper ten. She had not alone Marie
Antoinette's neck, but most of her jewels. She and
her husband could often be seen at a private table
in their own public dining-room, where the waiters
were all descended from those first black blooded who
had waited on Aaron Burr and Benedict Arnold, and

where the chambermaids, Emmett's direct descendants,
all rich before the fire, were now reduced in
circumstances, but neither in ability, beauty, wit, nor
opportunity. But — oh joy ! — the crowning comfort
of this hotel was a barbers-shop opening into the
grand ground corridor, whose floors were paved with
silver dollars, mint-stamp new each year, and whose
"Figaro" was the heaviest "seller short" in grain
at Chicago's Board of Trade. Enilda could not help
a feeling of thankfulness that Providence had brought
her straight to this place.

Charlotte Corday said nothing, her vocabulary
of adjectives and expletives having run short three
yards from the station. She only looked on with
shining eyes and face — a solemn light burning in the
former, which seemed to query, Is this real ? Is this
life ? Or, as Bred Harte has put it, " Do I wake ?
do I dream ? "

Once her face changed its monotony of amazement.
They were put into a square chamber hung in violet
and gold; rich mirrors from the floor ui^, lost themselves
in a frescoed ceiling; whilst cushions — the
same, by the way, on which a poet had bewailed a
lost Lenore, — violet-velvet cushions were heaped on a
divan-sofa which ran around three sides of this simple
quadrangle. Enilda seated herself on one cushion ;
Charlotte dutifully took a place beside her, and saw

that several others also came into the apartment, when
suddenly a black man in gorgeous livery stepped
in and touched a something by the side of the door.
Instantaneously, as it were, the chamber gave a
little wriggle and shot up into space with such
velocity that Charlotte screamed with horror, opened
her eyes to their fullest, and placing one hand on her
bosom, said with awful accents :

Glory to God, honey chile, what on earth's this
hear ? Kingdom come, sure."

A fair-moustached man sitting near by ventured
to explain.

That's all right, auntie ; you're only going up in
the elevator." * Then he nodded so cheerily to Enilda
as well as herself, that gradually her hand left her
breast, although the terror never left her eyes. Once
out of the lift, which stopped as abruptly as it
had started, Enilda thought she would never get to
her room. The fair man was evidently going her way
and knew the route, for he casually explained that
they must walk around four blocks, the biggest ones
in the city too, before they would arrive at their
destination.

This little unexpected promenade being finished,
Enilda found herself entering a room full of rich
lights and shadows, conducted thither by a beautiful
The hft.

young woman, blue-eyed, white-teethed, and white-aproned,
the apron trimmed in real lace, as there
is no imitation of any kind in Chicago. She
wore a frock of fine muslin ; her hair was frizzed,
banged, and chignon in the most approved
fashion ; a stiff linen collar rivalled her neck in
whiteness ; a fly would have slipped up on the
shining surface of her enamelled cuffs; a Venetian
gold watch-chain gently undulated over her sloping
bust, whilst rings of priceless value glittered on
her white fingers. This feminine perfection smiled
upon Enilda, begged her to come in and make
herself at home ; she even nodded patronizingly
to Charlotte Corday; then began a nice, reposeful
conversation about the ladies' journey. " They had
come from Frisco — no, Laramie ? Far enough ! How
tired they must be ? It was so dull coming over the
plains ; but now they could rest. Would the young
lady dine at table d'hote. There was a run on table
d'hote, because both Barnum and Tom Thumb with
their full companies had made arrangements with the
proprietor to dine every day at the same hour, so
that the hotel guests could see them free of charge,
and could tell, when they returned home, that not
alone had they gazed upon great artists, but had, so to
speak, lived with them — dined with them daily, knew
how much they ate, how little they drank, etc. etc.

Besides, there was a Piitna D )na in the hotel ;
her name was Nilsson ; her agent dined also a
quarter of an hour after the other celebrities. She
was singing at the Halstead Street Opera-house,
the one built after the fire ; built and opened
with a star company in just twenty-eight days after
the conflagration. Well, the agent furnished bulletins
of the Prima Donna's health ; often gave free gallery
passes; told the dress the Prima Donna was going
to wear at the next concert; and remarked that
strawberries were cheaper in summer than winter.
Here is a pitcher of fresh ice-water — lake-water and
lake-ice," said the lady becoming more personal ;
and if you want anything on earth say the word and
you shall have it directly."

Then she smiled at Enilda, nodded again to
Charlotte Corday, remarking casually to the
latter :

Your room is next this. My brother is a
Democrat ; I — I don't wait upon coloured ladies ;
you will find a Republican attendant waiting for you ?
The new Mayor is a Democrat; he is an intimate
friend of my brother's." Then she glided off, adding :
I am the first chamber-maid to the sixth floor, and
begin just at your number. Good-bye. Don't be
dull ; your dinner will set you up ; a long trip is very
fatiguing."

VOL. I. T

Chamber-maid ! " gasped Charlotte, when she had
gone. " I thought she was de landlady, sure."

My dear Charlotte," laughed Enilda, " she is nota
landlady now, but probably will be next election, —
perhaps the lady mayoress. But help me to make
my dinner toilette ; I am both tired and hungry."

Charlotte's deft fingers soon undressed and re-arrayed
her young mistress.

That night Enilda partook of the famous table
d'hote. She saw the lions and lionesses, even to the
proprietor and his wife, who sailed into the great
dining-room at half-past eight precisely, and seated
themselves at a magnificently gold-crystal-porcelain-
fiower-fruit-and-fern-bedecked board. They afterwards
bowed right and left to gaping satellites, as
royalties bow right and left to smiling subjects.

Two days later Enilda paid a moderate bill, considering
all she had seen and heard, and before the
sun was six hours high was whirling on towards
Gotham. Her heart beat a quicker throb as many
hours later the train adorned the fluttering suspension
bridge over Niagara Falls. She. said to herself:

What if it should give way ? " — but with the
native egotism of all travellers, she thought an accident
might happen, but never to her. So the bridge
was passed, in safety, and she looked at the Falls,
which seemed low, over-rated, and insignificant.

Niagara's reputation is so much ahead of its waterpower,
that the first sight of it on the American
side, dooms the beholder to disappointment. It
seemed merely an ordinary Mississippi jumping over
a bed of stones; and only a wave in the distance,. in
shades of bluish-white, wore rather a threatening
and suspicious aspect. It had the angry glitter we
sometimes see in a man's eye before he breaks out
into a white heat of rage — that was all; and as
the train went stirling: on, Enilda regretted that
she had seen only the threatening look.

At last they reached New York, the grand
central depot, where the noise and hubbub would
have appalled stouter hearts than theirs. A line of
human beings with badges on their hats was drawn
up on the platform, each owner of each badge yelling
out the name of some New York hotel. The station
was lit up by electric light, which made dead daylight
a more ghastly corpse than usual. It was evidently
raining, for the sound of falling drops clattered on
the glass roof; the air was full of damp and mustiness ;
and some way Enilda felt a sickening feeling creep
over her heart, — a foreboding: of some evil to come.
She walked mechanically along the platform, being
jostled to right and left, when a tall man took her
suddenly by the arm.

Oh papa ! " she gasped. Then she felt his kiss

T 2

on her lips, saw his deep) eyes looking into hers, and
knew that they were united at last.

Charlotte Corday came in for her welcome. She
saluted her master with the dignity becoming a
gentlewoman of colour whose fortunes had risen with
those of his house. She rolled her eyes a little
higher, and showed a little more of their white than
usual, when in her character of privileged servant she
descanted on the leaving Laramie, the voyage to New
York, and Miss 'Nilda's health.

Suddenly Enilda interrupted her. They were at
the great exit door, when she abruptly seized her
father's arm, and looked into his face.

"Papa," she queried, 'you are changed. What
is it ? — you don't look the same as you did."

Rozen laughed.

Not the same ? Am I not always the same to
you, 'Nilda?"

Yes, always the same to me ; but I can't quite
tell, — there is something different. Why, I wonder
I knew you."

You felt me."

Yes, that is so, but — " She stared hard at
him. " Oh, I see now, it is your beard — and your
moustache is changed, and — "

And — and — anything else, little woman ? Is this
a place to put me through my paces ? Come, let's

hurry home, and you may examine me at your
leisure." A footman came up. "Where are your
checks, 'Nilda."

Here, here, Massa Dozen."

Charlotte, wide-eyed, was staring at the man in
livery. He touched his hat to her as she handed
him some ticketed squares of brass. That salutation
nearly threw her over on to the rails. She gasped,
and undid her neck-handkerchief which was not at
all tight, only it seemed some way as if it were
choking her. It was all very strange, she thought,
and yet Miss 'Nilda took to it like a " duck to water."

Rozen piloted his daughter out of the station.
A splendid carriage-and-pair drew up ; a coachman,
liveried like the footman, touched something on
his hat, the which something seemed to Charlotte
Corday like a badge of merit she had once seen on
Miss 'Nilda's bosom after a school triumph. Her
musings were again cut short. Enilda was politely
handed into the carriage, she followed, when Enilda
again scrutinized her father.

Papa."

Yes, dear."

'•' I know what it is now ; you — you look like a
gentleman."

Rozen laughed uneasily ; the accusation was grave,
still, considering its weight, he bore up tolerably.

He smiled rather shamefacedly, but stroked his
beard with eminent satisfaction, for the honour
was still so new to him. There was a clattering
outside.

'there are the trunks," he said, and the subject
dropped.

What woman would not drop any subject to turn
and see if her luggage is right ? Whether she has
parted from it for four hours or forty, the same
curiosity lives to see if during that mysterious shutting
up with baggage-masters, and latest miraculous
interviews with baggage-smashers, the original forms
have not disappeared ; in short, if it looks as it did
when she started out. Enilda stared fixedly, then,
satisfied with her latest scrutiny, she again addressed
the author of her beings. Seeing the boxes had
brought back Laramie ; Laramie brought back Claremont.
She blushed ; she adored him, and yet she
had forgotten him for a single instant. Had she
really forgotten him ? No ; only the voyage — new
sights — old scenes — meeting her father.

"Enilda."

Yes, papa."

They were whirling through long, straight streets,
each one wide, each one gas-lit, each one a brown
stone fac-simile of the other.

What about the young man who was laid up at

the house ? Did he get away all right ? — of late your
letters said little of him."

Enilda felt a tightening at her heart. It was true.
She could not tell her father all here, now. She felt
herself blushing, and also felt Charlotte's eyes on
her face. Eric Rozen continued carelessly :

May I smoke ? " He drew out a cigar-case. It
was begilt and monogrammed. He took an instrument
from his watch-chain and deftly cut off the
end of a very long cigar.

Enilda was wondering how she should answer him,
and was at the same time thinking mechanically,
"He used always to bite them off." Her father's
manner reassured her. Aloud she said :

Oh yes. It was a bad break, you know ; a compound
fracture of the arm. How this carriage jolts ! "
Yes ; Fifth Avenue is paved with stones, their
points up ; but being a sort of hill it must be so,
otherwise the horses would slip; but you were
saying—"

Yes, he got off all right. He was a charming
man. He could play and — "

My God— play what ? Not the flute."
No ; the piano."

"Well, I'm relieved; that's bad enough; but,
Enilda, I — I hope you weren't mashed on him. I
don't mind fifty flirtations, but anything more — "

Mr. Rozen's voice was troubled. He could not
conceal his anxiety.

Enilda hesitated. What is it about he or she
Who hesitates ? Well, this was the exception to the
proverb : Enilda's hesitation saved her.

Massa Rozen," broke in Charlotte, " I guess he
was kinder gone on my honey chile, and you'd a
disliked him ef he hadn't a ben. I watched dem
two like unto a cat watching a sparrow. Des good
friends, dey is, and Massa Claremont's a german
ebbery inch on him. You'd like him, you wud."

Yes, Charlotte ? well, if you say it's all right, I
must take your word for it."

Eailda breathed more freely. It was strange
Charlotte had spoken as she did, very strange ; but
then everything is strange when destiny takes the
weaving of her woof in her own fingers. Enilda
longed there and then to tell her father all the truth.

'' Here we are at last ! " he said contentedly. They
stopped as he spoke, the carriage-door opened, and
the silent footman stood before them. Rozen stepped
out.

"Miss Rozen," he said with affected politeness,
may I have the honour ? " She smilingly gave him
her hand. "This is your new home." Then he
looked suddenly in her eyes, stopped short as they
went up the broad steps, and grasped her arm.

"Enilda. This is all for you: I hope you'll like
it. Whatever happens, don't go back on your old
father, — will you ? I love you to death. I live only
for you. I want to see you happy."

This was truly no time to mention Claremont,
she thought.

To see you happy," he repeated ; " and you — "

Papa, you hurt me ; my arm will be black and
blue tomorrow."

So it will." He laughed nervously. " High-toned,
isn't it ? "

Did he refer to the house ? Probably. Enilda
thought so at least, for she patted his shoulder half-unconsciously
— quite caressingly.

It's too sweet — perfectly elegant ; " — they walked
through the wide-opened doors — " all mine ? Papa,
I must kiss you." She went close to him. "You
know I love you, and you are the dearest, darlings
old papa in the world." She fell on a gorgeous
embroidered shirt-front.

Noting the flowers on this elaborate expanse, she
touched them with a slim finger.

They look like Laramie roses."

He put her away from him, and the lightness left
his face.

Do you think so ? Then I'll never wear it again.
Enilda, Laramie is dead — dead to you ; dead to me ;

dead to all of us. We begin a new life in New
York. You are an heiress : sou will be a great lady.
I give you everything. Only I ask one favour. Never
speak of the West to me as long as you live : it
means worry, and — and cares, and mines, and — and
shop. I have to hear all that talked all day long in
Wall Street ; we mustn't talk it at home. Besides,
no American gentleman — no New Yorker — is ever
heard to talk shop after business hours. So you like
the house, eh?" He went on carelessly: "What do
you think of these parlours, and these glasses ? Heled
her up to a mirror which had originally been
intended for the dancing crush-room of the Paris
Opera. Suddenly he stopped.

You are changed — Euilda, you are a beauty."

Am I, papa ? " She looked happily at him.

Yes ; but don't look that way at me. You have
her eyes." He shuddered, and put his hand before
his face.

Enilda kissed him softly.

And does that spoil me, papa ? She would have
been so happy here."

He made no answer.

I will take her place ; she is looking down on us,
I am sure she is here with us now."

He started guiltily, dropped his hand, and
stared hastily around. Then he shook himself, and

laughed again the nervous laugh she had heard
once before.

Don't say those things, Enilda. I — I felt — I
thought I saw a ghost. Yes, I know I'm wrong ; but
dead folks are dead folks, and — think about her all
sou like, only don't speak of her to me."

Enilda was silent. She remembered her mother's
awful death, and how it had changed her father's
whole nature, whole life, so to speak. How thoughtless
she had been ! She kissed him again.

We are all the world to each other, papa, and —
and we shall speak and think only of our fu-ture."

"That is right." He looked happier. "Are you
hungry ? "

Very. Shall we have supper at once ? "

"Yes; but it isn't supper at this hour; it is
dinner in New York."

\Yhat a fashionable old father it is, to be sure !
Well, dinner."

You must go to your room first. I suppose
Charlotte Corday has already found her way about.
Trust a plantation darker to take in any marble front
that ever lived the first time she strikes it. Shall
I show you the way ? "

I " Yes, yes, yes ; you must show me everything, and
above all my own rooms."

Enilda was prettily looking into her fathers face,

and contentedly marching him towards the door.
Papa, you are a lucky man."

He started.

Yes," she continued, " such a fortune, such a
house, and such a daughter ! I am a treasure in
myself. I — "

Ah ! we are vain."

I never thought so much of myself before." She
spoke emphatically as they trudged up another wide
staircase. " And you say I am pretty ? "

No ; I didn't say you were pretty ; I said — well, I
say now that you'll take the cake — or, to put it more
plainly, the whole bakery — for looks. There isn't a
woman in New York can hold a candle to you."

As I am now ? " She opened her eyes very wide,
but o^ave his arm a grateful little hugs. " Well, if you
find me nice now — what lorn? flights of stairs ! "

Yes ; rooms on every floor forty feet."

"Really — how high ! But as I was saying, if you
think I look nice now, just wait until T get on my
pretty clothes. I've a black silk — "

Black ? "

Yes ; what's the matter ? "

"I don't like black; you mustn't put on black the
first time we dine together in our new home ; it's a
bad omen."

Nonsense, silly papa ! "

'besides, there's a maid up-stairs — a lady's-maid,
and a dress ready for you on your bed ; a dress I
selected myself, with some accompanying trinkets."

A maid, a dress, and — and — Charlotte ? "

Charlotte may boss the affair if she likes ; she
is your old nurse, and one of the family heirlooms ;
the Imperial black pearl, eh ? But pearl or no pearl,
she wouldn't know how they do things in New
York. She has no style. I want you to put every
other woman to shade in this city. I've been
counting on it, but first, I want to see how you look
myself Here, turn to the right; your rooms lookout
on two streets both very gay — omnibuses and
carriages rolling along day and night ; — such a noise !
such an excitement ! I picked up the things at
Tiffany's, and — and now to please me dress for dinner
and — and put 'em all on. Oh, you're tired ? "

"No, I didn't say that; only it — it seems so
funny all this ; as Bred Harte says, * Do I wake ? Do
I dream ? ' " She laughed.

You wake, and — here we are ! "

A door opened before them. Enilda stared ; a
cheery young woman came forward. Charlotte
Corday sat in a corner glum but dignified, with her
arms resting on the cushion of a deep easy-chair.
She was taking in the situation. Whilst Enilda was
trying to grasp details, she heard her father's voice :

"How long will it take you to dress? I
shall be ready in fifteen minutes; you will find
me in the parlour." Then he disappeared in the
passage.

A quarter of an hour later Enilda was dressed.
Charlotte had assisted mutely but contentedly at
the transformation, now and then proffering a
suggestion, now and then making some reflection ;
and when the toilette was quite finished, she rose
and solemnly ejaculated :

Glory to God, honey child." Then she bestowed a
mahogany look of scorn on the waiting-maid, pointed
out the doorway to Enilda, waved her towards it,
and followed her young mistress into the passage.
They soon reached the drawing-room. Mr. Kozen
came forward. He was irreproachable in swallow-tail
and white choker.

He held Enilda off at arm's-length.

Beautiful," he said ; " beautiful — first-class ! But
Where's the solitaires ? "

My ears are not pierced, papa."

Not really ? Have it done tomorrow : a lady in
New York who respects herself, without diamond
earrings ! — impossible. Your dress fits to a T I 0,
mention ; — you like it ? "

She drew him towards the fate-betrayed mirror.

"I— I—"

"Yes; you."

I'm all in white — like a bride." Lie half-choked.
The white dress seemed more ominous than the
proposed black one. She thought of Clareraont.
What — what if she should never see him assail '^
This dress seemed a shroud, and she dead in her
grave-clothes.

Pretty women — girls — should always wear white,"
said her father decidedly. " Other colours are nonsense
; besides, it was my fancy ; I wanted to see you
just what you are. Do you like the lace ? It cost
two hundred dollars a yard ; and the flowers — there's
no natural flower can touch a real first-class artificial
one to my mind ; but the maid insisted on natural
flowers. Shall we go to the dining-room ? She
is a French Huguenot."

Enilda followed him silently. Her dress trailed
along the rich carpets ; diamonds sparkled on her
bosom, on her arms, and in the frosty lace of her
gown. Before she knew how she got there she
was seated at a small but Splendid board; flowers
and damask, gold plate and silver, crystal and porcelain,
gleamed to right and left. Her father had
ceremoniously placed her at the head of his table ;
obsequious lacqueys stood about, and a grave, bald-headed
man, beside a sculptured side-board, held a
gilt-edged paper in one hand, and was waving the

other towards a chair, whilst a solemn ecclesiastical
look traversed his countenance.

Her father took his place — then leaning forward
seized a decanter filled with champagne. As he
lifted it strains of music stole on the air.

It is better to laugh than be sighing," he said,
as he filled two glasses, handing one first to Enilda.
She mechanically lifted it to her lips.

Here's your health, dearest child ; may you
never know anything but happiness in your new
home ! " — and recklessly holding aloft his tumbler he
drank to her with gesture and eyes, draining the cup
to its last drop.

The butler's voice at his elbow broke in :

*' Soup : Terrapin and green-turtle."

"Terrapin, of course," said Mr. Rozen. "You'll
like it, Enilda : there's no dish in the world to equal
Terrapin."

END OF VOL. I.

LIFE AND REMINISCENCES

OF

GUSTAVE DORE.

COMPILED From MATERIAL SUPPLIED BY Does's Relations
AND Friends, AND From Personal Recollection.

With many Original Unpublished Sketches, and Selections from
Dore's best Published Illustrations.

By Blanche Roosevelt,

a

AUTHOR OF THE COPPER QUEEN, ETC.

Press Opinions.

The TIMES, December 26tli, 1885.

•' The life of Dore ought to be written by an enthusiast, and there can be
no question as to the enthusiasm of Miss Roosevelt. She worships the
hero who, in fact, compels our admiration by the rich versatility of his
fantastic genius and the restless energy that exhausted him prematurely.
.

But with all his mistakes or foibles he was a wonderful man, and Miss
Eoosevelt has done him ample justice. As she says in her preface, Boswell
was scarcely more laborious in collecting the materials for the biography of
Johnson. She had thought at first of a mere biographical sketch ; subsequently,
as she warmed to her subject, she began to contemplate something
more serious. Trouble was a pleasure, and she was met more than halfway
by the friends and publishers of the lamented artist. And as she has
done so much to gratify and entertain his numerous admirers it might
be ungracious to say that she might have condensed with advantage, though
we could well have spared certain digressions from her subject. We knows
or we ought to know, all about About and Gautier, and other of the intimates
of Dore, who have lived at least as conspicuously under the eyes of
the public, and we could have dispensed with the imaginary reveries of the
dying man. But, these, after all, are trifling blemishes, and we are grateful
to Miss Roosevelt for a fascinating and almost exhaustive work, of which we
can only touch some of the salient points."

Tie NEW YORK HERALD, February 7th, 1886.

"Blanche Eoosevelt has done the reading and remembering world good
service in her minute account of the life and works of Gustavo Dore.
She undertook her task with rare equipment for it, her personal acquaintance
with the great artist being supplemented by earnest study of his
habits of life and the incidents and occurrences which illustrated it, pursued
among all those persons who had been best informed concerning him.
From this earliest childhood the author traced him with wonderful industry.
She sought the acquaintance of the Strasbourg neighbours and friends of the

Doit family, from whom she Ip.irned the details of his child life, his wonderful
precocity, aud his youthful aspirations and self-confidence. Meeting
him while he was in his prime, she was able to form her own judgment of
his personality, and this judgment does not seem to be overcharged with appreciation
nor too exalted for a suitable critical expression.

No artist has eves been so thorou^^iiiy described by his work as is Fortin
the volume before us. The advantage of having facsimile reproductions of
his earliest drawings cannot be overestimated in connection with his biography
The critical reader is able to decide for himself as to the value of a
reputation whose testimonials are thus placed before his eyes. And as to
the habits and ways of the man and artist, the writer has gathered so many
circumstances of his life that one seems to have known him well through
reading of them. No artist — unless, perhaps, it were Benevento Cellini —
ever equalled Gustave Dore in the romantic variety of hi lifo, his picturesque
and panoramic movement, But while Cellini was a swashbuckler and
a free lance, Dora was a kindly, vivacious spirit, whose numerous journeys
and frequent adventures were healthy and worthy, and all in the interest of
his art. So bright and spirited are the anecdotes, and humorous or pathetic
the narrative of this book, that it reads like romance. And never was artist's
life so truly stranger than fiction. An incomparable genius naturally,
had Dore devoted the customary period of artists to the study of technique
there would to-day be no question as to his position in art. That he did not
do this was the cause of his being misinterpreted and but half appreciated —
mainly by his own countrymen. The astonishing measure of his industry
alone, as set forth in the enumeration of his works, startles the reader. The
weird, strange character of much of his drawing is so exceptional that no
standard exists with which to compare it. On the whole the student of
Dore will rise from a careful perusal and study of his life, through the
medium of Blanche Roosevelt's book, with as faithful an understanding of
the artist and the man as it will, perhaps, be ever possible to obtain.

The thick octavo volume of live hundred pages is handsomely bound and
printed, and its hundred well-chosen illustrations are admirably reproduced,
and fairly represent the different styles of the artist."

The GRAPHIC.

Miss Blanche Roosevelt has compiled a deeply interesting biographical
work in her ' Life and Reminiscences of Gustave Dore.' The material for it
has been freely supplied by the artist's friends and relations. Miss Roosevelt
knew Dore personally, and seems to have been m every way admirably
qualified for the task she undertook. The details of Dore's early life, of
his friendship with Theophilus Gautier and others, are so given as to make
a fascinating narrative. Dore was singularly child-like and simple-mended
in his intercourse with his intimates, and was intensely sensitive to praise
or blame. When very much pleased he was wont to perform acrobatic feats,
walking on his hands and turning somersaults. In fact, he was almost as
accomplished a gymnast as a painter. The relations between him and his
mother were touching and admirable. Miss Roosevelt has been able to secure
for her book many of Dore's original unpublished sketches, and through the
favour of publishers has adorned it with excellently chosen selections from
his best published illustrations. She is to be congratulated on having written
a biography in which, from the beginning to the end, there is not a dull
page."

The DAILY TELEGRAPH.

A right kind of critical biography, really useful in conducing to the true
understanding of a remarkable man, who has hitherto been more admired
and slighted, more praised and depreciated, more talked about in all ways,
than known, is the ' Life and Reminiscences of Gustave Dore,' by Blanche

Roosevelt. This book modestly purports to be a compilation ; but it has
been compiled from living material, and in a life-like manner — from talk
rather than print ; from personal gossip at first hand, not percolated through
dubious channels, but fresh from clear-running streams of memory ; from
th kindly reports of relations and friends, whose judgment neither
extenuates nor sets down aught in malice. If this be only hearsay, it is
hearsay of the right sort ; and it has helped to form a history which,
impartial of itself, will sive satisfaction to opposite side s, by enabling each
to justify its verdict. Those who worship Dore as a genius higher than this
art will find enough to warrant their more extravagant opinions in the
record of Titanic work achieved without workmanly training or knowledge.
Those, on the other hand, who decry Dore for his overweening self-confidence,
for his impatience, jealousy, and scorn of painters such as
Messenger and Gerome, and for the yet bolder ignorance with which he had
laid claim to an inspiration capable of overriding study, will be equally
supported by fact in their hardest censure. . . . The Virginian lady has
told her tale with felicitous power, grace, and tenderness — with earnest,
practical exercise of head and heart."

TRUTH.

Have you seen Miss Roosevelt's excellent and many-sided biography of
Pore ? You see him in it from all sides, for she has happily interwoven
with her life of the artist fragments of autobiography and interviews with his
intimates, giving in their own words, their different impressions of his
character. It is a fascinating character, fortunately, for the biographer,
since her hero's life from boyhood was too uniformly successful to be interesting.
A cloudless life, like a cloudless sky, is as unpicturesque as it is pleasant
and Dore like Dickens whom in many ways he resembled), and no dramatic
struggles either to gain or to keep the laurels won in mere boyhood. To
make so monotonous a succession of triumphs interesting needed no little
art and skill ; yet it is a long time since I read so pleasing a biography. It
is lit up with anecdotes as striking and characteristic as the illustrations
themselves which brighten its pages and give so vivid an idea of the precocity,
versatility, and amazing, imaginative, and executive power of this
prince of draughtsmen. A foreign artist has this advantage over a foreign
author, that his work appeals to you directly, undimmed by the veil of translation
; and in this admirable biography, all that is said in the text of the
astonishing range and power of Dore's genius is justified by the comic, epic
sacred, or grotesque illustrations — many of them hitherto unpublished —
which adorn it."

The ATHENAEUM.

It is likely to be the largest, and, on the whole, the best biography of
Dore. . . . Miss Roosevelt is not insensible to the noble romance, the
wild, irrepressible imagination, the strange, strong fancy, the profound
horror and terror of some of his conceptions, the inexhaustible caprice, the
magnificent gloom, the satire, the caricature, and even the humour, of which
this astonishing man had enough to be recklessly prodigal in employing it.
. . . As her book is, every man desiring to know Dore must needs
read it."

The SPECTATOR.

"We had marked a great many other passages for quotation and comment,
but this notice has already run to undue length, and must here be
concluded with a cordial recommendation to all our readers to possess
themselves of this memoir."

LONDON: SAMPSON LOW. MARSTON, searle, AND Livingston.

CROWN BUILDINGS, FLEET STREET, Eg.

STAGE STRUCK;

OR,

SHE WOULD BE AN Opera SINGER.

BY THE AUTHOR OF ** THE COPPER QUEEN," ETC.

Press Opinions.

The DAILY NEWS.

One of the cleverest, freshest, most original novels that has lately
appeared. It seems to us a remarkable note of original power that is struck
in these volumes. . . . She has the power to make her readers laugh
and cry, and all the while without the least air of intending to do it. . . .
"We are mistaken if Miss Roosevelt could not write successful novels in any
manner she may choose."

The SCOTSMAN.

Crisply and cleverly written, and its interest is well sustained from first
to last."

The ILLUSTRATED LONDON NEWS.

Mr. George Augustus Sala says : — "As for Madame Macchetta's (Blanche
Roosevelt's) ' Stage Struck,' it is one of the brightest and pleasantness performances
that I have read for a long time. The Deacon's speech on the
departure of the heroine, Annabel, to study operatic singing in Europe, is a
delicious little bit of light humour. . . . Novels written 'with a purpose '
are usually either intolerably tedious or offensively impertinent. Madame
Macchetta's 'Stage Struck' has its purpose, but it is gently and instructively
put."

The Whither REVIEW.

For anyone who wants to be genuinely amused and intensely interested,
we heartily recommend a perusal of this most fascinating story."

London: SAMPSON LOW, MARSTON, SEARLE, AND Livingston,

CEOWX BUILDINGS, 188, FLEET Street, Eg.

UNIVERSITY OF ILUN0I9-URBANA

3 0112 039415978

:'^^

:%^>3ii7y

::5l-j

^«i^^

^ '^z.

.J/,^

'?••

W%>f>;
