a iRovci

BT

DORA RUSSELL

Author of "Footprints in the Snow," "The Vicar's Governess,'

"Annabel's Rival," "Beneath the Wave," "Quite True,"

"The Miner's Oath " etc., etc.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

LONDON

JOHN AND ROBERT MAXWELL

MILTON HOUSE, SHOE LANE

FLEET STREET

MDCCCLXXXni

[All Eights Reserved ]

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/crsusswidownovel01russ

CONTENTS,

CHAP. TACE

I. THE PAST AND PRESENT I

II. THE GREAT LEVELLER 1 9

III. THE WIDOW 36

IV. LADY Seaports 42

V. NELLIE 61

VL MARGARET 69

VII. THE OLD LOVE 78

vin. " HIS EVE " 90

IX. NELLIE'S LOVERS I04

>

rO X. Rosalind 121

^ XI. MARGARET SETTLES IT Ito

^ Xn. IN WHICH NORA FORGETS HERSELF . . 156

^ xin. Nellie's temptation 170

to XIV. Margaret's decision 177

XV. wedding garments 189

v5 XVL THE EMPTY ROOM 202

XVn. CHOOSING A HOUSE 223

K Xvii THE OLD ROMANCE 237

XIX. THE HOUSE IN THE GLEN . .257

S

^ XX. STRATHEARN 274

^ XXL BORROWING 291

CHAPTER I.

THE PAST AND PRESENT.

He lived in a great house, the rich man
whom his friends and neighbours jestingly
called Croesus. He was very rich, as this
jest-name implied, for he had money and
houses and land, and there was nothing in
all the world that could be bought which was
not his.

But there are some things that no wealth
can buy — can a man " add one cubit unto his
stature " ; or stop the stealthy footprints of
approaching age ? Neither could Mr. John
Trelawn buy — what perhaps he prized the

YOL. I. B

most on earth — the love of the woman to
whom he had been married for five long years.

She was sitting waiting for him, this woman,
on the evening when this story of her life
begins. She was young still ; young, fragile,
and dark eyed ; and she sighed wearily as she
sat alone waiting for her husband, for her
thoughts had wandered far away from the
present to the past.

Let us for a moment look with her down
that long vista. We shall see a girl then ; a
girl in her fresh bright youth, though youth
and hope were about all the good gifts that
fortune had given her. She was the daughter
of a man who had failed in business, and had
started afresh with diminished capital and
credit. Anxious days and anxious nights had
succeeded. With a sickly wife, two handsome
girls, and a boy to provide for, carling care
had followed and pursued Mr. Henry Surely,
of Warbrooke, like a shadow. But he had one
true friend ; a friend bound to him alike by
bonds of near relationship and love. This was
his only sister — a sister many years his senior
who had done well in life, and had (in her day)
made the most of her charms, and was now

Lady Stainbrooke, the wife of General Sir
Thomas Stainbrooke, K.C.B.

Thus, when Lady Stainbrooke returned from
India, after spending the best part of twenty
years there, she was able materially to help her
oppressed brother, mr. Henry Surely.

She went down to her native town, War-brooke,
to stay with her relations, but she did
not enjoy her visit. She had left her brother
a stout, jovial-looking, prosperous man, and on
her return she found him bent, white-haired,
and careworn.

Can it possibly be you, Henry ? " she said,
gazing at Mr. Sudely's worn face in astonishment
; and " Henry " was also looking at her
the same moment in sad surprise.

Twenty years had made a great change. She
was an old woman now ; old, brown, and
withered, with a front of false hair placed low
on her wrinkled forehead, and she also dressed
very eccentrically, bringing out "gowns" (as
she called them) which she must have had for
thirty years. But she was kind, and had a
sense of humour and a sharp tongue of her
own, of which she made abundant use.

She felt very sorry for her brother. He had

been almost a boy in her mind all through the
years of her absence, and to see him so careworn
and changed touched her worldly and
hardened heart.

I will take your two girls by turns and get
them off, Henry," she told Mr. Sudely. " Sir
Thomas will not object, as they are both presentable,
and, poor man, he likes to be seen
with pretty girls still ! " And Lady Stainbrooke
laughed.

Thus it was arranged that Nora Sudely left
her father's house and went to live with her
aunt, Lady Stainbrooke. She had never seen
her uncle-by-law. Sir Thomas Stainbrooke, and
felt rather nervous when the cab in which her
aunt and she were driving stopped before the
house, in town, which Sir Thomas and Lady
Stainbrooke had taken for the season.

Now, my dear," said Lady Stainbrooke, as
they approached Warwick Square, where this
house was situated, '* I am going to give you a
little advice. I wish Sir Thomas to like you,
and therefore you must flatter him and make
yourself pleasant to him, for however old a
man is he is always open to flattery."

Nora Sudely laughed— a girl's fresh, glad laugh.

*every well, aunt' she said; 'rand do you
flatter him too ? "

'' I'm married to him, my dear, so I've no
occasion to do so," replied the old lady, drily.

But when a few minutes later Nora was
introduced to the General, who was a little,
shuffling, rheumatic old man, she thought it
would be almost impossible to flatter him.

'' This is Nora Sudely," screamed Lady
Stainbrooke at the utmost extent of her voice,
so as to reach her husband's deaf ears.

The General bowed, and then smiled blandly,
and showed both rows of his yellovv^, false teeth.

"Hope you're well?" he said. 'glad to
see you — always glad to see a pretty face, ha,
ha, ha ! " And Sir Thomas laughed a peculiar,
cackling, hollow laugh, which somehow or
other set your teeth on edo-e.

Nora Sudely laughed too, and looked with
astonishment at the first General she had ever
seen.

Hope your father and mother are well 1 "
continued Sir Thomas.

'* They are both very well, I think," said
Nora, raising her voice to its highest pitch.

What do you say ? " asked Sir Thomas,

coming nearer to Nora. ''I don't exactly catch
what you say — I've a cold, and that makes mea
little deaf, I think."

'' You have always a cold, then," screamed.
Lady Stainbrooke.

^' What are you screaming about, madam ? '*'
said the little General, sharply. 'ladies
should never scream — they look ugly, horribly
ugly, when they scream."

They shouldn't have deaf husbands, then,"
retorted Lady Stainbrooke.

'' I'm not deaf generally, madam," answered
the General. " I've a cold ; I suppose you
sometimes have a cold ? "

"Very often," replied Lady Stainbrooke,
grimly. " But I want you to hear this even
in spite of your cold, as you call it. Nora
Sudely, as you know, has come to stay
with us, and you must try to make her visit
agreeable."

"Charmed to do so, I am sure," said the
General, once more looking approvingly at
Nora. "Any man would be charmed to lava
such a pretty young lady to stay in his house."
And the General once more emitted the hollow,,
cackling sound which he called a laugh.

"Thank you for the compliment, Sir
Thomas," said Nora Sudely.

No compliment," said the old soldier. *rit s
truth — I like pretty women; always liked 'em'
And he gave his frightful cackle again.

We must take her about a little ; we must
take her to the opera," said Lady Stainbrooke.

"Certainly," said the General; "any time —
sooner the better."

"There, my dear," said Lady Stainbrooke,
turning to Nora ; " you see what it is to have
a good-looking face ! If I had told Sir Thomas
that any angular, copper-tinted relation of
mine was coming to stay with us, he probably
would have sworn at me ; but he's quite delighted
to have you."

What are you mumbling about, madam ? "
said Sir Thomas, looking at his wife, for he
hated not to hear what was going on. " You
are one of those women who are always
mumbling or screaming. Now, if you spoke ina
steady, even-toned voice, even with my bad
scold I could hear you."

Very well, I'll try," said Lady Stainbrooke,
who was anxious for her niece's sake not to
quarrel with her irate little spouse.

*'I should be pleased to ride with you, Miss
Sudely," said the General the next minute,
gallantly, "but the confounded climate of India
still affects me, and I'm a little stiff in the
joints."

*' You are too old to think of riding," shouted
Lady Stainbrooke.

Nothing of the kind ! Speak for yourself,
madam. Many men, a great many years my
senior, ride, but we old soldiers. Miss Sudely —
we get battered with hard service before our
time."

Yes," said Nora, very loudly ; " but it's a
noble profession."

''I think so," said the General "It's a
gentleman's profession — not a vulgar, money-making,
pettifogging business such as some
men, born of good families, now follow. Yes,
Miss Sudely, I'm glad you like soldiers."

Poor old man ! He was aches and pains allover,
yet he had his vanity still, and liked
(as his wife had told her niece) to be flattered
and made much of.

With this quaint old couple, then, Nora
Sudely found herself domiciled a few days
before she had reached her nineteenth birthday.

She did not find it very lively. Lady
Stainbrooke had only a very small circle of
acquaintance, for all the General's family and
almost all his old friends had passed away
during his lengthened sojourn in India. But
some old Indians like himself came occasionally
to dine at the dull house in Warwick Square.
Then Nora would sit and listen to dingy tales,
the actors of which had mostly disappeared ;
she would hear gossip that had tickled ears
which now were deaf, and stories of the mischief
wrought by bright eyes nov' dulled or closed.
It was a strange life for a young girl, and while
Lady Stainbrooke and her friends were chuckling
over lost reputations, Xora Sudely was dreaming
her first bright dream of love.

She had not left her father's house heart-whole.
About six months before Lady Stain-brooke's
arrival in England Nora had made the
acquaintance of a young painter who had gone
to Warbrooke (the town where the Sudely 's
lived) for his summer holiday, and for the
purpose of sketching some of the neighbouring
scenery.

Nora Trelawn, now sitting in her husband's
grand house, waiting for his return, saw in the

past at that moment a picture wliicli love had
painted on her heart.

A girl, bright, sparkling, and happy ; and a.
man, earnest, impassioned, with a profile like
a Greek model, standing before her, in a soft
evening in June. He was holding her hand,,
and words, if not of love, at least of tenderness,
were on his lips.

The girl turned aside, half coquettishly.

Ah," she said, *^ I daresay you have often,
made these pretty speeches before ? "

Never," answered the painter ; " my loves,
have all hitherto been ideal ones."

*' Very different to the real one," laughed
the girl.

Yes, very different," he replied, candidly
'your face is not quite perfect, you know,
Nora, and you are a brown little girl instead
of a pink and white goddess ; but to me you
are — "

'' Well, what, sir ? "

"Beautiful," said the painter: "for I see
your sweet soul in your face."

A brief love scene — a rift of light still shining
through the dull, grey, monotonous colouring.

ivhicli now for five long years lead surrounded
ricci John Trelawn's young wife. And how
did these love passages with the handsome
painter end ?

They ended thus. Nora Sudely went, as
wee have seen, to live with her aunt, Lady
Stainbrooke, and Lady Stainbrooke meant
conscientiously to keep her word to her brother,
and get his penniless girl married as best she
could. But one day, at the opening of the
Academy, Nora stood so long before a picture
in which her aunt saw nothing particular to
admire, that Lady Stainbrooke j)^^^ o^ lier
gold-rimmed glasses and glanced at the number
and the artist's name in her catalogue.

'' Humph ! " said Lady Stainbrooke, " W.
D. Yyner. Well, I don't think much of him,
at any rate ! "

He is a friend of mine, and a very clever
-artist," said Nora Sudely. And her face flushed.

"He may be a great friend of yours, my
dear, but he's not a great painter, I can tell
him, with my compliments," answered Lady
•Stainbrooke.

As these words passed her lips both Lady
-Stainbrooke and Nora heard a liojht short lauorli

from someone in the crowd behind them. Nora
turned round, and her face flushed more deeply
still as she did so.

*' Mr. Yyner ! You here ! " she said, and she
held out a little trembling hand.

*' Yes," he answered. "So you and this lady
were criticising my daub ? "

It was the handsome artist who had stood
hand-in-hand with Nora on that bright evening
in June, which she remembered only too well.
He had left Warbrooke, promising to return,,
but before he had done so Nora had quitted
her father's house ; nevertheless the memory
of Mr. Yyner had not faded from her mind.

And now, as the two stood exchanging
greetings amid the London crowd, the girl's
dark eyes shining and smiling in the artist's-face,
Lady Stainbrooke, glancing from one tO'
the other, at once guessed their secret.

"My aunt. Lady Stainbrooke," said Nora
timidly. " Mr. Yyner.''

"So you think I shall never be a great painter,
Lady Stainbrooke ? " said Yyner, smilingly
looking at the old lady after his introduction.

Lady Stainbrooke felt a little disconcerted.
Mr. Yyner vas such a good-looking man that it

seemed impossible to a woman to say anything
rude to him. She therefore did not hesitate tc
make a little invention.

You mistook my observation, Mr. Yyner,"
she said, graciously. " It was the painter of
this picture " (and she pointed with her glasses
at a picture hanging nearVyner's) "that I said
would never be great."

Yet he is great," answered Yyner, somewhat
grimly. "But," he added, "will you come
and look at another picture of mine ? I don't
think much of this one myself"

The two ladies followed Yyner's tall, slight
form until he stopped before a very striking
picture. Here was a vnld sea coast, and two
brown, stalwart, excited fishermen hauling ina
capsized boat.

These rough subjects suit me best'* said
Vyner, folding his arms, and standing looking
fixedly at his work.

Lady Stainbrooke put up her glasses, and
also examined the picture.

"This is good," she said, at length; "very
good."

The painter smiled. Praise was sweet to
him, as it is to us all ; but it was sweeter

still because it fell on Nora Sudely's ears.

Then Lady Stainbrooke looked at the painter
himself, examining him critically through her
gold-rimmed glasses, as she had examined his
picture.

"I took my niece to the National Gallery
the other day, Mr. Vyner," she said. " I'm
an old-fashioned woman, and I like the old
painters."

Vyner was now in his element. His large,
handsome grey eyes lit with enthusiasm when
he spoke of the old masters and their great
works, and Lady Stainbrooke listened well
pleased to his energetic words.

"We are pygmies," he said, "we modern
men beside these giants. Ah ! Lady Stain-brooke,"
and he stretched out one of his white,
nervous hands, " if I could but pourtray my
dreams."

Lady Stainbrooke nodded her head,

That is ever the cry of genius," she said ;
the imagination outstrips the manual power.
But, young man," she added, "if you have
the divine fire — the gift which no application
or study can give you— you will succeed."

As Lady Stainbrooke spoke, the painter was

standing before her with his head erect, and
with his eyes fixed apparently on something
far away. Perhaps some ideal picture was
passing before him — some grand brain shadow
that his hand could never produce. At all
events after standing in this rapt attitude fora
few minutes, he gave a restless sigh, and
looked once more at Lady Stainbrooke.

"I've been unsettled lately," he said, 'unsettled
and restless. I have not done my work
as I should."

Perhaps you're in love," said Lady Stain-brooke.


Perhaps I am," answered Yyner, with an
uneasy little laugh ; and he glanced at Nora's
bright, blushing face as he spoke.

Well," said Lady Stainbrooke, 'ras I am
not, I would not at all object to some lunch."

The painter escorted the ladies to the ,
and was very attentive to Lady
Stainbrooke. Her ladyship made herself highly
agreeable to him, and invited him to call upon
her at her house in "Warwick Square. Then,
as she drove home with Nora after they had
parted with Yyner, she heard all about him.
He was poor — a struggling man — and no

absolute declaration of love had passed between
him and Nora.

But the girl felt, as she told her aunt this,
that he cared for her. This knowledge, or
rather hope, was very sweet to Nora's heart ;
but it did not at all suit Lady Stainbrooke's
views.

The next day Yyner called at Warwick
Square, and her ladyship saw him alone. Nora
had been sent out on an errand for her aunt,
and the painter had received a little note,
asking him to visit Lady Stainbrooke at a
certain hour.

■ *'I wished to see you, Mr. Y}Tier," said
Lady Stainbrooke, holding out her hand to
him with a very good imitation of frankness,
"because I hear there has been some romantic
nonsense between you and my niece, Nora
Sudely."

Yyner's fine skin coloured faintly at this
attack.

*' I admire Miss Sudely exceedingly," he
said.

Ah yes, my dear sir," said Lady Stain-brooke
; "but you cannot live on admiration,
nor love either, for that matter. In fact, the

truth is that I have sent for you to appeal to
your honour as a gentleman not to disturb the
girl's peace of mind any further by the sight
of your good-looking face. She is eno^ao-ed to
be married to my friend Mr. Trelawn, who is a
very worthy and a very rich man, and the less
you see of Nora now the better."

Engaged ! " repeated the painter, and the
colour faded away again from his handsome
face.

Yes, engaged," repeated Lady Stainbrooke,
Cjuite calmly ; "and it is a very good thing, too.
My brother is miserably poor, and his girls are
penniless ; and what would become of them if
they did not marry ? You see I am quite frank
with you, Mr. Yyner. I like you, and shall be
glad to see you here by-and-bye, and to hear
of your success. But let me get my young
lady married first. Nora herself thinks it is
better not to see you, and I am sure you will
not wish to make her unhappy."

The painter rose to take his leave.

Certainly not," he said ; but even Lady
Stainbrooke's heart misgave her when she saw
the grey, haggard look which stole over the
man's face as he said these words.

As lie descend ed the staircase, another
gentleman was ascending it. He knew him
by sight. It was John Trelawn, commonly
called Croesus. A stout, big man, with a pale,.
heavy face and a very large nose, was John
Trelawn. Not one for a young girl to fancy,,
nor a fitting mate for a bright, sparkling woman
bke Nora. But he was rich. The struggling
painter thought this bitterly as he went downstairs.
Pdch ! And what was beauty, genius,,
tender love even, to that ?

THE Great LEVELLER.

Lady Stainbrooke's little scheme prospered.
Nora Sudelv was not eno^ao-ed to Croesus when
Lady Stainbrooke told the painter this piece of
news, but Nora Sudely was engaged to Croesus
very soon afterwards.

*' My dear," said Lady Stainbrooke to Nora,
upon her return from the errand on which her
ladyship had sent her to keep her out of the
painter's way, " I've had a visit from your
friend, Mr, Vyner. Mealy, he is a very agreeable
young man. You remember I asked him.
if he was in love yesterday at the Academy.
Well, I made a very shrewd guess. He has
just been telling me all about it. It is some
parson's daughter in Suffolk — an absurd affair
it seemed at first — no money on either side.

and as I told him, living on love went out with
the Flood ! But the strangest things happen.
This girl has come into a small fortune, and so
the affair is settled.'^

Nora Sudely listened to these words, and the
bright colour faded out of her cheeks, and the
love-light out of her eyes. She stood before-her
aunt, white and troubled, for a few
moments — a slender girl, trembling, pale, and
heart-stricken — and yet the old woman kept to
her purpose still.

** Aunt," she said at length, trying to speak
calmly, " is this true ?

"True, my dear?" repeated Lady Stainbrooke.
I can, of course, only vouch for its truth as far
as the young man told me, and I can't see any
motive he could have, unless it was true.
By-the-bye, he told me also that he admired
you very much, and altogether made himself
very agreeable." And Lady Stainbrooke gave
a little laugh.

Nora asked no more questions after this.
She did not speak again of the painter; bat Sir
Thomas, a day or two afterwards, said to his
wife —

That mi is losing her looks —-she has lost

lier vivacity, her charm — what is the matter
with her, madam ? "

'' She wants change," replied Lady Stain-brooke.
*^ AVe must take her more about."

So, when Mr. John Trelawn called the same
afternoon, to ask his old friend, Lady Stain-brooke,
to dine with him at Richmond, her
ladyship gladly accepted the invitation.

'* The fellow is stupid, and a snob," said Sir
Thomas.

The fellow is rich, and that makes up for
everything now-a-days," answered his wife ;
'rand besides, he is an old friend."

This latter recommendation, in one sense of
the word, was true. When Lady Stainbrooke
had been a handsome young girl in her native
town, John Trelawn's father had lived and
made a great fortune there. Queer stories
about the commencement of this fortune were
not want in 2: ; but the fact remained that vast
ironworks and vast wealth belonged to Mr.
John Trelawn, senior, before he retired from all
earthly business.

He left one child only — John Trelawn,,
commonly called Croesus. This John Trelawn,
then had known the handsome Miss Sudely in

Ms awkward boyhood. The handsome Miss
Sudely had married an officer and had left
Warbrooke while John was at school, but still
he had known her. Trouble had come to the
Sudely's in the years that had rolled away
mncQ then, and greater wealth to the Trelawns.
Old Trelawn had been gathered to his fathers,
and John Trelawn (Croesus?) was a middle-aged
man when Lady Stainbrooke returned to her
native town, but still when they met they
remembered, or pretended to remember, each
other. They remembered each other's names at
any rate, and Lady Stainbrooke made herself
very agreeable to Croesus.

Then Croesus came up to town, and was glad
to meet Lady Stainbrooke there. They were
in fact mutually useful to each other. John
Trelawn knew no one in London ; and though
Lady Stainbrooke had not a large acquaintance,
still she had some friends, and she liked John.
Trelawn's opera boxes, his dinners at Richmond
— in truth, his wealth.

And so she fixed that he was to marry her
niece, Nora Sudely, and he did marry her.
The girl was not a willing victim, but she
yielded to her aunt's representations.

'^ Think how poor your father is, child ;
think of what will become of you if 3'ou do not
marry," urged Lady Stainbrooke ; and so, sad,
silent, almost broken-hearted, Nora Sudely
accepted her fate.

She married John Trelawn because she believed
that the man she loved was about to be
or was, married to another woman. Unmarried
John Trelawn because he was rich,
and because she could help her father and her
ailing mother, and her young brother and
sister. But she never was the same woman
again.

John Trelawn bought a grand new house ia
South Kensington ; he bought a villa by the
river ; and sometimes he took his young wife
down to the big house at Warbrooke, where
his father had died, and they entertained Nora's
family and his old friends there ; but everything
always seemed very dull to Nora.

She tried to do her duty, and indeed did it,
as well as she was able, but she was not happy.
A nameless dreariness and dulness always
possessed her. Her sister married well, her
young brother entered the army, her mother
died in comfort, and years passed away, but

no cliiklren came to lier, and there was no
brightness in her life Nora told herself, and she
often wondered why people cared to live, and
why they fretted and fumed about things that
seemed of so little worth.

At last one day (on her birthday) John
Trelawn presented his young wife with a set
of such rich and costly diamonds that it was
scarcely possible for any woman to see them
and know that they were hers without delight.

So at least said Lady Stainbrooke, who had
helped to choose them, and it must be admitted
that Nora felt a slight glow of gratitude and
affection for " John," as she gazed upon his
magnificent gift.

He gave them to her in the grand house at
South Kensington. Sir Thomas and Lady
•Stainbrooke dined with them on the same day,
sand after dinner her ladyship (haying partaken
very freely of "John's" champagne) said to Nora—

Ah, my dear, you may thank me now, I
think, that by a little innocent artifice I parted
you from a beggarly painter."

Nora's face flushed, and lie put her hand
quickly to her side. Then she asked, almost
calmly —

"What artifice did you use, aunt ? "

*'I invented a young woman, that was all,"
replied Lady Stainbrooke, with a little laugh.

Then Mr. Yyner never told you that he
was engaged — never told you anything at all,
I suppose ? " said Xora, still calmly.

Lady Stainbrooke nodded her head.

He told me he admired you, and I told
him — had the sense and discretion to tell him —
that you were engaged, Nora, and you see how
well it has all turned out. You have everything
— diamonds — in fact, everything a woman
can desire."

"Except happiness," said Nora, in a low tone,
and she left her aunt — left her diamonds Ivino-

^ o

in their grand new velvet cases ; and the old
woman, as she looked at them with her blinking
eyes, acknowledged to herself that John Trepan's
champagne had been too much for her,
and had stolen away her wit.

*' I should never have told her," she thought ;.
but Nora said nothing more to her aunt about
Mr. Vyner.

Yet a few months later (for the first time
since her marriage), she met him. Nora eras
at the Academy with some friends, and in the

crowd, just as she had seen him long ago — her
eyes fell upon his never-to-be-forgotten face.

She held out her hand to him, and for a
moment or two no word was exchanged between
them. Then he said :

"It is a long time since we met — Mrs.
Trelawn.

"Yes," answered Nora, ''a long time indeed —
and," she added quickly, her pale face flushing,
"you — you are not married, then V

No," answered Vyner, and his face, too,
flushed.

My aunt — Lady Stainbrooke — told me long
ego — before my o\vn marriage — before my
engagement, in fact — that you Averse about to
be married," hesitated John Trelawn's wife,
with trembling lips and moistening eyes ;
^' otherwise, Mr. Vyner — "

She said nothing more, and for a minute
"Walter Vyner made no reply. He stood
there, looking at the once bright iiice
which years ago had been his sweetest ideal
of womanhood. It was a bright face no
longer. Nora Trelawn was scarcely pretty
now, with large, sad, dark eyes, and a
weary look somehow all over the small.

regular features, that the painter remembered
so attractive and charming.

So ! " he said presently, still looking at
Nora, 'that old woman spoilt two lives, then V

*' She spoilt mine," said Nora, in a low tone ;
*' but — we must not speak of it now."

All around them was the crowd. Other
tragedies and comedies were perhaps being-played
on the same stage, but Walter Yyner
and Nora Trelawn thought not of these. They
only remembered when they had stood handing
hand, that summer evening long ago, and
dreamed of a future that was not to be. It
was but a common story, but as the painter
kept watching Nora's face, he knew he had
been regretted with no common regret, and
loved with an abiding love that had not passed

away.

• • . * •

They never met again for years. W. Diviner
rose in fame after 'this, and John Trelawn
(Croesus) bought one or two of his pictures and
bung them up in his big houses, but never
noted how often his young wife's dark eyes
would wander to the canvas on the walls
which Walter Vyner's hand had made to live.

And so years passed on. Croesus grew
rider and stouter, but there was no other
change. They had been married five years on
the evening when Nora was sitting: waitin<]c for
her husband — waiting for him, but not thinking
<3f him— thinking of the past which Lady
Stainbrooke's little artifice had spoilt.

Presently a heavy footstep was heard on the
staircase outside. John Trelawn's wife heard
it, and moved slightly, for she knew it washer
husband's. A heavy footstep, and a heavy
man ! A big, dull man was John Trelawn,
though no fool, and kindly-hearted withal, and
at times he would indulge in a ponderous sort
of jocularity, which his numerous satellites
unfailingly pretended to enjoy.

He came into the room now, and laid one of
his large hands on his wife's shoulders.

"Well," he said, "and how wags the world
with you, my dear ? "

Nora smiled faintly.

Do you expect anyone to dinner, John ? ""
she asked.

"I met Martin and Prosser," answered Croesus,
and the poor devils looked hungry, and I took
compassion. They'll be here directly," continued

croesus, looking at his watch, " so I must be
soft' to decorate."

He left the room with a kindly nod to his
wife, and by-and-bye Martin and Prosser were
ushered in.

Martin and Prosser were little men, just in
the same sense that John Trelawn was a great
man. Martin and Prosser were poor, and John
was rich, and that made the difference between
them. They had known John Trelawn all
their lives, ad they smiled and sighed faintly
with envy as they entered the big house and
sav on every side the signs of great wealth
that it contained.

*' How well Croesus is looking," said Martin,
facetiously, to Nora.

In Splendid condition," echoed Prosser.

Nora just answered them, and that was all.
lie did not care for these early companions of
John Trelawn, and one of her objections to the
large, dull house at Warbrooke, where they
then were, was that such men were never out
of it. Still, she could not quarrel with John
for being kind to his old friends, but somehow
iihe did not like to live at Warbrooke.

I will go and see if Mr. Trelawn is ready

for dinner," she said, and so left the room, and
Martin and Prosser looked at each other and
smiled as she disappeared.

'' Uppish ! " said Martin.

*' Set a beggar on horseback," suggested
Prosser, with a shrug.

Meanwhile Nora had gone up the broad
staircase, and was rapping at her husband's
dressing-room door.

There was no response. Then she opened
the door and went in. John Trelawn was lying
on the soft carpet in the middle of the room,,
with his face downwards. Nora screamed and
ran forward. She lifted his head and turned
his face round, and when she saw the dull,
half-closed eyes and the ghastly colour of his
skin, even inexperienced as she was, she knew
what had happened.

In a moment — in the midst of his wealth,.
in the prime of his life — he had been struck
down ; the rich man had gone up to dress for
dinner, and the grim foe had been waiting for
him upstairs. Yes, there was no mistake —
Croesus was dead !

THE WIDOW.

The sudden death of Croesus made a great
sensation in Warbrooke. A poor man's elegy
is soon sung, but our respect at least attends a
rich man to his grave.

** Terrible ! " said Martin, with a shudder
remembering that he also was mortal.

"When he had everything," sighed Prosser,
whose pecuniary difficulties had made him find
life at times certainly trying.

What Martin and Prosser said was echoed
by the whole town. John Trelawn had made
few enemies, and even these were awed and
silent when they heard the news of the rich
man's sudden death.

And the widow ? The dark-eyed woman,
who had never heard a stern or unkind word

from this lips. What did she think and say
as she sat in the darkened room, where the
still form lay — the empty shell of the kindly
soul that had given her nothing but love and
costly gifts, ever since she promised to be
his wife; — promised what her heart could not
fulfil ?

It was all over now, and there was bitter
regret in Nora's heart for her own shortcomings.

She sat there remembering how good he had
been, how unfailingly generous and considerate.
He had grudged her nothing, and she had
grudged him even a little love — even a bright
smile or two — for she had been sad, though
uncomplaining, all their wedded days.

But she was not allowed to sit long alone
with her dead. By the first express after the
news of John Trelawn's sudden death reached
her, Lady Stainbrooke hurried down to War-brooke
to comfort and attend uj^on her afflicted
niece. Her ladyship no doubt believed (and
she was a shrewd old woman) that she would
have done the same if Nora had been poor.
But she would not. In that case she would
have said, " Poor, dear Nora — how sad I "
and sent her a five-pound note. But in the

case of Croesus's widow, lier sympathy was
active, was gushing.

*poor child, poor darling ! " she said to Sir
Thomas, but Sir Thomas did not respond. Sir
Thomas, indeed, had never taken very kindly
to Croesus. He came of a different class. His
father had been a distinguished general while
Croesus's father had been working in a leather
apron at a forge. And the pride of birth clung
to the old soldier. Croesus mio;ht be rich,
And you women think more of that than
anything else," sneered Sir Thomas Stainbrooke ;
but Croesus was not a gentleman, and this Sir
Thomas could not forgive.

The j^oor old rheumatic man, close on the
brink of the grave, clung to the badges of his
order still. He, Sir Thomas Stainbrooke, was
not in truth so fine a gentleman as rouo-h John
Trelawn, lying in his darkened room at War-brooke,
once had been. At least he had not
been so honest, so pure of life, so true to his
word, and to the woman he had wed, as
John Ti'clawn. But these were not Sir Thomas's
ideas about the term of gentleman. He read
that word in a different sense. To him it
meant to be well-born, to be brave, to pay

VOL I. c

your debts of liquour, and for the rest — . Ah
well ! Sir Thomas, like many another man who
calls himself a gentleman, was not very particular.
His mind was prejudiced and very
narrow. His love had been gallantry, and his
faith — if he had any — was the echo of some
parson's words.

But the big ugly man who had died so
suddenly at AVarbrooke had been larger-minded
than this. He had made no professions, but
he had given freely and generously of the good
gifts which fortune had showered upon him.
There were many to regret him as well as his
dark-eyed wife. His name had figured largely
enough in charity lists, but there were other
charities without lists which had benefited still
more largely by John Trelawn's honest hand.

So when they carried him to the great family
vault, where the first John Trelawn (the
founder of their vast fortune) lay in state, there
were some true mourners at least who followed
the second John Trelawn to his long home.
There were other mourners, whose hearts were
racked with anxiety beneath the black silken
scarves which they wore so decorously. These
were the relatives of the dead man — those who

had hopes that they were not quite forgotten
ill the will, which it was understood was to
be read after the funeral was over.

But when the will was read, only disappointment
awaited them. John Trelawn had left
the whole of his great fortune to his wife, " In
token of the tender love, respect, and affection
which I bear her." In these words he bequeathed
enormous wealth to the woman who
was sitting upstairs, sad and listless. For Nora
had declined to be present when her husband's
will was read. She had not recovered yet from
the shock of his sudden death. His familiar
presence still seemed to haunt her — she could
scarcely realize that she was to hear the loud
voice and the heavy footfall no more.

But the news of her new wealth soon reached
lor. Lady Stainbrooke did not wait even for
the lawyer to finish John Trelawn's will, until
she hurried from the room, and went to the
widow.

*' My dearest child," she said, embracing
Nora with effusion, " I was determined no one
else should tell you. Your dear husband — -
John, my old friend — has acted in the noblest
manner. He has indeed shown how much he

c2

loved you, for lie lias left you everything."

Nora's pale cheeks slightly flushed, and that
was all, when she heard the announcement.

It is a great position," went on Lady
Stainbrooke, with elation. "Nora, you have
everything before you now — you can marry — "

'aunt, aunt, hush!" interrupted Nora,
putting up her hand.

Well, it is a little too soon to speak of it,"
admitted Lady IStainbrooke, " and naturally
you must now feel great respect and affection
for the memory of dear John, after hearing the
contents of his will. Lm so delighted, my dear
chill ! Nothing: is so consoling: as money, and
it would have been so dreadful if any of these
poor relations of his had got anything. There
would have been nothing but disputes in that
case. Now it is all right, everything is yours ;
and I hope, my dearest girl, you'll live long to
enjoy it." And once more Lady Stainbrooke
kissed her widowed niece.

Then Henry Sudely — Nora's father — came
into the room. He was a grey-haired man, with
the marks of care upon his face, and he also
went up and kissed his rich daughter.

Your aunt has told you, then ? " he said.

sewell, my dear, it's a great fortune — may
it bring yoii happiness." And Mr. Sudely
sighed.

He was thinking how a little of this wealth
just a very little of it — would have lightened
his heavy burdens long ago 1 Since Nora's
marriage he had not wanted money, but he
could not forget the sorely-pinched days which
preceded it. They had made him old before
his time — old, grey-haired, and bowed ; and
their memory came back to him now in strange
contrast with his daughter's enormous wealth.

Nora kissed her father tenderly, and pressed
his hand. Then, when Mr. Sudely told her
how John Trelawn's will was worded, she
became much affected.

*' Poor John!" she said. " Poor, poor John !"

She scarcely said anything more than this,
but her heart was fill of self-reproach and
sorrow. How little she had appreciated his
great love — how little she had given in return !
She kept thinking this while her aunt and her
father were talking of John Trelawn's money,
and of Nora's future life and position.

"She will make a great match," she heard her
aunt say presently, in an undertone ; and as

these words fell on her ears, a thought — a
memory — wliicli she instantly tried to banish,,
flitted for a moment across Nora's mind.

During the next few days this thought,
this memory, often recurred to her. But she
always checked it. It seemed to her, indeed
almost a sin to think of any future happiness
which mi^fht be in store for her, so soon after
her kindly husband's death.

But as time went on, and weeks passed
away, her life naturally changed. For one-thing,
she left the dull house at Warbrooke and
went to the pleasant one in South Kensington,
which John Trelawn had left to her. Her aunt
and Sir Thomas came to stay with her here ;,
for, as Lady Stainbrooke said, it was not good
for her to be alone, and it was also very convenient
to her ladyship to live free of expense
with her widowed and wealthy niece.

This arrangement also gave Lady Stainbrooke
a position in society which she had not before
attained. The story of John Trelawn's enormous
wealth had crept into the papers, and when it
became known that all this vast fortune wallet
to his dark-eyed young widow, many a
scheming mother sought an opportunity of

making the clark-eyed yoiiDg widow's .


She in fact became known in society as
^^ Croesus's Widow." This name was given to
her very shortly after her retm^n to town, and
the house in South Kensington where she lived
soon l)eo:an to he regarded with teat interest.

o o o

The first person who called her Croesus's
Widow was young Lord Seaport. Lady Sea-forth,
his widowed mother, was Nora's next-door
neighbour at her house in South Keno



islington ; had been, in fact, her next-door
neighbour for several years when John Trelawn
plied.

But Mrs. John Trehiwn — however rich — had
been a person of no consequence in Lady
Seaport's eyes. She would shrug her shoulders
hind turn away her head disdainfully when she
saw John's thoroughbred standing: at his door,

Some rich people I know" nothing of," washer
description of the Trelawns, if any of her
set inquired who vero the owners of the
thoroughbreds. She, in fact, would have
nothing to say to them ; never looked their
way, and utterly ignored that such people as
the Trelawns existed.

But in the five years of Nora's wedded life
young Lord Seaport, the only son of this
proud dame, had been running a career which
threatened to bring his family's lofty name
into the Bankruptcy Court. Nora remembered
the young lord, a handsome lad, riding up to
his mother's door in his first uniform. He was
about four-and-twenty now, and the shadow of
his life had fallen on that once bright face.

Lord Seaport was no longer a handsome
lad. He was a young man with a worn, pale
face, and wearied-looking eyes, and a bitter-tongue.
Yet sometimes the sweet boyish smile
of old stole round his lips to gladden his mother's
anxious heart. For Lady Seaport loved her
son with a tender and devoted love of which
she rarely spoke. He was her only child — the
one babe born to her before her lord had thrown
aside all ties and lived such a life that his wife
and he could only part.

The late Lord Seaport died suddenly abroad,,
and the young lord, when a boy of seven,
inherited estates already hampered and mort-ironed
to an almost ruinous extent. But during
the long minority they had partially recovered,
and when Lord Seaport entered the Guards

lis had a fair income as well as an old title ta
begin life with.

Alas, in five years the income was muddled
a^'ay, and the old name no brighter ! A reckless
father had been succeeded by a reckless son.
There is no good in telling how the money
had gone, but it was gone : in diamonds, in
expensive pleasures, in a hundred follies. Lord
Seaport at twenty-four was an impoverished,
embarrassed man. Some were richer at his
expense; but he had lost everything — his
belief in human nature, his bright, high spirits,
his good looks — all, in fact, that made life
worth living for. This was about his state
when Nora Trelawn returned to her house in
South Kensington a widow ; when her proud
neighbour. Lady Seaport, first began to think
of her ; when young; Lord Seaport first save
her the name of " Croesus's Widow."

LADY Seaports.

Between Nora's drawing-room and Lady
Seafortli's there was a well-built, substantial
wall. But, one sunny afternoon in April, six
months after John Trelawn's death, let us —
invisibly — be present at the same moment in
the two drawing-rooms.

AVe must, by all the laws of etiquette, give
her ladyship the precedence, and stand for a
few moments silent and unobserved in the
somewhat old-fashioned fitted-up room, where
a tall, handsome, fair-haired, and still young-looking
woman was sitting on a faded yellow
satin couch, crying bitterly.

This was Alice Elizabeth, Viscountess Sea-forth
; and before her was standing a young
man, with a frown upon his brow, and angry
words upon his lips. This young man was-murray,

Viscount Seaforfcli, and the mother
was telling the son some bitter truths.

It has simply come to this," she was saying :
** I shall have to break up my establishment,
and go abroad to starve ! And when I think
how the money has been wasted — what wretches
have got it — "

"Abuse does no good, you know, mother,"
interrupted the young lord.

"No," answered Lady Seaport, biting her
lips ; " but it is hard — very hard — to keep
patience with you."

Perhaps. I admit I'm a good-for-nothing,"
said Lord Seaport, and he began walking up
and down the long' drawings-room.

The mother's eyes followed him. As they
slid so, a softer look stole into them, for she
was recalling his bright boyhood, before the
shadow had fallen upon his face. She looked
at him for a few moments, and then she rose,
dried the tears that still wet her long brown
lashes, and, going softly behind her son, she
slid her arm through his.

o

"Murray," she said, "there is only one thing
that you can do — you are young, you are
good-looking — you must marry for money."

'' Precisely," said Murray, turning round and
lightly kissing this mother's cheek. " Find me
the unfortunate woman, mother, who will haven,
and I shall be charmed."

Lady Seaport did not speak for a moment ;.
then with a certain hesitation of manner, which
showed her own aversion to the scheme that
she was about to propose to her son, she said :

.'^ There is a lady next door, Murray — a
widow — she is not of our class, for her wealth
came to her, I am told, through commerce ;.
but still she is rich — very rich — and for her
position a very ladylike-looking person."

Her appearance is of no consequence," said
Lord Seaport, shruoroiDo- his shoulders.

*' Yes, yes, it is," said his mother, with an
impatient sigh.

Not a whit," answered the young lord,,
scoffingly. "It is her money, not her face, I
want ; so it is of no consequence how ugly she
is."

'' She is not ugly," continued Lady Seaport.
** Nay, she is good-looking. A dark-eyed
woman, with rather a sad expression — yes,
decidedly good-looking I call lier. Her names
Trelawn — Mrs. Trelawn."

But is she really rich — very rich?" inquired
Lord Seaport.

Immensely rich, I am told," answered this
mother; 'something about thirty or forty
thousand a year. In fact, Mr. Trelawn always
went by the name of Croesus."

And Croesus's widow is next door ! " said
Lord Seaport, throwing up his arms with a
mock theatrical air. " What a huge piece of
luck ! When will you introduce me, mother ?"

'' I have only just made her acquaintance,"
said Lady Seaport. "The truth is, it was
rather an awkward affair for me to do, as these
people have lived next door for four or five
years ; but of course I never thought of them
before."

Of course ! Not, I presume, until the fair
lady became Croesus's widow, and therefore an
object of interest to a tender mother with a
beggared son."

*' You need not sneer, Seaport. It could
not be very agreeable to me, you must know,
to make the acquaintance of these people ; but
for your sake — "

*' 'J'hat is quite understood. But why do
you speak of them as these people ? Surely

there are not two rich widows to choose from ? "

Her aunt, Lady Stainbrooke, is staying
with her. Lady Stainbrooke is the wife of an
oh.1 general, and — well, I must confess I think
that she is the most objectionable feature of
the whole connection."

At that moment, on the other side of the
wall, in Nora's drawing-room. Lady Stain-brooke
was saying —

*•' My position, my dear, makes me quite her
equal. It is very civil of her to call, certainly ;
but as her son is in the army, and my husband
is an old soldier, there is nothing remarkable
in it."

''I think she has no right to call upon meas
a widow, when she did not call upon me asa
wife," replied Nora, gravely.

You forget, my dear, that I was not with
sou in poor dear John's lifetime," said Lady
Stainbrooke, complacently. " And poor dear
John himself — well, of course, he was very nice
and generous — but still he was not exactly —
how shall I put it ? — not exactly fitted for
Lady Seaport's society."

He was good, he was noble," answered
Nora, warmly, and her face Hushed, '' and that

is better than an old liiQ-li-sounclino: title. It
is a liberty, I think, of Lady Seaport to call
upon me now."

*' Nonsense, child, nonsense," said Lady
Stainbrooke, good-naturedly. '' I had the
highest opinion of poor dear John — did I not
give my dearest child to him, so I must have
had ? But there are grades in society that
cannot be forgotten, and that must, and do,
influence everyone. Naturally, now you take
a different position with your large independent
fortune, to what you did when your husband
was alive. You are elegant-looking, you are
young, and you are rich — why, my dear, you
could marry any one ! ''

"But I do not mean to marry any one'*
answered Nora. " Not even a spendthrift
young lord, aunt." And Nora gave a little
lausfh.

Nevertheless a day or two after this Nora
accepted Lady Seaport's invitation to dine
with her alone. Her reason for doing this,
however, was not to meet the spendthrift
young lord. But when Lady Seaport called
to invite her, she casually asked Nora if she
were going to the private view at the Academy,

which was to take place the day following
Lady Seaport's visit.

"No, but I would like to go," answered
Nora ; and then Lady Seaport, in the interest
of her son, offered to take Nora ; and Nora
felt, therefore, that if she accepted this kindness
from her newly-found neighbour that she could
not very well decline to dine with her ladyship
the same evening, when she assured Nora that
they would be quite alone.

I know you will not care to meet any one
just yet," said Lady Seaport, in her calm,
gracious way ; *' but if you will take pity upon
an invalid like myself, for I am for from
well to-day, and dine with me this evening,
I shall be very pleased. I fear my son is
engaged, or I should have asked him, but he
told me he was going somewhere or other."

Nora accepted this invitation. But when
she entered Lady Seaport's drawing-room,
dressed in her deep mourning, a tall, slim,
graceful young man rose to receive her as well
as Lady Seaport.

Permit me to present my son to you," said
Lady Seaport. '' Seaport, this is Mrs. Trelawn/'

Nora bowed and smiled. She knew this

young lord very well by sight. She had seen
him as a gay and handsome boy, and she had
seen him when his gaiety had all passed away,
sand when his face had grown worn, cynical,
sand sad.

But she spoke to him now for the first time,
and she spoke to him with the ease and sweetness
which made one of her charms. She was
indeed glad to know him, and though she was
only his own age she somehow regarded him
as very much younger than herself. She was
one of those women who can feel perfectly
friendly with a man without feeling the remotest
wish to attract his admiration or peculiar
regard. So before the well-served dinner
which followed was over, Lord Seaport had
made up his mind that Croesus's widow was
charming, that she was a dear little woman,
and that if she hadn't a penny, a man might be
glad to win her, and make her his Avise.

The mother looked on well pleased. She
saw her son was interested and amused, and
she gladly watched the old sweet boyish smile
that she now so seldom saw steal over his lips.

'' He may learn even to love her," she
thought, wistfully, later on during the evening.

But when the evening was over, Lord Seaport,
having escorted Mrs. Trelawn to her house
next door, went back to his mother's drawing-room,
and the shadow which now his face so
often wore had once more returned to it.

*' Well, what do you think of her ? " asked
Lady Seaport.

The young man laughed, and shrugged hi
shoulders.

She's too nice a woman for me to think
of," he said. 'not the style, in fact. I want
something that wouldn't cost so much — something
or someone who wouldn't expect so
much. No, Croesus's charming widow won't
do for me ! "

*' What nonsense," said Iiis mother.

*' Sad fact," answered the young lord. And
then he went to his club, and in his careless,
thoughtless fashion told some of his chums
when he aot there about "Croesus's Widow."

Thus the name was given to her. When
Nora went the next day to the private view at
the Academy, people looked after her, and at
her, as they had never looked before. It began
to be whispered, in fiict, that the young widow
with Lady Seaport was about the richest!;

i-Qclepenclent woman in London. Lady Sea-forth's
motive for appearing with her in public
was, of course, well understood. Other dowagers
with spendthrift sons sighed enviously when
they saw the young lord join his mother and
Nora, and saw the soft blush on the rich
widow's cheeks as she listened smilingly to the
young lord's cynical and often bitter criticisms
son those around him.

*you wish to destroy my illusions, I see,
about the ' world of beauty and fashion,' " said
Nora, with some archness of manner, in answer
to one of these remarks.

"The 'world of beauty and fashion' destroyed
full my illusions some years ago," said Lord
Seaport. " Would you believe it, Mrs. Trepan,
I was once the most amiable, believing,
and gushing of young men 1 "

Nora laughed.

'' I remember you," she said, ''a bright-faced
boy."

Seaport launched also.

That bright face," he said, "was the indicator
of the brightness within. I was a jolly
boy, wasn't I, mother ? "

Lady Seaport answered with a sigh.

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS LIBRARY

*' I hope you will yet live to be a liapp7
man, Seaport," she said.

Seaport shrugged his shoulders.

You hope that I'll be a very rare specimen
of my race, then, mother," he answered.
** Happiness after a certain age is, in my
opinion, unattainable. What do you say,,
Mrs. Trelawn ? Do you believe that either
men or women arc ever happy after twenty ? "

For a moment Nora was silent. Her memory
went back to the few bright days of her iowa
life, which had all been before she was twenty.
She sav again, at that instant, the handsome
painter's face ; and the evening haze, rising
from the meadows as it had done in the brief
hours of her love dream, when her soul had
been absolutely flooded with happiness and
hope.

Her fixce softened, and some of its girlish
charm came back to it as this vision of bygones
passed before her. For a minute or twa
she looked so like the Nora Sudely of old, that
a man who was watching her almost started,.
and his heart began to throb as it had not
throbbed for years.

This man was Walter Yyner — W. D. Vyner,,

the famous painter now — the lover who had
stood hand-in-hand with Nora in the Warbrooke
meadow's long ago, and who had just learned
that she was a widow ; that all John Trelawn's
vast wealth had come to the dark-eyed girl
whose love had once been his.

The painter stood still, watching Nora. He
saw her smile on the young lord by her side,
and he heard some lady whisper, " It is a good
thing for Seaport."

But, almost as he heard that whisper, Nora's
eyes fell on the fine face which had seemed so
perfect to her girlish fancy. She visibly started
as she recognised Yyner, and the painter saw
the flush that rose to her cheeks as she bowed
to him and moved forward so as to take his
hand.

*' You are in town, then," said Yyner, with
some embarrassment.

Yes," answered Nora. And then she added,
softly, 'you must come and see me, Mr. A^yner;
my aunt. Lady Stainbrooke, is with me."

I bear that old lady no love," said the
painter, and his expression changed as he spoke,
"but — I shall be glad to call upon you."

Do come," said Nora ; and then, remembering

that she was walking with Lord Seaport,
she introdiicecl the painter to him.

The two men bowed coldly ; and Vyner bit
his lips, and Lord Seaport's pale face slightly
flushed as she did so.

"I have already had the honour of an introduction
to — this gentleman, I think," said
Vyner, in anything but an agreeable tone of
voice.

Yes — I have met Mr. Yyner," said Seaport,
with a certain discomfort in his manner, which
was very unusual with him.

Scarcely anything more was said. Yyner
took oft' his hat and passed on with a frown
upon his brow and an angry feeling in his
heart. Yet he did not leave the room where
Sora was. He stood looking; at her from a
distance — looking at her and thinkiuor regretfully
of the past.

'' It's the old sweet face," he thought ; " the
sweet, trustful, honest face which would have
kept me straight all my life if I'd had the luck
to win it. But now — what is the use of going
near her again — now, when it's too late."

He made an impatient gesture, and the
frown deepened upon his forehead as the last

reflection passed through his miucl. Too Lite ?
and yet Nora's dark eves had brightened and
her cheeks flushed a welcome when her little
hand was clasped in his !

In the meanwhile Lord Seaport was still
walking with his mother and Mrs. Trelawn.
hut the vouno' lord's manner had chani^^ed
somewhat since that brief interview with the
painter. He eras silent for some minutes after
they parted with Yyner, and then almost
abruptly he said to Nora —

So you know Yyner, the painter, do you ?
Have you known him long ? '*'

*eyes, for years," answered Nora, gravely.

a

I knew ]err. Yvner before mv marriage.

'indeed !'"' said Lord Seaport, as if surprised.
Then he added, after a moment's thought
'but of late years I suppose — you know nothing
or little about him — except as a painter ? "

I have been proud of him," said Nora, and
her dark eyes sparkled; "proud of the old friend
who has won the fame that he once dreamed
of — who — who is now what he hoped to be —
when I knew him as a air."

Seaport made no reply to this. But he
grew so absent in manner that Lady Seaport

proposed to Nora that they should leave the
Academy. Lady Seaport was afraid of wearying
lier beloved son of the lady whom she wished
to be his wife !

Seaport escorted his mother and Nora to
their carriage, and then called a hansom and
drove straight to one of the entrances to
Regent's Park. There he dismissed his hansom,
and proceeded direct to a seat under the shadow
of some trees, where he expected a friend would
be waiting for him.

This friend was waiting for him — a young
girl fair to look upon — who started up with a
glad smile of welcome on her rosy lips as he
drew near.

Well, Miss Nellie," he said, holding out his
hand, '^ I hope I have not kept you waiting ? "

'' Indeed you have," answered '' Miss Nellie,"
still smiling. '*' I have not the honour of possessing
a watch, you know, but I think it
must be a little past four now."

Seaport looked at his watch, and then gave
a sort of impatient sigh.

"It is past fiYQ, my poor Nellie," he said,
*but I really could not come before. I took
my mother to the private view of the Academy,

and who do you think I saw there, Nellie ? "

The girl shook her head. She was looking
up in his face — looking as women look on the
faces they love.

'' How can I tell ? " she said.

Vyner, the painter," continued Seaport.
''He spoke to a lady who was with my
mother — and, little Nellie — something leaked
out, you know" (and Seaport took the
girl's hand, and drew her down on the seat
from which she had risen when he approached
her), '•' something which perhaps I ought to
have told you before — only it seemed no
matter."

"What is it. Captain Seaport ?" asked 'miss
Nellie," and her colour faded a little as she
spoke.

Only a little, little thing, Nellie," answered
Lord Seaport, " and really no earthly consequence
to us. But lest at any future time you
should think me a liar or a q:(\v deceiver, I
ought, perhaps, to tell you that my honourable
and respected parent, now lying in his grave — ■
who ruined me before he retired to it, by-the-bye
— was one of that order whom a certain
Tommy is said to have loved."

'miss Nellie" looked up as if she did not
'understand all this.

"To explain more fully," continued Lord
Seafortli, " I have the misfortune to be,
Nellie — well, for one thing, little Letter thana
beggar."

'' Oh ! I'm so sorry, so sorry," said Nellie,
and she nestled her little hand more closely
into his, and looked at him with sweet, wistful
eyes. "But — but, this will make no difference
to me ? "

Bayonet it, though ? " answered Lord Sea-forth,
trying to speak lightly. "All women,
you know, love the gauds of this world — and
you are a little woman, I suppose, like the
rest?"

Not like the rest if they care for money
more — more than — "

"More than love, do you mean, child ? So
you care for love most of all, Nellie — really
most of all ? "

"Yes," half whispered the girl, and she
-coloured all over her fine soft skin.

And you love me — a worthless fellow like
me ? Ah, Nellie, you are a foolish, foolish
little girl ! "

'* Do YOU mean iDCcause you are poor ?" asked
Nellie, yet more wistfully.

*' Because I am poor, and because I am
worthless, and because I have not even told.
you the truth, Nellie, about my position in
life," answered Lord Seafortli.

*' How do you mean ? Please tell me what
you mean ? "

'' Yyner, the painter, will tell you — will tell
your sister most likely to-day, that I have been
sailing under false colours. Don't look so
frightened, Nellie — it's nothing awful 1 have
to relate — simply that instead of being Captain
Seaport, as you have known me, I am Lord
Seaport ; and Owner heard my title to-dav.'''

Lord Seaport ! " repeated Nellie, and she
started up, turned quite pale, and stood looking
the young lord's face.

*eat your service — but you don't seem to
like the new name, Nellie, as well as the old ? "

*'No, no, no!" exclaimed the girl, and sho
put out her hands with a gesture of pain and
anger. "Now I know what you mean —I am
foolish to care for you, you think — when, when
we are so far apart ? " And she burst into-passionate
tears.

*nay, nonsense, Nellie ! " said Lord Sea-forti,
and lie also rose, and put his arm around
ber. *'Husli, child, darling, do not tremble
so — we will talk it over — we will see what we
can do — only don't distress yourself ; don't
cry, my dear, dear little Nell."

Nellie.

Before the interview between Lord Seaport.
and *miss Nellie" ended, Lord Seaport had
persuaded her to forgive him for having deceived
her, or rather allowed her to deceive
herself, about his name.

The error into which she had fallen was very
easily accounted for. One morning 'miss
Nellie" and her dog, a handsome collie, were
crossing the roadway near St. George's Hospital,
when the unfortunate collie was knocked down
and run over by a hansom cab. The young
man seated in the cab heard the girl's shriek,
as she saw what had happened, and he at once
jumped out, and helped to lift the ]door dog
up, and carried it to its young mistress, who,
forgetting everything but her favourite's sufferings,
knelt down on the pavement, and laid
the poor brute's head tenderly on her lap.

*' I am so very, very sorry," said the young
man (Lord Seaport), 'but I fear the dog is
done for, and if you will allow me I'll get him
taken away, and put an end to him at once."

Then the girl (Miss Nellie) looked up indignantly,
and Lord Seaport saw how pretty
she was.

*' Do you mean take him away to be killed ?"
said "Miss Nellie." "Kill my poor, poor-man
" (and she once more bent over the injured
dog, who looked up in her face, and tried to
lick her hand) " because he is hurt ? You shall
not do that, sir ! I will never leave Wallace,
and he shall never leave me whilst he is alive."

** I am truly sorry," again said Lord Seaport.
Shall I call a cab, then, and drive you home-with
your dos: ? "

If you will do that I shall be very much
obliged," answered the girl, who was beginning
be aware that she was fast becoming the
centre of a crowd.

So Lord Seaport called a four-wheeled cab,.
and poor Wallace was lifted into it, and held
partly in "Miss Nellie's" arms, and partly in
Lord Seaport's, until they reached the small
house in the small street near Eegent's Park,.

where *' Miss Nellie " informed Lord Seaport
that her father, Major Ely the, then lived.

Nellie got out of the cab, and ran into the
house first to break the news of the door's

o

accident to her father.

For he is blind," she said to Lord Seaport,
^' and that, of course, makes us love him and
think of him more."

Lord Seaport smiled a grim smile at the
situation he found himself in, after the girl left
him. Sitting in a cab, nursing a strange dog !
But he felt repaid when " Miss Nellie " reappeared,
leading her blind father by the hand.

"This is my father. Major Blytbe," said
Nellie, "I — I do not know your name — but he
has been so kind to dear Wallace, father."

My name is Seaport," answered Lord
Seaport, getting out of the cab and smiling.
^' I am glad to make the acquaintance of Major
Ely the — for I, too, am a soldier."

Thank you for your kindness to my little
girl," said Major Elythe, " and to the poor dog,
who is an old and faithful friend to us all.
Will you come in — Mr. — or are you Captain
Seaport ? "

I hold a captain's commission," answered

Lord Seafortli, looking with some interest at
the bUnd Major.

He saw a tall, grey-haired man, with a noble
face, and an expression of almost touching
resignation. This was the pretty girl's father,
then — the pretty girl who, when Lord Seaport
looked round for her, was lifting out her injured
dog from the cab, and speaking to it in tones
of sympathising endearment.

They carried it together — Lord Seaport and
Nellie — into the meagrely-furnished parlour
close to the house door, and Nellie went down
on her knees and made poor Wallace a bed
with a simple grace that the young man could
not but admire.

She was pretty — not a regular beauty, though
with perfect features — but it was a face with
a charm. Modest, innocent, and sweet, with
bright, light, curly, ruffled air, and a fair
smooth, fresh, rosy, girlish skin.

She is a little rosebud," thought Lord
Seaport ; and as he assisted her to make the
dog's bed, he determined not to lose sight of
*' Miss Nellie."

'' Let me bring you a ' vet ' to see Wallace,"
he said. ''I know a very clever fellow who

belongs to us and he'll do what he can for the doo."
Lord Seafcrth brought the 'S'-et," and
"Wallace was nursed and tended until he was
*' the happiest dog alive," Seaport told Nellie.
Seaport came very often to inquire after the
dog, and sat in the little parlour and talked to
the blind Major, and looked at the golden head
of "Miss Nellie."

He called her "Miss Nellie" in these days.
She was the Major's youngest daughter, and
Miss Blythe — Margaret, the eldest — was from
home. Seaport soon learnt all the little simple
family history. Major Blythe had been in an
infantry regiment, and his sight had been
affected by a sunstroke in India. Then he
had left the regular army, and had become an
adjutant to a militia corps. But he gradually
grew blind. They were terrible hours, he told
Lord Seaport in his simple way, when he first
knew that his sight was doomed.

She was my little comforter," he said,
softly, laying his hand on Nellie's fair, ruffled,
curly air, and the girl looked up and put her
arms round her blind father's neck.

I said I would be his spectacles 1 " she said,
trying to speak lightly, but Seaport saw her

YOL I. D

blue eyes grow moist, and the next moment
lie dashed away a tear.

A very tender love existed between the
father and daughter. Major Blythe admitted
to Seaport that she was his darling, though
*' Margaret, my eldest daughter, is a most
excellent, clever woman," the old soldier told
his visitor ; '' but, then, Margaret is ten years
older than Nellie, and so naturally Nellie is
the spoilt darling of the household."

The spoilt darling of the household," however,
showed very few signs of being spoilt.
She was a bright, sweet, unselfish girl, with a
little hot temper, perhaps, sometimes, but the
moment it was over it was gone for ever. No
one ever saw a frown or a sulky look on Nellie
Blythe's fair face.

She is like the sunshine," said her fond
father, and soon Seaport did not care to tell
or think how much he thought of Nellie Blythe.

Their acquaintance went on very smoothly
and pleasantly at first. Then Margaret Blythe
returned home, and she shook her head and
looked very grave when she heard about
*' Captain Seaforth.'^

*sit is unwise to allow him to come here.

father," she said to the Major. ^' He is in the
Guards, you say, and altogether an unsuitable
acquaintance for Nellie."

Margaret Blythe 'was quite different in
appearance to Nellie, but she also was good-looking.
She was tall and dark, and very
determined, and she was a professional artist,
and an illustrator of books when she could get
employment. During her meritorious struggles
(for the Blythes were very poor) Margaret had
made the acquaintance of W. D. Yyner, the
painter. The woman usually so cold and self-contained
was not cold to the handsome artist.
She admired him, and she grew fond and proud
of him. Yyner was lonely, and not particularly
happy, and he liked and respected Margaret
Blythe, and he had drifted into an engagement
with her. They had been engaged six months
when he saw again the face of his first love at
the Academy — when he learned that Nora
Trelawn was free — that rich John Trelawn was
dead, and that all his great wealth had come
to his young widow.

Yyner had once met Lord Seaport at the
Blythes, and had been introduced to him as
Captain Seaport." But Seaport only went

d2

very rarely to the Blytlies' house now. Margaret
had given him to understand that he was
not a very welcome visitor to her, and Seaport —
perhaps gladly — had taken advantage of this
intimation to induce his friend Nellie to meet
him unknown to her sister. They had met
each other, and walked together many and
many a time before Lord Seaport had been
urged by his mother to think of Nora Trelawn ;
before his own overwhelming embarrassments
had often made him resolve to break with
sweet Nellie Blythe.

But this was not an easy thing to the young
man's heart. His wild and reckless life had
grown wearisome to him, and the women on
whom he had wasted his substance had palled
upon him, but it was too late. Lord Seaport
was a ruined man, and what Lady Seaport had
told him was but too true. Unless he married
a woman with a great fortune his career was
ended. And yet still he did not care to break
sweet Nellie's heart ; for he believed that the girl
loved him. Her soft, innocent eyes had betrayed
this a hundred times, and though no binding
words had absolutely passed between them, Sea-forth
knew that in honour he was bound to Nellie.

MARGARET.

He did not accompany her home after lie lead
-told her that his real name was Murray,
Viscount Seaport, and that he was little better
than a beggar. He left her at the Metropolitan
Railway Station, which was almost close to the
street in which Major Blythe lived, and then
NelKe went on thoughtfully to her father's
house.

The street door was opened as she approached
it, and her eldest sister stood there looking
anxiously out.

"Nellie, where have you been ?" she said.
^' How late you are."

Only sitting in the park," answered Nellie,
while the tell-tale colour flushed through her
fair skin.

'' 'Tis too late for a young girl like you to

sit in the park alone," answered Margaret
Have you brought in father's paper ? "

c^Oh! — IVe forgotten!" exchiimecl Nellie,,
in real distress.

"It is thoughtless and unkind of you," said
Margaret, " when he has so few pleasures, and
he has asked for it twice. I should have gone-for
it myself, but I dare not leave Hatton in
the house alone for fear she sets it on fire."

'^ I will run and get the paper now, Margaret's

'^ No, I will get it. But Nellie, come in here ;,
I have got something to tell you." And
the elder sister drew the younger one into a
little back room, and closed the door behind
them.

*' Walter Yyner has been here," began Margaret,
*rand he has just been telling me a
shameful thing, Nellie."

What has he been telling you ? " said
Nellie, quickly.

'' That Captain Seaport, whom you and my
father think so much of, is actually not Captain
Seaport," continued Margaret. " Walter saw
Mm at the private view at the Academy to-day
with a lady whom he knew long ago, and this-lady
was with Lady Seaport, and the man

vrlio has passed himself off here as Captain
Seaport is really Lord Seaport ! I call it
exceedingly insulting to us."

For a moment Nellie was silent. Her delicate
skin flushed, and her lips trembled ; then she
:said sharply, almost defiantly —

'' Yes, I know."

'' You knew, absolutely knew, that a man
was coming to your father's house under a false
title, and never told it ! Then I'm ashamed of
you," exclaimed Margaret, very angrily.

"Very well, you can be ashamed," retorted
Nellie, her quick temper asserting itself.

When did he let you know this ? " said
Margaret, scornfully. "After he was found
out to-day, I suppose, when he knew it was no
use trying to deceive us any longer ? "

Nellie bit her lips and did not speak.

"Can you not see through his motives for
this?" proceeded Margaret. ''He meant to
amuse himself with a silly girl, and whenever
anything serious might be expected to come of
it he intended to vanish ! There is, indeed, no
captain Seaport, and Lord Seaport has
throughout acted in a most ungentlemanly
manner."

The mistake arose through me," said Nellie.
'' When he came here first — and you know how
that happened — I said, ' I do not know your
name,' and he simply said, 'My name is Sea-forth
: ' and it is ' Seaport.' What deception-was
there in that ? Perhaps he did not care ta
tell us he was a lord when we were living in a
little house like this. It was from delicacy of
feeling, Margaret, and not from any wish ta
deceive. Then father said — Was he Mr. or
Captain Seaport (never, of course, guessing his-real
rank), and he said, ' I hold a captain's
commission ' ; and he does hold a captain's-commission.
There ! What lie did he tell ?
You are unjust, Margaret ; and I think Mr.
Vyner need not have come here to make mischief."


Nellie had talked till she was c[uite hot and
red. She stood there facing her sister and
defending her lover with sparkling eyes and
quivering lips, a true type of womanhood !
The man had erred, and the woman having
herself forgiven him, would not permit another
to disparage him.

*rit is all very fine to talk thus," again
commenced Margaret; but at this point her

words were interrupted by an unkempt redhead
— on which was perched a very funny
looking cap — being thrust in at the door.

"Miss Blythe, please, masters howling for
his papers," said the owner of the head and the
cap.

What an expression, Hatton ! Why do
you use such words as howling?" said Margaret,
reprovingly.

Isn't it right," asked Hatton, and she put
the thumb of her left hand on her hip, and
stood looking contemplatively at her mistress.

She was a most comical figure ; all angles,
even the eyes being oblique of vision. She
was the only handmaiden of the Blythe family,
and Margaret tried in vain to make her presentable.
She insisted for one thing on calling
her "Hatton," though "Becky" had been the
name that this waif of the streets had gone by
.since her cradle in the dust-pan.

But," Margaret Blythe had told her, " in all
good families the female servants bear their
surnames."

And this is a * good family V " said Becky,
with a sly look in the oblique eyes. "Oh, please,
miss, I didn't know it."

Margaret could not help smiling at this,,
though still she insisted upon "Becky" being
called Hatton, but the change of name did not
change the girl. "Hatton " remained hopelessly
comical and absurd-looking, and was a constant
eyesore to Margaret's artistic tastes. But
Hatton knew how to work.

I've been at it ever since I was put down,"
she once told Nellie, "and my legs got that
bowed with being put down and working
too soon, that they've kept on that way
inclined."

This odd-looking damsel now stood looking
at the sisters, with her thumb upon her
hip.

What have I to say to master, miss, when
he yells out again for the papers ? " she said,,
presently.

Say I will get them for him. Miss Nellie
has forgotten them," answered Margaret. And
Miss Nellie took advantage of this "break in the
discussion with her sister, and as Hatton turned
to leave the room she left it also, and went to
seek her blind father.

Father, I have been so naughty," she said,,
going up to the Major and slipping her little.

hand into this. **' I forgot to get your paper."

"swell, my little girl, never mind; Hatton
will get me one, and then you'll read it to me,"
lie answered, stroking lier small hand.

"And father, have you heard, has Margaret told
you, what a stupid mistake we have both made?"
And the Major felt the small hand twitch.

No, darling. I've hardly seen Margaret
to-day. Yyner has been here, and she has been
talking to him."

I know. Well, it seems, father, \>ie have
made such a silly mistake. Don't you remember
the first time — when Wallace was hurt,
you know — how we asked somebody his name,
and he said it was Seaport ? "

*eyes, darling, of course — Captain Seaport."

*'He never said Captain Seaport," continued
Nellie ; "he just said 'Seaport, and that he held
a captain's commission. Well, he is Seaport,
and he does hold a captain's commission — but,
father, he has another title, too — and he told me
this to-day."

"Have you seen Captain Seaport to-day,
Nellie ?" asked the Major, with just a shade of
anxiety in his tone.

"Yes ; I met him, and he said he had something

to tell me," answered Nellie, bravely. ' 'And
what do you think this something is, father?
He is really Lord Seaport."

"Lord Seaport I " repeated the Major. " You
indeed surprise me, Nellie."

*^ Yes, isn't it a surprise ?" said Nellie, trying
to speak lightly. "We have been entertaining,
not an angel, but a lord unawares, it seems.
And Margaret has been so stupid about it,,
father ! She has been scolding me, and talking
all sorts of nonsense, just as if he could have
any motive for deceiving us — it is so silly of
Margaret."

The Major was silent for a moment or two,
then he said —

I wish this young man had told us this
before, Nellie."

"But why, father ? Isn't he just the same?
He is a gentleman, and you are a gentleman.
What matters it whether he is Captain or Lord
Seaport?"

The world would say it was a good deal of
matter, Nellie. Rank, like money, makes a
distinct difference of class. It was not right of
Lord Seaport to allow us to go on calling him
Captain Seaport."

"Now, father, you are just as horrid as
Margaret," said the "spoilt darling of the
household'' and she put her arm fondly round
her kind father's neck. "Don't you begin
scolding too, dear old man, or I'll have a fine
life between you ! Promise me one thing,
father, that when he — when Lord Seaport
comes — that you will be quite kind to him, for
you must not forget how kind he has been tous
— and to the dear old doggie, too !" and Nellie
stroked the lame collie's head, for Wallace was
sitting, as usual, at his master's feet, looking up
with his soft, wistful, brown eyes into that
patient face.

THE OLD LOVE.

Walter Vynee kept this promise, and went to
call upon his old love, Nora Trelawn, a few days
after he had met her at the private view at the
Academy.

Nora Trelawn was very rich, and she was
also a woman of taste ; and lately she had
taken some pleasure and interest in the furnishing
and adornment of her house ; and
Yyner saw all this, as he stood a moment or
two alone in her drawing-room, and he saw
also on the soft-tinted walls two pictures of his
own, which had been purchased through a
dealer, and for which Nora had given a great
price.

Vyner stood still, looking at his pictures
thoughtfully, as we sometimes look at our own
work. Perhaps he was not thinking only of
his pictures — a dark-eyed girl, in the hazy

meadows in the eventide, was standing shadowlike
before him, also in his mental vision. But
his contemplation of the real and the ideal was
speedily interrupted. A lady, not knowing he
was there, now entered the room ; and sat
down on the first couch she came to, panting,
and fanning herself.

Vyner turned round and looked at her. It
was Lady Stainbrooke, Nora's aunt — Lady
Stain brooke, a little browner and more
wrinkled than she was five years ago, but
otherwise not much altered. Vyner knew her
again at once. He remembered at that moment
the lie she had told Nora — the lie which had
parted him from the girl he loved.

He made a slight movement, and Lady
Stainbrooke looked up and saw him.

Is that you, Mr. Vyner ? " she said. '' He
is looking after Nora's money," she thought.

Vyner bowed a cold and stately bow, but the
old lady held out a withered hand, and looked
at Vyner with involuntary admiration.

What had the five years done for the
handsome painter ? His face was darker and
graver, but he was handsome still. The
sharply-cut features, the bright grey eyes, were

unchanged ; but the expression of the classic
mouth was altered. The enthusiasm, the
passion of youth, had passed away ; and a
calm — almost a proud — look of composure had
replaced them. The man had gone into the
arena, and fought and conquered. W. D.
Vyner's name was known now all over Europe,
and as Lady Stainbrooke looked at him
admiringly, with her sharp, brown eyes, she
remembered this.

'^ So," she said, smiling, and still fanning
herself, ^' you are a great man now, Mr. Yyner.
Well, I prophesied you would be, long ago, if
you remember."

Yyner, who was a hater of shams, answered
witch more abruptness than politeness.

I thought it was exactly the other way,
Lady Stainbrooke," he said.

The old lady laughed, and showed her yellow
teeth.

Ah," she said, " I recollect that day, Mr.
Vyner, when you fancied I was speaking about
one of your pictures to my niece, Nora, but in
reality I was alluding to some other artist. To
be sure, it seems like yesterday, and yet it is
five or six years ago, for it was just at the time

when Nora was first engaged to poor, clear John
Trelawn. You will have heard, I suppose, that
he is dead, and that he has left a great fortune
to Nora ? Ah ! all the men are after her now,
Mr. Yyner," and the old lady laughed again,
enjoying her delicate little stab.

Yyner made no answer. He stood looking
.at Lady Stainbrooke with a half-scornful
smile, for he knew that he at least could not
be accused of seeking Nora for her money.

"I do not blame people in the least,"
continued Lady Stainbrooke in her jaunty,
rather humorous way, *for paying court to
the rich, for they are so much pleasant
acquaintances than the poor ! One can never
be quite sure indeed that a poor friend isn't
going to ask for the loan of a five-pound note.
And then the wealthy have so much in their
power — even you great artists, Mr.Vyner, want
patrons, you know ! "

"Yes," answered Yyner, bitterly, "we sell
our work. Lady Stainbrooke, as you ladies sell
your faces."

Lady Stainbrooke nodded her head and
fanned herself more vigorously than ever.

Not bad," she said, approvingly. " So we

do sell our faces, Mr. Vyner, and therefore
beauty is a great gift. Where should I have
been now, I wonder, if I had not been a pretty
girl — though perhaps you are surprised to hear
I ever was ? And where would Nora have
been if she had not sold her face to poor dear-john
Trelawn ? She would not have had
young Lord Seaport at her feet, as she has
now, I promise you''

She might have been a happier woman,"
said Vyner, gravely ; and as he spoke the room
door opened, and Nora herself walked in.

There was a glad light in her eyes, and a
pink flush in her soft cheeks, and she held out
her hand frankly and cordially.

I am glad to see you, Mr. Vyner," she said.
I — I — have been expecting you to call."

I intended to come yesterday," said Yyner,,
but a man's time is not always his own."

A lady in the way, ch, Mr. Vyner ? " asked
Lady Stainbrooke.

You are fond of inventing ladies for my
benefit, it seems. Lady Stainbrooke," answered,
Vyner, very grimly.

Lady Stainbrooke looked up at this sharply,,
and glanced from Nora to Vyner. She

knew, or rather guessed, at that moment that
some sort of explanation must have passed
between them before John Trelawn's death, but
she was too shrewd to remark upon this.

I have been complimenting Mr. Yyner on
his success, my dear," she said, turning to
]SI ora.

Yes," said Nora ; '' I have been pleased
and proud''

Her voice faltered a little as she uttered the
two last words, and she cast down her dark eyes ;
and Vyner's voice also showed some emotion
when he spoke.

I see," he said, smiling, and with a sort of
gesture towards his pictures hanging on the
wall, '' that you have been one of the patrons
whom Lady Stainbrooke has just been telling
me that we artists are obliged to court."

Ah, Mr. Yyner, Mr. Yyner, that is a little
too bad ! " laughed Lady Stainbrooke, with a
slightly-forced laugh, for she did not wish to
offend her rich niece Nora. " I said nothing:
of the kind, my dear ; but I see, I see ! " And
Lady Stainbrooke nodded her head after her
usual fashion.

"Well, what do you see, aunt ? " asked Nora.

** Mr. Yyncr is too great a man now to like
my little innocent jests — ah, yes, that is just
the way — success is very trying, Mr. Vyner."

*' Do you mean to the temper, Lady Stain-brooke
? " asked Yyner.

*' To the temper and the disposition,"
answered her ladyship, agreeably. " It requires
a strong head not to be turned by adulation."

*mine has had no chance of being turned,
then," said Yyner.

*' Ah, ah, so you tell us," said Lady Stain-brooke,
'' but perhaps we know better. Nora,
my love, don't you expect Lady Seaport this
afternoon ? "

She said something about coming in to
see the new pattern I got at the Art School
yesterday," replied Nora. '' But it is no
matter," she added indifferently.

*' If I am in the way " said Yyner, rising,

and understanding Lady Stainbrooke's hint.

** But you are not in the way," said Nora,
softly, and she looked smilingly at Yyner.

*^ I am glad of that," he answered, *' for it is
pleasant to see the face of an old friend."

** And a patron too !" said Lady Stainbrooke,
with a little scoffing lausfh.

She was a worldly old woman this, and put
little trust in men, and less in women. She
knew the world, she thought, and the hearts of
those who live in it ; but she measured these
hearts by her own narrow gauge. It was but
natural that she should suppose that "Walter
Vyner had come to court Nora for her wealth,
for she spent a good deal of time in courting
Nora herself. There are feelings and motives
that Lady Stainbrooke did not understand,
and therefore she did not believe in them.
She understood, however — as we have seen —
the power of money ; and she esteemed it
above all earthly, or, alas, heavenly things !

But Vyner was not afraid of Lady Stain-brooke's
sharp tongue. He stood there looking
at his old friend, and he was not thinking of
her as a wealthy widow, but as the bright girl he
had loved long years ago. The shadow of these
years — which at one time had changed Nora's
face so much — at this moment seemed quite
passed away. She, also, was thinking of her
maiden days, and of the lover to whom she
had given her young heart. And this lover
was before her now. No chill poverty to part
them now — nothing to part them — thought

Nora Trelawn, as lie smiled softly, and looked
on Vyner's face.

But presently Vyner gave a short, impatient
sigh, a jerk almost of the grandly shaped head.
A memory had flitted across his mind. A woman
good, true, and handsome — handsome, and yet
without the nameless charm which makes true
Beauty — had risen before his mental vision, and
stood there cold and shadow-like before Nora.
To this woman he was bound in honour he
remembered, and so he averted his eyes from
the sweet attractive face of his first, nay ibis
only love.

Nora noticed his change of expression, but
she never thought of any other woman in the way

Is this good ? " she said, smiling and
pointing to a costly vase which she had
recently purchased. '' I am never quite sure,
you know, IMr. A^yner, whether my taste is good
or bad."

Again Vyner thought of Margaret Blythe as
Nora said these simple words. Margaret was
quite sure about her taste. She thought she
had the best taste in the world, and was fond
of announcing this, and giving very decided
advice upon all occasions.

A little girl I once knew," said Vyner, with
an involuntary ring of tenderness in bis voice,
used to have a very pretty taste of her own,
if I remember right, in the way of dresses and
bonnets, etc., and that is, I think, the best
criterion of a woman's taste. I hate an
ill-dressed woman 1 "

Quite right, llv. Vyner," said old Lady
Stainbrooke, blinking behind her glasses ; " a
well-dressed woman always looks vrell — but
ah ! — ah, it costs money," and she sighed, and
moved her lean, wrinkled hands, for she was
very avaricious, and hated to open her 
even for her owa adornment.

o

iVt this moment an exceedingly well-dressed
woman was ushered into Nora's drawing-room.
This was her next-door neighbour. Lady
Seaport, who, in the interest of her son, was
now very attentive to Nora.

But she forwarded this interest so gracefully,.
and with such well-bred ease, that Nora could
not help liking her. Lady Seaport was a
handsome woman, with all the advantages of
high caste to add to her attractions. The dust
of the earth came not near her, and the stock
from which she sprang for generations had been

unmarrecl by labour. She was a haughty
woman, but she wanted money, and so she
bowed her proud head and went to Nora's.
Nora personally she rather liked, but Lady
Stainbrooke was an eyesore and an obstruction,
the patrician dame decided, whenever she
contemplated Nora's marriage with her son.

She sometimes affected — still in her patrician
way — the society of people of talent. They
were gifted, she thought, and so they ought
to be cultivated. But in her heart she looked
down upon the giants towering above their
fellows, unless blue blood ran through their
veins. Her grace and culture of manner,
however, prevented this being visible.

"I am pleased to make Mr. Vyner's
acquaintance," she said, when Nora had
presented the painter to her. '' I have long
known and admired his work."

Vyner bowed, and took the compliment very
quietly. He was past the stage when praise is
so sweet, and recognition dearer than the
breath of life. He had his pride too, but not
the pride of birth, yet of his birthright. He had
not been born with a great name, but with the
genius to make one. He was greater than

Alice Elizabeth, Viscountess Seaport, whatever
her ladyship might think. Alice Elizabeth,.
Viscountess Seaport, would die and be buried,
and have her title carved on her gravestone,
and there would be an end of her ; but Vyner's
hand had carved a name that would not die,,
and done work that would live as long as his
canvass huns together.

So he did not bow very humbly to my lady.
But my lady was very gracious.

Mr. Vyner must dine with her some day
soon, she said ; and again Vyner bowed, and
wondered if he would meet his old friend, his
dark-eyed Nora, at Lady Seaport's.

Then he went away, and the impose of his
dark eyed Nora went with him.

She is my Eve," he said, pacing backwards
and forwards in his studio, with his long strides,.
as the daylight faded. '' God made her for me
just as He made the first woman for the first man.
She is part of me, and yet we are separated —
ay, I know it well — by a promise I cannot break."

Yet that night he commenced a picture — it
was his Eve as she stood in the Warbrooke
meadows Ions; ago, in her bright maidenhood,,
before the shadows had fallen upon her face.

HIS EVE.

The man loved this work, and it throve and
prospered under this hand.

This promises to be a fine picture," said his
betrothed, Margaret Blythe, to the painter one
day, when she hod unexpectedly visited his
studio, pausing before an unfinished sketch of
a dark-eyed woman. " AYhat do you mean to
call it ? "

"I call it *My Eve'" answered Vyner,
gravely regarding his own work.

' My Eve ! ' " repeated Margaret. " What
An extraordinary name — I am sure I could
think of a much better one."
" Not for this picture," said Vyner.

Yes, I am sure I could," replied Margaret,
for she believed that no one could do anything
so well as herself. "Fancy a dark Eve — of
course, Eve was fair."

Why ? " asked Vyner, smiling. '^ Besides,
this may not be intended for the lady who
brought such trouble and toil upon us all."
And Vyner gave rather a weary sigh.

'' "We make our own troubles very often,"
said Margaret.

I dare say," said Vyner, indifferently, for
he was not thinking of Margaret, nor of her
correct and proper ways.

Margaret thought herself a paragon among
women, and indeed she might be one, but it is
sometimes a little wearisome to live with a self-conscious
paragon. She had the most firm and
simple faith in her own perfections. Peccavi
was never heard on her lips. But she loved
Vyner, and believed in him, though not as she
believed in herself. He had genius, she thought,
but she also had genius, only her devotion to
her home duties prevented her gifts being
recognised by the world.

Not the woman to touch Vyner's heart this I

There was a rugged honesty, truth aud
humility about this man ; though he, too, believed
in his own genius, counting it a gift from
god. But he knew also of the dust stains — -
the follies, the passions, the meanness — which

clung to and befouled his heart, as they cling
to and befoul the hearts of nearly all the erring
children of men.

Yet he tried to do right and vralk straight,
and Margaret Blythe was satisfied with her
choice, and believed that Yyner was devoted
to her. She knew nothing about his Eve, but
if she had known it would scarcely have disturbed
her equanimity. x\ll men commit some
folly or other, margaret Blythe thought, but
no '' folly' she was sure, would change his
regard for the best and purest of women —
namely, for Margaret Blythe.

Yet as Margaret Blythe stood before the
picture of his Eve, he never before had fully
realised the bitterness of his bondage. Margaret
— the woman whom he was engaged to
marry, and yon sweet dark-eyed one, smiling
from his canvass ! Margaret, tall and slim, a
little angular about the shoulders, perhaps, but
handsome withal, and a model of all the virtues
personified !

And his Nora — his Eve — not beautiful, but
lovable, and pleasant to the eyes, and tender
and gentle to every living thing. The dumb
brutes crept to her protecting side, trusting her

with their God-given instinct, following her
with their mute and wistful eyes.

The painter recalled at this moment — his
living Margaret standing opposite to his
pictured Eve — when he had met Nora before
her husband's death, with the look of life-weariness
too plainly printed on her face. He
remembered the brief explanation which had
then passed between them — the words that
told the long, dull history of years.

So," he had said, looking at John Trelawn's
wife, " that old woman spoilt two lives then ? "

She spoilt mine," Nora had answered in a
low tone ; " but we must not speak of it now."

'rand not even now" thought Vyner bitterly,
looking at his Margaret, and turning his eyes
away from his pictured Eve !

'' Walter, will you come in this evening ? "
said his Margaret, addressing him in her
measured tones.

Not this evening, Margaret," answered
Vyner. " I am going to dine with Lady
Seaport."

'' With Lady Seaport ? " repeated Margaret,
surprised. '' Do you know her then, Walter ?
She is the mother, I suppose, of young Lord

Seaport — the young man who forgot himself
so far, and forgot what was due to us so far, as
to come to our house without telling us his real
name i

Yes, she is his mother," said Vyner. '' I
met her the other day, and she asked me to
dine with her this evening, and I accepted her
invitation."

** I am glad that you did, for I hope she will
call upon us when we are married."

Vyner shrugged his shoulders.

** She will have cut me most likely by that
time," he said. " These great ladies take 
and drop one down just for a caprice,.
Margaret. Don't marry me, please, for the
sake of visiting Lady Scaforth ! "

** How foolish you are, AValter ! No ; but
really I wish you to cultivate good people —
people of position are so much more agreeable
than people without any."

*' Precisely," said Vyner; "and so for this
laudable reason I am going to sacrifice myself,,
and dine with her ladyship, instead of smoking
my pipe at home at my ease."

"I hope you will give up smoking when
^^ou are married, Walter."

'don't hope so then, Margaret; fori fear if
you do it will end in disappointment — like
visiting Lady Seaport."

I wonder if the young lord will say anything
about us to-night ? " continued Margaret.
^'He has never been to call lately — I can't
quite find out — but I sometimes think that
foolish child Nellie liked him ? "

'' I hope not," said Vyner, gravely. '' I like
little Nell, and would be sorry if any trouble
came to her; and even among fast men,
Margaret, Seaport bears a bad reputation."

I thought so," said Margaret, triumphantly.
Oh, I am never deceived ; I was sure he was
a bad man."

'' Perhaps it is hard to call him so — he may
but have been tempted beyond his strength.
Which of us indeed has a right to fling the first
or even the second stone, Margaret ? "

'' I do not agree with you, "Walter. There
are some, I hope, who live lives quite free of
reproach. Since my earliest childhood, for
instance, I have been devoted to my father
and young sister — not that there is any great
difference of age between Nellie and myself,
but then my mind is more advanced than hers —

she is more cliilclish ; and as we were motherless
I felt it my duty to act as tliougli I were very
multi older, and take entire charge of her."

There were ten years between the ages of the
sisters, but these ten years were never alluded
to at home. Margaret might be a paragon
among women, but it was understood in the
Blythe family that even paragons have their
weaknesses, and that her age was Margaret
Blythe's. Yyner, who thought that all women
and all men have their weaknesses, only laughed
in reply to Margaret's speech.

Come, young lady," he said, ''if I am to
have the honour of escorting you home, we
had better be starting ; for I must have time
you know, to wash the paint off before I appear
at my Lady Seaport's."

The painter walked home with his betrothed,
and then returned to his rooms to dress. Ha
had a feeling in his heart somehow that he was
coins: to meet Nora Trelawn. And as his cab
stopped at Lady Seaport's door, one of Nora's
footmen was just opening her door, and Nora herself,
in soft black garments, came out, and stepped
from her own portico to Lady Seaport's, tha
"big footman walking behind to carry her cloak.

She, of course, saw Yyner, and she blushed,
and then looked the next moment brightly
and gaily into his face. But her blush
faded when she noticed the grace courtesy of
his manner.

^'We are to have the pleasure of dining
together, then ? '^ he said.

"Yes," answered Nora ; and so together they
entered the house, and were ushered into Lady
Seaport's drawing-room.

Lady Seaport received them in the stately,
gracious way which was natural to her. She
was a woman who never allowed her feelinsrsto

o

influence her manner in society. She had been
exceedingly annoyed just half-an-hour before
Yyner and Nora appeared in her drawing-room,
but now her smooth brow seemed quite
unruffled.

The cause of her annoyance had been the
beloved son. The beloved son had promised
to dine with her ; had promised to do his best
to make himself agreeable to Croesus's widow,
and at the last moment had disappointed her.
This had happened in a manner that seemed
quite unaccountable to Lady Seaport.

"Mr. Yyner, the painter, is going to dine

TOL. I. E

lier as well," she said to lier son, and Lord
Seaport, who was actually leaving the room
for the purpose of dressing for dinner, made a
sudden pause.

*' Vyner, the painter, mother ! What on
earth induced you to ask him ? " he said,
turning round and looking at Lady Seaport.

I met him at Mrs. Trelawn's," answered
his mother. " He is clever and presentable ;
why should I not ask him, Seaport ? "

Lord Seaport made no answer. He stood
there looking at his mother for a moment or
two as if he were undecided about something,
and then he looked at his watch.

Mother," he said, " I am very sorry, but I
have forgotten something — I remember, now, I
can't dine here to-day ; can't avail myself of the
chance of making love to Croesus's fair or rather
dark widow — I have an engagement I can't get
off."

Lady Seaport was seriously annoyed, nay
angry, with her son.

What reason have you for making this
excuse ? " she said.

*'My unfortunate memory," answered Lord
Seaport, in his careless, mocking way. ''I am

truly sorry — pray give my best regards to
Madam Croesus."

"How can you act thus — low can you speak
thus — when you know the bitter necessity for
this step ? " said Lady Seaport.

Her son shrugged his shoulders.

I will see her some other day," he said,
but I must go now. Good-bye, mother ! I
hope your painter will make himself very
agreeable." And the next moment Lord
Seaport was gone.

Lady Seaport felt very angry. She had hoped
she had schemed — for her son's marriage
with Mrs. Trelawn, and here the reckless young
man was throwing his best chances away.
And for what motive ? Could he have any
reason for not wishing to meet Mr. Vyner ?
thought Lady Seaport, as she extended her
hand and smiled a welcome to the painter.

Sitting at the head of her well-appointed
table, she was still thinking of her son. Care-burdened
was this proud lady with the heaviest
of cares, but her culture made her perfectly
able to conceal this. Only' once she alluded to
Seaport.

*' I am so sorry," she said, addressing Vyner,

*' that my son is not able to meet you to-day ;
but he is on duty with his regiment. You
know him, do you not ? "

I know Lord Seaport very slightly,"
answered Yyner, with a certain reserve of tone
and manner that both Lady Seaport and Nora
noticed.

*' He knows something about him," thought
Lady Seaport. " Can he have heard any
foolish report about me and this wild young
lord ? " thought Nora softly ; and both ladies
glanced at the painter's f^ice, who was standing
with his eyes cast down.

But Lord Seaport's name was never again
mentioned during the evening. The graceful,
well-bred hostess exerted herself to charm, and
Yyner's presence made Nora look so much like
the Nora of old that both Lady Seaport and
the painter regarded her with involuntary
admiration.

When she is looking so handsome, and
Seaport not to see her ! " inwardly sighed
Lady Seaport.

She is the sweetest woman upon earth,"
thought the painter, also with a sigh ; and
when Nora rose to leave, he asked permission

to escort lier next door to lier own house,

Nora smiled lier answer. She put lier little
black-gloved hand timidly on the painter's arm
axis they left Lady Seaport's portico together,
and her touch for the moment made Vyner
forget his betrothed.

It is a fine night' he said. " Let us walk
round the Square together, as we used to walk
long; ao;o."

But — but we were in the country then,"
answered Nora, smiling, and glancing up softly
-at the painter.

'* Let us imagine we are in the country now,
then," said Vyner. " Let us be free for five
minutes from all the conventionalities — ah,
Nora — pardon me, I should say Mrs. Trelawn —
why is the world so full of regulation codes and
rules?"

Nora laughed — almost a merry laugh.

I think, if I remember rightly," she said,
"" a certain Mr. Vyner in former days was not
greatly given to follow either regulations, codes,
or rules ; but, perhaps he is changed now."

No, he is not changed — not clouded in
everything, at least "

His voice trembled a little as he said the last

few words, for lie was thinking lie was not
changed to her, and the man's thought seemed
to vibrate through the woman's heart.

It seems but yesterday," went on Yyneiv
but yesterday, Nora, when we used to meet
at Warbrooke. But it is a long yesterday's
he added, with a sudden change of voice and
manner — the memory of Margaret Blythe had
tapped him on the shoulder — " and many
things have happened since then."

*' Yes, many things," said Nora ; '' but one
thing has not changed — we — we are friends-still."


For a moment or two Yyner did not speak.
Words of love and tenderness were rising
unbidden to his lips. But he put the curb on,
and tried to think of Margaret, though his-trembling
hand stole out and souoiit for
Nora's.

*' We — we will not change," faltered Nora.

There are linked souls, I think," said
Yyner, the passionate ring in his voice
betraying his heart ; '' and, go where we will,.
do what we will, these invisible chains will not
break. But — but what folly I am talking," he
added. " What will you think of me, Mrs.

Trelawn— a middle-aged man — talking sentimental
trash like a boy ? But you must forgive
me — the old memories are to blame — the old,
old days "

They were happy days," said Nora,
tremulously.

Yes' answered Yyner, abruptly, " too
happy — but we must not talk of them."

Nora felt hurt by the painter's words. She
looked up in his face when they were standing
a few minutes later at her own door, and was
struck with his expression. He was biting Im
lips, and there was a frown on his brow, and
Nora sighed uneasily as she entered the grand
home which John Trelawn's love and wealth
had made her own.

Nellie's loves.

There is no doubt that it is a pleasant tliiug-
to be self-satisfied. The man who has a good
opinion of himself goes through the world
looking blandly in a becoming mirror. A certain
young Mr. James Saunders, who lived in
the same street as the Blythes, was one of
those happy personages. In mentally contemplating
himself, he saw only his good qualities.
He enumerated them thus : — "I am young, I
am good-looking, I am well off — any girl would
Lave me."

It will be seen by this that, among his other
attractions, he was a bachelor. His father —
Mr. James Saunders also — had been (what he
termed) a medical practitioner, and he had continued
a medical practitioner until he finally
retired from all earthly avocations. A safe

Than this old-fashioned doctor had been considered
bv all the matrons in his neiodibouiiiood,
and to be considered a safe man pays. At all
events, his reputation had paid Mr. James
Saunders. He died in the goodly position of
having a large balance at his bankers, landlord
of many houses, and owner of sundry railway
shares and other properties, which brought him
in an excellent income ; and left this wealth
firstly to his wife, and then to his only son.

Young; James Saunders was sixteen when his
father died, and for the next seven or eight
years his mother did her best to make him
unendurable. That is, she (morally) knelt
down and worshipped him, and made a fool of
him, until the lad fancied himself to be a
totally different person to what he was.

He really was an ordinary-looking young
fellow, with a pert expression and a pert tongue.
He fancied himself to be witty, good-looking,
and irresistible. The women (to use his own
phraseology) had something to do with the
latter delusion. Mr. James Saunders was heir
to, and virtually in possession of twenty
thousand pounds, and among the ladies with
whom he associated this sum was magnified

into double the amount, and no doubt cast a
ball round Mr. James's common, somewhat
comic face. At some fancy ball he appeared
as " Puck," and among his facetious young
friends he was generally termed " Puck," being
pleased to be considered a " shrewd and
knavish sprite ;" and he was also considered
very good-natured.

He was good-natured, if good-nature means
paying for any amount of brandy-and-soda's,
and for gloves and other small luxuries. But
he knew where to stop. Stories about him — •
stories not pleasant to hear or to write about —
reached his adoring mother's ears, and the poor
woman was so shocked that she retired to bed,.
and lay there weeping in bitter distress. Then
James promised to reform. He would be called
*' Puck " no longer ; he would give up dubious
acquaintances, and he would marry some lucky
girl, and make her a good husband.

It was at this period of his life that the reforming
"Puck" enumerated his advantages,
and decided that no girl would refuse him.

'* And I'll have the prettiest girl about here,"
he told his mother. " I'll have Nellie Blythe"*

Mrs. Saunders made no objection to his

choice. The Blythes were respectable people ;
Miss Blythe was an exemplary young woman,
and Nellie was a very pretty girl, against whom
Mrs. Saunders had never heard a word.

"Your dear father," she told James, "attended
the Major when he first settled here,
and always spoke of him with respect. Miss
Blithe, too, is an excellent girl, and has been
just like a mother to Nellie — and I am sure,
my darling, I hope you will be happy ! " And
the fond mother clasped her son in her stout
-arms, and left a tear on his somewhat motley
cheek.

She also never doubted that Nellie Blythe
would be but too glad to marry her son.

I'll write a note and ask them to dine with
us in a friendly way on Thursday," she suggested
to James, bent upon forwarding his
matrimonial intentions ; " and you can take the
note yourself, my dear, and say how pleased we
shall be to see them all, and tell them I'll take
no refusal from the Major."

She was a very homely woman this, and had
been a good wife to the late old-fashioned
doctor, and lived in the heart of London pretty
jnuch as she had done in the country town

from which the doctor had brought her. It
lead been a surprise to her to find herself left
so well off when the doctor died, but the money
did not console her for the loss of her husband

"I have nothing now but James," she sighed,.
amid her tears, after they had carried away
her dead ; and as years passed on " James ""
continued to be the sole delight and pleasure
of her life.

James was fond of the "old lady" (ashe
called her) in his way. She was " a decent
old woman," he sometimes told his companions ;
and as we have seen, he promised to amend his-lisa
when he saw that he was giving real pain
to his mother.

The idea of his marriage, therefore, was delightful
to Mrs. Saunders, and she absolutely
shed tears of joy after James had started on his-proposed
visit to Major Blythe's family.

Let us now follow James — James in a pink
necktie and lavender gloves — decorated for the
occasion to the best of his taste and ability.
His round eyes looked a little rounder than
usual when he rang at the Major's door, for
though he was quite at his ease with some sort
of women, he — in spite of his self-satisfaction

felt a little shy at the prospect before him.

*but they'll jump at me," he reflected, screwing
up his courage ; and so he rang the Major's
bell, prepared to be jumped at.

His summons was answered by the one
maid-servant, Hatton, who of course knew
James Saunders by sight, as Mrs. Saunders's
house was close to the Blythes.

*' Ladies at home ? " asked James, jauntily.

Oblique-eyed Hatton put her hand contemplatively
on her hip before she replied.

They told me to say they're out," she said.

James hesitated a moment, and then slipped
half-a-crown into Hatton's long, lean fingers.

'' Tell them I've called," he said. " I've a
message from my mother." And Hatton,
being unable to resist the half-crown, James
was ushered in on the two sisters.

Margaret was sitting before her easel, dressed
in a plain dress, but looking a picture of neatness
; Nellie was sitting on the floor, her fair,
bright hair ruffled, engaged in forcibly washing
the collar of white fur round Wallace's neck,
decidedly against the old dog's desire.

Margaret rose gracefully as James entered
the room, and held out her hand to welcome

him, though she darted a sharp look of anger
at Hatton, who received it unmoved, inwardly-fortified
by the half-crown.

'^ Yon must excuse my sister, Mr. Saunders,"
said Margaret, glancing at Nellie, who had
jumped up, and was laughing, "but you see
she is washing; our doo; — he is such an old
favourite — especially of my father's."

Margaret always threw the best and most
attractive light that she could upon everything.
Yet she lacked the subtle gift which is usually
called tact. Her discernment was not acute
enough to possess this, and her intense egotism
displayed the want. Tact would have taught
her that nothing is so tiresome and offensive to
others as a self-adoring attitude, and this
Margaret habitually took. But as far as her wit
went, she put the most attractive and correct
colour upon all her own actions and those
of every one connected with her.

She was annoyed that Nellie should have
been caught washing the dog, but she need not
have been. James, indeed, was fond of dogs,
and had a bull-dog of his own, with a self-important
strut like his master's.

Very kind of Miss Nellie," he said, looking

admiringly at Nellie standing there smiling,
fresh and fair. '* I like girls who like dogs ; it
shows some sort of — ah — you know what I
mean."

Sensibility' said Margaret, with her formal
smile, as poor James paused for lack of ideas.

*' Yes, kind heart, and that sort of thing.
But, — ah ! — Miss Blythe, I've called with a
message from my mother. Hopes you'll all
dine with us on Thursday. Won't excuse the
Major. Mother said she would take no excuse."

It is very kind of Mrs. Saunders," said
Margaret. "I will ask my father." Margaret
left the room for this purpose, and James was
alone with the lady whom he proposed to
honour with his hand.

Poor young man ! This forward, pert youth,
suddenly found that he had not a word to say.
Nellie (who regarded him as " little Puck," this
cognomen being well-known in the neighbourhood)
was, however, quite at her ease. She
considered for a moment what she should say
to him, and then said, smilingly —

'^ Have you been at any balls lately, Mr.
Saunders ? "

"One or two," answered James, trying to

seem at ease ; " but don't care for 'em —
ordinary lot, I mean. Fancy balls are splendid,
Miss Nellie. Once went to one dressed as
Puck' — fairy fellow, you know, out of Shakspeare
— glorious get up — all the fellows said
suited me — fond of fun, you know, and that
kind of thing."

'eyes," said Nellie, wickedly, 'Tve heard
you are fond of fun."

"Puck" blushed all over his motley skin.

" Mean to turn over a new leaf. Miss Nellie,'

he jerked out. " All very fine when one's just

out, you know, as you girls say ; but when a

fellow gets on a bit — well, it's time to pull up."

Yes," said Nelly, very much amused.

"Mother doesn't like it, you know," continued
Puck," confidentially ; " and she's a good old
woman that ; and a fellow doesn't care to vex
her. Mean to settle down now, and become a
respectable jog-trot. Wild days are over. Miss
Nellie."

Then we must not call you 'Puck' anymore
? " said Nellie, with a little laugh.

You may call me anything," said " Puck,"
tenderly ; " anything nice, of course. I mean
anything — "

At this moment the room door opened, and
Margaret Blythe entered, and " Puck's " speech
was interrupted.

My father desires me to give his compliments
to ]airs. Saunders," said Margaret, " and
he and I shall be very happy to dine with heron
Thursday, but you must kindly excuse
Nellie."

Can't, Miss Blythe ; can't, indeed ! " said
James, energetically. '' Miss Nellie must come
particularly want Miss Nellie."

Very kind of you," said Nellie, '' but I
never' go out to dinner."

'* Oh, but do come," urged James. " Mother
would be awfully sorry if you didn't — it would
be so jolly to have you — must come, Miss
NelHe.''

No, thank you," said Nellie, whose
thoughts had wandered away from " Puck " —
had wandered to Murray, Lord Seaport, and
was wondering if she could manage to meet him
while Margaret and her father were dining with
Mrs. Saunders.

Therefore, poor James urged his invitation
in vain. Nellie was quite firm ; and, much
CTQSt fallen, James at last took his departure.

and returned to his mother s house in a very-uncomfortable
condition of mind.

That fond parent, however, did her best ta
console him.

Girls of Nellie's age," she told him
seldom go out to dine — and you know, my
darling," she added, '' she did not know your
intentions."

No," said James, brightening, " of course
she didn't ! If she'd known I meant business
I bet you anything she'd come."

'' And you ideally do mean something serious,
James ? " asked Mrs. Saunders, looking lovingly
at her son.

I do," said James, solemnly. ^^ It's a
sacrifice, I know — a fellow has to give up a lot
of things when he marries — and women are
bothers with their great boxes to drag after one
on every occasion — still " — and " Puck " sighed
" if one has to do it once in one's life, I
want Nellie Blythe. She's awfully pretty, and
awfully jolly, and though Margaret's a poser,
and the old Major a bit of a bore, still I'll da
it — you may tell her tomorrow, mother, that
I'll do it, if you like ; and I mean what I say""

Armed with this manly resolution on the

part of James, Mrs. Saunders actually did
call the next day at the Blythes', and had an
interview with Margaret.

Margaret could not understand what she was
aiming at when she kept urging Nellie to dine
with them.

You see, my dear," she said, " I am most
anxious James should settle. A better boy
does not live — he's sweet-tempered like his
dear father, and straightforward and full of
pleasantry — but there it is — he's too high-spirited,
in fact, and wants a wife to sober him
down a bit — and I'm sure you'll persuade Miss
Nellie to come on Thursday."

''I really do not know what to say, Mrs.
launders," said Margaret. '' It's really very
kind of you, but "

James will be well off, too," continued the
anxious mother; ^^ very well off. His dear
father left over twenty thousand, and, of
course, it's all James's ; and this last year my
poor brother has gone to a better land, too, and
I've come in for seven hundred a-year more,
and I've made my will, and James has every
penny of it ! "

"He is a very fortunate young man," answered

Croesus's WIDOW.

Margaret, very gravely, for lie now thought
she began to perceive the drift of Mrs.
Saunders's words.

"And this wife will be a fortunate
young woman, I hope," said Mrs. Saunders,,
with rather a forced little laugh. " In fact,
my dear, I may as well tell you what I'm
driving at — James has taken a fancy to Miss
Nellie, and I'll be delighted to have it settled ;
and so I hope you'll all come to dine on
Thursday, and we can talk it over."

Margaret hesitated for a moment. She was-considering
the advantages of this proposal,
and in her eyes they were great. The Blythes^
were in truth very poor — so poor that James.
Saunders's prospects seemed actually wealth.
He was good-natured and he was young,
thought Maro'aret, and both these latter
qualities would suit Nellie.

It is most kind and flattering of you, Mrs.
Saunders," began Margaret. " Of course I can
say nothing — but "

'' You're so much older than Miss Nellie that
naturally your advice will have great influence
on her," continued Mrs. Saunders ; but our paragon's
brow clouded at this allusion to her age.

'Tm not so miicli older, Mrs. Saunders"'
she said.

'' Oh, no, my dear, I know you aie quite
young," quickly replied kindly Mrs. Saunders,
vexed with herself for having made such a
mistake, *' but what I mean is, you're so clever
and all that ; your sister is sure to think a
great deal of your opinion."

'' I have always tried to do my duty, Mrs.
Saunders," said Margaret, with conscious merit.

You always have done it, you mean, my
dear. My poor man, Y»'ho is gone now, always
admired you. He used to say there were few
like Miss margaret, and I feel sure if he were
alive to do it, he'd give James, and Miss Nellie
too, his blessing if they make a match of it."

Then am I authorised to speak to ni' sister
on this subject ? "

*' Of course, dear. James said he meant it
And, now I think of it, they're not unlike.
Both have such pretty round little features —
not quite regular, perhaps — but so full of expression
and fun. I call Miss Nellie's a sweet
face, and so I am sure is my James's."

Oh, fair Nellie Blythe ! fair Nellie Blythe 1
She was not a vain girl this — glorying very

little in her gifts of youth and beauty — but to
be called like " little Puck ! " Well was it for
Mrs. Saunders's matrimonial project that she
did not hear the comparison. As it was, Mrs.
Saunders returned to her James full of complacency.


"It's as good as settled, I consider, my
darling," she said to Puck ; and Puck's heart
sank a little at the news.

It's like hakim? a header in the sea on a
March morning," he said, with an attempt at
facetiousness. But, all the same, he did not feel
very comfortable. Matrimony at a distance,
and matrimony so near, seemed very different
things to little Puck.

In the meantime the girl, whom he was
making so sure of marrying, was planning a
meeting with the man to whom she had given
her foolish, innocent heart. Nellie" was not in
the least like a London girl. She was too poor,
and had lived too much out of the world, to
know anything about it. Ambition troubled
her not ; and as for society, she knew little or
nothing of it. The Major's income was too
small to afford ball dresses, even if Nellie had
had any balls to go to. She had never been at

school — Margaret being quite able to educate
her young sister— so she had no girl companions
of her own age. Margaret's friends were chiefly
art students or governesses, and the Major's
his ancient companions-informs, whom Nellie
naturally regarded as old men. As for young
men, she scarcely knew any. Little Puck, a
medical student or two, sons of their immediate
neighbours, were all the acquaintances Nellie-could
count until she met Lord Seaport.

Here was a young man whom the instructed
daughters of his class probably merely regarded
as good-looking, cynical, and fast. But the
uninstructed Nellie — comparing him with little
Puck and the medical students — saw a man
high-bred and graceful, and worthy of all her
foolish, innocent love.

And Lord Seaport. Never had this young
lord paused in his career of pleasure from
motives of prudence. He had paused from
weariness ; and, looking sadly and sourly back
over the past few years of this life, he freely
admitted to himself and others that at the best
he had but played the fooL

But was he wiser now ? A fresh and blooming
face had struck his fancy : and thoughtless.

and reckless as ever, lie wanted this fresh and
blooming face for this own. Nellie was so
sweet and fair, a young man might well be
forgiven for committing some folly for her sake ;
but Lord Seaport knew all the while he went
to meet Nellie Blythe that the folly of marrying
her was an impossible one for him.

Yet still he went to meet her. It was the
sold symbol of the moth and the flame. Sweet
Nellie Blythe was a very innocent flame, but
no less surely the luring light might prove
fatal in the end. But of this the young lord
never thought. He thought of the lovely
-colour that bloomed and deepened through
Nellie's smooth round cheeks, and he thought
it was pleasant that this young creature should
love him. In her pure love some of his lost
youth seemed to return. '' I cannot part with
Nellie," he sometimes told himself, and sometimes
the ruin that stared him in the face told
him that he must.

Nellie was writing to this young man when
Margaret, full of Mrs. Saunders' matrimonial
ideas, sought her after Mrs. Saunders had left.

"Nellie," began the elder sister, *' I have
just had a visit from Mrs. Saunders."

"Hatton told me lie was here' answered
Nellie, looking up from her letter with a smile.
Well, had the old lady any news ? "

'she has been telling me about her son's
prospects," said Margaret. '' Had you any
idea, Nellie, that young Mr. Saunders will be,
nay, is now, very rich ? His father left him
over twenty thousand pounds, and lately his
mother has had seven hundred a year left hers
and young James is to get it all."

'lucky little Puck," said Nellie.

*' Nellie, dear, I wish you wouldn't use those
foolish nick-names. I do not like to hear
them — they are not lady-like, ont to a person
of young Mr. Saunders's prospects they are
certainly not appropriate."

Nellie laughed.

Young Mr. James Saunders has my hearty
congratulations, then, ^1 margaret. Is that a proper
way of putting it ? " she said.

I want you to be in earnest, dear," said
Margaret. " In fact, Nellie, I have a motive
for telling you about ]mr. James's prospects,
and so had his mother. She wishes him ta
settle in life — she thinks a wife would sober
him—"

'' IVe heard he wants a little sobering,"
land-hed Nellie,

o

There is nothing; against him," said
Margaret. " He has been a good son, and to
be a good soq or daughter means to be a good
husband or wife. I judge by myself — I have
tried, as you know, to be a good daughter, and
I have no doubt that I shall make a goodwife."


Mr. Vyner will be the gainer, then, Margaret,"
said Nellie, looking very kindly at her
sister.

'* Yes, I think — I am sure, I shall make
Walter happy. But I want you to be happy
also, dear — and I think, as Mr. James is so well
off, and so good-natured — "

Then Nellie looked straight up in her sister's
face with a loyal light shining in her eyes.

'' You are not in earnest about this, surely,
Margaret ? " she said. *' You don't really mean
that you want me to think of marrying little
Puck?"

Why not, Nellie ? Mrs. Saunders wishes
it, and Mr. James Saunders wishes it."

Do not speak of such a thing any more,
Margaret," said Nellie, earnestly — and she laid

her hand softly on the letter she was writing
" for it can never, never be."

I cannot see why, Nellie ? "

That is easily answered — because I do not
care for him — because I can never care for him."

Girls change about these things."

**I will not" — and again the loyal light shone
in the blue eyes — '' I will never change ! "

She was thinking of Lord Seaport — Lord
Seaport, who was sitting at that moment
in Nora Trelawn's gorgeously - furnished
drawing-room, looking at Nora with his weary
eyes, and wondering with his weary heart if
he could sufficiently forget Nellie to make up
his mind to ask Croesus's widow to be his wife.

But he did not make up his mind. Looking
at Nora, he still saw Nellie Blythe's sweet, fresh
face. He was not loyal to his love — he was
never loyal. He lacked the simple faith, the
fidelity of a larger mind. Yet he was in love
with the girl ; in love, as he could love ; and sole
did not progress in his wooing of Nora.

Still he sometimes went and talked to the
dark-eyed widow, and Lady Stainbrooke gave
him every encouragement to do so. This lady
had decided, from the time that she had heard

that the breath of life had quitted John
Trehxwn's big body, that her niece, Nora, was
sure to marry again, and therefore she naturally
wished that she might marry well. To marry
well according to Lady Stainbrooke's ideas
meant to marry for certain worldly advantages.
Nora had wealth, so she now wanted rank,
thought her ladyship and her ladyship therefore
smiled on, and ogled the young lord who
lived next door, as she had smiled and ogled in
the days when her own eyes were bright, and
when her heart was not perhaps so worldly as
it was nov'.

The young lord rather liked the worldly old
woman, for she helped to amuse him ; but Lady
Stainbrooke's company was gaul and wormwood
to his proud mother.

"You need never see her — afterwards — you
know," she once said to her son.

Not my dear, dingy old aunt ! Mother,
how heartless you are. I shall, I assure you,
pay her the most tender attention."

If you would but be in earnest, Seaport,"
urged his mother.

*' About Lady Stainbrooke ? " laughed the
young lord.

With an impatient gesture Lady Seaport
turned away. Yet that boyish laugh rang in
her ears. It recalled his bright youth — the
gay and gallant boy for whom she had hooded so
much — hopes that one by one had faded and
died away.

KOS ELAND.

Another mau also came occasionally and satin
Nora's gorgeously-farnislied drawing-rooms
on whom Lady Staiubrooke did not smile so
sweetly as she did on the spendthrift young
lord.

This was Vyner. Here again was the moth
and the flame. In this case the moth was
strong and clear-eyed. He knew the flame
was dangerous, but he depended upon his
strength. " I will q:o so far and no further.

o o

I did love this gentle woman, and I do love her,.
but I am bound in honour to another. Still, I
cannot quite forget my friendship for Nora — -
cannot forget that but for a wicked old woman
Nora would now have been my happy wife."

Thinking thus, Vyner went occasionally to-see
Nora. She was his friend — had been his

friend in the old happy days — and he was not
going to turn coldly away. So he hovered
near the flame, strong and clear eyed. " There
is no danger if I do not go too near' said the
moth ; " and why should I not gladden my
sight occasionally by a gleam of sweet, pure
light ? "

Poor moth, poor flame ! It is well to be
strong and clear eyed; bat safer to go away
into darkness. The world seemed very dark
and weary now to Yyner unless he saw Nora,
and so he did see her, and Lady Stainbrooke's
blinking brown eyes sometimes showed their
disapproval of his visits.

But Lady Stainbrooke was too much a woman
of the world to be uncourteous to Yyner. He
was a famous man, for one thing ; for another
thing it was Nora's house, and not Lady Stain-brooke's
; and the old woman knew this as well
axis anyone else did.

One close evening in the middle of July,
then,Vyner was sitting in Nora's drawing-room.
There were also present General Stainbrooke
and his wife, and Nora.

The old General was but a wreck now. There
were days, nay weeks, when he was never seen

in the drawing-room, when he retired; and
during these days and weeks he did not see-much
of Lady Stainbrooke.

But Nora was always very good to him.
She pitied him, racked with his sore pains, and
drifting away from his little tinsel-gilt life
Poor man ! he had even survived his age. He-belonged
to a school that had grown too fusty
for the world — that had passed away, leavings
^t is to be hoped, newer and purer academies
behind it.

'rand where do you think the General and I
are going tomorrow, Mr. Yyner," said Nora,,
looking smilingly at the painter, a pause
having occurred a moment before in the
conversation.

How can I tell I Well, where ?" said Yyner.

'' To Eoseland ? " answered Nora, still
smiling. " Is not that a pretty name ? "

'' Eoseland ! " repeated Yyner. " And where
is Eoseland ? And are you going to Eoseland,,
General?" he shouted to the old soldier.

The General emitted his cackling; laude, and
showed all his great yellow teeth.

Where she goes I follow," he said.
"Always my way, Mr. Yyner — if a pretty

woman went before me I was after lier — always
my way."

*' A very shocking way," laughed Yyner.
*' But where, Mrs. Trelawn, really, is Koseland ?"

Nora cast down her eyes, and a soft colour
stole over her face before she answered.

*' When Mr. Trelawn — when my husband
was alive, Mr. Vyner," she said, 'ewe had a
little river yacht — "

*' You had everything, my dear," said Lady
Stainbrooke, with a little nod of her head at
Vyner, pleased to give him a slight passing
scratch.

He was very good to me," continued Nora,
still with her eyes cast down ; " and, as I was
saying, we had a yacht ; and one day on the
river, such a charming scent of roses came
floating towards us that I asked Mr, Trelawn
to stop the yacht, and we landed to try to get
some roses if we could. Close to where we
landed, a pretty little house in a garden, which
sloped to the river edge, caught our attention,
and John and I — Mr. Trelawn and myself —
stood looking over the gate, and inside there
was absolutely a rose show. I never saw such
beautiful roses. And whilst we were standing

VOL I. . F

looking, a young lady appeared in the garden,
and passed close to the gate. ' We are admiring
your roses,' my husband said to her, and she
stopped and looked at us with a very wintry
smile. ' Yes, they are pretty,' she said,
and she shrugged her shoulders. * They are
beautiful ! ' answered my husband. ' I suppose
we could not buy some of them ? ' * No, they
are not for sale ; but I will give you some,' said
the young lady. ' Will you come in ? ' "

"This is quite a romance," said Yyner,
smiling, as Nora paused in her story.

*^ A very prosaic romance, as it turned
out," answered Nora, smiling also. " But to
go on with my romance. The young lady not
only cut us the most lovely bunch of roses in
the world, but she told us her little history.
She had married an old and eccentric man fora
home, and the old and eccentric man's chief
passion was roses. So the young lady — not
unnaturally, perhaps — was sick of roses. She
told me their scent absolutely sometimes made
her feel quite ill, and she was weary of her rose
garden, and I fear also of her husband, and her
home. John — Mr. Trelawn — was very fond of
flowers, and before we parted with our young

lady he put his card in her hand. ' If ever you
can persuade your husband he said, ' to part
with this place, will you let me know ? ' and the
young lady promised to do so, and seemed very
pleased at the idea. But months passed away,
and we heard nothing from her. It was six
months afterwards, I think, when one day a
black-edged envelope came to John, and when
he opened it he found it was from the lady of
the roses, as we had christened her. Her
eccentric husband was dead, he had left her his
rose garden, and she would be glad to part
with it. Such were the contents of her letter,
and John was glad to buy it. It is a pretty
little place, and I asked leave to call it Foreland
; and just now, when the roses are in their
bloom, it is quite lovely. John bought a little
land that joins it, and I have a cow there, and
I make butter, and I have eggs," laughed Nora;
and, in fact, I am a farmers in a small way

^ when I go to Rosalind."

cj\ "And you like the country life? asked

r.;Vyner.

Far better than the town. My tastes are
really very simple," answered Nora.

All very fine, my dear," said Lady Stains



brooke ; '' very fine, and very pretty, to play
at simplicity sometimes among your roses,
when the sun is shining and the sky is blue.
But what about a real country life that your
young friend of the roses lived with her tiresome
old man ? She did not enjoy it, it seems.
No ; solitude and sentiment are like poverty —
very well to have a peep at, and talk about, but
very bad to bear when they are forced upon us."

"You are not given to sentiment. Lady
Stainbrooke ? " said Vyner, with a slight curl
of his lip.

No," answered that lady briskly ; " and the
consequence is, Mr. Vyner, that I have done
well for myself and my family, and that Nora
has now Eoseland to go to, if she will excuse
me making the remark."

For a moment Nora looked annoyed, then
she said, very quietly —

Well, at all events, Mr. Vyner, I hope you
will come and see Eoseland ? "

"I shall be but too happy," said Vyner. And
so it happened shortly after this, that, amid the
golden glory of a summer afternoon, Newfound
himself walking by the river edge in
search of Eoseland.

He never forgot the picture that lie saw
when he first entered Nora's garden. She was
standing beneath her white sunshade, leaning on
a little moss-grown wall, and gazing with a faraway
look in her dark eyes at the river beyond.

She did not see him until he was quite close
to her — until he almost touched her arm. The
wearied look that he remembered on her face
in her wedded days had passed away from it.
Fair she had always been in Yyner's eyes, but
never so fair as now, with the sweet pensive
smile of hope lingering round her tremulous
lips, as she stood in the sunlit garden.

Vyner did not speak. His eyes were fixed on
the picturesque face and the picturesque form.
But a slight movement that he unconsciously
made attracted Nora's attention, and she looked
round, and with a start recognised Yyner.

"You!" she said.

*' Yes," he answered ; and then for a moment
they stood hand-clasped, until, with womanly
shyness, Nora turned away.

I must show you my roses," she said,
nervously.

"Yes," again answered Vyner, and he followed
Nora all over her sweet-scented domain.

It was literally as slice had told him, a rose
garden. The rarest and most beautiful roses
were here, and every species and variety ever
reared by the hand of man. And the wild
crimson hedge-rose was blooming among the-rest.
There were no other flowers, only the
roses, and Vyner was charmed with the beauty
of the effect.

'' Amongst all this wealth," he said, '' do you
think you can afford to give me one ? "

*eyes, or even a bunch," smiled Nora, in
reply.

I shall be content with one," he said ; and
Nora stooped down and gathered him a moss
rosebud.

I think you will like this," she said, " better
than the grand ones."

Vyner did not answer. He took the rosebud,
and the hand that held it. They were
close to the moss-grown wall where Nora had
been leaning when Vyner first entered the
garden, and which separated the grounds of
Eoseland from the narrow pathway by the
river edge.

A little moss-grown parapet of stone. The
damps and mists from the river had stained it

green, and the moss flourished on it, and the
ive crept round its time-worn basement. Here
Vyner leaned with Nora, hand-clasped, the
rosebud between the love-bound fingers.

All sunlight ! The glory of the sun on the
river and meadow lands, and the flowers — and
Nora's heart, for did not the man she loved
love her ? she was whispering to herself ; and
so the glory and brightness of her life seemed full.

But suddenly Vyner dropped the hand and
the rose ; dropped the rose in forgetfulness, but
the hand meaningly. He had remembered
Margaret Blythe, and a cloud had arisen in the
sky.

Nora looked surprised. She saw the rosebud
fall, and she saw the cloud come over Vyner's
face, and she wondered at the cause. Then,
after a moment's reflection, she thought that
she had guessed it.

'' It is because I am rich," she thought. *' Ah,
Walter, how can you so misjudge my heart ? "
How is the General ? " asked Vyner,
abruptly, the next minute.

*' I left him sitting reading the papers under
the awning of the verandah," answered Nora.
""^ Will you come and talk to him ? "

The verandah ran along the whole of the
front of the one-storied house. John Trelawn
had built this verandah after he had bought
Koseland, and it was therefore fitted up with
every luxury that wealth could supply.

Sitting beneath the shade of its pink-and-white
striped awnings, they found the GeneraL
The verandah itself was very pretty ; roses
were trained up its rustic pillars, and on a
rustic table at the General's elbow a dish of
splendid strawberries was standing. The old
General was reading the newspaper with " spectacles
on nose," as they approached him ; but
no sooner did he see them than he hastily
removed these useful but unornamental instruments,
and shuffled them into his coat pocket.

*'Ah, Mr. Yyner," he said, with his grand air,
holding out one of his lean and crippled hands,
but not rising to welcome the painter, for-indeed
he could not. " So you have found us
realising. A pretty spot ; and my niece, Mrs.
Trelawn, becomes her roses, eh? Sweets to
the sweets, eh ? That's about it ! Ha, ha, ha!"

*eyes," said Vyner, turning round, and
looking quietly at Nora with his grey, handsome
eyes, "she becomes her roses."

Nora blushed like a girl.

It's pleasant to get out of the world sometimes,
eh, Mr. Yyner ? " continued the old
soldier. *you painters, I suppose, get your
ideas — your — whatever d ye call them ? "

Inspirations ! " suggested Nora, in her
loudest tone, in the General's ear.

Don't speak quite so loud, my love," said
the General, rubbing that organ with an injured
air. '^ Inspirations ! — ah, ah, to be sure — so
you call your pictures inspirations, d'ye, Mr.
Yyner ? Devilish bad inspirations, then, some
pictures are, that's all I can say. Ha, ha, ha ! "

Yyner laughed heartily at this sally.

'don't be so hard on us. General!" he
shouted.

^'Bitof a judge, you know," said the General.
*' Like a bit of colour — always did — and ' the
light that lies in woman's eyes' — that's my
taste still — can admire a pretty woman still,
painted or unpainted 1 "

Again Yyner laughed — this time grimly.

*' But you painters — you modern men, I
mean — don't come up to my ideas of beauty,"
continued the General. " I like colour, flesh,
plumpness, &c."

*' No woman can be beautiful in my eyes''
said Yyner, " unless sbe lias a beautiful mind
beauty to me is the semblance of the
soul."

** Of the soul ! What the deuce has the
soul to do with it ? You can't paint a soul ? "
said the General, testily, for he had not quite
caught Yyner's words.

But I can recognise it," said Yyner.

'* I am a practical man," proceeded the
General, '^ and a pretty face is composed of fine
features, according to my ideas, and of a fine
skin, and not of soul. But Nora, my love,
won't Mr. Yyner taste your strawberries ? They
are very fine."

You are a practical man to some purpose
now," laughed Yyner, and he sat down by the
General's table and ate some of his strawberries.

But by-and-by the General's head began to
nod. He tried — ever gallant — to keep himself
awake in the presence of a lady, but the worn-out
old machine wanted rest, and rest it would
have. Yyner's voice grew distant and dim in
his ears, and Nora's unheard. He had fallen
asleep, and presently announced this fact by
loud and discordant snores.

Yyner and Nora looked at each other and
-smiled.

Poor old man ! " said Nora, softly.

"It's well to be old," said Vyner, in the
bitterness of his heart — he still remembered
Margaret. " Age deadens our feelings. Yes, it
is well to be old."

MARGARET SETTLES IT.

While Nora and Yyner were wandering
together in the rose garden by the river, fate
in the shape of Margaret Blythe, was preparing
to end such meetings.

Margaret was wonderfully self-reliant and
self-satisfied. Still, a feeling of uneasiness of
late had been creeping over Margaret's mind
regarding Vyner s manner towards herself.

He had never been a very demonstrative
lover. But he had been kinder, tenderer,,
surely, to her once ? Again and again Margaret
had thought this, and she had thought
also, could there be any cause, and if so, that
it were well to discover it.

Once or twice, when she had asked him to-spend
the evening with them, he had said he
was engaged.

And where are you going, Walter ? "
Margaret had asked.

To ]airs. Trelawn's — she is an old friend of
mine," Walter had answered ; and Margaret
began to ponder about this old friend, and
by-and-by heard that she was rich, and that
she was a widow — that she went by the name
of " Croesus's widow."

You knew this lady long ago, then, Walter''
Margaret said one day, alluding to Nora.

** Yes," answered Vyner, very briefly.

*' Before she was married ? " asked Margaret.

Yes," again answered Vyner, and then he
began to talk quickly on some other subject.

But Margaret did not forget this conversation
about Croesus's widow. She remembered it,
and determined to act upon it. She was
motherless, but so self-reliant a young woman
required no mother.

Father," she said, addressing the blind
Major a few days afterwards, her usual equal
measured tones being a little disturbed, " don't
you think that it is time that something was
definitely settled about — my marriage ? "

The Major lifted his bent head with a slightly
surprised air.

Well, my dear," he said, " of course, if you
and Mr. Yyner wish it. It will be a great loss
to me ; but little Nellie and I must get on as
best we can."

'^ Dear father," said Margaret — for she really
was a good daughter — " I would not be happy
if I were to leave you. No ; I have a different
scheme to propose. Nellie is a dear little girl,
but she is scarcely competent to take charge of
a household, I think. What I wish is this —
that you will live with myself and Walter, and
that Nellie will marry young Mr. Saunders and
live in the house with the old lady."

What, little Puck ! " exclaimed the Major.
Why, Margaret, what an idea ! "

Father, it is a very good idea. But I wish
you would not call James Saunders 'little
Puck,' just as Nellie does. Do you know how
well off he is, father ? Mrs. Saunders herself
told me a day or two before we dined there
last that the old doctor left James over twenty
thousand pounds, and Mrs. Saunders has lately
been left seven hundred a year by her brother,
and this also goes to James."

The blind Major sighed. Want of money
had been one of the burdens that he had been

called upon to bear all his life. He had married
for love, and it had been all that he could do
to pay his way and pass as an honest man
among his fellows. He was very poor,
and small luxuries and even comforts were
unknown in the economical household managed
by Margaret's careful hand.

James Saunders's prospects, therefore, seemed
to open a vista of wealth to the poverty-stricken
Major. He was a good, simple man this —
simple and God-fearing — but he was not a man
of keen perceptions. His sightless eyes, of
course, had never beheld the common, comic
face of "little Puck." He might be a good
fellow enough, thought the Major, but Nellie
was his darling.

'' He may be rich' he said ; " but Margaret,
my dear, unless Nellie likes him, I could not
urge her to think of him — besides, do you
know that the young man wishes this ? "

'* His mother formally proposed for him,"
answered Margaret. ''I told her Nellie had
never thought of young Mr. James ; that we
were not girls to think of young men until we
were asked to do so ; but I advised her to tell
Mr. James to come here sometimes, and I feel

sure Nellie, who knows now from me that lie
seriously admires her, will think of him —
could very easily learn to care for him, if she
chose."

"But she may not choose."

Father, you know how annoyed I was about
Lord Seaport. I have since learned from
Walter that this young lord bears a terrible
character. Among fast men he is one of the
fastest, and at one time I feared — I wish to be
quite honest with you — that Nellie liked him too
well for her own happiness."

'* I pray God not — my poor, innocent darling,"
murmured the Major.

This is one reason I am so anxious she
should marry," continued Margaret. *' As for
marrying Lord Seaport, that of course is out
of the question. His rank would prevent it for
one thing, and for another I. am told he is
absolutely overwhelmed with debt. The sooner,
therefore, that Nellie forgets him the better."

*' Yes, indeed," said the Major.

"And James Saunders is young and rich,
and very good-natured," urged Margaret, "and
is really fond of Nellie. Mrs. Saunders says
he is very fond, and he will settle money on

her, and altogether it is a good match. Now,
don't yon think so, father ? "

'eyes, if the little one likes him."

Oh, girls like Nellie easily like and dislike.
Yon persuade her to think of him, father. And
now about something else — about AValter ? "

"Well, dear?"

^' Walter is very well off now — he gets great
prices for his pictures, and he must be saving
money very fast, for he does not spend much.
And I do not see why we should not be married
at once. In fact, dear father, I want you to
speak to him. It is so wearing to a girl to
have a long engagement, and I think it should
be settled."

The Major was silent. He was a gentleman,
and he felt that the task his daughter proposed
for him was anything but a pleasant one.

It would be so nice if it were aU settled,"
continued Margaret. ** Walter can quite afford
to take a good house, and you could live with
us, and I am sure we would be all very happy
together — for I have the gift, I think, of
retaining affection."

But, my dear," said the Major, " I could
not possibly propose to Mr. Yyner to live with

you. Of course, as you say, it is very wearing
to a woman, a Ions: eno-aoremcnt, and I can ask
him to settle it ; but as for proposing to live
with him myself, it is out of the question."

*but, father, Walter is just a man to honour
filial affection. He knows your affliction binds-you
closer to me. I am sure he would not
wish us to part, and I am sure also that I can
make you both very happy."

My dear Margaret, any offer of this kind
must come from Yyner. I will speak to him,
if you wish, about your marriage ; but ' I will
certainly not speak to him about anything else."

Well, dear father, as you please. If you will
kindly speak to him about making arrangements
for our marriage, I dare say I shall be
able to manage the rest, for I have a great deal
of influence on Walter."

Up the river in the rose garden, on the very
day when this conversation took place, Walter
was standing hand-in-hand with Nora Trelawn.
Up the river in the rose garden the painter, with
fast-beating pulses and a heart stirred to its very
depths, was leaning on the little stone-work
parapet, close, very close, to sweet Nora
Trelawn. Nora in her soft womanly prime,.

with the sunlight in her eyes and in her heart I

o

ey

But the painter was to pay a very bitter price
for his brief forgetfulness. When he returned
in the evening from Eoseland he found a note
lying on his table at home from his betrothed
Margaret. It was to invite him to call on the
following: evenings, " as mv father has a few
words to say to you, dear AValter," wrote
Margaret ; and Yyner felt that he could scarcely
refuse to go.

So about eight o'clock he found himself
ringing at the ]viator's door-bell. Hatton,
her quaint face shining with soap for the
occasion, opened the door, grinning her welcome.


Tea's in, sir," she said, " and they're waiting
for ye ; " and then she opened the little sitting-room
door.

In the room Vyner found the two sisters,
'' Little Puck, " and the blind Major. " Little
Puck " was describing a piece he had seen acted
the night before. Some little humour had
^' Puck," and the facetious contortions of his
face were making Nellie laugh in spite of
herself " Puck " felt that he was successful ;
and, as he afterwards declared to his fond

parent, ''a wet blanket seemed to be thrown:
over the whole party when Vyner walked in''

There was some truth in this. Vyner himself,
with care on his handsome face, certainly
did not look in a humour to add to any
conviviality. Margaret was anxious and the
Major uncomfortable. And Nellie ? Ah, Nellie
there was care in your heart also — care and
great anxiety, and a secret too — for on the
morrow she had promised to meet Lord Sea-forth,
and give him an answer to a question
which he had asked before.

But Margaret was always composed in
manner, whatever were her secret anxieties.
She rose and received Vyner with a smile,.
poured out some tea for him, and talked to him
about the weather and his pictures.

"And have you finished the painting you
call ' Eve ? ' " asked Margaret.

"No; I have turned its face to the wall'"
answered Vyner.

"It certainly was not my conception of
Eve,' " replied Margaret's even tones. "What
do you think, father ? Should she be a bright,
dark, certainly rather a pretty woman, like-walter
had drawn her ; or a lovely, soft, fair

piece of perfection, as I always mentally pictured
our first mother ? "

'*I should say the soft fair piece of perfection,"
said the Major. " But I am no judge of art."

Is your ' Eve ' a fancy sketch or a portrait,"
asked Margaret. " I should say a portrait."

'' I hardly know," answered Yyner.

It must be good fun to be able to paint —
pretty faces especially," said little Puck. '' Once
thought of being an artist myself — can sketch
away little heads, you know, and all that lot ;
but to be the regular thing — to go in for it,
you know, requires heaps, piles of work, and
I'm too — what dye call it, for that ? "

'* Too volatile," suggested Yyner.

Little Puck laughed good-naturedly. He
was, in truth, really good-natured. A vain
little fellow, but, as his adoring mother had said,.
^' he had a good heart."

Presently Margaret whispered a word in her
father's ear, and the blind Major rose obediently,
and, assisted by Margaret, groped his way out of
the room, going to a small sitting-room at the
back of the house, which Margaret called ^^ My
father's study."

** My father's study " was very dingy. The

outward signs and indications of poverty are
like the grains of sea sand upon the shore. The
poor little packets of groceries, the miserable little
^scrag-ends of meat, washed-out covers, darned,
faded carpets, black horsehair, with the white
seams of age and bareness appearing on the
surface. All these signs were to be seen in
the Major's household, and the dingiest and
poorest-looking place of all was *' my father's
study."

Here in his everlasting darkness the blind
Major mostly lived. Always in the night —
and yet, who knows ? Have the blind ever
visions — glimpses perhaps, of things beyond,
which we of earthly ken cannot see ?

Margaret having carefully escorted her father
to his room, went back to the front sitting-room
and sat down for a moment or two by the side
of her betrothed, Walter Yyner.

*' Walter, dear," she said, " will you go into
my father's study for a few moments, for he
is anxious to speak to you about — something
important ? "

"Certainly," answered Vyner, and he rose
and went into the Major's study.

Major Blythe was looking a little disturbed

as lie entered. The task which Margaret had
prepared for him was not a pleasant one to a
man of delicate feelings. Still the Major felt
that if Margaret wished it, it was his duty to
speak to Yyner. Vyner, unsuspicious of what
was before him, addressed the Major in his
usual manner.

"Well, Major," he said, 'margaret tells me
you want to speak to me."

'eyes, a few words," answered the Major,,
nervously. "You see, my dear fellow, my —
my girls have no mother — "

Then Yyner knew what was coming.

You lost your wife when they were very
young, did you not ? " he said, nervously also.

Yes, poor darling — she left me when little
Nell was almost a baby — but she has had a
mother in Margaret. Margaret is an excellent
girl, Yyner — a girl in a thousand."

I am sure of that."

But you see, girls who are engaged get
unsettled. In fact, my dear Yyner, Margaret
is unsettled — and — and I think it is time that
something was arranged about her marriage."

For a moment or two Yyner was silent.
For a moment or two a cold, dead, physical

pain crept into this heart, and with an effort he
roused himself to answer.

You mean," he said, *' she wishes — "

'' She wishes the time of her marriage to be
fixed. It is only natural, you see, Yyner, and
she asked me to speak to you ; and I am sure
you will do everything in your power to please
her."

'' I will see about — arranging it," said Yyner,
slowly. He did not blame Major Blythe. He
knew he had no right as an honourable man to
ask another man's daughter to marry him, and
not be ready to fulfil that engagement. But
this conversation came as a blow to him — a
sudden, bitter blow.

But yesterday — but yesterday at Eoseland I
And now that dream must be ended — ended as
it had ended five long years ago, in bitter
disappointment and pain.

I will see Margaret," he said, struggling to
speak calmly, *rand — and I suppose we will
-settle it."

** Yes, do, my dear fellow ! and let me tell
you, you are a lucky man. Margaret has been
a pattern daughter, and she will make a pattern
wife."

The lucky man " laughed feebly, and then
rose to leave the Major's study, and he hoped
the house. But Margaret, who had been listening
for his footstep, opened the front
sitting-room door, as he was seeking for his
hat in the little hall, and at once advanced
towards him.

"You are not going, are you, Walter
surely ? " she said.

** I have some work to do, Margaret's
answered Vyner, 'so I must be off at once."

Has — has my father said anything to you?"^
asked Margaret, anxiously.

Yes — and we will talk it over the next
time I come. Good-night, Margaret." And
Margaret held up her face to receive her lover's-kiss.


** Good-night, dearest," she whispered. "You
will come tomorrow, then — and we will settle
it."

It was starlight when Vyner went out. . Intimes
of great mental darkness, do not the still
heavens seem to mock our woe ? There —
serene, unmoved, star-diadems, while we stand
passion-toss'd, impotent in our rage or grief

Here was Yyner — a painter, a man who loved
this work and God's work, and who had lived
believing that yon blue luminous vault above
but veils from us greater glories ; yet here was
Vyner looking upwards with a curse on his lips,
and with his hands clenched, and with weariness,
nay, rage in his heart, at all things on earth
below.

Why had he hung this stone about his neck ?
he was asking himself. Why had he been permitted
in his blindness to do so ? He had
never loved Margaret Blythe. He had respected
and admired her for her meritorious endeavours
to assist her family, and he had believed her
to be a good woman, and seen that she liked
him, and feeling unsettled, and not very happy,
he had drifted into an engagement with her.

When he knew more of her, he saw how
narrow and self-appreciative her mind was ; he
saw, in fact, that they were unsuited to each
other ; and shortly after he had come to this
conclusion he met again the one woman that
he had ever really loved. He learned that this
one woman was a widow ; and he learned also,
when he looked in her dark eyes, that this one
woman loved him still.

*' Why, then," he asked, in the great bitterness
of his soul, after his interview with Major
Blythe, *^ had a wicked old woman been permitted
to spoil two lives by a miserable lie ? "
But for this Nora might have been his happy
wife, her children prattling by his knee.

So there was great darkness on the soul of
Vyner. He felt that he was bound hand and
foot, and he felt also that honour at once demanded
a bitter sacrifice from him, which was
to tell Nora of his engagement to Margaret
Blythe.

*' I will go to Koseland tomorrow," he told
himself, wandering up and down with impatient
strides in the terrace where he lived, beneath,
the starlight. *' Yes, she shall know ; and I
would rather be dead than do what is now
forced upon me."

IN WHICH NORA FORGETS HERSELF.

He went the next day to Eoseland. He went
in the evening, and to his great annoyance
found "that wicked old woman," as he had
mentally called Lady Stainbrooke so many
times the night before, sitting admiring the
sunset in the rose garden with her husband and
Nora.

Lady Stainbrooke was in good humour, for
she had just enjoyed a good dinner, and she
held out her yellow claw-like hand, glittering
with the diamonds she had contrived to pick
lip during her long sojourn in India, to welcome
the painter as he approached them.

But Vyner did not take it. He shook hands
with Nora and Sir Thomas, but bowed coldly
enough to her ladyship, who, however, only
gave a little laugh.

What ! " she said, '' have I offended you 1 "

"We never were very good friends, Lady
Stainbrooke," answered Vyner.

"No, no!" said Lady Stainbrooke, nodding
lier head. *' All the same, in your inmost heart,
I believe you must feel very much obliged tome."
And again Lady Stainbrooke laughed,
this time with rather a wicked ring in it, for
she believed that Vyner came courting Nora
for the money that John Trelawn had left
behind.

Vyner quite understood her little insinuation.
He stood there grim, pale, and handsome,
looking at this " miserable old woman," as he
was mentally designating her, and wishing her
well, the painter was angry, so we need not
follow all his thoughts.

But Nora tried to be a peace-maker.

Even Lady Stainbrooke is charmed with
my roses, Mr. Vyner," she said smiling.

*' Of course I am, my dear," said that lady.
*' I am charmed with your roses because they
are pretty, and are cared for by a good gardener,
for whom you can afford to pay. And I am
charmed also with your cows, and your ducks
and chickens, because they, too, have everything

they require. But I would not be-charmed
with any of them if they were not
merely a whim of a rich woman ; realising for
amusement, and realising for life, are two very
different things."

Mr. Vyner has not seen my cows, nor my
ducks and chickens, aunt, which you despise"'
said Nora. "Shall we show them to him now ?"

*' I am very well where I am, my dear,"
answered her aunt drily.

I should like of all things to see them"'
said Vyner eagerly.

Come with me, then," said Nora. And as
the painter followed her, Lady Stainbrooke
rose and screamed her opinion into her deaf
General's ear.

*' My opinion is," she said, '' that Nora will-make
a fool of herself and marry that man. It
is a thousand pities, when Lord Seaport would,.
I am sure, be only too glad to have her."

"What folly ! " said the General, testily, in
reply. " What makes you think, madam, she
will take this painter fellow ? "

*' Because," answered Lady Stainbrooke,
grimly, " she is insane enough, I believe, to been
love."

The General grunted. This couple were not
in lore with each other — had not been in love
for thirty years. They snarled at each other,
and were very clear eyed about each other's
faults, but they went on living with each other
in all probability would so live until two of
their bleared and worldly eyes were closed forevermore.
That these would be the General's
eyes Lady Stainbrooke was very happily
persuaded. She frequently talked of "when
Tm a widow," but the old man was in no hurry
to place her in that position.

meanwhile let us follow Nora and Vyner.
Nora went bareheaded, with a rosy flush on
her soft cheeks, and with her eyes cast down
so that she never noticed how pale Yyner was,
or how gloomy, as he walked by her side.

Nora's cows lived in a little field at one side
of the rose garden, separated from it by a
highly ornamental paling which was thickly
trained with rose trees. A rustic gateway led
through this paling to the field beyond, but as
Nora laid her hand on the gate to open it
Vyner prevented her.

"I do not really care about seeing your
cows, Nora," he said, with rather a painful

smile. " Will you put on your hat and walk
down by the river with me ? I — I — have
something to say to you."

Nora looked up surprised. Then she saw
how pale and agitated Vyner really was, and
she at once did what he asked.

Wait here for me a moment, then," she
said ; and she went into the house for her hat,,
while Vyner, leaning on the paling, was nerving
himself for the bitter task before him.

He looked round when he heard her return,,
and then, without a word, the two together
quitted the grounds of Koseland.

They went down by the darkening river, for
the sun had set now, and dusky shadows had
fallen on the water. Still in silence. Nora
was nervous, and Yyner trying to frame his
cruel news in gentle words. Then with sudden
passion and abruptness he spoke, feeling that
gentle words were vain.

Nora," he said, " I have come to tell you
something to-night that I would rather tear
my tongue from my mouth than utter."

What is it, Walter ? " asked Nora,,
trembling.

*' Let me go back," said Yyner, still in the

same agitated and passion-broken voice, "to
the days long ago — to the days when you were
a young girl, and — and I loved you then,
Nora."

Nora did not speak. She put her hand
softly on the painter's arm.

I went back to Warbrooke," continued
Vyner, "to ask you to be my wife. I was
poor then — a man who had a struggle to live —
but something in your face had told me that
you were a good woman — that you would
marry a man because you loved him, and not
because he was rich."

You know how it was," said Nora, in a low
tone.

"I am coming to that. I went back to
Warbrooke then, and found that you were gone.
I was received coldly enough at your father s
house, but I learned in the little town that you
had gone to live with your father's sister. Lady
Stainbrooke, in London, and that you were
expected by your family to make a good marriage
there."

"You did not believe that?"

No, I did not. I told myself the little girl
I love will do nothing of the kind — she will

VOL. I. G

wait for me — wait till I can make a home for
her."

Yyner's voice broke here, and Nora clasped
his arm closer.

"Hush," she said, "do not talk of these
painful things. They are all over now. My
poor husband is dead now."

Yes," said Yyner, bitterly, " and you are
free ! The cursed story that Lady Stainbrooke
invented to part us was not true, as you know,
then, Xora, but now — "

There is no lie to part us now, Walter,"
said Nora firmly, "I am free and you are free — "

No ! " interrupted Yyner hoarsely. " That
wicked, miserable old woman's work is not yet
done. Nora, months and months ago — when
you were Mr. Trelawn's wife — there crossed
my path a woman — I believe a good woman — "

But Nora stopped him with a sudden cry.

You are not married ! " she said. " Walter,
tell me " (and she clung with trembling hands
to his arm), " surely you are not married ? "

No," he answered, averting his eyes from
her frightened, appealing face ; " not married —
but bound by a promise that I cannot break."

Nora grew faint and cold.

"It cannot be," she said, still clinmnp'to this
arm. " Walter, it cannot be ! "

What can I say, Nora ? " answered Vyner,
clasping her cold and nerveless hand. " You
know how it is — I cared for you long ago — I
care for you now — but we are parted. In a
moment of madness, I think — feeling sad,
lonely, and dissatisfied with my lot, I asked
Margaret Blythe to be my wife. She is a good
woman — I have nothing to say against her —
but when I saw you again I knew I had made
a fatal mistake."

Nora could not now control the bitter emotion
of her heart. Her eyes filled with tears, and
she trembled so violently that Yyner asked her
to sit down on the river bank.

It was a very lonely spot where they were,
and as they sat down, with a sort of moan
Nora covered her face with her hand.

'• I have suffered so much," she said, " no
one knows how much, in those long years —
and now — now — "

There was a weary hopelessness in her tone,
which touched Yyner to the quick.

If I could do anything, Nora," he said,
earnestly, '' anything, anything, I would do it.

g2

But Margaret Blytlie is poor — I got to know
lier through a friend, who thought that perhaps
in time she might become an illustrator of
books, and so introduced her to me to see if I
would push her on. This very fact — her
poverty — makes it more difficult — "

*^ Still, perhaps, if she knew," said Nora,
looking up, "knew that long ago we cared
for each other so much, and that we were
only parted by a wicked, wicked invention—"


Vyner was silent. He was a proud man —
with a rough and honest pride in bearing a
good name among his fellows — and he was
thinking even if Margaret consented to their
eno-ao-ement beings broken off, what would the
world say ? To throw over a poor girl for a
Avery rich woman ! Yes, he knew what it would
say ; for Nora's sake he would have borne
much — but Margaret —

You think it would be cruel to ask her,"
faltered Nora.

"I do not know what to say. Her father
spoke to me the other night about fixing the
time for our marriage. This determined me
to tell you — I should never have come

near you, Nora — never — but I was weak — "

They sat there together after this almost in
silence. The great broad river kept rolling on
before them, the twilight crept around them,
but still they scarcely spoke. Nora felt
miserably unhappy. She had loved Vyner so
deeply, and all through the long years of her
wedded life she had never forgotten him. The
handsome face that had been the head-ideal of
her girlhood was her head-ideal still. And now
when she had dreamed — nay, been sure — of
happiness, to have it all snatched away — all,
and nothing left I

At last she rose.

Are you going now ? " said Vyner, turning
his head towards her ; and looking at him she
saw how haggard his face was, how worn and
grief-lined.

There was a great struggle in his heart.
Honour or dishonour ! To forsake Margaret —
dishonour ; to leave Nora — a long, weary,
loveless life.

Perhaps you will write? " said Nora, in a
low tone, as they walked on by the river edge
towards Eoseland.

Yes," answered Yyner, speaking as with

an effort. '' I will see Margaret — I will let soit
know what lie says."

'' You Fill tell her— the truth ? "

Yes," again answered Yyner ; and without
any further words on the subject of all-absorbing
interest in both their hearts, they
parted at the gate of Eoseland.

As Nora walked through the garden a feeling
of great and bitter anger rose in her heart
against her aunt. Lady Stainbrooke.

'•' She has caused all this," she thought ; "all
the misery of my life. I might have been a
happy woman but for her false and lying
tongue."

Full of her wrongs she entered the house. She
could see, as she crossed under the verandah,
her aunt sitting in the pretty luxurious drawing-room
beyond. Lady Stainbrooke was lying:
back in an easy chair, with her feet very
comfortably cushioned on a low chair before
her, reading some very piquant novel, for Lady
Stainbrooke loved properly-veiled immorality
well. She was therefore thoroughly enjoying
her novel, by the aid of the double glasses.
which before her family she now generally
wore.

Then flusliecl, passionate, angry, Nora
entered the room, and Lady Stainbrooke
looked up and peered at her curiously through,
her glasses.

Well, my dear," she said, '' and what have
you done with your painter ? "

*' You are a wicked woman, Aunt Stain-brooke
! " answered Nora, to the great astonishment
of that lady ; " a bad, wicked woman, and
I wish I had never seen your face ! "

Lady Stainbrooke put down her ugly little
feet, and removed her double glasses with a
jerk.

"You forget yourself, Nora, my dear," she
said ; " utterly forget yourself."

Not so utterly as you forgot yourself,"
retorted Nora, *' when you invented that wicked
falsehood long ago about Mr. Vyner."

Oh ! that old story ! " said Lady Stain-brooke,
shrugging her shoulders. *' Bah ! my
dear, do not be so absurd. What do you
want ? If you want this Vyner, he's ready to
^0 down on his knees to you — yes, a deal faster
than he went when you were a penniless girl."

That is all you know," said Nora, standing
before her aunt, pale and trembling ; "but you

"believe in nothing good nor nothing true. You
have spoilt my life ! '' And Nora having said
this, turned and left the room.

Then Lady Stainbrooke rose and approached
her General, who had not heard a single word
that had passed between the two ladies.

*' Did you hear what Nora said. General ? "
shouted Lady Stainbrooke in her husband's ear.
"She has utterly forgotten herself — utterly
forgotten what is due to me ; and I shall leave
the house at once, and you must come with me."

But Sir Thomas had no idea of turning out of
such comfortable quarters on so short a notice.

'^ What do you say, madam ? " he said.
"Leave the house at once for some foolish
women's quarrel ? Not L What on earth have
you and Nora been rowing about ? "

I was not rowing," shouted Lady Stain-brooke,
with an attempt at dignity. "Nora
has foro-often herself. She has had some
quarrel with this Vyner, and so she chose to
attack me. But she may marry him. I give
her up, after all I have done for her. I wash
my hands of her, and I will order the carriage
and return to town ; and certainly you will not
refuse to go with me ? "

But I certainly sliall/' answered the General,
sho was not going to expose this aching bones
to the damp air by the river at this time of
night. " I shall encourage no such folly. If
you choose to go, go ; but don't expect me to
be such a fool as to go with you."

You are contemptible !" hissed Lady Stain-brooke
; and then in a towering rage she walked
out of the room, and very shortly afterwards
out of the house.

nellie's temptation.

Margaret Blythe expected Vyner to call, on
the night that his unhappy interview \Yith
Nora took place at Eoseland, but he never came.
She felt a little uneasy and nervous about this,,
but on reflection reassured herself.

^' He has had some work to finish. I shall
see him tomorrow," she decided in her calm
way.

Then her eyes happened to fall on the fair
face of her sister Nellie.

"Why, Nellie, how flushed you are!" said
Margaret. " Has anything annoyed you ? "

Nellie's blooming face turned a deeper pink
at these words.

No, Margaret dear," she said, and she-event
up and took her sister's hand.

*' You are trembling, too," said the practical

Margaret. " I am afraid you are going to
be ill. Do you think you have got a chill
anywhere ? "

"Oh, no," laughed ISTellie, with an uneasy
laugh, and Margaret, reassured on this point
also, took up her housekeeper's book, and
began to enter — as was her wont — every penny
of their expenditure during the day.

But careful housekeeper as Margaret was,
could she have looked into Nellie's heart, she
would have neglected her accounts. During
day a very trying interview had occurred
to Nellie — an interview which, had Margaret
known of, she would have been really unhappy
about her young sister.

When lowering clouds gather, we seldom
escape a storm. Lowering clouds had been
gathering long round the head of Murray,
Viscount Seaport, but the reckless young man
made no effort to evade them. Nay, in his
love, or his selfishness — he called it love — he
had made up his somewhat unstable mind to
endeavour to persuade Nellie to share his
uncertain future. Yes, he loved her too dearly
to give her up, he had decided during one
•of their recent interviews, and during their

meeting this day — the day Yyiier had told
Nora of his eno^aorement to Margaret — Lord
Seaport had urged Nellie to marry him secretly.
'for to do it any other way," he told her,
"would only bring irremediable ruin on us
both."

^' But I cannot — I cannot marry," the girl
answered in tremulous accents, holding both
his hands, " I cannot, for my father's sake."

Then ' father ' is more to you than I
am ? " said Lord Seaport, half tenderly, half-mockingly.


''He is blind," said Nellie, and her lips
quivered.

'^ I wish I was blind ! " said Lord Seaport,.
with a little lauoii.

He would feel it so deeply," continued'
Nellie, pleadingly-'If I could but tell him,,
Murray—"

And ruin me, my little girl ? "

''I will never do that — never."

*Mender no temptation, eh ?"

*' No, never," repeated Nellie. And the day
was yet to come when he asked her to keep
this promise.

The were standing together, these two-young

people, under one of the great spreading
trees in Eegent's Park, when Nellie made it.
Overhead the white-flecked summer sky, and
around them the summer air, and the white
butterflies on the wing. Only common-place
surroundings — the trim terraces standing ia
the distance, the groups of well-dressed children
and their nurses — all commonplace enough,
and the two young people, Nellie and Lord
Seaport, as commonplace as the rest.

*'A pretty girl and a good-looking young
man, making love to each other," thought or
said the good-natured passers-by ; and the
ill-natured ones smiled sourly, their day for
such pastime being over, or ended in disappointment,
or perhaps not come.

A pretty girl in a white dress, and a black
cape, and with a fair, sweet, winning face. So
fair that Lord Seaport standing there, looking
at her lilies and roses, was moved to a depth
of deeper feeling than had ever before passed
through his early worn heart.

You are very lovely, Nellie," he said, "very
lovely and lovable." And he held both her
hands tightly in his.

If you love me really, I care for nothing

more," answered Nellie, in her sweet, modest
way. '' Why should we think of being married
yet ? I do not care how long I wait — for years
and years."

Years, my dear child ! Where shall I be
in years ? No, Nellie, we must be married now,
or we shall have to part."

We cannot part," said the girl, speaking
very earnestly, and turning pale.

'' No, we cannot part," repeated Lord
Seaport. '' Now listen to me, my darling.
What I propose is — well, I think it would be
best to be married in Scotland, and we could
live there on the cjuiet till things blow over a
bit. Don't speak for a minute, Nellie. It
isn't from any pride or any folly of that kind I
wish to keep things quiet. It is simply that if
some troublesome acquaintance of mine knew I
had married a penniless lassie, . they would be
down upon me at once, and I would have to bolt
to become, in fact, a ruined, disgraced man —
a bankrupt, or worse. If the little woman loves
me as she says she does, would she like to bring
all this about my ears ? "

'' Oh, Murray ! " And Nellie's eyes filled
with tears.

Don't ! " said Lord Seafortli. " Don t look
at me like that, child. Perhaps it would be the
best thing for you, Nellie, to say good-bye tome,
if you can ? "

*' But I can't — how could I ? " answered
Nellie, the tears now rolling down the smooth,
pink cheeks.

I am a selfish brute, I daresay," said
Seaport. " All men are selfish, you know,
Nell. I ought, of course, to say * Good-bye,
sweetheart,' go and be happy with someone
else — some happy dog with more pence than
debts. Shouldn't I now, instead of saying —
well, all the romantic things I have been
saying — eh, Nellie ? " And Lord Seaport
laughed.

"I don't think you have been saying anything
very romantic," retorted Nellie, rather indignantly,
now drying her tears.

Haven't I ? Well, don't look angry. I
meant it at least. Nellie, all my life I have
had no romance till I met you. That's truth
at least — if I'm selfish it's because I love you
well."

What did the girl answer ? A loving, innocent
girl, who knew very little or nothing of

the world ? Margaret, with her proprieties, and
her art studies, and — recently — her warm affection
for Yyner, had left Nellie very much to
herself. This true and tender heart, therefore,
naturally endowed the man she loved with
every perfection. Seaport was not only good-looking
in Nellie's eyes, but noble, high-minded,
and true. The wiser Margaret could see errors
even where she loved. But Nellie saw none,
and there was no one to point them out to her
over-partial eyes.

Still, " for father's sake," she would give no
positive answer to her lover's proposal. But
she did not refuse it. How could she — " I who
love him so dearly " — she thought, glancing at
the good-looking: face, which somehow looked
more sad than cynical there beneath the treason
the summer day with sweet Nellie Blythe.

Margaret's decision.

Another day passed, and still Vyner did not
call on his betrothed Margaret. His betrothed
Margaret, after mentally deciding that it was
quite time that he should do so, wrote him a
note, in her clear, firm handwriting, to remind
him of his duty, "as I feel a little anxious,
dear Walter, that thugs should be settled now."

Vyner read these words, and then went and
stood, pale and deeply moved, before the picture
of his Eve. He truly loved Nora Trelawn I
It was no brief fancy — not one of those light
attractions which come and go, leaving no mark
on many a human heart. No ; he loved her —
dearly loved her — but his honour bound him
in galling chains to Margaret, and he felt only
that Margaret could set him free.

He had made up his mind to tell Margaret

the story of his early love. Even tins had costa
hard struggle in his heart. A. man knows well
enough when a woman loves him, and Yyner
knew that the usually placid, composed Margaret
loved him well. He had been her only lover,,
for one thing ; for another, Margaret was proud
of his position as an artist ; and last, not least,
his handsome face had won her heart.

But Margaret did not worship Yyner with
unreasoning worship. She knew his faults ;
speculating in her calm, self-confident way how
it would be best to cure them ; feeling quite
sure she would cure them, and that the day
would come when Yyner would be everything
that she wished him to be.

Yyner, of course, did not know all the good
that was in store for him. He only knew that
Margaret Blythe was a handsome young woman
to whom he was engaged, but whose nature was
not akin to his own. But in spite of this want
of kinship, the idea of giving her pain was very
bitter to him. Besides, she might mistake his
motive. Nora's great wealth and her great
poverty made the position doubly trying. Still,
for Nora's sake— yes, for Nora's sake — the man
whispered to his heart, trying to take courage.

was his trembling; hand run 2; that night at the
house-door of his betrothed Margaret.

Margaret received him very affectionately.
Vyner looked pale, almost grim. He had been
hardening: his heart as lie came alone: the streets
to undergo a scene. He felt that he was going
to say a most galling thing to a woman who
was a good woman, and worthy of better treatment
from his hands. When Margaret kissed
his cold cheek, he felt like Judas. When she
put her little caressing hand in his, and sat
down by his side, he felt he was acting like a
scoundrel.

How to begin such a story ! Easy is it to
say I will do this or that — I will tell this
painful truth or the other — but it is not easy to
commence words that we know will inflict a
stab. Vyner sat silent, pale, biting his lips,
trying in vain to speak the words he wanted to
say. Margaret herself at last approached the
subject of their marriage with smiling confidence.


'^ Well, Walter dear," she said, *' have you
settled anything yet ? I have felt a little
anxious to know, naturally, during the last
two days."

Then Yyner rose from his seat, so visibly
agitated that Margaret could not help noticing
it.

'' Is there anything the matter ? " she asked,,
rather nervously.

"I have something to tell you," answered
Vyner, not looking at her — '* something that I
think it is right you should know, Margaret ;
mind, I don't wish to influence you — I leave it
in your hands — still I will tell you — "

Is there any reason I should know ? " said
Margaret, her usually calm voice not a little
disturbed. "If — if it is anything that happened,
"Walter, before I knew you, I would rather not
hear it, if it is anything painful."

"It is painful — most painful — it happened
before I knew you," said Vyner, forcing himself"
to speak the unpalatable words. " It happened
years ago, Margaret — six years ago — when I
was a younger man — "

I do not wish to hear it," again interrupted
Margaret, and her face flushed, for she mistook
Vyner's words.

I would not have told you," continued
Vyner, still with averted eyes, "if the happiness
of another person was not concerned. For

myself — for the sake of my own feelings — I
would not have told you. But, Margaret, six
years ago I — I cared very deeply for a young
girl I then wished to make my wife."

"Walter, what motive can you have for
saying this to me ? " said Margaret, with some
sharpness of tone. " You are bound to me
now. Why bring up this old story ? "

*' Still it is right you should know. Well,,
six years ago, then, Nora Sudely, now Mrs
Trelawn, was very dear to me — "

She is very rich, is she not ? " said Margaret,
yet more coldly, as Vyner paused.

*' Yes, she is very rich," said Vyner, and his
pale face flushed for a moment, 'but her riches
or her poverty have nothing to do with it.
She was not-rich six years ago, when I met her
as a young girl at Warbrooke. I was a poor
man, then, too, Margaret," and Vyner tried to
smile, " and in no position to marry — but I
cared for Nora, and I believe my regard was
returned, and after she went to live with her
aunt. Lady Stainbrooke, I sought her out for
the purpose of asking her to wait for me. But
her. aunt, Lady Stainbrooke — a wicked, worldly,,
lying Anglo-Indian — invented a vile story to

part us. She told Nora I was about to be
married to another girl, and Nora believed her
and married Mr. Trelawn."

*' He left her a great fortune, did he not,
quite lately?" said Margaret, whose voice had
now grown calm, but a little hard.

Yes, I believe so — but you will do me the
justice, I suppose, to believe that I am not
thinking of her money ? "

*eyes, Walter, I cpiite do you that justice.
I think it honourable also of you to tell me all
this — though I do not quite see your motive
for doing so. I honour and respect you too
much for a moment to believe that you would
think of forsaking the girl to whom you are
engaged — to whom you are so soon to be
married for the sake of a rich widow, though
you may have had an early liking for this
Mrs. Trelawn. Even — if my feelings were
nothing — " and again Margaret slid her hand
into Yyner's cold, quivering one.

Then — you wish our engagement to
continue?" he asked, in a strange, forced voice.

*' Walter ! how can you ask such a thing ? '*
answered Margaret, and she hid her face upon
his breast.

The manliness, perhaps the tenderness, of
his heart made him only feel pity for Margaret
at this moment. What right had he, indeed,
to feel anything else ? Believing Nora was lost
to him for ever, he had asked Margaret to be
his wife. Because Mr. Trelawn had happened
to die, had he any right to play fast and loose
with Margaret's affection ? He knew that he
had none, and he admitted this to himself
while Margaret's head lay pillowed on his
breast.

Then he moved slightly, and Margaret lifted
her head,

'* I thought," she said, " instead of telling
me this — this painful story — that to-night,.
Walter, you would have fixed something
definite about the time of our marriage. It is
so wearing; to a o:irl — and — "

** Settle it when you like," said Yyner, the
grim, cold look once more returning to his face ;
and Margaret smiled, and still held his hand.

'' Shall I ? " she said. '' Levy well, Walter ;.
then we must think of a house, you know ? "

When Yyner returned to his rooms that
night, he sat down and wrote a few words to-nora

Trepan. Xora down at Roseland, living
among her flowers, lead grown during the last
two days to hate their brightness. The mocking
sun fell on the river, the mocking sun fell on
the roses, but there was no light in Nora's
heart — only silent, desolate suspense — sometimes
despair.

No letter from Yyner ! So three days
passed, and she could bear it no longer. Then
she proposed to her uncle. Sir Thomas, to return
to town ; and that ancient warrior — heartily
sick of the place, too, by this time — eagerly
acceded to her wishes.

'' By Jove ! the old woman was right, after
all," he said, '' One would get moss-grown
living in a place like this too long ! "

So Nora and Sir Thomas returned together
Nora's house at South Kensington. Here
they found Lady Stainbrooke, who had been
entertaining her friends, courting her neighbour.
Lady Seaport, and altogether enjoying herself.

She received Nora exactly as if no little
unpleasantness had ever occurred between
them. She had, indeed, taken herself to task
for getting out of temper with " the foolish
child," as she called Nora, at Eoseland.

So," thought the worldly-wise old woman,
'' our handsome painter has got into some
trouble, I suppose, during the five years of
Nora's married life, and he has been forced to
tell her this, and I was called a wicked, lying
old woman in consequence."

Here Lady Stainbrooke chuckled to herself, for
as we have seen, she had got over her little temper.

A good thing," she thought, " a very good
thing. Absurd, with Nora's fortune, to think
of marrying a painter."

Bat to her ladyship's surprise and discomfort
Nora did not seem to have got over her little
temper. She spoke, indeed, so coldly to her
aunt, that Lady Stainbrooke thought that her
dignity required her to remove, for the present
at least, from Nora's house.

Nora made no objection to this plan when
her aunt — at first — rather faintly-hinted her
intention.

Then her ladyship got a little warm again.

*' I do not know what has happened to you
Nora ! " she said. " If you have quarrelled
with ]mr. Vyner, I certainly have had nothing
to do with your quarrel — yet you treat me
with rudeness — absolute rudeness."

I have not quarrelled with Mr. Vyner,"
answered Nora, her pale face flushing as she
spoke. '' I never quarrelled with him, aunt —
as you well know."

*then why, my dear child, do you make
yourself unpleasant to me ? "

Nora made no answer. She was not o;oino:
to bandy any further words with Lady Stain-brooke
; but she did not ask her to stay any
longer under her roof. Lady Stainbrooke
accordingly removed herself to Buckstone fora
time, and took her rheumatic General with
her,

'' Never again," she screamed in her Generals
ear, as they drove from Nora's house, " shall I
endeavour to do any good to anyone I Look
how Nora has treated me ! I who made her
absolutely made her — to be insulted for the
sake of a painter 1 "

'you shouldn't have interfered, madam,"
answered the General. " Men do not care to be
interfered with ; I don't."

Lady Stainbrooke shrugged her shoulders
with an expressive shrug, and then relapsed
into silence, brooding as she proceeded on her
journey on the general ingratitude of the human

race, and the particular Id gratitude of Xora
Trelawn.

Nora Trelawn felt more low-spirited and
miserable than ever after her aunt and uncle
had left her. Yyner's letter had followed her
to Eoseland on the very day of her return to
town, and thus was delayed another day before
it reached her.

Her neighbour. Lady Seiiforth, called upon
her, and the clever woman of the world
instantly perceived that something unusual
was oppressing Nora. These days of suspense
had made her look years older than she had
done before she went to Eoseland.

At last, when four days had elapsed since
her painful interview with Yyner, the letter
that he had written on his return home, after
he had told Margaret Blythe the story of his old
love, was placed in Nora's hands.

Ah, poor Nora ! Only a few cold, sad words : —

I have seen Mab,, and told lier how it was with us long.
ago, but she does not wish to break off her engagement, and
I cannot. Nora, what more can I write ? I would like to
see you, but what could I say ? I should never have
gone near you. Will you forgive me for having done so, and
may God bless and keep you always, and in this to nee
most bitter hour. W. D. Y.

Nora read the painter's miserable words,
and then, literally and truly in the emphatic
lanofuaofe of old, she " turned her face to the
wall." "What had she to live for now, she
thought, when all the love and light of her
life had suddenly passed away into utter
darkness ?

WEDDING GARMENTS.

Margaret Blythe having obtained Yyner's
consent to settle the time of their marriage
when she liked, at once began to make energetic
preparations for that event.

She had only very little money for her
purpose, and to add a trifle more she pinched
the already meagrely-provided household almost
to starvation.

Nellie naturally noticed this, but she said
nothing. Hatton, however, considered it her
duty to give her mistress a hint.

*' I'm getting that thin, miss," said this
oblique-eyed handmaiden, putting her hand as
usual on her hip, "that you can count each rib,
like a 'emaciated greyhound."

I am sorry you are getting thin, Hatton/'

replied Margaret ; " perhaps if you took oatmeal
porridge you might improve."

Don't think it woukl 'gree with me, miss"'
said Hatton, " jut perhaps a little more meat
would."

But Margaret turned a deaf ear to Hatton's.
"hint." There were certain dresses that she
must have, she decided, before her marriage,.
and to o'er these the most rigid household
economy was required. But Margaret was-careful
and clever, and as she cut and contrived
her wedding garments she scarcely noticed how
pale and stern her promised bridegroom looked,
or how the blooming colour had waned on the
cheeks of her fair young sister.

Full of herself and her own prospects, Margaret
Blythe worked cheerfully on, but at the
same time she did not forget the scheme that
she had proposed to her father about his future
and Nellie's.

She, of course, had to ask Vyner's consent
for the Major to live with them — in case of
Nellie's marriage — before she could propose to
make any formal arrangement on the subject.
Any woman with keener susceptibilities would
Lave noticed the half start and the frown with

Croesus's WIDOW. 191

wliicli Yyner received lier request. But if
Margaret observed these missus of emotion she
never guessed their real cause.

Walter, I have a great favour to ask you.
If Nellie marries, may my dear father share
our home ? " said Margaret.

Then Yyner started and frowned, for the
words " our home " grated harshly on his ears.

I know many men would object to such an
arrangement," continued Margaret ; *' but I
know also, Walter dear, that you are different
1;o most men, and that you will respect my
motive for this request. You see, Nellie is
almost a child, and if she marries young Mr.
launders, she naturally will live with the old
lady who is so devoted to her son, and thus my
father would be left entirely alone."

Yyner now forced himself to smile.

"But is Nellie going to marry young Mr.
launders ? " he asked.

I hope so ; nay, I am almost sure that she
will. So if my mind were at rest about my
father—"

My dear Margaret, I do not wish to hurry
sou to leave him."

Margaret's face flushed.

"Walter, do not trifle," she said. "My
father is very dear to me — most dear — dearer
on account of his sad affliction ; but there is
some one who is twenty times dearer — someone
that I cannot part with now." And Margaret
put her hand softly and tenderly into
her betroth ed's, and looked at him with the-love
she truly felt, shining in her eyes.

During the last few days Vyner had been
trying to school himself to play the part which
he too plainly saw that fate — aod his own folly
had allotted to him. He was going to marry
Margaret Blythe, he told himself; but though he
knew this, he hated to be reminded of the fact.

Thus the words " our home " had grated on
his ears. And yet he felt at this moment —
with her hand in his — how unjust he was to
Margaret. He was not a man who perhaps
would have cared to have his father-in-law to
live with him under the ordinary conditions of
married life. But the fact that he did not love
his future wife only made him more gentle and
complacent to her wishes.

If Nellie marries, and you wish your father
to live with us," he said, after a few moments
consideration, " of course, my dear Margaret, I

shall make no objections — I shall be glad for
him to be with you."

Then Margaret expressed her gratitude in
many tender words.

*' It is like you to say so," she said. " You are
always noble, always considerate, my dear, dear
Walter, and I am the happiest woman in the
world."

Margaret was really happy. If an uneasy
feeling crept over her sometimes when she
remembered Walter Vyner's confession about
Nora Trelawn, she soon threw it off.

"He loves me now," she told herself, " and
I know that I can keep his love. All men
have had some early fancy or other, but they
have but one love, and I am Walter's love —
and I will prove worthy of his love — I hope I
am worthy of it ! "

Poor Margaret ! Wrapped in her intense
self-appreciation, she never saw Walter's
wearied looks, or heard his impatient sighs.
Trying to do right, when to do wrong was his
heart's desire, Walter Yyner walked on the
narrow way with laggard footsteps, looking
often lingeringly and sadly back at the broad
and pleasant road he had left behind.

YOL. I. H

But lie never sought Nora. No answer had
come to his few sad words of almost last farewell,
as they both — Nora and Vyner — felt them
to be. Nora understood and respected Vyner s
motives even amid her own bitter grief And
for a time that grief seemed utterly to crush
her life. She fell ill, and Lady Stainbrooke
at Buckstone — who was not without her paid
informants in Nora's household — heard of her
illness, and resolved forthwith to bury her
wrongs in the past, and again hasten to her
rich niece's side.

In the meanwhile Margaret Blythe was
going on industriously with her pinching and
stitching. She told her father how pleased
Yyner was that he should share *' our future
home." And then she enlarged to the Major
on the great benefits that would accrue to them
all if Nellie would make up. her mind about
'young Mr. Saunders's proposal."

This was Margaret's way. Nellie had, she
knew, made up her mind about *' young Mr.
Saunders's'^proposal," but as she had not made
it up the way that Margaret wished, Margaret
quietly ignored Nellie's decision. And she
persuaded her father — gradually — to see it in

her own light. James Saunders was rich and
good-natured, and the Major was poor, blind,
delicate, and old.

I may die any day," he sighed, '' and where
would my darling be then ? I cannot expect
Yyner to look after her as well. You are quite
right, Margaret, she would be better married."

I will speak to her, dear father," said
Margaret. " I will tell her how happy it will
make us all to see her happy. We can all live
near each other, and Nellie will, I am sure,
come to see you every day. Yes, we must try
to settle it."

So Margaret tried to settle it. She began
very seriously —

"Nellie, dear," she said, "I want to say a few
words to you — very serious words."

Nellie's face flushed, and she looked quickly
up.

Walter and I," continued Margaret, '' are
getting tired of waiting ; and Walter, in the
most generous manner, has proposed that our
dear father should share our future home. You
see, Nellie dear, we are poor, very poor, and
this will place my father in an independent
and easy position for the rest of his life ; and I

ham

sure I need not tell you that I will study
Ills comfort in every way'

Nellie made no answer to this, but her face
flushed to a yet deeper bloom.

"He shall be my first consideration, after
dear Walter," proceeded Margaret. '' So, Nellie
dear, only your future makes me anxious now.
Of course I cannot ask Walter for my sister to
live with me as well as my father. Generous
and kind as Walter is, that would be expecting
too much, especially when he knows, dear, how
excellent an offer of marriage is only waiting
for your acceptance."

You mean James Saunders, I suppose ? "
said Nellie, with a certain harshness in her
voice which was very seldom heard there.

Yes. His mother was telling me only
yesterday that he is quite devoted to you, Nellie,
and sometimes gets quite low about you. It is
very flattering for so rich a young man, and
one so much run after also, to be so devoted,
isn't it ? You are a fortunate girl, Miss Nellie,
I can tell you. But jesting apart, dear, I am
so anxious this should be settled, and then there
would be nothing to interfere with Walter's
happiness and mine."

^'Then am I to understand, Margaret, that
my father wishes to give up his house — wishes
to live with you — and that I only am in the
way ? " asked Nellie, with quick emotion.

"Dear Nellie, do not put it in that stupid
way. I have never told you — what good was
it to tell you, and worry a young girl? — all the
struggles I have had to keep things straight in
the house ; and now, when my earnings will begone,
I am sure it would be impossible for you
sand dear father to get along. Everything costs
so much now-a-days, and servants eat so much,
and are so extravagant — look at Hatton — that
unless one has a good income it is impossible
to keep things square. No, Nellie, you must
not be selfish. Father does not like to say
much to you because he is afraid of hurting
your feelings, but he fully agrees with me.
And just think how comfortable he will be with
no coals to buy, or butchers' bills to pay —
nothing in fact to vex or trouble him. And
you will live near us too, dear, in the Saunders's
nice house, and you can bring dear father
luxuries — I am sure you will like that,
Nellie—"

But Nellie had turned away her head. Then,

to lier sister's dismay, a sharp sob sounded
in the room.

*' You need not make any farther arrangements
about me, Margaret," said Nellie, with
much indignation in her tone and manner. 'Mf
father is tired of keeping me I shall not trouble
him long; but don't, please, deceive poor James.
Saunders any more. That at least isn't fair.
I am not going to marry him, and you have no
right to lead him to suppose that I am. You
have made all arrangements, it seems, without
consulting me — and, and — so I need not have
worried myself so much'* And sobbing bitterly,
Nellie hastily quitted the room.

Margaret felt exceedingly annoyed — more
than annoyed. But still she hoped Nellie
would give in. Nellie, on her part, felt angry
and bitterly wounded that her father was ready
to let her go — ready to give her up to anyone,
so that he might live in comfort in IMr. Yyner's.
house !

Let us follow the weeping, indignant girl to
the little bedroom she called her own. See,
she hastily unlocks one of the upper drawers in
her humble, small, painted chest, and takes
out from its resting-place there the cabinet-sized

portrait of a good-looking, fair-haired
young man. Murray, Viscount Seaport —
smiling as he now very seldom smiled — was
portrayed in this coloured specimen of the
photographer's art — Murray, Viscount Seaport,
taken five years ago, in his first uniform, when
a light and boyish heart beat beneath the
braided jacket.

Nellie kissed the smiling face ; pressed the
smiling face to her heaving, sob-rent bosom.

Oh ! Murray, my love, my love ! " she
whispered, " I need not have grieved so for
father — need not have vexed you. They want
me away, and I will go — go with you, my love,
my darling — my only one now on all the earth."

Then she sat down, rocking herself to and fro,
the smiling, pictured face still lying on her breast.
Loving Lord Seaport even as she did, to leave
her home — to leave her father — seemed a terrible
step to take so suddenly to this modest, tender
girl. But Margaret had wounded her very
deeply. Nellie, quick tempered and sensitive,
did not pause to consider that her sister was
probably exaggerating their father's wishes to
suit her own purpose. She only thought they
will wished her away. '' And I will go — go — "

wept Nellie, kissing again the smiling pictured
face.

Then she read over once more — perhaps for
the twentieth time — the last words that the
original of this smiling pictured face had sent
her —

When are you going to make up your mind, little Nell
(she read in Lord Seaport's careless handwriting), and take
your worthless — literally, remember — adorer for better and
for worse ? A friend of mine has offered to lend me for a.
month or so a shooting lodge, or some sort of house at least,,
among the wild Western Highlands. Will you come and
kill the red deer in the forests, and the black game, and fish
for salmon in the mountain streams, my Nellie ? Ah, child !"
joking apart — let us go away for a while from the weary
life here, and be together by the blue waters of the lochs,
on which the grand, grey hills picture themselves in a fashion
which should make our finest painters tear their best canvas
despair. There ! is not that a poetical description, my
rosy-cheeked little love ? Come then, let us leave duns,
debts, all sorts of bothers behind ; and we can get the fatal
noose tied in Edinbro' fast enough — only you must not tell,
Nellie. You must never, never tell till I give you leave.
Things may turn out better. Some rich old relation may
die, and leave me his happy heir, &c. ; but for the present
you must promise to keep things quiet. The world — our
little world — must not know. But little Nellie knows what she-really
is — what she will always be — to her own Seaport.

How often she had kissed the scrawl at the
end of this letter in which her Murray had

inscribed his name ! That signature when she
first saw it had seemed to part them — his
different rank stared her in the face, as it were
but now she felt that no rank could part
them. Perhaps she only loved the young man
more for having held out his lordly hand to
clasp one of hers who came of such low degree I

THE EMPTY ROOM.

Margaret having allowed lier sister time to-cool
down," as lie mentally expressed it,
went up to the little bed-room where Nellie
slept, for the purpose of trying to make peace.

"When Margaret entered the room all signs
recent emotion had vanished from Nellie's-
face. True, Nellie looked paler than usual
perhaps firmer and more resolved, but Margaret
did not notice this. She only saw that Nellie
had not been crying lately, and she was very
glad to see this.

I came up to see after you, Nellie dear,"
began Margaret. '* I am afraid I vexed you
downstairs ; bat I am sure if you saw it in a
right light you would see it was all for your
good."

Then Nellie said, rather quickly —

'Please, Margaret, don't say any more about
this to-day. I have got a headache. I don't
want to talk any more to-day. Is tea ready
downstairs yet ? "

I have just made it," answered Margaret.
'' Come down, dear, and get some ; it will do
you good." And Nellie having promised to do
so, Margaret rent away ; but before she
returned to the front sitting-room where the
tea was standing, Margaret had a word to
whisper in her father's ear.

*' Father," she said, going into the Major's
study, and speaking very softly, lest Nellie
should overhear on her way downstairs, " I have
spoken to Nellie about her marriage, and also
about you living with us ; so, please, if she says
anything to you be careful what you say. It
would be such a happy arrangement for us all
if she would agree to it, and of course what you
say will have great influence upon her."

But, Margaret," said the Major, " remember
I won't have her forced into anything.
If the child likes the young man it is different."


Of course not forced, father dear; but Nellie
is only a young girl, easily influenced one way

or the other, and it would be such a good thing
for her to be well married."

*' Yes, but still I should not like to urge her."

'' But tell her you wish it, father, if she asks
you," said Margaret, earnestly ; and the Major
somewhat unwillingly promised to do this.

But Nellie said nothing to her father when
she came downstairs. She was quieter than
she usually was, and she sat reading, or pretending
to read, most of the evening, and not
till she was bidding her father good-night,
when the ever-exemplary Margaret was looking
after the house doors, did Nellie show an
unusual emotion.

Then, as she kissed her father, the old man
drew her closer, and kissed again her soft smooth
cheek. As he did this, Nellie gave a little start
and a quiver.

"Father," she said, the next moment, in a
trembling voice, " is it true what Margaret told
me to-day — that — that — you are thinking of
living with Mr. Vyner when he marries
Margaret ? "

Well, Margaret wishes it, my darling,"
answered the Major. "She thinks it would be
best, and she thinks if you marry, my little girl — "

But Margaret's step was now heard in the
passage close to the parlour door, and without
another word Nellie lifted up her head, and
drew back from her father's arms.

Good-night, father," she said, quietly, and
then went away ; and Major Blythe ever afterwards
bitterly regretted that he had allowed
her to go.

Indeed, the Major determined in his own
mind, after she had left him, that he would
shortly come to a fuller understanding with his
young daughter. But during the following day
he had no opportunity of doing this. Nellie
was out the greater part of the morning, and
Vyner spent the evening with them, and Nellie
and the Major were never alone.

But when Nellie parted with him for the
night, the Major grew more determined in his
purpose to speak to her. Somehow the old
man thought that his little girl's arms clung
more tenderly than usual round his neck as she
gave him her customary kiss.

*' And I want you to give me something tonight,
father," she said, as if she were trying to
speak jestingly.

"Well, what is it, my little lassie?"

answered the Major, caressingly, holding her
hands.

Just a little bit, a very little bit of your
hair," said Nellie. "May I cut it off now,
father ? "

What nonsense, Nellie, to worry father
to-night ! " said Margaret, who was standing
near them by the side of Yyner.

Father won't mind," said Nellie, in her old
pretty, wilful way, and she went and got her
scissors, and, stooping over her father, cut offa
piece of his iron-grey hair"'

Thank you," she said, and she kissed his
forehead. '•' I will always keep it."

But why do you want it to-night, Nellie ? "
asked Margaret.

''I want to put it in a locket," answered
Nellie. "Thank you again, father."

Give me another kiss for it then, darling,"
said the Major, and then Nellie put her arms
round her father's neck, and kissed him very
tenderly.

Good-night, my darling — God bless you,"
whispered the Major, and somehow he fancied
that a tear for a moment wet his cheek.

So impressed was he by Nellie's manner, that

no sooner was Yyner gone, than he spoke
seriously to Margaret on the subject.

'' My dear," he said, addressing his eldest
daughter, when they were alone, " I want to
speak to you about Nellie. I don't think the
child is happy, and I won't have her teazed or
worried about this marriage with young
Saunders. If she were fond of him, of course,
I would be glad to have her well settled ; but if
she is not, we must keep on this house, and
manage without you as best we can. Nellie's
happiness is and must be the first consideration,
and I have not been satisfied with her manner
these two nights."

*' She is a little unsettled perhaps," said
Margaret, '' that is all ; and I am sure, dear
father, that it is her true happiness that I also
am thinking of."

*' Well, dear, I will speak to her in the
morning," answered the Major, '' and be guided
by what she says."

And determined to carry out this idea in
spite of Margaret, the Major retired to bed.

The night wore on over the heads of the
quiet household. Hour after hour went on to
join the past. Then the dawn broke, and up

betimes rose Margaret, sitting down steadily
to two hours' work at lier wedding garments
before breakfast time. The Major came down
late.

Nearly ten o'clock, father," said Margaret,
in mild reproof, *^ and Nellie not down yet —
I have been np since six."

As Nellie did not appear at a quarter-past
ten, Margaret went up to seek her. She
knocked at Ler sister's bedroom door, but there
was no response, so Margaret walked unbidden
into the room.

She started, almost gave a cry, when she got
there. The bed had not been slept in, and
there was no Nellie to be seen. There was a
certain strangeness, too, in the appearance of
the room — scraps of paper, pieces of twine, a
dozen little things that told some sort of packing
had been going on. Then, as Margaret's
startled gaze wandered around, her eyes suddenly
fell on a letter lying on the toilet table.

To seize this and read the address was the
work of a moment. It was directed to Major
Blythe, and Margaret at once opened it, and as
she read her young sister's words she grew
sick and cold with fear. How could she tell

lier fat]i3r ? she was thinking ; how could she
break this dreadful news ?
• For in her letter Nellie bade her father and
sister good-bye.

I am going away to-night, dear father (read poor trembling
Margaret), but you must not be uneasy about me if you do
not hear of me for a long, long time. Where I am going I
shall be well cared for ; and as you have settled to live with
Margaret and Mr. Vyner, I hope that you will not miss me.
But I will not forget my dear, dear father ; and I hope my
clear, dear father will not forget his little Nell. Some day I
will come back to you, father ; and till that day comes I will
soften, often think of you. But do not vex yourself about
me ; I shall, I hope, be well and happy, and I hope that you
will keep well and happy also. Give my love to Margaret.
Your loving and affectionate daughter,

Nellie.

Margaret read and re-read these words, and
her usual self-possession seemed entirely to
forsake her. Did she blame herself ? No ;
Margaret never blamed herself — it was not
in her nature to do so — but she was greatly
shocked and overcome.

While she was standing thus, Nellie's farewell
letter grasped in her trembling hand, she
heard her father's voice calling: from below.

Is anything the matter with little Nell ? "
called the Major; and pale and even faint.

Margaret went down to lier father, still holding:
Nellie's letter in her hand.

Is the child not well ? " asked the Major,
when he heard his daughter's footsteps approaching
him.

Then Margaret took her father's hand, and
led him back into the parlour.

*' Father," she said in a faltering voice, *'' do
not be afraid ; Nellie has done a very foolish
thing. I cannot imagine how she could do
such a thing, but — but she is not upstairs."

Not upstairs ! " repeated the Major.
'' What do you mean, Margaret ? Tell me at
once what you mean ? "

*' She has left a letter," continued Margaret,
with great emotion, " a letter for you, father.
I have opened it ; it is a sort of farewell
letter. Nellie is gone somewhere —-but, but we
will find her. Father ! father ! " And Margaret
caught her father by the arm.

For with a terrible cry the blind man lifted
Tip his hands when he heard the news.

Gone 1 " he cried. '' Nellie, my darling,
do you say gone P Where has she gone ? Have
you done this, Margaret ? " he added fiercely.
*^ Answer me — have you done this ? "

Do not be unjust, father' said Margaret,
to a certain extent recovering her self-possession.
^' I, who have done everything for Nellie — I
have done nothing, given her nothing but
kindness and love. But I will read her letter."

With a moan, Major Blythe tottered to a
seat, and then Margaret read aloud poor Nellie s
farewell words. As Margaret concluded, the
unhappy father utterly broke down.

My darling, my darling ! " he sobbed.
^' Oh, Nellie, how could you leave me — blind
and helpless. I cannot try to find you, Nellie — ''

'' Hush, father," said Margaret, " do not give
way thus ; you will be ill if you do, and that
will only make matters worse. We must try
to find Nellie — we must find her — and we must
keep all this quiet, if we can. Let us try to
think calmly. What can have been Nellie's
motive for this rash, misguided step ? "

Again Major Blythe moaned aloud. The
bitterness of his blindness seemed terrible to
him at this moment.

What about this talk of her marriage with
young Saunders?" he said. *'I noticed she
was not herself lately — and she may have
thought, poor — tender-hearted child — that we

wished her to many against her will ? In her
letter she speaks of my living with you and
Vyner, does she not ? But I won't, Margaret !
I will keep on this house if I starve in it. My
child shall have a home to come to, at any
rate, whenever she returns."

We will see about all this, father, by-and-by
; but don't excite yourself now. You see,.
Nellie says in her letter she hopes to be welland
happy, and that some day she will come
back. Can it be ? Can she have married
anyone unknown to us ? But no, no ; she
knew no one — no, she has probably gone to
some educational establishment or other, that
she has seen advertised, as a pupil teacher.
Yes ; this is the most likely thing I can think
of."

She — she knew Lord Seaport," said Major
Blythe, slowly and painfully.

*' Lord Seaport ! " echoed Margaret. " It
cannot be, father ! And yet — yet — when I
think of it, she spoke very sharply to me once
in his defence, when I so justly blamed him for
coming here, and allowing us to believe he was
only Captain Seaport ! If I thought this
father—"

If I thought this' said the Major, rising
passionately from the chair, " blind as I am, I'll
force him to marry her! I'll go to his mother's
house this very day, and learn the truth ! "

But we have no proof, father. Still, there
is just a probability. He came here a great
deal, did he not, at one time ? "

'' Yes, at the time of Wallace's accident,
^vhen you were staying with your friend at
AVoolwich. She has seen him since, I know
One dav, I remember her telling; me he had
told her he was Lord Seaport — "

*rand you did not tell me this, father? You.
did not confide in me, though you know how
earnestly I have tried to do my duty to you
and Nellie."

The Major was silent. He felt that perhaps
he deserved this reproof, for there were many
things that he and his little Nellie had not
told to Margaret.

*' Did she say anything more to you ? "'
continued Margaret. " At least tell me the
truth now, father — though it may be too
late''

Nothing. I remember being uneasy when
I heard this man was Lord Seaport. But if he

has done anything to the child he shall answer
to me for it."

He lives with his mother," said Margaret,
and his mother lives in one of the South
Kensington Squares. I know this because
"Walter has dined there ; and if he has induced
Nellie to run away with him, he also will have
left home. AYe must go to his mother, father."

"Let us go now; at once, then."

Stay, let me think — best keep this as quiet
as we can, father, for all our sakes — for Nellie's
sake, for Walter's sake, for mine. A woman
scan do a thing more quietly than a man. Let
me go alone to Lady Seaport's ; she knows
Walter — that alone will be an introduction."

*' Well, if you think so. But be quick,
Margaret ! How can I wait here — wait helpless
here — till you return ? "

'dear father, it is only a remote chance I
am going on, so you must not expect too much.
Still I think we have some just cause of suspicion,
at least if Nellie met Lord Seaport, as
you say, unknown to me ? "

This parting reproof being administered,
Margaret got ready to start for Lady Seaport's.
she did not rush off in hot haste, but prepared

deliberately to encounter lier ladyship. As she
pinned on her hat and arranged her veil, however,
the probability of Nellie having run away
with Lord Seafortli grew upon her mind.
This would account for Nellie's otherwise
unaccountable rejection of James Saunders's
excellent proposal," thought Margaret. "No one
in her senses would have refused such an offer
without cause, and I believe now this cause
has been Lord Seafortli/' at last she decided.

Margaret — ever economical — would not drive
the whole way to South Kensington, even
thouoii her father uro;ed her to do so. She
went so far in the train, and then took a cab,
and drove to Lady Seaport's house. To her
surprise, when she rung the door-bell and asked
if Lady Seaport were at home, the footman admitted
her at once with a jaunty air and a smile.

Oh, yere the young lady from — " (and
Margaret could not catch the name), said the
man. " Come in, and I'll ring for Thompson,
the maid, and she'll take you up to my lady."

Margaret immediately saw there was some
mistake ; but after a moment's consideration,
as she stood there in the hall, she determined
to take advantage of it. She must see Lady

Seaport, lie told herself ; and as Lady Seaport
was evidently expecting some lady, the easiest
way to procure an interviews was to pretend
not to notice the footman's error.

In a minute or two Thompson the maid,
appeared.

You can come up with me," she said,
addressing Margaret. " I hope you have been
able to match it ? "

Then Margaret's face flushed red beneath her
veil, and her very ears began to tingle. She
had been mistaken for some shop girl, some
milliner's girl, she thought angrily, and she
'Opened her lips to tell the maid her true
position. But Thompson never looked round.
She walked very fast, and Margaret walked
after her, angry and indignant, until they came
to a room door, which the maid pushed open.

Go in there," she said, " my lady will speak
to you in a moment or two."

How degrading, how annoying, thought
Margaret, who had always prided herself on
looking perfectly lady-like ! But though greatly
annoyed, her common-sense told her that the
best thing to do now was to see Lady Seaport.
So drawing herself up, and trying to look as

dignified as she could, Margaret stood for alia
next quarter of an hour. Then she heard two
people outside the door talking in reference to
herself.

You have not seen it, then ? " some one was-saying.
*' The woman who brought it is here,
isn't she ? It must match, Thompson, or it
will spoil the whole effect." And a moment
later the door opened, and a haughty-looking,
fair-haired woman entered.

Margaret did not know Lady Seaport by
sight, yet she felt sure that this was Lady
Seaport. The small high features and the
blue eyes reminded her of features and eyes
she had seen before. Lady Seaport bore a
certain likeness to her son, yet the expression
of their faces was so totally different that it
marred the effect of the features. The haughty
prominent blue eyes of the mother scarcely
glanced at Margaret as she entered the room.
Margaret bowed, and Lady Seaport made a
hardly perceptible movement of her head.

'' You have brought the lace ? " she said. '' I
hope it is the exact pattern — nothing else will
do'"

*' There is some mistake' said Margaret

Irving not to seem nervous. ** If you are
Lady Seaport, I wish to see you. But I have
Brought no lace — I have come on a very
different errand."

Then the Large, haughty, prominent blue
'eyes did look at Margaret.

I am Lady Seaport," said her ladyship ;
■*' but if you have not brought the lace from
Marshall and Snelgrove's, why are you here ? "

I — I wish to speak to you," answered
Margaret, '* and your servants mistook me for
some other person. I — I must speak to you.
Lady Seaport."

What can you possibly have to say to me ? "

It is on a most painful subject," faltered
Margaret, her boasted self-possession all vanishing
array before the cold, haughty stare that
the blue eyes had now fixed on her. '' I wish
to speak to you — about your son."

My son ? " repeated Lady Seaport, in the
coldest accents. " I decline to speak to you
on such a subject. I request that you will
leave the room."

No ; I must speak to you ! You mistake
me entirely. Lady Seaport," said Margaret,
eagerly. *'I am not a shop girl ; I have brought

no lace ; I am a yoimg lady by birth, and I want
to speak to you about my sister."

*' I decline, I repeat, to hold any conversation
with you," said Lady Seaport, and she turned
to leave the room ; but Margaret sprang forward,
and stood before her.

Do not go away. Lady Seaport," she said,.
for a moment or two — not till you have heard
what I have got to say, if you would save great
scandal and exposure. I am the daughter —
one of the daughters — of Major Blythe ; and
your son, Lord Seaport, used to visit at our
house. I have a young sister — Nellie — Lady
Seaport, do listen to me — Nellie has disappeared
from her home — "

What have I to do with such a story ? "
interrupted Lady Seaport.

"Your son knew nellie — used to meet Nellie''
faltered Margaret, 'rand I want to know — isle
at home ? "

Lord Seaport ? Certainly he is at home.
What do you mean by such a question ? "

"Lady Seaport," said margaret, galled to
the quick by Lady Seaport's contemptuous
manner, " I think I have some right to ask it.
Lord Seaport came to our house first under a

false name. He called himself Captain Seafortli ;
and as my father is an officer and a gentleman
that was scarcely a right thing to do, was it ? "

If your father is a gentleman, he should not
have permitted such a thing to happen. But I
have nothing to do with such a question.
once more I ask sou to leave the house."

You treat me very rudely," said Margaret,
her eyes filling with indignant tears, ""'yet — yet
I am engaged to a gentleman you ask to dine
here — to Mr. Vyner, the painter."

I know Mr. Vyner merely as a man of
ability, as a painter — I know nothing of his
belongings," answered Lady Seaport, with
unchanged coldness.

'' He has no reason to be ashamed of his
belongings," retorted Margaret, very angrily.
*' But all I can say is, if your son has induced
m}^ sister — "

Upon this Lady Seafortli rang the bell very
loudly, and in a minute later the door opened,
and her maid Thompson looked in.

*' Show this person out at once," said Lady
Seaport ; and what could Margaret do but go ?

Wounded and indignant, scarcely able to
restrain her tears, she followed the maid downstairs.

The hall door was open, and a charger
with ]military accoutrements, and held by a
groom, was pawing the ground impatiently
before the door. As Margaret went out of the
Vestibule she saw why the horse was waiting.

Leaning against a carriage which was standing
before the door of the next house was a tall,
slender figure in an officer's undress uniform.
In a moment Margaret recognised him — the
delicate profile, the light hair — it was Lord
Seaport ; and Margaret started and half-stopped.


Should sbe speak to him ? she was thinking.
But even as the thought passed through her
mind his liofht laus^h fell on her ears. Then
she looked at the lady in the carriage to whom
he was talking.

She saw a pale woman with dark, sad eyes,
dressed in black. Where had she seen that
face ? She had seen it somewhere, Margaret
knew, but at the moment could not recall
where. But she felt that it was impossible
to address Lord Seaport while he was talking
to this lady. So she was forced to pass on,
having gained the knowledge, however, to take
to comfort her father, that Lord Seaport had

CROESUS S WIDOW.

certainly not run away with Nellie, as he was
still living in his mother's house.

As Margaret went home she remembered
where she had seen the lady's face. It was in
Vyner's studio — the face of the picture called
'' His Eve:'

Choosing A HOUSE.

Pacing to and fro in the little parlour, racked
with the cruelest anxiety, Major Ely the had
spent the time which had been passed in so
humiliating a manner by Margaret.

Then, when he heard his daughter's returning
he groped his way eagerly into the
passage.

"Well," he asked breathlessly, as he met
Margaret ; but for a moment Margaret was so
worried and annoyed that she made no reply.

** Have you heard anything ? '' asked the
trembling old man, and Margaret looked up
at her father's sharpened face, and answered
quickly —

She has not run away with Lord Seaport,
father — I saw him in his uniform at his mother's
door."

"And did you see Lady Seafortli ? Did you
ask her anything ? "

*'I saw her for a few minutes," said Margaret,
ashamed to confess her bitter humiliation, 'rand
she told me her son was at home — that is all
I said as little as possible, for all our sakes. I
repeat, this is best kept as quiet as we can."

*' But am I to sit down and lose my child
without making an effort to find her ? " asked
Major Ely the, indignantly. '' 1 won't do it,.
Margaret ! Nellie must be somewhere, and I
shall at once apply to the police''

Then everyone will know."

'* What is everyone to me in comparison to
Nellie ? I must find her ; I will find her ; so
you need not attempt to prevent me doing so"'

Upon this Margaret burst into tears. Never
had she felt so cruelly injured. All her life
at home she had been looked up to and
respected, and her will had been almost
absolute law. She had thought herself the
incarnation of all womanly virtues, and the
Major and her sister had never attempted to
differ openly from the opinion she held of
herself. And to be insulted thus I First to
feel powerless, to be tamed, held in awe, as it

were, by Lady Seaport's cold blue eyes, and
then to be told by her father that she need not
attempt to prevent him trying to find Nellie !

I have not deserved this," wept Margaret ;
and her father was obliged to beg her pardon,
and to praise her and propitiate her, before
Margaret would attempt to be comforted.

She felt really very unhappy, for she was so
afraid of the effect that the news of Nellie's
flight might have on Yyner. She never
understood Yyner. The effect of the news of
Nellie's flight was exactly contrary to what she
feared. The painter, large and generous,
whatever his faults might be, drew naturally
nearer to the weeping woman in her hour of
trouble.

He was touched, he was sorry, he kissed
Margaret's tear-stained cheeks, as he had never
kissed them in their usual smooth and admirable
condition.

*' Poor little Nell ! Poor foolish child ! " he
said. He did not reproach Margaret with her
abortive scheme to marry little Nell to young
Saunders, though he was pretty well satisfied
in his own mind that this was really the cause
of the poor girl's flight. He said only kind

VOL. I. I

words to Margaret, and Margaret — still not
understanding him — began to smile again,
satisfied that Yyner loved her too much,
appreciated her many virtues too highly, to
permit any family disgrace to come between
them.

Sad, is it not, to live with those, to be tied
to those, to whom, indeed, we have no tie ?
Between Margaret and Vyner there was a great
gulf; but Margaret's understanding was not
large enough to perceive this. She thought
Yynec had peculiar ideas sometimes, a man of
vagrant moods, perhaps, like most artists ; but
she did not see — could not understand, in fact
the great difference between them.

o

Had Margaret told Yyner — she carefully did
not —-low Lady Seaport had spoken of him,
he would but have laughed. He knew why
her ladyship had asked him to dinner, and how
she regarded him. He knew also how he
regarded her, though she mio-ht think herself
a great lady ; but to be great in Yyner's eyes
needed something better than a name, however
high sounding, that would be writ only on a
crumbling tombstone.

So Margaret dried her tears, and Yyner did

what be could to comfort her, and also to
comfort the old man in his sore distress. But
the father's grief was very different to Margaret's.
Margaret had her lover, her approaching marriage,
to think of, but Major Blythe had nothing
now to lighten his long dark hours. He had
been cheerful and content enough — as most
blind people are — before Nellie disappeared,
but it was very pitiful now to see his restless
sorrow.

Four days passed on, and nothing was heard
of Nellie. Yyner applied to the police, and
inquiries were made, and the neighbours heard,
and there was a talk and a scandal, but nothing
was discovered. Nellie had vanished, gone out
in the night somewhere, taking very little with
her, leaving— she little guessed — how miserable
and anxious a heart behind !

The manner of her flight from the house was
very easily explained. Margaret always locked
the doors herself, and took the small basket
containing the keys with her into her own
room. The front house door-key was found in
the lock the morning Nellie's disappearance was
discovered. Thus Nellie must have entered
her sister's room when Margaret was asleep,

i2

and taken tli« key from the basket, and opened
the door. Margaret declared this to be impossible,
she slept so lightly, &c. ; but the fact
remained the same, and there could indeed be
no reasonable doubt about the matter.

No one appeared to have seen Nellie leave
her father's house, and not a human soul came
forward to give any account of her. Vyner
saw Lord Seaport a few days afterwards in the
park, and the young lord smiled and nodded to
the painter. It seemed impossible, therefore,
to the Blythes, any further to attempt to trace
Nellie's flight as being in any way connected
with Lord Seaport. Nellie had never spoken
of him as her lover ; had never told how often
she had met him ; and gradually the idea faded
out of Margaret's mind. Margaret finally
believed that Nellie, for some strange fancy or
other, had gone out as a pupil teacher, or
perhaps to other employment, and she was forever
telling: her father that she was sure Nellie
would soon tire, and then she would return to
her home.

But the summer faded into the autumn, and
still nothing was heard of Nellie. Then Margaret
began to speak again to Yyner of their

marriage. During all the time of their grief
and anxiety, she had gone on with her stitching
and pinching. It occupied her mind, she told
poor weeping, sympathising Mrs. Saunders,
who was grieving sorely for her James's disappointment.
Mrs. Saunders took a worse
view of the case than Margaret. She believed
*' the sweet, pretty young creature " had come
to an untimely end. She had gone mad,
perhaps, she thought, and had wandered out
and might now be lying amid the chill slime
in the river's bed.

"And with such chances, too, as she had,"
sighed Mrs. Saunders, thinking of her beloved
son. *' My James was that fond of her, he
would have married her tomorrow ! Ay, we
never can tell. The best and the best loved
are took first, Miss Margaret. This world's a
queer jumble, but perhaps in the next, things
will be put straight a bit."

Poor little Puck (James Saunders) was really
terribly " cut," as he expressed it, about
Nellie's disappearance. The brandy and soda
that he had swallowed to console himself was
something terrible, and his eyes were continually
blood-shot, perhaps with tears. He

inclined to his mother's gloomy views about-nellie.


No girl in her senses would have conceit
I " he was wont to say. "I would have married
her. Can a fellow do more ? Would a
girl in her right mind have run away when she
had such a chance ? No ; the poor darling must
suddenly have become insane, and perhaps-fancied
all sorts of things — perhaps that I
wasn't going to behave well to her — there iso
saying when the brain is upset what people
will think. Mother, can it be in the family,
do you think ? The Major's blind — that's
queerish ; there's some connection, isn't there,,
between the eyes and the brain ? "

'don't know, my darling," answered the
meek, fond mother. " If your dear father had
been alive he would have told us ; but I never
went much into the sciences."

Nor I," truthfully affirmed James ; and soin
this simple fashion they talked of poor
Nellie, it being more consoling to James's
feelings to believe her dead or insane, than the
idea that she had run away when she had a
chance of marrying him.

But all this time, though there was no trace

or sign of Nellie, Margaret steadily went on
making tier marriage garments. In spite of
her father's grief and anxiety she did this ; in
spite indeed of her own anxiety. But when
she spoke to her father on the subject, to her
pain and annoyance she found the old man
held to his first determination, made after
Nellie's flight, and would not now hear of
living with herself and Vyner.

*' No, the child shall have a home to come
to, however poor it may be," he said. '' Don't
attempt to persuade me, Margaret. As long
AS I'm alive, I'll keep the house waiting for
Nellie."

But, cither dear, just think, how can you
manage?" said the careful daughter. "You
would not afford to pay a regular housekeeper,
and they are so dreadfully extravagant, even if
you could— it will be impossible for you to
manage."

"I'll keep a home for Nellie," persisted
Major Blythe; and when Margaret, having
used all the arguments in her power without
avail, asked Vyner to try to persuade him,
Vyner told her that he thought the Major was
right.

How do we know where sLe is, Margaret ? ""
lie said. "Perhaps nearer than we think ; and
if she knew — if she heard that her father was
alone, she might come to him. I think you
are wrong to try to persuade your father
against his will. If you do not like to leave-him,
we can wait ? "

But Margaret would not hear of this.

No," she said, " no, Walter I I am weary
of waiting — surely it is time we took a house ?
You do not hesitate, do you, Walter, on account
of this sad affair about poor Nellie ? "

*' You know I do not," answered the painter,,
sharply and coldly. He was stung that she-should
suggest such a thing — stung and
indignant.

"Then you will look for a house at once
dearest?" softly said Margaret; and Yyner
promised, and sick at heart, the next day started
on that dreary search.

In all Margaret's confidences to her betrothed
and she was very tender to him — she had
never told him that she had, she was convinced,,
seen the original of the picture that he called
My Eve J talking in her carriage to Lord
Seaport. But Margaret had, nevertheless,.

thought a good deal about this incident. She
had learned that Mrs. Trelawn, Vyner's old
love, the rich widow, lived next door to Lady
Seaport. The carriage in which she had seen
the lady that Vyner's hand had, she was sure,
portrayed in My Eve, was standing before this
very door. Then the lady was dressed in black
in mourning — and looked years and years
older — so Margaret decided — than the bright,
smiling, dark eyed woman whom Yy ner had
painted. So Margaret concluded that he had
painted this portrait in Mrs. Trelawn's girlhood,
when — "he had admired her" — Margaret
mentally called it ; but somehow this meeting
with the dark-eyed lady, whose picture was in
Vyner's studio, had a little disturbed Margaret.
So much so that she never mentioned it to
Vyner ; so much so that she was more anxious
than ever to marry Vyner. The dark-eyed woman
was only a youthful dream, ** and all men have
their follies," she told herself, but still Margaret
was very anxious to have her marriage over,
and to have that youthful dream for ever left
behind.

Therefore she urged him to look for a house ;
and Vyner went. To look out for a house is

not a pleasant task. To walk up carpetless-
stairs, gaze into empty rooms, examine cloudy
cornices, is not, as a rule, an agreeable office
even if love be there to warm the heart with
dreams of a sweet future, in the now dull
and dusty space !

But what when love is not there ? Our
supposed lover — unhappy Yyner — said not to
himself after tramping up the careless stairs,
as he gazed into the dusty rooms, *'My
Margaret will make all this bright ; my
Margaret will sit there ; my Margaret, — "
&c., &c. Why go on with a lover's endless,
fancies? They are sweet visions these, fulfilled
or unfulfilled ; they make an Eden again on
earth for a brief, brief season. The sunshine
falls on the empty rooms as the fond lover
walks through them. But a London fog seemed
to accompany our door Vyner. It was a weary,,
heavy task, and at last Yyner threw it up.

Every house he thought of, Margaret objected
to in her gentle, determined way. One wa
too small, the other too large. One looked
north, and would be too cold ; the other south,.
and would be too hot.

May I go, dear Walter, and see what I can

■do, since it seems to worry you so ? " asked
Margaret ; and Yyner was only too glad to
:give his consent.

After this, the question of the house, we maybe
sure, was very soon settled. Hope and love
accompanied Margaret in her peregrinations,
and she went very briskly about with these
two companions. She settled on a house, and
she took Yyner to see it. He made some faint
objections, but she overruled them.

I see I shall l:>e henpecked," he said, with
rather a rueful smile, which Margaret answered
by a proud, confident one.

But he knew all the while that he would not
be *' henpecked." He gave in to Margaret
because he could not be at the trouble because
his heart felt too weary to contend with her,
and not because he was afraid of her. He
would never be afraid of her. He knew this,
and he knew also he would never love her.
But he was bound by honour. How often
had he said this to himself, and he said it
again, looking at her in the dusty rooms of
the empty house in which these two proposed
to live !

But they took the house. Then Yyner gave

Margaret a sum of money, and she furnished
the house. Furnished the house — let us do
her justice — with taste and discretion. Margaret
had a sense and appreciation of beauty, and she
chose her colours well. Even Vyner admitted
this, though his new possessions gave no pleasure
to his eyes.

THE OLD ROMANCE.

All this while, when Margaret was stitching
and furnishing, a cold grey shadow lay over
the life of Nora Trelawn.

She had been very ill — a nameless illness.
*' Want of tone," the doctors said. *' Utter
folly," thought her aunt, Lady Stainbrooke.
But all the same this illness had brought her
very low, and her beauty had faded, and her
dark eyes were violet-rimmed, heavy, and sad.

She was wounded — bitterly wounded — because
Yyner had never sought her since he had
told her in his letter that he was bound by
honour to fulfil his engagement to Margaret
Blythe. Even if he were bound to fulfil his
engagement — and Nora admitted that in this
he was but right and honourable, though it was
breaking her heart — but even if he were bound

to fulfil his engagement, need he utterly turn
away from his old friend ? So, woman-like,
argued Nora. She would rather have seen him
at any cost. Even " heart-wrung tears," shed
in his presence, seemed to her to be better than
this cold silence and absence. She did not
know — how could she ? — that more than once
Vyner had stood outside, and looked up at the
lighted windows of her house with strangle tenderness
and bitter regret swelling in his heart.

One nio'ht from her drawings-room windows
he standing in the street below — he heard
the fresh pure voice of a girl singing. This
song seemed to smite him as with bodily pain.
What ! was he forgotten, then — was she having
singing and merriment — and he — and he ?
Then Vyner turned away, and went back to
his Margaret. He smiled grimly to himself ashe
sat by his Margaret's side, knowing that she
never noticed his cold abstraction. She was
not thinking of him, but of her new dresses,
and her new furniture.

Yet she is not a bad woman," thought
Vyner ; " only a great thick wall is growing
thicker and thicker each day between our
hearts."

What was cementing this wall was no doubt
Vyner's love for another woman. Margaret
would have been more pleasing in his sight —
for she was certainly good-looking — if the soft,
dark eyes of another woman had not told him
of the tender, wistful love he was forced to put
away. He was always comparing her mentally
with Nora Trelawn. Margaret's 
jarred on him when he remembered Nora's
sweet humility and softness. Nora was very
womanly — full of womanly faults, perhaps ;
but faults are sometimes more pleasing than
virtues, when virtues are too unsparingly
presented to our gaze.

*but Nora has forgotten me," thought Yyner,
bitterly, sitting by Margaret's side. " Well
•—it is better so." Yet this idea was not
consoling to him. Margaret's self-assertiveness
jarred upon him more than ever that night.
Hearing of his new furniture, of the colour of
the dado in his drawing-room, was dust and
ashes to his ears. He went home early ; life
was not worth living for, he decided, with its
endless worries, its struggles between duty and
inclination, between right and wrong;.

He was weary of it all, in fact — the dark

spirit was upon this soul ; some envious fellow
had said this last picture was bad, and a friend
had whispered the adverse opinion to him.
Everything was going wrong, and so, heart-sick
and sad, Yyner sat by his fire, thinking —
enviously — that unmarried men at least can
have the privilege of being sometimes alone.

He went to his work next day, heavy and
uninterested. Yet he had loved his work, and
still loved it. He would live for it again, he
told himself — thrusting away his weary thoughts
as he had lived for it in the past years, when
Nora Trelawn was Mr. Trelawn's wife, and he
had no love but one that was dead and buried
to worry him.

And as he painted on he forgot Margaret,
and his new furniture, and his new house. He
went out from his real to an ideal world. He
was standing on the wintry shore, and the
sound of the wild sea was breaking on his ears
as he painted it dashing against the jagged
rocks, and carrying home the dead sailor whose
wife was waiting and watching.

Vyner was a true artist. The passions that
he portrayed passed through his heart. His
sensitive, nervous hand never could, and never

would, he used to say, draw what his brain
and soul had seen before he sat down to his
-canvas. He knew his power, but with the
humility which came of true self-knowledge,
was ever ready to admit how often he failed,
how often his work was wanting in his sight.
But he would live for it, he said again ; and
so after a hard day's labour he went out to
have a turn in the Park, late in the afternoon
of the day following the one on which he had
sat by his Margaret's side, and thought sadly
enough that Nora Trelawn had utterly forgotten
him.

The Park was very empty. The season was
quite over, and only a few carriages were to be
seen. Yyner never looked at the carriages.
He went striding on thinking — absolutely of
that dark eyed woman still — when suddenly
he looked up, and there, sitting in a passing
carriage with a grey-haired, bent man by her
side, actually was Nora !

He started, he stopped, and stared at the
carriage, but Nora never saw him. But he saw
her — saw the sweet face changed and wasted,
and the dark eyes violet-rimmed, heavy, and
sad. Then he knew he was not forgotten;

grief was on Nora's face and weariness ; the
weariness that he remembered to have seen
there in her wedded days, when he had met
her long ago, and told her that Lady Stain-brooke
had spoilt their lives.

Was he glad to see the shadow again on
Nora's face ? Was life as burdensome to him
as it had been last night when he turned away
from Nora's lighted windows ? Strange, the
man who loved her so, felt more bright of mood
after he had seen that clouded countenance.
He was not forgotten. He would go back to
his work, and she would be proud of him even
if their hands never met again on earth. Yes ;
he was not forgotten, and the thought wa
balm and comfort to Yyner's soul.

He knew the old man, too, who sat by her
side. That pale, pinched face, carried hi
memory back to Warbrooke ; back to the days
when he had wooed Nora in the Warbrooke
meadows. It was Mr. Henry Sudely, Nora's
father, for Lady Stainbrooke had advised her
brother to come and pay his rich daughter a
visit, as she " wanted rousing."

Poor Mr. Sudely was not of a very '' rousing '*
nature. Sitting in his rich daughter's carriage

living in lier fine house, the old shadows still
Jung over him. He had been '' too beaten by
the world," too battered by its rude shocks,
-ever to forget them. He had failed ; had to
face angry, insulting creditors ; he had scarcely
known where to turn for daily bread ; he had
struggled and struggled, and then a young
girl's marriage had changed it all.

But the "hard times" had left their mark.
It seemed impossible to Mr. Sudely to be lively
and light-hearted. The storm-worn old ship
might be fresh painted and rigged, but the
leaks were below the paint. Mr. Sudely had
plenty now, but he never could c[uite forget
the days when the wolf was at the door, and
when shame and dishonour had stalked by his
side.

Thinking of these old days, Vyner went home.
The old romance, the old love, all came freshly
back to him. He turned the face of his pictured
Eve ao-ain from the wall, and there before him
was Nora — the Nora he had wooed in the
Warbrooke meadows.

Then he felt a strange longing, a longing
that grew upon him day by day, once more to
see Roseland. He remembered the touch of

the soft hand there holding the flower, and the
sweet glad face of Nora standing in the sunlight.

*' I am a fool," he told himself, and yet he
went to have a last look at the rose garden by
the river. He went on a cold dull day, the
river dark and rough, and before he reached
Nora's house rain began to fall heavily, and
the wind swept by with a wintry chill.

He thought of turning; back : but no — he
would not perhaps have cared to see Koseland
again in the glory of the sunshine, as it had
been on the day when he had stood with Nora
by the garden wall. He would go on, and he
went on, and when at length he arrived, he found
to his surprise the gate of the avenue standing
open. He went through the gate and down
into the garden. He did not mean to go near
the house, or speak to the servants in charge of
it, unless they spoke to him. He meant —
*' fool that I am," he said again to himself — to
lean for a moment or two on the little stone
balustrade where he had leaned with Nora ; he
meant to pluck a rose, perhaps, and then — let
us hope — go back with a lighter heart to his
work and to his Margaret, and to the life that
now so plainly lay mapped before him.

But let us follow him down the wet paths
among the faded roses. He looked sadly and
grimly at the flowers. Dashed by the wind and
rain, out of season, drooping and melancholy,
stood the rose trees. Then he looked for the
moss-grown wall at the end of the garden. He
looked and stood still ; a thrill, a sudden bodily
pang, darting to his heart.

There — leaning against the very stones
where they too had leaned in the sunshine —
her head down, the rain beating on her black
dress — was Nora Trelawn ! Yyner's breath
came short for a moment or two, his face
flushed ; then a sudden glow of love, passion,
and regret swept over him, and with quick,,
uncertain steps he went on.

Nora heard the footsteps behind her, and
lifted her head. She looked round, and when
she saw Yyner she gave a sort of cry, and
started back.

'' Nora," said Yyner, advancing and holding
out his hand, *' I did not expect — I did not
hope to see you here?"

What did the poor trembling woman answer ?"
Nothing. She stood there opposite to Yyner,.
with a white and tear-stained face, and with

sad and startled eyes. The rain kept beating
down upon lier, the rough dark waters of the
river rolled beneath the garden wall, the sky
was black with clouds. Involuntarily there
passed through Vyner's mind, as he looked at
her, a vision of sunshine, and the summer
flowers, and the smiles on a sweet, glad face.

The contrast touched him, pained him, fanned
the tenderness in the man's fast beating heart.

And you came here," he said, still holding
her hand, 'where — we were once so happy,
Nora?"

** I came," said Nora, trying to speak calmly,
*' to — say good-bye to Eoseland — I — am going
to sell it."

Somehow this idea was painful to Vyner.

I am sorry," he said.

Why should I keep it ? " answered Nora,
with sudden bitterness. " It— it is nothing tome
now."

No," said Vyner, and he turned away his
head.

"You might at least have come to say goodbye,"
continued Nora, her face flushing and her
voice trembling. "You owed me this, I think.
You are right, of course — you are acting rightly.

Recess's WIDOW. 247

but still — I — I — think you owed me this."

Then Yvner looked round.

** And why did I not come, Nora ? " he said.
Because I dared not — because I had no right
to come — because it is better that I should see
you no more."

** Yet you came here ? "

"Yes — to have one last look at Eoseland."

What is Eoseland to you ? " said Nora
passionately, and with a sob.

You are unjust, Nora. "What is Eoseland
to me ? Shall I tell you ? — but you know I
you know ! "

Yet you never — "

Went to your house ? Nora, why should
I go ? — only to talk of things that could not
be."

Nora was silent. But Yyner saw her eyes
2frow wet and bis: with tears.

** I did not go — " went on Yyner. " I
thought perhaps you had forgotten me — it was.
better that you should forget me — but the
other day I saw your face in the Park — and —
and — the longing came over me, Nora — the
old romance, folly, call it what you will ; but
I felt I must see Eoseland once more — take

one of your dead flowers away with me, Nora,
as a memento of my own weakness."

A tlmll, almost of joy, seemed to throb
thrush Nora's heart as she heard these words.

o

*' It was so bitter to me," she said, casting
down her eyes ; ''so bitter that you should go
away with a fear cold words. If you had
come — if we could have talked about it — "

*navel], Nora, we can do that now," said
Yyner, and he smiled sadly, and once more
took hold of Nora's hand.

Nora did not draw it away. She looked
into his face and saw how aged and worn he
looked. The handsome face was lined and
sharpened, and Nora understood then how great
had been the struggle in Yyner's heart.

It is hard, — " she began, but she could
not go on, for her tears choked her.

** Yes, said Vyner, '' very, very hard — so
hard, Nora, that I have felt sometimes I could
not bear it."

*' We must try," said Nora, softly, in her
tear-broken voice — the man had touched the
rio-ht string in the woman's heart. " We — we
must help each other, Walter — for I know you
-are right."

**I have no choice."

*' And— and—has it to be soon ?" faltered Nora.

Yyner's resolution failed him. He could not
stab this pale woman, standing before him
with her tear-stained face, any more just now.

*' I know nothing," he said ; and he coloured
under his dark, pale skin, remembering at that
moment his new furniture, his dados — all the
things that he hated to think of I

You will let me know 1 " said, Nora, still in
the same faltering voice, and turning away her
head. " But come in now ; I think they have
lit a fire in the house somewhere. We had
better go in."

So Nora and Yyner went into the house out
of the rain, and Yyner felt that he had been a
coward. They stood together by the newly-lit
fire in the drawing-room, and talked of things
quite calmly. Not of Margaret, not of the old
love, the old romance, but of pleasant passing
things, such as we talk of, even if our hearts
are heay)\

I am going to drive back presently," said
Nora. *' Will you come with me, Walter ? ''

For a moment he hesitated, but the temptation
was too strong.

*' If I am not in the way ? " he said with a
smile.

Xora only smiled in reply. Then she left him
for a little while, and when she returned her
face was no longer tear-stained. It was pale,
composed, and sad, but the traces of the late
storm were gone.

And all the way, as they drove together to
town, no word was spoken of the old love or
the recent sorrow. They talked as friends talk
friends, whose friendship has seen years ;
and though Nora's heart was very sad, there
was no bitterness in it.

But just as they neared the house she said
one word. —

Walter ! " and she turned her sweet face
round, and looked into his, and held out her
hand, " promise me one thing — whatever
happens, let us be friends."

"If you wish it, yes — most faithfully, yes,"
answered Yyner emphatically, and he clasped
Nora's hand tight in his firm and nervous clasp.

Nothing more was said after this of the clays
that were past or the days that were yet to come.
Bat a promise had been made, and each felt
that it would not be broken.

Then when they arrived at Nora's house she
asked him to stay and dine with them, but
Vyner said he could not, as he had not time to
go to his rooms to change his dress.

What matter is it ? " said Nora. " There
is no one at home but my father and the
General and Lady Stainbrooke, and the Generalis
confined to his room with one of his bad
attacks of rheumatism, poor man ! "

And Yyner did stay. Lady Stainbrooke,.
who was sitting, waiting impatiently in the
drawing-room for her niece's return, as it was
past the usual dinner hour, lifted her eyebrows,
or what used to be her eyebrows, in surprise
when Nora entered followed by the handsome
painter. But she was too much a woman of
the world to express this. She concluded, in
fact, when she saw them enter together, that it
was all settled ; that their quarrel, or whatever
it had been, was made up, and that her
rich niece was going to make a fool of herself,
and throw herself away.

Mr. Henry Sudely, Nora's father, too,
remembered Yyner, and wondered secretly if
his daughter were going to marry the painter.
But as the evening passed on, Lady Stainbrooke

more than once put up lier double gold eyeglasses,
and peering through them began to
doubt if her first surmise were right. The
flush of happy love was not on Nora's pale
face, nor the proud light in Vyner's eyes which
Lady Stainbrooke expected to see there, if a
woman with Nora's immense wealth had just
accepted him. They both were calm, pale and
composed ; Yyner a bit grim in his manner to
Lady Stainbrooke herself, for he never could
forgive her, and Lady Stainbrooke — remembering
the scene at Koseland — did not dare
even to mention Vyner's name to Nora after
he was gone.

Vyner walked home to his rooms in a very
restless and excited mood. The old love, always
deep down in his heart, seemed now so fresh
again. Nora's sweet face haunted him, her sad
wistful looks were pain, yet joy, to him. She
loved him, and he loved her so dearly, thought
Vyner — and, but for ]margaret —

A letter from margaret was lying on the
table to OTeet him as he entered his rooms.
Vyner looked at it, bit his lips, and a somewhat
strong and angry word rose on his tongue.

He lit ft cio-ar and smoked it before he had

courage to open his love letter. Shall we glance
over his shoulder, and read it with him ?
Margaret wrote a most charming hand, and it
was very easy to decipher. The words were
very plain, and so was their meaning ; they
were exactly as follows : —

My clearest Walter, — I expected you to call last night, but
as you did not, I must write to you to tell you my good news.
Our house is quite ready at last. I saw the last set of
curtains put up yesterday, and everything looks lovely ; and
now, dearest Walter (as you told me to settle it), shall I fix
our wedding day ? I have thought of the 18th of the month,
if that will suit you ? There is no good, of course, in
deferring it any longer now. My dear father is very unsettled
and unhappy still about poor Nellie, but I fear this sad state
will continue until we hear something, from her, and 1 think
lie would be happier if he knew that one of his dear children
at least was happy and settled. I shall make a point of seeing
him every day after we are married, and our kind
neighbour, Mrs. Saunders, has promised to look after him
when we are away on our wedding tour. Thus my mind is
-at ease about my dear father, and you must try to cheer him,
dearest Walter, about Nellie when you come.

I shall expect to see you tomorrow night, dearest. Tell
me then if the[ 18th will do. We might arrange to have it
perhaps on the 15th, but you must tell me tomorrow which
of these days will suit you best. And now for the present
good-bye.

Your affectionate and loving

Margaret.

Vyner received this letter on the 8th of

September, and Margaret had fixed on theist
for their wedding day! There are some
things that are not good to look at, some words
that are not good to hear. Let us then leavened
for a while after he had first read his-love
letter ; leave him to fight out a dark, hard
struo'O'le with his rebellious heart.

He went the next night to visit Margaret.
Up and down the room as he entered it, the
blind father was walking with restless, uncertain
steps.

He stopped as Vyner went in, and quickly
held out his hand.

'' Have you heard nothing, Vyner ? " he said.
'•' Nothing yet about my girl ? "

Vyner was touched as he looked on the old
man's easier, sii;j:htle3s face.

'* No, Major Blyche," he said gently, " not
yet. But we must have patience and hope."

I try to have patience," answered the
Major, " but it is very dreary, Vyner — to be
always in the dark — not even to be able to-look
for Nellie."

'' We do that for you," said Vyner. " You
must cheer up. Major Blythe, and not give

way ; it is a great trial, but Nellie will come
back to you yet'

"I am always waiting and listening. I
dreamt last night the child came, Vyner ; but
it was very strange, I could not speak to
her'

"You had the nightmare," said Vyner, trying
to speak lightly.

*' I tried in my dream to open my lips, but
I could not move my tongue ; I tried to lift up
my hands to bless her, but they lay still by
my side, and the child fell down and cried,
Vyner, and I saw her face, and it was changed,
and sad, and old — it was a terrible dream'

They always go contrariwise, don't the old
women say ? " said Vyner. " So we must hope
to see Nellie looking well and like herself'

Yet I can't help thinking of my dream — I
must have been dead, I think ; if any life were
left in me, I would have had strength to getup
and welcome Nellie'

At this moment Margaret entered the room,
looking very bright and handsome''

Walter ! " she said, advancing with outstretched
hand to Vyner, " that stupid Hatton
only told me you were here a moment since.

Have you been here long ? But you have been
talking to my father."

'•' I have been telling Vyner my dream,.
Margaret," said the Major.

And I hope he bas scolded you. Walter,,
isn't it wrong, now, of dear father to indulge
in. such foolish fancies ? '*

'' Unfortunately we cannot always help our
fancies, Margaret," answered Yyner gravely.

'' Oh, yes, we can. I never allow myself to
think of things that I should not— I think it
is weak to do so, Walter."

Perhaps it is," said Walter.

"And now, dear father," continued Margaret,
going up playfully to her father, and
putting her arm through his, *' will you go to
your study for a little while, as I have a great
secret to tell Walter."

The Major allowed himself to be led away
quite meekly. Then Margaret went back to-her
betrothed. The secret that she had to tell
him was to know whether the 15th or the 18th
was to be their wedding-day.

THE HOUSE IN THE GLEN.

On this same 9tli of September — at the very
time when Major Blythe was telling Vyner his
dream about his lost Nellie, when Margaret
was talking to Vyner of their wedding-day —
away in the Western Highlands, by one of the
most beautiful lochs in Scotland, a girl was
standing: in the moonlight.

She was quite alone. She had come down
over the rough shingle at the head of the loch,
and was now looking anxiously over the moonlit
waters.

The girl stood there half-frightened, it was
so wild, so lonely, and so beautiful, this silent
glen. All around her the great jagged peaks
towered up against the luminous sky, their
shadows falling dark and weird on the valley
below. No human creature but herself was to

VOL, I. K

be seen, no sound but the mournful cadence
of the loch breaking on the stony shore.

Yet the girl stood listening — she bent
forward — what did she hear ? The splash
of the tide on the stones, or a startled wild
duck on the wing ? No ; it was the measured
dip of oars, and with a half cry of joy the
girl recognised this, and in another moment
or two, out of the shadow of hills, into the
clear moonlight on the mid-channel of the
loch, a boat glided into view.

Then the girl ran a few steps further along
the rough shingle to the point to which the
boat was apparently steering. She mounted
on one of the big stones ; she stood there with
the moonlight falling on her fair hair and her
fair face. Two men were in the boat, and as
the keel grated on the shingle a sturdy keeper
leapt out and pulled the boat up on the shore.
As he did this the other man too sprang out,
and the girl stepped quickly down from her big
stone and advanced with outstretched hands.

*' Murray I " she said ; and Murray took her
in his arms, and again and again kissed her
sweet face.

*^ Nellie, what are you doing here ? " he

said. " Child, you should not come out alone
at night like this."

"I could not stay in. I was so anxious,"
she answered. " Do you know how late it is,
Murray ? "

Couldn't help, my sweet one. The train got
in late ; and then with that confounded ferry
to cross — and the row down the loch is a stiff one
it took us over an hour. Didn't it, Donald? "

Donald, the keeper, touched his cloth cap.

A good hour and a half, sir," he said.

'* There, you see, it is not my fault, Nellie.
Come along now ; Donald will look after the
"boat. Here, take my arm, and Til help you
over the stones." And he held out his arm.

Nellie put her hand fondly through it, and
together, chatting and laughing, they commenced
their rough walk up the glen.

Donald, the keeper, turned his honest,
weather-beaten face round, and looked after the
young couple disappearing in the moonlight.

Aye, it's laughter now," he muttered, *' wi'

tears and moans to come." And with an

.ominous head-shake and a sigh, Donald once

more seized his oars and began to make the

boat secure for the night.

k2

In the mean while the young couple were
wending their way up the glen in the white
moonlight.

And have you been lonely ? " he asked.

Of course, IVe been lonely," she answered,
looking up smilingly into his face. *' I've had
nothing, nothing to do, Murray, but — "

Well, what, Nellie ? "

Wait for you," she answered softly, and so
they went on whispering the tale, old as the
earth's first children.

- This young couple, now living in the lonely
Open of Strathearn, were called by their neighbours
Captain and Mrs. Murray. That is, they
had really no neighbours, but the house in
Strathearn Glen was known to be inhabited at
this time by a Captain and Mrs. Murray, to
whom it had been lent for a season by its
owner, Mr. Robert Campbell, commonly called
Strathearn. But when some lady — one of his
own relatives — asked Strathearn if his friends
were people she could visit (the nearest neighbour
being some sixteen miles from the Glen),
Strathearn shruo^Q-ed his broad shoulders.

I do not think they would care to visit''
he said ; "and — I know nothing about the lady."

But Strathearn knew about the gentleman.
He knew lie was not Capt. Murray, but Murray,
Viscount Seaport, and lie knew that he did
not care that his relations should know Mrs.
Murray. Thus Mrs. Murray, an innocent, fair-haired
girl, had lived a month or two at
Strathearn without being troubled by any
visitors. The servants and keepers about the
place made their own comments. Capt. Murray
only came occasionally to the Glen, but the
young wife lived there always. A whisper got
about from a servant Capt. Murray once brought
down with him from town, that the Captain
had a rio-ht to bear another name than the
simple one he chose to assume at Strathearn.
Donald, the keeper had heard this servant
address his master as *' My Lord," so Donald
shook his head and sighed when the people
about the place said how fond of each other
the Captain and his young wife seemed. But
Donald committed himself no farther. "What
-Strathearn had said to his relative, and Donald's
head-shakes and sighs, were enough. The lonely
house in the Glen was avoided. Strathearn's
deer forest, lying beyond the Glen, marched
with the deer forest of another proprietor, and

the deer-stalkers on the hills used to smile and
point out the white house standing in the valley
below. A pretty woman lived there, it was
said, and so the pretty woman's fair fame was
smiled away.

This pretty woman had once been Nellie
Blythe. Had Nellie seen the smiles and the
shrugs of the deer-stalkers she would have
smiled proudly back. She believed herself to
be Lord Seaport's wedded wife, and was content
that for his sake the world should not know
this. God did, she used to whisper to herself
growing almost solemn, as she often stood alone
amid the wild beauty of the Glen of Strathearn.

But Nellie never suspected or dreamed that
her good fame had been called in question.
Lord Seaport had told her, both before and
after their marriage, that it would be utter
ruin to him if their marriage were known.
Nellie had faithfully promised to keep the
secret. Seaport told her also that they would
bear the title for the present of Captain and
Mrs. Murray. A friend of his, Campbell of
Strathearn, would lend them a house, and
Nellie naturally supposed that Lord Seaport
would make this one friend at least .

But lie believed in and trusted
her husband with perfect faith. She loved him,
loved him most dearly, and she felt there was
no sin in her love. But she had one heartache
■ — a shadow falling athwart her love and happiness
— and this heartache was the thought of
her dear, blind father.

More than once Nellie had broached this
subject to Lord Seaport, but if Seaport could
be stern he had been on these occasions.

*' Nellie, would you ruin me ? " he said. '' If
the fellows in town once knew I was married
to you, I would have to leave the service, and
probably die in a foreign gaol. Wait, my little
girl — something will turn up some day — the
old man is quite well, I am certain. I saw
Yyner, the painter, the other day in the Park,
looking all right. Don't you fret. I'll find out,
if you like, if your father is well."

Nellie thanked him very tenderly for this
concession, and Seaport did find out. He sent
his confidential servant, who had accompanied
Nellie down to Scotland on the night of her
flight from her father's house, to make private
inquiries about the Major.

This man, whose name was Clayton, picked

up in the neighbourhood some news of tlio-
Major, only part of which Seaport reported to
Nellie. He did not tell her — did not dare to
tell her — all that Clayton had heard in the
shops where the Blythes dealt, of the blind
Major's restless grief and anxiety about his
missing child. Nellie's disappearance had been
greatly talked of. Her beauty, her youth, and
the respectability of her position made this only
natural. Then, poor Mrs. Saunders was never-weary
of wailing about her James's disappointment.
James, indeed, had taken advantage of
his disappointment, and made the most of it.
He knew his mother would forgive him now
when he came reeling home, and he therefore
frequently did come in that condition.

He must have something to keep him up, he
said, and the fond mother did not gainsay him.
All his little peccadilloes were now put down
to his disappointment, and Mrs. Saunders used
to sigh and talk of Nellie constantly to all her
acquaintances.

But the Major was not ill, Clayton told his-master
; and this Seaport repeated to Nellie,
with the slight alteration that her father was
quite well. So Nellie tried to console herself ;.

"but, sometimes in the moonlight ; sometimes
when the white mists in the twilight stole down
the Glen, Nellie would see her father's anxious
face.

If she might write him but one little line —
she used often to think — but one to tell him
she was well and happy, and that some day
perhaps he would be proud of his little Nellie,
But she was quite loyal to Seaport. He washer
husband — his wishes were her law — and so
weeks crept into months, and Major Blythe
knew nothing more of Nellie than he did the
first day after she had disappeared from her
home.

She led a very lonely life at Strathearn.
Seaport never stayed more than a week when
lie came to the Glen, and this was but his third
visit there when we find Nellie standing in the
moonlight by the head of the loch, waiting for
his coming. But it would all be right some day,
he told her ; and so waiting for that welcome
day Nellie tried to live on in peace.

It seemed all right the morning after his
arrival, when the young couple went out
together and stood looking at the sunlight
flooding the vast gorges, the mighty peaks —

grey and storm-rent — by wliicli they were-surrounded.


The house in the Glen of Strathearn stood
on a small natural table-land at the head of
the loch, just above the rough shingle which
the tide washed when it rose. All round the
house, save on the side which faced the blue
spreading waters of the loch, great peaked
craggy mountains stood towering up, mountain
upon mountain, crag upon crag. A wild, lone,,
and lovely spot, where mists and storms loved
to dwell. But as Seaport and Nellie went out
on this bright morning the storms were still and
the mists had vanished away. Each peak stood
sharply out against the blue clear sky; the rifts,
the patches of heather, the bare vast blocks of
cold grey stone, all plainly visible.

'* It always makes me think of solemn things
it is so grand, so still," said Nellie, in a low
voice, and Seaport smiled good-naturedly, and
pushed some of Nellie's fair curly hair off her
Avhite brow.

*' Romantic young woman ! " he said.

She was leaning on his arm, dressed in one
of her favourite white dresses, and her sweet
face was all alight and glad with love. Seaport

turned round and looked at lier, and drew her
fondly to him. He had wooed her and won her
innocent heart for the sake of this sweet face,
and its beauty was still fresh and fair in his
eyes.

Yes, Nellie," he said presently, with a half
sigh, " it's a fine place. If it were only mine,
child, we need not be hiding now."

*' And is your friend, Mr. Campbell, rich ? "
asked Nellie.

** Fairly so, I believe," answered Seaport.
The old Laird was a miserly old fellow, and
lived here most of his life where, of course, he
could not spend much, and he quarrelled with
Strathearn — the present man — because he was
not quite a saint. I met Campbell in town
some years ago, and we rather chummed
together. He was kept close enough then, and
I helped him out of a hole more than once ; so
when the old boy retired to the family vault,
two years ago, Strathearn, to show his gratitude,
asked me down here whenever I like to come.
He has a shooting lodge further up the hills,
and he always brings some fellows down for the
deer stalking. I asked Donald, the keeper, if
they expect him at the lodge soon, and he

says they talk of him being here next week."

*' But, Murray, does he not want to come to
this house — his own house ? " asked Nellie, a
little anxiously.

** He has lent it to you for the present"'
answered Seaport, with a laugh. '' Don't 3'ou
worry, he won't come near you. The lodge suits
him best, and he professes to be no admirer of
ladies."

I hope he won't come here," said Nellie.

"Not he. But Nellie, I promised Donald to
go down the loch a mile or so and land, and try
my chance with the black cock. Will you bring
lunch, and in the afternoon we can fish together
in the loch awhile."

Nellie smilingly agreed to this plan. Seaport
and the keeper started on their shooting expedition,
and Nellie remained idly about the place
until she saw Donald rowing up the loch for the
purpose of taking her and her luncheon basket
down. Seaport was standing waiting for her
when the boat neared the shore, and he held out
his arms to help her to land with a smile.

Well, little wife," he said, " I hope you have
brought sometlmiQ: substantial to eat, for I am
literally starving."

Donald, the keeper, head lum call nellie
'* little wife," and the gnm weather-beati £ice
and the kindly blue eyes of the Highlander
relaxed into a smile as he did so. This Donald
had groaned both in spirit and in reality many
a time over what he supposed was Nellie's £ite.
In spite of alL, however; her girlish beauty and
sweetness had won his honest heart He used
to look at her sometimes with his solemn eyes,
and wonder if she could be one of those against
whom he had read such awful warnings in his
wefl-wom Bible Therefore, after Seaport
and Nellie had finished hmch, he said grace
and ate his dinner this day by the loch
with a cheerful heart He even pointed
oat to Nellie with pious pride a lonely hut
standing amid the wild gorges of the mountains,
and told her how each month a missionary
came over the his and held a service there, and
how the scattered shepherds gathered together
to hear the word of trod.

** And if the lady would like to go next
Sabbath'' suggested Dona, *^ that's the day we
look for the minister."

Seventh laughed aloud at this, but Belie said
softly —

Yes, Donald, I would like to go."

Seaport laughed again. He was a very
careless young man this, and if it '' amused "
Nellie, as he called it, to go and listen to the
Scotch minister, he cared no more than if she
had gone to witness some heathenish rites.

*' Only please don't ask him to the Glen,
Nellie," he said, in his good-natured, laughing
way. '^ I could not stand coming dov\^n some
day and finding the minister's greasy hat hanging
in the hall."

Donald groaned once more in spirit to hear
these scoffing words. The minister's visits
to him were as the 'dew of the morning."
They raised him above the crosses of his daily
life ; they brought nearer the Beacon Light
which burned so clearly for his pious soul on
high.

'' You must row me down to hear him,
Donald," said Nellie gently, for she saw by the
man's face how hurt he was by what Seaport
had said.

Donald touched his cap. The keeper's face
was lined and grim aud weather-beaten, but a
sort of native nobleness of expression lit up this
homely countenance. Born amid these wild

hills, lie Lad lived all his life face to face with
their solemn grandeur. The distractions of busy
towns, the rush of busy life, the stir, the
struggle, had come not near him. No crowded
time had made him forget or neglect eternity.
In the stillness or the storm he heard the
Almighty's voice, and hearing it, lived up to
his simple faith.

His honesty and uprightness were well
known. His father had been keeper to the
Campbellss of Strathearn before him, and now
fifty years of age, Donald was not likely to
change masters. He was a dead shot on the
hills, and knew his duties well, and though the
present Strathearn sometimes called him " that
over-pious fellow, Donald," he both really liked
and respected his old servant.

He lived at the house in the Glen, and had
always charge of it in Strathearn's absence.
He had made no fortune ; for his hands were
clean from "j^i^^'^ing and stealing," as his tongue
was from 'devil speaking, lying, and slandering
groans and head-shaking alone Donald
expressed his doubts about his neighbours, and
it must be admitted that this manner of denoting
an evil opinion is safer than that of words.

Thus he had never committed himself by
saying anything about Nellie, whatever his own
private thoughts may have been. Strathearn
had told him that a Captain and Mrs. Murray
were coming to stay at the Glen, but Donald
had noticed that none of Strathearn's own
people — none of the Campbellss — had come near
to visit the lady. The women of the household,
consisting of an old highland woman who acted
as cook, and a young highland woman who
acted as housemaid, had not been so reticent.
They had asked Donald questions, but Donald
had only groaned and shaken his head. He
felt great inward satisfaction, therefore, when
he remembered this as he sat rowing Seaport
and Nellie in the boat, after he had heard
Seaport call Nellie with his own ears, his
'' little wife."

The young couple spent the rest of the
afternoon on the loch. Nellie would not fish.
** It was too beautiful to do anything," she
said ; and truly it was beautiful. On the broad,
smooth breast of the water lay reflected, as if
in a mighty mirror, the mountains and hills
through which it flowed. There was scarcely
a ripple on the tide, and above the sky was

deep blue and cloudless. Here and there a
wild duck skimmed, and a big seal raised its
head and looked curiously with its mild eyes at
the boat and its occupants.

*'If the lady would sing he'd follow us'
suggested Donald, as these creatures are popularly
supposed to be great lovers of music.
But Nellie only laughed in reply, and as the
big seal did not apparently find her laugh
musical enough, he soon vanished away.

STRATHEAPvN.

Seaport only stayed three days longer in the
Glen. His mother, he told Nellie, was visiting
some of her own people in Suffolk, and he had
promised to join her there. He told Nellie
also that he had left directed envelopes in
town with his servant Clayton, and that his-letters
from Scotland were actually placed in
these envelopes before being forwarded, so
anxious was he that no whisper of his visits to
the Glen should reach his proud mother's ears.
But Seaport did not tell Nellie that he still
allowed his mother to scheme and hope for his
marriage with "Croesus's Widow;" he did not
tell her that he also allowed his most pressing
creditors to believe that this marriage was
not only possible but probable. Yet such was
actually the case. This, indeed, was one of

the many illustrations of how the miserable
influences of debt and im]Decuniosity will corrupt
and change the human heart.

When with Nellie amid the wild beauty of
the Glen, Seaport tried to, and actually did
sometimes, forget his troubles. But money
embarrassments have a more faithful memory
than the tenderest friend. They will not be
forgotten. They follow a man wheresoever he
goes, tapping him on the shoulder alike in his
hours of merriment or woe. In the chamber
of death, how often the pale expectant heir
stands counting his debts ! Even with Nellie's
soft hand clasped in his, Seaport saw sometimes
the grim shadow of the suspended sword.

But her sweetness and beauty always had a
good influence upon him. It was quite true
what he told her, that no contemptible thought
of their difference of rank made him keep their
marriage as a thing to be ashamed of, and
hidden away. It was not this, but the actual
knowledge that he was ruined: that his mother
would be dragged down by his ruin ; and that
he was really living on the credit of being a
young, titled, and unmarried man. More than
one of his sharp-eyed, beak-nosed, accommodating

acquaintances, had told the young lord
with a smile and a leer, that it was cjuite time
for him to '' settled Many a rich City girl they
knew would take him with his old title and
his good-looking face. Then they heard the
report about *' Croesus's Widow," and Seaport
had borrowed more money on the strength of
it.

But on the morning that he left the Glen of
Strathearn, as he parted with Nellie and looked
into her fair trustful face, Seaport told himself
that he must do something — that he must
change his plan of life somehow, and not bring
any more trouble upon the loving woman who
clung to him with such wistful fondness.

Nellie felt very sad after he left. She had
gone down the loch with him in the boat,
and as Donald rowed her up again he saw her
blue eyes grow dim and moist, and a big tear
or two roll down her smooth soft cheeks. Then
she turned away her head and bent over the
side of the boat, but Donald knew that " the
lady's " heart was heavy within her, and he
longed to speak, though he did not venture todo
so, of a comfort which was beyond the
influence of the fickle moods of men.

The next few days were very dreary ones at
Strathearn. The weather changed, and the
mists gathered on the mountain peaks, and the
rain and the wind swept down the glen, and
came dashing against the window panes, and
the waters of the loch looked dark and angry.

Inside the house Nellie sat alone, and a
nameless sadness oppressed her. She tried to
think of the future — the bright future — when
she would go home as Lord Seaport's wife,
and put her loving arms round the dear blind
father's neck. This was the future, but the
present was very sad.

Living alone in this wild place, with only
three servants in the house, and Seaport so faraway
! She could not even write to him openly,
and to the house where he was staying in
Suffolk. Her letters were to be sent to his
club always, Seaport had told her, and the
post only came to Strathearn Glen twice a week.

Then the first post-day came after Seaport
had left, and there was no letter for Nellie !
Nellie cried very bitterly at this. When
she was so anxious, she thought it was very,
very cruel of Murray to forget her. Murray
had not forgotten her, but he was bothered

and worried to death, and hardly knew what
to write to the poor child alone in the Scottish
glen.

So Nellie had nothing to do but to wander
up and down in the silent house. The mist
still lay on the hills, and the rain came sweeping
crown the gorges. It was very desolate — no
letters, no newspapers — only anxious thoughts,
and vague fears, sometimes for Seaport, sometimes
for the dear father at home.

Do men ever realise — living in action, living
amid the excitement and competitions of life
how women fret and pine in seeming rest
and security? The moth eats into the garment
that is laid carefully away, and so anxiety and
care wear most the hearts that are shut out
from the struo^o-le and stir of the world. But
Seaport never thought of this, or perhaps he
would have contrived that his Nellie should
receive one letter at least on the rare visits of
the post-bag to the Glen of Strathearn.

At last the sun shone out again, and Nellie
'Could get out and watch the mists and the
clouds creeping, as if unwillingly, away over the
mountains' peaks ; she went out on the loch
'glad of any change), and Donald rowed her

down to where a famous fishing stream flowed
into the loch. Donald moored the boat in a
little bay, and then left Nellie sitting on some
lichen-grown rocks, looking wistfully over
the blue waters at her feet and to the blue
misty mountains beyond.

Not a human soul was to be seen. Donald
had disappeared up the stream with his fishing
gear, and Nellie sat there amid the great stillness.
But before Ions; she heard some shots on
the hills. She looked around, but no sportsmen
were visible, and so she sat on, thinking of the
past, and weaving hopes for the days that had
not come.

But her day-dream was strangely broken.

Donald ! Donald ! " she presently heard
someone call through the clear air, and rising
in surprise, she saw the next minute a tall man
in a rough shooting dress coming hastily
striding down the hilly ground behind her, and
apparently making direct for the spot where
she now stood.

He advanced straight towards her. Then,
when a few steps apart, he slightly touched his
cap.

Excuse me addressing you," he said, " but

can you tell me where Donald, the keeper, is ? "

He is fishing up the stream," answered
Nellie, in her fresh girlish voice.

'' I want help very badly," continued the tall
man. " The poor fellow out with me on the hills
there, my keeper, has fallen down apparently ina
fit, and is in a terrible state. I can make
nothing of him, and I saw Donald moor the
boat in the bay awhile since, and so if you can
direct me to him — "

Can I be of any use ? " said Nellie, looking
with her clear, frank eyes in the tall man's face,
who OD his part was regarding her with considerable
surprise. " There is some fresh water in
the boat, I think. Shall 1 run and get it? And
if you will tell me where the poor keeper is — "

'' You are very good," said the tall man, as
Nellie paused. He was still looking wonderingly
at the fair girlish face before him. " You are
Mrs. Murray, are you not ? " he added, somewhat
abruptly. " The lady living in the
'Glen ? "

Yes," answered Nellie, her rosy colour
deepening on her smooth cheek.

*' I thought so — seeing you with Donald — I
-am Robert Campbell, of Strathearn."

Nellie had guessed this before. She had
heard Seaport describe their host at Strathearn
as a " tremendous fellow, all loosely hung
together," and looking at the brown, healthy
rather handsome face of the long-limbed giant
before her, Nellie at once had decided that
this must be Mr. Campbell, commonly called
Strathearn.

Shall we get the water ? " said Nellie. " I
am almost sure Donald has some in the boat ? "'

'" Thanks. Let me help you over these rough
stones I " answered Strathearn, and he held out
one of his big hands. But Nellie needed no
help. She sprang lightly over the jutting
rocks, and soon reached the boat, and found
Donald's stone water-bottle, from which he was-wont
to dilute his whisky.

I have a flask with me, so we're all right,"
said Strathearn. '* Here, let me carry the
water. Do you know anything about fits ?
This fellow Brady, his face is so horribly
twisted, perhaps it may frighten you to look
at him ? "

As Strathearn said this Nellie had jumped
out of the boat with the stone water-bottle in
her hand, and was evidently preparing to follow

Sfcratliearn to the poor keeper who had taken
the fit. But Strathearn, glancing at her
youthful face, at her white dress, suddenly
remembered that this butterfly — as he mentally
was calling her — was hardly fit to look upon
the terrible struggles of the stricken, perhaps
dying, man.

*^ I am not afraid," said Nellie. ''I will stay
with him while you go and seek for Donald."

Again Strathearn said, '' You are very good,"
and then went striding up the steep hills
followed by Nellie, until they came to where
the keeper Brady lay on the ground, with his
face all drawn up and contorted at one side.
He was stricken with paralysis, and had totally
lost all power of motion over his body.

Nellie knelt down beside him, and bathed
his brow. She took ofi' her shawl, and made a
pillow with it for his head, and she took one
of his rough, hard, cramped hands in hers, and
spoke kindly, gentle words.

I will stay beside you," she said ; '' and this
gentleman " — and she glanced up at Strathearn
*' will go and look for Donald, and then we
will carry you to the boat."

She did not know what to do ; she had never

seen anyone in a fit before, but her kindly
womanly nature prompted her to act as lie
did, and the big, tall man standing beside her
kept looking at her in the utmost astonishment.

You're awfully kind," he said. In fact, he
did not know what to say. He was of rough,
though honest nature, and the women he had
known the most of had not raised his estimation
of womankind. He regarded them with a.
sort of contemptuous good-nature, believing in
no noble qualities, but in a thousand frivolous
ones. He was no reader — the thoughts of
women who have writ their names in unfading
were unknown to him — he judged by
what he could understand, by what he had seen.

He was, therefore, quite astonished to see
a pretty woman like Nellie kneeling by a sick
man's side, her sweet girlish face so fall of pity.

*' AY ill you go and seek Donald ? " she said,,
addressing him a moment later. " The sooner
he is in bed and we get the doctor the better,
I am not afraid to be left."

'^ Very well," said Strathearn ; and he turned
away. As he went jumping and plunging
down the rough ground over the hills, he was-thinking;
of Nellie.

CRCESUSS WIDOW.

*' Artful little monkey, no doubt ! " at last
he decided, and his mind felt relieved at having
come to this conclusion.

In the meanwhile Nellie was doing all that
she could for the poor keeper. He had recovered
consciousness by this time, but his
articulation was painfully affected, and Nellie
felt no small relief when presently she saw the
figures of Strathearn and Donald hastening up
the hill towards her.

This poor Brady, who had taken the fit, had
been brought down by Strathearn from Warwickshire,
where Strathearn had another
property, but Brady and Donald had not pulled
over well together since his arrival in Scotland.
Donald regarded Brady as "a cross," a thorn
in his side. Brady loved to speak in lofty
terms of ' ' wb at we do in Warwickshire. ' ' Brady
was a sort of favourite of Strathearn's, and
Donald (to admit the truth of so good a man)
had been a bit jealous of the " English keeper."
But when Donald saw the poor fellow lying
before him, with his altered face and frightened,
appealing eyes, all envy and bitterness died out
-of Donald's heart.

"It is a stroke," he said, solemnly, and knelt

down by Brady's other side, for Nellie was still
kneeling on the ground holding the keeper's
hand.

If we lift him on the shawl, Donald," said
Nellie, " you and Mr. Campbell could carry
him more easily that way, could you not ? And
the shawl is a very strong one."

*'If Strathearn will," answered Donald,
looking at his master.

'' Of course I will," said Strathearn. '^ But
won't you be cold without your plaid ? " he
xidded, addressing Nellie.

Oh no," she said. Her " shawl " was a
pretty tartan plaid, and Nellie had wrapped it
over her white dress when she went out. So
the poor keeper was lifted on the plaid, and
carried down to the boat by Strathearn and
Donald; Nellie walking by his side, still holding
his cold, cramped hand.

Then they lifted him into the boat, Strathearn
supporting him in his arms while Donald
rowed.

May we impose upon your hospitality fora
day or two ? " said Strathearn, looking at
Nellie. '' It would be impossible, I fear, to
get him to the lodge as he is now."

"I am sure it would," answered Nellie*
*' How well it is that it is not far to the house
in the Glen."

Scarcely another word was said in the boat-donald
rowed on with a swift sure stroke, and
soon the keel of the boat grated on the rough
shingle at the head of the loch. Then Strath
earn and Donald carried Brady to the lonely
house in the Glen. The two women ran out
and the dogs barked as they approached it.
But Strathearn was a somewhat stern master.

Hold your confounded noise, and do something
sensible," he said to the old highland
housekeeper, who was wringing her hands, and
openly lamenting over poor Brady. And the
effect of Strathearn's reproof was that the
poor man was shortly afterwards conveyed ta
Donald's bed, and Donald despatched on a stout
pony in search of a doctor.

Nellie left the two women and Strathearn to
look after the keeper when they arrived at the-house.
She felt she might be in the way,
so she took off her hat and went into the
rather scantily-furnished sitting-room which
was dignified with the name of drawing-room
at the house in the Glen.

This sitting-room lead two windows, one
looking down the loch, and the other on the
steep mountain side, which stood immediately
in front of it. Nellie sat down by this window,
looking vaguely at the great storm-cleft crags
before her. But presently a loud rap came on
the sitting-room door. Nellie turned round,
and as she did so Strathearn walked into the
room.

I am sorry about giving you all this
trouble'' he said, in his somewhat brusque
way.

'^ It has been no trouble," answered Nellie.
** I only hope the poor man will recover. Does
he seem any better now ? "

'* Don't know. He has a queer look, and
I'm afraid it's a bad business for him. So you
live here do you — all alone in the Glen '? "

As Strathearn said the last few words he was
standing before Nellie, looking at her fixedly.

I am very often alone," answered Nellie,
and she looked up at Strathearn as she sjDoke.

She saw rather a good-looking face, with a
distinct mark on his brow where the peak of
his cap ended. This mark showed he had once
been fair-skinned, but he was fair-skinned no

longer. He was a deep, ruddy, healthy brown,
with a thick brown moustache shading his
roughly cut mouth, and thus decidedly improving
his appearance, for his other features were
good. He had a good nose, bright, honest
grey eyes, and a fine square brow. And he
was almost a giant, long-limbed and careless of
bearing, and certainly not graceful in his movements.
Yet, taking him altogether, he was
good-looking — men, at least, considered him
good-looking, and women said Strathearn
would be handsome if he were not so gauche
and so shy.

*' You had Seaport down a while ago, had
you not ? " he continued, still looking steadily
on Nellie's fair face.

Nellie blushed ; she moved uneasily, then
she answered —

*' Yes ; but you know, do you not, that Lord Sea-forth
does not wish his name mentioned here ? ""

Strathearn nodded his head.

*'I know," he said. ' 'Awfully hard up, isn't he ?'^

Nellie blushed deeper still.

*' I — I — don't know," she hesitated.

*' Oh yes — horrid nuisance — know what it is,,
for I once was hard up enough myself. But wo

needn't talk about it. I was sorry to miss
Seafortli — I beg his pardon, Captain Murray,
when he was here." And Strathearn laughed.

'* He — he spoke about you," said Nellie, and
she cast down her eyes. She felt uncomfortable
under the fixed gaze that Strathearn still
kept upon her face.

** Is he coming back soon ? "

I cannot tell — I am not quite sure."

'* Humph — cool of him, rather, I must say,
burying a pretty woman like you alive down
here ! Have you books and papers sent to
amuse you ? "

*' There are some books lying about," she
answered coldly, for she felt annoyed by
Strathearn's manner.

** Humph I " again said Strathearn, and then
he began walking up and down the drawing-room,
with his long strides, and Nellie turned
her head and looked out of the window.

*' My father died here," he said presently.
"Eccentric old fellow. He kept me horribly
close. Seaport was a good friend to me
more than once in those days. You tell
him when you write, if he wants a lift
just now let him come to me. I've a few

VOL. I. L

spare hundreds he's heartily welcome to."

Nellie felt dreadfully embarrassed. She did
not know what to say, and kept earnestly
hoping that this rough, big man would go
away. But Strathearn seemed in no hurry.
He kept walking uj) and down the room,
looking all the while at the girlish form sitting
by the window.

"It must be awfully dull for you here?" he said.
** It is very quiet," said Nellie.

Should think so, indeed ! But I must be
off. You tell Seaport what I said — I'll lookin
tomorrow to inquire about Brady. Good
day." And Strathearn held out one of his big
brown hands, and a few minutes later Nellie
saw him disappear up the Glen on his way to
the shooting lodge.

But before the day was over a great parcel of
books, fastened together by a leather strap (a
most miscellaneous collection) was brought to
Nellie.

*' Strathearn sent them down for the lady,"
said the messenger who brought them, and as
Nellie undid the strap a feeling of uneasiness
crept into her heart — she wished that she had
not met Strathearn upon the hills.

BORROWING.

The next day the doctor arrived at Strathearn
to see after the unfortunate keeper. He could
not manage to get before, he said to Nellie,
when she went out into the hall to speak to him,
and to ask after the condition of poor Brady.

The doctor had a shrewd, brown face, and
;shrewd, brown jocular eyes. He looked like a
inn who enjoyed many a private chuckle, but
he was slow though sure of speech. He was
pleased when Nellie went out to speak to him,
for he had heard of the pretty woman living at
the Glen, and was therefore glad of the opportunity
of seeing her.

I hope he will recover ? " said Nellie,
inquiringly.

*this time — partially," answered Dr. Mac-duff,
his twinkling brown eyes fixed on Nellie's
face.

'' Do you think—" said Nellie.
'* Doctor's shouldn't think, they should know,,
eh ? " said the doctor facetiously, and he made
a movement as if he wished to go into the
sitting-room, and thus have a little further
conversation with Nellie.

In common courtesy Nellie could not keep
him standing at the door after this. So the
doctor followed her into the room, and Nellie
pointed to a chair.

'' How do you like Strathearn ? " inquired
Dr. Macduff.

"It is very beautiful," said Nellie.
'•' Plenty of time for meditation, eh ? " said
the doctor, chuckling.
Nellie laughed.

*' Bad place for doctors to live in about here""
continued the doctor. "Air's too good for our-profession."


I am glad to hear that."
Do you mean to make a long stay, then ? '^'
inquired Macduff, perhaps with faint hopes of
a possible patient.

I do not know," answered Nellie gravely.
Strathearn should get a wife, and settle in
the Glen," proceeded the doctor. " Ah — he's.

^ wild lad you — the old laird and lie could
never hit it off."

"I have only seen him once."

Humph ! Some folks says the less the
better," said the doctor, and having given
Nellie this hint he took his leave.

After he was gone Nellie sat down to write
to her Murray. She told him, we may be sure,
^11 about the keeper s illness, how Strathearn
had sent her down some books from the lodge,
and she even added the doctor's '' hint."

I hope he will not come here, dear Murray (she wrote) ;
there is something in his manner that I do not quite like.
At least I hope he will not come till you return. When is
that bright day to be ? AJi, Murray, Murray, if you were
but always here —

Nellie was actually writing these words
to Lord Seaport, about Strathearn, when
•Strathearn himself once more appeared at the
Clean.

Nellie heard his voice in the hall, so she
turned the face of her letter on the blotting
pad, but had scarcely time to do so when
Strathearn rapped at the room door.

'' I have come down to ask about Brady," he
said, as if he were making a sort of apology for

CRCESUSS WIDOW.

intruding on Nellie. " Good morning," and he
Field out one of his big hands. "So I hear
you've had the doctor ? Did you see him?
What did he say ? ''

Very little," answered Nellie, in reply ta
Strathearn's questions. " I fancy, though,,
that he thinks the poor keeper's very ill."

'^ Of course, he's very ill. It's a bore for you.
We must get him to the lodge ; it would never
do for him to join the majority, as folks say
here's

Do you mean — to die ? "

Yes. That would frighten away some of
the pink paint out of your cheeks, eh ? "

Nellie felt offended. She did not answer,,
and she cast down her eyes and looked very

grave.

Don't mean to be rude, you know," said
Strathearn, noticing her manner. '^ Vm not a
lady's man. I never can say the right thing ta
'em."

Still Nellie did not speak.

Did you get the books ? " continued
Strathearn. " Ah, I see you did. Sorry I'd
no better to send. I've ordered a fresh lot
from Glasgow for you this morning."

I am sorry," said Nellie, much annoyed.
Oh, you should not have done that 1 "

'' Why ? "

'* Oh, I don't know. I would rather you
did not."

Strath earn laughed — rather a harsh lauo^h.

Are you afraid that Seaport," he said, *' or
Murray, or whatever you call him, would not
Hke it ? "

Nellie looked up angrily,

No," she said, '' I am not afraid that Lord
Scaforth would be angry — but you are a
stranger to me."

Strathearn made a low bow.

'* Thank you," he said, '^ for snub number
one."

"I do not mean to be rude," said Nellie,
'' but—"

** All right ! You shall not have the books.
I'll make a bonfire of them."

Nellie's natural good nature now came to her
aid, and she could not help a little smile stealing
over her pretty face.

Why not read them," she said.

*' Can't settle to books, somehow," candidly
confessed Strathearn. ** It must be a great

help to a fellow who can, to get through the
day. Are you one of the clever ones, then — you
don't look like it ? "

Nellie laughed heartily at this, for Strathearn
was evidently so completely in earnest.

'^ Fm sorry I look so stupid," she said.

Not stupid. But you're not one of those
awful creatures who give lectures, and write
books, and make a man feel like a fool ! I've
a dread, a holy horror of those women ! By
George ! before I'd let any woman I had anything
to do with stand up and give a lecture,
I'd shoot her ! "

** Then you must not marry a clever lady."

Strathearn made a wry face.

I'm not likely to marry," he said.

*' That is a pity, is it not, when you have
such a pretty home ? "

'' Humph ! " quoth Strathearn, staring hard
at Nellie's sweet, innocent face. He could not
understand her. He was not, as he had told hera
lady's man. He might have been, for his broad
acres, his long purse, and his old name would
have made him welcome in most drawing-rooms
in Scotland. But he very seldom entered one.
He lived chiefly among men and on the hills.

for he was a devoted sportsman, and spent most
of his time in pursuit of this favourite amusement.


Among his own people, the Campbellss, he
occasionally went into society, and there were
fair maidens who would gladly have smiled on
Strathearn, but he was too shy or too cynical
to woo their smiles. He knew well enough
many a pretty girl would have married him
for the sake of his position, but he had never
fallen in love.

"A fellow is afraid to be with girls," he
used to say, in his rough way, " the old women
pull one up so sharp." So he had kept out of
the way of old women and young ones alike.
The " didn't believe in 'em," he told his companions
after dinner, and as he was now past
thirty, he was just as likely as not to continue
a bachelor all his life.

Nellie's fresh, fair face and innocent manner
quite puzzled him. He saw, for he was no fool,
that she did not wish to attract either his
admiration or attention, and this seemed a
wonderful thing to Strathearn, considering the
-circumstances.

Did you live in London ?" he asked, quite

suddenly, after staring at Nellie a moment or
two*

'* Yes," she answered, ^' in one of the small
streets near Regent's Park."

*' Humph ! " again said Strathearn. " You
are not very like a London girl," he added.

I never went out into any society," said
Nellie. *' I lived at home just with my father
and sister. My father was too poor for us to-visit."


Your father ! " repeated Strathearn, in great
surprise. " If you have a father, how did he,
what did he say, about — Seaport ? "

Nellie's blue eyes grew dim at these words,,
and though she quickly turned away her head,.
Strathearn saw some heavy tears roll down her
soft pink cheeks.

Forgive me," he said hastily, " I am a
brute — I did not mean what I said — indeed
indeed I did not ! "

Nellie did not speak. She was really too
agitated to speak, for Strathearn's words had
brought back the ever reproachful memory of
her father with great vividness.

I am so sorry," continued Strathearn^
beginning to walk down the room with his long

strides. " I — I — do not know what to say — •
but I hope you will forgive me."

Oh, yes ! " said Nellie, a little sob breaking
her voice. " But — but, will you excuse me ? "
And she rose and left the room, leaving poor
Strathearn completely ashamed of himself.

He walked up and down the room, muttering
that he was utterly disgusted with himself;,
that he was *ran ill-bred brute," for nearly
half-an-hour after she had left ; and then
finding that she did not return, he strode
out of the house, and away from the Glen
swearing that he never would go near it again
as long as *' one of those confounded women
lived in it."

But, alas for human resolution ! Two days
after this, one sunny morning, Nellie was sitting-knitting
by the left side of the loch, where she
was startled by two handsome pointers coming-running
in a friendly manner towards her.

Jack ! Jack I Jean ! Jean !," cried the voice
of Strathearn from behind ; and when Nellie
round there was the long, lanky form of
Strathearn following the dogs, and coming with
his great strides down the hill.

He touched his cap when he got near her,.

and again called off the doss, and stood there
half nervously, evidently not knowing how
Nellie would receive him. But this very
mornings Nellie had received instructions from
Lord Seaforthto be 'civil" to Strathearn if she
saw him.

I hear Campbell is down at the lodge (wrote Scaforth), soif
you chance to come across him, my Nellie, mind you do
the civil to him, for after all it is good-natured of him to lend
us the house. Tell him I hope to see him the next time I am
down. I am awfully hard up at the present moment, and so
can't come for a week or so. I wonder if Strathearn would
open his purse-strings if I gave him a hint ? Tell me when
you write if you have seen him (and so on).

Seaport had evidently not received Nellie's
letter, detailing her interview with Strathearn
on the hills, and the keeper's illness, when he
wrote this. Nellie's letters were sent to him
through his confidential servant, Clayton, and
this of course always caused a little delay. But
when Nellie saw Strathearn and his dogs
appear, she knew it was Lord Seaport's wish
that she should be civil to his friend, and so
she made him a little bow and gave him a little
smile, as he stood nervously before her.

"How is Brady?" jerked out Strathearn,

though he was well aware of the keeper's condition,
as Donald had instructions to go up with
a report to the lodge every morning.

He is a little better, I think," answered
Nellie. '' I saw him yesterday."

"I hear you are awfully good to him," continued
Strathearn. " Donald — by-the-by, you
have quite made a conquest of Donald — informed
me this morning that the lady read
more than an hour yesterday to Brady, some
beautiful things out of a book. " And Strathearn
laughed.

I thought it might make the time seem
less long to him," said Nellie. " It must be a
terrible thing for a man who was strong and
well only yesterday to lie helpless there."

Strathearn made no answer. He stood looking
down at this girl — this fair-haired girl, who
seemed beautiful to him — and wondered, as he
always did when he saw her, how she came to
be in her present position.

^' I — I — heard from Murray this morning,"
said Nellie presently, looking up, and with a
momentary hesitation in her voice, as she
mentioned Lord Seaport's name. " He sent
a message to you. He hopes he will see you

when lie comes, and he was sorry to miss you
the last time."

When is he coming ? " asked Strathearn,
and something in the tone in which he asked
this question made Nellie once more look up
in his face.

I am not quite sure," she answered ; '' in a
week or so, I think."

Humph ! " said Strathearn, in his rough
way, and he jerked his large feet impatiently.
*' When he comes," he added, a moment later,
you will come out with us on the hills sometimes
? "

What, deer-stalking?" said Nellie, laughing.
'' No, I am sure I won't."

No, no, not deer-stalking ; but you might
help to shoot the black-cocks."

No, indeed ! If I were to shoot anything —
which I am sure I couldn't — it would make me
unhappy all day afterwards."

*•' Lots of women shoot in Scotland."

*then I'm afraid I won't be one of the *lots'"
said Nellie, smiling.

Well, I must say I don't exactly care for
sporting women. A woman should be a
woman, I think. I'd rather see a woman

no, I won't say what I was going to say."

*' Why won't you ? " asked Nellie.

Because you might think I wanted to pay
you compliments, or some such stuff. But I
was going to say, I'd rather see a woman holding
up a fellow's head, a fellow who was ill, as
you did Brady's the other day, than I'd see
her the best shot or the best fisherman in
Scotland."

*' It just depends on how you are brought
up," answered Nellie, simply. *' If I had been
born among the hills very likely I should have
been a sportswoman."

** Perhaps when you write to Seaport — confound
it 1 I must get out of the way of calling
him Seaport here — when you write to Murray,
then — you tell him the black-cocks are waiting
for him ; and I tell you what, you must do the
civil sometimes, and bring us out our lunch on
the hills."

a Very well," laughed Nellie.

*may I sit down here?" continued Strathearn,
throwing his lengthy form down on the rough
turf, on which Nellie was sitting. * *It's grand here,
isn't it, watching the sunlight on the water ? "

It is quite beautiful."

'' A nook out of the world, eli ? Yes — but
go where we will, bury ourselves where we
will, young lady, worldly wishes, worldly passions
cling to us. There was my father — he
shut himself up down here, and swore he was-done
with the world and all things in it ; but
because I wouldn't go his way, be an anchorite
or an ascetic, or whatever he called himself,
just as he was, he absolutely hated me! That's
no exaggeration ; he'd have cut me off with a
shilling if he could have done so, but the old
acres were too tightly tied up. He couldn't
take them with him into the family vault, but
he would have done it if he could. So you
see I He died in yon room." (And Strathearn
pointed to the house in the Glen.) " Fancy
him looking out on the loch and on the hills,
with his heart full of hatred to his first-born I"'

It was very sad."

"I survived it," said Strathearn, with a grim
laugh. " But do you see there — look down
the loch, just past that clump of firs — and do-you
see a man od a pony ? "

*eyes."

** That's the doctor — confound him. I declare
he sees us. Yes, here he comes — he's rather a

gossiping old party, I may as well tell you."

Stratliearn was quite right. Dr. MacdufF did
see them, and presently rode up to where they
were sitting, with an amused smile on his
brown, hard face.

"Good morning," he said to Nellie, just
touching his hat. "Good morning, Strathearn.
Enjoying the view ? "

"Exactly," answered Strathearn, jumping
up. " We have been admiring you or your
pony in the distance."

"Did 'distance lend enchantment to the
view,' eh, Strathearn?" chuckled the doctor.

Well, I think it did," retorted Strathearn
coolly, staring somewhat superciliously at the
doctor and his pony.

How's Brady to-day ? " asked the doctor,
his brown eyes twinkling. " I hear you're very
attentive, Strathearn, in your inquiries after
the sufferer."

Doubts, you see, about the efficiency of
his medical attendant trouble me," answered
Strathearn, with a rough laugh ; and the doctor
laughed also, and then waved his hand, and
rode on in the direction of the house.

Strathearn looked after him.

VOL. I. M

I had best go and see after him, I suppose,"
he said to Nellie. '' Don't you forget my
message to — I was just going to say Seaport —
to Murray, then, about the black-game. Good
morning." And Strathearn touched his cap,
and then walked away with his great strides
towards the doctor.

End of Volume First.

TILLOTSON AND SON, STEAM PRINTERS, Elton.

i

3 0112 08421997ft

OF THE

U N veracity

or ILLINOIS


R9IZ2C

V.2

a move

BT

DORA Russell

Author or "Footprints in the Snow," "The Vicar's Governess,

"Annabel's Rival," "Beneath the Wave," "Quite True,"

"The Miner's Oath," etc., etc.

IX THREE VOLUMES

VOL. II.

London

JOHN AND ROBERT MAXWELL

Milton HOUSE, SHOE Lane
FLEET STREET

MDCCCLXXXIII

[All Rights Reserved ]

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/crsusswidownovel02russ

CHAP, Image.

I. LENDING I

II. A HIGHLAND STORM 12

HI. DONALD 25

IV. A HARD STRUGGLE-34

V, CARRIED OUT IN THE SNOW - . - - - 46

VL AN OFFER - 56

VIL Nora GIFT - 75

VIII. "the BEGINNING OF THE HOME EPIC " - - 90

IX. CONTINUATION OF "THE HOME EPIC " - - I03

X. THE STUDIO-ii

XI. THE PICTURE AND THE LADY - - - - - 130

Nil MRS. MURRAY -. -. -1 54

Xin. THE EVIL SPIRIT . 171

XIV. AN OUTCAST-189

XV. MISS BREWIS SPEAKS HER MIND - - - - 209

XVL CONSCIENCE-223

Evil MRS. TOM 242

Xvi. STRATHEARN OFFERS A REWARD - - - - 254

XIX. UNINVITED GUESTS - 266

XX. AT HUGH Parchment's - 285

XXL STRATHEARN's PRESENT - - - - . - - 298

CHAPTER I.

LENDING.

To Nellie's great surprise, the next post that
arrived at the Glen brought a letter from Lord
Seaport, to tell her that he would be there on
the following day.

I want to look up old Campbell (wrote Seaport), so
mind you are very sweet upon him, Nellie. He's a rough
old bear, isn't he ? But I want him to help me out of a hole
at the present moment, and therefore we must make the best
of him. And he isn't a bad fellow on the whole ; so you tell
him I shall be down I expect on Thursday, and that I am
looking forward, etc., etc.— anything agreeable will do— to
have the pleasure of seeing him, or his black cocks, or to speak
the honest truth, some of his odd hundreds !

This letter grieved Nellie very much. She

VOL. II. B

knew very little about money, and Margaret's
careful hands lead always kept the little household
at home from the bitter annoyances and
worries of debt. It was a pang to her, therefore
— a pang that made her fair face flush and
burn — to think that her Murray, her hero, her
husband, would condescend to borrow moneys
of his friend. Alas, she knew not how low
h jr hero had fallen ! Lord Soaforth wanted
money — he must have money — and he cared
ver 7 little how he got it. Nellie's honest pride
received a rude shock from this letter. She
felt ashamed to look in Strathearn's face the
next time she saw him; and her tongue faltered
so much when she told him that Murray was
coming, that Strathearn looked at her in
surprise.

'did you give him my message?" he asked.

Our letters must have crossed, I think,"
said Nellie, still without looking up. "I — I
wrote to tell him about Brady's illness — and
that I had seen you — and he had just got this
letter, I think, when he wrote the one I received
this morning — he had not got my last letter —
no, I did not give him your message."

*'A11 rio'ht — I will see him when he comes,"

said Stratliearn. '' He's coming on Thursday,
is lie ? I'll be down, then, on Friday morning,
and we'll go out with the guns''

Seaport did come on the Thursday, and he
looked worn when he came. He had had no
end of trouble, he told Nellie, and as he drew
her to his breast he gave a heavy sigh.

And that fellow, Strathearn," he said.
*' He's down here all right, isn't he ?"

'' Yes, dear, he is here," answered Nellie*'

I want him to lend me five hundred
pounds," said Seaport. " Surely he'll do that
for an old friend."

Oh, Murray 1 " said Nellie, laying her head
softly on his shoulder, and looking up in his
face with her loving, bright eyes, '' can't we do
something — something else ? I wouldn't mind
how poor we were — not a bit, not a bit ! Let
us go abroad, dear; they say people can live on
so little there —or let us o;o to Australia even,
Murray — but don't, if you can help it, borrow
money of Strathearn."

'but I can't help it, you unpractical little

woman I Go to Australia, indeed — where's the

money to come from ? ' I cannot dig, to beg I

am ashamed.' "

B 2

But it is begging," urged Nellie, " to
borrow money you cannot pay. Oh, Murray !
my darling, let us face the world on ever so
little — if we are together, what matter ? "

Nellie," said Lord Seaport gravely, " it's
no use talking nonsense, and if you are really
fond of me — if you are really the good little
woman I believe you are — you will do what you
can to help me, and not bother and worry me.
Ken ember, I've given up a great deal for you,
Nellie, and so you mustn't be quite selfish."

Nellie did not speak ; she grew a little pale,
and she lifted her head. She was thinking
what she had done for Seaport. She was
thinking of her blind father, whose face rose
reproachfully often now before her, as the
misty twilight stole over the silent Glen.

Don't look cross, my little Nell," said
Seaport tenderly, the next minute. '' Do you
think I like this kind of thing ? No ; but it
is necessity, the necessity of my position."

Nellie sighed, but she made no further
remonstrance. She loved Seaport very clearly,
and love beareth much, forgive much. But
she felt sadder than she had ever done before
while he was at Strathearn. She smiled, she

put her hand tenderly in his, iDut all the while
she was thinking of the grim shadow which
she began to see hovered over his head.

She blushed and winced the next morning
when she heard Strathearn's voice in the hall.
Strathearn came in looking flushed, almost
handsome.

Yell, old Strath I " said Seaport, jumping
up to welcome him, with outstretched hand.
*' So you and my little Nellie here have got
quite good friends," he added.

Strathearn made no answer to this. He
shook hands with Seaport, and he shook hands
with Nellie, and then he stood moving his tall
figure about more awkwardly than he usually
slid.

Thank you for being kind to her, and
lending her books," continued Seaport, in the
gracious, smiling way which was natural to him,
and which a few years ago had been his ordinary
manner. "It's very dull for the poor little woman
sometimes, I suppose, down here, though she
raves so about the beautiful mountains and their
beautiful shadows, and the beautiful lochs, and
the beautiful I don't know what— that to judge
from her letters you might suppose she was

living ill Paradise ! " And Seafortli gave a light
laugh.

*' Oh, Murray ! " said Nellie.

Well, Nell, isn't it true now ? I'm not
much given to envy and jealousy, but sometimes
I do envy you, Strathearn," and again
Seaport laughed.

*' What for ? " answered Strathearn. '' Why,
you couldn't stand the life here, Seaport, more
than a month ! We have no clubs here, no opera
bouffe, no — a hundred things you care about.
Bah, man ! you would be sick of your life in a
week,"

Perhaps I'm sick of it now," said Seaport
in a low tone, and with a sudden change of
manner.

Strathearn looked at him sharply.

*' Humph ! down in your luck a bit, eh ? "'
he said.

Yes, that's it," said Seaport, resuming liis^
careless manner. " Something wrong with my
lack or my digestion — or perhaps both."

Come out on the hills, then ; the breeze will
blow your ills away," said Strathearn. " The
keepers are here, and — " Here Strathearn
glanced at Nellie.

Yes, let us be off at once," said Seaport,
starting up, for lie was always ready to leave
disagreeable thoughts behind if he could.

But won't you — won't Mrs. Murray promise
to join us," said Strathearn, not looking exactly
either at Seaport or Nellie.

What, Nellie ! " laughed Seaport in
surprise.

It's an old promise, isn't it ? " said
Strathearn, now looking straight at Nellie.
When Seaport came, you said you would
bring the luncheon-basket to us, didn't you ? "

Hush, there's no Seaport here, don't forget
that, old Strath," said Lord Seaport. ''To be
sure, Nellie, why shouldn't you bring the
luncheon basket? But how is she to know
where we are ? "

• " I'll send Donald down to direct her," answered
Strathearn, and on this agreement they
parted.

Nellie watched the two men from the window
until they vv^ere out of sight — Strathearn, tall
and stalwart, and Lord Seaport, slender, handsome,
and graceful. They both looked round
Strathearn first, and then Seaport — just as
the dip of the hill on Y^'hich the house stood

hid tlicm from Nellie's sight. Seaport waved
his hand when he saw Nellie at the window
and Nellie saw him laugh and say something to
his companion, who went striding on, as if
impatiently, over the rough and broken ground.

After they were gone, Nellie went to visit
the sick keeper. Brady was propped up in
bed, and his dulled eyes were fixed listlessly
on the window opposite to where he lay. This
window looked straight out on the craggy
mountain sides which he would climb no more.
For only in his dreams would the keeper crouch
again in the wild gorges, waiting and watching
for the beautiful, keen-scented children of the
hills. He had fired his last shot at the antlered
chief, looked for the last time on the proud,
reproachful expression of despair gleaming in
the limpid eyes of the stricken and dying stag.

Nellie spoke very gently to Brady. She sat
down beside his bed and began to read to him
some of the news out of the sporting papers
that Seaport had brought down with him to
the Glen the night before. But as she read
her mind wandered away, and followed Strath-earn
and Seaport on the hills. Something in
her Murray's manner to his friend had made

her sure that lie meant to ask Stratliearn for a
loaD, and Nellie's heart beat faster, and her
face flushed with annoyance and pain at the
very thought.

But in another hour she knew that her
surmise had been right. Donald duly returned
about half-past twelve o'clock to the Glen, for
the purpose of rowing Nellie down the loch, to
the spot where Strathearn had told him they
were waiting for Mrs. Murray. They were
waiting for her ; they had chosen a little sandy
beach to lunch on, and were sitting on some of
the rouo^h shingle smoking; when Nellie and her
luncheon basket approached the shore.

Both came forward to help her to land, but
while Strathearn was looking after the food,
and opening the champagne basket, Seaport
slid his arm through Nellie's, and drew her a
few steps aside.

'' Isn't it splendid of Strathearn ? " he said.
** I just hinted I wanted five hundred, and the
jolly old fellow offered me a thousand at once I
I call it splendid of him — it's awfully kind —
I don't know another fellow who would have
done it in the way that he did."

Nellie's face first flushed, and then grew a little

pale at this news. Seafortli, however, was
overjoyed. A thousand pounds in ready money
seemed like a gift from heaven to him at this.
moment. He forgot the wasted thousands and
thousands ; forgot the yawning abyss in wliicli
this thousand would be as a drop in the ocean.,
But he had now " something to go on with ; "
a little mud dyke to stem the great sea that
was gathering round him on every side.

As he drank Strathearn's champagne, which
Donald had had orders to bring down from the
lodge, his boyish laughter rang through the-clear
air. Strathearn drank champagne too,
but he looked on with a grim smile at Seaport's
hilarity. He knew ^vell enough he would
never see his thousand pounds again, and
perhaps he knew also well enough why he gave
it.

But though there was a mm look of amusement
in his grey eyes and curling round the
roughly-cut outline of his somewhat coarse.
mouth, Strathearn — in his way — made himself
very agreeable. He planned other excursions,
he had his joke and his jibe. Then Nellie knew
that these two men had been together in scenes
whose faint echo had never before reached her

pure ears. She looked from one to the other
with startled eyes, and Strathearn, rough as he
was, was yet the first to perceive the changed
look on the fair girlish face.

Come, shut up, old fellow," he said to
Seaport, and he rose as he spoke. Then the
light-hearted, careless young lord, saw what
his friend meant. He went up to Xellie and
affectionately took her hand.

'* Silly little woman," he said. '*' Have I
offended her ? "

Nellie did not answer. She looked pale, and
she presently said she was tired. Yet all the
rest of the day no one could have been more
tender, more lover-like, than Seaport. His
handsome face did not look worn, his manner
was bright — not cynical or sad. He was like
the old boyish Seaport — the boy his proud
mother had worshipped — the careless, thoughtless
boy who had trifled away his fortune ; and
now, still the same, was trifling with a woman's
heart.

A HIGHLAND Storm.

During the next few days Strathearn and
Lord Seaport were constantly together. They
were out on the hills generally until late in the
afternoon, and then they came to the house in
the Glen. Strathearn dined in the Glen everyday
as long as his friend remained there. But,
unexpectedly, one morning, Seaport received
a telegram. He was forced, he told Nellie
after he had read it, to return to town the same
day that he received it. He pressed Strathearn
to go with him, but Strathearn shook his head.

What, lose the best of the season here ? '"
he said. " Not I, my good fellow, not I ! "

Then Nellie went out of the sitting-room
where Seaport had received his telegram,
which Strathearn had brought to the Glen,
and she beckoned Seaport to follow her as she
did so.

When Seaport did follow her he found her
standing in her room, her blue eyes wet and
stained with tears.

*' Oh, Murray ! " she said when she saw him,
and she ran up to him and hid her face on his
breast, '' don't leave me here alone again ! Take
me to London with you, Murray — please don't
leave me here alone."

** My dear child, what nonsense," said Sea-forth,
soothingly. ** How can I take you with me,
Nellie ? It is impossible, dear, starting off at a
moment's notice, as I am obliged to do to-day."

Then Nellie burst into a sudden and violent fit
of crying, and lay there sobbing on Seaport's
breast.

** Don't leave me," she said. " Murray, don't
leave me T*

Lord Seaport was very much distressed.

But, my darling," he said, *' what can I do?
That telegram is of the utmost importance —
you surely would not willingly ruin me, Nellie ?"

*' No, no ; but it is so dreadful to be alone — I
am afraid to be alone."

Strathearn will look after you, darling.
What nonsense, Nellie. Do, my dear, not
make things harder still for mel"

He never tliouo'ht that lie was making; tiling's
harder still for her. It suited him best that
she should stay hidden away in this lonely
Glen, and what suited him best had been the
way he had followed all through his reckless,
careless life. He never meant to be cruel or
unkind, or say a hard or bitter word. He never
did say a hard or bitter word to Nellie. To
have done so would have been against his
nature — the nature that loved ease and pleasure
too well to encounter a disagreeable scene of
any kind, if he coidd possibly help it.

He gave kisses and fond words to the poor
little woman weeping and sobbing on his breast.
Kisses and promises that perhaps at the time
he meant to fulfil He would come back soon;
she should go with him to town the next time
he came to Strathearn. Nellie — loving him, still
believing in him— tried to dry her tears. She
lifted her head from his breast, she looked into
his face with her steady, true, appealing eyes.
Their expression somewhat startled him.

'' Why, little woman," he said, " how much
older you look ! You have gone from a girl
into a woman now."

But she had to be content with his vague

promises. He went away, and Nellie was left
behind. Nellie was ill for a few days after lie
went, and while she was ill and confined to her
room with a severe cold, Brady the keeper
was removed by Strathearn from the house in
the Glen. Dr. Macdufl' ^^^'oi^ounced him Vv'ell
enough to travel, and also pronounced that he
would never be able to fulfil his duties as
keeper again. So Strathearn sent him back to
Warwickshire,, but before he went he sent his
respectful thanks to "the lady'' for having
been so good to him.

Nellie, ever gentle and considerate, went out
of her sick-room to say good-bye to the poor
keeper. She found the doctor with his patient,
and the doctor's hard expression softened a little
when he looked at Nellie's face.
• '' So I hear you have been ill yourself ? " he
said, as he held out his hand. '*! suppose
you were frightened of being poisoned by a
country practitioner, as you did not send forme
? "

Oh no," answered Nellie, smiling ; " but I
have only had a cold."

Well, you must take care of your cold,"
said the doctor, with some kindness of manner.

He felt indeed sorry for this pretty young
woman living in the lonely Glen.

I will not detain you now," said Nellie, " as
you axe engaged with your patient. Goodbye,
Brady," she continued, speaking to the
keeper, who was propped up in a chair, and
she took one of his cold and still cramped
hands in her own. *'I hope you will get safely
home. Warwickshire is your home, is it not ? "

"Yes, my Lady," answered the man; and
Nellie blushed all over her fair face, thinking
that perhaps her secret and Seaport's had been
guessed by the household.

As she was returning down the long, narrow
corridor that separated the servant's rooms
from the rest of the house, she encountered
Strathearn, whom she had not seen since Sea-forth
left, and who had also come to bid goodbye
to the keeper.

He stopped when he met Nellie, and held
out his hand, looking quickly and eagerly into
her face.

"What have you been doing with yourself?"
he said. " Good heavens, how ill you look !
Why, you must have been very ill."

Only a bad cold," smiled Nellie.

Bad cold, indeed I You have the doctor at
once, young lady'*

No, indeed I won't ; it is really nothing."

*' You have not " — and Strathearn's face
darkened — " been fretting, have you ? "

No, what nonsense," and Nellie would have
passed Strathearn, but in his rough, impulsive
way he clasped her hand.

Look here," he said. ** Mayn't I come and
see you sometimes ? If you want leave from
Seaport, I've got it " — and his lip curled. " I
had a letter from him this morning, and he
told me I was to be sure to look you up. So
may I come ? "

'when I am better," said Nellie. *good
morning now," and she went back to her own
room, and fell sobbing on the bed.

What ! Murray could write to this man, and
not to her ! Ah, poor little woman I Murray
had written to Strathearn about what was of
more consequence to him than all the women
upon earth. He had written about his loan,
and as Nellie lay weeping, his thoughts were
not of her, but of the money he was about to
get from Strathearn.

After this, Nellie's cold did not pass away

very quickly The weather grew stormy, and
one morning when she awoke the mountain tops
were capped with snow. All that day the
wind blew fiercely, and great black clouds rose
dark and threatening. The waters of the loch
were rough and flecked with white-crested
waves, and the birds few eddying in the air,,
as if seeking for shelter.

Nellie grew almost afraid as the afternoon
darkened in. Donald was away — he had gone
with Brady as far as Edinburgh, but he was
expected home before nightfall. But before
nightfall an absolute hurricane was blowing
the Glen. It came thundering, roaring
down the gorges, dashing against the lonely
house, and howling as if in rage and despair sit
swept on, uprooting the great trees, and
hurling every small thing it met as a plaything
in the air.

The two women in the house were terrified.
They came crouching and trembling to the
sitting-room door where Nellie was standiucj
pale and afraid. Nellie called them in, and the
three women sat together, while the wild
tempest raged outside, and weird, strange-noises
were all around.

Suddenly a terrible crash was heard overhead.

'rit's the windows !" said the old highland
housekeeper, falling on her knees ; and then in.
Gaelic she began wailing, and called aloud for
mercy.

*' We must see what it is," said Nellie, trying
to be brave. " If it is the windows they must
be fastened up somehow, or the house will be
blown down."

But both the women refused to stir out of the
room. '' They dare not go," they said ; and
so Nellie took up a small lamp that was standing
lit on the table, and as steadily as she could
began to ascend the stairs. Just as she reached
the first landings, on the ranee of which stood
the principal bedrooms, another crash sounded
in her own room, and Nellie opened the door,
and as she did so a great gust of wind swept
past her, and at the same moment the bell of
the outer door of the house rang violently.

The two women downstairs — thinking it was
Donald — ran gladly to open the door. They
opened it, but not Donald, but Strathearn, pale
and tempest-worn, stood before them. He
tottered into the house. He was utterly spent
-and breathless.

Where is Mrs. Murray ? " he panted out
sinking down on one of the hall chairs. '' I
did not like the idea of helpless women being-left
alone on a night like this."

All this while, the eddying wind was sweeping
into the yet open hall door, which the women
were trying to close and lock. The fierce
current of air rushed up the staircase, it met
the wild gusts blowing into the broken windows,
of the bedroom, on the threshold of which
Nellie stood. The next instant, the far window
which had still held out gave way, and as Nellie
stood trying to shelter the lamp, a large piece of
broken plate-glass was hurled by the force of
the wind right against her forehead, and, with
a loud cry of pain and fear, she fell on the floor.

Strathearn heard that cry, and started to his-feet.
He ran upstairs — along the corridor he
called aloud. All was dark, the lamp wa
extinguished, the fierce wind was sweeping and
howling in, but amid the din Strathearn heard
a moan at his feet. To stoop down, to lift
Nellie in his arms, to carry her into the dimly-lighted
hall, was the work of the next minute.
Then, when Strathearn saw her face — when the
light fell on it — a cry burst from his lips.

'' My God," he said, " is she killed ? Oh,,
my God ! "

Her face was covered with blood, her fair hair
was wet and stained, and her arms hung limply
down. But only for a moment was Strathearn
overcome. The next he carried her into the
sitting-room, laid her on a couch, was shouting
and scolding at the two women with all his
might.

The women were frightened at his wild
passion, and ran hither and thither to get
remedies to restore her. For a few minutes
Strathearn was thus left alone with the senseless
Nellie. Then he fell down before her on
his knees by the couch, and clasped her cold
nerveless hands and kissed them, and laid them
against his breast.

I am a fool, a fool," he murmured, '^ a mad
fool — but I cannot help it."

The women came running back, and Strath-earn
started to his feet. But when in vain
they tried to recover her, his excitement
became terrible to witness.

He was like a madman," the housekeeper-afterwards
said ; and as he paced the room,
biting his lips, frowning, and with his eyes

half starting from this head, he looked certainly
like a man deprived of reason.

Half-an-hour passed and Nellie still lay cold
and motionless, and then the house door bell
again rang loudly. This time Strathearn ran to
open it.

It's Donald," he said, and it was Donald.
The man was in a terrible state. To cross
the loch in such a storm was impossible, and
Donald had walked above sixteen miles amid
the fierce tempest, and in the blinding rain
He was quite storm-beaten, and eagerly
drank the whiskey that Strathearn held towards
him.

When he had recovered his breath a little,
Strathearn clutched him fiercely by the arm,
and led him to the sitting-room door, from
whence they could see Nellie lying like a dead
woman on the couch.

*' Look there— a terrible accident has happened,"
he said in a hoarse whisper. '* She must
have a doctor — either you or I must go out to
fetch Macduff to-night."

*' It's worth a man's life to aro out in such a
storm, Strathearn," answered Donald almost
solemnly.

One of lis must go ! '*' said Strathcarn,
stamping this foot heavily down in this strange
excitement on the floor. " But be it so — I'll
go — you stay here and help the women if you
can."

** Nay," said Donald, laying his hand on his
master's arm, *' that shall not be, Strath earn
If one has to sive his life — "

Fool ! " interrupted Strathearn, roughly
pushing away his old servant's hand, and going
up to the stand in the hall on which the coats
and wraps were hanging, " what is your life
or mine to hers ? "

Donald looked with his solemn eyes into his
master's face.

'' That may be, Strathearn," he said. '' AVell,
I'm ready— I'll go*'

I'll double your wages if you will," said
Strathearn, eagerly. '' And tell Macduff — tell
him I'll give him a hundred pounds if he'll
come straight to the Glen to-night."

'' Ay," answered Donald, wrapping on his
drenched plaid"'

It's a case of life and death," said
Strathearn, urgently.

"Ay," again said Donald, and then he looked

wistfully round the hall. *' Good night, master,"
he said, the next moment, and he held out his
hand, '^ I've served ye long — I'll do my best
to-night."

'' Yes, go," said Strathearn, in his impatient
haste, and as he spoke he unbarred the door,
and Donald went out alone into the wild and
awful night.

DONALD.

All through this dreadful night — now ever
memorable in Scottish annals — the tempest
literally raged and howled round the house of
Strathearn. One stack of chimneys fell with
a tremendous crash, but luckily this did no
mischief, as it fell on some of the outhouses.
But the noise yet more terrified the two
trembling women, who clung to Strathearn,
shrieking with fear.

Strathearn by this time had grown calmer.
He put the women aside and went up into the
bedrooms, and fastened the strong: iron-bound
shutters over the broken windows. He went,
indeed, all over the house, and secured it as
best he could against the storm. Then he
went back and stood looking at Nellie deathlike
face. Long he stood " glowering at her '^

- — trio two women whispered to cacti other —
with almost as wild a tempest raging in his
own heart as that which was moaning and
howling in the air.

Of what was he thinking ? Scarce could the
man have dared to answer this question, so how
can we ? Did he w^isli her to die ? Then
Seaport could never have come ao^ain with his
careless love and his lisrht lauorh. But no, no
not to die — and Strathearn turned away
with a kind of c^roan — thinking of his madness
wishing: that Nellie's fair face had never come
to the lonely Glen.

Up and down the room he paced — up and
down. Nellie still lay in the strange stupor
iTom which nothing; could rouse her. It was
not a faint, Strathearn knew now, and it was
not death ; it was some injury to the head,
perhaps the brain. And so the hours wore on,
and no Donald came back, and no doctor
appeared.

Then, as the dawn approached, the wind
somewhat subsided. It began moaning and
sighing up the wild gorges, as if tired of its
fierce strife. Strathearn opened the shutters
and looked out. A faint streak of li«:ht was

breaking in the east, and as he watched it
spread — struggling amidst the mists and
vapours — he determined to go out in search of
the doctor and Donald.

A drenching rain was still pouring down
upon the earth. Indeed nothing could be more
desolate than the whole scene. G-rey, dark,
and dreary, the mountain tops hidden by the
thick mist, the loch black and stormy, the sky
sullen and leaden-tinted. But still Strathearn
resolved to go. Wrapping a plaid round him,
he started down by the right side of the loch,
plunging every stc^^ he took in the roughs
rain-sodden ground, almost to his knees.

As he went on, the wreck wrought hj the
tempest of the night before, became only too
plainly visible. Great fir trees uprooted, huge
blocks and masses of stone rolled down from the
mountain sides, obstructed his path. But still
he went on — he grew uneasy about Donald — •
remembering that amid the darkness and the
storm he had sent his faithful servant out to
strufTf^le against the same obstacles which he
now had to encounter.

About three miles from the Glen he came
upon a most extraordinary sight. Here a little

forest of fir trees, which grew almost to the edge
of the loch, had been almost totally uprooted.
They lay across the narrow pathway, completely
blocking it, and Strathearn was about to turn
back in despair, when a faint moan struck upon
his ear.

He stopped, he listened — then another moan
sounded from beneath some of the fallen trees.
Strathearn climbed o'er the rest of the trunks
until he came to the spot from whence he
thought the moan had proceeded. When with
great difficulty he reached it, he saw lying under
one of the trees the figure of a man. He knew
him in an instant. It was Donald — Donald,
rain-soaked, battered, apparently dying.

*' Donald!" cried Strathearn in horror.
'' Donald I "

Then the crushed mass lying beneath slightly
moaned, and a feeble voice said —

Strathearn, master ? "

Yes, it is I," said Strathearn, aud he leapt
off the trunk on which he was standing, and
got down between two of the fallen trees, and
lifted the crushed and broken form that lay
beneath tenderly in his arms.

He was a rough man, Strathearn ; yet as he

held his old servant in his arms, this scarcely
seemed so. He laid Donald's head against his
breast ; he took off his own plaid and wrapped
it round him, and then he got out his flask,
and forced some of the strong whiskey between
Donald's rigid lips, and rubbed his hands with
it, and pulled off the rain-soaked boots and
poured the spirits on his feet. It revived the
sinking man. He opened his eyes, he looked
wildly round, first at the grey sky and then in
his master's face.

*' I — [ — prayed to live, Strathearn," he said,
'* prayed to live — I — I tried all I could — but I
got felled — I could go no further."

The old devoted spirit still lingered here in
the lonely, deserted glens, which once had
thrilled thousands of Highland hearts and sent
them forth to die at their master's bidding on
Culloden's bloody field. The man's words
greatly moved Strathearn. He, too, came of the
old stock, when master and servant were bound
together by such strong territorial ties.

'' Hush, man, you will not die ! " he said, and
he dashed his own brown hand against his eyes
as he spoke. " Why, Donald, you're a brave
lad, and will pull through yet I Here, man.

drink some more whiskey, and let me prop up
your head. Til run on as fast as I can for these
confounded ruts to the Macintyres. I'll get
Duncan to come back with me, and send Jim on
for the doctor. Come, Donald, keep up your
heart, I'll soon be back."

In fact, Strathearn saw by Donald's face that
it was absolutely necessary that the man should
at once have all the aid that was possible. His-face
was pallid, absolutely clammy, with perhaps
the dews of death ; and so Strathearn, with his
great strides, and thankful for his long, strong
limbs, commenced plunging on in search of
help.

Two miles further on the way stood a lonely
cottage, inhabited by three shepherds — a father
and two sons — in the service of Strathearn.
These men (the Macintyres) were just about to
start in the early dawn to look after their
scattered flocks, when Strathearn, all breathless
and soiled by mud and rain, appeared before
them.

To tell his errand, to send one of the lads as
fast as his feet could carry him to the scattered
village of Glenmally, still seven miles further
on, where dwelt Dr. Macduff, to get a hurdle;

covered with blankets, and to be speeding
back to where Donald lay, did not take many
minutes to the energetic Strathear]i.

Old Duncan Macintyre and his son accompanied
him. When they reached Donald he
lay like a dead man, so ghastly, so white, so
still, that a cry burst from his master's lips.
But he was not dead. He heard that cry. He
smiled feebly in Strathearn's face.

Thank you, master," he said, as Strathearn
took his cold hand in his own hot trembling
one.

Then, as tenderly as rough men could, Donald
was carried back to the Glen. They thought
first of taking him to Macintyre's cottage, but
Donald prayed hard to be taken home.

"I would like to die there, Strathearn," he
said wistfully, and after that, what more could
be said ? So through the slush and mud they
bore the keeper back to Strathearn. It was a
perilous walk, but the sturdy highland men
were used to danger. At last they reached the
Glen, and with a kind of sigh of relief Strathearn
saw Donald* borne into the kitchen of the house,
and laid before the hot coal fire.

Then, grim and pale with strong emotion, he

went to the sitting-room door to inquire after
Nellie.

She looked a wee bit better," the housekeeper
told him, " but still had not come round."

While he was inquiring about her the doctor
arrived from Glenmally.

Nice weather, eh, Strathearn ? " he said, as-jocularly
as usual. " I hear you have got :i
hospital ready for me ? '*

"Tush, man!" answered Strathearn, impatiently
; "two lives are hanging on a thread ! ""

Then the doctor went into the sitting-room
and stayed there more than half-an-hour.
When he came out he found Strathearn walking
up and down the hall outside.

Well ? " asked Strathearn, unable to control
his anxiety, as soon as the doctor appeared.

Captain Murray, or Captain whoever he is,
won't be a widower this time," answered the
doctor, with his hard smile. " It's a slight concussion
of the brain, but she'll come round, only
she'll not be quite such a pretty woman as she
was, for it's an ugly cut on her white brow."

What matter ! " said Strathearn, under his
breath, "if only she lives — what matter how
she looks."

Humph I " said the doctor, drily, feeling in
his heart some pity for Strathearn. " So it s
gone as far as that," he thought. "Poor fellow !"

But his report of Donald was not so favourable.
Donald had received terrible internal injuries,
and a bad compound fracture ©f his right leg,
and was bruised and crushed all over his body.
One of the trees had literally fallen on him,
and Macduff's hard face wore no smile when he
came out of the kitchen after his examination
of Donald.

The poor fellow has got his 'quietus,' I fear''
he said to Strathearn. " Whatever sent him
out on such a night as yon ? "

Strathearn turned away his head with a groan.

'*I sent him," he said. 'she — was lying
like a dead thing — I sent him for you."

Humph ! " again said the doctor, but he
forbore to make any further remark. He felt
sorry for Strathearn, whose brown face had
grown so pale and haggard when he heard the
doctor's opinion of his faithful servant.

YOL. II.

A DARK STRUGGLE.

The doctor stayed at the Glen until Nellie
recovered consciousness.

*' Well," he said, when he saw she recognised
him, '' so you have been obliged to send for me
after all, you see. You'll have some idea now
of a highland breeze, eh ? "

*' It was an awful storm," said Nellie, in a
low, faltering voice, and she looked curiously
round. *' The glass struck my head, didn't it ? "
she said.

'^ Very well, it didn't knock out your bright
eyes," answered the doctor. '' We can patch
the white skin, but the eyes would have been
a little beyond a country practitioner, eh?" and
the doctor chuckled.

And Donald ? " said Nellie. " Did Donald

get safely home ? We expected him last night
from Edinburgh, you know, doctor."

'' He's home," said the doctor briefly ; and
Nellie knew nothing more for many days.

She had to be kept quite quiet, the doctor
said, and so she was never told how Donald lay
dying, it was supposed, under the same roof.
Strathearn was in a terrible state about Donald,
but the man himself was calm, composed, and
apparently happy.

Don't fret so sore, Strathearn," he said one
day to his master, "I was getting an old man
and we must all go when the Lord calls. But,
by your leave, I would like a talk wi' the
minister."

Donald had a favourite '^ minister." A man
rugged, stern, half-starved, but '' powerful," so
said the keeper. Once every month he used
to come over the hills, and hold a service in a
lonely little hut by the loch, and during these
services Donald had found rest and refreshment
for his soul. So now, as he lay face to face
with death, he longed once more to hear the
'minister's "fiery, impassioned words.

Strathearn hated black-coats. *' Canting
hypocrites," *' psalm-singing rascals," were some

of the mildest terms lie usually applied to them.
But Donald's wishes were now law. Never
before in Strathearn's time had the Rev.
MacBrayne, or indeed any other reverend,
crossed the doorstep at the Glen. But now, to
please Donald, the Eev. MacBrayne was invited
to do so. He came " rejoicing," he said to the
grim Strathearn, who went to receive him, but
was quite determined to listen to none of his
speechifying."

But to Donald, MacBrayne came as a messenger
of light. No sleek parson was this ;
no comfortable, easy-going man, but a
stern mortal facing immortality, and resolutely
fighting the dark foes that he believed would
laugh their wicked laughter in hell if his foot
stumbled.

With this rugged enthusiast Donald was
closeted more than an hour, and then before he
left the house the minister sought an interview
with Strathearn, determined to administer " a
word in season " to the godless master. But
Strathearn was wary as a hawk.

*' Our dear friend upstairs is bound for a
better world, Strathearn," began the Ev.
MacBrayne, in his deep, sepulchral voice.

He's been a good servant in this, at all
events," answered Strathearn, sturdily.

Ah, but, Strathearn, the service of this
world is but as a ' sounding brass and a tinkling
cymbal ' when we stand on the threshold of the
eternal."

Have you had the wind in the east down
^t Ardlinuke these last two days ? " inquired
Strathearn, with interest, going to the window.

I take little heed of the winds, Strathearn,"
:said the minister ; " they blow hither and
thither, but it is no veering point on which I
fix my gaze. But, even speaking of the winds,
see how the summons can come even in them
to the stout and healthy ; — our dear friend
Upstairs went out but a week ago, well and
strong, yet the blast of heaven struck him low I
It might have happened to you or I, Strathearn."

'' IVe a cold, and am rather deaf," said
Strathearn, rubbing his left ear, and coolly
interrupting the minister.

I will then lift my voice to a higher key,"
continued MacBrayne, now absolutely shouting.
*' As I was saying, in a moment — "

Ah, Mr. MacBrayne, ' none so deaf as those
who won't hear'" again interrupted Strathearn,

with his grim smile. '' Don't waste your breathy
man — if you like to come and see Donald, and
he likes to have you, you're welcome — but every
man to his taste, and " rectifying " is not
to mine. But don't you think, for all that,,
that I'm a heathen, and don't believe in my
Maker — but to my mind a man gets no nearer
to him by palavering about it to another man,
though that other man may be a deal better
than himself ! No — it is all between oneself
and God, and God gives us conscience to.
show us how far we go astray."

But as a help, Strathearn ? " urged the
minister.

*' I want no fellow-sinner's help," said Strath-earn,
roughly ; and so MacBrayne was forced
to go away ; and did so, believing that Strath-earn
had allowed the Evil One, in the shape
of arrogance, to take ]possession of his heart.

But in spite of this Strathearn was as good
as his word, and he allowed the Kev. MacBrayne
to come as often as he liked to see Donald, and
Strathearn would even look after the goodman's
creature comforts, and once slipped a,
five-pound note into the lean hand of the ill-paid
and hard-working minister.

"It will help you a bit with your poor,"
said Strathearn.

Ah, Strathearn, if I thought I did any
good — " hesitated the minister, alluding, of
course, to Strathearn's spiritual condition.

You do good if it pleases my faithful servant
to see you," answered Strathearn, with a
certain dignity of manner ; and after this affair
of the five-pound note the Rev. MacBrayne
began to hope that Strathearn's heart was not
quite given over to diabolical influences.

But as the days went on, Strathearn himself
began to doubt whether indeed the Evil One
had not taken possession of his heart. For a
fierce struggle — fierce as the man's strong:,
rough nature — was constantly disturbing him.
This struggle was between his sense of honour
to his friend, and a strange powerful infatuation
which had swept over him as a tempest.

In vain he tried to keep out of the Glen ; in
vain did rough work on the hills — only to
bring the spoils of the chase and lay them —
not literally — at Nellie's feet He never saw
her for weeks after her accident, but he was
always pursued by a fair-faced shadow which
followed him whithersoever he went. Fruit

and flowers came to Nellie in her sick-room,
and all sorts of luxuries, but he never asked to-see
her. One day, however, when he unexpectedly
walked into the sitting-room at the
Glen, the fair face was there, only changed and
worn, and with a red mark on the white brow,
which the fair curly hair did not hide.

'' Strathearn," said Nellie, holding out her
hand with a smile ; and Strathearn went up to
her, surprised even himself — though he knew
his folly — at his own overwhelming emotion.

He tried to hide this by a little extra roughness.


So you're down, are you ? " he said
"Humph ! can't say you look very well."

No, indeed," said Nellie. '' It's a frightful
mark, isn't it ? But," she added, blushing softly
all over her white face, " I hope it will go away
a little before Murray comes."

These words absolutely sent a pang of bodily
pain through Strathearn's whole being.

'' I've had several letters from him, of course,"
continued Nellie. *' He said once he had heard
from you. Thank you for not telling him how
ill I have really been, for it would have only
made him miserable, poor fellow ! It was very

kind and thoughtful of you not to do so."

Stratliearn suppressed a groan. He knew
well enough it was not to spare Seaport's
feelings that he had not told the whole details
of Nellie's accident. It was from a mad, jealous
feeling that Seaport might come to her if he
knew how much she had needed his presence. So
Strathearn had made light of her illness, and of
the whole affair. It was a kind of pleasure to
him — a miserable pleasure at best — to think
that he, Strathearn, had done everything for
her, that his hand had showered luxuries upon
her ; though he knew all the while she was not
thinking of him, but of the careless, handsome
young man who had won her heart, and then
took so little trouble to keep it.

*' You have been so very good to me, Strath-earn,"
presently said Nellie, in her old, pretty
way. " I really do not know how to thank you
for all your kindness — Murray must thank you
when he comes."

He may keep his thanks to himself," gruffly
said Strathearn. And Nellie looked up in his
face, absolutely surprised at his rudeness.

"You have not quarrelled?" she said,
anxiously.

*'No, no — quarrelled — wliy should I quarrel
with him ? I have never seen him — have been
here all the time, backwards and forwards —
for I am so anxious about Donald."
/' And is Donald better ? " asked Nellie.

'' Can't tell — the doctor says he has a wonderful
constitution — but I don't know."

"And is he so ill as that?" said Nellie.
Then Strathearn remembered she did not know;
that the doctor had impressed upon them that
she was not to know.

He'll pull through all right, I daresay," said
Strathearn, taking up his cap. " Well, I am
glad to see you better — good day ! " And so
Strathearn went away, and Nellie kept wondering
what had offended him and put him in
such a very bad humour.

But though he went away from the house
and back to the Lodge on the hills, before
nightfall he was again wandering in the lonely
Glen. He saw the moon rise and silver the
white mist and mountain tops and the gable roof
of the house, and shine on the window panes.
Restless, passionate, in a rage with himself and
all the world, Strathearn wandered like a ghost
round and round his home, and then he made a

sudden resolve. He would go away — he would
make a fool of himself no longer — he would bid
the little woman good-bye in the morning, and
he would see her face no more.
When the morning came he still held to his
purpose. Pale, haggard, and excited, about
twelve o'clock he walked into the sitting-room
where Nellie was, and held out his hand without
any preamble.

*' Good-bye ! " he said. " I have come to say
good-bye — I'm off to Paris,"

I'm sorry you are going," said Nellie. '' I
hoped you would stay till Murray came— he
swill be disappointed not to see you."

Strathearn made no answer. He bit his lips.
He stood there looking; straight in her face.

I am so much obliged to you for all your
Kindness," said Nellie.

Then Strathearn spoke in a trembling and
broken voice, for he was wrestling with himself
with all his might.

Be kind to Donald," he said. " I would
not have left him, but — but it is better I should

go."

Something in his manner agitated Nellie in
spite of herself. She saw, indeed, that some

violent emotion was almost overpowering him

'' I will gladly be kind to Donald," she said,,
trying to speak in her ordinary manner. ** I
like Donald ; he is quite a friend of mine."

"Thank you. God bless you ! " said Strathearn,.
and then he wrung her hand, and without another
word hurried from the room.

But before he left the house he went to bid
his old servant good-bye, and the first tears that
had wet Donald's eyes since his accident dimmed
them when he heard his master was about to
leave him.

*' And must ye go, Strathearn ? " he said,,
wistfully. " It will not be lang now — and I
would ha' liked ye to follow me to the grave ! ""

'* Puts, man I Well, I'll promise — if I'm alive
I'll do it. I'll follow you," answered Strathearn,.
with a sort of nervous laugh, and speaking in
the rough way that he often did when he was
greatly agitated.

Donald held out his hand, which was now,,
alas ! neither brown nor hard.

Fare-thee-well, then, master ! " he said
'^ Maybe I'll see thy face no more until I see it
among the thousand and thousands of the
redeemed standing before the Lord. Let me

see thee there, Stratliearn — and the Lord keep
thy foot from stumbling, and thy lips that they
speak no guile ! "

The man's earnestness and solemnity yet
more affected Strathearn. He averted his head,
his hand trembled in that of his old servant,
and no scoffing word rose on his lips, though
had the Eev. MacBrayne thus addressed him
there doubtless would have done so.

** If you get worse," he said in a moment or
two, speaking in a husky voice, " ask — her to
write to me — I will give you an address that
will always find me — and I will come back."

"The lady?" inquired Donald.

Yes — here, give her this address if she
wants it — and now, Donald, good bye ! " And
the next moment Strathearn was gone.

*•' He has an awful look on his face," said the
old highland housekeeper in Gaelic to her
assistant, as she watched her master take his
departure. "Ay, Elspeth, I wish Strathearn
may not have seen his wraith."

CARRIED OUT IN THE SNOW.

The house iu the Glen was very quiet after
Strathearn went away. Upstairs Donald lay
dying — each day bringing him visibly nearer
and nearer to the great change, which his faithful
and trustful soul approached with awe, but
not with dread.

Even the gloomy MacBrayne — who was
more apt to regard his Maker as a God of
jealousy and wrath than as a forgiving and
merciful Father — was satisfied with Donald's
spiritual condition.

He was a faithful servant," he said ; and
so looking out on the wild hills, where he
had spent his life, or upwards — beyond — to
the world which his faith clothed with such
exceeding glory, the keeper lay waiting for
the hour when the old life was to be left

behind and the new and glorious one to Lectin.

Jn these last days, Nellie spent much of her
time With Donald. The man's perfect faith
and quiet confidence made a deep impression
on her. For him none of the ancient landmarks
had ever been swept away. The sad and
thoughtful scorn of modern schools had come
not near him. He mio'ht have seen with his
mortal eyes the holy, thorn-crowned head, or
his risen Saviour walking in the garden, so firm
was his belief in these things — so sure his rest
in what they had wrought for him and all the
erring children of men.

This was a better death-bed, was it not, than
drifting out into the vast sea without an anchor ?
Nellie had heard Seaport theorise and scoff in
his light way, and Strath earn argue with his
hard and bitter tongue. But what had they
taught her ? Nothing; ! She learnt more bv
the bedside of the dying keeper than she could
ever have learnt from these men — than, perhaps,
she could have learnt from the most brilliant
essayist and philosopher of the time.

Donald told Nellie, in his simple way, how
Strathearn had promised to follow him to the
grave.

His father, the old laird, followed my
father," said Donald ; " and it's a respect I
asked fra' him, and he promised ; and Strath-earn's
not one to break his word."

I do not think he is," said Nellie, scarcely
knowing what to say.

So when the time comes," continued Donald,
" would ye be so good, lady, as to let him
know ; he left me this to give ye." And Donald
held out the address which Strathearn had
given him, which was to a club in Paris.

Nellie took the address, and then turned
sadly away. She felt very sad and very dreary.
AVeeks and weeks had passed since Lord Sea-forth
had been to Strathearn, and when Nellie
had last written to him, she had urged him to
come and take her back with him to town
before '' the dreary winter came." But to this
request, Seaport had only replied by vague
excuses.

He " could not at present," he wrote. His
'' darling Nellie," his '' fair-haired love," must
wait a little longer. Pretty phrases and fond
words came very naturally from Seaport. But
he allowed his darling Nellie, his fair-haired
love, to pine and fret in solitude. Dr. Macduff

<3veii spoke to Nellie, and asked her when her
husband was coming, so sorry had the jocular
-doctor become for the pretty woman living in
the lonely Glen.

Indeed the robust and rosy lady who bore
the doctor's name, and dwelt with him in ih.e
scattered village of Glenmally, either was, or
pretended to be, jealous of her doctor about
this time, and used to question him pretty
-closely, about his constant visits to Strathearn.

"Macduff," she said, addressing him one
evening with some sternness and solemnity of
manner — though to do the good woman justice
she had first placed a steaming glass of hot
toddy in the tired doctor's hand — "Macduff,
have I been everything to you that a wife should
be all these years ? "

Indeed you have, my dear," answered the
doctor, with a twinkle of his merry brown
eyes. "I have no complaints to make — none."

Then how is it, Macduff, at your age — fifty
gone — they say you go gallavanting after a
light-o'-love *? "

"My dear," with another twinkle, "incredible T

"They say — " continued the injured Mrs.
ilacduff.

Who say? " asked the doctor, sententiously.

'rit's the common country talk, Macduff;
they say you are always going to the Glen of
Strath earn. "

And so I am, my dear ; but what for ?
To see poor Donald the keeper, who is drifting
fast away, in spite of all I can do for him. And
as for Mrs. Murray, the young lady who is living
there, all I can say is, that a better or a prettier
young married woman I never set my eyes on,
and I who have known you these twenty years
ought to be a good judge''

Mrs. Macduff smiled ; this delicate and
judicious compliment mollified her, but all the
same, she determined to watch her Macduff"
pretty closely, believing, perhaps with justice,,
that " men were not to be depended on."

But even Mrs. Macduff saw that the doctor
had been speaking the truth about the cause of
his frequent visits to the Glen, when a day or
two later, a note was brought one morning by
one of the Macintyre's, who was living at the
Glen to supply the place of poor Donald. This
note was from Nellie, and the doctor wisely
handed it across the breakfast table to his wife
to read. She read : — ■

Dear Dr. Macduff, — Will you come at once when you
receive this, for I fear poor Donald is sinking fast. He is
unconscious while I am writing this. — Yours truly,

Elinor Murray.

Poor fellow ! " said the doctor. '' Well, lie
was a decent man, and Strathearn lias lost a
good servant. But I knew from the first he
couldn't live."

Then the doctor ordered his stout pony to be
brought round, and put on his stout overcoat
to resist the keen wind, and as he did so, his
wife came softly behind him and kissed his
brown, hard cheek.

What's that for, my dear ? " said the doctor,
turning round with a smile.

I've been stupid about this lady in the Glen,
I suppose," confessed Mrs. Macduff. 'poor
Donald ! "

Ay, you have been stupid, my dear !" said
the doctor, patting his wife under her rosy
chin. *' D'ye think dien I've got such a fine
woman as you at home, I'm likely to look elsewhere
? Not I. Here, give me another kiss
my lassie !" And Mrs. Macduff having complied
with this request, the doctor rode quickly away.

But before he reached Strathearn, Donald's
sufferings were over. He had crossed the dark

UNIVERSITY OF

valley, lie had wrestled the last foe, and he now
lay calm and still, with the smile of victory on
Ms placid face.

*' The change came about daybreak," Nellie
told the doctor. '' He sent for me, and his last
words were, ' Write to Strathearn ' ; and when
I promised, he smiled, and after that he only
muttered something I could not make out, and
then he just seemed to fall asleep. It was a
very peaceful death."

He was a good man," said the doctor,,
clearing his throat. '' And will you write to
Strathearn ? "

Oh yes," said Nellie, in her frank way.
*^ He wished so much for Strathearn to follow
him to the grave. I hope Strathearn will get
the letter in time."

The doctor promised to post it at once if
Nellie would write it. Nellie did write it, and
the doctor also promised to have a telegram
forwarded from the post-office at Glenmally, so
that Strathearn might know as soon as possible
of the death of his faithful servant.

But two days after Donald's death, when
Nellie rose in the morning and looked out, she
saw before her a world of snow. Snow mountains

; snow valleys ; snow down to the edges
the loch, whose waters looked black and
stormy with the contrast. A heavy fall had
occurred during the night, and as the day wore
on, the air began to fill with the white, noiseless
particles, which came floating down thicker and
thicker, faster and faster.

In the kitchen the servants looked out on the
increasing storm with the greatest dismay. It
had been arranged that Donald was to be carried
to his grave in Glenmally churchyard on the
fourth day after his death. The funeral had
been delayed as long as possible, so as to give
time for Donald's last wishes about his master's
presence to be fulfilled. But as the snow fell
and fell, getting deeper and deeper each
moment, the servants indulged in the most
gloomy anticipations.

On the day fixed for the funeral it ceased
snowing. Over the great hills and the vales
the sun shone out on the gleaming mass of
white. The snow lay several feet deep, and no-carriage
of any kind could approach the house,
but it was arranged that the keeper was to be
carried to his grave.

It was a very solemn sight. That little band

of black-draped mourners carrying the coffin
out in the snow, and plunging through it, as
they went down the steep path which led to
and from the house in the lonely Glen.

Bronzed, weather-beaten cheeks were wet,
and the women wailed and wept as they carried
the keeper out. But Strathearn had not come.
The absence of the master was bitterly lamented,
tis poor Donald's last wish was well known. But
while Nellie was watching from the windows the
sad procession go, she suddenly saw upon the
waters of the loch a boat swiftly approaching
the snowy shore.

She strained her eyes. The keel of the boat
touched the shingle. The black-draped procession
stopped. Then out of the boat stepped
a tall figure, whom she at once recognised as
Strathearn. He approached the bearers of the
'dead. He stood bare-headed for a moment or
two, and then Nellie saw one of the servants give
him a cloak. The procession then resumed its
inarch, Strathearn following as chief mourner,
behind his faithful servant.

It took them hours and hours to go through
the snow to Glenmally, and hours and hours to
return. Twilight had fallen on the Glen, the

frozen mist was growing denser and denser each
moment, and still the mourners had not come
back. Nellie stirred the fire, and wandered
restlessly and nervously, up and down the long
sitting-room. The white mountains, the weird
and ghostly scene outside, seemed to terrify
her. Perhaps something else dreadful had
happened, she thought — perhaps someone else
would be carried back, like poor Donald, to die
in this silent and lonely spot.

It was a relief to her when she heard a footfall
on the crisp snow outside — a relief when
Strathearn, pale and excited-looking, entered
the room, and held out a trembling nervous
hand.

I am so glad you came," said Nellie. '' Poor
Donald wished so much for you to follow him
to his grave. You were only just in time."

Yes," said Strathearn, still holding Nellie's
hand.

You got my letter, I suppose ? " said Nellie

'^ Yes," again answered Strathearn. '' But,"
he added, a sudden flush passing over his pale-and
agitated face, " whether I had Cot your
letter or not, I was coming home. I could stays
away no longer. I can struggle no more."

AX OFFER.

ISTellte looked up in Strathearn's face in the
greatest surprise when she heard these remarkable
words.

'' I — I do not understand," she said.

"No' said Strathearn, with a sort of passionate
bitterness, " you women never understand
unless it pleases you to do so ! Yet my
ivords were plain enough, weren't they ? I
could not stay away."

But why ? " said Nellie. Then she added
quick', " Have you seen Murray ? "

'•' No, nor did I wish to do so. So he's the
first thought — always the first thought I "

*^ And should he not be so ? " answered
Nellie, with some pride. '^ My husband ! "

*' Your husband ! " echoed Strathearn, with a

scornful laugh, and lie began striding up and
down the room with his long strides.

I do not understand you' said Nellie.

Perhaps not — well, shall I speak more
plainly, then ? " said Strathearn, and he came
sup to Nellie and stood before her. " Shall I
tell you the history of a man's mad folly — how
a fair face has bewitched him and stolen away
his sense ? "

No, no ! " said Nellie, frightened by his
manner. " I do not wish to hear."

'' But you shall hear, now," said Strathearn,.
and he caught her roughly by the Wrist. " Do
you know what you have done ? I was happy
enough until you came here — I was heart
whole, at all events ! " And again Strathearn
gave a bitter laugh.

I weill not hear this," said Nellie, pulling
away her hand. " It's ungenerous, ungentlemanly
of you, Strathearn, to speak as you are
doing, when Murray — when my husband is
away ! "

You don't believe that ? AVhat a force it
is I You don't believe you're Seaport's wife ?
But even knowing what you are — ay, even
knowing what you are, and how the old name

lias never been smeared before — I ask you — will
you many me ? "

You are mad ! " said Nellie, staring at him
in utter astonishment. " Strathearn, you are
mad ! "

'' Yes, I am mad ! " said Strathearn, bitterly.
'• Mad to care for a woman who loves a brainless,
heartless fool, who has not even the honesty
to take her by the hand and confess he has
wronged her. That's about what Seaport does
to you. He hides you down here— leaves you
• — and then — would you like to hear what's
said about him now ? "

I don't wish to hear. I will believe nothing,"
said Xellie, proudly.

They say at the clubs," continued Strath-earn,
disregarding Nellie's words, "that Seaport
is about to marry a lady — a rich woman, who
goes by the name in town of Croesus's Widow.
What do you think of that ? You down here
calling yourself his wife, and my lord wooing
his rich widow in London ! "

It's a lie — a lie ; an utter lie ! " cried Nellie,
with blazing cheeks and flashing eyes. " Go
out of the room, you coward, who dare come
here and repeat such wicked, shameful words 1"

And Nellie burst into a passion of tears.

'don't be a little fool!" said Strathearn,.
roughly. " Why, you must have known the
fellow didn't really care for you, leaving you
down here alone for weeks and months, with
another man dangling after you at his will I
D'ye think that's love ? Why, I'd shoot a fellow
who dared look at the woman I loved so well —
shall I say it ? — as well as I am mad enough,
Nellie, to love you."

Strathearn's voice softened, broke and faltered,
as he said these last words. Once morale
approached Nellie ; once more would have
taken her hand, but Nellie pushed his hand
indignantly away.

Mine's an honest love, at least," continued
Strathearn. " I don't ask you to hide
in a hole, or take a false name for my
sake. And don't think I haven't counted the
cost ! We come of a long race, we Camp-bells,
and the women have been — but why
speak of it ? It is enough. I have made
np my mind. Forget Seaport, Nellie. Let
his name never be mentioned between us ;
and tomorrow — any day — I will make you
my wife."

Nellie by this time had somewhat recovered
her composure.

'* You have been deceived by circumstances,
Strathearn/' she said, trying to speak quietly.
'* Because I am living here, under, as you say, a
false name, you have imagined, I suppose, that
I am not really married to Lord Seaport. But
I am married to him. We were married in
Edinburgh last August."

Strathearn looked steadily in Nellie's face.

'rand you believe this, poor girl?" he said.
'• Then Seaport is a bigger ruffian even than I
took him for ! "

Why ? How do you mean ? "

Because he told me with his own lips he
was not married to you ; because he told me
you knew you were not married — that he had
never intended to marry you ; that, in his circumstances,
such a marriage was totally out of
the question."

Nellie grew white to the very lips.

"If I could believe this," she said, in trembling
accents.

"You must believe," said Strathearn. "From
the first — the very first — when he brought you
bere, he wrote me the same story. Don't you

CRCESUSS WIDOW. 61

pin your faith on him, Nellie, for he's but a
broken reed ! He's harassed to death about
money affairs, and I have no doubt that this
story is true, and that he wants to patch up
his broken fortunes by marrying a rich woman."

"He cannot marry a rich woman," said Nellie.
^' No, no ! " she went on, wringing her hands,
and flinging herself to and fro in great agony,
*' He is my husband ! Oh, God ! if I could
believe otherwise, I would die — surely I would
die 1 ''

*she is not worth your grief," said Strath-learn,
darkly.

Nellie did not speak for a moment or two.
Her head was bowed upon her breast. In her
heart were thoughts more bitter than death.

We had a witness to our marriage," she
staid presently, looking up. '^ Clayton, Lord
Seaport's servant, was present."

Strathearn shrugged his shoulders.

*this creature !" he said. *' If you depend
on Clayton's evidence to establish any claim,
sou will find yourself bitterly mistaken."

I want no evidence," said Nellie, more
firmly. " I believe and trust in Lord Seaport.
I knew he was poor, and that is the reason why

our marriage lias been kept a secret ; but it
shall be so no longer. To-morrow I will write
to Lord Seafortli, and tell him what you have
said."

**A]1 right ; when you get his answer, perhaps
you willie more inclined to listen to reason."

'' I will write," said Nellie ; '^ and now, will
you go away ? "

*' Yes ; I will stay at the Lodge. If you
want me, you will find me there. But one
thins let me add — T believe now, what I didn't
believe before, that he has deceived you. I
never could understand you ! You seemed a
good woman. The first time I saw you, when
Brady took ill on the hills, I thought you were
a good woman ; and yet — there it was ! Mind,.
I have not been lying to you. I am not a cui%
whatever I am. I would not tell a lie, even
to win you. No ; if Seaport has deceived me
he shall answer to me for his deceit. I am nota
foolish love-sick girl, that he can trick by his
pleasant words. And now, good-night ! "

And a minute later Strathearn had left the
room, and a few moments afterwards Nellie
heard him quit the house.

For more than an hour after he was gone

Nellie sat as if she were stunned. She put lier
hand to her head — she tried to think. Could it
be true ? No, no, no ! Murray would not —
tie could not — so cruelly deceive her; and yet
sie must have told Strathearn this heartless
lie ! Eoup'h as Strathearn was, he was born a
gentleman ; he could not be so base as to invent
such a story ; and yet — could Murray tell it ? —
would Murray tell it ?

Nellie remembered, as she sat there, her
hasty journey North, on the night when she
had quitted her father's house. Only Clayton,
Lord Seaport's servant, had accompanied her.
She had stayed a few days in Edinburgh at
private lodgings that Clayton had taken for
her, and then Lord Seaport had joined her,
and they were married. They were married in
the drawing-room of the house where she was
staying, after the Scottish fashion, by a person
whom Seaport told her was a Scotch minister,
hind whom he called the Eev. Mr. McFarlane.
Only Clayton was present at the ceremony, as
Nellie had known from the beginning: that their
marriage was to be kept a secret. She had
asked no questions, and she had signed nothing.
She had entirely trusted Lord Seaport, and he

had assured her they were married according
to the law in Scotland ; that they were married
by a binding law.

Nellie recalled all this, sitting there by the-dying
fire after Strathearn had left her. Then
she started to her feet, trying to make up her
mind. Remember, she was but a girl ; only
of late had the thought, the half-sadness of
womanhood crept upon her. And she had
loved Seaport so dearly I But this was a
terrible blow that had come to her, crushing
out her life, weakening her love. For love
that wears so long and well, when the wearer
is worthy, is apt to grow thin and shrivel up
when neglected or ill-used.

But she must do something — of this she was-certain.
She could not stay at the Glen another
day after what Strathearn had said ; could not
stay as his guest. Then she went up to her
bedroom and counted over the little money in
her possession. It was only very little. It
was just as Seaport had given it to her in
Edinburgh after their marriage, for Nellie had
spent nothing while living at the Glen. But
when she reckoned what she would be forced
to spend before she could hope to see Seaport,

sbe saw with dismay that she had not enough
for her purpose.

AVhat a miserable thing the want of money
is ! No one who has not felt it can realise it,
and none but the sensitive-minded can tell
what it has cost them. Here was this poor
girl — Lord Seaport's wife, as she supposed
herself to be — sitting turning over her pittance
in her hand, and thinking how she must do this
and that without sufficient means ! She could
not go away from Strathearn without giving
money to the servants, and she had not enough
to give them if they supposed she was leaving
the Glen for good.

At last, uneasy and afraid — hating not to
speak the exact truth, yet ashamed to say to
the servants, " I am going away, and can only
afford to give you so little" — she made up her
mind to tell them she was going to Edinburgh
for a day or two, and thus they would not
expect any considerable sum as a final present
from her hands.

She carried out this idea. Early the next
morning she told the housekeeper she would
want young Macintyre to row her down the
loch, as she was going on a short visit to

VOL. II. D

Edinburgh. Then she divided all that she
could possibly spare among the household, and
before eleven o'clock, was being rowed down
the blue waters of the loch by Macintyre, and
gradually saw the mountains and the wild,
beautiful Glen of Strathearn fade away in the
misty distance behind her.

It was a troublesome journey even to reach
the small railway station on the line nearest
to Strathearn. But before mid-day she had
accomplished this, and when once in the train
she felt more free ; felt, at least, that she would
soon see Seaport.

She travelled to Edinburgh, and from thence
direct on to London. Utterly wearied out, she
arrived in London in the early morning, and
after a short rest at the railway station, she
started out in search of lodOTno^s.

She had arranged her plans during her journey.
She intended to take private lodgings, and then
at once write to Seaport, under cover, as usual,
to his servant Clayton. She expected — she was
sure — her Murray would come to her immediately.
But in the meantime she must find a
temporary home, without, unfortunately, the
means of paying for it. She had determined

also that lie would not go near the neighbourhood
of her old home. She could not go there,
she told herself, until she went openly as Lord
Seaport's wife.

She scarcely knew where to turn in the vast
wilderness of brick and mortar before her.
But the waiter who served her breakfast at the
railway hotel looked a respectable man, and
iS'ellie ventured to ask him if he knew of anv
rooms he could recommend. The man shook
his head, and then looked dubious. He knew
of none, he said. But a few minutes later he
returned to the room with an address written
on a card in his hand.

another of the waiters, he said, had a relation
who kept a lodging-house in Belgrave Road.
This was the address — she was a maiden lady
and very respectable. Nellie read the address.
It was " Miss Brewis, No — , Belgrave Road."
Were the rooms very expensive ? Nellie inquired.
The waiter did not know, but it was
a large house, and as this was not the season,
no doubt she had various prices for her different
sets of rooms.

Nellie resolved, after a little reflection, to
try this address. She drove, therefore, to

D 2

No. — , Be] grave Roach, and asked to see Miss
Brewis.

She was ushered into a neat, small back
sitting-room, where a cheerful, though small,
fire made the dull November morning not seem
quite so dreary. This was Miss Brewis's own
sitting-room, which she did not let ; and presently
Miss Brewis herself walked into the
room.

Miss Breeds had a sour, frosty face. She
looked at Nellie dubiously, very dubiously.
Humph ! the lady wanted apartments, she
understood — and so on ; all the while eyeing
Nellie's fair face with her small, light, shrewd,
o-reen eyes.

Yes," said Nellie. " Have you any tolet?"


Miss Brewis had certainly, if she could find
a suitable tenant. But she was particular —
being herself an unmarried female — about whom
she took. Had the lady any references ?

Nellie was forced to say she had not. She had
travelled from Edinburgh that morning, and
Alas waiting for her husband to join her. The
sour virginal face softened a little at the word
husband.

'' Oh ! your Island, you say, ma'am, is
comiuQj to join you ? " asked Miss Brewis.

'^ Yes ; my husband, Captain Murray''
answered Nellie ; and Bliss Brewis having at
this moment three entire suites of rooms
unlet, resolved to stretch a point.

Perhaps you would like to see the apartments
? " she said. And so Nellie followed
her prim, angular form, vdth its small knitted
red shawl firmly pinned in front, up the neat
staircase, and into the neat, clean, unoccupied
rooms. Ever) thing in Miss Brewis's house
was remarkably clean.

I can t abide dirt," she told Nellie. " I was
not used to it till I came to London : or to foot,
or other things I do not like to name. But ita
constant struggle here. I spend my days
washing and scrubbing, and trying to keep things
decent, and the girls I get spend theirs, it seems
to me, in undoing what I do — the hussies ! "

'* You are a North-country woman ? " said
Nellie, smiling.

How did you guess that?" inquired Miss
Brewis, very sourly.

"I do not know," answered Nellie, "but I
thought you looked like one."

Well, I am, at all events," said Miss Brewis,
tartly. ^' I was brought up in the North, and
always lived in good air till I came here." And
Miss Brewis sniffed the thick cold air disdainfully
with her red nose.

Well, it is very thick this morning, " said.
Nellie.

No worse than ordinary mornings, in my
opinion," said Miss Brewis, with emphasis
But about the rooms — I can answer for them
being clean, at all events."

Well, that's a great thing."

I only answer for what I know," said Miss
Brewis. " As for answering for anything that
those dirty hussies of servants have to do with,.
I won't ! My life's made a torment with them,
ma'am. Only last night I found a great big
guardsman in the jam-closet — yes, ma'am
absolutely in the jam-closet ! "

Nellie tried not to laugh.

That was a nice pickle to find among your
jars, ma'am, wasn't it ? " said Miss Brewis,.
grimly. "But I soon had him out! I marched
him, and the hussy who had him there
after him, for that matter. I can't abide
such work — sweethearts, indeed — nice sweet-hearting

! " And again Miss Brewis sniffed.

"Well, I suppose girls will have lovers," said
Nellie, meekly.

As for lovers, ma'am ; if you mean lovers
that mean matrimony, I'm not myself averse
particularly to matrimony. It's a respectable
institution, and means that the man helps to
pay the taxes and the house-rent, which fall
uncommon heavy on a single female. It's
lovers that mean nothing that I object to
lovers, indeed ! Lovers of meats and
drinks that they get out of the mistress's
pantry ! That's the style of lovers we have
so many of. If they'd to pay for their 
they'd think twice about it, I'd warrant
them ! "

Nellie lao-hed outright at this, and 'Mis
Brewis even o-ave a thin o'lo-oie.

Well, you may laugh, ma'am," she said ;
^' you're young, and certainly, for that matter,
I'm not particularly old ; but wait till you
keep house yourself. A house looks pleasant
enough, and sounds pleasant enough ; but when
one has to pay for everything in it — coals to
begin with, meat, taxes, lovers — lovers in jam
closets even — you'll see ! The sparrow on the

housetop, ma'am, lias more rest to its legs tliaii
I have ! "

'you should get married, Miss Brewis."

"Well, ma'am, marriage has its advantages
and its disadvantages. I'm not going to deny
it would be a great thing to have someone to
help you with the taxes ; but then to have a
man standing with his back to the fire, and
calling out his orders, and trying to be master
indeed, would be very aggravating."

'' You don't think they should be the masters,
then ? " said Nellie, smiling,

Why should they, ma'am ? Their bodies
are not better than ours, nor their souls either,
for that matter. There's more of them, certainly,
but quantity doesn't make quality I "
And once more Miss Brewis sniffed.

No, indeed ! "

*' But here I am gossiping and talking, and
never thinking of business," continued Mis
Brewis.

Now Miss Brewis was a good woman of
business; hard, but honest. She neither wasted
her own coots nor that of her losers. She
had been housekeeper for many years in a
respectable middle-class family in the North of

England, when a relation died in London — a
small tradesman — and left his niece, Joanna
Brewis, two thousand pounds. Joanna went
up to London to look after her property, and,
struck perhaps with the life and bustle in town,
so different to her homely country experience,
she determined to start a lodoino'-house.

o o

She had been fairly successful. She worked
hard — " night and day," she averred — but at
oil events she did work hard, waging a constant
and most acrimonious Vv\ar with her 'girls,"
as she called her maid servants, in her north-country
parlance. This long array of ever-changing
females declared her temper was
^^ awful." 'but whose temper vrouidn't be
awful," Miss Brewis herself tartly asked,
when she had such a worthless, useless set of
hussies continually aggravating her ? " And
perhaps Miss Brewis 's temper might thus be
accounted for.

But she saved money. She made it ; and
she knew how to keep it, which is a much more
difficult matter than making it. And she knew
how to make a bargain too, and presently made
one with Nellie — not an unfair one, but one
that would pay, and before nightfall Nellie

found herself located in Miss Brewis's '• diningroom
suite," gazing at the shining mahogany,.
and feeling too weary even to think.

She went early to bed, thankful to lay her
tired head on the snowy, sweet-scented pillows
that Miss Brewis had provided for her use.
When she fell asleep she dreamt of Margaret
and Vyner — then of the blue waters of the
loch, and the misty shadowy mountains of
Strathearn.

NORA S GIFT.

Now, for a while, let us leave Nellie, and go
back to those whom she left behind, when she
started on her rash, hasty, and, to all seeming,
ill-fated journey north.

eye left Margaret Blythe asking Walter Vyner
whether the 15 th or the 18 th of September was
to be their wedding day. Vyner started, coloured,
and bit his lips before he answered. True, he
had come prepared by Margaret's letter, which
he had received the night before, to be asked
this question. But still it came as a sort of
shock.

Is there any such great hurry, Margaret ? "
he said, trying to smile.

Margaret looked quickly and anxiously up in
his face.

We might wait a month or so, might we
not ? " continued Vyner.

But why ? " asked Margaret ; and Vyner
felt that he had no good reason to give.

*' Everything is ready," said Margaret. " I
have even engaged two maids — we cannot put
it off now, without the cruellest things being
said — and, after Nellie, surely, surely, we have
borne enough ? "

Vyner did not speak. What Margaret had
said about Nellie touched his heart. He could
not bring any more trouble and annoyance
upon them ; and so, after a moment's consideration,
he held out his hand to Margaret.

"Very well, Margaret," he said quietly; ''if
you have settled it so, let it be on the 18th."

And so the wedding day was fixed. Margaret
ran away presently to tell her father, and
the old man came back into the room leaning
on his daughter's arm.

*' Well, Vyner," he said, ''so Margaret tells
me you have settled the wedding day. May
God bless you, and keep you both ! "

Thank you," answered Vyner. And he
shook the blind Major's hand ; and then
during' the rest of the evcnino^ tliev all sat

and talked very amicably aud pleasantly.

We are told low the well-born during the
first French Revolution chatted and made mirth
together, playing cards and smiling until the
fatal tumbrel called for them, which was to
convey them to the spot where their heads
were summarily severed from their bodies.
Were the jesters' lips pale, and did their hearts
beat with a dull, cold pang as they quitted that
polite circle ? How many of us, too, smile
when the death-bell rings at our door. Not our
heads to be taken off in this case, but perhaps a
summons to a slower death — our hearts to
be broken ! It is pride, self-respect, maybe
vanity, which bears us up. 'No one shall
triumph over us ; no one shall see the round.
It is the self-same spirit that made the highwayman
of old die " game ;" it was the spirit that
bore Vyner good service that night when he sat
by Margaret's side, and talked cheerfully of the
coming marriage, knowing all the while they
were ringing the death-knell of his earthly
happiness.

This was on the 9th of September, aud they
were to be married on the 18tli.

Good-night, Margaret ! " said Vyner, rising

at last to go away, and lie gravely kissed her
flushed and happy face.

'' Good-night, dearest ! " said Margaret softly,
and she put her hand through his arm and went
with him to the street door.

It will soon be here, now," she said, yet
more softly, thinking of her marriage.

"Yes," said Vyner. And then he shook
Margaret's hand and went away.

Great sadness was in his heart. He was
sorry for Margaret — an unloved bride coming
to an unwilling bridegroom ; and then Nora —
Nora —

All the night a dull, cold pain — a memory
of Nora — had haunted him. But now, when
lie was alone, almost a cry broke from his lips
as the vivid vision of the sweet woman he
loved, bowled in her great anguish, rose before
him. How could he tell her? The 18th — so
near — he must tell her. They had agreed to
be friends — life friends — but a few days ago,
and he at least would never break this newdy-
made compact. He would do his duty to
Margaret, try to be a good husband, but he
could not help loving Nora. He vrould tell her
tomorrow, he told himself ; and so, weary and

heart-sick, lie went back to this rooms, and then
up to his unlit studio. Groping his way among
the artistic disorder there, he came to the spot
where the picture of his " Eve " was hanging,
with only the lamp-light from the street below
and the starlight to show it in faint, pale outline.


And great sadness was in Yyner's heart.
He went up to the picture, he touched it, he
pressed his lips on the shadowy face.

"I would have spared her if I could," he
murmured in regretful tenderness. He was not
thinking of himself and his bitter disappointment
— not of the long years of loveless life
before him — he was thinking of the girl he had
wooed in the Warbrooke meadows, the girl
whose heart had been his, the woman whose
heart was his still.

Then he recalled her gentle words during
their last meeting.

"We must try to help each other, Walter,"
she had said.

God help us both ! " groaned the painter,
with his eyes fixed on the shadowy face of his
dear, lost love.

The next morning; broiio-jit him some relief.
The bitter task that he had set himself to fulfil,
of telling: Nora that his marriage dav was fixed
for the 18th, Alas personally spared him, the
early post bringing him a letter from Nora to
tell him that she had gone with her father to
stay for a week or so at her old home in War-brook
e. Nora wrote :— -

My dear father wished me to do so, and he has so few
pleasures that I could not refuse to gratify him. It will
seem so strange to be at Warbrooke again. I have never
been there since Mr. Trelawn's death, and my father now
lives ill the house in which my poor husband died. There
are some of your pictures hanging there, Walter, and I think
I shall bring them away with me when I return to town. I
shall be glad if you will write to me, and you must tell me
all the news about yourself. Do not forget that we are
friends — and I have very few real ones, and I cannot afford
to lose them.

Yours very sincerely,

Nora Trelawn.

This letter was a sort of relief then to Vyner.
He told himself it was cowardly of him, but it
would spare him (he also told himself) the pain
of seeing; Nora when she first learnt he was to
be married so soon.

And a fe days after he received her letter
he wrote to tell her this. He couched his news

in the gentlest language, but he wrote the words
with Id expressible pain.

This letter was delivered the next morning
^t the grand, dull house at Warbrooke, which
had been one of the possessions that John
Trelawn had left behind.

Nora had asked her father to live in it rent
free after her husband's sudden death. She had
never, as she had told Vyner in her letter,
visited it, since the kindly, generous man who
had loved her so well, had been carried away
from its stately portals.

It made her very sad — or, perhaps, rather
serious — to return there. She went up into
the bio' drawing-room, vrhere John Trelawn
(Croesus) had spoken his last 'words to her.
How well she remembered that day ! She was
sitting on that chair, thinking of the past,
when John came in to tell her he had invited
Martin and Prosser to dinner. He had laid his
hand on her shoulder, and laughed in his jovial
way, telling her the poor devils looked hungry,
.and he had taken compassion. It all seemed
like yesterday : John's words, his looks, his
loud laugh ; then he had gone away with his
heavy step, which she was to hear no more !

She had never appreciated him, Nora now
thought regretfully, and she went and stood
long and sadly before the dead man's portrait.
How good he had been to her, always good ;
showering his generous gifts upon her, and
always speaking to her in his kindly, joking
fashion.

And now, and now ! Nora turned away from
the contemplation of her late husband's homely,
heavy features, and went up to another picture
hano^ino' on her drawings-room walls. This was
one of Yyner's best ; one for which John Trelawn
had paid a heavy price, just in the dawn of
the painter's rising fame. It was vigorous i
the man's true and passionate soul thrilled
through it. How often had Nora gazed at it f
Gazed at it when she was the wife of John
Trelawn — perhaps it was a sin then, she thought
now — sin for which she was paying such a
heavy punishment.

Then she went up to the dressing-room, where
John had died — poor John ! — not even with his
hand in the wife's whom he had so truly and
tenderly loved ! It was all very sad, but a
sharper sorrow was in Nora's heart than the losses
this kindly husband.

Yet who knows ? Did a vague, undefined
hope still linger in Nora's breast that something
might happen yet, to set A^yner free ? When she
had asked him if his marriage was to be soon
at Eoseland, Yyner's resolution had failed him,
and he answered that he knew nothing;. These
words had lingered in Nora's ears. There
might be some change — Miss Blythe might see
he was not happy — engagements were often
broken. Such thoughts unconsciously flitted
through her mind during the first few days she
spent at Warbrooke. Then she went down to
the meadows, or rather what used to be the
meadow's in her girlish days, where she had
stood hand-in-hand with the handsome painter,
dreaming her bright young dream of love.

Alas ! the meadows had disappeared ! The
manager in the great ironworks where John
Trelawn's wealth had been chiefly made was
master now, and he had built a smart new villa
on the very spot where Nora and her lover had
strayed together in their brief Eden. The place
had vanished, changed. Where the wild roses had
town in the rustic hedge — the pink soft roses,
a withered one of which still lay withering
in Nora's desk — thin ribbon borders of gorgeous

lilies now presented themselves to the sun,

Nora turned away with a sigh. Everything
was changed, but her heart was the same. No,
not the same, never the same any more —
sadder, graver, but true still to the old, dear love.

Nora was not many days at Warbrooke
before her big drawing-room had many visitors.
Wealth, we all know, is the most powerful
talisman in the world. It opens the most
guarded gates. It influences nearly every
human heart. The knowledge that we cannot
carry it away with us, that we can only purchase
perishable goods, does not in the least-lessen
its value. We bow down before the
golden calf with the most servile worship.
The people in and about Warbrooke were only
as other people. Nora Trelawn, with her vast
fortune, was courted and run after, by those
who would not even have bowed to Nora
Sudely, who had not even visited her as John
Trelawn's wife.

But now as a rich widow — Croesus's Widow
for the London name had spread to the
country town — every possible attention has
showered upon her.

Her father, sad Henry Sudely, the man who-was

experienced in the fruits of reverses and.
poverty, could not help smiling bitterly vrlien
he saw carriage after carriage drive up to his
door, containing visitors for his rich daughter.
He remembered Ashen these very people had
turned their backs upon him ; he remembered
the cold and patronising bows of some — the
averted eyes of others. The eyes were friendly
now, the bows kindly and familiar. He vv'as
Nora's father, and Nora was a very rich woman ;
so people forgot that the disgrace of poverty
had once been his !

But in spite of all the attention they received,,
both the father and daughter were still sad.
jMr. Sudelv had suffered too much ever to for^'ct
it— for he had something' of his daughter's
tender and sensitive nature, and Nora was sad
when she thought of John Trelawn — sadder
still when she thought of her old, dear love.

So these two, sitting with every comfort
around them, had shadows falling; athwart
their luxuries which took all zest out of them.
The feast was spread before them, but they could
not make merry over it. In the dull, big house
the past clouded the prosperous present.

They were sitting thus together one morning.

vrlieii Walter Yyncr's letter, to announce that
Ills wedding day vas fixed, ^Yas placed in Nora's
Land. Nora read it through and made no
outward sign. Her father spoke to her, and
she answered him as usual, but something in
the tone of her voice made Henry Sudely —
who knew the signs of suffering well — look up
over the top of his newspaper at his daughter's
face. Nora was very pale, but apparently
quite calm.

Will you have some more tea, father ?" she
said, lifting her hand for his cup. Mr. Sudely
took some more tea, and the breakfast went on
exactly as if nothing had happened. Then,
when the meal was over, with a few kindly
words to her father and a smile — women can
smile who have been stabbed — Nora left the
room, and went up to her own bed-room,
locking the door behind her after she had
entered it.

Shall we pass by that locked door, and leave
her alone in her misery, as we left Vyner with.
Margaret's love-letter in his hand to fight out
a dard strue^orle with his rebellious heart ? But
it was not a dark struggle in this woman's
breast. No hard, cruel, or wicked words rose

on her lips. She entered the room ; she flung
herself down on her knees bv the bed, criishino-
Vyner's letter in her quivering hands.

"God bless him! God bless him'' she
murmured, and that was alL Then choking
came to her relief ; she wept, rise prayed
prayed that all good might come to him — all
happiness.

I have loved thee dearly, dearly," she said,
kissing the crushed letter ; "but it was not to be !""

Presently she again opened Yyner's letter —
again read the words it had cost him such pain
to write : —

Dear Nora, — I received your letter, and I need scarcely
tell you I think that the friendship you have so generously
given me is prized above everything else that I possess, I
have some news for you of myself. When you asked me at
Eoseland if my marriage with Miss Blythe was to be soon, I
said I did not know. But circumstances — very sad circumstances
— have occurred in her family, and on this account
Major Blythe and Margaret both wish the marriage to take
place at once. It is arranged for the 18th of this month.
Dear Xora, will you be kind to my wife ? She is a good
woman. It is not her fault — all the pain that has happened tous.
It is, as you know, the fault of a woman I can never
forgive — your aunt, Lady Stainbrooke. But I must not revive
such sad memories. God bless you, dear Xora I That
you may be happy, is my most earnest prayer.

Yours faithfully,

W. D. Yyner.

A few hours after receiving this letter, Nom
telegraphed to lier jeweller in tovv^i to send her
down by an express messenger some very handsome
diamonds, lockets, and ear-rings, for her
to clioosc a marriage present from. Nora's
great wealth, was well known, and the next day
a magnificent collection of jewels were lying
before lier. She selected the most valuable and
beautiful of them all, such diamonds that
"Walter Yyner wrote back to her, when she
forwarded them to him as a present for the
bride, that they were utterly unsuitable for a
person in Margaret's position of life. " They
ware fit for a princess, dear Nora, not for an
artist's wife," wrote Vyner, " and I ask you ta
give her some mueli more simple token of your
regard and kindness. I have said nothing to
Margaret about them, and if you will permit
me I will return them to the jeweller."

To this letter Nora answered in a few brief
Avoids —

i^otliin;,'', clear Walter, can bo too good for your wife.

Will you ask lier to accept my gift I

N. T.

And when Yyner drew out the diamonds
-again, to present them to Margaret, he bent his

leach over them, and for a moment something
glittered there as well as the shining stones.
For Yyner understood Nora's heart ; he knew
that her tears also had been shed over the
splendid gift she had sent for his future wife.

THE BEGINXlXCr OF THE HOME EPIC."

]margaret was perfectly delighted with her
diamonds. Most women love jewels — the
beautiful, glittering atoms, that shine like stars,
and adorn even the fairest throats. A lovely
woman looks lovelier with a necklace of gems,
and a plain woman can look grand, imposing,
almost handsome, in her circlets of wonderfully-heed
stones, whose beauty seems to grow rather
than to diminish, each time we look at them.

So at least thought Margaret Blythe. She
Alas never weary of opening the handsome
morocco cases, and gazing at their sparkling
contents.

It was so kind, so charming, of Mrs.
Trelawn to send them," she said to Yyner.
Then she went up to him, and put her hand
into his playfully.

So, Walter," she said, smiling, '' this lady
and yoii were once Loy-and-giii sweethearts
were you ? Well, she can't be what poor Nellie
used to call, in her childish way, ' soft ' upon
3'ou now, or she would not have sent this magnificent
present to your future wife. But it is
most kind and thoughtful of her, and shows
she appreciates the choice made by her old
friend."

Vyner made no answer. He stood looking
at Margaret and at the diamonds, perhaps a
little grimly. He knew what this gift had cost
Nora — not in pounds, shillings, and pence, but
]n tears, and silently-endured pain. But Margaret
would never understand he was thinking
and perhaps it was well.

I am so glad you know such nice people,,
dear Walter," continued Margaret. '' Of course,
Mrs. Trelawn will invite us to her house, and
we may meet people there that may be of great
advantage to you."

Really, Margaret ! " said Vyner, shrugging
his shoulders.

*' Well, dearest, do you not want patrons ? —
rich people to buy your pictures, and give you
large prices for them ? You see when you are

married your expanses will be greater than
hitherto."

With difficulty Yyner suppressed his impatience.
He made some commonplace remark ;
he turned away. What was the good of arguing
with Margaret ? She was sure to make some
answer that worried him ; and so, gloomy,
dissatisfied, and unhappy, Vyner awaited his
Averting day.

But Margaret's elation, after the arrival of
the diamonds, was almost boundless. She sent
for her old friend, Mrs. Saunders, to see them ;
she boasted of her Walter's intimacy with the
rich Mrs. Trelawn.

Poor Mrs. Saunders admired the diamonds
heartily, and then a tear stole into her kindly
eyes.

I am sure," she said, with a little whimper,
pulling out her handkerchief, '' I can't help
thinking of poor Nellie, when I look at them.
Miss Margaret. Ay, she would have had her
diamonds too, if she'd lived to marry my James."

Oh, dear ! Mrs. Saunders, do not say if she
had lived," said Margaret, with some real feeling,
'' I am sure, certain, my dear young sister
is yet alive."

Mrs. Saunders shook lier lie ad.

I don't wish to be a wet blanket, at the
thine of your wedding, ]\[iss Margaret' she
said, '•' but for all that I'm sure Nellie is lying
at the bottom of the river, if we could only see
down. I got quite a turn the other day, d'ye
know, when I was passing a shop near Victoria
Station — it was at some eels — all slimy, twisty
thing's, wrio'O'lino' about a dish, and I thought
of poor Nellie, and how maybe these horrid
heels might be wriggling about her at that very
minute, and it gave me quite a turn, indeed it
did ! "

Oh, ]sirs. Saunders ! hove dreadful — what a
dreadful idea ! "

Wasn't it ! I told James about it, and he
said it made him quite ill, poor fellow, and he
called for some brandy and soda at once. But
you may depend upon it, it's true — Nellie's
lying in the mud and slime at this minute, I'm
certain.

She had no motive'' said Margaret, uneasily.


No, my dear ; but we never can account
for our brains. My poor dear husband used to
say the cleverest people were often half mad,

and something must have upset Miss Nellie,
But we mustn't talk of it just now, when you
have got all your things, and so beautiful too.
I hope you haven't got a dinner-set — that's my
present — it's coming to-day — and my James
has bought you a silver tea-pot, though he said
he did it with very poor heart, for he could not
help thinking of Nellie."

Margaret kissed Mrs. Saunders, and expressed
her gratitude.

You're heartily welcome, my dear," said
this kind woman. '' I am truly glad you are
going to do so well, and I only hope you'll be
as happy as I was with my poor, dear man.
But there are few like him — men as a rule area
little bit contradictious ; but you must just
manage as best you can to put up with it."

I have no fear," said Margaret. " Mr
Vyner always agrees with me ; he has the-greatest
dependence on me in every way."

Well, I'm very glad, my dear," said Mrs.
Saunders ; and so she was. She was one of the
simplest and kindest of women, and, as we-have
seen, an absolutely adoring mother to her
beloved James.

She had promised to see Major Blythe everyday

when Margaret was array on her wedding
tour, and Margaret felt quite sure she would
keep this promise. So Margaret continued
busily to make her preparations, and tried all
she could to cheer her father during the last
few days she was to remain in her old home ;
but, in spite of her efforts, Major Blythe perceptibly
drooped. The dream that he had had
about Nellie haunted him, and he was always
thinking and talking of her. Far away in the
lonely Glen of Strathearn at this time, Nellie's
thoughts often stole home to her dear, blind
father. Could she have seen him — the old
man broken-hearted for her loss — would the
love for which she had sacrificed his love have
kept her from his side ? Who can say ? In
this world opposing sentiments so often meet,
that the scale is sometimes turned by the
smallest circumstance. As it was, Lord Sea-forth
deceived Nellie about her father's state.
He told her he was well, but Nellie knew all
the while he was not — could not be — happy.

But in spite of Nellie's mysterious disappearance
and her father's depression, Margaret was
happy. She was elated, triumphant. The
diamonds had set her up on a pinnacle, as it

were, near which none of her former companions-could
approach. Art students and governesses
came to congratulate and admire. In other
days Margaret had made friendships among
these ladies, and it was the crown of her
joy now to affectionately patronise her former
friends. Her own opinion of herself was so high
that she was not in the least surprised at her
good fortune, but some of these less lucky
young women wondered — all the while they
were admiring the wedding presents — what Mr.
Vyner could possibly see in Margaret Blythe
But we may be sure they did not express this.
Margaret had done well in the chequered role
of life, and was, therefore, entitled to the commendations
of those around her.

While Margaret was thinking of her diamonds
and her wedding, and Vyner was thinking of
the dark eyed woman at Warbrooke, the dark-eyed
woman at Warbrooke had come to a
sudden resolution.

"Papa," she said one evening, going up ta
Mr. Sudelv, and laving her hand on his shoulder,
and calling him " papa," as she used to do in
her old girlish days, '' I want you to take me
to Paris."

'' To Paris, my love ? " said Mr. Sudely,
looking up and feeling rather surprised.

Yes, just us two ; I don't want Aunt Stain-brooke
to go with us. I want to go quietly,
and just to stay as long as we like, and amuse
ourselves by seeing anything Tve fancy. Let us
keep it a secret, and go at once, papa."

**My dear," said Mr. Sudely, tenderly, "I will
do whatever you like. I don't know, Nora, I
may be wrong, but I fancy, dear, you have not
been looking yourself these last few days."

*^ I have had headaches," answered Nora. *' I
fancy the air here does not quite suit me ; and
so, dear father, let us start tomorrow."

Nora felt, in fact, that she could not stay
in the dull and silent house at Warbrooke
any longer. Its memories where too painful ;
her own heart too agitated and unhappy. She
could not wait here for the pale dawn of the
18th to break on her sleepless night. She could
endure it better amid the stir and din of a great
city — anywhere, anywhere but at Warbrooke.

So she and her father left Warbrooke. She did
not go to her own house at South Kensington as
they passed through London, but to an hotel.
Lady Stainbrooke and the General where again

VOL. II. E

located at South Kensington, and Nora did not
wish for Lady Stainbrooke's company in her
present mood. Her quiet, broken - spirited
father suited her better.

Lady Stainbrooke, however, was anything
but pleased when she heard her rich niece, had
ozone to Paris without her.

*' It is selfish of Nora," she screamed in her
General's deaf ear, " and I hate selfishness."

The old soldier chuckled, for he was too
rheumatic at the time to have borne the journey
to Paris.

'^ Selfishness is a very general fault, isn't
it, madam ? " he said, showing his yellow false
teeth, with what he supposed to be a smile.

Nora never can repay me," continued Lady
Stainbrooke. '' I made her. She was a pauper,
an absolute pauper till I took her up, and persuaded
poor John Trelawn to marry her. I
never could feel under the least obligation to
Nora, whatever I accepted from her — everything
she has came through me."

'^ Except her good looks," again smiled the
General.

She has no particular good looks that I can
see ! " snapped Lady Stainbrooke. ** I shall

write and tell her I think her conduct is selfish
in not inviting me to accompany them to Paris.
I require a little change when I am so much
with you."

The General either did not, or pretended he
did not, hear the last remark, and Lady Stain-brooke
was really too wise a woman to write
and tell her rich niece she was selfish. She
wrote and gave her a pretty broad hint that
she would like to join them in Paris, but Nora
took no notice of this hint except to show the
letter that contained it to her father, with a
smile.

The father and daughter were thus together
in Paris, alone. Nora was very kind to her
father ; she took him about, she tried to
amuse him, though all the while the sharp pain
in her own heart grew sharper, as each hour
that passed brought nearer and nearer Vjner's
wedding day.

Each day simply marked down in the almanac
of the passing year is yet an epoch in many
lives. " On that day my John was born," says
the fond mother. ^* Ah ! on the same sad day
poor Harry died," sighs the mourner. " It was
our wedding day," says the smiling wife.

So this 18 til of September, on wMcli the sun
rose and went down unmarked and unnoticed
by millions and millions of God's creatures, was
a day set apart and always to be remembered
by three at least of those whose acquaintances
we have made.

Nora — in her gaily-decorated Parisian bedroom
— awoke from a brief sleep into which she
had fallen after a very restless night, in its
earliest dawn. She awoke with a painful impending
sense of ill — then she remembered this
was Walter Vyner's wedding day, and now she
was parted from him for ever and ever. She
turned her head upon her pillows with a moan.
What was her wealth, what was everything to
her now ? she thought — better to have been
forced to get up and work for her daily bread
better anything than to lie thinking there 1

Vyner awoke grave, sad, and perhaps a little
impatient. He got up and dressed himself,
and went into his studio. Again he stood
before the picture of his " Eve," looking at it
long and tenderly. Then almost the same
words in which Nora had spoken of him rose on
this lips.

'' I have loved her most dearly ! " he said.

'but it was not to be." And be took the 23ictiire
from the wall, and baying carefully packed it,
locked it away in a closet in the room.

At this very moment Margaret Blytbe was
standing gazing at herself with great satisfaction
in ber looking-glass. Sbe was tastefully tbougb
not expensively dressed, for Margaret bad good
taste, and in ber ears and round ber neck
glittered the splendid diamond ornaments that
.Nora bad sent ber as a wedding present.

Her oblique-eyed maiden, Hatton, was in
attendance on ber, squinting even worse than
usual.

*you look beautiful, miss," said Hatton,
admiringly. '* But its the clothes that does
it."

■" And you'll be sure to be very attentive to
my dear father, Hatton ? " said Margaret the
next minute.

Ob, yes ! miss, I'll look after the old gentleman
all right," replied Hatton. " Not that I
think that bell ever get over Miss Nellie."

Hush ! do not speak of it," said Margaret
^' There is a cab driving up — it is Walter — Mr.
Vyner. Run, Hatton, and open the door."
Hatton did run and open the door, but it

was not the bridegroom, but kind Mrs. Saunders
come " to have a look at the bride," as she
expressed it. The bridegroom, however, arrived
in due time; and very shortly afterwards he and
Margaret were standing together before tho
altar of a neighbouring church, plighting their
troth " to each other, and exchanging vows
which one of them knew at least were binding
to his honour, but not his heart.

Till death do us two part." Ah I in life they
were already parted — between them stood the
vast difference of a generous and ungenerous-mind.


CONTINUATION OF "THE HOME EPIC."

Margaret lead always fixed to go to Paris for
hier wedding tour. She had never been there,
and she considered it the proper thing to do, to
go there, and Margaret always tried to do what
she considered proper.

Thus she had asked Yyner to go to Paris.
Yyner, who did not in the least care where they
went, made no objections. He had no knowledge
of the movements of Nora Trelawn at
this time, and perhaps naturally concluded she
was still at Warbrooke with her father. Had
he known that she was in Paris, Margaret
would not have succeeded in her ambition of
visiting that city after her wedding. As it was,
he had smiled good-naturedly and promised to
take Margaret if she wished to go. For he had
resolved to do his best to make Margaret

happy ; no man ever started on Lis married lisa
with more unselfish thoughts and resolves than
Vyner.

But before they started on their journey
Major Biythe had a few words to say to hi
new son-in-law. Upstairs, Margaret, excited
and happy, was changing her white dress for
her travelling one. Downstairs the blind Major
was counting over with trembling hands a small
sum of money which he had withdrawn from
the bank the day before, and which literally
was the savings of his whole life-time.

Vyner," he said, " I want to say something
to you." And so Vyner followed the Major
into the shabby little room which Margaret
designated as his " study."

*' I can't think of anything else, Vyner,*'
began the old soldier in trembling accents.
"Even to-day, Margaret's wedding-day (and
she's been a good daughter, and a help and
comfort to me always), but even to-day I can't
help thinking of Nellie. Something, I'm always
afraid, is happening to the child. I wake in
the night shivering — always thinking of ber.
Now, Vyner, I want you to do something forme.
You are going to Paris, and the police

there are wonderfully sharp fellows, and who
knows ? she may be there ! I want you to make
enquiries — here is the money, Vyner — can't lay
it out better than in seeking my child."

Vyner gently put back the Major's hand.

I will make enquiries," he said kindly. *' I
will do everything I can — but I don't want any
money. Major. No, I won't take it." (The
Major was pressing his notes into Yyner's
hand.) *'Do you think I won't do everything
I can ? Poor little Nellie — poor girl ! No,
Major, I do not fancy she is in Paris, but still
one never can tell, and, as you say, the police
ware sharp fellows there, and I will make every
enquiry."

The Alajor wrung Vyner's hand.

'* From the time she was born," he said in a
broken voice, " she — she was my darling and
my pride. Perhaps I loved her too much —
but she seemed to love me too." And a sob
interrupted the Major's words.

''I am sure she did," said Vyner feelingly,
^'It will all come right yet. Do you know
what my theory is. Major, about her disappearance
? I fancy she has married someone
who wishes the marriage to be kept a

secret ; but some day I hope Nellie will return."

The Major shook his head despondingly.

I don't know," he said. " I did think once
about Lord Seaport ; but, as you know, Margaret
went to his mother's, and the young man
had never been from home. No ; I fear something
dreadful has happened to Nellie ; if not
she would never let her father suffer as I do —
she must know she is breaking my heart. " And
once more a sob choked the poor Major's utterance.


Vyner was affected. He spoke hopefully and
sympathisingly to the old man, again promising
to make every exertion to discover Nellie while
he and Margaret were in Paris. And he kept
this promise — a promise which, as we know, was
utterly useless as regards the purpose for which
it was given.

Vyner, however, had the satisfaction of
thinking that he did all he could. Margaret
even shook her head, in her gentle, deprecating
way, and told him he was spending far too much
money on what she feared was a very hopeless
search.

"It is to please your father, Margaret,"
answered Vyner, rather sharply. But he did

not add that he thought that she had been
spending too much money among the tempting
shops of Paris on useless finery.

The prudent and economical Margaret had,
in fact, been a little led away by the excitement
of her new position. To have plenty of money
in her purse, to be the wife of a distinguished
man, was certainly a great change to a girl, or
rather a woman, who had been forced to consider
how she could make the best use of every
sixpence before she spent it. So Margaret had
bought various things that she could have
actually done without, since she had been in
Paris. But her unusual extravagance and her
visit there came to a very sudden end.

One day while walking down the Boulevard
des Italiens with her husband, Margaret took a
fancy to a beautifully and artistically arranged
bouquet in the window of a florist.

I wonder if I could afford to be so extravagant
as to buy it, Walter ? " said the bride,
looking smilingly up in the bridegroom's face.

Vyner smiled in return.

''I will buy it for you, if you like," he said. And
Margaret, looking bright, happy, and handsome,
entered the shop, followed by her husband.

At the other end of the shop a lady in black
was standing; bending over some lilies in a vase,,
and giving some orders to the showman.
She did not turn round as Margaret and Vyner
entered, but an old, grey-haired, bent man, who
was with her, did. Yyner glanced carelessly
at these occupants of the shops as he went in
but, as the old man turned round, Vyner half
started and grew a little pale.

The old man, too, recognising Vyner, touched
the arm of the lady in black, and whispered a
few words in her ear. Then, with a sudden
start, almost a gasp, she turned round. It was
Nora Trelawn ; and this unexpected meeting
with Vyner and his newly-made wife for a
moment or two almost completely overcame her.

She turned pale, her brow grew clammy, her
lips white. Vyner also was greatly agitated.
But with a strong effort he recovered himself
and after a moment's hesitation he advanced to
the end of the shop where Nora and her father
were standing.

How are you, Mr. Sudely ? " he said,
holding out his hand.

Nora by this time was almost fainting.
Vyner saw she could no longer stand, and

silently placing a seat for her, said a few
common-place words.

The scent of these lilies — " gasped Nora,
now whiter than the flowers.

They are very overpowering," said YjTier.
He then turned away, and began talking quietly
to Mr. Sudely, and Nora had thus time to
recover herself.

At the other end of the shop Margaret was
holding an animated conversation about the
price of the bouquet she had coveted. She now
looked round, and saw Vyner speaking to a
gentleman she did not know.

Walter," she called, " come here and tell
me what you think."

Vyner again crossed the shop, and after a
few words, paid for the bouquet, saying to
Margaret, as indifferently as he could —

'' Who do you think I was talking to ? "

I don't in the least know, Walter," answered
Margaret

But by this time Nora was recovering from
the sudden shock of seeing Vyner and his bride
her pride, her womanhood, came to her aid.
She rose from her seat, and crossing the shop,
went up to Vyner and his wife.

You must introduce me to Mrs. Vyner,"
she said, addressing Vyner in rather faltering
accents.

'' Margaret," said Vyner, with grave courtesy
of manner, " this lady is Mrs. Trelawn — my old
friend, of whom you have heard me speak."

'' Oh yes," said Margaret, and she held out
her hand to Nora. " I am so pleased to meet
you, Mrs. Trelawn . My husband — Walter, often
speaks of you, and I really do not know how
to thank you for the lovely present you sent
me. But you would get my letter ? "

"Yes," said Nora. She was looking at
Margaret — at the woman who had won the one
thing she had coveted on earth — and as she
looked she sighed softly.

Shall the truth be told ? Nora was astonished
to find Margaret such a handsome woman — for
at this moment she really looked handsome —
and this knowledge gave no pleasure to poor
Nora's heart. Vyner had never told her the
girl he was engaged to was handsome. Could
it be ? thought Nora. Could Walter have
deceived her ? Perhaps he loved this Margaret
.after all.

Nora was a good woman. She had prayed

for Vyner's happiness — she truly wished him to
be happy — but, but — poor human nature, weak
and vain — would she rather that he were happy
with a plain woman than a handsome one ?
Nora would have scorned such an insinuation ;
she would have despised herself for such a
thought. Yet there it was ! She sighed softly
when she looked on Margaret's smiling, handsome,
happy face, and did not respond very
warmly to the bride's advances.

I am so pleased that ^YQ have met," said
Margaret. " Did you know, dear, that Mrs.
Trelawn was in Paris ? " and Margaret turned
to her husband.

*•' Dear " had not had that knowledge, or we
may be sure Margaret would not so soon have
had the pleasure of making the acquaintance
of her husband's old friend. But Yyner did
not say this. He talked a little more rapidly
than usual as he stood between the two ladies ;
he bought some more flowers — at which his
Margaret looked a little uneasy — and altogether
he did not behave exactly as a man does who
feels at ease.

It was, in fact, a most uncomfortable meeting.
Margaret asked in her calm way where

Mrs. Trelawn was staying, and proposed to call
upon her, and pressed Mrs. Trelawn also to
visit them. Mrs. Trelawn smiled, and said that
she would be glad to do so ; but even Margaret
perceived that neither her smile nor her manner
was very cordial. But she little guessed what
even that cold smile cost Nora !

Then Nora, after standing a little while,
looked round at her father.

'' I think that we must go now," she said,
and she offered her cold trembling hand first
to Margaret and then to Yyner. Margaret
was just going to offer to accompany them part
of the way down the Boulevard, when with a
slight movement Vyner stopped her.

''I am so disappointed, Walter ! " said Margaret,
the moment after Nora and her father
had left the florist's.

'rand why are you disappointed, Margaret ? "
risked Vyner, who was not thinking of his wife,
nor of her remark.

I expected Mrs. Trelawn would be pretty,"
answered Margaret ; " but she is not in the least
pretty, and she looks rather worn, does she not?"

'' I think her very pretty," said Vyner.

*' Do you really? Well, there is no accounting

for taste ; but perhaps when I see more of her
I shall begin to admire her. We must call upon
her tomorrow, Walter."

But Walter had no idea of calling on Mrs.
Trelawn tomorrow. However, he did not at
the moment express this ; but when the morrow
came, to Margaret's inexpressible annoyance,
and even anger, Walter not only proposed but
insisted upon returning to London the same
day.

I have had some letters — I must go, Margaret,"
he said.

My dear Walter, you must really not," said
Margaret, effusively. "I am enjoying myself
so much, I want to do so many things, and I
want to get friends with your old friend, Mrs.
Trelawn." And Margaret looked rather sharply
ant her husband.

'' You will have plenty of time to make friends
with Mrs. Trelawn in London. I am obliged
to go, Margaret — business calls me away."

Margaret's brow clouded.

What business ? " she said. " Surely as
your wife, Walter, I have a right to know your
concerns."

*rit is something you would not understand

an old arrangement about a picture. I am
really obliged to go, Margaret," answered Yyner.

But, dear, what will Mrs. Trelawn think of
US running away the very day after we met her,
if you are such old friends ? "

*' You can write her a note and tell her the
reason."

*' Is this the true reason, Walter ? "

Yyner frowned.

'' My dear Margaret," he said, after a
moment's thought, "I wish, as you know, to
consider your happiness in every way ; but if
our married life is to be as smooth as I hope
it will be, you must not oppose a thing when I
tell you it is really necessary."

Margaret cast down her eyes, and at once
assumed the role of martyrdom.

I will say nothing more, Walter," she said.

But though she said nothing more, she mutely
opposed his washes the whole day afterwards.
An hour later he event up to her bedroom,
expecting to find her ready to start (having
settled the hotel bill, and everything downstairs),
and found to his surprise and anger
Margaret lying on the bed in her dressing-gown,
and with her hair* unbound.

Margaret ! " he said, " why are you not
ready ? ""

^^ " My head is aching so dreadfully, Walter ;
I cannot raise it from the pillow," answered
Margaret, with an air of meek suffering. *' I
am very sorry not to be able to obey your
orders."

What nonsense, Margaret ! " said Vyner
impatiently. " What orders did I give you ?
I merely told you it was necessary I should be
in London tomorrow — and so it is."

"I am not accustomed to be spoken to thus,
Walter," said Margaret, still in the meekest of
accents. " I shall get used to it, I suppose, if
it is my duty, as I always try to do my duty ;
but my dear father made an idol of me at
home — my words were law there, my slightest
wish attended to — and the shock, the first
shock, of finding it is to be apparently so
different now, has brought on a severe nervous
headache, and I cannot lift my head."

*' I am very sorry," said Vyner, sharply ;
all the same I am going to start — I must, I
will leave Paris ! "

He was determined not to stay. He
had seen and marked the sudden expression.

almost of anguish, wliicli had passed over
Nora's face when she first recognised him at
the florist's, and he was determined not to o-ive
her this pain so soon again. He knew quite
well, too, that Margaret was feigning her headache.
She had got no headache. Her skin
was as clear and her eyes as bright as usual,,
but she intended to make Yyner obey her as-she
made them all obey her in her old home,
and Yyner was not the man to do this.

He was a man, in fact, a woman could lead
with a silken thread, but not with a cart rope.
Margaret was trying the cart rope — for her
discernment of character was not fine enough
to see the difference — and Yyner declined to
be thus roughly pulled the way whither she
would have him to go.

If you are not able to start, Margaret," he
said a moment later, quite calmly, but with a
firm, somewhat hard look about his mouth, '* I
am very sorry, but I shall be compelled to leave
you, and perhaps tomorrow you will be well
enough to follow."

Margaret at once rose from the bed.

'' In that case," she said, " you leave me no
option — I will go." And she did go, but a

tliroDg of martyrs amalgamated in odc was
nothing to Margaret on the journey that
followed. Poor Vyner ! Before it was over
he began seriously to consider whether it was
worth while to contradict Margaret if he were
to suffer for it as he was doing then. "Whether
it was from vexation, or that the sea was rough
as they crossed the Channel, Margaret became
really seriously ill, and as she lay pale and
uncomplaining, Vyner began to think that
perhaps he had acted like a brute in forcing her
to undertake the journey when she had not
been well enough to do so.

He said something to Margaret about being
sorry, but Margaret only sighed. He tried to
be very kind to her, and still Margaret only
sighed. If she had said the bitterest things
r^yner's temper could have borne it better.
• At last, when they reached London, Vyner
proposed that they should go to an hotel for a
day or two, until their own house was made
ready to receive them. But Margaret gently
objected to this.

"I would rather go to our own house,"
she said. *rit will be very uncomfortable,
must be very uncomfortable, but still I would

rather be there. Perhaps you had better
go to an hotel — I do not care about myself
in the least — and I will try and arrange
things as well as I am able. If I had only
had a few days' notice, for the servants I have
engaged are excellent ones, everything would
have been right — '* and assail Margaret sighed.

'^ Well, we must try to make the best of it,"
said Yyner. " Come, Margaret, we must not
go squabbling into our new home for the first
time."

Squabbling ! " said Margaret. " Oh, Walter I"
and she turned away her head as if Walter had
injured her feelings almost beyond endurance.

Her prophecy about finding the new house
uncomfortable was fully verified. One of the
servants whom Margaret had engaged before
her marriage had been left in charge of the
house, and this young woman, not expecting her
master and mistress home so soon, was giving a
little entertainment when they unexpectedly
arrived.

As Margaret and Vyner drove up to the
house in a cab, they were greatly surprised to
see the drawing-room windows lighted from
within ; and the sound of a piano, touched with

unclexterous fingers, the next moment smote
on Margaret's petrified ears.

She forgot her illness, she forgot her role of
martyrdom, in an instant. She jumped out of
the cab unassisted by Vyner. She ran up the
steps to the door. It was fastened, but the
area gate was open, and down the area steps
Margaret went with the fleetness of the roe. The
moment she entered the house she saw what
had happened, and the next half-hover was
spent in alternate indignant reproaches from
the new mistress, and abuse and tears from the
new maid. It ended in Margaret peremptorily
turning the young woman and her friends out
of the house, and in Margaret being left for the
night without a servant, and having hastily to
send for temporary assistance.
malthus Vyner and Margaret's home-coming
was an uncomfortable one. The house was
chill, Margaret was irritated, and Vyner by no
means in a pleasant mood. But by-and-by,
when the gas was lighted and the fire burnt
up, things began to look a little brighter.
Margaret, however, did not flail to point a
moral.

*' If you will give me a little longer notice

OKtESUss ^vllH>^v.

(A^ owv niovoiuouts aiunlior ilium, dear AValtor/'
sho saul, '• I trust siu'li a Dreadful scone will
novo oi'ouv a^j^ain."

'• \'orv will," laiiu'iuHl A\nor ; " in fitting
your cook shall liavo tiino to got lion poliooiuaii
out bol'oro wo oouio."

rut though ho laughed, \w felt tho sting of
margaret's moral all tho santo.

THE STUDIO.

It lead been arranged before Vyner and Margaret
were married that one of the rooms in her
new house was to be set aside for Vyner's
studio. For this reason, Vyner lull given his
consent for Margaret to take a larger and more
expensive house than he otherwise woukl have
done. It was a new house, and was situated ina
pleasant terrace looking on Regent's Parle.
loth Vyner and Margaret liked this neighbourhood
best : Margaret on account of living near
her father, Vyner because a little colony of his
fellow-artists lived there.

Vyner removed his pictures to his new studio
the day after their arrival home. He wanted
to be at his work again. He had told himself
(when honour had forced him to keep his
slighted word to Margaret) that in future he

would live for work ; that he would wrap himself
up in the ideal, and put the real life by this
means further away. So he made haste to get
all his surroundings settled. Margaret assisted
him, and gave her advice about everything.
This Vyner took very good-naturedly.

There was one deal picture-case, however,
which he objected for her to open.

'' Why, dearest Walter ? " asked Margaret.

I don't want it meddled with, that's all'
said Yyner ; and Margaret noticed how Vyner
carried this case himself, and placed it carefully
.against the studio walls.

Then, when everything was ready in the
room, Vyner gave Margaret a hint.

Now, I am going to work," he said, rising
from the breakfast table on the third morning
after their return, '' and whoever comes, Maro'aret,
mind, I can't see them."

Very well," said Margaret, laying her hand
on his arm and smiling, "no one shall enter the
sacred room but your wife."

*rand my wife must please to remember'
said Vyner, smiling also, "that even she might
.send my ideas flying out of the window." And
with a good-natured nod Vyner left the room.

He sighed, however, as he entered the studio,
and closed the door behind him. He loved
his work, but he felt dull and dispirited. He
commenced to paint, but somehow it seemed to
him that his rio;ht hand had 'lost its cunning
he persevered. He was getting on better,
when the room door opened, and in came
]margaret.

"My dear Walter," she said, " do you know
where the hammer is ? "
Ty No," answered Vyner, rather impatiently,
without looking round.

'•'And how is he getting on?" continued
Margaret, going up to her husband, and affectionately
patting his shoulders.

He " tried to look pleasant, but it was a
failure.

"I think you are making an error here,"
proceeded Margaret, standing a little back from
Vyner's picture, and beginning to criticise his
work.

Come, dear Margaret," said Yyner, " I want
to get on."

But Margaret did not take these words in
the sense he intended.

"I am making some short muslin window

blinds for the bedrooms' she said, " and I
will bring my work here in a minute or two
and sit beside you, and perhaps I shall be able
to help you a little with the drapery. I have
a splendid eye, they say, for colours."

'* I think I work best alone," Vyner ventured
to suggest.

''Oh, but I must get him out of all these old
bachelor ways ! " said Margaret playfully. " I
mean to watch whatever you do, Walter. I
have such good taste that you may depend
upon my opinion."

Margaret then went away to fetch her
window blinds, and Vyner, with a ruffled
feeling that he could not subdue, tried to goon
with his work. And this little scene in the
painting-room was only the first of many such
little scenes. In fact, Margaret was never out
of the studio. She came in to ask Vyner for
money ; to tell him of the smallest things that
happened in the house — the misdeeds of her
servants being a favourite theme — and she
worried him, until one day Vyner threw his
brush in a rage against the wall, and swore to
himself that it was utterly impossible to bear
it any longer.

No one but those accustomed to mental work
scan understand how intensely irritating it is to
he constantly interrupted. Our ideal people are
about us — we are living with them, sharing
some great crisis of these shadow-lives — and,
behold ! a head is thrust inside the door —

The boy has called for the milk bill, dear ;
can I have money ? " There is the money, buta
shadow-Hfe perhaps is slain, a golden moment
vanished never to return !

Yyner — sensitive and imaginative, like all
true artists — was nearly driven mad in a week
by Margaret's perpetual interruptions. He
tried to bear it, and did bear it for a fortnight ;
and then he made up his mind, and nothing
that Margaret could say would induce him to
-alter his determination.

^•^ *' It doesn't do, Margaret's he said one day
to her, " my having my workshop here. I get
interrupted. So I have re-taken the old place,
and tomorrow I am going to remove my traps
back again."

Margaret absolutely changed colour.

** You have re-taken your old rooms ? " she
repeated, in utter astonishment.

Yes ; the light suits me better there and

altogether it will be better. So you'll get

another spare room."

But Margaret was too deeply offended to

think of the spare room.

*' I could not have believed this ! " she said.

We have only been at home a fortnight. I

have been worried and anxious — how worried

and anxious about my dear father and the

servants I have never told you — and, without

consulting me, without saying a word, you have

re-taken expensive rooms ! "

'^ My dear Margaret, do not be absurd.
Don't 1 tell you the light is better there, and
that is everything to me ; and, besides, in a
house one is always getting disturbed."

' By your wife ? " said Margaret.

By any one. It makes no matter who it
is, but it is impossible to do good work when
sou are constantly interrupted."

*' You should have told me, Walter," said
Margaret, " that my presence was so disagreeable
to you. If you had done so, you might
have spared yourself the expense of taking
these rooms. I — I am sorry." And Margaret
burst into tears.

Vyner tried to be kind to her, but in vain. He

liaci wounded lier self-love, and Margaret could
not get over this. She wept genuine tears.
She even hinted to her father that she was
disappointed in Yyner ; and as it was also
hurtful to her self-love that Yyner should
oppose her wishes in any way, it showed how
deeply she felt injured.

But Major Blytlie gave her no encouragement.


You've got a good husband, Margaret," he
said, " and you must not expect a man to have
no will of his own. If he works better at his
old rooms, or fancies he works better, he is
quite right to return to them. Try to make
his home so bright when he leaves his work
that he will always be glad to come back to
you."

I do try, father," said Margaret, with
dignity. " Did I not always do my duty ? Is
it likely I shall fail in it now ? But I could
have helped Walter — I knew I could have
helped him ; but his temper is so excitable,
and he exercises so little control over it."

I think he's a fine fellow," said the Major,
*' and you've been a lucky girl. Ah, my dear
Margaret, do not make miseries of trifles like

these, when — " And the Major gave a heavy

Ee was alluding, of course, to the great and
crushing misery which now always hung like a
black cloud over his heart. For, as time went
on and on, he naturally grew less and less
hopeful that he would ever hear Nellie's glad,
fresh voice afraid.

Yyner, of course, had no good news to tell
him on his return from Paris. The old man
heard this, and his bowed head sank <a little
lower on his breast. Yyner felt truly grieved.
Major Blythe was altering fast ; his grey hair
had turned almost white ; and he looked so
thin and careworn sitting; there with his bent
head, that Yyner's kind heart grew full of
sympathy.

I wish you would come to us, Major
Blythe," he said. 'you know how pleased
Margaret will be, and she would be company
for you, and you also would be company for
her, as I am obliged so constantly to be at my
work."

The Major shook his head.

*' No, Yyner," he said ; " you are very good
more than good ; but the child might come

who knows ? — may come ; aucl dien she sees
her old home open, she will know she has been
watched and waited for. But suppose she
came and saw the old home shut up ? Perhaps
she might think we had forgotten her. No ; as
long as I live, I will keep the house open for
Nellie."

*but it's so dull for you being here by
yourself'' said Vyner kindly.

*• I've the old dog for company," said the
Major, bending down and stroking the lame
collie's Jiead, for Wallace, as usual, w-as sitting
at his master's feet. " He understands, d'you
know, Vyner, that we have lost her. He's
always listening for the footsteps in the streets
just as I am."

'' Well, we must still hope," said Vyner, rising
to take his leave. But the dismal picture of
the old man in his lonely misery haunted him.
Even the dog seemed to have lost his spirits.
The dumb beast understood that all brightness
had passed away from his master's heart, and
so he hung his head too, and grew thin and
melancholy from sympathy.

VOL. II.

THE Picture AND THE LADY.

Margaret did not give up the point about the
studio without a great struggle. But Vyner
had made up his mind, and was quite firm.
Neither tears nor smiles prevailed, and at last
Yyner used an argument which had some effect
on Margaret.

'' You know, Margaret," he said, " that my
income depends upon my success as a painter.
Do you wish my income to become less ? "
*' No, certainly not, dear Walter; but still — "
'*My dear girl, a man must work in his own
way, or he can't work. Painting and writing
hire not done by machinery, and ideas do not
run on wheels at our bidding. To get the most
out of our brains we must consider them ; and
mine, I suppose, like solitude, for they won't
-do anything in company."

You have strange ideas, Walter."

Perhaps — one of them, you see, is to allow
no one in my workshop." And to this idea
Vyner remained firm.

He made haste, indeed, to remove all his
own peculiar possessions back to his old studio.
Margaret stood looking on pensively ; Vyner
had shaken her faith somewhat during the last
few days in her own powers of persuasion, and
she did not understand it. Could there be any
reason for his obstinacy that she did not know ?
This thought occurred and re-occurred to her
mind as she watched Vyner's belongings one
after the other being taken away.

While thinking this her eyes happened to
fall on the deal picture-case which Vyner had
objected for her to open when it was brought
to the new house, and which was still standing
against the wall of the now nearly dismantled
room.

Do you mean to take this case away,
Walter ? " she asked, touching; it with her
hand.

Vyner looked quickly round, and Margaret
noticed that he slightly coloured.

Yes, certainly," he said. " Don't touch it.

]margaret. It must go with the Last lot of
things. I will so now and see that everything:
is put right, and then I'll come back and take
this case and whatever else is left. Good-bye
for the present ; I'll get settled before night, I
expect, and begin work in the morning."

Vyner nodded to his wife and ran down the
stairs after he said this, as a cab was waiting
for him at the house door, and Margaret was
left alone in the deserted studio. She stood
looking; for a moment or two at the deal case
Yyner had told her not to meddle with, and
then she went up to it and examined it. It
was an ordinary picture-case, but Margaret felt
anxious to know why Vyner had requested her
not to touch it. She stood looking at it — could
there be any secret about it ? She might see,
at all events, she decided, as Vyner would nob
be back for an hour or so.

Presently she went and got a light hammer
and a file, and began opening the case. It
Alas half opened, when, to her annoyance and
dismay, Vyner unexpectedly walked into the
room. He saw what she was doing in an
instant, and his face grew very pale, while
Margaret's grew very red.

"Oh, "Walter, l3cack so soon ? " said Margaret,
-trying to seem at case. " I wanted to see
what you had in here. I was just going to
take a peep and close it up again."

"So I perceive," said Yyner, very grimly ;
and he went up and took the picture out of
Margaret's hands. " I asked you not to touch
this, did I not ? " he continued.

Really, Walter, if you speak of it in that
way I shall think there is some dreadful secret
-connected with it," answered Margaret.

"There is no secret," said Yyner, yet more
grimly. "It is merely a picture of my own —
a picture you once saw in my studio, when
you objected to a dark Eve."

"It is taken from Mrs. Trelawn's face ! "
exclaimed Margaret, hastily. "I remember
now — I saw her once in a carriage before our
marriage, and I recognised her face in the
picture you called ' Eve.' Did she sit to you for
it, Walter ? "

No ; I took it from memory, as I remember
her lone' ao'o."

She is very much changed now, that is all
I can say. I thought when I saw her in Paris
I must be mistaken about this picture being

lier portrait, and 1 forgot to ask you about it."^
Yyner knew when Margaret said this, she
Alas not speaking the truth. He felt unreasonably
angry, too — he admitted this to himself
at Margaret having attempted to open
the case. After all it was no great sin, but
Vyner was so angry he did not dare to trust
himself to speak. He had returned home for
something he had forgotten, and to find Margaret
doing what she would not have done had
she expected him back so soon, disgusted him
more than anyone cf a different disposition
could imagine.

He bit his lips, and without another word
carried the picture-case containing *' Eve "
away with him. He did not return again to
the house until dinner-time, and when he did
the frown was still on his brow, and the
miserable feeling in his heart that he was
bound for life to a woman with whom he had
not one sympathetic thought.

Margaret, in his absence, had been feeling a
little uneasy. So Walter had taken this picture
from memory — the memory of his early love !
Margaret had immense self appreciation, but
still she felt slightly disturbed. Walter's

manner had been absolutely rude to her, she
thought, and for what ? She did not understand
^Yhat had chiefly irritated Yyner. Had
she said, '' I would like to see what is in the
picture case," he would have shown it to her.
But that private " peep " jarred on Vyner, and
he felt he was drifting farther and farther away
from Margaret.

As he sat opposite to her at dinner, he could
not help thinking of all he had lost. He had
married Margaret from a feeling of honour —
from a sense of right. He had told himself,
that because Mr. Trelawn had suddenly died, he
lead no excuse for breaking: ofl* an eno^ao^ement
which he would undoubtedly have fulfilled had
Mr. Trelawn lived. And he had intended to
^ct rightly to Margaret — to try to love her.
But sitting opposite to her there, he knew he
never could love her. He had pitied her before
their marriage, but he did not pity her now.
Her self - assertive nature irritated him so
intensely that he was conscious he was unjust
hind unreasonable.

Margaret, on her part, felt offended. She
thought Vyner had been rude to her, and that
he ought to apologise. So she was pensive and

inclined to be disagreeable because lie did not.
Margaret being injured and Yyner aggrieved,,
a tete-tete dinner was any tiling but agreeable.

Yyner felt relieved when Margaret rose and
said lie was going round to see her father.
He knew he ought to offer to see her safely
there, and he did offer. Together they arrived
at Major Blythe's door, to all outward seeming
a happy newly-married man and wife.

And so in the days and weeks that followed,
these near, yet divided lives, continued to all
outward seeming to run smoothly on. But we,
who can look behind the veil worn so decorously
by many hearts, will know how far apart they
really were, when the subject of the half opened
picture-case was never once mentioned between
them. This subject, this little quarrel, might
have drawn two, really dear to each other, even
closer. The woman would have said she was
sorry — perhaps shed a few not very bitter tears
only to be kissed away. But Margaret never
said she was sorry, and Vyner did not forgive
her. He sat in his old studio, and tried not to
think of her. He tried to live in his ideal world
to transmit to his canvas the bright creatures
light that flitted through his brain — the

noiseless shadows that came and went unseen
to all but the painter s soul.

They had been married two months, when
one day, on Yyner's return home, he found
margaret looking a little excited.

Who do you think has been calling here
to-day ? " she said. *' Your old friend, Mrs.
Trelawn."

This was the first time that Nora's name had
been mentioned between them since the affair
of the picture-case, and Vyner was conscious
that he coloured — that he did not show the
indifference that he usually did to Margaret's
news.

For he was weary, very weary, now of
the long; evening's at home. Maro'aret talked
incessantly of her servants, incessantly of small
things, and always in a small way. No generous
thoughts, no generous faults, ever made that
home more congenial to Vyner. Margaret went
with him sometimes to visit at the houses of his
fellow-artists, and looked very well, and wore
Nora's diamonds, and was quite satisfied with
her success in society, but she was always
wearisome to Vyner.
She was a most correct and proper woman —

not above receiving a little quiet admiration
when she had a chance of getting it — but, alas
alae!, for the erring, for the weak, if Margaret
had only been their judge ! If a speck, however
slight, had fallen on a woman's name, Margaret
brought up that speck, pointing it out, holding
up her virtuous hands at it, and casting up her
virtuous eyes. She was a Christian, of course,,
a most correct Christian — going to the most
fashionable church in the neighbourhood ; doing
everything she thought she ought to do — but
she did not walk in the divine footprints.

Had she, however, been told this she would
have thought her informant was mad. She could
not even understand the gentle echo which
these divine footprints must awake in every
believing, humble heart. He who but bid the
sinner sin no more has left a lesson which to
many of us is hard to learn. But, few judge
their fellows as severely as Margaret Vyner.
Perhaps self-knowledge helps some of us to see
with more compassionate eyes. Her mind was
not large enough to comprehend how small she
was.

*^ Mrs. Trelawn looks even worse than when
we saw her in Paris'' continued Margaret,

speaking of her visitor, and noting, perhaps,
that her husband had looked eagerly up at
Nora's name. *' She tells me she has had quite
a serious illness there ; she really is not in the
least good-looking now."

Her expression would always make her
beautiful," said Vyner.

'really, Walter! I think I ought to l>e
jealous," said Margaret, with a little laugh.

'' You need not be. And so she has been
ill ? " And Yyner suppressed a sigh.

*' Yes, ' very ill,' she said. But she made
herself very agreeable — I think she asked after
sou — but I forget."

*' Perhaps she forgot," said Vyner, grimly;
and during the rest of the evening, as he sat
opposite Margaret, he was thinking perpetually
of Nora.

At last he o-rew so restless that he started
suddenly to his feet.

I am going out, Margaret," he said.
-''Wilton and Hay asked me to go to their
rooms to-night — they talked of going to the
new islay at the Gaiety, so it may be late before
I am back."

''I am sorry I did not hear of this arrangement

before, "Walter, for if I had done so, I
would have fixed to spend the evening with'
my father — he never tires of my company."

Spend the evening with him, by all means,,
then, Margaret. Shall I send for a cab ?"

But Margaret declined this offer. She liked,
no one to interfere with her arrangements
though she loved arranging for other people.

*•' I will amuse myself with my work, or I
will read," said Margaret, pensively. ^' I can
always amuse myself at home, and do not
require excitement."

I do, then," answered Yyner. "Good night,
Margaret. " And a minute or two later Margaret
heard him leave the house.

He felt strangely disturbed. He thought
when he went out he would go to the rooms of
his artist friends, Wilton and Hay ; but as he
kept walking on, the idea of this society grew
unendurable to him. An irresistible desire had
in fact seized him, once more to see Nora. She
had been ill; they were old friends ; what harm
was there in it ? Thus he argued to himself,
and the end of his mental cogitation was that
he called a cab, and drove to Nora's well-remembered
house in South Kensington.

He was told she was at lionel in answer to
his inquiries, and following the servant that
ad admitted him up the staircase, he was
ushered into a small drawing-room. The thick,
soft carpets prevented either his footsteps or
the footman's being heard, until his name was
announced.

The servant, indeed, opened the door, and
looked into the room, uncertain whether Mrs.
Trelawn was there or not. But as he did this,
Yyner saw Mrs. Trelawn. She vv\as sitting: bv
a table in a shaded corner of the room, with a
book lying open before her, but she was not
reaching. She had laid her head wearily down
on her hands before her, and never heard the
door open. In another moment, however, the
footman saw her and announced Yyner 's name,
and then Nora hastily lifted her head, and rose
from her seat to receive her old friend.

She coloured as she came forward, and then
grew pale.

I heard," said Yyner, who also was greatly
embarrassed, "that you had been ill, and so
you see I have taken the liberty of calling to
inquire after you."

"I am pleased to see you," said Nora; "always

pleased. Will you sit near the fire ? it is chill
to-night."

So Vyner sat down by the fire and talked to
Nora. They did not talk of Margaret, but they
talked of many things ; talked as those talk
whose thoughts find some echo in the other's
mind. It was not wearisome to Vyner to sit
there. He told Nora about his pictures ; even
about unpainted pictures, whose colours had
yet only glowed in the painter's brain.

'' I have a picture, Nora," he said at last,
^'that I wish you to see — a picture I wish to
become yours."

Well," answered Nora, smiling, "if you will
tell me its price, I shall be very pleased to
become its owner."

Vyner also smiled.

This picture has no price," he said.

No price ! How do you mean ? "

I mean I would sell it to no one, and I am
going to ask you to accept it — for the sake of
old times ! "

Nora moved slightly, and coloured slightly,
bat showed no other signs of emotion.

'' Very well," she said, " for the sake of
old times I shall be pleased to accept your

picture. Ashen shall I see it, Walter?"
*' Will you come tomorrow morning and see
ic? Did I tell you I had gone back to the old
workshop ? The light did not suit me in
Chester Terrace — and altogether it did not suit
me I am in the old quarters ; so, will you
cal there at any time most convenient to you ?"
Nora named an hour and promised to call.
She had made up her mind to live on friendly
terms with Yyner and his wife ; her mind,
indeed, to a certain extent, had during the past
two months become used to the idea of his
marriage. At least she had determined to hide
as women do hide — the feelings of her heart.
She was rich, she was young ; life ought surely
to have something better for her than this
disappointed love.

So she had told herself after the first bitterness
of that meeting with Yyner in Paris, so
soon after his marriage was over. That meeting
had cost her an illness — a serious illness. She
never told what she had suffered in the gaily-decorated
bedroom where she had lain, turning
her restless head on the laced pillows, hating
the sun and the flower-decked walls, hating
her life, that seemed all desolate to her then.

That time was past now. Her illness was
over, and she had gone back into the world, tc
act as the world does, to live as her fellows
lived, and show no signs of grief or pain.

She therefore promised to call on Vyner at his
studio the next morning ; and she did cad.
She asked her neighbour, Lady Seaport, to
accompany her, but Lady Seaport was prevented
by some engagement from doing so,
otherwise she would gladly have gone.

For Lady Seaport had returned to town the
moment that she heard Mrs, Trelawn was therefor
the express purpose of trying to arrange a
marriage between her son and Nora. The clouds

o

were darkening very fast on her social horizon,
and she knew that unless her son married some
great fortune, only absolute ruin was before
them. So in the dreary November weather
she came back to London, determined to effect
her purpose. Seaport must marry, she told
herself; you must marry, she meant to tell he
son.

But an unpleasant engagement that she was
forced to attend to, prevented her accompanying
Nora on her proposed visit to Vyner's studio.
Nora had asked Lady Seaport to go with her

because she thought it was wiser and better todo
so. Was Nora turning worldly too ? She
iras living in the world, and perhaps the atmosphere
slightly affected her, as it affects
most of us. iVt all events, she sent in a little
note to invite Lady Seaport to go with her
^'.to my old friend Mr. Vyner's studio, to see a
new picture ; " but as my lady was engaged,
Nora saw no reason whv she should not so
alone.

She went in her well-appointed carriage, and
Vyner, who expected her, who had been walking
restlessly up and down his studio waiting for
her, went down to receive her, and presently
Nora found herself amid the artistic disorder
dear to the painter's soul,

And where is my picture ? " she asked,
smiling, and looking up in Yyner's face.

Come and see it," he said, and he led her
up to an easel placed in a good light, on which
rested the picture that he had called " My Eve,"
the picture of Nora in her girlish days, as she
had stood in the Warbrooke meadows honor asfo.

For a moment or two she did not recognise
herself, nor the familiar scene. She saw only a
dark-eyed girl standing looking wistfully

forward, while in the back ground the sun was
sinking —a his red ball of fire — and the
evening haze was creeping from earth to
sky.

'"• You remember the spot ? " said Vyner, wh(>
was standing behind Nora.

Then Nora started, made a half-exclamation,
and looked round at the painter.

Is— is it Warbrooke ? " she said. " War-brooke
as it was, long ago ? "

*^ Yes/^ answered Vyner, briefly.

Then Nora understood. A choking sensation
rose in her throat ; tears rose in her eyes. She
could not help this. The old scene, the old
days, and the old love, all came back to her,
Yyner saw her emotions, and he turned away
his head.

^' I want you to keep this," he said, in an
agitated voice ; " to accept it from me."

For some minutes Nora could not answer
him. She was trembling violently, and trying
to suppress the tears that would well in her
eyes and pour down her cheeks ; and when at
last she did speak, her voice was very tremulous.

''I — I — thank you very much," she said.
*' I will always keep it."

Nothing more was said. Yyner, moved,
agitated, and unnerved, began pointing out
some other picture, and as he did so — just
when he was beginning to speak — the door of
the studio opened, and to his surprise and
creep annoyance, Margaret, his wife, walked
into the room !

Margaret had a little more colour on her face
than usual as she advanced towards Nora, but
Tier manner was quite calm.

Ah, Mrs. Trelawn," she said, holding out
her hand, ''so it is your carriage standing at
the door ? I was coming to see my husband
on a little matter of business, and I was quite
astonished to see a carriage before his studio
door, as I know he only admits visitors on
especial days."

'this is an especial day, as you see, then,"
said Vyner, sharply. Never before had he
been so angry with Margaret, as he felt at that
moment. He gave an uneasy glance at Nora,
but Nora's face was now calm — grave, pale,
and calm.

So you have been showing Mrs. Trelawn
her portrait, Walter, I see," continued Margaret,
looking at the picture on the ea-tel that Vyner

had called " My Eve." '' My husband says this
is a likeness of you, Mrs. Trelawn, when he
knew you as a girl long ago. I confess I see
no likeness now." And Margaret looked at
the picture and then at the original critically.

I dare say years have changed me very
much," said Nora.

Not in my eyes," said Yyner, with a certain
defiance of manner. " I painted this from
memory, and I think it is a good portrait, and
I am pleased to think that Mrs. Trelawn has
honoured me by accepting it."

*' Oh, indeed ! " said Margaret, disagreeably.

Your husband is an old friend of mine"'
said Nora, with some dignity ; '' and I am glad
he has painted my portrait. When shall I send
for it ? " she continued, addressing Yyner.

You must not send for it," he answered,
with a smile. " I will send it to you. But
won't you look round ? I have some other
things here I would like to show you."

Nora walked round the studio, and admired
and asked questions about this or that, just as
though she had simply been there to admire
and ask questions. Then she looked at her
watch, and said it was time she was returning

lioniG, as lie expected lier aunt, Lady Stairs
to lunch.

You remember the General ? " she said,
turning to Vyner. " He is so ill, poor man •
His rheumatism is worse than ever, and my
aunt and he are staying at Buckstone ; but
Lady Stainbrookc is coming up to town
to-day."

Vyner having expressed himself properly
sorry for the General, Nora shook hands with
Margaret, and was escorted by Vyner to her
carriage. The said nothing' to each other as
the painter stood a moment at the carriage
door about the disagreeable interview that had

o

occurred upstairs.

You will send my picture, then ? " said
Nora, leaning forward.

*' Yes," answered Vyner ; and then they
clasped each other's hands, a warm and silent
hand-clasp that needed no words to them.

Nora drove direct home after she had parted
with the painter. As she reached her own
door a cab stopped before Lady Seaport's, and
she saw Lord Seaport cet out of it. He also
saw Nora just as he was entering his mother's
door, and he at once went back to speak to her.

'' How are yoii ? " he said, holding out his
hand cordially. ■" My mother told me you
were in town. I am charmed that you are."

Thank you," answered Nora, smiling. "And
where have you spent the autumn ? "

"Like a certain gentleman," answered Sea-forth,
with his easy smile, "going to and fro in
the earth, and walking up and down in it."

And are you going to make any stay in
town ? "

I hope so."

Nora's door by this time being open, she
nodded a farewell to the young lord and entered
it ; and Seaport a moment later walked into
his mother's house.

Lady Seaport was waiting for him and
watching. As he went into the hall she came
out of the breakfast-room, and held out her
hand, but there was hardly a smile on the
anxious mother's face.

"Is that you, Seaport?" she said. "I
expected you earlier. Come in here ; I want to
speak to you."

Lord Seaport followed his mother into the
breakfast-room with the disagreeable knowledge
in his heart that he was going to hear something

unpleasant. He knew this by Lady
Seaport's manner, by the flush on her face,
and by a certain look round Lier large blue eyes
that told she had been crying.

I have seen Mr. Cairns this morning,.
Seaport," commenced Lady Seaport, after her
son had closed the room door, 'sand things are
about as bad as they can be. That wretched
Jew who holds the mortgage on Greystoke is
determined to foreclose unless he is j^^^^itl.
Cairns has seen him, and he gives you six
months — only after begging and praying, and,
well — the report has got abroad, you. know,
that you are likely to marry Mrs. Trelawn, and
Cairns told me — yes, absolutely told me, Sea-forth
— that he only wrung the promise from
this wretched man to do nothing for six months
on the strength of this report."

Pleasant ! " said Seaport, shrugging his
shoulders, though he had grown a little j^^^lc
while his mother was speaking.

'^ It's no use jesting," said Lady Seaport,
passionately, " or sneering ; it must be done.
Not only is this threatened, Seaport, but Cairns
tells me, there even may be an execution in the
house'*

Lord Seaport made no . answer to this
appeal. He began walking up and down the
room, whistling softly to himself as he went.

'' Seaport," continued this mother, with deep
emotion, " I entreat, I implore you to listen tome.
This lady — Mrs. Trelawn — is young, good-looking,
and very rich. What would you have?
For my sake, oh ! my son " — and this proud
lady broke into passionate, choking sobs —
'for my sake, Seaport, do what you can !"

Seaport was moved by his mother's distress.
He went up to her— he took her hand.

'•'You silly old woman," he said, " don't cry.
But, mother, even if I were ready and willing
to marry Croesus's charming widow, how do I
know she is ready to marry me ? "

I'm sure she would," answered Lady Sea-forth,
eagerly. " Her aunt. Lady Stainbrooke,
has assured me that she would. Oh ! Murray,
dear Murray," and the mother kissed her son's
cheek, " save our name and honour, before it is
too late."

"Well, I'll see about it. So you and the
dingy old aunt have been laying your heads
together ? Well, don't scold me any more just
now, mother, and I promise to go in in earnest

for Croesus's widow. There ! that will do (for
again Lady Seafortli kissed lier son). I can't
promise to many lier, you know, until she
gives her consent. ind now I want some of
the railway dust shaken off me, so I'll say goodbye
for the present." And with a nod and a
smile, Seaport left the room.

As he went upstairs to his bedroom, his
servant Clayton followed him. Seaport saw
the man, and turned sharply round.

*' Any letter from Scotland ? " he said.

Not from Scotland, my lord," answered
Clayton, "but there are two letters — in the
same handwriting — Mrs. Murray's handwriting
(and the man lowered his voice), "but they have
been posted in London."

Seaport snatched the two letters from Clayton's
hand and hurried into his bedroom. He
opened one of the letters hastily, and an exclamation
of auger burst from his lips. Nellie
had Written this letter at Miss Brewis's rooms
in Belgrave Eoad, and had waited and waited,
days and weeks heart-sick and weary, for its
answer.

MRS. MURRAY.

Whilst Seafortli was reading Nellie's letters —
reading the tender words impatiently, yet
loving the loving; woman still — Nellie was
sitting in Miss Brewis's dining-room in Bel-grave
Eoad, in a most unhappy frame of mind.

She had by this time been three weeks under
Miss Brewis's roof. At the end of the first week,
she had had just enough money to pay her
expenses. Miss Brewis, however, did not
impose upon her, for she was rigidly honest as
well as rigidly clean.

'^No one living or dead can say it, ma'am,"
she told Nellie, pressing her blue lips tightly
with conscious rectitude, " that I have ever
cheated them of a single penny. No ; I may
have my tempers — not to have tempers means
more than mortal strength in a lodging-house —

but I've clean hands outwardly and inwardly,,
and the Lord be thanked for it ! "

She had also her '' eyes about her," sho
boasted, and those green enquiring eyes bad
been fixed on her young lodger during the last
three weeks with very mingled feelings.

And during these weeks she had come to the
conclusion that "there was something: wronix
about Mrs. Murray." Joanna Brewis, having
her eyes about her, saw thus —

A young woman, '' that men would call
pretty, I suppose," thought Joanna, " sitting-day
after day watching for the postman,
listening for the foot-falls in the street below,
eating one may say nothing, and altogether
behaving totally unlike a happy or even a
sensible woman."

Thus frequently reflected Joanna Brewis,
as she watched her lodger. There was something
wrong, and at the end of the second week
of Nellie's stay, when the poor girl with burning
blushes informed her that she could not
settle her weekly account until " Captain
Murray's arrival," Miss Brewis came to the
conclusion " there was something worse."

Yet a vein of womanly feeling — a strange

entangled vein ^ —-ran through this soured,
shrewd, suspicious heart.

Whatever she is, she is not brass-faced, at
least," she told a neighbour of hers, who was
the wife of a chemist at the corner of Belgrave
Eoad. 'she's some shame left in her, and that's
more than can be said of many ladies. But it's
not all right — I don't believe in the husband
if she was married to him she wouldn't pine
after him as she does ; married folks know each
other's tempers too well to pine."

"And you think she really expects him ?"
.asked the chemist's wife.

"Yes; I believe she is watching and waiting,
poor soul. I warrant he's a bad 'un 1 "

Poor young creature!" sighed the chemist's
wife.

"People shouldn't do such things, then,"
snapped Joanna. " As you've heard me say,
Mrs. Benson (the chemist's name was Benson),
when you can get a decent respectable man like
you've got, who doesn't look out of his own
house after ten o'clock, and who keeps himself
cjuiet, and doesn't interfere at home, but pays
what he's told to pay, and asks no questions,
then I say a woman may be better married. 1

don't say lie is, but she mcuj. But if this
young person has made a fool of herself, and I
think it looks very like it, I have no pity for
her."

But in spite of this speech, Miss Brewis had
some pity. She would not admit it. She had,
in truth, no pity for those who flaunt and smile
under righteous censure. But Mrs. Murray
was so modest, so downcast, and apparently so
unhappy, that even Joanna's sour virginal
heart felt softened, and she said nothing rude
to Nellie when Nellie was forced to inform her
that she could not pay her weekly account
until " Captain Murray's arrival."

'' Oh well, ma'am, it's no matter," said Miss
Brewis ; but on reflection. Miss Brewis decided
it did matter.

And do you expect the Captain this week,
ma'am ? " she asked, during the course of the
-day, peering with her green eyes at the fair
face that blushed so deeply at her question.

"I hope so," faltered Nellie. ''I — I expected
him before, but he has been detained."

So it appears, ma'am. "Well, it must be
very lonesome for you sitting all day without
any particular employment."

''I hope he will soon be here, and then he
will take me out," answered Nellie, uneasily ;
and Miss Brewis confessed to herself she "had
not the heart to ask the silly young creature
any more questions."

But after this interview Nellie wrote again
to Lord Seaport. This letter she enclosed, as
she had done the first, under cover to his
servant Clayton. Seaport had told her she
must always do this ; but when day after day
passed away, and no answer came, Nellie
finally, in her despair, resolved to risk a letter
addressed to his mother's house.

The reason she had received no answer to her
letters was very simple. Seaport having a sum
of ready money at his command (his friend
Strathearn's), had decided on taking a trip ta
Paris, and had left orders that no letters were
to be forwarded to him. He wanted to enjoy
himself, and as his letters were usually of anything
but of an enjoyable nature, he left them
behind, feeling satisfied that Nellie was all right
in the Glen of Strathearn.

But while Seaport was trying to enjoy himself
(for grim care followed him uninvited to
Paris), Nellie, as we have seen, was not " all

right " in the Glen of Strathearn. She had fled
from Strathearn — fled, frightened, shocked —
her trust and faith shaken in her Murray, by
Strathearn's wild, impetuous words. Yet, still
she tried to believe in Seaport, though a
shadow men call doubt — a creeping, lurking-shadow,
apt to come near in the dark hours of
night — had stolen, in spite of herself, into
nellie's true and trustful heart.

And as time went on, and no letter nor word
reached her, miserable fear as well as doubt had
taken possession of her. Was she forsaken
alton-ether ? Had Strathearn told the truth ?

o

Oh God ! if it were so — and Nellie would moan
aloud. Miss Brewis, perhaps overhearing these
moans, drew her own bitter conclusions from
the despairing sounds.

At last, on the third week of Nellie's stay.
Miss Brewis determined to take active steps
regarding her.

Not a letter has come for her, Mrs. Benson,"
she told her neighbour. "Not a line these
three weeks, or a caller of any kind. My belief
is, she is some poor fool that a man has tired of
and tossed over ! Serve her rio'ht for beings
such an idiot 1 "

'* I'm afraid it doesn't look very well, poor
tbini; !" said Mrs. Benson, who was fat and soft-lie
art ed.

Well ! it's as bad as bad can be, or my name
isn't Joanna Brewis ! " snapped Joanna. "But
tomorrow morning I'll tell her plainly I must
have my money, or she must go. I've no family
to think of. Heaven be praised ! but I've myself
and I can't go on feeding a party who, for all I
know, ou2:ht to be in a Magdalene institutions

The next morning, accordingly. Miss Brewis
rose up determined to have her money. As she
twisted her scant lio^ht hair into a little hard
ball at the back, she kept nerving herself to do
her duty. She came downstairs more war-like
and snappish than usual. Her red nose seemed
redder than ever, and her green eyes a more
vivid green. She commenced with the servants.
She discharged two before breakfast, and had a
fight with the milkman, and a skirmish with an
errand boy before eleven. At this hour she
determined to attack her unhappy lodger. Nellie
heard her coming upstairs, and began to tremble.
The knock she cave at the dining-room door
was like a summons. It was a summons, as
Nellie learned a few minutes later.

*' If you please, Mrs, Murray, I want a few
words with you," began Joannalili, very fiercely,
and then her eyes fell on Nellie's pale, sad face,
and her voice unconsciously softened.

I don't want to say anything disagreeable,"
she continued, in a milder tone, "but I've to
work for my living, and being an unmarried
female, who takes assistance from no one, I'm
obliged to look after my money ; and if it's
convenient to you, ma'am, I would feel much
obliged if you could settle the two last weeks'
accounts during; the davy

Nellie had grown pale and red by turns
during this address. She hesitated, she
trembled ; and again. Miss Brewis, like the
Egyptians of old tried to harden her heart.

Or, if not convenient to you to-day, could
you say tomorrow or Thursday, at latest ? "
proceeded Joanna.

*' You shall have it by Thursday," answered
Nellie, desperately ; and at that moment she
determined to write to Lord Seaport at his
mother's house, determined to see him at any
cost, and to put an end to the miserable position
in which she found herself.

*' Oh, very well, ma'am, that will do," said

VOL. II. G

Joannalili, mollified, thoiigii she did not exactly
believe she would get the money, for she was a
shrewd woman, and had seen that look in
Nellie's eyes which comes to the most timid
creatures when driven to bay. '' And how do
sou feel yourself this morning, ma'am ? You
don't look over well ; and as for myself, I can't
boast on account of acidity."

I am sorry," said Nellie, who was too
heart-broken to smile.

Yes, ma'am ; I got it from my mother,"
continued Miss Brewis. " She was a Lambert,
and the Lamberts have all poor stomachs. But
I mustn't complain ; except one illness, which
was quite accidental, I've been able to do my
work since I was turned ten — not like poor
useless creatures I have in the house, who sit
fancying this pain or the other — just looking
out for pains, I tell them."

With this parting shot. Miss Brewis took her
departure, and Nellie was left alone with her
unhappy thoughts. She must do something,
she knew, yet what to do this poor girl did not
know. She wrung her hands, she wept the
bitterest tears.

"Oh ! father, father, why did I ever leave

you, clear old father ? " she moaned aloud.
Could she write to Margaret ? What could she
do ? She must have this money, and unless
she heard from Seaport before Thursday,
where was she to get it ?

While Nellie was in this bitter distress, at
his mother's house in South Kensington Lord
Seaport had just received her two letters from
the hands of his servant, Clayton.

He read them — he flung them impatiently
down.

The little fool ! " he said, " the dear, stupid
little fool, she does not know the trouble she
is bringing upon me."

Yet his heart softened to her a moment later,
and once more he took up the poor, tender little
letters.

"Poor silly child," he thought, 'whatever
possessed her to leave Strathearn. But she is
in want of money, it seems — of course she must
be. I must see her at once."

So, putting her letters into his pocket, he
hastily told Clayton to call a cab and get a
cheque cashed for him, which he drew for fifty
pounds. Some of the thousand pounds that
Strathearn had lent him was still left, and

Seaport felt thankful that it was so at this
moment. With this money in his possession,
he then drove at once to the address which
Nellie had given him in Belo^rave Road. Nellie,
heart-sick, almost desperate, heard the cab stop
at the house door, and, looking up, saw (with
inexpressible and indescribable delight) Lord
Seaport leave the cab, and a moment or two
later he was ushered into the dining-room.

"Murray! Murray!" she cried, as he advanced
towards her, and she fell upon his breast, and
unable to control her emotion — the long pcnt-
np agony and anxiety — she burst into hysterical
sobs.

*' My darling," said Seaport, " how can you
be so silly ? What is the matter with you,
Nellie ? You are not surely ill ? "

*' I — I — have been so miserable ! " sobbed
the poor child. "Oh, Murray ! " and she clung
to him, " I have gone through so much — have
suffered so much."

And I thought all the while you were safe
at Strathearn," said Seaport, trying to soothe
her.

I could not stay at Strathearn," continued
Nellie. " Oh ! Murray, such a dreadful thing

happened. Stratliearn, Mr. Campbell, came —
and he said such dreadful things."

*' What did he say ? " asked Seaport, and he
frowned.

Such dreadful things, oh ! such dreadful
things, Murray ! " answered Nellie, beginning to
wry afresh. "He — he said we weren't really
married— that you had deceived me — and —
4^n(^| — " But here sobs literally choked her
utterance.

It was confounded insolence of him to
interfere at all," said Lord Seaport. " Hush,
darling ! don't distress yourself. What matter
is it what Strathearn said ? "

But, Murray, Murray, it is matter ! " said
Nellie, raising her head, and looking straight in
Scaforth's face. '' Strathearn believed this ; he
believed it so much that — that he absolutely
asked me to marry him — insulted me so far,
Murray. What do you think of that ? "

Seaport looked surprised for a moment,
raised his eyebrows, and then gave a light
laugh.

Highly flattering to you, Nellie," he said.

Flattering I" repeated Nellie, starting back
from Seaport's arms. *' How dare you say so.

Murray ! It was an insult, a cruel insult ; and
you must have deceived him, or he dared not
have done it I "

Nellie stood facing Seaport as she said this, her
blue eyes flashing, and her whole form trembling.

Stupid little girl ! " said Seaport the next
minute, trying to speak lightly, and laying his
hand as he spoke on Nellie's shoulder, '' don't
you see how easily Strathearn made a mistake?
It was agreed between us, was it not, Nellie,,
that our secret was never to be told ? "

Never ? " asked Nellie, with quivering lips.

At least not at present," proceeded Seaport ;.
*' that was agreed, was it not, Nellie ? "

Yes, I know," answered poor Nellie.

'then how was Strathearn to know? He
had no right to interfere. He's a rough,
uncouth fellow at best — always putting his
great feet into the wrong place. But never you
mind, Nellie. So you want money, you tiresome
little woman, do you ? "

'•' Yes," said Nellie ; " I've no money to pay
for the rooms, Murray."

'poor little woman. Well, here's some money
for you — fifty pounds — wil that do for the
present?"

Oh, yes, yes ; it is too much — more than I

-want."

Wonderful ! I never knew a woman yet,
Nellie, who thought she had got enough money ;
sand as for too much, why, you are a marvel ! "
And Seaport gave his light laugh.

*' But what am I to do, really, Murray ? "
said Nellie, trying to smile, and putting her
trembling hand in Seaport's, and looking at
him with her blue eyes.

How do you mean, dear ? "

'about our marriage — about letting them
know at home ? "

Seaport's brow darkened.

Nellie," he said, " it's no use talking about
such a thing. I'm in a frightful hole just now
how the devil to get out of it I can't tell —
and if a breath, mind you, a breath, got about
anything concerning you, I would be utterly
ruined ! No, my darling," he continued, more
kindly, " if you have any love for me, any
regard or consideration, you will ask nothing
more at present. Do you want to stay on in
town ? " he continued.

Yes," said Nellie ; and she could not keep .
back her tears. " Don't send me away again.

Murray. I was so miserable, so lonely at
Stratliearn."

You don't look very well, poor little woman
and Nellie, why, what is this ? " and Seaport
pushed back Nellie's fair hair, displaying thus
the whole of the severe cut which she had
received on the forehead during the dreadful
storm at Strath earn.

Then Nellie explained.

*' I did not like to tell you how very ill I
was," she told him. " I was insensible for ever
so long — and — Strathearn was very kind, then,
Murray — "

Again Seaport gave his careless laugh.

Indeed ! " he said. *' I suppose it was during
this interesting period, then, that Strathearn
lost his youthful heart ? Did he nurse you,,
Nellie?"

How can you jest, Murray, how can you
jest?"

'' Why not, my fair one ? All life's but a
jest, we are told, ain't we, by some learned
authorities ; but it's a devilish hard jest to crack
sometimes."

*' And — what will you do — about Strathearn,
Murray ? " asked Nellie.

*' Do ? What do sou mean ? Do you want
me to shoot him for having clone you the
honour, and I can tell you he would think it
was an honour, of asking you to be Mrs.
Campbell, of Strathearn ? " And once more
Seaport laughed.

"But Murray, won't you clear my name to
him, at least ? " pleaded the poor girl.

'• Look here, Nellie," said Seaport, "if you
hind I are to go on being friends, it's no use
talking in that strain. I can't do anything —
this is an absolute fact. Confound Strathearn !
What matter what he thinks ? "

But Murray—"

Hush, hush, child. Well, we'll talk of it
some other day — don't bother just now, Nellie.
I've had enough to bother me to-day already,
I can tell you, and I have a weary headache."


'' My poor Murray ! "

Your poor Murray, indeed I I only got
back to town about an hour ago. I've been a
fortnight in Paris, and my mother seized upon
me before I was fairly in the house to tell mea
whole lot of trouble about money. In fact,
little woman, it is come to this — well, it's no

good talking about it to-clay, but if something
doesn't cast up—"

Nellie put her hand once more into Seaport s
as he said this, and laid her head on his
shoulder.

"Well," she said, softly, "we won't talk
of it now." And Seaport was only too glad
to escape from a disagreeable subject.

THE EVIL SPIRIT.

It was settled after this that for the present
Nellie was to remain with Miss Brewis.

'•' Tell her what story you like, darling," said
Seaport, " only don't tell her my real name.
I will come and see you as often as I can, and
you must be content with this for the present."

But Nellie was not content. What woman
would have been content ? Yet, woman-like,
too, she shrank from adding to Seaport's worries.
So for the present she agreed to stay on with
Miss Brewis ; to bear there the name of " Mrs.
Murray."

Miss Brewis received her money in full the
day after Seaport's first visit, and thus felt
inclined to look with more favourable eyes on
Nellie.

Then the Captain is not coming to stay here
regularly, ma'am ? " she asked, still curious.

Upon this Nellie made the explanation she
had intended to make.

'' I ought perhaps to tell you. Miss Brewis,"
she said, " before we come to any arrangement,
that Captain Murray's family do not know that
he is married to me — that they object to the
idea of our marriage — and so, until some money
affairs are settled, we are forced to keep it a
secret. I tell you this because, of course, if you
object — "

Miss Brewis pursed in her thin blue lips. But
she had the money in her hand, and " Captain
Murray's " whole appearance (alas, how fallaciously
!) betokened wealth.

Well, ma'am," she said, " of course, there
are secrets in families — at least, families suppose
they have secrets — though, for my part, I
believe they are better known to other parties-than
to the parties themselves. But, as you
were saying, ma'am, you wish your marriage to
be kept a secret — I suppose only temporarily?"

'' Yes, certainly," answered Nellie, flushing.

'' Well, ma'am, in that case I don't think I
can make any particular objections. Parties

Ivnow their own business best, and it's not my
business to give any advice till I'm asked. I've
not been asked in this case, and if you wish to
keep on the rooms on the same terms, I'm
agreeable — paid weekly."

** Very well," said Nellie. And so she stayed
on with Miss Brewis — Miss Brewis feeling
srrimlv satisfied in her own mind as time went
on that 'captain Murray" was tiring of his
young wife.

And Miss Brewis had some cause to think
this. For the first week or so after his return
from Paris, Seaport came fairly regularly to
Belgrave Road. Then troubles thickened
round him, and one day, as he Twas returning
home from a visit to Nellie, an evil spirit began
whispering in his ear.

** If it were not for this poor girl," said the
evil spirit, ''I might end all these worries — I
might marry Croesus's widow ; and, by Jove !
she's a remarkably pretty woman and lady-like,
and a man would have no cause to be ashamed
"of her ; but, then, Nellie — if I could but persuade
Nellie — "

The evil spirit remained with Seaport all
that day ; and the next day, instead of going in

the afternoon to Below-rave Road, he went to
call next door upon " Croesus's Widow."

Nora was looking very well as he entered her
drawing-room. The lamps were lighted, and the
fire was burning brightly, and a tall, handsome
man was leaning against the mantelpiece talking
to Nora.

When this man turned round as Seaport
advanced into the room, Seaport saw it wa
Mr. Vyner, the painter. Vyner bowed to Seaport,
and Seaport felt a sudden pang of shame strike
through his heart. He knew that Nellie's sister
Margaret was married to the painter, and he
quailed and shrank from Vyner's grey eyes,
which he felt were now fixed upon him with no
ordinary interest.

*'I think you know Mr. Yyner, Lord Seaport?"
said Nora.

I have that pleasure," answered the
young lord, assuming in a moment the
pleasant, gracious manner which was so easy
to him.

"It is long since we met, Lord Seaports
said Vyner.

It is, indeed ! " answered Seaport, still
smiling, but inwardly wondering all the while

how he could find an excuse to escape at once
from Nora's drawing-room.

Suddenly one occurred to him.

**'My mother requested me to call on you,
Mrs. Trelawn, to ask if you will go with us this
evening to see Irving in his new piece ? They
say it is very good, and we've got a fairly good
box, I believe."

I shall be very glad to go, I think,"
answered Nora.

"Then," said Seaport, "I will not trouble
you any more with my presence just now,
particularly as Mr. Vyncr, who I believe is an
old friend, is with you. Good morning, Mrs,
Trelawn. My mother will be very pleased you
are going with us, and I am charmed."

But as Seaport was thus effecting his escape
from the presence of Vyner, Yyner had been
making up his mind to speak to Seaport upon
the very subject that Seaport dreaded.

"As you are leaving, I will go with you,"
said Yyner, *' for I would like a few words
with you. Lord Seaport."

*' Certainly," said Seaport, and the two
men left Nora's drawing-room together. A
minute or so later they were in the street; then

Yyner, after a moment's hesitation, began:

You know Major Blythe's family, J believe,
Lord Seaport ? " he said .
" Oh, yes," answered Seaport ; "the pretty,
fair-haired girl. Why, you married a Miss
Blythe, did you not, Mr. Yyner ? "

'eyes, the eldest. Miss Blythe. But it is
about Nellie Blythe, the youngest, I wish to
speak to you. Have you heard — do you know
anything of her ? "

Yyner spoke with a certain sharpness, almost
a sternness, of accent as he asked these questions.
For as Seaport had recognised him,
Yyner had seen flit over the young lord's face
a shadow — a reflection of the pang of shame in
his heart — and in spite of Seaport's ease and
coolness of manner, a suspicion that he was
somehow connected with Nellie's mysterious
disappearance had at the moment revived in
Yyner 's mind.

'' How do you mean?" said Seaport in answer
to these pointed inquiries, and he did his
best to look innocently round in Yyner's face.
'' Nothing has happened to that pretty girl, I
hope?"

'^ Something very sad has happened," answered

Vyner gravely. " Nellie Blytlie disappeared four
or five months a 2:0 from her father's house, and
nothing has been heard of her since. It has been
ss. terrible heart-break to the old man ; and as
you once knew her — "

I am truly sorry," said Seaport, as Vyner
paused ; " most sorry! Nothing has been heard
of her, you say ? "

" Nothing, not a word ; we have employed
detectives, we have done everything, but not a
trace of her has been discovered. I was anxious
to see you to tell you this, for Mrs. Yyner, my
wife, who is her sister, as you know, called on
your mother. Lady Seaport, shortly after
Nellie's disappearance to make some inquiries ;
but probably Lady Seaport has told you this ? "

Called on my mother ! " repeated Seaport,
assuming a sudden haughtiness of manner,
while a burning colour flushed through his pale
fine skin. " May I ask for what purpose ? "

It was now Vyner's turn to colour deeply.

• " It may seem impertinence of me. Lord

Seaport," he said, " but certain suspicions were

aroused in the family about yourself and poor

Nellie. You were known to be friends — "

I knew her as a pretty girl, merely'* said

Seaport, still haughtily. '' I am very sorry if
any trouble has happened to her. But I scarcely
think Mrs. Yyner should have called upon my
mother on any such subject — and my mother
had the good taste never to allude to Mrs.
Yyner's visit to me."

Seaport threw all the cold distinction of class
into his manner as he said this, and Yyner
understood and recognised this distinction,
though he never servilely bowed down before it.

I understand you, Lord Seaport," he
answered gravely; "but perhaps you will understand
also, that the anxiety of a sister on the
strange disappearance of a young girl might
excuse Miss Blythe — for we were not married
then — intruding even on Lady Seaport."

Certainly," said Seaport, again resuming
his ordinary pleasant manner ; "I am only sorry
such a step could have been thought necessary
by Miss Blythe — I beg your pardon, by Mrs.
Yyner, on my account at least."

*' Then," said Yyner, stopping, " our conversation
may as well end here. I presume — I am
sure, no man of honour, no gentleman, could
have said what you have done, if there were
any just grounds for suspicion on the part of

Nellie Blythe's family that you knew anything
of her strange disappearance, and I trust you
will excuse me for having mentioned it to you."

I am only sorry to hear of it," said Seaport.
*must you go? By-the-bye, I heard some
great connoisseurs raving about your pictures
the other day, Mr. Vyner. For myself, I am no
judge of art — to my great regret. Good
morning !" And Seaport half offered his hand,
but Vyner only bowed.

Good morning ! " said the painter gravely,
and he turned away, and Seaport was left alone
with his own thoughts.

He bit his lips, he frowned, he coloured. He
was ashamed — stung by Vyner s words. " No
man of honour, no gentleman," the painter had
said, and Seaport knew that the painter had
but spoken the truth.

But," said the evil spirit, who now had
become very familiar with Seaport, " why
mind the words of this painter fellow, who is
not of my class, who was cursedly impertinent
to speak to me on such a subject ? What, after
all, are these Blythes ? Nobodies — a broken-down
old half-pay soldier — it's absurd ! Nellie
is absurd to expect such a thing ; she is a nice

little girl, though she is losing her looks fast,.
for these childish faces soon change ; but as for
acknowledging anything about that foolish
affair in Scotland, I'd best try to put it out of
her head at once — it's out of the question."

Thus whispered the evil spirit, and Seaport
listened. The old spirit of honour that had
once dwelt in his heart, that had come to him
as a birthright, was twist dying away. Still
this old spirit brought back the painter's words,.
and taunted him with them all the day afterwards.
" Xo man of honour, no gentleman."
He heard these words — and they stung him
still — as he sat that night in the theatre by
Nora's side, as he smiled on Croesus's widow", and
half-whispered his cynical nonsense in her ear.

And his proud and haughty mother sat
smiling too, though black care was racking
her heart, and intense anxiety. x\nd Nora also
smiled, though between her and the young lord
by her side she ever saw — mentally — a handsome,
worn, sad face, and heard the words that
Vyner had spoken to her that afternoon.

'' I am weary of it all, Nora," Vyner had said,
and Nora had understood the full meaning: of
these miserable words.

So these three sat together looking at the
players on the stage and smiling, each also
playing a part on that larger stage that we call
life. And while Seaport was thus courting
widow, courting her publicly — for the
sake of that publicity — where was the young-girl
whose heart he had wooed and won, and of
whom now he was becoming tired, as he had
tired of all his other playthings ?

Nellie had spent a very miserable day. The
thought of her blind father and her old happy
home now scarcely ever left her. Seaport had
written her a little note in the afternoon — before
he started on his visit to Croesus's widow — to
tell Nellie he v»'ould not be with her that day
at all, and Nellie felt very much depressed inconsequence.
And as the early darkness of the
November day closed in, an almost passionate
desire took possession of Nellie to steal out in
the gloom, and to stand for a few moments at
least beside her father's house.

She had not once been in the streets since
she had lived at j\liss Brewis's, and the want
of fresh air alone had made her weak and
nervous. But now she felt she must go ; so
after wrapping a thick black gauze veil over her

face, and putting on a long and heavy cloak, she
started, and having called a cab, drove to the
very street, near Eegent's Park, where her father
lived.

She could not restrain her tears as the cab
approached the familiar ground. The entrance
to the park, which she used to go through to
meet Seaport when their love was young, the
shops, the railway station — how well she knew
them all. She had passed them since she was
a little child ; she had gone here and there,
hand-in-hand with her blind father, a hundred
times. Everything seemed the same — everything
but the rosy, blue-eyed girl, whose cheeks
were pale now, and her blue eyes dim with
tears.

Nellie left the cab, and went straight up to
her father's door. She was not afraid of being
recognised, for she was thickly veiled, and the
sir was murky with a November fog. She stood
before her father's house and looked through
the window-panes, for the blinds were not
drawn, and the firelight in the room showed
her very plainly everything within.

This was what she saw — An old man, blind,
white-haired, bent, leaning on his stick as he

sat by the fire — his head bowed low, and grief
and anxiety written on the once patient, happy
face of her dear father. Nellie gave a kind of
cry. She leaned on the iron railings before the
house, and her tears streamed fast and hot
down her cheeks.

God bless you, dear father ! God bless
you ! " she whispered. Then she dried her
tears, for they blinded her so she could not
see, and she tried to think.

Murray must give in. I will tell my
father," she muttered. Oh, how terribly
changed her father was ! The longer Nellie
stood there in the darkness looking at him she
saw only more clearly the wasting signs of
grief and anxiety on the old man's face. These
signs made her determined to act. She would
not let her father die, she told herself, for
Murray — for anyone.

I will tell him tomorrow," she determined,
as she turned away. " To-morrow, dear father,,
I will see you again. I weill come to you. God
bless you till then, my dear, dear father ! "

She felt stronger after she had made this
resolution. Again she called a cab and returned
to Miss Brewis's, but all the evenings afterwards

the picture —that she had seen through the
window — of her broken-hearted father sitting
lonely and sad by the fire haunted and pursued
her.

The next morning when she rose, after a
restless, almost sleepless night, she still kept to
her determination to insist upon telling her
father of her marriage. And scarcely had she
finished breakfast when something occurred
which still further added strength to her
resolution.

This was a visit from her landlady, Miss
Brewis. Joanna gave a portentous rap at the
room door before she entered, and then, sour of
visage as usual, she walked in.

Good morning, ma'am," she said, grimly.
I've come to say a few words that I think it's
my duty to say, and so you'll please excuse me."

Nellie tried to smile.

'' Very well. Miss Brewis," she said. '' What
do you want to say ? "

It's concerning you, ma'am, not myself,"
replied Joanna. " But last night I was at the
Lyceum Theatre — my neighbour, Mrs. Benson's
brother, has something to do with the management,
and he gave us a pass for three in the

stalls. They gave us the worst seats in the place,.
I suppose because he didn't pay for them, and
the man with the big fiddle nearly put my eyes
out several times, we were so near the orchestra.
But we saw the piece and the folks in the boxes
plainly enough, and close to us — in one of the side
boxes, ma'am — was a gentleman you know."

Nellie's delicate skin coloured violently at
this.

Indeed ! " she said.

'' It was no one else, ma'am, no one else,
than the party who comes here and calls himself
Captain Murray. I said to ^Jrs. Benson the
moment I set my eyes on. him, 'That's Captain
Murray;' but when Mrs. Benson set her eyes
on him, she said, 'No, Miss Brewis, you're
mistaken. I know that young gentleman welland
so I should, for I've daudh-d him many a
time in my arms. It's you' :. Lord Seaport,
and that handsome, fiiir-hain :lady behind is
Lady Seaport, to whom I wa lady's maid over
ten years.' These were Mrs. [benson's words,
ma'am, and you could have ] )■ wicked me over
with a feather when I heard i ai."

During this long speech • Miss Brewis's,
Nellie had sat with a fast 'm<x heart and

changing colour. Miss Brewis paused for breath
and Nellie tried to speak, but before she could
decide what to say Joanna started off again.
'' Yes, ma'am, that's living truth," she said.
^' I said nothing more to Mrs. Benson about
him being the party who comes here, for I can
hold my tongue when requisite ; but I made
inquiries about this young lord and his mother,
and Mrs. Benson was full of gossip about them.
They say,' she said, ' for you see, Miss Brewis,
I still keep friendly with some of the old
servants ; and they say the young lord is going
in for a very rich widow who lives next door to
my lord — a Mrs. Trelawn, who goes by the
name of Croesus's Widow. And that'll be her,
I've little doubt, in the box with them now,'
continued Mrs. Benson; and, ma'am, she pointed
out a dark-eyed lady, who was sitting next to
the party who comes here ; and, if I may make
so bold, the party who comes here was bending
over her and gallivanting her in a manner that,
if 1 was lawfully married to the j^'^^rty? I would
see he didn't do it again."

You should not repeat this gossip to me.
Miss Brewis," said Nellie, with quivering lips.

Well, ma'am, it may be gossip," retorted

Joannalili sharply, lier red nose turning suddenly
redder, " but if a party comes to the house of
a respectable unmarried female — and I think I
may call myself that — and if a party gives one
name in the respectable unmarried female's
house, and goes by another when he's out of it,
then I think the respectable female has a right
to make inquiries, whatever you think, ma'am ! '^
And Joanna having given vent to this
sentiment in her sharpest tones, abruptly left
the room, violently closing the door behind
her.

She left Nellie trembling and sick at heart.
But after a few minutes' reflection Nellie
determined to see Seaport at once. She
therefore sent a telegram to him, addressed (as
his letters were) to his servant Clayton ; and
all the rest of the day she waited in a state of
the most restless, miserable anxiety for his
coming.

About half-past eve Seaport did come. Ashe
entered the room Nellie saw that his face
wore a harder and different expression to its
usual careless one. And as she ran up to him
and took his hand, Seaport turned away his
head.

'' Whatever do you want, Nellie ? " lie said,
impatiently. " It won't do you sending telegrams
in this way — they may fall into hands
they are not intended for."

AX OUTCAST.

Seaport said these swords about the telegram
sharply, even harshly, and indeed for the last
two hours he had been worried almost past
endurance.

He had, in fact, just come from a honor
interview with his lawyer. And during this
interview the lawyer had told him plainly the
hopeless state of his affairs.

Nothing can save the property from the
hammer, and my lady and yourself from utter
beggary, my lord," this Mr. Cairns had told
him, "unless you marry some very rich woman.
They sa\'," he continued, with a hard smile
stealing over his hard face, '' that you can do
this if you like. Tve made it my business to
inquire into the real state of this lady's affairs,
of whose wealth we hear so much, and I

am told on good authority it is not exaggerated.
The late IMr. Trelawn left an enormous fortune
totally unencumbered, to his wife. It is a
chance, Lord Seaport — a splendid chance."

Seaport made no answer. He had known
Mr. Cairns all his life, and in his long minority
Mr. Cairns had nursed the embarrassed estates
his father had left behind him with the most
conscientious care. With almost unconcealed
anger the family lawyer had seen the reckless
young lord treading the same road to ruin that
his father had done before him. In vain Cairns
had expostulated ; as long as money could be
raised on the property, Seaport "would have it.
But these times were ended. No more money
could be raised, and the mortgagees daily
threatened to foreclose. In fact. Lord Seaport
was a ruined man — a hopelessly ruined man,
Mr. Cairns told him, unless he married, and
speedily, some lady with, a great fortune ; and
Seaport hearing, and fully understanding this,
stood there thinking of Nellie.
"You understand the position," continued
Mr. Cairns. *' These Jews won't be kept off
any longer unless they see a chance. Ladies
like rank, you know, Lord Seaport, and you

have still this to offer. I urge you chiefly for
your mother's sake."

Still Seaport stood silent, thinking of Nellie.
He had been communing with the evil Spirit
which was now so familiar to him on this subject
during the day before he had gone to his
lawyer. Then he had gone to his lawyer,
-iind things were even worse than he had expected
to find them.

"I can't help myself," the evil spirit said
now in his ear, as he stood there looking: at the
lawyer's hard face. *' Poor Nellie — she must
go to the wall."

Well," he said, the next minute or so, and
he assumed his society smile as he spoke, " I
must do my best, I suppose, Mr. Cairns, to win
this lair, or rather, rich lady. Perhaps she
won't have me. What will you say, then ? "

I fear you will have to enlist, in that case,
my lord," answered Cairns, who could scarcely
control his impatience.

Well, that's one chance more, then ? " said
Seaport, shrugging his shoulders.

Yes," said the lawyer ; and then Seaport
laughed his light laugh, shook hands with
Cairns, and went away.

*' Reckless young fool ! " said Cairns, in the
bitterness of Lis heart, looking after him ; but
the laugh had died on the lips of the '* reckless
young fool" the moment that he had left the
lawyer's presence.

It was getting dusk now, and hailing a cab,
Seaport drove to the park, and avoiding the
main thoroughfares, he went down and stood
by the water, where a few children only were
feeding the ducks.

He wanted to be alone, but the same companion
that had whispered in his ear at the
lawyer's office followed him now and whispered
in his ear again.

If she really loves me as she pretends todo,"
muttered the evil spirit, "she will not
wish to ruin me, but will sacrifice herself for
my sake. They say women who love will do
anything for the mean they care for ; so this
will put her love to the test. If she does not
love me, why should I sacrifice my whole life
for her ? It was madness, folly from the
beginning. Poor little Nellie ! I would have
spared her the pain if I could."

In this strain, for more than half-an-hour,
Seaport held self-converse. Another spirit —

the old spirit of honour and good faith, which
had dwelt with him before the taint of the
world had fallen on his heart — once or twice
flitted past him now. This spirit recalled
Nellie, guileless, girlish — recalled her in her
white dress among the wild hills of Strathearn,
with the bloom of health and happiness on her
smooth young cheeks.

*' But this is romantic folly," whispered the
evil spirit ; and so the spirit of honour and
truth passed away, and the evil one took entire
possession of the young man's heart.

Then he returned to his mother's house ; and
as he did so, his servant Clayton — who had been
watching for him — put Nellie's telegram in his
hand.

'* This came from Mrs. Murray, my lord,"
the man-whispered ; and Seaport took the
paper and read it by the lamp in the hall.

It was only a few words — " Come at once
when you get this, Murray." And as Seaport
read the single line he frowned, and a hard
look came over his mouth.

This is folly ! " he muttered, half aloud.
Call a hansom," he said, the next minute ;
and very shortly afterwards he was standing

VOL. II. B.

beside Nellie in Miss Brewis's dining-room.

Then he said, almost harshly — •

Whatever do you want, Nellie ? It won't
do, you sending telegrams in this way — they
might fall into hands they are not intended
for."

Nellie looked up into his face with some
anger.

*show can you speak to me so, Murray''
she said.

But it's a fact, little woman," answered
Seaport. " Well, what do you want ? You
are not going to bother me, I hope, for I am
weary — weary already, Nellie ! " And Seaport
threw himself down in an arm-chair by the fire.

Then Nellie went and knelt down beside him,
and put her trembling little hand in his.

*' I must bother you, darling I " she said,
looking up in his face, her momentary anger
having passed away, "I am sorry to do it —
but oh I Murray, I am so unhappy — so unhappy
about dear, dear father 1 "

Seaport winced impatiently.

Oh ! don't begin that old story, please,
Nellie," he said.

'' But I must, Murray," continued Nellie,

very earnestly. "Last night I went out, Murray,
when you did not come. I went out for the
first time, and where do you think I went ? "

Haven't the least idea."

'* I went to my father's house. Don't frown
like that, Murray. I did not disobey you,
though it almost broke my heart not to oho in
and kiss the dear old man. But I didn't. I
had promised you to keep our marriage a secret,
and though I love my father so dearly, though
I saw — for I saw him through the window, dear
that he is quite broken down with grief, I
still kept my word. But I can't keep it any
longer — darling, darling — " (for Seaport would
have now risen and pushed Nellie away, but for
her clinging arms) — "don't look like that ! I love
you dearly — most dearly— but I cannot let
father die ! "

Nellie, this is absurd, utterly absurd ! "
exclaimed Seaport angrily. " You must listen
to reason," he went on. "My position is such,
that, as I have told you before, it is no earthly
good you talking as you do. And as for telling
your father about that foolish affair in Scotland—"


" About our marriage," said Nellie, more "

h2

firmly, and lie rose from her knees as she spoke.
*' I will do it, Murray. Father loves me very
dearly ; he will never tell it to anyone else if
you do not wish it ; but I won't let father die
no, Murray, I won't, I won't ! "

Nellie stood there facing Seaport, with her
cheeks flushed and her blue eyes flashing; and
Seaport, after looking at her for a moment,
cast down his eyes, and gave an unpleasant
little laugh.

'* This is all very fine," he said ; *' these
heroics are all very fine. But about this marriage,
as you call it, Nellie — what if it were no
marriage ? "

No marriage ! " repeated Nellie, and she
suddenly grew pale to the very lips.

*' Yes, no marriage," continued Seaport, and
the hard look his face had worn when he
entered the room grew harder. '* I would have
spared you this knowledge if I could, Nellie —
but have you spared me ? I have told you a
hundred times, that it would ruin me if our
connection were known, yet you see you insist
on telling it."

'^ No marriage 1 " again repeated Nellie.
*' Dare you tell me this ! Dare you stand

there, you coward, yon liar, and tell me this ! "

Nellie spoke in the utmost excitement, her
face ghastly pale, her lips almost convulsed;
and again Seaport laud-hed — the same unpleasant
laugh.

You are an abusive young woman," he
said. *but come, Nellie, don't let us fight.
I want you to listen to reason. We are not
really married legally, so you see you can't
go and tell your father that we are ; but all
the same, little woman, I will never forsake
you — never, I swear it ! "

And is this true, true ? " gasped Nellie,
still with her eyes fixed on Seaport's face. " Is
it all a lie — all my love, my hopes, given to a
lie ? "

Don't talk nonsense, child," said Seaport,
trying to take her hand, " and don't use hard
words, for they do no good. If we had been
married twenty times, what difference would it
have made ? I could never have acknowledged
such a marriage — I am a ruined man, Nellie —
I am forced to do what I have no heart for."

"A ruined man!" said Nellie, still with
that horror-stricken stare fixed on Seaport's
changing face. " A ruined man — and you want

to throw me over, then, to many this ricci
woman ? Strath earn told me this, and I told
him he was a liar, as I tell you now."

'' What did Strathearn say ? " said Seaport,.
and he turned away his head.

'' Shall I tell you ? " said Nellie. '' He told
me that with your own lips you had told him
we were not married — and I threw the false
words in his face. He told me, too, about this,
rich lady, and I told him you could not marry
her. Murray, Murray," continued Nellie, and
she flung herself down on her knees before him,.
'* even if you hate me, don't cast me away !
Don't, for God's sake, for the babe's sake that
may be born to us ! If we are not married — legally
married — marry me now — or, or I will die !'

Hush ! what folly ! I can't help myself,
Nellie. Do you think I want to marry this
woman ? Not T. But if I don't marry her I
may take a pickaxe on my shoulder and go to
Australia, for there is nothing else left for me.
And if I had only myself to consider I would
do this, but I have my mother."

And you really mean this, Murray ? " said
Nellie, and she rose again from her knees and
stood before him.

I can t help myself, I tell you. Look here,
Nellie ; behave like a sensible woman, and it
will be all right with you and yours, whatever
happens. Don't think I want to cast you off
you thought we were married, though only a
silly little girl like yourself would have believed
it."

*' Then it was all a sham — a lie ? " interrupted
Nellie.

Seaport nodded his head.

'' That's about it, little woman. I've behaved
very badly — don't you think I don't know
that — but things have turned out far worse than
I expected ; for though I didn't really marry
you that day in Scotland, I never meant, never
dreamt of marrying another woman."

*' And you mean this now ? "

*' What can I do, child ? " and again Seaport
tried to take Nellie's hand. *' When a man is
in a hole he must get out of it as best he can,
and the mud is nearly up to my chin now, 1
can tell you. No ; you be quiet — don't make a
fuss — stay on here, and you shall have everything
you want by-and-by."

My God ! " cried Nellie. " This is too
much ! " and she flung up her arms. " Go away.

Lord Seafortli ! Go ! I will never see you-more
I "

'' Nonsense, nonsense ! Come, Nellie, befriends,
be sensible. If you loved me very
much, little woman, you wouldn't worry me-like
tins."

"Go away ! Go away ! "

I will, if you like ; but I will come back
tomorrow. Give me a kiss now, Nellie, and
say good-bye''

May God forgive you ! " murmured Nellie in
stifled tones ; " may God forgive you I "

All rio'lit," laughed Seaport, with a lioflit
tliougli uneasy laugh, " we all need forgiveness,
little woman. Well, good night ! be in a better
humour when I come again." And Seaport
turned to leave the room.

But just as he opened the door Nellie sprang-^
after him and seized his arm.

Tell me the truth, Murray," she said ; " tell
me, before you go, are you lying to me or not ? "

Why should I lie to you, you foolish girl ?
Do you think I like all this worry ? But I am
forced to do, what you had better make up
your mind to do, make the best of the situation. "^

Without another word Nellie dropped his

^rm, and after a moment s hesitation Seafortli
quitted the room and the house. As he went
out something urged him to return.

Better not," said the evil spirit in his ear ;
^•'she knows the worst now; she will get over it,
-and become reconciled to the idea ; better leave
her alone."

So Seaport went away, flinging the better
spirit that prompted him to return behind hin.
Had he returned, perhaps the better spirit
would have once more gained possession of his
wavering heart — for what would he have seen ?

Nellie lying on the floor — stricken, moaning
like a creature in deadly pain. By-and-by
Miss Brewis, hearing these miserable moans,
came to the poor girl's assistance, and lifted up
her head with some commiserating words.

*' Don't take on so, ma'am," she said. "Soit's
true, I suppose, that young scamp of a
lord has been playing you a fine trick ? Well,
thank Heaven, no man ever tricked me ! Don't
moan like that, my dear — I'll get you a little
drop of something in water, that I take myself
when my heart's down, and it will do you good
but don't give way."

Then Nellie Hated up her head and looked in

Miss Brewis's face with lier wild, miserable
eyes.

Do you know what I am ? '' lie said. " I
told you I was married ; but I told you, it seems,
what was not true. I am an outcast — an outcast
! " And Nellie wrung her hands, and flung
her head down again upon the floor.

Well, ma'am," said Miss Br e wis, giving a
sniff really to hide the tears that, in spite of
herself, had stolen into her hard, green eyes,
^' to tell you the truth, I never quite believed
in the marriage. You see, when folks are
married they don't fret about each other, as
you fretted about this young gentleman, or
young lord, or whatever he is ; but Til warrant
him a bad \m, at any rate ! "

Nellie now rose to her feet, with a white,
despairing, set look in her young face.

I am going away, Miss Brewis," she said ;.
I am going away to-night — at. once. "Will you
tell me what I owe you, and I will pay you
now?"

"Then I just won't," said Miss Brewis. ,
"Don't you talk of going away to-night — I
won't let you, in fact. Go away, indeed ; go to
the river, I suppose, for lodgings there ! No,.

you shan't go. If this man lias behaved badly
to you, make him pay for it, for, take my word,
he's not worth fretting after. Have you no
friends, no father, to bring him to book ? "

Upon this allusion to her father, Nellie burst
into loud despairing sobs, and Miss Brewis put
her arms round her and drew the poor forsaken
girl's head down upon her hard breast.

** I never thought to have done it," thought
the virtuous Joanna ; " I never thought to have
taken a poor creature like this into my arms —
but I can't help it. Hush, hush, my dear ! " she
said aloud ; " hush, he's not worth it! You just
lie down on the couch a bit, and I'll get you
something in water, and we'll talk it over."

Joanna ran away to get the *' something in
water," and having mixed it and tasted it twice
to see it was all right, she returned to poor
Nellie, who was now sitting up.

You are very good," she said gently to Miss
Brewis, " but I don't want anything. I would
rather, please, pay what I owe, Miss Brewis —
for — for" — and her sobs commenced again — " I
am not fit to stay in your house."

I'm the best judge of that," answered joanna,
sturdily. "Nonsense, my dear ; if you

won't take this — and it's orxlywater with nothing
to speak of in it — but if you won't take it, I'll
just finish it myself, for it's a shame to waste
even water ; and I'll get you a nice cup of tea
or coffee, whichever you will have, and get you
to bed. Nor don't talk of going away. I won't
let you go to-night, so there's an end of it.
Folks see things next morning quite different
like ; but sometimes the next morning's sense
comes too late."

And Miss Brewis was as good as her words.
She got Nellie some strong tea, and she talked
to her in her homely fashion, and insisted upon
her going to bed, and having closed the door
upon her unhappy boarder, she commanded her
servants, on " their peril," not to make the least
noise.

Mrs. ]murray has had some bad news," she
told them — for Joanna was above gossipping
with her maid servants — " and she must try to
get to sleep."

But though Miss Brewis might shut the bedroom
door and command her household to
preserve complete silence, Miss Brewis could
not shut out the anguish which was racking
Nellie's heart.

*^ She had lost everything," she told herself,
as she tossed and moaned on her bed, '^ everything
— everything."

He was quite unworthy — perhaps this gave
the bitterest pang. He had deceived her,
purposely deceived her, a hundred times
Nellie knew this as she lay there, and she knew
also how fully she had believed in him and
trusted him. She had cared nothing for his
rank — nothing for anything but his love. She
would have followed him to Australia, worked
for him, died for him — but now — she would
never see his face again, she told herself —
never, never.

She could not live to face all this shame — •
she would not. She would die — what else had
he left her to do ? So despairing, crushed, and
hopeless, this poor child lay hour after hour ;
and when at last all the household had retired
for the night, she rose, white-faced and haggard,
determined to go out and end her misery in the
dark river, whose tide has swept over so many
broken hearts.

But before she went she enclosed in an
envelope the money — and more — that she
owed Miss Brewis. She left this on the toilet

table of her bedroom, with a few pencilled
words.

*' I thank you for your kindness' she wrote.
Will you give the other envelope, that I leave
here as well as this, to Captain Murray when
he comes. Tell him I was too miserable to
live."

In the other envelope, which she had directed
to " Captain Murray," Nellie enclosed the
remainder of the fifty pounds which Seaport
had given her on his return from Paris. She
enclosed the notes without a line — a word.
What could she say ? He had laughed at her,
told her to make the best of the situation, and
Nellie, not knowing of the struggle in his heartfelt
no word of hers would touch him now.

So, moneyless and hopeless, she went out into
the dark night. She easily unlocked the house
door, for the key was lying on the table in the
hall. Once — just once — she thought of going
to her father. But no, no ; she could not.
Better that he should think her dead — know
that she were dead — than to g:o back in her
shame.

She felt bewildered when she first went out,
and scarcely knew where to turn. But she was

not very far from the river ; she knew this, and
so she went wandering on.

Dark and chill was the night ; dark and chill
the unhappy wanderer's heart. She never
noticed that once or twice people looked at her,
and after her, as she passed them in the streets.
She was going to her death — death was better
than a life of shame, she kept repeating to
herself — and with this one dreary thought in her
heart, she hurried on her hopeless way.

She reached the river — the embankment at
Chelsea. People were walking here ; there was
a hum of voices. The black river flowed
beyond, and on its misty breast, as Nellie
stopped, she saw loom out in shadowy outline
the big, flapping sail of some barge or vessel.
It startled her — it came so near — it looked so
phantom-like, so strange. The girl stood gazing

it — watching it glide on in the darkness as
we sometimes seem to watch in our dreams.
Then, as it passed away, the memory of her
misery came back.

"I cannot live — " she moaned; and once more
with hurried steps she hastened on. She would
go to the bridge, she told herself — sand then, one
leap in the dark and her shame would be ended !

The bridge was not very far away : below it
the water flowed noiselessly, behind her the
lights of the mighty city twinkled and shone.
Above — but Nellie looked not above, God had
forsaken her — there was no help for her on earth !

As the maddened, unhappy creature was
actually about to spring from the parapet of
the bridge, her arm was roughly seized from
behind.

None of this, now," said a man's voice ;
*' don't you be going and throwing yourself
into the river like that ? "

Nellie gave a cry like a snared animal.

Let me go ! " she said. " Let me go ! "

But the man held her firmly.

*' Don't," he said, as she writhed and
struggled ; " don't. I won't leave hold of you.
Come, you must be quiet."

Then almost in a minute, it seemed to the
wretched girl, a crowd came round. Faces
peered at her, questions were asked ; and
suddenly the crowd seemed to part. It swayed,
the lights flashed all around her — there was a
strange surging sound in her eai's, and a
moment later all had passed into darkness.

MISS BREWIS SPEAKS HER MIND.

The next morning ]\Iis3 Brewis rose in a very
grim humour. She had made a fool of herself.
She had cried over a poor lost creature, and had
actually insisted on this poor lost creature
remaining in her house.

I've been an ass," said Miss Brewis, sharply
twisting up the hard knot of hair she wore at
the back of her head with a very vicious twist.

She went down stairs, wondering how she
would get rid of Nellie. This, however, did not
prevent her making some strong tea for Nellie
before she thought of getting her own breakfast.
Then she went upstairs with her tea, and rapped
gently at Nellie's bedroom door. There was no
response, and Miss Brewis rapped louder. As
there was still no response. Miss Brewis opened
the room door and walked in. She (rave an

exclamation when she found it empty. Then
she found the letter Nellie had left for her. She
opened it, and gave a cry.

'' The villain ! " she said, " the villain ! he's
murdered her."

She was a hard woman — hard and cold — but
she turned sick and faint as she read and re-read
Nellie's letter.

Poor soul, poor soul ! " she said, rocking
herself to and fro ; ''so she was too miserable to
live. But I'll tell him. I'll make his ears smart
if words can do it, or my name isn't Joanna
Brewis ! "

This last idea seemed quite refreshing to
Miss Brewis. She hurried down stairs ; she
sent at once for her friend Mrs. Benson.

*' Now Mrs. Benson," she said, " you give me-the
full name and address of that young lord
we saw at the theatre the night before last —
the young lord whose mother you were lady's
maid to."

That's young Lord Seaport ! " answered
Mrs. Benson. " But, Miss Brewis, what is the
matter? What do you want with the young
lord's address ? "

** Murder is the matter, Mrs. Benson," answered

Joannalili, grimly. " Murder and cruelty, and all
sorts of horrid abominations ! "

Oh, dear I oh, dear ! how dreadful ! " said
Mrs. Benson.

Then Joanna told her tale. How she had
thought it her duty to tell " the poor deluded
creature" that the villain who came to see her,
and passed himself off as " Captain Murray,"
was no other than young Lord Seaport. How
the villain had come, and a terrible scene had
been between them, and then he had gone away,
and the poor lost creature had fallen on the
floor, and moaned ^' enough to break one's
heart."

I own I was soft," said Joanna, " and it's
not my way. I own I took a poor creature no
better than she should be up in my arms, and
almost cried over her. And this is the end —
read for yourself, Mrs. Benson — ay, ay, the
fishes are eating her at this very minute, I make
not the slightest doubt."

o

Mrs. Benson took the letter and read it, and
then began to cry.

'' I nursed him when he was a little babe,"
she said. " I can't believe he's bad — he was a
sweet child. He may have erred, but he never

meant to do any harm — I'm sure lie never
meant to do any harm."

Then he's done it without meaning it ! "
snapped Joanna. " He's murdered this poor
creature, Mrs. Benson, and I would like to beat
his hanging."

Oh ! Miss Brewis ! "

That I would," said Joanna, with relish.
*' But I'll send for him. I'll speak my mind to
him, and then I'll send for a policeman''

But Mrs. Benson would not hear of this. She
pointed out to Joanna how such a scandal
might ruin her house ; how she ought to consider
the feelings of " the family."

My lady was a very proud lady' she said,
^' and had only a sad life with my lord, and she
is wrapped up in her only son. Think, Miss
Brewis, if this had happened to yourself — if a
child of yours — "

Don't insult me, Mrs. Benson. I never
thought of such a thing," interrupted the
virtuous Joanna.

'' I don't mean any offence," urged Mrs.
Benson. " But don't think of making a
scandal, for your own sake as well as my
lady's. How do you know that this poor

young creature has done any harm to herself ?
Most likely lie just has had a quarrel with the
young lord, and has run away to frighten him.
No, you take my advice. "Write and tell Lord
Seaport Mrs. Murray is gone, and I'll get
Benson to slip to my lady's himself with your
letter, and he'll give it either to Clayton, who
is my lord's servant, or to the young lord, so that
there will be no chance of it falling into my
lady's hands."

Miss Brewis was finally persuaded to adopt
this plan, the idea that a scandal might injure
the reputation of her house having a decided
influence upon her mind. She accordingly sat
down and penned (at Mrs. Benson's dictation)
the following letter to Lord Seaport : —

My Lord, — I beg to inform you that Mrs. Murray, who-was
staying at my house, and whom you visited here yesterday,
appeared in great distress after you left, and during the
night quitted my roof unknown to me, leaving a letter
addressed to me, enclosing her week's account, and also
a message to you. I had to tell you she " was too miserable
to live" — she said. Also she left a letter addressed to you,
which I have now in my possession.

Joanna Brewis.

Nothing would induce Joanna to put " yours
respectfully " — which the old family servant
wished her to do — before her signature.

No, I won't, Mrs. Benson 1 " snapped
Joannalili. '' His respectfully, indeed ! I've no
respect for him, or, for that matter, for any of
the male sex. Some of them may be well
enough, but the most of them are bad enough,
.and the less one has to say to them the better."

While Miss Brewis was writing her letter,
the young lord to whom it was addressed was
just rousing himself from the heavy sleep of
semi-intoxication. This was by no means a
usual vice of Seaport's. But the night before
he had tried to drown in wine the promptings
of that better spirit, whom during the day he
had refused to listen to.

And now when he awoke, hot, restless, and
with a headache, his first thoughts were for
Nellie.

I wonder how the poor, silly little woman
is ? " he thought. " Poor Nellie ! she was
terribly cut up ; I wish there was any other
way." And Seaport turned on his pillow and
sighed, and then tried to forget Nellie and fall
asleep again.

But sleep is a very fickle comforter, not to
bee won often by its greatest and mightiest
wooers. Yet it comes unsought on the straw

pallet, to the worn-out son of labour stretched
on his hard, poor bed. It comes beautiful —
bright-robed in dreams — to the oppressed, to
the weary. It has a world of its own ; a world
where all are equal, like to its mysterious sister,
Death.

And sleep would not come to the young lord
who sought in its oblivion to forget the wrong-that
he had done. His haunting Spirits — the
good and evil — stood on each side his bed.
The evil said —

It was better to tell her at once. What
else could I do ?" Then quoth the good spirit—

"Poor Nellie! poor, tender-hearted little
girl — it was cruel to stab her, poor Nellie ! "

So Seaport lay tossing restlessly, and presently
a gentle rap came to his bedroom door,

'' Come in," he called ; and with a scared
look on his usually composed face, his confidential
servant, Clayton, now entered.

Seaport caught sight of the man's slice, and
at once jumped up in bed.

Has anything happened ? What the deuce
do you look like that for, Clayton ? " he asked
nervously.

The man cast down his eyes, and answered —

"My lord," he said, ''Mr. Benson — who
married, as perhaps you remember, my lady's
late maid, Charlton — has just arrived, and he has
brought a letter for your lordship."

Well ! Is it about anything wonderful ? "

'' Something very sad has happened, my lord.
Mrs. Murray — "

What ? " cried Seaport, and he sprang up
and turned ghastly pale. " Nothing has happened
to her ? Speak man, or I'll strangle you ! "
And Seaport seized his servant's arm.

I'm afraid there has, my lord. She has
disappeared — "

*' Disappeared ! How and when ? " cried
Seaport, in the greatest excitement.

"Last night. It seems you saw her yesterday,
my lord ; and after you left Belgrave Eoad, the
poor lady was taken terribly ill, and told her
landlady she would go at once ; but the landlady,
Miss Brewis, would not hear of this, but
got Mrs. Murray to bed—"

Go on, go on ! "

Well, my lord, it seemed this Miss Brewis
is a friend of my lady's late maid, Charlton,
who married Mr. Benson, who has a chemist's
shop at the corner of Belgrave Road, and this

is low Benson has brought the letter. For ita
sad business, I'm afraid."

Give me the letter," said Seaport, eagerly ;
but the man still hesitated.

*' Perhaps this Miss Brewis may be mistaken,"
he said. *' Mrs. Benson hopes she is mistaken.
That is why Benson brought the letter, so as to
keep things as quiet as possible ; but Mrs.
Murray, it seemed, left a message for you in
her letter to Miss Brewis — a sort of farewell
message."

o

With a cry of horror, Seaport now snatched
Miss Brewis's letter from Clayton's hand ; with
another, half-sob, half-cry, he read the cruel
words.

"My God! my God!" he said, "can she
have been so mad ! "

Mrs. Benson, my lord, hopes she may not
have done any harm to herself," said Clayton,,
who also was very much overcome. " Mrs.
Benson thinks perhaps your lordship and the
poor lady may have had a quarrel, and that — ■
well, that she may have written this just to
alarm your lordship. This is why Benson himself,
as I said before, brought the letter. And,
my lord — you'll excuse me — but hadn't I better

oho on at once to Bcl2;rave Road ? Mrs. Benson
advised this, for Miss Brewis, the landlady, is a
party with a very bitter tongue, Mrs. Benson
sent word."

Wait for me, I will go at once," said
Seafortli. And a quarter of an hour later-pale,
haggard, and trembling in every limb —
Lord Seaport drove up to Miss Brewis's door.

Joanna saw him arrive, and prepared at
once "to speak her mind." Her green eyes
gleamed with the vicious gleam of a cat about
to spring upon its prey, and Seaport had
hardly entered the hall when Joanna met him.

'^ I have called about Mrs. Murray," faltered
Seaport.

'* The poor lady that drowned herself — being
forsaken," replied Joanna, with grim satisfaction.
'' Walk in here, my lord, and I'll give
you the particulars."

Seaport had scarcely power to follow her.
Then, as they entered the dining-room, he turned
and faced Joanna's cruel visage.

What reason have you," he said, grasping
the back of a chair for support, "for supposing
such a dreadful thing ? "

Joanna gave a sniff.

A very good reason," lie said sharply.
** Couldn't well have a Letter reason — seeiucr

o

what I save' with my own eyes."

*' What do you mean ? Good God ! what
do you mean ? "

My meaning's quite distinct," replied
Joanna. " After your lordship took your
departure from this house yesterday — which I
regret your lordship ever entered — the poor
forsaken creature who had been fool enough to
trust you, fell down on the floor and moaned
that awful, it would have moved any human
heart."

Joanna here stopped in her narrative. She
was enjoying the unmistakeable suffering that
her words were inflicting on Seaport, and her
green eyes looked absolutely ferocious.

*' After a time," proceeded Joanna, '' the
moans continuing — though, for the matter of
that, I had no business with my lodger's moans
rr-l went to see after the poor creature, and
found her stretched out on the carpet. I lifted
her up, and she looked at me with a look I
can't forget. * Do you know what I am ? ' she
asked, quite wild-like. Tm an outcast — an
outcast ! ' Those were her very words, and

I who have been broglie up respectable, and
have never listened to any male nonsense, felt
quite a turn."

Did you leave her ? You surely did not
leave lier in such distress ? " asked Seaport,
who was terribly pale.

Joannalili gave a satirical giggle.

I, not having caused her distress, did not
Heave her, your lordship," said Joanna, very
bitterly, and she nodded her head at the
unhappy Seaport. *' /, not having ruined her,
and brought her young head, and I've no doubt
her parents' grey ones, with sorrow to the
grave, stayed with her after your lordship had
left her. I lifted her up in my arms, though I
had never had anything that was not respectable
in my arms before, and I mixed her something
in water, and I got her some tea, and I
did my best for her, though I am a Christian
woman and go to church regularly, and she had
called herself an outcast ! I did all this your
lordship, after your lordship left her 1 "

Nothing could exceed the bitter volubility
with which Joanna poured out these words.
She felt no pity for the pale, haggard-faced
young man opposite to her. If he were suffering.

lie deserved to suffer, she thought. " Serve him
right," she mentally decided, looking with
relish on Seaport's white, quivering features.

*' And having got the poor soul to bed,"
continued Joanna, " I thought I had her safe
for the night ; but I was mistaken, your lordship,
as you will find after the perusal of the
letter she has left behind — in which letter I
may now state, she left her weekly account in
full, and ten shillings extra, which I now beg
to return." x\nd Joanna produced her jxirse.
"Good heavens! woman," cried Seafoith," don't
talk about such folly ! Tell me how she went."

Miss Brewis tossed her head and snorted
indignantly.

"I may be a woman, your lordship," she
said. " I am, I hope, a respectable woman, at
all events, but I am not accustomed to be so
addressed. However, to go on with the poor
creature's melancholy end, I may tell you I
heard nothing: thrush the nio;ht ; but this
morning, when I took her up a cup of early
tea, I found her room empty, and this letter
addressed to your lordship, in the name, I
suppose, you imposed on the poor unfortunate
person."

Seafortli snatched the envelope Nellie had
left for him out of Miss Brewis's hand, and tore
it open. When he saw its contents — the banknotes
he had given her — an exclamation of
absolute horror burst from his white lips.

Is that all ? " he said. " All ? " And he
flung the notes upon the floor.

"■ So she left the money behind her — poor,
poor soul ! " said Miss Brewis, looking down at
the notes, and speaking in a more subdued tone
than she had yet spoken in, during the interview.

'* Did she leave nothing else — no word ?"
gasped Seaport.

Yes, my lord ; a word of farewell," answered
Joanna, resuming her grim emphasis. ''*Tell
him' — you see she has written here" (and
Joanna held out Nellie's letter to herself),
' Tell him I am too miserable to live ! ' "

Even Joanna's heart felt softened at the;
terrible cry which burst from Seaport's lips ashe
read these words. The bitter speech she
was framing died on her tongue, her green
eyes lost their cat-like gleam.
" It's a sad case— " she began. But as she;
spoke, Seaport tottered forward, and fell
heavily on the floor. 'aim ^

Conscience.

Miss Brewis's shriek as Lord Seaport fell
forward, alarmed the whole household. Clayton,
Seaport's servant, who had followed him to
Belgrave Road, heard it, and ran at once into
the dining-room, for he had been w^aitinfr in the
hall in anything but a happy condition of mind.

** Oh ! my lord ! " he said, and he knelt down
and raised the head of the prostrate and insensible
man.

'* What has happened ? " he asked of Miss
Brewis, who was standing with uplifted hands.

It's his conscience," answered Joanna,
grimly ; but the next minute she hurried out
of the room and brought some water, and began
bathing Seaport's cold hands and brow.

We had best send for a doctor," she said,
and Clayton aorreeino: to this, one of the maids
was despatched at once to bring a doctor.

Before the doctor arrived, however, Seaport
bei^an to recover. Then Joanna produced a
brandy bottle and sparingly poured a little ina
glass, which Seaport drank.

Give me more"' he said the next minute
hoarsely, looking wildly round, but Joanna
snatched away her brandy bottle.

Too much is not good for you, young man''
she said, but Clayton interfered.

Let him have it. Miss Brewis," he said, and
very unwillingly Joanna allowed Clayton ta
take her brandy bottle out of her hands.

After he had taken the spirit, Seaport tried
to rise, assisted by Clayton. He was trembling
in every limb, and terribly shattered, but after
sitting silent for a few minutes, he spoke collectedly
enough to his servant.

We must find her," he said. " Ask at what
hour she disappeared."

Plis lordship wishes to know, Miss Brewis
the particulars about Mrs. Murray leaving your
house ? " asked Clayton, in a semi-undertone to
Miss Brewis. '' Don't speak loud — just tell me
quietly, and I'll tell his lordship."

His lordship knows all I know," answered
Joanna. ''I left her, as I supposed, safe for

the night, aDcl in the morning lie was nowhere.
I have nothing more to add."

But Dayton was not content with this. He
beckoned Miss Brewis out of the room, and
questioned her closely, and seemed very much
overcome by Miss Brewis's story.

*' Don't mention it, Miss Brewis," he said,
when Joanna had finished. " In all probability
this poor young lady has only run away, and
in that case we'll find her. His lordship is
terribly upset — it's a bad business at best."
And Clayton shook his head and sighed.

It's murder," said Joanna.

Not quite as bad as that, I hope. However,
I'll go down to one of the private-inquiry offices
at once. She had no money, you say ? "

Not a penny — she left all behind her — and
you'll please pick up the notes that his lordship
threw on the floor before he took the faint, and
count them, for though I can depend on my
own honesty I can't on other people's."

After this Clayton returned to Lord Seaport,
and whispered a few words in his ear.

"It will be best to do this, my lord," he
said aloud the next moment, and Seaport
nodded his head ; and then, leaning on

YOL. II. I

Clayton's arm, lie quitted Miss Brewis's house.

He drove directly from thence (still accompanied
by Clayton) to a private-inquiry office.
Here Clayton got out of the cab, and had a somewhat
lengthened interview with the manager,
who promised to let them have some news in a
few days. - >■ *

'' If she has committed suicide," said the
manager, '' her body will probably be washed
up. But she may merely be hiding — though
not taking any money with her has an ugly
look."

"When Clayton returned to Lord Seaport in
the cab he did not reject this last remark of
the private inquiry man. He tried to speak
hopefully to Seaport, and Seaport tried to
take comfort from his words. But all the day
afterwards a haunting dread followed Seaport.
He sent Clayton to the street near Eegent's
Park where MajorBlythe lived, to make inquiries
at the shops in the neighbourhood, as it occurred
to them that Nellie might have returned to her
old home. But Clayton soon found out that
this was not the case. Each post that passed,
Seaport hoped that it would bring him some
letter, but no letter, no word arrived all the da v.

Then when night came on, he shrank from
its gloomy prospect. He was quite unnerved,
and kept drinking, hoping to forget for an hour
or two the ghastly vision which his conscience
had conjured. But even in his dreams, a white,
despairing face seemed to loom shadow-like
from the darkness. And as the grey dawn
broke and the mists cleared from his brain,
Nellie's last message came back and struck
again like a sharp sword upon his soul.

*' Tell him I am too miserable to live''

He started up, he groaned aloud. Then he
tried to reason with himself, but all in vain.
Before him was the handwriting on the wall
the fiery letters of death and doom — the
\varnino: that had come too late !

Though it was yet early morning he summoned
Clayton, and ordered him at once to goto
Scotland Yard and apply to the police.
The man hesitated.

Hadn't we better wait a day or so my
lord ? " he asked.

No," said Seaport imperiously, " go at
once — I can bear it no longer — offer any reward
you like, tell anyone — anything is better than
this hell!"

i2

He looked so excited and utterly miserable
that Clayton did not dare further to oppose his
wishes. But Clayton impressed upon the
police, as he had impressed upon the manager
of the private-inquiry office, that the affair
ought to be kept as quiet as possible.

*' Don't let it get into the papers," urged
Clayton. '' They are ready to seize on any
scandal about a noble family, and in all probability
this young lady has only run away."

'' But was there any reason for her running
away ? " asked the Inspector, to whom Clayton
was speaking.

My lord and she had quarrelled, I understand,"
answered Clayton, casting down his
eyes.

"Well, we must do our best," said the
Inspector, and he then inquired all the particulars
about Nellie's flight, and promised to
keep the affair quiet until he communicated
further with Lord Seaport.

After Clayton had made these arrangements
with the police, he returned to the house at
South Kensington. Here he found Lord Sea-forth
even more excited than when he left him.
And all through the day it was the same thing ;

and during the evening, after dinner, Lady
Seafortli's anxiety about lier son's strange
manner and appearance grew so great, that she
broke through her usual reserve, and going upto
him she laid her hand upon his shoulder.

Are you ill, Murray ? " she said. " What
is the matter with you ? Are these wretched
money troubles worrying you more than usual V

Then Seaport broke into a hollow laus^h,
and his eves had a strange, wild sitter in
them.

Exactly ! " he said, and he threw up his
arms excitedly. " These wretched money
troubles — yes, they did it — they have caused
it all — have damned my soul ! "

"Oh! Seaport, hush, hush!" said the
shocked mother.

'but it's true," he went on still more
excitedly. "The devils are laughing now,
mother — this was their trap, and I plunged
into it, and dragged down a sweet soul with
me — a sweet, lost soul!" And Seaport burst
into sudden and passionate sobs.

The mother put her arms round him, and
laid her hand upon his burning brow.

My daring," she said, soothingly, " hush,

liusli ! you have a fever on you, Scafortli — you
are very ill."

'' Yes," lie said, and the alarmed mother at
once sent for medical advice, for she saw now
how really ill he was.

Before the night was over he grew dangerously
so. The fever had attacked his brain
and the miserable strain and anxiety he had
gone through during the last two days,
augmented by the quantity of wine he had
taken to drown the voice of conscience, had
proved more than his mental strength could
bear. He grew violent as the night advanced,,
and raved and called for Nellie ; then shrieked
out that he saw her, pointing with his hand ta
some fancied object in the room.

'' Nellie I Nellie I Nellie I " he kept calling in
appealing accents ; and his proud mother sitting
by, bowed her head and stopped her ears ta
shut out that piteous cry.

She seemed to understand it all, as she sat
there watching her only son ; the dark struggle
that had gone on in his heart ; the tragedy in
which he had played a part ; but she spoke no
word, and gave no sign of her secret thoughts.
'' Seaport had fever ; he was very ill," she

told Nora Trelawn, who went to inquire after
the young lord, having heard a report of his
dangerous illness. And what Lady Seaport
told Nora Trepan, she told all who went to ask
after her son. She did not tell how one name
was always on his lips ; she did not tell how her
late maid, Mrs. Benson, came to her in secret,
and told her, with many tears, of the disappearance
of '' Mrs. Murray " from Miss Brewis's
house ; for Mrs. Benson, after many doubts
about the propriety of doing this, and after
learning of Lord Seaport's dangerous condition,
had decided that it was right that his mother
should know, particularly as the police had been
to Miss Brewis's house, and that lady had
declared " it was more than she could stand''

So, after Benson's visit to her "Ladyship,"
her ladyship knew everything. She said very
little to Benson. Her sale, clear skin flushed,
and she cast down her large, prominent blue
eyes as she listened to her late maid's story.

Young men will do these things, I suppose,"
she said, coldly. " Ask this person — your friend
who has the boarding or lodging-house — to keep
this unpleasant affair a secret, and I will give
you fifty pounds to give her, Benson."

Ill could tills proud lady spare this fifty
pounds. Joannalili Brewis, to whom she was
sending it, was a great deal richer than Alice
Elizabeth, Viscountess Seaport. And Joanna
was furious when Mrs. Benson produced the
bribe.

Thank you, Mrs. Benson ! " said Joanna in
her tartest tones, tossing her head indignantly
as she spoke, '' Thank you, but I want no blood:
money all the same, or hush money, if you like
that name any better ! "

'you shouldn't take it in that way, Miss
Brewis," said Mrs. Benson. ''My lady only
meant — "

I know quite well what she meant," interrupted
Joanna. " She meant to stop my
tongue — to take my natural rights of speaking,
away from me I But, thank you, T prefer my
tongue, and wouldn't part with it for a hundred
pounds, let alone fifty ! "

*' Well, you see, in noble families — " mildly
suggested the old servant.

Joanna snapped her fingers.

*' Don't care that for noble families!" she-said
contemptuously. *' Noble families don't
care that for me, and I return the compliment.

If I say nothing about this sad business it will
be for my own sake, and the sake of future
lodgers, and not for noble families, I can tell
you!"

But for her own sake. Miss Brewis decided it
was wiser to hold her tongue about 'mrs.
Murray's " disappearance, and she accordingly
did hold it. But she would have nothing to say
to Lady Seaport's fifty pounds. Benson duly
returned this to her ladyship, and my lady
raised her eyebrows in surprise.

I thought these kind of people were always
ready to take money," she said, and Mrs.
Benson felt a little hurt by the remark.

*' If — if you hear anything more, Benson,'
continued Lady Seaport, casting down her
proud, blue eyes, and speaking with a certain
hesitation of manner that was unusual to her,
*' will you let me know ? I can depend upon
your prudence — and there may some further
annoyance arise to Lord Seaport about — this
unfortunate entanglement."

Yes, my lady," answered Benson, and then
she took her leave. But before the day was
over, Lady Seaport had another visitor about

^'this unfortunate entanglement."

This was Strathearn. Lady Seaport was
sitting by lier son's bedside, watching his restless,
broken slumber, when a card was brought to
her, on which was engraved the name of Mr.
Campbell, of Strathearn.

I cannot see Mr. Campbell," said Lady
Seaport. " Tell him Lord Seaport still continues
very ill."

The servant took down her ladyship's message,,
but returned after a few minutes' absence with
another card of Strathearn 's, on which he had
written in pencil,

"J must see you on urgent business''

Then Lady Seaport went down to receive
Strathearn, who was standing, waiting for her,
in the drawing-room. She knew him slightly,.
and when he turned his face round as she
entered the room, she noticed how pale and
agitated he was.

So," he said, in his rough way, advancing
to meet Lady Seaport, " Seaport is very ill, I
hear ! "

He is dangerously ill," answered Lady
Seaport, very gravely.

'' Humph ! " said Strathearn. " Then I can't
see him, I suppose ? "

Certainly not — lie would not understand
anything that you said to him."

Humph ! " again muttered Strathearn, and
then he began walking up and down Lady
Seaport's drawing-room in his old impatient
way.

I am sorry I cannot remain with you, Mr.
Campbell," continued Lady Seaport, " but my
son's health — "

*lady Seaport," now interrupted Strathearn,
without much ceremony, ^'1 came to see Seaport
on a matter that concerns both his honour and
mine ! Last autumn he brought down to mv
place in Scotland, a lady — "

"Mr. Campbell," said Lady Seaport, with
grave courtesy, though her pale face grew crimson,
*•' you must pardon me for reminding you
that these are subjects unfit for discussion with
n lady."

"The lady in question. Lady Seaport,"
answered Strathearn bitterly, and with a shrug
of his broad shoulders, " was an innocent young-girl,
who believed herself to be your son's wife."

His wife ! " repeated Lady Seaport, lifting
lip her eyes in utter astonishment. " Impossible,
Mr. Campbell ! — you arc completely mistaken !"

I did not say she was his wife," continued
Stratheani, 3'ct more bitterly, 'but that she
believed herself to be so — and Seaport had
shamefully deceived her."

^'I cannot listen to abuse of my son."

*^ Let us leave him alone then ; but I want to-learn
the truth. This girl, Mrs. Murray, left
Strathearn after an interview with me. In this
interview — your ladyship must pardon me if I
speak unpalatable truths — in this interview
then, for the first time, she learned, and from
my words, what I believe to be her true position.
She was shocked, indignant, and she left my
house the day after, and has never returned.
I have waited and waited, how impatiently I
cannot tell you, to hear something of her from
Seaport, I had given him perhaps just cause
for anger, and I expected when I found Mrs,
Murray had left Scotland, or at least Strathearn,
that he would have written to me. But I waited
in vain — and now I want to know two things,
and then I shall trouble him no more."

"I cannot answer for my son, or meddle
with his affairs, and I must beg of you, Mr.
Campbell, to end this interview," said Lady
Seaport.

I must learn something before I go," said
Stratheam passionately. " Is your son going
to marr" the rich Avoman they call Croesus's
widow ? and what has he done with the innocent
girl he has so cruelly and shamefully wronged ? "

Strathearn's face was quite pale with passion
as he asked these questions. He stood there
facing Lady Seaport, fierce and indignant, and
the polished woman of the world shrank back,
and cast down her haughty eyes.

I am astonished, utterly astonished, ]mr.
Campbell, that you should ask me such
questions," she said ; '* and you must know that
even could I do so, I would decline to answer
them. Ashen my son recovers — "

And in the meanwhile this poor girl may
starve," interrupted Strathearn.

'•' I cannot discuss the question."

No ! " said Stratheam, with great indignation,
*' but Seaport shall answer for all this tome.
But if he is not fit to see me," he added,
"he had a servant — a confidential servant, I
understood — called Clayton, who came down
once to Strathearn, and who was present, so
she told me, at the ceremony in Edinburgh,
which this poor, wronged girl believed to be her

marriage. Now, Lady Seaport, can I see this
man ? "

For a moment Lady Seaport hesitated.
Then, in her usual cultured, haughty manner,
she told a deliberate falsehood to serve her son.

"This man — Clayton," she said, *left my
son's service some little time ago."

Where has he gone, then ? Surely, you
can find out that ? " asked Strathearn eagerly.

'' I really cannot. My son dismissed him
for some impertinence or other, I think, and I
fancy I heard Seaport say he had gone abroad."

Strathearn gave an impatient ejaculation.

And this is all you know ? " he said. 'all
and the unhappy girl mays die in her despair ! "

Lady Seaport grew a little pale. She knew
at this very moment what terrible fears were
entertained about " the unhappy girl's " fate ;
she knew that she had disappeared, that there
was no one to look for her now that Seaport
lay ill — and yet for her son's sake, for her
pride's sake, she would not speak the truth to
Strathearn.

'' I can, of course, say nothing," she repeated;
and Strathearn turned to leave the room as she
spoke.

*'Theii I may as well go' he said, almost
rudely. " Good-day, Lady Seaport — 1 might,
perhaps, have known you would show no pity — '^
And muttering, frowning, and indignant. Strath-earn
quitted Lady Seaport's house.

As he went out, he made a vow.

"I will find her," he said, clenching his hands ;
if she is alive I will find her." And yet he
knew not which way to begin his search. Since
Nellie had quitted Strathearn the fiercest
passions by turns had racked this man's unruly
heart. He loved Nellie — for the first time in
all his life, he loved with an absorbing passion
which had overpowered all his other feelings.
In the last interview he had had with her at
Strathearn, he had told her this, and in spite of
his pride in his old name, he had asked this
nameless woman to be his wife. When he first
heard that she was gone ; that she had gone
without a word, a line for him — gone back he
naturally supposed to Seaport — he fell into the
most violent and ungovernable paroxysms of
rage. He swore that he would forget her,
that he hated her, that he would never think
of her more ; yet his very efforts to accomplish
this only seemed to fix her image more indelibly

on his perturbed and restless heart.

For some time after Nellie left the Glen, he
expected each day to receive an indignant letter
from Seaport. He would have given anything
to have received such a letter. He would have
heard something of her, at least, then — this
miserable silence and doubt would at least have
ended. Bat no letter came, and Strathearn
heard not a word either of Seaport or Nellie.
At last, after weeks and weeks, he could bear
the suspense no longer — he came up to town —
he made inquiries about Seaport at his club.
He then heard two pieces of news about the
man who had once been his friend. One was
that Lord Seaport was about to marry Croesus's
widow ; the other that he was seriously ill.

Strathearn then went to Lady Seaport's house,
as we have seen, and insisted upon seeing her.
There was a sort of wild, bitter joy in his heart
when he heard that Seaport was about to marry
Mrs. Trelawn. He remembered how he had told
Nellie this at Strathearn, and how this marriage
would of course separate Nellie for ever from
Seaport. Then, when he heard of Seaport's
dangerous illness, a sudden fear struck chill and
cold upon his heart. Could anything have

happened ? Where was she ? He must know ;
and so he went to Lady Seaport's, and the
result of his interview with her was that he
knew nothing more than he had known before.

After he had left her, Lady Seaport returned
to her son's hedside,and stood for a few moments
gazing at his altered face. Deeply, tenderly,
almost passionately, had this proud woman loved
her only son. All her hopes, all the joys of her
life, had been centred on him. For his sake she
had held her place in the world, and schemed
and struggled with the difficulties of her position.
And to-day — what had she heard ? she thought
bitterly — what had she done ? She stood there
looking at the fever-stricken face, and then
hastily turned away and left the room, hurrying
to her own, and scarcely had she got there,
when she fell down by the bed, utterly overcome
and broken down with emotion and shame.

"It is too much, too much ! " she sobbed.
** That man to come here and insult me as he
did — better had you died, Murray — died when
you lay in my arms an innocent child, than
have lived to have cost me what you have done
to-day ! "

MRS. TOM.

A CROWD swaying backwards and forwards —
strange voices — a rush, a whirl of overwhelming
emotion, were the last impressions that the
miserable, broken - hearted woman — girl no
longer — whom we have of late called Mrs.
Murray, received on the bridge at Chelsea,
before her senses became deadened to everything
around.

When she recovered consciousness she found
herself borne swiftly along in a carriage, her
head resting on soft cushions, and the kind,
sympathetic voice of a woman, who was seated
beside her, sounded in her ears.

'* Are you a little better now ? " said this kind
voice. '' You are quite safe ; don't look so
startled ; before long we shall be at home."

When Nellie heard these words she lifted
her head and tried to think, looking with her
frightened eyes at the face of the woman who
was speaking to her ; and then, as her fuller
consciousness returned, a moan broke from her
lips.

"Don't," said the kind voice, Which had
before spoken, "don't worry — things will all
some right — I am so glad I saw you." And
Nellie felt her hand taken in a warm little
palm, and held in a friendly grasp.

How Nellie found herself in this carriage,
seated beside a good-looking young woman,
with a fresh, happy face, and brown hair, in
which there were flowers, is very easily explained.


The wretched girl, who had left as her last
message that she was " too miserable to live,"
had scarcely been rescued from her self-sought
death, when a carriage approached the little
crowd which had sprung up like magic on the
bridge. The coachman drew up his horses
when he reached the crowd, and inquired the
cause of the excitement. Then a dozen voices
replied. A young woman had tried to throw
herself off the bridge — that was the young

woman they were holding there, — and so on.
Upon this a lady, who was seated alone in the
carriage, put out her flower-crowned head.

Poor thing, poor thing ! " she said, and as
the lamps fell on Nellie's white face, which
looked even now so young and child-like, the-lady
in the carriage was moved to yet deeper
compassion.

I must get out and see if I can do anything
for her," she said to her coachman, and she did
get out. The crowd readily gave way before a
lady dressed in shining satin, with a white cloak
wrapped round her dainty shoulders, and so a
moment or so later, the lady found herself face
to face with the quivering, panting creature,
struggling in the arms of the man who had just
refused to let her die.

To speak softly to Nellie, to take her hand,,
to look at her with kind, sympathetic eyes,
was as natural to this young lady who had just
left her carriage as it was for her to draw her
sweet breath. But the quivering, panting
creature, who had summoned courage in her
agony to face the threshold of the eternal,,
neither understood the kind words nor looks.
Strange noises sounded in Nellie ears, the

crowd around her grew indistinct, the lights
faded, and darkness and blackness fell upon,
her soul. Then, as she fell back insensible in
the arms of the man who was holding her, the
lady in the satin dress, and flower-crowned
head, took Nellie in her arms, and pillowed the
dishevelled head of the poor stranger on as kind
and womanly a breast as ever beat on earth.

'^ Let me hold her," she said. " Oh, poor
girl, poor girl I And I see she is married,"
she continued, as her eyes fell on the wedding-ring
on Nellie's hand, which one of the crowd
around was now chafing. " I dare say she is
some unhappy young wife Vvdio has run away
from some bad, cruel husband — for there are
bad, cruel husbands, I believe — and I think —
yes, I am sure, it will be best for me to just
drive this poor creature home, and get her a
doctor, and see after her, and I am sure my
husband will be quite delighted to have her."

The crowd around made no objections to this
plan. No policeman had yet appeared, and the
crowd as a body felt that it was kind of the
lady, and that they were well rid of the trouble
of looking any further after the poor young
woman who had tried to drown herself. The

man, however, who had caught her by the arm
first, came forward and put in a peculiar claim.

"I'm a poor man," he said, rubbing his
greasy coat pockets with a disconsolate air,
and I don't know but it's my duty to get the
police — and there would be a reward then, you
see, for saving her."

The lady acted upon this hint.

"Don't call the police," she said. "Fancy how
dreadful for this poor young lady if she were
to find herself in the hands of the police. Here
are two sovereigns — will that do ? "

The man thanked the lady, pocketed the
sovereigns, and assisted to carry the insensible
Nellie to the lady's carriage. Nellie was
lifted in ; the lady ordered her coachman
to drive on ; and as the carriage was vanishing
a policeman arrived on the scene, and learned
to his great disappointment that he had come
too late, and that " a case " had slipped out of
his hands.

Thus when Nellie beo-an to recover consciousness;,
she found herself alone with the lady in
her carriage. The lady held her hand, and
kept talking to her in her sweet, pleasant way.

I've not told you my name even yet," she

said. " Well, I must tell }'oii now. I'm Mrs.
Tom Bertrim — my husband's called Tom, you
know ; and as his father and mother are alive,,
I go by the name in the family of Mrs. Tom.
It is not a pretty name, is it ? " And Mrs. Tom
laughed a sweet, happy laugh. " But I would
not change it for all the world — because it is
my husband's."

In these simple words, Mrs. Tom told the
whole history of her married life. She loved
her husband with all her heart, and he truly
returned her affection. They were a young
couple, well off in this world's goods, Mrs. Tom
being the only child of a wealthy city merchant,
and Mr. Tom Bertin had been considered a
lucky man when Dossie Barrett accepted him.
She brought him ten thousand pounds at the
time of their marriage, and the prospect
of many more thousands depending on future
contingencies. But she brought him something
better than all these thousands — a true, honest
and loving heart. She Jiad been the joy and
sunshine of her old home, and she was now the.
joy and sunshine of her husband's. And as
this sweet, kindly creature held the poor, twitching,
trembling hand of a woman whose name she

• did not know, as lie neared her home she felt
no fear — as some wives would have done — about
her husband's reception of this unfortunate
stranger.

When the carriage entered the avenue of
Castlewood Lodge, where she lived, Mrs. Bertrim
again pressed Nellie's hand reassuringly.

See," she said, pointing to the open hall-door
of the house, where a tall, rather good-looking
man, with one foot swathed in flannels,
was standing waiting, " that is my husband. I
will get out first, and just run in for a moment
to speak to him," she continued, and as she
spoke she jumped out of the carriage and ran
up to her husband, and slid her arm into his,
and began whispering in his ear. Mr. Tom
Bertrim listened, nodded good-naturedly, and
then went limping after his wife to the carriage
door.

This is my husband," said Mrs. Bertrim,
now addressing Nellie.

'tom, dear, help out the lady," she continued.
^'My husband has gout, you see, poor old
man, and that is how I was dining with his
father and mother without him. Lean on me,
please, dear; I am very strong. Tom, darling.

run and get a bottle of champagne. She want's
something to keep her up."

While Mrs. Tom Bertrim was uttering these
disjointed sentences, she was at the same time
assisting her husband to lift the prostrate and
trembling woman whom she had befriended, from
the carriage. Nellie felt powerless; she leaned
against the kindly creature who was supporting
her, and her head fell on Mrs. Bertrim's shoulder.

Poor darling ! " said Mrs. Tom, speaking of
Nellie, and treating her as though she were a
little child. " She's quite tired out, Tom. Let
us carry her in here ; and now, dearie, get the
champagne."

Tom limped away to get the champagne, and
Mrs. Tom bent over Nellie, and lifted her head
on the pillow of the couch on which they had
laid her, and tried in every possible way to be
kind to her. But the poor broken-hearted
creature never spoke. She lay there, Vv^hite and
tearless — her blue eyes wide open, and full of
unutterable pain.

The happy woman who knelt by her, who tried
to make her drink the wine her husband had now
brought, who spoke so gently and kindly to her,
could not realise this mute and terrible despair.

"Oh, clout look like that!" prayed Mrs.
Tom, her own eyes growing a little dim. " Tom,
dear, bring baby — perhaps if she sees baby it
may do her good."

The obedient '' Tom " at once limped away
to fetch '' baby," and returned in a few minutes
with a lovely, rosy boy, in his little lightness,
crowing; and doubling; his small fists in his
father's arms.

There ! " said Mrs. Tom, embracing the
child, and carrying it towards the couch where
Nellie lay. *' This is my boy ; he's a fine fellow,
isn't he ? Look at his legs ! "

Master Bertrim's legs were fat, chubby,
infantine. No one but the fond young mother
would probably have seen anything particular
to admire in them. But as she kissed the little
pink, curled-up toes, the expression of her face
was touching, from its intense maternal love.
Then she looked round at her hapless guest.
Nellie had never raised her head ; never even
looked at the baby. When she saw this, Mrs.
Tom gently put back the child in its father's arms.

Tom," she whispered, " she must be very
ill, she has never looked at baby. We must send
hit once for the doctor."

They did send at once for the doctor, and when
the doctor saw Nellie he looked very grave.

She has had some severe nervous shock"'
he told Mrs. Tom, " and must be kept perfectly
quiet. And I would advise you to send
for her friends."

Then Mrs. Bertrim was obliged to confess
that she knew not where to send ; that the
*poor lady" was a stranger whom she had
found wandering about, apparently in despair
(for some gentle instinct in Mrs. Bertrim's
heart forbade her to tell of Nellie's misery -
driven attempt on her young life) ; and the
doctor, as he listened to the half-told tale,,
smiled, and good-naturedly shook his head.

^' It was just like you," he said. " My friend
Tom will have to start an hospital some day
for the waifs and strays collected by his wife.
But, my dear girl" (the doctor had known
Mrs. Tom all her life) "without jesting, I
think you had better send this poor creature
at once to some hospital. She is very low —
may be ill for weeks."

Dossie Bertrim's face suddenly flushed at
this proposition.

'you are a horrid man, doctor!" she said.

half in jest and half in earnest. " Quite horrid !
What ! send her out among strangers, to be
questioned and worried and tormented, when
she is broken-hearted and so ill ? I don't
know what you call that, doctor, but I don't
call it Christian charity."

*^ What a rage the little Samaritan is in,"
laughed Mr. Tom, patting his wife on her
pretty shoulders.

*' I'm not in a rage, Tom," answered Dossie,
"but I must say I think it is cold-blooded — -
yes, doctor, cruel and cold-blooded — to bring a
poor young creature home, and then talk of
turning her out because she is going to be ill.
If Tom does not object" (Mrs. Tom knew c[uite
well Tom would never think of objecting) " I
will nurse her and take care of her until she is
well, and it will be quite time enough to talk
-of sending her away then J'

*'*I was a stranger and ye took me in'"
quoted the doctor, who had been smiling all the
while that Mrs. Tom had been scolding him.
■** Well, my dear, it was my duty to tell you
what you are doing ; but all the same, if, as you
say, Tom here does not object, I shall be glad
to have this young lady as a patient."

*^ I don't object," said Tom, in his Hearty way,
and as lie spoke Mrs. Tom threw her arms round
Diis neck and kissed his cheek.

'' There ! " she said. " Didn't I tell you Tom
would be delighted to have her? In fact it was
to please Tom, I think, that I brought her,"
she added, with a little laugh. ^' And now,
doctor, let us all try to do our best for her, and
if you do I'll forgive you again." And Mrs.
Tom held out her kindly hand to her old friend.

But though these good people did everything
they could for Nellie, during the next few days,
she still lay drifting lower and lower, the shadow
of her grief and shame lying like a black cloud
athwart her life.

STKATHEAEN Offers A REWARD.

Awhile Nellie lay very ill at Castlewood
watched over by the good Samaritans who lived
there, in the great city beyond Strathearn was
restlessly wandering to-and-fro in search of her.

He succeeded after some difficulty in tracing
her to Miss Brewis's lodging-house in Belgrave
Road. He did this through the police, as the
description he gave of "Mrs. Murray's" personal
appearance tallied so closely with the description
given by Clayton, Lord Seaport's servant,
of the lady who had disappeared from the house
in Belgrave Road, that the police naturally
concluded that Mr. Campbell and Lord Seaport
must be seeking the same person.

When Strathearn heard there was a suspicion
that this lady had destroyed herself, the grey
pallor that suddenly spread over his face at
once betrayed his secret to the lynx-eyed

inspector of police to whom lie was talking.

'Tis only a suspicion, sir," added the
inspector, considerately. " The lady disappeared
on such a night, and has not been
heard of since ; but on the same night a female
endeavoured to throw herself off Chelsea Bridge,
and was prevented by a man who was crossing
the bridge at the time. This man we have
found ; but the strangest ]part of the business
is, that a carriage drove up just after the
occurrence on the bridge happened, and a lady
o^ot out of this carriage and took the female
who had attempted to drown herself under her
charge, and drove her away, and we have not
been able yet to discover to whom this carriage
belongs."

And you think this was — Mrs. Murray ?"
faltered Strathearn, with a sort of gasp in his
deep voice.

The man who saved her described her as a
fLxir-haired young woman with small features.
Does this answer to the appearance of the Mrs,
Murray you wish to find 1 " asked the inspector.

Yes — perhaps. Can I see — this man ?"

"Certainly, sir. And I may tell you that
Clayton, Lord Seaport's servant — "

Clayton ! Lord Seafortli's servant ?" interrupted
Stratliearn, with a start. "Has this
Clayton been here then ?"

He has carried on all inquiries aljout this
business' answered the police-inspector, " for
Lord ^eaforth has been laid up with fever, and
unable to attend to it ; and this Clayton has
seen the person who saved the female from
drowning, and was convinced from the person's-description
that the female was the Mrs. Murray
Lord Seaport was seeking ; indeed, so much
so that he rewarded this man by Lord Sea-forth's
orders, and no further inquiries have
been made by his lordship since then — in fact
I believe he has gone abroad."

An oath burst from Strathearn's bitten lips
after he had heard this explanation. He knew
then, that Lady Seaport had lied to him about
Clayton, and he guessed the whole of the
miserable truth. Seaport had told Nellie that
she had been cruelly deceived, and the wretched
girl had wandered out to die in her despair.
This had been the secret of Seaport's sudden
illness — his conscience had smitten him.

If he has murdered her, I will kill him,"
muttered Strathearn in a fierce undertone.

turning away this head from the keen-eyed
man who was looking at him and inwardly
speculating on the nature of his interest in
'mrs. Murray."

"Clayton, as I was saying, sir," continued
the inspector, 'saw this man who saved the
lady, and he — Clayton, I mean, — informed me
then, that his lordship was sensible again, and
was greatly relieved in his mind to hear that the
unfortunate young woman had not succeeded
in drowning herself. It seemed from Clayton's
story that there had been a quarrel between
them, but his lordship had no idea of forsaking
her, and was terribly cut up when he thought
she had made away with herself."

And — and Lord Seaport knows nothing
more — nothing of where she is now ? "

I conclude not, sir, for we have orders to
endeavour to trace her ; but I heard that Lord
Seaport had gone abroad."

And Clayton ? "

I cannot tell you, sir ; for the last few
days we have heard nothing, either from Lord
Seaport or Clayton."

I must find out," said Strathearn ; '"'in the
meanwhile offer two hundred pounds reward

VOL. II. K

for any information — about, about her, — and
let me see the man who — "

Strathearn could not complete the sentence.
His voice grew husky and then broke, and he
quickly turned away his head, ashamed to allow
another man to see the overwhelming emotion
sweeping like a torrent over his soul.

He drove direct from Scotland Yard to Lady
Seaport's house in South Kensington. It was
shut up. In vain he pealed at the door-bell ;
in vain stamped and swore, and knocked withall
his might.

The family are out of town," a policeman,
who had been benignly watching his exertions,
presently told him, and this was all Strathearn
could learn. At the clubs also he could gain
no further information about Lord Seaport.

He has been terribly ill, and is in no end
of a hole," one man told him, " and has vanished
* until a more convenient season.' But
they say," added this man, ^' that he is
going to patch up his fortunes by marrying
that pretty, dark-eyed little woman, called
Croesus's widow — good thing for Seaport if
he does."

This was what the world said. But now let us

go beliincl the curtain, and learn how far the
world spoke truth.

A few days before Strathearn had been vainly
rapping and ringing at Lady Seaport's house
door; in a darkened upper chamber of that
stately mansion, her son had been lying prostrate
and exhausted, but once more with the light of
reason in his eyes.

By his bedside his servant, Clayton, was
standing.

*' My lord," he was saying, "from the man's
account of the lady's appearance, there is no
doubt it was Mrs. Murray. Wherever she is,
you may make your mind easy about her, for
the man said the lady who got out of the
carriage was quite a lady — a young, handsome
lady — and evidently rich."

Seaport turned on his bed, sighing restlessly.

And the police can't trace this carriage ? "
he said presently.

*' They have not been able to do so yet — but
indeed, my lord, you can make your mind
quite easy, for the man said the young lady to
whom the carriage belonged seemed most kind,
and took Mrs. Murray in her arms, just as if
she had been her sister."

k2

Again Seafortli sidiecl.

'' Poor, poor Nellie ! " lie muttered. " Poor,
foolish little girl. Why could she not trust
me ? "

Lord Seafortli said these words in a very low
tone — in fact, only murmured them to himself,
and Clayton made no reply, and a few minutes
later Lady Seaport entered the room, and the
confidential servant at once left it.

'you are better, Murray ? " said Lady Seaport,
who looked greatly disturbed, glancing anxiously
at her son.

Yes, mother'* he answered, '' but weary,
weary, weary ! " And he flung his arms
impatiently over the coverlet.

I have been speaking to the doctor about
you," continued Lady Seaport, " and he thinks
an immediate change will do you good — "

''I can't leave town — don't talk of it, mother,"
interrupted Seaport.

For a moment or two Lady Seaport made
no reply. She fixed her eyes still more
anxiously on her son's face ; she opened her
lips to speak, and yet was afraid to utter the
words she felt herself forced to say.

"I don't wish to worry you, Murray," she

presently began ; " yoa have been too ill to be
worried — but things could be arranged better —
-some pressing money affairs could be arranged
better — by Mr. Cairns if this house were shut
up, and we were out of the way."

'' What ? " said Lord Seaport, looking up.
*' There's a row then, I suppose ? "

*' Don't trouble about it," answered Lady
Seaport, " it will be settled. A friend — someone,
Murray, whom you will never guess" — and
Lady Seaport's proud mouth quivered — " has
advanced a sum of money to free his from
^ny very pressing difficulties ; and if we were
away for a time — if you could exert yourself
sufficiently to go, Murray — "

Seaport moved restlessly, and then sighed
impatiently.

*' I can't go, mother ; I must stay to make
some inquiries — to learn something I want to
know," he said.

Leave Clayton to make these inquiries —
he seems to know all about your affairs,"
answered Lady Seaport with a curling lip.

Again Lord Seaport looked at his mother —
this time curiously.

How long have I been ill, mother ?" he said.

Lady Seafortli hesitated ; she scarcely dare
tell her son of all the weary nights and days
that had passed since that terrible night when
he had suddenly broken down, and begun
raving in his delirium about the hapless gii'l
whom he then feared he had driven to an
untimely end.

"It is more than a fortnight now, Murray,"
she said, in somewhat faltering accents, " and
I am sure, for many reasons, you would be
better away."

Lord Seaport did not speak.

When you were very ill," continued Lady
Seaport, casting down her eyes, while a sudden
flush passed over her face, " I had a strange
visitor to inquire after you — Mr. Campbell, of
Strathearn."

Oh ! old Strath," said Seaport, carelessly.

As his careless tone fell on his mother's ear
she looked quickly up, some hope and yet deep
anxiety being betrayed in her glance.

Murray," she said, " this Mr. Campbell-insulted
me — insulted you — and yet you speak
of him — indifferently."

As his mother said this, a faint colour spread
over Seaport's pale, wasted features, for he

now remembered what in this illness and weakness
lie had for a moment foro-often.

"What did he say ?" he asked uneasily.

"I cannot repeat what he said," answered
Lady Seaport, with some passion in her voice,
though she was striving to subdue this on
account of her son's prostrate condition ; " I do
not choose to repeat what he said, Murray ''^
and the proud woman turned away from her
-son's bedside, and went to the window ; *^ but
he said enough — you arc best out of his way.
And there is another reason why this house
should be shut up, and the servants discharged."


AY ell T said Lord Seaport, still uneasily.

When this Campbell could not see you,"
continued Lady Seaport, her head yet averted
from her son, "he insisted upon seeing Clayton
he would see him, he said — he was rude,
impertinent ; and I told an untruth to him,
Murray — I told him Clayton had left your
service, had gone abroad ; so you had best send
him out of the way."

For a minute or two Lord Seaport did not
.speak. Then he jerked out, angrily and impatiently
—

^*It was confoiindccl impertinence of Campbell
to come here and interfere with my affairs 1"

Do not excite yourself," said Lady Scafortli,
now returning to the bedside ; " but I thought
it best to tell you, for Clayton ought to be
kept out of this Mr. Campbell's way."

^' All right— I'll see to it."

And, Murray, Hugh Marchmont has offered
his house to us, to stay as long as we like there.
The air is very fine, as you know, at Rye-court,
and you want a complete rest — out of
the way of all worries — and Eyecourt is just
the place for you. You are not strong enough
yet to go abroad, but you are strong enough, I
hope, to go to Hugh Marchmont's — and Mr.
Cairns can give out we are abroad until things
are arranged."

You have settled it all, then, mother, it
seems ! So old Hugh Marchmont has come to
the front — a tribute to the old love, eh, mother?"

Lady Seaport did not speak. She drew up her
haughty head and looked almost wonderingly
at her son. What, he could jest still, then ! she
was thinking'.

'' It is well — well," the next moment she
reflected a little bitterly. " I will send Clayton

to you now," she said, moving towards the door;
"but remember, Murray," she added emphatically,
as she opened it, " that it is absolutely
necessary that this house for the present should
be closed."

UNINVITED GUESTS.

Lady Seaport had good cause to speak in
this emphatic tone as she quitted her son's-room.
No one but herself knew the absolute
agonies that she had endured during the miserable
days of her son's dangerous illness. And
these agonies were not caused alone by the
knowledge that her son's life and reason trembled
in the balance. A report had got about
that Lord Seaport was dangerously — nay
desperately — ill, and a Jew money-lender, to-whom
the reckless young lord had given a bill
of sale on the furniture of the house, on hearing
of this illness, had issued an execution, and had
obtained possession before the proud mistress,
bowed down with her grief and anxiety about
her son, had the least idea of what was 2:oino:
on under her roof.

The servants dare not tell her that the bailiffs
were sitting in her drawing-room. They sent
privately for her old and attached maid, Mrs.
Benson, to break the terrible news to her, and
to the day of her death this good woman will
never forget her lady's crv, when at last she
understood the faltering, broken words in which
her old servant endeavoured to express her
meaning.

Lady Seaport, in fact, utterly broke down.
She had moaned out after Strathearn's visit —
after she had heard some sharp truths from his
rough lips about her beloved son — that it was
'' too much, too much ! " Bat now to find herself
ruined, homeless — all, too, by this reckless
son — seemed more than she had strength to
bear. She sobbed, she raved, she cried that
she wished that she were dead. Did any dim
memories cross her mind in this bitter moment
■of how she had lived for the world and the
world's good fame, which now seemed all
suddenly reft away from her ? She had married
for position only. In her early girlhood she
had loved, and been very deeply loved by, this
Huo^h Marchmont, whom she had mentioned
to her son ; but Hugh Marchmont, though a

distant kinsman, was Lut the son of a country
esquire, and she was the beautiful iVlice Guildford,
the second daughter of a noble but
impoverished family. Hugh Marchmont had
considered himself eno-ao^ed to her, when in an
evil hour the young beauty met Lord Seaport,.
a man whose reputation even then was such
that a woman must have been mad who
expected to live a happy married life with him.
Yet for the sake of his ancient title, for the
sake of his position in the world, Alice Guildford
threw over her old love, crushed down the
love in her own heart, and went to the altar,
proud, calm, and beautiful, to utter her false
vows.

And all through her life she had borne herself in
the same stately fashion. Her lord had wearied
of her before the first year of their wedded life
was over, he had left her, drao'0;ed down his old
name in the dust, but no one had ever seen my
lady wince. She had her boy — the handsome,,
bright-faced boy, the gallant youth — on whom
her heart and hopes were fixed. She had never
loved her husband, and she made no wail
after him. He had seriously embarrassed the
property before his death, but not quite hopelessly

so, and Lady Seafortli and Mr. Cairns,
the family lawyer, lead done their best for it
and for the young heir, until the young heir
came into possession and flung the care of years
away to the winds.

Yet still the mother kept hoping on. " He
would marry, he would reform," she whispered
to her anxious heart, and to the world and
those around her she had always worn her early
stately grace.

But when Mrs. Benson broke to her already
overburdened heart, that actual and
immediate ruin stared her in the face, and
that this ruin was all brought by the son on
whom she had lavished her heart's best
love, she seemed utterly to sink beneath the
blow.

Then, perhaps, the memory of a love she
had flung away rose before her, and Hugh
Marchmont's wasted youth and manhood were
remembered with bitter regret.

Oh ! my lady, don't cry like that 1 ''
whispered her old servant, trying to comfort
her. " Don't, my lady, or those wretches
below will hear. Oh ! my lady, may I give
you a piece of advice ? "

What can you say ? What matter is
anything now?" sobbed Lady Seaport.

But, my dear lady, it is not so bad as that,"
urged Mrs. Benson. " My lord will get welland
things can be all put right — it's only a
matter of money you know, my lady, and if I
might be bold enough to suggest it, I would
ask the rich lady next door to advance enough
to get these men out of the house."

I cannot I I cannot ! " moaned Lady
Seaport, rocking herself to and fro in ber
distress.

*' But why not, my lady ? People say this
Mrs. Trelawn is very fond of my lord, and what
are a few thousands to her ? "

'' This wretched entanglement — " said Lady
Seaport, looking up.

*' Don't distress yourself about that, my lady.
There is no doubt from what Clayton says that
this poor young woman is well taken care of
now, and you see she has never written or
anything. Most likely she has gone home to
her friends, and when my lord gets better he
will see it is for the best. Clayton says he is
sure, from the man's description who saved her,
that it was the poor young woman, and he will

tell my lord this, as soon as he is well enoiigli
to understand. And Mrs. Trelawn knows
nothing about this sad affair — no one knows,
my lady, but your old faithful servant and
Clayton, and Clayton's not the man to tell my
lord's secrets. Oh, my lady, don't be angry
with me, but I feel sure you have only to ask
Mrs. Trelawn, and she will advance the money
at a word."

Lady Seaport made no answer. It galled
her to her very soul even to think of this — yet
where could she turn ? Long; ao;o Seaport had
exhausted the patience of her own people, and
they had refused to lend him money — only, as
they knew well, to be flung away. But to ask
Mrs. Trelawn — a woman nob of her own class,
a woman whose wealth came to her through
trade — it was dust and ashes to Lady Seaport's
proud and imperious heart. But as her old
servant kept urging the practicability of this
step, Lady Seaport at last condescended to
listen.

You see, my lady," said the woman, " if
these people are not got away at once, other
disagreeable claims may be put in ; but if
Mrs. Trelawn comes forward and gets the

wretches out, there will be no further trouble."
Lady Seafortli quite understood what Benson
meant by this ; she meant that if the money-lenders
supposed Mrs. Trelawn were going to
marry Lord Seaport, that he would experience
no further annoyance from their hands. And
if Mrs. Trelawn advanced this money and got
the bailiffs out of the house, that it would seem
likely to these men's eyes that she was going
to marry him. Yet to have to ask Mrs. Trelawn
to lend this money was absolute agony to Lady
Seaport.

*' I would rather die than do it ! " she said to
her old servant ; yet she allowed her old servant
to arrange her dress, and smooth the fair hair
that she had flung back from her brow in her
bitter distress ; and then, thickly veiled and
accompanied by Benson, she left her room and
went down the staircase on her way to Mrs.
Trelawn's.

As she passed the drawing-room door, which
was wide open, Benson tried to prevent her
seeing the men in possession who were lounging
there. But Lady Seaport gave one quick
glance, shivered, and ran on. Perhaps this sight
nerved her for her bitter task ; at all events

she went straight to Nora Trelawn's, and was
received with unusual kindness and gentleness
by that lady.

Tie reason of this unusual kindness was
simply that Xora knew what had happened at
lier proud neighbour's house. Such secrets are
not long kept, and Nora's kind heart felt full
of compassion and sympathy when she saw Lady
Seaport enter her drawing-room.

Nora was, luckily, alone. When Lady Sea-forth
saw this, and remembered her errand, all
her usual grace and dignity of manner seemed
to pass away from her. She trembled, she
was visibly overcome.

'' Lord Seaport is not worse, I hope," asked
Nora gently.

'^ No, no," answered Lady Seaport, *' but—"
sand then her voice broke, and she could not
speak the hated words she had come to say.

In a moment Nora understood.

*you are in trouble, dear Lady Seaports
she said, taking Lady Seaport's trembling hand
in her own. '' Can I do anything for you — -
anything about money ? "

As Nora made this offer. Lady Seaport, who
had been struggling to recover composure, lost

all control over her emotion, and again began
sobbing hysterically, as lie had done before she
went to Nora's house.

Hush ! dear Lady Seaport," said Nora,
leading her to a seat, " do not distress yourself;
if it is about money you know my poor husband
left me a great deal, and nothing will please me
more than to advance some of it to you or
Lord Seaport. May I send for your man of
business ? Do not distress yourself. Lady Sea-forth
; indeed you can have what you want."

Then Lady Seaport tried to thank her.

Forgive me," she said in a broken voice,,
'' but my son's illness — and other things — have
quite unnerved me. I — I — do not know whether
you have heard — but Seaport in some hour of
folly — when he was much younger than he is
now — gave, it seems, a bill of sale on the
furniture of the house to some Jew moneylender,
and this wretch, hearing of his dangerous
illness, has — has — put an execution in the house
and the men are there now ; and if you would
advance — "

Certainly," said Nora, very kindly. " These
men must be got out at once. Lady Seaport.
It is too dreadful for them to be there when Lord

Seafortli is so ill, and you are so much worried
and nj^set by his illness. Will you give me the
name and address of your man of business ? "
she added, orinoco her writhes: table. " I will
write to him, and send one of the servants with
the note at once, so that there may be no delay ;
and about the money there need be no trouble'*

Again Lady Seaport tried to thank her in
her broken tear-choked voice. She told Nora
Mr. Cairns' name and address, and Nora wrote
to the family lawyer, requesting him to come
immediately ; and then having despatched her
note, she did everything in her power to soothe
and comfort Lady Seaport.

And even in her distress Lady Seaport tried
to exonerate her son as far as possible from any
blame.

He has had no chance," she said. " His
father ruined the property before his death,
and Murray has had to support a title and
position on totally inadequate means. This
has made him reckless— he has been placed ina
most cruel and trying position by his father s
wicked, selfish conduct."

'' It will all come right, I hope," said Nora.

'' He is the best and kindest of sons," said

Lady Seafortli, with quivering lips. All, poor
mother !

This " best and kindest of sons " had nearly
broken her proiKJ heart, had bowed her proud
head to the dust, and yet she was loving him,
scheming for him still ! " Who can tell," she
was thinking, noting Nora's great kindness and
gentleness to herself, " she may actually care
for him — perhaps even this misery may bring
the marriage about."

So by the time Mr. Cairns arrived at Nora's
house (and the lawyer had not dallied after
receiving a summons from Croesus's Widow)
my lady had dried her tears, and regained, to a
certain extent at least, her composure, and made
the best of the situation to the lawyer before
Nora, as she had made the best of it to Nora
herself.

And Mr. Cairns also quite understood the
situation, and was ready to make the best of
it, too. He had known Lady Seaport for many
years, and he had pitied her, and though he had
been very angry of late with the young lord, he
was quite willing still to give him a chance of
redeeming his fortunes. Being a practical man
of business, he thought it looked very like having.

a strong and peculiar interest in Lord Seaport,
if ]airs. Trelawn was so ready to come to his
assistance, and the Lawyer therefore — as well as
Lady Seaport — made as light as he could of
Lord Seaport's position.

Young: men will do these foolish things"'
he said, with his hard smile. "They go to these
money-lenders, who are so ready to catch the
unwary, without ever thinking of the consequences.
But we must make the best of it —
as Lord Seaport is too ill to act for himself, we
must act for him — and the first thing; is to 2:et
these men out of the house."

And " these men" were very speedily got out
of the house. It was a cheque for a very large
amount that Nora drew and placed in Mr.
Cairns' hand ; but Nora was very rich, and Mr.
Cairns knew that she was very rich, and the
Jew money-lender to whom Mr. Cairns gave
Nora's cheque knew this fact also, and as he
looked at it beo:an to be afraid that he had made
a false step.

They said he was so very ill, confound it !"
said the money-lender, uneasily.

"You have been a little precipitate, it seems"'
smiled the lawyer; and Nora's cheque did good

service to Lord Seafortli that day as well as
get the bailiffs out of the house, for people
began to believe that she was really going to
marry the spendthrift young lord.

Then, as soon as the men were gone. Lady
Seafortli returned to her own house. But the
shock and the shame she had gone through
made her so ill, that she was confined to bed
for the two following days. During these two
days Nora went mere than once to see her, and
never had Nora cared for her proud neighbour
so much as she did in Lady Seaport's hour
of trouble. And Lady Seaport was touched
on her j^art by Nora's generosity, and by her
simple kindness. She had long ardently wished
that her son might marry Nora for the sake of
her money, but she now began actually to wish
that he might marry Nora for her own sake,
and to believe that if he did marry her he
might yet be a happy man.

So, as Nora sat by her bedside. Lady Seaport
talked to her as she had seldom talked in her
self-contained and haughty existence. She told
Nora about her unhappy married life with her
faithless, careless lord, and she hinted, with a
smile and a sigh, at Mr. Marchmont's early
-attachment.

My people would not hear of it," she said,
and ao;ain she sighed. She did not tell the
exact truth ; did not tell how she also, as well
as "her people," had preferred the worldly
advantages which Lord Seaport apparently
had in his power to bestow, to the unworldly
devotion of Hugh Marchioness faithful heart.

*•' He is still a bachelor," she told Nora, "and
I have been thinking — Mr. Cairns also thinks
that the moment my son is able to be moved,
that it would be well if he went to some quiet
country-place where he would be free from all
worries, and I have almost determined to write
to Mr. Marchmont, who always calls to see me
when he is in town, and ask him if we m.iy goto
his place."

Lady Seaport did write to her old love, and
told Mr. Marchmont enough of the situation in

o

which her son was placed, to excuse her asking
the favour of her "friend and kinsman," which
she asked in her letter. This favour was
that she and her son might go, as soon as
Seaport could travel, to Mr. Marchmont's
quiet country house, where Lady Seaport
hoped her son would regain Health and strength,
faster than amid the worries and constant

anxiety to which lie was exposed in town.

Mr. Marclimont duly replied. He would be
glad at any time to see Lord and Lady Sea-forti,
if tlicy would not be very weary of the
*' humdrum existence led by a contented old
bachelor."

Somehow those last three words in her old
lover's letter — a 'contented old bachelor" —
jarred on Lady Seaport's heart. If once a man
has been in love with some sort of women, they
like to believe that he always continues in love.
Mr. Marchmont has never married, and Lady
Seaport had always thought of him as she had
once seen him, with a look of reproachful
misery in his eyes. But contented or discontented,
it suited her ladyship to accept his
invitation. And thus it happened, when
Seaport was slowly recovering from the effects
of fever, that his mother urged him, if possible,
at once to go to Mr. Marchmont's house. We
have heard the arguments she used — Mr. Cairns
could arrange matters better if they were out
of the way ; and the yet more powerful argument
that both he and his servant Clayton
Averse better out of the way of Mr. Campbell of
•Strathearn.

After his mother left him, Seaport sent for
Clayton, and during this interview he arranged
with the man to endeavour (but quietly) still
to try to trace Mrs. Murray, after her strange
disappearance on Chelsea Bridge. Clayton was
convinced that the unfortunate young woman
who had so nearly destroyed herself there, was
"Mrs. Murray," and he gradually convinced
Lord Seaport also that this must be the case.
This idea was an immense relief to Seaport's
mind. " Poor Nellie " was safe, then, and
kindly taken care of, the shallow-hearted young
lord was only too glad to think. He had
certainly grieved terribly about her ; he would
have been glad and happy (let us give him
his due) to see her again, and to know directly
that she was well. But, after all, it would
never do to have that " stupid old fool. Strath,"
come blundering and raging, and taking up the
cudgels in her defence.

o

She should have trusted me," decided
Seaport. " If I could have helped myself, I
would never willingly have cost her a tear.
Poor little woman ! Some day I hope she maybe
happy."

So he gave in to his mother's proposal. He

would 0^0 to Hu2fli Marclimont's house in
Dorsetshire, and Le did go. And the day
before lie went, when pale, tottering, and
greatly altered he dragged himself downstairs,
his mother, without telling him, led a visitor
into the room where he was to see him.

"Come in, Mrs. Trelawn," said Lady Seaport,
very graciously. " Murray will only be too
pleased to see you."

Murray tried to rise, but Nora went quickly
forward and took his wasted hand.

'' You must not get up," she said smilingly.
*' I am truly glad to see you down again."

'' When you get well, Murray, you must
thank Mrs. Trelawn for lier great kindness tous
— to me," said Lady Seaport, colouring and
-casting down her eyes.

*' Must I wait until I get \vell?" ojiswered
Seaport, in his old pleasant way.

There is nothing to thank me for," said
Nora, who knew that Lord Seaport had not
been told about the money she had lent.
*' Lady Seaport has not been very well, and I
have taken advantage of my privilege as a
neighbour to see her a little oftener than usual
—that is all."

*' Then I will thank yoii now," said Seaport
smiling. " I am very much obliged to you for
being kind to my mother, when she has been
almost worried to death, I believe, by her
graceless son."

There was a sort of charm in Seaport's
manner — an easy, graceful way of saying
pleasant words, and Nora thought this as she
looked at the smiling, wasted, handsome face.

She stayed and talked to him a little while
longer, and when she went away Lady Seaport
could scarcely find warm enough words to praise
lier.

She is very well," said Seaport.

"Well !" repeated Lady Seaport, indignantly.

Is that all you can say of a woman who has
acted as she has done ? " And then, forgetting
her prudence, she told her son about the execution
in the house, and in how generous a
manner Nora had advanced the money to prevent
anything more disagreeable.

Seaport was terribly annoyed. To be
indebted to a woman — a lady — galled him
intensely. He bit his lips, he grew pale ; he
was so agitated that his mother grew very
nervous about what she had done.

*' Do not worry about it," she said. " She is
the kindest, sweetest woman — "

'' The very reason we shoukl not impose
upon her," interrupted Seaport.

*' But, my dearest, she was only too glad to
•do it," urged Lady Seaport. '' Oh ! Murray,"
and she Vv'ent up and took her son's hand, ''I
.am sure she cares for you — I am sure you
woukl be happy with her — she is so good, so
kind, so gentle, a man could only love her."

Lord Seaport made no answer. He sighed,
and during the somewhat long journey for him
to Eyecourt, on the following day, he was very
silent. Of what is he thinking ? thought his
mother, again and again uneasily glancing at
him. He was thinking of Nora Trelawn, and
as he thought of her, ever and anon there passed
before his mental vision two shadows. One a
white-robed girl standing in the sunlight — the
other the frozen look of despair that had
haunted him ever since he last saw the face of
the woman who had left a message for him, that
she was "Too miserable to live."

AT HUGH Parchment's,

At last Lord Seaport, pale, silent, and quite
Aweary — for this thoughts on the journey had
not been pleasant company — reached Recount.
As the carriage, which had been sent to meet
them at the nearest railway station drove into
the ancient courtyard of Eyecourt, the owner
came out of the low hall at the back of the
house to receive them.

A tall, slim., grey-haired man, with a stoop,
and a handsome, wonderfully benign-looking
face, was Hugh Marchmont. He came forward
with a smile, and handed his old love out of the
-carriage, while a beautiful, small black-andaman
toy-terrier ran forward also, barking his welcome.
And as Mr. Marchmont led Lady Seaport into
the hall, in which stood a well-fitted billiard table.

two other splendid dogs rose up from before the
great fire, and advanced to meet her.

Why, Hugh, how many dogs have you ? "
smiled Lady Seaport, looking at her old lover,,
and wondering; wdiat made him better-looking
now than when he was young.

Only these three in the house," said Mr.
Marchmont, laying his hand on a huge, tawny
mastiffs magnificent head.

And you like them ? " asked Lady Seaport.

*' 1 hey are my friends," answered Hugh
Marchmont ; and Lady Seaport gave a little
shrug of her handsome shoulders, and remembered
" that poor Hugh Marchmont had always
been a little peculiar."

But no further signs of peculiarity were
especially visible, Mr. Marchmont welcomed
Lord Seaport kindly, just as he had welcomed
Lady Seaport kindly, but his heart did not beat
faster even for a moment, when he touched the
hand of the woman he had once so passionately
and devotedly loved.

Nay, that woman's vain and worldly heart
would have received a great shock if — as
perhaps in another state of existence it may bethe
thoughts of men and women were visible

to each others' often astonished eyes. A terrible
ordeal to us all, no doubt, to look straight into
our neighbours' hearts ! Lady Seaport would
not have smiled so sweetly on Hugh Marchmont
as she stood warming her hands by his great
hall fire, if she could have read the man's inward
cogitations.

Poor alice, how changed she is ! " he was
thinking". " Ah ! — the world is an ungrateful

o o

mistress."

Mr. Marchmont cared nothing; for the world.
Its mists had fallen from his mind, and he
now led a most placid, benign, and contented
existence. No poor man was ever turned away
from his door, and he only smiled and nodded
his head when he found out that he had been
taken in, knowing that there were cheats and
vagabonds abroad ; but this fact did not destroy
his pleasure in trying to do good. Hugh
Marchmont's name was hardly known beyond
his own county ; but as a nameless donor to
scores of charities he miecht have been known.

CD

Lady Seaport, looking at his placid face, could
not understand either him or his aims in life. But
as she sat at his well-appointed table, she began
to understand something she had not known.

before. This was that Hugh Marchmont was a
rich man. He told her this in the simplest
way possible during the first evening she spent
at Recount.

"Do you remember Uncle Jack — theGeneral?"
asked Mr. Marchmont, as he offered some wine
of a rare vintage to the wearied Seaport, who
had scarcely strength to sit up through the
dinner-hour. " He left me this wine and a
considerable fortune."

Lady Seaport opened her blue eyes a little
wider than usual at this announcement.

*' I think I do remember an old soldier-like
looking man being at Ryecourt, when I was
quite a little girl. So he left you a large fortune,
Hugh?"

Not perhaps what you would call a large
fortune," smiled Mr. Marchmont in reply to his
old love. " He left me over sixty thousand
pounds, and all his belongings beside, including
some very valuable diamonds, which I must
show you."

The large blue eyes sparkled at this offer.
She thought Hugh Marchmont meant to give
her some of his diamonds, and she grew — for
her — quite sprightly at the prospect.

xli, you are a lucky man ! " she said. " No
one ever left me sixty thousand pounds or
diamonds, or anything else. Seaport left mo
his debts — that was about all." And my lady
sighed softly, and looked at the calm, handsome
face opposite to her, and began to think she
had made a mistake in early life, which perhaps
might be repaired.

But nothing was further from Mr. Marli
mind than this idea. He had written,
on receiving Lady Seaport's letter telling him
of her son's dangerous illness, and how the
doctors had advised his removal to some very
c[uiet country place, to tell her that Eyecourt
was perfectly at her service, as long as she and
Lord Seaport cared to stay there. He had
done this from a feeling of kindness — from
perhaps a faint, lingering, tender recollection
of the old folly. But it was to the recollection
of his own folly that he looked back with a sort
of pitying tenderness, and not to the memory
of the woman who had heartlessly jilted him.
Lady Seaport, still so handsome, as she retired
that night to bed in the old Dorsetshire
manor-house, whose possession she had once
rejected, stood looking at herself in the dim

TOL. ir. L

and quaintly-fashioned pier-glass, where Hugh
Marclimont's mother and grandmother had
stood and looked before. She looked at herself,
and smiled. " It is an out-of-the-way
place, this Eyecourt," she was thinking, " and
poor Hugh is a little peculiar ; but still, to
have an assured home and a good income, and
someone so devoted as Hugh has always been
to me — is not to be despised."

The idea was pleasing to my lady. She was
weary of debts and difficulties ; and even a
quiet home like Kyecourt was better than the
miserable life she had lately led.

If Murray marries Mrs. Trelawn it will be
different, of course — but who can tell what
Murray may do ?" went on my lady's cogitations ;
and when she fell asleep she dreamt that she
was a girl again, and Hugh Marchmont was
lying at her feet, as he had done in the days
when both his life and his love were young.

The house at Kyecourt was not more than a
mile from the sea coast, and the air was wonderfully
pure. It was a quaint old grey house,
with a courtyard and two spacious wings and
shambling passages, and the furniture was mostly
old also, though many modern comforts were

judiciously mingled with the fittiwo-s that Hiio-h
Marchmont had inherited with the pLace. He
lived here quite out of the world, yet in charity
with all men, and he had surrounded himself
with books and flowers and animals ; having
an extraordinary love for the dumb
brutes, whose friendship he esteemed above
that of his fellow creature.

They never deceive us," he said, speaking
of his favourite dogs to Lady Seaport the first
morning she had breakfast with him ; and my
lady cast down her blue eyes and coloured, for
she thought that Hugh was alluding to her own
perfidious conduct. But Hugh in truth at that
moment had forgotten all about her perfidious
conduct He was looking into the soft, liquid,
tender eyes of his small black-andaman ; for
this beautiful creature evinced the most devoted
attachment to his master, refusing ever to leave
his side, and by night as well as by day, the faithful
little ' ' Pen" remained near Hugh Marchmont.

'' Circumstances sometimes — make us appear
deceptive— when really our hearts are true,"
hesitated Lady Seaport with much consciousness
; so much that Hugh looked up, smiled,
and remembered the perfidious conduct.

These two, who had once been lovers — who
had once sat and '^ whispered together, beholding
the moon rise over the pallid sea, and the
silvery mist of the meadows," were sitting now
quite alone, when they were lovers no longer,
with the o:lintinQ; beams of the winter sun
falling on the faces from which youth, if not
beauty, had passed away.

Lady Seaport was thinking of Hugh, gently,
almost tenderly. She was recalling the days
when they had watched " the moon rise over
the pallid sea," by the coast at Eyecourt. She
was recalling the grey look of despair that she
had seen in Huo-h's face when she had told him
it must be all over between them ; and she was
actually flattering herself that the strong feeling
that had caused that grey look of despair
had lingered through all these years in her old
lo :er's heart.

But these long years which Lady Seaport
had spent in the world — spent at the best not
happily — had brought a strange peace and
serenity to Hugh Marchmont's soul. He loved
Lady Seaport no longer, and he knew now
that even had he married her he would not
have loved her. She was still handsome.

CRCESUSS WIDOW. 293

Years lead passed lightly over the small straight
features and the proud blue eyes, and no lines
of grey were mingled with the fair hair. But
though the shadowy hand of time had spared
her beauty, it had not spared her heart. Twenty
years ago she would not have lied to Strathearn
.about her want of knowledge of the hapless
fate of the young girl whose life she knew had
been ruined by her son ; twenty years ago she
would not have urged that son to throw aside
all claims of honour and nobility of heart and
marry a woman for money, v/hen she knew he
was already bound to another. She, too, had
listened — as Seaport had listened — to the
promptings of an evil spirit. No shadow had
fallen on her good name (she was too proud
and too cold to run any risk of incurring such
a shadow), but none the less a canker had
eaten into her heart, and she had fallen away
from the code, which as a haughty young girl,
lier birth alone would have made her consider
herself bound to keep.

But the sight of her old lover — the unfamiliar
presence of the man with whom she had once
been so familiar — moved Lady Seaport, and
sitting there, opposite Hugh Marchmont, in

this own house, the house which might have-been
her own, she began to wish that " Hugh"
woukl look and speak a little more like the
Hugh " of old, than apparently he had any
present intention of doing.

He looked up, he smiled, he understood ber
meaning, when she spoke of the weight of
circumstances ; and then he quietly rose from
the breakfast table.

Come with me," he said, " and I will shove
you my flowers. They are my one extravagance."


Lady Seaport now rose also, and followed
her host through two long, low drawing-rooms,,
where Lady Seaport's eyes admiringly rested
on the beautiful and valuable china preserved in
quaint old cabinets, and on the old circular
mirrors that the vagaries of fashion had once
more made fashionable.

What pretty things you have in these
rooms," she said. " I think you have almost
everything in this old house." And Lady
Seaport lavished.

o

"I have everything I require," answered Hugh,,
in a grave, practical way, and Lady Seaport
felt an angry flush rise to her smooth face.

From the drawing-rooms Hiigli passed on to
the conservatories, into which the drawing-rooms
opened. Here a most beautiful collection
of rare flowers and tropical plants budded and
bloomed to give pleasure alone to Hugh Marchmont
and his gardeners.

And you mean to say that you never
entertain — that you never have people to
dinner, and vet you stow all these beautiful
flowers ? " asked Lady Seaport.

I grow them only for my own pleasure
tint amusement*' answered Hugh Marchmont,
smiling ; " but I shall be pleased, if you care to
have them, to cut some for you now."

While Huoii Marchmont was cut tin o; the
flowers for his old love, a gentleman passed
outside, and Mr. Marchmont, hearing his footstep
on the gravel, looked up from his occupation.


Here is our parson," he said. ''' Having a
fashionable lady like you for a guest has made
me forget the time. Every morning, at ten,
Mr. Wilcox calls here, so will you excuse me,
and finish cutting your bouquet yourself?"

Lady Seaport felt deeply offended. To be
left in this cool manner for a common country

clergyman was really a little too bad ! She did"
not fiuisli cutting the bouquet ; she walked back
into the drawing-room, and then went to seek
her son. She did not understand Hugh Marli
; the stupid man had become moss-grown
with living such a retired life, and had forgotten
even the laws of common politeness.

But Hugh Marchmont had left his old love-from
no want of politeness, but simply because
every morning " the parson " came to him bona
little matter of business. This little matter
of business was simply to tell him of all the
wants and wishes of his poor neighbours. The
poor, the sick, the sorrowing, were entertained
by Hugh, if the rich were not. Each morning,
"the parson" came up to Eyecourt with hia
budget, and even Huo-h's cherished flowers were
sometimes carried to very humble sick rooms.

While Hugh Marchmont was talking to his
parson. Lady Seaport, still feeling ruffled,,
went to visit her son, who had not yet risen.
He was looking very ill. The long journey had
greatly fatigued him ; and the silence at Rye-court,
the still, country, wintry scene spread
out before the windows, oppressed his restless
and uneasy heart.

^' I can't stay long here, mother," he said
impatiently.

Stay till you are a little stronger," answered
Lady Seaport, *' and then you can go abroad."

While his mother was talking to him, a letter
was brought into the room, which had just
come by the post. This letter Lord Seaport
eagerly seized and tore open, for he recognised
the handwriting of his servant Clayton on the
envelope.

I\Ty Lord (lie read), — I went again to-day to the police,
but they have still not discovered any trace of Mrs. Murray.
But Mr. Campbell, of Strathearn, has offered two hundred
pounds for the discovery of the lady —

'' Confound Strathearn ! " cried Seaport,
flino^ino; down his letter.

What is the matter ? " asked Lady Seaport
quickly and anxiously.

Nothing ! Only troubles and worries
always follow me, I think."

Wait here a few days — get strong and welland
then go abroad and leave your troubles and
worries behind," counselled Lady Seaport.

And her son understood her counsel. She
meant that he was utterly to forsake the
broken-hearted woman that stood in his way.

After Strathearn had A\aiiily endeavoured to
see either Lord Seaport or Clayton, and had
been told by a passing policeman as he rapped
and anno' at Lady Seaport's door that " the
family were out of town," he returned to
Scotland Yard.

The inspector of police to whom he had
spoken was not surprised at his news. '' They
understood his lordship was abroad," he said ;
and then he offered to give Strathearn Miss
Brewis's address in Belgrave Eoad, so that he
might personally satisfy himself, that the lady
dio disappeared from her house and the lady
he was seeking were one and the same person.

Miss Brewis received Strathearn very sourly.
She sniffed, she tossed her head, and eyed the
lor-limbed Scotchman before her with a most
dissatisfied air.

*' Hiimpli ! " she said. " Called, you say, to
make inquiries about Mrs. Murray, who boarded
with me ? Well — I can't say such a person did
not board with me — but, if I might be so bold,
may I inquire are you a relation of this person
because that would make a difference ? "

During this speech, Strathearn's brown skin
grew a dusky red, under the hard, searching
gaze of Joanna's eyes.

'•' Not a relation ! " he jerked out. " I knew
the little woman down in Scotland — and I want
to know all you can tell me about her, and Fm
ready to pay you handsomely for the information."


'' Upon my word," said Joanna, turning
suddenly scarlet of visage, while her green eyes
gave a most Vicious gleam, "that exceeds
everything ! What do you take me for, sir,
may I ask ? A female 'receive officer or something
worse ? But let me tell you I'm neither
female 'receive, nor anything worse, and I don't
want any of your rewards, and I won't speak a
word unless I choose, upon any subject, for you
or your rewards, or any other mortal man's
rewards — there ! "

Strathearn's irrim sense of humour was tickled

at the irate and virtuous Joannalili's indignant
expression, as she thus gave vent to her feelings.
He was no fool, and he began to understand
the woman with whom he had to deaL

*' Don't scold me so, my good hidy/' he said,
"for I meant no offence — I meant something
very different in fact — to thank you for your
kindness to Mrs. Murray — for I think the poor
girl, poor lady I mean, who lodged with you
must be the same poor soul I'm seeking, and let
me tell you that a purer or a better — "

But Strathearn could not go on with his
sentence. He never could, indeed, speak of
Nellie unmoved, and his voice faltered and
broke now as it had faltered and broke before
the inspector of police in Scotland Yard.

sewell, sir, I am glad to hear it," said Jo-annals.
" I must say I took to her — she came
here promiscuous-like — without references, and
though I'm extremely particular, as all females
should be — only they ar'nt — but as I was
saying, I took to her, and she had a modest,
pretty way of speaking — "

Had she fair hair, and a mark on her brow V
asked Strathearn, in trembling tones.

Joanna nodded her head.

That's the party," she said. " Yes, a red
mark on her brow rather under her hair, and
she told me the mark had been got during a
great storm in Scotland, by the windows of the
house she was staying at being blown in."

'' Yes, yes," said Strathearn, visibly agitated,
and beginning to pace up and down Joanna's
dining-room with his long strides, " it was at
the Glen — my house in Strathearn Glen."

"Your house?" inquired Joanna, suspiciously.


Strathearn's quick ear caught her tone, and
he turned sharply round.

'eyes," he said. "I had lent my house to
the man whom she thought was her husband —
that double-dyed scoundrel, Seaport ! " And
Strathearn impatiently stamped his foot upon
the floor. 'but you know the story?" he
went on, with strong passion and pathos in his
voice. " They told me— the police— that you
knew the story, the story of an innocent girl
trapped and betrayed ! That's about it. Miss
Brewis."

Joanna drew up her head, and pursed in
her thin lips.

"I understood the story from the party

herself," she said ; "and though as a respectable
unmarried female I prefer not speaking on socii
subjects, still I will say that when the party
first applied to be taken in here, she told me
she was a married female, waiting for her
husband to join her, who I understood was in
the military line ; and as I knew that parties
in the military line were not generally to be
depended upon, I was not particularly surprised
to hear she had been taken in."

How did she first learn this ? Tell me
everything," said Strathearn.

Then Joanna, in her quaint way, told her
story — the miserable story we already know.

I won't say I'm soft," continued Joanna ;
'' to be soft and to keep a lodging-house Adhere
one is aggravated from morning till night
without cessation, is impossible to a mortal
being; but though in general. not soft, when
this poor forsaken creature fell down on the
floor — just where you are standing, sir — and
cried out she was ' an outcast ! an outcast ! ' —
then I did feel soft : though she wasn't what
she ought to be, and I had been brought
up respectable, and my mother — she was a
Lambert — respectable before me ! "

"And lie left hier, the scoundrel, in her
•ao'ony ? " cried Strathearn, who was terribly
agitated hv Joanna's narrative.

o

"That he did, trio villain!" said Joanna.
But I o'ave him i\ word of mv mind," she
added oTimlv. "I told him what I thought
of him, for when Fm roused I can speak up,
and I was roused that day and I spoke up ;
and his conscience — or whatever serves him
for a conscience — spoke up too, for he came
tumbling down like,' a lead man on the floor,
and I thought I was going to have a corpse in
the house to add to my troubles."

He had some shame left, then '? " said
Strathearn sternly.

"Oh, for that matter, most o' folks have
when they're caught," answered Joanna. " But
I suppose he had some shame left, for I'm told
he's been most awful ill ever since — quite
out of his mind — raving and tearing and
swearing, and fancying the most fearful things ;
and they've took him away now, whether
to a private asylum or not I can't tell, but
they call it one abroad, but among' these
kind of folks they're very apt to whiten the
sepulchre."

*'Aiid this Clayton — his servant," asked
Strathearn ; "do you know him ? "

He's been here, both before and after the
poor forsaken creature disappeared," answered
Joanna ; 'rand I'll warrant him for a bad 'un,,
for he's too smooth-tongued to be honest I "

'* And you would know him again ? " said
Strathearn eagerly. "He may come here again ? "

He may," said Joanna, " for my belief is
he's hanging about with orders to pick up any
news of the poor creature he helped to drive
under the water ; or if she's not under the
water, for I scarcely believe the fine story they
tell of the lady who drove her away in her
carriage — so if she's not under the water, poor
soul, the Lord only knovrs where she may be !"

"Look here," said Strathearn, suddenly
advancing to Joanna, and seizing one of her
red, hard hands, " if you will get hold of this
Clayton—"

Don't, heir, don't ! " cried Joanna, trying to
pull her hand away from Strathearn's strong
grip. " What do you want taking hold of my
hand ? If you want to talk, or make any decent
inquiries, stand at a proper distance, if you
please ! "

With a liars laugh, Stratliearn released lier
hand.

*' Beg your pardon," he said, "I wasn't thinking
of what I was doing, but of something that may
help this — this poor lady — to Avhom you have
been so kind. Look here nov', Miss Brewis,"
he added, "I believe you're a good woman,"
(Joanna tossed her head) " and I believe you
would help this poor girl if you could ; and if
you can get hold of this Clayton and keep him
here, d'ye understand ? till you send for me, I'll
do anything for you — anything, my good lady
if you won't take money, d'ye like sport ?
Would you like to go down to Scotland ? "

Joanna held up her hand at this monstrous
offer, which was made in all good faith by
Strathearn.

"Me like sport!" she said. "Me go to
Scotland ; you ought to be ashamed of yourself,
sir, to put such a question to a respectable
woman. No," she added, " I've sport enough
hunting after the hussies I get into my own
house, and I leave the birds and the beasts to
be slaughtered by those who have more time,
and less in their heads than I have, indeed ! "

Aizain Strathearn g-ave his o-rim laugh.

"AVcll," lie said, "whatever you like then.
AYoukl you like a velvet gown ? "

Dear me I " said Joanna, twisting herself
about, though her hard expression somewhat
mollified at the mention of the velvet gown,
*' do you suppose I won't do anything unless I
get a reward for it. Then 1 just will, then.
You want to get hold of this Clayton, you
say?"

"That's just it!" said Strathearn enthusiastically,
and he nearly aught Joanna by the
hand again, but was checked in time by a
virtuous glance. " You get hold of this fellow,
and I'll tell you why. She — the poor girl,
Mrs. Murray — told me this Clayton was present
at the ceremony in Scotland, which she believed
in ail honesty to be her marriage. D'ye see
now why I want to lay my hands on him ?
I want to learn the truth. Our laws down in
Scotland are not over tisfht about marriage —
and perhaps this scoundrel Seaport may find
himself bound faster than he thinks himself.'

Do you mean really married ? " asked
Joanna eagerly.

Strathearn winced. Deep down in the man's
heart (in spite of himself) was the hope and

belief that Seafortli and Nellie were not married.
Yet for her sake — to give lier back lier
fair fiime, lier happiness — lie was ready and
willing to seek out Clayton, to bribe him, and
do anything, as he told Joanna, to learn the
truth.

You get hold of Clayton," he said the next
minute. "You're a sharp woman — come, don't
you think, through this Mrs. Benson, or whoever
she is — the old lady's maid you told me
of, you could ferret out his whereabouts ? "

Joanna nodded.

I'll do it," she said. "Mrs. Benson's turned
very sly of late, and they are keeping something
back. I see that well enough, but I'll be equal
with them, or my name's not Joanna Brewis.
And if I catch sight of this Clayton, I won't
lose sight of him, I can promise him that,
until I've sent for you. So please give me your
address at once, and let there be no mistake
about it."

Then Strathearn i>'ave Joanna his address :
and in his rough wav, ao;ain thanked her for
her kindness to Xellie.

"' Won't you shake hands ? " he said. " Thank
you for being kind to her," he added, as

Joannalili frigidly extended two fingers. 'don't
forget our compact. And now, Miss Brewis,
good day ! "

But before many hours were over, Miss
Breeds again heard something of Strathearn.
In fact, Stratliearn had seen the softened look
which for a moment had stolen over Joanna's
hard visage at the mention of the "velvet
gown," and he acted on that look. A letter
and a parcel, therefore, were handed to Joanna
during the day, and when Joanna opened her
letter, she read these words : —

Dear Madam, — I hope you will not be offended with
me, but I have taken the liberty of sending you a slight
token of my gratitude to you for your kindness to a helpless
girl in her hour of need. I have sent you a velvet gown,
which I hope you will release me by accepting. I am not
much of a judge of ladies' gowns, but they told me at the
shop that this colour is the latest fashion, and I hope you
will like it. — I remain, yours truly,

Robert Campbell.
Pes. — Please drop me a line the moment you hear any
news; and if you require any money to forward inquiries,
kindly let me know the sum. — Rec.

Joanna read this letter, gave a gasp, and
dropped it on the floor.

Good gracious ! " she cried, " the man must
be mad ! "

Then she read the letter again, and finally
peeped into her parcel. Strathearn had not
spared expense in his present. Eighteen yards-joanna
measured them) of the richest dark
sage green velvet that he could buy, lay before
Joanna's astonished gaze. Joanna was a
woman, and Strathearn won her heart by that
velvet gown''

He may be a little eccentric," she thought,
as she fingered it, "but he's a perfect gentleman
— and if I don't catch hold of that Clayton
to please him, I'm not the woman I take myself
to be."

Indeed, so delighted was Joanna with her
gown, that she went the very evening after she
received it, to pay a visit to her friend Mrs.
Benson, for the purpose, as Joanna would have
expressed it, of '' feeling her way."

But she experienced a great disappointment
at the very beginning of her undertaking. After
sitting conversing some time with Mrs. Benson,
on various subjects, Joanna, as if casually,
asked after Lord Seaport's health.

** And how is that young scamp of a lord
pulling through his fever ? " inquired Joanna,
with affected carelessness and contempt of

manner. '' I suppose yon will hear all about
him from that fellow of his ? "

"Yon mean Mr. Clayton," answered Mrs.
Benson. " I had a visit from Clayton to-day — ■
he's ozone to join mv lord."

And where may my lord he ? " asked
Joanna, her green eyes in spite of herself
divino' an eao-er oieam.

Mrs. Benson pursed in her good-tempered
mouth.

"The family are abroad," she said mysteriously.


Mrs. Benson new quite well that "the
family " were not abroad ; knew that ^' the
family " were living in a secluded manor-house
in Dorsetshire, and that Clayton had been
telegraphed for to join Lord Seaport at Eye-court.
But though Mrs. Benson knew all this,
she knew also she was not to tell it. Lord
Seaport's residence was to be kept a secret for
the present, " until his affairs were arranged,"
my lady had told her old servant, who knew all
about my lord's financial and other difficulties.

Abroad ! That's a wide place," snapped
Joanna. " What particular place abroad may
they be in ? "

Mrs. Benson, upon, this, declared her inability
to tell.

What ! didn't Clayton know where he was
going ? " asked Joanna here, sharply.

Mrs. Benson said she had made no inquiries ;.
in truth, ]\[rs. Benson had been warned by
Clayton to be very wary in her communications
Miss Brewis.

"You see, it's best kept quiet," Clayton had
said. " I'm uncommon sorry for the poor
young lady, but then my lord's up to his chin
in debts and troubles, and I see no way for him
to o;et out of 'em unless he marries the rich
widow. And this Mr. Campbell, of Strathearn^
is mixing himself up in the business, and I
thought it my duty to inform my lord of this,
and how Strathearn — as they call him down
yonder in Scotland — has offered a reward, as
much as two hundred pounds, for the poor
young lady's recovery. It's a cheer affair
altogether. What this Strathearn has to do
With it T can't say — but I fancy my telegram
is somehow connected with the information I
forwarded to my lord about the reward of twa
hundred pounds. At all events, say nothing
about it, Mrs. Benson, and especially don't say

anything to that ]\Iiss Brcwis, for you sec the
police may send Mr. Campbell of Strathearn
there, and it must be kept a secret at present
where my lord is."

Thus Joanna learnt nothing from her visit
to Mrs. Benson, except that Clayton had left
-town — had gone to join Lord Seaport abroad.
And Clayton's surmise about the cause of his
haying been telegraphed for to go to Eyecourt
was quite correct. Lord Seaport had in fact
become uneasy about haying Clayton in London,
when Strathearn, judging by the large reward
he had offered, was making such energetic
efforts to discover, and of course befriend,
Nellie.

Therefore, after a night's thought, Seafortli
telegraphed to his servant to join him at Rye-court,
and Clayton went. Joanna thus had
no news to write to Strathearn— when, in her
stiff, old-fashioned handwriting, she wrote to
thank him for his present — except that she had
learned that Clayton was not now in town,
and they are keeping it a secret," Joanna
.added in her letter, "where the family really
ere. I saw that plain enough, for I'm not spite
such a fool as to be taken in by Mrs. Benson."

StratliGani was disappointed by Joanna's
letter, but lie did not mean to be baffled. He
had sworn lie would find Nellie, and he used to
wander up and down the streets staring right
and left, making sure that some day or other
he would come suddenly on the "dear little
woman" again.

His strong' nature had been stirred to the

o

very depths by Joanna's touching story. It
entirely confirmed him in his own impression of
Nellie's innocence, which he had formed that day
at Strathearn, after he had told her that he
believed Seaport had utterly deceived her.
The idea of the wronged and broken-hearted
girl wandering out to die in her despair,
moved Strathearn to the soul. He would
have struck Seaport in these days *like a
cur," if his eyes had fallen on the handsome,
pleasant face, that had wrought such bitter
jU. He hated him, he thought, because he
had wronged Nellie ; but he hated him, too,
out of jealousy — jealousy powerful as his
strong love.

But while Seaport was restlessly and wearily
spending the time at Eyecourt, impatient of
the weakness and lassitude which his illness

Lad left behind, and Stratlicarn was wandering
and down the London streets, with his heart
full of his deep, fierce passions, let us now see
how the poor broken-hearted woman was faring,,
of whom these two men almost unceasingly
thought.

End of Volume Second.

TILLOTSON AND SOX, STEAM Printers, BOLTON.

OF THE
UN Diversity
Of ILLINOIS



ft 9122c
v.3

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/crsusswidownovel03russ

a move

Br

DORA RUSSELL

Author of "Footprints in the Snow," "The Vicar's Governess,'

"Annabel's Rival," "Beneath the Wave," "Quite True,"

"The Miner's Oath," etc., etc.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

LONDON

JOHN AND ROBERT MAXWELL

MILTON HOUSE, SHOE LANE

FLEET STREET

MDCCCLXXXHI

[All Rights Reserved]

CONTENTS.

CHAP. i*A<M

I. Easy , . . I

ii. who got Nellie's second letter . . iS

in. joanna's capture 36

IV. HOPE DEFERRED 53

V. THE WATCHER 65

VI. WOOING AT Recount 76

vii. "the worst drop of bitterness" . 95

viii. "for the child's sake" 104

IX. "my sister, lady seaport" . . . 120

x. quite wasted 137

XL THE HIDDEN LETTERS 147

XII. NEMESIS 160

XIII. AT LAST 168

THE SILENT WATCHERS—

I. WHAT THEY SAW l8l

II. BY DAYLIGHT 196

III. SUSPICION 208

IV. THE PARSON'S WIFE 221

V. JOHN DALTON, BARRISTER 233

vi. jenny's trial . 243

vii. the effect of the verdict . . . . 258

viii. "eat, drink, and be merry" . . . 270

ix. the little house at chelsea . . . 278

x. maud's answer 287

XL THE SILENT WATCHER 301

CHAPTER I.

It was generally a very happy home — made
bright and happy by its sweet young mistress —
where, week after week, Nellie lay utterly
prostrate. The long strain and anxiety on her
mind, and then the terrible shock she had
received, had brought on a sort of low fever,
and the memory of her misery even at times
grew dull and dim.

She was in truth, very, very ill ; so ill that
even good-natured Tom Bertrim began to look
and speak very gravely about her condition.

I really think, do you know, Dossie," he
said, " we should try to find out who she is.

VOL. III. B

Just fancy, if the poor soul were to die, dear,
what an awkward position we would be in ! I
suggest we apply to the police."

But Dossie would not hear of this.

"I'll speak to her when she gets a little
better," she said. " I'll ask her to make a friend
of me, Tom; and who knows, dear, she may
become a happy woman yet. Don't be hard
and horrid, Tom — in fact, I won't let you ! "

Tom shrewd his broad shoulders.

Well, little woman, have your own way,"
he said ; ' ' but what if some despairing husband
is seeking for this poor lady all this while ? "

"Then why did he drive her out to try to
drown herself in her misery ? " replied Dossie.
Tom, dear, he's a bad man, I'm sure ; and I
who have got such a good, kind husband —
when we are so happy, Tom — shouldn't we try
to do a little good ? "

This very illogical argument was quite
sufficient for the good-natured Tom. He kissed
his Dossie's rosy lips ; he felt himself strong
enough to resist all persuasions which were
against his Dossie's wishes.

For, as in all earthly Eden there is some
small, creeping, lurking evil hidden among the

flowers, so even in this happy home at Castlewood
Lodge, a small evil in the shape of jealousy
between the respective mothers of the two
young people, occasionally disturbed Mr. Tom
Bertram's usual serenity.

Dossie was an only child, and Turn an only
son. No one, therefore, naturally, was good
enough for Dossie in Mrs. Barrett's eyes, and
no one was good enough for Tom in Mrs.
Bertrim's. This was the first element of
jealousy between the two mothers, but this
first element was constantly augmented by small
social jealousies. If Mrs. Barrett gave a dinner
party and invited the " best " people she knew,
it immediately behoved Mrs. Bertrim to give a
dinner party also, and invite her " best " friends.
And the social standing of these friends was a
sore and jealous point between the ladies. The
line was so fine between them, that probably no
one else saw it (especially after the young people
were married), but both Mrs. Barrett and Mrs.
Bertrim saw it, and were bitter about it in their
secret hearts. Mrs. Barrett was the daughter
of a banker, and Mrs. Bertrim the daughter of
a wine merchant. There was the line ! Mrs.
Barrett held herself to be above Mrs. Bertrim

in position, though they were both married to
commercial men in the city of about equal
standing. Mrs. Bertrim resented this holding
up of Mrs. Barrett's head, and so jealousy was
between them ; jealousy, however, always properly
and decorously veiled.

And we may be sure both the mothers kept
their eyes on Castlewood Lodge ; and to give
Mrs. Bertrim her due, she was fond, on the
whole, of her daughter-in-law Dossie.

Tom makes a fool of himself about her,"
she was very apt to say ; but still she admitted
that " Mrs. Tom" was a very sweet young
woman, " very different from her mother,
though she very often did absurd things ; and
as for taking in this poor woman whom nobody
knows, and nursing her like a sister — Tom is a
fool to allow it ! "

Mrs. Bertrim not only said this to a married
daughter, but she also told her son Tom her
true opinion, and Tom began to think that
perhaps he might be a fool. So he spoke to
Dossie ; but as Dossie objected, and objected as
we have seen in so judicious a manner, Tom
felt strong enough to resist either mother or
mother-in-law.

Your mother told you to say this, didn't
she, Tom ? " continued Mrs. Tom, putting her
pretty hand in her husband's, and smiling in
his face.

Tom nodded his head, and gave a little laugh.

Never mind," said Dossie ; " we won't let
either mother or mother-in-law make us fight,
will we?"

I should think not," answered Tom stoutly.

I should think not too," said Dossie. " Of
course, darling," she added, " I would, and
-always will try to do what you wish. If you
wished me to turn a poor broken-hearted young
creature out, on the cruel mercies of the world ,
I would do it, only I know you wouldn't wish
me — that you wouldn't be my own dear Tom
if you did wish me — and so I'm quite safe,
because you are my own dear old darling Tom!"

Thus this pretty, kind-hearted young woman
got her own way. When her own mother
objected to her nursing the unfortunate stranger
she had taken in, Dossie told Mrs. Barrett that
Tom wished it, and that she had consulted Tom
about it, and therefore what could Mrs. Barrett
say ?

Keep the dear baby out of her way, that's

all I can say' sighed Mrs. Barrett, and upon
this point (for once in their lives) Mrs. Barrett
and Mrs. Bertrim agreed.

They both indeed adored the baby. They
had no other grandchild, and the baby's robust
legs, pink curled-up toes, and one tooth, were
unending sources of gratification and conversation
to the two grandmothers. And now they
both took up arms for " baby's " sake, against
the hapless stranger lying deadly sick under
Dossie's hospitable roof.

'•' The fever may be catching, and think of the
darling baby, Dossie," urged her own mother.

As Tom's mother, it is my duty to point out
to you, Dossie, the danger to which you are
exposing his son," severely remarked the mother-in-law.


Please don't scold me," Dossie replied,
almost in the same words to each mother, " for
I am only doing what I think right. And
baby is quite safe — do you not think I love
my own darling little boy well enough to take
care of him ? Babies don't take low, nervous
fevers, though broken-hearted women do ; and
as I have my husband's leave, I don't think
there can be any harm in it."

"Your husband would give you leave to do
.anything you wish, Dossie, it seems to me,"
remarked Mrs. Bertrim, with a mother's jealousy
of the young wife's influence.

Yes, isn't he a dear old fellow ? " answered
Dossie in her bright good-tempered way, for
she never appeared to notice any of what her
mother-in-law called "hints," and thus escaped
many a useless and unpleasant argument.

And all this while (when the two mothers
were making their comments), Dossie nursed
and attended upon her unfortunate guest as if
she were her sister. And she used, as Nellie
grew a little better, to take in baby to see her.
At first the dim, sunken eyes never noticed
baby, and Dossie considered this a very bad
sign. But one day Dossie noticed the poor
invalid was watching the child with a strange,
wistful look.

Without a word the young mother carried
her rosy, lovely boy to the bed, and placed
him in Nellie's arms. For a moment or two
Nellie made no sign. But baby, who was quite
at home with strangers, put his little chubby
face against hers, and pursed up his rosy mouth
to be kissed. As he did so Nellie drew him to

her breast, and then quick, sharp sobs came to
her relief. They were the first tears that
Dossie had seen her shed since she had been at
Castlewood, and as she wept and wailed over
the child, it seemed to Dossie that some hope
dawned in her face.

Kiss baby, dear, again," said Dossie to her
gently, in a few minutes; "see, the little fellow
thinks you are angry with him if you don't,
and then I'll carry him to nurse and come back
to you."

Nellie kissed the child, and murmured a few
inarticulate words of tenderness over the fair
curly head.

Say good-bye to the lady, baby," said the
young mother, lifting the little one in her arms;
and after she had given him to his nurse, she
returned to Nellie's bedside, and knelt clown,
and took one of the poor wasted hands.

Tell me your trouble, dear," said Dossie, in
her sweet kind voice. " Don't mind telling me
anything — I'm a woman too, and women are
often silly you know when they care very much
for anyone — and I hope you are better now,
that you are getting better — "

It would be better if I were dead," sobbed

Nellie. " I wish, to die — thank you very much
for all your kindness to fine — but I wish to die."

But, dear, we can't die when we wish, but
when God chooses," said Dossie, " and we must
try to do the best we can for everyone while we
live."

You — you are very good," wept Nellie. " I
once saw a good man die — he seemed very
happy — but, but God has forsaken me ! "

He forsakes no one, dear," answered Dossie,
with her simple, practical faith. " Do not be
afraid — you are not forsaken."

I have been cruelly, cruelly deceived — I
cannot tell you the story — but I thought, was
sure, quite sure, I was married — and then —
then, he told me I was not — that — that — "

But sobs here literally choked the unhappy
Nellie, and Dossie bent over her, and kissed the
tear-stained, burning face.

"It is not your sin or wrong," she said, " but
his. Hush, dear ! all may come right yet —
hush ! — I will always be your friend."

After this, little by little, Nellie told her
story, but she did not tell Lord Seaport's name.

I promised not to tell. I cannot break my
word, though he has broken his," she told

Dossie ; and Dossie, who had listened to her
pitiful tale with an indignant flush on her sweet,,
sympathetic face, nodded her head.

I would never speak to him more, never
see him more, if I were you," exclaimed Dossie.
She could not understand any man treating a
woman thus, when he had once loved or seemed
to love her. In all her own sheltered life she
had been made almost an idol of, for her father
and mother loved her so dearly, and her Tom
was devoted to her, and no trouble had ever
been permitted to approach her. And to hear
this miserable story, to see this poor brokenhearted
young creature, crushed down as it were,
by sorrow, was very terrible to Dossie.

"I don't know what to advise," she said, jumping
up from the chair on which she was sitting
by Nellie's bedside, to hide her own tears,
except you stay on here, dear, and try to get
well, and I'll come and talk to you again
presently." And Dossie stooped down and
kissed Nellie, and then ran quickly out of the
room.

After a while she came back.

I've been thinking it all over," she said, in
her kind, impulsive way. "Of course I couldn't



tell Tom. I have no secrets of my own from
Tom — indeed, how could I have any secrets*
when he helps me so about everything. But
this is not my secret, but yours ; and so I've
been obliged to think for myself, and I've
thought that perhaps it would be best for you
to write to this gentleman, and tell him where
you are."

Nellie's pale face flushed deeply at this proposal.


I think it would be right," continued
Dossie. " He mayn't have meant what he
said — quite ! He may have repented for having
been so cruel, and I think you should write."

Nellie lay silent. It was all so bitter to
her — more bitter than death — but what was
she to do ? She knew she could not go on
living under the roof of these kind strangers ;
and to o;o back to her father seemed more
terrible to her than it had ever been.

"It would kill him," she thought, with a
moan, turning on her pillow ; and Dossie,
hearing that cry of anguish, came and lay her
sweet cheek against Nellie's.

Hush, don't distress yourself ! " said Dossie.
I know how you must feel it, but I thought and

thought what would be best — for I feel so
stupid when I can't consult Tom — and I really
think you ought to write. If — if this gentleman
has any heart, after all you have suffered,
he will be only too glad to hear from you."

And after a while — after thinking her miserable
position over and over — Nellie at last did
determine to write to Seaport, to make one
more appeal to his honour and his heart.

Oh ! they were sad, sad words to write, these 1
He had crushed the love out of her heart, and
bowed her head with shame, and for her own
sake she never would have sought to see him
more. She sat up in bed and tried to write,
but could find no words to express her misery.
These words — the wretched cry for help —
which at last she penned, need not be repeated
here. They were never fated to meet the eyes-for
whom they were intended. Nellie enclosed
her letter under cover (as in the old days) to
Clayton ; but Clayton had gone to join his
master at Eyecourt, and had left no address,
and the unhappy girl's letter never even reached
Clayton.

But in the meantime, at the earnest entreaty
of her kind, sweet hostess, Nellie was trying to

rouse herself; to shake off the deadly stupor,
almost bewilderment, from her mind. At
length she was persuaded to leave her bedroom,
and in a pretty little loom at the end of the
large drawing-room at Castlewood, Dossie installed
the shattered, trembling creature, who
but a few months ago had been fair Nellie
Blythe.

But Christmas had come and gone, and the
New Year begun, before even this change could
be made. And this change was not made, we
may be quite sure, without the observation
and remarks of both the mother and the mother-in-law
of the young people at Castlewood. The
room downstairs where Nellie was removed,
was in truth the small drawing-room, but it
was separated from the other drawing-room by
folding-doors, which Dossie locked, after giving
the servants orders that no one was to be
allowed to disturb the invalid lady.

But Mrs. Bertrim was a woman who liked
(as she expressed it) to know the end of everything.
This unknown and nameless guest of her
daughter-in-law's, was therefore, a perpetual
worry to her, and she was determined to see
her. She watched her opportunity. Dossei

land driven into London to make some purchases,
and Mrs. Bertrim, having learnt that Dossie was
going into town on such a day, chose that day
for an unexpected visit to Castlewood Lodge.

She arrived, was told " Mrs. Tom " was not
at home, but, nevertheless, ordered her coachman
to stable his horses. Then, with a determined
step, she entered the house, and laid a
determined hand on the handle of the small
drawing-room door. But Dossie's maid here
tried to stop her.

"The poor, sick lady is there, ma'am," she
said, "and Mrs. Bertrim left particular orders
she was not to be disturbed."

Mrs. Bertrim, senior, made no reply to the
maid's remark. She opened the small drawing-room
door, and walked straight in. She was a
stout woman, with the signs of good cheer and
prosperity on every line of her face. On a
couch drawn close to the fire, as she entered
the room, another woman, with a white wasted
face, was lying, who started up with a nervous,
frightened look, on the appearance of Mrs.
Bertrim's burly form and rosy visage.

Mrs. Bertrim, senior, bowed stiffly, and Nellie
nervously.

I hope you are feeling better ? " said Mrs.
Bertrim, eyeing Nellie with hard, curious eyes.

Yes, I am a little better, I think," answered
Nellie, in a low, feeble voice.

You have had a long illness," said Mrs.
Bertrim.

"Yes' replied Nellie, in a yet lower and
more feeble voice.

(i This is my son's house," continued Mrs.
Bertrim, "so you must excuse my making
an observation or two — but I think it is
quite time you communicated with your
friends."

Nellie made no reply to this. She looked up,
her white, drawn, wasted face flushed for a
moment, and then grew pale again ; but she was
too ill, and too weak, to speak.

My daughter-in-law," began Mrs. Bertrim,
senior; but as she said the words she suddenly
paused, for — voluminous as herself, and with
indignation imprinted on her rosy features —
Mrs. Barrett at this moment walked into the
room.

My daughter left particular orders, Mrs.
Bertrim," said Mrs. Barrett, with emphasis,
that no one was to enter this room ; so

perhaps you will excuse me asking you to
withdraw, as the lady is too ill to be disturbed,
and my daughter gave positive orders before
she went to town to that effect."

Oh ! indeed ! " answered Mrs. Bertrim,
tossing her head with a very unpleasant little
laugh. "I was not aware that there were
stale secrets and locked doors in my son's
house. I was not aware I was intruding when
I entered any room in my son's house. But it
seems that I am — it seems that my son's house
is not open at least to his family."

"I am only repeating my daughter's wishes,
Mrs. Bertrim," said Mrs. Barrett. " I am no
more mistress here, as you are aware, than you
are. But as my daughter was going to town
to-day, she asked me to come and spend the
day with baby. Baby is not quite well — "

Not quite well ? " interrupted the other
grandmother with real anxiety. " I told Dossie
something would happen to the child if she did
not take care — I may go up and see baby, I
suppose, at any rate, Mrs. Barrett ? "

u Of course, Mrs. Bertrim — your own grandchild
! "

Upon this the two grandmothers left the

room to look after the precious child, and the
poor weary invalid was alone. But Nellie had
learned during their brief visit that perhaps
she might bring trouble and worry on her
sweet hostess if she stayed much longer at
Castle wood Lodge.

WHO COT Nellie SECOND LETTER.

Dossie Bertrim was very angry indeed when
she heard from her mother, on her return from
town, that her mother-in-law had intruded
herself upon her unhappy guest. Dossie, in
spite of her great sweetness and kindness of
disposition, had a temper of her own when she
was fairly roused, and she was fairly roused by
this unladylike act of her mother-in-law. In
fact, a somewhat serious family quarrel arose
in consequence ; and to add to Osiers annoyance
the post one day brought her a letter
returned from the dead-letter office. This
letter was the one which Dossie had persuaded
the unfortunate girl under her roof to write to
Seaport, under cover to his servant Clayton.
By Osiers request, the answer ought to have
been addressed, under cover, to Mrs. T. Bert rim.

Castlewood Lodge. The letter had been opened
at the post-office, and was returned to Castlewood
Lodge with a notification on the envelope
that no such person as Chiton was to be found.

Dossie was exceedingly annoyed at this. Her
husband opened the post-bag as usual, and saw
the letter, and handed it to his wife, and very
naturally asked her what it was about.

Dossie had the good sense at once to tell her
husband the truth. The poor, unhappy lady
upstairs had written a letter and sent it under
cover to this person Clayton, who apparently
could not be found, explained Dossie, and the
answer ought to have come under cover to her.

Good-natured Tom Bertrim listened, and
then beo-an whistling to himself.

I say, Dossie," he said, presently, " I think
it has a very shady look."

Why, Tom ? This man may have gone
away, mayn't he ? " replied Dossie.

He may, certainly," said Tom ; " but all the
same, little woman, I think you really ought to
see about getting another home for this poor
creature. You see the old lady is very much
offended about all this row, and it makes the
house so uncomfortable to have rows in it ;

and as, of course, she must go away some day
or other, I advise you really dear to urge her
to write to her friends — for as my mother
says — "

Don't tell me what your mother says, Tom,"
answered Dossie, turning very red. " I don't
want any quarrels, but all the same I won't let
anyone but you order me about in my own
house. Of course if you wish it — "

"I do wish it, dear little woman, only don't
vex yourself about it," said Tom. " If she
want's money, of course you know she can have
it, and there is no particular hurry ; but still if
you don't mind, I think it is a pity for us to
have any more quarrels and worries about a
stranger."

Dossie was very much upset at this conversation,
and also to be forced to tell the poor
girl she had befriended, that her letter had
been returned through the post.

She broke this news as gently as she could,,
and Nellie never spoke a word. But by-and-by
a few heavy tears began to roll down the
sunken cheeks, and the lips to twitch nervously.

This man, of course, may have gone away,"
said Dossie, trying to speak hopefully. " You

see the letter has never reached him, so of
course it has never reached — the gentleman.
I would advise you to write direct to the
gentleman — "

Then Nellie spoke.

Mrs. Bertrim," she said, " I had better go
from here — I ought to go away from here."

"But why?" asked Dossie, with faltering
lips, for she was thinking of what her husband
had said.

"Because I shall only bring trouble upon you
because every one is not like you — and —
and I suppose I'm not fit to be in your house."
And Nellie burst into choking sobs.

Dossie knew at this moment that this washer
mother-in-law's doing; • she knew that this
poor broken-hearted creature had seen and
understood the purport of her mother-in-law's
visit, and Dossie felt very indignant.

I am my own mistress," said Dossie, " and
no one shall dictate to me whom I shall receive
into my own house. But " (Dossie still remembering
her husband's words) " I have just
thought of a nice change for you. Our old
coachman at home married a few years ago,
and I know them very well, and they let

lodgings not far from Victoria Station — and if
you would like to go to them, you can of course
have as much money as you want — you know
I have money of my own ; even Tom knows
nothing about it."

Nellie put out her trembling hand, which
Dossie Bertrim eagerly took.

I do not know how to thank you," said
Nellie. " I would like to go where you name
and if you will lend me some money now,
it shall be repaid to you — my father — "

Do not distress yourself, please," urged
Dossie.

I was only going to say," continued poor
Nellie, trying to speak quietly, " that I know
my father will repay you this — but I cannot
go to him just now — I cannot ! I cannot ! "

I know, dear ; and about the money, it is
all right. I will, if you wish it — as soon as
you feel well enough to move, of course — write
to this Mrs. Moore. She is a most respectable
woman, I know, and she will take care of you
and nurse you. But there is one thing you
must promise, or I will not let you go."

"What must I promise? " said Nellie, wearily.

Never to — do anything rash again — not

to harm yourself, I mean — and also not to runaway
from one. Now, will you promise ? "

"Yes," half whispered Nellie, and Dossie
bent down and kissed her face.

Very well, then," she said, " I will trust
you. I will write to Mrs. Moore, and as soon
as you are strong enough I will drive you into
town."

This arrangement was carried out a few days
later. In fact, both Nellie and Dossie Bertram
felt that Nellie was now better away from
Castle wood Lodge. And Nellie had made up
her mind to endeavour to see Seaport. Surely
when he saw her — when he knew all — his heart
would relent. And she could not, of course,
try to see him at Castlewood. Therefore as
soon as the doctor would give his consent,
Nellie begged to be taken to her new home.
She little guessed how anxiously and constantly
she had been sought for ; she little guessed how
bitterly (to do him justice) Seaport had grieved
over her uncertain fate ; and how Strathearn
was unceasingly endeavouring to trace her.

It was close on the end of January when she
left Castlewood Lodge. By this time Seaport
had grown so utterly weary of Kyecourt that

Lis mother had urged him to go to Paris for a
change, and had borrowed the money from her
old friend, Hugh Marchmont, to take him there.
Seaport, however, did not leave England without
making another effort to hear something of
Nellie. He wrote to the police from Dover,
and there awaited their reply. They had
nothing to tell him but what he already knew.
Mr. Campbell, of Strathearn, had offered a
reward of two hundred pounds for the discovery
of the same lady, and was making other strenuous
efforts, he was told, but hitherto without
result. But there was no doubt that the lady
who endeavoured to throw herself from the
bridge at Chelsea and "Mrs. Murray" were
identical ; therefore Lord Seaport might reasonably
be satisfied that she was well taken care of.

And with this meagre information Seaport
went away. He was best away, Mr. Cairns
wrote him word. " Strathearn will look after
her if she casts up," thought Seaport, with a
bitter smile.

Thus when Nellie went to live in the small
street near Victoria Station, where the late
coachman of Mr. and Mrs. Barrett lived,
Seaport was in Paris. He was miserable enough,

to do him justice, for he had not forgotten
Nellie, but he blamed her as well as he blamed
himself. It was heartless and unfeeling of her
never to have written to him, he thought, not
to have sent one line to tell him of her safety,
when she must know how much she must have
caused him to suffer by her mysterious disappearance.


All the time he had stayed at Eyecourt, his-mother
had never named the subject to him.
She had named another subject frequently, and
this was his marriage to Nora Trelawn. She
had pointed out again and again, how this
marriage would save him, and when she proposed
for him to go to Paris, she was only
carrying out a scheme which she had formed in
her own mind.

This scheme was to invite Nora to stay with
her at Hugh Marchmont's when Seaport was
away. She knew it would look too marked ta
invite her when her son was there, but she laid
her plans fairly well.

Nora was to be invited to " take pity " upon
her, as Seaport was away, and then Seaport
was unexpectedly to return during the rich
widow's visit. The first act of this social drama

was to get Seafortli away, and he was only too
glad to go. He was weary of the great stillness
and rest at Ryecourt, and he knew he was
totally and completely unsuited for the society
of his mother's distant kinsman — Hugh Marchmont.


Lady Seaport had written to Nora frequently
during her stay at Ryecourt, and Nora had
always replied in a friendly and kindly spirit.
Nora, in truth, liked my lady much better since
that dismal day when circumstances had compelled
her to bow her proud head and come to
Nora for help and assistance. So in the early
days of Spring, when the violets and snowdrops
were beginning to show their modest heads in
the woods round Ryecourt, Lady Seaport
wrote and asked Nora if she would take compassion
on her, and spend a few days with her
in this remote and old-fashioned spot, where
my distant kinsman, Hugh Marchmont, literally
lives among his flowers. Seaport is in Paris,"
continued my lady's letter, "and it is very,
very dull here, for Mr. Marchmont never entertains,
even if there were any one in the
neighbourhood whom I could have any pleasure
in meeting. But as far as I can learn, there is

not. However, I know you love the country,
and the country is pretty, and the gardens are
very pretty ; and my kinsman (whom I have
told of your great kindness to Seaport and
myself) desires me to say he will be charmed
if you will pay us a visit."

Nora read this letter with a smile, and then
handed it to her aunt, Lady Stainbrooke, who
had once more, almost uninvited, established
herself and her old General at Nora's house in
South Kensington.

Lady Stainbrooke put on her glasses and
read the letter, and then nodded her head.

I would go if I were you, Nora' she said ;
"the change will do you good — you want
change," she added significantly.

V Do I ? " said Nora, and she coloured slightly.
I am very well, Aunt Stainbrooke.''

Yes, my dear • but still I think a little
change would do you good," continued Lady
Stainbrooke. "It would freshen you up, you
see, for the season — and Lady Seaport is a
very agreeable person."

Nora laughed quite merrily. She knew how
anxious haunt was that she should marry
Lord Seaport ; though had her aunt known

how much money she had advanced to Lord
Seaport, she would have thought twice about
the matter.

But during the time of Lord Seaport's
illness, and the great trouble in the house,
Lady Stainbrooke and her General had been at
Buckstone, and Lady Stainbrooke only knew
that Lord Seaport was an embarrassed man,
and had had a fever, and that her niece, Nora,
had been a great deal with her neighbour during
the time of the young lord's illness.

Naturally, perhaps, then Lady Stainbrooke
expected Nora would marry Seaport.

Thank goodness that Yyner is married and
out of the way now," she had shouted to her
General, when she first heard the news of Yyner 's
marriage. She indeed understood everything
now about Nora's conduct which she had not
understood before.

So he told her he was engaged that day at
Roseland, I suppose," smiled her ladyship to
herself, " and this was the reason of Nora's rude
behaviour to me. Poor man," she inwardly
reflected, " I really pity him — fancy losing such
a fortune as Nora's by a mere chance, for she
would certainly have been fool enough to take

him. Ay, ay, and I suppose he tried to get off
fulfilling his engagement, and the girl wouldn't
let him — yes, I see it all now, and I am thankful
I have seen the last of him."

But, to Lady Stainbrooke's surprise and annoyance,
she found upon her return to Nora's
house that she had not seen the last of Mr.
Vyner. Nay, she found that one evening at
least in the week, Vyner was sure to be seen in
Nora's drawing-room. She found, in fact, that
Vyner and Nora continued to be friends, and
that they seemed to find a thousand subjects to
talk about, in which they both had a surprising
interest.

Allow me to congratulate you on your
marriage, Mr. Vyner," she had said to the painter
in her old jaunty way, when she first met him
again at Nora's house. " Ah — ah — I used to
say there was a lady in the way, you remember ?
I hear the new Mrs. Vyner is a very suitable
person."

Vyner only bowed. He could not endure
Lady Stainbrooke, and was, indeed, hardly
civil to her.

He's getting | very old-looking," Lady
Stainbrooke told Nora^after Vyner left ; f ' these

dark men never wear well, and he is decidedly
sallow — and do you ever see the wife ? "

Oh, yes," answered Nora, perhaps a little
consciously ; " she has dined here once or twice
but I do not see very much of her. Mr.
Vyner is different, he is an old friend."

"Yes," said Lady Stainbrooke, dryly; "but
you must take care, my dear," she added, "the-world
is censorious."

"There is nothing to be censorious about,"
answered Nora, hotly, though she felt she
blushed. "Mr. Vyner is an old friend, and
shall always be received and treated as such in
my house."

So her ladyship said nothing more, but all
the same she would sometimes watch Nora and
Vyner rather uneasily. All the world might
have heard every word they ever spoke to each
other, but the hours spent in Nora's drawing-room
were the only hours of Vyner's life that
were not now very wearisome to him.

At home he knew he was drifting further and
further away from Margaret. But Margaret
never saw this. She was always busy ; her house,.
her servants, and her father occupying her whole
attention. She was disappointed in " Walter,"

certainly. His temper was " variable," she
confided to her old friend, Mrs. Saunders ; but
Mrs. Saunders counselled her " to put up with
it," and she took this excellent woman's advice.

There were no open quarrels, therefore, between
the husband and wife, yet they constantly
disagreed. But still, Margaret felt that she had
done well in life, and that she was the help and
comfort of her father's declining years. She
was, in fact, a good daughter, and no doubt in
some ways a good wife also. She did everything
she ought to do ; but she so constantly
reminded you of this, that her egotism effaced
her virtues.

And, weary of this everlasting self-praise
and self-assertiveness, Vyner used sometimes to
go to Nora's, and tell her his thoughts and
fancies, as we can only tell them to a few.
Behind her gold-rimmed glasses Lady Stain-brooke,
with her blinking eyes would watch the
painter, and she began more earnestly than ever
to wish that Nora was married to Lord Seaport.
Therefore when the invitation came from Lady
Seaport to invite Nora to visit her at Ryecourt,
Lady Stainbrooke urged her niece to go.

The change will do you good," she said.

She meant it would be better if Nora were out
of Mr. Vyner's way.

Nora told her " old friend, Mr. Vyner," of
Lady Seaport's invitation also.

I think I am going down for a week into
Dorsetshire to gather primroses, Walter," she
said smiling. " Lady Seaport is staying at an
old country house, which belongs to a distant
relation of hers, and she has invited me to go."

The painter suppressed a restless sigh, and
walked up to the fireplace and stood looking
absently at the flames.

He was thinking of a report which had crept
into the society papers, and which Margaret
had pointed out to his notice only on the previous
day.

This report was that Nora was going to
marry Lord Seaport. It was a report openly
enough discussed, and Seaport was understood
to be keeping out of the way until " his affairs
were settled ; " in fact until he married Croesus's
Widow, and thus obtained the money to settle
them with.

It is a very good thing for them both," said
Margaret, in her practical way, after pointing
out the report to Vyner. " He has rank and

she lias money — I am very glad. It will be an
advantage to us also, Walter, to visit Lady
Seaport, and I suppose she won't give us the
cold shoulder when you and she are such old
friends."

"No, I do not suppose she will," answered
Vyner, and nothing more was said on the
subject.

But as he stood gazing into Nora's fire, after
she had told him she was thinking of going to
visit Lady Seaport, Vyner was wondering if
the report were likely to be true. But something
— a feeling to which he could not have
given a name — prevented him from mentioning
it to Nora.

Presently, however, he asked one question.

Is the young lord there too, then ? " he
said.

Oh, no," answered Nora, " he is in Paris —
this is Lady Seaport 's letter," and she took up
an open letter that she had been about to
answer when Vyner came in. " Yes," she
continued, after glancing at the letter, " Lord
Seaport is in Paris — he has gone there, I
suppose, for change after his fever."

I suppose so," said Vyner, and he made no

VOL. III. C

other remark, and after he left her, Nora sat
down and accepted Lady Seaport's invitation.
Nora's letter was delivered to Lady Seaport
at Byecourt on the following day, and the same
post that carried this letter carried another
letter also, which her old servant, Mrs. Benson,
had enclosed in a fresh envelope, and forwarded
to Lady Seaport.

This other letter was for Lord Seaport. It
was addressed to the South Kensington house,
which was shut up, but Mrs. Benson went each
evening to see if there were any letters in the
box, and if there were, forwarded them to my
lady.

Lady Seaport looked at this letter — the
letter addressed to her son — looked at the
somewhat faint, delicate handwriting on the
envelope, and then her pale face turned suddenly
red. " Could it be ? " she was thinking.
Could this wretched girl have written to
Seaport — written just now— when it was of
such vital consequence that her very existence
should be ignored ? Could it be so ? "

Lady Seaport had fallen very low. She had
lied to Strathearn ; she had urged her son to
marry for money, and forget all claims of honour

and conscience ; but she felt lower still this
day. With trembling hands she opened her
son's letter ; with shocked and startled eyes
read the first line : —

Murray," she read, " not for my own sake
do I appeal to you — " She read no further.
Hastily and tremblingly she restored the letter
to its envelope ; hastily and tremblingly locked
it securely away.

joanna's capture.

A few days after this, Nora went on her visit
to Ryecourt, and was received with the greatest
cordiality by Lady Seaport. Nora thought
that Lady Seaport looked a little worn, but
she assured Nora she was perfectly well.

"And my son is almost quite well too, now,"
she added, smiling. " I am so thankful — a
fever pulls a man down so terribly, and it was
dreadful to see him so ill — and I hope his affairs
will soon be put all right now."

She hid the skeletons that she had locked
away in her closet very well, this proud lady.
One of these skeletons (Nellie's letter to Seaport)
still lay securely hidden at Ryecourt when Nora
arrived there. Perhaps my lady's face was a
shade paler, and a pang of shame sometimes
crossed her heart when she remembered this,

but on the whole she looked very well, and
bore herself very bravely and pleasantly, considering
the circumstances.

She took Nora all over the old house the day
after Nora s arrival at Kyecourt, and smilingly
told her again of Hugh Marchmont's stupid
attachment to herself,

"It has made him so strange, I suppose'
she said. " He lives here like a hermit, only
he has every comfort around him. Then he
has such wonderful ideas — I believe he thinks
•of nothing but what he imagines to be doing
good, and he has pensioners of every description
— he is a very odd person."

He struck me last night as being a very
interesting person, " answered Nora. " I never
saw such a benign and peaceful face, I think."

Yes, that is so astonishing ! " said Lady
Seaport, shrugging her shoulders. " What
-can make him look so contented ? "

Something that Lady Seaport had never
sought for, and never found, in her worldly,
unhappy life ! She could not understand Hugh
Marchmont — could not understand how the
man, who once had been at her feet, could now
placidly spend week after week under the same

roof with lier, and never show the faintest wish
or idea of resuming the old lover-like relationship
between them.

And Lady Seaport soon saw this After
that first morning when they had breakfasted
together, and when she had spoken of " circumstances
which sometimes make us appear
deceptive when our hearts are true," and
when Hugh Marchmont had left her for his
parson, she had made no further advances to
him. She was too proud to woo any man —
but she could not understand it. She was still
handsome, and she was free now, and Hugh
Marchmont had once loved her so deeply. Yet
here was Hugh Marchmont unmoved, kind and
placid, day by day, as if he were her grandfather !

Therefore, Lady Seaport told Nora he was
a very strange person, and really thought so.
But Nora took quite a fancy to this grave -
faced gentleman, who lived " imagining he was
doing good." She understood him better than
Lady Seaport did ; and after Hugh Marchmont'*
quiet, penetrating eyes had rested on the young
widow's face for a day or two, he made a
remark which greatly surprised and annoyed
Lady Seaport.

"I don't think your match-making will
answer 1 he said, smiling. " Mrs. Trelawn is not
the woman to many Seaport."

And why, may I ask ? " said Lady Seaport
angrily.

You will see," said Hugh Marchmont, still
smiling ; and my lady felt very angry with
herself, and very angry with her distant kinsman.


I have been a fool to confide anything to
him, he is so absurd," she thought. The reason
she had confided or rather hinted her scheme
to him about Nora, was when she wanted to
borrow the money for her son to go to Paris,
from Mr. Marchmont.

It will be all right some day, Hugh," she
had then said, smiling. u I look on Seaport's
marriage with Mrs. Trelawn as almost a settled
thing. She is quite devoted to him, I am
certain — if only Seaport would settle."

Therefore she felt very angry with Mr.
Marchmont, when he prophesied that her
matrimonial scheme would end in disappointment.


"But Hugh is so absurd," she told herself;
and she was more agreeable than ever during

the rest of the day after this conversation about
Croesus's Widow, for Lady Seaport rarely showed
her real feelings.

But while Nora was gathering cowslips and
primroses on the grassy wolds round Recounts
and Lady Seaport was standing by smiling and
chatting, let us return to those in town whom
the under current of life was drifting nearer to
Lady Seaport's path.

Her old lady's-maid, Mrs. Benson, had had
more than one visit during this time from
Joanna Brewis, who was most anxious to
redeem her promise to Strath earn, and find out
where Clayton was. But Mrs. Benson had been

as reserved and mysterious during these visits
as she had been when Joanna had first called

to make inquiries about Clayton.

I am not at liberty to say anything, Miss

Brewis," at last she bad told Joanna, and

Joanna had sniffed indignantly.

There's good cause of secrets, I dare say,"

she said. " For my part I'm straightforward,

having nothing particular to hide ! "

But Joanna felt very much aggrieved by

finding that Mrs. Benson could " keep anything

from her." She despised Mrs. Benson's mental

endowments, and had expected that Mrs.
Benson would tell her anything she chose to
ask ; and when she found this was not the case,
she felt extremely irate, and her temper grew so
irascible that three maid-servants ran away
from her in a week, and she received two
summonses for wages, which she declared she
would never pay "while alive."

But while she was in this irritable frame of
mind, fortune suddenly favoured her. She
was returning from a register-office one afternoon,
just as it was turning dusk, when as she
passed the corner of Belgrave Road her sharp
eyes fell on the figure of a man, who was at
that moment leaving the shop door of her
friend, Mr. Benson, the chemist, the husband
of Lady Seaport's old lady's-maid.

Joanna looked at this man and at once
recognised him. It was Clayton himself she
felt sure ; and it was Clayton. Lord Seaport
had not taken his servant to Paris with him
when he went there, but had sent Clayton
back to London when he quitted Ryecourt,
and Clayton had been calling on Mrs. Benson
when Joanna saw him.

No sleuth-hound ever felt a keener joy in

sighting his prey than Joanna felt at the
sight of this man. Her eyes gleamed, her
steps quickened, and yet she followed him
warily, for she wanted him quite away from
Mrs. Benson's ken before she attacked him.

But she never took her eyes off him. On
went Clayton before, and on warily followed
Joanna behind. Then suddenly she pounced
upon him ; fixing her long, thin fingers with a
claw-like gripe upon his arm.

And how do you find yourself this evening,
Clayton ? " she said with a triumphant giggle.
You've got home, then ? "

Ah ! Miss Brewis," said Clayton, who felt
a little startled, looking round, " is that you ?
Yes, I've got home."

I'm glad I've met you," continued Joanna,

still with her eyes eagerly gleaming and fixed

on the man's face, " for I've something at my

house I would like } T ou to see — something that

came for your lord as you call him — I fancy

from a party we know who has disappeared ;

and, if you'll come with me, I'll put it into

your hands, to forward as you please'

Clayton at once fell into Joanna's snare.
j

u What ! " he said, " has anything come from

the poor young lady ? I'm glad to hear it,
Miss Brewis, and my lord will be glad too —
I know that, for he's fretted terribly about
this business. Is it a letter ? "

"I'll show you when we get home," answered
Joanna, grimly ; and with alacrity Clayton
turned with her, and a few minutes later was
entering Miss Brewis's house.

Kindly step into my little private parlour,"
said Joanna, as soon as she had closed the hall
door. " I'll q;o and fetch what I meant in a
moment or two, if you will stay here."

Innocently Clayton walked into Joanna's
parlour, and swiftly Joanna ran upstairs.
"When she arrived at bedroom number three,
her actions appeared a little extraordinary, for
.she instantly took the door-key out from the
lock in the inside of the room, and placed it in
the lock outside. Having done this, she glanced
anxiously round the room, and snatched up a
little ornament from the mantel-piece that she
considered valuable, and put it in her pocket.
Then assuming as bland an air as she could,
though she could not help the cat-like and
ferocious gleam in her green eyes, she descended
the staircase and went into her parlour, where

Clayton was standing, looking thoughtfully out
of the window.

Now, Clayton," she said, " if you'll come
upstairs with me, I'll show you what I mean."

Certainly, Miss Brewis," said Clayton
politely, and he followed Joanna upstairs, and
walked into bedroom number three, when
Joanna indicated that he was to do so.

But the moment he was inside the room
Joanna shut the door after him, remaining
herself outside, and before the astonished
Clayton could turn round, he heard the door key
turned, and saw at once that he was locked in.

Why, Miss Brewis, are you going to make
a prisoner of me ? " he shouted through the
door, wondering what Joanna could mean.

Yes, young man," shouted Joanna grimly.
in reply, " you'll stay where you are, till a party
I know of arrives here to ask you some questions
that I'll be bound he'll make you answer. It's
no use you shaking the door or shouting — if
you shout loud, and anyone hears you, I'll tell
inquirers that you are a party wailing to be
conveyed to the lunatic asylum, and, therefore,
all your tantrums will only be considered
natural."

Come, Miss Brewis, this is a little too bad,"
said Clayton, shaking the handle of the door.
Let me out, my good lady, and I'll answer
any question you wish to ask."

Joanna gave a sarcastic giggle.

"I daresay," she said, "but I prefer you
inside ; and inside you'll stay for the present.
There's a Bible on the mantelpiece," she added,
with another bitter giggle ; " and I advise you
to have a little quiet reading, for you'll have
time, and may be it will improve your morals!"
And having given this parting shot, Clayton
heard Joanna descend the staircase.

In vain he shook the door, and opened the
window and shouted for assistance. Joanna
had secured him in a back bedroom, which
looked upon her own back-premises, and there
was no one apparently to be seen. Clayton,
therefore, tried to resign himself, and sat down
and began to consider what possibly could be
Joanna's motive. He came to the conclusion
it must be some of the creditors of his lord
who had bribed Joanna to snare him, so that
they might discover where his lordship was.
He, therefore, waited fairly patiently for the first
hour, expecting every moment to be released.

In the meanwhile, Joanna had not been
idle. She had telegraphed to Strathearn to
come at once to her house, and she was sitting
impatiently downstairs awaiting his arrival.

But hour after hour passed away, and no
Strathearn appeared. Strathearn, in fact, had
gone out of town for a few hours, and thus had
not immediately received Joanna's telegram.
At nine o'clock, therefore, Joanna went upstairs
to look after her captive.

I say, young man," she shouted through
the keyhole, " d'ye want any supper ?"

This is too much, really, Miss Brewis,"
answered Clayton, from inside ; " a man can't
stand such treatment, I can tell you. Supper,
indeed ! I'm starving, and would give anything
for a drink o' beer. Do let me out, my dear
lady, just for a glass o' beer, and then you can
put me in again."

I'd too much trouble to get you in, to try
the experiment," shouted Joanna, now putting
one of her green eyes to the keyhole to view
her captive, who in the meanwhile had lighted
the jas, having found a box of matches. "Oh!
you've lit the gas, have you ? Well, you seem
pretty comfortable — and if you want any

supper, I'll slip a sandwich or two below the
door, and for drink you'll find plenty of water
in the bedroom jugs." And Joanna indulged
herself in a giggle.

But what on earth do you want w T with me,
that you are keeping me here ? " inquired
Clayton.

I want nothing with you' replied Joa noah,
in a virtuous tone, " and the party who does
want something with you hasn't come ; and till
he does come you w T on't see the outside of the
door I can promise you, young man ! But I
don't wish to deprive you of victuals, and you
shall have ham and beef sandwiches to choose
from in five minutes."

Joanna was as good as her word, and presently
returned to the bedroom door with a
plate of sandwiches.

Come, young man," she said, " I've cut
them myself, and you'll find them not like the
choking articles some people call sandwiches
there's one through" (Joanna had by this
time slid one of the sandwiches below the door)
"there's another — when you have finished
these two, I'll pass in number three."

But, my dear good lady, do give me a drop

to drink ? " pleaded the unhappy Clayton from
inside.

Upon this point, however, Joanna was
obdurate.

They say there's nothing so wholesome as
water," she said, "and you've plenty of it.
Now just you have another sandwich."

But Clayton was too angry to eat. He was
just beginning to threaten Miss Brewis with all
sorts of legal punishments for her illegal act,
when a thundering rap and ring at the house
door announced an arrival.

That's the party, I'll be bound ! " exclaimed
Joanna, and she ran downstairs, and just entering
the hall as she did so, found Strathearn.

"I've caught him, sir !" she said triumphantly.
I have him upstairs, safe under lock and key."

Who ? Clayton ?" asked Strathearn eagerly.

Clayton himself," answered Joanna. " I
snared him. They've been too sharp for me
they thought, but I've been too sharp for them
for once ! Ha, ha, ha ! " And Joanna giggled
with satisfaction.

Then Strathearn followed her upstairs, and
as she unlocked the bedroom door Strathearn
gave a harsh laugh.

What ! have you him here ? " he said.

There he is ! " answered Joanna, throwing
open the bedroom door. " I said I would catch
him, and I've caught him — so now I'll leave you
tog-ether."

Then Strathearn entered the room, and
Clayton at once recognised him, and began
dimly to understand the situation.

"Now, my man," said Strathearn, " I want
a few words with you. I didn't tell that good
lady, mind, to lock you up, but I asked her to
try to find you, for I want some knowledge I
believe you possess — and I am ready and willing
to pay you handsomely for it."

Clayton bowed like a well-bred servant.

Hiss Brewis has certainly treated me very
oddly, sir," he said, " and as for any information
I possess — unless it's against my duty —
I shall be very glad to give it to you."

"What do you mean by your duty ? " asked
Strathearn roughly. "Do you mean your duty
to the man you call your master, Lord Seaport,
or do you mean your duty as an honest man ? "

Clayton cast down his eyes.

I have been a long time in the service of
my lord, Mr. Campbell," he said.

Exactly," said Stratliearn ; " and now I
want to make it worth your while to quit his
service. Look here, man ! " he added, yet more
roughly, and he walked forward close to Clayton
" I know something at least of your past life
I know you helped to deceive an innocent
woman last August in Edinburgh ; but I want
to know something more than this, for which I
am ready to pay you handsomely."

You mean — " said Clayton, without lifting
his eyes.

I mean did Seaport — the man you call
your master — deceive her then or afterwards ?
I mean, was he married to her in Edinburgh,
as she believed ; or was that marriage a farce,
as he told her it was before she disappeared ? "

Still Clayton stood with his eyes cast down
before the eager and excited Stratliearn.

If you will tell the truth, the exact truth
mind ye, I will give you five hundred pounds,"
continued Stratliearn.

Then Clayton lifted his eyes.

Five hundred pounds," he repeated.

What visions this sum conjured up ! He
could retire from service — he could start
a bar — he could get married — but, on the

other hand, could he betray his master ?

I've been uncommonly sorry for the poor
young lady, sir," he said, presently, after considering
both sides of the question ; " uncommonly
sorry, and so, I am sure, has my lord.
But you see, my lord's in a terrible hole, sir —
it's no secret we had an execution in the house,
and the bailiffs were only got out by a party
advancing the money, and this party my lord — "

But here Clayton paused — he began to think
he was telling too much, and again he turned
over both sides of the question in his own mind.

"If I hold my tongue," he thought, "my
lord will likely marry the rich widow, and be
on the swim again : but will this be worth five
hundred pounds to me — five hundred pounds
in cash — "

Sir," he said aloud, " will you allow me to
think the matter over ? I am sure you will
think no worse of me for wishing to act
honourable to my lord ; but then, on the other
hand, the poor young lady is to be considered —
and I'm sure when I thought she had gone and
drowned herself I was almost as much upset as
my lord."

And you know nothing of her — nothing

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS LIBRARY,

more ? " asked Strathearn, in a faltering voice.

"Nothing, sir, on my honour," replied Clayton.
Nor does my lord. Since the day she ran out
of this house, after she and my lord quarrelled,
we have never seen or heard of her. But all
the same, I think there's no reasonable doubt
that she's alive, and well taken care of, for
there's no doubt she was the young person who
tried to throw herself from the Chelsea Bridge,
and who was taken away by the lady in the
carriage — but, of course, you've heard the whole
story, sir ? "

"Yes," answered Strathearn, briefly; "and
now — when will you make up your mind to
tell the truth ? "

Will you give me two days to consider,
sir, what is best for me to do ?" asked Clayton.

Yes," again said Strathearn, and on this
agreement they parted.

He will tell," thought Strathearn, bitterly,
as Clayton walked out of the room. " And
I believe now, there is something in this
marriage," he thought, yet more bitterly — he
had offered a reward of five hundred pounds
for knowledge that stabbed him like a sword.

HOPE DEFERRED.

In a neat, quiet little house, not far from
Victoria Station, and close to one of the
bridges, Nellie had now found a temporary
home. The mistress of the house had been in
the service of Mr. and Mrs. Barrett as well asher
husband, and therefore Mrs. Tom Bertrim's
recommendation was quite sufficient for Mrs.
Moore, as Nellie's new landlady was called.

Nothing could exceed the kindness and
delicacy with which Dossie Bertrim behaved to
Nellie at this time. She paid for her lodgings
a month in advance, and she put a sufficient
sum into her hand for Nellie to live on for a
much longer period ; and she told Mrs. Moore
that " her friend, Mrs. Murray " was the wife of
an officer, who was abroad at present, and
requested that Mrs. Moore would pay her every
attention, " for my sake," added Dossie.

Mrs. Moore smiled kindly in reply. She had
known this sweet young woman, who was
asking her to be kind to her " friend," since she
was a little child. Dossie Barrett had been
almost as much loved by the servants at her
father's house as she had been by every one
else. " Every one is always so kind to me,"
she used to say, but the truth was that she was
so kind that it was impossible not to love her.
Therefore, Mrs. Moore gladly promised to do
her best for her " dear young lady's " friend.
And Dossie filled the quaint little vases about
the room with flowers, and brought grapes and
other luxuries for the poor drooping invalid
whom she had confided to her old servant's
care.

But there are some ills no earthly kindness
can cure, and it's vain to try to heal a broken
heart.

'• It's sad to see her, ma'am," Mrs. Moore
confided to Dossie ; " there she sits all day,
and seems to notice nothing — I fear there's
something wrong; with her that will not mend."

It was at this time that Nellie wrote her
.second letter to Lord Seaport — the letter my
lady hid away at Eyecourt ; and while my lady

was smiling and gathering primroses with Nora
Trelawn, the broken-hearted young creature
who had written it, was watching for each post,
and listening for a footfall that never came.

Day by day passed away, each more dreary
than the last. It was wet spring weather, and
the rain came pattering down on the streets,
and the sky was grey and cloudy.

"Will he never come— never, never — "she
kept moaning. And yet she could not believe
that he would thus utterly forsake her. In
the letter that Lady Seaport had hidden away,
Nellie had appealed in simple and touching
language, " not for my sake, Murray," she had
written, and surely, surely he would not resist
this helpless cry !

Yet he never came, and no letter came. We
know how this was, but the unhappy girl did
not know. She had addressed her letter to
Lord Seaport, at the house at South Kensington,
where she knew he lived with his mother ;
and as this letter was never returned to her,
and never answered, what could she think ?

She waited a fortnight — fourteen weary,
weary days — and then she thought she would
write again. She must do something she

knew ; she could not 2:0 on living at the
expense of strangers like the Bertram, however
kind and good these strangers might be. Her
letter might have been lost — Murray must be
away, she decided — and so she wrote again.

Then came other weary days and nights of
suspense — sometimes of despair. Yet she did
not turn to death now, as she had turned in her
first dark agony, when she had learned that all
her love and all her hopes had been given to a
lie. Other thoughts stirred in her heart — >
perhaps other hopes. But her second letter
shared the same fate as her first. Again Mrs.
Benson enclosed " a letter for my lord " to my
lady ; and my lady looked at this second letter,
shivered, grew red, then pale — and locked it
away beside the first.

Nora Trelawn was still at Eyecourt when
this second letter was forwarded there. She
had enjoyed her visit, and the fresh country air
had brought back some of her early bloom ;
and Lady Seaport, writing to her son in Paris,
told him that " Mrs. Trelawn was looking
absolutely charming ; " and she urged her son
to come over and join them without delay.

This second letter, therefore, came like a shock

to Lady Seafortli. She was expecting her son,,
hoping for him — and yet she grew afraid when
this second letter was enclosed by Benson. She
thought even of writing to tell him not to come
to Eyecourt — but then it was such a chance —
living in this lonely, out-of-the-way spot, with
the richest independent woman in England ;
in town it could never be like this, even if
Seaport could be in town, which his circumstances
(as his mother well knew) entirely
prevented.

She would risk it, decided Lady Seaport,
but this second letter somewhat shattered her
nerves. She did not open it ; she hid it away,
but she could not forget it. " The wretched
girl" who had written it, as she inwardly
designated Nellie, was in the meantime waiting
and watching. She waited a week, and then
one day, thickly veiled, she crept out of doors
and drove nearly to the square in South Kensington,
where Lady Seaport lived. Then she
left the cab, and crawled wearily to the very
square. The house was shut up ; Nellie looked
up, saw this, and turned deadly faint. She was
still very weak and ill, and it was all she could
do to totter back to her cab, and wearily leaning

back in it, she returned to her present home.

That closed house seemed to tell its own story
to the unhappy girl. So he was away — most
probably abroad — and what was she to do ?

Father ! father ! " the next moment broke
from her white, parched lips. This piteous cry
came almost without thought, but it brought a
new T thought. She would go to her father. She
clasped her hands, and recalled his constant
love. Would he turn from her now — now when
she was quite forsaken — perhaps about to die ?
No, she would go to this last refuge. Her
father would take her in and shield her if he
-could.

It is not for my own sake," she moaned
piteously, pressing her hot hands against her
burning brow. Oh ! the shame, the anguish of
that moment ! To go back dishonoured, heartbroken
— to face Margaret's cold looks, perhaps
hear her hard, cold words !

But she must do something — she must go !
If Seaport had forsaken her, if he really meant
to marry this other woman, it was only right
that she should try to seek protection for her
unborn babe. Perhaps her father, perhaps
Vyner, might persuade him to do her justice

for the child's sake. For herself — what matter
was it ? She had lost everything when she
found out she had given all her love, all her
hopes, to a lie.

And as she thought and thought, her miserable
heart began to take some comfort from
the memory of her father's love. His dear face
seemed to shine out of darkness, benignant to
her still. Yes, she would go to him, but she
was too ill and weak to go that day.

She was so prostrate and overcome indeed
that her landlady, Mrs. Moore, privately wrote
to her " young lady at Castlewood Lodge," as
she still called Dossie Bertrim, to tell her of Mrs.
Murray's state ; for Dossie had left particular
orders that Mrs. Moore was to write to her if
she saw any change in Mrs. Murray.

The poor young lady looks worse and worse
to my mind," wrote Mrs. Moore. " She drove
out for a short time to-day, and returned quite
overcome. She has done nothing but moan
almost ever since she came in," and so on.

This letter was delivered the next morning
at Castlewood Lodge, and caused the sweet,
kind-hearted young mistress there considerable
pain. She would have driven into town

at once to see after the unfortunate girl
whom she had befriended ; but they were
expecting some friends to lunch that day at
Castlewood, and as it was more than fifteen
miles out of town, Dossie had not time to drive
in and return before the luncheon hour to
receive her guests.

Therefore she put off her proposed visit to
Mrs. Moore's until the next day ; and on this
small and seemingly accidental pivot, a great
change came to Nellie's hapless life.

For, after a night's rest, Nellie still kept to
her resolve to go to her father. She rose
about ten o'clock, and trembling, shaking in
every limb, she prepared to go out. She put
on a black dress and a long black cloak and
veil, and would not listen to Mrs. Moore's
counsel and advice.

"You are not fit to go out, indeed, Mrs.
Murray," urged the good woman, looking with
compassionate eyes at the white, quivering,
agitated face. "Do wait, please, my dear,
until my young lady comes — I'm sure she'll go
with you if you have any business that requires
looking after — for you're not fit to go out by
yourself — and for that matter, if you like, I'll
go with you."

No, Nellie must go, and go alone. She had
nerved herself up for the interview with her
father. Did some recollection of the Prodigal
Son — of the pitiful cry, " Father, I have
sinned," — pass dimly through her mind ? And
the old man " fell upon his neck and kissed
him." Was there such love in store for her ?
She had forsaken her father — she was going
back to him, crushed, heartbroken — but still
he would kiss her, he would kiss her — Nellie
was sure of this.

So she made ready to go. It was now about
eleven o'clock, and Mrs. Moore called a cab fcr
her, and exerting all her strength Nellie tried
to appear calm, and ordered the driver to stop
-at the Metropolitan Railway Station nearest to
her father's house. This station was quite close
to the street where Major Blythe lived, and
Nellie thought she would have strength to
walk this short distance.

She closed her eyes as she was being driven
along ; she tried to picture her father's grief —
she felt thankful he was blind. Then the cab
stopped with a jerk, and Nellie looked up, and
recognised the familiar railway station. She
was close now, she thought — close — and she

drew a long breath, and feebly got out of t lie-cab
and paid her fare.

She felt weaker than she had thought she was,,
as she slowly crossed the street and turned into
the one where her father lived. Surely, there
was a greater crowd than usual in it? A crowd,
chiefly gathered lower down — lower down, where
her father lived. Nellie tottered on, her eyes
fixed on this crowd. She neared it ; suddenly
she saw why it was there. It was a funeral —
a hearse and two mourning coaches standing —
oh, God! before her father's door ! Nellie gave
a half cry, and then a ghastly smile. How
foolish she was, she thought — it was only in
the street — she would ask who it was.

She turned to a bystander, a respectable-looking
elderly woman —

"Whose — " she faltered, for her clammy
tongue seemed to refuse its office.

"It's Major Blythe," answered the woman.
Ay, poor man, he's lived in the street a longtime,
and they say he's died of a broken heart
he never looked up after his young daughter
ran away."

As the woman spoke— just after she had
mentioned the dead man's name — the funeral

procession began to move. On came the black
horses and the nodding plumes ; on — then
there was a sort of stir in the crowd and a cry.
A woman had fallen down — she fell just as the
hearse passed her, flinging her arms forward,
and one of the black horses swerved, and its
hoof struck down on the woman's extended
hand.

A moment later and a policeman had snatched
her up from beneath the horse's feet.

What is the matter ?" asked a gentleman,
putting his head out from one of the mourning
coaches, for he had noticed the stir in the crowd
without seeing the cause.

One of the horses has kicked a woman, that
is all," answered a man standing by ; and so the
funeral procession moved on, and the woman
who had fallen and been injured was carried by
the policeman into the railway station.

They laid her on a couch and put back her
veil, and cut the glove off her crushed and
broken hand. As they were doing this the
policeman who had picked her up was attentively
looking at her features. Then he retired
to one side of the waiting-room, and drew some
memorandums out of his note-book. After he

liar] read these he returned to the woman, and
gently moved back her fair hair from her pallid
brow. Beneath this fair hair was a red scar,
and as the policeman saw this he smiled and
made haste to get a cab to convey the woman
to the nearest hospital.

A quarter of an hour later she was carried
into the accident ward of Middlesex Hospital,
and her hand was dressed and every possible
attention paid to her. But the policeman who
had brought her there did not linger to inquire-after
her condition. He placed her in the
hands of the proper authorities, and then hastily
left her. He thought he had recognised her,
from the printed description, as the woman
for whose discovery two hundred pounds had
been offered, and he hurried away in the hope
of getting the reward.

THE WATCHER.

About two o'clock on the same day, Strathearn,
visibly agitated, and accompanied by an inspector
of police and the policeman who had
conveyed the woman to Middlesex Hospital,
were admitted into the accident ward for the
purpose of identifying her.

She was lying on one of the narrow beds, her
dress loosened at her throat, and a nurse was
bathing her brow. At the foot of the bed stood
a surgeon, who looked round as the policeman
and Strathearn approached, and warningly held
up his hand.

Keep very quiet," he said, the next minute ;
she is very low — she must not be disturbed."

Then Strathearn stood silently looking at
her, his face pale and stern.

You are right," he said, a moment later,

YOL. III. D

to the policeman, "it is she — you shall have
your reward."

Yet he scarcely could believe this, even as he
said the words. The woman who lay there
had a worn, pallid face, and her uninjured hand,
which was lying on the coverlet, was thin and
wasted. But for the red mark on her brow,
and the fair soft hair, Strathearn might still
have been uncertain that he had found at last
the woman he had sought so long.

You know her, then ? " said the surgeon
now addressing Strathearn.

"Yes," he answered in a husky voice, and
for a moment he looked away down the hospital
ward. " How long," he said the next moment,
trying to steady his voice, "how long will it
be before she can be moved — before I can take
her to her home ? "

The surgeon hesitated.

Perhaps she would be better at home," he
said; "but she will require great care. Her
hand is very much cut, and one of the fingers
broken ; but the injury is not serious — it is the
shock to the system that is serious."

"Could she go in an hour?" asked Strathearn.

"Better say two hours," said the surgeon ;

by that time she will revive — but I should
not like her to leave here without a doctor."

Will you go with her, then ? " said Strath-earn
; and as he spoke, and before the doctor
could answer, Nellie moaned slightly and put
her hand to her brow, which the nurse was still
bathing, and the next moment opened her
large blue eyes.

Strathearn moved his hand for the policemen
to go, so that the sight of them might not
startle her, and then he made a step forward,
and gently took her hand.

"Are you better?" he said. "You know
me, don't you ? "

The blue eyes that he remembered so bright
now so pathetic and full of pain — rested on
Strathearn's face.

Strathearn ! " she said, feebly.

"Yes — hush ! you must not speak — you must
get home — try to take a little rest, and then
I'll get you home," said Strathearn, in a low,
hurried voice.

Yes — take me home," said Nellie, and she
closed her eyes again, as if she were too weary
to speak.

The surgeon put his hand upon her pulse,

d2

and whispered something to the nurse, who at
once proceeded to administer a restorative.

Then he beckoned to Strathearn, and spoke
with him a few minutes aside.

You are right," he said, " she would be
best at home ; get her home as soon as possible,
and I will go with her, until you get another
doctor to take charge of the case— it is a very
serious one."

Strathearn nodded his head. Scarcely could
he suppress, before the surgeon, the overwhelming
anguish and bitterness of his soul.
But he hardly spoke.

I will go at once," he said ; and he went,
flinging himself into the first cab he saw, and
ordering the driver to drive as fast as he could
go, to Miss Brewis's house in Belgrave Eoad.

When he got there, Joanna received him
with her sour smile, which she mollified as
much as possible in honour of Strathearn. But
her smile changed to a look of consternation
when she glanced at his stern, excited face.

What is the matter ? " she asked in her
quick way.

I have found her," answered Strathearn,
his deep voice broken by his strong emotion,

and — and I believe she is dying, Miss Brewis.
Will you take her in ? "

Joanna stood with uplifted hands.

Dying ! " she said. " Never ! the poor
young lost creature to have come to this ! "

Will you take her in?" repeated Strathearn.
xt You will be kind to her — she needs a
woman's kindness — though, by heavens!" (and
he crushed his foot down upon the floor and
breathed hard) " she has a man to avenge her
wrongs."

I'll have no murders here ! " said Joanna,
positively. i: If this poor forsaken creature
wants a home, I'm not the woman to refuse it,
though it is just the beginning of th season,
and I had two good offers of lets to-day. But
she shall come here if you wish, Mr. Campbell,
whatever it costs me, if you will promise to
commit no violence on my premises."

You are a good woman," said Strathearn,
gratefully. " Thank you for taking her in ;
and I'll promise whatever you like,"

As for being a good woman," said Joanna,
dubiously, though she felt the compliment, " I
don't say I'm good, though I am not exactly
bad, for I'm honest, and that's something when.

there's so many female mistresses going about
the world."

Will you come with me now, then, to fetch
her here ? " asked Strathearn, in his quick,
impatient way. " She is very ill — I would like
you to go with me, and I will take you in the
cab I came in."

Not in one of those hansoms I" said Joanna.
They're are not respectable for females, in my
opinion, and I could not — no, not even in the
case of a death — be seen in one of them. But if
you'll get a four-wheeled cab I'll go."

Very well," answered Strathearn, and he
ran out of the house, and before Joanna (as
she declared) had "time to turn round" he was
back again with a four-wheeled cab, ready to
take her to Middlesex Hospital.

What a man you are ! " said Joanna, who
really had not had time to get ready, "you
fluster one so ! "

Never mind," said Strathearn, " come
alone* ; " and he carried off Joanna, who kept
calling directions out of the cab window to
some of her household until they were fairly
out of the street.

But Joanna's heart melted within her when

she looked at the death-like face of the young
patient lying in the accident ward of Middlesex
Hospital.

Joanna coughed, turned away her head, and
then drew her handkerchief hastily out of her
pocket, and tried to hide that she was forced
to wipe away a pitying tear. But the next
minute she tapped Strathearn sharply on the
arm.

"I say," she half whispered, "don't you
mind what I said before we came — if you see
that villain I would thrash him within an inch
of his life, if I were you ; and I'd like to see it ! "

Strathearn only answered by a stern smile.
He was standing looking at Nellie with quivering
lips, and then he bent down and very gently
took her hand.

As he did so, Nellie opened her eyes and
gazed wildly round. The surgeon had administered
chloroform before he had dressed her
wounded hand, and the powerful drug still
mercifully dulled her senses. But she vaguely
recognised Strathearn, and knew Miss Brewis
also, and seemed to understand that she was
not at home, and that they wished to take her
there.

Yes, I will go," she said, raising herself up.
But she was quite unable to walk, and was
carried to the cab, apparently relapsing into a
state of semi-insensibility almost immediately
after she was lifted into it.

And in the same state of semi-insensibility
she was carried into Miss Brewis's house, and
laid on the bed from which she had fled that
night in her dark and bitter despair. But she
was not left now. Miss Brewis was not a
woman to do things by halves, and for the
next two or three hours she never left Nellie's
side. Then the unhappy girl grew terribly ill,
and all that night her life hung upon a thread.
Strathearn called repeatedly to make inquiries,.
but towards the pale hours of the morning the
wakeful and watchful Joanna heard outside in
the quiet streets a continuous tramp, tramp of
footsteps backwards and forwards before her door.

Suddenly an idea struck her, and she went to-one
of the windows and gently opened it, and
stretched out her long throat to see who it was.
The lamplight below, as he passed it, fell on the
pale, stern face of the watcher, and then joanna
saw it was Strathearn. A feeling of pity,
nay of absolute sympathy, for the man's deep,.

strong, and unreturned attachment rose in
Joannalili's virginal heart.

Humph ! " she muttered to herself, as she
gently closed the window, and drew in her long
neck, "that's a kind o' love worth having.
Most of men would be snoring and grunting in
their beds at this time o' night if their lawful
wives were dying around them. Poor man —
and it's all wasted." And Joanna sighed and
looked at the unconscious sufferer moaning on
the bed.

But Joanna was so touched that she crept
downstairs and softly opened the street door,
and the next time Strathearn passed it she
beckoned him into the house.

Come in," she whispered. " No, no, she's
not any worse." This latter remark was in
answer to the gleam of inquiring agony in
Strathearn's eyes. " But, come in, and lie on
the dining-room couch, and if there's any change
I'll let you know."

"Thank you," said Strathearn, for he was
weary and chill ; and Joanna observing this,
lit the fire, drew out some of her cherished
bottles from the cupboard, and otherwise saw
after Strathearn's comfort.

There ! " she said ; " now lie down, and —
well, on a stretch — I'll put the sofa quilt over
you, though I never did such a thing for a man
before." And, in hot haste, Joanna flung the
sofa quilt over Strathearn, keeping, however,
at a considerable distance from the tall Scotchman
as she did so.

Thank you again," said Strathearn, wearily,
and he pulled a cushion under his head, and
closed his eyes, and presently fell asleep. He
was physically exhausted by the strong mental
strife that all through the day had racked his
heart. So he fell asleep, and dreamed of the
white house in the Glen of Strathearn, and of
the stern dead father who had lived there,
brooding over real or fancied wrongs. Then
somehow, misty and indistinct, he saw a fair
face, and the green mountain steep where
he had first seen Nellie. The sunlight was
quivering on the water, as it had quivered
then — the boat was moored in the little bay —

He awoke with a start ; he looked up, and
saw the face of Joanna, who looked pale and
agitated.

What is the matter ? " he said, starting to
his feet. " Is she worse ? "

'' Yes," answered Joanna, sternly and
solemnly, "and I awoke you, sir, for you must
go at once and get that Clayton to tell you
where the villain is, and bring him here to do
her justice before she dies."

WOOING AT Recount.

Eyecourt stood on a grassy slope ; and broad ,
moss-grown stone steps, with a moss-grown
stone balustrade on each side, lead up this slope
to the terrace in front of the house. On these
steps one sunny afternoon, Nora Trelawn was
sitting with a book lying open on her lap,
though she was not reading, but gazing vaguely
at the quiet country scene spread out before
her.

Presently there was a little rustle below in a
clump of evergreens close to the foot of the
steps, where Nora sat, and two rabbits ran
across the grass close to her, evidently very
much at their ease. They glanced at Nora with
their bright brown eyes, nibbled a delicate blade
or two, and then scampered away. Nora looked
after them vaguely, as she had looked vaguely

at the still country scene before they appeared.
She in truth was not thinking of anything
around her ; she was thinking of her past life ;
wondering what she ought to do in the days
that were yet to come.

She had understood what her aunt Lady
Stainbrooke meant her to understand, when she
had urged her to go to Kyecourt. Nora understood
what her aunt called her " hint" more
quickly, because she was conscious how strong-was
the interest still with which she regarded
her old love. And she knew also that Intermarried
life was an unhappy one. He had
never told her this quite plainly ; in fact, they
never mentioned Margaret's name in their long
and otherwise confidential conversations. But
once or twice when the dark spirit had been on
Vyner's soul, he had told Nora he " was about
weary of it all," and Nora had understood what
made him weary. He was married to a woman
whom he did not love and with whom he had
no sympathetic thoughts ; and it was a trying
position — Nora thought this now with a sigh,
as she sat on the stone steps at Eyecourt — to
be the intimate friend of an unhappy and dissatisfied
married man.

Yet Margaret might have heard almost every
word which had passed between them since
Vyner's marriage. True, she would not have
liked to hear — no wife would have liked to
hear — that Vyner " was about weary of it all."
But he had rarely spoken such words as these.
He was not the man to speak them. He was
reserved as a rule about his feelings, and it was
only when he was very deeply moved that the
floodgates of his really passionate nature were
permitted to pour forth.

And his intercourse with Nora, to all outward
seeming, was simply friendly. He told
her about his work — talked to her as men and
women only talk to those who can understand
them — but after the affair of the picture of
My Eve," which he had given her, he rarely,
if ever, even alluded to their early affection.
Such subjects were, in truth, tacitly avoided
between them. They talked of the present,
and not of the past. Yet, between them, that
past was always really present. Vyner, looking
at his picture of " Eve," hanging on Nora's
softly-tinted drawing-room wall, could scarcely
forget the sweet maiden he had wooed in the
Warbrooke meadows. And could Nora forget

the handsome painter — the lover of her youth
because between them now stood the cold
shadow of a tardily-fulfilled duty ? Both, however,
recognised this duty, and it was an
acknowledged element in their daily lives.
But it was a dangerous position ; and Nora,
wishing to be a good woman — wishing to walk
in the straight path — and to live a life free
from blame and reproach, had thought more
than once lately, if it would not be well that
she herself should marry again, and thus
virtually put an end to a friendship, which at
best brought often pain.

And while thinking thus, once or twice, the
image of Lord Seaport had flitted across her
mind. This was only natural. Circumstances
had, apparently, thrown her into great intimacy
with Lady Seaport. And Lady Seaport —
charming, graceful, and with all the ease of
manner which her birth and position gave her —
had obtained a sort of unconscious influence
over Nora. Though the elder woman belonged
to a different class, the wealth of the younger
woman bridged over this social distinction, and
placed Nora above her former acquaintances*
And to these former acquaintances Nora owed

very little gratitude. They had cut and snubbed
her at Warbrooke in the sad days of her
father's bankruptcy ; they had smiled upon
her when she was rich John Trelawn's young
wife ; and they had gone down on their knees
to her, virtually, when she had, for a brief time,
returned to her native town as Croesus's Widow.

And Nora had seen all these changes very
plainly, for vanity did not blind her eyes to
the truth, as it blinded Margaret's. And she
now saw, also, that Lady Seaport wished her
to marry her son, and she knew quite well
why her ladyship wished this. Lord Seaport
was poor, and Nora was rich ; Lord Seaport
had position to offer, and Nora had none, so
the bargain was about equal, thought Nora,
with a somewhat sad smile.

For it was but a bargain after all. Nora had
no heart to give — she had given it all once —
and her love had brought but pain and sorrow
to her. She must not think of that love now ;
she was done with love, she told herself, and it
would be well if she could marry and forget
all about the old days — the old, fond, foolish
dreams and hopes.

Again Nora sighed. Sitting there, she unconsciously

began to recall the past ; the very
past, she was mentally declaring to herself, that
she must not think of. She shut her eyes —
she was at Warbrooke, and the evening haze
was rising over the uncut meadows — she heard
the painter's voice — the words that had echoed
and echoed through her heart from those brief
hours to this.

Only for a moment or two she indulged
herself. Then she opened her eyes, gave herself
a little shake, and lifted her book, and tried to
forget her own romance by reading; someone

O JO

else's. As she read on, the profound stillness
around her was broken by the distant sound of
carriage wheels. Hugh Marchmont had not

o o

many visitors. He in fact disliked visitors, and
as this was well known, the people in the
neighbourhood rarely troubled him. He was
pronounced by common report to be an amiable
but eccentric man, and he was quite agreeable
to be called eccentric. Still, Nora naturally
supposed that some visitor by chance had arrived
when she heard the sound of the carriage w T heels
coming nearer and nearer, and then finally stop,
after the carriage had evidently entered the
court-yard at the back of the house.

A few minutes later Lady Seaport stepped
out of one of the drawing-room windows, which
opened upon the terrace just behind where
Nora was sitting, and came down and joined
her.

Nora looked round with a smile as she approached,
and she noticed that Lady Seaport's
usual pale, clear complexion w T as slightly flushed.

Who do you think has arrived — quite
unexpectedly arrived ? " asked Lady Seaport
rather quickly and nervously.

Indeed, I cannot tell," answered Nora, still
smiling.

Murray " said Lady Seaport. " I am
so surprised. But here he is to answer for
himself."

As Lady Seaport spoke, Lord Seaport
appeared at the open drawing-room window,
and as Nora looked round he came forward,
and took off his travelling cap.

Nora felt that she blushed. She had been
thinking of this young lord but a few
minutes ao-o, and she felt rather uncomfortable
when he thus unexpectedly presented himself
before her.

I — am quite surprised to see you," she

said, rising from her seat on the stone step,
and holding out her hand. " I hope you are
quite well now ? "

Yes, quite well," answered Lord Seaport.
*' And I need not ask how you and my mother
are — nothing like country life, eh ? " And
Seaport o-ave his lioiit laugh.

But though he said he was well, he looked
far from well. He looked haggard and worn,
and his manner somehow gave you the impression
of a man who was ill at ease.

I do not think he looks very well," said
his mother, glancing at him with an uneasy lookin
her proud, blue eyes. " We must take care of
him, Mrs. Trelawn, and make him stay in this
fine air for a little while."

And what have you two been doing hereto
amuse yourselves?" asked Lord Seaport,
looking at Nora.

Nora laughed.

I have been gathering primroses," she said,
and all sorts of wild flowers, they are so lovely
about here — and — what else have we done,
Lady Seaport ? "

Well, you have done what I could not do,
even to please my old friend Mr. Marchmont,"

smiled Lady Seafortli. " Lie has been going
among Hugh's poor, Murray, and he tells me
doing no end of good." And Lady Seaport
shrugged her shoulders.

You don't like poor people, mother ? " said
Seaport half bitterly.

No," answered Lady Seaport, candidly, " I
confess I don't — we may as well make the best
oft is life, and enjoy it if we can."

Yes, if we can — there's the rub ! " said
Seaport.

We must not expect everything," said Lady
Seaport gravely, "but, how stupid of me ! I
had almost forgotten in the pleasure of seeing-you,
Murray, that I have an appointment this
afternoon with Hugh Marchmont. He is going
to show me some plans or other (and again
Lady Seaport shrugged her shoulders) and I
must humour him ! So for the present, goodbye
to you both." And Lady Seaport turned
and went towards the house in her usual stately,
graceful fashion.

Seaport looked after her, and then gave a
little, bitter laugh.

"You know all about the old love by this
time, I suppose ? " he said, cynically, to Nora.

"Hugh Marclimont and my mother were once,
I am told, the most devoted of lovers — yet you
hear how she speaks of him now ! It's the
fashion, isn't it, to make out that women have
more feeling than men ? I believe it's an utter
mistake ! "

People do not always show their feelings,"
said Nora.

Pardon me, but as a rule, I think women
do — they show them, and easily forget them —
that's my experience." And Seaport gave an
uneasy sigh.

Nora smiled a little sadly.

"We do not agree in our opinions, then,"
she said. " I think that most of women do
not care to show their real feelings — and do
not easily forget them." And Nora cast down
her eyes and a faint colour stole over her
face.

Perhaps ! " said Seaport, moodily enough,
and he sat down on the stone steps as he spoke,
and taking up a pebble shied it at a thrush on
the grass below.

How can you be so cruel ? " said Nora
"You might have hit the poor bird."

"And so happily ended its earthly troubles,.

Are you a philosopher, Mrs. Trelawn ? "

I am afraid not," answered Nora, smiling.

To be one, I suppose," continued Seaport,
"means to take a wise and rational view of
everything; put our feelings, etc., into our
pockets, and make the best of the situation,
whatever it is. That is modern social philosophy,
isn't it ? "

Indeed, I do not know," laughed Nora.

"Nor I," said Seaport. "But d'ye know
why I came here, Mrs. Trelawn ? " he added,
turning away his head.

No— how should I know ? "

To see you," said Seaport, with a certain
hardness and defiance of manner, which, when
he forced himself to say anything, he unconsciously
assumed. " My mother wrote and
told me you were here — and she had told me
something else — something that cut me horribly
in spite of my philosophy, I can tell you — that
you advanced a certain sum of money on a
very pressing emergency, when I was ill."

Do not name it," said Nora, blushing
deeply. "It is nothing — I was only too
glad."

"You are most kind and generous," said

Seafortli, still without looking at Nora, but
with a ring of real feeling in his voice.

Do not name it, please," again said Nora,
almost entreatingly. " See, look at that rabbit
there, peeping his 'bonny brown head' out
below yon great holly ! And so you don't
like country life, Lord Seafortli ? "

Nora spoke quickly and disjointed' — she
wanted Seafortli to say nothing more about the
money.

Then Seafortli rose to his feet, and looked in
Nora's blushing face with some earnestness.

"I have not liked country life, J\lrs. Trelawn,"
he said, " because — well, I'll tell you the truth
I've been a bad man, and one thinks more in
the country, and I do not often care to think."

You are young," said Nora gently, and
with some sweetness and interest in her manner,
and you have plenty of time to be a goodman
yet,"

If I had a good woman to help me," said
Seafortli, and Nora nervously turned away.
She did not want any more of Seaport's
confidences just the.

But this conversation was but the first of many
such conversations. Nora and Seafortli were

constantly thrown with each other during the
next few days, which happened to be bright
sunshiny spring ones, and they wandered
together on the grassy wolds round Ryecourt,
until Hugh Marchmont bc^an to think he had
been wrong in his estimation of the young
widow's character.

She is dazzled by his title, I suppose, poor
young woman," thought the gentle, philosophic
Hugh.

I hope, I trust, it will all come right,"
almost prayed Lady Seaport, watching her son
and Nora from her bedroom windows, and then
glancing uneasily at a certain despatch box in
which lay hidden away two letters, whose presence
there were as skeletons at a feast.

She could not forget these letters. Looking
sometimes at her son's worn, anxious face, she
could not but remember the sad story that the
letters no doubt referred to, and a nameless
dread of the consequences of her own act
oppressed her, in spite of her strong hope that
Nora was now really going to marry her son.

Seaport made very little pretence in these
days to Nora of being other than he was.

I am a ruined man, you know," he told

her, and this frankness gained more from Nora
than the most garbled description of his circumstances
could have done. She, in fact, knew
he was a ruined man ; knew why his mother
wished him to many her ; but she felt sorry
and she felt sad as she listened to the young
lord's melancholy words.

I have wasted my life, 7 ' was the usual text
of his conversation. He was, in truth, for ever
crying peccavi. And Nora felt sorry for him.
She liked him — perhaps she could have loved
him — if a shadow face, a sad, reproachful face,
had not flitted before her mental vision even
while she listened to Seaport's somewhat
sombre words.

At last one day, under an avenue of budding
elms, Seaport spoke.

I must leave here soon," he said almost
abruptly, his ordinarily smooth careless manner
having rather changed of late, "and — I want
to ask you a question, Mrs. Trelawn — before I
go."

Yes," said Nora, and she blushed and cast
clown her eyes.

I am not worthy to ask it," continued
Seaport. " I do not deserve the love of a

woman like you ; but if you will look over my
many faults — if you will forgive my shortcomings
— you, you would make me very nappy."

Seaport knew these last words were not
quite true, as he faltered them forth. But when
xi man is asking a woman to marry him he does
not always speak the truth. And, to do the
young lord justice, he really liked Nora, and,
but for the shadow that lay athwart his life,
he could undoubtedly have cared yet more
deeply for her. So, as he spoke, there was a
certain ring of earnestness in his voice that
Nora understood.

"It is not entirely for my money," she
thought ; but for a moment or two she made no
answer to Seaport's words.

Well," he said presently, " will you give
me any hope ? "

Then Nora looked up ; looked at the handsome
though worn face of the young man by
her side, and nervously and with much embarrassment
she said :

I — I scarcely know what to say, Lord
Seaport — I like you very much — but — "

Are you afraid to trust me ? " asked Sea-forth.


It is not that — indeed it is not that — but I
have not thought of this. Will you give me
time to think ? u

Most certainly ; as I said, Mrs. Trelawn, I
cannot expect a woman like you to care for a
graceless fellow like myself, but perhaps intime—"


Yes," said Nora, and she smiled, and as she
smiled, Seaport ventured to take her hand.

*' Do not be angry with me," he said. " I
will try — yes, if you will trust me, I will try
to make you happy* — try to deserve you, and
be a good man for your sake."

The two stood, hand-in-hand, beneath the
budding elms. The sun came shining through
the branches, and the shadows fell around them,
and they were silent — both thinking of the
past. At that moment there flitted through the
glinting sundays a white vision before Sea-forth's
eyes. It stood there, pale and indistinct,
and yet he saw it, and grew white and cold.
And before Nora's eyes, too, rose a shadow —
the shadow of her old dear love — of Vyner,
the husband of another woman now," she
thought an instant later, almost bitterly; and

she turned to smile on the young lord who had
just asked her to be his wife, and as she did so,
she saw the change in Seaport's face.

Are you not well ? " she asked, almost
-anxiously.

With an effort, Seaport roused himself.

I get these sudden chills," he said, with a
shiver, "ever since I was ill."

I am so sorry," said Nora, and Seaport
smiled, and together they walked towards the
house, and on the terrace they met Lady Sea-forth.


Something in Nora's manner made Lady
Seaport look quickly and eagerly in her face.
Nora was conscious of this scrutiny, and she
blushed, and made some excuse to go at once
into the house, and the mother and son were
thus left alone.

Then Lady Seaport looked eagerly at Sea-forth.


Have you asked her, Murray ? " she said.

Murray nodded his head, but made no other
answer to his mother's anxious question.

And has she accepted you ? What did she
say ? " continued Lady Seaport, yet more
anxiously.

She did Dot refuse me, at least," said Sea-forth
; and Lady Seaport clasped her son's
hand, and slid her arm through his.

My dear, my dear ! " she said, while tears
swelled in her proud blue eyes, " yon have made
me too happy. Oh ! Murray, I am so glad ! "

Mind, she did not accept me — she only did
not say no," said Seaport, trying to speak lightly.

That is enough," answered the proud, fond
mother. "It is all right ; I am sure, Murray,
that now it will all come right."

And so sure was Lady Seaport of this, that,
before the dinner hour, she told her kinsman
Hugh, " that it was settled between Seaport
And Mrs. Trelawn." Her kinsman Hugh smiled
good-naturedly when he heard the news, and
told Lady Seaport that if it pleased her, he
was very glad.

Yet you said it would not be, Hugh ! "
said Lady Seaport with some triumph.

You have been right, then," answered Hugh
Marchmont, still smiling ; and as he turned
away he owned to himself that he felt a little
surprised.

'poor little woman," he thought, "what a
sad fate it is to one of her sex to be rich."

And during dinner lie looked once or twice
rather pityingly at the " poor little woman."
Nora looked nervous and not particularly happy,
for Seaport, when they returned to the drawing-room
after dinner was over, seated himself by
her side, and altogether marked by his manner
and attentions that he considered himself an
accepted lover.

While they were sitting thus ■ — Seaport
lounging by Nora's side, playing with her fan
an unusual stir and noise, as of a sudden
arrival, was heard outside the drawing-room door

Who can it be, I wonder ? " said Hugh
Marchmont to Lady Seaport.

Extraordinary occurrence in life at Rye-court,"
laughed Seaport, with his light laugh,
"an arrival ! "

The laugh had not died on his lips when the
drawing-room door opened, and Strathearn, pale
and stern, entered. He looked round, his eyes
fell on Seaport, lounging by Nora's side. He
crossed the room, and laid his hand with a
fierce clutch on Seaport's shoulder.

"Come with me," he said, in his strong, harsh
voice ; " your wife is dying — she sent me to
bring you before she dies."

"the worst drop of bitterness."

As Srathearn spoke, Seaport sprang to his
feet.

My Goal ! " lie said, " what do you mean —
Nellie ? "

Yes," answered Strathearn, sternly and
harshly. " Nellie — the young girl you married
in Scotland last August— the girl you left to die
in her despair — is dying now ! "

It cannot be — it cannot be ! " cried Seaport
in bitter distress, forgetting all about Nora, who
too had risen, and now stood pale and shocked
by his side. " Strathearn," continued Seaport
passionately, " I did not leave her — God is
my witness, I did not leave her — never meant
to leave her — but she disappeared, as you
know."

"And how about the letters she wrote to
you ? " interrupted Strathearn sternly.

I have got no letters ! On my soul, on my
honour, I have never received a single line ! "
said Seaport with deep agitation ; and then
suddenly he turned and looked in his mother's
face.

Mother," he said, " have any letters come
for me here — airy letters I have not received V f

Lady Seaport's face grew scarlet in an instant,
hut she made an effort to hide her secret.

"I do not understand you," she said, "nor
yet this disgraceful scene. How dare this man
come here ! " And Lady Seaport rose and
looked indignantly at Strathearn. " If he has
anything to say to you — matters to discuss
unfit for Mrs. Trelawn's ears and mine, you had
better leave the room with him — his presence
here is an insult."

"This is all very fine, my lady," said Strathearn
bitterly ; ' ' but what about the untruth — to use no
harsher word — that you told me about Clayton
having left Seaport's service ? It seems this
terrible subject — your son's marriage — has been
discussed by your ladyship before, when the
witness to it had to be smuggled out of the way,
and when you condescended to lie to me about
it."

How dare you speak to me thus ? " said
Lady Seaport, passionately. " Hugh ! " and
she turned to Hugh Marchmont. " Will you
permit this man to insult me in your house ? "

As she thus appealed to her old lover, Hugh
Marchmont rose and came forward to the table
near where Strathearn was standing.

When you came into this room," he said,
addressing Strathearn in his calm, clear voice,
which sounded so distinct and cold after the
passionate words which had preceded it, " you
asked Lord Seaport to go with you — at his
wife's request, I understood — to see her before
she dies ? "

"Yes," answered Strathearn briefly, "that is
my errand, my excuse for intruding myself
into your house, for I presume you are Mr.
Marchmont ? "

H I am Mr. Marchmont, and I shall be pleased
if you and Lord Seaport will now follow me
to another room." And as he spoke Hugh
Marchmont left the drawing-room, and a
moment later was followed by Strathearn.

Seaport !" said his mother, grasping Sea .
forth's arm, who also — shamed and downcast —
was about to leave the room. "Do not go

VOL. III. J.

with that man. What truth is there in this
wretched story ? Surely, Seaport, you were
never mad enough — never mad enough — "

Mother, let me go — you heard what he
said — I have acted like a scoundrel — and if
this poor girl dies I have murdered her ! "

As Seaport said this, he tried to pull his
arm from his mother's grasp, and stood there
as if overwhelmed with grief and shame.

My God ! Why were you born ? Why
were you ever born V cried Lady Seaport, and
she flung her son back from her, and then, with
a sort of cry of rage and despair, she hurried
from the room, and Seaport and Nora were
alone.

For a moment Nora stood still and silent,
but the next she advanced, and laid her hand
gently on the arm of the shamed and miserable
man.

"Lord Seaport," she said, " do not think
about me, do not distress yourself about me,
but go now and do what is right. This poor
young lady may not die if you go ; do not
allow your mother to influence you now."

Then Seaport looked at her.

"You are a good woman," he said, almost

with a sob. " God bless you ! I will go. I will
tell you some day how it all happened."

Go now, or you may be too late," said Nora,
still gently ; and Seaport wrung her hand and
left the room, and after he was gone Nora sank
down on a seat and covered her face. She was
shocked, she was surprised, but she was not
unhappy that she could not marry Seaport
now.

In the meanwhile, Seaport, pale and deeply
agitated, had joined Mr. Marchmont and
Strathearn.

As he entered the room Mr. Marchmont
spoke to him.

"I will not ask you now," he said, "how
much of this story is true ; but this unhappy
woman is dying, this gentleman tells me. Will
3'ou go to her ? "

How can you ask me ? " answered Seaport,
terribly moved. "Go to her ! yes, at once !
But, Strathearn, surely, Strathearn," — and he
turned his pale face to the stern Scotchman —
"she is not — dying — "

"They told me she was, at all events," said
Strathearn, with bitter emphasis ; " your child
struggled into life, it seems, before its time, and

the mother is dying ; that was the news I'd to
bring you. And for the child's sake — not her
own, poor soul — she prayed and begged you to
come to acknowledge her before she dies."

My God ! " said Seaport, and he sank down
on a chair and covered his face.

There is no time to be lost," said Mr.
Marchmont. " Seaport, I am your kinsman ;
shall I go with you in this unhappy hour — go
with you to repair a wrong ? "

Yes," said Seaport ; and a quarter of an
hour later these three men — Mr. Marchmont,
Seaport, and Strathearn — drove out of the
court-yard at Eyecourt, to start on their
melancholy journey. There was a night express
that they could get to town by, and almost
silently they travelled on their way.

But they did not lose a moment. Pale,
grim, and heart-sick sat Strathearn. He knew
the worst now ; knew all that Clayton could
tell him of that hurried journey to Scotland,
and of the marriage in the drawing-room in
the Edinburgh lodging-house — a marriage undoubtedly
binding by the Scottish law, since
Clayton had witnessed it, and was now ready
to swear (he had received his five hundred

pounds) that in his presence, and in the
presence of the supposed minister who had
married them, Seaport had acknowledged
Nellie to be his wife.

But this supposed minister hud been the
loophole through which Seaport, in an evil
hour, had persuaded himself that his marriage
to Nellie was not a binding one. Clayton had
accidently picked up this supposed minister's
acquaintance in the train while travelling down
to Scotland with Nellie, on the night of her
flight from home. Clayton was travelling
second class, and Nellie first ; and in the carriage
with Clayton sat a lean, hungry-looking
man, dressed in the garb of a clergyman,
though the garb was a very rusty one.

Clayton had orders to get hold of some
x< needy parson," Seaport told him, who would
promise to keep the whole thing a secret for
twenty pounds. So Clayton made overtures
to the man in rusty black, and before they
reached Edinburgh, the man in rusty black
knew what Clayton wanted, and was only too
glad to oblige him for twenty pounds ; and
would have done it for ten if he had been
.asked.

He called himself the Kev. James Macfarlane,

but lie had no appointment and held no living,
that Clayton could discover. But he was a
Scotch minister, he told Clayton, and Clayton
having no particular reason for doubting this,
believed him, and arranged with him about the
marriage, which duly took place on Seaport's
arrival in Edinburgh.

But when the dark clouds, which even then,
were gathering so thickly round the young
lord's head, grew darker, and his monetary
difficulties became more pressing, it occurred
to Seaport one day to make inquiries about
this Mr. Macfarlane, and he took Clayton with
him down to Scotland on one of his visits to-the
Glen of Strathearn, and left Clayton in
Edinburgh for the purpose of prosecuting these
inquiries.

After some trouble, Clayton heard something
of the supposed minister's former life.
There was an ugly story attached to it, which
need not be related here ; he had once been in
the Scotch Church, but had been ignominiously
expelled from it. And after the time when
Clayton had seen him in Eclinbugh — the time
of Nellie's supposed marriage— this Macfarlane

had mysteriously disappeared. He was known
to have been in great difficulties, and it was
supposed he had emigrated. This story Clayton
had repeated to his lord, and it was a
relief to Seaport's mind to think that he would
have no further trouble with this man.

And gradually — knowing there was now no
witness to it but Clayton — Seaport had begun
to call his marriage to Nellie "that absurd
affair in Scotland." Then he had listened to
the promptings of an evil spirit, and turned to
the one way which seemed left open to him
to repair his ruined fortunes. To Strathearn
he had always scoffed at the idea of any
marriage. It suited him to do this : circumstances
forced him to do it, he told himself;
but he did not mean to forsake Nellie.

Nay, in his light and careless way he really
loved her. When he thought he had driven
her out to die in her despair, the horror and
.shock had nearly killed him. But his nature
was shallow ; he tried to forget anything that
was painful — as he had told Nora Trelawn at
llyecourt, he " did not care to think."

FOR THE CHILD'S SAKE.

The grey dawn was breaking over the great city,
when, pale and wearied, the three travellers
entered it. They had scarcely spoken during
that long night's journey on their sad errand.
Seaport, with his hat pulled over his brows
and his eyes cast down, was enduring the
cruellest anxiety. All his love, tenderness and
pity seemed to come back as he recalled Nellie
in her bright youth, and as he thought of the
misery she must have endured during the past
months, and remembered now that if Strathearn
spoke the truth, he was but going to see her
die.

As they neared London his anxiety became
almost pitiable. Even the stern Strathearn
felt his heart relent to a certain extent as he
looked at Seaport's sharpened, miserable face.

Hugh Marchmont tried to say some gentle,
commiserating word, but Seaport turned away
his head.

If they were only in time," he thought
unceasingly, " only in time."

And the woman who lay near her death
agony, to whom he was journeying, prayed this
too. Nellie had survived the birth of the frail
babe, born before its time into this world of
trouble; but she was "sinking fast," the doctor
had whispered to Strathearn before he started
on his journey to Eyecourt,

But, after her child was born, Nellie's one
hope seemed to be to live until its father came.
She knew that Strathearn had gone for Sea-forth,
and she knew also that Strathearn had
sought out Clayton, and had learned the whole
story of her marriage, before he left town in
search of her husband.

Joanna, who had never left her, who had
stood by her in her agony and tried to cheer
her, told her these things.

"Don't you give way, ma'am," said Joanna.
Clayton's downstairs at this very minute, and
he says if the babe lives it will be a lord like
its father ; just think of that ! "

Joannalili's words were quite true. Clayton
when he was sought out by Strathearn, on
Strathearn learning Nellie's dangerous condition,
had at once acknowledged all he knew
about the Scottish marriage. In fact he had
previously made up his mind to acknowledge it,
and thus gain Strathcarn's promised reward of
five hundred pounds. And when the man
heard from the deeply-agitated Strathearn that
Nellie was supposed to be dying, he was really
affected by the news, and gave Strathearn every
information in his power. Then Stratliearn
drew a cheque and put it into his hand, and
bid him go to Miss Brewis's, and tell her
what he had told him, and Clayton went.

Thus Nellie knew, as she lay there with her
babe clasped to her breast, that if she lived
Seaport would be forced to acknowledge her ;
and so, for the child's sake, she wished to live.
For the child's sake," she murmured, even in
her sleep.

But as the day wore on she grew weaker and
weaker. Joanna watching her, became so
uneasy that she once more went down to
Clayton, and asked if he knew who the " poor
young creature's" relations were ? Then Clayton

confessed that lie did. She was the youngest
daughter of Major Ely the, who lived in one of
the small streets near Regent's Park ; Clayton
knew the street and knew the house, he told
Joan nah ; and Joanna, after consulting with
the doctor, determined, without asking Nellie,
to send for her family.

Who knows ! " said Joanna to Clayton,
that young scamp of a lord may be off nobody
knows where to before Mr. Campbell gets to
Kyecourt, or whatever is the name of the place
you say he's at. Xo — I can't tike the responsibility
— you go to her father, tell him she's
Lady Seaport, and that her babe is born, and
that her life is hanging' on a thread. If he's

o o

worth the name of a man he'll come to her ; and
she, poor soul, will feel more respectable with
her own people about her, even if it pleases the
Lord to take her."

Clayton accordingly started for Major Blythe's
house — the house from which the old, brokenhearted
man had been carried the day before.
It was not shut up when he arrived there.
Inside, the careful Margaret was going over
dear father's things," as she expressed it to
her husband before she started. She was

counting the linen and silver spoons ; and yet
she had really grieved for her father. It washer
nature to count spoons, and to lock away
little odds and ends, and to believe that everyone
was trying to cheat her. And the consequence
was that she was very frequently cheated. She
was always watching and distrusting her servants
and those around her, and her servants,
not unnaturally, resented this distrust. She
had shed very bitter and very sincere tears over
her father's death ; but now— the day after his
burial — she was hunting all over the house,
because she was certain the old woman who
had dressed him in his grave-clothes had carried
away one of the silver spoons.

She was talking about this spoon, lamenting
over this spoon, in her even tones, when Clayton
arrived, and asked to see the dead man, who
was no longer there to hear the news Clayton
brought of his lost child.

Clayton felt not a little shaken when the
servant told him, who opened the door in
answer to his summons, " that the poor old
master was dead, and only buried yesterday."

And his other daughter," faltered Clayton,
"the lady who married Mr. Vyner, the

painter. Could I see her, do you think ? "

The servant told him that Mrs. Vyner was in
the house at that minute, and then Clayton sent
up a message to Margaret. " Ask her to seeme
on very pressing business," he told the
servant to say, and a few minutes later Margaret
appeared downstairs, and went into the sitting-room
where Clayton was waiting.

She bowed, and as she did not know who
Clayton was, she waited for him to explain his
business.

You will excuse me, madam, asking to see
you on such a sad occasion as this," said
Clayton, "but I had an important communication
to make to the late Major Blythe, and I
think now it is my duty to make it to you."

Margaret looked up surprised.

It is concerning your sister," continued
Clayton, "the young lady who disappeared from
this house some seven or eight months ago."

Nellie ! what about Nellie?" said Margaret,
greatly excited. " Have you seen her ? Do
you know where she is ? "

Clayton bowed.

Madam," he said, " I have seen the lady,
and I regret to say the lady is now very ill ; but

I have another important communication to
make — I was present at her marriage to Lord
Seaport last August."

At her marriage to Lord Seaport ! " repeated
Margaret, in utter astonishment. "What
do you say ? that she is married ; married to
Lord Seaport ? "

"Yes, madam; I was present at that marriage,
which was kept a secret for family reasons, but
circumstances have occurred which render it
necessary it should be known. But I regret
much, madam, to tell you that young Lady
Seaport is lying; dangerously ill."

"Is he with her ? Who sent you ? " asked
Margaret, in the greatest excitement. " Oh,
poor, poor father!" she thought, the next
minute, " could you but have heard this news;
but I always knew," went on Margaret's reflections,
"that no sister of mine would really
disgrace herself."

"My lord is not with Lady Seaport at
present," said Clayton, in answer to Margaret's
questions, " but we hourly expect him — at least,
when I say that, we expect him before tomorrow
morning. But, in the meantime, if you
could go to your sister — "

Of course I will go ! Call a cab at once ;
and stay — you follow me in a cab also to my
husband's studio. I wish him to see you."

Margaret felt proud and elated — she could
not help it — when a few minutes later she ran
into Vyner's studio in a state of the greatest
excitement. The painter was busy, and he
turned round with not a very pleased expression
on his face when he saw Margaret enter.

Walter ! " cried Margaret, hurrying up to
him, '"'the most wonderful thing has occurred !
But I always knew it — I always told you I was
sure no disgrace had happened to Nellie — that
no disgrace could happen to one of us ! "

Have you heard anything about the poor
girl, then ? " asked Vyner, with much interest.

Yes, she is married. To whom do you
think she is married ? You will never guess —
though I own I have sometimes thought it
mishit be. She is married to Lord fc'eaforth ! "

Then he's a most confounded liar ! " exclaimed
Vyner. "I met him at Mrs. Trelawn's
in the winter ; I did not like to tell you, for I
thought it would only open the old man's grief
afresh to mention anything about her, but I
asked Lord Seaport, asked him point-blank,

if he knew anything of Nellie, and lie positively
denied it."

lb is a pity you did not consult me about
this, Walter — I do not see that it would
have hurt dear father to talk about Nellie,
when he thought of her so much — and, perhaps,
had I known that you had had this
conversation with Lord Seaport sooner, 1
might have learnt the secret before. However,
he is my brother-in-law now. It will seem
quite strange to be so nearly connected with
the peerage."

And is she well ? Poor Nellie ! I fear she
has not chosen a happy life."

But why, Walter ? Rank is surely a great
thing ; you will see now the difference that
this marriage will make, even to us, when it is
known. I should not be surprised if you get
a better price for your pictures."

Vyner gave a grim laugh.

Seaport won't be able to buy them, by all
accounts, at least," he said. " They say he's
over head in debt and difficulties — that he's
hiding, in fact. Perhaps this accounts for him
not acknowledging his marriage."

Oh ! they say so many things," said

Margaret. "They said, you know," she added,
a little spitefully, "that your friend, Mrs.
Trelawn, was o-oino; to marry Lord Seaport,
and you see he has been married all the time
to Nellie."

"You told me that little piece of news about
Mrs. Trelawn, did you not ? I suppose the
report arose because she is intimate with his
mother. 7 '

"I do not know what the dowager will say
now," said Margaret, and she laughed. She
was thinking of her own interview with Lady
Seaport when that haughty woman had insulted
her — *an interview of which Margaret
had given a very garbled account to Vyner.

And where is Nellie now ? " asked Yyner
the next minute.

At a house in Belgrave Eoacl," said Margaret,
"and I am sorry to tell you they fear
she is very ill. But she'll get all right now, I
hope. I will go to her, and her husband will
be with her tomorrow T morning, and I am sure
we will be able to pull her through. I am
going at once, but I thought I would come and
tell you first, as I may not be able to get home
to dinner."

"Do not think of me,"saidVyner. "Go to your
sister, and if you will give me the address I will
call to inquire how she is during the evening'"

Margaret gave the address, and Vyner saw
her to her cab, and then returned to his studio.
But he could not paint. He felt greatly disturbed
by Margaret's news. He had heard
more than once lately that Nora Trelawn was
going to marry Lord Seaport, and he had tried
to school his heart, and to tell himself it were
well she should marry, that she would be
happier and more settled married, but he was
glad at least that it was not to be Seaport.

In the meanwhile Margaret had arrived at
Miss Brewis's, and was standing listening, with
tears in her eyes, to Joanna's account of
Nellie's almost desperate condition.

She's as ill as ill can be," said Joanna,
with tears in her own eyes also ; " and the babe's
alive, certainly, but that's all we can say. Ay,
it's a bad business from first to last, and no
doubt the hardships and misery your poor
young sister has gone through have helped to
kill both her and the innocent lamb ! "

Hardships and misery!" repeated Margaret,
turning pale.

'don't you know ?" asked Joanna. " Hasn't
Clayton told you ?"

Nothing, but that she is Lord Seaport's
wife," said Margaret, trembling.

"Ay, that's just like him, the smooth-tongued
villain. Yes, she's his wife, sure
enough, so they tell me ; but he tried to make
out she wasn't, and drove the poor, young,
broken-hearted creature out from this very
house to lay violent hands on her own life."

u What ! what S " cried Margaret, much
affected.

It's God's truth, ma'am ! And where do
you think we found her '? "

How can I tell ? " said Margaret, sobbing.
This is too dreadful ! "

She was found lying in the accident ward
of Middlesex Hospital," said Joanna. " She
had been picked up in the streets by a policeman,
with her poor, dear hand all crushed and
broken to pieces, like her poor, dear heart had
been crushed and broken before. Ay, it's a
sad story, ma'am. Lord Seaport's wife, indeed
! He's taken good care to kill her, anyhow,
before he let her have his name ! "

Margaret was very much overcome. Miss

Brewis's pitiable account of Nellie came as such
a sudden shock, after her elation on hearing
that her young sister was married to Lord
Seaport, When she became a little more
composed, she asked to see Nellie, but the
doctor forbade this.

I dare not risk it at the present moment,,
Mrs. Vyncr," he said, for Joanna had called
him down, and told him who Margaret was.
Lady Seaport — I understand the poor young
lady upstairs is Lady Seaport — is lying in a
most precarious condition ; so precarious, that
any fresh shock would undoubtedly kill her,
and I am told you have not lately seen your
sister ? "

No," said Margaret ; " but still, I think, if I
did see her, I could do her good."

"Wait until Lord Seaport arrives, then,"
said the doctor ; "unless I have his authority, I
dare not risk it. She must see no one but
those who have been around her, until her
husband comes."

So when Vyner came during the evening to
inquire how Nellie was, he found Margaret
sit tin g in Miss Brewis's dining-room in a most
depressed and miserable condition. She had

been allowed by Joannalili to look in at the
door of the sick-room when Nellie was asleep,
and had been terribly shocked at her young
sister's changed and death-like face.

"She is dying, I believe, Walter!" wept
Margaret. And then she told Vyner the pitiable
story she had heard from Joanna's hard lips.

Vyner was deeply moved. He bit his lips ;
he frowned.

Thank God, her father is dead ! " he said.

While Vyner was there — he stayed until
past midnight — the frail life of the little babe,
the child for whose sake Nellie wished to live,
struggled and went out. But the dying
mother would not part with it. She moaned
when they tried to take it from her feeble
arms, which still clasped the little lifeless form
to her own almost lifeless breast.

She fell asleep thus, yet murmuring sometimes
in that broken slumber, " for the child's
sake." And so the night passed on, and then
the grey dawn stole in, and fell on the palefaces
of the watchers, and on the white faces
of the mother and the dead babe. But as the
morning advanced, Joanna, with streaming
eyes, softly took the dead child from its

mother's arms (who still slumbered on) and
laid it in the coffin, which had now been
brought into the house, and prepared for it.

But about half-an-hour later, Nellie awoke,
and, after restlessly moving her arms, opened
her eyes, and then cried out for them to give
her back her child. "While they were trying to
soothe her — showing her the little waxen face
pillowed on the white-lined coffin — there was
a sudden noise and stir in the house, for Sea-fort
h, Strathearn, and Mr. Marchmont had
arrived. Nellie started, looked at the door of
the room, and a few moments later Seaport
ran in, and fell down on his knees by the bed
where Nellie lay.

"Forgive me, my darlings!" he said, almost
with a sob, taking one of Nellie's burning
hands and pressing his nice down on it ; " forgive
me, Nellie, even now ! "

Nellie's face flushed, and, with a sudden
effort, she lifted herself up in bed, grasping
Seaport 's hand with her dying grasp.

She looked wildly round for a moment, and
then stretched out her other arm, and pointed
to the dead babe.

"Tell them now," she said, in hoarse and

trembling accents; "tell them now the truth,
Murray. Am I not your wedded wife ? "

Lord Seaport rose from his knees.

Yes, Nellie' he said ; " we were married in
Edinburgh — everyone may know ! Don't,
Nellie, don't, my darling, look like that ! "

"And the child — the babe ? " gasped Nellie,
still tightly holding; Seaport's hand.

Lord Seaport grew very pale as he glanced
at the dead child.

If the child — if your baby had lived,
Nellie," he said, in a low, broken A^oice, " it
would have borne my name — would have been
Lord Seaport after me."

Again Nellie looked round, she smiled, and
then fell feebly back.

Nellie ! Nellie ! " cried Seaport, bending
over her ; but with one scarcely uttered word,
she turned her head upon the pillow, and so
died.

Baby — " she murmured, and as this last
word lingered on her lips, her spirit flitted after
the child's.

A terrible scene occurred immediately after
Nellie's death. Seaport lifted her lifeless body
in his arms, and in agonised and passionate
tones implored her to speak to him — to say but
one word — look at him but once again ! He
would not believe that she was dead ; and as he
called out her name, telling her he had always
loved her, Margaret ran into the room, and
flung her arms also round her dead sister.

"Nellie! Nellie!" cried Margaret, but there
was no answer to that name.

Everyone in the room was deeply moved.
Joanna, who had been preparing to say some-harsh
thing to Seaport, pursed in her thin lips
and was silent at the sight of his bitter distress.
And as Seaport kissed Nellie — cried to them to
bring something to revive her, that she had but
fainted, that she would soon be well — Strath-earn,

grim and pale, also entered the room, and
stood with bitten lips and knitted brows, looking
at the dead woman he had loved.

He never spoke a word. Joanna, watching
him, saw the grey pallor that spread over his
face, and how his strong form shook with the
violence of feelings he was forcing himself to
restrain. She went up to him, she took hold
of one of his clenched hands, and whispered a
word in his ear.

Come with me, sir," she said ; " you don't
look well, and it's enough to shake anyone.
You're best out of the room."

Strathearn suffered her to lead him away,
and clutching her arm, as if for support, he
tottered down the stairs. "When in the hall
he spoke to her in a husky whisper.

When the others are all gone, will — you
let me see her again ? "

Yes," said Joanna, decisively. " The
sweet lamb's in heaven now, and she knows-there's
no harm in it. And you did more for
her than any of them," added Joanna, with
an energetic rub at her eyes. "If it hadn't
been for you she would have died in a common
hospital, and not with everything comfortable

about her as she has done to-day. It's all very
fine crying, and sobbing after one's gone
■ — it's too late then — the loudest sobs won't
bring one bask — but. I would rather be cried
over when I was living. However, it's no good
talking over it now, but I hope his heart is sore
within him''

"What time ?" asked Strathcarn, still in the
same hoarse whisper.

You mean what time you can see the sweet
lamb, to have a last look at her ? " said Joanna,
almost with a whimper. "Let me see — don't
let any of them have a word to fling at her
good name, for perhaps evil tongues might talk
of her if they knew you came to see her even
after she was dead, poor dear ! Come at twelve
o'clock to-night. They'll be away by that time,
mid you can have your last look in peace."

Without a word Strathearn wrung Joanna's
hand and left the house ; and a few minutes
later Joanna returned to the room where
Nellie had died.

By this time Seaport knew r that she was
dead. Margaret had laid her sister again
gently on the bed, and Seaport was kneeling
bv the bedside, his face bent down, but he was

still holding one of Nellie's hands. Standing
near him, with his hand upon his shoulder, was
his kinsman, Hugh Marchmont.

u Leave her with her sister now, Seaports""
he was saying as Joanna entered. " You
have acknowledged her as your wife, and I, as
your relative, will see that all the honour that
can be paid to her now is paid. Come, Seaport,
with me."

For a moment or two Seaport made no
response to this appeal. Then he rose from
his knees, bent down, and, with a murmured
word or two, kissed Nellie's face. As he lifted
his head, he turned to Margaret, who was
standing near, crying bitterly.

I dare not ask you to forgive me," he said
in a faltering voice ; and as Margaret made no
reply, he put his arm through Hugh Marchmont's
and left the room.

u I've kept my tongue ofF him," said joanna,
bitterly, looking after him, u for the
sake of the dead lamb ; but I hope I'll live to
have the opportunity of telling him some day
that after you've murdered a party it's not
much good crying over them. No, indeed ! "

That night, as the clocks all over the great
city were striking twelve, Joanna, who was
watching, heard a gentle tap at the street door.
She guessed who it was, and, softly opening
the door, admitted Strathearn. She put up
her finger warningly, and then led him silently
upstairs to the room, where Nellie already lay
in her coffin, with her baby on her breast.

Only her sweet face and her small waxen hands
were visible, for the whole of the coffin was
covered with v lite flowers. She looked like a
young girl asleep, and at the piteous sight, Strath-earn
completely broke down, and fell sobbing,
with his head against the foot of the coffin.

Leave me for a moment or two," he sobbed
out, while the fierce storm of his emotion
swept over him ; and Joanna at once left the
room, and Strathearn was alone with the dead.

Long; he knelt there, his whole form absolutely
convulsed with the strong, deep
passions of his heart. Then he rose to his
feet, and stood looking at her, and, after a
moment or two, stooped down and kissed one
of the cold, white bands, and took one of the
white flowers, and hid it in his breast.

Ashen Nellie lay as though asleep amid the
white flowers, which Margaret had arranged
round her fair young sister's placid face, another
visitor also arrived at Miss Brewis's, and
earnestly desired to see her.

This was Dossie Bertrim — a sweet young
woman, the love and tenderness of whose rearing
lay reflected, as on a mirror, in her loving
and tender heart — and who had endured the
most cruel anxiety during the last two or three
days for the fate of one whose troubles were
now ended.

When Nellie did not return to Mrs. Moore's
house, after she had started on her sad short
journey to seek her father — whose soul had
wearied of waiting for her coming — Mrs. Moore
naturally felt very uneasy about her young
lodger.

She was uneasy on account of Nellie, and
yet more uneasy lest she should offend her
<; dear young lady," as she still always called
Dossie Bertrim. This "dear young lady" had,
in truth, about her a certain charm which won
love for her wherever she went. This charm
was her unselfish sympathy, and real kindness
to others. Even her mother-in-law — that most

trying of family ties — admitted certain good
qualities in Dossie ; and her husband was more
dearly attached to her now, after being married
to her for three years, than when her sweet,
blithe smile had first made him feel himself the
happiest person in the world.

Dossie Bertrim then, on the morning after
her lunch party (the party which had prevented
her at once going to see the unhappy Nellie)
received a letter from her old servant, Mrs.
Moore, which filled her kind heart with absolute
consternation. Mrs. Murray had gone out and
had never returned, wrote Mrs. Moore ; and
Dossie immediately on receiving this letter,
ran to her husband, who was dressing to go into
town.

Tom," she cried, " read this ! " And Tom,
having read Mrs. Moore's letter, looked serious,
and, as was his wont, took a common-sense view
of the case.

I am afraid, little woman," he said, " all
your o'ood nature and kindness has been wasted."

What do you mean, Tom? " asked Dossie.

Most probably this young person wasn't
quite what she made out," said Tom, laying his
hand kindly on his young wife's shoulder.

u What does an innocent child like you know
about the evil ways of the wicked world ? "

I know this' said Dossie, turning very red,
that whatever she was, she was a good woman.
I overheard her once, Tom, praying, when she
did not think anyone else heard her but God ;
and she wasn't praying for herself — she was
praying" (here Dossie suddenly burst into tears)
■ that if her child were born, that it might be
pure and good — that the evils of the world
might never come near it — "

Dossie's sobs now fairly interrupted her, and
good-natured Tom Bertrim, as he took her in
his arms, rubbed his own hand over his eves
also, to wipe away a sympathetic tear.

Stupid little woman ! " he said; " why, you
make a fool of a man with a word. Well, what
do you want to do, child ? To drive into town
with me, I'll be bound ? "

Yes," wept Dossie ; and in half-an-hour
the young couple were on their way to Mrs.
Moore's house.

There they found the ill news only confirmed.
Mrs. Murray had never returned, though Mrs.
Moore had sat up all night waiting for her, and
Mrs. Moore naturally did not know what to think.

Tom Bertrim called Dossie aside.

Look here, darling," he said, "I do not
want to distress yon, but it is our duty to give
notice to the police of this. This unfortunate
young woman must be sought for, and you
know we could no more find her, when we have
no clue whatever, than we could fly."

Dossie could not deny the truth of this, and
Tom Bertrim therefore at once went and told
the police at Scotland Yard the whole story.
The inspector to whom he told the tale smiled
cynically.

It's a pity you didn't come two days ago,
sir," he said, " at least if you had a mind for a
reward of two hundred pounds."

How do you mean 1 " asked Tom Bertrim.

This young lady — you give an exact description
— was picked up yesterday in one of the
small streets near Eegcnt's Park, on the occasion
of an old military gentleman's funeral, and she
was carried into the railway station by one of
the force, who conveyed her from there to
Middlesex Hospital, for she had been much
injured by one of the horses at the funeral.
The member of the force thought he recognised
her as the young woman who had disappeared

from Chelsea Bridge some time back, and he
came here, and the gentleman who had offered
a reward for her recovery was sent for, and
went with me and the member of the force
who had found her to Middlesex Hospital, for
the purpose of identifying the young woman.
He did identify her, and the reward was paid,
and the young woman is now with her friends."

And who is she ? " asked Tom Bertrim.

It's a queer story," answered the inspector.
They say she's the wife — not acknowledged,
you know — of Lord Seaport. But if you are
interested in the lady, she is at present at Miss
Brewis's boarding-house, No. — , Belgrave Eoad,
and I'm told she is dangerously ill."

Tom Bertrim thanked the inspector for his
information, and returned with his news to his
Dossie, who at once went to inquire " how the
lady was ? " at Miss Brewis's door, and sent in
her card.

The answer to her inquiries was but a sad
one. " The lady was very ill — unconscious —
and could see no one ; "and with this sad news
Dossie was forced to go away.

Not the next day, but the day following
that, Dossie as;ain came into town, and again

VOL. III.

went to make inquiries at Miss Brewis's door.

Nellie was now lying amid her white flowers ;
and Dossie hearing this, prayed that she might
be allowed to look upon the sweet face of the
dead.

She was shown into Joanna's dining-room,
and as she sat there shedding some very bitter
tears over the hapless fate of the poor girl she
had so faithfully befriended, Joanna, attired
in black, and looking more grim than ever,
entered the room.

I have called to see — I have just heard
the sad news," said Dossie, in a voice broken
into tears, "that — poor Lady Seaport is dead."

"Yes, she's at rest" snapped Joanna.
She wasn't much troubled with visitors," she
added, a moment later, " when she lived here
before — name being unknown — ay, it's the
way of the world."

I knew her," continued Dossie, in her
sweet, sympathetic voice, " when indeed she
had no name. You know her story, of course ?
I am the lady who took her home that night —
when her misery for the time had driven her
mad."

"No!" exclaimed Joanna. " Now, you

aren't, are you ? Well, if you are, I wish you
may live long and be rewarded — and I wouldn't
say that to many."

"She stayed with me a long time," said
Dossie gently, "and I loved her very dearly, and
if I had had my own way, she would have been
at Castlewood — that is my home — now. But
she wished to leave — she wished to see Lord
Seaport ; she did not tell me her husband's
name, though she told me all the rest of the
story ; but she wished to see her husband, and
she wrote to him — "

Wrote to him, the villain ! " cried Joanna.
'•' And him coins and crying and slobbering
over her poor lifeless corpse, and making pretence
he really loved her, and taking them all
in — nearly taking in me — but he didn't ! "

She wrote to him, T know, twice," said
Dossie. " Her first letter was addressed under
cover to his servant, a man called Clayton, and
this letter was returned through the post ; and
she wrote again."

Then he shall answer whether be got them
or not, or who got them," said Joanna. "Ay
she's best at rest — she had a tender heart, and
he'd bruised and broken it too sore to mend."

And did she never mention me," asked
Dossie, " after she was brought here from the
hospital?"

She never mentioned mortal name' answered
Joanna, " but her babe's. She was
unconscious mostly, and when she did speak it
was always about living for the child's sake. It
died in her arms, and she kept it there until it
grew cold against her breast — and then I got it
away while she slept — but she missed it, and
then this man — Lord Seaport — came, and she
started up and ■ gripped him by the hand, and
asked him before us all whether she was his
wedded wife."

And what did he say ? "

That she was — he found out then that it
was too late to tell any more lies, and so he
confessed the truth ; and it killed her, for she
fell back dead three minutes after he entered
the room."

Oh, poor, poor thing ! " said Dossie, who
could not restrain her tears.

She's best at rest, ma'am ; he wanted money,
and she'd not got any, and so he would have
always looked upon her as a burden. But
would you like to see her ? She's lying, the

poor lamb, among white flowers, for the flowers
that come here for her now are past belief —
she's my lady now, so she gets every respect'
added Joanna with a bitter giggle.

When Dossie saw the sweet white face lying
amid the white flowers, she was deeply affected.
She bent down and kissed the cold brow, and
touched the chill, small, waxen hands.

While she was still standing looking at
Nellie ; telling Miss Brewis how ill she had
been at Castlewood, and how gentle and patient
she had always been when she was there,
Margaret Vyner entered the room, and looked
somewhat surprised and dignified to find a
stranger looking at her dead sister.

Margaret beckoned to Miss Brewis, who
went to the door to speak to her.

Who is that lady, Miss Brewis ? " said
Margaret. "I do not wish everyone to see
Lady Seaport."

Joanna's visage grew scarlet in a second.

I'll tell you who the lady is, ma'am," she
said, in her tartest tones, for she had taken a
great dislike to Margaret ; *' that lady is the
party who took your poor sister in when she
was homeless —when she was not called Lady

Seaport, indeed ! — and when she had gone out
to end her young life, being driven to it by the
cruelty of the party who cried and slobbered
yesterday over her lifeless corpse ! Yes, Mrs.
Vyner, if anyone has a right to see her, that
lady ought to have, for she gave the poor lamb
kindness when she was living, not after she
was dead ! "

Oh ! Miss Brewis ! " said Margaret, much
shocked.

Miss Brewis and Margaret were, in fact, on
anything but pleasant terms. Margaret was
always talking of " Lady Seaport " to Joanna,
and Joanna could not forget all the details of
the sad story, if Margaret could. Margaret
irritated Joanna by perpetual allusions to
"My dear sister's rank," or "We must consult
Lord Seaport, of course, before we decide
anything." It was all Joanna could do to
restrain herself when Margaret talked in this
way. And when Margaret brought their old
friend Mrs. Saunders to see the poor dead
girl in her coffin, whom Airs. Saunders had
known since she was a rosy little girl, as
that good woman wailed and wept over the
piteous sight, Joanna heard Margaret say,.

in her calm and evenly-modulated voice —

"Yes, it's very, very sad, isn't it, Mrs.
-Saunders ? If only dear Nellie had trusted me
it would have been all right now."

And she was married to Lord Seaport all
the time, then ? " asked kind Mrs. Saunders,
drying her eyes, from which her tears were
streaming.

u Oh yes, of course, Mrs. Saunders," replied
Margaret. " They were only waiting to acknowledge
it until some money affairs of Lord
Seaport's were settled ; but, of course, when the
baby was expected, that hurried on matters, and
clear Nellie sent for her husband, who was
staying with some of his relations, and he came
.at once, for the purpose of telling us about the
marriage, but you see this is the sad end
And Margaret pointed to her dead sister.

"Well," muttered Joanna to herself, <f that
beats everything. And if she isn't took quite
suddenly, like Ananias, all I can say is, she
hasn't met with her deserts."

So when Margaret made any objections about
Dossie Bertrim seeing "Lady Seaport," joanna
felt very angry. But Margaret was too
wise to continue these objections when she heard

who Dossie was. She went , therefore, and thanked
Dossie for her kindness to her " dear young
sister, Lady Seaport, under the unfortunate
circumstance in which you met her."

Dossie was very good-natured. She spoke
kindly to Margaret, and said it was very sad ;
but as she left the house she pressed Joanna's
rugged hand more warmly than she did that of
the correct and graceful Margaret.

QUITE WASTED.

By Vyner's express wish, Nellie was buried by
her father's side, in Kendal Green Cemetery.
Mr. Marehmont and Vyner arranged this, for
Margaret suggested that poor Nellie should be
laid in the family vault of the long descended
Seaports. But Grey stoke was a journey from
London, and Vyner forcibly pointed out the
extreme folly of such a proceeding.

Let her sleep' he said, "by the side of her
poor father — who broke his heart for her loss —
more than the other man will do, I'm pretty
certain."

"Walter, dear, please do not speak in that
way of Lord Seaport now," advised Margaret,
remember, he is one of the family, and if we
do not speak well of him, people will be
sure to say he behaved ill to poor, dear Nellie."

And didn't he behave ill ? " asked Vyner,.
sharply.

Well, dear, we must not speak of the dead,
except very kindly and tenderly ; but if poor,
dear Nellie had only trusted her own sister —
a sister, whom you know, Walter dear, was
devoted to her — I have not the slightest doubt
she would have been alive now, and acknowledged
as Lady Seaport, and perhaps
going to be presented at the next Drawing-room."


She made an unfortunate omission, then,"
scoffed Vyner.

"You need not sneer, Walter dear. Ask
Mrs. Saunders, ask everyone, if I did not
devote myself to Nellie from our earliest
childhood? I never thought of myself; and,,
perhaps, poor dear darling, she thus learned to be
selfish — for it was selfish, you know, Walter,
of her, never to tell poor father and myself,.
and to leave us to suffer such constant anxiety
on her account, when she might have relieved
it with a word."

She had promised the man she called her
husband, I suppose — the man you wish me to
be civil to, but I won't," answered Vyner, and

lie kept his word and would have nothing to
say to Lord Seaport.

The funeral arrangements were therefore
settled by Mr. Marchmont and Vyner. But
Seaport followed Nellie to her grave. He
looked pale, haggard, and deeply affected, and
seemed to feel his position very acutely. As
they were leaving the open grave he said a few
words to Vyner, but the painter made no
answer. He could not forget, as Margaret
wished him to do, that Seaport had been the
cause of Nellie's sad and early death.

Another man also followed the hapless girl
to her last resting-place. This man did not join
the mourners round the grave, nor approach it
until the service was over and the mourners
gone. Then, when no one was left but the
grave-diggers, who were commencing to shovel
back the earth, Strathearn drew near, and went
and stood looking down into the open grave,
and read the words inscribed on the coffin lid :

Elinor,

WIFE OF MURRAY,

SEVENTH Viscount Seaports.

DIED 3RD OF MARCH,

AGED 19 YEARS.

Strathearn stood quite still until the grave
was filled in, and the sods laid down, and the
men who had been busy had lifted their tools
and gone away. Then, when he was alone, he
suddenly flung himself on the grave, and laid his
head on the newly-cut sods.

"Good-bye, little woman' he said; "it has
been quite wasted — all wasted — but you know
now how well I have loved you, and I love no
other."

He was her truest mourner. All the others
were gone away ; gone back to the world, to
their everyday life, but Strathearn's heart lay
buried in Nellie's grave, and yet he knew as he
had said, " that it was quite wasted."

Some clays after the funeral he went to see
Joanna Brewis.

Well," he said in his brusque way, " I've
come to bid you good-bye, and to pay 3^011
what I owe you."

You owe me nothing," answered Joanna
sturdily. "Why, Mr. Campbell," she continued,
looking curiously at the tall Scotchman,
on whose head at that moment the sun was

shining, "why, Mr. Campbell, I declare yon
are turning grey."

Yon must get me some patent dye, then,
Miss Brewis," said Strathearn, with a harsh
little laugh, "it will never do for a young manlike
me to lose my looks." And he laughed
again.

But Joanna did not laugh. She knew well
enough what had changed him, and how his
secret grief had been bitter and strong.

Ay," she said, still looking at him, " she
chose the worst man."

And how is the e worst man,' then ? "
scoffed Strathearn.

Never seen the face of him again," answered
Joanna. " The old gentleman they call Mr.
Marchmont arranged everything and paid
everything ; and I'm told — mind, I know
nothing of the truth of it — that Lord Seaport
has gone back with the old gentleman — he's a
kind of relation, I think — to the place where
you went to fetch Lord Seaport from."

Ryecourt ? " said Strathearn.

Yes, Ryecourt — that's the name. And I'm
told, too, that that rich widow lady is still
there with old Lady Seaport — since I suppose

we must call the dear lamb who is gone, young
Lady Seaport now — at least that sister of hers
has dinned her new name pretty often in my
ears. But, as I was saying, the young lord
has gone back with Mr. Marchmont. "

This news of Joanna's was quite correct.
Hugh Marchmont had felt sorry for Seaport
sorry for a weak man tempted beyond
his strength — and he believed (though joanna
did not) in the truth of his repentance.
And for another reason, also, Hugh Marchmont
wished Seaport to go back with him to Rye-court,
This reason was, that Seaport had
assured him, on his word of honour, that no
letter of Nellie's had ever reached his hands
after she had disappeared from Belgrave Road.

Mr. Marchmont made inquiries upon this,
and found that Mrs. Benson, Lady Seaport's
late lady's maid, had orders to forward all
letters that arrived at the house in South
Kensington to Ryecourt. Then he saw Mrs.
Benson, who admitted having forwarded two
letters for " my lord," under cover to " my
lady' If these were Nellie's letters — the letters
Mrs. Bertrim declared she knew Nellie had sentit
was but right that it should be discovered

what had become of them, and that Seaport
should be exonerated so far in the eyes of
Nellie's family by it being proved that he had
never received them.

It will do no good now' said Seaport,
moodily casting down his eyes, as his kinsman,
Hugh, thus pronounced his views on the
subject.

It is right that it should be known what
has become of them," answered Hugh Marchmont.
"If they were sent on to my house
I will learn if they ever arrived there."

Seaport did not speak. He could not quarrel
with Hugh Marchmont, because he was actually
at this moment indebted to him for the means
of burying his wife. Seaport in fact knew he
was a ruined man, and his real misery and
regret about Nellie was rendered more bitter
by his own deplorable difficulties.

He could not stay in town, and he had no
money to go abroad and no credit anywhere.
The story of his secret marriage had got
whispered about, and Mr. Cairns, with whom he
had an interview, advised him to " keep out of
the way for the present, and make the best of
things afterwards. I understand," added the

lawyer with a hard smile, " that the lady, who
with some justice bears the name of Croesus's
Widow, is still with Lady Seaport at Eyecourt,
and I advise yon to go there." And Mr. Cairns
again smiled.

Seaport felt utterly downcast at the prospect
before him. He had loved Nellie as deeply as
it was in his nature to love — loved her selfishly
for the sake of the fair face that had waned as
his love had waned — but he had felt her early
and melancholy death very bitterly. He was
touched, he was cut to the heart, and yet had
she lived what would she have been to him ? A
burden, a worry ; and perhaps sitting there
gloomily opposite to Hugh Marchmont, he
knew this — knew that his love had never been
strong enough to care for another better than
himself.

And a day or two after Nellie had been laid
by her father's side a letter came to Seaport
from his mother, embodying in words the
thoughts w T which he dare scarcely think.

Dear, Murray (he read, in the fine, clear handwriting of
Lady Seaport), — I am told the unhappy tie which you had
the great misfortune to contract, is now ended by death. I
will not preach to you, I will not be hypocrite enough to
pretend to condole with you. The wretched marriage into

which you were forced could have only brought you misery,
as unequal marriages always do. Therefore, I will not
pretend to be sorry that all this is ended now, and that you
are free to form a new and, I pray and trust, a happier
alliance. Murray, you know-what I mean — you know whom
I mean. After that wretched Scotchman, Mr. Campbell,
who seems to have taken, certainly, a remarkable interest in
the unfortunate young woman now in her grave — after this
wretched man, then, was gone, after you and Hugh March -
mont were gone, I felt utterly prostrated. I refused to see
Mrs. Trelawn — I was too much ashamed and upset by the
whole scene to see her. But she was very good. She wrote
me a little note to tell me not to distress myself — she said
everything a delicate-minded woman could say ; then came
the news that you were free — and once more some hope,
some comfort stole into my miserable heart. Murray, shall
1 appeal to you in vain ? You know the circumstances,
you know the whole wretched position. But you will say
this unhappy affair has changed your relationship with Mrs.
Trelawn. No doubt, to a certain extent, it has done so ;
but she is a peculiar woman — the fact, I believe, that you
went and acknowledged this unhappy girl on her death-bed
as your wife (though I do not believe actually in the marriage)
has, I am sure, told in your favour; and, then, I have made
the best of the affair to her — an old entanglement, long
before you ever saw her — you understand ? She is romantic ;
has had some foolish love of her own, no doubt (not
the late Croesus, I suppose), and I believe she is ready to
forgive you — ready to believe that j T our love for her led you
into acting as you have done. Forgive me if I hurt your
feelings by thus writing plainly. I am your mother, you
are my dear, dear son, and no tie can be so near and so strong
as ours. I write in my love for you — a love which you know
has never changed —

There were a few more lines in this letter —
lines of mingled advice and tenderness — advice
to keep fast friends with Hugh Marchmont,.
and to avoid any quarrel or meeting with
Mr. Campbell, of Strathearn. "The sooner
you come here the better," wrote Lady Sea-forth
; and Seaport, after reading the letter
twice, sat moodily thinking over his position.

THE HIDDEN LETTERS.

Seaport's moody cogitations ended in his
deciding to go to Ryecourt. Mr. Marchmont
wished this, and his mother wished it ; and
though shamed and unhappy, Seaport knew
there was truth in his mother's letter — knew
that her estimate of Nora's character was probably
a just one.

But it was a bitter thing for the man to do —
to meet Nora again — to stand before her at best
as a dishonourable and unprincipled man. But
on the other hand, if she would forgive him ;
if all this dreary past could be hushed up and
forgotten, it would be well — yes, Seaport knew
it would be well — and so he went back to Bye-court
prepared to ask Nora again to be his wife.

And Lady Seaport's estimate of Nora's
character had been a just one. The mother,

we may be sure, had cast the best and most
becoming light upon her son's misdemeanours.
She had talked to Nora of " this sad affair ; "
told her how Seaport had fallen into it when
almost a boy — " long before he met you " —
and how the tie had galled and worried him
into a hundred follies.

His great fault is that his heart is too kind""
pleaded the mother ; " this wretched girl had
persuaded him to give her some promise or
other in Scotland, and then this Mr. Campbell
of Strathearn, who I think is partly mad, met
her, and formed, it appears to me, a very extraordinary
intimacy and friendship with her,
considering her relationship to Seaport ; and
when the girl took ill, they planned together,
I suppose, to induce Seaport to say she was his
wife. This is how I understand the story.
However, she is dead, and you must forgive
poor Murray."

Nora cast down her eyes.

I am sorry for Lord Seaport," she said,
most sorry, for I am sure he has a good heart ;
and if he thinks he wronged this poor girl, her
tenth will be a terrible blow to him."

For the moment, perhaps," answered Lady

Seaport. " But, all ! my dear Mrs. Trelawn, a

woman to retain the affection of a refined manlike
Murray must have something more than a
pretty face. Her death is a blessing. I can look
on it in no other light — for if she had lived, fancy
the misery Murray must have endured. Bound
to a woman he did not love — to a woman totally
unfitted for his position — ignorant, low born —
oh ! poor Murray, it would have killed him ! "

Then she was not a lady ? " asked Nora, in
her gentle, pitiful way.

Of course not — what lady would have acted
as she did ? No ; he has had an escape. But
he is so unhappy about you — he feels, he says,,
ashamed to meet you — because you naturally
do not know aU. the circumstances of the case,
and Murray is too generous to speak against
the girl now that she is dead."

I am sorry for Lord Seaport," again said
Nora, and she really felt so.

And when she saw him, pale, haggard, and
looking really wretchedly ill, she felt yet more
sorry. She pressed his hand with sympathetic
pressure ; she thought she understood all the
shame, the self-reproach, overwhelming his soul.

In judging of the feelings of those around us,

we may understand some of them, but as a
rule there are other feelings that we certainly
do not understand. That complex and revolving
machine, the human heart, is rarely fully
known by its owner's friends. Nora felt sorry
for Lord Seaport, because she believed that he
had done what was right, when to do so was
to floor his fortune to the wind. She thought
vanity did not blind her, because she knew
that it was her fortune that had at first attracted
Lord Seaport ; but he had given up
that fortune — for he could not tell this unhappy
girl would die, argued Nora to herself — for a
sense of right, a sense of honour. Nora
naturally believed Lady Seaport's story about
her son. He had given this poor girl a foolish
promise in Scotland to marry her — perhaps
called her his wife before this rough Scotchman,
Mr. Campbell — and when she was very ill he
had fulfilled that promise, though it was bringing
absolute ruin on himself. Nora knew,
of course, of the almost desperate condition of
Seaport's fortunes. But she was too generous
to think of this ; her enormous wealth made it
absolutely of no consequence to her whether
.the man she married was poor or rich.

She therefore received Seaport kindly, when
he returned to Eyecourt, and approached her
with his eyes cast down, and with shame and
discomfort in his heart.

His ordinary easy manner was quite changed,
and he was grave and silent, and dressed in deep
mourning. This mourning made Lady Seaport
feel very angry, for Hugh Marchmont also
wore black as a token of respect for his kinsman's
dead wife.

Yet not a word was spoken of the dead w T ife
the day that Hugh Marchmont and Seaport
returned to Eyecourt, nor yet for two days
afterwards. Hugh Parchment generously
wished to allow the first strain and annoyance
of the situation to pass away before he approached
it, for he was still determined to
learn what had become of Nellie's letters.

He sought a quiet port unity, therefore, of
speaking to his old love, Lady Seaport, about
them, and he placed the circumstances in this
light before her.

I am going to ask you a question," he said,
with his quiet smile, addressing Lady Seaport
on the terrace at Eyecourt, on the third morning
after his return; "do not answer without

thinking it over, for it is a serious question as
regards Seaport."

What is it ? " asked Lady Seaport, and
she coloured and moved her hands uneasily.

It is this — two letters were written by the
unfortunate girl who is now dead, to Seaport
after—"

Oh, Hugh ! " interrupted Lady Seaport,
deprecatingly, " do not open out again this
wretched subject. The girl is dead, her child
is dead ; what object have you in doing so ? "

This," said Hugh Marchmont firmly, " that
if Seaport received these letters, which were
undoubtedly sent to him here, he is quite
unworthy to be — what I presume you still wish
him to be — the husband of a good woman like
Mrs. Trelawn."

Lady Seaport was terribly annoyed. She
grew pale and red by turns, she bit her lips,
and glanced uneasily at Mr. Marchmont.

You would not surely," she said at last,
"tell her anything about these letters ? Surely,
Hugh, you have more regard for us — some little
remembrance of old times. Surely you would
never try to interfere and prevent a marriage
which would absolutely save Murray from ruin? "

"Not willingly' answered Hugh Marchmont ;.
but there is something due to this lady. Sea-forth
positively, and on his honour as a gentleman,
denies he ever received these letters, which
if he had received would probably have saved
his young wife's life. If he did not receive
them, I can view his conduct in a different light ;
but if he did receive them, and they no doubt
were forwarded to him by Mrs. Benson, then, I
repeat, he is utterly unworthy to marry Mrs.
Trelawn, and it is my duty to tell her that he is
unworthy."

And you would do this ? " asked Lady
Seaport bitterly, turning round, and facing
her old lover.

Yes," said Hugh Marchmont. " I would
do this — from a sense of right, a sense of
honour, to a defenceless woman."

What is Mrs. Trelawn to you ? " asked
Lady Seaport passionately. " You take a
wonderful interest in her ? "

"I do take an interest in her — the friendly
interest of a middle-aged man in a very
charming young woman. But it is not from
this interest I would act in this matter.
For your son's sake, for Seaport 's sake, I

wish to clear his name from so foul a stain."

Lady Seaport clasped her hands — she grew
pale — she stood there looking at the calm,
determined face of her old lover.

Hugh — " she began, " what will you say —
you know how I have loved Murray — he was all
I have had to love in a long, wretched life — rt
And Lady Seaport burst into tears.

Do not distress yourself," said Hugh March -
mont, " but does this mean that you kept these
letters back from Seaport ? "

I knew nothing about this marriage, or
so-called marriage," said Lady Seaport, in a
voice broken with sobs. " I knew of some
wretched entanglement, that was all — and —
and two letters came for Murray — I guessed
where they came from — and — "

You destroyed them ? " asked Hugh March -
mont quickly.

No — I locked them away. It made me
miserable enough — but I did it for Murray's
sake."

Will you give me these letters ? "

Why ? What good can they do now ? I
have confessed the truth to you, Hugh — lowered
myself in your eyes."

No," said Hugh Marclimont, and lie smiled.
He meant she could not now lower herself any-further
in his eyes, but Lady Seaport never
quite understood her old lover, and she now
began to dry her tears.

I am glad you do not judge me harshly,"
she said. " It was for Murray's sake — my only
child."

Yes," said Hugh Marclimont, and again he
smiled. " And now, for that only child's sake,
will you give me the letters ? "

You will not show them to Mrs. Trelawn ?
You will not mention them to her ? "

I will not — I simply want them to satisfy
myself."

"Very well, you shall have them. Ah, Hugh,
times are changed indeed when you can speak
to me thus ! "

Yes, times are changed," anew T red Hugh
Marclimont, though not unkindly ; " and now,
will you bring me the letters ? "

And Lady Seaport was obliged to bring
them. She placed them in Hugh Marchmont's
hands without another word, and Hugh Marchmont
put them into Seaport's.

"Your mother had hidden them," he said.

I am glad for your sake this matter is
cleared up, and I shall write to Mr. Vyner
and tell him how it was you did not receive
them."

Seaport took the letters ; his hand trembled
the letters from the dead, — and then he
Swan to think of the living.

If he writes to Vyner," he thought, casting
down this eyes, "somehow, we can never tell
how, it may reach Mrs. Tr dawn's ears that
poor, poor Nellie was Vyner's sister-in-law.
Mrs. Trelawn used to be intimate with Vyner
better hush up the whole thing — they think
as ill of me as they can, I dare say, already.
What is the good of saying anything now ? If
it could bring back Nellie — "

And he honestly believed that if he could
bring back Nellie, he would sacrifice anything
to do so. But as he could not —

I think," he said, hesitating, and still
keeping his eyes fixed on the ground, " that I
would rather you did not write to Mr. Vyner, — ■
you see it can do no good now — "

"Except remove a very disgraceful impression
of you from Mr. Vyner's mind," rather
sharply interrupted Hugh Marchmont.

I must bear that — I am willing to bear it

there is my mother to consider," still hesitated
Seaport.

"I advise you to let me write," said Mr.
Marchmont gravely.

"I would rather you did not," said Sea-forth.
' : As I said before, it can do no good
now — "

The truth is always good," answered Hugh
Marchmont yet more gravely. "You are a
young man — take an old man's advice — tell the
truth, and face the consequences of any evil
you have done, manfully, and you will never
regret it."

I would rather you did not write," again
said Seaport, and Mr. Marchmont nodded his
head and left him.

He will regret this," he thought ; and the
day was not far distant when Seaport had bitter
reason to remember his kinsman's neglected
advice.

Bat in the meantime, as regards Nora, everything
seemed to be going fairly smooth for him.
His evident depression and shame — his remorse
even — more favourably impressed her than if
he had endeavoured to seem indifferent or

heartless under such exceptionally painful circumstances.
Some days passed away without
him seeking any private conversation with Nora,
or making any allusion to what had passed
between them before Strathearn's sudden appearance
at Eyecourt. But after some days
Nora — who had stayed on in Dorsetshire at
Lady Seaport's earnest entreaty, and from a
feeling of delicacy and kindness — thought that
it was quite time now that she should return
home, and she accordingly told her hostess this.

Lady Seaport pressed her to remain, but
Nora named a day when she would leave, and
she determined to avoid, if possible, giving
Seaport an opportunity of speaking to her
alone before she went. She wished, in fact, to*
test her own feelings on the subject. She was
sorry for, and interested in a young, good-looking
man, whom adverse fate seemed so relentlessly
to pursue ; but pity is not love, though
it may be akin to it. But while Nora was in
this undecided state of mind, Lady Seaport
was urging her son to speak to her, to have
the affair settled when he had so favourable
a chance.

But shame partly, and partly the bitter

regret that lie had truly felt for the girl-wife
whose hapless fate still perpetually haunted
him, held Seaport back.

It was too soon to say anything," he told
his mother moodily ; and he probably might
not have done so if an accident had not unexpectedly
thrown him with her alone.

NEMESIS.

They met by chance, one sunny afternoon, in
one of the green lanes near Kyecourt, Nora
having been in a little dene near, gathering
wild flowers ; and she was sitting on the bare
trunk of an uprooted tree by the roadside,
when Seaport unexpectedly appeared.

They both were very much embarrassed
when they saw each other. Nora was looking
very pretty in her brown straw rustic hat, and
a great bunch of wild blue hyacinths lying on
her knee. She was conscious that she blushed
deeply as Seaport approached her, and Sea-forth
saw that blush, and perhaps it nerved
him to say what he did.

You have been gathering flowers, I see,"
he said. " May I sit down ? "

Oh, yes," answered Nora, and she moved
slightly further up on the trunk of the tree,

while Seaport also seated himself on it. "There
are such pretty flowers down in that little
dene," continued Nora nervously.

Seaport did not speak for a moment. He
put out his hand and took up one of Nora's blue
hyacinths, as if half unconsciously — he was in
truth not thinking of the hyacinths, but of the
words in which he could frame what was passing
in his mind.

At last he spoke, with some abruptness.

My mother tells me you are going to leave
Kyecourt, Mrs. Trelawn ? " he said.

Yes," said Nora, trying to speak with ease,
and smiling, " I have paid quite a long visit —
much longer than I intended when I came."

There is something," said Seaport, crushing
in his agitation the flower he held in his
hand, " something I would like to ask you
a question I would like ask you — before you

go-wait—

till I see you in town," faltered
Nora.

I may not see you in town," answered Sea-forth,
regaining to a certain extent his old
manner. " I'm thinking of going abroad ; but
before I go, when I have the opportunity of

VOL. III. G

doing so, I want you to answer my question. It
is a very simple one, though a good deal depends
on the answer. It is — can you forgive me ? "

Nora was greatly confused.

I wish' she said, " you had not asked me
this yet, Lord Seaport."

You think it is too soon ? Perhaps it is ;'
but suspense is hard to bear to a man in my
position.' 7

Nora was silent. She kept nervously drawing
a pattern with the stick of her sunshade on the
grassy roadway before her.

I know," continued Seaport, " I do not
deserve a favourable answer — that in your eyes,
and in my own also, I have behaved ill — very
ill — but though I cannot explain, there are
circumstances — ," and here Seaport's voice
faltered and broke.

Do not speak of them," said Nora, generously,
now looking up, " I understand — and it
is painful to you, I know, to recall the past —
and — and — if you mean — "

I mean, can you forgive that past ? " asked
Seaport, in a low voice.

For a moment Nora hesitated : then she
said —

Yes, I can forgive that past ; but do not
speak of it just now — come and see me in
town — and we can then settle our future arrangements."


She thus virtually accepted him, and Seaport
felt that it was so. He put out his hand and
took her little trembling one.

Thank you," he said ; " from my heart I
thank you," and these brief words were' all that
were spoken further on the subject between
them.

They returned together to the house, both
grave and almost silent. But Seaport felt an
immense relief steal over his mind when he
thought of the great change of fortune that this
short conversation would cause. It excited him ;
his pale face flushed, and he looked brighter and
happier than he had done since Nellie's death.
Yet he could not forget her — a shadow lingered
by his side, and fell grey and cold athwart the
brightening prospects of his life.

• • • • . . .

The next day Nora left Eyecourt. Seaport
escorted her to the train, and they parted with
the understanding that in a month they were
to meet in town.

It is better that I should many, I suppose,"
thought Nora, very gravely, as the train "bore
her away from Seaport's sight ; and as Seaport
walked back to Kyecourt he also looked on his
marriage with Nora as a settled thing, and began
speculating and deciding what he would do with
his new wealth.

But scarcely had Nora arrived at home — she
was actually changing her travelling dress —
when a few pencilled lines from Vyner were
placed in her hand, asking her to see him for a
few minutes, as he had something important to
tell her.

Nora quickly went down to receive her old
friend, who looked greatly disturbed and agitated
as she entered the room.

Nora," he said, advancing and taking her
hand, " I heard that you were to return to-day,
and I have not lost a moment in calling upon
you ; for it cannot — surely it cannot be true,
what I hear — that you are engaged to Lord
Seaport?"

Nora cast down her eyes, and blushed very
deeply.

I — I — am not actually engaged to him,"
she said.

Not actually engaged ? " repeated Vyner ;
*' then there is some truth in this report ?
Nora, do you know — you cannot know — that
his young wife — poor, poor Nellie Blythe — is
scarcely dead ? "

Nellie Blythe ! " repeated Nora, in the utmost
astonishment. " Your wife was a Miss
Blythe — no relation, surely, of hers ? "

Her own sister," answered Vyner, with
great bitterness. " Some eight months ago,
Nellie Blythe disappeared one night from her
father's house, and it broke the old man's
heart ; and until she was dying we never knew
what had become of her. What had happened
to her afterwards was this : Lord Seaport had
married her in Scotland, and, I suppose, wearied
of her, for he induced the unhappy girl to
believe he was not really married to her, and
in her shame and agony, she tried to destroy
herself."

"' Oh, Walter ! oh, Walter ! can this be true? "
cried Nora, deeply agitated.

It is quite true — too true, Nora ; and if you
want proofs and witnesses, I have them ready.
Poor Nellie in her great distress was sheltered
by a kind little woman called Mrs. Bertrim,

and she will tell you the story, if you would
like to hear it from her lips. And Nellie wrote
to Seaport — wrote twice — and still he never
came to her assistance, or took the least notice
of the poor broken-hearted girl, until Mr.
Campbell, of Strathearn, went for him to Rye-court,
and brought him just in time to see her
die."

Nora grew cold and faint. She sat down,
she covered her face, and then she held out her
hand to her old friend.

If this is true, Walter," she said in a low
tone, "you have saved me from a terrible fate."

The next day brought a letter to Seaport, at
Eyecourt, from Nora. He received it with a
smile, but as he read its contents a sickening
feeling of shame and disgrace completely overwhelmed
him.

Dear Lord Seaport (he read), — I have seen Mr. Vyner
since my return, and heard from him the true and sad history
of his young sister-in-law's marriage and death. I do
not wish to dwell on the painful circumstances, but they
entirely and completely preclude the idea of any further
engagement between us, and I must ask you to consider this
decision a final one. — Yours truly,

Nora Relax.

Seafortli flung this letter on the floor after
reading it, and as he left the room his mother
took it up. It was the last blow — Nemesis,
grim and relentless — and it left Seafortli a
hopelessly ruined man.

AT LAST.

Two years passed away after Nellie's death
almost uneventfully for Nora. Sir Thomas
and Lady Stainbrooke still continued to live
with her, and she was admired and courted, and
might have changed her name from Croesus's
Widow " very advantageously," as her aunt
frequently told her, if she would have consented
to do so. But she remained a widow, and her
life to all outward seeming ran smoothly and
quietly on.

But if no change had come to Nora in these
two years, considerable change had occurred in
the fortunes of Margaret Vyner, for during them
Margaret had become a very great lady indeed.

True, it was but reflected greatness, though
Margaret did not see it in this limit, and was
satisfied that the remarkable success which had

attended Vyner in the last two years as a
painter was due to her influence and taste.
Vyner, in fact, had painted a great picture — a
picture which at once made him not only preeminent
among his fellow-artists, but gave him
a world-wide reputation and fame. It also
made him a rich man, at least a man who
could command a very large income ; and
Margaret, having the benefit of this income,
became in her own eyes, and perhaps in the
eyes of a certain section of other people, a
great lady.

She gave artistic and fancy balls, at which
she wore the diamonds that Nora had given
her, and to which she invited her husband's
patrons, and everyone she thought it was
advantageous or desirable to know. She
rather patronised Nora than otherwise, and
shook her head and smiled when Vyner once
said something about Seaport having wished
to marry Nora.

11 That is such an old story, dear' she said ;
"such folly — just like most of these reports.
Poor Lord Seaport, I fear he will never get
over dear Nellie's death ! "

In her conversation with her friends, she

still frequently referred to "Lady Seaports"'
and altogether held herself to be honoured by
this connection. She used to take wreaths of
flowers and hang them on the white marble
cross beneath which Nellie slept after her short
sad journey.

I have been to my poor young sister, Lady
Seas or tli's grave," she would say, after these
expeditions, and she was quite satisfied that
she went there out of tender devotion to the-dead.


But to this prosperous and self-filled life, a
sudden end was destined to occur. And,
strange to relate, this sudden end came by
Margaret's absolute belief in her own infallibility.


Among other pleasures and luxuries which
Margaret at this time asked Vyner to give her,
she wished him to buy her a riding horse.

Why, dear Margaret," laughed Vyner,
when you have never been on a horse in
your life ! "

"Do not say that, Walter," answered
Margaret, in her calm, assertive way; "dear
father, when we were children, always kept
ponies for us. I have often ridden."

"You'll break your neck if you try now,"
said Vyner, and he would not buy her a
horse ; but Margaret, without consulting him,
went to a livery stable and hired one for a
season.

The owner of the livery stable gave her a
really quiet animal, and provided her with a
groom and all other accessories, and Margaret
surprised Vyner one day by riding up to his
studio, really looking remarkably well.

He went down to speak to her, and Margaret
immediately tried to gain her point.

As you see, I can ride, dear," she said, " I
am sure now you will buy me a horse ? "

Vyner laughed.

T won't make any rash promises," he said.
And now I advise you to get safely home."

But Margaret had no intention of not being
seen in her new accomplishment as a horsewoman.
She called on her old friend, Mrs.
Saunders, and that kind woman admired her
to her heart's content. She also saw poor
Nellie's old lover, "little Puck," who still
remained a bachelor, and gratified Margaret
*also by his open and admiring comments on
her appearance.

She was so pleased and self-satisfied,, that she
determined next to call on Nora. As she rode
rip to Nora's door, unfortunately a troop of
Life Guards were passing. This made a stir
and a sort of crowd, and Margaret grew nervous.
But her horse kept steady enough, when suddenly
a horse, ridden by a man who was
also passing, grew restive and reared, close to
Margaret. The man tried to hold it in, but it
seized the bit in its teeth, turned sharply,
cannoned against Margaret's horse, and in a
moment Margaret lost her unstable seat, and
fell backwards, actually pulling her horse over
on her. The animal plunged and kicked, some
of the guardsmen at once dismounted, anfct
Margaret was dragged from beneath the horse.
She was quite insensible, and was carried to
Nora's door, to keep her out of the crowd until
an ambulance could be procured to convey her
home.

The news of the accident soon reached Nora r
who happened to be at home, and she ran to
the door of the house to see if she could be of
any assistance, and to ask if the poor lady who
was hurt had not better be brought at once
into the house.

When she saw Margaret's face she recognised
her. It was Walter Vyner's wife — and with a
suppressed cry Nora bade the men who were
holding Margaret in their arms to can her in.

She is a friend of mine — take her into the
house at once," she said ; and so Margaret was
carried in, and lay like one dead while Nora
despatched messengers for doctors and for
Vyner.

Margaret never spoke again. It was concussion
of the brain, the doctors said, and she
lingered alive for two days, but she never
regained consciousness. The end came about
midnight on the third night after the accident.
Nora, who had scarcely left her, had been persuaded
to lie down, and had fallen asleep, when
her maid awoke her.

What is the matter ? " said Nora, starting
up.

You said we were to call you if there was
any change," answered the maid. " Poor Mrs.
Vyner is dead."

Nora at once ran into the room where Margaret
lay. Vyner was standing by the bed,
pale, grave, and sorrowful, and he held out his
hand to his old friend as she ran in.

Poor Margaret ! " he said. And as Nora
stood and looked with tearful eyes at Margaret's
still face, she too murmured " Poor, poor
Margaret ! "

We notice the footsteps of time but by-epochs.
" To-morrow, and tomorrow, nd
tomorrow, creeps in this petty pace from day
to day." But suddenly on some "tomorrow"
comes a change. Then we count the hours —
say on such and such a day he died — on
such a day was born. And so in the revolving
days and months that passed after
Margaret's sudden death ; Nora and Vyner
scarcely noted them, until one day, when these
two — who once were lovers, who each in
truth had loved no other — suddenly broke
through the half-sad, half-tender reserve which
had been between them since the day that
Margaret died.

They were standing together in Nora's
drawing-room in the twilight. Outside was

the hum and stir of the mighty city ; inside a
great stillness and peace. Presently Vyner
spoke.

It is a year to-day, Nora," he said.

"since-yes,

I know," answered Nora softly, and
her hand crept into his.

Not many words were said after this —
strong, deep feeling is expressed in few words
but as the darkness stole around them,
Nora's head fell on Vyner's breast.

How have I lived," she half sobbed, " all
these dreary, dreary years ? "

They were married very soon after this.
Lady Stainbrooke could not restrain a little
stab, in spite of her prudence, at Vyner on
the occasion.

So, you have got Nora and her great
fortune, after all, Mr. Vyner ! " she said.

Yes," he answered, smiling ; " I have been
a lucky man." And so, indeed, he esteemed
himself, but not because she had a great
fortune.

After their marriage they went abroad for a
whole year, and during their wanderings found
themselves in the winter time at Monte Carlo.
One day, while they were standing watching
the players staking their gold at the tables,

they suddenly both recognised a face in the
crowd. It was Lord Seaport — he was standing
watching with haggard, greedy eyes, a small
stake that he had risked, and he looked miserably
worn and aged. Nora felt sorry ; she
would even have spoken to him, but Vyner
drew her away.

It would only be painful to us all," he said ;
yet Nora could not easily forget the look of
poverty, almost despair, which came over the
young man's face when the trifle he had risked
vanished away.

They heard after this that Lady Seaport was
living in Paris in great poverty also ; having
only a small annuity to live on, which was
allowed her by Mr. Marchmont. Anonymously
Nora now frequently sends this unhappy woman
considerable sums of money ; and Vyner, ever
generous, is pleased that she should do this.

Strathearn is still unmarried. Once a year
at least he comes to town, and never forgets
to call on Joanna Brewis. He also never
forgets to send her a haunch of venison in
October, and various presents of game during
the season.

I don't like it," Joanna candidly confesses;

"" but it pleases hint, I suppose, poor man, and
does me no harm, and so I make no objections."
There is another visit, too, which Strathearn
never neglects to pay. This is to Nellie's grave.
No one else goes near it now, but she is not
forgotten — Strathearn loved her too well for her
memory to fade in a human life.

The End.

Silent Watchers,

CHAPTER I.

WHAT THEY SAW.

It was only a dreary picture. The afternoon
of New Year's Day in a remote farm house,,
with the rain and sleet driving over the hills,
and dashing against the kitchen window panes.
Inside this kitchen also there were few signs
that in the dark hours of the morning another
year had been born.

Yet it was so. This was New Year's Day at
Eedcote Farm house, but the penurious habits
of the master — the old farmer, George Kendall
had prevented the usual outward emblems of
rejoicing and merriment being very visible.
True, on the high mantelpiece, amid the

shining brass candlesticks, and show brass
family kettle, a few faded sprigs of holly were
to be seen. They had been placed there a week
before, when all over the land the joy-bells
were ringing for Christmas-tide. But no joy-bells
stole over the hills in their sweet melody
to Eedcote Farm. Neither marriage bells nor
passing bells, nor the solemn tolling of the last
bells rung for us on earth, were to be heard in
this silent and lonely place. Full three miles
away was the nearest church in the neighbourhood,
and so no sound of joy nor sorrow was
was ever borne on the wind to Eedcote Farm.

In this remote and quiet spot George Kendall,
the farmer, had lived eighty-five years. He
had been born here, spent his childhood and boyhood
here, brought his wife here, and now old,
shrivelled, and blear-eyed, he sat watching the
fire, thinking vaguely that this was New Year's
Day — thinking vaguely of the New Year's Days
gone by — of the old days, of the long journey,
not of the rest which now should have seemed
so near !

He had not a good face, this aged man,
tottering on the verge of the grave. The lines
and wrinkles which years had scored, told no

story of endured pain, of noble, patient resolve,
no tale of benevolence nor love. But they bad
written with their truth-telling hand of hard
bargains, of petty schemes, of toil perhaps, for
he had been a hard worker in his day ; but he
had toiled, and worked, and thought for money,,
and for money's worth alone.

There was nothing like it, he thought. The
one narrow creed that filled his heart and soul
was gain. Yet he could no longer enjoy it,
though this idea never occurred to his mind,
His thin legs could scarcely carry his thin, poor
body, his hands were crippled with rheumatism,
his bones all aches and pains. But he loved
the music, that the clink of gold makes, still 1
When a horse or a cow died, he wept maudlin
tears ; when a neighbour died he shook his
head and grunted, and began to consider when
the dead man's farm stock should be sold, and
and if it were likely to go cheap beneath the
auction hammer.

His household consisted of two sons, a niece r
and a strong country girl. On this particular
New Year's Day, Robert Rendall, the younger
son, was from home spending his holidays, and
the inhabitants of the farmhouse where thus

reduced to four. The old man, his eldest son
george Kendall, his niece Maud Eliot, and a
maid-servant named Jean or Jenny Wren. As
the old man sat dozing over the fire, Maud
Eliot, the niece, entered the kitchen, and began
to move restlessly about.

Where's George, uncle ? " she said at last.

The old man looked round with a chuckle,
and an evil gleam in his eye.

Thou's always looking after George, Maude,
more than he's looking after thee," he said.

Maud Eliot's face turned scarlet at this taunt.
She stood behind her uncle, and clenched her
hands and bit her lips. But she did not speak,
and with another chuckle the old farmer turned
from his niece and began once more gazing idly
into the fire ; and presently, overcome by the
warmth, he feel asleep.

In the meanwhile, Maud Eliot had gone to
the kitchen window, and stood there looking
out with a gloomy expression on her face at the
driving sleet and rain.

She was a pale girl this, with dark eyes and
hair, with a certain beauty and power in
her countenance, which, however, was scarcely
handsome. She looked just now as if she were

alike anxious, angry, and unhappy. Her
natural pallor was increased by the strong and
passionate feelings of her heart.

Suddenly the pale face flushed, and the
full, strong mouth moved tremulously. These
emotions were caused by the sound of a man's
footsteps outside the kitchen door, and in
another moment a tall, good-looking — nay, a
handsome young man, entered the kitchen.

This was George Kendall, the farmer's eldest
son. He was twenty-seven, tall, straight featured,
and powerfully made, with careless,
laughing blue eyes, and a sensual though
handsome mouth. A slightly-annoyed expression
passed over his face when he saw his
cousin Maud Eliot standing by the window.

Well, Maud, are you meditating on the
rain ? " he said, addressing her.

It is a dreary day," answered Maud, in one
of those voices which it is pleasant to listen to.

Disgusting, isn't it ? " said the young man.
And with a long ride before one, too ! "

A long ride ? " repeated Maud. " Surely,.
George, you are not going from home to-day ?
not on New Year's Day ? "

Why not ? " said George Rental " It

isn't so agreeable here, is it ? Y(

the old man is crosser, and little Jenny Wren

has declined to clean my boots ! "

How dare she ! " exclaimed Maud passionately.


George Rendall shrugged his shoulders.

You women, my dear," he said, in a slightly
contemptuous tone, " are wonderful creatures !
You are either ready to do anything for a man
cut your throats, etc. — or you are the most
disagreeable, disobliging, contradictious beings
upon earth ! As I was saying, you are cross,
Jenny Wren is cross — "

Don't name me with Jenny Wren, please,"
interrupted Maud yet more angrily.

George Kendall gave a careless laugh.

All right," he said. " Never name any
woman to another — they all hate each other —
they all — "

George," again interrupted Maud, " how
dare you speak to me thus ? How dare you
talk to me of Jenny Wren, or any one else ?
Have you no feeling ? You are a bad, bad,
wicked man ! "

Go on, my dear," said George Rendall, with
.another shrug.

Go on !" said Maud, raising her voice ; " but
what is the use of going on to a cruel, heartless
man like you ? You are worthless, you are
worthless !" she repeated with strong passion.
You are unworthy to live — you do no good —
nothing, nothing but harm ! "

Pleasant, blowing a man up like this on
New Year's Day ! " said George Kendall. "But
I'm out of it. Don't sit up for me, Maud, I
won't be home till late — I'm going to the
Fothergal's."

To make love to Mary Fothergal, I suppose,"
said Maud bitterly.

Please yourself," answered George Kendall.
I'm going, that's all. Good-day, Maud —
I hope you'll be in a better humour tomorrow."
And with a careless nod the young man turned
away, while Maud Eliot gave a long-drawn,
quivering sigh.

He is unworthy — he is unworthy," she
was thinking. "It is his good looks — only his
good looks — would that God would strike him
dead, or make him plain, hideous, miserable,
as I am now ! "

. • . . . .

When the stars, the silent watchers of the-night,

shone out from among the drifting
clouds on the eventide of this New Year's
Day, they shone on this pale, passionate girl
standing at her bedroom window, with a look
of desperate and determinate resolve on her
face.

She was going to run away. She was sick
and weary of her bondage. Her cousin, her
lover, George Eendall, had utterly changed
to her. The sweetness and devotion of the
summer days had cooled in autumn, and frozen
in the chill winter months. He loved her no
longer ; he was weary of her ; and she had
loved him too well, He was one of those who
would have been passionately enamoured with
a heartless coquette. A woman to have retained
his affections should have tantalised and
provoked him. A woman who gave him too
much was certain to tire him. He was not
generous, and did not understand nor appreciate
generosity. A small, cold heart beat beneath
his tall, handsome, and well-made form.

And Maud Eliot knew all this now. She
knew she loved a bad, hard man, and yet she
could not help loving him still. The lonely life,
the silence and stillness of Eedcote Farm, kept

her passion for her cousin ever present in her
mind. In a crowd we are forced to think of the
crowd. But when we have the stars and the
hills alone for company, dangerous temptations
sand powerful influences are apt to beset the
human heart.

She was going away from Become Farm —
to fly, to hide herself — she knew not where.
She had, indeed, no other home to go to. Her
father had been an unsuccessful doctor in London,
who had married, rather late in life, old Kendall's
wife's sister. Two years ago Dr. Eliot had died,
and left his only child, Maud, unprovided for.
On his deathbed he had written a letter to the
old farmer at Kedcote, asking him to take charge
of his orphan girl. The old farmer was furious
son receiving this appeal, which only reached him
.after his brother-in-law was lying in his grave.
But young George Kendall, after some difficulty,
persuaded his father to accept the responsibility.
Young George Kendall had three reasons for
doing this. One was that he was good-natured
when his own selfishness did not interfere with
his benevolence ; another that he thought the
house would be more comfortable with a lady to
manage it, for his mother was dead ; and his

third reason was that he wished to go to London,
and so made an excuse of bringing his young
cousin down.

This journey proved an unfortunate one to
the orphaned Maud Eliot. When her handsome
cousin George arrived for her at the somewhat
gloomy house where her father had died, half
her troubles seemed to be over. George was kind,
and apparently considerate, and as the cousins
travelled on together over the snowy country
(it was mid winter), Maud felt almost ashamed
to feel so happy so soon after her poor father's
death.

We have seen how these joyous hours ended.
Without thinking of his character, judging the
man's heart and soul by the fair outward lineaments
in which they were clothed, the hapless
girl too soon learned to love him. The love of
woman was pleasant to George Kendall, and the
voice of honour and conscience only dull to his
ears. Two years had passed since Maud Eliot had
come to Redcote in mid winter — years of hope,
joy, intense happiness, then of dull, cold disappointment
and bitter pain.

He had broken her heart, she told herself, as
she dragged her dresses and clothes out of the

old-fashioned chest of drawers in her room on
this New Year's night, when she had resolved
to go for ever from Eedcote.

White-faced, trembling, with her dark eyes
fixed and dilated, the girl went on with her
task. The clock on the stair-head struck nine,
and after the last stroke there was great silence
in the house, as there had been before. Outside,
the wind had died away, and the sky had
cleared, and all over the heavens the stars
twinkled and shone. They were watching her,
the girl thought — watching her, and she
shivered and shuddered beneath those countless
eyes.

Then suddenly she paused and clasped her
hands, and listened with parted lips, as she
knelt before her half-filled trunk. What was
that sound breaking the stillness of the night ?
Those cries sharp and terrible, that reached
her ears from below ? They were a woman's
shrieks, and Maud Eliot's face turned absolutely
ghastly as she heard them.

She rose from her knees, she staggered to
the room door, and then she heard her uncle,
old Kendall, the farmer, calling out in the thin
and broken tones of age.

Tottering, holding on by the banister, she
went downstairs. At the foot of the stairs the
girl Jenny Wren was lying, apparently in a
fit. Her hands were clenched, her teeth were
set, her eyes were starting from her head r
and her dress and arms were stained with blood.
Old Eendall was standing beside her, looking
like a man suddenly roused from his sleep,,
and a lantern was lying on the passage oilcloth,
as if the girl Jenny had dropped it from
her hand.

"What is the matter?" asked Maud Eliot,
speaking as though she were forcing the words
from her lips.

Matter ! Devil knows," answered the old
farmer. "Jenny has come in shrieking and
screaming like a mad thing, and look, Maude —
look, her hands and arms are all blood ! What
can have befallen her ? I sent her to lock up
the stable door and the byre a while ago, and
then I dozed over a bit, and when I evoke r
there she lay screaming and shrieking — surely
she's fallen somehow. Help me with her, lass,
and we'll get her into the kitchen, and give hera
drop of whisky to bring her round."

Maud made no answer. She helped to lift

up the girl, she unfastened the handkerchief
round her neck, and she bathed her face and
hands all in silence. She shuddered when she
touched Jenny's hands — the stained hands —
but she never spoke a word. Then the old
man got out his whisky bottle, and forced
some of its contents between Jenny's set teeth.
The strong spirit soon revived her. The girl
sat up, stared wildly about for a moment or
two, and then seized the old farmer by the
hand.

Master ! " she said in a loud, harsh voice.
u Master, go and look at Mr. George ! "

George — what's the matter with George ? "
asked the old farmer. " He's away at Others
and won't be home till late — the girl's
dement ! "

He's lying," said Jenny, still in the same
loud excited tones, " in the loft over the stable
he's lying dead ! "

Dead ! " echoed the farmer. " Why thou's
mad, lass ! George went to Fothergal's hours
ago. Thou's seen a ghost — thy wits are gone ! "

He's lying dead ! " repeated the girl, and
she once more began shrieking and screaming,
and fell off the chair in which they had placed

VOL. III. h

her, and began rolling in convulsions on the
kitchen floor.

'■' She's mad," said old Kendall, " utterly mad !
Lock the doors, Maud, lass — George won't be
home till late — and try to get the girl to bed."

Then Maud spoke.

Uncle," she said, in husky accents, "let us
go and look for George."

For George ! Art thou mad, too \ George
is at Fothergal's, I tell thee, and won't be home
till dawn, most like. Get the girl to bed, and
get to bed thyself. I'll sit up for George."

Maud said nothing more. She half-dragged,
half-lifted, the now nearly insensible Jenny
Wren to the little bedroom, or rather hutch in
the kitchen wall, where she usually slept. The
girl groaned and moaned, but the strength of
the spirit which the old man had poured down
her throat held her senses in bondage, and
presently she fell into a heavy stupor or sleep.

The old farmer also soon dozed again in his
easy chair by the fire. Only Maud Eliot kept
awake — only the dark restless eyes never closed,
and the restless clutching of her hands never
ceased. Sometimes she moaned aloud and her
mind wandered — wandered back to when she

was a child — to her dead father — to the summer
days of sunshine and joy, to the chill autumn,
and then to the black winter which of late had
fallen on her soul.

Was she going mad ? she suddenly asked
herself. Mad ! There was her old uncle dozing
by the fire — there was the girl Jenny Wren
lying in her heavy sleep. Where was George ?
She started up — she opened the kitchen
shutter, and looked out at the thousand
thousand myriads of stars twinkling in the
heavens. They saw, she thought — they saw
George now — and she fell down on her knees,
and covered her face, groaning aloud in the
anguish of her souk

H '1

BY DAYLIGHT.

About midnight the old farmer awoke. The
fire had burnt low, the candle was flickering in
the socket, and the old man was cold, cross,
and captious.

He pulled out his big silver watch, and
began scolding his niece.

What's thou sitting up for, thou fool' he
said, "at this hour? Waiting for George, I
warrant. Ay, you'll wait in vain — George
will ha' nothing to say to thee."

Maud never spoke, but by chance her uncle's
eyes fell on her face.

"Why, lass!" he exclaimed, staring at the
girl, " what's come o'er thee ? Thou looks an
old woman — like thy old aunt, when we put
her in her coffin ! "

I'm tired," said Maud, in a low, feeble
voice of pain.

Tired ! Then get to bed," answered the
old man. "George won't come now, he's
staying all night at Fothergal's."

Let us go and look for him," said Maud,
in the same feeble voice, " his horse may have
come back."

"Nonsense — rubbish!" said old Kendall.
"The girl's demented — what's the matter
with ye all to-night ? First Jenny, and then
thou. Get to bed, lass, get to bed." And
grasping his whisky bottle in one hand, and
his bedroom candlestick in the other, the old
farmer tottered out of the kitchen.

But Maud never went to bed. She sat there
till the grey, cold winter dawn struggled into
the kitchen window-panes. There was no fire,
no light. But she had never noticed this.
She noticed, however, when the chill daylight
began to creep over the world, and she rose
and went across the kitchen, and stood looking
for a few moments at the still sleeping girl,
Jenny Wren.

A handsome woman was this Jenny, of the
coarse and somewhat full-blown type. Her
skin was white, her cheeks were rosy, her eyes
small, brown, and unintellectual. Her nose

also was small and neatly formed, while her
mouth was thick and large, and her jaw square
and determined-looking. Her form was full,
broad, and developed, and as Maud stood
watching her, a look of disgust and scorn came
over her own pale, passionate face.

Then she turned silently away, and leaving
the kitchen, she went up to her own bedroom,
and began quickly to replace all her dresses
and clothes in the chest of drawers as they had
been before she dragged them out on the previous
evening. "When she had done this, she
returned to the kitchen and awoke Jenny.

Get up, Jenny," she said, " it is past seven
o'clock."

The girl Jenny could scarcely rouse herself.
She sat up in bed, she rubbed her eyes, and
stared in a sort of stupefied way at Maud.
Then she looked frightened, and began to
cry.

Oh ! Miss Maud," she said, " was I dreaming
— or — or — is Mr. George really dead ? "

What do you mean, Jenny ? " asked Maud.

He is lying in the loft," wept Jenny. " I
thought I saw him lying in the loft ! I lifted
him up, Miss Maud — Oh ! — Oh ! — it was

so awful ! " And Jenny wept louder than
before.

Hush, girl," said Maud, sternly. " If you
saw anything — really saw anything — in the
loft, come now and tell my uncle."

Jenny trembled, shivered, and cried, but
finally, on being urged by Maud, she rose, and
together the two women went up to the old
farmer's room.

He scowled angrily when the girls awoke
him, scowled and swore; called Jenny a "cursed
fool," and Maud an " idle, fanciful hussy
But at last unwillingly he rose, and shuffled
his " shrunk shanks " into his brown woollen
stockings and grey knee-breeches, and grumbling
and couching; he went downstairs, followed
by the girls.

Then he unlocked the back door of the
house, and limped and tottered out into the
wet and slushy farmyard. This was enclosed
in a square of farm-buildings ; the stables being
at the opposite side to the house. Over the
stables was a roomy and commodious loft, which
when a youth, George Kendall the younger had
fitted up for a workshop. Here the two younger
Kendall's kept all their peculiar belongings ;

their fishing tackle, their guns, their best gardening
and farming utensils were all stored here.
George also, who had a taste for drawing, would
sometimes take an industrious fit, and draw for
hours by the loft window, which was furnished
with a deal table, and which looked out on the
pleasant green meadows beyond.

He generally wrote his letters here also, and
often smoked here, so that the loft was regarded
in the establishment at the farm as belonging
to " George," in particular, though the younger
brother Robert occasionally used it.

Grumbling and sw T earing then, the old farmer
made straight for the loft in the pale, cold light
of the winter morning. Behind him, wu'th a
white set face, w T asked Maud Eliot, and shrinking,
cowering and crying, after her came the girl
Jenny "Wren.

Ay, this is a nice fool's errand," growled
the old man as he unlocked the stable door.
"George, indeed — George is at Fothergal's —
but ye are jealous of him, lasses, that's it —
jealous of him both of ye."

The lock was soon turned, and the stable door
was open. A broad-stepped ladder led to the
loft. Up this the old farmer panting and swearing

now ascended. His head and body had
disappeared into the loft ; but his thin legs and
feet were still on the ladder, when the two
women below heard him give a cry.

George, my lad, George ! " he said, and the
next moment, more quickly than his age warranted,
he sprang into the loft, and the two
white-faced, fear-stricken girls followed.

This is what they saw. George — the handsome
George Kendall — was sitting in a chair
before the table by the loft window. His head
had fallen on the table, his hands hung limply
down. They drew nearer — there was blood on
his bright brown hair, blood on the table,
blood on the floor ! And his face ! It was
crushed down on some verses he had been
writing out ; crushed out of shape, out of the
fair lineaments which had won the love of
woman so easily, crushed and broken ; for his
murderer or murderess had struck him from
behind, struck him on the head with a leaden-topped
hammer, which now lay on the floor
near him, and to which some of his bright hair
still clung.

At this terrible sight, Jenny Wren fell
shrieking on the floor, while Maud Eliot stood,

looking grey and cold, looking as if she were
turned to stone. The old man seemed scarcely
to understand at first.

George ! George ! " be kept crying ; but
George's spirit bad winged its flight from earth,
hours before that grey chill dawn. He was
stiff and cold; he had died apparently as his
head fell beneath the crushing blow which had
destroyed his life, for there were no signs of
any struggle, nor even of a brief death agony.

At last the old man seemed to realise that
his son was dead, and then he turned fiercely
and accusingly to the two women.

Which o' ye ha done it ? " he said, and he
kicked the shrinking Jenny with his foot.

Thou fool ! " (and he swore a terrible oath),
"I've had my eye on ye! What! did ye
come behind, and knock the lad on the head
because you were jealous mad o' him ? But
ye shall hang fort ! Hang ! ay, hang, if there's
law in the land — ye shall be hanged by the
neck till ye're dead ! "

These words seemed to recall Jenny's scattered
senses. She ceased shrinking ; she rose
to her feet.

I didn't do it, master," she said. " He 

bad man," she added, vindictively enough,
he's got his due, raaybe, but not from me —
though I've had good cause to rue I ever saw
his face ! "

Ay," said the old farmer, savagely, " he
was a handsome lad, and none of ye would let
him be ! His blood was on thy hands last night
thou foul jade, when thou came to the house
shrieking and screaming like a mad thing.
Thou'd struck the blow then. Don't lie about
it— thou's killed my lad ! "

I didn't, master," said Jenny, emphatically.
I went out to lock in, as ye know, and I had
the lantern wi' me, and I thought I would ha' a
look among George's things. I came up the ladder
from the stable — I mind it all now, though my
head has been stupid-like ever since ; but I came
up wi' the lantern in my hand, and I saw him"
(and Jenny pointed shudderingly to George's
corpse). " I took hold of him. I saw he was
dead, and I ran mad-like to the house, and I
mind nothing more till Miss Maud called me
this morning. This is the truth, master. I
know nothing more."

About twelve o'clock the inspector of police

at Norsely, which was the nearest police-station
to Keclcote, arrived at the farm, accompanied
by two of his men. This inspector came into
the kitchen of the house in a pleasant, friendly
way, and shook old Eendall by the hand.

This is a bad job, Mr. Kendall," he said.

The old farmer took out his red-cotton pocket
handkerchief, and began to wipe his eyes.

Who did it, Mr. Pye ? That's what I ask
who did it ? " said old Kendall.

Mr. Abel P}^e, the inspector, smiled benevolently.
He was a big, tall, fat man this, who
spent his life in ferreting out crimes, but by
the expression of his face you would not have
supposed that he believed in the existence of
evil. He had such a trustful, beaming look,
and had a most agreeable manner, even when
he was arresting a man. He therefore smiled
benevolently, when old Rendall asked, in the
querulous tone of age, who could be the
murderer of his son.

"We must find out, Mr. Kendall," he said;
"no doubt we shall find out." And then,
accompanied by his men, he went to view the
body of the murdered man.

The arrival of the police seemed to throw

Jenny Wren into a terrible flutter. She hated
the sight of them, she said ; and when they
returned to the kitchen to take the depositions
of the inhabitants of the farm, Mr. Abel Pye's
smiling and benevolent eyes followed Jenny's
movements with looks of great admiration and
interest.

"Some tramp must ha' clone it, Mr. Pye,"
said Jenny boldly enough, before she had been
asked any questions.

A tramp," answered Mr. Inspector, smiling,
"You think it was a tramp then, my dear ?
But it must have been a funny tramp, if it was
a tramp — a well-to-do tramp, a tramp of means
for in the poor lad's pockets there was this
money — three sovereigns, and fourteen shillings
in silver." And the inspector held out the
money he had named in his hand.

"Three sovereigns, and fourteen shillings
silver ! " repeated old Kendall, rising from his
chair hastily, and peering eagerly into the
inspector's open hand. " I'll just take charge
of it then, Mr. Pye."

"Not at present, Mr. Kendall," said Mr.
Pye blandly and considerately. "For the
present it must remain in my charge."

Three sovereigns, and fourteen shillings in
silver," again said old Rendall, as if he were
thinking aloud ; " then George must ha' kept
back some of the money he got for the turnips
—I thought he did."

And this well-to-do tramp," continued Mr.
Pye, still looking smilingly at Jenny, "must
also have despised taking poor Mr. George's
handsome gold watch and Albert chain — for
here they are." And the inspector held up a
watch and chain as he spoke.

"Ay," said old Rendall eagerly, "that's
George's watch, sure enough. His mother
bought it for him out of the butter money the
day he was twenty-one. You'll not take that
away, surely, from the farm, Mr. Pye ? "

"For the present," answered Mr. Pye; "but
it will be quite safe, Mr. Rendall. When we've
caught our hare you shall have it back."

Then in the most agreeable manner in the
world Mr. Pye began to question Jenny.

Take care what you say, my dear, mind,"
he said ; " only just tell me what you saw when
you went to lock in ? "

Jenny repeated the same story that she had
told old Rendall in the loft.

She thought she would like to et ha' a look
at George's things," she said, and she blushed
scarlet.

The inspector made no comment on the girl's
tale ; none when Maud Eliot told him that she
knew nothing. "She had seen her cousin George,"
she said, 'ein the kitchen after dinner, and he
had then told her he was going to Fothergal's
farm. She had spent the most of the evening
in her own room, sorting her things, until
Jenny's cries had attracted her attention. She
had seen her cousin's body first, when she saw
it with her uncle."

Mr. Inspector took his notes, and then made
arrangements with the old farmer for the
coroner's inquest to be held on George Kendall's
body the next day. He would leave one of his
men at the farm, he said, and after a lengthened
private conversation with this man the inspector
took a friendly leave of them all — including
Jenny — and went smiling on his way.

SUSPICION.

The next day was one of continual excitement
at Kedcote Farm. Up the quiet lane that led
to the house, which, as a rule, was so seldom
trodden by the feet of men or the feet of
women, a constant stream of visitors was to be
seen.

The coroner's inquest on George Recalls
body was held in the parlour of the farmhouse,
about twelve o'clock. Indeed, there was no
other house near enough to the scene of the
murder for it to be held in. The jury viewed
the body in the loft first, and then a lengthened
inquiry was held in the parlour.

But nothing further was discovered. Jean,
or Jenny, Wren somewhat stumbled and
contradicted herself, however, in giving her
evidence. She was asked when she had last

seen the murdered man before (as she had
previously stated) she found his dead body in
the loft.

Upon this question being asked, Jenny blushed
and netted.

I cannot call to mind quite," she said.

"what!" said the Coroner. " Not when
you saw your young master before you discovered
him lying dead ? Did you see him
after dinner ? "

Jenny twisted her stout, comely form about
uneasily.

"' Did you see him after dinner ? " repeated
the Coroner.

Yes," said Jenny, as if unwilling.

Adhere ? " asked the Coroner.

Again Jenny hesitated. Then she said —

I saw him in the stable. He said he was
going to Fothergal's."

'''Had you a long conversation ? What else
did he say ? " was then asked.

I can't call to mind," said Jenny. " I'm
not very certain I did see him in the stable —
but I think so — I'd had a host to do that day
with it being the New Year, and we had a bit
better dinner nor usual, though it wasn't much.

Still it put other things out of my head —
George wanted his boots — "

Then you did see him ? " inquired the
Coroner severely.

"I — I— think so," hesitated Jenny, and on
the whole her evidence gave an unfavourable
impression against her.

But she held fast to her original story about
the manner in which she found George's body.

Master sent me to lock in," she said, " and
before I locked the stable up, as I had the
lantern wi' me, I thought I would ha' a look at
George's things."

Had you any particular motive for examining
his things ? " inquired the Coroner.

Again Jenny blushed and fidgeted.

I wanted to know something," she said.
Folks talked about him keeping company wi
Mary Fothergal — and — I wanted to know."

"Oh!" said the Coroner, and he looked at
Mr. Inspector Pye, who smiled pleasantly in
reply to the Coroner's glance.

Then old Kendall was called. He looked old,
shaken, and broken down, and he proved that
there was no other person known to be on the
farm premises on New Year's Day but himself,

his unfortunate son George, and his niece Maud
Eliot, and the servant-maid Jenny Wren. His
two lads were enough to work the farm in the
slack time, he said ; in the spring, summer, and
harvest time, they engaged help. But during
the three winter months George and Robert did
what was needed. He had lost his right hand
when he lost George. And the old man began
to whimper when he concluded his statement.

He was asked if he knew of anyone who bore
ill-will to his deceased son.

Then old Kendall hesitated, shot an evil
glance of his bleared eyes at Jenny Wren, and
then at Maud Eliot. But finally, after considering
a few moments, he said he did not.

Maud Eliot's evidence was simply a repetition
of what she had stated on the previous day to
Inspector Pye. But she also was asked if she
had seen her unfortunate cousin after the dinner
hour was past.

Yes," answered Maud, in a low but clear
voice ; " he came into the kitchen and told me
he was going to Mr. FothergaFs. He said we
were not to sit up for him, as he might be late."

Did he seem in good spirits ? Was he
excited in any way ? " asked the Coroner.

He seemed in his usual spirits," replied
Maud, " and he showed no particular excitement
— only a few words passed between us''

After this, at the request of Mr. Inspector
Pye, the inquest was adjourned. It was adjourned
for a week ; but before Mr. Inspector
Pye left the farmhouse, he politely asked Jenny
Wren for the dress she had worn on the previous
day, and the apron. Upon this, Jenny
grew very angry.

The apron was washed," she said ; " and as-for
the dress, they might look at it if they
liked, but the marks on it were gob when she
lifted poor George up after he was dead. She
didn't do it. They needn't all glare at her like
that — she wished she had never come to become
Farm — had never seen George Kendall's
face." And Jenny ended by bursting into a
fit of loud and passionate weeping.

Mr. Inspector Pye smiled more pleasantly
than ever after this outbreak.

It was foolish of you to wash your apron y
Jenny," he said ; " however, my dear, washed
or unwashed, I must carry it away with me."

And he did carry it away with him. He
also carried away the verses, all stained and

gory with George's blood, on which the young
man's crushed head was resting when his father
and. Maud Eliot went into the loft. He took
away again, also, the watch and chain (though
old Eendall applied for them), but he left two
policemen behind him this time, and Jenny
Wren was conscious that these men, and indeed
all the visitors who arrived at the farm,
looked at her curiously. She was suspected of
murdering her young master, in fact, and no
doubt various suspicious causes pointed towards
this supposition.

But she put a bold front upon it. She went
about her work, and tossed her handsome head
when people stared at her. Maud Eliot never
looked at her. She gave her orders to Jenny
as usual, but she never once glanced in the
girl's bold, good-looking face.

During the afternoon, and after the first
inquiry or inquest was over, Maud was summoned
downstairs by Jenny, who informed her
the parson from Norsely had arrived now —
she wondered who next."

Maud went down into the parlour, and found
the Rev. Mr. Stiverss, the Vicar of Norsely,.
waiting to speak to her.

Eedcote Farm was in Mr. Stiverss 's parish.
This outlying, lonely spot was more than three
miles from Norsely, but Mr. Stiverss had started
on the uneven way which parted him from his
parishioners at Eedcote, from a sense of moral
duty or curiosity, the moment that he conveniently
could, after he had heard of the
murder.

They were a bad lot," he said to Mrs.
Stiverss, as he buttoned on his overcoat, and
enveloped his neck in a knitted choker, to
protect him during his coming journey.

Mrs. Stiverss knew what " a bad lot" meant
in her husband's vocabulary. It meant the
Redcote people did not go to church ; did not
weekly refresh their souls with his sermons of
emptiness. It meant he got nothing from
Eedcote — the " old heathen," as he called old
Eendall, declining to put a penny, or even a
turkey, into the parson's hands. Therefore the
parson was satisfied that they were all lost
souls. The terrible tragedy that had happened
in the household was a judgment upon them,
and Mr. Stiverss felt no small inward satisfaction
at this idea. As he neared the farm in the
jolting dog-cart in which he was driving, and

passed on the road a flock of large, beautiful,
fat, black turkeys, lie thought again of the
merited misfortune which had befallen the
Kendall. On Christmas Day he dined off
goose — how could a poor parson afford to give
sixteen or eighteen shillings for a good turkey ?
And here were twenty turkeys at least walking
in their lakadaisical way along his parishioner's
homestead !

He was still thinking of his injuries, when
Maud Eliot entered the farmhouse parlour and
found him standing there.

Ah ! Miss Eliot' he said, holding out two
fat fingers, " this is a mournful occasion — a
crushing blow ! "

"It is very sad' answered Maud in a low
tone.

It is terrible ! " said Mr. Stiverss, with
energy. " Cut down like a blade of grass —
like an ear of corn — like a — " But here the
parson paused for lack of a metaphor ; and
Maud also was silent.

I called," continued Mr. Stiverss, after a few
moments' consideration, " from a sense of duty.
Your uncle and the members of his family have
not sought my spiritual aid — have not listened

to my words of — I may say comfort and persuasion
— but in times like these, I do not wish
to remember this, I come not to reproach, nor
as a judge — I come — well — first to hear all the
particulars of this terrible tragedy ? "

"They are very few," answered Maud, in
the same low tone in which she had previously
spoken. " My cousin was found dead — "

But we need not go into all the painful
details which Mr. Stiverss forced from Maud's
white, unwilling lips. The parson was determined
to hear everything.

"Terrible!" he exclaimed, walking up and
down the parlour. " It makes one's blood run
cold — absolutely freezes the — the life current !"
And he patted his broad, stout chest, with a
vigorous pat.

And he was an alien to his church, too,"
he continued, still walking up and down the
parlour, " a stranger to the warmth of my
pastoral wings." And Mr. Stiverss held out his
arms to indicate that these were the "pastoral
wings " that he alluded to.

Indeed, he was very fond of alluding to these
pastoral wings," and rather liked offering one
of them to any pretty young parishioner who

happened to be in need of an escort. He was
a strictly moral man, but still he preferred a
young woman to an old one to lean on his
wing.

And do your suspicions point to anyone,,
my dear young lady ? " proceeded the parson.
I have heard rumours — as I came along —
rumour with its busy tongue pointed to the
maid-servant ! Do your suspicions turn in
the same direction 1 "

I judge no one," answered Maud, almost
harshly. " What right has anyone to judge ? "

The parson was nettled.

I did not say judge, Miss Eliot," he said
pettishly. " I am not given to judge hastily
or uncharitably — I said suspicions."

I mistook your meaning," said Maud coldly.

You did," replied Mr. Stiverss. But at this
moment his eyes happened to fall on the green
before the windows of the house, where the
large flock of turkeys that he had coveted were
now pensively walking. This changed the
current of his ideas.

You have fine turkeys here," he said, contemplatively,
and he went to the window of
the room to have a better look at them.

They are fine this year, I think," replied
Maud.

Very"' said the parson, smacking his lips.
We poor clergymen, Miss Eliot, cannot afford
to buy such luxuries — but may I ask the cost of
one of these in the market ? "

"I really do not know," said Maud. "We
only rear them for home use."

Mr. Stiverss sighed, and looked contemplatively
at the turkeys again. How lucky
farmers were, he was thinking. But while his
mind yet dwelt on the good things which the
tillers of the ground had in such abundance
wandering about their own doors, Robert
Eendall entered the parlour, as he wished to
speak to the parson about the arrangements for
his unfortunate brother's funeral.

"Ah, Mr. Eobert," said Mr. Stiverss, and
again he held out his two fat fingers, which
was his usual mode of handshaking. " I was
admiring your turkeys," he continued, still
staring at the birds outside.

Yes, they're a pretty good lot this year,"
answered young Eobert.

"Splendid," said the parson, and again his
lips gave an unconscious smack. " I was just

saying to your cousin here that such luxuries
are out of the reach of a poor clergyman — yet
I own I am partial to the bird."

Robert Kendall gave a little laugh.

I am sure," he said, " if you will honour us
by accepting one, Mr. Stiverss, we shall be very
happy."

Mr. Stiverss's face beamed all oyer.

"You are very good," he said. "I accept
one with pleasure, Mr. Eobert — I accept also
the kindly, friendly spirit in which it is offered.
I shall have pleasure in eating it — I shall regard
it — as — shall I say, an olive-branch ? A tokens
more friendly relations between us — and I
hope, Mr. Eobert, to see your cousin here and
yourself on Sunday in your pew in church.
Let it be no longer empty ! Come once more
and listen to your pastor's voice ! "

Again Robert Rendall gave a little laugh,
but the parson was too much pleased with his
turkey to be easily ruffled. He went with
Robert to view poor George's body, and th
exact spot where it was discovered. He sighed, he
pointed a moral, but there was no longer bitterness
on his tongue. Even when old Rendall
pretended not to hear a w r ord he said, and only

shook his head and gave a little whimper in
reply to the parson's wordy sentences of condolence
and sympathy, the parson was only
pitiful and condescending.

The infirmities of age ! " he said. " The
slow, the gradual decay of nature ! Ah, poor
man, we must pity him, truly pity him ! " And
the parson turned away from the old man with
a smile on his lips ; but the old man looked
after him with an angry scowl.

"Thou's a nice wind-bag," he muttered.
Words, words, nothing but words — ay, they
came cheap to thee. If thou'd to pay for them,
Mr. Parson, I warrant wi' wouldn't ha' such a
dose."

THE PARSON'S WIFE.

A melancholy procession left the homestead
at Eedcote early on the following morning.
This was the funeral of George Kendall — the
funeral of the young man who had been born
there, whose light step and handsome face had
filled his mother's heart with joy and gladness
almost from his birth, and even the sour old
father had felt a certain amount of pride and
pleasure whenever he looked on his comely
son.

They had carried him into the house the
night before, and laid him in his coffin. But
Maud Eliot had never once looked on his
changed face. She felt that she could not.
She wished to see him alone, but without
creating remark this was impossible now.

The night before, Jenny Wren, who was ina

semi-hysterical condition, had asked Maud to
go with her into the room where George's body
lay.

'* Do come, Miss Maud," said the girl, and
w r ould have taken Maud's hand, but Maud
shrank back. " They say he's awful to look
at," continued Jenny, " but he's stretched now,
and I would just like to see him once more."

I cannot," said Maud, and Jenny would not
go without her.

But as they carried him out of the house, let
us for a moment look at these two women. Ill
had it been for both that they had ever seen
his comely face. He had brought trouble to
them, and sorrow and shame, and when the
men were carrying him away for ever, Jenny's
shrieks and cries were to be heard all over the
house.

But from Maud Eliot's locked bedroom no
cry came forth. The girl had flung herself on
the floor, and lay there, white, mute, and
deadly cold. Her hands were clenched
over her ears ; there was no tear in her staring
eyes. Then she crawled to the window and
looked out. The hearse was standing at the
door ; Robert, Mr. Fothergal, and another

friend were there, too. Maud moaned aloud,
and her head fell sharply against the sash of
the window, and for a few minutes she lay-unconscious.
When she recovered, everything
connected with the funeral was gone. Was ita
dream ? Was it all a dream ? she thought.
No — for at that instant a burly policeman
strolled leisurely past the front of the house,
looking as if time hung rather heavy on his
hands. It was one of the men left in possession
one of the men left to watch the case, as Mr.
Inspector Pye had said ; and so Maud knew
that it was all too real — that George Kendall,
who had given such trouble and pain when
alive, had left yet more grievous trouble and
pain behind him.

They knew on whom it was to fall first,
during the afternoon. Maud asked no questions
of Robert Rendall, when her cousin returned
to Redcote after the funeral, but Robert, who
was a talkative y r young man, had much to tell
her.

Who do you think was in the church,
Maud, sobbing like a child ? " he said, " Mary
Fothergal ! I am told she says she was as good
as engaged to poor George — but I don't believe

it ! " And Robert looked curiously at his
cousin.

This Mary Fothergal was a handsome young
woman, the daughter of Mr. Fothergal who
rented the farm next Eeclcote. Poor George
Kendall had begun to go frequently to Others
during the autumn preceding his murder.

"They say," continued Robert Kendall, "that
the verses he was writing out, poor fellow,
when he must have been struck dead, were to
Mary. And they say, too, Maud," added
Robert, sinking his voice into a whisper, " that
a warrant has been taken out against Jenny
Wren."

Impossible ! It cannot be ! " cried Maud r
and she turned deadly pale, and leaned for
support against the back of a chair.

They say so, at any rate," answered Robert.
Jenny was known to be jealous about Mary
Fothergal, and she contradicted herself, and
made a fool of herself before the Coroner. At
all events, that's what I've heard ; indeed, old
Stiverss told me after the funeral that he knew
a warrant either was, or was going to be, taken
out against Jenny."

Mr. Stiverss' information proved correct.

During the afternoon, Mr. Inspector Pye, and
another policeman arrived once more at Keynote,
and after a few agreeable remarks upon the
weather, Mr. Pye produced his warrant. Jenny's
shrieks were something fearful to listen to, when
she understood she was to leave Eedcote with
the police, and for the present to be detained
at Norsely.

I didn't do it," she said, falling on her
knees on the kitchen floor. " He deserved
what he got maybe, but I didn't do it. Master

don't let them take me ? Miss Maud," (and

she crawled on her knees to where Maud was

standing, and grasped her dress), " don't let

them take me away."

Then Maud spoke, though she kept her eyes

averted from the girl's face.

Get up Jenny," she said. " Go quietly

with Mr. Pye — you need not be afraid if you

are not guilty — only the guilty shall suffer."
Ay — I said thou would be hanged ! "

said old Kendall, vindictively regarding Jenny.

You've hit the right nail on the head, Mr.

Pye — this foul jade murdered my lad."

Upon this Jenny started to her feet, and

soundly abused her old master. But the girl's

YOL. III. i

entreaties and rage were alike unavailing. "Just
for the present she was to be detained," Mr.
Pye said blandly, and so Jenny was carried
away in the policeman's dog cart, and the farm
homestead knew her no more.

She was taken to Norsely, and bound over
to appear at the adjourned coroner's inquiry.
This inquiry was held at Norsely, a week after
the first one held at Eedcote, and the final
result of this second inquiry was, that Jenny
was committed for trial at the ensuing Northern
Assizes, charged with the wilful murder of
George Kendall the younger, at Eedcote Farm,
on the First of January.

At this adjourned coroner's inquest, Maud
Eliot was of course present as one of the witnesses.
She was greatly overcome while giving
her evidence, and considerable sympathy was
felt for her.

One of those who sympathised greatly with
this pale, dark-eyed, unhappy-looking girl, was
Mrs. Stiverss, the parson's wife. There is an old
saying that grooms get like horses if they are
constantly in the stables ; but Mrs. Stiverss had
certainly not got like Mr. Stiverss, after living
with him for nearly ten years. She had a

handsome, pale, regular face, this young
woman, and was therefore totally dissimilar
to her somewhat coarse-featured, broad-nosed,
pompous little spouse.

Mr. Stiverss, however, regarded her as his
inferior, alike mentally and bodily. He spoke
to her, and of her, almost with compassionate
lordliness.

"Ah, my good Mary," he would say (her
name was Mary), " My Martha, rather, troubled
as usual about many things."

But woe would certainly have betided his
Martha," if she had not been troubled about
many things. Mr. Stiverss was not rich, but
he liked to have everything in perfect order in
his modest household. His dinners he especially
regarded with favour. The little woman
who bore his name, studied his likes and dislikes
in everything, cooked for him, and
worried to get things right about him the
whole day. Yet this little woman was no fool.
She was gentle and compassionate, and was
ever ready to help anyone who came in her
way, and no harsh or unkind word was ever
heard on her lips. How was it then, that she
could reconcile herself to her fate ? There was

ia

little green mound in the churchyard at
Norsely, which, perhaps, partly accounted for
it. Beneath this green mound lay sleeping her
only boy, who had died in his third year —
and the best part of the mother's heart lay
with her babe in this quiet resting-place.

But she gave her duty, her life, to the dead
babe's father, and the Rev. Gordon Stiverss (his
real name was Thomas Gordon Stiverss, but he
always dropped the Thomas), was quite satisfied,
and regarded it as perfectly natural that
his wife should adore him.

Poor little wife ! " he used sometimes to say,
smiling, and Mary would smile in reply, and
the Eev. Gordon thought how kind and amiable
he was, and almost pitied the little woman for
loving him too well.

On the day of the adjourned coroner's inquiry
held at Norsely on the death of the
unfortunate George Rendall, the parson and
his wife, who were shopping in the little town,
accidentally encountered the old farmer, George
Rendall, his niece and son, on their way to the
police station, where the inquiry was to be held.

The parson stopped and held out the patronising
hand of peace. But the old farmer took

no heed of it, except by a little nod, and then
went tottering, shuffling on, as fast as his thin
legs could carry him.

The two young people were more courteous.
They returned the parson's greeting, and while
they were exchanging a few words, Mrs. Stiverss's
kindly brown eyes were resting with sympathy
and compassion on Maud Eliot's pale and woe-stricken
face.

Poor, poor girl, what she must have
suffered ! " said the parson's gentle wife to
her husband, the moment Maud and her cousin
had moved on. " Dear Gordon, I feel so much
for her — may I wait until the inquiry is over
to speak to her — she looks as if she needed a
friend so much ? "

My dear, she is not a regular attendant at
church," replied the Eev. Gordon repressing.

But Redcote is so far from church," pleaded
his Mary.

"True," said the parson, remembering the jolting
his own bones had got when he had travelled
a week ago over the uneven roads which lay
between Norsely and Redcote. " But my love,"
he continued, looking at his watch, "it is
impossible that you can remain to speak to

Miss Eliot, for it is already time you returned
to your domestic duties at home, as your maidservant
is such a very inefficient cook. I will
loiter about to hear the end of this inquiry,
which grows interesting ; but you run home,
my Mary, and be particular that the turkey is
brown, and about the bread sauce' he added,
with interest.

His Mary, of course, ran home, and Mr.
Stiverss loitered about until the end of the
inquiry, the result of which gave him every
satisfaction. Jean, or Jenny "Wren was committed
on a charge of wilful murder, and was
conveyed away, shrieking pitifully, to a cell in
the police station.

But she presently had a visitor there. This
was Maud Eliot. Telling her uncle and cousin
(who adjourned to refresh themselves at a
neighbouring public-house before starting for
Kedcote) that she had some shopping to do in
the town, Maud really applied to Mr. Pye, the
inspector, to be allowed to speak a few words
to the unhappy prisoner.

Mr. Pye was a good-natured man and gallant.

I cannot resist the prayer of beauty," he
said; " but my dear young lady, do not let your

kind heart lead you away. I'm an old bird,
and chaff ensnares me not. This Jenny of
yours, I fear, is no better than the chaff. These
shrieking women are generally bad 'uns."

Still, I wish to see her," urged Maud, and
so she did see her.

She saw the comely Jenny sitting crouched
up together, with all the comeliness gone out
of her face. Only terror was written there.
Jenny had heard herself committed for wilful
murder, and that seemed to her narrow mind
as if she were already tried and condemned.

u I'm as good as hangit ! " she kept repeating,
rocking herself to and fro in her terrible misery
and fear.
When she saw Maud she fell down on her knees

Miss Maud, Miss Maud, I'm to be hangit ! "
she said. " Did you hear ? It's a wicked,
bitter shame — I'm to be hangit for what I
didn't do ! "

Then Maud tried to explain, and Jenny grew
somewhat comforted.

I'll not say I've been a good girl," she
frequently confessed presently. " I know I've
taken things I ouditened to have done — eir^s
and the like — and, Miss Maud, I may as well

make a clean breast of it now — I took a little

Fg-"

A little pig ! " repeated Maud.

"It was the last time the sow lead 'em''
continued Jenny, "and I told the old master
she had six, but there was seven — and I took
one — it was only a very little one — and I guv
it to Jack Foster."

Jack Foster, the poacher ? " asked Maud.

Ay, Jack Foster," replied Jenny. " He
sometimes came about the place unbeknown to
the master, and he'd set his heart on a little
roasted pig — "

And what else did you take, Jenny ? "
said Maud, as the girl paused in her confession.

"Nothing to speak on," answered Jenny,
looking up with some spirit. " Of course, pins
and hairpins, and the like, all servant girls
take. But if I never speak again, Miss Maud
if I was hangit tomorrow, I'd share still, I
never lifted my hand against George ! "

"I believe you," said Maud, slowly and
painfully, " and — because I believe this, Jenny,
I have come to see you now — come to tell you
that at your trial you shall have counsel to
defend you — a barrister to defend you."

JOHN DALTON, BARRISTER.

Jenny Wren was not permitted to languish
long in prison before her trial commenced.
The crime of which she was charged took place
on the 1st of January, and before the end of
the same month Jenny was to be tried at the
assizes held in the city of Dereham, Eedcote
Farm being in the county of Dereham.

In the meanwhile, Maud Eliot was trying to
keep her promise to the suspected girl. She
had to do this, however, without the knowledge
of her uncle, for had old Eendall known that
his niece was about to knowe counsel to defend
Jenny, he would unquestionably have turned
Maud out of his house.

But Maud had an acquaintance in the large
neighbouring town of Oldcastle, in whom she
thought she could trust. This gentleman, Mr.

Henley Onslow, was a solicitor in good practice,
and of undoubted ability, though his witty
and sarcastic tongue could not resist a finely-tempered
stab, even if his pocket, which was
very often the case, had to pay for it. He was
also a man of considerable literary talent and
taste, and in his early youth had formed
a friendship for Maud Eliot's father, who
when a young man had varied his occupations
between professional doctoring and unprofessional
authorship.

Maud Eliot remembered Mr. Onslow coming
to her London home ever since she was a little
girl. She remembered his anecdotes, his
quotations, his admiration for great writers,
his generous criticisms on small ones.

Then her poor father died, but Mr. Onslow,,
though he had a large family of his own to
think of and provide for, had not forgotten his
old friend's "dark-eyed little girl*' He had
seen her as she had passed through Oldcastle
on her ill-omened journey to Redcote Farm.
He managed the little pittance for her that the
poor doctor had left behind him, and the
orphan's money lost nothing in passing through
his friendly hand. Thus Maud had some one

to whom she could apply about obtaining
counsel for the unfortunate girl Jenny Wren ;
and accordingly, one bitter day in January
she arrived at the Oldcastle lawyer's office, and
with some difficulty (though he was a shrewd
man) made him comprehend her meaning.

Then you think the girl is innocent ? "
said Henley Onslow, looking curiously at the
girl before him.

He knew, of course, all about the crime,
Young Kendall's tragic death on New Year's
Day had been talked of and written about for
the last fortnight almost incessantly. He knew
Mr. Inspector Pye, and respected the professional
ability of that officer ; but he knew the
world also, and how often in it, unjust suspicion
falls on the guiltless. So, looking at Maud,
and thinking vaguely and curiously what could
be her motive for the step she was taking, he
said —

Then you think this girl is innocent ? "

"I am sure she is," answered Maud, with a
strong ring; of conviction in her voice.

"But," said Mr. Onslow, still thinking
vaguely and curiously, " it is a Quixotic thing
for you to do, young lady, to pay counsel to

defend her. The Court will, in all probability,
provide her with counsel if she is undefended
when the trial conies on."

Yes," said Maud ; u but I do Dot wish to
leave it to chance — I wish to have a good
barrister — to have everything done for her that
can be done."

But, my dear girl, these bigwigs charge the
most ruinous fees ! The old farmer at Eedcote
naturally will not give you money for such a
purpose, and I cannot feel myself justified in
spending your own."

I wish it," reiterated Maud. " I have
enough money to pay for this, Mr. Onslow,
have I not ? "

Yes ; certainly you have," answered the
lawyer, musingly.

Then please take it," urged Maud ; and
Mr. Henley Onslow began to think — was this to
him a new phase in human nature that he had
not yet encountered in his varied experiences,
or had this young woman a stronger motive
still for her generosity ?

Get some one very clever, the cleverest
man you can find," continued Maud ; but Mr.
Onslow only smiled sagaciously, and began

drumming his fingers on the table before him.
Then he sat down, and moved to Maud to take
a chair opposite to him.

I think I can tell a clever man when I hear
him speak," he said presently. " There's a ring
in the true metal which attracts an observant
ear" (Mr. Henley Onslow had his little vanities).
And there's a young fellow — comparatively a \
young fellow — who was here at the Autumn
Assizes, who will, I believe, make himself a
name ; and what is more to our purpose, won't
want a huge fee to take up our case."

What is his name ? " asked Maud.

He is called D alt on. He is a man who owes
nothing to the happy accidents of good birth
or fortune — but the precious ore is within."
And Mr. Onslow tapped his forehead. " The
man has the true nobility, Miss Maud — brains,
brains, and all the wealth and rank in England
cannot buy them."

You study human nature, Mr. Onslow ? "
said Maud, and she cast down her eyes.

It is a part of a lawyer's profession, my dear
girl. As the doctor measures and weighs the
wonderful machinery of our frames, so, in my
opinion, should the man of law study and

follow the yet more intricate and wonderful
machinery that we call mind."

The result of this interview, however,
amounted to this. Mr. Dalton, the barrister,
had to be retained to defend Jenny Wren at the
approaching Assizes, and old Rendall, at Redcote
Farm, heard with great anger that Mr.
Henley Onslow, the well-known Oldcastle
attorney, had taken up Jenny's case.

Mr. Onslow saw the girl herself in prison
after this, and the shrewd man came to the
conclusion that, in spite of the evidence collected
against her, Jenny was innocent of the crime
laid to her charge. But this was not the
general opinion. In the minds of most people,
Jenny was already condemned before the Court
opened on the dark January morning, when she
was to be tried for her life.

On the evening before the trial, Maud Eliot
made the acquaintance of Mr. Dalton, the
barrister. He had expressed a wish to see her,
and he was introduced to her by her old friend,
Mr. Henley Onslow, who had come over to
Dereham to attend to the case.

Maud, her uncle, and cousin, were also in
Dereham, as the trial was expected to commence

early on the following morning. Maud called
by appointment on Mr. Onslow during the
evening, and as she entered the room where
the Oldcastle attorney was at present located,
a tall, pale, fair young man rose and bowed, as
well as Mr. Henley Onslow.

Ah ! my young friend, Miss Maud," said
Mr. Onslow, extending his hand. " Well, this
is the gentleman I spoke to you about. This
is Mr. John Dalton, the barrister. "

Then Mr. John Dalton bowed again, and
this time he smiled. Maud saw a gentlemanly-looking
man, with a grave, sweet expression,
and a grave and quiet manner. Mr. John
Dalton saw a girl with large, dark, eyes,
and a face which struck his fancy ; not a
beautiful face, perhaps, but there was something
in it — some charm — which he had not yet
found in any other woman.

He had been, and was, a hard worker, this
young man. In the school in which he had
been reared he had to encounter some very
unpleasant would-be masters. But the quiet,
ambitious lad had fought and conquered.
Poverty and contempt no longer stood in his
way, but he had resolutely pushed them aside.

Perhaps it was the look of endured suffering in
Maud's face which made him feel akin to her.
For from the first night they met, John Dalton
felt a deep and enduring interest in this dark-eyed
girl.

u I have known this young lady' said Mr.
Onslow smilingly, after he had introduced the
two young people, " ever since she was a small
child of three or four, I think. Ah ! many a
pleasant hour I have spent with poor Frank
Eliot ! Your father was a genial man, my dear
girl, and a man also of taste, and talent, but — "
"Poor papa ! " said Maud, as Mr. Onslow paused.
Ah ! — we were always good friends — we
went into the highest company together," continued
Mr. Onslow with a half sad, little laugh.
The great dead and the great living were our
familiar friends ! Frank loved the poets best
I remember ; but my mind was harder and more
practical than his — yet, in my day, I have
jingled a verse or two together. Do you ever
indulge in a little flirtation with the Muses, Mr.
Dalton ?"

The young barrister shook his head.

I have no time," he said.

You are right, young gentleman," said Mr.

Onslow. " The Muses, as a rule, are but deluding
syrens. Yes, yes, stick to the law-courts
briefs being a surer recompense than Homeric
verse ! " And Mr. Onslow laughed.

Mr. Dalton answered in a few well-chosen,
modest words. As he spoke, Maud was alike
struck by the clearness of his voice and his ideas.
Mr. Onslow had told her that graceful phrases
seemed natural to Mr. Dalton ; but the strength
of these graceful phrases lay in the depth and
culture of the young man's mind. He used no
show words, but chose powerful telling words
to express his thoughts.

Maud had never before talked to anyone like
him. The personal beauty, and gay, though
selfish, good humour of her unfortunate cousin,
George Rendall, had won the girlish, passionate
love of her impetuous, inexperienced heart.
She had loved George Rendall without knowing
why she loved him. But no woman would
love John Dalton in this unreasonable way.
The love he won would not be founded on the
shifting sand of personal beauty. It would
rest on a surer hold — a hold that time touches
not — for time mars only the base alloy.

But it was of his power to win the ears of

men, and not the love of woman, that Maud
was thinking as she sat listening to John
Dalton's clear and ringing voice. She was
thinking of the coming trial — of the terror-stricken
girl lying trembling in the gaol — the
gaol, whose massive walls she could see in dim
outline through the semi-darkness of the evening,
from the windows of her old friend's lodgings.

Mr. Dalton himself pointed out these grey,
cold walls.

I never pass a gaol," he said, " without a
feeling of discomfort rising in my mind. They
should not be built in our midst, I think, as
this one is."

What ! not to point a moral ? " said Mr.
Onslow, with a smile.

The moral does not seem very effective in
this city, at least," answered Mr. Dalton,
smiling; also.

Well, let us hope that your eloquent words
will have freed one poor soul, at all events,
from ' durance vile ' by this time tomorrow,"
said Mr. Onslow. " We have a chance, I
think, Mr. Dalton — certainly a chance."

I hope so," answered John Dalton gravely ;
for I believe the girl to be innocent."

jenny's trial.

It was into a court crowded to excess in every
part, that Jenny Wren entered on the grey
January morning, when she was about to be
tried for her life.

The mystery that surrounds death naturally
gives that inscrutable foe a deep interest to the
living. Thus the knowledge that the mortal
existence of a handsome young woman was
going to be submitted to the judgment of
twelve mortal men gave undoubted piquancy
to the trial about to begin. Had Jenny been
supposed to be a thief, the Dereham Court-house
would not have been so full. But Jenny was
supposed to have murdered a man, and had
thus put her comely neck in jeopardy ; so every
eye was fixed on her when, half-blind with
terror, she was led forth from her prison eel].

Mortal fear is said to have turned dark ]rocks
to snow in a single night. Mortal fear had not
turned Jenny's brown hair white, but it had
told terribly upon the appearance of the girl.
Her rosy colour was faded, her lips were
blanched and drawn ; and when her frightened
eyes first glanced round the crowded court, a
thrill of pity for her ran through the breasts of
the soft-hearted spectators who were present,
even in spite of the heinousness of her supposed
crime.

Mr. Wingfield, the barrister who conducted
the prosecution, opened the case in a very
temperate speech. Perhaps the good looks of
the girl were not without influence on the jovial
smiling man, whose duty, nevertheless, on the
present occasion was to get her hanged if he
could.

He briefly detailed the circumstances that
we already know, and which were indeed known
to almost every person present in the court.

Then a plan of the house and stables at Redcote
was produced, and then the old farmer
gave his evidence.

The last time he saw his son alive," he-said,
" was about three o'clock in the afternoon

of New Year's Day. George was then talking
to his cousin, Maud Eliot, in the kitchen. He
was telling her he was going to Fothergal's
farm in the evening. He mentioned the name
of the girl, Jenny Wren, and said that she had
refused to clean his boots. He then went out
of the kitchen, and witness never saw him
again. About half-past eight o'clock, he (the
witness) told the girl, Jenny Wren, to go and
lock in the stable and the byre doors. When
she came back she was l mad-like,' and fell
down in a fit in the passage. Witness gave
her some whiskey, and then she came round,
and asked witness ' to go and look at Mr.
George.' Witness thought she had had a fright
and that her wits were wandering, and took no
notice. Her hands and dress had blood on
them. Witness went to bed, and in the morning
his niece, Maud Eliot, and Jenny Wren
came to him and told him George had not
come home. Witness then detailed how he
found George's dead body in the loft.

He was cross-examined by Mr. Dalton.

Yes, Jenny Wren had said George was
lying dead in the loft over the stable when she
first came out of the fit. Witness thought she

was mad ; thought, she had had a fall, and that

it had sent her out of her mind. Witness had

seen Jenny during the afternoon. She had put

out the tea. Witness thought she had a queer

look, and that she had been quarrelling with

George about going to Fothergal's. George

was laughing and chaffing about her not Cleaned
O o

ing his boots. Jenny fell down in a fit again
when they found George's dead body in the
loft. Witness told her that she had murdered
him because she was jealous of him."

But the girl, Jenny Wren, emphatically
denied this ? " asked Mr. Dalton.

Ay," said old Rendall, " she said she had
found him dead, but I told her it was her hand
had done it."

But she still denied it ? "

Ay, she said she bad told the truth, and
knew naught more."

Then Maud Eliot was called. Her appearance
excited great interest in the court. The extreme
paleness of her complexion, her black
dress, and the look of suppressed pain and
suffering on her face, created a feeling of
sympathy, and her evidence was decidedly
favourable to Jenny.

She said her cousin was laughing about
Jenny having refused to clean his boots, when
he spoke of it in the kitchen, and evidently"
regarded it as a mere joke between them.
Jenny had been in and out of the kitchen all
the time that witness had been there during
the afternoon. But Jenny had duties outside
the house. She had the cows to milk, and the
pigs to feed, and the water-tap at which all the
dishes and pans used at dinner were washed,
was also outside in the yard. Witness left the
kitchen shortly after she saw her cousin there,
and went to her own room where she usually
sat. She was there until roused by Jenny's
cries about nine in the evening. Then she
went downstairs and found Jenny lying in the
passage in a convulsive fit. Witness thought
Jenny had had a fright or fall. The moment
Jenny came round, she said that she had seen
George lying dead in the loft. Then the
whiskey which her uncle had given Jenny
seemed to overpower her, and she fell into a
heavy sleep. W 7 hen witness roused her in the
morning, she again told witness she believed
she had seen George lying dead. Then witness
and Jenny roused her uncle, and they found

George. Her uncle accused Jenny of murdering
him, but this Jenny most emphatically
denied. She (Jenny) said she had gone up to
the loft to look at George's things, and seen
him dead. She said she had taken hold of
him, and thus her hands and dress were stained.
She said, " This is the truth, master — I know
naught more."

Maud was cross-examined both by Mr.
"Winfffield and Mr. Dalton. But her evidence
remained unshaken. She always sat in her
own room, she said, in which she had a fire,
because she was unused to the more homely
sways of the farm-house, as she had been
brought up in London. She rarely took tea
with her uncle, as he liked it in the kitchen.
Thus she had seen nothing of the inhabitants
of the farm after she had spoken to her cousin
in the kitchen, but she had heard Jenny moving
about in the rooms upstairs during the afternoon.
Witness's room window looked out on
the garden in front of the house, and not on
the farmyard at the back ; so she had not seen
Jenny busy with her usual duties outside. She
had heard her voice once or twice, talking to
her uncle. George never came back to the

house after he went out of the kitchen door
about three o'clock. She would have heard
his step if he had done so. It was a star-light
night when she heard Jenny's cries in the
passage about nine o'clock. The stars were
very bright.

Maud's voice faltered and broke more than
once when she was giving her evidence. "When
she spoke of the stains on Jenny's hands and
dress, a visible shudder ran through her frame.
But her evidence on the whole was favourable
to Jenny. During her cross-examination by
Mr. Dart on, she said that Jenny started to her
feet when accused by her uncle of murdering
his son, and most emphatically and indignantly
denied that she had done so.

But it is useless to follow here all the details
of a long trial. The doctor's evidence as to
the ghastly nature of the wound on the head,
which had crushed out the life of young George
Kendall, and the smiling statement of Mr-inspector
Pye, need not be given in full,
though Inspector Pye's words made anything
but a favourable impression as regarded Jenny.

This benign-looking officer stated that Jenny
was thrown into a terrible flutter by his appearance

at the farm. That she said she hated
the sight of a policeman. That she suggested,
before being questioned, that a tramp had
committed the murder ; that she had washed
the apron that she had worn when she had
stated she had first found George Kendall's
body ; that the sleeves of her dress had also
been partially washed. The water-tap where
Jenny usually washed her dishes and pans was
close to the stable-door, and the inference of
this was that Jenny must have seen George go
away from the homestead during the afternoon,
if he had clone so, as Jenny stated that she
supposed that he had. Jenny had stated at
the coroner's inquest that she had seen George
in the stable, and that she had said he was
going to Fothergal's, and then she had stated
she was not certain that she did see him
in the stable. In fact she had contradicted
herself, and had admitted to the coroner that
her reason for going to look over George's
things was "because folks talked about him
keeping company with Mary Fothergal."

Then Mr. Inspector Pye produced the verses
all stained with George's blood, on which the
unfortunate young man's head had fallen after

lie lead received his death-blow. These verses
were addressed " To Mary," and were of an
amatory nature, but the hand that penned them
had grown cold before the lines were ended.

Mr. Wingfield summed up his case for the
prosecution after Mr. Inspector Pye's statement
was ended.

It looked very black for Jenny, as Mi
Wingfield want on. " George Eendall had left
the kitchen strong and well, and had gone into
the stable, and had never again been seen alive.
The girl, Jenny Wren, had been continually
both by her own account, and by the very
nature of her duties — close to the stable door
the whole afternoon. Yet before the coroner
she had said she was not sure whether she had
spoken to George or not ; and then again she
admitted that she had done so. George Eendall
it was admitted, went into the stable, and the
whole afternoon, when this murder must have
been committed, the girl, Jenny Wren, was
about the place, and close to the stable door.
There was no one else but the family on the
homestead. The house dog never barked, nor
gave any sign of the presence of a stranger, yet
Jenny Wren stated to Inspector Pye that she

believed the murder to have been committed by
a tramp. But this tramp was plainly imaginary.
These two young people, George Kendall and
Jenny Wren, were virtually alone together, for
the old man was dozing over the kitchen fire,
and they have heard from Miss Eliot's evidence
that she never left her room upstairs. These
two young people were thus alone together
probably the whole afternoon, and about nine
o'clock (having been sent by her old master to
lock in for the night) Jenny rushed into the
house, and either did, or pretended to, fall down
in a fit. Then she announced, amid hysterical
cries, that she had found George Kendall dead.
Her master and her young mistress believed
she had got a scare or fright, and the old man
gave her so much whiskey that she fell asleep.
Her hands and dress were stained. And," continued
Mr. Wingfield, emphatically, " I leave
you, gentlemen of the jury, to draw your own
conclusions from these facts. You may ask the
motive for this cruel crime ? Alas ! it is not
far to seek ! This unfortunate young man had
trifled with the affections of the unfortunate
young woman before you, and had forsaken her
for another. He was writing out some verses

to his Mary — to his new love — when the blow
which destroyed him must have been struck
from behind. One of the most powerful, the
most maddening emotions of the human heart
was plainly the motive. Jealousy — that fierce
demon — had possession of the heart, which
(probably without premeditation) conceived
this crime, and jealousy, no doubt, nerved the
hand which struck the fatal blow."

Mr. Wingfield then went on to point out the
various discrepancies in Jenny's statements ;
her extraordinary excitement and flutter on
the arrival of the policemen at the farm ; the
washing of her apron and sleeves ; and before
he closed his case, Jenny was as good as
condemned by nearly everyone present in the
court.

Presently, however, Mr. Dalton rose and
addressed the jury for the defence.

This was a case," he said, " in which there
was only circumstantial evidence against the
prisoner. The young man, George Kendall,
had come to a violent death. He had gone
into the stable alive and well, and the counsel
for the prosecution had endeavoured to prove
that no other hand than the prisoner's could

have struck him down. But how was this ?
Miss Eliot in her evidence tells us that she
heard the girl, Jenny Wren, engaged in her
household duties in the bedrooms upstairs
during the afternoon. What was there, then, to
prevent another hand than this woman's dealing
the fatal blow, when this girl was busy in
the house ? The counsel for the prosecution
has also given us a motive for this crime. He
has told us that jealousy was the motive. I
concur with him in this idea. But I do not
believe it was the jealousy of a weak and too
confiding woman. No ; the unfortunate young
man whose head fell down on his unfinished love
verses, had probably, by his reckless disregard
of the feelings of others, made more dangerous
enemies than a disappointed and angry girl.
We are told of other loves — of his last love.
Had these other loves no lovers that perhaps
fiercely resented the interference, the success,
of this handsome wooer ? The prisoner, it is
stated, contradicted herself before the coroner ;.
she was flurried by the sight of a policeman.
No wonder ! For when the old man's eyes
first fell on his dead son, what did he say ?
He openly accused the girl, Jenny Wren, of

murder. Miss Eliot has told us, and the old
farmer has told us, how the prisoner started to
her feet and emphatically denied it. But the
accusation would naturally haunt the mind of
an ignorant and frightened girl. She had
found George Kendall ; she had lifted him up ;
her hands and dress were stained with blood !
What, then, could be more natural than her
conduct after the awful knowledge had come
to her that her faithless lover was dead ! She
rushed into the house, she fell down convulsed
with her dreadful news. Then, when she
had found her voice, she told what she had
seen. Did this look like guilt ? If guilty,
she would not have been the first to tell her
ghastly secret. Then, again, in the morning,
when the effect of the powerful spirit which
the old man had given her had passed away,
she once more repeated the same story.
George was dead,' she said. Yet, because no
one else was seen on the homestead ; because
this excited, frightened girl had washed her
apron and her sleeves ; because she was fluttered
by the sight of a policeman, she was accused
and arrested on the charge of murder !

We are told," continued Mr. Dalton, " that

on the night when the accused woman first
discovered and announced this dreadful crime,
that the heavens were lit and luminous with
stars. If those silent watchers could find
tongues, I believe, most solemnly on my soul I
believe, that they would tell us that the hand
of the hapless girl now standing before you, was
not the hand that struck down this unfortunate
and erring man ! But they are mute — no
voice from heaven directs us to the truth ; but
it seems to me that reason, heaven's best gift
to man, does direct us. It points out to my
mind the absolute impossibility that by one
blow a woman could kill a strong and powerful
young man. It points out the likelihood that
a vengeful and angry rival was the real slayer
of this faithless lover of many women. It
points out the unlikelihood that a murderess
would rush in and cry out aloud, if her hands
and dress were red with the blood of her
victim ! Jenny Wren would have washed
away these ghastly tokens before, and not
after, she proclaimed the deed, if she had been
guilty.

I will only add a few more words. The
prisoner at the bar is a young woman — life is

sweet to lier — the untimely grave to which,
your verdict may consign her is naturally
dreadful to her mind. On supposition alone
will you send a frightened, terrified, unfit soul
to face what I believe to be an unjust doom ? I
cannot believe it ! This crime was wrought
in secret, and a shrouded secret: it remains.
Some day the light may shine upon it, but
believe me no true ray has yet fallen to point
out the real murderer of George Kendall."

Mr. Dalton's clear and ringing voice, his
emphatic and earnest utterance, full of evident
belief in his own words, made a powerful
impression in favour of the trembling prisoner ;
and when, at the conclusion of his address,
Jenny burst into loud and passionate sobs, and
lifted her hands as if to appeal to heaven to
proclaim the truth, many women present were
moved to tears.

YOL. HI.

THE EFFECT OF THE VERDICT.

To wait — to alternate between hope and fear
to listen while arguments are calmly and
dispassionately placed for and against an issue
which to you means life and death, must surely
be one of the most terrible trials to which the
human mind can be subjected.

Two women who sat in the court at Dereham,
on the grey January day on which Jenny
Wren was tried, w T went through this torture
during the summing-up of the case by the
judge.

The woman at the bar, whose "dimly-lighted
soul " was overwhelmed with one overpowering
fear — the dread of death — was absolutely gasping
with terror ; trying to follow the judge's
swords ; swayed first to hope and then crushed
back ; until even the cold, stern man who satin

judgment did not care to look in that terror-stricken
face.

The other woman, whose face only one man
noticed, wore a different expression. Intense
anxiety was written there, and a certain
determinate resolve. She, too, followed the
judge's words, followed the calm, even,
momentous tones ; and as he went on, weighing
this piece of evidence and that, she began
to perceive that the judge was summing up in
favour of the prisoner.

Then the jury retired to consider their verdict,
and the terrible suspense in two human
hearts grew, if it were possible, more intense.

Maud Eliot felt her mind beginning to
wander under the strain, and grotesque mazes
and misplaced ideas came floating between her
and the dread reality of the present scene.

Jenny Wren was prostrate — a shivering,
crouching creature, dumb with terror and
despair. Then in about an hour the jury
returned.

The foreman, in answer to the challenge of
the Clerk of the Crown, said :

We find the prisoner not guilty."

And as the words passed his lips, Maud Eliot

k -1

fell forward as if struck by a sudden blow.

Jenny gave a loud shriek, and then burst
into passionate and inarticulate cries of joy.
But while most of the people in the court were
watching the about-to-be-freed prisoner, John
Dalton, the barrister, was pushing his way
through the crowd, until he came to the spot
where Maud Eliot was lying, to all appearances
dead, supported by some pitying bystanders.

This young lady is known to me, is my
friend," he said, and he at once took her in
his arms. " Will one of you kindly help me
to carry her out ? "

A man near immediately offered to comply
with his request, and as quietly as possible,
Maud was carried through the crowd to a small
private room adjoining the court-room.

Send for a doctor," said John Dalton, ashe
laid Maud's insensible form on a couch, and
kneeling down beside her, began to chafe her
stiff, cold hands.

"When the doctor arrived, he pronounced
Maud to be seriously ill ; so ill, that any idea
of her returning on the same evening to Redcote
Farm was forced to be abandoned. The
old farmer, who was bitterly disappointed about

Jenny's escape, grumbled and swore at his unconscious
niece on being summoned to her side.

But there was no help for it. Maud lay as
one dead for some time, and when she revived
began rambling and talking in such disjointed
fashion that the doctor significantly looked at
John Dalton (who still lingered near Maud's
side) and touched his forehead.

It will end in brain fever," he said, and
before the night was over his words were fully
verified.

In the meanwhile, kindly Mrs. Stiverss had
also sought out Maud, and had arranged
for her to be conveyed to lodgings in the town,
and finally had persuaded her parson to allow
her, for one night at least, to remain with the
unfortunate girl.

The Eev. Gordon was moved to acquiesce to
his Mary's wishes on this point by a judicious
invitation from John Dalton.

Just this one night, Gordon," urged Mary
in her gentle way. " Could you not dine in
town, dear, and remain all night, and we can
drive home together tomorrow morning ? "

I shall be happy if Mr. Stiverss will dine
with me at the County Hotel?" said John

Dalton, courteously, who could not help overhearing
what had passed between the Vicar and
his wife.

The Vicar looked gratified at John Dalton's
proposal.

"I thank you, Mr. Dalton," he said graciously ;
u your invitation is agreeable to me, for I have
a great respect and liking for you learned
gentlemen of the law. In fact, at one time I
thought of donning the wig and gown ; but
circumstances, those iron despots (here Mr.
Stiverss adopted his pulpit style), swayed me
against my will, and landed me on the quiet
shores of a country vicarage."

"A very pleasant landing-place," said John
Dalton.

Mr. Stiverss shrugged his substantial shoulders.
But the end of this conversation was that he
went to dine with John Dalton, and permitted
his Mary to sit up with Maud Eliot during the
night. And as the long hours wore, on the
unhappy girl's mental condition became painfully
evident. She sat up in bed ; she talked
in a loud, excited voice ; she pressed her hand
on her burning brow, and looked eagerly round
with her wandering eyes.

The stars ! " she cried presently. " The
stars — the silent watchers — they saw, they saw !
But they are mute," she continued, raising her
voice to a wild, unnatural tone, and quoting
the words of John Dalton's speech in the court
during the day. " No voice from heaven directs
us ! " And then she burst into a laugh which
was very terrible to listen to.

And all through the night it was the same
thing ; and when the doctor arrived in the
morning he pronounced Maud to be dangerously
ill.

But while, very sadly and gravely, Mrs.
Stiverss was making preparations to leave her,
for she dare not even ask her lord and master
for permission to remain away from her
domestic duties for another day, to her great
surprise the Kev. Gordon arrived at the
lodonno* where Maud was, with his face absolutely
radiant.

Ah, little love ! " he said, addressing his
Mary, " I have hurried at once to tell you my
news. A letter has just been brought to me
from Norsely, to tell me that my Aunt Gordon
you have often heard me speak of her, you
know, the rich old lady at Croydon — is dying,

and this letter is to summon me to her deathbed.
I know what this means — five thousand
at least — for I am the old lady's godson, and I
must start at once."

How long will you he away, Gordon V y
asked Mary, gravely.

I won t leave the old lady until her last
breath is drawn ; upon that I'm determined,"
answered the Kev. Gordon, decisively. " I
know what the greedy hangers-on are who get
about deathbeds ; and, therefore, it is plainly
my duty to stay by the old lady's side.
Prosser will take next Sunday for me, and
you must see about someone else to officiate if
I stay any longer. In the meanwhile, you can
remain here."

Very well," said Mary. " I think I can be
of some use — "

Use ! " interrupted the parson, " I should
think so. Why, you will save that old screw,
Kendall, all the expenses of a nurse for his
niece. But I must not waste my time in
talking. Good-bye, little wife ! Of course old
Kendall must defray all expenses for his niece,.
and you, as long as you stay with her — he can
afford it'' And the Eev. Gordon smiled,.

kissed the tip of his wife's little nose, and was
gone.

His wife did not feel by any means brokenhearted
at his departure. The selfish wear out
the love of others, and rarely is it that those
who think most of self hold the first place in
any other human heart.

So when John Dalton called during the
morning to inquire after Maud, he found Mrs.
Stiverss in her usual calm frame of mind. She
told him that Mr. Stiverss was gone, and that
she had arranged for the present to stay on
where she was and nurse Miss Eliot. The
young barrister was only too pleased to hear
this, and during the week, as he was detained
in Dereham by his professional engagements,
he constantly found time to call on Mrs. Stiverss
and make more anxious inquiries than he cared
to admit even to himself about the condition of
Maud.

He saw her once or twice before he left
Dereham. The severe paroxysms of her illness
were by this time over, and John Dalton felt
strangely touched as he looked at the melancholy,
dark eyes, in which there was again the
light of reason but not the light of hope.

He spoke to her kindly and gently, and told
her how he hoped soon to be in Dereham
again.

"But perhaps you will have returned to
your uncle's house at Kedcote, before then ? "
he asked.

Maud's pale, wasted face suddenly flushed at
this question.

I will never return to Kedcote," she
answered quickly, "never."

She said this last word with emphatic
emphasis, and Mary Stiverss, who was standing
by, looked at John Dalton in sympathetic
silence.

She cannot get over her cousin's sad
death," whispered Mary to the young barrister,
as she bade him good-bye outside Maud's room.
Poor girl — you see she cannot even bear the
name of Kedcote."

She can never return there under any
circumstances," said John Dalton gravely ; and
Mary could not help wondering, as she looked
after him, at the cause of the deep interest with
which this youno- man evidently regarded
Maud.

And this interest did not die away after John

Dalton left Dereham. He wrote to Mary
Stiverss to enquire after Maud, and a fortnight
later, to the surprise of that lady, one day
unexpectedly returned to Dereham, making a
somewhat lame apology for his reappearance.

Maud by this time was able to be in the
sitting-room downstairs, and old Kendall was
urging her to return to Eedcote. But Maud
would not hear of this. She was corresponding
with her old friend, Mr. Henley Onslow, regarding
the position of her affairs, and she had
told Mary Stiverss that she meant to go back
to London.

And now she told this to John Dalton, and
the two sat and talked gravely about the
coming change. Then, one day, to John
Dalton s surprise and consternation, when as
usual he called to see Maud, he was told she
was worse.

"It is that girl Jenny Wren — the girl you
defended," said Mrs. Stiverss to John Dalton,
with some anger in her voice ; " she called
to-day when I was out, and insisted upon
seeing Maud, and Maud has been very ill

©
since.

Why did she come here? " asked Dalton.

Mary could not tell him. Maud was too ill,
and too much agitated to be questioned, she
said, and the doctor had ordered that she was
to be kept perfectly quiet. Jenny Wren, also,
when asked by Mary, had denied saying anything
to Maud so utterly to upset her.

"I made bold to call to see Miss Maud,
ma'am," she told Mary, wriggling and twisting
about her comely form, " to ask her a bit favour
for Jack Foster, poor fellow."

"Jack Foster, the poacher?" asked Mary.

"Well, ma'am, some folks call him such; but
he's got into trouble anyhow, again, through
that old villain, Pye, the inspector ; and I made
bold to call on Miss Maud to ask her to speak
to that gentleman, Mr. Dalton, who spoke up
for me at the 'seizes, to see if he'd speak up for
Jack, poor fellow ; and Jack thought if he sent
Miss Maud a line, she would do this for him —
and I just guv her Jack's line, and then, all of
a sudden, she seemed to take most awful ill —
and I'm sure Jack meant no harm, poor fellow I
though he may have snared a hare or two —
but what's that ? "

This was all the explanation of Maud's sudden
illness, that Jenny Wren apparently truthfully

could give. But while Mary and Dalton were
anxiously discussing the probable cause of her
attack downstairs, let us for a moment enter
the bedroom of the unhappy girl upstairs, and
see why the sight of Jenny Wren's handsome
face had once more almost upset her reason.

Up and down the room Maud kept restlessly
wandering, with pale face, and a look of fear,
almost horror, in her large dark eyes. In her
clenched hand she grasped a few soiled and
crumpled lines — lines written in Dereham gaol
the lines that Jenny Wren had given her
from Jack Foster, the poacher. They were as
follows : —

Miss , — One who held his tongue out of goodwill to

you is in trouble now, and asks you to speak a word for him.
I won't name day or date — you'll mind what I mean — and
the bearer will tell you what I want, and I remain respectfully
what I always was —

A Silent Watcher.

"EAT, drink, and be merry."

The very day after Jenny Wren's strange visit
to Maud, Mary Stiverss received a letter from
her husband, to tell her that his hours of
anxiety and watching by his dying relative's
bedside were over.

I own, my love (he wrote to Mary), that I feel my
heart uplifted within me. Mr. Field, poor Mrs. Gordon's
solicitor, called upon me last night, just an hour before the
old lady's demise, and he gave me a pretty broad hint as to
the contents of the will. In this will I am left the good
round sum of ten thousand pounds. I hoped for five
thousand — I expected five — but to get double that sum is a
stroke of good fortune I did not reckon on. I mean to take
things much easier in future. If I keep the living I shall
get a resident curate to take entire charge during the winter
and the bad weather in spring. No good fagging one's self
to death now. In fact, I mean to enjoy myself, and I shall
endeavour to spend the rest of my life as pleasantly as possible.


Hon is Miss Eliot ? I shall, of course, remain here until
after the funeral, and until all arrangements about the
money are completed ; but if Miss Eliot is not better by that
time, old Rendall must get a nurse for his niece, and do as
best he can, for I shall want you, my love, at home. And
now, good-bye ! Take care of yourself, and be looking your
best when I return. — Your affectionate husband,

Gordon Stiverss.

Mary read this letter through, and then put
her hand over her face, and gave a weary, heavy
sigh. She knew money was a good thing, for she
had felt the bitter want of it, and if she had
possessed any of her own, she would never have
married the Eev. Gordon Stiverss. But she
could not rejoice over its possession when the
dead hand from whence it came was scarcely
cold. The idea revolted her. A perhaps
reluctant soul had just been torn from it s
earthly tenement, and behold, the heir was
making merry by the open grave ! Mary had
never loved her husband less, had never felt
the task of her life more hard, than when she
was forced to sit down to write to her lord and
master, and congratulate him on his good
fortune.

The world (their little world) also congratulated
the Vicar of Norsely and his wife ; and

even John Dalton smiled and complimented
Mary on her husband's good luck. Only Maud
said nothing, and her strange, excited, restless
manner continued to alarm both Mary and
John Dalton.

But in a few days Mary had very little time
even to think of Maud. The Rev. Gordon returned
to Dereham, after ordering Mary to engage
rooms for him at the County Hotel ; and Mary,
as in duty bound, went to the station to meet
her husband, though her heart felt by no means
elated at the prospect of his return.

The Rev. Gordon was, however, quite satisfied
with the Greeting that he received from his
Mary. He was not indeed thinking of his
Mary. He was thinking of a splendid salmon
he had brought down from town, and wondering
whether the journey had injured its delicate
flavour. He shook his Mary's hand, and then
rushed along the platform to look after his
salmon. He gazed with delight as it lay shining
amid its delicate green packing, but he scarcely
looked at his wife's face, or thought of the
weary hours of watching that she had spent by
Maud's bedside during his absence.

And his Mary saw all this. But she took

his arm quite meekly aDcl walked clown from
the station with him, and smiled while he
bragged and boasted of his new wealth. He
looked flushed and somewhat bloated, and
evidently he had not fasted, if he had prayed,
by his dead relative.

He staved at the hotel during the next few
days, and did not seem in any hurry to leave
Dereham. He was enjoying himself in fact,
and his heart was merry within him. He was
very cordial in his manner to John Dalton, and
insisted upon him dining with him at the hotel.
But he was almost unendurable to Dalton. The
smooth, outward manner of the young barrister
grew ruffled in the presence of the Vicar of
Corselet, so strong was the antipathy with
which he inspired him.

But suddenly — in a moment — when the Bev.
Gordon's heart was full of pride and mirth, a
serious illness attacked him. He had lingered
too late one cold evening by the side of the
river, thinking of and planning out his future
life, and a treacherous white mist had crept up
from the water, and had stolen with its poisonous
breath down the throat of the elated
parson.

He awoke in the night choking ; awoke, and
grew terrified, pale and alarmed. His dead
relation, Mrs. Gordon, from whom he had
inherited his new wealth, had died of bronchitis,
and the Eev. Gordon had stood by and
watched complacently her painful, gasping"
breaths. He remembered them now ; remembered
them, and terror struck chill and
cold into his heart.

Mary was roused before the dawn by a
message from the hotel, and instantly rose and
dressed, and went out in the dark hours of the
early morning to attend upon her husband.
She found him walking up and down the floor
of the room, apparently unable to breathe, and
with fear stamped on every lineament of his
face.

That fool, Dr. Bagshot, has not come yet,"
he gasped, " though it's half-an-hour at least
since he was sent for. Go yourself, Mary, and
insist upon him coming at once — I can't breathe
something dreadful is the matter with my
throat."

Mary tried some simple remedy, and then
hurried out to go to the doctor's house to seek
him. But she met him coming down the dark,

quiet street, on his way to the hotel, and together
they went up to the bedroom of the
terrified man.

The doctor was quiet, consoling, and apparently
not alarmed by the Kev. Gordon's
condition .

You have caught a bad cold," he said, and
he ordered and saw applied a severe blister, and
took other very prompt measures with his
patient. He stayed also some time, and seemed
anxious about the effect of his remedies, and
when he left he told the Eev. Gordon that he
would look in again to see him, and then he
gave Mary a little hint to follow him from the
room.

Mary did so, and when they were outside Dr
Basket's face assumed a different expression.

Keep up his spirits," he whispered, "he is
very nervous — but, my dear Mrs. Stiverss, I
must not deceive you — it is a bad attack of
acute bronchitis, and there is no doubt that the
vicar is dangerously ill."

And the sudden end of this dangerous illness
came in a few brief days. Inflammation of the
lungs set in, and Dr. Bagshot asked leave to

call in another doctor, and when the other
doctor came, he took even a worse view of the
case than Dr. Bagshot had done.

It had come, in fact, to this, that the two
doctors, after various consultations, came to
the conclusion that it was the duty of someone
to tell the Eev. Gordon Stiverss that if he had
any monetary arrangements to settle, that he
had better make haste to do so.

But the terrified man would not realise this ;
he dare not realise it. All his life he had acted
and sighed and prayed by death-beds, and
spoken of our "clear departing brother" with
perfect equanimity, but had never remembered
that the day would come when his soul also
would be required of him, and when all his
shams would no longer avail him.

He insisted to the very end that he felt
better, and appealed to Mary to say he was
better ; though, alas ! as the words passed his*
lips, his pulses were sinking lower and lower,
his eyes glazing, and his heart beating fainter
and fainter beneath the hand of death.

But let us close the door and go away.
Leave the praying, weeping woman — the
dying, wretched, miserable man. They were

alone together for some time — alone when the
Kev. Gordon's tongue could no longer dispute
his Maker's will ; alone when the clock struck
the hour at which he died, and when, just at
the last, Mary began to hope that her prayers
and tears were not unanswered, and that some
peace came in the end to the departing soul.

THE LITTLE HOUSE AT CHELSEA.

Thus Mary became a widow, and after a while
after the first shock and grief was over — she
asked Maud Eliot to live with her in London.
She scarcely knew that John Dal ton had influenced
her to make this offer, and yet he, in
truth, had done so. His interest in Maud was
very great, and he was convinced that the
farther she was parted from the scene of the
dark tragedy at Redcote would be the better
for her, and that change would be her best
chance of restoration to health and happiness.
So Mary asked her to go with her, and after
a while the old farmer at Redcote grumblingly
gave his consent. Nay, after shuffling and
twisting his poor, lean, rheumatic hand for
some time in the pocket of his drab knee-breeches,
he at last produced a greasy purse.

I've had great losses lately, my lass," lie
said, " bad times, and Robert's but a poor hand
at a bargain, and cash is very scarce — but ye'll
want a trifle to pay thy train-fare, I warrant —
and so if five pounds will do — "

Thank you, uncle," said Maud, more softly
than she had ever before spoken to the old
man, " but I have enough. Mrs. Stiverss won't
allow me to pay anything to her for board at
present, and Mr. Henley Onslow was over here
the other day, and the trifle my poor father
left has done so well in something that he put
it into, that I am quite rich at present."

Eh, that's well now, lass," answered the old
farmer, hastily slipping back his purse, and
buttoning up his breeches pocket. " Very
well — and did he tell ye," he added cautiously,
what he had invested thy bit o' money in ? "

No, uncle," said Maud.

Get that out of him, lassie, then," urged
the old man. " I've a bit money myself', that
if I knew of any real good thing I wouldn't
mind laying it out — these lawyer chaps know
what they're after. I've a bit money, not
much, but I'd like to make it more."

Well, I'll ask, uncle."

Aye do, and drop your cousin or me a line ;
.and lass, you're welcome to come back when
you like to Kedcote — the change to London
will set thee up again after the bad bout ye're
had, and all the trouble about poor George.
That vile jade, Jenny Wren, who ought to have
been hangit by this time, is barmaid, I am
told, at a public in the town. Well, the devil
will get his own yet. If I come across her, I'll
tell her my mind. It was yon young lawyer's
jaw, and nought else, that got her off."

"Ill write, uncle," said Maud, interrupting
his tirade.

Aye do, lass, and come back when ye like."
And in the full belief that she was only going
for a visit, and meant to return to Kedcote, the
old man went away.

But Maud never meant to return. She went
to the house door with her uncle, and she knew
that in this world she would see his face no
more.

She had told her old friend, Mr. Henley
Onslow, of her resolution to leave her uncle,
and the sagacious lawyer thought that she was
right.

"You are unsuited for the life," he said,

looking at her. " Ah, my dear girl, you must
forget all the past. I am not a prophet, but I

can see a little ahead, sometimes, and I have
seen lately — you must forgive an old friend —
that a young friend of mine admires you
greatly ; is sincerely interested in you, in fact ;
and Dalton is a rising man, my dear Miss
Maud — my old chum's daughter may be the
wife of the Lord Chancellor yet." And Mr.
Henley Onslow laughed heartily.

Maud's pale face coloured, and she cast down
her eyes.

You must not say this, Mr. Onslow, even
in jest," she said, a moment later. " Mr. Dalton
has been very kind to me — more than kind —
but it is merely because he knows I am so
friendless, so — so — unfortunate." And Maud's
voice trembled as she pronounced the last word.

Well, we shall see," answered Mr. Onslow,
still smiling ; and then he changed the conversation,
and highly approved of Maud's present
intention of living with Mrs. Stiverss.

And Maud herself was only too glad to go.
Mary had been in very constant correspondence
lately with Dalton, who was now in London,
concerning a house which the barrister thought

would suit the young widow and her friend. It
belonged to an artist friend of Dalton's, who
had lately lost his wife, and wished to go to
Italy for a year. He (the artist) did not want
to make money of his house, but he wanted
someone whom he could trust to live in it, and
take care of his art treasures while he was away.
He had mentioned this to Dalton, and Dalton
had at once thought of the young widow at
Dereham.

He had accordingly written to Mary about
it, and Mary thought it would suit her. It
was at Chelsea — a pretty spot, with a garden in
front, and a little garden and greenhouse at the
back — and the rent would be, Dalton told Mary,
absolutely nominal to a suitable tenant.

Thus, when the train in which Mary and
Maud travelled up to town reached King's
Cross terminus, Mary rose eagerly, and bent
out of the carriage window, and the next
moment Maud heard Mary addressing someone,
and looking hastily up she saw by the lights in
the station the pale, grave face of John Dalton.

Here is Mr. Dalton, Maud," said Mary, with
a £lad Tm<y in her voice, and the next minute the
young barrister was shaking hands with them.

"Thank you for coming to meet us," said
Mary, as she stepped out of the carriage.

Thank you for telling me the train you
meant to travel by," answered John Dalton
smiling, and Mary blushed softly as he said the
words.

I did not tell Maud I had told you," she
said, " for I thought most likely you would be
too busy to come — or perhaps might be out of
town — but when I was answering your kind
letter, I thought I would just mention that we
meant to travel to-day."

Dalton agreed to call for them the next day
at eleven o'clock, so that they might go over
the little house at Chelsea together, and then
Mary and Maud drove to a quiet family hotel
in Manchester Street, where they meant to stay
until they found a house.

As good luck would have it, the next morning-was
one of those bright spring ones, when everything
seems so beautiful after the gloom of
w 7 inter. The sun was shining on the river, on
the trim flower-beds which only last spring the
artist's young wife had tended so carefully. It
was shining into the gracefully-draped windows
of the house and on the artistic furniture within.

Mary was quite charmed with the place, and
the widowed artist was quite charmed with the
handsome young widow who proposed to become
his tenant.

He showed Mary his pictures, his china, his
choicest treasures. Rare bits of lace, hideous
bits (to Mary's uneducated eyes) of dull-tinted
fabrics, which he prized above gold or silver.
And while Mary was gazing and listening,
Dalton and Maud had wandered into the sunlit
garden.

They were not talking of the past. Maud
said nothing to Dalton of her visitor on the day
when she had again taken so suddenly ill ;
nothing of the strangely-written request that
visitor had brought, nor of its weird signature,
though she was thinking of these things as she
stood talking there with him — though they lay
like a black shadow between her and the sun !

She meant to forget, forget, she had told
herself. She would never see Dereham more ;
never the old grey farm-house at Eedcote ;
never the faces of those who lived and died
there.

But she saw one dead face still in her dreams
The comely face that had lain crushed on the

unfinished love verses, the laughing, handsome
eyes, the careless smile of her cousin George.
She had seen that face last night, even with
the hum and stir of the great city around her.
She saw it now T in the sun-lit garden, with the
grave, sweet eyes of John Dalton bent upon
her. But she would forget — forget, she told
herself again. She shut her eyes — the past
was a shadow — it was done, it was gone, she
would remember it no more. Then she looked
in John Dalton's face and smiled, and talked
of the shining river and the flowers ; but John
Dalton knew, as he answered her, that the
black, dark shadow still lay upon her heart.

We are forgetting our young friends," at
last said Mary to the artist.

They look perfectly happy," answered the
artist, glancing out of one of the windows at
the pair below. u Ah, Mrs. Stiverss, theirs is
the one happy time of life — the dawn, the bud —
happy because hope and expectation clothe the
future with a beauty which in reality is so
seldom fulfilled." And somehow the artists
words jarred slightly on Mary's ears.

But the end of this interview was, that Mary-took
the artist's pretty little house at Chelsea
for a year.

You can come in when you like," said the
artist ; " come tomorrow.

Mary did not exactly accept this offer, but
before the end of a week she and Maud were
sitting on the art furniture, and gazing respectfully
at the art treasures through the glass
of the cabinets, in which, in spite of his
admiration for Mary, the artist had carefully
and wisely locked them away.

John" Dalton came often, and sat on the art
furniture too. He sat by the side of Mary,
and he sat by the side of Maud. These two
women knew no one at first in London, at least
Mary literally knew no one, and the friends
that Maud once had known lived mostly at the
other end of London, and had probably utterly
forgotten the existence of the late Dr. Frank
Eliot's daughter.

Mary, however, was a busy little woman,
and easily found plenty to do. Perhaps it was
the art furniture inspired her, but she took to
drawing, went to a school of design, made
friends with the clergyman of the parish and
his wife, and had her little charitable missions,
her gentle words of comfort and help for many
a poor sick and suffering soul, before she had
been two months in London.

Maud sometimes went with her when she
visited among the poor, and sometimes she
would not go. Maud had also taken to an
occupation. The restless, passionate, impetuous
heart was striving to satisfy its cravings by
imagining the passions and struggles of others.
She would be a writer, she thought ; she would
grow rich, she would pay dear, kind Mary all
she owed her, and then she would go further
away still — away from England — to some wild
country, perhaps, where there would be nothing
to remind her of the shadowed past.

So all through the bright summer days Maud
sat writing, or thinking of what she would
write ; going very little out, watching the
river, trying to put on paper her vague
dreams, her crude and unfinished sketches of
the drama of life, in which she had already
played so sad a part.

But one day, when John Dalton found her
alone, he smilingly asked her to put away her
work.

And don't begin another book, Maud," he
said presently.

I suppose you think it is no use?" answered
Maud, sadly enough.

I didn't say that — but I want you to begin
to think of something else."

Of something else ? " repeated Maud.

"Yes; of woman's best mission after all,"
said Dalton, bending down his head, and with
almost a tender smile. " I want you to begin
to think of marrying, Maud — to think of
marrying we."

Maud gave a slight start, and a burning
colour in a moment dyed her usually pale face.

It is impossible," she said the next instant ;
quite impossible."

"But why so?" said Dalton. "Think of
what I said a few minutes ago, Maud — let the
past lie buried."

The girl did not speak. She, too, was
thinking. "He is generous, he is noble," she
thought. "If I had not been what I am, I
could have been a happy woman as John
Dalton's wife."

"You will think it over," said Dalton
presently. " Hush ! I do not want a positive
answer to-night. I will ask for one some other
day."

But as weeks went on, John Dalton became
impatient. This unsettled state of mind did

VOL. III.

not suit the young man's arduous work. He
had learned to love Maud, but he had another
mistress (as Mr. Henley Onslow had told her)
to whom he had hitherto devoted all his days,
and this was the law.

He was ambitious, and he knew that to
rise he must work. Amusement and pleasure
he had put aside, and love, until he met the
dark-eyed girl at Dereham ; but even the dark-eyed
girl must not be permitted to come
between him and his first passion.

So he determined to settle it. Perhaps he
had another motive also for this. He was a
shrewd, though not a vain man, and Mary
was not a very perfect actress. She meant to
hide that she cared too much for John, but John,
and perhaps Maud, noticed the change in her
manner, and missed the true ring of genuine
sweetness, which was one of its characteristics.

After he had made up his mind to ask Maud
for a decisive answer, John Dalton went twice
to the little house at Chelsea without having
an opportunity of doing so. But the third
time he succeeded. A sudden and violent
thunderstorm was rains when he arrived.
This storm had detained Mary longer than she

intended to be absent from home when she had
started on one of her usual errands of kindness,
and thus John Dalton found Maud alone.

This is a sharp storm," he said. " Why,
Maud, are you afraid ? " And he took hold of
one of her cold, chill hands.

Not exactly afraid," she answered, " but —
but in a storm like this, you seem nearer the
unseen, don't you ? There's something so mighty,
so terrible, in those great peals — Ah ! — what a
flash ! " And Maud shuddered and drew closer
to Dalton.

You are nervous," he said quietly, and he
still held her cold, chill hand in his.

The storm raged round them for a few
minutes longer, and then amid a fierce rain-pour,
the thunder clouds moved onward, but
Dalton still stood there by the side of Maud.

It is passing away," he said presently.
Look up, Maud, now ; there is a gleam of
sunshine breaking through the clouds."

Maud looked up, gave a long quivering sigh,
and would have drawn her hand from Dalton's.

"No, let it stay," he said. "I am glad to
find you alone to-day, Maud — for I want you
to tell me that you will be my wife,"

l2

Maud did not speak for a moment, and her
head fell down until it nearly touched the hand
of Dalton.

"Well, have you no answer ? " he asked.

What can I say ? " she said, looking up and
speaking with deep emotion. " But what I
told you before — that it cannot, cannot be ! "

But why, Maud ? "

Do not ask me, John," answered Maud,
rising hastily, and beginning to pace the little
room. " There is a secret in my life — a dark,
dark secret — I can never marry now."

It was now Dalton's turn to be silent. He
stood there watching the girl — pitying her withall
his heart.

You will not confide in me, then ? " he said
after a short pause.

It would do no good," said Maud. " If
you heard this — this — miserable story — you
would just say what I tell you now — that I
could not marry you ; that you would not
marry me."

Yet I wish to hear it."

I cannot, cannot tell you ! " said Maud, and
she wrung her hands.

Is it," said John Dalton, his usual clear and

distinct tones growing husky, " is it connected
with your unfortunate cousin's death — with the
tragedy at Eedcote Farm ? "

Maud did not speak. She wrung her hands,
she flung herself on her knees by a couch,
and buried her face.

Tell rne, Maud," continued Dalton, advancing
to her side, and laying his hand on her
shoulder. "Believe me, you w T ill not regret
that you have trusted me — from the first, my
poor, poor girl, I knew that sorrow for this
young man's death was not alone the shadow
that rested on your life."

What ! what ! did you guess ? " gasped
Maud.

When you were very ill at Dereham," said
Dalton, gently, " I stood by your bed one night,
Maud, and I heard you murmur words which
told me — or rather led me to guess — a sad, sad
story."

And Mary heard this, too ? " said Maud,
starting to her feet, while a terrified look came
over her face. " Oh ! John, John ! " she went
on, "I would that I were dead — Oh ! if I had
only died before all this sin and shame came upon
me. But," she added, "I did it innocently !

I will tell you now — I will trust you — but — ""

At this moment both Dalton and Maud saw
from the windows Mary arrive at the door of
the house. She had been detained by the
storm, and now drove up in a cab, interrupting
the confession that was just about to be
uttered by Maud.

Write what you were going to tell me''
said Dalton, hastily. " Do this at once, dear
Maud — go to your room now, and write it, and
I will stay here and talk to Mrs. Stiverss."

Maud hesitated an instant, and then quickly
left the room, just as Mary entered the hall.
Mary saw the girl leave the little drawing-room,
and she saw, too, the marks of emotion on her
face — her swollen eyelids, her disordered hair.

You have been caught in the storm, I
fear ? " said John Dalton the next moment,
going into the hall and addressing Mary.

Yes," answered Mary, but not in her usual
sweetness of tone.

"Ave you afraid ?" continued Dalton. "Miss
Eliot seems afraid."

Mary made no reply. "He is acting to me,"
she thought, and the idea made her feel very
angry.

Have you been here long ? " she presently
asked, when John Dalton had followed her into
the drawing-room.

Perhaps half an hour," he said.

And you've had an interesting conversation
? " said poor Mary, trying to hide her
feelings.

We have had a very painful one," answered
John Dalton, gravely.

A painful one ? " repeated Mary.

Yes — and let me ask you a favour, Mrs.
Stiverss. Please say nothing of this conversation
to Maud, for it has greatly upset her."

You have a strong interest in Maud," said
Mary, in a trembling and hesitating voice.

Yes, a very strong interest," answered John
Dalton, yet more gravely, and there was something
in his manner that implied more than
his words.

Mary's handsome face turned red, and then
deadly pale. Yet she had no real reason to
envy Maud. That unhappy girl was seated at
her desk, weeping blinding tears of regret and
shame. She was writing a letter to John
Dalton — a letter which she believed would end
his regard for her for ever.

This letter reached the young barrister at
his chambers on the following morning. His
pale face flushed as he read it, and his hands
trembled — the confession of the woman he
loved — of the woman he had asked to be his
wife !

I write this, John (he read), because I promised you I
would write it ; because nothing in this world can make much
matter to me now ; and because it is better that you should
know. After you have read it, it will be all over between
us, and it is but right that it should be so.

I will not tell you of my early girlhood ; why should I
tell you of it 1 I will only tell you what happened last New
Year's Day, and then you will understand the dreadful
shadow which ever since has lain so dark and heavy upon my
soul.

On that day, then, after I had parted with George
Kendall in the kitchen at Redcote, I went up to my own
room. You remember I told this in my evidence at the
trial, but I did not tell that when I got there I heard George
laughing and talking outside. This made me feel very
angry, and I went to one of the back rooms and looked out
on the stable yard. At the door of the stable George was
standing smoking and laughing, and half quarrelling with
Jenny Wren. Their familiarity — their apparent utter forgetfulness
of my presence in the house, almost maddened
me, and with rage and jealousy (of which I was ashamed)
burning in my heart, I stood and watched them nearly an
hour. Then Jenny came into the house and went upstairs,
and I heard her go into my uncle's bedroom to arrange it,
and then up to George's room, which was in the front of the
house, over mine. When I heard her there, a sudden

impulse — a passion I could not control — seized upon me, and
I determined to go down to the stable and bitterly abuse
George for his heartless conduct to me, and for his disgraceful
familiarity with the girl Jenny Wren.

I ran downstairs, and I ran swiftly across the stable yard ;
but George was not now in the stable, but in the loft above
it, which he had fitted up as a workshop. He was sitting
writing at the table by the window when I went up to the
loft, and when he saw me he looked very angry.

Bitter words burst like a torrent from my lips. To
these he answered by half-taunting ones. Then, when I
went behind him, I saw he was writing out some verses
addressed "To Mary." Fury, madness, seized upon me
when I saw this. In passionate words I upbraided him, and in
vain and idle ones he replied. Then I became mad — mad,
John — do you understand ? — mad I I felt a sudden rush of
blood to my head, and I seized a heavy leaden-headed
latimer that was standing in the corner of the loft, and withall
my force I flung it at him. I saw it strike him — I saw his
head fall — but I never looked again. I fled out of the stable
loft, fled to my own room ; and all the rest of the day — so
God help me — I expected to hear George's voice — and I
determined to run away — to go anywhere — to drown myself,
perhaps — but not to stay at Redcote Farm.

1 never thought I had killed him — never, never ! I knew
the hammer had struck him, but I thought most likely he
would come into the house and be very angry. Then, when he
did not come in, I supposed he had gone to Fothergal's Farm.
Jenny's awful cries first told me the truth. You know the
rest ; only had the trial gone against Jenny — had the verdict
been given against her, I was going to stand up in court and
tell the jury and the judge the same story that I have now
told you.

Maud Eliot.

John Dalton read this confession to the end,
and then began pacing backwards and forwards
in the room, with knitted brows and bitten
lips.

Shall we look for a moment into his heart ?
Into the heart of an ambitious, hard-working
man, who meant to rise and win a great name,
and who had hitherto put everything aside that
could interfere with this purpose.

Can I many her V he was thinking.
Marry a woman with a blight upon her life —
such a blight upon her heart ? And yet what
was she but a victim — an innocent, impulsive
victim — of a bad and heartless man ? Poor
girl, poor child ! And she would have stood
up in court, would she, and told her story ?
Yes ; it is her nature — the warm, tender, passionate
nature that has been so bruised and
broken in the world."

Still he wavered. He loved her; but he had
a purpose in his life before he had seen Maud,
and he had that purpose still. If this ever
leaked out — if men could even point with the
finger of scorn to his wife — what use, then,
would be his ambition ? what use the honours
that he himself might win ?

But no one knew, he remembered ; no one
would ever know. The grave had closed over
George Kendall, and Jenny had been tried and
acquitted of his murder, and no shadow of
suspicion had fallen on anyone else. He knew
not of the weird warning Maud had received
before she had quitted Dereham ; knew of no
Silent Watchers but the stars, that the unhappy
girl had babbled of in her fevered
dreams. Maud had not told him of the
strange words Jenny "Wren had placed in her
hands, or perhaps this knowledge might have
influenced John Dalton.

For in the end, love, generosity, pity, were
the victors in his mental struggle. He would
take her to his breast, he decided. He would
shield this bruised, half-broken heart — forget
her blighted youth and the dark stain that
almost without any real guilt had fallen upon
her.

Before the day was over Maud received the
following words : —

The story of the unhappy accident by which your unfortunate
cousin met his death has not changed my love, Maud.
Let the subject never be named again between us. No

human eye saw what took place on that miserable day at

Redcote Farm ; then let no human tongue ever speak of it.

I will call to see you tomorrow evening, and let us not think

of the past, but of the bright future which I trust may still

be before us.

Yours faithfully,

John Dalton.

THE SILENT WATCHER.

Bitter, miserable tears were shed over this
letter — bitter, bitter tears. Maud knew not of
the struggle which had passed through John
Dalton's heart ; knew only that his love and
his generosity were very great. But she had
not told him all, she thought. There was
still a secret — that terrible letter in which she
was warned that her cousin's death agony was
not unseen.

I will tell him," she decided. But when
John Dalton came, her courage failed her. He
took her in his arms, he kissed her lips, and she
felt she could not make their meeting miserable.


Yet she was nervous and ill at ease. When
John Dalton spoke of their future, she only
gave very vague and uncertain answers. They

were all alone, for Mary had started in the
morning on a short visit to her sister-in-law,
Miss Stiverss. Mary felt that she was better
away. She was sure now that Dalton cared for
Maud, and she could not trust herself — could
not be sure of her self-control if she saw them
together.

So she told Maud she was going away for a
few days. She tried to be kind in her manner
when she said this, and yet she knew she was
not kind. But Maud scarcely noticed the difference.
She was thinking of her coming meeting
with John Dalton — thinking of the letter of
which it seemed so hard and difficult to tell.

She tried twice to do this when he came in
the evening. Once when he came into the
room ; and again when they were about to
part.

If — if — I could but forget," she faltered,
and her head fell upon his breast.

Maud," answered John Dalton, almost
sternly, " you must forget. Let the past be
blotted out of your existence ; you are about
to begin a new life — begin it to-day."

Yes," said Maud, and she had not courage
to say more.

She went with him into the little garden in
front of the house and stood talking with him
there — talking almost as happy lovers talk.
But the dark shadow still lay heavy upon her
heart ; the shadow which at that moment was
creeping closer and closer on her path.

For scarcely had she parted with John
Dalton — while his touch still lingered on her
hand — before she was startled by hearing her
name uttered, or rather whispered, by a man
who seemed to her to be a passing stranger.

She was leaning on the railing of the little
garden. It was bright moonlight ; John Dalton's
tall figure had just vanished in the silvered
haze, when that hoarse whisper fell upon her
ears —

Miss Eliot r

Maud looked up with a startled gaze.

By the moonlight she saw a man standing
on the other side of the railing ; a man with a
soft felt hat slouched over his face, and with
kerchief tied so high on his chin that it seemed
as if it were done for some purpose of disguise.

Maud looked at this man, and then without
speaking raised herself up from the garden
railing and began to move towards the house.

But again her name came hissing to her ears
through the misty night-haze.

"Miss Eliot, I want to speak to ye."

Maud turned cold with fear. But she moved
a step backwards and faced the man.

What do you want ? " she asked.

D ye mind me ? " half whispered the man,
and he pulled the 'kerchief down from his face
and pushed his felt hat back from his brow.
Then Maud remembered the man ; remembered
the straight features, the brown skin and the
dark, gleaming eyes of Jack Foster, the
poacher !

She turned sick and faint ; she grasped the
railings for support.

I don't want to harm ye, Miss," went on
the man. " Ye played me a shabby trick, and
took no heed of the lines I sent ye from
Dereham gaol, though I had held my tongue
when I might maybe have had ye hanged if
I'd spoken. But I held my tongue because
George Eendall but got his due, when ye felled
him that day wi' the hammer in the loft."

Hush, hush, for God's sake, hush !" cried
Maud, and she fell against the railings utterly
overcome.

Jack Foster gave a low laugh.

Ay," he said, " and yet ye would not lift
yer finger to get that gentleman who spoke up
in the court for Jenny, to speak for me ! I got
six months for shooting a bird or two, for
there was naught else against me, and he would
have got me off if ye had but said a word.
However that's done and gone, and I've not
come here to talk about it. I've come for
something else — Jenny found out where you
were, and — "

Well ? " said Maud, and she lifted her
white, stony face, and looked at the man with
some of the courage of despair.

Still Jack Foster hesitated.

Ye see, Miss," he said, twisting and
moving uneasily, " Jenny Wren didn't behave
right to me once. Before she went to Kedcote
she and I had sweet-hearted a bit ; but when
she got there she took up wi' Mr. George. Ay,
I know she did," continued the man, almost
fiercely, " though now she says but idle talk
passed between them. But she turned her
back on me, anyhow — but that, too, is all come
aud gone ! George is lying in his grave, and
Jenny paid dear enough for what she'd done ;

though Lad the trial prone against her I would
have spoken up, though I knew I might get
my own neck into trouble if I did.

Why ? Why have you come now, then ? "
said Maud, still looking at the man.

It was Jenny thought of it first," answered
Foster. " Ye see, miss, I was awful riled that
ye would not try to help me after I sent ye
the lines — and Jenny had stood by me in my
trouble — and when I got out of quad we got
together again, and the end of it is we want to
try our luck together across the seas. Jenny
got out what I knew about George's end, and
she thought ye would be glad to give us a helping
hand, and get us both clean out of the
country, and so she got to know where ye were
through some lass that had once lived wi' the
parson's wife at Corselet, and she sent me here.'

And you want," faltered Maud, " money —
money to go away."

That's just it, miss ! We want money
enough to take us both to Australia, and set up
in a bit of a place of our own there. Three
hundred or so will do it ; and it's not much to
pay a fellow for holding his tongue, when a
word would land ye in a goal."

What do you know ? " asked Maud, almost
sternly, for she was driven to bay. " Where
were you when — when George Rendall died ? "

I was kneeling under the loft window, Miss,.
at the back o' the stable. I'd been hanging
about the place the best part of the day, and I'd
watched George wi' Jenny most an hour talking
in the stable-yard. Then ye came and ran
across the yard wi' rage written on yer face, and
went up to the loft after George. The window
was open in the loft, and I heard what ye said
then ye felled him, and — "

But a cry of such anguish here interrupted
Foster, that the man paused.

Don't take on so, miss," he said a moment
later, with a rough idea of consolation. " George
only got his due, and Jenny says the same. If ye'll
fork out the brass no one will ever be the wiser."

I will think," said Maud, and she put her
hand to her head. " I will write — where shall
I write ? "

Just drop a bit line to The Silent Watcher,
care of the landlord o' the Seven Stars, in
Lupus Street, where I'm putting up. He's a
friend o' mine, and in the same line o' business
on the quiet, and he'll take care o' the lines,

and the Silent Watcher will do as well as
another name."

The Silent Watcher ! " repeated Maud, and
again she put her hand to her head. She felt
stunned ; everything seemed whirling round
her, and it took all her strength to be able to
stagger into the house.

When she got there she sat down, and
moaned aloud, as if in deadly pain. It was
more than she could bear, she thought — more
than she could bear !

Then she crept up to her own room, and lay
all through the night moaning and waking.
But in the morning hideous dreams came to
her in snatches of sleep that was not rest.
Presently she got up, and stared out of the
windows at the rolling river, and her mind
seemed to follow the water, and she began to
forget, and to feel only in a dark maze, from
which there was no escape.

She tried to rouse herself ; tried to think.
What could she do ! Tell John Dalton — no,
no, no — and she moaned again. What could
she do? she kept repeating, but she did nothing,
sitting all day without food, without settled
thought, without hope.

In the evening John Dalton came, and was
shocked and startled by her appearance.
There was a wildness in the gleam of her dark
eyes that he had seen before, that struck a chill
feeling of fear into his soul. He was very
gentle to her, and spoke only soothing words ;
but her answers were so vague, and her manner
so uncertain, that he left her full of alarm.

Then another dark night came, and during
it the unhappy girl lost control over her reason,
and she began singing at midnight in the voice
of madness. The maid-servant in the house
heard, and crept downstairs, and listened
breathlessly to that wild melody, and in the
early morning she sent for John Dalton.

When he came, Maud did not know him.
She was sitting up in bed, drawing her fingers
through her long hair, and babbling ceaselessly.
It was a pitiful sight ; pitiful even to strangers,
but bitter, bitter pain to the man who loved
her, who had been ready to sacrifice so much
to call her his wife.

There was a dismal burden to her song too.
Ever and again she called out that she saw the
Silent Watchers — that countless eyes were
gleaming at her — a voice calling on her name.

John Dalton stood and listened, and grew
pale at some of her wild words. He telegraphed
for Mary, and before the evening that gentlewoman
was again watching by Maud's bedside.
She was very ill," the doctor told them ; " it
was the brain," and he asked if any great
trouble or anxiety had lately fallen upon her.

Mary and Dalton looked at each other at
the doctor's question. Then Dalton spoke.

"She has had great trouble and anxiety,"
he said ; "a painful tragedy had happened in
her family, and she had brain fever at the time,
and had never quite recovered from its effects."

The doctor looked very grave.

A second attack," he said, "is very serious;
the poor young lady must be carefully watched."

They watched her all that day, and for
many days, but no change ever came. Always
the same wild song, always the same wild
words, but by-and-bye the voice grew weaker,
and the bright glittering eyes more dull.

Then one night, in the grey twilight, Maud
Eliot died. John Dalton was sitting by her
side ; he was holding her poor quivering hand,
when quite suddenly she started up in her bed,
and called out his name.

John ! John ! " she cried, " don't let them
take me — don't let them take me ! " And she
fell forward into Dalton's arms.

He drew her to his breast, he lifted her head,
but as he did so, with a long quivering sio-h,
Maud's spirit passed, and her broken, miserable
heart grew still.

It was midnight before Dalton left the house
where Maud's still form now lay. His head
was bowed on his breast, and great bitter grief
was in his heart. But he had made but little
moan. He had stooped down and kissed her
after they had straightened her poor limbs, and
crossed her hands meekly on her breast, and
Mary knew when she saw this, that had Maud
lived, John Dalton would have made her his
wife.

As Dalton then left the house, where the
poor dead girl lay, a man came up and addressed
him, who had been lurking about for hours
outside.

How is Miss Maud, sir ? " he said. " How
is the young lady ? "

Then John Dalton lifted his head, and looked
at the man, and by the lamp-light he recognised

Jack Foster, the poacher, from Eedcote.

You here ? " exclaimed John Dalton.
Then — " And he began to understand
Maud's sudden illness.

How is Miss Maud to-night, sir ? " repeated
Foster.

She is dead," answered John Dalton sternly.
What are you doing here ? "

"Dead!" said Foster, and he staggered
back. " Surely not dead, sir ? It can't be —
it can't be what I said that killed her ? "

What did you say ? " said John Dalton.
Tell me the truth, for nothing can hurt her
now."

Then Foster told the same story to Dalton
that he had told to Maud. He had overheard
the quarrel between the cousins ; he had heard
the thud of the fatal blow. But partly from
fear of the consequences to himself, lest he
should be suspected of the murder, he had kept
silence on the subject. His motive for now
seeking Maud was money, he said — money, so
that he might marry Jenny Wren and begin a
new life in another country.

Dalton scarcely spoke till the man's tale was
done. Then harshly and fiercely he said —

u You have killed her ! Fool — why did you
not come to me ?"

Foster was really repentant.

u I would not have said a word, sir," he said,
if I had known what I was doing. But
Jenny wanted me to come, so I just came."

But after a few moments' reflection, Dalton
thought of Maud's memory.

You want money to go out of the country?"
he said to Foster. " If I give you a hundred
pounds will you and this woman leave England
for ever, and never name again — George
Kendall's death ? "

Foster was but too glad to accept this offer.
He married Jenny, and went to Australia, and
we must hope they are doing better in their
new country than they did in the old one.

They, however, kept their promise while in
England, and spoke no more of the tragedy at
Eedcote Farm. Nor did John Dalton ever
speak of it. Maud was buried in one of the
great city cemeteries, and lay there unknown
and unnoticed. But she was not quite forgotten.
A busy and ambitious man sometimes
turned out of his daily path to stand a few
moments by Maud Eliot's grave. But he

never spoke of these visits — never to the young
widow who still lived on in the little house at
Chelsea, and to whom John Dalton talked of
most things that occurred in his energetic life.
Not even when time went on, and Mary grew
nearer and dearer to him, did he ever speak of
Maud ; not even when Mary bore his name,
and cheered and lightened his labours. On
this subject he was silent, for he was one of
those who never speak of the deepest feelings
of their hearts.

The End.
