#v?

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

OF ILLINOIS

R96s
v. I

W. H. SMITH & SON'S
SUBSCRIPTION LIBRARY,

186, STRAND/LONDON,

AND AT THE RAILWAY BOOKSTALLS.
NOVELS ARE ISSUED TO AND RECEIVED FROM SUBSCRIBERS IN SETS ONLY.

TERMS.

FOR SUBSCRIBERS OBTAINING THEIR BOOKS FROM A COUNTRY BOOKSTALL—
ti .„ . 6 Months. 19 Month*.

For ONE Volume at a time £0 12 1 l o

(Nne m mart than One Volume ire not mvaiUtbU/cr thu cut 0/SuiKriptUn.)

For TWO Volumes „ 17 6 l n 6

(NivtU %n mart than Tw Vilumn mrt m*/ avaiMUfr (hit cut »/ Inscription.)

For THREE Volumes „ 1 3 2 2 o

For FOUR „ 1 8 2 10

FO'SIX „ 115 • 8 8

For TWELVE „ , 8 5 5



SCOTTS OF Westminster

J . Waterman

AUTHOR OF

A FATAL ERROR,' ' HALF A DOZEN DAUGHTERS," : WORTH WAITING FOR,

ETC.

1 Tis the unexpected always happens

IN THREE VOLUMES.— VOL. L

LONDON

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON

publishers in ©rbinar)? to ^cr ^ttajcsti] the Quint



[All rights reserved

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/scottsofbestmins01rybo

*»

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

CHAPTER PAGE

I. NAINI TAL - - - - i

II. DOWNWARD AND ONWARD



III. Good-bye - - - --87

IV. TIMELY REST - - - I I I

V. GATHERING CLOUDS - - 143

VI. THE OLD HOME - - - - 1 86

VII. MARY LATIMER - - - " ^3 J

sfl

c

SCOTTS OF Westminster

CHAPTER I.

NAINI Ital.

Some seven thousand feet about the sun-dried
plains of Hindustan, on precipitate
mountain-sides clothed ina verdure which
neither eloquent tongue nor most skilled
brush can properly describe or represent,
are perched without rule or order, of all
shapes and sizes, the iron-roofed bungalows
which form the English military sanatorium
of Naini Ital.

VOL. I. i

The Tal, or lake, mirrors the leafy
steeps which hold it in their embrace with
a minuteness which puzzles the eye to
discover where reality leaves off and reflection
begins, till for an instant some
undercurrent agitates the hitherto motionless
surface, and the seeming solidity is
blurred ; it lies, as it were, at the bottom
of a vast basin, from which spring forests of
giant feathery deodars and pines wreathed
with roses, white and yellow jessamine,
honeysuckle, and many a starry creeper ;
and amid their sweetness the bulbul and
hill mina sing, and glorified specimens of
our home pets, the robin and the blackbird
the one as big as a starling, the other
adorned with an Elizabethan ruff white as
snow — luxuriate. Huge bushes of holly
shine cheek by jowl with the delicate
maidenhair fern — that tender foreigner so
much prized in our hothouses — and while

the loud, jovial shout of our cuckoo takes
us back to the windy English spring-time,
the voice of the barking deer and the
toll of the lonely owl-like bell-bird
bring us back to the far-off strangeness
of the Himalaya, with their summer
flowers and winter snows, their days
of heat and nights of cold, their delightful
contrarieties and marvellous contrasts.


The first bugle rang out, gun-fire had
sounded, but darkness brooded over the
lake, and the mall that borders it was still
and deserted. At barracks, lights were
visible, as also in two or three of the
smaller bungalows round the lower end of
the lake ; but as the moments flew on dawn
came to the head of Chiriya-Kanla,
passed on down his broad, bare shoulders,
touched the summits of the other peaks,

r — 2

stole rosily over the western slopes, lay
hopefully on the peaceful churchyard,
and thus proclaimed another day.

The silence of the night was soon
broken. Officers on duty, covered from
head to foot in the regulation waterproof,
became visible and audible as they took
their shivering way to barracks, some on
foot, some on the hardy Bhootiah ponies,
which gallop up and about the ladder-like
paths as sure-footed as cats ; while others,
only up for health, were calling out for that
early cup of tea, after which they would set
off for that exceedingly disagreeable constitutional
round the Upper Mall, without
which half the benefit of their visit would
be lost. The eastern side remained in
darkness long after the opposite slopes
were in light, and amongst its woods and
huge boulders lights were long necessary
in its scattered houses — houses hanging, as

it were, in mid-air, or on mere shelves of
rock, approached by paths goats might
have feared to tread, and surrounded by
thick groves that even at mid-day held a
chill moisture that made constant fires
indispensable.

The morning was rainy, the night
had been rainy — the rains, indeed, were
in their prime ; leeches, scorpions, and
caterpillars were legion ; every boulder,
with its rich covering of moss and fern,
was their happy hunting-ground, every
rotten-floored bungalow was their place
of refuge ; every branch of every tree,
with its superb wealth of overgrowth,
was their breeding place. Never was
anything more exquisitely beautiful than
those gigantic groves, with their side-views
over mountain and valley — valleys
smoking with dewy incense, mountains
opening upon mountains, and culminating

a hundred miles away in snow-peaks that
cleave the very heavens ; never was anything
more suggestive of damp and the
ills of which damp is the fruitful parent.
On this particular morning the damp was
at its dampest, the trees reeked, and their
dripping perpetually echoed around in
monotonous regularity. On all sides the
mountain rills, quickened here and thereinto
dashing cascades, fell from crag to
crag, wore miniature ravines down through
the saturated soil, and ran unperceived
under the thick underwood, forming many
a trap for unwary pedestrians, and paths
which but yesterday were solid earth had
to-day become mere rocky stairs down
which none but a hillman could follow.
One such path, opening before the intended
way of a little procession toiling upwards
from the lake, presented so formidable an
obstacle to further progress that a halt

had been called to consider what was to be
done.

The party consisted of a lady in a dandy,
or hammock, slung on a bamboo and carried
between two men, accompanied by two
gentlemen on foot — a Dr. Smith and a
Major Mortimer. The gentlemen wore
thick gaiters to protect their legs from
leeches, and carried long alpenstocks to
protect themselves from slipping over
khuds. The lady was covered w T with waterproofs,
so were the gentlemen. The four
dandy servants wore a uniform of serviceable
cloth, with fantastic trimmings of
orange and blue ; their legs and feet were
naked, and every now and then one of
them would stop and pick off a creature
that was drawing blood.

1 Well,' said Mrs. Lister, 'we must get
there somehow, you know, if we want to
say good-bye. What can we do ?'

1 It wouldn't be so difficult to get down,'
said Major Mortimer, eyeing the distance
between the bare boulders. ' A few flying
leaps would be easy, but how you are to be
carried up I can't see !'

Then there was an animated dispute with
the dandy walls, who, after letting their
masters despair, calmly said they saw no
difficulty. If only the mem sahib would
sit still and trust herself to them, they'd
carry her safely over worse ground than
that before them.

With a laugh, the mem sahib said she'd
shut her eyes and hold on tight, and,
bidding the men proceed, the two gentlemen
prepared to follow. Then began a
succession of jumps and jerks and leaps
and climbing, the sturdy hillel alighting
here on a mere shelf, whence the mountain-side
fell a there precipice hundreds of feet,
thence clambering over a ravine, and, with

a leap, bridging a frightful chasm ; now
running lightly over the brow of a ridge ;
now sliding down a bank perilously close
to a deep descent through mid-air.

Every few moments there was a change
of carriers, the tired ones resting themselves
by running ahead to make sure of the road.
At the end of about half an hour the speed
increased ; there was a last stampede, a
last frantic jump at and clinging on to a
big bush, then a rush round the chimneys
of a house, a race down the mountain by
the house's side, and then, with grunts of
satisfaction, the dandy-men let the dandy
slowly down from their shoulders, and the
mem sahib's feet rested in the compound
of the little bungalow where she would be.

By Jove !' said the Doctor, coming up intime
to help Mrs. Lister to get out of her
wraps, ' that was a breather ! What monkeys
these fellows are ! How they contrived to

carry you and themselves too passes my
comprehension. The Major's dead beat !'

The Major's tall form came up as the
Doctor spoke. He was flinging off his
coat as if fainting with heat.

1 Surely the Scotts won't go down the
way we've come ?' he asked. ' Scott can
never stand that sort of thing !'

1 No, no,' Mrs. Lister replied ; ' we had
no business to come this way. There's not
at all a bad road from the other end, but it
would have taken us so long to go round
for it.'

The three stood for a moment looking
at the miserable iron-roofed bungalow
before them — a wretched weather-stained
place with a dilapidated veranda on three
sides, the fourth side being close up against
a bank covered with rank vegetation ; close
in front were hospital coolies — something
like long canvas-covered meat-safes on

tresses instead of legs — round which a
dozen or so coolies squatted waiting. The
vegetation grew unchecked right up to
the veranda ; there was no attempt at
cultivation — all looked unkempt and unwholesome.


In the fine weather nothing appeared
more tempting and picturesque than this
little imitation chalet, with its verdant surroundings
— a place to dream about, and to
write about, and to sketch, but not to live
in. Its present occupant, Captain Scott,
had been ordered up to the sanatorium too
late in the season to feet a good house in a
good situation, and had to be content with
what there was to be had. The clubs and
the hotels were too noisy for him in his
state of health, and the quiet and beauty of
this elevated place had seemed to him,
when he arrived, at death's door from the
heat and fatigue of the long journey from

Allahabad, almost heavenly. But when
day after day and night after night the
rain fell like pellets on the iron roof, and
the damp invaded the badly-built house, it
was seen Naini Tal was not to be the safe
place for him it was for most people ; and
he had got rapidly worse. There was no
organic disease, the doctors said ; only
there was weakness, just as likely to be
fatal — a neglected chill following a slight
attack of fever — a mere nothing at the
time, but a something now that threatened
with such reality that the station doctor,
and the regimental doctor, and a doctor or
two of note who were visiting the station,
were summoned to a consultation ; and the
result was that, though the rainy season
was at its height, though the Terai at the
foot of the hills which must be traversed to
reach India was just then full of malignant
air, though Mrs. Scott was not yet strong,

and the baby barely a month old, a recommendation
to the invalid to proceed
at once to Bombay on sick-leave, and
thence to England, was given as his only
chance of recovery.

The invalid was too ill to think for himself;
his wife was too young and inexperienced
to think for him ; the doctors'
verdict was to both arbitrary. Kind
friends — mere acquaintances of yesterday,
most of them ; but true friendship flourishes
nowhere more luxuriantly than in India —
came to their help ; everything had been
made as smooth as possible for them,
and now, on the morning of their start,
three good souls had come to cheer
and do what they could to start them
comfortably.

Mrs. Lister dropped her voice as she
said to the Doctor, still busy with folding
her wraps :

1 Doesn't it seem cruel to send him off
on such a day ? — the weather's just awful !'

1 They'll be out of this damp as soon
as they get down to the Brewery,' he
replied. ' He'll be better as soon as they
reach the plains to-night. She'll suffer
most.'

1 Ah ! that's what I think. She ought
to stay here with that poor baby. Yet
how could one part them, with him in that
state ?'

The baby will be dead before they
reach Bombay said the Major ; ' its brain
will be addled with the jolting, and it will
be choked with dust.'

Pooh !' said the Doctor, ' babies can
stand anything — senseless little animals.'

1 Can they ? My sergeant's baby was
choked on the way to Cawnpore last year,
that's all I know,' answered the Major.

1 Well, don't let Mrs. Scott hear,' said

the Doctor, leading the way to the veranda,
whence they entered the principal room of
the little chalet. There, on a long reclining
cane chair, lay the poor fellow whose life
hung on so frail a thread that a journey
during the rains through the length of
Hindustan was the only hope for his recovery.
Wan, worn, and fearfully attenuated,
he looked as if a journey was the
very last thing he was fit for. His voice
was almost soundless as he replied to his
visitors' cheery greetings, taking each
kindly hand in his white, skeleton grasp.

1 This is good of you !' he said. ' Weare
in such a fix : ayah has bolted !'

Mrs. Scott appeared from an inner
room at the sound of the new voices.
She was a willowy girl of eighteen, very
graceful, but very delicate-looking, and her
large, darkly-shaded blue eyes were full of
anxiety and alarm.

Yes,' she said, as she shook hands with
the new arrivals, ' ayah has run away, and
I shall have to take care of baby.'

The charge of a wild beast could hardly
cause greater repugnance and fear than she
expressed in her fair face and sweet voice.

The Doctor kept her hand in his as he
said soothingly :

Better change your mind, and stay here
till we find another ayah. Scott will be all
right with his bearer.'

Oh no, no !' she said, shrinking nervously.


Her husband's bright eyes turned upon
the Doctor.

No, no,' he said ; ' she must go with
me, of course. She can manage baby ; it
will sleep all the way.'

A feeble wail broke on their ears — that
peculiar rasping wail of a very young baby
and the bearer came forward carrying a

bundle. Mrs. Lister flew to take it, and
scolded the man for completely covering
the little thing's face.

1 Mem sahib,' said he, ' the baba is as it
was put into my arms ; it is not for me to
undo what the mother does.'

She laughed, and turned with it in her
arms to the young mother.

It must have breathing room, my dear,'
she said. ' Now, Major, let me introduce
you to Miss Scott.'

1 I'm no judge of babies,' he said, giving
a look at the tiny writhing creature. ' Am
I expected to say it is very like its father
and its mother ?'

God forbid !' Captain Scott said.
1 I never saw such a young kid before,
so I suppose it's all right ; but there's very
little of it — isn't there ?'

Did urn wasn't ?' said Mrs. Lister ;
1 that's the proper thing to say to babies.

VOL. I. 2

Precious goods are in small parcels. Captain
Scott, you are not worthy of such
a jewel. She'll grow up a beauty, I know,
or she can't be the child of her parents.'

Let me see,' the Doctor exclaimed,
bending over the restless little creature,
1 she's hardly a month old. Early days
yet — eh ? Oh, but she'll do, with care.'

He said this to the girl-mother, who was
regarding her first-born from a little distance
with anything but devotion on her
smileless face.

Oh yes,' kindly Mrs. Lister echoed,
• they want a great deal of care at this
age. Isn't it possible to make ayah appear
bribery or threatening ?'

But she was told the bazaar had been
searched for her in vain. She had at first
seemed quite willing to go as far as Bombay
; but it was supposed her friends had
frightened her about the perils of the tiger

and fever-haunted Terai — at all events,
she was not forthcoming, and it was impossible
to find a substitute at that late
hour.

1 And so bearer and I must do what we
can,' Mrs. Scott said. ' Bearer can keep
it quiet, but it must travel with me ; and it
never will be good when I have it.'

It hardly needed this assurance to convince
the onlookers that the weak young
mother's inexperienced handling was very
different to that of the dexterous practised
bearer's. Were there ever such patient,
kindly nurses as these poor East Indians ?
And what have you provided for its
food ?' Mrs. Lister asked, as the gentlemen
drew round the invalid, whose weak
voice was heard w r with difficulty because of
the rattling rain overhead.

1 So much poison !' she cried, waving
aside the bottleful of thin gray liquid

brought forward in answer to her question.
'Nasty buffalo's stuff! Oh dear! this
will never do ! Get some fresh cow's
milk, bearer.'

Bearer explained he had sent for cow's
milk, and that had been brought instead.

Why didn't you go yourself ?'

1 He couldn't be spared,' Mrs. Scott
answered. ' Charley wants him every
moment ; and he had to have baby while
I dressed.'

1 What's up now ?' Captain Scott
asked, catching the sound of his own
name.

• Look at this horrid stuff, Doctor !'
Mrs. Lister cried, showing the snapped
liquid. ! I know who'll give
us some — Mrs. Wood. Look here, Major
Mortimer — do, there's a dear, good man !
run over to the Lieutenant-governor's and
see Mrs. Wood, and beg for some morning's

milk. Think of your own child, if you
had one, getting such trash as this to live
on. She'll give you some, if she'd give it
to no one else !'

The handsome Major did not hesitate ;
he put two empty soda-water bottles into
his pockets, slipped into his waterproofs,
and set off to go to the other side of the
lake ; while the Doctor, pointing to the
increasing daylight, urged the invalid to
prepare for the journey.

Come, bearer !' he cried ; ' come and
bundle up your master.'

The bearer placed the baby in her
mother's arms and hurried off. Mrs.
Scott held it as if it were a stiff, old-fashioned
sofa bolster, and even its slight
weight seemed to overpower her. Mrs.
Lister took it from her, cuddling it in her
motherly embrace.

'You had better see all the things are

put in the coolies she said; ' I'll take care
of baby till you are ready.'

Then began the business of getting
under way : missing coolies had to be
hunted up ; unthought-of bills had to be
settled at the last moment ; discharged
servants thought the last moment convenient
for asking for chits ; and a box
wallah hoped a few moments could be
spared for the inspection of his wares.

Luckily for the poor young couple, their
friends were equal to the occasion. The
Doctor shouted, scolded, threatened, persuaded,
and put his own shoulder to the
burthen. Mrs. Lister collected the few
necessaries for the journey, and herself
saw them put where each traveller could
find them. She harangued the bearer, and
promised him a better place than he had
ever had before if he took care of his
charges and kept by them till they were

safe on board ship at Bombay. She represented
to the coolies that their pay and
bucksheesh depended on their speed and
care ; she told them the eyes of every
Kotwal in the district would follow their
progress, and the vengeance of the big
sahib would be prompt and weighty should
they neglect their duty.

When, after much tedious delay, Captain
Scott was settled as comfortably as might
be in his cooly, Major Mortimer ran up
triumphant ; he had got not only fresh
cow's milk for the baby, but a basket of
fruit for the parents also, and some light
bread and strong beef-tea. He brought
a kind message, too, from the Lieutenant-governor
and his wife. The Major was
steaming with heat and wet, but his face
was bright with kindness ; he had already
forgotten the fatigue of his rapid climb.

With an aching heart Captain Scott

bent forward out of his cooly and bade
God bless his kindly comrade ; his sunken,
glittering eyes were too hot for tears. He
was thinking how, in all probability, when
these good friends should return to the
plains they would come upon his solitary
grave ; and, indeed, their thoughts were assad.


1 Good-bye, old fellow !' said the Major,
who had acted as his best man scarcely
a year ago. ' Send me a telegram from
Bombay, and let me have a lock of Miss
Scott's hair as soon as she sports
some.'

Good-bye, Scott !' the Doctor exclaimed.
' Pitch into the quinine, and
sleep as much as you can ; you'll soon
be as right as a trivet !'

Then minute instructions were repeated
to the bearer who was to run by his
master's cooly, and to the coolie who,

carrying a basketful of provisions on his
head, was to keep close to the sahib's
side ; and then, with many a moan and
many a grunt, the coolies raised the
cooly-pole to their shoulders and stepped
forward.

Now it was the mem sahib's turn.

4 Don't let them take him far on in
front of me !' she cried as she got into
her cooly, and received her baby on her
knee.

Her friends reassured her as if she
were a child, and tried to laugh at her
fears, but failed to be merry.

1 Keep baby this side up !' cried the
Major. 'And when she's tired give her a
peg !' said the Doctor. Then each grasped
her hand and bade her be brave.

Her answer was, with a burst of tears :

Good-bye ! good-bye ! I shall never —
never forget you !'

At a sign from the Major her palanquin
was lifted, and the weeping girl was carried
onward and downward out of sight.

They who remained then turned and
looked at the deserted home, the dreariness
of its damp-stained walls, the shabby
pretension of its architecture, its rotting
wooden ornamentation. Wisps of straw
and paper lay about — untidy remains of
the packing. The rain had stopped, and
on the opposite bank the brightness and
business of life was in full play, making
the shadowed solitude and silence of the
empty abode more dreary by comparison.
Mrs. Lister shivered, and broke the momentary
thoughtful stillness of the little
group by saying :

1 'Tis wonderful how much human
hearts can bear without breaking ; that
girl will be a widow and childless before
she gets to Bombay.'

1 It's hard lines on her,' Dr. Smith said
without contradicting the awful opinion ;
■ he'd no business to marry such a poor
helpless thing.'

1 He was as well as you or I when he
married !' Major Mortimer cried — ' he need
never have broken down like this — and
she was the sweetest girl.'

'Just out from school, I understood,'
said the Doctor, ' where she probably
learned everything but what was likely
to be profitable to her as a wife and
mother.'

1 She ought to have married a rich
civilian, such as her father said Mrs.
Lister. ' What was he about to let her
marry so soon ?'

'Ah, that's it,' the Major replied; 'the
fact is, her father wanted to get married
too, and the lady didn't like the idea of
beginning with a grown-up daughter.'

1 Then I've heard Scott has private
means ?' Mrs. Lister rejoined.

1 Something,' the Major answered ; ' besides,
he got kudos for the way he
managed that affair in the hills. He's
very young to be a Staff-Corps Captain.
You'll see, headquarters will push him on ;
he's by no means a soldier of fortune.'

1 That is,' the Doctor said slowly, l if he
lives !'

1 Ah, poor Scott ! he's a good fellow all
round,' said the Major sadly, ' and now
look at him ; why, only three months ago,
not a fellow but would have changed places
with him gladly. I'm sure he's got a most
devoted wife, experienced or not.'

That he has, but, were I a man, I
should prefer a wife who gave me good
beef-tea instead of tears. That poor girl
has no more notion of being a helpmeet
than she has of her duties as a mother.

I admit she's sweet, and charming, and
very, very pretty, but, unless a miracle
happens, her ignorance will kill that baby.

The two gentlemen thought of the
beautiful face, the sweet tones full of
gratitude and sorrow still vibrating on their
ears. The Doctor spoke first.

Oh, all that's wanted '11 come in time,'
he said ; ' she's a mere slip of a girl yet,
but she's made of the right stuff — "tender
and true," as the song says.'

1 And what can she know about sickness
and nursery work ?' the Major continued.
' You should have known her at
Allahabad to have seen her at her best.'

But you must not misunderstand me !'
Mrs. Lister explained. ; I love and admire
her immensely as a girl, but I say
she has undertaken duties she can't
perform. She is not to be blamed altogether
— rather blame the bringing up of

the day. Don't I remember what I was
at eighteen ? Of course I do, and I don't
suppose I was worse than other girls. I
was horridly useless ; I fainted at the sight
of blood, couldn't look at raw meat ; as
for mixing a poultice or tying up a wound,
I couldn't have done it. I had nothing todo
with practical common life, self-control
and self forgetfulness, usefulness
and thought for others. I understood
German better than those old-fashioned
things. All girls are alike ; so are boys, for
that matter. Neither men nor women
know their own minds or are worth
anything till they are five-and-twenty.
Oh, you needn't look disgusted ; it's quite
true !'

Mrs. Lister settled herself comfortably
in her dandy as she spoke, and for awhile
further conversation was impossible, as the
upward mountain climb was resumed, the

party meaning to return by an easier road,
to reach which they must first go higher
up the hillside, and all their breath and
attention were needed to surmount the
difficulties of the way. When by-and-by
a halt was necessary, Major Mortimer
resumed the subject just where it had
dropped — it had evidently rankled in his
mind.

Do you mean to say,' he asked, ' a
woman doesn't know her own mind till
she is five-and-twenty ? Is it fair to ask
how long you've been married ?'

Mrs. Lister laughed — she had barely
reached that age yet.

1 Yes, you may ask !' she cried ; ' I
married long before I knew how to take
care of myself, therefore I couldn't be
expected to know anything about taking
care of others. And many a bitter hour
and foolish mistake have been the result.

I think I'm beginning to see clearer now,
though.'

4 But we must all go through an apprenticeship
; no one springs into being armed
cap-a-pie? said the Doctor.

She replied :

I grant it ; but surely we should get
over the apprenticeship before we undertake
the business ; we ought to be taught
to use the armour before we go to the
fight. When I left school " finished " —
that is the sarcastic word — I knew all
about the Huns, but nothing about the
economy of daily domestic life.'

1 But all that comes naturally later on,'
said the Doctor ; ' there are special classes
for such subjects, too — children couldn't
go in for them.'

No one can take in any subject all at
once,' she argued ; ' but surely they might
be learnt side by side with the Huns ?

Knowledge is power, I freely admit, and
one ought to know as much as possible of
history and all the ologies, but not to the
exclusion of common daily matters demanding
our daily and hourly management.
Elder girls in large families are the best
off — they have practical demonstration of
family needs ; but how many girls there
are who, like poor Mrs. Scott, have
never handled a baby till they have one of
their own. I know I nearly died of fright
over my first child : I tried to wash her,
and let her roll off my knee down into the
bath. She wasn't much hurt, but I nearly
died of fright !'

1 This is awful !' said the Doctor. i I
shall remain unmarried till one of your
daughters is grown up.'

Again they moved onward— stumbling,
climbing, leaping — but presently they
reached the ridge, and turned to the left

vol. I. 3

on comparatively good even ground along
an avenue of superb trees growing so thick
that the view beyond was indistinguishable.
The gentlemen closed up on either
side the dandy, and the Doctor went on
with the argument.

1 Well, but he said, ' there is some
truth in what you say ; I often wonder
how first babies ever live out here, where
there are no mothers or married sisters
to give advice to the inexperienced ; still,
there are girls to whom practical commonsense
is natural.

Of course there are,' she said ; ' and
there are helpful husbands who never snub
or sneer. I was a lucky girl. My husband
was so good ; he was always ready to listen
and suggest, and never seemed to see my
mistakes. Mind you two, when you are
married, don't refuse to share the worries
of your wives. Remember '

Look there !' the Major exclaimed, glad
to interrupt a speech which was becoming
personal.

Mrs. Lister called to her men to let her
out of her dandy, and the three friends
stood in silent contemplation of the view
before them. They had reached the end
of the great lines of trees that had kept
them so long: in shade, and now stood on
the topmost ridge, whence, on the one hand,
the eye fell through green glades of descending
forests to the lake, now gleaming
silver bright, and, on the other, over gradations
of mountain plateaus, peaks, and
ridges, interspersed with wooded valleys
and dense groves of trees.

The sun had risen, calling into life a
million beauties of light, scent, and sound.
Off from the deep-blue sky light fleecy
clouds were rolling in the direction of the
giant snow-peaks which glistened in mid

— 2

heaven, some tipped with softest rose-colour,
some standing aloft like needles of
whitest spar. Every bush and tree was
hung with raindrops like glistening votive
lamps, every flower was jewelled with
them ; no valley of diamonds had ever
shone with such pure lustre. But it was
the main valley which leads from the
endless branches of the mighty chain of
mountains to the vast plains of Hindustan
which spellbound the observers, the thick
mist which filled its hollows and smoothed
its inequalities of ground hiding its verdant
terraces, its wooded glens and ravines. Its
leaping cascades and bowery glades had
now caught the morning flood of sunshine,
and were by it converted into the semblance
of a radiant opal-tinted, foam-wreathed sea;
while from out this fairy ocean rose the
lesser mountain-tops like enchanted islands,
their verdant depth of colouring presenting

a vivid contrast to the pale, mysterious
depths from which they sprung. Every
familiar landmark was so completely
glorified, altered, or effaced, that for long
each onlooker gazed as if doubting the
reality of the sight. It was, indeed, a
paradise of wild loveliness of air, sky,
woods, grassy heights, deep khuds,
dainties of sound, sight, and smell profusely
strewn around ; while rocks and
stones, and dead as well as living branches,
were covered with a treasury of ephemeral
vegetation, all created in full beautiful perfection
by the hand that has no master.

Mrs. Lister was the first to break the
charmed silence ; she was half oppressed
by the immensity and loneliness before
her.

1 Isn't it glorious !' she sighed. ' But it
must be breakfast-time !'

Look on this picture and on that !' and,

as he spoke, Dr. Smith pointed with one
hand to the glowing landscape, with the
other to the jampanees, who were busy-relieving
their legs of the leeches which
swarmed in the sodden underwood. ' And
do look at that procession of hairy worms !
How poor Mrs. Scott used to shudder
at all these crawling creatures ! These
beasts really bite if one doesn't take care.'
He pointed to a moving chain of hairy
caterpillars crossing the road before them
in single file. There were at least
hundreds, but so close one to the
other as to resemble an uninterrupted
undulating unity. ' After all, though,
she'll find the flies greater nuisances than
these crawlers.'

Then up from the mall far down below
came the faint sound of a military band.
Some military high day had begun, and
the Major hurried the loitering servants.

One more look was given to the clouds,
then they started downward to every-day
life, and 'those poor Scotts' gradually
faded away from their friends' conversation,
as did the jewelled mist from the valleys.

DOWNWARD AND ONWARD.

As the travellers were carried downward,
passing the ridge and rapidly descending
by the winding road, they were stopped
for a moment at the barracks by a group
of officers waiting there to say good-bye
a thoughtless, cheery lot of men, most of
them, yet all sorely concerned for the
time.

God bless you, old fellow !' said one
after the other as the invalid's almost
transparent hand was grasped in farewell
greeting, and Captain Scott's heart was

wrung afresh by this unlooked-for kindly
sympathy.

1 They know I am doomed,' he said to
himself, and then, as a turn in the ever-turning
road showed him that same exquisite
scene which was at the same
moment enchanting the eyes of his friends
on the hill-top, it seemed to him death
would have no terror for him. All he
needed was rest, and with this tranquil
picture before him he almost longed, as
the poet-king had longed, ' to flee away
and be at rest for ever.'

The swinging movement of the cooly,
the freer air after the long confinement to
the house, and the knowledge that he was
actually on his journey, had a quieting
influence on him ; and at last he yielded
to it, and slept a calmer sleep than he had
had for long. But there was no sleep for
the occupant of the other cooly, though,

just at first, she, too, was comforted and
refreshed by the views and the sense that
they were really off on that journey which
was to end ' at home.'

The puny baby w T as asleep for the first
half-hour, but, light as was her weight, it
was more than the girl-mother's arms
could support. Her lack of experience
was not made good by an intuitive perception
; as the child had been placed on
her arms, so she continued to hold it,
fearing to move lest, the right attitude
once lost, all would go wrong. Her weak
body was in a constrained position, and
soon ached for a change, but, like a martyr
in a higher cause, she suffered bravely and
intentionally, content so long as the rasping
voice remained silent. That was not
for long ; at length the eyes opened, and
with the eyes the mouth also, though not yet
with sound, but with a vain search for food.

storm of passionate disappointment, that
in utter despair the poor mother had to
own her inability to quiet her, and to
send for the bearer's help. He, of course,
had heard every sound — that was unavoidable
in those noiseless wilds — but
had forborne to interfere till he was
summoned. The mem sahib had the baba,
he argued — who more proper to soothe
her than her own mother ? but he knew
what that loudest outcry meant before he
took the child, and there was peace and
satisfaction directly he had ministered to
the little creature.

The necessary halt had awakened Captain
Scott, and he had looked out and exchanged
a few words with his wife, and had
his pillows rearranged ; then baby had been
given back to her mother, and soon after
recommencing the journey both father and
child were asleep again.

For the next two or three hours they
continued to descend the grassy, silent
pathways, from which the mist had long
vanished, giving place to a rapidly increasing
heat wherein the wayside flowers
drooped and paled, and the gorgeous
butterflies and turquoise-tailed rocket
birds, the white-frilled languors, and the
never-silent crickets were the only living
creatures visible. Mrs. Scott grew
languid, then faint ; but, fearful of arousing
the sleeping child, she would not lie back,
nor ask for any refreshment, though, as
the road got lower and lower and the air
necessarily drooped, she was sadly in need
of some. She had had no thought for her

<z>

own wants. A coolie had been ordered to
attend close to her husband's cooly, and
he carried ample refreshments for all ; but,
notwithstanding the strict injunctions given
him, he had merely waited till he was sure

his master was unable to keep a sharp
watch on him, and then he had followed
his own sweet will. First he stopped by a
running stream to fill himself with water ;
after that he was naturally unable to continue
a rapid trot. A smoke was the next
desirable thing, and while so indulging
himself he came upon a heap of tattoo
drivers, with whom it was unavoidable to
discuss the affairs of his sahib, and a good
many compliments and ' Ram, Rams.' He
had hardly got rid of them before he descried
on the opposite side of the narrow pass a
drove of sheep with bags of salt slung
over their backs, and, of course, he must
squat down and watch their movements.
A distant shout from the bearer, who had
suddenly bethought himself of the laggard,
roused him into speed until he came into
view of the little procession moving down
the zigzag road within easy reach, when

he again slackened his steps and was soon
again far behind. But very soon the
echoing hills rang with the cry for ' Peer
Bux O ! Peer Bux gee !' and then the
laggard felt he had best think of others
instead of himself; and with the nimble
swiftness of a monkey he darted towards
the Rest-house, which was in sight far
down at the foot of the mountain road,
and where the travellers were to halt for
their noonday rest.

They had done well in getting thus far
by noon, for the little bungalow was hallway
between Naini Tal and the base
of the Himalaya. The coolies quickly
relieved themselves of their loads, and ran
down to the stream to wash, cook, and
drink, in its clear, rock-strewn depths ;
while Captain and Mrs. Scott, in the
welcome shade of the inner room of the
verandah house, bore as patiently as they

might the want of food and the moaning
of the again restless baby. Just when
human nature seemed incapable of bearing
more, the coolie arrived, flying up as if he
had never loitered ; but even the invalid
was roused sufficiently to assist the bearer
in energetic rebuke couched in unmistakable
language. But the prolonged
waiting had the usual effect : Captain
Scott fancied something which had
not been provided, and tried to eat this
and that petulantly and ungratefully ; while
his wife, wearily pacing to and fro with her
burden of unrest, sickened at the sight of
food, though she felt almost dying for want
of it.

When his master had managed to follow
his faithful servant's entreaties to eat and
drink, the bearer ventured to suggest
that the mem sahib should take something.
Captain Scott turned instantly

and, with a sting of remorse, noticed her
white drawn face.

'Janie dear,' he said, 'give that cross-patch
to bearer, and come to luncheon.'

But he must be tired and hungry too,'
she said in French. ' Do you think baby
might lie on the table ?'

Can't you stuff a bottle in its mouth ?
I've always seen babies lying about with
bottles in their mouths. Bearer, where's
the bottle ?'

The father's advice was followed ; and,
leaving the little family in comparative
comfort, bearer went off to his own meal.

Left to themselves, and Janie greatly
revived by the wine and food her husband
had made her take, they talked hopefully
of the journey before them. Once through
the Terai, they told each other, all would be
straight-sailing ; by early morning they
would be at Moradabad, then they could get

vol. 1. 4

stores for the long railway journey — there
they would get fruit and ice and soda-water,
and an ayah if baby required one ; there all
their troubles would end. And in the
momentary comfort the invalid forgot his
former doubt and dread.

Bearer presently ran in excitedly to beg
his mistress to come outside to see a strange
sight.

There, mem sahib !' he said, as she
followed him to the veranda.

And Mrs. Scott, looking across the
broken uncultivated hillside, saw, some
three hundred yards away across the valley,
a splendid full-grown tiger, his ears cocked,
his feet delicately and deliberately lifted
and dropped as a cat following her prey,
his tail switching from side to side, his
superb skin shining in the sunlight ; while
just ahead of him stalked a large peacock,
his many-eyed tail outspread, his gracefully

crested head erect as he swept onward, acting
marshal to his majesty the tiger. A
royal pair ! Each a perfect specimen, full
of graceful strength.

Mem sahib,' the bearer whispered in
abject terror as he watched, ' make no
sound. Very wicked animal that ! The bird
is showing him his dinner ; but if he sees
us he may come back and eat us instead.'

An instant later and another animal
came into view. Just after the tiger had
passed a huge boulder, a large brown bear
came from behind it, and pausing for an
instant to give the fiercer beast room, he
joined the stately march, keeping well in
the rear, and evidently caricaturing the
measured movements ; now and then he
seemed overcome with the absurdity of
the situation, and raised his bulky paw as
if meditating a pat on the tiger's flanks,
but always refraining his intended stroke

4—2

UNIVERSITY OF
• 31s LIBRAE

in time. Once, as if conscious of the
mockery going on behind him, the tiger
turned and faced him. The bear stood
still and mildly bore the interrogative stare
as if unconscious of any cause of offence ;
but no sooner had the tiger resumed his
march than the bear was full of mischief
and mockery again. Bearer sighed as the
wild creatures passed safely out of sight ;
and the coolies, who had hidden the while,
came out again, thankful all immediate
danger was over.

When Mrs. Scott went in, she found
the bungalow keeper was entertaining Captain
Scott with anecdotes of the quantity
and fierceness of the tigers thereabouts ;
only last year, he declared, a lady had
been carried off from that very compound.
She was quietly seated reading, when the
beast attacked and killed her, and dragged
her some way off.

But surely she must have screamed ?'
the Captain asked. ' Didn't anyone hear
her ?'

c Oh yes, she screamed,' was the reply.
I heard her screams — they were very
loud — but we all knew it was a tiger. Of
course we hid ourselves.'

The baby meantime had taken what
poor nourishment she could get out of the
milk which had already lost its sweetness,
and was again murmuring at its hard
fate.

1 Do try and stop that poor little
thing !' its father said ; ' bearer must
make haste and let us start. I never
knew such a temper for such a young
thing.'

She took it up the best way she could,
but even her inexperienced husband saw
that was not the right way.

This side up with care,' he said, and

while he laughed she detected a ring of
sarcasm in his tone. The child resented
the unskilful touch, and cried louder.

1 It wants some more milk, perhaps,' she
said, and told bearer to bring what remained
of that they had brought with
them ; but the child would have none of it,
and no wonder — it had been carelessly left
in the hot sun, and had become perfectly
sour.

Poor little lass !' the father exclaimed ;
1 surely anybody might have foreseen that.
What's to be done now — can she eat
chupatties ?'

He spoke laughingly, but the case was
serious, as they all knew. The goats of
the bungalow were out at pasture ; they
might meet them on their way, but a
present supply of fresh milk was impossible.


Mrs. Scott walked quickly up and down,

vainly trying to stop the noise, which had
become more than the invalid could bear,
but there was no chance of quiet ; the
little creature wanted food, and food she
would have. Her cries never ceased. At
last her mother, who was as hot and miserable
as her baby, asked humbly :

1 Do you think it is cutting its teeth ?
You know, Mrs. Lister's baby suffered
dreadfully over its teeth.'

1 I don't think she's old enough for
teeth,' said the father ; ' but, of course, I
don't know ;' and husband and wife looked
at each other in sad perplexity.

'If it be a tooth,' and now Mrs.
Scott spoke with authority, • it will have
to be lanced ; the last time I lunched at
the Listers' their baby had one lanced ;
they said it was better directly. Do
you think you dare lance it ?'

Let's have a look,' he said.

So Janie held the roaring baby down
to the reclining father's level, and he
anxiously felt the tiny gums.

'• There's a hard place here,' he said,
keeping his finger on the back of the
lower jaw, 'but they don't cut double-teeth
first, do they ?'

1 Children differ, I believe,' she said ;
'ask bearer.'

No smile had crossed the man's face ashe
watched the little scene, though he was
storing it in his memory to enliven his
next curry feast. When he was appealed
to, he simply said it was impossible for the
missy baba to be getting a tooth yet, and
he had never known a back double-tooth
come first ; so the idea of lancing the gum
was abandoned. A sop was at last
thought of, and on that meagre fare the
little infant ceased to scream ; she was so
exhausted, in fact, that a very little comfort

went a long way, and, to the unspeakable
relief of her parents, she fell into a heavy
slumber.

It was so clever of you, Charley, to
think of the sop,' his wife said, as the
heavy eyes closed at last ; ' but when she
wakes what are we to do ?'

1 Take a crust of bread with you, and
let her suck it.'

At this the bearer interposed :

No, no, sahib,' he said, ' that would
choke her dead. Please God, we'll meet
the goats.'

With this hope they started off again,
between two and three o'clock, and when
the invalid was settled in the cooly,
he found himself unable to think or
to speak any more ; the spurt of energy
had been but for the hour, and as he was
carried along he was again the prey of
despair and suffering.

Once more his wife sat in her uneasy
attitude with the slumbering child on her
aching arms ; a heavy sob occasionally
shook the frail little body, but she was
quiet, and that was what her mother most
desired. They were passing through
some of the loveliest scenes in nature, but
she had no heart to rejoice, no eyes to
take in the loveliness ; to her it was all
inexpressibly lonely and desolate, and the
vastness oppressed and overwhelmed her
imaginative mind. She could not think of
the beauty of the present, but only of the
immensity and vagueness of the past and
future of these great solitudes. The
great bushes of silvery pampas - grass
bordering the grassy glades were instinct
with grace and life, but to her they waved
with a flutter suggestive of a cemetery.
Every now and again they were carried
along upward over a rocky ledge in the

sheer mountain-side, where avalanches of
stones had once descended and still
strewed the face of the mountain ; then the
way would seem to end in an acute angle,
forming a natural grotto lined with velvet
moss, and overgrown with ferns of rarest
beauty. The sound of falling water filled
the air, every streamlet running swiftly to
the bed of the valley, where the parent
stream, roaring and chafing amongst
boulders of all shapes and sizes, ceaselessly
dashed onwards to reach the mighty rivers
of the plains.

A turn in the seeming cul de sac would
bring them swiftly down through the heart
of a pine forest ; the big white stems were
like rigid pillars of fate to poor Mrs. Scott,
who longed to exchange their solemn
sameness and dimness for the brightness
of the open ground, with the troops of
monkeys darting here and there — grotesque

caricatures of old white-bearded men — now
swinging themselves overhead from branch
to branch, now halting to show their teeth,
and jabber at the travellers ; the noble
Chikor and peacock-plumed moonal, the
red-legged partridge and his little gray
cousin, for they were all creatures of the
present : the dread shadowy woods were all
too awful for her.

Then they would come out to some
deep gorge, where the mountain walls rose
on either side, immense heights, overpoweringly
grand, till surmounting one of
them by a ladder-like path, scarce wide
enough for the cooly, the sight could
range from height to height in endless
chains of hills canopied by a cloudless sky
of purest, deepest blue.

With patient, miserable gaze, Mrs.
Scott noted all and enjoyed none of
these things ; once she slept for a few

minutes, but awoke in terror from a horrible
dream of falling into space, to find she had
let the baby slip from her almost palsied
arms, and it was lying at her feet.

She picked it up in an agony of remorse,
and as she earnestly looked on its waxen
features, some faint tenderness for its
helplessness stirred her heart. The sensation
pleased her. Hitherto she had regarded
the child with fear and repulsion ;
so long as her ayah had charge of it she
had thought of it as an object of future
regard only, bearable so long as she had
no trouble with it ; but when the sole
charge of it was forced upon her she had —
unconsciously, it is true — rebelled against
the burthen as greater than she could
endure.

To some, Nature's maternal love comes
in its animal form, as mere instinct ; but to
others, the nobler natures, the instinct

becomes a godlike attribute, unselfish,
all-enduring, uncomplaining. The noble
qualities Mrs. Scott really possessed
were yet dormant ; she was naturally
amiable and gentle, therefore it cost her
little to be sweet and charming when all
went well with her. She expected support
and guidance from her father, and when
she was disappointed in him, she looked
for them from her husband ; but it never
entered her head to suppose she owed
them just as much help and comfort as
they owed her.

In considering the probability of her husband's
death, she had vaguely told herself
her life would end with his ; that she must
look for consolation in his child had never
for an instant occurred to her. One great
safeguard and pledge of future good she
possessed : absolute faith and trust in God
the boundless, unquestioning faith of a

little child. It was a hidden-away, shy
trust unsuspected by those who knew her
most intimately, but not the less real and
strong, though, like all else in her character,
it was imperfect, because she knew not how
to turn it to the best account. When she
was first out from England and was the
pride of the station, flattered and made
much of, this deep inner consciousness kept
her from being utterly carried away by
vanity and egotism, and led her to choose
a husband for what he was instead of what
he had. Yet when her husband's health
broke down, she was incapable of assisting
him, just as now, while she pitied and
cried over her hapless infant, she was incapable
of helping her, all the time crying
to God in perfect trust, yet unconscious
that God did not mean her to be a mere
machine.

Poor little baby ! too young to shed

tears, yet enduring untold sorrow and
suffering ; as the little mouth opened and
moved restlessly in search of food her
mother wondered what was amiss, and
danced her up and down till even she discovered
something more than diversion was
necessary, and in her imperfect Hindu-stance
she tried to make the coolies understand
she wanted the bearer. But at that
moment bearer had come upon the Rest-house
goats — had gone joyfully off for a
supply of milk — and before lie returned
the baby's paroxysm was over ; her head
had dropped heavily on her mother's arm,
and Mrs. Scott was rejoicing in the
calm.

Fortunately the man came up without
having to be fetched, bearing a little lota
full of frothed goat's milk. He uttered
an exclamation of alarm as he looked at
the child, and quickly dropped a drop of

milk on the pinched blue lips ; it fell off
unheeded. Then he took her in his arms,
and, seating himself on the ground,
forced the little mouth open, and dropped
a tiny drop of milk within ; but there was
no sign of eager hunger now : set and
motionless the little creature remained,
her eyes partly open, but no visible sign
of life. In haste he put her back on his
mistress's knee, and, bidding the cooly
men come on quickly, he ran to stop his
master. Roused out of sleep, Captain
Scott heard the news with fretful complaint.


What did he know about babies ?' he
asked.

Fortunately some faint perception of
what was fit had come to Mrs. Scott.
As she was carried on she raised the
baby's head, and after repeatedly dropping
milk into the heedless mouth, she

vol. 1. 5

found animation gradually returning. The
little thing at last swallowed some, and
presently eagerly and ravenously continued
to receive it — opening her eyes,
too, and fixing them on her mother.

Who so proud as that mother when,
her cooly being placed alongside her
husband's, she was able to show the proof
of her ability ? But even he, all inexperienced
as he was, was frightened when
he saw the baby, improved though her
mother boasted her to be.

4 Let us get on as quick as we can,'
he said ; ' there may by chance be a
doctor at Rajket — at any rate, we shall
find one at Moradabad. We shall be
there by morning ; but I doubt if she'll
last till then.'

Oh, she's all right now ; she was only
hungry. She'll be all right with this nice
milk — won't she, bearer ?'

The man said something to his master
in a low tone.

He says you must not give her so
much of that,' Captain Scott repeated.
Little infants like that can't take much at
a time, and very weak only. You must
mix that with water.'

'Oh, I'm sure that's nonsense!' she
answered ; 'good milk must be better
than milk-and-water. These people have
queer ideas, you know.'

So if the little one had nearly died
of want, she was now likely to die of
repletion. Mrs. Scott continued to
feed her every time she seemed about
to cry, and long before they reached
Rajket, where they were to rest for some
hours, she was seriously ill. The night
came on — the lovely summer night, perfumed
with the roses and jasmine which
bordered the wayside ; but all too soon

5— 2

the roses and jasmine, over which the
fire-flies flickered like winged diamonds,
were left behind. Instead of grassy glade
came ankle-deep sandy tracks ; by-and-by
wayfarers were met in greater and greater
numbers ; pariah dogs made themselves
heard ; mud-huts grew out of the underwood
and sand-heaps ; and once more the
coolies became stationary under a rest-house
veranda — the rest-house of Rajket.

Then came the usual question of the
traveller, 'What can the bungalow man give
for dinner ?' and the usual answer, ' Anything
and everything,' and the usual coming
down to nothing but 'matchlock and chu-parties
;' but, even could a banquet be
provided at that wretched bungalow, the
plague of flies must prevent its enjoyment.
To be sure, there was the punkah
to keep them at bay ; but where were the
punkah-coolies ? The hot season was not

reckoned to have begun yet at Rajket, sono
punkah-coolies were available, consequently
the flies were not to be avoided,
and their importunity quickly reduced
Captain Scott to a state of irritable
prostration. They swarmed thickly on
everything, walked into one's eyes, clustered
on the baby's mouth, perched in
black rosettes on her bald head, and, in
anger at being dislodged for the moment,
assailed her mother and father in increased
numbers.

Bearer was busy paying coolies and
collecting fresh ones for the next start ;
at each stopping-place all the first worry
and confusion of preparation comes over
again, and on the bearer's shoulders alone
rested the whole weight and responsibility.

Captain Scott revived a little after a
glass of quinine and sherry, and called
peevishly to his wife :

1 Can't you put that brat down somewhere
? you seem very fond of it all at
once. I shall go mad if these brutes of
flies go on tormenting me ! Can't you
get a fellow to pull the punkah ? Can't
you get someone to make a bed for me ?
I am so hot, and so tired. Confound that
ayah for running away !'

Janie spoke impatiently too :

1 If I put her down those beasts of flies
will eat her up, I verily believe,' she said.
If I could only make myself understood,
I'd get a punkah-coolie.'

Tears of fatigue were running down
her face; but she kept behind her husband,
and, putting baby on one arm, she waved
her handkerchief with the other over his
head. He noticed the temper in her voice,
but knew nothing of her tears, nor thought
of her weakness and fatigue, as he exclaimed
:

'It's no use flying in a rage; you've
not much to try you ! You are not on
your last legs, unable to help yourself.
Of course, that child is a bother to you
just now — so am I, I dare say; but you'll
soon be rid of us both.'

1 Oh, Charley !' she cried, falling on her
knees beside him, and showing her white
wet face, ' don't talk like that. I know
I'm stupid and useless, but I am so sick
and tired. I would rather die instead of
you, if I could. What do you think I can
do if you die and leave me ?'

A passionate burst of agonized tears
stopped her, while he, who had repented
of the ungenerous words as soon as uttered,
tried vainly to undo their effect.

Oh. don't !' he cried, in his utter weakness
becoming almost hysterical. ' I didn't
mean it, my darling — my own little Janie !'

He sank back fainting, and she sprang

up and screamed for bearer. Alas ! what
had she done ? She became penitent and
quiet in a moment, blaming herself bitterly
for her want of self-control. She managed
to bribe a man to pull the punkah-rope ;
and as the dusty old fringe was set in
motion, keeping the flies away by its
influence, and her husband smiled up at
her with a mute petition in his eyes for her
forgiveness, she could smile back again
and feel comforted.

When Captain Scott had gone to sleep,
and bearer went off for his food and
rest, when even baby lay quietly sleeping,
Mrs. Scott might have tried to refresh
herself with a doze, but her foolish fears
prevented her. The big high unveiling
room was to her full of enemies. She sat
bolt upright in the middle of the paved
floor, her legs tucked under her, prepared
to pass the time until the start as patiently

as might be, battling with her desire to
sleep for fear of the musk-rats, the house-rats,
the mice, the lizards, and the bats that
swarmed in the dilapidated old house.
The shrill cry of the blind musk-rat,
groping round and round, the squeak of
the more daring mice scampering everywhere,
the whir of the bats' leathern wings,
alternately alarmed her. Night was made
hideous to her by outside as well as
inside sounds ; she could hear the
hyena's weird howling, laughing cry, the
jackal's hateful, fitful wail, the fox's short
cross yap, the wild-cat's hissing growl, the
flying fox's loud squeal, and the owl's
monotonous moan, with, strangest sound
of all to her, the extraordinary whir of
the ice-bird as of a stone rebounding over
ice.

Foolish girl ! she sat nursing her dread
instead of trying to forget it, and when,

now and then, the punkah-coolie fell asleep
and the flies returned to the attack, she
could not summon up enough resolution to
call to him to go on. Her thoughts were
very painful : the faint stirrings of maternal
love were still present, and with them a
very faint sense of her shortcomings as a
helpmeet were stirring also ; her husband's
piercing words rang in her ears. Was he
on his last legs ? Was his child going to
die too ? Was it not a horrible dream
she was dreaming ? Could this hour of
gloom and horror be real ? Her husband's
fitful breathing, the child's occasional low
moaning, answered the question. Poor
young wife, educated to fill an ideal existence,
kept ignorant of life's real aim and
duties !

Captain Scott awoke unrefreshed. His
strength was overtasked ; he had no
power to remember anything, and when he

was placed in the cooly and his wife kissed
him and whispered tender words, thus
trying to express her sorrow for having
hurt him, he was too weak to notice her,
and she crept away and settled herself in
her place with the child, feeling lonelier
and more dejected than ever. During her
momentary absence bearer had held the
baby close to the light, and as he shook
his head in mute dismay at its appearance,
one of the coolies asked him if it were
dead.

Dead — nay !' was the answer, ' but
surely dying.'

As he gave her to his mistress he begged
her to keep her warm.

'Warm!' Mrs. Scott said; 'that's easy
down here. She's better, isn't she ?'

When they had started, and she felt the
coolness of the night air, she remembered
the warning, and as she drew the quiet

little figure close a sweet sense of comfort
came to her. Was it possible she was
going to love this weary burthen ? She
tried to look at her when the torch-light
occasionally flashed into the cooly, but
the light was not strong enough to show
her the darkening lines growing about her
eyes and mouth. Nor was she alarmed by
the laboured breathing, nor the tightly-clenched
hands that refused to open in her
warm grasp.

For the first two hours the way lay
through dense jungle. On either side all
view was prevented by stunted trees and
thick underwood. Here and there, as they
passed some spot of evil reputation, the
men became frightened, and raised their
voices in shrill chorus to scare the evil
spirit or the wild beast who might be
hungering for man's flesh. Only a week
ago a mad elephant had attacked the dakin

these wilds, had trampled one runner to
death, and had pursued his companion for
miles. This beast was still at large.
Who could say how near he was ? Here,
again, a mangy man-eating tiger had
boldly entered a walled-in village, and
leaping upon the chief man's tattoo,
picketed in the very heart of the village,
had lifted him bodily and carried him off.

Shitan himself possessed the animals
here ! They were bullet-proof ; it was
useless to try to escape them. Nevertheless,
the poor fellows shouted their
loudest, and quickened their pace, and
when the deadly shelter of the Terai
jungle was left behind, audibly thanked
the Evil One who for once had taken their
side against the wild january.

Leaving the Terai, they came out on the
sandy reach through which the Ganges
spreads itself into numerous channels.

At this season every arm of the mighty
river was full, and it was here the real
dangers of the journey lay. The night
was dark and cloudy, and out in the open
the wind blew strongly. At every intersecting
stream there was long delay. If
the water was fordable the coolies merely
raised the coolies to their heads and
walked through ; if it was too deep to ford,
the coolies were placed on crazy native
punts, and so forwarded. In either case,
there was more noise than labour ; voices
rose loud and shrill in ejaculation, interrogation,
anger, or persuasion ; the torches
flared and flickered, sending their stifling
smoke over the travellers, half choking
Captain Scott and making the baby
gasp.

When the main bed of the river was
reached the excitement culminated. There
a large ferry boat received both coolies,

and as they were placed side by side, husband
and wife could speak to each other.
Janie, who had been very frightened during
these several watery passages, was relieved
to be beside her husband again,
and bent forward eagerly to greet him; but
he seemed weaker than ever, complained
of cold and heat, and talked incoherently
of having still another river to cross all
alone.

She listened while her heart beat fast
with alarm. The feeble voice was only
audible now and then, because of the noisy
gusts of wind, the creaking of the ferry
chains, and the shouting of the servants.
The child in her arms feebly kicking was as
nothing to the seemingly dying father.
She made herself speak hopefully of their
nearness to the doctor at Moradabad, of
the daylight close by ; but he paid no
attention to her words, and the direst

forebodings oppressed her. A new cause
for fear sprung up as soon as they found
themselves on land again. Once out of the
shelter of the high banks, they became
exposed to a hurricane, and the cooly
was in momentary danger of being blown
over. Mrs. Scott screamed, and when
bearer reached her he was in just as great
a terror.

1 Mem sahib,' he said, holding his turban
on and hardly able to speak for want of
breath, ' we must get shelter somewhere.
Here is a regular dust-storm ; the sahib
will be killed in it.'

What does the sahib say ? she cried.

1 The sahib can say nothing. If the
mem sahib will only give leave, there is a
village near where we can shelter till the
storm is over.'

As he spoke, he had to hold on by the
cooly to keep on his feet, and the heavy

wraps over Mrs. Scott were lifted by the
furious searching wind.

Oh, take us there quickly !' she cried in
increasing fear. ' Anything to be out of
this howling, scowling desert !'

It was the darkest hour of the night —
the hour before dawn — as the bearers,
staggering before the blast, conveyed the
coolies into the safe shelter of the dilapidated
mud walls that screened the heap
of mud hovels which usually constitute an
Indian village. The head man was at
once aroused, and with many salaams he
placed all he had at the disposal of the
welcome visitors.

As a rule, Indians are never profoundly
asleep in their closed houses, and the
coolies had only just been put down
when they were surrounded by people of
both sexes and all ages, accompanied by
numerous pariah dogs.

vol. i. 6

Poor Mrs. Scott had been afraid of the
storm, but she was now infinitely more afraid
of the close proximity of these unkempt
natives and unsavoury dogs. The drenching
storm of rain that presently burst upon
them drove most of the crowd to shelter,
and the coolies had to be placed in a
shed, shared with some cows, a tattoo, and
a few goats and dogs. Here the faintness
and smell quite overpowered the travellers.
Mrs. Scott fainted, and her husband
roused himself to insist on being carried
out into the open air, rain or no rain.

The cool, damp wind soon restored both,
but Janie shivered with ague, and the bearer
handed the baby to a woman in the crowd
till the poor mother regained control over
her trembling limbs. The villagers made
their remarks loudly on their unexpected
guests ; and though Mrs. Scott only
understood a word here and there, she

heard enough to make her thoroughly
miserable.

As daylight came, the storm dispersed,
and a brilliant sunrise threw a glamour
over the dirt and untidiness of the surroundings.
Baby had been attended toby
her pitying new friends ; her parents
had drank some new milk, and rewarded
the givers ; and, as the coolies were
raised, the simple kindly people showered
blessings on their occupants.

As her husband was removed from her
side, Mrs. Scott said :

We shall soon be all right, darling.
You feel better, don't you ? The worst
is over.'

Yet, as she spoke, she was thinking of
the villagers' remarks upon his death-like
appearance.

He looked at her earnestly.

I don't think you are much better than

6—2

I am,' he answered. ' I have made up my
mind to get an ayah at Moradabad. If
you knock up, what shall I do ?'

He spoke so tenderly that she felt comforted
and cheered, and, as the child was
quiet and seemed inclined to sleep, the first
hour of the renewed journey passed over
well; but as the sun grew intensely hot,
and the dust raised by the coolies' feet rose
in clouds, invading the cooly and shutting-out
all view, the little thing became restless,
and its mother was again reduced to
despair. She had tasted no food for hours,
the attack of ague had greatly exhausted
her, and now she became an easy prey to
fever.

She would not stop, for the delay during
the storm had already prolonged their progress
dangerously, and she had not sense
enough remaining to take some quinine.
The licht burthen of the child seemed

alternately feather-light and heavy as lead ;
a terror possessed her lest she should let it
fall or squeeze it too closely ; her very individuality
puzzled her — the baby was the
only reality she had the power to grasp ;
yet it was not a baby, but a terrible phantom
overpowering her mind and body.
The damp and heat of the storm, the
worry at the dak bungalow at Rajket, her
inexperience and terror, were all powerful
aids to illness, and her weakened constitution
could not fight against them.

She kept a certain degree of consciousness
till they reached Moradabad. Its
great gates, vast market-place, and wide
bazaars impressed her, and were mixed up
in her thoughts with Walter Scott's novels ;
while she was also observant of the merchants,
shawled and turbaned, gravely sitting
on their shop-boards surrounded by
piles of gay-coloured cloths and jewellery,

the heaps of coloured bracelets and anklets,
the nose and ear and toe rings, the savoury
nawab stalls, the tempting pan, the sweets,
and bright horse-trappings, the busy crowd
in their gay turbans and flowing sarees ;
then her overtaxed body overwhelmed her
brain — all and everything became chaotic
and blurred ; and when the little party
stopped at last at the further side of the
town, under the deep-shaded veranda of
the dak bungalow, a senseless baby lay at
the feet of an equally senseless mother.

Good-bye.

The Doctor of the 130th Regiment,
stationed at Moradabad, was breakfasting.
He was finishing a big basin of thalia — a
compound of wheat and milk, answering to
English furmity ; while dishes of eggs and
bacon, curry and omelette, fish, Irish stew,
with trifles, such as jam and fresh fruits to
follow, were circled round him for future
consideration. He had well earned his
meal : hospital, married quarters, and
private visits, had kept him at work since
before sunrise, and now at ten o'clock,

after a bath and a glance at the Pioneer,
he felt himself entitled to a long rest.

Two or three other officers were still at
table ; they had breakfasted, but loitered
on the chance of hearing any gossip the
doctor might have picked up in his rounds.

1 Those selfish married fellows !' the
Doctor said, as he swallowed his thalia ;
'they keep one button-holed in the hot
sun to hear how their clever youngsters are
getting on at home — as if all youngsters
weren't alike : nuisances to every fellow
but their father and mother !'

You're ruining your appetite with that
sickness, Doctor !' the youngest sub exclaimed.
* Try the unde-poche ; you'll
take a kinder view of your fellow-creatures
then.'

The Doctor finished the reviled mess
with a grunt of satisfaction and a wink at
the boy.

Children who smoke and drink at a
tender age such as yours,' he said, 'are no
judges of what is fit. I want a hot water
plate, Khansamah !'

He piled his plate with curry and rice,
and continued talking.

Married fellows are always flaunting
their homes and their youngsters in one's
face, as if one couldn't have a home and
youngsters of one's own, if one chose.'

1 No, that's just it !' cried the sub ;
you know the difficulty is for you to get
the "one" to " choose " you. Confess,
old fellow, you've asked every spin you
ever came across, and can't get one of
them all to take up her spoon with you ;
they all know your pay doesn't suffice for
your grub !'

A lauorh went round, in which the
Doctor joined.

1 " Needles and pins !" he sang,

THE SCOTTS OF Westminster

'needles and pins! When a man
marries his trouble begins." No, no ;
I never need to ask, my boy ; the
difficulty is to keep the girls from asking
me. It's so awkward for a fellow to have
to say No.'

There's the Major,' he continued, after
tossing down a basinful of tea; ' his precious
baby didn't sleep last night, so they think
it's getting measles or small-pox — the brat's
as lively as a flea.'

Come now, Doctor ; it's a darling, you
know it is. I heard you tell its mother so
yesterday.'

She's so pretty, how could I help it ?
Well, I think the Barlow baby is a darling,
but it is an exception, just the same as the
Barlows are exceptions. If I could find
another Mrs. Barlow, I really think I could
persuade myself to run in double harness.'

He helped himself to a fresh supply of

food, and was about to enj'07 it, when his
servant interrupted him.

wSahib/ he said, ' here is a man from
the dak bungalow.'

1 Tell him to wait.'

'He says he can't wait; his master is
dead.'

Then I can't be of any use.'

1 And his mem sahib is dead.'

1 What does the fool mean ?'

And the chota missy baba is dead.'

1 Then they'd best bury them all
together.'

'Sahib,' the man continued very emphatically,
' they are officer people from
the hills — white officer people — and the
bungalow wallah won't admit them.'

All the officers sprang to their feet, and
ran into the outer veranda, where the
Scott's bearer, looking wayworn and weary,
took up the story.

'Will the Doctor sahib come quickly?'
he said ; ' my master, Captain Scott
sahib, was flying to Bombay — the Naini
Tal doctors ordered him off to save his
life. They feared he could not bear the
journey, but it was his only chance. He
did bear it pretty well till about two coss
from here, when he could no longer bear
the jolting of the cooly ; we thought he
would have died. I ran to tell the mem
sahib, but she could not understand ; she
had the fever. The sahib revived a little,
and bade us hurry on ; but when we reached
the rest-bungalow he was speechless, and
the bungalow man said they were all dead,
and would not let them in.'

The Doctor was working himself into
his white uniform as he listened ; his
horse had already been sent for. Sympathy
is quickly evoked in India ; and ashe
galloped across the short space that

divided the mess from the dak bungalow
he was followed by the young men who
had listened to the sad story with him.

They found the bearer's story all too
true. Mrs. Scott lay senseless in her
cooly, her child huddled up at her feet ;
the husband, with glazed, drawn, lemon-coloured
face, was lying back open-eyed,
and only just conscious ; while
the coolies, squatting open - mouthed
around, stared at each unfortunate in turn,
impotent to help.

The Doctor's storm of invectives brought
the keeper of the bungalow to his senses ;
the doors were flung open, the best rooms
hastily arranged, the coolies carried in
out of the heated air, and the sufferers
made as comfortable as circumstances permitted.
The Doctor carried Mrs. Scott
to a charity, and did his best to restore
animation ; while his companions placed

Captain Scott on a bedstead on the
opposite side of the room ; and bearer
loosened the baby's clothing, and rubbed
the emaciated little form.

Captain Scott was soon able to speak,
but his wife's condition baffled all attempts
at recovery. As for the baby, her frail life
was restored as if by a miracle ; but though
she took nourishment and lost her pallor,
she was sickly enough to make the Doctor
send off for one of the ladies of his regiment
to come to her rescue. She needed
a woman's care.

The young sub volunteered to fetch one,
and brought back both a lady and her
husband, the Major and Mrs. Barlow who
had been discussed so lately. Fortunately
the Major remembered Captain Scott
at Sandhurst, and though the one had
been almost ready to pass out when the
other was only going in, the slight link was

quite enough so far from home to make
them feel like old friends. So the Major
seated himself by the Captain, and questioned
and listened sympathetically, while
his wife assisted the Doctor.

Captain Scott's eyes brightened ashe
watched the pretty young woman bend
tenderly over his wife ; the very room became
light and fresh by her presence. She
had one of those few fortunate constitutions
that expand and blossom as if in their
proper element in the Indian climate ; no
English gfiri on English soil could show a
rosier complexion. And she knew how
to dress becomingly : her dainty attire of
spotless white was made as no other
woman in the station could make theirs
not even with Paris patterns. Yet her
dirzee made everything, and the Major
truthfully boasted of her economy in dress.
The motherly manner with which she

crooned over the feeble baby, the quick
tears starting as she noticed her miserable
plight, touched the young father profoundly.
Would his poor feeble wife ever
expand into so gracious a woman as this ?
Tempting dainties followed in her wake,
and, to his own great astonishment, Captain
Scott ate and drank, and was
cheered and invigorated as much by the
companionship as by the food.

When, after long and patient watchfulness
and pains, the Doctor succeeded in
restoring animation to the other patient,
and she opened her eyes, the question of
continuing the journey was discussed, and
absolutely negatived by the new friends.
Another doctor had been fetched, and
while both doctors declared the husband
must go forward, they were equally decided
the wife and child could only be
hurried on at the risk of their lives. The

time when the train would leave was
drawing near before this could be made
clear to Captain Scott, and when he at
length realized what was required of him,
he put off his decision ' till Janie regains
consciousness.'

But Mrs. Scott, with open but speculative
eyes, made no response when she
was addressed, nor did the slightest emotion
appear on her white face when her
husband staggered across the room to her
side and again and again called to her to
notice him.

As considerately as was possible, the
doctors told him it was best she should be
left undisturbed. Her brain was evidently
unable to act naturally ; indeed, there was
danger in trying to force it into activity.
They assured him she needed nothing but
prolonged rest, but that rest must be given
at once.

vol. i. 7

He sat holding his watch in a miserable
state of perplexity and indecision. He said
he didn't mind dying alone, but she would
distress herself so much if he left her behind.
As he spoke his eyes moved restlessly from
one to the other with an impotent, beseeching
expression. His companions said what
they could.

She'll understand the emergency when
she's herself again,' said one.

1 It would be cruel to make her travel in
her state,' said another.

You must go ; you have no choice,' said
the one doctor. ' We should be blamed tolet
you remain.'

1 And with your good bearer to look after
you, your wife will feel quite sure you will
be taken care of,' said the second,

And I am going to take her home with
me,' Mrs. Barlow added, smiling upon him.
4 I have three such nice rooms to spare,

and baby will have my experienced
ayah to nurse her up, and you won't know
either of them when you meet them
again.'

He smiled a smile akin to tears, and fora
moment could not speak.

1 You don't know what a mere girl she
is,' he said at last. ' She'll fret herself to
death. Yet it would be best for her to be
with such good friends.'

They knew he was thinking of the event
of his death before he reached Bombay,
but took advantage of the slight appearance
of yielding.

Then,' said the Major, ' we have your
permission to keep her and the child until
they are fit to follow you. You will telegraph
from Bombay and again from Aden,
and of course when you arrive at Southampton.
Send bearer back to us, and he
will be handy on the journey again. 



sides, he will tell Mrs. Scott all the particulars
she will wish to hear.'

Captain Scott thought silently for awhile,
bringing his weakened mind to see little by
little the desirability of accepting the Barlows'
kindness.

1 If it must be so, it must,' he said
at last ; ' but if she wakes up before I start
and seems all right again ?'

Oh, in that case she would go with you.'

The Doctor spoke thus, perfectly certain
in his own mind the poor girl would not be
all right ' for many a day.

Captain Scott scribbled a few words to
be given his wife in case she did not accompany
him, and gave her father's address
at Allahabad. He insisted, too, on leaving
a heavy cheque for her expenses, and by
the time these business matters were over,
bearer had the cooly in and his departure
was at hand.

Once more he staggered to his wife's
side, and as he observed the red spots
on each cheek, and listened to her rapid
breathing, he became painfully agitated,
and, looking round in sudden suspicion,
entreated them to tell him the truth. Was
she dying, too ?

The doctors assured him she was in
no danger — the fever was at its height,
and she had been over-tired — adding
:

1 But you must acknowledge she is not
fit to travel.'

I can't leave her like this !' he cried ;
1 it would be shocking ! How could I
face her people after leaving her to die
alone amongst strangers ? No ; I don't
mean strangers — never were there such
good friends. God bless you all !'

In his dire weakness he sank into a
chair trembling, and all the arguments had

to be gone over again, before he was induced
once more to do as they advised.

Once more he clasped her burning
hands, and kissed the lips that had never
before been unresponsive to his.

You will tell her,' he said, ' how I left
her — how hard it was. You will telegraph
to me at Bombay and Aden. I will be
sure to do so too — if I get as far.'

Mrs. Barlow's bright eyes were full of
tears, but she affected a gaiety she felt to
be odious, and as he was about to enter
the cooly, she held his baby towards
him.

Say good-bye to your daughter, papa !'

He looked down on the puckered sallow
caricature of a face with a look of disgust.


What a miserable little atom !' he said,
and was about to pass on, when a sudden
impulse changed him, making him bend

down and kiss her. ' I never cared for
babies of that age,' he added apologetically,
' and she is such a scarecrow, isn't
she?'

In after-years he often remembered
that first and last kiss, and was glad of it.
As he was carried out into the veranda,
the strains of a band playing a then
fashionable waltz were heard. Scarcely
a year ago he and Janie had never tired
of dancing together to it ; scarcely a year
ago, when the separation of an hour or
two was insupportable to both, and now
he was going to leave her — perhaps forever.
He called out to be put down
again ; he had changed his mind — he
would wait till tomorrow ; but he was
not obeyed.

1 Quickly, quickly !' cried the Doctor
to the bearers, ■ or you'll miss the train.'

At the station there were six or seven

good fellows, some friends of his friends,
others merely attracted by good fellowship,
wishful to cheer him onward. A
book, some papers, some fruit, a cushion,
a porous water-bottle to sling in the
window, a stout stick, a merry message
to London, kindnesses thrust upon him
by men of whose names he was ignorant,
made him take his place in the train
with some degree of hope. He smiled
out at them as he slowly passed away,
their cheery faces floating encouragingly
in his memory as he was carried onward ;
but their countenances were sad enough
as soon as he was out of sight.

Write, his children fatherless, and his
wife a widow,' some one said solemnly,
and no one felt the quotation inapt.

So Captain Scott was carried onward
through ' the lonely land,' and the smooth
rapid motion suited him much better than

the jolting of the often uneven motion of
the cooly. He began to be interested in
the scenes ; to notice the immensity of the
levels ; the violet tints on the distant hills ;
the varied olives, greens, and browns of the
colossal trees ; the depth of the matted
jungle underwood, with its occasional
breaks of vivid cultivation ; the heavy
widespread eagles swooping through the
burning air ; the solitary sarum and bustards
standing contemplatively by the reedy
watercourses ; the great herds of antlered
deer bounding along the open, wisely
keeping clear of the tiger-haunted cover,
however great their terror of the rattling
train ; the beautiful white storks, and the
gentleman-like adjutants, besides the host
of smaller gayer birds, and the never-absent
screaming vultures and kites.

He had left these plains so short a
time ago, and yet now that he was

back on them again, he felt as pleased as
if he were looking on the face of an old
friend ; the very dried-up appearance of the
long grass was welcome : it showed him
he was among familiar scenes once more,
no longer boxed up and motionless in the
gloom and damp of Naini Tal. But as
the sun sank, and the solemn half-light
of an Indian night fell upon the country,
his thoughts, driven inward, became assad
as before, and he taxed himself with
deliberate desertion of his dying wife.
Her voice rang in his ears as he remembered
how, when Mrs. Lister had proposed
he should leave her at Naini Ital,
she had said, ' I shall die if you go without
me ;' and yet, forgetful of her youth and
inexperience and timidity, her entire dependence
on him, he had forsworn himself,
and selfishly set aside her tender
pleading.

So by the time the train stopped, in the
middle of the night, to let the travellers
refresh themselves, he had made up his
mind to go back at all risks, and bearer was
ordered to pull out the luggage, and make
the necessary arrangements.

A passenger hurrying along the crowded
platform noticed the invalid, and accosted
him :

What, Scott !' he exclaimed ; ' and on
the way to Bombay ! What's up ? and
where's the missis ?'

Captain Scott's hollow eyes brightened
as he recognised an old civilian friend ;
and he rapidly poured his story into his
sympathizing ears, adding :

1 Of course I can't leave India unless
she can come with me ! I'm going back
by the next train.'

But Mr. Cartwright was a friend in
need, and he argued against such a plan

so convincingly that once more Captain
Scott allowed himself to be persuaded to
go on ; his friend settled himself at his
side, and, like a good fellow, gave himself
up to cheer and soothe his companion.
When they reached Bombay, he took all
further arrangements upon himself, settled
him comfortably at ' Watson's ' till they
had to go on board ship, and with great
delight brought him a telegram from Moradabad
containing reassuring news of Janie.

Barlow sends it,' Captain Scott said,
only half satisfied. ' My wife must be
very ill yet, or she would have sent it.'

Oh, nonsense ! Of course Barlow
sends it ! You don't suppose there would
be a miracle, do you ? Mrs. Scott can't
be quite well, but she is better.'

And there is no mention of the child,'
Scott continued, turning the telegram
about.

1 No mention of the child ? Of course
not. It's sure to be all right. You won't
know it when it runs to meet you at
Southampton.'

Captain Scott questioned the possibility
of its running to meet him.

They don't run alone at three months,
do they ?' he asked.

His bachelor friend supposed not, but
confessed his ignorance. Some faint stirring
of fatherly pride awoke as the invalid
pictured the little scene of reunion, and he
determined to ask for information of some
lady-passenger.

Lying comfortably in harbour, on the
shaded deck of the homeward-bound ship,
he managed to write a tolerably cheerful
and very loving letter to his 'poor darling,'
as he called her ; and as he felt inexpressibly
refreshed already by the soft swaying
of the vessel and the exquisite beauty

of the surroundings, he declared he was
quite recovered enough at least to wait
till she was with him. When his friend
joined him, he told him he was resolved
to remain in Bombay ; and getting upto
convince him of his wonderful strength,
he all but fell headlong.

The pilot's on board,' Mr. Cartwright
said, as he put him back in his reclining
chair. ' Cut that epistle short, and fasten
it up, there's a good fellow ; or when we
begin to roll you may not be so fit as you
are just now. There's no going back
possible for you or me.'

TIMELY REST.

For three days after her removal to the
Barlows' bungalow, Mrs. Scott lay in that
borderland which is neither life nor death,
neither being nor annihilation, when outward
signs are unheard, outward sights
unseen ; then she became conscious to a
certain limited extent. She felt herself as
an individuality, yet had a far-off sense of
being someone else — things were palpable
and impalpable at the same time, and she
saw forms that were not, mingled with
forms that were. Reason was swallowed

up in nonsense, and voices round her were
alternately very faint and very loud, just
as her hand or le<j seemed at one moment
preposterously big and heavy, and at the
other a mere shadow without weight. She
felt no curiosity about anything, nor had
she the power to recollect.

While she was lying powerless, a tiny
coffin was brought out of the house just as
the men were assembling for parade, and
Major Barlow got leave to accompany his
wife to the cemetery, where he and she
drove off in the early morning to bury the
little stranger. Kindly mothers, passing
for their early drive, sorrowed for the
child's untimely death, and many a sympathizing
voice, repeating the sad story of
the parents, was hushed in tender pity.
On that day it seemed unlikely the mother
could recover, and the bungalow was beset
by callers to inquire for her. The whole

station felt for her as only strangers in a
strange land do feel for each other's trials,
and Mrs. Barlow could have had any
amount of volunteer nurses ; but after a
night of watching and intense anxiety the
doctors gave a favourable opinion, and it
was then the telegram was sent to Bombay,
the news of the child's death being withheld
for the time.

When Mrs. Scott first recovered sufficiently
to realize freedom from pain, and
a sense of peace and rest to which she had
long been a stranger, her eyes were first
attracted by the punkah flounce of snowy
whiteness, so different to the coarse, gray,
grim one that had hung in the Rest-house.
Then she was sensible of the smell of
roses, and her tired eyes rested on a big
basin full of fragrant clusters just under
the punkah's influence, and she thought
vaguely of a story she had lately read,

vol. 1. 8

The Little Pilgrim,' and feebly calling
to mind its opening pages, descriptive
of the freed soul's first rapture in the rest
and sweetness of the heavenly garden,
began slowly to wonder whether she had
cast off the burthen of the flesh and was safe
in the eternal home ; but as she tried to
raise herself to look further into her surroundings,
sparks of fire seemed to flash
into her eyes, and the weight of her head
answered the inquiry most conclusively.
Days had to pass into weeks before she
could ask and bear to be told how she had
reached her present home, and the fact of
the baby's death was kept from her till all
fear of a relapse was over.

The thought of the child possessed he
through her return to convalescence as
something pleasant, and when she occasionally
heard the sound of a baby's voice,
her face would flush and her eyes sparkle.

She was put off with excuses when she first
asked to see it; she was told it was asleep, or
out, or the Doctor insisted on her being kept
perfectly still ; and she was satisfied for a
time, feeling her own inability to be of the
slightest use to it ; but when she was well
enough to sit up and read her husband's
letter — that precious letter which had remained
so long unread under her pillow —
and could bear to be lifted out of bed fora
few hours daily, it was impossible to
delay breaking the news much longer.

The fact of her husband having left her
caused her no pain ; never in the least did
she blame him for it — on the contrary, she
gave him credit for all the sorrow and reluctance
he had really felt. Her own weakness
and uselessness at such a crisis grieved
her. In the long hours of convalescence
that stood forth reproachfully. Her mind
seemed to have strengthened during her

8—2

illness, and she now saw more clearly what
she might have done. Very humbly she
determined to do better in the future —
better for the little creature whom she
thought of no longer as a grievous burthen,
better for the husband to whom she had
proved herself so useless. So she remained
a few days longer content to keep quiet, so
as to get better sooner ; and though she was
unable to amuse herself by reading, or working,
or even talking much — for no strength
had yet returned to her voice — she was by
no means unhappy. She became learned
in the erratic pulls of the punkah coolie,
and could tell his moods to a surety. She
knew how often in the hour he took sleep,
how often he woke with a snort and
did his best to make up for lost time.
She would count the gaping warps in the
many doors of her room and wonder how
long it would be before the splits became

yawning gaps. She learned to distinguish
the old lizards, with their skins like stone,
from the young lizards, with their leathery
hides ; the very squeaks of the musk-rats
had degrees in her sharpened hearing :
the chatter of the minas in the roof
assumed meanings undreamed of by uninterested
listeners ; and when in the comparative
cool of the evenings her doors
were opened on the veranda, and numerous
insects flew around her, she could classify
them by the different flutter of their wings.
And she was no longer afraid of all these
creatures, as she had been so lately, though
she was in her helplessness comparatively
at their mercy. Deeper feelings had
sprung up, and were slowly at work in her
awakening mind.

The last time Mrs. Barlow had made
an excuse about bringing the child to her
Mrs. Scott had felt rather hurt, but had

soon resolved in her humility that they
knew of her stupidity and incapacity, and
would not trust it to her. She said something
of this when Mrs. Barlow sat working
by her next morning.

If you will bring baby, I will not ask to
take it,' she said ; ' I will watch you with it,
and by-and-by I shall learn how to handle it.'

Mrs. Barlow was nonplussed, and once
more tried to put her off.

You had a bad night, dear,' she said ;
1 wait till the Doctor has been, and we'll
hear what he: thinks.'

At that moment the low laugh of a baby
was heard ; it was the precious Barlow boy
being brought home from his early ride.
Mrs. Scott became excited ; she raised her
thin hands :

I hear her!' she cried. 'No, I can't
wait any longer ; fetch her now, or I shall
try and fetch her myself.'

The work dropped from Mrs. Barlow's
hands.

4 That is my baby,' was all she could

say.

Is it?' cried the invalid, still unsuspicious
of the truth. ' Then you have a baby, too !
Go and bring them both— do— directly !'

It's too o-reat an exertion,' Mrs. Barlow
answered, painfully conscious of her
cowardly evasion.

It would do me so much good to see
her again, dear,' Mrs. Scott said imploringly
; ' perhaps you know I didn't much
care for her at first— I didn't know what
to do with her— but now I seem to yearn
for her ; she must be so grown, and perhaps
she is like Charley. Ayah used to say she
would grow like him.'

This was getting worse and worse ; still,
Mrs. Barlow could not think of what was
best to do or say. Would it be safe to tell

the truth to this shadowy, yellow-skinned,
trembling invalid ?

She must notice things by now,' the
latter continued, flushing and paling as she
talked. ' See, there is a hoopoe outside —
fetch her now and let me see if she notices
it.'

I hear the Doctor !' Mrs. Barlow cried,
unable to bear it any longer ; ' lie still justa
few moments longer, and I will bring
him.'

So saying, she flew out of the room,
while Mrs. Scott, full of glad anticipation,
waited as patiently as she could. But the
sound Mrs. Barlow had heard was not
the sound of the Doctor's horse, but of
her husband's. Major Barlow gave that
customary call which most English officers
give on their return from parade in the hot
weather — for whisky and soda — and then
turned to his wife.

What's up ?' he said, remarking her
agitation ; ' are you ill, my pet ?'

Oh, what shall I say to her ? She asks
for her baby, and I can't tell her ; I forget
what we decided to say. Would you mind
telling her, Dick dear ? I cant'

1 No,' he answered, drawing her to him
and speaking very seriously ; ' think if it
were our boy, and you had to be told :
wouldn't you like some kind woman-friend
to tell you best ?'

She burst into tears.

1 Yes, of course, you are always right,
Dick ; but, oh ! do tell me what to say.'

1 The right words will come to you,' he
said soothingly ; ' take the boy with you ;
she will like to see him !'

Oh, Dick, if it were me, I should hate
all other babies ; I should think they had
no right to thrive and live if mine were
dead. No, I mustn't let him be seen.'

1 Well, then, you know best ; but go and
get it over at once. Don't torture her. I
advise you to take sonny.'

So, with an idea under all that the sight
of her boy must be cheering under any
circumstances, she decided at last to comfort
herself with his presence in the coming
ordeal, and with the strong bright child in
her arms she returned to Mrs. Scott. The
latter for an instant took him to be her
own, but only for an instant : his size and
age forbade her to deceive herself.

1 What a dear little thing !' she cried, in
genuine admiration ; ' and is mine coming ?
She must look a shrimp in comparison ;'
and her eyes watched to see her come
through after her friend.

Mrs. Barlow seated herself by the bedside.


1 You forget how very, very ill your dear
baby was,' she said softly, clasping her

blooming boy in her arms as if for courage
to proceed.

Oh no, I don't. Those kind people in
the village where we took refuge said how
ill it was ; they said, too, my husband was
dying, but you see they were wrong.'

1 When I brought it here,' Mrs. Barlow
continued, ' I thought it could not live.
Ayah undressed it. We cried over its little
wasted body.'

1 It wanted experienced nursing,' Mrs.
Scott said. ' Didn't it get easier directly
you took it in hand ?'

1 Dr. Harold gave us no hope from the
first.'

As she spoke, Mrs. Barlowburied her face
in her boy's curls, wondering how to go on.

1 Poor little darling, I wonder if it will
know me soon.'

Not a doubt had crossed her yet ; she
still watched the door.

Then in desperation her companion
spoke out :

• Can't you understand ? Oh, don't you
remember it was dying all the way down ?
Dear Mrs. Scott, you must not grieve;
you must get over it for your husband's
sake !'

As she spoke, she put her boy down on
the floor and clasped Mrs. Scott's hands,
watching the effect of her words, dreading
lest she had been too outspoken, or not
outspoken enough. She was immensely
relieved when, instead of scream, or faint,
or hysterical outburst, as would have been
her own way of taking such a blow, the
invalid's low voice said calmly :

1 Then she is dead — God has taken her
from me ! He saw I was not fit to take
care of her.'

1 I don't think she felt it half as much as
I did,' Mrs. Barlow told her husband afterwards.

' She would hear all about how it
died, and how we buried it ; and she said
she must go and see about its grave ; but
she didn't cry. She only said would we all
keep away from her to-day. She would
be better alone. And she kissed baby two
or three times, and actually smiled at him.
If he had died, and she had brought her
baby to me, I am sure I could have killed
them both.'

Ah, but you are a vixen !' her husband
said, kissing her ; ' she's a different nature.
I dare say she's crying her eyes out now.
You'd better go in quietly after awhile
and make her eat something.'

But she was not crying — not even
grieving ; a dull sense of pain benumbed
her ; she said to herself she had no feeling.
She could not grieve for her separation
from her husband, and now she could not
sorrow for the loss of her first-born. Only

a few hours before a warm yearning towards
the child had made her happy ; now
she acquiesced in her removal ; not because
it was best for the little one, but because it
was a proper punishment for herself. Life
had brought her all its best things, and she
had not known how to use them. How
should she dare to pray for these good
gifts to be restored ? How should she
dare to pray at all to an offended God ?
In the deepest self-abasement she bemoaned
herself, yet no light came to her.
It was almost as if she were content to
remain out of God's sight and hearing,
and would not seek for light or help. She
acquiesced in the righteousness of the trial,
while she saw no comfort to be drawn from
it ; and there was no kindly voice near
to show her how her bodily weakness
overpowered her reason.

Mrs. Barlow peeped in at luncheon-time,

and seeing her sleeping, quietly withdrew
again ; but tiffin was not over before a
piercing scream sounded from the sickroom,
Both Major and Mrs. Barlow
rushed in, to find their truest fighting an
imaginary foe — dashing her hands before
her, and screaming for help, her eyes
remaining shut, and her face wet with
perspiration.

She was dreaming a horrible dream,
she explained, when they had succeeded in
making her conscious. She thought she was
on board ship in a violent storm, she felt the
deck give way beneath her feet, and she
had been flung into the boiling sea, where
she felt herself fighting with the waves.
Mrs. Barlow was with her, and Major
Mortimer, and many people she had never
seen before ; and it was all so real and
vivid that she wept and trembled even
after she had come to herself, and the

Doctor had to be fetched before she could
be restored to anything like calm.

Mrs. Barlow could understand and
appreciate this violent mood, and was
quite in her element expostulating and
soothing, and Hying about telling the many
friends who dropped in every afternoon, just
before going to hear the band, how she
had fancied this and that when her visitor's
shriek sounded ; how her heart had actually
ceased to beat ; and how even the boy had
been frightened to tears.

The next day it was evident that a great
change had come to Mrs. Scott — as if a
strong revulsion had been forced by the
shock of the vivid dream. Indeed,
it had done for her what all the
medicine had failed to do. It had done
more than this. It had freed her mind
from the Calvinistic horror which had
bound it ; and in her great thankfulness

to wake and find the shipwreck terrors
were unreal her soul had leapt up in
unshackled praise, and she was able to
acknowledge not only that all was well
with the child, but that she could and
would use the sorrow aright. She exerted
herself so effectually that in a day or two
she was able to drive to the cemetery and
order a little cross to mark the grave ; and
when Mrs. Barlow's friends came, she did
not shrink from seeing them. But the
Barlow r baby was her greatest pleasure.
It was as if she would make up for her
want of interest in the dead baby by devotion
to the living.

The precious Barlow baby reigned a
king over the household ; he was, indeed,
a gilded youth. He had his ayah and his
bearer, his pony for his rides at dawn, his
well-hung bullock-cart for evening attendance
at the band, his own cow for his own

vol. 1. 9

refreshment, his own punkah and tattle
to keep his own apartments cool,
and the rest of the establishment at his
beck and call. The advent of a tooth
sent a thrill through the family, and its
arrival created a sensation in the neighbourhood.
Major Barlow was the tallest
and best-grown man in the cantonment,
but even he trembled when his boy looked
languid. They told a story about him one
night at mess — how he had appeared at
orderly-room looking so woebegone as to
attract the sympathetic notice of all the
officers, from the Colonel downwards.

Touch of fever, eh ?' said the chief.

Down on your luck, Major?' said the
Adjutant.

Not a beastly sunstroke ?' said his
Captain.

1 Swallowed a hearse,' whispered the
youngest sub.

The Major sighed, and said something
about swelled gums and lancing and a
sleepless night.

1 Decayed tooth, no doubt,' the Colonel
said, and offered to give him some gutta-percha
to fill the cavity till he could get
hold of a dentist, at which the Major
smiled sadly, and explained, so gravely
that no one dare risk a smile :

1 I am speaking of our poor little laddie.'

Indeed, though the bachelors had many
a joke about the precious boy, they took
care to keep it among themselves ; for the
Barlows' bungalow was much too pleasant
a refuge to run any risk of forfeiting their
welcome there.

When a letter was received from Captain
Scott, announcing his safe arrival in
England in astonishingly recovered health,
and urging his wife to follow him as soon
as she could, Mrs. Scott declared herself

9—2

perfectly able to travel, and, though still
mere skin and bones, she would listen to
no inducement to remain for the cold
season, but at once secured a passage
from Bombay for the first week in September.


On hearing of this plan, her father wrote
characteristically, ordering her to remain
where she was till she could travel in
comfort, wishing he could fetch her to
stay with him for a time, but he was
obliged to take his wife up to Candour,
and unreservedly censuring her husband
for his selfishness and thoughtlessness.

Janie smiled over this.

1 How absurdly unjust !' she said. ' If
Charley, at death's door, could take the
journey comfortably, how can it hurt me,
comparatively well as I am ? Why, we
shall have been separated four months
when we meet again in October !'

Her arrangements and plans infected
Mrs. Barlow, who began to think what
a nice thing it would be to take her precious
boy to show to her friends at home.
She declared if she could make up her
mind to leave her darling Richard, this
would be the time ; and, while Richard
laughed at the absurd notion, the idea
remained.

You have no excuse,' he said. ' This
climate suits you as well as it suits me,
so you'll have to wait to show off at
home till the boy needs to be taken to
school.'

Then, oddly enough, the very next week
Mrs. Barlow's radiant health succumbed
to a sharp attack of fever, and, in his
alarm, her husband proposed a visit to
England.

1 You couldn't have a better opportunity,
darling, than to go with your nice friend.

I should feel half reconciled to the separation,
knowing you were in such good company.'
he urged.

But then the depressed little woman
wouldn't hear of such a thing. ' Did he
want to get rid of her ? How could she
go away and leave him ?'

But the precious baby settled the vexed
question, as he settled most questions for
them. An obstinate tooth spurned even
the encouraging thrust of the lancet, and
the bright curly head lay low on his
bearer's shoulder, while the laughing eyes
refused to sparkle, no matter what new and
gorgeous toy was offered for his amusement,
and the hot, swollen mouth refused
to do its duty and let the irritating
molar through. For the precious child's
sake the parents would sacrifice themselves,
and, to Mrs. Scott's great delight, it was
settled she should have the company of

mother and child on her approaching
journey.

The Major took them to Bombay, made
their journey as bright and comfortable as
kindly forethought could, saw them onboard
the Elephant a, and kissed his wife
and child for the last time.

Mrs. Barlow sobbed and cried with a
vehemence that sorely tried her husband.

1 Try and get leave,' she exclaimed, ' and
come after us. Oh, why did I say I would
go away ! Let me go back with you, or I
shall die ! Oh, I know something will
happen, and we shall never meet again !'

Hush, hush !' he said, straining her to
him again and again. ' Now I must go.
Let me go, my dear love.' He broke
away from her, fearing to show his weakness
; then, turning to her before passing
out of sight, he added, ' Take care of my
boy !'

1 Now, why did he say that ?' she cried,
when he could no longer be seen ; and,
throwing herself on her berth, she wept
passionately.

Mrs. Scott stood pityingly over her, not
knowing how to comfort this uncontrollable
grief. But Mrs. Barlow thought her
apathetic, and reproached her for her
silence.

Ah !' she exclaimed, ' you are going
to your husband ; of course you can't feel
as I do, but I only know no power on
earth shall ever make me leave him again.
I shall get out at Aden, and come back.
I'm determined I won't go any further
She caught up the child, now restored to
his usual good health, and kissed him
till he struggled out of her grasp. ' As if
I wanted telling to take care of you !' she
said ; ' as if I could live at all out of his
sight unless I had you to comfort me !'

Presently sea-sickness laid her low,
and mercifully rendered her unmindful
of all and everything beside her own
suffering's.

Another letter from her husband reached
Mrs. Scott just before she began the
voyage — a very happy letter, declaring
he was so far restored to health that he
was ashamed to go before the medical
board in London, lest he should be looked
upon as an impostor, and bidding her lookout
for a porpoise when she arrived, instead
of the skeleton from whom she had
parted ; so no wonder she began the
journey hopefully and cheerfully ; and as
she was a good sailor, every breath of the
comparatively cool sea air strengthened
her. Sallow and lean and lemon-coloured
as she still was, she was yet attractive,
and her neighbour at table congratulated
himself.

Mrs. Scott's simple manner had a charm
independent of beauty — a restful charm
exceedingly pleasing by contrast with the
voluble self-asserting affectation of the
majority of the grass-widows who, with
a sprinkling of merchants, doctors, chaplains,
and officers, formed the rest of the
saloon passengers, and she in turn was
drawn towards the elderly Colonel who,
with the ship's captain, occupied the
seats on either side of her.

The Captain had given her the place
of honour on his right hand because she
was almost the only lady able to come to
table for the first two or three days, and
also because her girlish, delicate appearance
seemed to demand his special care ;
and she, feeling safe and happy between
the two fatherly gentlemen, soon
won their regard and confidence, and,
intuitively sure of their sympathizing

interest, told them her little story, and
mentioning her father's name, discovered
he was well known to Colonel Shepherd,
and that her mother, too, had been a
former friend — that young mother who
was a very shadowy recollection to
her.

On this discovery the two became quite
friendly, and little by little Janie learnt
his history for the last twenty years,
during which time he had never seen wife
and children, or been to England. His
youngest child was a wife and mother
already. He had intended going home
several times, but alw T says had some sufficient
reason for delay, another step to
wait for, a border riot to quell, a boy's
outfit to provide, the depreciation of the
rupee. Year by year had slipped away,
just till a certain debt was cleared off, ora
probable event occurred, the wife at

home taking her full share of patience
and anxiety, occasionally kicking against
the pricks, and resolving to join him if
he could not join her, then counting the
cost, and forcing herself to see it was
beyond their means ; Jack's crammer's bills
were heavier than had been calculated, or
Willie's failure in the exam, lengthened
his school expenses, or an impatient
wooer would wait no longer, and a trousseau
had to be provided at an inconvenient
season, or the girls were too
young to be taken out to India, too old
to be left to strangers — thus for twenty
years the self-denying couple had gone
on, always going to be, but never being
reunited ; and as the Colonel spoke of
seeing his family again at last, he admitted
he felt a horrible dread lest even now
something should prevent it.

1 Not shipwreck or death only,' he said.

4 I dread the effect of the long separation,
lest we may feel we have done without
each other so long, our ways and tastes
may have drifted apart, and we may be a
burthen to each other.'

When Mrs. Barlow was able to appear
she joined the trio at table and on deck,
where it was an established thing that the
Colonel's chair should be placed by Mrs.
Scott's. The precious Barlow baby was
another source of interest to him ; he
had a grandson the same age, and therefore
took a keen interest in the young
hero's teeth and general deportment, thereby
speedily gaining the young mother's
friendship.

In the child's temporary nurse they
found a further bond of union. She was
one of the second-class widows going
home ; and her late husband had formerly
been a gunner in the same battery with

Colonel Shepherd ; thus the latter considered
himself the natural guardian of
the three unprotected women, and they
as naturally looked to him as referee and
adviser, and, content with each other,
kept to themselves, and amused themselves
by themselves, thereby incurring
some ill-will from those outsiders to be
found on board ship as elsewhere, the
gossips and the vulgar.

GATHERING CLOUDS.

For the first few days new fellow-passengers
were constantly appearing as they
recovered from the first effects of the
voyage, and in one of the last Mrs. Scott
recognised her Naini Tal friend, Major
Mortimer. With an exclamation of pleasure,
she hastened towards the companion-way
— the Barlow baby in her arms — and
greeted him. He, too, showed considerable
pleasure in the meeting, and held her
hand, while he asked and was told the
reason of her presence.

1 My dear Mrs. Scott, you here ! but
Scott went lone a^o. I saw his name
down, and supposed you went, too, as a
matter of course. And the baby — how
she's grown ! Will she cry if I take her ?'

Then he stopped suddenly. Something
in her face rebuked him.

Didn't you know ?' she said softly.
1 Baby died at Moradabad — this is Mrs.
Barlow's child.'

She turned towards Mrs. Barlow, who
was watching curiously, and introduced the
Major. Then, with the freemasonry common
amongst military men, the Colonel and the
Major discovered each knew something of
the other; and the Major had once met
Mrs. Barlow's husband, so here was a
delightful addition to the little coterie, and
two bachelors from the North-West Provinces,
who were for ever hovering about
on the chance of talking to the two nicest

young women on board, were disgusted to
see this good-looking new man crop up and
diminish their chances.

There was real happiness to Mrs. Scott
in this unexpected meeting. Major Mortimer
formed part of her happiest life, and
had helped to lighten her burthen of sorrow
at Xaini Tal when that happy life was
shadowed. His last act had been one of
kindness to her dead baby and her apparently
dying husband. His last cheery
words still rang in her ear. He had been
her husband's great friend before she knew
either of them, too, and had been his best
man at that ceremony which had seemed
to place her above all further sorrow ; and
she rejoiced to think he was now to be her
companion till she rejoined the bright young
husband of that happy time, and life would
recommence for her under even fairer
auspices. Do we ever gain by experience ?

vol. 1. 10

Janie's imagination was free again. The
past had been dark, it is true, but with returning
health the memory of the trials of
the past was fading from her strengthening
mind, though she could never forget
how she had stumbled, nor ever think of
the lost child without a pang of self-reproach.


No,' Major Mortimer explained, when
she asked if he had intended to go home
when they last saw him. ' No, I had not,
but a relation I never saw left me a little
property, and it is necessary I should go on
that account'

Happy man !' Mrs. Barlow cried.

That depends.'

A smile broke over his face as he
spoke.

And never come back ?' Mrs. Scott
asked. ' Oh, I am sorry !'

That depends also. But you won't be

going back yet awhile ? — Scott will take his
furlough ?'

1 I don't know. We are sure to be back
as soon as he is able, and he says he's perfectly
well already.'

Perhaps we may travel back together
next autumn,' he said, smiling still more.
How nice it would be!'

He's going home to be married, of
course !' Mrs. Barlow said, when she and
Mrs. Scott, who shared one cabin, were
alone together. ' What is his story ? —
interesting I am sure. Such a handsome
man to be a bachelor at his age ! Tell me,
quick.'

Janie laughed.

He hasn't any story in particular that I
know,' she replied. ' What nonsense !
he's a confirmed old bachelor. Why, he's
years older than Charley, and never even
flirts.'

10 — 2

Mrs. Barlow was one of those young
women who are interested in the private
histories of all their acquaintances, and
Major Mortimer greatly interested her.

He may be years older than your husband,
but he doesn't look a bit older than
mine,' she said. ' And don't you think
Dick would get anyone he chose to marry
him if he were single ? As for him not
flirting, why, that proves conclusively he
cares a good deal for somebody at home.
See if I don't drag it out of him before we
land ! I believe you know all about him,
though, and I'm sure he'd tell yo?i if you
asked him.'

Mrs. Scott said she didn't see what
business it was of hers to make him tell
her what he thought proper to withhold.
She hoped he was going to be married
happily, for he was a great deal too nice
to be a selfish old bachelor. There was

another lady-passenger, the most important
person on board in her own estimation,
equally interested in the private matters of
all who crossed her path — a Mrs. Smith,
the wife, as she never failed to let it be
known, of 'a first-class Bengal commissioner.'
She condescended to take a
special interest in the two graceful young
married ladies, and as it never occurred to
her that her society could be other than a
boon, she usually joined them on deck, and
favoured Mrs. Barlow especially with hints
for the benefit of the precious baby.

She had at an early stage of the acquaintance
found out by plain questioning
why they were going home, and had succeeded
in making the warier Colonel tell
her a great deal more than he intended of
his ways and means ; and when Major
Mortimer appeared on the scene she was
equally interested in him.

A handsome man !' she said, seating
herself by Colonel Shepherd as they returned
to the deck after dinner. ' Not at
all unlike Mr. Smith, though. Mr. Smith
gets his clothes from Calcutta, and that coat
of Mortimer's is country-cut, I'm sure. Is
he a married man ?'

The Colonel didn't know ; he hadn't
catechized him, he said, with a chuckle.

1 think I shall like him, though,' she
added, after awhile — the ' though ' referring
to his country-cut coat. ' 1 think I
shall speak to him. Mr. Smith would
approve of him, I fancy.'

Surely, Smith has no eye for beauty,'
thought the Colonel, as he looked after
Mrs. Smith's tall, angular figure and heavy,
common face, as she sauntered up to where
the Major was playing with some children,
and, after surveying him calmly through
her gold pince-nez, began to question him.

Good-evening, Major. I believe your
name is Mortimer ?'

He straightened himself till he looked
down on her from a considerably greater
height than her own, and answered :

1 My name is Mortimer.'

Ah ! I used to know a Mortimer at
Dum-Dum in '64 — E. D. Mortimer,
P.W.D. ?'

1 I have never been so fortunate as to be
in the Public Works Department, and my
initials are not E. D.'

4 Ah ! Then I knew a Mortimer at
Adipose in '60 — a fair lad of the Craven
family ; that's why we noticed him — a nice
modest lad, rather afraid of being in our
way, I remember. He was F. T. G.'

'Indeed!' said the Major, exchanging
glances over her head with Mrs. Scott and
her friends.

And I remember,' she continued, still

looking him up and down through the
pince-nez, 'a Mortimer at Mean-Meer. I
was staying with Stubbs, General of the
division, at that time — a cousin of Mr.
Smith's. He went to the bad — oh, a very
sad thing ! — something to do with a sergeant's
wife, I recollect. Took to drink,
too, I think. His initials were '

His patience was exhausted. He conquered
his vexation with an effort.

I have not yet taken to drink,' he said,
speaking very slowly ; ' and I am glad to
say I know nothing of your disreputable
acquaintance at Mean-Meer. My initials
are K. G.'

K. G., K. G.,' she repeated blandly, in
no way put out. ' K. G. Mortimer. Why,
of course I remember. You were in the
Old Company's Devils, as they were called.
Bless me ! but that must have been before
your time. I knew them when I was a

girl, and I always said, if I married a
soldier, I would marry one of the Old
Devils. But I did better, of course. The
Commissioner was in the second class even
then, and now, of course, he's at the top of
the tree. Are you going home for good,
or only on leave ?'

A glance at the laughing faces beyond
his questioner disarmed his annoyance, and
he answered civilly.

• Is your wife with you ?' she next asked.

A simple ' No ' told her nothing more,
and for the present she felt she had gone
far enough. Like Mrs. Barlow, she determined
to drag all the rest out of him
eventually. So she retired to the young
ladies, and pinched the Barlow baby's
cheeks till he kicked out viciously, upon
which she congratulated Mrs. Scott on
having no such encumbrance.

I sometimes regret I never had one,'

she added. ' You see, in the Commissioner's
position, he could have helped him
on so beautifully. Of course, with you the
matter is very different. I'm sure I often
wonder how military men manage to drag
their children up at all.'

In Mrs. Smith's opinion India had been
created for English civilians. The English
army was kept up to protect the civilians ;
even the Viceroy was there but to add
to their importance. That the immense
variety of inferior officers should exist at
all but for the benefit of the first-class
civilians was too well known a fact to
need anything beyond her passing notice.

The two young ladies on board, as
officers' wives, were entitled to her friendly
consideration, because she was great and
powerful, and they were nobodies ; and
she prided herself upon her condescension,
for 'only the truly great can afford to

know nobodies ' was her favourite remark.
To believe in herself was as much her
creed as to believe in God, and this strong
self-confidence and self-assertion imposed
upon Mrs. Scott's humble-mindedness.
The younger woman had good old-fashioned
notions of showing respect and
deference to her elders, and she never
thought of making an original remark in
her presence, or of differing from her
opinions. When she was made to laugh at
the other's peculiarities, she laughed protesting,
as it were, and a knowing look, made
by one of her friends behind Mrs. Smith's
back, made Mrs. Scott feel dishonourable.
Not so with Mrs. Barlow. That lively
lady held her own undauntedly ; she made
sly hits at the Commissioner's wife continually.


One would really fancy she was a
brigadier's wife,' said the Major's lady

mockingly, when Mrs. Scott begged her
to spare her sarcasms. ■ How absurd she
is, talking of that old Smith in his stuffy
court full of blacks, as if his position is
to be compared to a brigadier's in his
lovely uniform, prancing about in the midst
of an enchanting start!'

And Mrs. Scott felt, as in duty bound,
that there was no disputing her friend's
reasoning. In return, Mrs. Smith told
Colonel Shepherd in confidence she considered
Mrs. Scott a well-meaning but
poor-spirited creature, while Mrs. Barlow
had the making of a fine character, if only
she had made a better match — which
meant, as the Colonel said in repeating
it, if she'd married a Commissioner.

Evening is generally the most enjoyable
time on board a P. and O. ship.
The morning air is hot, and one has
hardly recovered from the refreshing

night in the small cabin ; there are diaries
to be filled up, and small instalments of
letters to be written, which makes one's
own company the best. Afternoon is long
and painfully idle ; the men get together,
play cards and quoits and smoke, the
women sleep and linger over changing
their gowns for dinner ; but after dinner,
when the deck has cooled, and one reflects
that another tedious day is nearly over,
bringing us so many hours nearer to the
land where we would be, sociability comes
forward again, and there is a short truce to
the feelings of disgust with which otherwise
worthy travellers are disposed to
regard their enforced companions.

The gathering shades of evening veil
temporarily the surrounding disagreeable.
Spite, envy, hatred, and all uncharitableness
slumber for awhile under the influence
of a good meal ; the very invalids

take heart and forget all their ailments,
while the boat glides onward through the
silvery phosphorescence, and the stars
gleam like globes of fire through the
rigging. A dance, or games, or music,
all the better if a guitar or banjo accompanies
a musical voice on deck, cheat
everyone into the semblance of mirth and
good fellowship ; and at these times Mrs.
Smith was at her best : her daily pint of
champagne, ' ordered by the doctor,' acted
like oil on her ill-fitting ideas, and made
her gracious all round. Even the two outsiders,
Hayward and Harris, from the
North West Provinces, were permitted to
feel her affability, and as she strolled onwards
towards her own favoured coterie at
the end of the quarter-deck, she would stop
for a few moments' conversation with them,
and question them freely as to their
prospects and families.

Snobs,' Mrs. Barlow had dubbed both
young men, merely because their coarse
tobacco and loud attire offended her fastidious
taste. Peaceable Colonel Shepherd
was alarmed when they occasionally thrust
themselves forward, lest the too demonstrative
young lady should make her
personal remarks too loudly.

1 The springs first violet ' was her name
for Mr. Harris, because that unfortunate
youth had been beguiled in his far-off upcountry
station to invest in a suit of brilliant
violet tweed, Zorabjee of Puzzles
having solemnly assured him such a
garb was then the most fashionable thing
in Europe, making him give more than a
month's pay for it too.

And Mr. Harris had rejoiced in believing
his dress was fit for any position,
admirable for travelling, the correct thing
for visiting, and the thing for Hyde Park

and Bond Street, until he had gone aboard
the Elephant a, and read, as he could not
help reading, the adverse verdict in his
fellow-travellers' faces. Then, but for
motives of economy, he would have flung
the whole suit overboard.

Mrs. Smith, however, had no objection
to the colour of his clothing ; he listened
respectfully to her advice, and her account
of the Commissioner's power and authority,
and that was enough for her. On this
evening in particular she kept him talking
as she moved towards her own special
intimates, and he was obliged to follow
right up to the charmed circle, where he
made his bow awkwardly enough, no one
but Mrs. Scott making any return. He
did his best to be pleasant, hoped the
ladies admired the sunset, introducing to
them, as it were, with a wave of his hand,
the gorgeous mass of troubled colour

round the declining sun, adding that the
Captain did not admire it — thought it
meant mischief. Had any of the party
ever been in a storm ? For himself, he
liked one ; it made a noise and cleared
the air ; he liked variety. Mrs. Smith
answered for all.

4 The Captain was laughing at you. On
my last voyage home we had just such sunsets
all the way to Suez. We had a lovely
voyage.'

They were standing facing the west,
their faces and figures bathed in the reflected
glory. In the path of the sun
the sky was palest lemon, fading into
light green, on which rested clouds of extraordinary
shape and depth of colouring.
The near cloudlets were of deepest
almost black, purple. Behind them came
flame-edged masses of gorgeous rose
and orange, with intersecting banks of

VOL. I. II

turquoise, while against all this flashing
brilliant glow the great dome of heaven,
calm, cloudless, and of coolest opal,
stretched away over the scarcely heaving
ocean.

Not at all like a storm,' said Mrs.
Barlow, resenting the new-comer's inference.
' The sunsets have been just like
this ever since we started. Of course the
Captain was laughing, and I don't wonder
at him,' she added, scarcely lowering her
voice.

There's variety enough on board without
desiring a storm,' Mrs. Smith said,
tapping her pince-nez against her watch-chain,
and talking at Mr. Harris. ' I never
understand people being bored. The life
amuses me immensely. It is so novel, such
a study of men and manners, such a change
to one's own highly-polished and sumptuous
life at home. I always approve of bringing

the classes together now and then ; it teaches
toleration, forbearance, and politeness. I
have not the least objection to mingle with
my inferiors for a short time. I like to do
what good I can. I hope I am above class
prejudices.'

What is your boss, then?' Mr. Harris
asked, with a smirk. ' I thought you said
he was only a Commissioner !'

The worm had turned. He had understood
htr inference, and this was his way
of resenting it.

Only a Commissioner, sir !' she said,
looking as if she could throw her pince-nez
at him. ' And boss — may I ask the meaning
of that vulgar-sounding word ?'

Beg pardon ! By boss I mean the
master — the old man at home.'

She turned towards Colonel Shepherd
and Major Mortimer, but they were pointing
out fresh departures in the sunset

1 1 — 2

clouds to each other, while Mrs. Barlow
and Mrs. Scott were crimson with trying
not to laugh. When she turned her back,
Mr. Harris was no longer visible.

1 This comes of condescending to clerks,'
she cried, almost breathless with indignation.

Luckily the first-lieutenant arrived on
the spot and diverted her attention from
this outrage on her dignity by bidding her
look how the sky had changed again.
The purple-black clouds had extended
themselves over the opal setting, and the
vermilion and orange clusters had piled
themselves upwards till they resembled
mountains aflame with internal fire. They
stood in fullest contrast of glaring, glowing
colouring, startling the sight with the fierceness
of their glare.

1 Does it mean storm ?' Mrs. Scott asked
apprehensively. ' That curiously-dressed
man said the Captain said so.'

He put her off with a vague reply.

4 These gorgeous sunsets are common
at this season and in these waters. Our
passengers usually try to put them on
paper, but their colours are never rich
enough. Splendid weather, isn't it ?'

I'm sure the sea looks queer, too,' she
continued. ' So oily and sullen. It sends
back the heat so viciously.'

Oh, this heat is nothing. Last September
the water was at 150° nine feet
below the surface. Now it is only 92 .
We couldn't have it cooler at this time of
year. We shall reach Aden in two or
three days, so if a storm should come we
can get shelter there. What are you going
to spend there ?'

Mrs. Smith caught his last words.

Don't spend anything, my dear,' she
said. ' The feathers they offer you are
the mere refuse after the dealers have

picked out the best. I hate the raw
material in any shape. / buy my feathers
in mv bonnets.'

Mrs. Scott moved away. The Captain
had joined Colonel Shepherd. She wanted
to hear his opinion of the weather. There
was a pause in their talk when she reached
them.

1 Captain Steele,' she said, ' do tell me if
these clouds mean a storm is coming. They
get more awful night after night.'

Awful !' he cried, in well-feigned amazement.
' I was just admiring their magnificence.
The artist who would dare to paint
them on canvas would be considered too
imaginative !'

1 Surely they are exceptionally extraordinary
?'

Exceptionally beautiful ! Well, they
may mean a capful of wind, which would
save coal, you know, and help us along

delightfully. But we are having a very
fine passage. Do you know Coleridge's
"Ancient Mariner" ? Well, three or four
years ago when I came along here in Julythe
sea was exactly as he describes it. Strange
things did actually come up and crawl upon
the water. It positively festered !'

'And was there a great storm afterwards
?'

1 Oh dear no. Sometimes these superb
sunsets are the result of storms too far away
for us to feel.'

She looked doubtfully at him.

1 I wish I could believe you,' she said
wistfully.

His voice softened as he answered :

Don't go out of your way to meet
trouble, my dear child. If we have a stiff
breeze, you need not fear — you are a good
sailor ; but your friend will probably suffer
while it lasts.'

1 Have you ever been shipwrecked ?'
No, but I was once very near it. We
were carrying troops to Canada, and a
frightful gale crossed us, blew us out of our
course, carried away our boats, and shipped
two feet of water in the saloon and ladies'
cabin. I certainly never thought to weather
it. Yet it was very funny he said, laughing
at the remembrance. ' We had a lady
on board — a very good soul she was ; butin
our extremity she offered to have all
her boxes thrown overboard to lighten the
ship, and just at the last, when we really
seemed all but lost, she ran up to me to
suggest the troops should be sacrificed to
save all the rest. Oh, she meant it — every
bit of it !'

As he finished, a curious sensation was
felt — a vibration running through the ship.
He turned towards his first mate questioningly.
At the instant a violent revulsion

took place, as if the screw had got out of
bounds ; then another shiver shook the
boat — a sudden stoppage and stillness !

Both officers rushed off, while the passengers
grouped together and exchanged
opinions as to what had happened.

1 Something wrong with the screw,' was
the prevailing notion, and it satisfied the
weaker sex, while it did not bind the men
to any special criticism.

Mrs. Barlow flew down to her boy and
informed him they would perish together,
while Mrs. Scott thought of her dream and
resigned herself to her fate, till both, yielding
to the charm of the quiet succeeding to
the irritating monotony of the screw, took
courage, and believed it was all right, as
they were still afloat ; and the one put
back her boy to bed, and the other calmly
read her evening portion of the Bible.

Later on they returned to the deck, to

find the gentlemen smoking and promenading
and the ladies talking and
laughing as usual. Their two special
gentlemen came to meet them as they
appeared above the stairway.

Isn't it deliciously quiet ?' the Major
exclaimed.

1 But is it all right ?' said Mrs. Scott.
1 Have you learnt what happened ?'

1 No ; they are examining the screw.
That's where the damage is, no doubt.
Oh, it will be all right tomorrow. What
have you been doing ? — making your
wills ?'

He passed on with Mrs. Barlow, both
making merry over the fright, while the
Colonel, who was very silent, followed with
Mrs. Scott.

Do you think it is all right ?' she asked.

He spoke cheerfully, but it was with an
effort.

1 Oh, no doubt we shall be joiner on
all right by tomorrow ; but — there's the
delay.'

1 Anything's better than a storm,' she
said. ' Look how the night has come overall
the beautiful clouds, and the stars have
gone !'

The sea lay calm and sullen as ever, and
blackness obscured its oily, molten surface.
The lamps on the masts cast a feeble
glimmer as the great ship lay in uneasy
quiet. The Captain came amongst
his passengers presently in quite high
spirits.

1 You must make the most of your
quiet night, ladies and gentlemen,' he
said.

Then he shook hands with his favourites,
and disappeared.

At dawn most of them were awakened
by the noise of the screw once more in

motion. There was immense and prolonged
splashing and floundering, much
shouting and stamping and bustle. The
men-passengers, in dressing-gowns, went
to see what they could of the expected
start, and the women lay awake, excited
and expectant. Then the boat went forward
a few evolutions, but just as all
seemed right, there was a struggle between
the sea and the gear, more splashing and
floundering and shouting, and then — a
sudden stoppage and silence as before.

At breakfast the passengers were told
the damage was greater than was expected.
The screw could not be repaired properly
without going into dock, so only one was
now available ; but with the help of canvas
they would not be many hours behind time
at Aden. All they wanted now was a
friendly wind.

The ladies thought the explanation quite

reassuring. Mrs. Smith said she was not
in the least anxious ; she was always singularly
fortunate in her voyages.

By-and-by Mrs. Scott got Colonel Shepherd
to herself, and was just coaxing him
to tell her the true state of the case, when
Major Mortimer came up and took the
words out of his mouth.

The thing is simply this,' he said.
Supposing one of a pair of carriage-horses
broke down, and the other had todo
all the work alone, hampered by being
on one side — well, it would pull a little
uneasily, and the pace could not be much.
That's our case, only, as soon as the wind
comes, sails will replace the lame screw.
That's it, isn't it, Colonel ?'

Exactly,' said the Colonel, stroking his
iron-gray moustache.

Oh, I see !' cried Mrs. Scott, her face
restored to smiles. ' I'll go and tell Mrs.

Barlow ; she is always so anxious about
her boy's safety.'

The sea lay in a sluggish leaden mass,
now and then agitated at a distance by
shoals of porpoises literally dancing on the
water, and resembling black men bathing
afar off; and once by a grampus, whose
appearance created delightful excitement
for the time ; flying fish, too, now and
again skimmed over the waves like silver
birds, and all day long the sun beat down
with such trying intensity that the very
Lascars suffered ; but no wind came sufficient
to help them materially, and their
progress was very unsatisfactory.

With a few of the experienced, the
Captain discussed the situation openly.
They knew the machinery was in a very
disabled condition, though they did not
know that there had been scruples about
letting the steamer leave Bombay ; only no

other boat was available, and they trusted
the patching-up there done would last the
return voyage. They knew sufficient,
however, to make them anxious ; for the
glass was falling rapidly, and if a storm of
any violence, such as the sunsets predicted,
fell upon the boat in its present disabled
condition, there would be very little chance
for its safety.

4 I don't see how we shall escape a
storm,' said the Captain ; ' that accident
has played the very devil with us. But
for that, we should have beaten the disturbance,
and got into Aden.'

Pleasant !' said Major Mortimer, ashe
and the Colonel left the anxious
group in the Captain's cabin ; ' but, mind,
not a word to frighten those poor girls.'

Then they joined the 'poor girls' on
deck, played with the precious baby, held
skeins of silk for his mother, and talked

gaily of the oyster luncheon to be enjoyed
at Aden. And when just before dinner
a breeze sprang up, and clouds veiled the
sun, everyone was quite happy and contented,
and spoke of ' being blown into
Aden in no time.'

Neither the Captain nor his first officer
remained at table after the meal began,
and before it was finished the motion of
the vessel was decidedly unpleasant.

1 Putting up sail,' said the cheerful
purser ; ' she'll steady directly.'

But the motion increased, and Mrs.
Barlow quickly succumbed to it, and soon
went to her cabin, excusing her retreat
with the remark that she wanted to see her
dear boy put to bed. Mrs. Scott, being
proof against sea-sickness, accompanied
the gentlemen on deck, and for a time
enjoyed the hurrying wind, now steadily
increasing. The hurly-burly raised her

spirits. Clinging on to her two guardians,
she paced up and down in the teeth of the
breeze, enjoying the long unfelt blast, and
laughing and talking more like Mrs. Barlow
than her own quiet self.

The western sky was more splendid
than ever — inky-black clouds lay across
the scarlet and orange and rose of the
sunset glory, and the sea beneath, now
lashed into action by the wind, reflected
the roseate brilliancy. The light was
fiercely vivid over the horizon, while
eastward and southward the sky began
to thicken as if by a dull gray mist. The
more experienced passengers were uneasy ;
the ignorant were merely startled by the
strange, weird beauty of the evening ; and
Mrs. Scott paced on, feeling invigorated
and inspirited by the cool, damp wind, the
bustle, and the long inexperienced ability
to step out and enjoy brisk movement

vol. 1. 12

again. Not till the radiance faded away,
and murky clouds covered the heavens as
with a pall, did her gay spirits flag ; then,
looking round on the changed scene, she
shuddered, and soon went down to her
cabin.

The carpenter followed her in — he was
putting up the dead lights. Mrs. Mole,
the boy's nurse, greeted him with vexation.

Can't you leave us one bit of light ?'
she said. ' We are all smothered when
you fasten the window up like that. I'd
as soon live at the bottom of a bottle.'

He laughed good-naturedly.

Better so than having a sea come in
and wet you through. No water can
break in now,' he said, tapping his work
to make sure it was thorough.

Mrs. Barlow raised her whirling head,
and mournfully ' supposed they were going
to have an awful storm.'

Ships' carpenters are accustomed to timid
passengers, and know how to cheer them.
He assured her everything was just as it
should be, and promised calm water and
fair skies on the morrow ; but as the night
deepened, and the tramp of sailors overhead
grew more and more hurried, and
their shouts heightened with the heightening
wind, the three women felt all their
courage ebb away, and spent the night in
abject fear.

With daylight there was increased wind
instead of calm, and the heavy waves
buffeted the boat with alarming violence.
Mrs. Smith and Mrs. Scott were the only
two ladies able to put in an appearance
at breakfast. Even amongst the men
there were many absentees. The fiddles
were on the table, and the usual accidents
happened, inducing the usual merriment.
The pursers were the only ship's officers

12 — 2

present, and they were lively enough ; so
Mrs. Scott was cheered, and was able to
go back to her poor prostrate friend with a
reassuring report. Towards mid-day the
other screw ceased to work, and the
passengers who were obliged to remain
in the saloon openly criticised the situation.
Mr. Harris professed to know
exactly what ought to be done, but
didn't like to interfere, he said. Mrs.
Smith reassured the trembling ladies.

I somehow always contrive to have
Queen's weather,' she said. ' Now, you'll
see ; at sunset the wind will lull, and tomorrow
we shall be among the red-headed
divers at Aden.'

Most of them talked themselves easy at
last, and bets were made as to the time
of their arrival in harbour.

But the wind did not lull at sunset, yet
those who were not down with sickness

managed to spend a sufficiently pleasant
evening, putting off the improvement till
next day, and few of them noticed that the
Captain had not left the deck since the
previous night.

By-and-by, when the women and the
careless had retired for the night, Major
Mortimer tried to go upstairs to see for
himself how the storm went on, but he was
not permitted ; the officer who stopped him
did so laughingly, assured him no landsman
could stand on deck, and that the
ship's company was responsible for the
lives of the passengers ; but all the same,
the Major guessed what had happened,
and before the night was over most of
them knew they were battened down.

Next morning there was no tea and
coffee, for the fires were put out, and some
of the women became hysterical, and there
was a scene in the saloon. The ship's

officers, however, continued to treat allas
a good joke, and as the ordinary result
of every 4 stiff breeze,' as they called it ;
but before the day was over everyone
knew somehow that they were being
driven along at the mercy of the winds,
that the poles were bare, and that the
Captain and his chief officer had not
stirred from their posts for thirty-six hours.
A few, a very few, knew more than this ;
bad as it was, there was worse than the
majority dreamed of, for not even the
chief officers knew where the ship was
driving. She had been out of her course
for many hours, and had long been out
of guidance ; there was more peril in her
headlong, purposeless flight than in the
gales which buffeted her, and the seas
which swept her.

Both Colonel Shepherd and Major
Mortimer were amongst the well informed,

but to the ladies looking to them for help
they kept uniformly hopeful and cheerful.
As time wore on there was no distinction
of class or attempt at regularity of meals ;
the saloon contained all the passengers,
and all were bound together in one
common dread. Another day passed,
another night came on, and the ship still
plunged and rolled as she would, the winds
shrieking, the wood creaking and straining
that chorus of hideous sounds which
adds to the fears of the timid in a
storm.

On that fourth night there was no
pretence of going to bed. Mrs. Barlow
kept her boy in her arms. Terror had
conquered her sickness. She sat close to
Mrs. Scott, whispering her fear occasionally.
Mrs. Mole was close by them,
shaking her head and groaning. Later
in the night, a clergyman prayed for their

preservation, and for a time the women
were comforted and the men softened.
Soon after prayers Colonel Shepherd and
the Major absented themselves, and came
back with heavy coats on.

Are you going on deck ?' Mrs. Scott
asked.

The Colonel kept her attention with
a roundabout, evasive answer, while Major
Mortimer and Mrs. Mole went into the
ladies' cabin and brought out blankets and
shawls, which they dropped unseen behind
their seats.

Is it true the cows are dead ?' Mrs.
Barlow was asking. 'What shall we do
for my boy's milk ?'

Someone near said, ' Two Lascars have
been washed overboard !' when a tremendous
blow was heard overhead. The mainmast
had fallen, carrying a boat overboard
with it.

Just before dawn a new sound was
added to the straining and creaking and
smashing and knocking — the swirling of
water in a narrow space ; and very shortly
afterwards the companion-way was wrenched
open, and the first officer's voice was heard
bellowing above the violence of the storm :

All passengers on deck !'

THE OLD HOME.

Captain Scott had not exaggerated in
saying he felt ashamed of going before the
medical board in London ; for the voyage
had benefited him so greatly that he had
walked ashore on arrival at Southampton.
Pale-faced and thin, it is true, but upright
and sure-footed, though only a month before
at Bombay he had been carried onboard
as weak and helpless as an infant.
Long before he reached England, all his
painfully morbid self-reproach had left him,
and he knew he had done right in hastening
homewards alone.

The news of the child's death, which
reached him at Suez, grieved him a little,
and it was then he was glad of that farewell
kiss. But great love for an infant of
days seldom rises in a father's heart. If
the nursery be not over-full, he regards the
new arrival with more pride than affection.
It appeals to him a little more than his
favourite dog — that is all. The full tide of
love that comes to the mother from the
moment of the child's birth is unknown to
the father, or, if there be an exception, it is
but to prove the rule. So when he went
on shore at Malta he had a black band put
round his sleeve, and bought some black
gloves, and felt he had done his duty to
the memory of his firstborn. When he
told what had happened to his friend, Mr.
Cartwright had said it was ' rather rough '
on poor Mrs. Scott.

Yes,' was the answer, in rather a questioning

tone ; ' but she wasn't used to
children, and it would have been a great
bother on the voyage.'

As Mr. Cartwright did not know his
friend's wife, he discreetly forbore further
remark. It struck him as a novel view of
the case, but that was not his business, and
he was glad the bereavement would not
interfere with his companion's recovery.
As neither man was expected in England,
there w r as no one to meet them at Southampton
— no eager letters awaiting them
with pressing invitations, and they were
able to travel on together, and dine at the
club together, when they reached London,
and then go their separate ways. It was
when his kind friend had bidden him goodbye,
and Captain Scott was left to the
loneliness of a lodging, that he first realized
his wife's absence fully.

The evening seemed interminable. The

weather was damp, and he dare not seek
amusement out of doors. A letter to his
half-brother announcing his return only
occupied a few moments, and after that
had been despatched he wondered what he
was to do with himself, and so he fell a-
thinking. He thought of Janie when he
first saw her fresh from England. Blushing,
shy, and yet exquisitely attractive, he
remembered how from the very first she
had innocently shown her preference for
him above all the other men who had tried
their best to win her regard, and how
staunch she had been to him when her
father had doubted the prudence of her
choice ; and then he remembered certain
hasty words of his when, during his own
inability to manage the household matters,
her incapacity had come very prominently
before him. Her face had flushed, and
she had shrunk out of sight like a frightened

child, but had never resented his irritation
until that wretched outburst of his on their
way clown from the hills. That he could
not bear to dwell upon ; but when they met
again he would remind her how totally unhinged
he had been, as also had she. Of
course she was inexperienced. What could
she know of Indian ways and means when
she had had no home-training ? He should
have considered all that, but for that knockdown
attack of illness which had weakened
his mind as well as his body, he told himself.
Her pure heart, her sensitive nature,
her childlike confidence in him, were better
than mere technical knowledge. There
was the making of a splendid character in
her, and he would do his best to keep, to
form, and mature it. As soon as she came
to him they would go amongst their friends
and see how they managed their families.
They would go through a course of reading

together — good sterling works. He would
always remember his own short-comings
before he reflected on hers. He took up
a little photograph of her and blessed and
kissed it, though it was but an amateur's
caricature done with half-spoilt chemicals,
and, as he gazed, he thought of the effect
of her beauty on his English friends.
What would his half-brother say when he
saw her ? Wouldn't he be sorry he had
written to expostulate with him about marrying
so young, ' before he could possibly
know his own mind,' and citing his own
prudence in waiting ' for years of discretion
before he doubled his responsibilities and
expenses ' ?

The younger brother had considered
this as presuming upon his elder brother-ship,
and had said as much in reply, but
when Mr. Scott should see his new relation
there was no doubt he would love and

admire her. The doubt was whether she
would love and admire him ! He thought
with a smile how she would outshine all
the women of the little provincial town
where his brother lived and practised as a
lawyer. In his mind's eye he saw the eyes
of the congregation fastened upon her when
she first accompanied him to church — the
inspection which would be made of her at
the parties that would be given in their
honour. How his old schoolfellows would
envy him, and his old flames envy her !
Yet with these meaner anticipations were
mingled the sense of his own unfitness to
guide — of his own unworthiness — desire to
live a higher life than he had lived hitherto.
Not to shirk the rough ways because they
were unpleasant, but to be able bravely to
face misfortune, as well as to be humble in
prosperity. His wife's dependence upon
him was so real that the necessity of not

letting her depend on a broken reed was
heavy upon him.

London was emptying fast, but that
made no difference to him. He had
passed but little of his life there, and knew
only two or three units amongst its millions.
When he sought them out next day, with
the kindly eagerness the stay-at-home cannot
understand, he got no satisfaction out
of them. One said he must come and see
them again when they were settled down
for the winter. Another could not get
over his surprise at seeing him at all, and
said he was sorry he hadn't turned up
sooner, that he might have asked him to
dinner while there was someone worth
meeting left in town; and the other said he
had often and often wondered what had
become of him, and was dying to hear all
about his marriage, but his every moment
was just then fully occupied.

vol. 1. 13

His tailor was the most cordial of all,
but one doesn't look for disinterested affection
in one's tailor. So it was not altogether
a lively time, and when the elder
brother wrote cordially bidding him come
to Bestminster as soon as he could, and
stay as long as he liked, Captain Scott felt
his heart warm, and decided that even the
dulness of the society of a country town
was better than the largest town in the
world without any society at all. He
therefore got through his business as
quickly as he could, bought some Indian
jewellery in Regent Street for expectant
relations — a proceeding much to be recommended
to travellers from the East asa
great saving of time and anxiety — and
once more started on his travels.

How neat and trim and charming was
the tranquil country through which the
train bore him ! — the fields of corn, ripening

to harvest, tending into ever-changing
shades of golden green as the cool, brisk
wind ruffled the heavy ears ; the sober
cows, so large and fat in contrast with
the lean, half-starved kine of India ; the
little villages clustered amongst woods and
hayricks, and guarded by the gray old
churches ; the low hills with their rounded
undulations, pigmy copies of the heights
on which he had so lately looked ; the toy
trees in their summer verdure, the slowly
moving rivulets, flower-bordered, flowing
through the placid meadows ; the well-kept,
tasteful houses in their settings of
smooth lawns and trim gardens. And when
the way ran on through well-timbered
Hampshire, with its ancient homesteads,
its deep lanes, its forest wildness and
wealth of fern and bracken, trailing
bramble and wild-roses, he felt he was in
familiar scenes.

1 x — 2

How unaltered it all appeared ! The
heath-croppers still flung out their sturdy
legs and galloped from the noise of the
train ; the blue-eyed, flaxen-haired children
still stood on gates and waved hats and
sun-bonnets in salutation to the whirling
passengers ; he knew when to look out
for the far reach of blue sea, and to listen
for the hollow sound of the train passing
over the long bridge across the estuary,
which in his boyhood had been so delightfully
suggestive of danger.

Here was the well-known contour of
the home country; the terraced hills bounding
the view (how small they had become);
the beacon on the highest point which had
once seemed to pierce the sky ; the pine
woods with their soft, clean carpeting of fir
needles; the sandy soil covered with purple
ling and heather, full of insect, animal, and
bird life ; the clay country with its large

heaps of debris, its pools of gleaming
water, its rough tracks and rougher
cottages ; the estuary with its once opulent
town decaying on its low, flat shore, and
the sluggish river flowing beyond the
estuary, doubling and winding amongst
the low-lying emerald meadows, dyke
and dammed like those in Holland, and
leading by sweet and devious ways, where
the rushes and the tall sedges, the water-lilies
and the great gold king-cups harboured
many a warbler and many a dainty
trout, to the quaint little town, in its prime
when Alfred ruled, to which Captain Scott
was bound.

Here and there, rising from amongst the
level land, a barrow was seen, with its crown
of pine-trees — the last resting-place of
some chieftain who had withstood many a
Danish invasion. How well did the
traveller remember watching with breathless

interest the opening of one of these
barrows, and how disappointed he had
been at the result — a few old bones and
shreds of pottery, instead of the figure of
a gigantic warrior with his horse and his
dog beside him !

The smell of the air as he hung out
of the window was delicious to him — that
mixture of sand and bracken and pine and
salt and ripening corn, so invigorating after
the exhausting atmosphere of the East ;
and something else came with the homelike
scenes and smells : a hopeful anticipation
of a new beginning — renewed life,
renewed youthful strength ; suffering and
pain were to be no more dwelt upon ; he
was content to look forward and rejoice.

The engine slackened speed ; here was
the little side station, its platform bordered
with bushes of blue hydrangea, and on it,
wearing a broad straw hat, light, full

trousers, and cutaway shooting-coat, with
a tall child on either hand, stood, with
beaming face of welcome, the elder half-brother,
the guardian of his boyhood, unseen
for seven long years.

As the young man, with his unmistakable
soldier-like bearing in his new
London-made suit, stepped out of the train,
many eyes besides his brother's surveyed
him admiringly. The two porters, the
bushman and the station-master were on
the look out for him, as for someone in
whom they took an interest begotten of
generations of former Scotts ; and many a
countryman going forward with the train
and recognising the well-known lawyer on
the platform, guessed who the new arrival
must be, and nodded neighbourly congratulations
as they were carried past.

The brothers met with smiles, and held
each other's hands warmly ; then the

Captain greeted his nieces, and as the
train disappeared he called to the porters
and bade them :

Take up those things of mine to Mr.
Scott's at once,' speaking as a man accustomed
to prompt and unquestioning attention
speaks.

The Captain wishes these things of
his brought up to my house as soon as
you can, James,' added the elder brother.
Charles, you must remember James
Burton — his wife was our Martha, you
know. And here's our careful stationmaster,
Rawlins — new since your time, I
think, but he was in our father's office
as a boy. You remember those days,
Rawlins, don't you ? Long time ago,
though — before the Captain here was
born, I fancy. And this is an old soldier.
Come here, Jones. Charles, this is Jones,
of the Dragon. You were in the Crimea,

were you not, Jones ? Well, you'd better
take charge of the Captain's traps, and
you can ask for a glass of ale when you've
carried them in.'

Meantime the two girls, with eyes tight
on their young uncle, were perfectly conscious
of his amusement over these introductions
and explanations. As he intercepted
their glances they coloured deeply,
and fidgeted awkwardly, and he good-naturedly
relieved their embarrassment by
turning to them while the phaeton was
being brought up.

Which is Ann, and which is Janie ?' he
asked. ' One of you has the same name
as your aunt, I know.'

Their father bustled up, and bundled
both girls into the back seat of the carriage
before they could answer ; then he
shoved his brother into the front, and
jumping in beside him, continued his directions

to the bushman while gathering up
the reins and tucking the apron over him ;
then, when fairly started and trotting along
the causeway leading through low pastureland
to the town, he inquired :

1 Well, Charles, and what do you think
of your nieces ? — hardly more than intelligent
turnips at present, eh ? I wonder if
you've got a word out of them yet ? But
don't be deceived ; they are in reality the
noisiest tomboys ! Mary Latimer does
her best to polish them, but it's no use.'

The girls giggled as their uncle sat
round and smiled at them.

Now tell me,' he said, ' which is Janie.
When I saw you last you were like two
little dumplings, and now I behold two
nearly grown-up young ladies. I am quite
shy to be called uncle by you.'

1 You shall drill them,' said his brother ;
we'll have parade every day — they'll

represent the awkward squad ; they're all
angles and curves — curves in the wrong
direction. If only we could turn their
heads right round, their figures would be
perfect. This is Jane ; we fancied we saw
a likeness to your wife from the photo you
sent us.'

There was a certain appealing expression
in the eyes that had some slight resemblance,
so Charley could honestly admit
there w r as something reminding him of his
wife.

Mr. Scott at once begged his little
daughter to remember there were plain
likenesses, and it did not at all follow that
because she was a little like her pretty
aunt she was pretty too. Uncle Charley
winked at his abashed niece, and both girls
went offing fits of silent laughter as he said :

1 No, indeed, we won't drill ! we'll dance
instead. Dancing is the best exercise for

the figure. I'll be dancing-master, and
we'll get your mother to be band. How
is Ann, Ambrose ?'

Oh, all right ! but too busy, of course,
to come when I want her.'

Papa,' one of the girls said, ' you
know she wanted to come, and you said
there wasn't room for us all

This was awkward ; but Mr. Scott's
attention was just then attracted to a
passer-by, whom he hailed effusively as he
drew up to address him.

1 Why, Pitch ! you out again ! and as
hearty as ever, I declare ! Now, who do
you think I've got here — home from the
wars ?' He nudged his brother as he
spoke. ' Why, Master Charles ! You remember
him, don't you ? A sad scamp,
wasn't he ? Charles, you know Pitch, who
used to be head clerk to Norton ?'

The old man smiled and bowed, and

tottered on, while Charley protested he had
never even heard of him before ; but he
recognised the next comer, and would have
stopped, had not Mr. Scott whipped his
horse out of the way of the bus, which was
overtaking them, and said :

No, no ! the fellow's on the other side ;
he voted dead against us last time. Of
course, you can notice him when you are
alone, but not when you are with me — it
wouldn't do, you know

1 I'd forgotten all that rubbish,' said
Charley.

As they drove up the High Street, he
was shown the new windows in the News-room,
and informed they were the result of
his brother's determination.

We had a regular dispute about them,'
Mr. Scott said. ' Old How was Mayor,
and wouldn't vote the money — such a
correspondence it was, to be sure ! I'll

show it you some day. But I gained the
day. The letters were published, and I
was complimented on my good English.
I flatter myself I know how to put a phrase
together grammatically, if I know nothing
else.'

Many of the tradespeople were at their
open doors, and saluted the new-comer
with smiles of welcome. The elder brother
only returned some of them — of some he
took no notice at all.

1 That fellow Jinks voted against my
getting the town clerkship,' he grumbled
of one ; ' that chap tried to prevent me
being made vestry clerk,' he complained of
another.

But Charles, having no political scruples,
smiled back on all his fellow-townsmen,
remembering them as familiar home-faces,
though over all were the subtle changes
visible after long absence.

As they drove up Church Street, Mr.
Scott bade his brother prepare for a grand
surprise.

4 What do you think of that ?' he asked,
as he pulled up beside the low churchyard
wall.

When Captain Scott left home the fine
old church was in the dirty, neglected
condition of so many country churches ;
till within a few years back, it had been
surrounded by a graveyard filled to overflowing
w T with lichen-covered stones ; nettles
grew high above the mouldering boundary
wall, and the only gardeners ever admitted
to keep down the coarse grass were the
butcher's sheep, who found there a safe
and profitable halting-place between the
market and the shambles. Since then a
new vicar had brought new notions ; the
old crowded wilderness of what were
called ' altar tombs ' — most like stunted

four-post bedsteads of stone — had been
cleared of all unsightly weeds, and neat
paths cut through the closely-shaven grass,
and beyond it a new and fairer garden
appeared, carefully planted out and already
exhibiting improved monuments, less like
fragments from Stonehenge or stony sideboards.


Ah !' Mr. Scott exclaimed, as his
brother expressed his satisfaction at the
difference. ' Wouldn't you like to take a
run round ?'

Charley didn't like ; indeed, he had been
too near death lately to care to pay a
visit to its abode immediately on his return
home.

1 Ah well,' his brother said, evidently
disappointed, ' some other time, then ; but
I wanted you to see the new stone I've
put up to our father. We've a new stonecutter
set up here, and he's rather doubtful,

so I thought it as well to make sure
of him for our side by giving him an
order at once — the fellow's very grateful.
I can tell you Normandy people are quite
envious of our smart graveyard.'

The large, handsome, old church
occupied the outer angle of the most
suburban street in Bestminster, and the
Scotts' old house faced the street leading
immediately away from Church Street towards
the market-place. It stood a little
back from the road with an imposing
three-storied front of cut stone ; its three
rows of windows were spotlessly bright,
and carefully curtained with snowy muslin.
The front-door, with glittering door and
bell handles, opened on an imposing flight
of broad stone steps, flanked by stone
lions ; a little flagged garden, with trim
evergreen bushes on either side the
pathway, led to the front-gate, with its

vol. 1. 14

heavy single stone supports, each surmounted
by a stone plum-pudding. How
often had Charley yearned to push those
meaningless balls over and trundle them
down the street !

The offices were in a low wing, just
as in his father's, grandfather's, and great-grandfather's
time ; here were no spotless
windows and glittering handles. It was
a tradition in the family that spotless
cleanliness in the office would indicate
much leisure — ergo, little work ; a show of
dirt, therefore, was necessary to impress
country clients with the belief that there
was no time for eye-wash.

Mrs. Scott was at the door as soon as
the wheels sounded outside, and it seemed
to Charley she was not so dowdy and
dissatisfied-looking as she used to be ;
indeed, she not only looked younger, but
was much more self-possessed. As he

kissed her he told her she had gone backward
instead of forward in age, and she
astonished him by having a reply ready :

■ As for you,' she said, ' you left us an
awkward boy, and here you are so fine a
gentleman we shall all have to apologize
for our country manners.'

No flirting, Ann,' her husband cried,
entering the hall, and chucking her under
the chin jocosely.

Charley remembered this habit of his,
and he also remembered how sullenly she
used to resent it, while now she took no
notice beyond moving her head beyond
his reach, as she led the way into the
dining-room, where the early dinner awaited
them.

All my old friends,' said the new
arrival, nodding to the pictures round the
large, comfortable room. ' There's the
"Jumping Gee-gee" of my infancy. I'll

14 — 2

never believe any horse vaulted so far
above a five-barred gate in reality. I
used to envy that huntsman immensely

4 Yes, it was my admiration too said
Ambrose ; ■ it's not a bad composition

1 And our ancestors too !' cried Charley,
eyeing distrustfully two Queen Anne portraits
of a lady and gentleman — the lady
much pinched in at the long waist, and
very taper-fingered ; the gentleman very
much frilled and buttoned and wigged.

Mrs. Scott laughed. 'Ancestors of
ours ' was the favourite — slightly ambiguous
— phrase of her husband when inviting
attention to his pictures, though he knew,
and she knew, and all the elder Bestminster
worthies knew, that they were
part payment of a bad debt to his father,
who fancied himself a bit of an artist,

There was a Magdalene, too, with very
muscular arms, so muscular that some

friends said it was not a Magdalene at all,
notwithstanding the long hair, but a St.
John. Of it Mr. Scott thought very highly,
declaring it to be the work of one of the
old masters, though he was too cautious
to name the artist. There was a Venus
and Cupid, too — Venus armed with a
small-tooth comb with which she seemed
about to smooth her winged boy's much-ruffled
hair. Even Mr. Scott was not
enthusiastic about this picture. He generally
drew attention to the massive frame
only, ' as a wonderful piece of carving,' and
murmured something about Correggio.
There was a ' Poussin,' too — so old that
the eye could make out of it nothing but a
cluster of ruined pillars, a white horse
rearing in the foreground, and some
shadowy towers against an orange sky.
Mr. Scott was wont to shake his head in
showing this picture. Words failed him

to express his admiration of its ' depth of
tone.'

Just now, however, instead of watching
his brother's smiling recognition of each
well-known subject, he was all impatience
to attract his attention to a new, large oil-painting
over the sideboard, representing
Brother Scott ' as large as life in full
Masonic costume.

I want you to look at that,' cried the
original, waving his arm towards it.

1 Ah !' said Charley, unfolding his napkin.
' Very good indeed !'

Take off the covers,' Mrs. Scott said.
4 What will you have, Charles ?'

'We haven't said grace, mother Ann said.

1 Nice bit of colour,' her father continued.
Hands very powerfully painted — embroidery
on apron inimitable. For what weare
going to receive, the Lord make us
truly thankful.'

The girls sniggered ; Charley with difficulty
avoided grinning. Mrs. Scott said :

Really, Ambrose !'

And Ambrose, proceeding to attack the
dish before him, continued unabashed :

1 That painter-fellow is a relation of
Parsons' at the bank — a stubborn beast
who always delights to vote against us.
Last election was rather a ticklish affair.
Burton and I determined to take the bull
by the horns, so we got ourselves painted
by the artist-chap, and got him no end of
custom by letting ourselves be exhibited.
There used to be a crowd of farmers
staring on market-days, and lots of them
wanted to be exhibited, too, and altogether
the painter was so grateful that we got
Parsons' vote and interest, and I really
don't think we could have carried the day
without him.'

Mr. Scott turned his attention to his

brother, and asked him minute questions
concerning his wife, his wife's father, his
illness and journey, his prospects, his share
in that skirmish on the frontier which gave
him his promotion.

1 Lucky chap !' he added. ' You must be
about the youngest captain in the army.'

Charley began to think he should soon
be called upon for a list of his clothes,
but the opportune arrival of a client presently
called the elder away to his office,
and the younger was free to solace himself
with a pipe.

A pipe smoked in his old bedroom, which
still showed traces of his former occupancy
his initials cut on the window-sill, his
height cut on the door, a shelf full of
Jules Verne's and other thrilling schoolboy
stories, a caricature photograph of a loutish
boy in football suit — ' I never could have
been like that,' he said to himself — a stuffed

sea-bird in a case — his own stuffing — in a
melancholy and mounting condition, and
two cricket bats slung cross-ways over the
fireplace. He seated himself by the open
window, and thought over that old life ashe
gazed over the large old-fashioned
garden to the level meadows, the tranquil
river, the red sandstone cliff where the
river turned abruptly — the unaltered peaceful
landscape which had so often wearied
him with its sameness. Though the house
stood in a street, its back was quite open
to the country, and high walls and trees
prevented it being overlooked. The calm
and sweetness were inexpressibly charming.
Never before had he sentimentalized over
his boyhood. It had not been a very
happy time. He did not remember either
father or mother, nor had his step-brother
cared to make up for their loss. He had
seen he was well fed, clothed, and schooled

as a matter of necessity, and had carefully
nursed his little property, but he had
grudged him his holidays, and never attempted
to share his scant pleasures.

Charley smiled as he remembered what
a bugbear Ambrose had seemed in those
days — not that he had ever questioned his
elder brother's affection. Boys and girls
as a rule do not sit down and consider and
weigh and measure their lots ; but he had
felt a want, though he couldn't have named
it, and his early marriage was probably the
result of that want. How could he ever
have trembled before that brother's word ?

1 Such a rum-looking chap !' he soliloquized,
recalling the Leghorn hat and cutaway
coat and very light loose trousers, and
smiling as he thought over his oddities.

He fell to thinking over his sister-in-law
next, with his lately-acquired experience of
woman. Why had he always thought of

her as a down-trodden, dreary person ?
She must have been really good-looking
not so very long ago ; and her manner to
her husband was certainly neither subservient
nor fearful. She was becomingly
dressed, too. It seemed to him that
formerly she was always a dowdy in slate-coloured
alpaca, and her manner fearful
and awkward. Here was something to
find out ; for the difference was not fanciful
of that he was convinced. The two girls
were free from his retrospective criticism.
They were in the nursery when he went
away.

Funny, apple-faced girls,' he said to
himself. ' I dare say they'll not be bad-looking
some day, when they've outgrown
pigtails, and got some flesh on their arms
and legs ;' and then he remembered he had
promised to have a game of tennis as soon
as he had smoked his pipe. So, collecting

his presents, he went down to distribute
them.

A visitor was in the drawing-room — the
new Vicar, who was brother to Mrs. Scott ;
and in him Charley soon read the reason
for her altered manner. The well-to-do
Vicar of Bestminster was a client and relation
worth propitiating, and with him at
hand the much-snubbed wife had gradually
learnt to assert her right to be something
more than nurse-housekeeper, and Ambrose
had wisely tolerated the gradual change,
though at first he had succumbed in her
brother's presence only. Strangely enough,
however, as his wife made him feel her independence
of action, she began to acquire
a new grace and charm in his eyes ; he
began to be glad she asserted herself, and
proud of the fresh local importance she
gained through her new departure. Perhaps
he knew, despite all this, that, were it

necessary, he could easily put on the screw
again, and bring back the old order of
things.

After awhile, when the Vicar and the
soldier were fast friends, they spoke of this
change. The Vicar said :

I showed Ann she was ruining her
husband's character by letting him lord it
over the family and treat her so disrespectfully,
as a nonentity, before anyone and
everyone. She owed it to herself and her
girls to keep up her proper position as wife
and mistress ; and he's ever so much better
a fellow since he learnt self-restraint. I
saw them walking together once when a
heavy storm of rain came on ; they'd only
one umbrella between them, which she was
carrying. He actually took possession of
it, and walked briskly off, leaving her to
follow as she could f

The Vicar was accompanied by two little

boys — twins of four years old. He had
been a widower ever since they were born,
and ever since they could take care of themselves
he was rarely seen without them.

Charley was greatly attracted by their
sturdy, independent ways. Though they
were the same age, they were not the same
size. The one was plump and short, the
other tall and thin ; but the little one ruled
the tall one. They stood forward and
listened to what was going on without
taking any part ; and when they were not
interested, they seated themselves close
together in a far corner, with a thumb in
each mouth, the disengaged hands holding
each other's ears, and would thus remain,
perfectly content, till summoned away.
Their baptismal names were Francis and
Victor, but the names by which they were
known, and which they conferred on themselves,
were Toompy and Toomty.

But for the Vicars ever-watchful care,
these boys would have been ruined by
over-indulgence. They were the objects
of devoted attention and affection to every
unmarried woman in the parish. Once,
when they had the measles, the Vicarage
was besieged by volunteer nurses ; and a
large basketful of dainty dishes was sent by
the Vicar every night, under cover of the
darkness, to the aged inmates of the almshouses,
being the fragments that remained
over and above of the adoring spinsters'
offerings. The Vicarage front door was kept
locked during this illness, and a bulletin
was tied to the knocker, so that there should
be no pretext for visitors to be admitted.
The Vicar used the back-door all that time,
and generally put his coachman in charge
of the invalids during his absences.

For a long time the three figures had
been familiar to Bestminster — the tall

father between his two little sons — at
all hours of the day. While the Vicar
paid his visits to the sick, the little lads
would sit in the best parlour, patiently
sucking their thumbs and holding their
ears, quite regardless of the eyes of the
children of the house watching them from
behind the door ; nor did the most alluring
offers of fruit and sweets tempt them to
disobey their father's orders to accept
nothing except in his presence.

The Vicar was father, mother, tutor, and
nurse, in one. There was only one woman
in the world to whom he would have given
some of these duties if she would have
consented to take them for him ; he had
neither taste nor leisure for flirting, though
he was still a young man, and the attentions
of his fair neighbours neither flattered
nor amused, but simply annoyed him.
The only woman he loved better than his

sister had never shown any interest beyond
a neighbourly interest in him, nor in his
boys in his presence ; but he was content
to wait, hoping, so long as no more-favoured
suitor came into view, that all would eventually
end well for him.

He and Captain Scott liked each other
from their very first meeting. The Vicar
had expected to see a man of the world, ora
prig, and so was pleasantly surprised ;
and the Captain, full of esprit de corps,
had not looked for a kindred spirit in the
black coat of a Vicar of a remote country
town.

The Vicar had called in only for a
moment to pay his respects to the newcomer,
he said, when the girls were
clamorous for him to have just one game
of tennis ; he and his boys were due at
a village two miles over the heath, but
they let him go cheerfully enough when

vol. 1. 15

their newer uncle offered to play with
them instead. They grew familiar over
the game in the shady garden all by
themselves, and when they were all tired
Uncle Charley found himself comfortably
seated between the two girls, being initiated
into the local gossip, and being
questioned about Aunt Jane's eyes and
hair and general appearance.

Aunt Janie,' said he correcting: 'why
do you let them call you two girls Jane
and Ann ? Don't answer till they soften
them down. Even Jenny and Nanny
would be better than hard Jane and
Ann.'

Yes, I do think papa and mamma
might have given us pretty names,' cried
Ann. ' Mary Latimer always says children
ought to have temporary names till they
are old enough to choose for themselves.
Do you know Mary, Uncle Charles ?'

1 Uncle Charley,' he corrected. ■ Yes,
of course I know her. Isn't she married
yet, or going to be ?'

1 If you'll promise not to tell said
Jane, ' I believe Uncle Will would like to
marry her, but I think she's too old now.
She's older even than you, you know

1 Well, but I'm quite a youngster — at
least, your father says so ; and she's only
about two years older than I. Is she
rheumatic or blind or toothless, and cappy
and hairless ?'

1 Oh, Uncle Charles — ey ! you are laughing
at us. She's very pretty yet. We
think — Ann and I think — that she has had
a disappointment. Perhaps someone she
liked died of consumption, or '

There was a sudden pause. The same
thought had struck both girls, and their
uncle read it in their eyes.

Yes, I used to think her lovely,' he said.

J5— 2

1 I don't mind telling you I was awfully-spoons
over her.'

And he sighed profoundly. .

And why,' said Jane, creeping up closer
' why didn't you marry her ? Did you
ask her, and did she say " No " ? or '

Ann took up the subject.

1 Or Oh, Uncle Charley, we'll

never tell, but — do you suppose it is because
you married Aunt Janie that Mary
has not married anyone else ?'

Well,' he said, shaking his head, ' I
was in love with her ever since I began
stick-up collars. I aren't attempt it in
turn-down Eton, you know, but as soon as
I got into stick-ups I tried my best to cut
out Chivers, who unconsciously sucked all
the varnish off the tops of three canes
while staring at her in church. He never
got the varnish off his tongue, and so the
medical board spun him in his exam. ;

and Mary wouldn't look at him, but she
and I were fast friends. We were both
fond of toffy.'

Uncle Charley looked very serious, but
the girls didn't feel quite sure of him.

1 But when you went to India and saw
Aunt Janie you forgot ?' Ann suggested.

1 When I went to India and saw Aunt
Janie it was all over with me. I never
even thought of my collars. You won't
mention it, will you ? but I forgot all
about Mary and her toffy and everything.'


1 How awful !' said Ann.

1 How dreadful !' said Janie.

But they looked beaming, and rubbed
their hands together. This was evidently
as good as a novel to them. He looked
as penitent as he could.

Yes,' he continued, ' Aunt Janie made
me marry her instead. I hope you'll keep

close to me when I first meet Mary. It
will be so awkward.'

1 Poor thing !' sighed Ann.

Perhaps if you told her she'd better
marry Uncle Will she would Jane murmured.


Uncle Charley groaned.

When your affections have been trifled
with, you won't glance at another !' he said.

Then, looking at the four round eyes, full
of curiosity and interest, he rose hastily,
and, fearing if he remained he would spoil
all, he went off to the drawing-room.

I believe he's been trying to take us
in !' said one girl as he left them.

I wonder if it's all a make-up !' said
the other.

But they ended in believing it all, and
looked forward to further interesting disclosures
at the meeting between the two
former friends.

MARY LATIMER.

Afterwards, with his brother and sister-in-law,
Mary Latimer was again discussed.


I heard from her to-day,' Ambrose
told him. ' She is coming home very soon
now.'

And she's not married, nor going to
be ?' Charley asked.

1 Our girls are mad over her,' said Mrs.
Scott. ( She's so good to them — quite like
an elder sister. No, I wish she would
marry, for her life is very lonely now her

mother's dead. Mrs. Latimer once said
something about a love-affair, but the
married daughter said it wouldn't do. He
hadn't anything, so it came to nothing.'

1 Someone here ?' asked Captain Scott.

1 No, someone she met at her sister's ;
but, dear me ! that's years ago.'

1 Doesn't the Vicar want a wife ?'

Mrs. Scott smiled, but was silent.

Bless me !' Ambrose cried, speaking
sharply. ' What could he do with a wife ?
There are the boys — quite as much ashe
can manage. I wouldn't put such an
idea in his head !'

Mrs. Scott's eyes met her young brother-in-law's.
She was not so stupid as he had
thought her, after all.

She's very comfortably off,' Ambrose
added. ' Of course that might be an inducement,
but / manage her business
matters, and she has plenty of friends.

She's a clever woman in her way, too. I
expect she knows when she's well off, and
doesn't care to change. At any rate, shea
nice girl, a very nice girl. I look upon
her as quite one of my family.'

For a couple of weeks Captain Scott felt
as serenely happy as it is ever given one
to feel. The weather was perfect ; the
local gossip amused him ; the local politics
amazed him. He felt strengthened by the
constant excursions by river and road — got
up for his benefit by the kindly unsophisticated
old-new acquaintances. The long
afternoons passed on the other side of the
purple boundary hills, where the sea broke
over yellow sands and shell-strewn shores,
were delightfully invigorating to his still
weakened frame. Fresh air without
fatigue, and amusement without excitement,
were just what he needed, and just what
he got. There was a novel sensation of

interest and pleasure, too, in the affection
of his nieces and the two little lads who
persisted in calling him uncle. The delightful
power so long unfelt of getting
gratification out of everything was strong
in him, and the natural consequence was
that he became a general favourite. Every
family in Bestminster felt it incumbent to
give special entertainments in his honour.
To meet Captain Scott ' was the stereotyped
form of invitation, and even beyond
Bestminster, in the county circles — those
exclusive circles rarely opened to mere
professional families — Captain Scott's name
was known to fame. The great local magnate,
Mr. Chivers, M.P., of Chivers Park,
member in the Conservative interest, condescended
to ask to see him when he was
at Mr. Scott's office one market-day — that
weekly fete-day for Bestminster on which
luncheon in Mr. Scott's dining-room was

always spread (in the Conservative interest)
for friends and clients from the neighbourhood.


Quite unconscious of the immense
honour conferred on him by the summons
to his brother's office, Captain Scott
obeyed it with a short brown pipe in his
mouth, and smilingly nodded to the old
buffer — as he mentally termed the tall,
stout man — whose presence seemed to fill
the room. The elder brother wished the
younger had left his pipe behind him, and
he exclaimed somewhat pompously :

Charles, Mr. Chi vers, our worthy
member, kindly wishes to inquire after
you. Mr. Chivers, allow me to present
Captain Charles Scott'

1 Thank ye,' said the young man, accepting
the outstretched hand with another
smile, which displayed a double row of
faultless teeth. ' I am quite fit again ; in

fact, I am not sure J ought to remain idle
any longer.'

And then he sank into the nearest chair,
and emptied the ashes of his pipe into the
empty fireplace.

Ambrose looked and felt uneasy ; though
he was slightly relieved that the pipe had not
been replaced between the lips. Charley
was acting as though the society of Conservative
Members of Parliament was an
every-day thing, so he spoke up quickly,
by way of bespeaking the great man's
forbearance :

But I assure you, sir, he was sent off
by the authorities in India to save his life
actually to save his life, sir !'

I know it, I know it !' was the reply ;
'your brother is not a nameless or fameless
soldier;' and Mr. Chivers looked benign ashe
turned to the younger man and added :
1 I called for two reasons : one to see your

good brother on law matters ; the other to
thank you personally for a great kindness
you did to my poor nephew, Fred
Laurence !'

You poor Laurence's uncle !' Charley
cried, leaving his chair, and the keenest
interest lighting his face immediately.

1 Yes, and he told us how, when you and
he were side by side in that melee when
you were surprised by the hillel of
Kali-koh, and he was wounded in his
sword arm, you covered him at the risk
of your life and brought him safely
through.'

It was our first brush ; we thought more
of it than it deserved,' Charley said
modestly. ' Laurence fancied I was very
heroic — he was my great chum in our
griffin days. I assure you I did nothing
but what any fellow would have done.
He died soon after he got home, didn't he ?

We were all cut up about him. Poor Fred
Laurence, he was a fine fellow !'

Mr. Scott felt proud.

1 You never told me of all this, Charles !'
he said, looking admiringly at the young
man's flushed face.

The odd thing is Mr. Chivers continued,
' I never connected your name
with your brother here till last night,
when I was dining at Lord Warrington's,
and someone mentioned you as a very
young captain, and someone explained
how you got your promotion for your skill
and '

1 And luck !' Charley cried, raising his
hands deprecatingly. ' So many were killed
off, sir ! that is the plain unvarnished truth,
and I happened to escape.'

And skill and courage, sir !' Mr
Chivers went on, his kind words slightly
marred by a certain condescension in their

utterance. ' I really can't understand why
I was so dense over the name. I see it
every Sunday in Normington Church on
your mother's tablet — a very pretty woman
she was ! I never understood how she

could marry old I mean — you see, he

was a widower, and she a mere girl !'

This was rather awkward for the
moment, and Charley could have burst
out laughing at the sudden change in his
brother's face. Mr. Chivers quickly recovered
himself and went on :

1 I find you married the only child or
Normington's old friend Linley. He said
he was going to drop a card on you and
ask you out there ; but I want you to come
and meet him at my house first. I must
show you poor Fred's last photograph.'

1 You are very kind ; but though I am
so well, I am really not well enough for
temptations at late dinners.'

4 Oh, you shan't be tempted at all. No,
no ; I will first consult Mrs. Chivers about
our engagements, and drop you a line tomorrow
naming the day.'

How oddly things come about !' said
Mr. Scott that evening, when the family
met again at the late tea — that heavy
seven o'clock meal which took the place
of dinner throughout Bestminster. ' Here's
Charles really connected with our two great
swells, and I not to know a word about it !
Why, Charles, you are really as well yourself!
Mamma, he's been heroic and daring,
and we've never been told a word !'

Anything you like,' said Charley ; ' only
let Ann give me some tea.'

He actually almost refused Mr. Chivers'
invitation to dinner !' Ambrose said. 'They
keep a man-cook, Charles !'

The girls watched the effect of this
announcement on their uncle, who tossed

off his tea and seemed in no way affected
by his brother's remark.

'And never invite townspeople,' Ambrose
added, 'except all together once a year —
or twice in election times ; but he is actually
asking Lord Normington to meet you f

The girls had put down their knives and
forks, breathless ; but Charley's attention
was concentrated on a cutlet, and he only
said :

1 What sort of a chap is he ?'

Who— his lordship ?'

Yes, old Normington.' Ann nudged
Jane. Charley continued : ' Oh, I think I
remember him, though — a thin, shabby little
hooked-nosed man. Oh yes, I perfectly
remember : he came to church the last
Sunday I was at home, and during the
sermon he stood up and leaned over into
the next pew and rapped a small boy on
the head for chewing India-rubber. Don't

vol. 1. 16

you remember, Ambrose ? you wouldn't
laugh, and I choked outright

Ambrose smiled faintly, and then checked
himself :

1 Jane saw him very lately he said,
nodding at his little daughter. ' He asked
you how old you were, didn't he ? It
was last Quarter Sessions day, wasn't it
Jane ?'

1 Yes, father ; and he had a dirty old
frayed collar on. He '

Her father interrupted her hastily :

A man of his rank he said, ' can dress
just as he chooses ; he knows your aunt
Jane's father, and is coming to call on your
uncle

Janie,' said Charley, 'she can't bear to
be called Jane, Ambrose ! you'd better
practise Janie at home before she comes.
What became of that young Chivers who
used to play cricket when we had matches

between Bestminster and Normington — the
one who used to spoon Mary Latimer ?'

The girls looked up with twinkling eyes.
Their mother spoke :

You'll remember all our old gossip by-and-by,'
she said ; ' but these children must
be off to their lessons.'

Uncle Charley opened the door for his
nieces ; these little attentions — 'just as if
we were grown up,' said Ann — charmed
the girls.

Never mind a snubbing,' he whispered,
as they passed out rather crestfallen.
4 When Aunt Janie comes, we'll have a
bride-cake all to ourselves. It will be
nearly as good as a wedding, and then we'll
persuade Mary to have another.'

Of course Mr. Scott had to relate the
events of the day to his brother-in-law.

1 Charles received the invitation quite
coolly,' he said.

16 — 2

What ought I to have done ?' said
Charley — ' salaam or salute ?'

Mr. Chivers is a little god in this
house,' Ann remarked.

Her husband looked annoyed.

1 Charles is a very young man,' he said,
4 though I am rejoiced to find he has made
himself a name already. Only think,' he
added, turning to the Vicar, ' he was talked
about at a large dinner-party at Lord
Normington's !'

1 Well done !' said the Vicar kindly.

1 The fellow has done some very brave
action' — here Ambrose slapped his brother's
shoulder — 'but he wont talk of it, though
others do, it seems.'

Nonsense !' said Charley.

'When you left the room, Mr. Chivers
said you'd a good claim to the Victoria
Cross.'

< Oh, rubbish !'

1 And I find you have two medals and
clasps. Why didn't you tell us ?'

They were in general orders. Every
fellow gets them when he's been under fire.'

1 No, no !' said Ambrose. ' Well, in
future I shall always read the military news.
I'll get the A army and Navy voted for in
our news-rooms. Why, of course we ought
to have had it there long ago. I'll spare
your blushes, Charles ; but I'm proud of
you, my boy !'

I wish you'd greater right to be,'
Charley answered quietly.

He wished his wife had been present to
witness his brother's pleasure. He himself
was touched by it.

The Vicar said :

1 So you are all going to dine at Chivers
Park ? Out of season, too.'

1 Oh no ! Only Charles.'

Why not ?' Charley asked.

1 We are not asked.'

But of course you will be ?'

One can hardly expect it ; though it
would be rather nice to go when the rest
of the townsfolk are not asked.'

I certainly shan't go alone. They
wouldn't be such cads, surely, as to leave
you and Ann out ?'

Will may be asked,' Mrs. Scott said,
1 and he could-drive you ; but I don't suppose
we shall get an invitation.'

Next morning Captain Scott received
the much-talked-of note : it was written on
leather-like paper, and bore a large coat-of-arms
of many - coloured quarterings,
whereon mythical creatures were emblazoned
; and there was no corresponding
billet for anyone else.

1 They certainly want teaching better
said Charley. ' I shall decline without
more ado.'

His brother was in despair. Such a
valuable client must not be offended. It
was a custom — an acknowledged custom
in England — for town and county to keep
apart. Charley was, as a soldier, eligible
for any society, and, as a stranger, he
could disregard local prejudices ; but, as a
brother, he was bound to consider his relations.


1 But don't you see he is noticing me
and insulting you ?'

1 My dear Charles, a man in my position
town clerk, vestry clerk, magistrates'
clerk, treasurer to the county charities,
agent to the immense Chivers estate,
alderman of this ancient borough, owning
a name which has been on the roll of English
lawyers for a hundred and fifty years —
am not I above the petty rules of society ?
The want of an invitation to dinner can't
injure a man in such a position !'

If I go alone, write me down ass !'

Mrs. Scott was of her husband's way of
thinking for once.

1 If we don't consider ourselves insulted,'
she said, ' you need not stand up for us.
Mr. Chivers is kind to us in his own way.
We go to dine with him once a year, and
he sends us a piece of venison once or twice
a year.'

1 Not always the best part,' Charley said,
laughing. ' I can remember scraps coming
sometimes, Ann, and you said it was shameful


Never mind,' she answered. ' Your
brother's heavy bills are punctually paid,
and other good clients come through the
Chiverses' influence. We can't afford to
quarrel with our bread and butter.'

Mr. Scott moved towards the door with
his letters, saying, ' So you'll write and
accept as if the matter was settled.

No,' said Charley. ' But to please you
I'D make an excuse. I told him I couldn't
stand dinner-parties yet. Confound him !
does he think I must make myself ill just
to please him ?'

And he sat down to pen a decent excuse,
while he marvelled at the narrowness of
freeborn Britons.

Mrs. Chivers received the excuse, and
it vexed her.

1 How tiresome !' she exclaimed to her
husband. ' This will throw out our
number. You said he was sure to
come

1 Perhaps he's afraid of the night air.
I'll offer him a bed. We must have him,
for I told Normington he was coming.
Normington thinks so much of the father-in-law,
you know. The best way will befor
me to ride over and see the young
fellow.'

So next morning, when Captain Scott
was peacefully smoking and reading in the
veranda at the back of his brother's house,
Jane came flying through the open French
window of the drawing-room, crying :

1 Uncle Charley, here's Mr. Chivers asking
for you !'

Say I'm out !' said he.

And, without another word, he flew down
the long garden, making the encroaching
branches of the rose-trees scatter their pink
and crimson leaves as he brushed rapidly
past them, till, gaining the door opening
into a narrow lane skirting the fields beyond,
he found himself safe on the
further side, though in his hasty exit
he almost knocked over a lady who was
passing.

Charley !' said she, surprised out of herself
as she swerved out of his way, ' what
is the matter ?'

1 Mary !' said he, feeling his ridiculous
position, and gasping for breath as he
tried to draw himself up and look dignified.


She burst out laughing.

1 Surely you don't get into scrapes yet !'
she cried. ' I've seen you fly out here ina
panic before now ; but you were not a
married man and a hero then !'

It's a visitor,' he panted.

1 It can't be a dun or a schoolmaster
!'

He leaned up against the wall, for his
strength was not yet equal to any frantic
exertion, and laughed as he said :

1 It's Ambrose's god — Chi vers, M.P. !'

And where's Mrs. Charley ?' she asked,
standing and regarding him with an admiring
kindly smile, perfectly free from
coquetry. ' I only came last night — sooner
than T intended, or I should have expected

some of you to have been to see me. I'm
trying to remember you are grown up
and settled ; but, except for this,' and she
stroked her upper lip, ' you are very little
altered. I really can't call you Captain
Scott yet.'

I hope you never will. Mrs. Charley
is coming very soon, I hope ; I know
you'll like her. And how is it you haven't
followed my example, and got married ?
You're prettier and jollier than ever !'

'Impertinent boy! No one will have
me.'

As she spoke, a very becoming colour
flushed her face ; and at that moment the
garden-door was opened behind them, and
there stood Mr. Chivers, with Janie as
crimson as a peony at his side.

Ah !' said the Member, bowing to Miss
Latimer, ' I hope I don't intrude ?' and he
fixed his eyes on the young lady's glowing

cheeks. ' But my little friend here said
her uncle was just outside ; and as I
promised Mrs. Chivers I would make a
point of seeing you, Captain Scott, I
ventured to follow you.'

Charley felt himself in an awkward
position.

I don't want to stop your walk,' Mr.
Chivers continued, as they all turned back
into the garden. ' I only want to say we
really can't take " No' We will put you
up for the night if you fear the drive
home ; and as for dinner, you shan't
touch anything but what you like.'

You are very kind,' Charley said, mollified
by the civility ; ' but I must abide by
my decision. You must recollect I am on
sick-leave.'

But Lord Normington — your father-in-law
s old friend — is coming on purpose
to meet you.'

Mr. Chi vers thought it as well to remind
these young folks of lawful ties.

Charley was conscious of the inference,
and was vexed.

1 1 shall hope to see him some other
time,' he said stiffly ; * and you seem to
ignore the fact that I am staying with my
brother, sir !'

Mr. Chivers looked him up and down.
4 The young fellow looked a gentleman,
every inch of him !' he said, in telling this
to Lord Normington afterwards; 'and I —
upon my life — I felt I hadn't acted like
one.' At the time, he said, after a
moment's pause :

Ah ! I understand. You are quite
right — of course you are ! Come along,
and let us talk it over with my good
friend Scott. I hope he isn't angry with
me !'

Ambrose came bustling out to meet

them as they reached the veranda. He was
afraid of some such speech of Charley's.

An explanation, however softened, could
not fail to be awkward ; and Mr. Chi vers
was wondering how he should attempt it,
when everyone's attention was arrested
by Charley sinking on the veranda-seat,
deathly pale. His imprudent race had
been too much for him ; and by the time
he had pulled himself together again, Mr.
Chivers' task was very light.

I see it's all outside show, after all,' he
said. ' It would be wrong of us to tease
you with parties yet awhile, though, really,
you looked so strong and bright the other
day.' Then he turned to Ambrose, and
added : ' You and Mrs. Scott will come to us
with him — won't you ? — when he is better.
Our table was crowded out this time ; and
you are such a busy fellow, it's no use
giving you a short notice, is it ?'

could to amuse him. She knew well
enough how she had been the object of
his calf-love, and she had accepted his
admiration, and turned it to account in
many was for his good. She had laughed
at him, while she loved him in a half-motherly,
half-sisterly way, and she had
either planned or procured him all the
extra pleasures of his school-days. Now
he had come back, not a bit changed, she
said at first ; but it was not long before she
had to acknowledge, and, like a true woman,,
she was proud to acknowledge, that he had
gone far ahead of her.

Mary Mrs. Scott asked her one day,
1 did you ever fancy that boy would improve
so greatly f

Yes Mary answered. ' You know I
always thought more of him than Mr. Scott
did. I'm not surprised. I always liked
him, but now I'm proud of him, too.'

vol. 1. 17

It's a pity he married a stranger. I'm
rather doubtful how she'll take to us. She's
connected with grand people. I'm afraid
she'll take him right away from the old
Bestminster people.'

1 I think he has a will of his own,' Mary
said, ' though it is always said when a man
marries he takes to his wife's people more
than to his own.'

1 Not always Ann said softly.

Of course there are exceptions,' Mary
added quickly. ' I shouldn't like my
husband to let me henpeck him, should
you ?'

The idea of either of these women
respecting their husbands struck Mary
ludicrously. She laughed so merrily that
Ann ended in laughing too.

I suppose,' Ann said presently, ' he'll
bring her here as soon as she comes. I
wish Ambrose would have a new carpet

in the spare room ; and there's that four-post
bed. I expect she's never slept in
such an old-fashioned thing ! I shan't
tell her all the Scotts have died in it. She
oughtn't like it. I wish you'd tell Ambrose
not to mention it. He always tells. He
thinks it makes the bed interesting

The postman's arrival made a fortunate
diversion ; for Mary dreaded being made
the recipient of Ann's domestic trials.
Most of the letters were for the young
man, who followed the servant into the
room with eager expectation. A swift
flush came over his face as he picked out a
thin Indian one.

4 Janie, by Jove !' he cried. ' And what
a shaky fist, poor girl ! You'll excuse me,'
he added, hastily opening it, ' but it's the
first I've had from her since I left.'

He read it again and again before he
looked up ; then he said :

17 — 2

1 She's much better, but they won't let
her travel yet. The Barlows — those good
creatures who took her in, you know — are
beyond everything good to her. Well,
that's all right.' His eyes were sparkling,
his voice full of joy-notes. He was about
to put the letter in his pocket, when he
stopped and asked Mary to look at the
writing. ' It looks awfully ill, doesn't it ?'
he asked.

She was touched by the young husband's
happiness.

That was written nearly a month since,'
she said. c She'll be much stronger by now.'

He smiled at her.

Ah, you always say the right thing !
I shall telegraph ; it's no use writing. I
shall tell her to come at once. It will be
hot, though, in the Red Sea. Perhaps I
ought to tell her to wait. Yes, I suppose
I ought.' His face fell for a moment ; then

it brightened. ' I'll tell her,' he added ;
1 but I know she'll come, all the same.
I'll say : " Don't you think you'd better
wait ?" and then she'll come.'

1 And then we shall all have to play
second fiddle, Mrs. Scott,' said Mary.

1 Yes,' said Ann ; ' the Nominations and
the Chiverses will reign in our stead. But,
Charles, you'll bring her here first ; your
brother always said that, you know.'

1 I'd like to see Janie climbing up into
that lugubrious spare bed,' said Charley,
with a shout of laughter. ' I wouldn't
hurt Ambrose's feelings for the world ;
but that spare room is — you know it is
an alarming apartment. I'll tell you
what I've been thinking ; for, of course,
she'll come here first. She'll love this life
as much as I do. I was thinking of taking
that cottage on the Normington Road, and
making it our head-quarters.'

Ambrose found them discussing this
plan, and he thought it a good one.
The house was small, but very modern
and complete ; and the grounds were large
and well-planned. A man and a maid
could keep all in order both inside and
out. It was altogether a lucky chance,
and Charles had best lose no time in
looking after it. So they all started off
to survey it, picking up the Vicar and his
boys as they went. The distance was not
much over a mile, and the walk through
the pine-scented roads was in itself
delightful. It was a happy, noisy walk,
for the country road was quite solitary,
with the unreclaimed heath on either side,
and the girls and boys were incited to
mischief by their uncle, who shielded them
from Mr. Scott's attempted expostulations.


The house they sought stood at the end

of a little avenue of ragged fir-trees — a
peaty clearing, planted with rhododendrons
and hydrangea, bordering the entrance
road. Close to the back of the house
the firs closed up ; but on the other three
sides there were open views far over the
country to where the undulating distance
darkly-purple met the sky. It was a little
house of two stories, with a wide, rustic
veranda, and a nicely-turfed lawn in
front. On one side lay a good-sized
vegetable garden, wattled in in primitive
style ; on the other, detached from the
dwelling by a small plantation of saplings,
was a coach-house and stable. The rooms
were bright and in good condition ; and
Charley was enthusiastic about the whole
thing. Ann and Mary should choose and
arrange the furniture, he said, and hire the
servants. Ambrose knew of a likely cob
to be had at a reasonable rate, and a

phaeton had been advertised only in last
week's local paper.

The whole thing is to one's hand !'
Captain Scott cried exultingly. ' I won't
say a word to Janie ; it will be a jolly
surprise. Girls, we'll grow no end of
strawberries and cream, and you shall
have holiday all the year round, and
we'll keep a r soft corner for Tompty and
Toompy.'

He stood in front of the little domain,
with his hat tilted over his eyes to avoid
the level sunshine. Already he was in
Paradise. Here, in this sweet, silent place,
his wife and he would begin life again ;
here, for their furlough at least, the world
should not come between them ; they
would start fresh, the old trials and
mistakes forgotten, or remembered only
to be avoided in the future. How happy
they would be ! happier even than in those

few months of ecstatic bliss which had
followed their first meeting.

Mary came to his side.

1 It only wants "Eve" to make it perfect,'
she said, as if reading his thoughts.

1 But I wish we could put back the year
a month or two,' he answered.

< Why ?'

All this is lovely now, but in October
and November it will be very different.'

It is always beautiful ; this heath-country
has a charm of its own ; always in all seasons
the lights are ever changing ; you never seethe
wholesale decay here as you see it in
more verdant country ; the firs are never
sere and sodden, and there is so much bird,
and insect, and rabbit life to keep it
cheerful.'

1 Yes ; she'll like the wide sweep of sky
and earth,' he said, 'and we'll keep
moorghies — I mean fowls. Oh, I think

it will be famous! I'll go and take it tomorrow.'


Mr. Chivers, riding past on the highroad,
wondered at the gathering in front of
the empty place, and must needs ride upto
satisfy his curiosity. He, of course,
noticed the couple standing apart in earnest
talk. Ambrose bustled up to the newcomer
and explained matters.

The sooner his wife joins him the
better,' said the County Magnate.

1 Eh, what, sir ?' and Ambrose's eyes
followed his patron's in alarm. ' That's
Miss Latimer, sir — his old friend. She's
his senior, his kind friend in his schoolboy
days !'

1 That woman turned my boy's head,
remember ; she made a fool of him,
Scott !' Ambrose could have retaliated
she left him as she found him ; he was very
indignant, not only on his brother's account,

but also because he was honestly fond of
Mary. Mr. Chivers continued in a low
emphatic tone : ' As for her age, that's
nothing to do with it; she's handsomer now
than she was at twenty ; she doesn't look
older than him.'

All the way home Ambrose was very
silent ; but no one noticed his silence.
Charley was talking enough for all ; and
Mary, with a girl hanging on each arm, was
suggesting all sorts of absurdities for the
new house, while the Vicar laughed and
carried his boys by turn.

The elder brother reflected that what
Chivers insinuated, false though it undoubtedly
was, might be believed by others
as well as him ; and while he felt angry, and
sure there was not the faintest shadow of
truth in the accusation, it nevertheless
rankled in his mind and perplexed him.
He was cross and disputatious all the evening.

Mary stayed for the evening meal,
and for the first time he was vexed. Afterwards
the younger ones strolled about
the twilight garden, while Mr. and
Mrs. Scott went through their weekly
accounts. Out of hearing of their parents,
Ann and Jane chattered openly enough ;
they wanted Uncle Charley to describe an
Indian garden. Were there white lilies
there such as these that looked so ghost-like
against the dark background ? But Uncle
Charley could talk about nothing but the
new home, so Mary gave them such a
correct account of the shrubs, and creepers,
and trees of a garden in the plains of India,
that he accused her of having got her
description out of a book.

1 I have often noticed,' he added, ' how
much you know about Indian life ; I declare
you are the only person I have ever met,
not absolutely connected with India, who

lias ever seemed to care two brass farthings
about anything Indian.'

Yes ?' she said ; 4 well, I have always
been fascinated by India — especially by its
horrors,' she added, laughing. 'When I
was a little girl, Mrs. Sherwood and Henry
Martin were my favourites, and as I grew
up I read deeper writers. Kate beats any
romance writer I know, and the fascination
of that first Afghan war never wanes with
me. Further back, too, what can be
so breathlessly exciting as the adventures
of those pioneers of the great East Indian
Company, those few British heroes against
the kings and princes over millions of
subjects ? And then the awful account the
innocent had to render for the guilty in the
Mutiny of '57.' Her voice shook. ' I
often wonder how people live through such
trials,' she continued. *I can remember the
shock throughout the land when that news

came ; of course it is a sort of nightmare
dream to me. I didn't understand it then,
but now I can almost realize the awful
agony !'

1 You ought to go to India,' he said
lightly. ' I have often wondered why
you take so unusual an interest in that
country.'

She laughed.

■ Ah ! who can tell the why of a woman's
fancy ?' she said.

And he exclaimed, without consideration,
speaking as lightly as she had spoken :

c Ah, Mary, confess ! Who is he ?'

She turned abruptly towards the house.

1 Mother will scold us for staying out so
long, girls,' she said, taking no notice of
his remark, and leading the way into the
lighted room ; and Charley, looking at her
as they entered, saw her face was crimson.

The accounts were not over, and the

new-comers went to the further end of the
room not to disturb them. Mr. Scott was
still in a captious mood.

1 Gloves, two-ands sixpence,' he was
saying, as Mrs. Scott read from her
private book, and he transferred the item
to his own ledger. ' Whose gloves ?'

Mine. 1

He protested she was always buying
gloves, and wasted some minutes in looking
back for the date of her last pair.

Here it is !' he cried triumphantly.
Gloves, wife, two - and - sixpence." I
thought so! "Gloves, two-and-sixpence,
wife," and only just two months ago.'

I think I have been very careful, considering
they were cheap things.'

4 Cheap things — I never buy gloves at
all!'

1 You don't mind wearing funeral things.'

4 I don't mind being economical. Well ?'

1 Three yards of lace, sixpence.'

4 Lace ! Good gracious ! one would
think we were the gayest of the gay ;
nothing but gloves and lace !'

1 I certainly shouldn't be fit for the
gayest of the gay decked out in twopenny
lace.'

She did not mean to be funny, but Mary
began to count backwards to herself to
avoid laughing, while Charley listened
in wonder.

Cleaning straw hat, one-and-sixpence, 7
Mrs. Scott continued.

4 One-and-sixpence for a straw-hat cleaning
! Quite unnecessary. Those girls'
hats cost a fortune !' he rejoined.

Mrs. Scott's voice was decidedly sarcastic
as she replied :

• The hat is yours.'

He entered the figure without another
word.

Foreign postage, one-and-eightpence,'
was her next item.

He put down his pennant faced her.

Once more, I tell you, I will not throw
away money on foreign postage. Your
brother writes to Australia, and you must
enclose your letters in his ; it's ridiculous
to write separately. It's not fair to your
children to throw away money like this.'

She closed the book and rose.

I think we'll do the rest in private,'
she said ; ' it is a bad example to your
brother.' Charley wondered whether she
took this wrangling as a matter of course ;
it was impossible to guess from her calm
voice. ' Do you tax your wife's accounts,
Charles ?' she added.

1 No,' he answered ; ' she never keeps
accounts. She buys what she wants, and
so do I. We don't bother each other ;
life's too short !'

vol. 1. 18

Ambrose shook his head.

That's not business,' he said. ' Women
have no idea of the value of money. Ann
would soon make me bankrupt if I didn't
put on the screw occasionally.'

Ah !' said Ann ; ' but, you see, I can't
live without fine clothes. Perhaps you
haven't noticed my luxurious habits,
Charles ?'

Can't say I have, luckily for you,
Ann — you look nice in whatever you
put on.'

Her face softened, and the hardness left
her voice as she exclaimed :

1 One good thing, kind words cost
nothing ; I shall come to you for a
character when I want one, Charley.'

She had never called him Charley before.
Her husband looked at her quickly.

4 A compliment fetches you women directly
he cried. * I'm sure I've often

told you you always dress well enough for
my taste.'

Miss Latimer put on her hat.

You are all getting personal,' she said,
rising. ' It is time for me to be off.'

She looked at Captain Scott to accompany
her home as a matter of course, but
the elder brother stood forward, saying :

I want some fresh air. I'll walk with
you.'

I am honoured,' she cried gaily.

It was impossible to detect any disappointment
in her manner, and Mr.
Scott was annoyed with himself for looking
for any ; but it was best to be prudent,
and he would do what he could to
keep scandal outside his family.

Charley's interest in his new home
deepened when he had taken it on a
three years' lease. Not that he needed an
English home for more than one year,

18—2

but he could not resist the lease when he
found the alterations he required could
only be allowed on that condition. He
wrote for price-lists and patterns. He
had workmen inside and outside. There
were opening of drains, digging up and
planting, just as if he meditated spending
a lifetime there. Shoals of tradesmen's
estimates flooded the breakfast-table. His
brother said he was spending a small fortune
in stamps and stationery, and inquired
if he was going to entertain the
whole Corporation at the Firs, as he needed
so much accommodation.

Charles said there must be a jests
for a lady and a box for a chum.
He needed for himself a room for his guns
and pipes, a dressing-room, and a bath-room.
Then he talked about a room for his wife's
work — a drawing - room and a diningroom,
until Mary suggested he should

persuade Mr. Chivers to change houses
with him. The Vicar never laughed at
him ; he was deeply interested in the
hopeful young housekeeper and his plans.
Something of his own long-past happy
anticipations came back to him as he
listened to Charley's. He was by no
means a sad man : Time had long ago
reconciled him to the inevitable. His boys
and his parish had hitherto sufficed him,
and he had not cared to mix in general
society : the county never presumed to
invite him as a stopgap ; the town spread
its best and stiffest for his entertainment ;
but until the young soldier came he had
never been intimate with anyone. With
Charley, Mr. Chard's stiff manners relaxed
; old jokes cropped up, old University
stories were ventilated to cap the
other's mess anecdotes. The young man
would hook his arm in the elder's, and

force his interest. Mrs. Scott watched the
two anxiously at first, lest the boyish familiarity
should be resented ; but the Vicar
chuckled when he was hailed as ' Chard,
old fellow,' and was even inveigled once
into betting, and of course losing ; he was
drawn into discussions on furnishing, and
made to give an opinion upon cretonnes
and curtains ; he was marched off at all
hours to superintend or advise. Charley
would hoist one small boy on his shoulder,
and bid the father take up the other in like
manner, and then they would tramp off to
the cottage to forget all about meals and
hours.

The Vicar's advice was always desired,
but not always taken. It was poohpoohed
without the smallest hesitation unless it
suited Charley. Ambrose had never presumed
to be on such familiar terms with
his brother-in-law. Indeed, Charley would

never have dreamed of treating Ambrose
as he treated the elderly parson.

But Charley could be serious enough at
times, and he and Mr. Chard had cultivated
tastes in common on subjects which had
no interest to the lawyer. Ambrose was
thoroughly local-minded ; his county to him
was mapped out for voting purposes ; its
holdings were interesting simply for the
number of the constituents they supplied
in the Conservative interest ; its great
families were serviceable merely for
political reasons ; an election was to him
what death is to others — the one great
event of life. The rest of the world, with
its arts and science, its productions and
progress and wars, had no great share in
his thought. He was a reliable, respectable,
honourable man in his own place,
and among his own people ; elsewhere he
was a nonentity.

The Vicar turned with relief to the
half-brother, with his wide sympathies, his
impartial criticism, his robust, far-seeing
hopefulness. In his six-and-twenty years
Charley had seen more of life than had
Ambrose in his eight-and-forty, his
quicker intellect and broader spirit taking
him far ahead. The two congenial spirits
found it weary work listening to the
solemn confabulations of the news-room
worthies, when, banks and offices being
closed for the day, they met nominally
to look at the papers, really to exchange
the small local news of the day. The
Vicar had soon learnt to exchange expressive
looks with Charley over these
solemn conclaves, when the squeaking of
the town-pump handle was the topic, or
the wickedness of the paupers' objection
to gruel three times a day stirred the
righteous indignation of these poor-law

guardians. To be sure, the Vicar had
occasional qualms that he was hardly
charitable sometimes in laughing over his
young friend's criticisms on some of these
worthy townspeople ; but Charley had no
such scruples : he acknowledged their
many actual virtues ; he argued, therefore,
it was fair he should be allowed to see
their amusing oddities also. There was
no possibility of lowering his love of fun
in those happy days of preparation.

END OF VOL. I.

willing A SONS. PRINTERS. Guildford

G. , C & Co.

THE

TEMPLE BAR MAGAZINE.

1 Who does not welcome " Temple Bar "?—/o/in Bull.

PRICE ONE SHILLING.

" Temple Bar " is sparkling and brilliant. It might command a constituency
by its fiction alone, but it takes so much care of its more solid matter that, if there
were no stories at all, there is enough to interest the reader'— English Independent.

A Magazine for the Million'— Standard.

RICHARD BENTLEY & SON, NEW BURLINGTON STREET, LONDON.

3 0112 088989006

#T

"K ,

Nfe^-^

-^ - XN

W. H. SMITH & SON'S
SUBSCRIPTION LIBRARY,

186, STRAND, LONDON,

AND AT THE RAILWAY BOOKSTALLS.

Novels AP. .Issued TO-^^OE.veorBOM SUB Scribes m SETS 0«LV.

FOB 8»B5CI«BEIiS 0BI«1N1«0 m"oOKS m« » ™"™ S""''iiH<.fO-jj

For Three Volumes „ 1 8 2 10

For FOUR » » " 1 15 3 3

For SIX ,. " 3 6 5

For TWELVE „



t-

OF THE
UN IVLR5ITY
or ILLINOIS



R96S

V/-2

SCOTTS OF Westminster

BY

J . j\l A S T E R M A N

AUTHOR OF

A FATAL EUROK,' ' HALF A DOZEN DAUGHTERS,' ' WORTH WAITING FOI

ETC.

'Tis the unexpected always happens

IN THREE VOLUMES.— VOL. 11.

LONDON

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON

publishers in dDrbimirg to ^tr Jttajcstj|) the CQuan



wall rights reserved

CHAPTER

VIII. WRECKED HOPES -
IX. NEVER A SAIL
X. SALVAGE -
XI. PRISONERS OF HOPE
XII. NEWS FROM THE OUTER WORLD
XIII. THE BRIDE OF THE SEA -

I






in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/scottsofbestmins02rybo

SCOTTS OF Westminster

CHAPTER VIII.

WRECKED HOPES.

Lord Normtngton had left a card as he
had promised, and Captain Scott had returned
it, and had lunched with his father-in-law's
old friend, and had found him
much more to his liking than he had found
the other local magnate, Mr. Chivers.

Chivers is a regular old 
!' his lordship had said ; ' he and your

vol. II. 19

brother think the world was made in the
Conservative interest. I hate politics like
poison. My doctor always finds I need
a course of German baths at election
times. Self, pelf, and spite govern both
parties — I hate both parties. Of course,
there are good men and true on both
sides ; but it's all self-seeking with the
majority. When they find I'm determined
to get out of the way and vote for
neither, they ask me to influence my
tenants : Til be handed if I'll influence
them ! let them do as they like. Why
shouldn't they have a go at it, hammer and
tongs, one against the other ? They need
their dry bones to be rattled up in these
deadly-lively diggings. Sensible fellow
that !' he said afterwards of his young
guest. ' Linley's girl has done well for
herself! If ever I have a chance, I shall
give him a leg-up.'

He rode over to see the little house, and
was much Interested in the alterations and
improvements, and he had the young man
to shoot his best covers on the list, and
made him free of his warren for the winter.
So all went well with Captain Scott ; his
health was excellent, and when on the
6th of September a telegram arrived from
Major Barlow telling him Janie had
actually sailed, his happiness was all but
complete. Everything was now pushed on
at increased speed. The little conservatory
was filled with flowers ; chimneys were
swept ; carpets were put down ; butcher,
baker, and <2:rocer were warned that they
would soon have to call daily for orders .
the nearest farm-house was requisitioned
for milk, butter, and eggs, and the Captain
at last took possession of the little domain
so as to get the new servants into training.
In all this preparation Mary Latimer was

19 — 2

expected to be at his elbow ; but though he
asked, and generally followed, her advice
as to the arrangement of the furniture,
she often found on her next visit things
had been rearranged to suit his own fancy.
Mr. Scott watched the two furtively, and
was more and more convinced Mr. Chivers'
insinuation was base. Ambrose was not
sentimental, but he could tell when love-making
was going on, and there was no
sign of love-making between his young
brother and Mary. The girls were always
with Miss Latimer, too ; Uncle Charley
trotted them all out unmercifully, keeping
them busy at the cottage till late in the
afternoon ; but though they declared he
tired them out, they were always willing to
stay, for before they started home he had
always a feast of good things ready for
them : such delicious tea and cream, such
cakes from London, that they would gladly

have endured twice the fatigue for the sake
of the reward. Nothing was allowed to
be left, either : cakes and sweets would not
keep, he said ; and Ann and Jane were
made to fill their pockets. Even Mrs.
Scott became lively with the unwonted
excitement.

At last all was in order. The cook had
learned to make eatable curry which did
not skin the throat ; the Vicar had learned
to eat it with fork and spoon in the
orthodox manner. The little store-room
was stocked as if to stand a siege ; a new
side-saddle of the daintiest make was ready
in the well-aired harness-room. A beautifully
inlaid sewing - machine stood in
one bay-window ; a handsome writing-table,
well supplied with feminine weaknesses
in tinted and gilded and illustrated
stationery, stood cosily between the fireplace
and the window, and an Gerard's piano, with

pink wax candles all ready In its brackets,
and a roll of new songs beside It, only
waited the guiding hands of the mistress to
give forth Its harmony. No one had been
allowed to play on it ; Charley's fancy was
that Janle's fingers should sound the first
melody In their first English home. The
ribbon which bound the songs was to be
untied by no one but Janle. The key of
the piano was kept in Charley s pocket, lest
anyone should be tempted to break his law.

Uncle Charley is such fun !' said his
nieces.

The lad Is crazy over his new toy,' said
his brother.

Charley was somewhat shy over mentioning
his wife in public, but that everything
he prepared and planned was entirely
for and in reference to her was very
evident to all. Everyone was ready to
pay court to the expected arrival ; everyone

took deep personal interest in the
house and furniture. Little else was talked
of in those weeks of expectation. What
a nice thing it would be through the
coming winter to walk out to the cottage
and see the young couple playing at housekeeping
! What a fund of interest was
opening out in the dull neighbourhood
with the coming of the gay young people !
All Bestminster quivered with excitement,,
and even distant Normington was agitated.
There were lively discussions as to who
would be expected to call, and how soon
they could call without intruding. Would
the lady, highly connected as she was said
to be, be stuck up and go in for the county,
or the gentleman continue as sensible and
nice as he was at present, and be content
with his late father's and brother's professional
friends '^. Questions of deep local
importance !

That he would join the hunt was
certain — he had already subscribed ; and
that she was ' quite at home on horseback '
was evident by the saddle, which was of
the best town make — country saddlers
were evidently not ^^ood enough for her.
Her habit would probably be quite short
Bestminster ladies thought short habits
fast, yet. That they would all need to
brush up in dress, and homes, and entertainments
seemed positive, and the ladies
persuaded the news-room committee to
take in The Queen, that they might get the
newest ideas of the doings of upper-class
society.

By the 20th Captain Scott had become
very restless. He had been disappointed
of a telegram from Aden, and reckoned
the ship must by now be In the Canal ; and
at last he determined to go off to London,
where he could learn the boat's movements

without delay. When he started he was
regarded as one regards a bridegroom
going off to be married, and good wishes
and God-speeds were lavished on him by
the small crowd that accompanied him to
the station.

A sudden dulness fell on the little community
when he had gone ; the summer
seemed to fade all at once into autumn ;
dead leaves raced each other through the
empty streets, and Mary and the girls,
walking in the garden amongst the discoloured
dahlias and dying sunflowers,
talked together so quietly that Mrs. Scott
doubted their presence, and looked out to
be sure they had not gone out by the back
door. She herself was restless, while
Ambrose admitted he missed ' the boy's
chatter ' dreadfully. Even the Vicar's
sermons breathed a less hopeful tone as he
missed the bright upturned face, and the

choir — without the full, true lead Charley-had
delighted to give — attempted Gregorian
chaunts and minor keys, and went horribly
wrong deservedly.

Captain Scott went off to the ship's
office early on the morning after his
arrival in London. He had reckoned
that, all being well, as of course it could not
fail to be, the boat must already be very near
Malta ; but in answer to his inquiries he
was told they had no news to give him.
No telegram had been received from Aden
or Suez ; nothing, in fact, had been heard
since she left Bombay on the 5th instant.
There were several people in the office
making the like inquiries. Most of them
were very anxious, but the clerks were
very busy and curt in their repeated
assurances that they had nothing to
say.

Charley waited awhile, and then went to

a mild-looking, elderly person, sitting
writing behind a glass-screened desk.

Isn't it usual for your boats to telegraph
from every port ?' he asked.

Pretty usual

Can anything have gone wrong with
the Elephant ?'

It was a silly question, Charley knew,
but he had received a sudden shock. The
man looked at him as much as to say,
What a fool you are !' He said :

Perhaps they're lying by in a storm ;
perhaps part of the gear has failed.
We've done our best, and are doing our
best, to hear of her. We shall probably
know something in a day or two.'

Isn't it easy to know when she left
Aden ? Can I telegraph there ?'

She's never got to Aden — we know
that much. Call again, sir ; we know
nothing more now.'

Captain Scott could not wait till next
day. He was back at the office in the
afternoon, having spent the interval in
seeing the doctor who had pronounced his
health excellent, and in talking to his club
friends, who had cheered him up with assurances
that the ship must be safe, and
that ' those fellows of clerks make a fuss
about nothing just to show their importance.'
This time he sent his card into
one of the principals, who received him
very kindly, and, not guessing the near
relationship of ' the friend on board the
Elephanta' told him plainly that very
grave fears were entertained about the
ship's safety, as a storm of unexampled
violence had raged over the Indian Ocean
just at the time she was on her way to
Aden.

Charley showed no sign of agitation.
Long afterwards he said he felt literally

nothing more than the interest anyone and
everyone feels on such occasions. He
suggested she might have been driven
past Aden without having been seen, but
was answered that though such a things
was possible, she must have been seen in
the narrower and much-frequented Arabian
Sea. Besides, she should at least have
reached Suez long ere this. Telegrams
had been sent wherever there was any possibility
of hearing of her, but without avail.

She is well officered,' added the principal,
' and, I believe, in first-rate condition.
So many strange things happen at sea that
one never likes to despair. She may belying
by dismantled, waiting for help.
Any moment may bring news of her perfect
safety. For the sake of those who
have friends on board it is best to hope onto
the last.'

Then he promised to let his visitor

hear the instant any news arrived, and
Charley passed out into the busy, noisy
street.

The principal gave the card to a clerk,
bidding him make an entry.

That's the name of one of the passengers,'
said the clerk, taking up a list. ' Yes,
here it is, sir, amongst the ladies — Mrs.
Scott.'

By George !' said the superior. ' His
wife, no doubt ! Poor chap ! and how
bravely he took it !'

Or his mother-in-law,' said the clerk
jocosely. ' That alters the case, sir ?'

Captain Scott walked back to his club
as if in a dream. There was upon him a
horror of being alone, a dread of sitting
down to think. He was perfectly calm.
His step was as firm and upright as if he
were going on parade. Yet he was conscious
of a possible breakdown of this

serenity, of a something gathering in intensity,
brooding over him, which must intime
crush him to the earth. When he
entered the club he asked for a glass of
beer — the typical Englishman's solace in
all difficulties — but after one sip he put
the tumbler down. His throat refused to
swallow. He glanced round at the eight
or ten other occupants of the room, half
expecting to find them watching him ; but
they were all intent on their own papers,
till he called to a waiter to bring him a
directory, and then something in his voice
made two or three look up at him. One
of these sprang up as he looked and recognised
him.

What, Scott, old fellow !' he cried.

Charley stood facing him, but offered
neither hand nor word of greeting.

The other put his arm in his and drew
him to a recessed window.

Why, in your last letter,' he said, ^ you
told me you were as strong as Ajax, or
that other fellow, Hercules. What's up
now ?'

Yes !' said Charley, as if waking up
slowly. * Oh, it's Cartwright.'

Yes, it is, and I want to introduce you
to my missis. Though you wouldn't come
to our wedding, we bear you no spite.
Has yours joined you yet ?'

Then Charley clutched him, leaning all
his powerful weight upon him as if he
must clutch or drop, and, as coherently ashe
could, told what was feared of the ship's
fate. He got better as he poured out his
distress to friendly ears, and a man's spirit
to endure came back to him. He pulled
himself together mentally and physically,
and as he talked over the pros and cons
with his sympathising friend, he began to
cast off the despair that had assailed him.

Mr. Cartwright was very good to him.
He suggested a visit to Lloyd's, but Lloyd's
knew nothing. Then together they went
again to the ship's office, only to find it
besieged by dismayed friends of the passengers
of the Elephanta. They got a
little ray of comfort there, however ; for
Charley saw a list of the passengers, and
felt that in Major Mortimer Janie would
not feel friendless ; but the next day
brought a crushing blow, and Charley read
it in the morning's news as he sat at breakfast,
the almost solitary occupant of the
club.

The ses. Asia reports picking up a
boat bottom upwards, marked Elephanta,
on the 20th inst., lat. lo" 20' N., long.
50" 17' E. ; and it is feared that the
ses. Elephanta, which left Bombay for
England on the 5th inst., must have been
caught in the storm that raged throughout

VOL. II. 20

that district, and has gone down with all
hands. The trading ship Boscawen reports
seeing a large steamer in a dismantled
condition drifting before the wind on the
13th inst. The weather being too rough
for signalling, they were unable to make
her out.'

Then followed the tonnage and age of
the ship, the names of her captain and
crew, and a list of the passengers.

Mr. Cartwright found him towards dusk
sitting in the office of the steamship's company,
' waiting,' he said. The room was full
of other silent, patient waiters. The principals
came amongst them every now and
then, trying to express hopes they could
not feel, till the dusk deepened and a stir
began amongst the departing clerks. Then
one by one the mournful assembly rose and
passed out into the night, and Captain Scott,
putting his arm in his friend's, went out

also, but he could not be induced to go
home with him.

I shall have to struggle through it
somehow,' he said. ' And that clerk told
me all sorts of unexpected things happen at
sea. I don't mean to give up, old fellow ;
and I don't mean to be a wet blanket to
you and your wife.'

But, notwithstanding his protest against
hopelessness, Charley did, in the solitude
and silence of the night, realize the bitterness
of despair. All through the night he
paced up and down his room, while visions
of the storm-tossed vessel full of helpless
beings refused to leave his mind's eye. He
thought of his sensitive, terrified wife exposed
to all the horrors of wet and privation,
and at last going down, as it were, ina
cage. Did she die cursing him for his
treachery in leaving her ? Had she called
him perjured with her last breath ? What

20 — 2

a fool he had been to plan and anticipate
with such blind certainty ! Could he not
have remembered the uncertainty of all
things ? Had he never read of the man
in the parable, who had widened his barns
and increased his treasures, and boasted
of his coming years of ease and pleasure ?
Why should he expect to be exempt from
the common lot — ruin and disappointment ?
Hope came no longer at his call ; prayer
refused to pass his lips ; his soul could find
no gleam of light in the grievous darkness.
When he presented himself at the club in
the morning, the servants said amongst
themselves he had been having a night of
it ; but when they learnt what had happened,
they anticipated his every want, to
show their sympathy.

He went again to the office, to find
again another patient throng ; but he could
not stay amongst them — there was nothing

to be learnt, and the clerks were beginning
to show they were tired of the matter. So
he went back to the club to look over the
papers, and there he found waiting to
receive him the Vicar of Bestminster.

This is good of you,' said Charley, and
his haggard face smiled a welcome ; ' how
did you know ?'

When Ambrose read what had happened
in the evening paper, he had gone immediately
to his brother-in-law for advice.

One of us must go to him by the early
train,' he had said. ' Shall it be you or
I ? To-morrow's quarter sessions ; but,
still, the lad can't be left alone till we know
more.'

The Vicar needed no inducement. He
thought of the awful stop to the young
man's fond hopes and plans, of the little
home prepared with so much care and
pride, of the bright smile of anticipation

on the young fellow's face as the train
bore him away, as he believed, to happiness.
And as the Vicar journeyed onwards,
he tried to put together some words
of comfort with which to greet the stricken
one. His profession taught him where
the best comfort was to be found, and in
his own sorrows, in his own family, at many
a death-bed, and in many a dark trouble
amongst his parishioners, that comfort had
never failed. His heart rose up in prayer
as he travelled across London, and as he
waited in the club-room ; but when Charley
appeared with his wan smile and broken
voice — so changed from the gay young
man with his fearless bearing— he could at
first say nothing whatever, only return the
pressure of his hand and stumble through
the ordinary salutations.

Later on, when alone together, and they
had gone through all the probabilities and

possibilities of the situation, the Vicar
thought it best to try to make him trust
and submit ; but Charley's mood suddenly
changed, and he stopped him fiercely.

Oh, shut up preaching !' he cried ;
there is no mercy here : it is desperate,
desperate cruelty ! I know I have sinned !
I have brought all this on myself, perhaps ;
but she — what has she done ?'

For a moment this sudden outburst of
poor human agony silenced the other ;
then he said, very slowly and tenderly :

'And what had our Saviour done to
suffer as He suffered ?'

Charley lifted his angry face and glared
at him for a moment defiantly, then he let
his head fall on his arms spread out on the
table before him, and broke into an agony
of weeping.

The poet says we must suffer to be
strong, and the suffering of those days

and nights certainly strengthened Captain
Scott to bear the prolonged anxiety ; for
he would not give up hope, even though
those who knew best had quite given the
missing ship over as lost.

Can you stay with me a few days ?' he
asked the Vicar, the morning after his
outbreak, adding with a shamefacedness
that bound the Vicar still closer to him :
^ I can't leave town till we know something
more, and it is such a comfort to
have you. I have been thinking of two
good things : you being here now, and
Mortimer having been with her there.'

I'm going to take a regular holiday,'
was the reply. ' I've got a college friend
to take the work at home. Ann has
charge of the boys, and the parish will
get a treat of new sermons. I haven't
had a holiday for two years, so I've a right
to one now.'

Charley brightened up, till another
paragraph appeared in the papers, stating
that a boat marked Elephanta had run
ashore on the Arabian coast, containing
two men, one alive, the other dead ; the
living man, who was still unable to relate
his adventures, was being brought to
England by the P. and O. steamer
Kangaroo. This renewed all his restlessness,
and kept him in a constant state
of anxiety till it was time to go and meet
the steamer.

By bribing heavily, Captain Scott
managed to interview the survivor before
he was visited by the reporters. He
went on board alone, and was there so
long that the Vicar began to fear he had
been taken ill ; but he reappeared at last
and then his stunned look was worse to
witness than stormy grief would have been.
Mr. Chard asked no questions as Charley

Stumbled on to the quay, but, giving him
his arm, set off straight ahead — which
happened to be towards the country — till
Charley said :

Are you game for a long stretch ?'

All right,' said the Vicar.

And they swung along together in
perfect silence, till at last Mr. Chard was
utterly wearied out. He glanced at his
companion, and saw a white face and
blank eyes looking straight before him — so
he bore the fatigue a little longer. Then
Charley seemed to come back out of some
dream, for he turned suddenly and said :

Are you tired, Chard .'* I say, you do
look done up ! What a selfish wretch I
am ! Come back ; you must want dinner.'
Presently he added : 'It's all over now ;
there's no more doubt about it — that
fellow saw it all. I shall go back to duty
and work it off.'

He said no more till they were parting
for the night, when, as if following up the
story he had heard, he added :

They suffered terribly before they took
to the boats ; it is almost a comfort to
know death was close at hand in that
raging sea.'

Great capital was made by the papers
out of the ' Authentic Account of the Loss
of the ses. Elephanta, by the Only Survivor.'
It was unhappily a not uncommon experience,
but the survivor told it with a
simplicity that carried conviction and made
it unusually pathetic. After relating how
the dismantled vessel was carried out of
its course at the mercy of the wind and
sea, and the terrible days and nights of
dread passed in the saloon, he showed how
the boats were got ready and the passengers
collected and embarked ; how he had been
told off to help the women over ; how one

lady, Mrs. Scott, had shrunk back from
the jump till her eyes were bandaged,
and then she went at once. How another,
Mrs. Barlow, had leaped down with her
little boy in her arms, refusing to be parted
from him for a moment, though she almost
fell into the water in her fear ; he believed
that boat capsized almost before it left the
ship's side, for there was no sign of it
when it was his turn to start with another
boastful. Within a quarter of an hour
after the boats were all off, the steamer
settled down ; it was even with the sea
when the last boat got away. The Captain
was in the last boat, and it was sucked
down with the steamer ; the survivor saw
it go as his boat was hurled atop of a
high wave. Out of the twelve in his boat,
six were washed overboard, two died next
day, and two flung themselves overboard,
mad with terror.

Leading articles in the newspapers
enlarged on this brief narrative, making
the most of the heart-rending details. Of
the military men there were notices of their
services, and in the illustrated papers
caricature portraits, as usual. It was a
nine days' sensation, and then something
newer took its place, and It was forgotten
by all, save the very few.

When the loss of ship and passengers
was proved beyond doubt, Ambrose went
up to town to see his brother ; he had
often before volunteered a visit, but Charley
had declared he was all right, for he dreaded
his elder brother's condolences ; but now
Ambrose decided it was proper such a
visit should be paid, and, wearing a sable
suit lit for a funeral, he one morning
appeared at the club.

Charley started at the mourning clothes,
and then looked at his own gray tweeds,

for he had not yet made up his mind to
show any outward sign of having given
Janie up as dead, though he had declared
to the Vicar all hope was over.

Ambrose was greatly shocked.

Why, Charles,' he said, ' surely you
mean to change your dress Y

What does it signify ? there's time
enough ; we can't be quite sure yet said
the young man.

Just one black suit,' Ambrose expostulated.
' You see, people talk so, Charles,
if we don't show outward respect to our
dead.'

Charley winced.

Of course it's a foolish custom,' his
brother continued ; ' but it is a custom,
and it's not for me and you to run counter
to it.'

You are right, no doubt,' Charley said ;
and, after all, a black coat can't alter what

is. Come along, I'll o-et a tie and a hatband,
but nothing more just yet. If I
had gone first, she wouldn't have made
a figure-head of herself for me, for I made
her promise not to.'

She 7nust have done it, Charles,'
Ambrose cried, almost angrily. ' Why, I
wouldn't have asked her to Bestminster
if she hadn't. She'd have been the talk
of the place !'

A grim smile stole over Charley's thin
face, and his brother went home comforted
concerning him. Ann and Mary and the
girls met him at the little station. Bestminster
folk were always glad of an excuse
to meet the train.' It served to link them
to more go-ahead places.

He's getting over it,' he told them
cheerfully ; * but I couldn't persuade him
to return with me. He's bent upon being on
the spot in case further news should come.'

I suppose that's not likely ?' Mary-asked.


Not till the sea gives up its dead,' was
the answer.

As he gave it he noticed Mary's altered
appearance — her shrunken features and
pallid complexion.

Have you been ill ?' he asked.

The colour flushed up with sudden,
painful force. Everyone was observing
her. She was confused and silent. Ann
came to her rescue.

Dear me !' she cried ; ' you've quite
startled her. You are not ill, are you,
Mary ? but of course she has shared our
grief.'

Ambrose was satisfied. It seemed to
him very right and friendly for her to
suffer with them ; but Ann and Jane spoke
together afterwards about Mary's changed
looks.

• There, you see, Ann, papa noticed it.
/ said, don't you remember, " She looks ill
—dreadfully ill," and you said '' No." '

'Well,' the other sister replied, 'she
isn't lively, that's true ; but who can be
lively now, when it's always raining, and
papa making us wear this' hideous black
for poor Aunt Janie ? I'm sure / feel ill
when I see him dressed for church.'

A giggle completed the sentence. When
Uncle Will returned, he, too, observed Miss
Latimer with solicitude, but he made no
inquiries of her, only of his nieces.

What have you been doing to your
friend }' he asked; 'making her walk too fari^'

Now, uncle, so you see how ill she
looks. So did father, and so do I ; but,
then, we are all moped to death, you know,
over poor Aunt Janie !'

You don't look it,' Uncle Will said,
pinching her fat rosy cheek.

VOL. II. 21

But she does walk too far,' said Ann.

And eats nothing said Jane.

She walks miles and miles with only-snap,'
added one.

And doesn't seem to want us to go with
her said the other.

Then she must be in a bad way,' laughed
Uncle Will.

But though he spoke merrily, his thoughts
were heavy, and coloured whatever Miss
Latimer said on the subject of Captain
Scott's loss.

Is he never coming back to the cottage T
she asked, meeting the Vicar one day out
on the heath. * What is he going to do
with all the things ?'

He has no plans. He lives on from
day to day, hoping against hope.'

There can be no hope ?' she said, her
eyes brightening strangely.

Oh no, none,' he replied ; ' but he can't

realize it all yet. He must have time to
get accustomed to the outlook.'

Yes,' she said ; ' and time goes so
slowly.'

She was looking past him as she
spoke, and the dejection of her tone
shocked him.

Time is generally said to fly,' he
observed.

When one is happy only,' she replied.

They were standing in a sandy track —
a solitary uphill track, leading amongst the
scattered hamlets on the heath ; gorse and
bramble-bushes grew amongst the heather
and ling, and little stacks of peat were
clustered together here and there, stripped
from the deep-chocolate soil. Her sad eyes
travelled over the enlivening scene, and
grew sadder. She did not seem to care to
veil them from her companion, and he noted
them, and, willing to preach a little sermon

21 — 2

for his own benefit as well as for hers,
he said :

Well, joy and sorrow go hand-in-hand
in this life. We must experience both.
Scott is young and a Christian ; his work
and his duty will bring him comfort.'

Oh yes,' she exclaimed. ' Men die,
and worms eat them, but not for love !'

She nodded and passed quickly on ; but
he had time to see her eyes were full of
tears, and the lines which deepened as her
smile faded were lines of suffering.

The Vicar shook his head as he pursued
his way. He thought he understood it all
thoroughly.

It may come round he said to himself.
He's too young to despair of happiness,
and he's very fond of her. Liking is a
long way towards love. I don't see why
she need be so miserable ; she can't expect
him to go courting just yet.' He sighed

as he walked briskly on. 'How fortunate
some men are !' he thought ; ' more love
comes than they care to possess.' Then
he smiled, picturing his sister's disappointment,
for he was by no means ignorant of
her innocent wiles and hints. ' Poor Ann '
was doomed to disappointment.

Captain Scott lingered on in town. The
Cartwrights were to sail for India in
November, and he had become attached
to them both. Mrs. Cartwright was a
comfortable, matter-of-fact, practical girl,
who never said anything likely to stir up a
sad memory. He always felt matter-of-fact
and practical with her, therefore safe.
The events of the hour provided her with
conversation, and what she did not actually
see she did not romance about.

Charley was amused in meditating on
her smooth, contented way ; her sensible,
practical aims ; her interest in the smallest

detail of domestic economy. It might bea
little wearisome and monotonous, he
considered, to be shut up with her for the
rainy season ; but be sure the bungalow
would be cosiness itself.

Cartwright was a happy man with such
a nice little housekeeper ; he would grow
fatter and sleeker, and more and more
positive, and no breath of scandal would
ever disturb their respectable lives. And
then Charley yawned, but he never
guessed how the contemplation of this
solid, sensible couple helped him out of
his despair. He used to laugh at their
wonderful preparations — the frying-pans
and saucepans of the latest invention,
fitting one within the other ; the canteen,
so spick and span it seemed wicked to think
of using it : and the tin-boxes, insect and
weather proof — without knowing how the
laughter loosened the strain on his mind.

That grandest of all their possessions, the
multum in pavo wardrobe, or admiral, as
they called it, which was convertible also
into a dining-table, a sideboard, a bedstead
in fact, into anything and everything short
of a grand piano — made him almost lively,
and Mrs. Cartwright was inclined to resent
his remark about its being altogether a
failure, as it could only be one of these
articles at a time.

When they had sailed he missed them
dreadfully, and began to wish to get away
from the damp fogs. Then he thought of
the cottage under the fir-trees, the pretty
house silent and deserted, the kindly
friends who had mourned for him, and he
began to wonder whether he could bear to
go back to them.

The Vicar caught at the faint stirring
towards home in his friend's letters, and
urged him to make the trial ; but it was

late in November before he made up his
mind, and when he decided to go he asked
Mr. Chard not to mention his intention ; he
shrank from being met and mourned over
in public.

Don't come and see me for a day or
two,' he added. ' You won't misunderstand
me, I know. I shall shake down better
alone.'

He had, in fact, got into that second
stage of sorrow when one begins to hug it
secretly, while in the first overwhelming
shock one is careless though all the world
looks on. It was to him now too sacred to
be shared, and he shrank from every expression
of sympathy ; the idea of being
met and stared at, and of being watched
and criticised as he went through the town,
was repugnant to him ; and at last he took
his homeward way a day before he was
expected, and instead of alighting at Bestminster

he went round to Normington,
whence it was a longish walk to his cottage,
but where at least he would be unnoticed.

So he hoped ; but as he got out of the
train he ran up against Mr. Cheers and
Lord Normington, and there was no escaping
them. They were in pink, on their
way to the meet, and their hunters were
waiting for them just outside the station.

Hullo, Captain Scott !' ]mr. Chivers
cried, quite forgetting for the moment
what had happened since they met last.
Here you are — just in time to join us.'
Then, with sudden recollection and a
nervous cough, he added : ' That is to say,
of course, by-and-by, you know.'

Charley was almost amused. He offered
no explanation of his visit. Lord Nor-milton
looked up at him, and quickly
noted the subtle difference trouble had
wrought in the handsome young face. All

he said, as he grasped his hand warmly,
was :

Very glad to see you again. May I
look you up soon ?'

The hounds and huntsmen were just
without the white-paled platform, surrounded
by a crowd of gaping country folk ; and a
dozen or so mounted farmers were waiting
for the two great men. It was a cheerful
bustle, a gay picture which would under
other circumstances have mightily pleased
the young man ; and as it was his pulses
quickened as he noted the well-groomed,
well-bred horses, the hounds and the smart
huntsmen ; the sound of creaking saddle,
jingling spur, cracking whip, and call to
one or other of the hounds, made music to
his sympathetic ear. He stepped out on
his long walk already heartened and invigorated.


What a change from the dark, greasy

Streets and heavy atmosphere of London
was this fresh sweet air full of sweet country
sounds and smells ! As he got further into
the heath, life seemed once more a pleasant
thing, so wholesome was the pine-scented
air, so comforting the peaceful solitude.
Yet it was a dull, dark November day.
Gray clouds in unbroken monotony hid
the sky ; the bramble-bushes, the bracken,
the ferns and the ling drooped sere, yellow,
and dripping with moisture ; the groups of
fir-trees were gemmed with raindrops and
creaked together in that melancholy way
peculiar to pine-trees only ; there was no
glad loud singing and whistling of birds,
but instead, the sea-birds' scream, and now
and again in the distance the sad low
moan of some mother cow for her absent
calf. The sandy tracks gave back no
rumble as the few and far between carts
passed along them. The occasional break

of land under cultivation lay in the unpic-
turesqueness of turnip crops or mere stubble;
the land was mostly at rest after the year's
harvest.

Notwithstanding the absence of life and
colour, he enjoyed it all inexpressibly. He
had dreaded this return ; but now that he
was back, he felt only satisfaction, not
renewed trial. A song came to his lips ashe
strode along ; he hushed it as it arose,
with a pang of reproach, but by-and-by it
came again and he gave it voice. Then a
rabbit started up at his feet, and in an
instant he was up in full pursuit, hurling
his stick amongst the bushes and eagerly
searching for its hiding-place. He shook
his head when he stopped to take breath,
and wondered at himself; but when, after
two hours' hard walking, his cottage lay
before him, his only thought was — would
there be anything to eat ?

Smoke was rising from the chimneys ;
the windows were open ; there was the
sound of a spade at work behind. He
went up the little drive, noted the neatness
of its turfed borders, the abundant
promise of bloom on the rhododendrons,
and o^ainino: the entrance-hall without being
seen, he passed through it into the
drawing-room.

A lady was seated there — her back to
the door. She had the photograph album
open on her knee. For an instant he
gazed with eager expectancy. Had the
impossible happened ? Was she there to
welcome him .^ The sound of his entrance
disturbed her. She turned, and he discovered
Mary Latimer ; her face, tearstained
and agitated, became deadly white
as she saw him, while he, scared by his
own misleading fancy, stood silently regarding
her.

In another Instant Mary had risen, and
with some degree of restored composure
bade him welcome.

We were told you would not be here
till tomorrow. The girls and I came to
see things were ready,' she said. * I will
call them.'

The commonplace greeting put him at
his ease. After all, it was nice to have
someone to meet him, and together they
went into the kitchen, where Ann and
Jane were enjoying the warmth of a huge
fire and a little gossip with the woman in
charge. The girls flushed up and hung back
when their uncle came in. Uncle Charles
as a forlorn widower was very different
to the mischievous Uncle Charley of the
picnic days of the past summer. Indeed,
both girls thought It was due to him to be
greeted with tears, or, at the least, with
very long faces. But here he was, looking

very much as usual — not half so lugubrious
as their father in his church going suit. It
was a great relief to hear he was hungry,
for in the bustle of getting him something
to eat the awkwardness of the meeting was
avoided.

When the meal was ready, the visitors
would have left him, but he asked Mary to
have tea at one end of the table while he
dined at the other. The girls went through
the form of drinking tea, too, but took
themselves off to the kitchen as soon as
they could, under pretence of helping old
Sarah.

Then Charley, looking across to the
place where he had so often pictured Janie
would sit on their first home-coming together,
and seeing Mary troubled by his
trouble, once more ready to help and cheer
him, he said earnestly :

You have always been good to me. I

can never thank you enough for all your
goodness.'

Tears sprang to her eyes as she said
simply :

We are all so sorry for you ! But is
there no hope ? — no possible chance yet ?'

Ke left his chair, and stood over the fire,
v^^ith his face turned from her, for her tears
unnerved him, as he replied :

Sometimes I think there is ; but reason
tells me there is none— there can't be any.'

There was silence for a time ; then she
added, and her voice was very low :

You knew some of your wife's fellow-passengers
?'

Yes ; I knew two of the men. And
there was a Mrs. Smith — I knew her byname.'


The men's portraits were in the
Graphic' — her voice was fainter — 'a
Colonel Shepherd, and a Major '

Mortimer,' Charley said, as she hesitated.
' Yes, Shepherd was an old friend
of Janie's parents ; and Mortimer we saw
up at Naini Tal — he was my best man,
you know.'

No ; was he really ? How odd !' Her
face was red and eager, as she explained
hurriedly: * I believe — at least, I am sure —
I once knew him in London, years ago —
it must be the same ; but that Graphic
likeness was a caricature !'

Charley observed nothing ; he went on
with his own affairs.

I am so thankful he was with Janie !'
he said. * She liked him ; he was such a
good fellow !' And he told her of his
running off to Government House for
milk, adding : ' I have a capital photograph
of him somewhere. I'll find it for you
some day. Poor Mortimer ! poor fellow !'

Mary began to sob ; she did her best to

VOL. II. 22

keep quiet. She motioned him away when
he turned to her ; but she could not
control herself. He was surprised and
shocked.

Mary dear,' he said, ' it is horribly
selfish of me to distress you so !'

She forced herself to choke back her
sobs, and in a short time was able to speak
again.

You saw that man — the man who
survived it all,' she said; 'were you quite
satisfied he told you nothing but facts —
that he actually saw it all ?'

He shuddered at the recollection of that
interview, as he answered :

Oh eyes ; when I think of his words, I
know there is not the slightest hope — not
the slightest.'

She looked at him, longing to ask what
the man had said ; but she felt she had
no right to harrow his feelings to gratify

her own. For a moment another desire
possessed her : to say something to him
to reeve the burthen of her own personal
trial ; but a glance at his gloomy face — the
selfish lack of discernment of aught ailing
anyone but himself that possesses most
mourners in the early stage of a crushing
sorrow, was evident enough just then in the
young man's downcast attitude — deterred
her confidence. She had served a lone
apprenticeship to self-repression in her
attendance on her invalid mother ; it was
no new thing to her to keep self in the
background, so she dismissed the wish.

Captain Scott took his visitors as far as
the outskirts of the town, but resisted all
entreaties to go further.

'Tell your father and mother,' he said
to the girls, ' I shall come tomorrow.'

As he went back in the gloaming, he
thought of Mary's tears and agitation, and

22 — 2

UNIVERSITY 0?

upbraided himself with never having
credited her with such deep feeling. He
had always thought of her as a jolly companion,
but had never considered her devotion
and unselfishness, her restricted life,
her goodness to her ever - complaining
mother, sufficiently. She had been as a
good angel to him as long as he could
remember, and he smiled as he thought
of his boyish adoration for her, and of a
certain caricature of himself drawn by a
jealous schoolfellow — open-mouthed, 
— absorbed in the contemplation
of her shadow. Did not all the half-grown
boys worship her in those days, and blush
and stammer incoherencies when by chance
they came in contact with her ?

She was a dear good creature, he told
himself ; and he must try and not let the
great trouble that had fallen on him overshadow
her.

Engrossed in his own sorrow, he could
not see beyond it.

When he got back to the cottage, and
sat down in the drawing-room, and looked
round at the pretty things he had so hopefully
collected, it was as though he sat
amongst the ruins of a bygone age ; and
although Janie had seen none of them,
they were to him as sacred relics of her :
the locked piano, the untouched music,
represented the harmonies of his married
life put away for ever. The work-table,
the writing-desk, the books and pictures
were mockeries — shortsighted preparations
for a life that had ceased to exist before
they were arranged. He noticed a little
handkerchief lying where Mary had sat
when he had surprised her, and, picking it
up, found it wet — her tender heart had
wept for his woes. He put it reverend
aside, and his eyes fell on the photograph

album : it was open on the page
where, among other Indian friends, was
Major Mortimer's photograph ; it, too, was
wet with Mary's tears. Then, Hke a flash
of Hght, something of the truth struck him.
Had those tears been all for him — Charley
or were they the overflow of a sore heart
weeping for its own personal suffering ?
He sent his memory back to try to remember
any love passage in her life unconnected
with local lovers ; he tried to
think whether Mortimer had ever in anyway
alluded to a knowledge of the
Latimer — but in vain.

Mortimer had been in India without
going home for at least seven or eight
years. He was baffled, and yet that very
evening she had said something of having
met Mortimer 'years ago.' He took the
photograph from the book, and resolved
to give it to her next time they met, and

see how she took it. Poor Mary ! if she
had lost a lover, she was bearing her loss
more bravely than he was bearing his, he
thought.

• She is braver than I am he said somewhat
bitterly.

What a long evening that was ! When
he went out with his pipe to pace round
and round the little lawn, he was oppressed
by the intense stillness. The night was
thick with fog beating up from the sea.
There was no wind, but every now and
then the air was stirred by the distant
vibration of the sea beating upon the
shore — a ghostly echo dulled into a strange
uncanny murmur. Sometimes the mist
resolved itself into shape, and shrouded
forms seemed to float noiselessly before
him. Then the pines shook themselves,
though no current of air was evident, and
the dull thud of a falling cone startled him.

Another sound was heard presently — the
click of the entrance-gate — and hearing it,
he walked forward to meet the intruder.
He was amazed to find it was his sister-in-law,
on foot, alone, in this dark solitary
country.

Ann !' he exclaimed, as she passed into
the light streaming from the open door ;
you alone, and at this time of night !'

I couldn't bear to think of you hereby
yourself,' she said, her voice trembling
with agitation. 'Ambrose is at a Freemasons'
banquet, and doesn't know you've
come. I've come to fetch you home. My
dear boy, come back with me.'

He stooped and kissed her, regarding
her with affection for the first time in his
life.

I thought you were afraid of walking
alone in the dark,' he said. ' You kind
sister Ann !'

I thought only of you,' she replied.
Charles, you must come to us to-night.
I cannot bear to think of you here by
yourself.'

I am best alone. Why should I make
you miserable ?'

The weather Is so dismal, too she
continued. ' If you were strong it would
be different, but you are not well, and
there is only old Sarah with you, and she
can't cook or see after you properly.'

I will walk in to breakfast. Didn't
the girls tell you what a good dinner I
had r

But it is not that. It is the long silent
night. Long ago, Charley, I lost someone
I liked very much — long before I saw your
brother — and I went afterwards to stay
where he had lived, and I have never forgotten
that first long sleepless night.'

Charley took her hands and pressed

them ; she was trembling violently with
her desire to show her sympathy without
too distinctly revealing her dead past.
He understood, and was amazed to find
under that usually uninteresting exterior
the still smouldering fire of a mighty
passion. How he had misread her nature !
It was impossible now for him to refuse
her request, and once more he trudged to
Bestminster to take possession of his old
room again.

You won't allude again to what I said
to-night ?' she said as they entered her
house. * No one remembers all that but
myself. Ambrose would not like it
known.'

They sat up together waiting for
Ambrose, and Ann was again her monotonous
self, prim, colourless, and quiescent.
Ambrose returned about midnight, decked
out in apron, rosettes and badges ; he had

drunk enough to make him cheerfully
vainglorious, and rallied his brother on
his recovered looks without bestowing a
thought on the reason of his appearance.
He was voluble on the events of the
evening, and repeated almost word for
word the compliments paid to * our respected
town-clerk,' * the worthy alderman,'
' the intelligent trustee,' * the capable
manager,' ' the far-sighted agent.' — * That's
me,' he added jovially.

*' These occasions are valuable in bringing
townsmen together," ' I said in one of
my return speeches,' he continued; 'the
name of Scott has sounded in this very hall
for four generations — Great-grandfather,
grandfather, father, son " — and here I laid
my hand on my heart — there was immense
applause, I can tell you. We must have
three copies of the paper, Ann ; I will
send one to your friends at Brisbane — that

is, unless your brother wishes to send one
on his own behalf.'

He pulled his wife's ear jocosely, receiving
no smile in return, and then he told
her he wished she had been hidden away,
like the lady of old, in the clock-case,
that she might have heard the fine things
said of her husband.

Much of this self-glorification was renewed
at breakfast, for the benefit of the
girls and the servant in attendance.
When he heard of his wife's walk in the
dark, he showed great surprise.

She wouldn't have done as much forme,'
he said, laughing, though he was
evidently vexed. ' I hope you didn't meet
anyone you knew,' he added to her; 'it
won't be supposed I didn't know you were
out, and I shall be blamed for allowing
you to go all over the country alone in
the dark.'

I met the crier,' she said, ' but I don't
suppose he'll publish it without being paid
for doing it.'

The girls giggled, but their mother went
on gravely cracking her ^g<g, and Ambrose,
giving one sharp look at her stolid face,
thought it best to smile, and say, with a
playful dig in the ribs :

Ah, well, had you been younger, it
would have been worse, eh ?'

When Mary Latimer took the photograph
from Captain Scott, she looked at it
calmly, and merely said :

Oh yes, I should recognise this,' and
Charley was posed.

You can keep it if you like,' he said ;
I carry him in my mind's eye, you
know.'

She said, * Thank you,' and put it in her
pocket, and he concluded there could have
been nothing between them, especially as

Ann could not or would not give him any
information.

Mary used to stay with her sister in
London before her mother became so ill,'
Ann said. ' No doubt she met many
people then of whom Bestminster knew
nothing.' And after that he thought no
more of the matter.

He spent the days in restlessly passing
backward and forward to and from the
cottage, unable to decide his next movements.
He went out shooting once or
twice, until the tameness of English sport
disgusted him. One day he would settle
to sell his furniture and return at once to
duty ; the next, he made up his mind to let
the cottage furnished and go off on a
prolonged Continental tour. Sometimes
he could not think of leaving the kind
friends who were so anxious to soften his
trial ; sometimes he sickened at the narrow

aims and ambitions and sameness of the
little society.

The Vicar never wearied in his brotherly
kindness, and all Charley's better moods
were the result of his unfailing forbearance.
Lord Normington spoke to Ambrose one
magistrates' day, drawing him aside in face
of all the market, to Ambrose's great
pride :

I don't like to see that fine young
fellow, your brother, mooning about here,'
his lordship said. 'What is he going
to do ?'

You are very kind, sir. The fact is,
he can't make up his mind his wife's really
drowned, as far as I can make out.'

Oh, but that's folly ! Of course she's
drowned ; her father is quite sure of
it.'

Of course she's drowned,' Ambrose
echoed with a dolorous sigh.

He's fit for work again, ain't he ?' said
his lordship.

I own I think work would be his best
cure, sir.'

Then Lord Normington walked off,
leaving Ambrose overpowered with his
condescension.

His lordship overtook the Vicar and the
Captain tramping out together late that
afternoon, and drew his horse in to keep
pace with them.

Charley let the Vicar do all the talking ;
a despondent mood was upon him, for the
chill evening was in its prime of desolation.
But Lord Normington made him join in
presently by pointedly addressing him.
Then Charley roused himself and went
round to the other side, walking beside the
saddle-bow. To him Lord Normington's
manner had always been that of an equal,
latterly almost fatherly ; indeed, he had

been greatly taken with the young man
from the first, and that desire to give him
'a leg up' had never faded. He now
watched the sadly thinned face narrowly
as he talked to him. Presently he
said :

'If I were you I'd go back to India
before the hot weather, and take the rest
of your furlough after a time. Excuse
advice gratis !'

Charley looked up.

Sometimes I think that would be best
for me,' he said ; but there was a mental
reservation that the other noticed.

It's hard going back to the old lot,
perhaps ?'

The young man's eyes flashed in recognition
of the kindly sympathetic supposition.


Yes, that's it,' he said in a low tone.

But couldn't you manage a change ?

VOL. II. 2\

Is there no one to put the screw on for
your benefit ?'

Perhaps, if I were on the spot, I daresay
I could manage a fresh start ; but not
just at first.'

Look here,' his lordship said, resting
his whip lightly on Charley's shoulder, ' I
have no boys of my own, and I have a
good deal of interest, as it happens, in your
department. Why shouldn't I work it for
you ? I owe Linley a good turn, too.' He
gathered up his reins ready to ride onward
as he said this, and added as he bade goodbye
: ' Well, then, Captain Scott, I'll see if
I can be of any service, and don't you
make any plans till you hear from me.'

Ambrose was profoundly impressed
when he knew this.

Though, to be sure, one must remember,'
he said, anxious not to let Charley
suppose he was the mainspring of it all, * a

dissolution is not unlikely. This is probably
a sop to me ; for his people taxed my bills
last time, and I said I'd never work for
them again. But I'm very glad you get
the benefit, Charles, my boy.'

A coroneted note, addressed to Captain
Scott, arrived a few days later on ; but
Charley had slept at the cottage, and had
not yet returned to his brother's. So
Ambrose placed it conspicuously on his
office chimney piece, where it could not
fail to impress beholders. A client was
with him when he heard Charley's voice.

Excuse me,' he said importantly, ' till I
place his lordship's letter in the Captain's
hands ; it is a matter of some moment, and
may have to be attended to without
delay.'

On his return he said, rubbing his
hands :

Now we'll return to business. But his

23—2

lordship has always taken such a lively
interest in our family.'

This was enough, as he very well knew,
to overawe and impress the curious client.

Lord Normington had been as good as
his word, and Captain Scott was ordered
to proceed to Simla at once, as aide-de-camp
to the Viceroy, in place of Captain
Brown, retired.

NEVER A SAIL.

Far out on the Indian Ocean, away from
the hl^^hway traversed by ships between
the two great continents, lies a long stretch
of volcanic rocks more than half covered
at high tides, presenting a jagged, bare
outline of uneven heights, rising towards
the centre of the plateau to a citadel-like
group of gray peaks. A dreary stretch,
so uninviting and apparently uninhabitable
that, though not unknown to Arabian
traders driven on rare occasions by stress
of weather within sight of it, it was

deemed hopeless of access, nor worth the
dangers of exploring its seemingly inaccessible
shores — a veritable ocean Sahara,
without oasis or animal life. It is indeed
so surrounded by dissevered rocks as to
present a very chevaux de rise. The sea
is for ever churned by these underlying
barricades, and the complaint of its
shattered waters for ever rises in passionate
uproar.

Yet on these dreary rocks, which lie
exposed, unsheltered, and unshaded to
fervid sun and scorching wind, the few
survivors of the wreck of the Elephanta
found themselves when, after beinor tossed
from wave to wave, flung aloft in boiling
surf, and dragged cruelly hither and thither
amidst the saw-like rocks, they one by
one were conscious of being on terra firma
once more.

One by one, moaning and complaining,

each half-dead creature, still dazed and
doubting, picked him or her self up and
looked around in dread perplexity. There
were seven of them, all counted — three
men and four women ; and what a set of
miserable ! Hair hanofinor full of sand

o o

and seaweed, clothes washed out of colour,
torn out of design — hopeless, hatless,
battered, swooning ! Was ever roll-call
after battle a sadder spectacle ? Despoiled
not of limbs, but of liberty, imprisoned
probably for ever by the element which
still leaped and roared around them ; rejected
by death, yet hopeless of life.

As the poor wretches stood up and
wrung the water from their hair and
clothes, and rubbed their aching limbs,
each gradually recognised the other with
thankful words of greeting. They had
left the ship in the same boat, and when
it capsized, the same current had swept

them onwards, and deposited them almost
at the same time in the same place.
Colonel Shepherd, Major Mortimer, John
Hay (a seaman), Mrs. Barlow, her nurse
(Mrs. Mole), and Mrs. Scott, were all easily-recognisable
; but Mrs. Smith, the other
castaway, was so altered by the loss of
the luxuriant coils of hair which had bedecked
her on the ship, that until she
spoke they wondered who she was. They
greeted each other with fervent words of
thankfulness — thankfulness not only because
their lives were spared, but because
they were spared together. The morning
light was speeding upward as they looked
round on their place of refuge — a cloudy
morning, with a wet wind without freshness.
Their first desire was to move
upward from the hurly-burly of the
waves ; their next was to thank God for
their escape. They stood together with

bowed heads and clasped hands, while
Colonel Shepherd offered a few broken
words of prayer and praise, and then they
turned and asked each other, 'What next?
What could they do here In this bare heap
of cinders ? How were they to assuage
the hunger that was already tormenting
them ? As it was, the two younger women
sat down, too feeble to stand, and Mrs.
Scott piteously supposed 'they could not
find anything to eat.'

The seaman wandered back to the shore,
and after groping about in the quieter
pools, succeeded in catching a large lobster,
with which he returned triumphant. It
was but a mouthful apiece ; but It was an
earnest of food in the future. Only how
was it to be eaten ? They shrank from
the idea of eating it raw ; hungry though
they were, they had not yet got to
that.

Fortunately Hay had a flint and steel
about him, and having found some dry
coarse grass, they managed to make a fire
and roasted the lobster, Mrs. Scott hiding
her face till she was assured the creature
had died peacefully, when she allowed
herself to benefit by its murder.

This very slight refreshment did them a
world of good, and enabled them to face
their position and consult together how to
better it. Only Mrs. Barlow remained
aloof. She had cried with joy at the first
sight of the familiar faces, and had eaten
her share of the lobster ravenously ; but
she made no remark, nor seemed to heed
the remarks of the others ; she constantly
looked from one to the other as if about
to question each, and at Mrs. Mole she
looked especially wildly. She sat holding
her head, which was swelled by a blow
she had evidently received while struggling

among the rocks, and seemed trying to
remember something.

None knew what had become of her
child. That it had been torn from her
grasp was certain. She had held him in
her arms even while she jumped into
the boat. Not for an instant had she
allowed anyone to relieve her of his weight.
Colonel Shepherd had tried in vain to
induce her to give him up until she was
seated, but she would not. She had no
fears for herself, and when the boat was
pushed from the ship, and the drenching
spray broke over it again and again, her
one endeavour had been to shield him and
hush his terrified cries. Her memory was
for the time dormant, and her friends
dreaded its awakening.

The men proposed surveying their place
of refuge at once, and suggested that the
women should remain where they were till

their return ; but, sore and weary as they
were, the women would not agree to be
lost sight of; they would face whatever
was before them together, they said, but
would run no risks alone. So they all
started, Mrs. Scott linking her arm in
Mrs, Barlow's, stumbling over the rough
shingles and sharp-pointed cindery rocks,
slipping over the deep deposits of seaweed
and into the frequent pools, but feeling
with every step the life-blood running freer,
and the aches born of the long immersion
in the water wearing off.

Mrs. Smith took possession of the
Colonel.

We had better begin as we mean to
go on,' she said. ' We are the two heads.
We must not shirk the duties of our
positions.'

Misfortune unites extremes,' said the
Colonel.

She leaned heavily on his arm, and
added, ignoring his remark :

Of course, if Mr. Smith were here he
would take the lead of everyone. As it
is, you and I must do our best.'

I should be glad if someone else
would lead,' said the Colonel, nearly falling
headlong as his foot plunged into a
bed of rotting debris. ' Mortimer, you are
younger than we are. Go first — will you ?'

Mrs. Smith pulled him briskly forward.

'Speak for yourself,' she cried. 'Pray,
don't give up your proper place ; the Major
must remain our subordinate.'

Colonel Shepherd looked back and
winked forlornly. Mrs. Scott was cheered
by the little by-play.

I wonder if we look as funny as she
does ?' she said, nodding after Mrs. Smith.
Mrs. Barlow, I wish we had a looking-glass
; don't you T

Mrs. Barlow looked from the speaker
to Major Mortimer, who walked on her
other side, but made no answer. The
Major spoke for her.

You look very nearly as funny he
said, * only your hair has not been blown
off — only down.'

A laugh rang from Mrs. Scott's lips.
It was hardly possible to avoid laughing
when looking at Mrs. Smith, whose baldhead,
fringed round by a scanty crop of
red-gray hair, made her resemble an
elderly tonsured and shaven man. In
blissful ignorance of her appearance,
Mrs. Smith stopped and accosted Mrs.
Scott.

I hardly think our position provokes
merriment,' she said. ' Pray repress such
ill-timed mirth.'

Then she bravely dragged her reluctant
colleague onward, and they presently surmounted

the outer barrier and found themselves
on the high plateau.

It was broader than they had expected
to find it. The further shore was fully
two miles off, and north, south, east and
west the water stretched to the horizon
unbroken by sail ; and almost as far as
the eye could reach, pointed rocks like
submerged alps rose, showing clearly
enough how unlikely was the chance of
passing ships to rescue them. What boat
dare brave that terrible coast 1

'Yes,' Hay said, as if answering himself,
we must have been blown steadily out of
our course all them four days and nights.
How any of us lives to say so passes my
knowledge !'

If only we could find some fresh water !*
the Colonel said ; ' there should be a deposit
somewhere on this ridge. Shall we goon
?'

The citadel-like peaks were about half
a mile ahead, and the Major suggested
they should go there.

They cheat one into thinking there is
a fort he said. ' At all events, it is
central, and must afford some sort of
shelter.'

But,' said Mrs. Scott, ' don't you think
we ought to look round first, lest someone
beside ourselves has been washed up and
needs assistance ?'

That's so,' Hay remarked, with a nod
of approval. ' That's so, gentlemen.
There's likely other poor bodies '11 come
on this here reef, and perhaps not in such
good condition as us, either.'

I'm not going down these pin-points of
rocks again to please anyone !' Mrs. Smith
exclaimed, when Hay interrupted her further
remarks :

There is someone down there,' he said,

pointing over to where, in a deep bay, the
sea, sheltered by a projecting reach of rock,
swayed to and fro, without fret and commotion.
* We can't go on without having
a look at him.'

As everyone hastily and without question
followed Hay, INIrs. Smith, rather
than be left behind, scrambled with them
down through a ravine, bemoaning herself
as the bare rocks caught her clothes and
scratched her skin, till they gained the
bay, and there, gently rocked to and fro
between the water and the sand, they
found poor Mr. Harris, quite dead, a
gaping wound on the temple showing he
had been killed by being dashed against a
rock.

The women drew apart together as soon
as it was ascertained he had been dead
some hours. Mrs. Scott had never seen
death before, and she cried like a frightened

VOL. II. 24

child. Mrs. Barlow kissed her, and did
her best to soothe her, and Mrs. Smith
scolded her, and, by way of strengthening
her weak mind, recited in a formal, pompous
manner Martin Tapper's stanzas on
Death. Then Janie began to laugh at
the high-sounding periods and pompous
utterance. The laughter was horribly out
of place, and the Colonel glanced wonderingly
at the culprit. Mrs. Mole went to
the little group by the dead man's side.

If he's really dead, sir,' she said,
hadn't he better be put away out of sight ?
that poor young lady's nerves are quite
upset, but she won't go away with us.' Then
she went back again. ' He's happy enough,'
she said soothingly to Janie ; ' his face looks
nicer in death than it did in life. There's
no call to cry over him ; they're going to
put him into a comfortable grave, and
then we're going up along again.'

Hay removed the dead man's tweed
suit, from which the violet radiance had
been washed.

It may come useful,' he said, ' if we
have to stay here long ; there ain't no
tailors' shops handy, I reckon.'

With sharp stones they managed to
scoop a hollow in the upper end of the
bay, beyond the reach of the high tide,
and there they laid him to rest. Afterwards
they searched round the shore as
far as they could safely climb, lest any
other bodies could be found ; but the only
return for their toil was the capture
of some small fish, which they roasted
as they had roasted the lobster, and
enjoyed as much, but then thirst tortured
them.

The sun had come out, and at first was
very welcome in drying their saturated
clothes and restoring warmth; but by noon

24 — 2

its heat was very oppressive and made
their thirst greater. They were a dejected,
weary lot as they retraced their steps upward
to the plateau, their heads aching,
their feet sore and blistered ; they had no
eyes for the wonderful colour of the great
cindery mass over which they stumbled,
the purple and lilac and rose and gray
tints, and the immense spread of water,
foam-crested, indigo - dyed, leaping and
sparkling and dashing in jewelled cataracts
upward to the turquoise sky.

Again they set their faces towards the
clustered centre peaks ; the two young
ladies walked hand-in-hand. Janie was
greatly concerned for her friend, who
hardly spoke, but with eyes roving restlessly
amongst her companions, seemed
struggling with some thought she could
not express.

You will be glad of some water ?'

Janie asked, longing to get her to talk.
Are you very tired ?'

Oh no,' she answered ; ' but the deck
seems longer than it used to be.'

Major Mortimer, who was just ahead
of them, turned and looked. Mrs. Scott's
eyes were full of alarm. He stepped back
and made a sign to her to be silent.
Mrs. Barlow's next words were sensible
enough.

The poor " spring's first violet' ' she
said ; ' but he is better off than some of us.
He lies quietly at rest now.'

xAs they got nearer to the high rocks
they found tiny plants growing here and
there, and the same sort of grass which
they had found dead and dry, and used as
fuel on the shore, grew green and seeding
in clumps in the shade of the lite ravines
they were constantly crossing. The familiar
hum of a bee excited them presently, and

half a dozen green parrots flew from before
them as they got close to the great peaks.
But there they were foiled ; the curious
cluster presented an apparent barrier, and
it was only after searching they at last found
an opening. As they slowly defiled inward,
they were met by another apparent block
as perplexing as a labyrinth, and it was
when they had penetrated behind it
they were startled by the sound of bleating
; Hay, who was first, turned quickly
and stopped further movement. He spoke
timidly.

Better keep the ladies back,' he said.
There may be strangers here we mayn't
like the look on. One of you come on
cautiously with me till we make sure '

Cannibals!' said Mrs. Mole, as she
understood the cause of the delay. ' Oh,
we'd better have been poor Mr. Harris
than to be food for them !*

Mrs. Smith smiled loftily.

• There are no cannibals here,' she said ;
and some of us are worth ransoming.
Whoever is here must have come in boats.
We can make it worth their while to take
us away.'

The men returned with bright faces.

• Address yourselves to me Mrs. Smith
cried, ' and then the rest will hear. What
have you found ?'

• Water,' was the answer ; and no one
waited to hear more. All pushed forward,
unconscious now of the sharp ground and
blistering sunshine, careless of savages and
cannibals, so overpowering was their desire
for water. After they had threaded
a few more openings, the great screen of
rocks opened suddenly, and the ground
fell away at their feet almost perpendicularly,
disclosing a grassy ravine, in the
bottom of which lay a little lake, on whose

clear surface floated numberless wild-fowl.
It was bordered by bushes of brilliant
flowers. Indeed, the whole scene in that
first moment of beholding it struck the
storm-tossed wanderers as a paradise of
peace and beauty. Sparkling rivulets fell
down the verdant slopes, their silvery
music mingling with the songs of birds
and hum of insects, and gorgeous blossoming
trees filled the air with sweetness.

After quenching their thirst and laving
their burning faces in the deliciously cool
water, they were at leisure to wonder whether
the place was inhabited ; and as they wondered
the nearing sound of goats attracted
their attention, as down the opposite slope,
making for the lake, a herd of goats and
kids came trotting, bleating as they came,
but unattended. The strangers watched
for long, in expectation of a herdsman's
appearance ; but the creatures ran to drink

and then dispersed, and of human sight or
sound there was none.

At all events, here is milk in plenty,'
Janie cried.

And kids' flesh,' said the Colonel.

Poor little things !' said Mrs. Scott.

Well, we needn't commit murder on
our first arrival' said the Major. * It
seems to me we are in luck's way. There
may be fruit about. That opposite ravine
or dell, or whatever you like to call it, looks
likely. Let's go on and explore.'

There was fruit about, and in plenty :
luscious figs, sweet wild grapes, custard
apples, plantains, and, most delicious of
all, the mango. As they cried exultantly
at the feast set before them, Mrs. Mole
drew their attention to the enormous
gourds trailing on the ground.

Useless rubbish!' Mrs. Smith exclaimed
contemptuously.

Yes,' said Hay, * if we'd got a china
shop close by ; but they'll make famous
milking-pails. What did you propose to
milk into, mari ?'

She had no answer ready. Hay smirked
complacently, and at once set to work to
scoop out the worthless inside, presently
exhibiting a very fair substitute for a
milking-basin.

But further up the glen a group of cocoa
palms were discovered, and this was indeed
a discovery worth making. Here
were cups ready filled with delicious food,
for the freshly gathered cocoa-nut is a very
different thing to the dry indigestible substance
known to the untravelled. The
late storm had blown a quantity to the
ground, and the fall had split the coarse
outer covering very conveniently.

Here is indeed a table prepared for us
in the wilderness f Colonel Shepherd said,

and his remark made them thoughtful.
They were more tired than hungry, and
when it was sus^ofested it was time to
search for a cave wherein they might pass
the night, no one was inclined to move.
Mrs. Smith's eyes were sealed in sleep
almost at the moment she rejected the
proposal, and one after another, overcome
with intense fatigue, the homeless outcasts
stretched their weary limbs and sank into
the dreamless sleep of perfect rest long
before the daylight faded from the sky.

It was a mad thing to do,' the Colonel
said next morning ' there are sure to be
snakes and scorpions amongst these rocks ;
and there may be wild animals, though the
place isn't large enough for them, I fancy.'

I thought of all that,' the Major rejoined
; ' we ought to have watched by
turn. I meant to propose it, but somehow
dropped off too quickly, I was so

dead beat ! Besides, if there were wild
beasts, there wouldn't be goats — the goats
must have been washed up from a wreck.'

Or their ancestors were,' said the
Colonel.

Mrs. Smith said she awoke once,
and found a cat looking at her, so
she tried to rouse Mrs. Mole ; but the
latter only snored, and the cat seemed
frightened, and ran away.

Hay and Mrs. Mole went foraging for
breakfast, and with infinite patience and
skill they succeeded in catching some of the
goats. The creatures were less frightened
than surprised ; their fearlessness proved
their ignorance of mankind. It seemed
hard to Mrs. Mole to take advantage of
their innocence and steal a kid, but Hay
pooh-poohed : ' Such a toothsome bite asa
fat kid afforded was worth sinning for,'
he said, ' if sin there was in it.*

Mrs. Mole proved an excellent cook ;
she at once showed her mettle by keeping
her position. She would not sit with the
rest, as Hay did ; but withdrew with her
portion to the rear, and openly expressed
her contempt for his lack of good manners.

Though them as don't know manners
can't use them,' she exclaimed, shaking her
head at the unconscious seaman. ' Mole
was like me ; he'd rather be told to go up
higher than have to be ordered to go
lower, and yet every bombardier in the
battery touched his cap to Mole ! aye, and
called him " sir " too !'

Janie could not be induced to taste the
kid. She shuddered at the barbarity, as
she called it, and wept when the mother
goat came bleating round the ashes wherein
the little creature had been sacrificed. She
was young enough to be satisfied with
fruit and milk, and wondered at the Major's

earnest consultation with Hay about procuring
salt — salt seemed to her such a
very secondary consideration when their
needs were so many.

Surely,' she said, ' we can live very well
on fruit for the short time we shall be
here. One of us ought to watch by turns
for a boat, don't you think ? There is
sure to be one soon.'

Sure to be one soon !' the Colonel
repeated, as he and the Major went down
to see if Harris's grave was undisturbed.
Ah, well, we must let her think so as long
as we can.'

I wonder,' said the other, as they
turned from the lite mound of sand — ' I
wonder if we are all doomed to be buried
here ?'

The Colonel groaned as he said :

'Tis an ugly thought. For God's
sake, let us do our best to keep up our

spirits. I doubt if Mrs. Scott can stand
privation and exposure. She's only just
over a bad illness, and must always have
been very fragile.'

As for Mrs. Barlow, her senses seem
gone or dazed,' Major Mortimer exclaimed.
I wonder if she will soon remember about
the little boy. I dread that recollection.'

Then they fell to talk of their chance of
being rescued ; of the many questions of
vital importance ; of shelter in the wet
season ; of food and clothes. They walked
with heads bowed down, with hearts full of
heaviness, bereft for the moment of hope,
despairing of ever communicating again
with that outer world which held all that
made life dear. Yet, as they neared their
companions in misfortune, the one forced
a careless whistle, the other a light laugh.

Here they come!' Mrs. Smith exclaimed,
' as brisk as possible. Men have

no feelings; all they need is to get something
to eat regularly; but they'll miss their
tobacco soon, and then we shall see.'

A savoury smell greeted them as they
came up. The cat of Mrs. Smith's waking
moment had resolved itself into a rabbit.

The place swarms with 'em,' Hay said,
as he served up some roasted joints on
thick large leaves. ' We're in fine quarters,
I'm thinking, as far as vittles goes — better
than aboard ship.'

Janie declined the rabbit, as she had
declined the kid. The mention of cat set
her against it. Mrs. Smith devoured it
with p-reat relish, tearing it with her teeth
and fingers as if she had never known a
more elegant mode of feeding. Suddenly
recollecting herself, she exclaimed :

Would anyone ever have supposed I
should be reduced to! this .^ Though cere
are reverses of fortune on record

as great as mine. Marie Antoinette, for
instance, who had to make her own bed,
and sweep out the rooms in the Temple ;
and Margaret of Anjou, who lived on
a raw herring for three or four days.'

I wish I had a bed to make and a room
to sweep,' Mrs. Barlow said, to their surprise.
I wonder why I ache all over so dreadfully,
and the lump on my head is so funny !'

Oh, you'll soon be all right,' Mrs.
Smith continued, as if she was of no importance
comparatively. ' And then, you
see, that French queen had been extravagant,
selfish, and unprincipled ; and
Margaret wasn't much to boast of ; but I
always paid my bills monthly, and never
spent beyond what was necessary in my
position. Of course, I kept people in their
proper places, and accepted the deference
paid to me by the military ladies ; but that
was due by me to Smith.'

VOL. II. 25

'You forget Job,' cried the Major; * he
was a pattern, too, and he was served
worse than you. Think of his bolls !'

Job !' she repeated with Infinite contempt.
' Well, Major, I do think I'm a
cut above Job. I doubt whether he could
write his name. Job ! — dirty old fellow,
sitting In the dust and scratching himself
like a bazaar coolie — I'm much obliged to
you ! Now, girls, let us go and have a
bathe.'

She's a rum 'un, asking your pardon,
gentlemen,' Hay observed, after watching
the ladles out of sight. ' I see her In the
water alongside o' me when we were
struggling about, and her wig rose up and
were washed away. It give me quite a
turn. It did, so unnatural like ; and when
we come ashore, and I see her first without
it, I really thought it were a 'old gentleman,
till I see the fingers all over rings.'

During that day they explored the place
as far as possible. The ravine was found
to be very fertile, and there were no traces
that it or the basin had ever been submerged.
Many of the trees were of great
age and size, and out of the sun the air
was very much cooler than in India.
There were no sirens of snakes or scorpions
within the charmed radius of vegetation,
but they were probably numerous
enough amongst the heated rocks.

Beyond the ravine vegetation again
ceased, and the rocks fell away in disconnected
masses, till they tapered off and
gradually disappeared, except at low tide,
when they were found to continue almost
as far as sis^ht could reach.

There was at that, as at the other end
of the plateau, a grand view of sea and
sky. The sea had calmed considerably,
and was now, except close to the reef in

25—2

parts, an unbroken expanse of blue shifting
into green, green shifting into blue, waveless
in the deep parts, but swelling to and
fro with a force that proved it to be still
anything but peaceful. The men's hearts
quailed as they gazed, and speechlessly
questioned, Would this awful waste of
waters ever be broken by a sail ? The
most pressing need of the moment was to
find shelter for the coming night. Having
no wraps, they ran great danger by sleeping
on the dewy ground. Half-way up
the ravine they found a recess in the rock
about as large as an ordinary chamber.
With branches of a scrubby bush they
swept out the accumulation of dust and
earth and insects' nests, and strewed it
with soft grass, which dried very quickly
in the sun. A natural porch formed the
entrance, and here the three men decided
to sleep, while the women slept inside.

Mrs. Smith had a practical mind, notwithstanding
her lofty notions, and she
suggested a layer of dry sand under the
grass would be an improvement, and prevent
all ill effects from possible damp.
But how to bring the sand without wheelbarrow
or baskets ? — a dozen journeys over
the rocks would not enable them to carry
sufficient in their gourds or cocoanut-shells,
which were their only means of transport.


Then Mrs. Mole . was equal to the
occasion. She ran behind a tree, and
presently returned with a stout serge skirt,
which she offered for use as a sack. Mrs.
Smith followed her example, and afforded
another skirt; but the young ladies had only
their calico on. Hay then remembered Mr.
Harris's violet coat, and thus altogether a
sufficient quantity of white sand was accumulated,
and proved to be at least as

good a substitute for a feather-bed as
marmalade is said to be for butter.

As the weather settled, the wind died
away, and the heat became very great ;
insects were in full force in the park, as the
oasis was called by mutual consent, but the
glare on the rocks was unendurable during
the day. Hay was on the watch for the
tide. If the steamer had gone to pieces
anywhere near, there must be plenty of
spoil washed ashore from it, and they all
became eager as towards the late afternoon
they went together to the bay in which
they had found themselves the previous
morning, in hopes to find something to
render their imprisonment more bearable.
Nor were they disappointed ; as the tide
retreated, it left the shore literally covered
with spoil. The steamer must have
foundered close by ; there were huge bales
of stores, passengers' luggage, furniture.

pots and pans In abundance, treasures innumerable,
but made terribly significant
by the presence amongst them of several
drowned Lascars.

The men's first care was to carry these
poor bodies to the head of the little bay
wherein Harris lay, and cover them up
above high-water mark ; then the living
assembled round the nameless graves,
and the Colonel recited as much of the
Burial Service as he could remember.

The waning light barely sufficed to
enable them to drag the boxes and other
things out of the reach of the next tide,
but the women made themselves as useful
as their strength allowed, and all worked
with a will, knowing how much depended
on their exertions.

The furniture was allowed to remain or
go as it would ; boxes of stores, barrels of
flour, chests of tea, bundles of blankets,

rugs, passengers' lighter boxes — these
were of Inestimable worth. By the time
It was dark they had collected a vast
heap, and had been spared seeing any
familiar faces amongst the drowned. They
were too tired to care to prepare any food,
and as soon as they reached their sleeping
quarters, most of them were soon at rest.

But to Janle sleep refused to come ;
the intense darkness of the cavern oppressed
her. Not a ray of light penetrated,
and her aching limbs found no rest on her
sandy couch, and the grass which had felt
so soft by day now seemed converted into
wooden skewers, and fretted her cheeks
and neck. A duet of snores kept up by
INIrs. Smith and Mrs. Mole irritated her
beyond endurance. She controlled herself
as long as she could, but her restlessness
at last prevailed over her dislike to
pass through the porch where the men lay

sleeping and her dread of the outside
solitude, and as noiselessly as possible she
rose and glided out.

The brilliant stars of an Eastern night,
in their solemn silent march over the great
unclouded vault of heaven, gave comparative
light, and the damp, sweet-scented
night-breeze refreshed her unspeakably.

It was like being in one's grave,' she
thought, as she breathed freely ; but
lightly as she had picked her way, she had
aroused one of the sleepers, and Major
Mortimer presently stood by her side.

You !' he whispered ; ' I feared it was
Mrs. Barlow, or one of you walking in
your sleep.'

I could not breathe in there,' she rejoined
; ' and yet I am afraid of this
solitude and half-light. Listen to the sea ;
it is awful ! but don't let me break your
rest. I must learn to be brave.'

Never mind me,' he said ; ' we'll look
for some night-lights for your benefit tomorrow.
Come along, that we may not
disturb anyone else

Too thankful for companionship to make
any but the feeblest protest, Janie climbed
up, as he suggested, till they could seethe
sea. The greater part of the reef,
with its embracing water, was visible ; of
human sounds there were none, but night-birds
and insects held a concert of their
own, while the ocean thundering in and
out of the honeycombed shore, seething,
breaking, and raking back the shingles,
kept up a ceaseless tumult.

I am so thankless,' she said, after they
had stood together a little while looking
and listening. ' How much more dreadful
it would have been had I been cast up
alone, and yet — oh ! what will they think
at home ?'

Ah ! what will they think at home ?' he
echoed.

When will they know ? When will
they give us up ?' she questioned.

When the ship is overdue, I suppose.
Not yet, for a long time. But some of
our shipmates have been saved, I suppose.'


'And they will tell where we are, and
we shall be fetched !'

She spoke with the joy of an unreflecting
child.

The other boats may have drifted faraway
from here,' he said. ' Besides, they
could have no idea of our whereabouts.'

We may be saved before the news of
our shipwreck reaches England !' she exclaimed.
' It is possible ?'

It is possible,' he echoed.
He could not make himself show her
the unlikelihood of her supposition.

On board ship,' she said, ' I used so
to honor for a moment's cessation of that
horrid screw, and now I think that eternal
commotion down there is worse than the
screw

The passion in her voice touched
him.

Come away across the park he said.
Over there, we shall scarcely hear the
noise. Here we are facing the current —
or would you like to go back to bed ?'

She shuddered.

Not back there,' she said. 'Yes, let
us go across. During the day I don't feel
it so much, but at night — oh ! Major
Mortimer, I wish I had forgotten everything,
like Mrs. Barlow

She little knew what an effort it was to
him to keep himself from breaking down,
too, as he answered with an apparently
calm voice :

Try to be hopeful. Perhaps we shall
soon look back upon this as a hideous
dream. Let us make the best of what is,
without grieving for what cannot be.'

He took her hand to guide her through
the shadowed ravine, and held it firmly.
His grasp gave strength to her timid
spirit.

I will try,' she said, with a stifled sob ;
but, you see, it is different for you — there
is poor Charley !'

There was silence for a few moments.
Then he said in a low tone :

'Not so very different, after all. I was
going home to be married.'

She turned quickly, as if to see his face,
which was impossible. Probably he would
not have made his confession, but for the
friendly darkness.

You r she cried, surprised out of her
own trouble. ' You engaged all this time,

and I never guessed it ! Surely Charley
didn't know ?'

No. It is an old story, and a long
story. The engagement was all on my
side, but of course '

He paused. She filled up the pause.

It was an understood thing between
you ?'

They reached the top of the wooded
bank, and passed out of the shadow into
the clear starlight on the western side of the
reef. There the water rolled languidly up
and down the gently sloping sands, and
the roar on the other side was deadened
to the distant hum of a great city. Some
night-birds twittered and flew off as they
approached, and a couple of rabbits playing
on the sward scuttled across their feet.

Major Mortimer found some flat-topped
stones, and proposed they should sit on
them.

If you really prefer keeping awake.' he
said, ' I will tell you about my young woman,
to pass the time.'

He spoke lightly to cover his nervousness.
He volunteered the story as much
to relieve his own feelings as to distract
his companion's, and, woman-like, she was
quite excited to hear the love-story of a
man she had hitherto considered far too
old for * that sort of thing.'

I shall like it above everything,'
she exclaimed. ' I am so sorry for
you !'

Then he told her how, eight years ago,
he had met a young lady in London who
took his fancy completely. ' She was so
different to most girls,' he said. * She was
visiting a very cross married sister, and
was always good-tempered to a lot of little
squalling nephews and nieces — used to
take them into Kensington Gardens in

the morning, and amuse them. When I
found out that, I used to meet her there —
accidentally, you know — until I knew it
was all up with me ; and then I also knew
how selfish I had been, for I had nothing
beside my pay as a captain. I guessed
she had nothing, because she lived very
quietly in an out-of-the-way country town
with an invalid mother. In fact, had I
supposed she had money of her own, 1
should have kept away from her altogether.'


I don't see that,' Janie interrupted,
and I don't suppose she would see it,
either. One of you must have money !'

Ah, you are like her — good and disinterested
; but the majority of people
think differently. Well, the children told
of our meetings, and poor Mary got scolded.
And when I next called on her sister, that
lady accused me of deceit, and told me her

sister had been sent home ; in fact, I
was practically shown the door.

But as I walked away, burning with
indignation and dismay, I met Mary. Her
sister had told a lie. The poor girl was ina
great state of confusion, for, you see,
though we both knew we cared for each
other, nothing had been actually said.
How could I say anything when I could
not offer her such a home as she was
accustomed to ? But in the joy of meeting
her I said all I ought not to have said,
and won her, and we agreed I was to
return to be married when I got my
majority. Meantime, I made her promise
to tell no one but her mother. Of course,
I did not know the mother was a selfish
invalid — I only knew she had another
daughter, who could surely take care of
her instead of Mary. We met again before
she left London, and she let me give her

VOL. II. 26

a ring, though she dare not wear it. She
was to go home and explain all to her
mother, and then I was to go and see
her, and make her mother's acquaintance.
It sounded hopeful enough, and I
wondered I had ever despaired. She went
away, and in a few days I heard from
her, and all my bright hopes were overthrown.
Her mother had pined dreadfully
during her absence, and had implored
her never to think of leaving her
again. I am sure she had cried as she
wrote, for the paper was blistered. My
poor girl blamed herself dreadfully for
having entered into an engagement whenas
she said, her duty was clearly at her
mother's side, and begged me to free her
and forget her ! A very likely thing, eh ?
I wrote offering to come down to her, but
though I succeeded in preventing her
giving me up altogether, I could not get

better terms than the promise of an exchange
of letters twice a year ; and for
agreeing to that much she blamed herself
immensely. But that fiendish sister told
her mother a garbled story, and, of course,
completely upset the poor delicate woman.
So it was impossible I could thrust myself
into the poor lady's presence, though I
often think I might have written. Well,
in terror at her mother's condition, Mary
gave the rash promise that as long asher
mother lived she would not marry at
all.'

I think she was very weak,' Janie
said, pitying the strong man at her
side.

Oh no ; she was but a girl of twenty.
I was the only one to blame. Remember,
she had been accustomed to be kept under
all her life, to yield unquestioning obedience,
and never had asserted herself.'

26 — 2

He remained silent, thinking of his
ruined hopes ; and the leaves around them
seemed to sigh as they rustled In the faint
wind. The silence was more than Janle
could bear.

Won't you tell me the rest ?' she asked
gently.

He roused himself.

There is not much more. I went down
to Westminster.'

Where ?' she cried.

The place she lived in — without saying
I was coming — as soon as I was sure her
sister had gone back to town. And then I
wished I hadn't, for she was so heartbroken.
Her mother was too ill to be
even told I was there ; so all I got was a
miserable half-hour, and the reluctant
promise that I should have a yearly letter
from her. Think of having to be content
with that — a letter once a year ! And yet

what a boon that one letter in twelvemonths
was ! I had eight such sweet,
trustful, cheerful letters, though they were
by no means love-letters. Then I saw in
the papers the mother was dead, and immediately
I wrote and told Mary I held
her to her promise, and that I had had an
unexpected windfall, which would enable
me to leave the service if she wished

And you had an answer that pleased
you ?'

Yes, her answer pleased me mightily.'
His voice was almost shy with emotion.
Do you know, it came the very day you
left Naini Tala

reward for your kindness to us.'

And this is so far as I've got,' he said,
with a broken attempt at fun. ' She'll
soon read my name amongst the missing
passengers of the Elephanta. Perhaps
someone amongst the saved will say he

saw me go down amongst the dead
men.'

And Charley knew nothing of what
you have told me.'

No ; perhaps you haven't discovered I
am a bashful man he said with a laugh ;
and Scott is a great tease.'

But didn't you know he comes from
Bestminster .'^'

Who "t — Scott a Bestminster man T

Certainly ; his brother lives there now
-in the same house where Charley was
born. I dare say Charley is there now.
1 wrote to him there last.' Then she
burst out crying. ' Oh, I shall never get
a letter from him again — never see him
again !' she sobbed. ' Oh, do you think
we shall never get away from here T

He did his best to cheer her with
plausible possibilities, and, in trying to
comfort her, comforted himself.

Now, tell me he said, when she was
calm again, ' did you ever hear him
mention the name of Latimer ? Oh, what
a fool I was not to have known where he
came from — living so intimately together
as we did, too !'

*• I can't be positive, and yet it has a
familiar sound. Latimer — Mary Latimer
she repeated. * Yes, yes ; he was teasing
me once, when we were first married,
I remember, and said he was in love
with Mary Latimer long before he saw
me !'

Major Mortimer winced, but in a
moment he cheered up.

Ah, a boy and girl affair, probably.
She must be older than Scott. She must
be past eight-and-twenty now, and he '

He is between six and seven and
twenty. Besides, I know he was only
teasing me. Very likely he admired her

before he left home, but he was a mere
boy then, you know.'

And Scott will be with his people at
Bestminster now ?'

Perhaps they will be together — I mean,
your Miss Latimer and Charley, when the
news reaches them.'

He said nothing ; but that idea had
come to him before she put it into words,
and his thoughts flew far ahead of it.
Supposing no rescue came for years — forever
— might not the boy and girl friendship
— admiration, whatever you like to call
it — ripen and end in marriage } Luckily
for Janie, she had got over her burst of
despair for the time, and was tortured no
further for the present. She began to
think her companion's continued silence
meant that he was tired and sleepy, and
blamed herself for selfishly depriving him
of rest.

Let US go back now,' she said ; ' dawn
must come soon. I shall not mind sitting-alone
near the cave ; and you must be
worn out !'

I have no desire for sleep,' he said ; ' I
have driven it away by talking. How
strange about Bestminster ! I wonder she
never mentioned Scott in her letters ; but
then, of course, we were only stationed together
latterly, and she only wrote about
mutual London friends ; she was probably
not aware Scott was known to me at all.
What's his brother Hke ?'

Charley didn't talk of him much ; I
don't think they were fond of each other.
I don't remember we ever had a letter
from him, certainly not since we were
married ; but, then, Mr. Scott is only his
step-brother, and ever so many years older
than him, and I believe he thought Charley
imprudent to marry yet.'

Is he married ?'

Oh yes, I know that much ; but I am
afraid I didn't take any particular interest
in him ; somehow, I only thought about
Charley himself.'

She said this so simply he could not
make a laughing reply.

As they retraced their steps to watch
the morning break on the western side, a
figure stepped forward to meet them.
Jane clutched her companion in abject
terror ; it was only Mrs. Mole, who, after
profuse apologies for creating alarm, said
she was going down to the shore to see
about the goods.

I'm so anxious about the wine and
spirits,' she said.

The Major laughed.

Oh, they are safe enough,' he replied ;
we took special care to pull them high
enough.'

I saw you did, sir ; but I wish they
were adrift again.'

That would never do ; they'll be invaluable
in the rainy season, and by no
means to be despised during all other
seasons !'

Major,' she said very earnestly, ' with
stores of good food, we don't need the
drink;

My good woman, I respect total abstainers
a little, but moderate drinkers
much more. Remember St. Paul's good
advice to Timothy.'

Sir,' she exclaimed, speaking in low
emphatic tones, ' I didn't mean to mention
names, but I must. Hay were drunk nigh
every night on board ship : he's all right
when he's sober; but he's the very
devil when he's drunk. I watched him
when the drink were found, and he
could hardly contain himself: you'll have

your hands full if you keep that liquor
about.'

The Colonel and I can control his
allowance.'

A man as loves liquor as he loves it '11
have It by hook or by crook, sir. Supposing
which God forbid ! — anything happened
to you and the Colonel, what would come
of us women if he had all that drink to
his hand ?'

Oh, Mrs. Mole I' Janle cried, appalled
at the Idea of being bereft of her two
friends.

The Major was struck by the force of
her argument, and she saw it, and continued
:

You can't lock it up ; he's a big strongman
; he owns no master on this Island, I
reckon ! We might, all of us against him,
prevent him getting mad drunk ; but it
would be best to avoid the poor ladies

being harried and frightened to death.
Let us go and turn it adrift, sir, before
he's about to know

I don't care to take the responsibility,'
he answered ; ' the Colonel is commanding
officer here, and Mrs. Smith will wish
to be consulted.'

I've thought of that, sir. If I may
make so bold as to advise you, you might
hide a chest of wine and a small keg of
brandy, in case of illness, for, of course, St.
Paul knew what he were saying to
Timothy ; but don't wait to let Hay get
among that lot of drink : he'll lose his self-respect,
sir, and now he doesn't know you
know his weakness.'

The Major deliberated.

Surely the Colonel and I can allowance
him and control him ?' he repeated.

A man as loves drink '11 have it at all
costs, sir ; you've seen enough of that

sort o' thing amongst your men, sir. I
know it, sir. Why, even Mole would
stoop to dirty tricks to get it !'

At this moment there was a stir amongst
the trees ; the birds began to twitter, and
the horizon became faintly indicated —
morning was at hand.

Well,' he exclaimed, ' if it's to be done,
we should lose no time. I think I may
venture to act first, and explain afterwards,
in this case.'

The three started off at once for the
creek, and groping their downward way
carefully amongst the boulders and trailing
rank grass, were presently at the scene of
action. Then began wholesale devastation.
The Major exclaimed, as he rolled
the cases to the water's edge and vigorously
smashed them, that ' it was hard to
be punished for another's folly.'

Fortunately, there were a few dozens

of bottles, and these were carefully buried
under a boulder ; then the barrels and
kegs were broken open and the liquor
allowed to escape into the sea, when the
coverings were broken up and thrown into
the water, to be carried off in the outgoing
tide.

The sun was covering the waves with
glory by the time their task was over, and
all traces of what they had done were
carefully obliterated.

The three conspirators felt very guilty
as they went back to the grotto.

Hay had got a fire lighted, and was
cooking the rabbits caught the previous
day ; he had already milked the goats, and
the Colonel and Mrs. Smith had gathered
the fruit, while Mrs. Barlow had plucked
leaves and cleaned cocoanut-shells to act
as cups. ' Breakfast was early,' Hay said,
that they might see about warehousing the

Stores, and avoid working in the hot sunshine.


The ladies shall have a good dinner
to-day,' he added ; ' there's a regular
Lord Mayor's feast among them there
stores.'

SALVAGE.

Mrs. Mole exchanged a look of relief
with her co-conspirators: their absence had
evidence occasioned no curiosity ; the
others had been too busy to wonder where
they were.

Hay snatched his food standing, and,
long before the rest had finished, announced
his intention of setting to work without
further delay. He kept a half cocoanut-shell
in his hand, as if accidentally. As he
moved off Mrs. Mole ran after him.

I'm coming too !' she cried ; * one pair
VOL. IL 27

of hands can't do much with them big
chests and things.'

He grunted something about her minding
her own business, but she pretended
not to hear, and trotted on after him. She
wanted to be a spectator when he missed
the Hquor.

As she expected, he went straight to the
corner where the cases of Hquor had been
put the night before, and for some seconds
he stood in great perplexity, staring at the
empty place. She busied herself on a
bale of rugs, with her face towards him,
watching him with furtive glances.

By St. Joseph !' he said at last, in an
undertone — ' by St. Peter and all the lot
of 'em !'

Eh }' she cried. ' What's that about
Joseph and St. Peter? What! are you a
parish ?'

Parish or no parish,' he cried, letting

his voice rise in loud anger — ' parish or
no parish, here's the devil to pay !'

What's wrong ?' she asked, with an
innocent air, as she struggled with a tough
knot.

What's wrong ! What isn't wrong's
more like it. That'll the poor gentlemen
say? says I. 'Tis lucky I kept close by
'em, or they might swear 'twas me.'

What are you fuming and fretting
about ?'

Oh, it's they'll be fuming and fretting
presently ! Gentlemen thinks so much of
their drink. Do you suppose there can be
other folks besides us about who've a-done
it?'

Done what ?'

Done what! Just like a woman — sees
no further than their noses unless it's
another woman's new gown. Surely you
see them cases and kegs of liquor all put

27—2

alongside here taut last night ? They've
gone. I tell you — gone — gallons of good
wholesome heartening drink — hours of
snug happiness gone — hours o' forgetting
this here beastly anchorage In the middle
of a unknown moorings — all gone ! Oh,
Joseph and Peter, you've played me
false !'

Good job, too,' she said, with the utmost
calmness. * Wit's out when drinks in, and
you've many a bad head spared you, you
poor fool ! but who says the drink was
ever there ? Where could it have gone,
think ye ?'

His face blanched as he looked searchingly
over the packages again, and then
said, in a whisper :

Them poor Lascar fellows didn't drink
strong drink, else I'd fancy '

He broke off with a shudder.

Bless the man ! they poor souls '11

hunger and thirst no more ; at least, not
for such poor wattles and drink as we
could give 'em. Perhaps with thinking
so much about the stuff, you walked in
your sleep and rolled it all back into the
sea !'

Never !' he shouted. ' Sleep nor wake,
I could never do such a wasteful act as
that. Oh dear, dear ! think of the poor
gentlemen's disappointment ! No ; this
here place must be inhabited, and yet I've
beat pretty nigh all over it, and there's no
sign of a human being.'

No ; there's no two-legged beasties here
but ourselves,' she said. ' Here, come and
do something useful, and don't stand there
gaping like a gawbisson. One 'ud think
you'd lost something precious by the fuss
you're making.' But he could only walk
round and round the heap of packages in
vain search and research. ' It can't matter

to you she added. ' I reckon you're a
teetotaler, ain't you ?'

Not exactly a total abstainer by choice,'
he answered, with a deep sigh and a leer.
But I'm thinking of the poor old gentleman.
Colonel Shepherd. At his age he'll
miss his grog awful. I've been told eld
gents like him go off their heads sometimes
when they can't get their drink
regular.'

More like with having it too regular.
Depend upon it, you fancied you saw it
last night. It were pretty well dusk, you
know, or maybe your parish saints have
played you a trick. They may have
feared you might drink unfairly to prevent
waste.'

He went carefully over the ground
again, re-examining every package. Then
he went to the water's edge and surveyed
the wet sands anxiously.

She gazed anxiously, too, but the morning's
work had been complete. The liquor
had been thoroughly washed away. There
were no marks of recent footsteps, and of
broken wood and floating covers there
were so many that identification of those
particular cases was impossible. He presently
returned heavily to where she still
stood.

Well r she asked.

Well,' he said, * it'll be a terrible blow
to the gentlemen ; but I don't mind telling
you, for you once see me rather fresh — I
think it were on the Captain's birthday —
1 do believe it's them saints, after all, and
perhaps it's not such a ill trick ; but don't
you mention it to anybody. Oh dear !
what will the poor gentlemen say ?'

Meantime, what had been done was told
to the Colonel and the others, and on
hearing it Mrs. Smith became aware how

two of the party had spent the greater part
of the night.

Do you mean to say,' she asked,
turning with a countenance of virtuous
horror to Mrs. Scott, 'that you left our
room by stealth, when we were all
sleeping ?'

Yes,' was Janie's answer. ' 1 did my
best not to disturb anyone. I felt stifled.
I can't bear that black darkness, and it
was all so dismal and uncomfortable.'

I think you must admit that / am likely
to know what is comfortable, and luxurious,
and even magnificent. I have slept in
rooms of palatial splendour, but even I
enjoyed that dear little cave, and slept
calmly and refreshingly. I have learnt
self-control, and to be thankful on all
occasions.'

Janie was quite crushed by the severe
words and tones, and cried :

But, indeed, 1 am thankful, too,
only '

Then you must have a weak heart as
well as a weak head,' was the stern rejoinder.
' We must devise some light and
airy sleeping-place for you, for it will never
do for you to go sleeping about on the
rocks with anybody.'

Major Mortimer rose, and rushed away
to hide his laughter. Janie's face crimsoned
; she was roused out of her girlish
meekness under reproof for once.

You must not take upon yourself to
speak to me so !' she cried.

Mrs. Barlow took her hand and fondled
it.

What does she say, my darling ?' she
asked. * Never mind what she says. I'll
speak to Richard about her.'

Colonel Shepherd came valiantly to the
rescue. He said :

My dear wife never could sleep in the
dark. I expected some of you to rebel
against that cavern ; but I am sure Mrs.
Smith means what she says in kindness.'

Certainly, certainly,' said that lady,
who was quickly cowed by any exhibition
of wrath, especially in such an unlooked-for
quarter. 'And you know, my dear
Mrs. Scott, that, though you are married,
you are yet but a young thing ; and though
we are out of the world just now, we must
continue to avoid the appearance of evil.
I, as the superior — I mean, as the elder —
must be permitted to be watchful over you
all. The Colonel and myself are indeed
the heads of departments.'

And deportment the Colonel added.

I have been married five-and-twenty
years,' she continued, 'and no one has
ever accused me of levity or love or
admiration. Smith has not once had occasion

to object to my manner with the
other sex. I am sure, my dear girl, you
must know I am only anxious for your
good !'

Mrs. Scott smiled. Her anger had gone
as soon as roused.

And I am sure,' Mrs. Smith continued,
we ought to bear with one another's infirmities,
thrown together as we are, whether
we like it or not. I cannot think why I
am so heavily tried — I always paid my
way and kept a liberal table.'

No children, and liberal pay, too,' the
Colonel said in a low tone, thinking of
his own large family and straitened circumstances.


No, I cannot think,' she added, ignoring
his remark, 'for what I am punished
now !'

The Colonel was bent upon teasing
her.

Sins of the fathers, perhaps ?' he exclaimed.


No, indeed,' Mrs. Smith cried, turning
upon him angrily. ' Both my father and
Mr. Smith's were quite superior men. I
wish you could see the testimonials and
presentation snuff-boxes and prize cups and
goblets and salvers belonging to ny family,
in a handsome buhl cabinet.'

Ah !' he exclaimed, as she stopped to
observe the effect of her words. ' Ah,
that's very conclusive ! Then if they are
not to blame, it must be a case of Jonah
again. I wonder for which of us you
are now suffering? It must be the old
story — you, the innocent, suffering for one
of us, the guilty.'

I never thought of that !' she exclaimed.
That's it, I've no doubt. What a comforting
reflection !'

Hay here came up gloomily, narrating

the loss of the wine and spirits. They
listened with the necessary appearance
of astonishment, the Colonel merely remarking
it was strange ; but no doubt they
did not need stimulants in that climate,
he added.

Mrs. Smith observed she was accustomed
to a glass of good wine at dinner, but could
do very well without it. Mr. Smith, she
added, was very particular about his cellar,
and always sent his wine round the Cape
either to sicken or ripen, she forgot which.
Of course, ' only rich civilians could afford
that,' she said for the Colonel's benefit.

The Major, who had come back to hear
what Hay had to tell, declared he had been
looking forward to enjoying some good
wine, and asked if Hay had no hope it
might yet be discovered.

You'll miss it, too, won't you ?' he
added.

Hay shook his head dolefully.

Of course I'm accustomed to a drain of
something warming on Sundays, at least,
and maybe birthdays,' he said in a melancholy
tone ; ' but I feels most for sou
gentlemen. Goat's milk is innocent drink,
but it haven't much flavour, have it ?'
Brightening up a little, he added : ' But
I've been thinking, as I come along, we
might try and ferment the juice of these
grapes that are wasting all round. There's
plenty of vessels washing up to squeeze it
into.'

Mrs. Smith interposed here.

We've better intentions about the
grapes,' she said, ' than letting them make
bad vinegar. We are going to pick all
we can and dry them, as raisins; when fruit
Is scarce, they will be both nourishing and
a treat.'

This second blow to his renewed hopes

Startled the man. Like all of his profession,
he was intensely superstitious, and
believing the saints had again interfered,
he felt it useless to fight against the supernatural.


Mrs. Smith rose, saying it was high
time they ceased talking, and acted instead.
As she passed Mrs. Scott, she
tapped her cheek kindly, saying :

And when you can't sleep again, my
dear, wake ?ue, and we'll talk ourselves
sleepy.' Then she waved them all onward
with that air of authority which was at
once so absurd and so impertinent.

One of the most valuable discoveries
made amongst the wreckage was a carpenter's
chest, well stocked with first-rate
tools. With these the work of opening
cases was comparatively easy. The Major,
strong and athletic, in the prime of manhood,
took the hardest part, with Hay ;

while the Colonel, short of wind and with
a constitution older than his years, and
still feeling his bruises, helped the women
with the lighter things. They all found
plenty to do, for it was absolutely necessary
everything should be carried to the citadel
(where amongst the closely-clustered rocks
were many cavities, wherein the stores
would suffer little either from damp or
sun), not only for the convenience of having
the things near at hand, but because
they felt it was not improbable the whole
of the lower reef was occasionally submerged.


Mrs. Barlow was as useful as any of
them at first. The exertion roused her, and
made her not only cheerful, but perfectly
sensible. But as the heat increased, she
grew exhausted, and was at last persuaded
to sit in the shade and rest. But after
remaining quiet for a little while watching

the workers, she strolled off over the wet
shore, and there stood holding her head
and gazing seawards.

The many journeys over the rough
ground, and weighted with unwieldy
burthens, were very trying to all, but hardwork
was better for them than sitting still
and thinking; they were greatly comforted,
too, by the many boxes of clothing washed
ashore.

The sight of combs and brushes made
Janie clap her hands. Clean pocket-handkerchiefs,
too, gave a sensation of respectability
extremely welcome. Mrs.
Smith alone was not altogether satisfied
when a brush on her bald head reminded
her of the loss of her borrowed
tresses.

How my hair falls off!' she said
valiantly ; ' salt water is so destructive toit
; and then, too, when it got loose in the

VOL. ir. 28

water the rocks dragged it out by handfuls.'


Hay was not within hearing, fortunately
for her.

A hill tent was found amongst other
things, and Major Mortimer at once carried
it off and put it up on the level sward close
by the cave, telling Mrs. Scott it should be
appropriated to her. Janie surveyed it
with sparkling eyes.

It shall be floored eventually,' he
added ; ' there are heaps of planking on the
beach, and I pride myself on being a good
carpenter. '-

Great friend of her husband's, was he ?'
Mrs. Smith said to the Colonel ; ' I'm sure
I'm glad of it.'

Mrs. Scott stood looking on till the
pegs were all hammered in and the ropes
tightly fastened, regarding it with admiration.


I dare say someone had It in Cashmere,'
she said ; ' how Httle he thought where it
would be used next !'

She turned back every few moments as
they returned to the shore to admire the
canvas top ; it was more homehke than all
else in the island.

I was wondering how I was to spend
to-nights she continued ; ' I should have
been obliged to try that dreadful vault
again — I a7u so thankful !'

Major Mortimer had an ambitious plan
in his head — no less than building huts by-and-by,
for neither tent nor cave would be
pleasant quarters in the rains, he said.

She hoped they would have been taken
off by a ship long before the rains, she
replied ; and so with hope springing up
she scrambled on till they were again
within sight of the shore, when suddenly
a piercing scream rang upwards, and Mrs.

28—2

Barlow was seen wildly flinging her arms
above her head as she stood at the edge of
the water, and then she fell forward on her
face as if struck dead.

The wild shriek attracted everyone's
attention, and as Major Mortimer and
Mrs. Scott rushed forward, heedless of the
painful ground, they saw the rest of the
party fly to the prostrate woman and raise
her. Then the cause of her agonized cry
was visible, for beneath her lay the disfigured
body of her beautiful merry baby
boy, his bright curls full of sand and weed,
and his fair round face and limbs bruised
almost beyond recognition ; he had literally
been washed up to his mother's feet, and
her brain, poor soul ! had thus been roused
out of its lethargy.

She was not unconscious when they
raised her and tried to soothe her; she
writhed and screamed again and again,

and yet she knew what had happened, and
where she was.

Mrs. Scott she cried, ' don't you remember
Dick's last words were "Take care
of my boy " ? And, oh ! look at him now !'

God has taken care of him,' Janie said,
weeping.

But I didn't,' she raved ; ' he was so
heavy I let him go — God knows I let him
go because my arms were numb ! Oh,
dear Lord, give him back, or how shall I
meet his father again !' She slipped out of
the hands that supported her and knelt by
the child ; she put her lips on his, and
would have taken him in her arms, but
was unable to lift him ; then she looked
beseechingly at Mrs. Mole. ' Carry him
up for me !' she exclaimed ; ' if we only
could get a hot bath he might revive.'

The poor lamb !' the nurse said ;
nothing '11 revive his dear body ; he's

far better off than you and me could make
him.'

Dead !' his mother screamed, looking
wildly from one to the other ; ' then let
me die too !'

She set off running to meet the waves
as if she meant to drown herself ; but
Major Mortimer caught her, and as he did
so she fainted. They were thankful to be
spared the sight of her anguish for a time,
and improvising a stretcher with a large
rug, they laid her on it, and took her to the
tent.

Mrs. Smith and Hay remained to bury
the poor little mutilated body ; it was best
to hide it away before his mother returned
to consciousness. They emptied a small
box which had belonged to a passenger,
and was full of Lucknow figures ; then from
another box they took a large soft towel
for a shroud, and so the treasured darling

was laid in his last home. ' Suffer little
children to come unto Me, for of such is
the kingdom of heaven,' Mrs. Smith said ina
broken voice as she shut the lid ; then
the two gentlemen returned, and again the
Colonel repeated part of the Burial Service,
and so another mound was added to the
little cemetery.

Mrs. Barlow remained for hours in a
state of lethargy. She had been put in
the tent on a comfortable bed of rugs and
blankets, and the women sat by her in
turn ; the others spent the night close at
hand, sleeping as best they could. About
midnight she recovered consciousness and
asked for the boy. Mrs. Smith was with
her, and told her he was buried. She said
nothing, but lay moaning, till Mrs. Smith's
watch was over and Janie replaced her.

Poor Janie, as she seated herself in the
dark, prayed for strength to perform her

duty. She knew the rest were just outside,
and the first sound of her voice would
reach them, and yet she quailed. She
bade herself remember how much she
owed the poor creature moaning restlessly
beside her. She thought of her kindness,
her gaiety, her brightness, of the happy
home, the troops of friends, all so lately
hers, and now the sharp contrast ! The
sleepless night and the day's fatigue and
excitement were, of course, to blame for
Mrs. Scott's miserable nervousness, but
she did not consider that ; she only bewailed
her uselessness and incapacity.
Was it to be ever so ? was she always to
expect and claim help and care and give
nothing in return ?

A louder moan, a more vigorous movement,
brought the hot blood to her face
and turned her giddy with terror ; then,
forcing herself to be sensible, she moistened

the poor dry lips, and waved a plantain-leaf
over the fevered face, and rejoiced at the
faint ' Thank you, dear,' that told she was recognised.
But again, at the next incoherent
whisper or restless movement, the foolish
terror returned stronger than ever, and
made her powerless to command her voice
to utter a soothing, tender word. At last
she placed her cool hand on Mrs. Barlow's
burning forehead, and ventured to say some
loving sentences, and she was rewarded
immediately.

Is it you, dear Mrs. Scott .^' Mrs. Barlow
feebly murmured. ' I am glad it is
you. You will stay with me, won't you ?
You are my oldest friend now.'

Surely this was reward enough, and
Janie felt strengthened and soothed. Even
when, presently, the patient started, and,
sitting up, clapped her hands and broke
into a foolish song, she did not call out.

but bravely stifling her agonized longing
to rush from the scene, she did her best to
calm and bring back reason, and, to her great
thankfulness, the paroxysm passed over.

She had conquered herself at last, and
when Mrs. Mole came in to take her place
she could go out to seek rest knowing she
had fairly and honesty earned it. Sitting
down on the ground beside Mrs. Smith, she
was almost immediately asleep.

Poor child !' the elder lady said, as the
girl's head fell against her, and found a
resting-place on the not unwilling arm,
How nice to be her age ! She sleeps
like a baby, and has as lite feeling, I
suppose.'

In a few moments the speaker was
snoring heavily.

Ugh !' said Colonel Shepherd, after
vainly trying to continue his own broken
slumbers. ' That dear girl must be dead

beat Indeed to sleep through this noise. I
keep fancying we are under the fire of
heavy guns, and just now I dreamt we
were at battery practice.'

The sun rose on a heavy-hearted and
heavy-eyed party, but breakfast refreshed
them, and the great need there was of continuing
to collect and shelter the wreckage
obliged them to shake off their despondency.
Indeed, but for the hard work of those days
immediately following their shipwreck, body
and mind would have sunk. As it was,
the great fatigue brought rest, and rest
brought composure.

Sunday came before the work of storage
was complete. Mrs. Barlow came amongst
them that morning, and enjoyed the treat
of tea made in a kettle, and cakes of flour —
tea and cakes of such exquisite taste that
a vote of thanks was given to Mrs. Mole,
who stood curtseying and beaming to

receive them. The invaHd looked very
fragile, and the lump on her head had not
disappeared. There was a certain mightiness
in her manner, too, and quick changes
of mood ; but she was otherwise recovered,
and thanked everyone sweetly for their care
of her. It was a great relief to have her
with them again. The fear of losing one
of their small party had pressed heavily,
and they were ready now to make the
most of her, and to be blind and deaf to
her peculiarities. That Sunday should be
kept was determined unanimously. Even
Hay thought that was the right thing todo
— ' even though,' he added, ' there was no
grog handy.'

A Bible had been found in one of the
trunks, and during the morning they
assembled to hear it read by Mrs. Smith,
who was the self-elected priestess, because,
as she explained, her aunt's husband was

'a high dignitary of the Church'; but no
one was inclined to cavil at the reader
as the simple words of the familiar narrative
fell on their ears. The thoughts of
most of them were far away while their
ears drank in the message of hope and
love — away with those dear ones at home
who were probably at the self-same hour
listening to like words, and praying for all
in trouble and sorrow, in peaceful ignorance
yet of what had happened.

A hymn was proposed, and Mrs. Scott
was asked to lead it. She was very shy,
and the men were shyer still, but she once
more gained a victory over herself and
started, her voice gaining strength as she
proceeded, and the others gradually joined
in :

Lead, kindly Light, amid the encircling gloom,

Lead Thou me on ;
The night is dark, and I am far from home,
Lead Thou me on.'

How appropriate the words were felt
to be was shown by the streaming eyes
of the majority — indeed, the harmony was
marred by their strong emotion ; but surely
the beseeching prayer was heard and accepted
by that * Light of the world ' who
can brighten the darkest path, and guide
the stumbler safely home, though the time
were halting and the voices broken.

The pieces of wreckage continued to
come to shore, but so far there were no
more dead bodies. The ship had evidently
broken up not very far off, for the quantity
of her timbers was very great. The men
spent the day in going round the reef;
they were in better spirits afterwards,
though the absence of all traces of previous
habitation was more clearly proved — one
reason of their greater cheerfulness being
the freedom of the water from sharks. Of
small fish and oysters, and other shellfish,

there was abundance ; dying of hunger
was not a likely event. Total submersion
of the reef was seen to be impossible too, and
with the many articles of comfort washed
up, a continued stay could be anticipated
without anxiety, and that a prolonged stay
was before them was insisted upon by
Hay, whose experience could not be rejected.


From that Sunday they met daily first
thing every morning to read a psalm and
a chapter, and sing a hymn ; and though
at first they felt it to be a case of ' How-shall
we sine: the Lord's song in a strange
land?' these meetings came to be moments
of quiet comfort and happiness to their
doubting, wearied hearts through many a
day which would, but for them, have
begun in sullen dismay and disgust with
some, and listless indifference with others.

By-and-by, when the tiring task of

carrying and arranging the stores was
over, and the daily work was evenly distributed,
so that the evening did not find
them too tired for anything but instant
sleep as soon as the darkness prevented
further work, they amused, or rather distracted,
themselves with songs, and the
ice once broken, it was wonderful how
each one grew eager to be heard. Of
the men's voices, Hay's was the best, and
his ear was true. The gentlemen sang
as gentlemen sing who tell you they
have never cultivated their voices, but
don't mind singing to please you.'

Most of Colonel Shepherd's songs had
been drawing-room favourites forty years
before. He had sung them with great
effect at mess ever since, and had generally
been encored, especially since he became
a field officer. They were of the decorated
period — that is to say, they were full of

little turns and shakes, the last line of
each verse being repeated to a new setting:,
as in the old-fashioned Church psalter.
He wiped his eyes over some of the
pathetic ones still, for his heart was as
kind and soft ' as that of one of his
heroes, and his voice never failed to falter
over the last verse of ' She wore a Wreath
of Roses.'

In Mrs. Mole's opinion the Colonel was
a polished singer; indeed, she said she had
never heard a nigger minstrel to equal
him. Mrs. Mole was the only one who
was not sure of herself. She would do her
best, she said, when it was put before her
that each one must help for the general
amusement, for she felt this was but fair, and
she was not one to shirk a manifest duty ;
but her tunes were mixed beyond her
power to disentangle them ; for instance,
she would begin bravely with ' I'll hang

VOL. II. 29

my harp on a willow-trees keeping the
time like a trotting-horse, but Insensibly
that became something more than a suggestion
of * Under the willow she's sleeping.'
' The Last Rose of Summer ' assisted
the hero ' Off to the wars again,' and ashe
announced his Intention of ' Seeking a
warrior's grave,' the melody terminated
triumphantly In the ' Old Hundredth ;' but
she was so sure she was all wrong, and
so totally unable to keep all right, that
her hearers would have died sooner than
have brought her to open shame by showing
their feelings.

It was very different with Mrs. Smith.
She had paid a guinea a lesson in her youth,
she told them as a conclusive proof of her
undoubted ability, and she attacked ' La
cl Dare ' and ' Roberto ' with surprising
vigour, trying back at the high notes with
a fearless audacity that fairly astonished

her audience. Giggling, that prince of
sweet singers, had once told her he would
rather hear her than Tithes ; Major
Mortimer declared he could quite believe
it.

The Major usually listened to her
lying on his back, with his hands clasped
over his face. Mrs. Scott always sat
where her glance need not fall upon him ;
Mrs. Barlow fairly grinned without taking
the pains to turn away. She herself
had a beautiful and highly-trained voice,
but. like poor Ophelia, was now no longer
mistress of it. She would not sing by
herself, but joined in when she chose,
generally singing second to Janie, to keep
Mrs. Smith out of it, that lady being fond
of assisting with what she called a minor
bass ; that is to say, she meandered along
amongst her lowest notes without any
regard to harmony, and she explained this

29 — 2

to be a difficult achievement, only possible
to real musicians. As for Mrs. Scott, she
delighted in these concerts. She could
feel pathetic with the Colonel, sentimental
with the Major — whose favourite ditty was
about a beloved star, near and yet far —
and patriotic with Hay as his rich true
notes trolled out Dibdin's or Russell's
or Eliza Cook's songs. She possessed a
perfect soprano voice, clear and sweet and
full, and as she gained strength and
courage, song after song learned long ago
came back to her — songs she had picked up
from hearing others sing ; songs she had
been taught at school ; songs of all sorts,
grave and gay, sentimental and comic :
some good for a sweet thought or a tender
sentiment, some only good for the melody;
old-fashioned ditties her nurse had sung in
the nursery ; songs her father had sung to
her accompaniment ; songs Charley used

to sing — of which every word brought
back treasured memories of those supremely
happy days when all the world was fair.
What a comfort those songs were, not
only to her audience, who were carried away
from the imprisoning island under their
influence, but to herself also ! She saw
what power she possessed to charm her
companions, and was thankful for it ; she
was not, then, utterly burthensome to them.
Janie had been well educated, and, as
schoolmistress say, ' highly finished;' that
is to say, she could translate choice pieces
of Dante, could pronounce her Italian
songs correctly, and knew what they were
about. Of German she knew more, and
of French she had sufficient knowledge to
speak and write it grammatically, if not
dramatically. Her mind had been put
into training, and her reading well directed.
School learning is, however, but the path to

knowledge ; the seed is sown in the fallow
ground, but it has to rise and grow and
strengthen to the harvest, or waste and
decay and disappear, according to circumstances.


Another interest arose for the women
with the opening of one of the boxes.
Needles, scissors, cottons, tapes, pins
brought employment for the hands which
had already grown restless for the accustomed
work ; while for the men there were
treasures of penknives, pipes, cigars, books.
One box in particular was hailed with delight
; it contained, beside a case of tooth-brushes,
which Hay would have thrown
aside as useless, a quantity of moist watercolours,
camel's-hair brushes, and drawing
pencils and paper, all very little used.
This was, indeed, treasure trove to Major
Mortimer, who was a fairly-good artist,
and he brightened up as he took possession,

and anticipated the hours it would
enable him to pass pleasantly.

You must sketch us all,' Mrs. Smith
said, smiling condescendingly at his enthusiasm,
* and give each of us a copy to
carry home ; I am sure ^Nlr. Smith would
like to have an idea of our surroundings.
Can you draw correct ? I can give you
a few hints ; I used to be very fond of
dabbling in colours when I had nothing
better to do. Stippling was my forte ;
and my drawing-master said he never saw
anyone use body colour with such an effect
before.'

I can quite believe him,' said the Major,
and he immediately took his treasures
away and hid them.

When the sea no longer gave up the
wreckage, and when they no longer dreaded
finding dead bodies on the sands and
amongst the rocks, they settled down to

the daily work, and it was astonishing how
much there was to do for all, even though
Hay and Mrs Mole persisted in acting as
servants, and taking upon themselves the
heaviest and most unpleasant work.

There were found neither shoes nor hats
amongst the luggage ; but Hay taught the
ladies how to plait the rank tough grass
into some sort of shade for the head, and
to fashion out of the outer covering of
the cocoa-nuts nondescript articles that
at least protected the feet. These wore
out very soon, owing to the sharpness of
the rocks, so that work was almost incessant.


The Major kept hard at work preparing
wood for the projected hut ; he also
fashioned rough tables and cupboards and
stools ; he aspired even to making bedsteads.


Mrs. Barlow did not take up any special

business : she helped first one and then
another for a few minutes, and then got
tired ; but she never omitted going to the
Httle grave in the bay and covering it with
fresh flowers first thing in the morning and
last thing at night — that was never forgotten.


As the weeks went on and passed into
months and never a sail appeared to break
the terrible monotony of sea and sky,
some sort of composure and cheerfulness
prevailed. The women no longer broke
into tears at a chance word or reminder,
and the men gave up watching the horizon
the fact was, they were all feeling so
much better in health that, notwithstanding
the privations and discomforts, their minds
benefited also. Formerly, to some of them
a plunge into cold water would have seemed
little short of suicide ; yet now they had
no scruple about going into the sea at all

hours, and drying as they could without
changing their clothes. The young ladies
became expert shrimps and swimmers.
They learnt to scale the jagged rocks and
follow the goats up and down the most
precipitous crags. They could rob the
wild bees' honey, and climb plantain-trees,
and then enjoy the badly-roasted and often
flavourless food without sighing for the
flesh-pots of Egypt, exulting over the
occasional treats of tea and white cakes
as children exult over a birthday feast.

Hope was with Janie generally — how
could she, barely twenty, continue hopeless
when she felt herself strong and hearty
as she had never been before ? Of
course the thoughts of all of them were
continually on the misery of their position,
and the idea of a long continuance
on the reef was an ever-recurring terror ;
but though they were as often wet as

dry, though the dew fell on them by ni.^ht
and frequent showers by day, though
their beds were hard and their food bad,
though they were deprived of comforts
that had been to them as necessaries,
and though they looked like wild men
and women, they were not often really
unhappy, and each did his or her best
to be cheerful for the sake of all.

Mrs. Mole kept her sorrows to herself ;
it didn't become her to intrude her grievances
on gentry, she said, as a hint to
Hay, who, while he considered it right
to act as a servant, had no scruple of
sitting with his superiors, and putting in
his word.

I've got a lazy jade of a missis at Portsmouth,'
he informed them one day at dinner,
when Mrs. Mole had as usual meekly retired
to the rear, wondering at his effrontery.
I wonder if she'll like having to take to

charing when she gets no more o' my
pay advanced her. I'm main glad of it
for her sake. When I gets back I shan't
look her up if I can help it.'

Colonel Shepherd was speculating on
his family matters in a very different
spirit.

I wonder if they'll allow pension at
once .^' he said, after silently meditating
for a long time. ' Surely they won't
excuse themselves from giving it because
they can't swear I'm dead T

The Major thought that the survivors
from the wreck could justly declare all
the rest perished.

But if there be no survivors V

Mrs. Smith comforted him, speaking as
usual authoritatively :

After a certain time she said, ' the
pension is bound to be given.'

Yes, but how long a time .^' the Colonel

asked. ' I have never been able to put by
a farthing — education and two homes to
keep up prevented any saving ; my wife
will be penniless, poor soul !'

Mrs. Smith was equal to this also.

Of course her people will make her
an allowance,' she remarked. * Her son-in-law
must give her a home.'

I don't see that ; besides, she has no
wealthy relations, and our daughter's husband
has nothing but his pay. Oh, I do
hope the India Office will consider me dead !'

How wrong and foolish of people to
marry on nothing but their pay !' Mrs.
Smith cried. ' What can they expect }
I shall have a splendid pension, besides
a good income from Mr. Smith's savings.
Dear me ! I hope he won't die while I'm
here ; it would be such a waste of pension,
though I suppose I could claim back dues }
There now, I've lost that list ! Before I

left I got my husband to draw out a statement
of his investments and moneys, incase
anything happened to him while I
was away, and now something has happened
to me instead.'

Mrs. Barlow unexpectedly put in her
word. She said :

I expect our husbands will think weare
drowned, and will marry again !'

Mrs. Smith uttered a scream :

Oh, you naughty woman,' she exclaimed,
' to put such a cruel idea into
my head !'

'Wouldn't it be fun ?' Mrs. Barlow
went on, growing excited as she spoke.
'When we go home we three will go
and meet them hand-in-hand, and sing,
Three little maids from a desert island
are we !" Think of their consternation.
I wonder if either of them would be glad
to see us ?'

She went off into peals of laughter ;
Janie flushed up, and Mrs. Smith was
seriously annoyed. She said she did not
think the subject would bear jesting about,
but Mrs. Barlow was not to be silenced.

I tell you how it will be,' she continued,
addressing the elder lady : * if your
husband marries again, and dies before
you get home — I suppose he's an old
man already, isn't he ? — the second wife
will get the pension without any difficulty,
so it won't be wasted. When you turnup,
you'll have to share it with her, and
the best thing will be for you to live
together !'

Mrs. Scott put her hand caressingly
on the speaker's.

Don't go on so, dear,' she said soothingly.
' I am sure you would not like to
think of Major Barlow with another wife
before you are dead.*

The poor young woman's mood changed
instantly.

Another wife !' she cried ; ' and another
boy perhaps ! No, that shall never be i
I'll have him up for bigamy. Dear Mrs.
Scott, you'll go to court with me ? You
can swear I am his wife.'

'Come, come .''Mrs. Smith interfered, in
her useful, business-like tone of command.
We've had enough unprofitable gabble.
None of them can marry again just yet, at
all events. They'll have the decency to
wait a short time first.'

But Mrs. Barlow was not easily quieted.
She took Mrs. Scott by the arm and drew
her away towards the shore, and Janie was
glad to go ; for the night was bright with a
full moon, and a broad track of silver
reached across the troubled water to the
horizon. The air was fresh and exhilarating,
and the two young women felt its influence,

and walked briskly over the sands to where
the waves broke, raising their voices in
song against the dashing water.

Home, Sweet Home ' was the inappropriate
melody they chose, and the wind
bore it back to the two gentlemen who
had followed to the edge of the reef, fearing
Mrs. Barlow was over-excited. The
elder sank down with his hands over his
face.

Oh, Mortimer !' he cried, ' shall weever
see home again ? There is no chance.
Hay says there is none. We are out of
everyone's track — and my poor wife will
never know !'

He fairly broke down, while his companion,
longing to say a word of comfort,
could not. Day after day, night after
night, were they doomed to see the widespread
waste of unbroken solitude, to hear
its voice for ever sounding in hoarse dis-vol.

II. 30

quietude, to watch it ever leaping and
foaming as if in derision ? There was no
pity in its everlasting rage, nothing but
cruelty in its eager anger. As the Major
looked forlornly outward, his w-hole soul
in voiceless agony, he seemed suddenly to
behold the long-desired rescue. Beyond
the outward girdle of rock there stood out,
as advanced outpost, a single pillar-like
rock capped with green — a resting-place
for innumerable sea-fowl — and beholding
this rock in the moonlight, it for the instant
assumed a fantastic resemblance to a
sailing ship, and completely deceived him.
He clutched the Colonel's shoulder and
pointed, but as he pointed the resemblance
vanished, and he sank, faint and disappointed,
to his companion's side.

It was a deception of the devil's !' he
said hoarsely.

At that moment the women turned

towards the shore ; their song gave place
to the Evening Hymn, and up from the
shining sands came the tender words :

Sun of my soul, Thou Saviour dear,'

softening Major Mortimer's despairing
heart, and acting as a balm to his discontent
and despair.

Come on, Shepherd,' he said, rising up
and lifting his companion by the arm ;
let's try and be thankful we are not cast
up here alone.'

Ah !' was the reply, ^ that's what I've
long been thankful about. And then, too,
think of this fresh air. What would we
have given for it in India ? We must not
complain — I mean, I must not complain.
I will try and trust more.'

Mrs. Smith and Mrs. Mole strolled to
meet them on the high ridge above the
park.

30—2

Dear me !' cried the former, ' I can't
think how you can tramp about, early and
late, untiringly. No one would ever suppose
you had been used to carriages and
horses. As for me, my poor feet refuse
such incessant and unaccustomed labour.
Even in England I always drove, and it
requires a very handsome income to drive
everywhere in England.'

We've been enjoying the moonlight on
the water Janie said, coming up with
Mrs. Barlow, who was quite calm and
sensible again. ' It makes the weaves look
like liquid silver, and the wind is so soft
and sweet.'

Liquid silver !' Mrs. Smith repeated,
with a sniff of disdain. ' More like ginger-beer
— isn't it. Mole ?'

It reminds me of washing-days,' sighed
Mrs. Mole. ' Ay, but it will be a treat to
see soapsuds in a washing-tub again !'

PRISONERS OF HOPE,

The first rainy season was very trying,
though the Major had managed to get a
well-raised, boarded hut up before it began,
in which the entire party could sleep secure
from damp ; and at first, when the deluges
fell incessantly and the tall trees bent
before the awful hurricanes, when the very
rocks were impassable with the slimy
weeds and mosses which sprang into life
and covered them, when the lake overflowed
its banks and swamped its fertile
borders, when the goats huddled together

under the rocks, when creeping things
innumerable swarmed everywhere, and
gigantic winged insects held high revelry
even in the sacred shelter of the tent
it was difficult to keep up appearances.


The tent had to be struck ; it could not
stand against the blasts that hurled themselves
through the ravine and made any
attempt to reach the heights dangerous —
those screaming, howling blasts that in the
darkness of the night made Mrs. Scott's
heart beat violently with childish terror —
and on many days it was impossible to
cook their food, or even venture out to
milk the goats. That was a time of great
suffering to the delicately-nurtured women
and badly clothed men ; but they suffered
patiently, thankful they were sure to a
certain extent of being neither swamped
nor blown away. But patience has its

limits, and after enduring misery for a few
days, some of them began to question the
need of enduring further.

First Hay said ' he'd as soon die outside
as inside.' Then Major Mortimer
followed him out, then Janie declared if
the men could stand against it so could
she, and Mrs. Barlow would not be left
behind. Mrs. Smith uttered many awful
prophecies as to the penalties incurred by
the foolhardy, and the poor Colonel, racked
as he was with rheumatism, knew he
must wait till the damp-laden wind was
lower.

Nothing venture, nothing have !' cried
Janie when she returned to the hut, bright
and rosy from battling with the storm. ' It's
much nicer out than you think, if you keep
in the shelter ; and the sea is a sight to be
seen — oh ! so glorious, leaping and dashing
magnificent !'

But you are just drenched !'

My dear Mrs. Smith, it's warm rain ; it
won't hurt. No ; why should I change ?
I should only be wet through again directly.
Oh, it's lovely !'

And off she darted again ; and from that
time forth the weather never kept them
prisoners, and they were astonished to hind
how quickly they forgot its misery, and
how little it affected their health. Except
the poor Colonel — but then he was the
eldest of the party. Major Mortimer and
Hay used to rub him down Indian fashion
mulling they called it, massage we call it
now — and trot him about in the rare
intervals of sunshine ; and for his amusement
they set up leaping-poles, and astonished
him, and themselves too, by their
athletic performances. ' Our Braves.' he

dubbed them, inciting them to greater

It

efforts by his plaudits, and telling them of

feats he had witnessed at native courts,
which he, too, had once performed, before
ague and rheumatism had stiffened his
joints.

When the hut door could be kept open,
and the moonlight Halted the level space
before it, dancing was indulged in, and
from that exercise the Colonel was not
excused. No bashful holding back was
permitted him, and when he had been
coached up sufficiently in private, he was
rewarded by Mrs. Smith's hand in the
waltz in public. She excelled in this accomplishment
as in all others ; her swimming
motion, her set countenance, her
nondescript attire, presented a laughable
picture, though they were all queer-looking
enough, as they danced about in their
bedraggled and ill-fitting garments and
straw-shod feet.

It was difficult to keep Mrs. Barlow

civil at these times ; she would stop her
own gyrations to watch Mrs. Smith's, and
then be doubled up with mocking laughter.
Fortunately, Mrs. Smith did not guess she
was the cause of the excitement, for the
Major and Janie hid their amusement
cleverly. Nor had she an idea her
grotesque figure had been cleverly immortalized
by the Major's pencil.

Hay could dance the sailor's hornpipe
well, and was proud of his gift, and when
he performed he expected his audience to
sit silently round him in befitting attention,
for it was a solemn time to him, and his
face was appropriately set ; even Mrs.
Barlow felt it to be no laughing matter,
and watched him with deliberate propriety.


Mrs. Mole would not assist in the least
on these occasions. She ' hoped she knew
her place better,' she said ; but she volunteered

to amuse them in another way, by
telling them a story, and her stories were
worth listening not only on account ot
their intrinsic merit, but because of the
manner in which she told them, evidently
taking as her model the local reciter at a
penny reading, who stands forth with
dilated nostril, elevated chin, a gente see-saw
movement of the body, and a wave of
each hand alternately. So would Mrs.
Mole stand forth to tell her stories, and
the hero of the one in question was that
gallant gunner, Mole.

Her companions were pretty well accustomed
by this time to Mole's gallant
deeds, and could have passed an examination
on his manly virtues, but something
new respecting him was ever cropping up.
Mole had performed such prodigies of
valour that the wonder was he had died
unaided and unrewarded. General Sir

Frederick Roberts seemed somehow to
have come In for the kudos due to
Sergeant Mole; but as Mrs. Mole expressly
said she did not wish to infer that the
laurels decked the wrong brow, it was for
others to say they did.

During Mole's service in Afghanistan,
he had written of his doings very fully to
his wife, and she, faithful soul ! had most of
these heroic epistles off by heart.

Now, as they seated themselves to listen
to her promised narration, they found it
was again to refer to her husband's warlike
deeds of daring.

I remember another letter you haven't
heard,' she began ; ' perhaps it may interest
you, ladies and gentlemen, and
Hay.'

Of course they all declared it must
interest them if it was about Sergeant
Mole, and she at once commenced —

exactly as if she had the letter in her hand
under her eyes :

" My dear wife " — ah ! that's me,' she
added parenthetically.

^' I received your kind and loving letter,
which found me as well as you say it left
you, thank God I We are in a great and
mountainous country', inhabited by a fierce
race of men, which is, in fact, almost
giants." '

I wasn't in that campaign,' said the
Colonel.

No, sir ; he'd left your battery the year
before, you recollect ?'
Ah !' said the Colonel.
" The commander-in-chief," continued
Mrs. Mole, " he come up to our Major
yesterday and says, says he, ' Why don't
you get rid of that there irritative fire from
that there ugly bastion ?' says he. My
dear wife, you may not know a bastion is

a battlemented tower of enormous size and
strength, the centre of a mighty fort, and
the ofuns from this bastion used to rake
our camp." '

Badly pitched camp,' the Colonel exclaimed
; ' but I don't want to interrupt
you, Mrs. Mole.'

You speak like a book, Mrs. Mole,' said
the Major.

Thank you, sir,' she said, curtseying.
Mole had the gift of letter-writing. Well
where was I ?' and she whispered the
last sentence to herself to help her to the
next.

Oh, well,' she continued aloud, ' it's this
next : '' The Major, he said, ' There's only
one man as I knows on as can silence
that bastion, sir, and he doesn't belong to
my battery, which his aim is marvellous,
and which his name is Mole !'

" ' Mole !' says the commander-in-chief.

why, Mole seems to be iniquitous ; he's
here, there, and everywhere ; nobody seems
to be able to do nothing without him ! well,
then, call Mole to me, wherever he may be !'
*' So I were called ; at least, as a soldier's
wife you ought to know we don't call
soldiers : we bugles. So I ran up and
saluted ; and Sir Henry was took by my
appearance, I could see." He were always
smart and trim,' she said, sighing. 'Well,
ladies and gentlemen, and Hay, the letter
says again : *' And he says, 'Mole, my good
friend, knock me down that bastion.' So I
said: 'All right, sir!' and I harmed ; and 1
said : ' Fire !' and when the smoke was
a-cleared away, the mighty bastion was clean
gone !" ' She stood silent for a moment to
watch the effect, before she added : ' The
rest is only domestic ; I need not trouble
you with it.'

A capital letter !' said the Colonel.

Admirable !' said the Major.

And there was a chorus of ' Thank you's'
from the ladies.

He were a good trumpeter, were Mole !'
Hay said in a low but very distinct tone.

He were a sergeant !' said his widow.

I don't deny his rank in the army was
the rejoinder ; 'I only said he were a good
trumpeter.'

He were educated above his station ;
he could write,' she said severely, ' and
read !'

Hay lounged off, looking uncomfortable,
for he could do neither.

Hay had a good many stories to tell, in
which he was his own hero ; but he had
been in no glorious campaigns, like Sergeant
Mole. The roll of the drum, the
roaring of cannon, and the tramp of the
host, were absent from his narratives ; but
he, like St. Paul, had been in perils of

water and robbers ; he had been shipwrecked
years ago, and had been reduced
to eating rats. He would tell this horrible
story again and again. He had been
nearly killed when he was a miner in his
boyhood by the falling in of a shaft, and
his food on that occasion had been a tallow-candle
; and he had had many dangerous
encounters with sharks, ' both sea and
land sharks,' as he invariably added.
He did his best as he talked to keep
free of oaths, and when by chance one
slipped out, he wiped his lips with the
back of his horny hands, and ' hoped no
offence.'

To spin out these stories as much as
possible was everyone's aim ; they would
discuss them, and ask questions, as if
they were news just read in the daily
paper.

Occasionally Mrs. Smith would volume

II. 31

tear an experience, and titled friends
would be dragged forward without aim
or reason, unless to astonish her hearers.
Most of her acquaintances, and many of
her relations, belonged to the peerage ; yet
she was not always correct about their
proper titles, which was strange. She
would speak of a baronet's wife as the
Lady John Smith, and all the younger
children of barons as lords and ladies,
while the sons of dukes were merely right
honourables. It was all very confusing,
but none the less entertaining to her better-informed
listeners ; while Hay and Mrs.
Mole were greatly taken with her great
connections. Only once did Hay take
exception, and that was when she spoke
of staying with friends who kept seventeen
indoor men-servants, but were content to
be waited on by three only when they
dined alone ! ten of these servants were

butlers, she averred. Even Mrs. Mole
considered ten butlers nine too many.

The biggest bounce I ever heard tell
on !' said Hay afterwards.

You and me isn't judges of gentry's
doings,' said ^Nlrs. Mole.

I knows a bounce when I hear it.' he
said.

Even Mrs. Mole's demure face was
wreathed in smiles when, at last, the rains
lifted and all the glories of sunshine returned
— the verdant slopes, the trees
and shrubs in brilliant bloom, the pure
tints of earth, air and sky, the joyous songs
of birds and bleating of goats, the magnificent
clouds rolling off the face of the deep-blue
sky, the sheen on the calming waters,
the wealth of shells left on the shore.
Janie and Mrs. Barlow were like girls let
loose from school ; they scampered about,
decking themselves with flowers, restoring

31—2

order to damaged plants, bathing, fishing,
singing, in the restored gladness of nature ;
and as the genial heat relaxed the Colonel's
muscles, he, too, came back to cheerfulness.


Janie was with him on the smooth
sands the first time they were able to
scramble down again without fear of slipping
headlong from top to bottom, and
together they visited the little cemetery.
It was all in good order ; no storm had
disturbed the sheltered nook, and the
graves were green with tender grass,
the baby's grave excepted : on it was a
heap of gorgeous flowers, freshly placed
there, and in shells at its foot the baby's
name was written.

The Colonel took up a bit of stick, and
retracing his steps to the smooth, wet
sand, wrote his own name there. He
was thinking how, in all probability, someone

of his companions would have to write
it for him some day when he, too. was laid
to rest.

Mrs. Scott guessed his thoughts, but
would not encourage them.

What a good idea !' she cried. ' We
shall all forget to write without practice.'
And she began to write too — names of
persons, and places, and sentences ; then
the others took to doing the same ; it was
at least a variety of amusement to all, while
to some it was more ; it was an actual relief
to see beloved names again — names of dear
ones far away. Some of them would spend
hours down on their knees pouring out
the pent-up love of their hearts, and erase
it all again with a pang.

Mrs. Smith loved to ornament the shore
with addresses: ' T. Smith, Esq., C.S.I.,
Si., Chief Commissioner,' etc., etc., was
frequently to be seen ; but Mrs. Barlow

never got beyond, * Sacred to the memory
of Maurice, the beloved only child of
Richard and Lydia Barlow,' adding as a
text, ' Take care of my boy.'

In vain Janie reasoned with her, and
tried to make her put some sacred hopeful
words. She would listen and smile,
but never alter, and would begin again
either with a pointed stick, or with shells,
the same unaltered inscription. Another
diversion was found when an echo was
discovered in one of the further openings,
but only the younger ones indulged in it ;
there they would stand calling and listening,
while tears coursed down their faces
as the familiar names came back to them
mockingly.

By the end of the year they had lost
count of the day of the month, and were
not quite sure to within an hour or two
of the time ; but their condition was in

many other respects improved. Beside
the sleeping-hut, the Major had contrived
an open shed, furnished with a tremble
table, and forms for meals ; a railed-in
space for penning the goats at night, to
save flying half over the reef after them
in the morning at milking-time ; and the
kitchen was placed behind a leafy screen
of shrubs, and protected from the weather
by a light roof, supported by wooden
uprights.

Order and taste had done wonders, and
discipline and regularity at last reigned
triumphant. They had become almost indifferent
to the seasons. They no longer
laughed at each other's grotesque appearances,
and hardly smiled when Mrs. Smith
appeared in poor Mr. Harris's faded violet
coat, which she wore with great complacency
over a green baize short petticoat
manufactured by Janie's clever fingers out

of a curtain found amongst the rugs.
They all wore hats of plaited grass, greatly
improved in style by constant practice, and
had learnt to fit their feet neatly and closely
with the like material. When anyone's
rags would no longer hold together, the
stores were searched and a substitute
found somehow. Hay could convert
petticoats into trousers ; but as nearly all
the clothing in the washed-up boxes had
belonged to the lady-passengers, there was
very little suitable for men's wear, and
consequently the men fared worse than the
women in that respect. Janie and Mrs.
Barlow managed to ornament themselves
when, the business of the day over, they
dressed for dinner.' Pearl-like shells
strung together adorned their necks
and arms, and they wreathed their
heads with flowers. Plantain-leaves or
palm-leaves sufficed for fans, and thus

decorated they professed themselves ready
for any society.

Janie had altered marvellously during
the year. Even Mrs. Smith admired
her.

Poor thin, sallow creature that she was
when she came on board,' she said to the
Colonel ; ' no one would know her for the
same now.'

A daughter of the gods, divinely tall
and most divinely fair !' the Colonel said
gallantly, looking after the girl as she
passed honor a pathway half up the wooded
slope before him, driving the goats before
her and carrying a little kid.

Well, I don't know about fair — in one
sense, at least,' she replied ; * her hands are
bronze, at any rate. But she's a very
handsome young woman ; her cheeks and
chin are rounded like a statue's, and her
hair looks as if every thread had been

gilded. Have you ever noticed it in the
sun ? It positively looks as if it had been
burnished. Ah, it seems only the other
day mine was just the same. Yes, she's a
pretty creature — a nice-mannered creature,
too, isn't she }'

Ah !' he said, with a sigh, ' how could
we have got on without her .^ If my
daughter is half as sweet and good, I shall
be content.'

She takes my advice most properly,'
continued the lady. ' Of course, it has
been a great thing for her, having my —
well, I'll say our company constantly ; and
she has the sense to profit by it. I couldn't
have believed she could have bloomed out
into such a beautiful, noble appearance. I
wish Mr. Smith could see her ; he's a
great judge of beauty.'

So I should say,' said the Colonel,
smiling at her.

Oh, I'm not much just now,' she replied,
appropriating the inference at once ; * but
we can't be young and lovely for ever. I
hope,' she added, after a pause — ' I do
hope Mortimer won't make a fool of himself
over her. He's always after her.'

Good heavens ! pray mind what you
say !' cried the Colonel, in a great state of
indignation. * Why, he knows she's married,
doesn't he ? Isn't her husband his great
friend ?'

Oh, I don't say anything against him ;
only I remember that night, you know,
when he and she mooned about together,
and I'm always suspicious of men who
don't marry. He ought to be the father
of a family at his age, instead of kicking
his heels about as a bachelor here !'

He'd like the chance of kicking them
about elsewhere !' roared the Colonel, quite
beside himself at the unfounded suspicion.

Good heavens ! what do you know about
him ? He may be married for aught you
know ; his wife may be a lunatic. Or he
may be engaged all this time ; he may have
been too poor to marry.'

You need not deafen me, Colonel
Shepherd,' she said, drawing herself up
and letting her voice drawl. ' I'm sure
I'm very sorry for him ; it must be a
great expense having to keep his wife in a
private asylum. A friend of mine paid
five hundred pounds a year for her
husband ; but it was cheaper than keeping
'

My dear lady !' the Colonel interrupted,
I don't believe he is afflicted with a wife
at all.'

No, very likely not,' she added ; ' it's
want of means, most likely. These army
men generally carry all their fortunes on
their backs — all show, most of them — and

yet they carry all before them. But, then,

girls are such fools ; they Oh, real',

I beg your pardon ; I always forget you
are military ; you look so like a civilian —
so much dignity and power. You forgive
me, don't you ?'

Now you bribe me with flattery !' he
exclaimed. 'But, nonsense aside, you must
really forget all these base suspicions ; they
are as dishonourable to you as to Mortimer.'


The Colonel had a simple, kindly nature,
and with that a cultivated mind. In his
youth he had travelled much, and in his
middle life, when he was deprived of
domestic companionship, he kept himself
from melancholy musing, as well as from
bad habits, by study, incited to the latter
by an idea of keeping pace with the sons
at home, for whose education he was himself
exercising the strictest economy. The

fancy he had taken to Mrs. Scott on board
ship had deepened into sincere regard, and
on her part Janie had learned to consider
him as a second father. She had never
confessed what a disappointment her father
had been to her, but it had been very
great ; and now she gave all the confidence
and affection that father had not cared to
receive to this good friend and companion,
sure of his sympathy and patience.

I can't think why she doesn't keep with
me,' Mrs. Smith said, as she saw the two
sitting apart time after time in apparently
earnest talk. ' Some women must always
have a man with them — old or young, it
doesn't matter which. I'm thankful to say
I'm not one of that sort. I don't think
Scott would be best pleased to see his wife
console herself so soon.'

'Isn't always them as talks the most
that feels the most,' Hay said, breaking

into the conversation before Mrs. Mole, to
whom the remark was made, could reply.
Mrs. Scott likes sensible talk ; she's above
women's cackle.'

Hay !' Mrs. Smith cried, drawing herself
up, and waving her hand as if to dismiss
him from her presence, ' that will do ;
you forget yourself

He touched his brow — he had no hat to
touch — and moved away.

I lay that there Smith be enjoying of
himself tremendous !' he exclaimed, as he
came up to Major Mortimer at work
carpentering.

'What's up now, Hay?' asked the
Major.

Oh, she,' beckoning backward with his
thumb as he spoke — ' she do think herself
so superior, she do ! I don't, though ; I
think Mrs. Scott is as much her superior
as — well, as you be mine, sir.'

The Major hammered at an obstinate
nail before he observed, with a grave
face :

Order, order ! You must remember
Mrs. Smith was a Httle queen once, and
can't forget it.'

No ; and she won't let us forget it,
neither. So were Mrs. Mole, by her own
showing, and I don't want to say a word
again either of 'em ; only I wish Mr.
Smith, commissioner, had her back again,
and Mole had never blown up that there
mighty bastion.'

So in the little community, isolated from
the world, and placed in a second garden
of Eden though it was, all the failings of
the world prevailed ; but it was bound
together by no common ties, and if evil
speaking, lying and slandering prevailed,
they never appeared in open unkindness.
There was something good in each of

them, and on occasion each would act for
the other as for himself.

So time went on. and stores diminished,
and yet never a sail rose on that far-off
horizon. Hope often failed them. There
were hours when they could not even pretend
to be interested and amused — when
one or other would disappear from the circle,
and come back with sad face and dejected
air ; when a sob would burst out from the
women's side of the sleeping-hut, and headache
often be pleaded for a heartache. The
Major was the most even-minded, perhaps
because he had so long practised waiting,
and been face to face with hope deferred.
Ke seemed to know intuitively which one
needed forbearance or attention, and when
the Colonel fell into spells of musing and
failed to cheer up even under Janie's
cheerful attempts to draw him from his
melancholy, Major Mortimer would give
VOL. II. ^2

up his sketching or his carpentering to
stay by him and rouse him back to
patience.

The Major was one of those rare model
men who can argue on politics and keep
his temper, and politics worked a potent
charm on these occasions. Colonel Shepherd
would be trapped again and again
without discovering the snare. He was
an ardent Conservative, and the Major,
who, like Dr. Johnson, would argue
against his conscience rather than not argue
at all, would for the time declare himself a
red-hot revolutionist to provoke his friend
out of his sadness. The Colonel would
tremble with anger as he heard his
favourite statesmen called place-hunters,
and their policy pooh - cooled. Janie
would tremble at the high voices, and at
first do her best to make the Major stop,
but a twinkle in his eyes as the other

rose to the bait soon showed her the
truth.

Charles the Martyr, indeed !' cried the
Major, dragging the unfortunate Stuart
into the discussion, after exhausting his
vocabulary of abuse on modern leaders,
a selfish perjurer !'

He died like a Christian gentleman !'
shouted the Colonel.

He should have lived like one !' roared
the Major.

He was but mortal !' cried the other ;
he had but one death to answer for — that
brewer Cromwell had hundreds !'

Cromwell was a giant amongst noblemen,'
said the Major. * As for those freebooters
of Cavaliers, they were a disgrace
to any age !'

How about Arabella Stuart ?' said the
Colonel, changing his ground suddenly.

Ah, poor soul !' said the Major, ' one's

sorry for her ; so I am sorry for Mary
Stuart !'

I'm surprised at you!' the Colonel ex-exclaimed
; * an immoral jade !'

M don't believe it!' cried the Major;
her faults were the faults of her bringing
up, not her own. Who wouldn't have
preferred a dance and a song to Knox's
long-winded sermons and nasal psalms ?
It's my opinion Mary was the best of the
lot, but circumstances were too strong for
her.'

To such speeches as this the Colonel
would reply furiously, and then, becoming
suddenly aware he was losing his temper,
he would pull up and offer an apology.

Best thing for us,' he generally ended
with saying, ' is to avoid politics. You
and I are too peppery, Mortimer ; we have
no right to disturb the ladies with our
angry passions.'

Mr. Smith never set himself up to
question proper authority,' Mrs. Smith
said, on one of these peaceful terminations
to a noisy contest. ' 1 fear you two never
learnt your Catechism, or you would remember
it tells you to obey and respect
all who are put in authority over you.'

We were talking of the Stuart,' said
the Major ; ' we owe them nothing !'

'Ah, the dear, picturesque Stuart! — I
once went to a fancy ball as Mary Stuart ;
I was said to be the most noticeable figure
in the room.'

Mrs. Barlow grinned.

I wish I had seen you,' she said
viciously, showing a double row of lovely
teeth.

The Colonel fidgeted, fearing worse to
follow, for Mrs. Barlow looked very mischievous.


No more politics, if you please,' he

cried. * It is rude to argue with ladies,
but it does these audacious young communists
good to be put down occasionally.
Mortimer, you are a very good fellow —
there's no doubt about it — but you are
obstinate ; obstinacy is your one failing.'

The Major beamed ; he was perfectly
satisfied to have dispelled the dark hour,
even at the cost of being considered
obstinate.

There were many bright hours, too, for
them — hours when the soothing power of
Nature at her fairest compelled them to be
content for the time ; when days and
nights rose and fell resplendent with gorgeous
colouring, sweetest scents and
balmiest air ; when tree and shrub and
garlanded rock gave forth rarest bloom
and grace ; when luscious fruits, grown
without man's labour, were liberally spread
around ; when the fragrant air was musical

with the song of birds, and even the craving
for home — which never actually ceased
was softened from painful regret to that
tender melancholy which charms instead of
harrowing the soul.

To Janie these times were altogether
delightful. She would wade knee-deep in
the clear calm water in the early morning,
and chase the gem-like fish of every colour ;
or, diving to pick the sea-flowers that
gleamed through the feathery seaweed,
would come up with a handful grasped in
haste, to discover she had a prize of some
rare shell or pebble. The light air that
caressed her, the softness of the water
lapping round her, the exquisite light
which transfigured the cinder-like reef and
shingled beach into rainbow-tinted scenes of
unequalled beauty, the ivory-white seabirds
lazily floating against a background of
purest blue, all steeped her senses in

delight ; and with every sense in harmony,
the present was sufficient — the beautiful,
healthful present, with its freedom from
care and conventionalism.

Everyone was influenced by such
weather ; grievances were set aside while
it lasted, and the days were spent in pure
enjoyment. This was the time for excursions
at low water to the distant outer rocks,
to scrambles up the pioneer rock — scrambling
not altogether unattended by exciting
danger — and from these little excursions
they would return with wonderful appetites
and material for conversation, delightfully
tired, and so, content to sit, after a
plentiful meal, and lazily watch the colouring
of sea, earth and sky pale and fade
away into the brilliant half-light of a cloudless
night.

After the rains an inspection would
be made of their * Europe stores,' as they

called the collection of wreckage. The
third of these stock-takings was just over,
reminding them, had they needed reminding,
of the flight of time, of the days and
weeks and months lengthened into years —
three long years — leaving them, as they
had found them, still prisoners of hope.

This latter examination proved very
unsatisfactory. Mrs. Smith and Colonel
Shepherd went through it together, spending
the day in the citadel rocks where,
amongst the dry, well-sheltered cavities,
the storehouse had been formed from the
commencement. The stock of ready-made
clothing had run out, but there remained
a few sheets capable of being
utilized, though, owing to the small quantity
of sewing-cotton having been soon used
up, and the needles having rusted beyond
redemption, dressmaking and tailoring had
become a very difficult matter. Blankets

and rugs were all but useless. Of tinned
meats and flour none remained. The
small chest of tea was finished too, but
there was a shrub on the island which
was a pretty good substitute, sweetened
with wild honey, and made tasty with the
rich, fresh goats' milk. Owing to the
wearing out of the few cooking-pans, and
the impossibility of mending them, they
were reduced to two kettles, which they
zealously guarded and kept for water
only, so that they were again reduced to
cooking their food on hot stones, orin
hot ashes, and were rapidly going
back to that first brief period when the
resources of the island were their only
ones.

'It's a bad look-out,' the Colonel said
sadly.

Not as far as food is concerned,' Mrs.
Smith answered. ' There is fish in abundance

of all sorts, and rabbits, and kids ;
as for clothing, we must hope our things
will hang together till a ship comes.'

Or else we must take to rabbits and
goats' skins.'

I had a lovely cloak once lined with
rabbits' skins,' she said ; ' but, oh dear me !
these skins would be very different, so uncomfortable
!' And the tears stood in h^*r
eyes as she contemplated the alternative
skins or nakedness.

In all their destitution they had never
been destitute of clothes: whether becoming
or even always comfortable was a question,
but at least they covered them
decently ; and now, as she thought how
ragged were most of their few remaining
garments, and how hopeless it seemed
either to repair or replace them conveniently,
the whole horror of the situation
struck her afresh.

Oh, Colonel !' she cried, speaking
naturally for once ; ' for you and me it
doesn't so much matter — we have lived
our lives, and can't reckon on very many
more years — but for those two poor girls !'

She sobbed as she covered her face
with her hands. The Colonel was deeply
touched by this unexpected feeling ; his
voice, too, was broken with emotion as he
exclaimed :

Cheer up ! cheer up ! When things
look blackest they say light is nearest.'

He had never felt so kindly towards
her as when she showed her weakness.
They stood together at an opening in the
great screen of peaked rocks, looking seawards
away over the unutterable loveliness
of the limitless expanse of ocean. There
had been a violent storm a day or two
before ; the water was still troubled ; great
reaches of foam streaked the middle

distance, showing how far the dangerous
reef extended, and the sky was still leaden
on the horizon. The near waves broke
on the reef with the hollow roar which
had at first so frightened Janie, till she
learnt to disregard the sound for the
sake of the accompanying beauty.

As the tumbling water caught the fitful
flashes of sunshine, it changed to molten
silver, and quivered and sparkled like
diamonds. There was action and sound
and beauty in the tumultuous mass, and
as the two looked forth over it they
acknowledged its sublimity, and yet were
oppressed by its unspeakable desolation.
They gazed out full of unquiet thoughts,
both thinking pretty much the same —
thoughts of the future ; where, if this
terrible Isolation was never, never to be interrupted
by succour, they must one by one
perish and be laid in a nameless grave on

this nameless coast, till one only would
be left — that one probably their most
cherished companion, and least fitted to
survive them all. What would be her
lonely despair ! What her awful sufferings
!

O God !' cried the Colonel, unable
to bear these horrible mental pictures ;
O God, have pity on us !'

He raised his hands to heaven in an
agony of entreaty, and his companion,
wrought up by her own miserable fears
and his almost frenzied appeal, gazed upward,
eagerly expectant, as if an answer
must be sent. But there was none just
then. There lay the glowing rocks and
the leaping, eddying waves, the vast expanse
of water, the sky flecked with
lightest clouds \ but the days of miracles
were over.

NEWS FROM THE OUTER WORLD.

Nothing was said by the heads of departments
when, late In the afternoon, they
joined the rest at the afternoon meal, but
Janie was quick to notice her old friend's
depression. Mrs. Scott's face was brimful
of some pleasant thought ; indeed, there
was a good deal of suppressed excitement
about them all, which the elders must have
noticed had their thoughts been freer.

You don't ask us what we've been
about!' Janie said. 'Here's a riddle for
you : we been doing something we've

never done before In this place. Mrs.
Barlow and I have been making something
men enjoy more than everything
else : something they'd rather have than —
what shall I say ? — fine clothes ; and yet
as soon as they have It they consume it ;
but though It Is In their mouths, It doesn't
go down their throats.'

Now stop, Janle.' cried Mrs. Barlow ;
'let me have a turn. It lasts only a very
short time,' she added — ' about as long asa
young man's fancy ; as It Is used It Is
wasted ; It Is as light as a man's love, and
often as strong as woman's. Do you give
it up ?'

Do like It ?' Mrs. Smith Inquired.

There was a moment's pause ; the conspirators
were slightly daunted ; then Janie
said meekly :

I'm afraid you don't, but the Colonel
does.'

Hay burst out laughing, and winked at
the Major; then the two rose and went off
to the kitchen fire, to return in a moment
with cigarettes between their Hps.

Janie was watching the effect on the
Colonel, and was not disappointed. He
jumped up in wild excitement, reaching
towards the smokers as if he longed to pull
a cigarette from one of them. The Major
laughed with the glee of a schoolboy, and
put a bundle into his old friend's hands,
crying :

Here you are, and as many more to
follow !'

^ • Where upon earth,' cried the Colonel,
did you find them ? Give me a light,
quick, there's a good fellow ! Fresh and

good as if just made. Why ' he

stopped and looked round at Janie. ' Oh,
Mrs. Scott, this is some of your work ; yet
it really smells like the real thing!'

VOL. II-ix

It's as near like it as need be, sir,' said
Hay. ' I've paid a penny for many a
worse one in England. And to think we've
been without baccy more nor a year, when
here is as good growing to our hands !'

As the Colonel puffed and enjoyed, he
looked affectionately at Janie, who smilingly
watched his enjoyment.

• This is how we discovered it,' she said.
I thought I'd be useful and prepare the
leaves for plates, and I was in a climbing
mood, and scrambled right up over the
grotto, where it is so steep ; Hay and Mole
always avoid that part. There, just where
the sun strikes hot, I saw some leaves I
hadn't seen before, and though they were
not the shape for plates, I thought they'd
plait up easily for dishes, so I brought
some away, and as I passed the fire I
threw one leaf in without thought, and as
the flame caught it, the smell instantly

Struck me ! Think of my feelings ! — that is,
I felt yours for the moment — and I shouted
to Hay, and Hay smelt it and glared ; and
then the Major smelt it, and bit it, and I'm
not sure he didn't eat a bit in his supreme
joy. Then the two rolled some leaves up
in some dried plantain-leaves, and smoked,
and then we prepared a lot to surprise you
with. Do you really like it ?'

The Colonel smiled all over his
face.

I haven't felt so happy for a long time,'
he said. ' This is a find ; and I dare say
when the leaves are dried they will be even
better.'

That's what Hay says. We are going
to pound some when they are dry ; and
then, as we ladies can't smoke, we can
take snuff — can't we, Mrs. Smith T

That lady looked horrified.

Not in my presence she said. ' Dear

me ! what poor, weak creatures men are,
after all !'

The afternoon sun was cooling towards
evening, when the unusually low tide
tempted them to enjoy a long walk on the
level sands. Whenever they descended
over the needle-like rocks Mrs. Barlow
insisted on visiting the cemetery, and
there they now went before proceeding
seawards. Mrs. Barlow carried a large
wreath of flowers. It was her boy's
birthday, she said — his birthday occurred
two or three times in a month, but no one
grudged her the pleasure of commemorating
it as often as she chose ; and now,
as she knelt beside the little mound, with
its fantastic surroundings of shells and
pebbles — his name in different coloured
seaweeds this time, and the text in purple
berries — and placed the wreath where she
supposed his head to be, she spoke volubly

of his beauty and promise, mixing up the
child's ability with his father's in a manner
that forcibly showed her distraught mind.

He spoke five languages fluently !' she
cried, as she rearranged the decorations —
english, Hindustan, Spanish, French,
and German, and he sang superbly. You
thought he sang superbly — didn't you, dear
Janie ?'

The latter pressed Mrs. Smith's arm as
that lady was about to protest against such
an impossible baby.

He knew round O when he was only
ten months old,' Mrs. Barlow went on ;
and he has never once played cards for
money, or taken too much to drink, even
on grand guest-nights, when they have
that horrid John Collins. Do you remember
his sweet, fat arms, Janie ?'

It was a difficult task to get her to come
away, and Mrs. Smith and Hay and Mole

got tired of waiting, and went on ahead,
while the others patiently remained, coaxing
her to come. She had for some
days tried to raise a cross of loose stones,
never realizing the impossibility, but beginning
again after each failure. Major
Mortimer made one of wood, but that
didn't suit her ; there must be nothing
on her darling s grave but her own handiwork.
At last Janie suggested the likelihood
of finding new shells amongst the
rarely-accessible rocks to which they were
now bound, and the idea pleased her and
drew her forward.

The shore was full of pools — pools
where were queer coolies, some like
brilliant flowers and jewelled ornaments,
others revoltingly ugly creatures, to be
described only by Jules Verne. The tide
was so far out that they were able to go
far beyond the pillared rock — indeed,

further than they ever remembered having
gone before, for the low group of rocks
lying beyond it had never before been
visible. The storm must have been extraordinarily
heavy, Hay said ; such exaggerated
tides proved it.

The ladies had dawdled over the treasures
on the way, and the men had reached
these far rocks while they were yet some
distance behind. A sudden shout from
the Major, and a frantic beckoning from
all the men, hastened the loiterers. As
the nearest cut to where they stood, Janie
plunged into a large pool and swam swiftly
across, while the others skirted it knee-deep.
It was significant of their long stay
that they never turned out of their way to
avoid wading through water ; they had
become almost amphibious, and the people
who had once shuddered at the idea of a
cold bath, and dreaded damp feet, now

went Straight through the pools, careless of
wet clothing. To be sure, the hot air
dried them quickly.

Janie, arriving first, looking like a veritable
sea-nymph, with her beautiful hair
streaming far below her waist, found the
three men standing round a cleft rock,
wherein, firmly wedged against all further
violence of storm, was a large overland
trunk packed in a crate.

Treasure trove !' shouted the Major as
the rest came nearer.

The little group closed round questioning,
excitement and curiosity on every face.

Another wreck !' Mrs. Mole said
sadly.

Let us make haste and get it ashore,'
cried Mrs. Smith.

No, no !' Hay exclaimed ; ' it's safe
enough ; let's look out for loose things ;
there must be some about. There'll be

another low tide tomorrow ; but light
things '11 be carried off afore that.'

So they all went forward, prying amidst
the rocks, fearing and hoping — fearing
lest bodies should meet their gaze, hoping
to hind something useful. Nor were they
disappointed ; first one, and then another,
shouted for help as two chests were discovered
embedded in the sand, and almost
hidden by seaweed. Their united efforts
were scarcely able to convey these boxes
over the long stretch of sand and rock
before they could be safely lodged above
high-water mark, and it taxed their utmost
strength to half trundle and half carry
them, for the tide was already turning, the
daylight almost gone ; but so much depended
upon possessing them, that no
one dreamed of giving up, and at last they
were rewarded by seeing their treasures
high and dry above the water which had

almost overtaken them. The women's
hands were bruised and bleeding ; and
Mrs. Barlow was dangerously excited.
She laughed and sang, though her face
was drawn with over-fatigue ; and long
after the others had sunk into heavy
slumber Janie sat by her, calming and
soothing her. Next morning they were
all too tired to go and fetch the other
trunk, and as Hay was positive no water
could move it from its wedged-in position,
it's removal was deferred till the late tide.
Meantime the contents of the two chests
afforded the liveliest satisfaction. They
were consignments to some Bombay warehouse,
and consisted of ready-made woollen
garments and dressing-gowns — just the
very things most coveted by the poor outcasts,
though they were for men's wear exclusively
; but after the first murmur of
disappointment on the part of the women,

they became reconciled on finding many
of the things were marked ' Slim men's
and proved the proper size for the weaker
sex, Mrs. Smith emphatically assuring
them it was better to look like Bloomers
than savages. The most gorgeous of the
dressing-gowns was voted at once to that
lady, and her appearance in it was greeted
with applause. It was rather short for her,
but bare legs had long ceased to provoke
wonder or shame ; and clothed in it, with
its grand waist-cord and tassels, she lacked
only a grizzly moustache to make her look
a most presentable bald-headed old gentleman
about to step into his bath-room.

Mrs. Barlow screamed with laughter —
laughter they had learnt to hear with
dread, it being generally followed by long
fits of deep depression ; but Janie distracted
her attention by taking her into the
hut to try on the ' slim men's' sleeping-suits,

and such is the force of circumstances that
the young ladies felt unalloyed pleasure
in these nondescript garments. They were
made of some soft creamy woollen material
that adapted itself to the figure, and
Janie's lissom form looked to great advantage.
The two thus arrayed came
dancing back to the others, Janie crying :

Oh, it's so much nicer than petticoats !'

Well !' Mrs. Smith exclaimed, looking
critically at the girl as she skipped lightly
about. * It's rather stage, I am afraid ;
but it does look nice! I think I'll have a
suit, if there's one to spare large enough.'

Clothed in new handsome dressing-gowns
over substantial vests and drawers,
the men were as contented as if Poole had
dressed them in his best style, and the
regret for the absence of a looking-glass
was general.

At the bottom of one chest a small

package of hardware was found, one large
saucepan, and two small enamelled pie-dishes.
That day's dinner saw soup once
more —a delicious ragout of rabbits ! Never
had cocoanut-shells held such a savoury
compound before. The two small pie-dishes
were put before the two heads of
departments, and with such soup-plates
both felt their importance visibly. The
prospect of finding still more spoil made
them all talkative and cheerful, yet the
Colonel remembered to observe sotto voce
to his colleague that their faithless despair
had been causeless, and after dinner he
returned thanks for undeserved mercies.

As soon as the tide turned they prudently
replaced their new garments with
the old rags, and then they set off climbing,
wading, swimming, till they once more
reached the far-sunken end of the reef,
where they found, as Hay had promised

them, the trunk remaining tightly wedged
as before — so tightly, indeed, that without
tools they must have let it remain
there. Major Mortimer had, however,
brought tools with him, and as soon as
the crate was sawn through it was not so
difficult to get the trunk free.

Ladies' gear, I'll be bound !' Hay said,
as he shouldered it. * There ain't no
great weight of earthenware here ; bonnets
and collars, most likely ; not worth all this
trouble, I reckon.'

Somebody's millinery ?' the Colonel
suggested. ' The latest Paris fashions.
Well, if the contents are useless, the box
is worth having ; it's waterproof and insect-proof.
I know the sort ; it will be first-rate
for us during the rains.'

When they reached the shore, someone
proposed to open it at once, as it would be
easiest to take its contents over the precipitous

rocks, through the outposts of the
central oasis, and over the park to headquarters
; but as in all probability it contained
only ladies' dress, Mrs. Smith
persuaded them to carry it as it was, and
it was finally deposited in the shed.

They had been so long about it, and were
so tired and hungry, that the opening was
deferred till next day. Rabbits for supper
had to be caught and killed, and all hands
were required to assist in preparing for the
much-needed meal ; and when supper was
over, the moonlight was upon them, and
no one was inclined for further exertion
beyond climbing up the green slopes to
sit on the topmost ridge, whence they
could languidly enjoy the silvered view.

Mrs. Barlow sat in her accustomed
place, close to Mrs. Scott. She was very
quiet ; the reaction was at work, and her
softened eyes sadly regarded the exquisite

beauty of the scene before her, while her
slender fingers incessantly twitched at the
grass at her feet.

The men smoked, and Janie sang soft,
tender songs in harmony with the evening ;
the lapping of the summer sea, and the
dropping of a dead leaf, were the only other
sounds which stirred the silence of night.

When at last the necessity of sleep
made the elders rise to go to the hut,
Mrs. Barlow refused to move. Without
excitement, but none the less determinately,
she would not go.

You stay, Janie,' she repeated, when
Janie pleaded fatigue. ' You stay with
me, Janie ;' and Janie yielded.

There were no longer terrors to Mrs.
Scott in the shadows and weird sounds of
night — only charms in the peaceful moonlight,
and beauty in the restless ocean ; the
time was long passed since she would have

• shrunk Iron such a vigil, and her friend's
vagaries roused only pity now.

Mrs. Smith elected to remain also — she
said she could sleep anywhere when she
was tired ; the Colonel smiled grimly as he
left the trio.

The self-constituted duenna kept up a
little small-talk for awhile, but soon succumbed
; and when the usual accompaniment
to her slumbers was audible, Mrs.
Barlow became impatient.

I can't stand that,' she said, * or sit it,
either ! Let us be off to the shore ;' and
Janie perforce accompanied her.

Presently they found themselves in Echo
Bay, and, notwithstanding Mrs. Scott's protest,
Mrs. Barlow began calling.

The others can't hear a word from here,'
she said. ' You know they can't. And if
they could, what then ? Haven't I a
right to use my own voice and talk to

VOL. II. 34

my own people ? Baby !' she cried, and
back came the word, distinct and clear.

Ah,' she said, with a knowing nod, as
she grasped Janie's arm, ' I thought so.
Now, isn't that like him ? Dick always
calls when I do — he always was jealous,
you remember — but we'll see who'll win.'

And again she raised her voice with
infinite persuasion in its tender accents :

Baby darling, come to mammy !'

With a smile of ineffably sweet expectancy,
she caught the echo of the last
word :

Mammy !'

Do you hear, Janie,' she cried exultingly,
' his sweet voice ? '' Mammy," he
said. Yes, my sweet treasure, I am here,
I am here ! Quick ! come to mammy !'

With eager, brilliant eyes she watched,
ready to start forward to meet her darling,
till, as the solemn night remained stirred

by human sound, the brightness of her
face faded, and again she cried, ' Baby !'
recognising her own voice this time when
the echo came back to her.

How odd !' she exclaimed. ' But I tell
you how it is. Dick gets before me, and
stops the boy. He often does so in the
day, but I don't blame him. Of course he
loves the child as much as I do. Poor
Dick ! But why doesn't he come, too ?
He must be angry with me, Janie, and I
loved him so !'

She slipped her arm from her companion's
and sank to the ground, rocking
herself to and fro and weeping — Janie
standing by and softly stroking the poor
bowed head, till, starting up in sudden
frenzy, she added :

He is angry — of course he's angry ! I
let my boy go to save myself — my miserable
self! I am a murderess I'

34—2

She flung her arms wildly above her
head ; then, swift as the wind, she darted
away — Janie following — over the little bay,
across a projecting arm of rocks, on over
the surf-beaten shingles and down a shelving
barrier, till she reached the tiny sheltered
cove where, close under the precipitous
shore, lay the quiet dead. There, on her
boy's grave, she flung herself, and, with
mad strength, began throwing the flowers
and stones and shells aside, tearing next
at the neatly rounded mound as if she meant
to open it. Janie exerted her utmost
strength to pull her off it, and there was a
deadly struggle between them. Mrs. Barlow
appeared to have forgotten who her
assailant was, and bit and kicked and
scratched with mad determination, writhing
and struggling and fighting furiously ; but
Mrs. Scott's superior size and strength
soon told, and, though the tussle was

terrible while it lasted, it was soon over.
Then, when she felt the unyielding arms
around her, Mrs. Barlow seemed to become
conscious of her better self, and, as a
naughty child bewails her naughtiness
when punishment has overtaken her, so
she bewailed herself.

How did we come here } What have
I done ?' she sobbed. ' Janie, my darling,
I have hurt you. You are trembling and
crying, my best and dearest 1'

Then she covered Janie's bruised hands
with kisses, and repeated her sorrow and
shame, till Janie had kissed and soothed
her, only too thankful the paroxysm was
over.

Why did you bring me here, dear
Janie }' she asked, looking round her with
perplexity ; then, as she saw the state of the
grave, she added, with a cry of dismay :
And who can have been here } Oh, how

wicked of someone to do this ! We shall
never get it tidy again !'

'We will come early tomorrow,' Janie
said, ' and make it nicer than ever ; but
we had better go away now. See, the
moon is setting ; we shall be left with
only the starlight soon !'

But that did not suit, and, fearful of provoking
a fresh outburst, Mrs. Scott spent
another weary hour in restoring order,
before she could prevail on the poor
mother to return home. The moment
they reached the hut, Mrs. Barlow fell
asleep ; but Janie's excited mind and
aching body kept her long awake, and
when the rest got up in the early morning
she remained in heavy slumber, from
which she was not disturbed.

'Poor darling!' Mrs. Mole said as she
stood over her for a moment. ' She's as
beautiful as an angel, and nearly as good !

Surely a ship '11 be sent soon, If it comes
only for her sweet sake.'

The opening of the trunk was the first
thought.

But not without Mrs. Scott,' someone
said.

Oh, she'll be awake before were got
to the bottom of it Mrs. Smith rejoined.
I don't see we should all have to wait
for one.'

So the Major and Hay shouldered it,
and carried it to the shed, where the lock
was forced, and eagerly expectant eyes
watched the raising of the lid.

The three men stood for a moment
sharing the women's curiosity, till, seeing
the contents were, as Hay had suggested
they would be, articles of feminine clothing,
they discreetly withdrew for their morning
dip, leaving the ladies to undisturbed
enjoyment.

Experienced eyes needed no telling as
to what lay before them — a bride's trousseau,
or at least a portion of one : the
daintiest part ot one, all spick and span
in pearly freshness and pristine folds.
What a dainty sight it was for these poor
women, and how they enjoyed it, as they
unfolded each exquisite marvel of delicate
needlework and finest cambric, and observed
the new designs and shapes !

Not a drop of destroying water had
invaded ; everything lay as it had been
placed, in neatest order. At the bottom
of all, in a large cardboard box, was
the wedding-gown, a wonderful mixture
of sheeny satin and creamy lace and
glistening ribbon, along with a veil of
valuable old lace, and sprays of orange-blossom,
handkerchiefs, gloves, shoes — the
whole toilet complete — ready for the bride
to deck herself; but where was the bride ?

At this moment Janle appeared. The
suffering of the night had passed away ;
her youth and strength had triumphed
over it, and she was as bright and eagerly
pleased with the pretty things as if
that terrible struggle had been but a
dream.

Mrs. Barlow's senses seemed very clear
again.

Janie,' she cried, ' come and see ! Oh,
such ducks of things, and a wedding
gown ! We'll each tr)' it on by-and-by.
Look at the body, with its trimming of
orange-blossom. My gown wasn't half as
pretty. Was yours ?'

Then there was an instant's silence, a
sudden flutter of excitement, as they discovered
pinned on the body a letter — the
first message from the outer world for
more than three long years. Before
touching it they all bent over and read

the address : ' To my dearest Amy !' Then
Mrs. Barlow put out her hand to take it.

Stop !' Janie cried, catching her arm ;
ought we to read it T

^ Oh, goodness me !' Mrs. Smith exclaimed,
' where's the harm ? She II never
read it, anyhow.'

Of course we may,' Mrs. Barlow said,
shaking her arm free, and quickly unpinning
the note ; ' none of us can make
mischief out of it here. Fancy letting it
remain unread !'

It will be a treat to hear something new
about somebody,' said Mrs. Smith ; ' so
read it aloud, my dear, then we shall all
hear at once.'

What was the fine clothing worth compared
to a letter, though the writer were all
unknown to them ! It was a link — an outward
and visible sign of the life existing
beyond their reach, but none the less real

and yearned alter, and every face quivered
with expectancy as Mrs. Barlow seated
herself and opened the little billet.

•* My very dear niece," she began.
Ah !' she added, ' it is a present from a
rich aunt, you may be sure — an old-maid
aunt, don't you think ? I thought it was
all packed in a peculiar way !'

Yes, a rich unmarried aunt,' added
Janie ; ' her niece went out on " spec,"
perhaps. I shouldn't like to go out on
** spec " — should you ?'

Mrs. Smith, thinking herself addressed,
replied grimly :

You mean on the chance of marrying ?
But you went out unmarried — didn't you T

I went out to my father !' Janie cried,
aghast at the insinuation.

Am I to read aloud, or am I not ?' Mrs.
Barlow's voice was threatening, and she was
allowed to proceed with the letter at once.

*' My very dear Niece,

" I wish I could be present at the
opening of this box. It has been to me a
real labour of love to collect its contents,
and I do hope they will please you, if
merely as a token of your old aunt's unalterable
affection. Darling Amy, I am
unfeignedly glad to hear you have won
the regard of a good man, for I hear of
nothing but good of him, and I shall look
forward to making his acquaintance some
day with the greatest pleasure and impatience.
Please tell him so. He has
gone through much sorrow — it must have
been a terrible shock to him to lose wife
and child so mysteriously ; but your bright
spirit will cheer him, and he will find in
you a sympathetic, faithful companion." '

A widower !' Mrs. Smith exclaimed,
unable to keep silent any longer ; ' I wish

I knew his name. Crump, of the Commissariat,
lost his wife and child in cholera
just before I left. I wonder if it's Crump ;
but no one could call him charming — a
poor knock-kneed creature ! And Oldfield,
of the Pioneers, lost his wife and children
crossing a swollen nullah ; the\- were a
sickly lot, though. Perhaps we shall have
a clue further on. Proceed, my dear.'

I know who it is !' cried sirs. Barlow —
• it's Dick !'

Nonsense !' Janie exclaimed.

I wish you wouldn't stop me so,' Mrs.
Barlow said petulantly.

Pray let her go on '' Mrs. Smith exclaimed
; ' but I wonder if it is that
Crump !'

"Young Air. Dandy came in yesterday," '
Mrs. Barlow continued, ' " and described
your Major to us'"

Oh, then it Isn't Crump !' Mrs. Smith
whispered.

" He makes him out to be quite a
splendid-looking man ; he said — and these
are his very words : ' There is not a finer
soldier in Bengal than Major Richard
Barlow.'

Here the unfortunate reader stopped,
put her hand to her head, and looked
vacantly round. Janie sprang to her side,
and though her heart beat fast with apprehension,
she professed to be amused at the
similarity of name.

How odd! — isn't it odd, dear Lydia T
she exclaimed ; ' quite a coincidence !'

Nonsense ! of course it's Dick !' cried
Mrs. Barlow, nodding smilingly, as if at a
good joke.

Janie added rapidly :

Of course, there are heaps of Major

Barlows beside our Major Barlow. I daresay
you've known heaps of Major Barlows*
dear Mrs. Smith — haven't you ?'

Mrs. Smith's lips were white as she took
in the situation, but she was equal to what
was expected of her.

Dear me ! yes, to be sure !' she cried.
There was Barlow, my brother's bugler ;
only that's different — isn't it ? And there
was Barlow — he was a Major, too — Barlow
of the 3rd — nice fellow with red hair. Certainly,
he might be called the finest soldier
in Bengal ; he belonged to Madras, but the
meaning is the same. They said he was
bad-tempered ; but he'd be sure to be
amiable enough when he went courting.
Oh ! and I remember a Major Barlow of
the Ordnance. Something happened to
his wife and child, I'm nearly sure, and
people said he would soon marry again.'

Let me finish reading,' Janie said, when

Mrs. Smith's recollections of further Major
Barlows were exhausted.

No Mrs. Barlow said, holding the
letter tight. ' Oh, Janie, you're in a
horrid fright — you know you are ! But
we'll say it's the Ordnance man, to please
you, though I know better ; and what
does it matter, if I never leave here ?'

She laughed, and then read on :

" I have written a budget of news by
the mail, but I must put a note in the box
to greet you when you take up the gown,
which we all think you must consider perfect.
I am so glad your future husband
remains at his old station. I have always
heard Moradabad favourably spoken of."

There !' cried Mrs. Barlow, looking up
and nodding at Janie. ' You hear —
Moradabad — his old station !'

" Well," ' she continued, reading on, ' '' I

am half afraid this may not reach you intime
for the day. Young Mr. Dandy
says

Dandy !' Mrs. Smith interrupted. ' I
dare say that's a son of old Dandy, a
C.S.I, man. An old fool, he was —
wouldn't retire to give Mr. Smith a step.
He hind a lot of riotous children, I remember.'


Mrs. Barlow's face darkened.

You drive one mad with your interruptions
!' she cried angrily. ' Do try and
listen till I come to the end. It's just
finished.'

" Young Mr. Dandy says," ' she repeated,
' "the Major is very impatient " —
you hear that, Janie ? Dick's impatient
too, isn't he? — "very impatient, and isn't
likely to wait merely for the gown ; butt
never mind, you can wear it on many great

VOL. II. 35

occasions, if not on the greatest of all.
And now, dear child, God bless you, and
God bless your choice !

" Ever your loving old aunt,

"'Amy.'"

Not a word was said. No one liked to
speak. Mrs. Barlow read it over again to
herself — once — twice — as if trying to get it
by heart ; then she crushed it up savagely,
and, with a wild laugh, flung it away as she
exclaimed :

The wedding-gown has come to the
rightful owner. I claim it as my property.
I'll go and tell Major Richard Barlow what
I think of him !'

Quick as thought, she seized the beautiful
gown, and bounded off towards the
rocks ; but her spirit was too strong for
her enfeebled body, and, just as the men
came up from bathing, she fell down before
them in an epileptic fit.

Mrs. Smith and Mrs. Mole were by her
in a moment ; but after Janie had seen her
convulsed and unconscious she turned
away horror-stricken, and, sitting down out
of sight and hearing, yielded to a fit of
foolish weeping.

A hand on her shoulder presently made
her look up. Colonel Shepherd was there,
his fatherly face sad and pitying.

Nay,' he said, ' this won't do. If you
give way, what is to become of us ? She'll
be all right again soon ; she's quiet now.
They've taken her to the hut. Tell me
what it was all about ?'

Before she had related what had happened,
the Major joined them. He had
picked up the letter, and now read it aloud.
Both agreed it was a very bad business,
and, as the Major added, ' It would be
worse for Barlow if she ever reached
England again.'

35—2

I suppose there can be no mistake ?'
Janie asked.

l^hey thought there could be none, the
letter was so circumstantial. The right
Christian name, the very station to which
he had been so long attached, his description,
and the allusion to the mysterious
loss of wife and child, forbade any hope of
mistaken identity.

It is enough to craze her,' Mrs. Scott
exclaimed. ' I have often thought,' she
added, lowering her voice, ' her brain was
injured when we were shipwrecked.'

The gentlemen exchanged glances.

No doubt of it,' the Colonel answered.
It is best to face the inevitable bravely.
We must try never to let her out of our
sight for the future. She will need all our
care and patience.'

Janie shuddered.

There is something so awful about

madness,' she said ; and she thought of
the struggle of the past night, but could
not mention it. 'If she gets violent, how
shall we manage her ?'

Major Mortimer looked warningly at
the Colonel as he answered the question.


Perhaps she never will be violent,' he
said ; * and I am sure you need not be
nervous — she is so very fond of you.'

Janie looked at her swelled hands furtively
— swelled by the long strain on them
while holding her captive down, and
thought of sundry dark bruises on her
shapely legs.

When she had left the gentlemen, they
talked together of Mrs. Barlow's state,
and agreed that one or other of them
would mount guard on her movements.

Don't let us alarm Mrs. Scott,' the
Major said ; ' she is overstrung already.

Think what it would be to us if her health
gave way !'

God forbid !' said the Colonel fervently.
But for her sweetness and bravery, I never
could have kept up through all this terrible
trial. And yet I would rather dig her
grave tomorrow than that she should
survive us all here.'

He rose stiffly. The years that had
filled out and rounded Mrs. Scott's form
and matured her beauty with colour and
strength had perceptibly aged him. For
the first time, the Major recognised this
difference in the once trim and upright and
hopeful soldier, and acknowledged it with
sorrow.

Was this the beginning of the end }' he
thought, as he rose too, and accompanied
him onward towards the shed. ' Were two
out of the small community showing signs
of decay already ?'

The Major needed all his stock of
patience to keep him cheerful. Their
days had long been evil, he acknowledged
to himself, but more evil days seemed
near.

THE BRIDE OF THE SEA.

When Mrs. Scott ventured into the hut
she was surprised to find her friend calm
and sensible again. Mrs. Barlow smiled
as Janie bent over and kissed her.

I am all right, dear.' she said. ' That
horrid letter upset me ; they have put
the gown away where I can't see it, and
I think all will come right, for, as Mole
says, *' She can't be married without a
wedding-gown!" Poor Mole! she evidently
takes me for a lunatic'

Try and forget all about it,' Janie

said, sitting down and taking her hand
caressingly. ' It certainly seems to refer
to your husband, but we cannot be suc ;
to begin with, it is very unlikely he would
remain all these years at INIoradabad : he
expected to leave there when we came
away, remember !'

'Ah. but it is more than coincidence,'
she replied. ' Wasn't it funny the box
should come here — very uncanny, too ?
Mind, if you see him before I do, you
tell him what fun we had over it.*

Not fun ! I am sure you know he
would be even more pained than weare.'


'Yes, so he would, poor Dick!' Her
face Hushed and softened as she added :
Yes, we were very happy together. I
can't think what possessed me to leave
him. Yes, I do, though. It was all
pride — mean pride. I wanted to show off

my boy, and to be grand before my young
sisters at home. Do you remember him
reading " Enoch Arden " to us ?'

Yes ; and we all agreed Enoch was
wrong to hide himself.'

Yes, Dick said he was wrong altogether
; it was a false idea — a morbid
idea. I can see him now, starting up from
the plank chair under the veranda, he was
so annoyed. Can't you, Janie ? He cried :
Right is right, and wrong is wrong.
Enoch had no business to be his own
providence. His deception was owing to
want of faith ; he suffered, and made her
suffer too ; he should have come forward
and trusted to God for the rest." '

She cried softly as the little scene returned
to her, and the tears did her
good.

Then when you go home you can act
upon this remembrance, dear,' Janie said.

But if he loves her best by that
time ?'

Right is right,' Janie repeated ; * we
can only recollect we are in God's hands ;
He sees a way when we see none 1'

Janie,' she cried, kissing her enthusiastically,
' what a darling you are ! What
should I do without you ? And I used to
call you a goose !'

The air was chilly towards sunset, and
they sat round a bonfire when the day's
work was over — Mrs. Barlow among them,
as usual, and apparently more sensible
than she had been for some time. She
refused to be treated as an invalid, and
laughingly assured them her fainting fit
had cleared her head and done her
good. Everyone tried to divert her, and
to keep the events of the day out of the
conversation.

The Colonel volunteered a story, on

condition someone else thought of another
while he told his, and as soon ashe
had finished his cigarette he began :

When I was new to India I was at
Jubbulpore with time-served men, on the
way to Bombay, and, of course, I went
off to see the Marble Rocks. I went
with a party of ladies and gentlemen, and
we lunched there, and had great fun rowing
about ; but I confess I was disappointed.
I had gone with the foolish
idea of seeing white polished marble,
such as our chimney-pieces at home, and
but for the name of the thing there was
scarcely any difference between what I
did see and any ordinary stone. At dinner
that night at Jubbulpore I was told the
proper time to see the rocks was by moonlight,
when they really did possess a charm
not visible by daylight, nor, indeed,
visible in any other place nearer home

than New Zealand. My time, of course,
was limited, and was not my own. The
next day must see me en route again,
but there was the night at my own
disposal ; and, as luck would have it, the
moon was full. What was to prevent me
borrowing a fresh horse, and going to
the rocks again ? 1 was, in those days,
very energetic and — it is difficult to
believe, isn't it } but it is true — poetical.
A description of gleaming white marble
mirrored in moonlit waters would read
delightfully in my next letter to my wife,
who was then only my france. I was
never tired at that time of my life, and
I resolved to go back with a companion,
if I could get one, alone if I could not.
But though I could have borrowed half
a dozen horses, I could not get one companion.
Every fellow laughed at my craze,
prophesied a speedy return, and saw me

Start with my syne only in attendance,
calling out after me they'd wait up an
hour for me, convinced I should turn back
in less than half that time.

Not I, though the road was bad, and
frightfully lonely ; though there was positive
danger from wild animals, for the
neighbourhood of Jubbulpore was formerly
notorious for tigers. I never once thought
of turning back. I had some famous
cheroots — even better than your cigarettes,
Mrs. Scott — and the peace and comparative
coolness of the night were most enjoyable.
My syne kept very near my horse's tail,
and furtively stared at every bush and
clump of trees as if he would not be
surprised whatever happened.

'It is a long ride from Jubbulpore. I
forget now how long, but of some hours ;
however, we reached the rocks in time,
and I wish I was poetical still, that I might

describe the loveliness of that scene ! It
is difficult to look at the Marble Arch in
Hyde Park and believe it to be white
marble, isn't it ? and it certainly looks no
better by moonlight ; but those rocks in the
moonlight distinctly assumed undoubted
kinship to the chimney pieces at home, and
stood up over the shadowed water like
well, at the time they reminded me of
huge grave-stones to departed giants,
though in my letter home I have a faint
recollection of likening them to gleaming
citadels, ivory palaces, and such-like bosh ;
but, anyhow, the sight repaid me for the
weary ride, and I set off on my return
journey elevated and impressed with a
sense of awe and sublimity.

I was riding carelessly along between
two very high and precipitous banks,
partly covered with bushes of the castor-oil
plant, and crowned by closely growing

trees, when I saw something I took to bea
cat just ahead of my horse. It was in
reality a tiger's cub — not so large as a cat
a lovely little beast, which I resolved to
take back with me as a trophy of my
adventure. My syne picked it up and
gave it to me, and I had just stuffed it
into the large pocket of my shooting-coat,
when the most appalling roar somewhere
over our heads caused me — selfishly forgetful
of my poor unmounted servant— to
clap spurs to my horse and gallop off

However, I quickly recollected myself,
and slackened speed. The poor fellow had
followed almost as rapidly as I had gone,
and telling him to catch hold of the
horse's tail, I went on at a less pace —
though expecting every instant an enraged
tigress would leap upon us. Once more
the awful cry sounded, but it was no
nearer, and, to our intense amazement,

we were not pursued, and eventually
reached Jubbulpore in safety.'

And the cub ?' the Major asked.

I took the cub to Bombay, and sent it
by one of the men of my party to the
Zoo. It is now one of the finest tigers
there. My wife visits it periodically, and
tells me she shudders as she recollects its
history. '

Now,' said Hay, ' I wonder why that
there tigress didn't have it out with you,
sir?'

Ah ! that's what puzzled me ; she must
have known the cub was there ; why
hadn't she fetched it ? for she probably
could see it, and me, too, when I picked it
up, though the brushwood prevented me
seeing her.'

I can guess why,' Janie exclaimed ;
she very likely had other cubs with her,
and feared to leave them.'

VOL. II. 36

It may have been so,' the Colonel
said ; ' but it was a foolish thing for me todo,
and I got out of it better than I
deserved.'

That's a real adventure,' said Mrs.
Barlow. * Now for the next. Can't someone
give us a romance ? — Mrs. Smith,
won't you ?'

Mrs. Smith was nodding. She roused
up quickly.

Not to-night,' she answered. ' I'll depute
someone else ; I like listening best, just
now. Mole, I'll depute you to take my
place.'

Mrs. Mole protested, as she always did,
that nothing she could say could be expected
to interest ladies and gentlemen ;
but she cleared her throat at the same
time, as if she meant to try.

Something English,' Janie exclaimed —
that being the nearest hint she liked to

give to keep the hero Mole out of the
story.

And something about yourself,' added
the Major gallantly.

I don't think I've anything to tell
about me, unless it's about Mole,' she
replied, with unconscious fidelity to her
sergeant. ' But I mind me of when I was
own maid to Miss Durand, before I met
Mole. She was a very rich and handsome
lady, and had refused dozens of offers, I
were told by the other servants.'

How old were she when you knew'd
her ?' Hay inquired.

Well, she must have been very near
the thirties, but she was very handsome.
I were told, at balls, all the young girls
were deserted by the gentlemen for her.
She were very high-spirited ; she were
brought up to think a deal of herself
and her money, and she despised what

36—2

she called "skim-milk love-matches." She'd
been engaged three times before I went to
her, but had repented, or taken offence at
something, each time ; but no one thought
any the worse of her for it, though let a
poor girl keep company three times over
with three different men, and isn't she
talked about, oh my ! I did once hear her
old uncle tell her she'd go round the wood
and round the wood, and pick up the broken
stick at last ; and her old mother — who'd
thought she'd have married a grand lord
long ago — said she'd be sorry when she
found herself a lonely old maid if she
didn't make up her mind in time. But she
wouldn't take advice, not she ! She just
tossed her head and kind o' scorned them.'

The Major winked at the Colonel.

This is 2l romance, Colonel, isn't it i*'
said he.

Hay sneered.

I'd like to ha' come across such a high
madam in my walk o' life,' he remarked.

She were a lady bred and born. You
wouldn't be likely to come across such a
one, Mr. Hay,' she replied. ' Now I'll goon,
with your permission. She were staying
in a country house once, when she meta
Mr. Dauntry. He owned a fine estate
in the neighbourhood, and was a fine,
grand bachelor gentleman, very free with
his tongue and his money, a bold rider
and a great sportsman. The ladies had
spoken of him to Miss Durand, and had
praised him up a deal, and laughed, and
said he'd be a good match. She said he
needn't try his fine manners on her ; she'd
have none of them. And the butler told
me she were very high and mighty with
him the first time they dined together.
He was a very splendid-looking gentleman
not accustomed to be put down, I expect

very fine-looking, very tall ; quite as tall
as Mole, and much the same build. You
remember Mole was a very fine figure of a
man, sir ?' she asked the Colonel.

He replied good-naturedly that he remembered
Mole well, and always thought
him a fine fellow. And with a smile and a
sigh she proceeded :

Miss Durand stayed there a fortnight,
and she went hunting, and she went shooting
; and I heard say she could aim welland
once killed a pheasant. And wherever
she was, there was Mr. Dauntry, and
the ladies were always quizzing her — I
used to hear them when they came to her
room at night — and the other gentlemen
made way for him, as if he had first right
to her ear. And at last, the very day
before we left, she were fairly caught.'

Or he were ?' Hay said, with a loud
laugh.

Never mind Hay, Mrs. Mole,' Major
Mortimer cried. ' Can't you tell us what
he said, and all about it ?'

Don't stop !' cried Mrs. Barlow. ' Do goon,
Mole ; I am dying to hear some more.'

Mrs. Smith smirked, as she exclaimed :

Mole, you are a second Scheherazade.'

The queer name rather scandalized Mrs.
Mole ; it sounded like a reflection on her
veracity.

I hope, mum, you don't think I'm not
speaking Gospel truth ?' she exclaimed.

When the explanation had been given,
she smiled at the implied compliment, and
went on, saying :

I can't tell you what was said, ladies
and gentlemen ; but when she came to
her room at night, and I was taking the
jewels out of her hair, she said plump out :
Mary," says she, '' I'm going to sacrifice
myself on the hymnal altar, and have

promised to be bound by the nuptial
tie at last. Can you guess who the
wretched victim is this time ?"

I knew she was pleased, for her spirits
was so good, and next day me and she and
he went off together back to London, and
her ma and her uncle were very pleased
with the new gentleman ; and the settlements
was begun at once, and there were
no talk about delay nor nothing of that
kind. The house was kept in a continued
rumpus ; what with dressmakers, and
presents coming in, and trying on, and
purchases, there was no quiet all day and
half the night. And she was as meek asa
lamb with him. She did just whatever
he told her to do, and never showed a bit
of temper, let happen what would, if he
were anywhere by. She told her ma
one day she had never believed in falling
in love before, but she had now got] a

perfect sweetheart, that she had. So
everything went on beautifully, till Miss
Dauntry, a cousin of his, came to stay,
and she said something that annoyed my
mistress greatly. I were buttoning her
boots at the time, and Miss Dauntry were
buttoning her gloves, both of them waiting
to go out, and she says :

'' I did laugh, when I heard Alfred were
caught at last," said she'*

What do you mean?" says my mistress
sharply.

" He were such a universal lover," she
said, laughing as if it were a great joke.
I never thought he could concentrate his
affections on any one'' says she, with a
spite on one.

" Oh, but," says the other, '' he never
really loved anyone before."

'soh, didn't he?" says his cousin.
He says that, does he ? Do you believe

ever a man lived who hadn't died over
dozens of girls before he married one ?
Look in your own heart ; haven't you lost
it times over before now ?"

'' No !" cried my mistress, boiling over ;
'' no, I never did — not once, neither did he.
If I thought he had "

There she stopped sharp like, and Miss
Dauntry laughed again.

*''Oh, my dear!" she said, "don't be
silly ; learn to take the men as you find
them. You've got him all to yourself now ;
never mind what's gone ; only take care to
keep him !"

Miss Durand were a lady who could
be very suspicious, and I could see, though
she said no more just then, that suspicions
had been raised by the young lady's insinuations.
It were a mean trick, and I
always thought she were disappointed on
her own account, and so was spiteful ; but

though my mistress said no more to her, she
didn't forget it. I was winding some wool
for her when Mr. Dauntry came that afternoon,
and she was very glum to him. He
teased her till she told him what was
amiss — she told me after ; and when he
heard it he swore it was all a lie, and that
he never had, and never could, and never
should care for anyone but her.

I met him on the stair as he went
away, and he chucked me under the
chin :

" You're all kite cate," says he.

I were carrying a plate of bread and
butter and nearly let it fall.'

How delicious !' Janie said in an undertone
— ' bread and butter !'

They all laughed, though all shared her
feeling. Bread and butter seemed to them
a feast for the gods.

Hay cleared his throat.

You was a young woman then, I
reckon,' he said.

Yes, I were a young woman then,'
Mrs. Mole replied with a withering look.

We are coming to the third volume !'
cried the Major ; ' don't let anyone stop
you, Mrs. Mole. Pray go on.'

Well, ladies and gentlemen, that night
Miss Durand said to me, says she, after
she had told me what Mr. Dauntry had
sworn in the afternoon, '' Now, Mary, do
you think he can be a gay Lutheran ?" I
couldn't answer straight, for I didn't think
an engaged gentleman ought to be chucking
young women under their chins, so I
only said there was always ins and outs,
fors and against, and she laughed and
said she believed his cousin wanted to
have him herself; but — and she looked so
fierce as she spoke — if she found he had
deceived her, even if it was at the very

altar even, she would let him see she
wasn't a softy, that she would. The
settlements were signed the night before
the wedding-day, and the boxes were
carried down and put into the little room
off the hall — beautiful boxes they were,
with *' Mrs. Dauntry" painted on them —
and, oh dear me ! everything was in a
bustle and confusion indeed. The big
dining-room were given up to the men
already, and the wedding breakfast was
laid out so far as it could be, and the sideboard
was that covered and backed up
with plate, it looked like a silversmith's
window — a trophy they called it. In the
two side drawing-rooms the presents were
laid out, just like a charity bazaar, to my
thinking, and all day, while the visitors
were inspecting them, there was a detective,
dressed up to look like a friend,
keeping watch lest anything should be

Stolen, for there were said to be nigh upon
^15,000 worth in the two rooms. When
he went away at night, two policemen
came and guarded the premises, but I
don't think they were needed, for many of
the servants were up all night, hard at
work.

My mistress didn't get to bed till
very late ; she was fairly wore out, so next
morning I let her sleep as late as I dared.
Her ma sent up before she had touched
her breakfast to hasten her, and that made
me nervous and her angry ; and then I
hooked her waist wrong, and that put her
out ; but she were dressed at last, and if
I ever saw a queen as a queen should be,
she were it : she were all polished like —
the satin so shiny, the hair so glossy, the
eyes so bright; she had his family diamonds
on her wrists, and amongst the orange
blossoms on her hair and round her neck ;

and just as we were both looking at her
handsome reflection in the long glass,
there came a knock at the door, and a note
and a little case were handed in.

" Mr. Dauntry brought it himself,"
the servant said, " and would like to
know if Miss Durand were nearly
ready."

The little note were to beef her to wear
what he had brought ; it were his addition
to the family jewels, and were to be her
own private property. She opened the
case and took out a diamond brooch. My !
it must have been worth a king's ransom ;
it were one cluster of flashing light, as if a
flame of fire had been caught and cooled
and kept burning all the same. She
pinned it at her throat, and it completed
the glittering figure. Her cheeks were
pink with pleasure. I wish he could have
seen her then, but, you see, it weren't

etiquette for him to see her before he met
her in church.'

Remember that, Mortimer,' said the
Colonel jocosely.

" Go down, Mary," says she; '' give him
my dear love, and say I'll thank him
presently."

So down I ran. I found him in the
library by the front door, all alone, looking
just as a bridegroom should look.'

How is that .^' Major Mortimer asked;
it may be of service to me to know, some
day.'

No one but Janie noticed how he
coloured as he spoke. The Colonel's
jesting remark had put him on his
mettle.

Well, sir,' Mrs. Mole said, * he were, oi
course, all in new clothes, spick and span ;
his tie was lovely, though he hadn't no
pin in it, and no jewelled studs — they

weren't worn then ; but his hair was lovely
all curled like ; and his boots — you could
see yourself in his boots !'

Ha !' the two gentlemen sighed heavily
and surveyed the battered, shapeless coverings
that passed as boots with them.

He were very jovial, shook hands with
me as if I were a lady, and '' Does she like
it ?" he asked ; 'rand I've not forgotten you,
either, Mary ;" and he put a ten-pound note
into my hand. I thought he looked mischievous
as he kept hold of my hand, so I
backed out at the door, but he grabbed
me, and, laughing as if it were a very good
joke, he cried, " Just one for luck, Mary !"
and kissed me.'

Hay coughed, but she took no notice
and went on :

Just as he kissed me we heard a rustle,
and there at the foot of the stairs, face to
face with us. staring at us almost within

VOL. II. i"]

arms-length, stood Miss Durand. Oh,
ladies and gentlemen, she looked awful !
Her face was crimson, her eyes outshone
the flashing gems she wore, and the pure
white of her dress made her angry countenance
more striking.

" Mr. Alfred Dauntry !" she shouted
out, so that all the house might hear — and
I could tell people were opening and
shutting doors and collecting from all
sides — " Mr. alfred Dauntry, you may
take Mary to church instead of me, for
I'll never go there or anywhere else
with you. I'm thankful I see you in your
true colours before it's too late !" '

My eyes !' Hay cried ; ' he were well
shot o' her

'Ah, poor young lady !' Mrs. Mole continued,
' she felt it dreadfully ; but nothing
would move her — no, though the bride-cake
were on the table, and the church full

of friends waiting for her. I am sure he
only gave me a kiss in the joy of his heart
gentlemen were freer in those days than
it is genteel to be now ; but she wouldn't
listen to reason — no, nor to anyone. I
went down on my bended knees before
her, and swore he had never kissed me
before ; but she was just stone. She said
she didn't blame me no ways, nor did she
turn me off; but there she is to this day —
Miss Durand still.'

How long is that ago T Hay inquired.


'Twas before I knew Mole.'

Mrs. Barlow talked the story threadbare
; she was greatly amused by it, and
paid the narrator many compliments.

There was no trouble about getting her
to bed that night, though she did not goto
sleep soon. She talked in an undertone
to Janie, whose bed was beside hers;

and her thoughts were not, as usual, full of
her trouble and grief about the drowned
boy, nor even about her Indian life ; they
had gone back to her early home-days, the
pretty country vicarage, and her sisters and
brothers. She told Janie of the little twin
sister Hetty, whose early death had been her
first sorrow ; of the elder brother who had
taught her to ride bareback on the old cob
who carried her father round his widespread
parish ; of the funny little church
with escutcheons above the Communion-table,
which she used to suppose were
symbolic signs of heavenly things ; and
of the queer service, wherein the illiterate
old clerk, who was also grave-digger and
pew-opener, struggled to drown her father's
voice with his loud nasal tones. How it
was his business — there being neither organ
nor choir — to lead off the hymns after
giving out the first verse, and how he used

to try several tunes before he got hold of
one to suit the metre.

Sometimes,' she said, laughing at the
recollection, ' he couldn't remember one to
go right, and he would look up to our pew
in the west tower, which was meant for
the organ-loft, and call aloud to my big
brother : '' Master George, you must lev a
shot, please; I've gotten too bad a cold!"
No one seemed to think it funny except
we children, and we used to creep under
the seat to laugh, out of my mother's sight.
When George was absent one or other of
the farmers would try a tune ; I wonder
my father or mother didn't lead off I
never hear that prayer in the afternoon
service for the Queen — you know it is
High and mighty, King of kings, Lord
of lords, the only Ruler of princes " — but I
always see clearly before me that funny
little yellow-washed church, and the great

pictured lozenges covering the east end,
with my dear father shouting in the tall
pulpit, and the old clerk, far below him ina
box of his own. bending forward with a
long white wand in his hand ready to touch
up any sleeper or naughty child. I suppose
we younger ones were taken to the afternoon
service only on account of its shortness,
and that rolling, sonorous sentence
struck my childish fancy. Janie, I wonder
If I shall ever sit In that church again, orbe
buried in the dear old place '^ There is
no graveyard round the church, only a small
square bit of grass before the door, for it is
in the village street ; and the cemetery is a
little distance away. But there Is one little
hillock in the grass ; someone's baby was
burled there long ago. How I used to
pity that lonely baby !'

In this softened mood she fell asleep,
and all the following morning she remained

calm and contented, assisting in the usual
duties, and forbearing to give saucy answers
to Mrs. Smith. All felt reassured and
comforted, and the idea of incessant surveillance
was forgotten. In the leisure of
the early afternoon each followed the bent
of individual inclination, unmindful of
possible danger, and very soon after the
remains of the mid-day meal had been
cleared away the neighbourhood of ' home'
was deserted.

The two young ladies went off ostensibly
to gather plantains, but in the course of
their wandering they were separated, and
when Mrs. Barlow came back to the shed
with her clusters of fruit there was no one
within sight.

As she stood alone in the shed, her graze
wandered to the little covered platform
where the Major worked, and she saw
Iron under a heap of shavings the corner

of the overland trunk appearing. Her
eyes flashed with newly-aroused mischief.
After one look round to be certain she was
unobserved, she ran to the box and rapidly
pulled out the contents, casting them aside
till she came to the parcel containing the
bridal paraphernalia. This she unfolded,
and held the glistening gown aloft, inspecting
its make and trimmings with keenest
pleasure. The next fancy was to try it on,
and this she proceeded to do, laughing to
herself the while as she found it fitted her.
Next she put the clustering sprays of
orange-blossom in her hair, fastening them
in with little twigs, and over all she threw
the soft tulle veil. The shoes and stockings
took her attention, but she decided
against troubling about them, and laughed
again as her straw-clad feet presented
themselves from under the rich white
satin. There was a very long train to

the dainty .skirt, and as she moved to and
fro she pleased herself with the effect of
the liofht on its shining surface. The
freak, begun in fun, was becoming terrible
earnest, and the mischief in her eyes
was deepening into madness as she
gradually bethought her of the terrible
significance of the attire. Back to her
memory came the cruel letter, and she
began to repeat it, her voice gradually
becoming uncontrollable.

At that moment Janie and Mrs. Mole
came up, and were for the moment bewildered
to see a figure standing before them
in garments to which their eyes had been
long unaccustomed. The fever in Mrs.
Barlow's cheeks, the glitter of her eyes,
and the becoming influence of the soft
veil, invested her with the appearance of
renewed )out and beauty. They did not
at the instant recognise her, and stared at

the dazzling picture as if it were an apparition.


Look !' she cried to them ; ' I'm ready !
I'm not going to let him marry anyone
else. Miss Durand was mad. Nothing's
wanting here but the bridegroom. Do you
think he's stopping to kiss some one else,
Mrs. Mole .^ I'm going to forbid the
banns. Come on, Janie ; you are to be
bridesmaid. Who'll be best man ? Oh, I
forgot ; they say he's a widower. Widowers
don't need supporting, do they '^. Come on,
Janie ; don't let us be late !'

She darted at Mrs. Scott, and, with a
scream of laughter, dras^ored her forward.
In vain Janie pleaded for release ; the
mad grasp impelled her onward, dragged
her across the park, up the steep wooded
slopes, through the citadel screen of rocks,
on downwards towards Echo Bay. As she
strode along, gripping Janie's arm in a grip

of iron, she shouted sentences out of the
letter, and the words appeared to act like
goads. In her headlong flight, the flowing
train was almost torn to shreds. Now it
caught in a thorny bush, now wrapped
itself round a jagged boulder ; now it
threatened to pitch her forward, now it
jerked her backward. But it mattered
nothing to her. With an impatient jerk,
she would right herself and dash forward,
while shining bits of satin marked her
track.

In vain Mrs. Scott, breathless and terrified,
implored her to stop or release her,
magnifying her suffering in the vain hope
of raising her pity. On she flew, dragging
her with her, and when at last their headlong
career came to a halt in the full blaze
of sunshine that flooded the sands of the
bay, and Mrs. Barlow released her by
violently flinging her to the ground, Janie

was only too thankful to have escaped sofar
with her life to have any thought for
her bruises and cuts.

Richard !' Mrs. Barlow screamed, keeping
her eyes on her companion so that
she should not escape her. ' Major Richard
Barlow, listen to nie !'

Listen to me !' came back.

No, I won't !' she retaliated.

I won't,' said the echo.

You hear, Janie ! Janie, you hear !'
she exclaimed. ' He brazen it out ; he
repudiates me ; he's angry about the boy.
Dick, it's no use. Don't you know he's
mine as much as yours — mine more than
yours .'^'

Mine more than yours,' was floated
back.

She stamped in fury.

swell, then, you shall know the truth,'
she cried. ' I let him drown ; yes, I let

him go on purpose. The devil said tome,
** Don't let him drag you down ; save
yourself ; you can't manage both ;" so I
let him go, and now he's neither yours nor
mine !'

Janie watched and listened in agony.
She trusted Mrs. Mole had gone for help,
but there was neither sound nor sight of
any. Mrs. Barlow's hoarse voice seemed
wearied out for the moment, and she
stood swaying to and fro, wildly watching
for her husband.

A large sea-bird came quietly flying
over the cliff, and, startled by the sight
of human figures, quickly darted aside
and flew out seawards, in the direction of
Tower Rock. Its flight attracted her. She
turned to Janie, and bade her get up.

^^Look,' she said — 'the coward! He's
cutting away from me as fast as he can.
He doesn't know what good swimmers

we have become ; but we can soon follow
him. Come on quick !'

The tide will soon turn ; then we can
follow.'

Tide ! What does tide matter to us }
We'll g"o to Tower Rock and rest there.
Come, get up, or I'll make you !'

Too terrified to resist further, Janie
allowed herself to be hurried to the
water's edge. There she again ventured
to expostulate, saying it was a pity to
wet and spoil the beautiful gown. Mrs.
Barlow held up the tattered train disdainfully.


Just what I wish to do,' she said.
• He'll have the expense of buying another.
Serve him right !'

Making another attempt, Janie added :

'I am so hungry ; do let us wait till
after tea.'

You coward !' was the fierce answer,

as she swooped down on her and pushed
her forcibly into the water. ' You and I
have been in a far rougher sea than this
haven't we ? — and survived !'

And Mrs. Scott had nothing to do but
to strike out over the advancing wave,
and keep as near to her companion as
was possible.

The danger of the situation was quickly
visible, not only to Janie, but also to Mrs.
Barlow. The plunge into the cool water
had. to a certain extent, cured her ; and
as the heavily-trimmed gown first floated
out, and then, charged with water, fell
tightly around her limbs, obstructing her
movements, she knew her peril. She
tried to turn back to the shore, but the
tide had turned also, and was too strong
for her. She called to Janie, but before
the latter could help her she sunk.

Janie screamed for assistance, but the

sea was fresh, and her voice scarce
reached the shore. She was a bold
swimmer, and on ordinary occasions knew
no fatigue while swimming ; but she was
fully aware that ordinary strength would
be insufficient now to drag Mrs. Barlow,
with her saturated extra garments, safe toland,
through the quickly flowing water.
Nevertheless, she did not hesitate to make
the attempt, and as Mrs. Barlow rose to
the surface, Janie clutched her, and skilfully
managed to keep her head above
water while she struck out for the shore.

Mrs. Barlow was gasping and spluttering,
yet she did not mean to be saved.
With a sudden twist she freed herself,
and almost instantly disappeared again
under the clashing water.

But Janie was all the more determined
to save her in spite of herself. Again
she caught her as she once more rose,

and bravely toiled again to save her :
her strength and calmness would have
triumphed, but Mrs. Barlow suddenly-raised
her hand, and with all her remaining
strength struck her savagely
between the eyes. Taken by surprise,
Mrs. Scott unconsciously relaxed her hold,
and, stunned for the instant, sank with her
companion. But only for a moment.
Janie's head reappeared almost immediately,
and she again grasped and firmly
held Mrs. Barlow, her utmost power again
put forth to gain the victory after all.

Then Mrs. Barlow ceased to struggle ,
she opened her eyes, and a soft, beautiful
smile overspread her face as she raised it
to the sky.

'There is Hetty I' she said, and her
voice was clear and full of intense feelings
' dear little Hetty !'

Janie had need of all her courage and

VOL. II. 3S

skill to make way against the adverse
current ; try as she would, she felt that
for every stroke she gained she had tolet
herself be carried back again ; her
friend's weight increased, too ; her face
had gone colourless, and her form rigid
like a log. A great terror seized her ; was
she to perish with this poor distraught
woman and none to know ? Every second
seemed an hour ; then came a singing in
her ears, an awful numbness in her head,
the past and present became mingled and
confused, thought became impossible —
was this death ? Again she was a schoolgirl
swinging in the prim suburban garden,
with lessons to be learned. She heard
the bell ring out its summons to the classroom
; the voice of her mistress sounded
warningly. Then there was a great stillness,
and next she found herself lying
on the dry sands with all her friends

anxiously watching her. No, not all ;
a little distance away, stiff in death, in the
wedding-gown for her shroud, lay Mrs.
Barlow, a smile still on the quiet face,
the reflection of the happiness of that
recognition of her little twin sister which
had been vouchsafed her in her death-struggle.


Dead !' Janie cried, starting up and
seeing the long-quiet figure. ' Oh, did
I let her drown ?'

Her companions closed round her, soothing,
entreating, persuading her, their joy
at her return to consciousness visible on
every face and in every voice. They had
endured unutterable anguish since Major
Mortimer and Hay had brought the two
bodies ashore, lest the best loved of their
community had passed away from them.
Each felt the brightness of their prison
would be darkened for ever if her sweet

38-2

eyes never opened to them again, and
now in their rapture they knelt round
her with honeyed words and caresses,
forgetful in their restored happiness of
the poor dead woman close by. Sugared
epithets of affection fell from Mrs. Smith's
lips, and tears streamed over her face as
she supported Mrs. Scott's tottering steps
to her dead friend's side.

My dear! my love! my poor dear!' she
cried as Janie sank down and kissed the
quiet face, ' indeed you did all you could,
and if the Major had been a moment later
he would have been too late. You had
sunk twice, my poor dear girl, and you still
kept hold of her. Ah, don't cry I' she
added, as Janie broke into an agony of
weeping ; ^ she's happy now ; look how
peaceful she is !'

The Colonel laid his hand caressingly
on Janie's bowed head.

Yes,' he said, ' that peaceful face forbids
us to grieve ; the poor sick brain Is healed
now.'

So In the bridal finery prepared for a
happy bride, Mrs. Barlow was burled
beside her drowned boy, while away at
Moradabad, when the much - looked - for
present from the rich old aunt was at last
known to have been lost at sea, Major
Barlow amused his new-made wife by
sketching a mermaid swimming through
coral arcades 'at the bottom of the deep-blue
sea,' arrayed In the promised wedding-dress.

For some time after Mrs. Barlow's untimely
death Janle's bright spirit was
saddened, and the little party were all
greatly depressed ; but as time wore on
they recovered and took up their old
hopes and ways again.

There are few sorrows three-and-twenty
cannot endure and live down, and at

three-and-twenty Janie was in the prime of
youth and strength ; it was impossible, too.
that she should completely despond, surrounded
as she was by tenderness and
watchfulness, and conscious as she could
not fail to be that her moods and looks
were commented upon as matters of the
deepest importance. It was not in her
nature to be heedless of the goodwill of
those around her, and even during her
darkest hours she would do her utmost to
hide her despondency, for the sake of
those who literally basked in her smiles.

Hay was as much her devoted slave
as was the Colonel, and Mrs. Smith had
for long ceased to be suspicious of Major
Mortimer's regard ; indeed, she would have
resented any lack of attention to Janie on
his part. Janie had indeed become as a
cherished daughter to the two heads of
departments.

Mrs. Barlow's death had brought Mrs.
Scott into closer contact with the others,
and had drawn them all nearer together.

The next rainy season was very severe,
and its effects very serious. The lake
had overflowed with unaccustomed violence,
and many of the fruit-trees on its
margin had been uprooted. The finest
of the cocoanut palms had been broken
in an unusually severe gale, and part of
the turf slopes had been washed down by
the heavy storms of sweeping rain. In
these storms many of the goats had been
killed and injured, and so much of the
herbage had been damaged that the supply
of food for the flock would be straitened
for the time.

From some unknown cause, fish were
scarce and difficult to get, and many privations
had to be endured.

Again, too, they were reduced to rags.

and the annual stock-taking was an impossibility,
there being no longer any stock to
overhaul. Two large sheets alone remained
of all their stores, and these two
were carefully preserved to act as flags,
should a ship ever come in sight.

The evil days were indeed upon the
little colony. Colonel Shepherd was
greatly crippled by rheumatism ; the elder
women were gray and worn ; and even
Hay, who had hitherto shown an imperturbable
disregard of his position, was becoming
taciturn and morose. He took to sitting
above the ravine, watching seawards, his
eager eyes showing his yearning for a sail,
and it was then Major Mortimer said the
time had come for the use of the buried
wine.

He unearthed it when Hay was absent
fishing, and carried it to his shed, where
he hid all but one bottle. This he produced

after dinner, accounting for it very
lamely, as it seemed to those who knew
the fact, but quite satisfactorily to the poor
seaman, who literally shook with agitation
when he saw it.

As long as we agree to drink fair said
the Major, ' I think there will be a cup
apiece every day for a month. If we
don't promise each other to be content
with a stated allowance, I'll smash the
remainder.*

He looked fiercely at Janie as he spoke,
professing to fear she would not consent.
There was an instant chorus of * Of course
we agree !' from all but Hay ; he stood
with lowering face and quivering lips, his
fingers twisting, and his eyes glaring at
the bottle. He muttered that it wasn't
private property.

What ?' said the Major sharply.

The man made no reply, and the others

began talking eagerly of the good the wine
would do them all if taken medicinally.
Only Mrs. Scott said she never had drunk
wine, and never would ; she did not need
any.

You'll take your share,' said the Major
authoritatively.

How they all enjoyed the generous
liquor ! Hay tossed his off at a gulp, and
then watched the leisurely enjoyment of
the others, his face betraying his desire
for more. It was a hazardous experiment
; but only good came of it, though
Hay was constantly on the alert to discover
where the treasure was hidden. He
had, however, to deal with wiser heads
than his. The Major was nearly always
in his work-shed ; and the day's allowance
seemed to drop on the table out of space,
it seemed to Hay. On the last day of the
month all felt relieved no harm had come

of the trial, and all felt how great the
benefit had been individually — their pulses
had been quickened, their energies restrung
; they were again hopeful and
cheerful. Their last cups were taken
merrily, and they drank to their speedy
release.

Afterwards Hay acknowledged to Mrs.
Mole that drink was like fire — a bad
master, but a good servant.

Though when I get ashore again,' he
added, ' 111 treat resolution. I'll just have
one regular good bout, and then I'll turn
teetotaler and look out for my poor girl
again.'

Better keep to one cup a day, and
enjoy God's good gift properly,' said
she.

That's more than I could do,' he replied.
' I tell you, I was that mad with
greed when the Major brought that first

bottle out, I could have killed him to get
hold of it, only he's stronger than me.'

So if he'd been a poor puny fellow
you'd have done murder for a dram ?' she
asked. ' Were that your only reason ?'

Not the only one,' he said sarcastically;
I were afraid of your nails, too.'

Mrs. Scott was resting after her morning's
work, sitting idly in the shade on the
grassy slope, looking out over the rocks
beneath, where the summer sea softly rose
and fell in the full glare of the summer
sun, the water streaked in luminous shades
of green near shore, and of a wonderfully
full unbroken blue where it was fathoms
deep in the middle distance. She was
alone, and free to think her own thoughts
without interruption, and her beautiful face
was very sorrowful as she let them dwell
upon the hopelessness of the present.
Ever since she had heard of Major Barlow's

second marriage she had realized
how completely she and her companions
were regarded as dead, and she had
gradually tried to make herself realize
the probability that Charley had also consoled
himself with another wife. Again
and again she told herself to remember
his sociable disposition would never permit
him to remain a bachelor when once he
felt assured of her death, and she recollected,
with intense bitterness, how her
shortcomings in the hour of trial must
have weakened his regard for her even
before they parted.

There were times, though, when she
remembered most their devoted wooing
the tender happiness of their early
married life, until sickness made them
what they would not be despite themselves.
In such moods as this the very idea of
his loving another seemed treacherous to

him, and she would assure herself it was
as impossible for him as for her.

She was in this mood as she sat alone
with Nature, the soft balmy air sweet
with the fragrance of flowers, musical with
the song of birds and the soft cooing of
doves. Before her feet the squirrels played,
careless of her presence ; lizards came close
to her, peering up at her with those queer,
bold eyes that seem almost of human intelligence
; rabbits composedly washed their
faces at the entrances of their holes in the
grass, and green parrots alighted from the
branches above her and fought at her side
for a berry.

But Nature, with its innocent animal life,
was not sufficient for her happiness. ' Man
never is, but always to be, blessed ' ; and
all this brightness and peace palled on her.
She saw none of the comfort and tenderness
of Nature, only its callousness.
She sickened of the sweetness and poetry,

and longed for life's realities, for relief
from inaction — for the world's strife even,
rather than this stranded, isolated existence.
Then her mood altered again, and, with
tears, she marvelled at her presumption in
questioning God's decree. Surely, her
punishment was very slight for her grievous
failing, she told herself. She was
surrounded by love and care, on no desolate,
barren shore, but amidst the fairest of
God's works. She reminded herself of
Mrs. Barlow's bright, happy life shadowed
and shortened, of the quenched hopes of
her companions — the Colonel's wasting
form and vanished dreams of home, of
the Major's brave efforts to seem content,
of Mrs. Smith's thwarted ambitions, and
Mrs. Mole's uncomplaining self-forgetfulness.
Their sorrows touched her and
diverted her thoughts from her own. She
looked round on the glories of land and
sea and sky. Never before had they

appeared so fair, and, stretching her arms
in adoration, she repeated a verse of the
grand old hymn :

Wide as the world is Thy command,

Vast as eternity Thy love ;
Firm as a rock Thy truth shall stand,
Till rolling years shall cease to move.'

Suddenly she ceased, and sprang to her
feet, and, as if possessed with sudden madness,
she shrieked with a scream which
rang loud and high above the dash of
waters and above the woodland harmony,
making all the rest of the community start
arid listen and fly from their several pursuits
in agonized excitement towards her ;
for the piercing words she uttered were
words they had so long and vainly hoped
to hear : ' A sail ! a sail !'

END OF VOL. II.

BILLING 4 SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

C, C. «&- Co.

3 0112 088989014

.-.^^

OF THE

U N Diversity

or ILLINOIS



Rags
V.3

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/scottsofbestmins03rybo

SCOTTS OF Westminster

J. MASTER MAN

AUTHOR OF

A FATAL ERROR,' 'HALF A DOZEN DAUGHTERS,' ' WORTH WAITING FOR,

ETC.

'Tis the unexpected always happens '

IN THREE VOLUMES.— VOL. Il

LONDON
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON

^tiblishcrs in dDrbinnrn \^ ^)er ^^lajestB Wt (S^wccn



\ All rights reserved]

CHAPTER

XIV. THE MAJOR, V.C.

XV. WAS HE A WIDOWER INDEED?

XVI. AMBROSE SPEAKS

XVII. SO DOES HIS BROTHER -

XVIII. THE LADY OF THE TRAIN

XIX. MRS. SMITH

XX. * HAPPY EVER AFTER ' -

I











SCOTTS OF Westminster

CHAPTER XIV.

THE MAJOR, V.C.

The unbroken monotony of the years
passed on the narrow reef, where day
succeeded day in the same round of duties
and small events, made time seem to pass
quicker there than it passed with Captain
Scott, though everything around him was
stirring, eventful, and cheerful. His duties
obliged him to take part in all the gaiety of
the Viceregal Court, as well as in all the

VOL. HI. 39

pageantry and under-current of its political
life, and his handsome appearance and
pleasant, gentlemanly manner made him
greatly sought after. Yet to him the
months and years seemed to drag as they
had never dragged before, and the glee-sameness
of youth had passed from him.
To those who knew him little, he was still
a happy, light-hearted man, one of fortune's
favourites ; to those who knew him
well, he was * a man with a history,' who
had passed through the fire and been
terribly scorched, though the scars were
healed to all appearance. In his leisure
moments, in the silent night — nay, even at
the picnics, at the crowded band-stand, in
the glittering ball-room, and when he rode
his showy charger as one of the ' brilliant
staff' — he had the vision ever before him of
a ship settling down crowded with helpless
human beings — of an agonized girlish

face — of a pale rigid form tossed hither
and thither at the mercy of the waves.
He had looked to change and time to blot
out these pictures, but change and time only-intensified
them, their familiarity enabling
him to vivify and dissect them. No one
guessed what he suffered on his voyage
back to India, when the waves beat against
the steamer, nor the morbid terror that
possessed him on the way from Aden to
India, lest by some impossibility Janie's
corpse might float upwards. Of course, he
lost in time all such morbid feeling, but
there remained beneath his cheery manner
and close attention to duty a dull sense of
suffering as part and parcel of his being.

His father-in-law noticed the change.
They met at Simla, that first season after
Charley's return. Mr. Linley had always
liked his son-in-law, and had justified his
daughter's choice as a man sure to rise,

39—2

and it grieved him to see the alteration.
He himself had soon acquiesced in the
inevitable, and with worldly wisdom had
decided all was for the best. * Scott was
young enough to live his sorrow down
and begin life over again ;' but he said
nothing of this to the young man at their
meeting. Something he could not define
kept him silent on the subject ; only at
their parting he said, pressing the young
man's arm emphatically :

I shall be glad to hear you have
settled again, Charley ; there's a good
time yet before you, I hope.'

The colour flushed Captain Scott's face
as he understood, and he hesitated before
he replied :

'It is early days yet to give up all
hope, sir.'

Eh — what ? Hope !' cried the other,
who had not once had a doubt. ' Nay,

my dear boy ! Don't waste your youth
on a chimera ; there can be no hope.'

Captain Scott braced himself up. Mr.
Linley's words made an impression, and
he told himself he would be a man and
accept the general verdict. He gave
himself, mind and body, to the duties and
pleasures of his new position, and at times
he persuaded himself he was all right
again, and time would bring forgetfulness
and relief ; but time brought neither,
though it gave power to suffer and be
strong.

That he was considered an eligible in
the matrimonial market was an understood
thing, and when this was brought
home to him he considered himself in a
false position. His chiefs wife was greatly
interested in him. She was a niece of
Lord Normington's; indeed, it was through
her that Lord Normington had secured

the appointment for his young protege,
and she therefore thought of him as being
to a certain extent in her charge. He
was made to feel at home in the private
Hfe at Government House, and there
treated as a friend of the family ; and
when her Excellency one day pointed out
a certain young lady as a very desirable
wife, Captain Scott felt as shocked as if he
had been advised to commit bigamy, for
until then he had not realized what was
expected of him.

A wife for me !' he exclaimed, panic-stricken.
' Surely she does not dream of
such a thing }'

No ; I'm sure she's much too nice to
give herself away unsolicited ; but don't
you think you'd be much happier with a
home of your own again ? You know, when
we go — and we have only another year —
you'll miss us ; at least, I hope you will.'

Charley made some gallant reply ; then
he begged her not to think of him as a
possible Benedict for anyone.

'Captain Scott,' she continued, 'you
are young and — well, passable-looking ;
and you dance and ride and sing with
the girls. What more natural than to
suppose you mean to be happy again
as a married man ?'

He said not a word.

We are too good friends to be offended
with each other,' she added, puzzled by
his silence.

You don't want to imply that I flirt ?'
he asked at last.

No,' she replied quickly. ' I don't
believe anyone says you are a flirt ; but
when a young man enjoys the society of
marriageable girls, it is natural to suppose
'

He means to marry one of them some

day,' he added, speaking rapidly ; ' and
you have been so good and kind to me,
it is but fair I should be open with you.
I don't mean to flirt, and yet I take
absolute pleasure very often in being with
these girls, and even ask myself sometimes
if I could marry one of them ; but if fora
time I fancy I could, the reaction is
strong against such an idea. I cannot
realize I am a widower.'

She looked kindly up to the sad eyes,
usually so bright, and told him she
honoured him for his faithfulness.

Still,' she added, * the day will come,
I hope, when you won't think of '* some "
of these girls, but of 'pone," who will
stand out of the crowd and make up for
the lost.'

Her Excellency was even kinder after
this little conversation than before, and
being a clever as well as a charming

woman, she showed her interest in
Captain Scott by persuading her husband
to interest himself also by appointing his
A.D.C. to a somewhat responsible command
in an expedition against a troublesome
mountain tribe — an expedition noticed
in the English papers as a very smartly
organized affair. Thus, for a time. Captain
Scott exchanged the amenities of Government
House for the toils and perils of a
campaign amongst the hill fastnesses, and
had more than his share of privation and
fatigue. That former expedition, when
he had gained his company by the mere
luck of surviving his brother officers, as he
had hghdy told Mr. Chi vers, stood him in
good stead now ; and he had a natural
aptitude for dealing with the stolid, wary
hillel ; his quick eyes, at once sympathetic
and piercing, compelled their confidence.


Through the pine forests, along the
smiling valleys literally carpeted with wildflowers,
by the banks of rushing streams,
over precipitous mountain tracks, he led
his men. Ever the first to set them the
example when the way seemed utterly impassable,
when the cord bridges, swinging
in dizzy height over the crashing river,
made even the stout-hearted hesitate, he
would go blithely forward, and back again,
laughing at their panic. When their path
must be down a sheer precipice of loose
stones, he would show them how safely he
could slide down without hurt to clothes or
limb ; and in the toilsome upward marches,
when the track was lost, and they seemed
to gain nothing on the never-lessening
heights, he was always visible and audible,
sharing the struggle, cheering the hopeless,
not even availing himself of the services of
his stout Ladak pony — which made no more

of climbing stair-like heights than a cat
makes of going over steep roofs — because
he would share his men's difficulties, and
let them see he shirked no fatigue.

They had camped for a day's rest in a
level meadow, through which a mountain
stream dashed in a series of cascades.
Their scouts had declared the surrounding
country perfectly free from the enemy ; and
having placed the outlying pickets, and
taken the usual course of preventing
possible surprise, the little body believed
they might rest and be thankful. The
neighbouring groves of walnut, mulberry,
pomegranate and apple trees, with their
parasite of the true vine, bearing luscious
grapes, had given them a luxurious dessert,
and the men were feasting also upon
peaches, apricots and figs with an ardour
that alarmed their doctor.

The scene was very beautiful, and

Captain Scott, with one or two of his
brother officers, did their best to transfer
it to canvas ; though no pencil or colours
could convey the depth and purity, the
freshness and brightness, of the tints
around them. There were trees rivalling
the sweetness and grace of our lilac and
laburnum ; roses of greater fragrance and
softer hues garlanded the forest trees ; the
grass at their feet was enamelled with
purple cowslips, forget-me-nots of both
dark and pale blue, straw-coloured wallflowers,
auriculas as if made of velvet,
and golden buttercups beside which our
own English buttercups are mere pygmies ;
while in the calm part of the river's angle
the water near shore was sheeted with rose-coloured
lotus and the golden-eyed water-lily
familiar on our English rivers. Up over
the forest-lined mountain sides, where the
pines, deodars, and birch made darkness at

noonday, the eye reached to the dazzling
peaks of the great snowy range standing
out in glittering relief against the soft blue
sky, and with the eyes the thoughts of
some of these strangers in a far country
rose beyond the blue veil of heaven to the
everlasting country it hid from their earthly
sight, and purified and refreshed their
spirits.

Captain Scott tossed his sketch aside at
last.

Where's the use ?' he said ; ' the colours
haven't been ground yet that can give anything
like the glow of these ; unless one
could bottle up a bit of the atmosphere
with it, a sketch is mere bosh. Holloa !' he
added, starting up. ' Who gave the men
leave to bathe all at once '^ The Colonel
said only a dozen at a time were to go in !'

The order had been misunderstood,
apparently, for a crowd of men divested

of their clothing were seen running down
and darting into the calm portion of the
river — their clothes and weapons left at
the tents.

The officers ran quickly amongst them,
expostulating and ordering, but amongst
so many it was difficult to make them
comprehend their wrong-doing. Hundreds
were already disporting themselves
in the water, and the buglers amongst
them.

No one knew how the stampede had
arisen. The commanding officer was
asleep in his tent a little way from the
men's quarters, but the noise soon brought
him to the spot, and his storming added to
the general uproar. '

At last the majority of the bathers were
made to understand their fault, and then
was reproduced that famous old cartoon
by Leonardo da Vinci and Michael Angelo,

representing the Florentines, while bathing
in the Arno, being surprised by their
enemies, the Pisans — each trying who
would be foremost to get out of the water
and prepare for the fight. The flowery
bank was covered with a struggling mass
of naked men, suddenly alive to their
danger ; nor was the picture incomplete,
for as the main part of the bathers, still
wet, rapidly dashed at their clothing and
repossessed themselves of their arms,
there was seen a man from an outlying
picket coming at full speed, and shouting
as he came :

The enemy are at hand !'

Then the flowery field became trampled
and despoiled of its beauty ; and the peaceful
scene became the theatre of man's basest
passions. Bloodshed and violence reigned
under the bowers which would have
graced Arcadia, and oaths and curses rang

above the song of birds and the music of
falling water.

But though the soldiers were taken at a
disadvantage, discipline enabled them to
recover themselves. The contest was hot
while it lasted, but it did not last long ; on
both sides the fight was furious, and many
a brave spirit fell to rise no more.

The man who but an hour before
had been peacefully sketching by Captain
Scott's side, enjoying the idle afternoon as
if life had years in store for him, was now
lying amongst the trampled blossoms, as
crushed and mangled as they ; but Captain
Scott, hardly caring to live, bore a
charmed life; his men, keeping close to
him, seemed to share his immunity from
shot and cut. With an overbearing rush
and wild shouts, they fell on the enemy,
driving them before them.

It was a hard-fought field, and its

success was largely owing to the stubborn
bravery of his little company. Just at the
last he saw two of his men at the water's
edge, in hand-to-hand struggle with several
of the enemy ; the rest of his own immediate
following were engaged at a little
distance. Single-handed he rushed to the
rescue, but as he reached them one of the
soldiers was hurled backward and fell into
the river, exposed to the double danger of
shot and flood.

As the Captain recognised the upturned
face, he remembered the man could
not swim, and he instantly plunged in after
him ; then, as the enemy saw the officer's
uniform, their fury redoubled and they
fired repeatedly.

It was a moment of deadly peril.

Captain Scott had succeeded in catching
hold of the man, and was doing his best to
swim with him to the cover of some

VOL. III. 40

bushes a few yards higher up the stream.
But shots rattled round him and it was
hardly possible he could escape. At that
moment his men became aware of his
danger; there was a rush, a fierce encounter,
and then the river-side was clear of all but
dead and dying foes, and Charley brought
his companion safe and sound to land.

Thus he won his Victoria Cross, and
while everyone envied, no one grudged
it him.

Such a lucky fellow !' people said of
him.

Such an unfortunate fellow !' he said of
himself, for after all the excitement and
fatigue, the hard work and hard fare, his
health gave way. and he began to yearn
for the quiet and comfort of the little
home — empty though it was of what
makes home — the only place he could call
home, away on the heath in England.

He had earned a holiday. His chiefs
time in India was up. There was no
need for him to hoard up rupees and stick
to work to the detriment of his constitution,
so he decided to get leave and enjoy
the congratulations of the kind old friends
in his native place.

He had decided, when he left Bestminster
to obey the hasty summons to
Calcutta, to keep the cottage exactly as it
was; he could not bear to give the order to
scatter the household gods he had collected
with so much happiness. Foolish as he
felt the feeling to be, he ever associated
the little house with Janie's presence ; it
was sacred with the joyous anticipation of
her coming to it, and with the sorrow he
had suffered in it.

Rather an expensive toy,' Ambrose
had written, and had urged him at least
to sub-let it, failing to see anything but

40 — 2

extravagance in his brother's whim. But
.Charley had taken no notice beyond
begging Ann to be good enough to keep
the rooms aired, and to use it as a summerhouse
whenever she liked.

The Vicar had kept up a constant correspondence
with him, and at Christmas-time
Miss Latimer had remembered him
with a pretty card and a few friendly
words.

You ask how Miss Latimer looks the
Vicar had said in his last letter, 'and I
can give you a good answer. She has
bloomed out afresh during the last year.
I fancied she was losing all her beauty and
perceptibly ageing ; but within the last few
months she has recovered both youth and
spirits. Our nieces don't seem so greatly
junior to her now ; but, then, they have
become young women, and have visited
London, and mamma's drawing-room has

been re-arranged according to modern
notions. Your brother has not yet made
up his mind whether to consider their
interference in home decorations impertinent
or as marks of genius natural to
his offspring. Poor Ann's meek acquiescence
is, happily, not reproduced, and
a little sensible opposition and determined
self-assertion are working wonders in that
hitherto monotonous household. I don't
know but that our friend Miss L. has had
a hand in the revolution. She is a cute
body at the same time, and manages to
charm Ambrose as she charms most of
our weak sex, so that he never suspects
her pretty fingers are in the stirabout.
We have all been shining with reflected
glory since you covered yourself with the
reality, and some of us go about asking
our neighbours if they have noticed the
last gazette, etc., etc., almost rivalling the

OX in the fable with inflated self-glorification.'


Charley laughed over this, and began to
long for a brisk walk over the bracing
heath country with his friend.

I must be growing quite an old fellow,'
he told himself, ' to give up all this gay
life so easily for the old-world people in
an out-of-the-way corner.'

On his way home he met with a Mr.
Smith, an elderly, cheery man, small and
wizened as if all his animal juices had
been dried out of him by the sun of India.
He accosted Captain Scott with a question.

I am attracted by your name,' he said.
May I ask if any relation of yours was
on board the unfortunate Elephanta which
was lost nearly four years ago ?'

Charley quivered ; it was an awful question
to him. He could say nothing more
than • Yes.'

I am Smith of the Civil Service,' added
the other. * My poor wife was on board.
I am glad to have an opportunity of
talking to you on the subject.'

He put his arm in Charley's and walked
him up and down the deck, entering into all
the terrible details, so far as they were
known, with a minuteness which was only
short of being callous and brutal by his
kindly voice. It was evident he had lived
down the sharpness of his sorrow, though
he spoke tenderly of the dead.

She and I rose in life together,' he said.
We married as boy and girl, with little
more than our wits to help us on, and she
never made work when our life was — as it
often was at starting — hard, and our fare
scanty. By-and-by when I was getting
good pay she remembered our early
struggles and always thought of a rainy
day. Ah, poor girl ! she knew how to be

rich as well as how to be poor. I never
should have got on as I did without her
sense to help me. A fine woman she was,
too, and did credit to my position. I don't
like going home without her. What do I
care for the ducats now ? I haven't the
heart to spend them.'

He sighed to her memory, and then
asked abruptly :

'And the Mrs. Scott who was on board
with her — what was she to you ?'

'My wife!'

Mr. Smith turned upon him, his little
eyes bright with pleasure, as he cried :

Bless me ! you don't say so ! No ;
how strange !' Then noticing the young
man's darkened countenance, he added,
with a doleful shake of his head : ' Ah,
deary, deary ! then we are indeed companions
in misfortune ; and probably she
was a young woman. My poor girl had

passed her youth, but she was worth a
good deal yet. I'd give up all our savings,
all my pension — yes, I would indeed ; I'd
save and slave as we did at first — to have
my poor girl back again

Down each wrinkled, whiskered cheek
fell tears of genuine regret. Charley
wondered how he could unburden his
heart to a stranger ; but he could not
despise him, because he was so sincere and
real.

The little man's hand leaned heavily
upon the other's arm as he choked back
his grief.

You won't laugh at a blubbering old
fellow ?' he said, his face all smiles again.
You can woo and win another ; you are
the sort of chap to take with the women ;
but I am different. Who in England will
know that I am almost a king in India ?
What am I out of my district ? Ah, I

know what I should be called — a funny
little crab-apple of a man. Nay, you
needn't laugh. But she, my poor girl,
cared for me, not for my position.'

They paced on in silence, both men
with sore hearts, yet both so utterly
different in their way of bearing them.
Charley could not have talked Janie over
with anyone to save his life ; it was all
he could do to discuss the shipwreck.
Some notion of the difference in their
natures struck Mr. Smith, for he said
presently :

But I am better off than you ; I can
talk.'

Charley guessed the inference, and was
touched by the sympathy.

I wish I could,' he said ; ' but I cannot.'


'Well, there's this to be said for me,'
said the other : ' I have almost ever since

my trouble been alone — that is, away
from European society. My district lies
far from the large stations, and, except
for a very short period during the worst
of the rains, I can camp out, so that for
months together I don't come in the way
of a white face. I used to write long
letters to my people, that was some relief ;
but it is a real comfort to meet with someone
who has actually suffered in the same
way. My good old friends, the great landowners
up in Outward — and though their
ways are not my ways, and their skins
dark, they were my good friends — got to
know what had happened, and it did me
good to have their sympathy ; but most of
them wondered I couldn't fall back upon
another wife or two, as a matter of course :
and they couldn't appreciate my loss as
you can.'

You must have had a horribly lonely

time of it,' Captain Scott said, anxious to
get him on another subject.

Not when my poor girl was with me ;
she rode with me when I went shooting,
sat beside me when I held court, and was
the best of all my clerks. She never
troubled about dress and fal-lals when we
were out in the district, though she set the
fashion in cantonments. Wherever I could
go, she went too. I shall never forget
once we were in a very out-of-the-way
part ; I was the first Englishman sent
there as judge, and she arrived ahead of
me to see the durbar-camp put up properly,
while I stopped to talk to a wealthy ryot
on the way. The people, seeing a white
person on horseback, supposed it was me,
and crowded round her petitioning and
inquiring, till she was almost afraid, while
some of them openly laughed to see a
sahib sitting sideways in a petticoat. She

had the sense to keep quiet, for had they
supposed it was only a woman they might
have been insolent. She could medicine the
sick, and advise the headmen, and could
calculate each man's property as well as I
could myself. And then it was so comfortable
after dinner. No one mixed the
nightcap as she did ; not too strong, you
know, not too sweet, and just enough of
the lime — I shall never taste such a glass
again !'

In thinking this over afterwards, Charley
pictured Mrs. Smith as a plump, lively
little woman, free with laughter, and full of
practical sense. Was he ever to see Major
Mortimer's sketch of her ?

When he could be kept off the subject of
his poor girl Mr. Smith showed himself
to be shrewd and practical, and was a good
companion during the long days on board-ship,
where most people get tired of each

Other, or else too fond of each other — in
either case proving nuisances to disinterested
acquaintances. He had passed
the best years of his life amongst the hills
of Outward, and had ruled over a district
larger than most kingdoms of Europe ;
had been judge, adviser, friend, lawyer,
and doctor — and often confessor as well —
to men who, like the ancient chieftains of
Scotland or the petty kings of Britain, had
absolute control over the lives of their
retainers and henchmen, ruling with despotic
sway until the English raj had bid
them stay their hands and made them acknowledge
a controlling power. Many a
domestic quarrel had the little man pacified,
many an outraged father had he persuaded
to peace and lenity, and many a vendetta
had he put down altogether. He had
come to love the people and their simple
lives, their keen enjoyments and their

profound religious creeds ; for their lives
were real and earnest, and their loves and
hatreds real too. Human life goes on
much the same all the world over, and
Mr. Smith could tell many a story as
romantic, or as pathetic, or as full of
stirring incidents, about his hill-men as any
that can be written about the fair-haired
aristocrats of more enlightened countries.

In the lonely heights, amongst scarcely
accessible crags, where for months ingress
and egress is difficult because of the torrents
of rain and the violent storms washing
away the mountain-paths, dwelt many a
friend whose personal history was as
familiar to the Commissioner as his own.
These living histories were as books to the
Englishman far from the dak and the club ;
his mind was full of them. He had seen
the second generation grow up and come
into their fathers' estates ; had helped them

to arrange their property ; had prompted
them in their matrimonial connections ; had
bettered their agricultural notions, and
mended and made their roads. What was
this busy overseer to do when his work
was taken from him, and he was thrown
into the enforced idleness of a lonely life in
his native land, which he had come to
regard as alien ?

^ I am as active as ever I was,' he exclaimed
; * and surely my experience is
most valuable to the State ! Yet the
year after next I shall be obliged to retire,
and no doubt some inexperienced
boy will be forked into my place to
meddle and muddle and misunderstand.
I fail to appreciate such rules. Why can't
the capable be left till he proves incapable
? Time enough then to make a
change.'

He was going home on a matter of business,

he said, and should return to his work
as soon as possible, to settle probably for
the remainder of his life in the Himalayas.
Sometimes,' he added, ' I think I ought
to marry again, for the sake of leaving a
widow to get the pension. It seems such
a pity, after paying to the funds all these
years, to reap no benefit after all. But
I can never expect to meet with a second
Sophronisba, and the girl / should fancy
would be sure not to fancy ?sie, though she
might like the idea of the pension ; but
that wouldn't be of any use to me. Ah,
well, we shall see — we shall see !'

VOL. III. 41

WAS HE A WIDOWER INDEED ?

When Captain and Brevet-Major Scott,
V.C., returned to his native place, he found
the peaceful community full of envy, hatred,
malice, and all uncharitableness. A General
Election was at hand. Lord Normington's
doctor had found It necessary to order his
lordship off to a foreign atmosphere, and
Mr. Cheers, M.P., and a Liberal candidate,
Mr. Bootle, were in and out of the
little town canvassing from mornlnof till
night. Never were the local charities in
such a flourishing condition ; never had the

local tradesmen such a thriving time. The
two great men were constantly meeting
and exchanging the politest of greetings,
but Mr. Chivers could find no words pregnant
enough to express to his constituents
his horror of his rival. A Communist, a
Socialist — in fact, a Nihilist — a man of lax
moral character, an opener ot Sunday
theatres, a leveller — a despiser of all laws
human and Divine, a subverter of right, a
despoiler of other men's goods — a man
without a shred of patriotism, religion, or
morality. What was England coming to ?
Chabot ! Chabot ! That last word was
generally a clenched. It was felt to be
equal to Mesopotamia and Mephibosheth.
There was no getting over that. The
depth of its meaning was too profound for
ordinary intellects, and when Mr. Chivers
got to that word — coming as it did at the
end of a long order for goods paid for

41 — 2

in advance, and all change, in Mr. Mantling's
language, being ' denned ' — it proved
irresistible.

Mr. Bootle, at the same time, had his
weapons of defence in order ; he was
lost in admiration of Bestminster and its
people, their patience, their rectitude, their
long - suffering. Who but Englishmen
could tolerate such a pompous old ass as
that old buffer Chivers to legislate in their
names, to keep them as slaves in their
own freeborn heritage, to debar their
young men — their sturdy Saxon sons —
from the enjoyment of the game that ran
actually over their feet ? What right had
Shivers, or any other man, to enclose
acres by the hundred — fertile acres, meant
for seed-time and harvest — that a few
deer might luxuriate where God had
meant hundreds of human beings to live
in comfort ? Had England come to this,

to rest content under the lash of the
Egyptian overseer ? Happily for them
there were men Hke Moses waiting to
liberate them, yearning over their sorrows,
burning over their wrongs — only waiting
for the opportunity to reverse all these
degrading laws, to bid the descendants
of generations of free-born Britons rise
up and demand their rights of fellowship,
their rights of property, their rights
of legislature ! What ! were the sinews
and the thews of the land not to eat the
corn they themselves had sown, not to
benefit by the teeming produce they themselves
had dug and delved ? were they to be
content to look on while another feasted on
their rightful heritage ? No ! The time
had come when patience was cowardice,
silence brutish indifference, and it was
from such men as the men of Bestminster
the country expected help, and from such

men as the landed proprietors of Bestminster
that the country received none.
Cradled in luxury, steeped in luxury,
what could these landed proprietors know
of the stern suffering, the deadly struggle
for life, endured by the masses — the
masses who were huddled together in
dens of fever that the landed proprietors
might keep their cattle in untainted, unlimited
solitudes ?

What was to be done ? Why, send a
representative to Parliament who was an
honest man — a man who feared no cotton-wool
lord, who wanted no guerdon for
himself, no tomfoolery in the shape of a
Brummagem coronet. Did he say no
guerdon was wanted ? He was wrong ;
a guerdon was wanted. The gratitude
of an emancipated people — of a people
rejoicing in comfort and self-respect ; a
people who needed no longer to truckle

to a selfish fellow-creature because, by
the accident of birth, he was born in the
purple. Let the noble-minded people of
Bestminster lead the way to freedom and
plenty ; let them stand out on the emblazoned
page of history as the vanguard
of the mighty host who would soon show
the proud patricians that real nobility was
nobility of mind, and that titles and closed
parks were the toys of ' selfish idiots.'

The comfortable shorten who pocketed
Mr. Chivers's cheques and lived in his
comfortable houses at significantly unremunerative
rents, listened to the latter
tirade with scornful smiles ; but their
new-fangled assistants, who thought themselves
as good as their masters, who
studied French in private, and drank
some cheap claret in preference to beer,
the many overburthened agricultural
labourers, the small clerks and petty

tenant farmers, took the flattering unction
to their souls, and began to think ' Bootle
were a cleverer chap nor Chivers.'

Ambrose Scott, going amongst them
all, was alarmed at the length of the
wedge already inserted in the almost
hereditary constituency. He had accepted
a handsome retainer from Mr. Chivers, but
he felt that the struggle might be severe ;
and though most of the leading tradespeople
were Conservative, and were to
be depended upon to secure a majority,
it would be a very near run, and illness
or death amongst them might, in fact,
bring about a defeat ; and who could
provide against illness and death ?

At this crisis his brother's arrival was
a godsend, and Ambrose remembered with
shame how he had himself done his best
to weaken his own side by recommending
the getting rid of the cottage, which

might, after all, give them the winning
vote.

The weekly local paper — the Bestminster
and Normingtou Gazette — had a London
correspondent who kept the country-folk
up to the doings of the towns-folk by
voluminous notes from the capital. In
the issue of the date of Major Scott's expected
arrival, he appeared to be the
subject of conversation in the best London
circles ; his exploits in the late expedition
amongst the hill tribes in India were
worked up in the most romantic way ; the
sad loss of his young wife, his undying
sorrow, his patriotism, were all brought in to
add to his attractions, and Bestminster folk
were reminded that this gallant officer, this
faithful mourner, this patriotic defender,
this man still youthful, whom his Sovereign
had deigned to honour with the most
valuable order in her gift, and his country

had publicly thanked, was one of themselves
; no gilded youth born in the purple,
but the brother of their rightly respected
town clerk, the son of their well-remembered
town clerk, the grandson and great-grandson
of those other well-esteemed
town clerks all bearing the same name — the
name that still rings like music in Bestminster
— the respectable name of Ambrose
Scott !

Bootle couldn't pick this to pieces,
couldn't explain it away, dare not even
suggest thin places here and there. All
Bestminster rose to the bait. Charley
Scott's fame was their own, his Victoria
Cross was their property ; why, it was just
as likely as not a man like that would come
to be Prime Minister or Commander-inches
! and then what couldn't he do for
his old friends at Bestminster ? Besides,
they had seen him with his sorrow-stricken

face, and heard his gay laugh before his
sorrow fell ; many of them remembered
his birth and his first short frocks ; most of
them remembered his fielding : politics
became quite of secondary importance,
and Bootle, who knew not their hero,
and could not rejoice with them in his
success, felt that he had received a serious
check. At this moment Charley came
home.

His heart warmed as the train stopped
at the familiar platform and a throng of
welcoming faces met his eyes : Ambrose
and Ann, the Vicar and his boys, and
Mary just a little in the background, with
the two girls in long frocks and hair
put up,' as beseemed their advancing
years.

It was indeed a home-coming, and he
felt it was worth the long journey to grasp
the friendly hands and hear the affectionate

voices once more. In a moment the years
of separation were bridged over, the first
strangeness each recognised in the other's
face passed off; the old looks were there
again ; the slightly faded hair, the more
decided lines, the gently shadowed brightness
of complexion, became invisible again ;
all were as they had been in his memory,
and again the old companions walked ina
happy, confused way homewards, just
as they had walked as if but yesterday.

Ambrose was careful to keep that week's
issue of the Bestminster and Normington
Gazette out of his brother's reach, and
Charley, quite unconscious of ' Notes from
the Capital,' was able to return the greetings
of the townspeople in blissful ignorance
of the absurd panegyric on himself.
He was at once initiated into the troubled
sea of rival factions, but had been too long
abroad to be deeply touched by either.

He persisted in admiring both Beaconsfield
and Gladstone. He called the one
imagination, the other mind, and said both
were necessary to keep the balance sure.
So far, and no farther, could he be got to
express himself.

Mary, who was a stanch Conservative,
without knowing very much why, tried to
make him see the great advantage her prepossessed
over the other ; but Charley
alternately agreed with her and argued
against her ; and sometimes he occasioned
his brother the most dreadful pangs of uncertainty
lest at the last moment this lukewarm
soldier should record his vote in
favour of the Liberal candidate.

That Bootle is a good fellow !' Charley
would say. ' I met him in the billiard-room,
and had a long talk with him. He
thinks the pay of every poor man with a
family ought to be double what his

bachelor workfellow gets. I quite agreed
with him !'

Bunkum !' cried Ambrose in a fury.
Do you mean to say you'd pay twice
what you need to pay because your
labourer chooses to marry ?'

No,' Charley said slyly ; 'I'd only
employ bachelors. I'd expect family men
to employ the married ones.'

Ambrose could not summon up resolution
to ask his brother the plain question,
Do you mean to vote on our side ?' Fortunately,
it never occurred to Mr. Chivers
to imagine any member of his solicitor's
family would dream of going against the
family traditions ; so Ambrose was spared
having to fence with his chief on the subject.


Major Scott had not been three days at
home when Mr. and Mrs. and Miss Chivers
called on him in state, the big carriage and

high-Stepping horses sadly upsetting the
neatly-kept little entrance drive. He was in,
and received them at his door, looking so
handsome and distinguished that Miss
Chivers began to regret he could not be
considered as a proper county man ; and
her mother felt that patronage and a
condescending tone would not be suitable.
The prettily arranged drawing-room, with
its vases of flowers, and the dainty afternoon
tea which soon appeared, 'really as
if it were a matter of course,' as Mrs.
Chivers said afterwards, completed their
surprise.

I say, Major,' Mr. Chivers exclaimed,
after asking for a second cup of tea, ' you
can't say you ain't fit for visiting now, you
know ; you must come over and bring your
slippers with you, and try my Trenches.
I shall have a son home on leave soon ;
you can talk shop together — eh ? But

first we want you to say what day you'll
come and dine to meet your brother and
sister-in-law — eh ? I haven't forgotten the
lesson you gave me once, you see ; but
Ambrose and I are old friends ; we are
accustomed to take liberties with each
other, you know. And is there anyone
else you'd like to meet ?' he added. * We
don't get V.C.'s amongst us every day, so
we make much of them when we do.'

All this was very kind and flattering,
and when Charley repeated it at his
brother's, he acknowledged as much, and
then Ambrose began to be hopeful about
the vote.

Mother must have a new gown,' said
one of the girls ; ' and, father, you can't go
in that old coat with the wide tails, and
those gloves with the tips which nod over
your fingers.'

If a new gown be necessary,' her father

said, with a sudden change from gay to
grave, * I really think you might find an
excuse, Ann — have one of your headaches.
As for my coat and gloves, Miss Jane he
added, turning sharply on his daughter,
you will understand when you are older
that manners, and not clothes, make the
gentleman. My coat is of a rather ancient
cut,' he continued pleasantly to his
brother ; ' it was our father's. I'm just
his figure. He'd only worn it once before
he died. Dear old coat ! I love it for its
associations.'

Uncle Charles !' Jane cried. ' Pray
persuade father to dress like other people ;
he ought to consider its ! He should have
a coat with proper tails, and he wears
those awful diamond studs. Now that weare
grown up he really ought to avoid
such eccentricities.'

I'll have a new coat if you'll pay for
VOL. III. 42

It,' her father replied. ' No, I'll make a
bargain with you. I'll have a new coat if
you don't have a new jacket next winter ;
come, now, will that suit you ?'

Jane looked at her sister. Was the
sacrifice possible ?

The sleeves were too short even last
winter,' the one murmured.

And the cut was all wrong at the back,'
whispered the other, mentally regarding
the old jackets. So Jane shifted her
ground.

Well, at least you can afford mother a
new gown !' she exclaimed, setting aside
his offer. ' Mother has worn hers five
years running at the Chiverses' ; they must
laugh at her, I should think, and she must
go this time to show off the lovely
gold ornaments Uncle Charley brought
her.'

Ambrose looked all round ; he was beginning

to feel his girls were too much for
him. A bright idea seized him.

Charles,' he cried, ' let me see if I
can make a bargain with you. Promise
me your vote, and Ann and I will fig ourselves
out in gorgeous array to please
you ail.'

All right,' said Charley, without an
effort ; ' and the girls are to have carte
blanche over Ann's gown ?'

Yes,' said Ambrose, almost sick at the
price he was to pay for the vote ; * but,
Charles, just tell me truly, did you ever
think of voting against us ?'

Why, hardly,' said Charley ; ' I wouldn't
pull against you, old fellow, even though I
don't care for your man.'

Ambrose walked sadly away ; he had
bought what was his for the asking.

The first Sunday after his return
Charley dined at his brother's in the

42—2

middle of the day, and dawdled about the
garden with the girls and Mary through
the hot afternoon. He had announced his
intention of going to evening service at
Normington, and did his best to persuade
them to go with him, first to the cottage
for tea, and then on to church, but they
were not to be persuaded. Mary especially
negatived the idea in an unnecessarily
determined manner.

I've known you walk twice as far, and
then declare you were not a bit tired,' he
argued, rather surprised at her tone.

She coloured, and the girls coloured
too.

We'll go another time ; it's too hot
to-day,' she said.

I don't care to go alone,' he said ; ' but
if I must, I must.'

Ambrose came out, and, to his brother's
surprise, offered to be his companion.

Mr. Scott was not fond of Sunday walks ;
he thought the townspeople should have
the day to themselves, and he said it must
be annoying to them to be overlooked by
their superiors on the only day they had
leisure. So beyond a stately march at the
head of his family twice to church, he
withdrew himself from the world on
Sundays, and in his private office, with an
open Bible before him. generally slept the
tedious hours away. Of course his offer
was accepted, and then there fell a constraint
over the little party.

The fact was, Mr. Scott had prepared
what he believed would be a pleasing surprise
to his brother, while it was also the
means of making sure of an uncertain vote.
At the bottom of the marble tablet to the
memory of his stepmother in Warrington
Church he had recorded the death of his
young step-sister-in-law, with a representation

of a marble ship, dismantled and
ruined, dominated and surrounded by
marble waves of awful size. The ladies
of his family took a different view ; they
thought the sight of the unexpected addition
would be a shock to Captain Scott,
and therefore declined being present at
his first visit, and none of them dared
to prepare him for it.

So Charley, pleased with his brother's
company, did his best to make the walk
pleasant — chose the subjects of conversation
likely to interest him, and listened
with all the interest he could muster to
the accounts of the enormities of Bootle
and his party, and the superiority of his
own following, arriving at the churchyard
in a state of placid satisfaction, and
softened with dim old memories of an
almost forgotten mother as he stood fora
moment beside her grave.

They were rather late, and the service
had begun as they took their seats in the
middle aisle, exactly opposite the large
Norman pillar on which was the second
Mrs. Scott's white tablet. The pew in
which they were was in the first row of
seats nearest the reading-desk, and, because
of its large, square size, was reserved for
the Corporation ' when that body praised
in state on certain high occasions. When
not so used, it was set apart for strangers,
its four sides being convenient for studying
the architecture and congregation indifferent
aspects.

Charley placed himself sideways for the
sake of facing his mother's tablet, and
Ambrose faced him to witness the expected
pleased gratitude of the young widower.
He had some time to wait, for Charley
kept his eyes on his book all through the
opening prayers, and only when the school-children

and the organ began a sharp contest
as to which should soonest reach to the
end of the Magnificat did he raise them to
the opposite epitaph. Ambrose saw a look
of sharp agony swiftly follow the tenderness
that was on his face as he first read the
simple notice of his mother's birth, marriage,
and death — then the startled horror ashe
took in all the terrible details below ; and
yet to Ambrose it was a beautiful epitaph,
beautifully expressed, beautifully worked
out — a mark of tasteful respect to the
dead, a delicate attention to the living
who had been remiss in his duty, and a
master-stroke by which a shilly-shallying
stonemason had been brought to see where
his bread-and-butter came from and to promise
his votes accordingly.

What could be more comforting to the
mourner .^' Ambrose argued, as he puzzled
himself over the workings of his brother's

countenance and repeated the words to
himself as he sat with his back to it :

'' Also to the sweet memory of Jane, the
greatly beloved wife of Captain and Brevet-major
Scott, V.C., of the Bengal Staff
Corps, son of the above, who was lost
at sea on her passage from Bombay in the
ses. Elephanta, in September, 18 — , aged 19.
The waves of the sea are mighty, but
the Lord God who reigned above is
mightier

Surely, there was nothing there at which
he could take exception, unless he would
have liked to have added whose daughter
she was. Yet Ambrose did not feel quite
satisfied. He could guess nothing of the
storm of pain that was shaking the young
man's heart — of the anger, too, that rose
uppermost as he thought of the trap into
which he had been beguiled, here in sight
of a church full of people who all knew his

brother well by sight and would guess who
he was, and watch him staring at the record
of his lifelong sorrow. It was very cruel
of Ambrose — unjustifiably cruel. Had
he not repeatedly refused to raise a stone
to his wife's memory because he could not
acknowledge her death ? What right had
anyone to give the lie to his convictions
and publish it to the world ? He stood up
when the rest did ; he found the proper
places in his book ; his voice followed in the
responses ; but his eyes never rested on his
brother's, and during the sermon he sat
with folded arms fixedly regarding the
opposite tablet till every word was written
on his memory — every thick and thin
letter, each turn of the capitals, each curly
stop — and the marble waves seemed to
leap higher under his fixed gaze, and the
ruined ship to rock on their rigid lines.
When the service was over, Charley sat

on till he and Ambrose and an old woman
busy turning the cushions at the Companionable
were the only people left ;
then he rose and addressed his brother.

Who put that thing up there ?' he asked,
pointing to the new tablet.

Charley had often held Ambrose in awe,
but now things were reversed. The elder
almost trembled before the younger as he
replied :

Don't you approve it ? I prepared it
to please you — I did indeed ! — the best
Carrara marble and the indelible letters.
Of course, it's my look-out, Charles ; it's
all settled and paid for. I hoped — I hope
you will look upon it as a brotherly offering
to you. I didn't like her to be left out of
the family memorials. I am sure I should
have liked her very much, and I really
thought you'd be pleased with the well-meant
intention.'

It was very kind of you.'

Charley forced himself to say that much,
and then he led the way out.

They walked side by side in silence,
briefly returning the salutations of the
Normington people as they passed through
the little town, but saying nothing to each
other till they were in the quiet country
road ; then Charley repeated :

It was very kindly meant ; but if I
had given her up like that I should have
put up a monument before now.'

Ambrose was relieved by his words, yet
greatly puzzled, too ; he gripped Charley's
arm, as he exclaimed :

Why, what did you suppose had become
of her ?'

I could not say in so many words ; but
I could not give her up.'

Dear me !' and Ambrose took off his
hat and let the soft evening wind lift his

scanty hair, while he marvelled to himself
how his companion could be blind to a fact
which was patent to all the world.

Ambrose was not a man to invite or
encourage confidence — indeed, he was the
last man to whom Charley could have confided
sentimental notions ; he no more
understood the shock he had occasioned
his brother than that brother understood
the want of delicacy that had led to it.

Charley was in a state of nervous irritation
as he walked in the fragrant twilight ;
he was up in arms against the words that
robbed him of a hope he yet knew to be
fallacious, against the brother who had
written them, and against the prying eyes
of the public who endorsed them ; but
more than all he was bitter against himself,
because he felt his brother was right, and
the world's opinion was right ; and as he
had sat reading the record he had been

constrained to admit he was Indeed a
widower. She was altogether lost to him.
The waves of the sea were mighty'; they
had gone over her and engulfed her ; she
was buried fathoms deep out of his reach,
out of his sight. Ambrose had convinced
him of his folly in supposing he knew
better than all beside ; she was dead, and
he was a widower. The monument was
a very nice one ; he ought to have seen
about it for himself long ago. Then he
repeated again :

It was very kind of you.'

Ambrose felt perfectly comfortable again,
so much so that he proceeded to relate
how the tablet had come to be placed, how
the different designs had been discussed,
how the secret had been kept from Mary
and the girls, until he had astonished
them a few Sundays ago.

'Ann wanted me to wait for you,' he

said ; ' but I wanted to surprise you ;
besides, it was necessary to get Wyatt's
promise. I'd have made the fellow take
off a heavy discount if I dare have trusted
him ; but the risk was too great. You
see, he has three votes ; he has three
separate properties in the borough.'

Charley smiled, but not pleasantly ; he
understood then why Mary had shirked
accompanying him to church.

The brothers parted on good terms, but
Charley excused himself from going on to
Bestminster for supper. When he saw his
sister-in-law and nieces again, nothing was
said on the subject of the tablet ; to the
Vicar, and to the Vicar only, could he tell
what he felt about it.

Society being split up into factions, and
being too small accordingly to bear It, the
summer was deprived of its pleasures.
The doctor's wife refused to meet the

lawyer's wife, the rival lawyers could not
be expected to join in festive gatherings ;
so the festive gatherings had to be given
up, and Charley found the time hang.
Even the grand excitement of dining at
Chivers Park could not last for ever — in
fact, it was the occasion of annoyance to
him. Young Chivers — the youth who in
years gone by had come to Bestminster
church to stare at Miss Latimer and suck
the varnish off his cane — had arrived intime
for the event, and, being older than
Charley and still a lieutenant, had felt
aggrieved at the other's superior luck,
though, being a man of the world — his
father's son — he did his best to be agreeable
to the guest of the evening over the
wine and cigars. When the ladies left the
dining-room he talked of schoolboy days,
cricket matches they had shared, and
other events of those early days.

Several names were mentioned between
them — names of contemporary boys and
girls, and their lives reviewed ; last of all,
Miss Latimer's.

I saw her as I drove through Bestminster,'
Mr. Chivers said. * By Jove !
she manages to grow handsomer as she
grows older, and she must be getting on.
She's older than you and me ; at least, she
used to be.'

Charley felt annoyed.

She must always be as handsome as
she is charming, at any age,' he said
stiffly.

He was vexed as soon as he had
spoken, for young Chivers looked at him
a look that spoke volumes — and then
changed the subject.

Such a delightful evening !' Ambrose
cried, as they drove home. * What a
charming girl Miss Chivers is ! Mind

VOL. III. 43

your heart, Charles. She's refused titles,
I'm told : and young Marmaduke — what
a fine fellow, to be sure I'

He was in great spirits, and every
now and then digged his wife in the ribs,
complimenting her upon her appearance
and manners, and giving her directions
about folding her new gown, so as to
prevent fresh creases, till Charley wondered
she didn't try to pitch him out of
the window.

He was annoyed again next day when,
on strolling into Mary's drawing-room, as
was becoming his daily custom, he found
Mr. Marmaduke Chivers seated there,
doing his best to fascinate her. Mary was
laughing and talking of former times, her
beautiful eyes brimful of fun ; shehad taken
the young man's measure long ago, and his
matured absurdities came out as he yielded
again to the fascination of her presence.

He rose to leave very soon after
Charley entered, refusing to stay for tea ;
and it was impossible not to infer that
his hasty departure was due to the newcomer's
arrival ; but as he was backing
out the garden way — Bestminster visits
were generally paid through back-gardens
in summer — he nearly knocked over Ann
and Jane, who were coming to arrange
for a picnic on the shore.

Ann had grown up into a pretty, fair,
dark-eyed girl. She had learnt to dress
becomingly, and she considered herself
decidedly above Bestminster folk. Her
visits to London had brought ' notions '
into her head, and it was her present aim
to impress everyone with a sense of her
superiority. Jane was her obedient slave,
but her father and mother were not so
easy to manage. She had certainly contrived
to twist and turn the old-fashioned

43—2

drawing-room furniture to suit the prevailing
fashion without much opposition ;
but every meal became a battle-ground
between her and her father, who would
not see the necessity of a huge plant in
the middle of the table. He said a dining-table
was for eatables, and eatables only,
and he liked to see his opposite neighbour,
and the opposite dish ; so the plant,
beginning in order in the middle of the
table, was frequently moved like a chess-man
during; the course of the meal, till it found the
only sate resting-place beside Ann's plate.

As young Mr. Chivers found himself
canning against this pretty damsel, and
discovered who she was, he felt it incumbent
on him to sit down again and atone
for his clumsiness. When he learnt her
errand, he beat about the bush for an
invitation, and as none was given, he
openly begged for it.

When the girls rose to go, having other
errands, he accompanied them.

Would anyone believe it ?' cried Mary,
as soon as they were out of hearing. ' Do
you recollect what a quiet little mouse she
was so short a time ago ? and I declare it
is killing to see her airs now !'

Over that blockhead, too,' Charley replied.
' Surely she wouldn't have anything
to say to him ?'

Don't be afraid ; she's only sharpening
her weapons upon him. Don't you see
how young Moore is attracted by her }'

'What, Ambrose's rival? — that would
never do !'

I'm not so sure of that ; he has great
expectations. Ambrose can pocket his
politics on occasion. Mr. Moore is a very
mild Liberal, too ; and when he becomes
a land-owner, he'll probably swim with
the tide.'

'Ann grown up, and with sweethearts
already !' Charley said meditatively. * How
old we must be getting !'

Thank you 1' she cried, with a gay
laugh; * speak for yourself. No,' she
added quietly, * I don't feel old, though 1
am older than you. I am beginning to
feel life is more enjoyable when youth and
its tantrums are over.'

He looked at her deliberately. It was
true she was older than himself, and he
was past thirty — an elderly man according
to novel-writers ; but there were no lines
or angularities yet about her sweet face ;
only, when it was in repose, a suspicion of
fine network under the eyes, a sign of hot
tear-storms of the not very distant past ;
but in the upturned, mischievous face
before him then, these faint traces were
invisible. There was the brightness and
bloom and beauty of maturity, untouched

by the least shadow of decline. As his
eyes rested upon it, satisfied with its
fairness, hers fell, and a deeper colour
mounted to her cheeks. At that moment
Mr. Marmaduke Chivers appeared at the
window opening to the garden.

I beg your pardon !' he cried, with provoking
earnestness, ' but Mr. Scott wants
Miss Latimer directly, and I volunteered
to bring the message.'

Then he turned round as if he felt he
had been there already too long a time,
and ran away.

Something about tomorrow's picnic!'
cried Mary, and Charley followed her to
his brother's house, wishing ' that fool
Chivers with his ridiculous inferences at
Jericho.'

AMBROSE SPEAKS.

For reasons already stated, it was impossible
to get up a good picnic ; but
Uncle Will and Charley thought their
own family party, with Miss Latimer and
two other lady friends, quite sufficient for
enjoyment, and now that Mr. Marmaduke
Chivers had promised to attend, Annie
gave up her objection to a picnic of such
moderate dimensions. Ambrose was to
join them at the place of meeting ; he was
going to economize the afternoon by looking
up two farmers on the way who were

of ticklish politics. So he started before
the rest, got up in his most impressive
manner with a top-hat whose age and
fashion were beyond the memory of his
daughters ; a large white waistcoat and
an alpaca coat for coolness, a pair of
black gloves (got at the last funeral he
had attended) and a roomy pair of sand-shoes
completed the costume.

Annie was in despair.

Mother,' she cried, ' don't let him go
such a sight, and his hair wants cutting.
How can he disgrace one so ? What will
young Mr. Chivers think .'^'

Her father turned and kissed a black-gloves
hand to his almost weeping
daughter.

I shall come and sit close to you, my
dear,' he said with a smirk ; ' then I shan't
be noticed by Marmaduke.'

The Vicar was more severe ; he arrived

just in time to hear the Httle passage of
arms.

You are a snob, Annie !' he exclaimed
' an undutiful snob too.'

She was very indignant ; up to now she
had had her own way in all the day's
arrangements. Her mother had allowed
her to pack up the best china tea-set
instead of the shabby odds and ends
usually considered good enough for picnics,
and that meek parent had consented
to be uncomfortable in her best bonnet
instead of wearing the flapping garden-hat
which would have prevented the necessity
of carrying a parasol. It was very hard
that at the last moment her father should
persist in making a guy of himself, and
that Uncle Will should lay the blame on
her.

There was another trial at starting. It
had been arranged that Mrs. Scott, the two

lady friends, and the twins should drive in
the Vicar s victoria, the twins on the box.
Mary would take Annie and Jane in her
pony phaeton, and Charley was to drive
the Vicar in a 2:12: from the hotel ; but when
Captain Scott drove up the Vicar vowed
he would not trust himself to the wall-eyed
beast Charley had got in the shafts.

I know him.' cried Uncle Will — * a
knock-kneed, bob-tailed, spavin-legged,
shying, kicking, roaring monster. Why
did you take him, Charley V

Charley vowed he was by no means a
monster, though his appearance was against
him. and that, monster or not, he was the
only beast to be had, all the others having
gone electioneering. Nevertheless, the
Vicar refused positively to sit behind him,
scolding Charley for not having made sure
of a decent animal in time.

Charley was vexed. He had looked

forward to the drive with his friend, and
he thought him rather absurd to make a
fuss about a beast merely because he was
ugly.

Well, well,' he said ; ' then make some
other arrangement. Who'll trust herself
to me ? I don't care to go alone ; it isn't
festive.'

Each of the girls volunteered, but their
mother looked alarmed, and Charley didn't
like to make her unhappy. Both the
friends were elderly, and the twins could
not, of course, go where their father would
not go himself. Mary saw Charley's
annoyed face, and, after a moment's
hesitation, proposed herself:

Mr. Chard knows my Bobby ; he can
drive him for me, and that will make it all
right. Will that do, Charley ?' she added.

Charley's face was bright again.

What a brick you are !' he said as he

buttoned the apron over her. * What's
come over Chard ? This poor old beast
hasn't enough spirit in him to do any
mischief; still, I'd rather go alone than
bring you into harm. I believe Chard
wanted to sit beside old Miss Brown.
Look I he's actually going to drive them,
and his man's to drive the girls.'

Annie was vexed again, especially as the
pony carriage was last in the little procession,
and got the dust of the carriages in
front. It was a lovely summer day. The
way lay through the clay country, across
great heaths, where the boundaries were of
gorse, and no trees grew but stunted pines
blown sideways by the prevailing wind,
until the low hills were reached, when the
wide sweep of land and sky, with the
delicious scents of ling and bracken and
gorse, its fresh strong breeze and its sense
of freedom, were exchanged for high-hedged

lanes running through highly cultivated
valleys, past villages that had looked
as they still looked hundreds of years ago
cottages standing in gardens aglow with
summer flowers, with open doors whereat
blue-eyed babies sprawled while comely
mothers knitting coarse stockings watched
them — till it reached another range of
hills whence the sea-breeze blew salt,
where the cottages took another stole of
architecture — shingled roofs and whitewashed
walls — and nets were hung to dry
over the low stone boundary walls. Then
came the dazzling coastguard houses, with
their spick-and-span surroundings, and then
only a large field of shoulder-high corn lay
between the visitors and the little bay
where they were to have tea.

Here the carriages and horses were to be
left, and here was the place of rendezvous.
Mr. Marmaduke Chivers was there awaiting

them, and not alone. His father, in a
white hat and buff waistcoat, was with him.

Thought his good friend Scott would
let him take the liberty of joining the
party — combine business and pleasure, talk
shop and inhale the briny — eh ?'

He assisted Mrs. Scott and the Miss
Browns out, and had complimentary
greetings for the girls ; but for Mary he
had only a bow.

He's come to look after you and
Marmaduke,' Charley said, using the old
schoolboy sarcasm. * If I were you I'd
make him very uncomfortable.'

But Mr. Chivers had said, as he and his
son noted the disposition of the advancing
party :

Now, you see, it is as I told you ; they
are always together ! don't let that woman
dike you in again.'

And the son had answered that he was

fully aware of the state of things, and was
not the sort of fellow to try for the unattainable.
And though he was ready to
hand her out of the somewhat high gig, he
did not linger by her, but had persuaded
the two orirls to start with him for the shore
before the carriages were fairly unpacked.

The Vicar was at Charley's side.

You are thinking me a coward he
said ; ' but that beast has a bad reputation.
And what would the lite lads do without
me ?'

The difficulty was to keep the poor old
thing going,' Charley replied ; ' but one
gets accustomed to queer horses in India,
and to anticipate their possible tricks ; and
do you suppose if I had had any doubts I
should have risked my life, much less
yours or Mary's ?'

Mary was taken possession of by the
two Miss Browns.

Only fancy Mr. Chivers coming !' said
one. ' How nice of him to ask himself!
though, of course, one wouldn't like to give
him an invitation as if he were one of our
set. Do keep by us, dear, for, you see, we
don't know him except to bow to, and we
don't want to push ourselves forward.'

You heard what he said so wittily ?'
said her sister. ' He wants a quiet talk
with Mr. Scott, no doubt, about this dreadful
election. Oh, I quite dread the
polling ; such roughs come to town, and
one's windows may be smashed.'

Not nowadays,' said Mary reassuringly ;
those times are gone by. I think it will
be rather fun.'

Ah, you have a fine gallant officer to
protect you. We are two poor unprotected
old maids — in the High Street, too ! And,
dear Miss Latimer, don't think us im-vol.

III. 44

pertinent ; but Sophy and I are dying to
know when it is to be ?'

What ?' Mary said in all unconsciousness.


The happy day, you know — your
marriage with Major Charles, V.C

Mary's face crimsoned. Toompy and
Toompty were close beside them, eagerly
listening to the conversation.

Run along, old boys,' she said first ; * I
dare say aunty wants you to carry something.'
Then she replied : ' What can have
put such a preposterous notion into your
head 1 Don't you know I am years older
than Major Scott } We have been good
friends for years — nothing more.'

Miss Brown's face fell.

But, my dear,' she cried, ' everyone
says so, and no one would guess you
were older — everyone is pleased with the
match.'

How kind of everyone !' Mary cried
indignantly.

Not at all !' Miss Sophy exclaimed in
good faith. ' Of course everyone is interested
in you both — both so amiable and
handsome, and highly connected too, I'm
sure ; and how we shall miss you !'

My dear Miss Brown,' Mary exclaimed
in despair, ' pray contradict everybody at
once — pray do ! I assure you, on my
honour, neither of us have a thought for
each other beyond friendship.'

The two elderly ladies could not help
being impressed.

Well, I never !' one said.

I ani disappointed !' cried the other ;
and then silence fell, each busy with her
own thoughts, and Mary's face was still
crimson when the whole party met on the
shore.

Mr. Chivers acted rather as a kill-joy ;

44—2

but for his presence Ann would have released
her chin from the hot bonnet-strings,
and would have made sure at once
that none of the best china was the worse
for the journey. The Vicar and Charley
would have rounded the point and had a
swim, and the twins would have paddled.
As it was, Mr. Chivers having flung himself
down and commenced throwing stones
into the water, everyone felt bound to
follow suit. Aunt Ann could not be
coaxed away to attend the boys, and conversation
became rather difficult.

In my young days,' the great man
exclaimed, ' we used to have a song about
the sea, by Mrs. Hemans. I'll try and
remember it for you. Every verse ends,
'restore the dead, thou sea," but I am
not so sure of the beginning of the poem.'

No one tried to help him ; he was the
only one present who saw the inappro-

greatness of the quotation. If ever Ann
hailed her husband's appearance with delight
she hailed it now, as he was seen
approaching, and the unfortunate allusion
was set aside.

My good friend Scott !' Mr. Chivers
cried, rising to his feet. ' Ladies, you
will excuse us for a few minutes ;' and
scarcely allowing the new-comer time to
say ' How do you do ?' to the rest, heled
him away, and kept him in earnest
conversation.

With his withdrawal, all the others
started up and moved about as if greatly
relieved, but he had left his sting behind
him. All Charley's gaiety had gone ; the
words of the poem, which had gone from
his memory for years, came back with the
chance allusion, to torture and haunt him
just when life was looking fair again ;
while to Mary it came as a second thorn

in the day's misadventures, adding sadness
to anger. In vain she amused the twins,
and took part in the girls' fun — fatigue
was the only result ; and just as the sound
of the waves struck like death-bells on
Charley's heart, reawakened to regret, soit
brought to her more vividly than ever
that yearning for the dead which shuts out
all other desires and blinds the eyes to all
present happiness.

When the men came back from bathing,
tea was ready. Marmaduke Chivers and
Annie had cut the bread and butter, and
Mr. Chivers and his lawyer had finished
their talk. Charley stopped on his way
up the beach to help Mary put the
twins' shoes and stockings on, while the
Vicar stood laughing at the young man's
awkwardness. Mary was on her knees
wiping the sandy little feet, and the two
men smiled as the lite boys patted her

face lovingly and confided to her all their
experiences amongst the rocks. Suddenly
Toompty looked up at his father.

• Daddy,' he said, ' who is Major
Charlesvycy that she's going to marry,
Miss Brown says ?'

Not Miss Brown s going to marry
Major Charlesvycy,' Toompy corrected ;
but Miss Latimer's going to marry him,
Miss Brown says. Who is Major ,
daddy ?'

There was an instant's awful pause. Mr.
Chard recovered himself first.

Little boys mustn't gossip,' he said.
Miss Brown wouldn't like to have her
words repeated.'

I told Toompy you didn't like gossiping,'
Toompty cried, turning on his little
brother; 'but, daddy, who is Major 
?'

One, two, three, four, five !' cried

Charley, watching a stone he had sent
skipping upon the water ; ' and there's
Marmalade eating up all the cake — only
don't say I called him that, there's good
boys.'

Which was a stroke of genius that
drove Major Charlesvycy out of their
heads, and made the little fellows rejoice
over the enormous joke.

Then the three elders looked at each
other and laughed ; how thankful Mary was
to be able to laugh naturally ! and so they
all went up to where the tea was spread on
the highest part of the beach in good spirits.

What's the joke ?' Ambrose asked.

The Vicar met the question with
another.

Did Farmer Norway promise his vote ?'
he said.

And thus the conversation turned upon
the all-absorbing subject of electioneering.

After tea they went up through the
cornfields again, combing till they reached
the edge of the great headland of St.
Ewald's ; there each twin was captured and
held tight by Ann and the Vicar, lest they
should venture too near ; while Ambrose
laughed at the precaution, declaring he had
often gone down the face of the cliff in
search of eggs and samphire, when he was
scarcely older than they were.

Marmaduke protested that he had also
often scaled the cliff, and would do it then
if anyone would dare him.

Upon which Mrs. Scott and her girls
implored him not to be rash, appealing to
his father to forbid any such attempt.

Merely to look down the height was
sufficient to turn even a strong head giddy :
far far beneath lay the sea, too far off for
the sound of its summer rippling to reach
to the cliff-top ; in mid air gray and

white gulls floated, their unmusical cries
pleasantly softened by the distance ; andover
all was the sweet indescribable fragrance
of wild thyme, ripening corn, and
dried grass borne on the soft wind, while
the blue sky of day was changing into the
golden radiance of evening.

The younger portion of the party strolled
along the top of the headland to where a
ruined chapel stood, raised by the monks
when they ruled over the neighbourhood,
where daily prayers were once sung for
the safety of all seafarers, and where a
nightly lamp was kept burning by a watchful
brother to guide the fishermen home.
And there they stood and moralized, as
youth is wont, over the vanished forms
and the bygone times, and wished they
could for a moment pierce through the
mist of three hundred years and see the
great hospitable monastery, with its wealth

of ricks and orchards and cornfields, its
ponds well stocked with fish, its beeves
and cows and sheep, and hear the chaunt
rise up in the still evening air, and see the
building all aglow with light.

Of all the substantial house, what remained
? Only a wing — the Prior's wing,
converted into a comfortable farmhouse.
The chapel, whereon a broken cross still
stood, was a barn ; the goodly ponds were
half filled up, and afforded scanty swimming
for farmhouse ducks ; while the
little chapel on the cliff would not afford
a shelter now from the rain.

I wish,' Annie said, ' we could see the
monk trimming the lamp. I wonder if he
were a nice young monk, like Dore's monk
at the organ ?'

No !' Marmaduke Chivers exclaimed.
Believe me, he would be a dirty, greasy
old fellow, ignorant even of the meaning

of the prayers he sang. I don't want to
see the monk, but I should like to see the
people who lived in our house at that time.
I expect I shouldn't be proud of my
ancestors. What dull, narrow lives they
must have led !'

That's what will be said of our lives
three hundred years hence,' Mary said,
when people are flying instead of walking,
and electricity has annihilated distance,
and atmospheres can be made to order to
surround neighbourhoods and prevent the
trouble of travelling, and everyone can
speak all languages, and an uneducated
person is unknown. They, too, will
wonder how we got through existence.'

I would rather see ahead than backward
!' Charley exclaimed. ' I should like
to know what another century will bring
forth.'

I can tell you !' cried Marmaduke. ' It

will bring us to dust and ashes ; but there
will be a little heap of stones here, and
down there the sea will be exactly as it is
now, and the gulls will be flying and crying
just as they do now.'

I can't believe in a world without me !'
Annie cried.

Marmaduke looked on the fair girlish
face aglow in the sunset light, and murmured,
so that only she could hear the
words, ' Neither can I !' and the glow on
her cheeks intensified as she turned away.

Holloa !' cried a voice from the foot of
the slope. ' Time's up. We are waiting !'

Chard, are you coming with me ?'
Charles asked, as they reached the lite
group ready for a start. ' You see, the
monster goes quietly enough.'

Isn't Miss Latimer to return with
you V

Charley turned and looked at Mary,

who was packing the twins up on the box
of the victoria.

She only came because you wouldn't,'
he answered.

The Vicar made a significant movement
of brow and lips.

Better ask her first, though,' he said.

Can't congratulate you on your horseflesh,
Major!' Mr. Chivers exclaimed,
coming up with his arm through his own
horse's bridle. ' I know that beast ; he's
up to every trick under the sun.'

So Chard thinks,' Charley replied.
But he came quietly — nothing lion-like
about him but his roaring. He may have
been kittenish once, but very long ago.'

Now, Miss Latimer,' young Chivers
was meantime saying, * Bucephalus is
waiting.'

How are we going 1' she asked, not of
him, but of Ambrose.

Now, Miss Latimer,' Charley called
out, 'are we to go as we came? Here's
Chard frightened of my Rosinante again.
Dare you trust yourself to her supposed
wickedness ?'

Of course she dare I' Mr. Chi vers said
sotto voce to Ambrose. ' Didn't I tell you
she meant to have him, eh, years ago ?
My words have come true, haven't they ?'

My dear sir !' Ambrose cried, gazing
confusedly around. ' Who — what ?'

Mr. Chivers shook his riding-whip.

Ah !' he cried, * you lawyers admit
nothing that isn't " signed, sealed and
delivered " — is that how it goes ? But
the lawyers are not always sharper than
other men, eh ? Why, it was the talk of
the place last week. Sly fellow ! you know-all
about the snug little investments, eh 'f

Mary had gone to the side of the

gig-i'll

do just as you like,' she said. ' I'm
certainly not afraid of that old thing.'

'Then up you go said Charley, 'and
we'll start at once.'

He stood smiling by the horse, the reins
in one hand, while Mr. Chard assisted her
to mount. Behind them were the other
carriages, in which the rest of the party
were seating themselves, Mr. Chivers holding
his own and his son's horses, when a
little boy came running down from the
coastguard cottages to see the departure,
and as he reached the scene he raised an
old trumpet to his lips and blew a discordant
blare. In an instant Charley felt
the reins jerked from his grasp, he received
a violent blow on his shoulder, and Mary
was seen disappearing at the mercy of the
maddened horse.

Mr. Chard flew after, and Charley,
recovering from the shock of the unexpected

blow, ran with him, Mr. Chivers
and his son bringing up the rear. A few
moments of intense anxiety were passed,
and then the loose reins became entangled
in the frightened beast's legs, and he fell
headlong, the shafts breaking as they
struck the ground. With the lightness of
a bird Mary leaped from her perilous
position as the horse stumbled, and when
the others came up they found her
trembling and hysterical indeed, but
totally unhurt.

The girls and the twins began to cry,
and the Miss Browns wept with them.
The men busied themselves with the
horse, and Ann went between the two
groups, bewailing inwardly, as was her
wont, while seemingly unperturbed and
emotionless. But when the trembling
beast was raised, and the broken gig
turned to one side to wait till morning, it

VOL. III. 45

was seen that Charley's hurt was serious,
and though he made light of it and protested
against being treated as incapable,
he could hardly bear the motion of the
carriage which conveyed him home ; and
the doctor, whom Ambrose insisted on
fetching, looked serious and talked of
broken ribs and a dislocated shoulder.
His sister-in-law remained with him at the
cottage, and in the middle of the night,
when he lay fevered and sleepless, she was
beside him with soothing hand and cool
drink and calm, low voice. He was
slightly delirious at times, and called her
Janie and Mary, sometimes going through
the scene with the bolting horse, sometimes
repeating the epitaph in Normington
Church. Now and then he went through
scenes as if he was on parade, and often
rambled on in words she did not understand,
but supposed them to be Hindu-stance

; but in two or three days he was
so far recovered as to go downstairs and
receive visitors.

Mary went with the girls, and for the
first time in their Ives he and she met
with constraint.

It was entirely my own fault,' he said,
as she condoled with him. ' I am only
thankful I got punished, and not you. I
thought I knew best, though everyone
warned me about trusting the beast — serve
me jolly well right!'

But I believe Mary was hurt too !'
Annie exclaimed ; ' she shivered and
shook, and didn't sleep all night, and
looked like a host for ever so long:.
Now, Mary, it is true ; cook told me so ;
she heard you in your room moving about
all night, and you've scarcely eaten anything
since, cook said.'

Stupid fool, I am !' he repeated. ' But

45—2

you are all right now, Mary ; you look uncommonly
well !'

Of course I'm all right. Naturally I
was a little bit startled when I felt myself
carried off like a whirlwind, but I held onto
the side ; I remembered it was best to
cling on and not attempt to jump out ; but
when the horse fell, I knew that was my
best plan, lest he should begin to kick.'

You showed the finest acrobatic skill,'
he said, laughing. ' I never felt frightened
before in all my life. Dear me, what an
ass I was ! Girls, go and see if there are
any strawberries left, and we'll send for
some cream and have a feast. Would you
like to go too, Mary, or will you take compassion
on me and stay here ?'

I do believe,' said Jane confidentially
to her sister, as they bent together over
the strawberry-bed — * I do believe those
two are flirting.'

Of course they are. Where are your
eyes, child ?' Annie exclaimed, with the
superior experience of her sixteen months'
seniority.

But,' added the other with a little hesitation,
as if she felt her words to be rather
traitorous — ' but don't you think she is justa
little bit of an old maid, you know ? Of
course she is pretty still, and delightful, and
all that ; but she is older than he is, you
know, and he's over thirty ! Jane, don't
you remember when he first came home —
years ago, when you and I were mere girls
he told us he used to adore her when
he was a schoolboy? Well, we thought he
was making fun of us ; but you may depend
upon it it wasn't all pretence, though
poor Aunt Janie was alive then.'

If you eat so many, Annie, there'll be
none left to take in,' cried Jane in parenthesis.
' I wonder if she would marry

him. It would be rather nice for us,
wouldn't it ?'

And Mr. Marmaduke Chivers said
yesterday,' Annie continued, ' that everyone
thought they were engaged. Of
course we shall be bridesmaids ; let's think
what we shall wear.'

Meanwhile the two old friends were
talking commonplaces. He was telling
her how constantly Ambrose visited him
to see whether he would be well enough
to record his vote ; how each day some
member of the Chivers family called with
the same end in view, veiled under hothouse
flowers and grape offerings ; and
she described the increasing excitement
in the little town, the nightly open-air
gatherings in the market-place, the inflated
speeches first on one side, then on the
other, the extraordinary promises Bootle
scattered broadcast to ' the noble constituents

of the renowned borough,' and how
very close the struggle would be. The
Chivers family had held the place so long
that it had come to be considered by them
almost as a right ; but Bootle was a formidable
rival, and Ambrose trembled in
his shoes, while he professed to despise
Bootle as a charlatan.

So Annie might have spared herself the
violent fit of coughing with which she
thought it right to herald her approach.
Mary, all unconscious, ran and prepared a
little table, going here and there to fetch
the necessary things, and then picking the
ripest and finest fruit, crushing and
sweetening it, and covering it with cream,
ready for the invalid's enjoyment.

I thought you were going to have it
yourself,' he cried; 'no, I really won't be
spoilt in this way' — nevertheless he took
it and ate it gleefully. ' I shall keep up

this farce of being on the sick-Hst/ he said,
smacking his lips. ' I shall soon require
feeding with a spoon, and it won't be right
to leave me alone

The Vicar came in, but too late for the
feast. He had come to propose Charley
should be removed to the Vicarage for
the election.

Your vote can't be spared he said ;
and it won't be too much for you to crawl
from my house to record it, so I propose
to fetch you tomorrow, and you'll get a
rest before the next great day.'

And Charley, who was getting tired of his
imprisonment, readily consented. Ambrose
highly approved of the plan, only he would
have preferred to have had his brother as
his own guest. Mr. Scott was very serious
and reticent as to the probable issue of the
fight ; to hear him speak of Bootle, one
would have imagined a very antichrist,

and from his words, not only the welfare
of Bestminster, but of the whole Christian
world, appeared to depend upon the
return of Mr. Chivers to represent the
borough.

There was a show of hands for Mr.
Bootle at the nomination, and the Bootle-its
were so far triumphant. ' The beautiful
summer evening was given up to the
wildest debauchery,' in Ambrose's opinion ;
that is to say, the bar at Mr. Bootle's
headquarters was crowded by men who
drank without being asked for pay, and
Mr. Bootle had a supper-party for the
patrician supporters of his cause. Next
day at one o'clock Mr. Bootle headed
the poll ; but then there were several
small farmers who would not come to town
till after their early dinner, who were on
Mr. Chivers' side, and if they all to a man
recorded as they had promised, Mr. Chivers

would have a chance. There were also
several townspeople, on whose word neither
side relied, who delighted in waiting till
the last moment before the poll was closed,
and then often with provoking obstinacy-refused
to vote at all. It was to these
unamiable beings Ambrose looked for help,
and plotted to secure them in an unexpected
and masterful manner by the help
of his unwitting brother.

Charley would have gone and recorded
his name early, so as to get it over ; but
Ambrose kept him back with one excuse
or another till the poll looked serious.
Bootle was five ahead, and all on whom
Mr. Chivers could rely except Charley had
voted for him.

Bootle's friends were wildly exultant.
The streets rang with their congratulatory
shouts, and the hustings was already
thronged with his supporters in a high

State of excitement, when Charley, walking
slowly, and leaning on the Vicar's arm,
came up just ten minutes before the poll
must be declared for the last time. In
these last few minutes it had got about
no one professed to know how — that
the Major s wounds, received in fighting
his country's battles, had burst out afresh ;
that the doctor, acting upon orders from
the War Office, had refused to allow him
to leave his bed on peril of losing all the
blood in his body ; but that the patriotic
warrior had sworn he would rather lose
every drop of blood he possessed than see
his beloved native place — the place for
which he would gladly die — represented
by a Radical ' — and as he, with his face
paled by confinement to the house and his
left arm in a sling, came up to the crowd
round the hustings, smiling here and there
as he recognised a familiar face, there arose

a perfect furore of enthusiasm over him.
Make way for the Major !' ' Well done,
our Major!' 'Here's the right sort for
Parliament !' ' The Queen gave him the
best Victoria Cross she had !' ' He's been
in dozens of battles !' * He's the chap to lead
us against the Rooshans when they tries
to take the Indies!' 'Who's he going to
vote for ? Can't do better than vote for
him !' 'He won't go to Parliament ; the
army can't spare him !' ' Hooray for our
Major! I'll vote with our Major!' — were a
few of the cries that greeted him, and
Charley rose to the occasion and took full
advantage of it.

There's just time !' he cried aloud.
Let's return a man we know — a man who
lives amongst us, a man our fathers trusted
and returned time after time. Come on,
or we shall be too late !'

Thus the scale was turned at the last

instant, and Chivers headed the poll ; but
his honours were dimmed at the supreme
moment of victory, for Charley carried
off the honour of the day. The crowd,
pleased with a new sensation, left the rivals
to speechify from the hustings, and accompanied
* their Major ' back to the Vicarage,
shouting, cheering, and dancing, till he
stood on the doorstep, when, thanking
them for their good wishes, he begged them
to use their victory soberly and disperse
quietly. ' There could be no beer given
them that day for fear of bribery being

urged against them,' he added; 'but '

A significant nod finished the speech in a
way not difficult to interpret.

The twins were trembling behind the
sofa when the gentlemen came into the
Vicarage dining-room.

Is they gone ?' said Toompy.

Has they gone ?' said Toompty. * You

mustn't say *' is they," Toompy. And are
the Liveries the wonders ? We've been
so frightened, daddy.'

When they heard all was as they wished
it to be, they retired behind the sofa again
to pin on their rosettes.

We thought we'd take 'em off,' they
exclaimed, * in case it was Bootle ! Now,
daddy, may we have the feast ?'

Ah, yes,' said the Vicar gravely.
Charley, I promised them a treat if our
side won, and they had the spending of
a whole sixpence all by themselves. But
don't you think you should fetch your
cousins first, boys ?'

Toompy looked at his brother, and the
latter, after some consideration, spoke up.

'You see,' he said, ' Annie and Jane are
big girls, and '11 eat a lot, and we want you
and the Major to eat the most '

And drink,' interrupted Toompy.

And drink,' repeated the other ; '' and
we didn't get such a big lot for sixpence as
we expected we should.'

All right,' said their father. ' Then
look sharp and usher in the banquet.'

The two men had only time to exchange
smiles before the boys were back again,
the one carrying a tray, the other two glass
jugs.

Oh, I say !' cried Charley, ' these two
fellows have a design on us ! What's the
wine, boys }'

It's ginger-beer — two whole bottles !'
cried Toompy proudly. ' We decanted it
to let the fizz settle. It makes your noses
so uncomfortable if you don't let the fizz
stop first. But no dust has got in, Major ;'
and he showed a very dirty pinafore covering
the jugs. ' Would you mind lending
us the best wineglasses, daddy .-^ It looks
lovely in wineglasses.'

All right,' said the Vicar. ' How long
has it been decanted ?'

Oh, ever since we bought it — directly-after
breakfast. It's just prime now. Now
look at the cakes.'

First was exhibited a sponge-cake, cut
into jagged pieces ' to look pretty.'

That's threepence,' said Toompty.
Ginger - beer, twopence ; sponge - cake,
one penny — that's threepence. Then this
bun, one penny — fourpence. Some of the
currants dropped out when it fell, so we
ate them ; for, you know, we couldn't stick
them in again, could we ? Then here's
shrimps, one penny — that's fivepence.
Ain't they lovely shrimps ? If you don't
eat the heads, do you mind giving them
back again to us ? There's a lot of juice
in the heads. And now look here !'

Both lite faces were bright with
admiration as they exhibited their last

purchase. It had once been a large jam
puff, but severity of treatment had destroyed
its fair proportions.

There !' Toompty cried. ' What do
you think of that for a penny ? and that's
sixpence. It is really a twopenny puff,
but there was a rude boy in the shop,
laughing at something or other, and he
knocked up against this and it fell down
and was nearly squashed ; and the woman
scolded him and said now she would have
to sell it at half-price, so I took Toompy
outside and asked him if he thought she
really meant it, and he said " Yes ;" and
we went in and asked her if she would
really take one penny for it, and she said
Yes." And she gave us a sweet each
without pay at all. Now, don't you call
this famous }'

And the two gentlemen valiantly attacked
the delicacies prepared for them —

VOL. III. 46

shrimps and all — and swallowed the tepid
liquid, toasting their little companions in
speeches that made the little lads shout
with laughter.

Later on the victorious member, with
his lawyer beaming beside him, came into
offer his * most grateful thanks to his
gallant friend.'

Charley disclaimed all merit. It was
no wisdom of his that had turned the
scale, he protested — merely the folly of
others.

Whatever it was, Mr. Chivers explained
pompously, to it he owed his
return. It was one more good turn of the
many good turns he owed to the name of
Scott.

Ambrose complimented the speaker on
his wit.

In fact, I was a cat's-paw,' Charley
added, shaking his fist at his brother.

Let me confess I was sorely tempted for
the moment to play trick for trick and
vote for Bootle !'

Good Lord !' cried Mr. Chi vers, ' you
surely never harboured such an awful
thought ?'

I did, indeed said Charley.

Tell you what it is,' INIr. Chivers continued,
' I shall begin to be afraid of you,
Major, as a possible rival. I verily believe
they would have sent you to Parliament if
you had chosen to ask them.'

The truth of the matter is, sir,' Charley
said, ' the whole thing was the work of
someone else.'

Ah, well,' Mr. Chivers cried, rising to
go, and holding Charley's hand as he
spoke, * you are fortunate — fortunate in
love and war, eh ? Now, take care of
yourself, and always believe I am very
deeply in your debt.'

46 — 2

Ambrose seemed ready to weep over
this.

I never gave my brother-in-law credit
for such a stroke of genius,' the Vicar
said, when the visitors had departed. ' So
you think he laid the train, and you merely
exploded it unconsciously ? Well, he's a
queer mixture.'

Ambrose came back again late in the
evening ; the Vicar was out, and the
brothers smoked together. From talking
of the events of the day they went on to
matters of individual interest.

Ambrose had been lucky in a money
investment for Charley, and after telling
him about it, he repeated Mr. Chi vers'
remark about the young man's luck in love
and war.

Charles,' he said, addressing him without
looking at him, ' are you never going
to marry again ?'

There was no answer.

I think you ought to feel I have a very
deep interest in you,' he continued, ' and I
own I feel hurt when I am congratulated
about an engagement you are supposed to
have made, while I remain in perfect
ignorance about it'

Charley put down his cigar.

It was always the way here !' he cried,
somewhat angrily. ' No man can speak
to a girl but they are set down as engaged.
You ought to know the worth of Bestminster
gossip by this time.'

Yes. but this is more than speaking a
foolish word, Charles. What more natural,
when a man attaches himself to one lady
indoors and out of doors, and at all times
and places, than for outsiders to suppose
he means to marry her ?'

Charley shrugged his 'shoulders.

Of course I guess who " the lady" is !'

he exclaimed. ' She and I are old friends.
Surely we may be let alone to take care of
ourselves !'

You can afford to let people say what
they like,' Ambrose continued. ' You are
here to-day and gone tomorrow, as it were ;
but she is different, and I for one don't
like to hear her made the subject of
impertinent talk. The world judges as it
sees, Charles ; it never considers.'

Charley took up his cigar and smoked
on in silence.

'And it's not merely the talk of now,'
his brother added ; ' for when you were first
here as a married man, I heard disagreeable
things regarding your intimacy with her.'

Charley threw his cigar out of the window
and turned round upon his brother.

Look out !' he cried. ' You are speaking
without considering what you are
saying.'

Ambrose faced him bravely.

I repeat,' he said, ' when you were here
as a married man your intimacy — which, of
course, I know was perfectly that of brother
and sister — was nevertheless spoken of
disagreeably to my certain knowledge.'

By whom ?'

Now, Charles, be calm and sensible. I
refuse to say by whom. You must believe
what I say. I don't speak to stir up strife,
but to establish that kindly confidence which
ought to exist between us.'

Very well, then, let's have it. Do you
mean to infer that / have compromised
her name, or that I am engaged to her
without your knowledge .'^ — or what is
it?'

I have been told by several people that
an ensfao^ement exists between you, and
that it has always been expected, and that
you were believed always to have had a

leaning towards her — nothing more, mind
even as a married man.'
And you think so, too ?'

I ? No. I am quite convinced you
have been an honest man in thought and
deed — a very sincere mourner for a very
much-loved wife. Good husbands are proverbial
in our family, Charles. I have
given the matter much consideration before
I presumed to interfere. Now answer a
plain question : Are you engaged ?'

Most emphatically no !'
Ambrose shook his head.

Well, then,' he said, after a pause, ' I
think you ought to be.'

Does Ann think so ?'

Ann is sure to think as I do.'

Does Chard think so ?'

Here is William to speak for himself,'
said Ambrose, as the Vicar let himself in
and joined them.

Charley stood up, facing the two.

Here is Ambrose,' he said, addressing
the Vicar, 'accusing me of wrong-doing — I
think wrongfully. Will you be good enough
to answer a question ? Have you heard a
report concerning me and any lady in this
confounded place ?'

What sort of a report ?'

Now, don't fence, Chard. Out with it.
I want to understand what is expected of
me. Have you ?'

Well, then, yes.'

A disparaging report ?'

On the contrary ;' and he sighed.

Did you ever hear a disparaging report
?'

What do you call disparaging ?'

Well, to be plain, did you ever hear me
accused of undue flirtation as a married
man ?'

The Vicar looked at his brother-in-law,

from whom, Indeed, he had heard Mr.
Chivers' impertinence.

What is the use of stirring up old mud ?'
he said.

Charley sat down and deliberately lighted
a fresh cigar.

It must be pleasant for her if she hears
it,' he said at last. ' And, by Jove ! Chard,
do you remember what one of your boys
said at the picnic ^ Even he must have
heard it ! But she didn't seem to mind —
she laughed, didn't she ?'

What should she mind ?' Ambrose exclaimed.
' Ain't you a good match for
anyone ? Besides, she's such a kind, good
soul — and — she's one of your fortunate
ones, too. Her investments are wonderfully
good !'

The Vicar and Charley looked at each
other and laughed, and Ambrose rose
to go.

Charles,' he said, as he bade goodnight,
' I am glad of this little talk with
you. We are the only two of the name.
We mustn't misunderstand each other —
can't afford that.'

Charley took up the day's newspaper
when his brother had gone.

Nothing but those elections !' he cried,
tossing it aside after glancing over the
contents. ' Day after day, nothing but
electioneering. I shall be glad when this
one idea is worn out.'

And yet in that hastily-dismissed paper,
in small type in a corner, crowded out by
politics, which just then ruled all men's
minds and engrossed all men's thoughts,
unseen as it happened by those it most
nearly concerned, was a brief account of
the * extraordinary survival on a desert
island of a portion of the crew of the
ill-fated ses. Elephanta, which was wrecked

some four years ago on her passage from
Bombay to Aden, their rescue being effected
by a native trading boat

Nor did anyone in Bestminster on that
day of turmoil and excitement notice it
either. Charley's elbow rested upon it ashe
talked of what was uppermost in his
thoughts. Chard was the most intimate
friend he had, and to him he talked as he
talked to no other. Major Scott was very
modest about himself. He could not suppose
Mary would marry him if he asked
her. He thought she would laugh at him,
and at any report which had reached her.
Besides, he could not pretend to feel a
lover's warmth, and she was not a woman
to be content with lukewarm affection.
Hadn't her lip curled many a time at
Ambrose's treatment of Ann ? and yet
Ambrose called himself an excellent husband.
How could he go to her and say.

Everyone says we ought to marry ; therefore
we had better do so ' ? And yet in
his heart he had no other reason for making
her an offer of marriage.

Mr. Chard Hastened patiently ; but
believed if once Charley was engaged
warm love would come ; it was impossible
he, with his ardent temperament
and domestic tastes, would be happy to
remain solitary, and the Vicar firmly
believed he had always had Mary's affection
; he recollected vividly meeting heron
the heath soon after the young man's
sorrow, and her sadness and evident
suffering on his behalf, as the Vicar supposed
; so he considered it no breach of
delicacy to mention the episode when
Charley doubted she would accept him.
Yes, Charley, too, remembered how she
had drooped during that time, and how
often her eyes showed signs of tears ;

and then aofain the Vicar had written
him word of her renewed youth when
his return to England was talked of.
Charley had forgotten long ago those
suspicions he had harboured when he
had surprised her at the cottage weeping
over the photographs ; so Mr. Chard's
opinion came with power.

He meditated through a sleepless night
as to what should be done, and the more
he meditated the more he felt something
must be done, and that something could
be only one thing.

Why should he hesitate '^. She was
handsome, accomplished, most amiable
and true ; she would be a wife who
would help him in his career — a wife to
be proud of. Then he thought of the
girlish wife of the past, hanging on his
words, living only on his smiles — a wife
to be fond of. There was the difference;

he had never looked up to Janie — how
could he ? — he had never associated the
name of helpmeet with her ; yet she had
wound herself so completely round his
heart that her very helplessness and dependence
were as strong links to draw her
closer.

Mary would never require help in her
management ; probably she would resent it.
She would be ambitious for him, would
goad him to fresh exertions to climb in
his career. Janie had thought him already
a very Alexander, and would have grudged
the fame that took him from her ; and then
in his fitful snatches of sleep he heard the
swish of waters, and saw a pale face tossing
to and fro ; and as he fairly awoke he told
himself a second wife was for him an impossibility.


so DOES HIS BROTHER.

But with the morning the tumult of his
thoughts subsided, and there remained as
the one thing incumbent upon him the
necessity of giving Mary the choice of
laughing at him or accepting him. In all
the chaos of his mind that stood forth imperative
and clear. He had been accused
of trifling with the affections of a woman
he respected above all other women ; he
must at least give her the chance of being
able to refute that slander, and thus he
appeared at breakfast with the air of one
who has determined to do some desperate

deed. He had dressed himself with more
than his usual care — even the twins
noticed that, and told each other in a loud
whisper that he had got his best Sunday-clothes
on.

The Vicar read a psalm of which one
verse, ' He cometh forth as a bridegroom
out of his chamber,' made him involuntarily
glance at his guest.

Charley felt the inference, and gave an
additional twist to the waxed ends of his
moustache.

You are a profane man !' he said when
prayers were over and they were breakfasting
; but that was all that was said
by either on the subject in both their
minds.

Charley's lounge through the streets to
his brother's was interrupted at every turn,
and almost at every door. He was looked
upon as the hero of the election ; even the

VOL. III. 47

Opponents grinned as they saluted him in
passing ; he was universally credited with
the success of the day, nor could his earnest
disclaimers make anyone think otherwise.

He was a chip of the old block.*
Never a Scott at a loss for a winning
throw.' ' Catch a weasel asleep, but never
a Scott.' ' Mr. Chivers would have been
nowhere but for the clever Major.' ' He
was as sharp as his sword, and all the
world knew how sharp that was.'

And then, as luck would have it, Miss
Latimer came into view, and the tradesmen
surrounding him became suddenly
silent, then begged pardon for detaining
him, and bowed themselves off, as if feeling
very much In the way. He advanced
to meet her with the comfortable conviction
that at every window on both sides
were observant eyes, but she was perfectly
self-possessed.

See the conquering hero comes !'
she said saucily as they met. * I heard
you were unable to walk to give your
vote yesterday, without Mr. Chard's
arm, and here you are quite jaunty and
brave.'

It had seemed such a straightforward,
easy thing to tell his old friend he desired
a closer tie than that of friendship should
unite them, but now they were face to face
he was utterly unable to begin the new
role.

How had he made Janie understand ?
Ah, that had come about naturally ; words
had been unnecessary ; their lives had
come together as twin streams meeting in
the ocean ; but now, though his mind was
made up, though he had taken thought for
his appearance, and though he had distinctly
assured himself the thing must and
should be done, he felt like a boy who,

47—2

having a favour to ask, cannot find words
to express himself.

She talked on for them both, as he
turned with her and walked by her side
up the street and out on the road leading
to a hamlet where she was going.

'When is the sling to be left off?' she
asked. ' I believe you are keeping it on
because it looks interesting ; it certainly
answered yesterday. Whose dodge was
it — yours, Mr. Chard's, or your brother's ?'

Certainly not mine.'

She looked up at him, surprised by the
curtness of his tone, adding quickly :

Well, it was a bold stroke of genius,
whoever planned it. Do you know, Mr.
Scott has given his wife and the girls a
sovereign each in the joy of his heart. I
wish you could have seen the air with
which he presented it ; he'll consider them
flush of money for ever.'

Charley laughed, hardly knowing why.

Then it struck her he was accompanying
her under a sense of duty, and she
said :

I dare say you ought not to walk far
yet, so I shall say " Good-bye " for the
present. I shall be some time at the
joiner's. You know, I am going to make
my veranda much deeper, and I want him
to understand the proportions thoroughly.
He's a happy-go-lucky workman, but I
employ him for his nice little wife's
sake.'

On this he thought he saw an opening,
and spoke accordingly.

Going to build, are you ? But surely
you don't mean to live here always T

He could get no further.

Why not ?' she cried. ' Bestminster is
home to me ; besides, it is a conveniently
safe distance from my sister Alice. I am

very fond of all my nephews and nieces,
but if I lived near, I should be expected
to have them at all times and seasons.
My house wouldn't be my own.'

Again there was a block. He gave his
moustache a final twist of anxiety as she
stood still to say good-bye.

Poor fellow !' she said ; ' you do look
poorly. You want beef-tea and all sorts
of good things. Shall I give up my
errand and walk back with you ?'

Her face was soft with sympathy and
kindness ; the difficulty of speaking out
suddenly disappeared.

Mary,' he said eagerly, ' I want to ask
you something, and am afraid to offend
you. I want to ask you to be my
wife.'

She turned, and went on, walking slowly
towards the hamlet, and he kept pace
with her. Her head was bent down, and

he could not see her face, but her voice
told how agitated she was when she
presently answered :

Because of all these silly reports ?'

He replied truthfully :

Well, partly ; because until I heard
what was said, I did not realize our close
companionship naturally inferred a close
tie.'

And so you felt bound to make the
sacrifice ?'

My eyes were opened. I have never
cared for any woman — except my wife — as
I have always cared for you. I have admired
many a pretty face, and enjoyed
talking to many a nice girl since my wife
died, but I have only just lately realized
her death, and I have never seriously
thought of marrying again till now.'

I am too old for you,' she said ; ' but I
am sure you are wise to think of marrying

again, but you must choose some girl to
whom you will be her first love.'

That is my look-out. After all, you
were my first love.'

Your first fancy — not love. No, no ;
let us forget this talk, and scorn to notice
what Mrs. Grundy says.'

Mary, let us leave the past alone and
begin life again together.'

Will the past leave us alone ?'

Tears were in her eyes, and her voice
shook.

It was a happy past,' he said softly.
I guess you had trouble, too, but I don't
seek to know it. Only let each of us
be tender to each other's past, and help
each other in the present. Won't you
agree to this ?'

I must have time to think,' she said.

How long ? — till we get back to town
again i^'

Till tomorrow or next day. You will
not tell anyone else, Charley ?'

Not till you allow me.'

Then she went into the carpenter's
cottage, telling him to go home ; but he
waited about till she reappeared, though
she was more than an hour.

Oh, Charley !' she cried, with her usual
sisterly, reproachful way, ' you look like a
ghost ! How could you tire yourself out ?
I told you to go home !'

I shan't obey you till you have the
legal right to make me. Come, Mary, say
it shall be as I wish. You'll go back with
me to India when my leave's up ? You'll
see I'll outshine even Ambrose as a
husband.'

While talking to the carpenter, there
had come over Mary — even while she felt
convinced she could never marry Charley,
nor indeed anyone — the desirability of

Spending money over a house she might
not possibly continue to live in. A sense
of strangeness towards Bestminster had
crept over her — a subtle widening of her
future life was opening before her. Yet
she considered she had refused, and would
continue to refuse, to change her present
circumstances. So the joiner measured
and planned and drew rough sketches, while
she, apparently listening and suggesting,
was becoming more and more sure that
no work of the kind should be undertaken.

There, now we understand it, miss,'
said the man at last ; * and I'll put it in
training at once.'

I must have a few words with Nancy
she replied, inwardly questioning how she
should decide, conscious that on that decision
much more depended than the
extension of a veranda, and anxious to
have longer time.

But after her interview with her old
servant, spun out though it was with talk
about the children, she hardly knew how
to act even when the man was opening-the
gate for her to pass out. Just as she
reached the road she found words.

Of course, we can't begin anything till
my roses are over, you know !' she exclaimed.
' I can't sacrifice my banksias.'

I can get it nearly completed at home,'
he replied ; ' then we shall soon put it up
when you are ready.'

At that moment she saw Charley
loitering on the road, and then she said
finally :

No, don't begin anything at present.
Keep the instructions and plans, but — I
may make a change in them. I'll let you
know further.'

She was ashamed of the dissimulation,
and then scolded Charley as he joined

her. But when he took up his plea
again, she had fainter reasons, fewer
scruples.

When will your leave be up ?' she
asked.

He had still nine months — eight clear
before he need start for India.

Charley talked himself into the belief
that with her his life would be once more
bright. He had as yet no ecstatic thrills,
no passionate craving ; his heart remained
beating evenly as usual ; his pulses were
under perfect control. She seemed very
pleasant to him — nothing more. It did
not enter into his head, when he took her
home through her garden and bade her
good-bye in the empty room, that, as a
lover, he might put his arm round her and
insist on a sweeter good-bye than a mere
shake of the hand.

Remember,' she repeated, letting her

hand remain in his — ' remember, there is
no engagement, no promise between us at
present. We are to go on as usual. No
one is to suppose there is any understanding
between us — indeed, there is none.
You are free, and I am free. By-and-by
we shall see. You agree to this ?'

I agree to say nothing at present,' he
replied ; ' but, all the same, I consider myself
engaged to you, whether you may
consider yourself engaged to me or not ;
and, like the suppliant to the unjust judge,
I shall weary you with my importunity
until you take pity upon me — you understand
?'

As he entered the Vicar's study, Mr.
Chard seated himself at his harmonium,
and played the opening bars of the
Wedding March.'

Is that the correct thing ?' he asked.

I'm not at liberty to mention,' laughed

Charley ; ' but you shall know in time —
before anyone, old fellow.'

Yet, while nothing was said on either
side, there was a feeling amongst the immediate
friends that there was something
unusual going on. Annie's and Jane's eyes
fixedly regarded the couple when they
were together, and they compared notes
in private on their looks and words.
Ambrose no longer interfered to escort
Mary home when she spent the evening
at his house, nor had he again said anything
to his brother on the subject of
marriage since that night at the Vicarage,
feeling instinctively further interference was
not necessary ; and the Vicar, judging from
a certain little circumstance all was going
right, also forbore to put any question.

Soon after the election Charley had
given an afternoon party at his cottage.
It was a large gathering, consisting not

only of his Bestminster friends, but of the
many acquaintances he had made in the
neighbourhood. He did the thing in style,
providing many amusements, such as lawn-tennis,
Aunt Sally, shooting at a mark,
merry-go-rounds, Punch and Judy imported
from the county town, and a good
band from the neighbouring fashionable
watering-place. The refreshments were of
a sumptuousness hitherto unknown to Bestminster,
and the weather was perfect. On
the morning of the day, the Scott girls told
their uncle they were sure Mary was not
intending to be present.

What makes you think so ?' he had
asked.

And they had said she had offered to
lend their mother her pony carriage, and
refused to say plainly why she would not
require it for herself.

The girls rubbed their hands as they

saw him directly after hearing this stride
rapidly off in the direction of Miss
Latimer's, the elder girl betting the younger
three pennyworth of chocolate that he
would make her go.

Charley found her at work in her shady
drawing-room, surrounded by flowers and
pretty things. He went to the point at
once :

I hear you are going to lend your
carriage to Ann this afternoon. How do
you propose to come out ?'

She laughed and coloured as she replied :

Dear me ! Am I expected to answer
on oath ?'

He seated himself beside her, took the
work from her hands, and continued
gravely :

I want you to promise me faithfully
that you will come. I believe you are
going to shirk it.'

I have a headache ; I am tired ; I will
stroll up later ;' then, with an attempt at
impatience, she added : ' Mrs. Grundy will
be there in force.'

'Ah!' he said, 'just what I thought.
You are ashamed of me, and afraid of what
someone may say.'

I am not ashamed of you ; but 1 hate
beings talked about.'

So you would rather not come ?'

I don't see the use of my coming; there
will be heaps without me.'

Please to listen to me,' he said, still
gravely. ' If you do not promise to drive
up — with Ann, early too — I shall just
leave the whole thing to itself, and come
and fetch you ; further, I shall explain my
absence truthfully.'

It would be very absurd of you.'

She was laughing nervously ; his gravity
rather awed her ; he was no longer her

VOL. III. 48

schoolboy friend, but a man determined to
assert himself.

It would be wrong and faithless of you
to make me do it,' he said. ' You are not
ill ; you never looked better in your life.
You are therefore acting like a spoiled
child.'

Charley, you assume a position you
don't possess. I'll promise to go if you'll
treat me as — as you'd treat Miss Brown,
for instance. I confess I am afraid you
may think it necessary to be attentive tome,
and then '

As I treat Miss Brown !' he echoed,
with a sudden sparkle of mischief. ' I
have known Miss Brown as long as I've
known myself — she was, in fact, my godmother
— and when we first meet and part '
he bent forward and kissed her cheek
lightly — *I always treat Miss Brown to a
kiss.'

She pushed her chair swiftly back,
covered her burning face with her hands,
and then burst out laughing.

Oh, Charley,' she cried, ' you are no
more in love with me than I am with
you !'

During many a long winter's evening,
during many a long watch in her mother's
sick-room, had not the memory of a lover's
kisses been with her ? had not a lover's
lingering eyes pierced the grave and met
hers in happy dreams, annihilating space
and time ? Was she to be cozened by
sham sweets now ?

He drew back pained. Was he not
offering the best he had to offer ?

Never mind what I said !' she cried
quickly, ashamed of the words. ' Come,
I'll walk with you through the garden,
and then I must look out my best bib and
tucker.'

48—2

As they went she picked a little buttonhole
and gave It him, and as she pinned it
in his coat he took her by the waist. She
freed herself violence.

I won't come !' she cried.

You know the penalty,' he answered ;
and if I have to fetch you, and you refuse
to come still, I'll spend the rest of the
day here.'

Then he raised his hat and walked away,
shaking his head at his own thoughts as he
started off for home. He knew he had
failed In trying to be lover-like ; he knew
that as he kissed Miss Brown, so he had
kissed the woman who was to be his wife.

Mary was at the garden-party, and, by a
curious freak, had taken pains to make
herself conspicuous as the best-dressed
woman there. There were plenty of
pretty girls, but she shone pre-eminent
among them.

That woman '11 never wear out !' Mr.
Chivers had said savagely to Ambrose, as
the two watched her with all the men
round her, particularly Marmaduke, who,
unable to resist her fascinations, followed
her like a shadow. ' I vow she looks
younger as she grows older !'

Then a servant had asked Charley for
some directions, and he, being engaged ina
game, had asked the Vicar to see what
Miss Latimer wished. She was to give
the necessary instructions.

Mary had shown no backwardness. She
had decided and ordered as if she felt it to
be her place so to do, and in the dance
that concluded the entertainment she had
led it off with the entertainer. She knew
she thus riveted the links binding her to
Charley ; but he took her kindness to be
mere reparation for her apparent disinclination
to have her name coupled with

his, while to the Vicar it was a sure forerunner
of a complete understanding between
them.

Mr. Chivers sent out invitations to a
grand ball, to which all his constituents,
irrespective of rank, were bidden ; but
there was no invitation for Miss Latimer.

Leaving her out is paying her a real
compliment !' Charley exclaimed. ' Surely,
Ann, you won't let Annie go and dance
with Tom, Dick, and Harry ?'

We don't consider Annie altogether out
yet,' Ambrose said. ' A public ball is always
looked upon as correct after a return. We
meet to congratulate each other, and all
classes understand perfectly it is not a
question of free-and-easy equality. You'll
enjoy it greatly, Charles.'

Not if I know it,' he replied.

But when Mary received an invitation,
brought to her by Marmaduke Chivers

himself, with a polite entreaty that she
would not refuse, and Mary, who was
of course quite ignorant of the righteous
horror with which she was regarded,
readily accepted, Charley changed his
mind, and announced his intention of
being present also, though it would materially
shorten his stay in London, where
he was going to meet the Cartwrights, who
were home on leave.

On my return,' he said to Miss Latimer,
as he bade her good-bye, ' I shall stand no
more nonsense.'

Ah, I always thought you were only in
fun,' she replied, wilfully misinterpreting
his meaning, ' so I shall go on with my
veranda.'

If you don't know how else to throw
away your money, do ; but you won't be hereto
enjoy it next summer, so pray consider
before you do anything so unnecessary.'

Not be here next summer ?' she repeated
with a sober tone, as she looked
round the pretty room with its long-familiar
furniture ; ' how dreadful it sounds !'

There was no lover-like leave-taking.
He had got accustomed to the idea of
marrying again ; but every time he felt
there was an opportunity for courting
something checked him ; some feeling he
could not overcome held him back from
taking advantage of it. When a third
person broke in upon their tete-astute he
felt it a relief ; the old easy intercourse so
enjoyable had gone ; friendship and love
had quarrelled, as it were, and neither
flourished. Yet when he was away from
her, he took himself to task for his coldness,
flattering himself all would be right
when once they were married. He wrote
to her daily, telling her every little event of
the day : of his friends the Cartwrights and

their approval of his engagement, of certain
things he was ordering for the adornment
of their mutual home in India — letters that
showed she was constantly in his mind, yet
letters that might have been read by all
the world ; and Mary was disappointed.
She, too, had made up her mind to marry ;
she, too, supposed all would be right when
once they were married. She was not in
love with him ; but she supposed she
would be in time, and yet while she professed
no love, and her return letters were
as calm as his own, she resented his calmness.
Had he used one little tender, silly
word she would have been satisfied ; but
his long communications, chit-chatty',
amusing as they were, fell short for want
of what he could not give. She had no
right to require from him more than he
got from her ; she called herself unreasonable
; but she was none the less restless

and disappointed, and it was often with
her just a toss-up whether she ought to let
the engagement continue.

Charley ran up against Mr. Smith one
day in St. James's Street. The little man
was very elaborately dressed, and had had
many civilities from old Indian friends, he
said : but he found London very dull, and
the women were not nearly so handsome
as they were in his youth. He had had
a good dish of mulligatawny at the old
club ; but the men seemed all to have
become teetotalers. The race he considered
to be degenerating ; hot rooms and luxury
were ruining the men of the present day ;
and as for the climate, he hadn't felt fresh
since he left the Himalayas. He expressed
his pleasure on hearing of Charley's
intended marriage, and was much interested
in the young lady ; then he said, with a
sigh, he, too, had been looking about fora

wife ; but it was too late for him, and he
had made up his mind to ^o back to India
as soon as he could.

He tried to induce Major Scott to go
with him to Paris.

They tell me I mustn't leave Europe
till I've seen Paris he said, ' so I'm going,
and if you'll come too, and do the parley-wooing,
I'll frank you. Oh, don't thank me ;
I've got nothing to buy for myself; I'd like
to do you a kindness and myself at the
same time.'

But there was the ball coming on, at
which Charley resolved to be present as
an engaged man, and besides that, Mr.
Smith's companionship, with its constant
reminders of the great sorrow of his life,
was very trying, so Charley declined the
invitation, explaining as sufficient reason
his promise to be present at the election
ball with Ynsjiancde.

Miss Latimer spent the evening before
his return alone with the few relics she
possessed of her former happiness. She
had it on her mind it would be as well to
be entirely off with the old love before she
was on with the new ; for she felt assured
that on Charley's return he would stand
no further vacillation : their engagement
would have to be given out or given up.
She had declared there was no engagement
already existing ; but she knew
things had gone too far for that ; he had
expressly said he considered himself engaged
to her, and while she protested she
had tacitly consented.

It would be unfair to him to refuse yet
again to stand before their little world as
his promised wife when all that little world
were expectant, unless, indeed, she felt it
was best to exert herself to convince him
their marriage was undesirable. Was it

undesirable ? This was the question she
had set herself to answer honestly before
she met him again ; and to help her to
resolve honestly she had shut herself up
in her bedroom and brought out some
hidden treasures, that the dead past might
help her to consider the living present and
future. Here before her was the little
bundle of letters she knew by heart,
crumpled and worn by often handling,
the ink faint, the paper discoloured. They
had been wet with her tears, warmed with
her kisses — the secret solaces during many
a weary vigil in her mother's room — the
inward joy during many a patient year.
The hand that penned, the thoughts that
guided, the love that glowed in them and
gave them eternal fervour, had gone
beyond her ken ; but her heart could still
quicken, her eyes sparkle, and her face
flush, as she held them once more to her

lips, and lived once more in their warmth.
The dead past, was it ?

No,' she said to herself, clasping the
little bundle tight, ' it is not dead — not
vanished ! How can I try to cheat myself
into that belief?'

She had placed a box of matches on the
little table by her side as she sat by the
empty grate, meaning to burn her letters,
and she knew if she did so there would be
no further hesitation ; her ships once burnt
behind her, she would go forward and do
her best to begin life again and make
Charley happy, even if she did not succeed
in securing her own happiness. She would
not be disloyal ; she had not been disloyal !
Charley must have guessed she had a story
when he said they could both agree to bury
their past, and showed he preferred to be
told nothing. He pretended no passionate
affection for her, and expected none from

her. If he were content, why need she
object ? A happy home was offered her ;
the calm attachment of a good man was
hers. She had known him from his childhood
: he had no shadows on his career ;
he was distinguished and successful in his
profession — a very unlikely man to be unkind
to her, or to weary of her. With
him she would get out of the dull monotony
of Bestminster to visit new scenes under
new skies, in a position which, in her most
ambitious girlish dreams, would have satisfied
her.

She had said she was too old for him ;
but she knew she was handsome enough
not to show her seniority. He could not
complain of her age, for he himself looked
much older ; already his hair was thinned,
and in the bright brown a few white hairs
already mingled. Honestly she could
feel satisfied that he in marrvinof her was

making no sacrifice ; but there was the
'but' — could any marriage be right that had
no stronger basis than calm friendship ?
Mrs. Malaprop had said it was best to
begin with a little aversion ; possibly even
aversion was better than mere complaisance,
inasmuch as, being a stronger feeling,
its reaction would be strong also.
Might not aversion arise when it was too
late and complaisance vanish ?

Thus she thought, and analyzed her
thoughts and strove to see clearly, but in
vain ; the dead came ever uppermost to
claim the first place, the first consideration.
She struck a match, and untied the string
that bound the little bundle. The envelopes
should be burnt first ; the chaos of
her mind would possibly take shape the
while ; but as the envelopes were consumed
her eyes fell here and there on
passages of the uncovered letters, and

took her back to all the hopes and happiness
they so forcibly and fervently expressed.
Here was love worth the name —
heart-felt, sympathetic, unselfishly selfish —
tender as a woman's, yet strong with manly
strength and power. She trembled as she
read them ; she had thought she had them
by heart ; but a new meaning, a new beauty
struck her as she perused the written words
again ; and then she rose and paced up
and down the room, stopping now and
again at the open window, and looking out
over the flowers and familiar scene without
noticing anything.

A telegram was brought her as she
remained in undecided thought, and as
she read it everything became clear to
her. It was from Charley, thus :

Can't leave London on account of
business at India Office till late .
III. 49

row. Sure to be in time to go with you
to ball.'

Why didn't he telegraph to his brother ?
The telegraph clerk, who was closely related
to half the town, would be sure to
wonder, and put his own construction upon
it, and talk it over with his friends. Here
was a greater reason why it was too late
for her to draw back. Charley felt sure
of her. Well, had she not allowed him
to suppose she would ultimately consent ?
He at least was constant to friendship.
Life would seem very gloomy when he
had gone, if she let him go alone. It was
too late, surely! Hers was not the hand
that must wound him, even if it were
merely his vanity, and not his heart, that
would be wounded by her refusal at the
last moment. Too late !

She took up the letters, the faded flowers.

the few little things she had accepted from
her lost lover, kissed them solemnly for the
last time, and prepared to destroy them.
Then a better plan struck her. Why destroy
them, so long as she ceased to keep them
about her ? Surely that smaller sacrifice
would be sufficient ? So she made them
into a little packet, tied it with black ribbon,
and determined to pack it in a box with her
mother's papers — things that need never
be opened, but were too precious to be
parted with. The box should go, with other
family packages, into safe keeping when
she gave up her home. Years hence, perhaps,
her executors would look them over,
and tear them up as uninteresting rubbish.
By then she would be beyond earthly
sorrow. So she cried herself to sleep,
and next day prepared an evening toilette
that would make Charley at least proud
of his choice.

49—2

THE LADY OF THE TRAIN.

Major Scott arrived at Waterloo Station
rather too soon for his train, but as it was
already drawn up to the platform, he took
his seat in a smoking-carriage, bought an
Era, and amused himself for the few
minutes of waiting by watching the
bustling passengers — the flurried unprotected
women ; the fussy, domineering
fathers of families ; the calm, silent young
men without encumbrances ; the stolid
patience of the servants ; and the dignity
and superiority of the guards. With the

experience of an old traveller, he filled the
opposite seat by the door with his rug,
umbrella, and stick, and placed his top-hat
thereon, so that to a casual observer the
place would be supposed to have a living
occupant, and fresh comers-in would go
straight forward to other seats, thereby
leaving his long legs sufficient room.

Almost at the last moment there came
forward a little group of three ladies, of
which the evident leader was tall, gaunt,
over-dressed, and elderly. She spoke in a
loud, assured manner that attracted everyone's
attention, and treated the porter in
attendance with supreme disdain.

Don't answer me, young man !' she was
saying, as he put down a large trunk marked
with a very large and aggressive ' S.' 'I
should like to see the station-master. I
wish a private carriage. I am not going
to travel with anybody and everybody. I

should have engaged one ? Why, am I
to suppose a rich company like yours
should be short of engaged carriages ?
Where is the station-master ?'

The porter pointed down the platform,
where she would find him in his office.

Do you suppose / should think of going
to him ?' was her scornful reply.

Here the guard bustled up, bade the
porter look sharp with his trunk, and
called to the ladies to follow him to a
carriage quickly.

Charley laughed as he watched the little
scene.

A Mrs. Smith — a very rich Mrs. Smith!'
he said to himself ; and then he all at once
remembered the Mr. Smith who had asked
him to go with him to Paris a fortnight
ago, and wondered how the little man had
made his way.

Still watching the group, and idly speculating

about it, he saw how the tall lady at
last impressed the guard with her importance
so much that he put up his hand and
stayed the departure of the train for a few
moments while an empty carriage was procured.
Beside the formidable matron stood,
with her back to the train, a figure so
graceful, and so simply yet stylish
dressed, that he could not help wondering
whether her face was in keeping, and
wishing his curiosity could be satisfied.
The third woman was evidently a servant,
and as the CO. — as Charley dubbed the
head of the party — hectored and ordered,
she kept glancing meaningly at the younger
lady, as if they two were of one mind about
her.

As they turned away to enter the train,
he saw for an instant the face he had
desired to see, and with the eyes of a
stranger he looked once more on his wife,

not seeing in the full maturity of the
beautiful woman the smallest trace of the
willowy girl he had parted from on that
sad day at Moradabad. Nevertheless, the
admiration that had sprung up in his heart
when first he had met Janie in the freshness
of her English bloom at Allahabad
started up now at sight of this unknown
companion of a vulgar-looking Mrs. S. He
put his head out of the window and
watched the three get into a carriage someway
down the train. He noted how a
wonderful softness spread itself over the
hard face of the elder lady as she bade her
young friend enter first, and the lips that
were lately so defiant seemed to be uttering
tender words when the other would
have had her precede her. Then he threw
himself back in his seat, and opened the
Era ; hut news had no interest for him :
the fair beautiful face and graceful figure

Stood in front ot the printed sheet, and
bade him attend to her. He read a whole
column ana didn't take in its meaning.
Who was Mrs. S., and what was that girl
to her 1 No relation, he was certain ; that
gaunt angular frame in its grand silks and
aggressive adornments could never be of
the same flesh and blood with that perfect
symmetry and exquisite refinement. And
here he pulled his thoughts up and fixed
them upon Mary — the future wife to whom
he was travelling ; but the future wife
refused to possess them ; her image retreated
almost as soon as it was called,
and gave place again to the tall, well-poised
form, the sweet grave face, and the indescribable
charm of the stranger he had
seen but for a moment.

If she had looked at me, I might think
she had bewitched me,' he said to himself.
I expect she has a story ; the face is too

grave for such a young woman. How
glorious it must be when lighted up with
animation and fun ! I expect she was
smiling at that prim maid when the old
lady was scolding ; I wish I'd seen her
then.'

He went over every item of her dress :
the soft pale stuff that fell so gracefully,
the well-fitting boots and gloves, the dainty
linen collar, and the coils of bright hair
under the modest hat — hair with the glitter
of gold or sunshine amidst its various
chestnut shades. Janie's hair had just
that glint, he remembered, and he opened
a little locket that hung on his watch-chain,
containing a tiny plait of his lost wife's
hair, which he had cut off the day they
became engaged. Yes, it was just the same
as the stranger's : there were the shades
of chestnut ; there was the golden glint of
sunshine. He had never seen its equal till

now. He kissed it as he closed the locket,
and wondered whether Mary would require
hers to be substituted for Janie's,
and whether it would be wrong for him to
object if she should. He mocked at what
he called his sudden craze, and went over
his accounts by way of steadying his mind ;
but whenever the train stopped he was on
the look-out for some movement of his
fellow-passengers, though he was not rewarded
by any outward sign till they
reached Basingstoke. Then he saw the
prim maid enter the refreshment room, and
reappear followed by a waiter carrying tea ;
then there was an altercation at the ,
another waiter was fetched, the
guard and the porter took part in the dispute,
and he had the curiosity to question
the guard as the latter came by afterwards.
She's a rum old girl. Major !' was the
answer, Charley being by that time well

known on the line. ' She want to carry
the tea-things on with her — says she
always do in India — and she'll give 'em
up at the next station. She won't understand
we ain't Indians! The young miss
with her made it all right by popping
'ars a crown into the waiter's 'and, and
they're taking the slop on with 'em. No,
I didn't 'ear where they're going, sir.'

'Anglo-Indians! I wonder that hadn't
struck me I' said Charley to himself as the
train went on. ' That old lady is just the
type of the worst sort of them — dictatorial
and boastful. But that girl can never
have been to India ; she'd never have
kept that delicate skin and sweet unconscious
grace. How the fellows would
spoil such a creature !'

This was not at all a creditable frame of
mind for an engaged man, he presently told
himself; indeed, his mind had taken an

unusual twist, for it was generally very far
from idle. He went off to sleep by-and-by,
and slept till the train reached Bestminster,
when, seeing Mr. Chard waiting
for him, he forgot everything but the satisfaction
of his unexpected presence, and,
jumping out, he linked his arm in his
friend's, and, hastily calling to the porter
to see his portmanteau sent on, set off at
a brisk pace through the soft summer
gloaming, listening to the family news,
and rejoicing in his return to the fresh air
and familiar scenes.

But where are the boys ?' he inquired ;
it's queer to see you alone.'

There was a twinkle in the Vicar's eyes
as he told him they had been guilty of petty
larceny, and were undergoing punishment.

Petty larceny ?' Charley echoed.

The Vicar said they might tell their own
story, adding :

If you can help me to take them back
into favour at once, pray do ; I feel the
punishment a great deal more than they
do.'

It had been arranged Major Scott should
stay at the Vicarage over the ball ; and on
his way there, in passing Mary's house, he
left a little note, accompanied by a handsome
necklace he had bought in London,
which he asked her to wear that night as a
sign that he might speak of their engagement
to his family.

As they came away from the house the
Vicar looked searchingly at his companion,
and Charley understood him.

I think I may speak out to you,' he
said. ' I expect she will make up her
mind to-night. I am going to make a
second venture, you see. Of course, you
have known something of the sort has
been going on ?'

You are lucky in all things, and you
deserve your luck,' was the Vicar's only
comment.

Lucky !' Charley repeated bitterly, and
then they entered the Vicarage.

In the large dusky dining-room Toompy
and Toompty were seated in their favourite
position side by side, sucking their thumbs,
and holding each other by the ear, their
sturdy legs dangling half-way to the floor,
their round faces solemn with sorrow. They
remained seated when their father and his
guest entered the room, and the Vicar
lighted the gas and rang for dinner before
he noticed them ; then he said :

Come and say you are glad to see Uncle
Charley, boys.'

He had been adopted as their uncle long
ago.

In obedience, they slipped off the bench,
having taken to the bench used by the

servants at prayers as a sign of their sense
of present inferiority, and stood before the
Major, but without offering any salutation.

Well !' Charley said cheerfully, ' what's
amiss ? I expected to be taken by storm,
and dreaded lest my new coat should be
torn to pieces. Why, what's up, eh ?'

Then one boy nudged the other, and at
last Toompy spoke.

'We're guilty of petty larceny,' he said.
Cook says so.'

Then both pair of round eyes watched
anxiously to see the effect.

Charley sat down and drew them to his
side.

Tell me what's happened,' he said.
Perhaps cook doesn't understand law as
well as I do.'

To be sure,' said Toompty ; ' you are
brother to a lawyer, and cook's only got a
cousin who isn't quite a lawyer. He's

Aunt Ann's shoe-boy and sweeps the
office — that's all. Shall we tell him,
Toompy ?'

'Yes Toompy answered; 'and we'd
better begin at the beginning ; for, you
know, when we began at the end to Cousin
Annie, she laughed till tears came, and
though she said it was a cold in her head,
I know it wasn't ; for this morning I
watched to see if she'd blow her nose or
shaw, and she didn't.'

The Vicar turned to the window and
busied himself with the blinds.

We had tuppence yesterday,' Toompy
added, ' to buy a birthday present '

Toompty interrupted impatiently.

• That isn't it !' he cried. * Begin at the
beginning ; it sounds more like a book.
You know we said we'd begin so : *' Yesterday
was daddy's birthday, and so

Oh yes !' Toompy exclaimed ; ' and so

VOL. III. 50

we told him we must give him something,
and he said we could give him a kiss — just
as though we were girls, you know ; and
we said we must buy something, and

so Now, Toompty, what is it ?' for

the other was again making signals of
distress.

Let me tell some !' Toompty cried ;
then you can pick me up, you know. We
said we would tell it between us. Well,
we asked daddy to give us a penny each.
One and one makes two, so we had tuppence
; and we went out and bought one
penny-worth of peppermints with riddles
on them, so you can read them first and
eat them afterwards. We like peppermints
; it makes such a nice breeze like
down your mouth and throat, and the
taste lasts a long time. Peppermints
are '

Toompty, if you are so long over that

first part,' cried his brother, ' you'll never
get on. Now let me. You can begin
again after.'

So Toompty took to his thumb again,
and, for want of his brother's ear, held his
own, while the other continued :

One pennyworth of peppermints — twelve
a penny and some of the riddles not bad —
and one pennyworth of chocolate-drops with
cream inside '

That makes tuppence,' Toompty interposed,
speaking with his thumb in his
mouth still.

It's not your turn yet !' cried Toompy,
waving his hand to silence Toompty.
That makes tuppence, Uncle Charley ;
and when we looked at such a lot —
twelve peppermints with riddles on and
sixteen chocolate with cream inside — we
knew daddy could never eat so many all

by himself '

50—2

^ My turn !' cried Toompty, raising his
wet thumb and going on rapidly. * And I
said, '' Daddy will let these lovely sweets get
all dusty and sticky ; I know he can't eat
such a lot ; and then, when they are all
sticky and dusty, he'll say what a pity he
didn't give them to us at first ; and we
shall have to wash and scrub them before
we can eat them, as we did before, and the
riddles wash off and the chocolate tastes of
soap ;" and so we said we'd better taste
one or two to see if they were all right
to begin with, and we didn't think we ate
so many, and '

Now, Toompty, you're saying it all.
You stop and let me. And so. Uncle
Charley, we ate some, and we thought it
was rather silly to give such baby-things
to a big man. But we only ate the riddles
he knew, you know ; there were three or
four new ones left. He can show them to

you. And it was such a small parcel when
we came in and showed it to nurse, that
she scolded us as if we were chiefs.'

She said we was chiefs !' cried Toompty.

Be quiet, Toompty ; my turn isn't done.
Yes, she said we was chiefs, and we was
pickers and stealers, she said ; and she
made daddy say we were dishonourable
and — what was it ? — something about false
pretenders — getting tuppence like false
pretenders, or something ; and then cook
came and said we were guilty of petty
larceny, and I'm sure we didn't know petty
larceny was anything, so how could we be ?
The Catechism only says about picking and
stealing, and we didn't mean to pick and
steal, Uncle Charley.'

And that's all,' Toompty added ; ' and
I wish you'd tell daddy to tell nurse and
cook to stop it. It's very dull. Uncle
Charley.'

Chard,' Uncle Charley said, ' you must
grant me a favour. The boys are never
going to be naughty any more. Ask them
to dine with us as a sign they are forgiven.'


The Vicar turned round and sternly
regarded the two anxious faces looking at
him ; then his face relaxed, and the impetuous
little fellows, reading their pardon,
flew to embrace him.

It was a noisy, happy party, and when
cook and nurse heard the master's recovered
cheerfulness, they shook their
heads over his weakness.

He moped like a howl,' said cook, ' all
the time they was in disgrace. Them
chiltern the very apple of his here.'

^ I'd lay a penny,' replied nurse, ' he got
the Major to help him out of the scrape.
Such a preacher as him to tremble before
lite lads ! It's a lesson !'

The scene of the evening festivity was
the best upper room of the Cross Keys.
Usually this room was divided into three,
but on great occasions the partitions were
removed, and a capital ball-room was the result,
approached at both ends by staircases
leading upwards from the two entrances.
At the one entrance were admitted the creme
of the guests ; at the other the townspeople
pushed and struggled, too eager to be intime
to see that creme enter to study
politeness amongst themselves. By-and-by,
when the musicians had duly announced
by the melodious strains of ' See the Conquering
Hero comes,' with a drum accompaniment
of much power, that Mr. Chivers
and his party had reached the ball-room, and
dancing had commenced in earnest, there
stole towards the somewhat dark landing
outside the pit entrance — so to term the
door by which the plebeians had entered —

two female figures, who, keeping well
within the shadow, stood and surveyed
the brilliant scene, as it were, furtively.

They were Janie and Mrs. Mole.

At any other less exciting time, the
arrival of three strangers of such appearance
as that of Mrs. Smith and her party
would have raised the greatest curiosity ;
but, coming on the eve of such a momentous
occasion, they were able to slip
into an unpretending lower parlour and
take possession of second-best back bedrooms
without much remark. There was
a pleasant, old-fashioned garden behind,
and they with truth assured the landlady,
when she apologized for not being able to
give quarters overlooking the street, that
they greatly preferred the view over the
garden. Of course they had learnt the
reason of the disturbance in the house, and
Janie had heard sufficient to make her

accompany Mole to gaze through the
open door on the chance of seeing her
husband.

With her hat well down over her eyes,
and her tall form bent forward, Janie leaned
on her faithful companion. Was this the
meeting she had so long and fondly anticipated
— this stolen peep ? Had she done
right in coming to watch him pay court to
her rival ? She did not analyze her
motives as she stood shivering with excitement,
watching and waiting for the
crowd to part and show her the desire of
her eyes ; and when at last he stood out
from amongst it and, with a smiling face,
came towards her end of the room, she
would have fallen but for Mole's protecting
arm.

She noted the change in him— saw in an
instant the thinned hair on the crown and
temples, the fingers of time, sorrow and

climate round his eyes and on his brow,
and, with a wild cry, she fell so suddenly
that Mrs. Mole could not stay her.

The dancers heard the scuffle made by
carrying her away, and Charley inquired
what it was. ' A young woman had
fainted,' he was told ; and he and Mary,
to whom he repeated the words lightly,
talked of the great heat, and didn't
wonder at anyone fainting.

Mary wore round her neck the present
Charley had brought her. It was a very
curious necklace of tigers' claws set in
Indian filigree gold, and it excited universal
attention. She touched it lightly
when she met the giver, and said laughingly :

Does this please you as much as it
pleases me T and in return he tried to
make a lover-like speech.

You know the superstition ?' he said —
'a tiger's claw keeps all evil away. My

necklace is to act for me till you allow me
to act as your life-long protector.'

She had entered the room on his arm,
and had continued to keep beside him
while they greeted their friends ; and after
each dance they drew together, as if they
wished it to be seen they belonged to each
other.

Ambrose was very pleased. Mary was
undoubtedly the belle of the room ; and his
brother's handsome face and soldier-like
bearing made him as conspicuous for
admiration.

Mr. Scott was for a time quite happy.
Mrs. Chivers had asked Ann to sit beside
her ; and Mr. Chivers was continually appealing
to him. To be sure, Mrs. Chivers
was merely asking for a recipe for pickled
walnuts, and had no idea of intellectual
conversation with a country lawyer's wife
being possible ; but who was to know

that ? Here was he and his in the full
tide of social prosperity, in the sight of
those whose respect and good-will were
all things to him — his fellow-townsmen.

But even greatness palls after a time,
and Ambrose began to think a quiet nap
in his easy-chair in his cool office would be
very refreshing after the heated, scented
atmosphere. His face almost ached with
smirking, too ; and the many glasses of
claret-cup he had felt it advisable to take
were beginning to tell. So he resolved
just to run home quietly and see if any
letters had come by the evening post,
entering by his office, so as not to disturb
the house, and returning to the Cross
Keys in time to bring his wife home. It
would be easy to say, if Chivers resented
his absence, that important business had
kept him away.

But when he had shut himself into his

snug office and lighted the gas, and taken
possession of his easy-chair ; when he had
kicked off his pumps and discarded his
tight dress-coat, and smoked the cigar his
soul had been longing for, he closed his
eyes in blissful content, and, while thinking
over the joys of the evening, fell fast
asleep.

Meantime Janie had recovered from the
shock of seeing her husband without being
unable to make herself known ; but it was
in vain Mrs. Smith tried to induce her to
go to bed.

How could she sleep,' she cried, * while
the music continued ? It was air she
wanted, and time to think, not rest ;' and
she sat in the open window gazing into the
shadowy garden, till Mrs. Smith, declaring
she must try to sleep if no one else did,
kissed her fondly, and left her in Mrs.
Mole's charge.

Then Janle started up.

The night is so warm and so light,'
she said, ' and the town is sure to be quiet.
Come with me and let us have a look at
the house where he was brought up. I
cannot sleep or rest in this place ; I must
move about.'

So, as Mole's will was hers, the two
women left the noisy hotel, and having
ascertained what direction to take to
reach the Scotts' house, they soon found
themselves standing before it, the sole
occupants of the silent street. The only
lighted window was that of the office,
and they could see through the uncurtained
glass that a bald-headed someone
was seated with his back to it. That
it was Ambrose Janie at last was certain,
and a sudden desire to speak to him
possessed her.

But you'll disturb the house said her

companion ; ' it's close upon midnight. See,
there's not another Hght all along the street,
and it may be a clerk.'

But Janie was determined to have her
way.

I can go in at the side-door,' she urged.
I needn't ring ; the door may be left on
the latch for the others to come in that
way. Don't try to stop me ; 1 must speak
to him : now is the best time ; we shall be
undisturbed. Mole, I thought I could
wait, but I must do something, or \ shall
go mad.'

Mrs. Mole softly pushed the little gate
opening on the small gravelled inclosure
upon which the office-door opened, and
she and Janie approached the entrance.
Then Janie stopped, and Mrs. Mole felt
how her hand shook as she laid it impressively
on her arm.

Do you mind staying here,' she said,

while I go in ? I won't keep you longer
than I can help, but I shall like to know
you are near.'

As she had expected, the door yielded
to the handle, and Janie found herself in
an office, evidently the clerk's ; here the
gas burnt dimly, and here Mole seated
herself while Janie knocked softly at an
inner door. There was no answer, and
hearing the regular breathing inside, she
concluded the occupant of the room was
asleep, and softly entered, to find herself,
as she had expected, in the presence of her
brother-in-law.

She closed the door behind her, took
off her hat, and stood looking upon
him, trying to trace some likeness to her
husband. She had not expected to
see so old a man, and his shirt-sleeves
and stockinged feet rather surprised her;
but she fancied he looked kind, and

her desire to unburden her story to
someone belonging to Charley kept her
determined. She essayed a gentle cough,
and placed herself midway between him
and the door, that when his eyes opened
he should not be disconcerted by her
nearness ; but the cough had to be repeated
a little louder before it had the desired
effect. Then Ambrose became aware he
was not alone, and leaning a hand on either
side his chair, he peered forward to see
who the intruder was.

In great perturbation Janie stood where
she was and said softly :

I think you are ambrose Scott T

The sweet voice, so utterly strange to
him, made him conscious of his dishabille,
and he began hurriedly putting on his
pumps and looking round for his coat
before he felt equal to inform^^her that she
thought rightly. In his confusion he seized

VOL. in. 51

an old office-coat and hastily got his arms
covered ; then he took a long look at his
midnight visitor, and recognising she was
no common intruder, he made a low bow
and waited to hear more from her. Her
next words were, just as the church clock
was heard finishing the last stroke of twelve :

And I am Janie Scott !'

Ambrose was no coward, but at these
words he felt every hair rising from his
head, and the beating of his heart overpowered
the ticking of the office clock; his
face became damp ; his knees refused to
support him ; he looked at the door, and
wondered how he could reach it. Never
in all his life had he felt such a pang of
extremest horror as when those sweet
accents, following the echoing clock, proclaimed
the presence of what he firmly
believed to be the spirit of his brother's
drowned wife.

Hardly realizing his feelings, Janie
watched his fallen jaw and unsteady bearing,
and again repeated :

I am Janie Scott — your brother's wife !'

He groaned aloud, and clinging to the
back of the chair behind which he had
taken refuge, he found courage to say :

Avaunt thee !'

Still unable to recognise his mortal
agony, Janie wrung her hands and exclaimed
:

Oh, will you not say you are glad to
see me? Are the dead never welcome
back ?'

Avaunt thee !' Ambrose repeated with
eyes starting and teeth chattering.

Then it suddenly flashed upon her that
he did not believe her to be flesh and
blood, and a smile broke over her face,
making it so bright that in all his agony
Ambrose was struck by her beauty, and a

51—2

faint sense of his own absurdity stole over
him as he Hastened to her next remark :

Surely you don't take me for a ghost ?'
she exclaimed. * Oh, I ought to have
thought of that ; I ought to have prepared
you ; but I am indeed Janie in
flesh and blood. I was not drowned ; 1
was wrecked on a desert island, and I have
only just got away ; and they say Charley
loves someone else, and I have come
to you first to ask you to tell me the
truth.'

He listened and took courage ; his knees
straightened ; his skin relaxed ; he smiled a
sickly smile, and muttered something about
dreaming and being tired out ; but he
kept a wary look on her movements, ashe
approached her and held out both
his hands, and as his clasped hers, warm
and strong, his last terrors vanished,
Richard was himself again,' and he

eagerly questioned her as, seated side by
side, he noted her grace and sweetness,
no longer wondering at his brother's faithfulness
to her memory.

As quickly as she could she told her
story : how she and her companions were
at last rescued by the Somali crew of a
trading ship, which had been blown out
of its course till within sight of their signal
on the reef; how Hay had managed to interpret
for them, and how, by the sale of
the valuable rings she and Mrs. Smith had
between them, they paid their way by
devious course to Suez, where, meeting
countrymen of their own, they had got
money advanced by which they were enabled
to reach Paris, where, on the very
day they arrived, they met Mr. Smith,
since when their way had been smooth.

'The Smiths have been father and mother
to me !' she added.

Her eyes filled with brimming tears and
her soft rounded cheeks grew peachy as
she told her story.

Ambrose took her hand, and gazed at
her in speechless admiration. Ann's tears
had never moved him ; indeed, they usually
hardened him. Mary had often wept in
his presence, and he had wished she
wouldn't, because her nose became red
and spoilt her beauty ; but this beautiful
woman gained fresh charms with every
falling tear. How could Charley forget
her '^ how could he replace her .^

Then again he reflected that Charley had
not forgotten her, and, so reflecting, he at
last spoke.

But, my very dear Jane,' he said.
*Why did you not telegraph immediately
on your reaching Suez ? Why didn't you
write from Paris or London ? What
motive have you for hiding yourself from

your husband ? Why do you come to me
first ? What will he say when he hears
you might have lessened his suffering and
did not ?'

She looked at him in perplexity, as if
that side of the question had hardly struck
her ; then she answered :

But I didn't know where to telegraph.
I didn't know where he was, and I dreaded
lest he should have married again. We all
thought it would be best to come quietly onto
London and find out what had happened
before any of us made ourselves known.'

But Mr. Smith told you your husband
was on leave in England ?'

Yes ; but Charley had told him he was
engaged, and then —oh, Ambrose ! I could
not bear to write to him and perhaps get a
cold welcome. I knew he loved me, but
he might have grown reconciled to live
without me — to like someone else instead

of me. I could not write and wait for the
answer, so dear, good Mrs. Smith came
here with me to-day, and I meant to watch
him first and see if he looked as if he was
very happy, and then — and then I hardly
knew what next. I thought I would make
him love me again, till the idea of taking
you into my confidence came to me. I
know you are a clever lawyer. You will
help me, I hope .'^'

Help you, my very dear Jane ?' he
replied. ' That I will. But now, what do
you propose to do '^. This new engagement
must be prevented as a matter of course.
When do you propose to meet him ?'

She started as if the very thought
alarmed her.

Oh, not now ! He's not likely to becoming
now, is he ?' she cried. ' Let me
have to-night to think about it.'

He's not likely to come,' he answered

soothingly. ' But, indeed, it is time I went
back for Mrs. Scott. How can I see you
again ?'

Mrs. Scott ?' Janie said. ' Ah, yes, of
course — you have a wife! Must you tell
her?'

The idea of a secret between himself
and his beautiful visitor was too tempting
to the admiring Ambrose, and pleased him
infinitely ; neither was he in the habit of
reposing his fullest confidence in Ann ; so
he could easily assure her of silence until
he had her permission to speak.

But, indeed,' he added, ' it would be
best for you to let me fetch Charles without
delay. I assure you it is the right thing.'

Janie trembled nervously.

No, no ; let me wait till tomorrow. I
promise you I will think of how I will tell
him by tomorrow. He can't get married
to-night, you know,' she added, with a

smile, ' and I could not bear any more
agitation to-night. Will you come and seeme
tomorrow morning — this morning it is
now, though — about nine ?'

There is a little lane runs at the bottom
of the inn-garden,' he said ; ' perhaps there
we should be less observed. You see, I am
so well known here, I have to be cautious.
If you could meet me at the garden-gate —
the orchard-trees form a screen to the back
windows. Will you be there — about nine,
or soon after ?'

And you will not tell anyone — you are
sure ?'

He kissed her hand gallantly, and Janie
put up her face and kissed his with such a
simple, natural grace that Ambrose felt
more chivalrous and devoted than any
knight of yore. Then he changed his
coat, apologizing the while for doing it
in her presence, and escorted her and

Mrs. Mole back to the Cross Keys, taking
care, with characteristic prudence, to part
from them before they came within the
Hght that flashed from the illuminated
windows across the pavement.

MRS. SMITH.

When Mr. Scott entered the glaring,
heated ball-room, he was in a state of
suppressed excitement, instantly noticed
by his wife, who, judging from other
festive occasions, supposed he had been
making too free with the refreshments.
She was at once anxious to get away, and
he was very willing ; so he and Charley
saw her and Miss Latimer into the fly,
Ambrose noticing that the latter's hand was
clasped an unnecessarily long time in the
young man's at parting. Then the brothers

walked off together, and Charley followed
Ambrose into his house, sa ing he would
smoke a pipe with him before he returned
to the Vicarage. It was evident to the
elder that some unwelcome news was
coming, and he braced himself to hear it
without betraying the secret that was
making his pulses throb in a most unwonted
way.

Charley turned up the gas in the deserted
dining-room as soon as he had bidden Ann
who had driven round by Miss Latimer's,
and so arrived after them — come and sit
with them for a few moments before she
went to bed, as he had something to tell
her ; and Ann, guessing pretty clearly what
was coming, had shut the door and seated
herself, with an expectant smile on her
tired face. But there was no getting
Ambrose to keep still and listen.

Excuse me for a moment,' he said,

Struggling out of his uncomfortable coat.
The fact is, our poor father's back must
have been narrower than mine, and his
arms thinner at the shoulder ; yet I always
thought him a very fine man. Now your
coat, Charles, my boy, seems to fit to perfection
— quite a nice comfortable garment.
I wonder what you gave for it — eh ?'

Charley fidgeted.

Oh, I forget !' he answered ; * about
four guineas, I fancy. I never go in for
the most extravagant styles ; I get through
too many.'

Four guineas ! Good heavens ! Why,
let me see, how many six and eightpences
should I have to earn to stand that ? Ann,
you can work that out tomorrow ; steady
your head after all the extraordinary revelations
— I mean the — the '

Do sit down, there's a good fellow !'
cried Charley, also thinking of a too liberal

use of refreshments. ' Bother that coat !
Why don't you chuck it away and get a
decent cut ? I declare it makes you look
like the ghost of '

Ah !' cried poor Ambrose, ' I really did

think it was a gh I mean Well,

Charles, now I've sat down, what is it you
want ?'

He drawled the latter words out and
seated himself bolt upright in front of his
brother ; and Charley, thinking he was
really very far gone, winked at Ann, and
proposed they should all disperse and hear
his news on the morrow.

Ambrose perfect understood the inference,
and resented it.

Speak out, man !' he said ; ' I'm as
clear as you are !'

Charley laughed, and in a somewhat
shamefaced manner announced his engagement
to Mary. To his utter surprise

Ambrose scarcely waited to hear him out
before he exclaimed hotly :

Oh, nonsense, Charles, nonsense ! Pray
don't let anyone else hear you say so ; the
thing is ill-timed, reprehensible — I mean,

unsatisfactory. Bless me ! I mean

Why, only the other day you told me you
couldn't consider yourself a — in fact, a
widower !'

Charley, who had changed colour angrily
at the first words, calmed down at the last,
and remarked sadly :

So I felt, until you showed me that
epitaph ; it seemed to put an end to everything.'


Ambrose could have groaned aloud ; but
for his meddling this unpleasantness would
have been avoided. He could say nothing
more ; and, as he listened to his wife's
heartfelt congratulations and Charley's
plans, he questioned his own prudence

for the finest time in his Hfe. All he said
at last, when Charley rose to go, was :

Don't tell anyone else — don t spread
this about. I particularly desire — I mean
beg — you won't let this information go
further for a day or two.'

And why T cried Charley, who, having
taken the plunge, was determined to go on.

I have my reasons,' was the meaning
answer ; ' though until she allows — until
she permits — that is to say, in a few hours

I shall be able to disclose — I mean

Dear me ! there's two striking. Come, Ann,
Ann ! how can we expect the servants to
be up in good time if we set them the example
of never going to bed } Mind your
candle, Charles — I mean, mind the scraper.
Good-night, old fellow, goodnight ;' and
Charley went off to the Vicarage, laughing
to himself at his brother's confused mood.

'Ann should make him take the pledge,'

VOL. III. ^2

he said to the Vicar, after recounting the
events of the evening.

Dawn was brightening into day when
the two friends finished their long talk.
Charley was too excited to sleep, he said,
and when Mr. Chard left him he changed
his clothes and then went off to the shore
for a bathe, returning in time for the
Vicars nine o'clock breakfast as fresh as if
he had passed the night in rest instead of
riot and a five-mile walk after it. To
avoid going up the High Street he went
along the little lane that bordered the back-gardens
of one side of it, and as he was
about to pass that of the Cross Keys he
was attracted by the laughter of a child.
Involuntarily turning to look whence the
sound came, he saw the lady of the train —
so he called her in his mind — in the inn
garden dancing with outspread skirt in
iron of a lite fat toddling girl — the landlord's

much petted baby — who was watching
the graceful movements with delight, and
rewarding them with peals of baby mirth.
The morning sun streaming through the
orchard trees flecked with ever moving
flashes the bright head of the dancer, and
as Major Scott stood to listen, afraid to
move onward and so attract attention and
put a stop to the pretty scene, he heard
the words of the song the beautiful unknown
was singing as she danced.

Father will come to his babe in his nest —
Silver sails all out of the west,'

she sang, when suddenly the baby's laugh
was changed to a cry. An apple had fallen
on her shoulder and the dancer, darting to
her, caught her in her arms — arms white
and rounded in faultless symmetry, made
visible by the sleeves falling back as she
raised the child and soothed her with kisses
and soft persuading words.

52—2

Something in the action recalled to his
memory Mrs. Barlow in the darkened
bungalow at Moradabad when he had
wished his Janie could have handled the
dying baby as dexterously as she had
done. Then the girl turned to come
towards the gate, and he was face to face
with her. He hardly waited to see her
eyes deepen and widen and her face blanch ;
for, fearing to appear an impertinent spy,
he went hurriedly on for a few moments,
before he again stopped short in breathless
wonder. ' She is like Janie,' he said to
himself. ' Oh, how like her ! I must find
out who she is and where she comes from.'
Then, having reached the end of the lane
where it turned upon the street, he looked
back.

There was no sign of anyone at first,
but almost immediately he saw his brother
appear at the further end. go direct up to

the gate of the inn garden, and then make
such a courtly bow, and display such an extravagant
amount of enthusiastic pleasure,
as he took a hand held out to him, that
Charley was fairly bewildered. He watched
Ambrose enter the garden, and then made
his way hastily to the Vicarage and sat
down to the table, where the Vicar was
already seated, in such very evident disturbance
that Mr. Chard was alarmed lest
his happy plans had received another unexpected
check.

Chard,' he said at last, ' I travelled
with such an interesting woman yesterday,
and she is here — here at the Cross Keys.
Ambrose knows her ; I saw him at the
garden-gate with her just now. Who is
she ?'

That sounds queer,' said the Vicar,
laughing. ' Oh, I don't know all his clients
interesting, is she ? What sort of person ?

If you describe her, I may recognise someone.'


Charley thought for a moment, then
pushed his untouched breakfast from before
him, and replied :

She is more than interesting ; she is. in
fact, extraordinarily charming — that is, in
appearance ; and her voice as she sang to
the child was remarkably sweet.'

'Hem!' said the Vicar. 'Married, is
she ?'

Eh !' said Charley. ' Oh, I don't know ;
the child is the baby at the Cross Keys,
you know.'

Well, but what is she like — young,
pretty ?'

Young ? yes, of course, quite young.
Pretty ? yes, / think so.' He hesitated
before he added : ' So like my wife, so like
her, only older and bigger — handsomer, too.
Oh yes, much handsomer ; only if she had

lived she might have grown as handsome.
But who can she be ?'

Dark ?' asked the Vicar — ' brunette
style, inclined to be too big and coarse ?'

Nothing of the sort !' he cried impatiently.
' My dear fellow, do go and
try to see her yourself. She's fair — bewitchingly
fair — and round, though she's
supple and slender — carries herself superbly
is evidently well-bred. I tell you I've
never seen a woman come so near to my
ideal — never. You must see her, and
judge for yourself!'

The Vicar jerked his head in the direction
of Miss Latimer's house, and replied :

Draw it mild, my good fellow !'

Pio !' said Charley ; ' that's nothing todo
with it. Of course, I speak outside my
affections. Married men may admire beauty
without being disloyal. Of course, I consider
myself the same as married now.

But what can Ambrose mean by smirking
and bobbing about at the back-gate ? It's
too absurd ! Well, it's no business of mine,
I suppose.'

He drew his breakfast towards him, and
ate it almost in silence. Then the Vicar
rose.

I must be off to work,' he said. ' And
you }'

I will write some letters,' said Charley ;
and after lunch you must walk home with
me. The boys want to see my puppies.
I am going to lunch at Ann's ; so is Mary.'

As the Vicar passed up the street, Mr.
Scott's office-boy ran after him and told
him Mr. Scott particularly wished to see
him ; so Mr. Chard turned into the office,
where he found his brother-in-law in extreme
agitation.

'Shut the door!' Ambrose whispered,
shutting it for himself and turning the key.

Gh, Will, my dear fellow, I want your
help most truly !'

Mr. Chard had never been appealed toby
this self-reliant man before. He said
nothing, but seated himself and waited.

Then Mr. Scott poured out the story
that had become a burthen too heavy for
him to retain, and his hearer listened with
increasing excitement.

I have just returned from seeing her,'
Ambrose added, after relating the events
of the past night, ' and her charming companion,
Mrs. Smith — a lady of exalted
position, a woman of the world, a person
who recognises ability and respects position
in others — a person I am most pleased
to become acquainted with. She has parted
from her lately-recovered husband, fearing
to bring him, lest Charles should recognise
him before the right time, and taken up
her abode in this second-rate hotel — all for

dear Jane's sake. It seems all her companions
in misfortune quite adore Jane;
and indeed, Will, she is a very, very sweet
lady. She has quite taken to me.'

'Well, well, well, but ' Mr. Chard

exclaimed, quite amazed by the disclosure.
But why this mystery P why this suspense?
Here is Charley only half alive
for love of his wife. What is the meaning
of this cruel secrecy .'^'

Old Smith told her, don't you see, of
Charley's engagement. The poor girl
doesn't doubt his affection, but — and very
naturally — she wants to see for herself — to
witness the effect of her resuscitation. At
all events, she has a right to reveal herself
in her own way ; and since I have told her
about his preparations for her at the cottage,
she desires to meet him there — alone. I
told her I would consult you, and this is
what Mrs. Smith proposes. She will write

Charles a note, saying she believes he
wishes to let his cottage '

But he doesn't.'

Never mind ; that's nothing. And she
will beg him to meet her there at three
o'clock to-day.'

He'll answer it's all a mistake, and tell
her not to trouble to go so far on a bootless
errand.'

No, he won't ; for he won't get the
note till the last moment, and, you know,
he's going home after lunching with us.
So all we have to do is to excuse ourselves
from accompanying him.'

The Vicar fumed and fidgeted.

It's not fair,' he objected. ' Why
doesn't she come here and meet him .^
He might have a fit or something. Think
of the shock it will be. I won't be a party
to it. Good heavens !' he added, starting
up, ' and he's seen her and fallen in love

afresh with her ! Just think, Ambrose —
put yourself in his place !'

Ah !' said Ambrose. ' But joy doesn't
kill, Will, and it won't be altogether a
surprise. I've promised to prepare him.
I'm going to walk a little way with him,
and say I've heard a report that some
of the passengers of the Elephant are
said to have been taken off a small desert
island, and to be on their way home.'

Ah !' the Vicar said ; ' ah, yes ! that will
be a sort of preparation ; but you mustn't
tell him till you are very near the cottage,
or he'll turn round and be off by the next
train like a shot.'

I've thought of that, too. I shall say
the lady who wants his house told me ;
that'll carry him on.'

Charley sat beside \i\^fiancde at luncheon
at his brother's, and did his best to be

attentive ; but Mary knew he was acting
a part, and though she was not pained, she
was perplexed. The two girls seated
opposite eyed the couple curiously, though
they had not been told of the engagement.
Mr. Scott and Mr. Chard were ill at ease
and constrained, as became conspirators —
Ambrose especially so. He took the
carving knife and fork to help the fish,
and next ate mustard with his pudding,
becoming yet more confused because h^
was aware of Annie's watchful eyes. And
Ann was so tired with the unwonted excitement
of the previous night that her
silence was greater than usual. Charley
talked for all, teasing the girls, and accusing
his brother of hidden sorrow. Charley
was thinking of his unknown client ; but
Ambrose was alarmed by the ability of
the thrusts. Then Major Scott asked the
ladies to walk back with him and have tea

at the cottage, and just as they were about
to go and dress a note was put into his
hand.

Mr. Chard and Ambrose exchanged
furtive glances.

The cheek of some people !' cried the
young man, tossing the note to his sister-in-law.
' May I send a note across to the
inn ? Want to let my house, indeed, and a
Mrs. Smith will meet me there and look
over it ! Mary, did you ever hear such a
thing .'^ Now, who can have told her so ?'

Then all at once he took up the note
again, suddenly remembering the companion
of ' the lady in the train.'

'Well, I don't know,' he said. 'What
time is it ? Twenty minutes to three —
then she'll have started, so it's no use
writing. I may as well go on at once, and
tell her myself she's been misinformed.'

Then we'll come after !' Ann exclaimed.

when you've got rid of her. But who is
this Mrs. Smith ?'

Mr. Chard emptied his wineglass ;
Ambrose tried to make a bad joke concerning
the oft-heard name. Charley perceptibly
coloured and got up.

Yes he said, ignoring his sister-in-law's
questions, * you'd better come on later.
Chard, you said you'd walk there ?'

I'm coming,' said Ambrose, to his
brother's surprise ; 'just let me find some
gloves.'

Not funeral ones !' cried Annie.
Ambrose returned with the arose white
ones, worn and well darkened on the previous
evening, and Charley turned to
Mary.

'You look very tired,' he said; 'you'd
better drive up He held her hand as he
spoke.

I'm not sure I can come, after all,' she

replied in a very low tone ; ' I want to sit
and think quietly at home.'

He turned his back on the room, and
answered her in an equally low tone :

^ I know what that means ; then I shall
come in again, and spend the evening with
you. You can't object now ; it is my right ''

He gave her no time to reply, but went
out to put on his hat. Ambrose clutched
Mr. Chard's arm.

I can't do it, now that the time has
come,' he murmured. ' Go with him, for
God's sake ! and say what you can — I feel
fit to drop. I should spoil all — I know I
should !'

Oh, he's not coming, after all,' cried
Charley as the Vicar joined him in the
hall, announcing himself as his sole companion.
' Then come on, Macduff.'

Mr. Chard was almost as greatly agitated
as his brother-in-law as he accompanied

the young man through the town,
and scarcely spoke till they reached the
country road leading direct ahead to the
cottage on the heath. Charley was very
lively.

Did you guess ?' he asked with a laugh,
why I determined to come and interview
my would-be tenant ? I thought you
would. " Sly dog, Joey B. !" If only Mrs,
Smith brings Miss Smith with her I shan't
mind the mistake. Why don't you talk,
Chard } I feel quite young again — this
heathy air is worth a king's ransom. Do
you ever have spurts of liveliness ?'

I was thinking,' Mr. Chard began, feeling
it imperative to commence operations,
for at the rate they were walking they
would soon be at their destination —
I was thinking of a report I heard today.'


What report ?'

VOL. III. 53

About the wreck of the Elephanta!

Charley stopped short and stared at him.

What are you saying ?' he cried.
Who says it ? What is it ?'

Some more of the crew or passengers
have been taken off a Httle island in the
Indian Ocean.'

Just as Mr. Chard had anticipated,
Charley instantly turned back, dragging his
companion with him.

And you wait to tell me this in this
way !' he exclaimed. ' Go on ; tell me
more as we go ; I shall catch the three-fifteen
up-train.'

Mr. Chard played his trump card.

I heard it from Mrs. Smith — at least,
she brought the news,' he said.

Charley veered sharply round again.

Oh, Chard !' he cried, ' don't torture
me so ! Do you believe it ? Why do you
bring me out here ? Why not tell me

when she was in town ? Let us make
haste and see her ; she may know more.
Did she tell you more ? Quicker ! you are
going so slowly !'

He put his arm in his friend's, and
forced him onward.

Charley,' the Vicar cried, ' you have
borne so much, so well ; calm yourself now,
if — if it be really possible. There may be
good news in store for you ; don't lose
your head at the last.'

No,' Charley cried, forcing himself to
slacken his headlong speed, and toning
down his excited voice. 'You are right.
Chard, dear old friend ! I can surely bear
a little further suspense and disappointment
; yet I don't think I could live that
time over again.'

He said no more for a few moments,
and nothing broke the stillness of the
solitary way but the measured tread of

53—2

their feet swiftly pacing onward ; then he
asked :

Can you remember how the report was
worded ?'

No, I had it from your brother

Ambrose ! Ah, now I understand his

seeming drunkenness last night, and his

strangeness this morning. Poor old fellow !

no wonder he was confused ; but this Mrs.

Smith ! Chard — that girl ' He put

his hands on the Vicar's shoulders, and
scrutinized his face ; his voice died away
with intense emotion as he added : ' Who
is that girl .'*'

Mr. Chard averted his eyes ; he could not
bear to see the awful anxiety in his glittering
gaze. Charley loosened his grasp ashe
saw his companion could not speak.

• I'll go on alone,' he said ; ' I shall be
best alone.'

The Vicar watched him go forward,

unsteadily at first, stumbling here and
there, and swaying from side to side ; but
presently he seemed to gain strength and
go on bravely, and once he looked back
and waved to his friend as if to reassure
him ; then Mr. Chard turned slowly homeward,
praying for him as he went.

Charley reached the rustic gate of the
drive through the pine-shadowed avenue,
and then paused in his rapid walk. What
a calm, fair scene lay before him — calm in
the stillness of an afternoon in early
autumn, fair in the brilliancy of summer
flowers in their fullest beauty ! Bushes
of blue hydrangea lined the leaf-strewn
drive, and through the boundary hedge
was visible the lawn in front of the house
gay as a kaleidoscope, with beds of many-coloured
asters, vying with the verbenas
and geraniums Mary had planted. The
face of the pretty cottage was covered

with clustering roses still in full bloom and
fragrance, mixed with the starry jessamine
and trumpet-flowered honeysuckle ; while
the little wing where were the kitchens
was sheeted purple with the giant clematis.
The moment's pause in the restful sweetness
of the spot he called home soothed his
agitated feelings. He took a deep breath
as he stood in the silence, and noted the
quiet beauty of all around, as if he were
a stranger and looking at it for the first
time. He could see the drawing-room
window was open ; but he was too far
off to tell if the room was occupied. Who
would be there ? he asked himself. Was
he dreaming, and had the Vicar's words
been the vapour of a dream ? Would he
find the house as he always found it —
empty, the shell of a dead hope still .^

A fir-apple fell just inside the gate and
startled him foolishly ; he could hear the

beating of his heart and throbbing of his
pulses as he pushed the gate and passed
beyond it. The fir-needles had been
allowed to remain on the drive unwept
away during his absence, and his steps
passed over them soundless. A mist came
before him, and a cold damp to his forehead,
as he reached the door and stood in
the little hall. A clock ticked loudly on
the stairs ; the door into the kitchen was
shut ; there was no stir of expectation.
Was he free to come as ever — unwelcome,
unlocked for ?

With a desperate sense of the expediency
of putting an end at once to the fever of
expecting he knew not what that possessed
him, and shook his very reason, he threw
his hat on the hall-table, opened the drawing-room
door, entered, and shut it behind him.

The lady of the train stood on the
further side, beside the still locked piano.

She stood speechless, gazing at him, and
he stood looking across at her, while
bit by bit he recognised his girl-wife,
despite the alterations of years.

Neither of them was ever able to tell
what happened next, nor to remember who
spoke first, who moved first ; for a time
sense was lost in satisfaction. They were
together again ; of that they were conscious,
but of nothing else. Long parting,
tears, and suffering were out of remembrance,
as if they never had been ; there
was no evident past or future — nothing
but the blissful present. A word or a
sound would have broken the spell ; but
the afternoon passed onward, and the
shadow of the house dimmed the gay
gleam of the rainbow-coloured flowers on
the tranquil lawn, and still the enchantment
lasted — no intruder came to recall
hem to earth.

CHAPTER XX.

'happy ever after.'

When Mr. Chard and Charley left the
luncheon-table to go and see Mrs. Smith
at the cottage, Mr. Scott bade his daughters
go for a walk.

Never mind going to your uncle's for
tea,' he said ; * your mother and Mary are
both too tired ;' and when Mary would
have protested he bade her be silent.

Annie was very indignant at being
ordered about like a child ; but she and
her sister set off.

I'll tell you what we'll do, Jane,' she

said ; * we'll go round by the heath quarries,
and come home by uncle's ; that won't bethe
same as going direct there. We'll only
look in and see what old cook is about.'

So some two hours later they found
themselves close to the clearing whereon
the little cottage stood, and entered the
back garden, which was overlooked by the
kitchen windows only.

We'll just see if there are any raspberries
left,' said Annie ; ' we'd better not
go in, lest father should be cross. Perhaps
uncle will see us, and make us have some
tea, you know. Couldn't you just go
quietly round to the front, Jane, and see if
there's anyone about T

And Jane, leaving her sister at the fruit,
went off, to return very soon with a very
scared face.

Oh, Annie !' she exclaimed, * the 
window was open, and I stole

Up noiselessly and looked in ; and, oh,
Annie !'

Annie stared at her sister.

What is the matter ?' she cried ; ' did
you see a ghost ?'

Oh no ; worse !' said Jane. ' I saw —
oh, Annie, only think! — Uncle Charley
with his arms round somebody !'

The girl's face crimsoned as she spoke,
so did her sister's.

Rubbish !' Annie cried. 'Was it Mary '^'

Oh no ! oh dear no !'

It must have been,' said Annie ; ' you are
always making mistakes, you know ! If it
wasn't Mary, I dare say it was mother.'

Mother ! As if he'd kiss mother like
that ! Do go in and see for yourself !'

No, no ; I think we'd better go away as
quickly as we can — the back way, too —
or shall we ask old cook who it is first ?'

No, Annie , do let us get away. Father

said we were not to come, and the days are
shortening so fast. Look how the sun is
going down !'

At that moment their uncle called them.
His voice had a peculiar ring in it that
struck them, and, looking at him as he
stood in the kitchen doorway, it was impossible
not to wonder at his changed
appearance. His face was all aglow with
some happy emotion. He seemed to have
gone back to the time when he first came
from India, when he was to them as a
delightful elder brother, full of life and
happiness.

He took an arm of each as they joined
him at the kitchen-door.

Come,' he said ; ' 1 want to introduce
you to a new relation.'

The old cook was bustling about, dusting
the best tea-service, which was only
used on state occasions.

Come back, young ladies,' she said, as
they passed through, ' as soon as you can,
for the missis wants some tea ; and maybe
you'll make up some little pats of butter
while I make the tea.'

The missis !' Annie cried. ' Then it was
mother !'

What was ?' Charley asked ; but luckily
he didn't wait for an answer.

Here are your nieces, Janie,' he said, ashe
ushered the girls in. ' Girls, Aunt Janie
has come to life again.'

The girls were conscious of being kissed
by a face still wet with tears, and of a very
sweet voice, into which a sob came now
and then, greeting them ; but they were too
awed and surprised to venture to observe
much more than that Uncle Charley's
hands had shaken as he held their arms,
and that he stood close by his wife's
chair.

I want you to leave a note at the
Cross Keys for us,' he said, when Annie
told him they could not remain for tea ;
and will you tell your mother my wife
and I will come and see her this evening?
We must run in and see Mrs, Smith first.'

Then at last Janie acted as mistress in
the home that had waited for her so long,
and poured out tea as he long ago had
imagined her doing, though when it was
in his hand he could not drink it.

A month hence — a year hence — I shall
believe all this is real perhaps,' he said ;
but now I am in dread of awakening to
renewed misery.'

She put her arms round his neck.

What about the second Mrs. Charley ?'
she asked. ' You didn't seem in much
misery at the ball last night.'

Then she observed the baldness spreading
on the top of his head, and the deep

lines on his brow, and tried to smooth the
latter with caressing fingers.

Ah I' he answered, understanding the
action and the tender pity in her eloquent
eyes. ' You have no outer signs of suffering,
my darling.'

No outer signs, perhaps,' she said ;
but oh ! Charley, Charley, sometimes I
dare not even think of those awful years !
I want you not to ask me about them yet.
Mrs. Smith can talk of them ; she will tell
you. I dare say I shall after awhile, but
don't ask me yet, dear.' She lay shivering
in his arms. 'Yet sometimes we were
almost happy,' she continued. ' We were
generally so wonderfully well. But, Charley,
what about Miss Latimer ?'

She drew herself from him as she spoke,
but he drew her back.

She will rejoice most truly and sincerely
in your return,' he said. ' I can see clearly

now. We were friends — never more. She
knew I could not care for her, and I am
sure she never cared for me.'

Janie started up with a laugh.

What an extraordinary thing !' she cried.
So you were going to marry because you
didn't care for each other ?'

Can't you understand, Janie ?'

*Ah, yes!' she said. * I understand, and
I am very, very thankful. And don't you
think soit ought to be the first to tell her ?
And when we go to Bestminster I must
telegraph to Major Mortimer. How selfish
I am to forget him ! What shall I say ?
Will " All is right. Come to us as soon as
you like " do ?'

Now, Mrs. Charles Scott, it is my
turn !' Charley exclaimed. ' What about
Major Mortimer?'

She regarded him for a moment in perplexity,
and then said :

But don't you know ?'

Know what ?'

Hasn't Miss Latimer told you ?'

What about ?'

She was engaged to him — to Major
Mortimer.'

Mary and Mortimer !' he repeated
slowly — ' Mary and Mortimer !' and then
he gradually realized the case. Her tears
over the photograph, her long sadness,
which had seemed to him but sympathy,
and lastly the offered confidence which he
had set aside. ' What a dunderhead I
am !' he cried ; ' then, indeed, we ought to
be off at once, and we'll put up Mortimer,
of course.'

Meantime Ambrose was left with his
wife and Mary, waiting for inspiration to
break the momentous news. He walked
round the room first, misplacing the pictures
for the sake of putting them right again ;

VOL. in. 54

tidying the books on the side tables ; pushing
the empty chairs further into position,
and ever glancing at Miss Latimer, who
watched his proceedings with some amusement,
knowing they were preparatory to
some outbreak, while Ann yawned and
wondered he wasn't too tired to fidget so.
At length he poured out half a glass of
water, and, as if unconsciously, placed it
near Miss Latimer. A servant coming in to
clear the table, he bade her wait.

We will ring when you are wanted,' he
said. Ann rose and proposed an adjournment
to the drawing-room, but he quickly
stopped her. ' Ann, be seated. Mary
I have something to say, something exceedingly
pleasant — I mean exceedingly
unpleasant — that is to say, there are always
two sides to every question.' He came
and stood between the two, with his back
to the empty fireplace and his eyes on the

glass of water. ' A most wonderful, a
most unprecedented event came to my
knowledge last night, or rather, to speak
correctly, this morning. I hardly know
how to go on.'

Mary thought this was his way of alluding
to her engagement, and smiled, and
Ann, with the like thought, resented his
way of putting it.

I dare say we shall get over it,' Mary
said, laughing ; 'do you feel equal to it, Mrs.
Scott ?'

The latter spoke peevishly, she was so
utterly tired out:

How foolish you are, Ambrose ! I daresay
we all know it.'

Ambrose continued :

Charles has gone to his cottage under
the impression that a would-be tenant is
waiting for him there. Can you guess,
Ann, you who think yourself so quick ? can

54—2

you guess, Mary, who it is ?' Mary shook
her head, still laughing, and Ann shrugged
her shoulders. Ambrose added with solemn
emphasis, ' His wife !'

In the moment's breathless pause which
followed his announcement, he took up the
tumbler and stood with it in front of Mary
with a confused notion that if she showed
signs of fainting and could not drink it,
the water must be dashed into her face.

But she showed nothing but first joyful
amazement, then a deeper, more solemn
feeling, and then a restless desire to hear
more than Ambrose had to tell her, though
she drew the story from him quickly enough.
Indeed, Ambrose had never stood such
rapid questioning and cross-questioning in
all his life before. The end of it was that
she flew off to interview Mrs. Smith at the
Cross Keys. There was no sense of any
unpleasantness as to her engagement with

Charley ; she rejoiced in all sincerity, as he
had said she would, in his wife's return ;
but she above all thought of her old lover.
Was it possible he, too, was hiding himself
under the shelter of Mrs. Smith ?

Major Mortimer, an old friend of
Charles's, has been miraculously preserved
also,' Ambrose had said, little thinking of
the older friend hanging on his words ;
and as Mary entered the inn parlour and
saw only two women, she knew how she
had counted upon finding her old lover
there also.

Any friend of so respectable a gentleman
as Mr. Ambrose Scott, of whom the
hotel people spoke with such respect, was
welcome,' Mrs. Smith assured her visitor
when Mary introduced herself as a family
friend; and then Mrs. Mole was introduced
with infinite condescension as ' a
friend in misfortune, therefore a friend for

all time,' while Mrs. Mole meekly curtseyed
and remained at the further end of the
room with her work.

Miss Latimer began with a pressing
invitation for Mrs. Smith and her friend
to become her guests during their stay in
Bestminster. * She was sure they would
be more comfortable ; and she was so
interested in their adventures. She had
once known one of their party, Major
Mortimer,' and here Mary betrayed herself;
it was so long since her lips had
pronounced his name aloud that the effort
was almost beyond her.

Mrs. Smith's quick eyes and ears guessed
something of the truth, and, pleased with
her address and appearance, chose to be
amiable instead of only grand.

She was only there for young Mrs.
Scott's sake,' she said. ' On no other
account would she have left Mr. Smith

again after their dreadful separation ; but
for that dear child she could sacrifice
much.'

And dropping her measured tones entirely,
she spoke of Janie so warmly and
lovingly that Mary was almost content to
wait till the kindly speaker had exhausted
the subject. Of the Major she presently
had also much to say, though her tone
became stilted again over * Mortimer'; and
Mary's longing for news of him was only
very little appeased when the note sent
by Charley was brought up. Its perusal
caused Mrs. Smith much pleasure.

They are coming very soon,' she said ;
a cab is to be sent out. Mole, go and
order tea. That darling child will never
have thought of her tea ; and she's eaten
nothing at all these last few days. She
wants careful watching, Miss Latimer.
Dear me ! when I first had her under

my care she was a poor flimsy girl, more
like a snowdrop than a human being ;
but constant supervision did wonders. I
often thank God I was cast away with
them all ; I tremble to think what she
would have done without me. I never
despaired, never wearied ; and you'll seethe
result — as fine a young woman in
mind and body as ever lived.'

When Mary found Mrs. Smith intended
to return to London immediately, she
would have taken leave, but was graciously
begged to remain and meet the young
couple.

Of course I know all the circumstances
of the case,' Mrs. Smith said
meaningly. ' The sooner you get the
interview over the better. No one is to
blame ; but there may be a lite awkwardness
the first time. Let me persuade you
to stay and take the bull by the horns ;'

and Mary, thinking there was sense in the
suggestion, accepted it.

I once knew a poor fellow of the
name of Latimer,' Mrs. Smith began ; and
Mary was regaled with the virtues and
follies of old Indian friends of that name,
and probed and questioned about her
family, until at last, in the gloaming, there
was the stoppage of wheels at the door,
and in another moment she stood in the
presence of the wife of the man to whom buta
few hours before she had given her troth.

She stood unperceived in the shadowed
further end of the room while Janie presented
her husband to Mrs. Smith, who
began on her highest stilts to congratulate
them both, but finally stopped short in a
burst of tears. Mrs. Mole was next made
to shake hands with Major Scott, and
Mary had time to calm herself and to
observe the heroine.

As If I could ever have compensated him
for her loss !' she thought, as she listened to
the musical voice and noted the loveliness
of the restored wife. * No wonder he
never became reconciled to the idea !'

Then poor Mary wondered if it would
always be her fate to stand aside thus and
witness happiness without ever partaking
of it herself. She was hurt that her old
lover should keep aloof ; she was not yet
aware that he, too, had heard of her engagement
and could not be expected to
understand it aright.

But Charley's quick eyes were not long
in discovering her.

Mary !' he cried, without a shade of
embarrassment in his happy voice — ' Mary,
how good of you, how like you, to be
here ! Janie, here is Mary !'

For an instant Janie stood silently looking,
her eyes gravely meeting her visitor's

as Mary stepped out into the fuller light ;
then she put both hands out to greet her,
and with a smile that stole the other's
heart right away she stooped to kiss her,
saying :

I hope you will love me a little, for your
old friend Charley's sake.'

Mary grasped her hands closely.

It will not be a difficult matter,'
she replied ; and then she turned to
Charley.

Now I think I may go on with my
veranda,' she said, with a smile and a blush
which were very becoming ; and that was
all that ever passed between them concerning
their short-lived, untoward engagement.


Ann and Ambrose were announced
almost immediately, and the latter, in a
beaming state of extreme satisfaction, had
another kiss from his beautiful sister-in-law.

He insisted on the whole party
adjourning for late tea to his house, and
led the way with Mrs. Smith, listening to
that lady's remarks on things in general
and Mr. Smith's high position in particular
without heeding a word. Indeed, he had
eyes and ears only for his new-found relation
; and Annie, watching his smiles and
hearing his mellifluous accents, forgot all
sense of filial duty, and whispered to her
sister that ' father was sillier than she had
ever supposed possible.'

In the midst of it all a summons came
for Mr. Scott to speak to Mr. Chi vers fora
moment.

Scott,' said the member, as Ambrose
hurriedly joined him in the office, ' I am
sure you know I take a strong interest in
you and yours ?'

Indeed, you are always most kind,'
said Ambrose, continuing to stand as his

visitor refused a chair. ' I am sure I am
very sensible of your kindness.'

Scott,' added Mr. Chivers, sinking his
voice to a whisper and looking to be sure
the door was shut, ' I fancied last night we
were intended to infer that an engagement
existed between your highly respectable
half-brother and that Miss Latimer ?'

Yes,' said Ambrose ; * but '

Stop a minute, Scott — stop a minute !
About half an hour ago I met a cab coming
out of the gate of your brother's cottage.
Naturally I glanced at the occupants.
They were your brother — and — a young
woman. Stop a minute, Scott ! — not Miss
Latimer. No ; I could not see her face ;
but it was not Miss Latimer, I'll take my
oath ! Wait a minute, Scott ! don't be
angry ! It is right you should know this ;
you are his elder brother — a sort of parent,
indeed. Scott, he was kissing her !'

He drew back to observe the effect of
this damaging report.

Sir !' Ambrose cried, for once in his Hfe
roused to anger with his valuable client,
*-surely he may kiss his wife !'

'Wife !' Mr. Chivers almost shouted.

And when, as rapidly as possible, the
lawyer told the astonishing tale of her
survival and return, his visitor exclaimed :

I am sorry ! That woman is free
again !'

Quickly recollecting himself, however,
he explained that his son would be sure
to be again bewitched by Miss Latimer,
and he, his father, would probably be
unable to prevent him making a fool of
himself.

Mr. Chivers left the house with many a
sounding expression of congratulation ; but
as Ambrose saw him ride away, he shook
his head and murmured :

How selfish some men are !'

Before the party separated, Janie had
contrived, under cover of a general account
of her late companions, to mention
that Major Mortimer was to be asked to
come to them almost directly, and to speak
of him in glowing colours, and it was impossible
for Mary to infer this was said
with any personal application ; for Janie
had much to say of Colonel Shepherd
also, whom she had left rejoicing with his
family.

Mr. Scott never ceased to love and
admire Janie. The confidence she had
reposed in him proved her to be a person
of the nicest discrimination, he said ; and
it was allowed by all his family that her
influence over him was unbounded. She
instigated Ann to hitherto unheard-of extravagances
in dress, and backed up Annie

in her desire for a little more gaiety, and
he offered no opposition, because he thought
she could do no wrong. It was his great
delight to watch unobserved the devoted
attentions the young couple paid each other
' the little glance across the crowd,' the
meeting of hands, the dread of separation
even for a few hours, the oneness of feeling
and word ; and at times he asked himself
how it was he had missed the like happiness
with Ann. Once he said something
of this feeling to his brother-in-law, apropos
of his brother's blissful state :

It makes one think of one's own 
days — eh, Chard 1' he said, with
questionable delicacy to a widower. * Ah !
she's all tenderness and unselfishness. Ita
pity my Ann isn't a lite more romantic ;
but, there, we can't all be sympathetic'

When Major Mortimer seeded at Bestminster,
which he did within six months

after his arrival in Europe, and in a house
with a wide new veranda, which he said
reminded him most pleasantly of his old
bungalow - veranda at Moradabad, he
brought with him as factotum his former
companion on the reef — Hay ; and Hay
proved a valuable servant. Only on
great occasions, such as the birth of a
child to his master, or to the lady he still
admired more than any other — Mrs.
Charles Scott — when he felt it his duty to
be convivial, did he trespass against temperance.
On these occasions he liked
to spin a yarn about the shipwreck, in
which he pictured graphically the appearance
of Mrs. Smith deprived of her hair,
never failing to add that, as soon as she
reached Paris, ' it growed again wonderful
all at once in the latest fashion.'

Mr. and Mrs. Smith went back to India
' English people were too rude,' they

VOL. III. 55

said ; * they actually jostled them on the
London pavements as if they were only
uncovenanted ' — and settled in the hills of
Bengal, whence yearly came handsome
presents ' to their dearest child, Janie,'
and in time 'to their darling grandchildren.'


Lord Normington came back to find
his young friend, the Major, restored to
happiness, and he, too, tendered sincere
homage to his young friend's wife. Through
his influence Charley managed to get
transferred from the Indian staff-corps to
a lucrative post in England.

^ It would be monstrous to take such a
woman out to India, to stand the chance
of being wrecked again,' he said. ' It
was hard if he couldn't show a kindness
to the daughter of an old friend.'

He opened his house to receive her as
the first lady-visitor since his wife's death ;

and he never had guests without making
her come and act as hostess.

Charley must make his way,' he said
to her, 'and I'll do my best to clear It for
him. 1 should like to see a coronet on
your pretty head, my dear 1'

But they were both too happy to be
ambitious. There were boys and girls
springing up around them ; home-life was
too pleasant to be set aside for mere worldly
distinction, which must draw them out of
its sphere ; and both had suffered enough
in the past to make them take a wiser
estimate of what tends to true happiness,
and were content with their lot.

THE END.

eiLLrNG « SONS, PRINTERS, Guildford

C, C. Sy Co.

v\

3 0112 088989022

rJW5,^-:f.7i?'.-r&5

-^

A

v^<
