VOL. I.

AT ALL THE LIBRARIES

THE SPORT OF CHANCRE. By William Sharp.

3 vols.

SWEET IS TRUE LOVE. By Katharine King, author

of ' The Queen of the Regiment,' ' Off the Roll,' &c. 2 vols.

A DOUBLE Wedding. Bathe Author of 'St. Slave's,'

Janita'sCross,' 'Annette,' &c. 3 vols.

THE GAY WORLD. By Joseph Hatton, author of

Clothe,' ' Cruel London,' &c. 3 vols.

CAST ON THE WATERS. By Hugh Coleman

Davidson, author of ' The Green Hills by the Sea.' 3 vols.

HURST & Blackett, 13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

BY

JANE STANLEY

AUTHOR OF "A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS."

• There's a new foot on the floor, my friend,
And a new face at the door, my friend,
A new face at the door.'

IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON :

HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1888.

All Rights Reserved.

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/newfaceatdoor01stan

A NEW FACE AT THE DOOR.



CHAPTER I.

-O

Sc

Change here for Brent, Kingsbridge, 

bridge '

A poorly-dressed girl, in a third-class
carriage, sprang up and began collecting
bags and wraps. A young man, who looked
too pronounced a ' master ' to be in the
^> habit of travelling third-class, came to her
help. He had jumped in at the last station
,. regardless of railway regulations, just as
^ the train was beginning to move. Having
diligently studied his companion's very
regular profile, he" looked eagerly at the
full face now offered to his gaze. It was

VOL. I. B

rather disappointing, he thought. There
was a want of roundness and colour for
which perfect outline of feature could
scarcely compensate. Even the deep-set
grey eyes had a cold look under their long
black lashes.

Not nearly so pretty as her photo,' was
his mental comment as he left her in charge
of a porter. Unconscious of his recognition,
Opal Carew watched the young man
passing out of the station, with the double
regret that their Away lay no longer together
and that she had not made more of
her opportunity. A born flirt of the quiet
kind, she did not usually let her chance
slip when fate threw a worthy prey in her
path. But she had been restrained by the
consciousness that no levity was permissible
in the part she was about to play on a
new stage. The part itself was by no
means new to her : for ^-^^ years she had
been working as a governess. Homeless
and friendless, with no special advantages

of education, she found it difficult with all
her care and unwilling self-denial to make
both ends meet. She had been filling the
post of holiday governess in a family at
Danish, glad to escape the necessity of
finding board and lodging for herself during
the few weeks which elapsed between
her leaving one situation and entering another.
Danish in August had been a
pleasant change from London, but Opal
hated the country. As the train bore her
away from all signs of what she called
civilization to a region with which she was
destined to share a somewhat ghastly celebrity,
she regretted vainly that her new
lot was cast in the wilds of Devonshire.

I might have held out a few weeks
longer. Life isn't worth having in a place
like this. Why, it isn't a place at all,' she
thought, as they stopped at a dreary country
station with no sign of human habitation
save one public-house, a square, ugly
building of grey stone with a background

B 2

of grey hills, the beginning of the moors,
which were the pride of the district.

Xo one got out but Opal; she and her
tinted yellow box were quickly set down
and left on the platform. Just outside
the station stood a dilapidated-looking one-horse
fly.

From the Glebe House— Mr. Daman's ?'
said Opal.

The man touched his hat.

Can you shut it up ?' she asked, with
a disgusted glance at the vehicle.

It was still September, but a cold mist
was creeping up and a drizzling rain beginning
to fall. OjDal liked warmth and
shelter ; besides, she had a feather in her
hat. With a o'reat deal of creaking:, the
two sides of the fly were brought nearly
together, but a current of air poured in
through the gap, and the windows fell
down again as fast as Opal pulled them
up. She felt chilled to the bone as they
rattled up and down the stony lanes. The

drive seemed endless, and there was nothing
to break its dull monotony — not a house
nor even a cottage to be seen, no light of
household fires gleamed warm and bright.

Opal shuddered as she thought of the
daily walks which she must take with her
pupil, and pictured what the place would
be like in the winter. It would not be
easy to find an excuse for leaving. Servants
might, and often did, object to a
neighbourhood — they could afford to pick
and choose ; but Opal wondered how it
would fare with a governess who complained
that the country was dull, or objected
to walk through muddy lanes. She
had been thought lucky to get this place,
with only one pupil, a little girl of seven,
and kind people, who wished to make the
governess quite one of the family.

'Stupid people who want anyone to
amuse them, I daresay,' thought Opal. A
new place usually suggested agreeable
possibilities ; but Opal did not reckon on

finding much excitement at Avonuisb,
'■ There are no men to govern in this wood
she repeated, dolefully.

A sudden jerk brought the horse to a
stand-still, and, looking out, Opal saw a
wooden gate with a square opening cut in
it like the entrance to a fowl-house on a
larger scale. The driver got down and
made her a sign to let down the Window
which she had been holding up for the
last mile in a desperate effort to keep one
aperture at least closed.

Stepping through the gate. Opal found
herself in a narrow drive, with wet bushes
on each side, shutting off all view of the
garden. Two dogs rushed out barking
furiously.

To say that Opal was afraid of dogs
might convey a false impression. Her
fears extended to everything which could
under any possible combination of circumstances
threaten her safety. Yet, as the
servant ran out to her. Opal did not look

as if she needed any assurance that the
doors would not bite. She was wise in her
generation, and she knew that it was a
generation which did not reckon timidity
a grace in women. But Opal's distaste
for her new home scarcely needed a scare
on the threshold to confirm it. For a
second she paused, mastering a wild desire
to turn and drive back to the station.
Most people knoAv the strange sensation of
doing something which seems like an echo
of what has been done or felt in the past.
A few may know the still stranger feeling
which seems to give us a foretaste of something
in the future. It flashed across Opal
now, a vague intangible vision which had
no reality in the present but seemed to
paralyse her with an undefined terror of
its fulfilment hereafter. Gone — before she
could grasp its meaning or guess what
connection there was between that blurred
vision and the sensation of fear which accompanied
it.

Then a delightful sense of Warmth and
light burst upon Opal as she came out of
the chill mist and rain into a bright,
prettily-furnished room such as she might
have found in Kensington. A real winter
fire blazed in the tiled grate, whilst fresh
roses filled the room with the scents of
summer. A Japanese tea-table with shelves
standing out in every direction offered a
tempting display of cakes and scones,
which reminded Opal that she was hungry
as well as cold and tired. And a smiling
girl in a summer dress came to greet the
new-comer as warmly as if she had been

an invited guest instead of a hired

governess.

Oh, poor thing, how cold you are !' she

exclaimed, as she took Opal's hand. ' Here,'

drawing a low chair close to the fire, ' sit

down and warm yourself, whilst I get you

a cup of tea.'

There was an older lady in the room

who smiled and nodded kindly. If she

did not come forward, it was evidently
from no unfriendliness, but only because
she felt too comfortable to move out of
the very easy chair in which she was
reclining.

^ Did you see anyone at the station ?'
asked the girl, as she attended to Opal's
wants.

No one got out but myself,' replied
Opal, looking at the bright face, and deciding
that it was the prettiest she had
ever seen out of the looking-glass.

Jack must have missed his train.'

Opal brightened invisibly. There was
something refreshing to her in the mention
of a Jack. She forgot that he might be a
schoolboy. Just then she caught sight of
a photograph on one of the little tables.
It was a likeness of the young man she
had met in the train. Could he be
Jack ? This was like the beginning of a
romance.

Isn't that good of Greta— my daughter?'

asked Mrs. Daman, seeing Oj^al's
eyes fixed.

Yes, but it hardly does justice,' replied
Opal, perceiving for the first time that the
girl's likeness stood beside that of the
young man. She longed to ask, ' Is that
your son ?' but caution was a habit with
her.

'Where is Bowwow?' said Mrs. Daman,
looking round.

Opal looked round too, instinctively
drawing her dress about her feet.

There was a gentle rustling of the curtain
which covered the bow window, and
out came a little girl with a complexion
like apple-blossom and hair like silkworms'
freshly-spun silk, who looked almost too
babyish to be Opal's pupil. She came
forward shyly offering one hand, whilst
the other kept tight hold of a book. Bow-wow's
shyness did not last long, for Opal
had a happy manner with children : it was
part of her stock-in-trade.

'You'll find her quite up to her years
in everything but looks,' said the mother ;
'• but we don't want you to press her on
too fast; she's so quick, she oughtn't to
be allowed to learn much yet.'

Opal had heard this from parents before
and attached very little importance to it.
But Greta broke in, impatiently,

'Nonsense, mother, as if she wouldn't
work her brains just as much whether
she was taught or not. Do let us have
one scholar in the family. I never ran
to book-learning, or Jack either. But you
can't keep this child away from books. She
may as well puzzle her brains over history
and geography as over — 'monte Crista," '
she cried, catching the book out of the
child's hand.

Jack gave it me,' said Bowwow, with
a look of defiance at the new governess.

Opal avoided the question of Dumas's
fitness for her pupil's study by remarking,
as she saw a name written on the cover of

the book, ' Blanche, is that your pretty
name? And why are you called Bowwow?'

I'd much rather be called Blanche ; do
call me Blanche,' said the child, eagerly.
She had been staring at Opal with the
steady effrontery of childhood, and added,
as the result of her inspection, ' I shall
like you better than the gorilla.'

Opal looked round for an explanation,
but Mrs. Daman had closed her eyes, and
Greta was looking out, with her face
pressed against the window.

My last governess,' explained Bowwow.
^ Jack said she was like a gorilla. Jack
likes pretty people,' she added, as if
this showed rather an unusual taste on
his part ; ' they made the governesses send
their photos this time, and yours was the
prettiest of all. That's Jack,' she added,
taking the picture off the table. Then with
a sudden impulse of hospitality she asked,
^ Don't you want to take off your things ?'

Opal caught at the suggestion. She was

longing to make herself presentable before
Jack came home.

Greta followed them upstairs.

Have you got everything you want ?'
she asked, as she turned up the gas and
poked the fire into ablaze. 'I must go
and dress, Jack and I are going to a ball.'

A ball?' exclaimed Opal, ' do you have
many ?'

'Not so many as I should like. This
doesn't look much of a place for balls — does
it ? We have to 0:0 eisrht miles for this
one. Come, Bowwow, you'll only be in
Miss Carew's way.'

Oh no, let her stay if she likes.'

Opal had no secrets of the toilet. The
silky black plaits which she coiled round
her head were all her own and she was rather
glad to exhibit them even to Bowwow.

Oh, what long hair,' exclaimed the
child. 'Greta's hair isn't long like that.
But isn't Greta pretty?'

Yes, I never sav anyone prettier,' replied

Opal, with enthusiasm. She knew
that little children chattered. ' What a
lovely colour she has. I've heard people
talk of the Devonshire complexion, but I
never realised what it was till I saw Miss
Daman.'

'Miss Daman,' said Bowwow, with a
little soft crowing laugh. ' Greta isn't
Miss Daman. Her name's Charlstrom ; she's
only my half-sister, you know. And Jack's
miy half-brother.'

^ Then your brother's name is Charlstrom
too?'

Oh no Jack's name's Daman. He's my
father's son and Greta's my mother's daughter
and I'm both their child.' Bowwow
paused as if trying to amend her last expression,
whilst Opal remarked,

Well, I don't think your relations could
be more complicated, considering there are
only three of you.'

Isn't it funny ?' said Bowwow. • Father
calls us mine, thine, and ours. Oh, are you

going to wear that?* as Opal took a ci^eam-
coloured nun's-cloth out of her box.

No, that's my best dress,' said Opal,
wishing that she could put it on and go to
the ball.

She put on a brown velveteen, which
she knew became her, though it had seen
service.

That pretty girl will be in full dress ; I
must not look like Cinderella beside her,'
she thought.

The evening was the time when Opal
appeared to most advantage. Seen by
artificial light her sallow complexion looked
clear and waxen, her grey eyes darkened
and seemed to light up. But there was no
play of feature like that which gave charm
to Greta Charlstrom's face. In spite of
Opal's regular features and well modelled
figure, people differed as to her claims to
beauty. But no one ever wished Greta to
be in any respect different from what she
was. Even Opal, who considerably overrated

her own attractions, recognised in
this o:irl something; worse than a rival
beauty. She examined her critically
when they met again in the drawing-room.
Greta was tall and rather square-shouldered,
but the general effect of her fio-ure
was easy and graceful. There was an
appearance of health and vigour about
her which was attractive, since it did not
degenerate into coarseness. No one could
quite say where the spell lay which set
Greta above her fellows ; she had some
gift which can never be acquired, something
which distinguished her from the
common herd of pretty girls, and made
them look dowdy and insignificant beside
her. Her dress usually set off her beauty,
without attracting attention in itself This
evening she wore a creamy dress of some
soft, silky material, cut after the fashion
with which Kate Greenaway's pictures
have made us familiar, and trimmed with
a bright shade of brown. Tan shoes and

gloves gave effect to the costume, and the
girl's clear brown eyes, and light brown
hair seemed to complete the harmony.
Opal debated with herself as to whether
Greta would be called fair or dark. Better
than either, was her unwilling conclusion.

A noise at the hall-door sent Greta flying
out of the room, and made Opal look
eagerly for Jack. But the brisk little man
who came in, stamping his feet and shaking
the rain off his coat, had little in common
with the good-looking young man
whom she had met on her way.

Jack !' exclaimed Mr. Daman, as he
came in. ' No, I haven't seen him all day.
Didn't he go shooting nth Tom Oliver ?
We needn't wait dinner for him.'

Oh, never mind dinner,' cried Greta ;
it's my ball I'm thinking of You'll have
to take me, if Jack isn't back in time. Oh !
there he is,' she exclaimed, running away
at a fresh sound.

From her corner by the fire, Opal could

VOL. I. c

not see the new-comer, but she heard an
exclamation.

Oh, you clear boy ! Just the very
thing I Avant.'

Then Greta hurried Jack off to dress,
and disappeared herself for a few moments.
When she came down, her dress had gained
a touch of colour. A spray of maple
leaves, wearing their brightest tints, was
trailed across her bodice, a small cluster
nestled in her hair.

'We mustn't scold Jack; he went everywhere
to get me these leaves,' she remarked.
^ I'd forgotten I said anything about them.'

Dinner was half-over before Jack made
his appearance, and Greta quickly hurried
him away, as the carriage was waiting.
Opal wondered whether it was the same
vehicle which had brought her from the
station, if so, she did not wonder at Greta's
impatience to start. She found her own
evening rather dull, and was glad to go
np early to her room. She spent sometime

in unpacking and putting away her
things. Opal was old-raaidislily tidy, and
it gave her real satisfaction to find a hanging
wardrobe, and a good supply of drawers.
It was nearly twelve o'clock before she was
ready to get into bed. As she extinguished
her candle, the room was full of moonlight.
Opal drew aside the blind. Just
opposite her window rose the grey tower
of a church, below it she saw the white
gleam of tombstones. Dropping the blind
hastily. Opal crept into bed, with a shiver.

o2

CHAPTER 11.

Do you like hearing about it, or does it
only make your mouth water?' asked Greta,
suddenly stopping short in the midst of a
lively account of her ball.

Oh, I like it,' replied Opal, who washer
only companion at the breakfast-table.
I'm used to getting my amusement at
second-hand. It's better than nothing.'

I'm afraid I shouldn't think so. I
should like to go to a ball every night.'

You wouldn't enjoy it so much, if you
did.'

^ Oh, yes, I should ; I never get knocked
up as some girls do. And I shouldn't
want to keep on at it for ever : I think

'everyone ought to give up dancing by hives
don't you ?'

Well, you see, I'm two-and-twenty already,
and I've been to about three balle.
I think I should like a little more grace.'

You don't look two-and-twenty,' said
Greta, evidently intending a compliment.

Oh, but I wish I did. No one wants a
governess to look a mere girl.'

'We do. It's horrid to have a prim,
middle-aged woman set down in the midst
of your family. You don't look a bit older
than I do, though I'm only eighteen.
People always take me for older. I used
to get plenty of partners when I was only
fifteen, and they treated me just like a
grown-up girl.'

But you were not out at fifteen ?'

I don't think I was ever in. Jack and
I used to go everywhere when we got the
chance. Oh, mother' — as Mrs. Daman
came in — ' do you know anything of a Mrs.
Randall ? She claimed acquaintance with

me and asked if I Wasn't related to General
Charlstrom.'

Of course you said you were his niece.'
Great-niece, isn't it ? I told lier I
hadn't seen him in my life, and didn't
want to. Don't look horrified, I didn't
use those very words. I said I knew nothing
about my father's people, and I didn't
believe in blood for my step-father was
quite as much to me as any real father
could be.'

Such a common little man. How can
she ?' thought Opal, who found a good deal
wanting in Mr. Daman's outer man.

'- I know she only thought the grapes
were sour,' said Greta, ' no one ever will
believe that I don't want the Charlstroms^
a bit more than they want me.'

I wish they could see you, all the same,'
replied her mother. ' They couldn't deny
that you were a Charlstrom all over — in
looks, I mean,' she added, with an emphasis
which was scarcely flattering to the other

qualities of her first husband's family. ' I
wonder what your cousins are like.'

Opal felt sure that Mrs. Daman was
thinking that the cousins could not but
appear to a disadvantage beside her own
child. She had not passed an evening in
Mrs. Daman's company without hearing
something of Greta's perfection.

Mrs. Randall can tell you all about
them,' said Greta, eagerly, ' she wants us
to go over to Plymouth and see her. She
asked to be introduced to you last night,
but I told her you never went anywhere.
I think she was rather shocked to find I
had no chaperon but Jack.'

'I don't know about calling on her
myself. You can go.'

Oh, mother, backing out of it as usual,'
cried Greta.

It was no personal distaste for society
which made Mrs. Daman ' back out ' of
things. She had been fond of gaiety, and
might have liked it still, but she felt herself

rather heavily weighted by the fact
that her husband kept a shop in Plymouth.
As the wife of Captain Charlstrom she had
been poor and uncomfortable, but she had
suffered no misgivings as to her social
standing. It was not only that her husband
belonged to a good corps, or that he
boasted himself to be somebody (presuming
perhaps on the fact that few people had
the pedigree of a Swedish family at their
linger ends). There was something in the
man's presence which made him need no
hall-mark to pass for genuine. His wife
had been very proud of him, but her pride
was the only thing satisfied in her first
married life. Xo one but herself could
fully realise how little Captain Charlstrom
cared for anyone's comfort but his own.
He had no vices, commonly so called, buta
vice occasionally indulged might have
been almost easier to bear than the daily
contact with his hard egotism. Even the
one instinct which often prevails over a

selfish nature was wanting. He had as
little consideration for his child as for his
wife. And, when his death left them almost
unprovided for, his family had shown little
regard for them either. Yet nothing hurt
Mrs. Daman so much as the fact that they
had dropped even the semblance of civility
when she married the ' common little man '
who was only a wine-merchant in Plymouth.
Life is very like a see-saw, now up, now
down : a few, but only a few, seem to remain
always at one end of the swing. It
was in keeping with the common laws of
compensation that Mrs. Daman should
now find herself the happiest and most
petted of wives, whilst Greta was only in
danger of being spoiled by a step-father
who, if he came nothing behind a real
parent in affection, was perhaps somewhat
remiss in the exercise of a parent's authority.
Mrs. Daman's home life was so smooth
that she never thought of wishing it altered
till Greta began to grow up. Then a

longing to show her beautiful daughter
and to see her admired came over the
mother. But her best chance of pushing
Greta into society was by effacing herself.
A pretty girl is always in some demand.
When she brings a partner with her, the
only objection to her presence at a dance
is removed. Greta and Jack were making
a little popularity for themselves, no one
caring much who the parents of such presentable
young people might be.

Mrs. Daman was too busy with speculations
as to whether Mrs. Randall might
introduce Greta to the notice of her father's
relations to think about her new governess.
But Opal did not wait to be reminded that
ten o'clock was the hour fixed for Bow-wow's
lessons. She slipped away and called
her pupil in from the garden just as Jack
came down to breakfast. Opal wondered
whether he was accustomed to spend his
mornings in bed. His father had ozone off
to Plymouth hours before ; but the son

did not seem to follow any occupation.
Jack had no need to work, being the one
rich member of the family ; but this was
part of the family history which Opal had
yet to learn. She meant to get information
out of Bowwow by-and-by, but at
present it was her duty to give instruction.

Very steadily both teacher and pupil
applied themselves to the business in hand.
Only once, as the sound of horses' hoofs
was heard on the gravel, did Bowwow
interrupt her reading to remark that Greta
and Jack were going for a ride. But she
did not ask leave to jump) down and see
them, as most children would have done.
The Advancement of Learning had a real
charm for Bowwow, and Mature had made
its acquirement easy to her.

But the bow of Apollo is sometimes unbent,
and Greta, looking into the schoolroom
on her return, found the child curled
up at her governess's feet pretending, as
Opal explained, to be her dog.

Her favourite game, hence lier name,'
said Greta. ' Don't you think it's about
time she put away such childish things ?
And dogs don't read books,' she added,
seeing ' Monte Crista ' hell firmly in what
should have been a paw.

Then I'm sure she mio;ht be a dos herself,
for she never reads,' said Bowwow,
who felt her illusions cruelly shattered.
But Greta was out of hearing, the child's
little gun having been fired rather late.

Opal replied by a little dissertation on
the pleasures of reading, a taste which she
shared with her pupil. It was characteristic
of her to fall in with Bowavow's fancy
for being talked to like a grown-up person.
\Yhen Bowwow was not a mere baby,
she was very grown-up indeed, leaping
over all intermediate years, and becoming
an old woman at once in her endeavour to
seem a young one. Her nick-name was a
sore offence to her dignity, for she was
secretly ashamed of the childish instincts

which would occasionally assert themselves.


You'll always call me Blanche, won't
you ?' she said, when Opal had for once
forgotten. ' What's your name ? We used
to try to guess, but you only put " 0.
Carew " to your letters.'

Try again, though no one ever guessed
my name yet.'

Neither did Bowwow. At last she rushed
out, and caught Jack, dragging him
into the school-room.

Come and help me guess Miss Carew's
name,' she cried. ' It begins with an "0,"
but it isn't Olivia, or Olive, or Orpah, or
Ophelia.'

Octavia, — Miss Carew — is an eighth
daughter,' said Jack.

I am all the daughters of my father's
house, and all the brothers too,' replied
Opal.

Jack perceived that she must be making
a quotation, but he did not recognise it

and even Bowwow Alas not acquainted with
Shakespeare.

'Perhaps it's Orchid?' guessed Jack.
I never heard of such a name, but I think
Miss Carew looks like an orchid.'

Is that meant for a compliment ?' asked
Opal. ' I have seen some orchids which I
should be very sorry to resemble.'

They're like insects sometimes,' cried
Bowwow.

Jack was young, and had not acquired
the art of turning a compliment gracefully.
He was making a bungling attempt to defend
his proposition, when Greta came in,
and cut across his speech, after the fashion
of the family, who never gave much heed
to the speaker's privileges.

Orchids ! I call them snobbish flowers.
People think much of them, because they
represent a lot of money.'

Then I wish I did resemble them,' said.
Opal, in a low voice.

The gong sounded, and Bowwow seized
her governess' arm.

I'm going to take Miss Carew in to
lunch. Go away, Jack, she's not your
friend, she's mine.'

'But I met her first. Perhaps you
didn't notice me, Miss Carew, but I travelled
part of the way with you yesterday ?'

Opal considered him for a moment.

I suppose you're the young man who
jumped in when the train was going at
full speed ?'

I'm sure he was,' said Greta. ' He
always misses his train, except when he
catches it half-way out of the station.
You'll be fined some day. Jack, if you
don't come to a bad end.'

'A bad end suggests an end at the hands
of the law,' remarked Jack. ' I believe a
gipsy did once promise me something of
the sort.'

I thought gipsies always prophesied

smooth things,' said Opal. ' When I had
my fortune told, I was promised my heart's
desire.'

'What is your heart's desire ?' asked
Bowwow.

Opal did not answer, but Greta broke in,

'Mine is to have plenty of fun whilst
I'm young, and Bowwow's is to be grownup.'


And mine is to come of age,' said Jack.

'Then I should think yours was in a
fair way to be fulfilled,' remarked Opal.
A year, a month, and a week exactly.'

We're o-oino- to olive a ball when Jack
comes of age,' said Greta.

But that is not the whole aim and end
of my desires,' replied Jack, with a look
which Opal could not quite understand.

She had discovered by a sort of freemasonry
that the young man was a flirt,
but she thought it odd that he should care
to flirt with Greta, who was like a sister
to him. Especially when a girl who did

not labour under the same disadvantage
was present. It was in the natural order
of things that Jack should find a newcomer
more attractive than anyone he had
known all his life, but Opal wondered how
Greta would like to find herself making a
bad third. It was a case which craved
wary walking, but Opal felt herself quite
equal to the part.

Luncheon was soon despatched, the
young people who ruled the house being
too full of animal spirits to sit long over
anything. Greta was the first to spring
from the table.

Let's go for a walk ; you must long to
get out, Miss Carew, after being kept in
all the morning.'

Fresh air and exercise were necessaries
of life to Greta, and she was young enough
to judge everyone's tastes by her own.
Opal never wanted to walk for the sake
of walking. Anything was better than
being sent out with Bowwow, but she

VOL. I. D

would much rather have sat over the fire
if the others would have sat with her. It
was a dull afternoon ; there had been
neither sun nor wind to dry the roads,
and Opal was not properly equipped for
country walking. She could never bring
herself to spoil her dresses by having them
cut to a convenient walking length, and
the sight of Greta's thick, country-made
boots gave her a shudder. Yet, as she
gathered up her draggled skirts and took
short, quick steps to keep pace with the
brisk stride of the others, she was conscious
of appearing to a disadvantage.

The walk gave her no' sense of exhilaration.
Born in the tropics, a fact which,
for reasons of her own, she concealed.
Opal had none of the English vigour
which distinguished her companions. Even
Bowwow could have walked her governess
off her legs with ease. But it never occurred
to the young people that any girl
could find the walk too long or the pace

too severe. Greta, who was always the
leader, had fixed the goal of their walk at
what she called ' the old house.'

Careyscombe, to give the place its rightful
name, was a deserted house which was
falling into decay without gaining any of
the grace or beauty of a ruin. There was
nothing picturesque about broken windows
or walls to which strips of paper yet
clung. To Opal the place brought a sense
of desolation. She felt a dim reflection
of the nameless horror which had come
over her the day before on the threshold
of the Glebe House. And again the feeling
was coupled with physical fear as she
caught sio;ht of cattle o-razino; close to the
windows, through which her companions
were proposing to effect an entrance. They
had approached the house in a somewhat
lawless manner by scrambling through a
hedge and over a fence.

We often come,' had been Greta's reply
to a slight remonstrance from Opal, who

D 2

secretly debated what dearth of amusement
could bring people to such a place. As
they entered the large room, Which still
bore some traces of grandeur in its carved
chimney-piece and wide hearth, Opal wished
that there had been tenants to offer
easy chairs and afternoon tea. Some such
idea passed through Greta's mind as she
slid down the Ion 2; floor.

'What a pity no one lives here now.
Think what balls they would give.'

They wouldn't ask us if they did,' replied
Jack.

Oh, yes, they would, when they found
how nice we were.'

Opal felt like a tired horse eager to get
back to its stable, but her companions
would not let her go till she had explored
every bit of the house, which they considered
safe, their views on that subject
differing widely from her own. In vain
she protested, ostensibly on Bowwow's account.
Bowwow was fearless : and sure-footed,

and did not at all like to be thought
incapable of doing what the others did.
Besides, the old house had an especial
charm for her. There was an air of mystery
about it very dear to the heart of an
imaginative child. She was always expecting
to find a secret passage or some
mysterious vault with a hidden treasure.
There was one little room in very excellent
preservation, which suggested great possibilities.
Greta maintained that it was only
a store room, and Jack professed himself
disappointed at finding no jam pots, but
Opal affected to fall-in With her pupil's
mood, and declared that there must be a
sliding-panel or trap-door somewhere.

And I'm sure there must be a ghost,'
she added, ' such a place as this is made to
be haunted.

'Oh, do you really believe in ghosts ?'
asked Bowwow, so eagerly that Opal, who
believed more than she cared to own, felt
that she had been indiscreet.

Miss Carew keeps a lot of tame ghosts,,
she makes pets of them,' said Jack, creating
a sudden diversion by shutting Bow-wow
into the little room and pretending
to fasten the door, while he spoke aside to
Opal.

Such a nervous, fanciful little monkey,,
we don't want her to get ideas into her
head. They talk some such nonsense about
the Glebe House,' he added, as he suddenly
opened the door and chased Bowwow
out with a most ghostly roar.

Opal stood transfixed. So the Glebe
House was haunted, and that was the
meaning of her mysterious tremors and
vague horror. And this dismal place was
no doubt haunted too.

eye must go and see Mrs. Mol, now we
have got so far.'

'Miss Carew is tired,' objected Bow-wow,
who was the most observant of the-party.


But her money is due,' replied Greta,,

disposing of Opal's speculations as to
whether Mrs. Mol might be a person worth
visiting, 'you had better take it, Jack,
whilst we walk on. Don't let me walk too
fast for you,' she said, checking her pace
as she fell back to join Opal, whilst Bow-wow
ran after her brother.

The two girls climbed slowly out of the
hollow in which the deserted house stood,
Greta turning back every now and then
to catch some new aspect of the place,
which seemed to have an unaccountable
attraction for her. The weather had cleared,
and the scene was looking very different
now from what it had looked at their
approach. But it was still dreary and uninteresting
to Opal, who in truth preferred
a street with shops to the finest view
in the world. She wondered at the interest
with which Greta watched the changing
sky and the shifting lights on the landscape,
at her eagerness to point out the autumn
tinted leaves and the bright green ferns

growing under the hedges. Opal cared
for none of these things. She picked a
bunch of red berries with a view to adorning
her brown dress in the evening, and
felt in duty bound to admire the lane
through which their way led. The phrase
^ Devonshire lane ' recurring to her mind,
suggested that it was probably one of the
points on which natives prided themselves.

They call Kent the Garden of England,'
she remarked, ' but I should think Devonshire
was more like it.'

There's no county to compare with it,'
cried Greta ; ' not that I've seen many
others.'

Have you ever been abroad ?'

Into, but Jack and I mean to go everywhere
when we're married.'

Opal almost gasped nth astonishment.

Are you going to marry' — your brother,
she had almost said — ' Mr. Daman ?'

Yes ; it seems to surprise you.'

I took you for brother and sister.'

But we are not in the least related

Only you must know each other so
well.'

*So we do. Don't you think that's a
good reason for being married ?'

^Of course it is, really. But I should
like something new when I married ; new
relations and all.'

Oh, I should hate that. It always
seems so unnatural to me for a girl to
leave her own people and go away with a
stranger. I couldn't marry anyone but
Jack.'

I never had any people of my own, so
perhaps I can't judge.'

Oh, you poor girl, I do pity you.'

Opal did not like to be pitied. She
thought that pity ought to be reserved for
the old and ugly.

'I couldn't fall in love with a man
who'd been brought up with me like a
brother.'

But Jack wasn't brought up with me.

He lived with his grandfather till he was
sixteen.'

Oh, that alters the case entirely.'
But we knew each other very well.
Mr. Burrows couldn't keep Jack quite
away from his own father, though he would
have liked to.'

Was Mr. Burrows his mother's father ?'
^ Yes, but he was not a nice old man. I
can't help saying so, though he's dead.
And I don't think Jack's mother can have
been very nice either. She ran away with
her husband. Well, I don't blame her so
much for that ; but she ran home again
after a year or two and took her child with
her. That was how Mr. Burrows came to
keep Jack.'

Was he very fond of him ?'
Oh, yes, he was kind enough to Jack,
but he was very nasty to his father. I
think rich people often are nasty, at least
all the nicest people I've known have been
poor.'

Opal wondered how the old gentleman
had disposed of his wealth.

I wonder he did not throw over his
daughter altogether if he disliked her marriage
so she observed.

He did at first, but he was obliged to
give in because she was his only child. He
had always wanted a son, and that made
him take to Jack.'

Are you going to be married soon ?'

Not till Jack comes of age. We have
always been engaged, but we don't tell
everyone. It's no use advertising ourselves.
Engaged people are thought so stupid.'

'Engaged people are stupid,' thoughtful
; ' and it's like my luck to be shut up
in this dreary hole with a pair of them.'

CHAPTER III.

Opal's first day at Avonuish was a sample
of many which followed. Sitting in the
school-room with Bowwow she heard the
clatter of horses' hoofs or the thud of tennis
balls, and wondered why she should work
whilst Greta played. Opal had no active
desire that other people should be less
comfortable. She would by choice have
lived in a world where play was the rule.
But she meant at any price to enrol herself
in the ranks of the non workers. Marriage
offered the natural means of deliverance
from drudgery, it was the end which she
kept steadily in view. Though her designs
on Jack had received an early check, Opal
had no intention of relinquishing them

since she lead gathered that the prize was
worth winning. An engagement, she told
herself, need offer no insurmountable obstacle,
since engagements were often broken.
The constant intercourse which the young
people enjoyed, left little opening for inconstancy,
but it gave great opportunities
for quarrelling. And the lovers quarrelled
more than seemed necessary for the renewing
of love. Greta was a somewhat imperious
mistress, who used her power recklessly,
having evidently no fear of losing her
lover. Her good temper, which was by no
means associated with a meek spirit, gave
her a great advantage over Jack, who was
hasty, jealous, and exacting. Opal watched
and waited, believing that she saw materials
for mischief lying ready for the working
of a skilful hand. In the meantime she
seemed only anxious to keep out of the way
of the lovers, and apparently deprecated
the politeness which induced them to remember
her existence.

Against any suggestion of curtailing their
walks, for instance, she protested — officially.
Yet she contrived to obtain relief
without unpopularity. No one could call
her a marplot because Bowwow rebelled
at being left miles behind with her governess.
Opal knew that Mrs. Daman would
give heed to the child's complaint. Unlimited
indulgence had produced a charming
result in the education of Greta, and
the mother was glad to follow out so easy
a system. She liked her children to do as
they pleased, only asking to see cheerful
faces. Her desire to make people comfortable
in their own way extended beyond
the limits of her family.

As soon as her governess showed an indisposition
to walk, Mrs. Daman, who never
walked herself if she could help it, proposed
to keep her at home. Under the impression
that Opal Alas delicate, she petted and
coddled her as she had never been able to
coddle her own hardy children. She prescribed

Devonshire cream, and other agreeable
medicines, whilst Mr. Daman, who was
naturally a sworn foe to the Blue Ribbon
order, plied his wife's patient with dry champagne
and with ports, which are generally
held to be above the range of female intellect.


It was easy for Opal to recommend herself
to Mrs. Daman. The mother got little
companionship from her own young people,
who were out all day long. When the
evenings grew too dark for lawn-tennis,
they took to playing billiards in an outbuilding
where they had set up a table.
Mrs. Daman would sometimes regret that
the chief home resources of youth were
closed to her own boy and girl, since Jack
never opened a book and Greta never
touched a needle. Yet their time did not
seem to hang heavily. Love-making and
lovers' light quarrels served to fill up the
intervals of active amusement and supplied
a zest to the daily routine. A book had

not the terrors for Greta that it had for her
lover, but she displayed the restlessness of
a lively child, and had never concentrated
her mind on anything. Jack had always
been her most congenial companion, and
Jack cared for nothing but the use of his
active limbs, and of a pronounced talent
for philandering. The lips that he loved
were always near, and a gun, a rod, or the
chance of a run alone had power to draw
him away from them. All such amusements
were held in abhorrence by Greta. She
had once been induced to follow the hounds,
but had soon turned back and dragged
Jack with her in a fit of horror at the
sufferings of the fox. Greta's tenderness
for animals amounted, as Jack said, to a
mania. She was always engaged in a crusade
against gamekeepers for trapping or
shooting the poaching animal tribe. In
the spring it was bird-nesting which called
forth her protests. If she had lived more
in the world, Greta would have been foremost

amongst the opponents of vivisection,
but she knew nothing of public affairs and
never looked at any paper without
pictures.

The days when Jack went shooting were
dull ones for a girl who had never learnt
to amuse herself, but Opal's company
proved a resource. Opal had one gift which
unluckily for herself possessed no recognised
marketable value. She could talk
well, though she was not a great talker.
The spell of her conversation drevv^ Greta
to join her mother's circle round the fire.
Opal had lived on the outskirts of that
society after which Mrs. Daman and her
daughter cherished secret lono^inofs. From
the school-room of a great house she had
heard echoes and seen reflections which she
now reproduced. She could speak familiarly
of people whose names and whose entertainments
figured in the Queen, the one
chronicle of fashion which made its way to
the Glebe House. For her auditors, Opal's

VOL. I. E

talk had the interest of a three-volume
novel and the flavour of a society paper.
Perhaps it bore an equivalent relation to
fact, but Mrs Daman and Greta never
doubted that they were listening to history.
Opal had taken no part in the gay scenes
which she described, distance had lent
enchantment to her view, and she laid the
colours on her picture-with artistic skill.

What happy lives some girls lead,' exclaimed
Greta, as she sat on the hearth-rug
with arms clasped round her knees and
eyes fastened on Opal as if she had been a
favourite preacher.

Greta's own life was as happy as youth,
and health, and love could make it, but
there was something to be wished for just
out of reach.

Mrs. Daman looked regretfully at her
daughter.

I wish Mrs Randall would take you out
a little. She might as well, she goes
everywhere and she has no daughters.'

She has sons,' said Opal.

I shouldn't hurt her sons, and I'm sure
I don't Yfant them,' cried Greta.

No, you've done better. Why don't you
tell her you're engaged ?' asked Opal.

^ She'd tell everyone, and I don't want
to be tied up before my time.'

Then Greta jumped up suddenly.

Let's go over and look Mrs. Randall up,
Opal, we haven't been for a long time.
She's always very nice, even if she doesn't
want me for a daughter-in-law.'

A visit to Plymouth made one of the
few agreeable breaks in Opal's life.

There were always shops and people
walking; about to be seen there, sights
which were not to be found in Avonuish.
And Mr. Daman was delighted to receive
them at his shop, as Greta insisted on calling
it, and to spread a banquet before them
in the shape of afternoon tea. Opal had
been pleased when Greta first took her to
call on Mrs. Randall. But, though too well

uciRARY

uiNivERsnnr of Illinois

bred to snub a governess, Mrs. Randall
showed pretty plainly that she wished
Greta would not bring her friend.

She had taken up Greta on a good-natured
impulse, meaning to introduce
her to her unknown relations if she got a
chance. But Opal was right in supposing
that she did not care to have Greta about
when her boys, as she called them, were
at home. Mrs. Randall regarded Mr.
Daman's step-daughter as an impossible
match for one of her own sons. But her
gracious manner disguised any ungracious
thoughts from Greta, who was perhaps
provoked into responding warmly to the
new friendship offered her, by the fact that
Jack had set his face against Mrs. Randall.
He had an unreasoning jealousy of anyone
connected with Greta's own family, and
Mrs. Randall evidently attached importance
to the circumstance of her being a
Charlstrom.

With a secret hope that they might find

Mrs. Randall ' not at home,' Opal accompanied
Greta to Plymouth. The lady was
in — a sure sign, Opal thought, that the
boys were out. Mrs. Randall pressed the
girls to stay, and gave them tea out of
egg-shell china, and delicate rolls of bread
and butter, which were perhaps a poor
substitute for the larger hospitality which
they would have received in George Street.

What dreadful news this is about your
poor cousin !' said Mrs. Randall, addressing
Greta.

^ What cousin? I've not heard any news,'
replied Greta.

I thought you must have seen it in the
paper. Poor Edith Charlstrom, — thrown
from her horse and killed on the spot. I
never heard anything so shocking. Such
a pretty girl, and just going to be married.
I told you of her engagement to Captain
Mace, didn't I ? They were all so pleased
at it. A son of the new judge, you know.'

Greta knew nothing of Her Majesty's

judges, either new or old, but her mind
fastened at once on the romantic side of
the story.

Poor fellow ! how dreadful for him !'
she exclaimed.

Greta hated hearing of painful things.
She wished that Mrs. Randall would not
insist on finding the newspaper, and making
her read a paragraph which was
headed :

'Fatal Accident to a LiVDY. — An inquest
was held yesterday at Lancaster Gate
on the body of Miss Edith Charlstrom,
daughter of Major General Sir Peter Charleston,
K.C.B. Miss Charlstrom, who was
only twenty-four years of age, was ri 
Friday morning in Hyde Park, when,,
just opposite Grosvenor Gate, her horse
stumbled. Miss Charlstrom was thrown
on her head, and appears to have been
killed instantaneously. The horse which
she was riding had been used by her for
two years without accident, and is supposed

to have fallen through crossing his
feet.'

I wish she hadn't told us — it quite
spoilt our visit,' remarked Greta, when
she left the house. ' I shan't tell mother ;
it might make her nervous when Jack and
I went riding. We've never given you
that riding-lesson we talked of, have we?'

Opal thought that this was a most unpropitious
moment to talk to her of riding.

I don't want to get tastes above my
station,' she replied ' If I knew how to
ride, I should only hanker after a horse.
And I shan't always live with you, I'm
afraid.'

Oh, but I hope you will for a longtime.
When Jack and I are married, we
shall be away a great deal, and it would
be so nice for mother to have you. Only,
of course, you may get married yourself,'
added Greta, as a polite afterthought.

CHAPTER lY.

Mrs. Daman did not ask the girls many
questions about their visit. She was sitting
with an open letter in her hand and a
disturbed expression of face.

It's from Aunt Sophy, Greta ; she wants
you to go and stay with her at Bournemouth.'


How horrid ! I can't go, I should hate
it,' cried Greta, in a breath.

It would be dull for you, certainly.'
It would kill me,' observed Greta, who
expressed herself strongly. ' Just think.
Opal, Aunt Sophy is the greatest fidge you
ever knew. She's so dreadfully afraid of
cold that she makes her rooms red-hot and

sits with all the doors and windows shut.
And she lays down the law and sets
everyone right on every subject under
the sun. She's mother's sister, and
we're awfully polite to her for mother's
sake, but we tear our hair when she
comes to see us, and we can scarcely conceal
our indecent exultation when she
goes away.'

She's very good and kind, and you
liked her well enough till Jack set you
against her,' said Mrs. Daman, who made
very creditable efforts to maintain a sisterly
feeling against the influence of those
bound to her by still closer ties.

It isn't good and kind to pick holes in
everyone, and to care for nothing but your
own things,' cried Greta. ' Aunt Sophy
thinks a great deal more of her new cap
than she does of my going to be married.
Yell ' — suddenly softening — ' I'm very sorry
for the poor old thing, it must be horrid
to live alone with no one to care for you.

And I think she was rather kind to me
when I was little. But I can't go and
stop with her, I'm not good enough to
sacrifice myself, that's the truth.'

I must write and make some excuse.
What can I say ?'

Say you can't spare me. Aunt Sophy's
always throwing out at me for being useless,
she'll think I'm mending my ways. Is
there anything else in her letter that you're
hiding it. Oh, mother, we needn't have any
secrets from Opal.'

Opal spared Mrs. Daman the difficulty
of a reply by going out at once. But she
lingered amongst the flowers and foliage
plants in the hall, picking off dead leaves,
and catching fragments at least of the conversation
in the drawing-room.

'It's about Opal, and it bothers me.
Read it yourself,' said Mrs. Daman, ' out
loud,' she added, laying her finger on the
passage.

Oh, what a shame, I don't believe a

word of it,' cried Greta, running her eye
down the page before she began to read
aloud :

" And now, my dear sister, I want to
speak to you very seriously. You tell me
that you have got a young lady named
Opal Carew for your governess. Now I
happen to know that she is not at all a fit
person for you to have in your house.
Emily Harrison (niece to Mrs. Gibson who
was Mary Carpenter, you know) went to
school with her in Brussels. It was a
school kept by an English lady, Mrs. Vernon
Smith. Mr. Harrison, who was very
particular, would not have sent his daughter
to a foreign school unless he had been
assured of the strict moral tone and high
character of the establishment. Well, to
make a long story short, Miss Opal Carew
was expelled for misconduct (something
very bad about a young man, my dear — I
can't tell you the whole in a letter). She
was a horrid girl besides, and had a most

dreadful temper. She was born in the East
Indies or the West Indies, I forget which,
and her mother was what they call a Chercher
(I don't know what that means, but I
believe it's something black). Of course
you will get rid of her at once, and it happens
most fortunately that I can supply
you with the very person to fill her place.
Miss Withers is a clergyman's daughter, and
her mother was a Vivian, niece to the
Bishop of Brisbane, whose "

^ Oh, bother her pedigrees, tedious old
thing,' cried Greta, flinging the letter into
the grate. ' It's all a plot to get our place
for this bishop's cousin. It can't be our
Opal at all. A black mother ! A dreadful
temper ! Mother, you don't believe it!
Such a good, demure little thing, too.
The very last girl to carry on games with
a young man at a boarding-school.'

At this moment Opal entered, hesitating
a little as she stood just within the door.
She saw Greta's indignant face, she saw

Mrs. Daman smoothing out the singed
letter. But this seemed scarcely enough
to account for her being so well prepared
for the questions which Greta put to her.

'Were you ever at school in Brussels?'

'No with a slight air of surprise. 'I
was at school at Lausanne.'

Greta looked triumphantly at her mother.

Do you think there can be another
Opal Carew in the world ?'

I don't suppose there is now ; I had a
cousin with the same name, but she died.'

Then that must be the girl,' cried Greta.
Did she go to school at Brussels, and did
she get expelled, and had she a dreadful
temper, and was her mother a Chercher ?'

I knew very little about her,' said Opal ;
but I did hear of her getting into some
trouble at school, and, I believe, it was in
Brussels.'

'And Aunt Sophy has been trying to
make out it was you,' exclaimed Greta.

'The description did not at all fit in.

with what we knew of you,' said Mrs.
Daman, kindly. ' Let's burn the letter,
and say no more about it. Not even to
Jack,' she added, looking at Greta. ' He
would only think poor Aunt Sophy ill-natured.'


He thinks that already. Oh, I must
tell Jack : it will make him so angry.'

But that's the very reason for not telling
him,' urged Mrs. Daman.

I'm afraid my poor cousin wasn't a very
nice girl, but it seems hard to have things
raked up against her now she's dead,' remarked
Opal. ' My uncle wouldn't like it
either, and I owe him something, for he
had me educated.'

This plea had some weight with Greta.
Before Jack came home she had promised
never to say anything about the scandal ;
and a letter had been sent to Aunt Sophy,
which was inspired, if not dictated, by the
person most interested in her story.

Before she slept that night, Opal pleaded

her own cause before herself, and made out
a good case for the defence. Since she
might some day be found out, she thought
it well to be prepared. Report had a good
deal exasperated her misconduct, and she
had grounds for believing herself to have
been harshly, and even unfairly, dealt with.
She had not been the only girl to exchange
love-letters, or to meet a lover on the sly,
at Mrs. Vernon Smith's ' strict ' pensionnat.
But she had been made the scapegoat, because
she was poor and of no account.
No excuse had been found for her in the
fact that she was very young, and had meant
no harm. She had only wanted to get married
instead of going out as a governess.
In those days she had supposed that love-making
always meant matrimony. Opal's
severe ]punishment had left a stain on her
character which was certainly undeserved.
It had given her uncle an excuse for withdrawing
his appearance of friendship.
Though he did his best to suppress any

rumours wliicli might interfere with her
bread-winning, he never put the slightest
confidence in her again.

Banished to an inferior school in Lausanne,
Opal repented after a fashion, and
her character changed outwardly, at least,
for the letter. She was never again guilty
of indiscretion. She learned to control the
violent temper which had made her so
much disliked that no one stood by her in
her disgrace. She found that it paid better
to cultivate the smooth manner and plausible
insincerity which came to her as an inheritance
from her mother the ' Cheechee/
AVith no one to care for her, Opal grew
into the habit of considering no interests
but her own. Yet she seemed good-natured,
and her good-nature was partly genuine.
Some of the virtues which she assumed were
almost real, and her taste usually inclined
towards good rather than evil where no
sacrifice was involved. She told falsehoods
instinctively, using them as she would any

other weapons of defence. But she had
not often told so blunt a lie as to-day,
and it disturbed her, chiefly because she
might be brought face to face with Aunt
Sophy or even with Emily Harrison.
Her cousin Opal Carew was safely disposed
of, since the dead tell no tales. Even
as she told herself this, Opal looked round
trembling as if she feared that the dead
girl might come back and call her to account.
She did not really believe in any
sort of life after death, but still she trembled.
While professing orthodoxy, since
she found that most mothers liked their
governesses to hold some form of creed.
Opal neither believed in, nor cared for, anything
beyond the one life which had hitherto
proved so barren to her. But she, not being
a born materialist, her mind instinctively
groped after something supernatural.
Every form of superstition, from the primitive
churchyard ghost to advanced spiritualism,
had a fascination for her. There

VOL. I. IT

was nothing to encourage a taste for spiritualism
at the Glebe House. It was a subject
which would have been dismissed
with contemptuous jesting. But Opal had
never shaken off the impression that there
was something uncanny in the house itself.
She heard footsteps in the passage when
no one was there ; she called out in answer
to phantom knocks at the door ; she started
out of her sleep with the impression that
some one was trying her endow, and saw
nothing but the white gleam of the tombstones
and the outline of the old church
tower. Everyone recognised the fact that it
was a house full of unaccountable noises,
but the family never seemed to care. The
servants made no complaints, but Opal
knew that they preferred herding together
three in one bed-room to occupying the two
provided for them.

Under the pretext that her room was
warmer than the small one allotted to Bow-wow,
Opal had contrived to get the child

for a companion. Greta refused to have a
fire in lier room, whatever the temperature,
and Bowwow was rather ambitious of hardening
herself also, though she scarcely
looked a fit subject for Spartan discipline.
But 023ars company was a delight to her,
and Opal's influence over her was immense.
The family were not reticent before the
governess, but Bowwow told her everything.
Opal found no difficulty in drawing
out such information as was not given spontaneously.
From Bowwow she discovered
that Jack's admiration was not unmixed
with criticism. He found Opal pretty, all
but her ' strange drab eyes.'

But Opal bided her time. She was
content to win the women of the family
before she laid siege to the man. Observation,
founded perhaps on previous failures,
had taught her that a man who
believes in the women of his own household
will usually let his opinion of other
women be coloured by theirs. A man in

f2

love will of course see or blunder for himself,
but he can only fall in love with a few
of the women he meets. Whether he
regards the rest with favour will mostly
depend on the women who happen to have
his ear.

Opal took care that Jack should hear
nothing but her praises from Mrs. Daman
and Greta. They were both her warm
partisans. Mrs. Daman took pride in
Opal's improved looks, as the soft climate
and easy life began to tell favourably on
her health. Greta catered for admiration
of Opal's beauty in her own small circle.
She was prepared to fight Opal's battles
when Aunt Sophy came, as she remarked,
to play her usual part of skeleton at their
Christmas feast.

This year, however. Aunt Sophy preferred
to remain at Bournemouth, where
Miss Withers was bearing her company.

Perhaps she expects us to ask her too,'
said Greta ; ' but I don't think we could

quite live up to a bishop's cousin, especially
a bishop's cousin whom Aunt Sophy
finds perfection.'

In private Greta remarked to Opal,
It's all your fault, you know ; you've
frightened away our nearest relation. And
you'll have to try to make yourself a
skeleton instead. We shall be too happy
if we don't have a skeleton.'

CHAPTER V.

It was perhaps not altogether by chance
that a silver thimble fell out of the Christmas
pudding on to Bowwow's plate, but
only fate could have arranged that Opal
should secure both the ring and the sixpence,
omens of success which gladdened
her more than she ventured to show.

Hullo, young lady,' cried Mr. Daman,
addressing Greta, ' you're not the only one
to be married next year, it seems.'

But I'm not going to be married next
year,' replied Greta. ' Fancy being married
in the winter ; I mean to be married in the
spring.'

But we're going to be married in November,
directly after my birthday ; that

was always settled said Jack, with some
excitement.

You may have settled it, I never did.
One can only be married once,' remarked
Greta, disregarding the fact that their
parents were a living instance to the contrary,
' and I mean to have a pretty wedding,
with flowers and sunshine and green
trees waving against the church windows,
not bare trees, with mud a foot deep, and
a wet white mist creeping up round you
like a shroud. November is a month to
be buried in, not married.'

Well,' said Jack, doggedly, ' I was born
in November, and 1 mean to get married
in November, and I don't mind being
buried in November, since I must be
buried some time.'

Be married in November by all means,
since you are so set on it, only it won't be
to me.'

An angry, pained look came into Jack's
face. He pushed back his chair and seemed

about to rush from the room, when Bow-wow
iran round and laid a detaining hand
on his coat.

Never mind her,' she cried, trying to
look daggers at her sister. ' I mean to
be very kind to my lover,' she added, with
severe dignity, which made even Jack
laugh.

Under cover of the table, he extended
his fingers to Greta, who gave them a
friendly rebuff.

We can go straight off to Cannes,' he
murmured, ' and get plenty of sunshine
and flowers ; oranges too,' he added, with
a vague recollection of a passage in the
Lady of Lyons,' which would come in
beautifully here if he could only remember
poetry.

Cannes is very pleasant in the spring,
I believe,' replied Greta; then, looking
mischievously in Jack's mutinous face, she
took a shining bangle from her arm and a
ring from her finger, which she proffered,

remarking, ' The letters can be forwarded
tomorrow in a half-penny wrapper.'

You want Aunt Sophy to keep you in
order,' observed Mr. Daman.

There's nothing like having a common
enemy,' replied Greta ; ' we never fight before
Aunt Sophy. She thinks me very
bad, but not quite bad enough for Jack.'

Mrs. Daman was heard to murmur something
about peace and good will.

Oh ! I forgot,' cried Greta ; ' we're
bound not to talk against anyone on Christmas
Day. We never want to talk against
anyone but Aunt Sophy, and she's generally
here.'

^ Let's drink her health,' said Jack ;
'this is the first Christmas she's spent
away from us ; let us hope it won't be the
last.'

Jack had recovered his temper, but he
did not give up his point. He pleaded
with unavailing persistency that there had
been a tacit agreement that the wedding

should take place as soon after his coming
of age as possible. To this Greta could
only reply that it had been too far off for
her to care much about it. On the last
day of the old year, Jack made another
appeal, but Greta only ran out of the
room, declaring that she never gave anything
to importunate beggars.

Did you ever know a girl tease so ?*
asked Jack, addressing Opal, who had been
a silent observer.

She's too full of fun to take anything
seriously; I daresay it will be all right
when the time comes. And, even if you
should have to wait a few months, what
would it matter ? But I oughtn't to say
that, perhaps ; I've never been in love.'

If Greta begins putting it off, she may
go on for years,' said Jack, beginning to
walk about impatiently. ' I've been counting
the weeks and the days to my coming
of age ever since we were engaged. I
never dreamt of having to wait longer.

I've gone on living in this hole, never
going anywhere or seeing anyone, just because
I didn't care to go away till Greta
could go with me. And now she wants to
keep me dragging on for ever.'

Jack had never been confidential with
Opal before, and she wondered how she
could make the most of her opportunity.

Should you be angry if I spoke plainly
?' she asked.

Of course not.'

Then I think, being a woman myself, I
know a little better what women feel than
you do. Greta is very fond of you, you
can have no doubt about that ; but she
can't help presuming a little on your absolute,
I might almost say your abject, devotion.
If she felt a little less sure of you,
if she believed it possible that you could
do without her, she would behave quite
differently.'

You believe in the spaniel theory ?'
said Jack, rather contemptuously. ' But

how can one woman judge of another who
is quite different?'

You think I'm only telling you what I
should feel.' Then, with a flash of spirit
which was a revelation to Jack, Opal went
on, rapidly, ^ I may be a patient Griselda
by nature, my life may have taught me to
find something even lower than my own
level ; but I can read Greta for all that.
Besides, I hear her speak of you.'

Greta would never say a word against
me, she's as true and loyal as — ' Jack
stopped short, doubting whether steel could
be fitly described as loyal.

You don't suppose I mean that. But
she talks more like a woman who has been
married for years, than a girl who is excited
and eager over her lover. Come now,
don't you confess that you love her better
because she plagues you.'

Do you mean that I ought to plague
her in return ? I should get much the

worst of it, and we should quarrel dreadfully.'


^ You needn't copy her. Tit for tat is
always a mistake in love affairs. But you
might go your OAvn way a little more, and
let her go hers. Don't grumble when she
goes to see Mrs. Randall, let her stay with
her if she likes. Don't go on as if you
couldn't bear her out of your sight.'

'I can't, that's the truth, and as for
letting her go to parties without me, why,
it's bad enough sometimes when Tick
there.'

In fact you're jealous, but you never
give her a chance of being jealous about
you.'

How can I make her jealous ? Will
you take me in hand yourself, Miss
Carew ?'

Opal drew back, and a colour came into
her face which made her for a moment look
beautiful.

AVhat a dull, blundering boy she
thought. Aloud she said, sternly,

I think you might see that I'm not that
sort of girl. Perhaps I sometimes forget
that I'm not quite so old as I feel. But I
want to be a friend to you and Greta, for
I like you both very much.'

Opal had been keeping her eyes slightly
averted so that Jack could only see the
long eyelashes which fringed both lids,
the compressed classical profile, and the
little blue-black head bent forward in a
way which somehow suggested modesty.
He had not been oblivious of the fact that
his Mentor was very pretty. And being in
truth a blundering boy, with no great
measure of self-confidence, he felt ashamed
of himself for having ventured on the
familiarity of a doubtful jest. He scarcely
knew how to apologise, and blessed Bow-wow
for choosing this moment to rush in,
and break up the interview.

Why don't you come out ?' cried the

child, 'they've been singing carols. They'll
ring the joy-bells to-night; do wake me upto
hear them.'

'No,' said her mother, 'little girls are
much better asleep. New years don't
matter to them.'

They're not going to be married before
the year's out,' remarked Jack.

Nor their elders either,' retorted Greta,
bringing in a rush of fresh air.

Time enough to talk of that,' said Mrs.
Daman. ' Only don't wrangle. Why, I
once knew a match broken off after the
bride had got her wedding-dress, just because
she wanted a gay wedding, and the
bridegroom wouldn't have it.'

'A good job she found him out in time,'
returned Greta ; ' what business had the
bridegroom to interfere? It's very kind of
the bride to marry him.'

Do you sit up to see the new year in ?'
asked Opal, turning the subject.

Jack and I do,' replied Greta. ' Mother

is rather fond of sneaking off to Led

Father Avill sneak off too, I hope,' said
Mrs. Daman. ' He's got a nasty cold.'

father doesn't seem quite up to his
usual mark.'

Poor Kent's illness worries him,' said
Mrs. Daman, speaking of Mr. Daman's
partner.

But he's not so very fond of old Kent,
and I'm sure he's used to doing all the
work.'

It would be awkward if anything happened
to Kent just now.'

Oh, money,' said Greta, with the indifference
of a girl who had never known
the want of it. ' But, if old Kent went out
tomorrow. Jack would make it all right.'

Yes, in November,' observed Jack.

But they'd let you have money before
November if you wanted it.'

'Would they?'

Why, what difference could a few
months make?'

A good deal of difference in law, and a
good deal of difference to them too, if I
happened to die in those few months. I
don't feel much like dying, but I daresay
they haven't quite given up hope. The
trustees happen to be also the heirs,' he
explained to Opal.

It was a trick of Jack's grandfather to
cut father out,' said Greta.

I don't know about it's being a trick
said Jack. ' I suppose he had a right todo
what he liked with his own. If I didn't
live to grow up, he wanted those other
fellows to get the benefit.'

'Can't you make a will?' asked Opal.

Not till November, and, since marriage
invalidates a man's will, it won't be worth
while to make one till after the wedding.'

Then take care of your precious life till
April twelvemonth,' cried Greta ; ' but don't
let us be talking about death and wills and
all sorts of horrid things on New Year's
eve.'

VOL. I. a

Opal suspected that Jack was preparing
to stop a leaky slip, but she could not find
out any more. When the elders had gone
to bed, the three young people drew their
chairs round the fire and waited impatiently
for the new year to be born.

I wish we lived in a palace of truth, and
had to say out everything we thought,'
said Greta, looking hard at Opal, who was
very far from desiring such a habitation.

I sometimes have a fancy I can tell if
anything particular is going to happen in
the new year,' said Opal. ' I have a fancy
about this one,' she added, oracularly.
Did you ever try the Sortes Virginians ?
You take a book — the Bible usually — open
it at random, and read the first passage
which meets your eye, taking it as
prophetic'

Oh, that must be great fun,' said Greta ;
but isn't it rather profane to take the
Bible?'

Very good people used to do it. Scotch
people, I think, chiefly. But they didn't
make a joke of it certainly. Any poetry
book will do just as well. Shakespeare or
Browning, though perhaps you'd find him
rather obscure.'

We haven't got him. There's a Tennyson
somewhere.'

I'll find it,' said Jack.

Here goes,' he exclaimed, returning
with the book, and opening it as he came
in.

" He died, he went to burning flame." '

That's nice.'

'It's not he but she in the original,'
observed Opal.

'Ah, so it is. That makes it less personal
perhaps.'

I didn't know there were such horrid
things in Tennyson,' said Greta. ' But
you picked that out on purpose, Jack ; I
saw your finger in the place before you

g2

pretended to begin. I mean to have something
much prettier, only I shan't cheat
And opening, she read:

" There's a new foot on the floor, my friend,
And a new face at the door, my friend,
A new face at the door."

Oh, I don't believe in Tennyson.'

It's my turn,' said Opal. She was the
only one who put any faith in the test.
Pressing; her finger well into the book
before she opened, she read :

" But, as he walked, King Arthur panted hard,
Like one that feels a nightmare on his bed,
"When all the house is mute." '

That only means indigestion ; I think
you're let off cheap,' said Jack.

Opal was studying the context of her
passage but she could not make much out
of it.

Hark the bells !' cried Greta, rushing to
the door.

Opal followed, but drew back at the first
blast of night air. She could see the lovers

standing liancl in hand. Jack would have
spoken, but Greta pressed his fingers to
make him keep silence. She seemed to beholding
her breath as the bells ceased and
twelve solemn strokes vomited. Then the
peal broke out again. ' Welcome, New
Year !' shouted Greta, joyfully greeting the
unknown.

She came back into the house like sunshine,
her happy radiant beauty throwing
Opal into a mere shadow of her own bright
girlhood. No doubts, no misgivings for
Greta. The future must be as the past
and yet more abundant.

CHAPTER VI.

Who can this letter be from? it's a woman's
writing,' said Greta, taking up a letter
addressed to Jack. ' I shall open it directly
if he doesn't come down.'

I wonder you don't,' said Opal, who
knew that Greta usually treated Jack's
property as her own. ' Now he's got a
chance of making her jealous,' she thought.
The idea did not, however, occur to Jack,
who let Greta read the letter over his
shoulder as a matter of course.

Dear Mr. Daman,
a fancy ball on the 28th, and shall be very

We are going to have

pleased if you and your sister will give us
the pleasure of your company and stay the
night.

Yours sincerely,

Mary Oliver.'

A formal invitation was enclosed.

I shall tell them I haven't got a sister,
at least not old enough,' remarked Jack.

'But I shall write and accept,' said
Greta. ' How nice of Mrs. Oliver to ask
me when she never set eyes on me in her
life.'

'That's Tom's doing, I expect.' Jack did
not look altogether pleased. ' I remember
he made me introduce him to you at Fern
Lea.'

And a very slow young man I found
him. All the slow stupid young men take
to me; it's a great bore.'

Thanks,' said Jack.

You may be stupid, but you're not slow.
I wasn't thinking of you. Now, just write

and explain that my name isn't Daman yet,
and I'll accept in my proper person. What
shall I go as ? that's the great question.'

A Spanish lady, I've got a matador's
dress.'

Then if you think I'm going to cry,
Bravo, Toro !" like the woman in the picture,
you're very much mistaken,' cried Greta,
who supposed Toro to refer to the tormentor
and not to the tormented. Opal began
proposing Marguerite, and other hackneyed
characters.

I won't be a sentimental, lachrymose
creature,' cried Greta. ' I don't mind being
a peasant, or a season, or anything ths
hasn't a character to keep up. I tell you
what. Opal, I'll go as a Chercher.'

What on earth is that ?' asked Jack.

Opal, who did not relish the joke,
observed,

You'll have to draw on your own imagination
for the costume ;' then added, quickly,
' What do you say to White Cat?'

'I'd rather be White Kitten, but I'm too
big. Well, you're no good, either of you.
I shall go round to Miss Perse, and settle
something with her.'

No, come to Plymouth with me, and
choose anything you like at Hannah's,'
said Jack.

Greta jumped at this offer. Her relations
with Jack were too easy and intimate
for her to think anything of his supplying
a deficiency in her wardrobe. Many of
the little luxuries at the Glebe House were
provided by Jack as a matter of course,
and no one ever thought of thanking him.

Opal must go too ; she has such good
taste, and Bowwow was promised tea at
the shop next time we went,' said Greta.

Out of regard for Bowwow's studies, the
expedition was put off till the afternoon,
when the four took train to Plymouth.
Greta business did not take so long as
might have been expected. Hannah's
young lady failed to recognise a ' Chercher

' as coming within the category of
orthodox fancy costumes, but she produced
a pictured representation of what she called
a Manila.

This would suit you much better than
an Oriental costume,' she declared. ' It is
a Spanish dress, a sort of brigand-queen ;
you see, she has a dagger.'

Spanish ! that's all right. You couldn't
have anything nicer than this,' said Jack.

You needn't be trammelled by conventionalities,
if you're a brigades,' whispered
Opal.

The young lady has just the complexion
for a Manola,' remarked the showman,
who would probably have found Opal's, or
even Bowwow's complexion equally suitable.


Shall you have a real dagger ?' asked
Bowwow, who thought this the most interesting
part of the costume.'

Oh, yes ; I wouldn't carry a duffer.'

I'll get you one ; they'd only give you
rubbish here said Jack.

As they left the shop, Greta declared
her intention of calling on Mrs. Randall.

I haven't been near her for an age she
observed.

Jack was standing back, to let Opal
pass : she gave him a warning look.

Go to your Mrs. Randall,' he cried.
We'll take Bowwow to see the shops, and
meet you at the governor's.'

'Won't you come too. Opal?' asked
Greta.

I'm very sorry, but I do so want to
buy a few things, and I'm afraid there
won't be time afterwards.'

Greta gave a lingering look at Jack as
she turned away.

It seems too bad he said, preparing to
run after her.

Opal was a believer in mesmerism,
thought-reading, and all occult ' sciences '

which a nervous and excitable generation
has conjured up. She had been willing
Jack with all her might to stay behind,
and she had believed herself successful.
But she was driven to try other arts.

I'll go,' she cried. ^ Don't throw away
your advantage. She will ask you next
time.'

Jack hesitated. Greta passed out of
sight, and Opal's first victory was won.

Mrs. Randall had a day at home, though
she had not thought fit to inform Greta of
the fact. For the first time Greta happened
to stumble on it. The room was full
when she went in. Mrs. Randall greeted
her with her usual warmth, made some
effort to find her a seat, and then left her
somewhat stranded. The people round
were laughing and talking like old friends,
and Greta could not force herself into their
conversation. Her first instinct was to retreat,
but having accepted a cup of boiling
tea, she felt bound to stay and finish it.

She soon got amused watching the people :
one little lady especially attracted her.
She was not good-looking, nor in Greta
opinion very young, but there was something;
taking; about her. She was handsomely
dressed in rich mourning, her lively
manner contrasting with her sombre dress.

Greta quite envied the ease with which
she went about talking to one and another.
Presently she came into Greta's corner to
look at a picture, and began talking to her
about it. Then she slipped into a seat by
Greta's side and fell into conversation.

'What a lot of visitors Mrs. Randall
has to-day,' remarked Greta. ' I don't know
one of them.'

And I know most of them, though I
don't live at Plymouth.'

Then can you tell me the name of that
very ugly young man who is talking to
Mrs. Randall ?'

Greta glanced across at a tall man with
a sunburnt face and a very long neck,

who had been staring at her so much
that she fancied he must be a friend of
Jack's.

Ugly,' cried the lady, ' why, most people
think him very good-looking.'

Greta looked astonished ; then a new idea
struck her.'

'Oh, I'm so sorry,' she exclaimed, 'I
didn't know he was a relation.'

But I didn't say that he was.'

No, but I thought that I saw a likeness.'
Then she stopped with sudden consternation.


Things one would rather not have said,'
remarked the lady. ' I'm not offended, I
think him handsome. And what's more, I
think him like you.'

'That's odd, considering he's not my
brother.'

'He's your cousin, though,' — Greta gave
a quick, inquiring glance at her companion
I'm your cousin too — Fred Charlstrom.'

Greta drew back. Dislike of her father's

people was almost an article of faith with
her. But seeing the friendly face, remembering,
too, all that the black dress signified,
she took the hand which was held out to
her.

We ought to know each other better ;
may I come and see you,' said Frederica,
or Fred, as she preferred to call herself

Of course you may, we shall be very
pleased,' said Greta, rising to go.

She did not quite know how to take this
new acquaintance.

We must be going too,' said Fred,
you must let me present Bob to you.
He's quartered here ; I'm staying at
Motley. Oh, it's raining,' she exclaimed,
glancing at the window. ' Can we drop
you anywhere ?'

Xo, thanks, I don't mind rain, and I'm
only going to my father's in George
Street.'

But you may as well let us take you
there.'

They'll think I'm ashamed of the shop,'
said Greta, to herself. So she consented
to be driven.

'It's a mine-merchant's on the right-hand
side, "Daman and Kent"' she explained.


I couldn't have believed she'd be so
nice,' remarked Fred to her brother, as
Greta disappeared into the shop, ' so perfectly
natural and unaffected. Did you
notice how unconcerned she looked when
she was sitting all alone with no one to
talk to ?'

^ I thought she looked uncommonly
pretty. I wanted to go and talk to her
myself, only she seemed rather stand-fish.'


Because you stared at her so. A
pretty girl doesn't care to be stared at.
It's a compliment to a plain one.'

You find it so ?'

'Yell, she didn't return your admiration,'
retorted his sister. And she repeated

Greta's unfortunate remarks, adding,
' She didn't attempt to apologise, which
I thought good form. She has no manners
at present any more than a child, but that's
ever so much better than having bad manners.
Do you think her at all like poor
Edith ?'

Meanwhile Greta was getting some fun
out of her adventure. Jack had been
rather disturbed at not finding her when
he came in. He was late himself, having
ransacked the curiosity shops to find a
dagger worthy of his Manola. After he
had waited impatiently for at least ten
minutes, he saw Greta arrive in a strange
carriage, out of which she was handed by
a strange young man.

I've made a friend,' she cried, as she
came in, thinking only of her girl cousin
till she saw Jack's face, which moved her
to mischief, ' Fred Charlstrom — we embraced
and swore friendship in the carriage.*

What ?' roared Jack.

VOL. T. H

Cousins, you know,' said Greta, demurely.


You let that fellow kiss you ?'

I'm sure she didn't said Mr. Daman.
Bowwow was sitting; with eyes fixed

mournfully on the tea-table.

Greta always spoils everything,' she
remarked. ' I thought we were going to
have such a nice tea.'

So we will,' said Greta, drawing up her
chair.

I don't want you,' cried Bowwow, pushing
her away ' It's sure to be nonsense,
it always is,' she went on, trying to comfort
Jack.

Mr. Daman was doing his best to coax
Greta into good behaviour, whilst Jack
stood aloof with a face which would have
made his fortune as a tragic actor, at least
in the provinces.

Opal thought it expedient to effect a
reconciliation. She had not been altogether

successful that afternoon. Jack
had obviously regretted following her advice,
and he had speedily left her to the
company of Bowwow. But he should
have reason to thank her yet. With an
nir of conviction, she observed,

I saw a lady in the carriage, and I
am quite sure she was the cousin Greta
meant.'

Jack muttered something about Fred
not being a girl's name, but Greta slew
her own joke by exclaiming,

Oh ! Opal, why did you spoil it all
when I had got such a splendid rise out
of him?'

Peace was restored and sealed by the
present of a very beautiful little dagger,
which was handed round and admired
by everyone as they sat over the tea-table.
Mr. Daman, however, took exception to the
offering.

In my young days,' he declared,

H 2

knives and scissors and all such weapons
were not thought fit for sweethearts to
give. They were said to cut love.'

CHAPTER VII.

Fred Charlstrom would certainly have
engrossed Greta's thoughts for the next
few weeks if it had not been for the
counter-excitement of the fancy ball.
Fred's eagerness for intimacy quickly
dispersed any lingering prejudice which
might have been felt by Mrs. Daman and
Greta. They were both full of their new
friend's liveliness and good humour, whilst
her attainments, as set forth by herself.
fairly dazzled them.

Perhaps the performance with which
Fred favoured them on the piano scarcely
filled up the measure of their expectations
; but, when she talked as if she could

lead an orchestra, they felt that their
doubts had been impious. On her second
visit, Fred took away their breath by telling
them that she had exhibited a picture.
On the third, she electrified them by the
announcement that she had written a
novel. Such a firing of real guns was a
miracle to Avonuish.

Jack refused to share their enthusiasm.
Fred was not pretty, and she had snubbed
him once or twice when he betrayed
glaring ignorance. Opal was in secret
sympathy with him.

I don't think Miss Charlstrom so very
myself,' she confided to Jack one
day, when Fred had carried Greta ofi*, as
she was rather fond of doing. ' It's no
great distinction to publish a shilling
dreadful, and, as for that magazine she-writes
for, you never saw such a 
concern. I should think it must
be kept up by the subscriptions of the
contributors. No woman of eio-ht-and-

twenty could do all Miss Charlstrom does
and do it AvelL'

Eight-and-twenty's no chicken,' remarked
Jack.

Ko, but a woman must be well past
the chicken stage before she can achieve
much in art or literature, much less in
both, unless she happens to be a heaven-born
genius. Don't you know how they
say that few actresses can play very difficult
parts, such as Juliet, for instance, till
they cease to look tit for the character.
A girl's very good to look at, but she's not
good for much else, in my opinion.'

But a girl must know more when she's
just left school,' replied Jack, who had
lost no time in forgetting the little learning
which had been forced upon him.

I should have said that her education
was only going to begin. What we learn
at school is nothing but a preparation — at
least, that's all it ought to be. But, unluckily
for me, I have to keep on grinding

over and over again at the old lessons,
instead of learning something; new like
Miss Charlstrom.'

I daresay you're quite as clever as she

is;

Opal thought that she was probably a
good deal cleverer than Fred.

Miss Charlstrom didn't come out well
in the one test I applied. I daresay you
didn't notice, but, when she was talking
as if she could speak every language under
the sun, I managed to entrap her into a
little French conversation. Well, she
didn't talk quite like a native. With all
her show of accomplishments, I don't think
she'd do for a finishing governess any
better than I should.'

Why shouldn't you do for a finishing
governess?' asked Jack, to whom it had
never occurred that such an article would
scarcely have been secured for Bowwow.

Because Fve been teaching instead of
learning ever since I was seventeen. If I

could only have one year's training now,
if I could even have my time over again, I
would do much better.'

'It seems an awful shame,' said Jack.
He had never thought so before ; he had
taken it as a matter of course that Opal
should have to teach Bowwow.

Having brought Jack to this desirable
frame of mind, Opal dropped her serious
tone, not wishing him to weary for Greta's
return. She was teaching him to look to
herself for amusement when he could not
get the companion he preferred. Opal
bore with patience his incessant talk of
Greta, finding some compensation for the
tedium of listening to a lover's song of
praise, in the fact that she was also the
confidant of his not unfrequent grumbles.
Fred was a subject of discord, and her
visits helped to throw Opal and Jack a
good deal together; but Fred went back to
London the day before Mrs. Oliver's ball,
and Greta was too much engrossed by

her anticipations to show any great regret.

Almost up to the last moment, Greta
was kept in a state of apprehension by the
non-arrival of the Manola's dress. When
it did come, there was only just time to
pack it in her box without letting Mrs.
Daman have more than a passing glimpse
of it. As some compensation, Greta
promised to put it on when she came back
again.

Mrs. Daman and Opal found their evening
rather dull. Mrs. Daman kept expressing
a wish that she could see her
young people, Opal wished secretly that
she could be taking her part with them.
Both looked forward rather eagerly to their
return next day.

I suppose they won't stay more than
one day,' said Mrs. Daman, when luncheon
time passed without bringing the travellers.


'I should think not. They'll most likely
come by the 3.52 train.'

They can't walk observed Mrs. Daman,
looking at the landscape, blind with rain.
She was impatient to enjoy a little vicarious
excitement and admiration. Jack
would be sure to tell her all the pretty
things which had been said of Greta in her
Manola s dress.

Opal thought that Jack might very likely
be in one of his fits of jealous ill-temper.
She was quite disappointed when she
heard his cheery tones in the hall. There
was no cloud between the lovers as they
came in, both talking at once, and full of
enjoyment.

It was great fun watching the people,'
observed Greta, after the first clamour had
subsided, ' but I had to dance a great deal
with Jack, he was my only defence from
Tom Oliver who pestered me dreadfully.'

• Did your dress fit ? ' asked Mrs.
Daman.

Oh, yes, beautifully, I'll go and put it
on.'

Mrs. Daman seized the opportunity,
directly Greta went out, of asking Jack
what people thought of Manola.

As a lover Jack was able to satisfy heron
this point. Everyone had wanted to
know who Greta was, all the fellows had
wanted to get introduced to her. Mrs.
Oliver had said so many pretty things that
Jack could not restrain himself from
privately acquainting her with his claims.
He did not mention whether this was done
out of consideration for Tom ; but he besought
them on no account to betray his
breach of faith to Greta. At the moment
when he was impressing this upon them,
Greta came flying back with a good deal of
jingle and clatter.

It's my sequins,' she explained. ' I
scattered them about all over the place,
but I haven't lost them all yet.'

Sequins, as she called them, were a lead-indenture
of Greta's dress. The short brown
satin skirt was edged with them, so was the

crimson velvet Zouave jacket, so was the
little crimson velvet cap wliicli sat jauntily
on Greta's curly hair. Soft yellow draperies
and a loose muslin bodice completed
the costume, whilst Jack's dao^o;er was
stuck as conspicuously as possible in her
belt.

It astonished people so,' she cried,
drawing it out of the sheath and flashing
it before the delighted eyes of Bowwow,
no one else had such a workman-like
weapon. But one horrid man said that a
Manola was not a brigand queen at all, but
an itinerant seller of wine and spirits. I
told him it was a very suitable calling
for my father's daughter, but I asked what I
should want with a dagger in such a peaceful
profession, and he said my liquors might
be contraband. I shall call father a
Manolo for the future. — Ah, there he is !'
and Greta flew to meet Mr. Daman, her
coins making music as she ran.

Manolo and Manola,' she cried, coming

in with lier arm round her step-father and
her face on a level with his.

Greta's fresh beauty and picturesque
attire contrasted oddly with the commonplace
features and mud-splashed dress of
the little man who had just tramped home
through Devonshire lanes.

1 hadn't the heart to damp her pleasure,'
he told his wife afterwards, in the
privacy of their room, 'but I had bad
news to-day. Poor Kent's had another
stroke, and they say it's all up with him.
And, if his executors want their money
before November, the shutters must go up,
that's all.'

They'll wait,' said his wife, soothingly.
' Jack will give any guarantee they
like.'

Jack meanwhile had stopped his Manola
on the landing to ask a favour.

I hope you won't mind,' he began,
hesitating a little, ' but I can't bear the
idea of your keeping that dagger. Everyone

says it's such an unlucky thing to give.
And it's no use, you know.'

Do you want it back ? how mean ! I
didn't know you were so superstitious,' exclaimed
Greta. But she gave up the
dagger, nevertheless, having some secret
misgiving.

As Greta's door closed, Opal stole gently
out of her room. She had left a French
novel, which she did not care to have seen
lying about, in the school-room. She
found Jack contemplating the dagger
rather ruefully.

What, have you made her give it up ?'
she asked, lauo^hino;.

Yes, but it does seem mean to take
back a present. And it's almost as if she'd
given it to me now. I shall just chuck,
the thing away.'

Don't do that, it's a pity.'

Will you have it then ? Only don't let
Greta get hold of it again.'

'She shan't even know that I've got it.'

Opal took the little weapon eagerly ; it
had a sort of fascination for lier. She
touched it almost caressingly before hiding
it away amongst her treasures.

CHAPTER VIII.

The lanes were in a mist of green, the
banks alight with primroses, when Fred
Charlstrom wrote asking Greta to come
and stay for a fortnight at Lancaster
Gate.

'Isn't it delightful?' cried Greta, running
to Opal, like a child, with the news.

*Mr. Jack Daman will not let you go,'
remarked Opal, Jack not being at home to
speak for himself.

Greta looked mutinous.

'But I shall go.'

No, he will put his foot down. A woman
always has to give in.'

I never give in to Jack.'

VOL. I. I

You gave in about your marriage.'

Opal never quite understood how Jack
had gained his victory, but it seemed to
be an understood thing that the wedding
should take place before Christmas.

All the more reason why I should have
my own way now,' returned Greta.

You won't, though. You can't very
well accept without^consulting him, and he
will take care you don't accept at all.'

'But I will accept now, this very
minute, and tell him nothing till the
letter's gone.'

If Opal offered any remonstrance she
took care that it should be of a kind to
confirm Greta's resolution. She felt as if
fate were doing her a good turn at last ; to
oft rid of Greta for a fortnight was something.
It was a good deal more that Greta
should displease Jack sufficiently to leave a
breach between them.

Jack's anger, however, was not long
lived. His wrath vented itself chiefly in

taunting Greta with her eagerness to grasp
the scanty olive branch held out to her
rather late in the day. It was a view of
the situation which had not occurred to
Greta in her delight at the prospect of
something new. Perhaps she felt her inconsistency
and half regretted her prompt
action. At all events, she added less fuel
to the flame which Jack kindled than usual.

Opal's triumph was in all respects brief.
Before Greta left home, a letter came from
Aunt Sophy offering a visit.

And you would have made me reject a
chance of escape,' exclaimed Greta ; whilst
Jack promptly announced his intention of
going away too.

To Opal's dismay he took himself off to
visit friends at Exeter, travelling so far
with Greta, who would not let him go any
farther.

'They'll meet me at Paddington. I
can't come to any grief locked up in the
railway-carriage, with a guard to look after

I 2

me every time we stop,' she represented, as
Jack showed a decided unwillingness to
leave her. 'Get out at your proper station
or I won't marry you for another year.'

Poor Jack,' she said to herself, as she
drew in her head after waving him a farewell,
' he'd be awfully dull travelling back
by himself — getting to his friends at some
unearthly hour too. And he'd be sure to
make himself nasty to anyone who met me.
I'm glad Fred never found out I was
enD:ao:ed to him.'

Engagements reminded Greta of poor
Edith's unhappy lover. Fred had told
her that he went abroad directly after the
accident — he could not bear to see anyone.
She complained that they missed him
dreadfully, for they regarded him as a
brother. Mrs. Randall had shocked Greta
very much by declaring that they would
not object to regard him as something
else, adding that she thought Maud
would have a better chance than Fred,

since lie was younger and better-looking.

Greta's lonely journey seemed rather long.
She looked eagerly for Fred when the train
at last entered Paddington station. Some of
the others she thought might come too, but
Fred was sure to be there. As she looked
round, a servant with a military cockade
came up and conducted her to the carriage
which had been sent to meet her. To
Greta's surprise it was empty. The drive
was a very short one, and the glimpse
which Greta caught of trees and grass in
Kensington Gardens looked inviting, but
the tall house struck her as dreary, and
there was no one to receive her in the
great empty hall. Presently a maid appeared
and took her up many flights to
her bed-room. Greta ran to the window
but instead of gardens she saw only opposite
houses.

What an ugly view ; I shouldn't like to
live in London,' she exclaimed.

Oh, miss, you should see the backs of

some of the London houses. Why, this
one has got as good as two fronts.'

May I dress you now before my young
ladies come in ?' asked the maid, when she
had unpacked Greta s things.

'Dress me! Oh, no, thanks, I was
never dressed in my life,' replied Greta,
with trifling exaggeration. ' Is there going
to be a party ?' she asked, seeing her best
attire laid out.

Not exactly a party, miss, but I believe
there's about six to dinner. Captain Mace
is here besides. Dinner's at eight,' she
added.

I'm glad there's going to be something
more than a family party,' thought Greta,
as she dressed herself.

As eight o'clock approached, she wondered
whether it would be as well to find
her way downstairs. But she thought Fred
could not have quite forgotten her.

Fred was at that moment in the ,
preparing the young man who

was to take down her country cousin.

You must be very kind and nice to her,'
she was saying, ' she's totally uneducated
and not quite tame yet — a blazing Radical.'

Oh, the monster !' interjected the
young man.

But,' added Fred, * she's awfully pretty.'

Fetch her down at once.'

I suppose I must. It's a dozen flights
of stairs ; she might have spared me.'

Fred hurried away and enfolded Greta
in a warm embrace with profuse apologies.

It's just dinner-time. Arundel — Captain
Mace is to take you in, I'm sure you'll
like him,' she told Greta, as they came
downstairs.

A dozen people made very little show
in the large drawing-room. Fred took
Greta up to a thin, cross-looking old man
with a red face — such was Greta's description
of the general, who had thought himself
one of the handsomest men of his
day. Then she introduced her to an uninteresting

lady who had marred the looks
and mended the fortunes of the family.
Fred had to pass over Maud, a somewhat
colossal and stolid beauty, in her haste to
present Captain Mace as dinner was announced.


Arundel Mace did not look at all like
the broken-hearted hero of romance whom
Greta had pictured. He was a good-looking,
well-made young man, who gave a general
impression of well-being, which seemed
scarcely appropriate to his present circumstances.
There was a cheerful ring in his
voice, too, as he addressed Greta.

you were not in time for the great
libel case. Miss Charlstrom.' Then, as she
looked blank, he went on, ' Didn't Fred
tell you that she'd been in court all day,
Peter against Pindar, you know. I daresay
you've seen it in the papers.'

I never read the papers.'

And yet you have pronounced political
opinions, I hear.'

Fred told you that because I always
disagree with her.'

She says you're a Radical, — I suppress
her adjectives.'

I'm not, I'm a Liberal.'

May I ask where you draw the line ?'

^ I don't want to dynamite people.'

That makes me feel a little easier in
your company. But you seem fond of
primroses.'

Arundel glanced at a bunch which Greta
had brought for Fred, who had not come
in time to claim them.

I don't like them when they're stuck
about in the form of ugly little brooches.'

Your badge is prettier, I confess. Don't
throw it away, if you feel it inappropriate ;
I know some one who would like it.'

Greta thought this an impertinence, and
she drew back her little head with an
involuntary gesture of offence.

I wish I could make her do that again,'
thought Arundel.

With an air of great humility, he addressed
her.

I'm so sorry, Miss Charlstrom. T didn't
mean to make you look like an outraged
canary bird.'

Greta flushed, tried to look dignified,
and burst out laughing.

I believe you take me for a child, but
I'm eighteen.' She almost felt inclined to
add, ' And going to be married.'

^ I'm afraid my conversation has been
rather frivolous. I'll try to make it better

suited to your years. Let me see now

Do you think that the inductive system
really can be applied to metaphysics?'

I'll tell you when I know what inductive
means, and what metaphysics means.'

You can't think how you've disappointed
me. I heard that question once
put by a man who came to dinner in a
frock-coat, and I've never been able to form
the least idea as to what it meant. Something
told me that you were the person to

explain. Well, never mind — I suppose
you're a worshipper of Wagner and the
music of the future ?'

I never hear any good music. I've
heard Fred play.'

And yet you never heard good music I
Don't let her hear that. Don't you know
that her performance is an education in
itself.'

Arundel lowered his voice as he spoke,
for Fred was near, and evidently watching
to see how they got on.

I'm still struggling to talk up to you,'
he remarked. 'Are you an impressionist,
in painting, I mean ?'

Oh, dear, what is the good of asking
me such questions ? I live in the country ,.
I go nowhere, and I know nothing.'

I wish more people made the same confession
of faith. It's no use talking to you
about the pleasures of the table, for I see
you let all the best things go by. But
I'm glad you're not quite a blue ribbon.'

Oh, no, my father wouldn't let me ;
lie's a Vine merchant.'

Fred broke in suddenly :

'Arundel, you must take me to the Old
Bailey on Wednesday. Mr. Potter says
there'll be an awful crush.'

Old Bailey ! Well, upon my word, I
almost think that the least " disrespectable "
way for a lady to go there is in charge of
a policeman.'

^ Nonsense, everybody goes.'

'Then I should recommend a little
graceful eccentricity, for once in a way.'

I think it eccentric to go,' said Fred,
defensively. 'I want a murder for my
next novel. My school is essentially
realistic'

I'm afraid I can't help you. I notice
poor pa " always tries to dodge the
murders.'

Then you must catch a barrister and
make him work it.'

Do you want a little agreeable excite-merit?'

asked Arundel, turning to Greta,
his manner a shade graver than before.

Oh, no, I wouldn't go for the world.'
Then, feeling that her genuine horror was
scarcely complimentary to her cousin, she
added — ^ Of course, it's different if you go
with a purpose. And Fred's so wonderfully
clever at everything.'

A Jill of all trades !' exclaimed Arundel.

Greta gave him a reproving glance as
she followed the other ladies out of the
room.

'How do you like him?' asked Fred,
taking her arm.

Oh, not at all — he's so full of jokes.'

But you don't mind that, surely.'

I can't understand it, after what you
told me.' There was a volume of reproach
in Greta's face.

He was cut up enough at first, poor
fellow ; I shall never forget his face at the
funeral. But you may drive nature outwith
a fork.'

I hate a man who's so shallow that his
grief doesn't last beyond the funeral,' said
Greta, hotly.

CHAPTER IX.

On lier first evening at Lancaster Gate,
Greta had made up her mind that she was
not going to enjoy her visit a bit, that
none of the family were nice except Fred,
and that even Fred was not so nice as she
had seemed at Avonuish. Her letters
home were by no means rose-coloured.
She did not mean to give Jack the triumph
of knowing that she had found cold welcome,
but her writing was frank, like her
speech. To Captain Mace she gave no
quarter. ' To think of the pity I've wasted
on that man !' she wrote, indignantly.

A few days later, Greta was enjoying
herself more than she could have believed

possible. If General Cliarlstrom and his
wife did not do much for the amusement
of their not very welcome guest, Fred and
her very efficient lieutenant, Arundel Mace,
made up for all deficiencies. Fred, as her
mother said, was always glad of an excuse
for gadding about, whilst Greta's taste for
sight-seeing had never had a chance of
getting even the edge worn off. And she
could not have gone merry-making in
better company. Angry as she Alas with
Arundel, Greta owned to herself that a
love-lorn mourner would scarcely have
contributed so much to her enjoyment.

When Fred went to study ghastly sensation
at the Old Bailey, under the wing of
an obliging; junior, Arundel, duly mindful
of the proprieties, pressed Maud into
Greta's service. The two girls had not
seen much of each other before. There
was a sort of armed neutrality between
the sisters, and they never took up each
other's friends : besides. Maud did not fall

in with her sister's notions of amusement,
for, in spite of her splendid proportions,
she lacked Fred's physical power.

The morning after the trial, Fred, inspired
by her artistic studies, sat down to
her davenport.

I must not play away all my mornings,'
she declared. ^ I must get this novel done
I've got another forming.'

She talks as if they were boils,' remarked
Arundel.

Oh, what a lot you've written !' cried
Oreta, admiringly, as Fred produced a
formidable pile of manuscript.

'This is a three-volume novel,' said
Fred, proudly. ' People shan't say that I
can write nothing but shilling dreadful.'

And she began writing, with a rapidity
which put the coping-stone to Greta's
admiration.

Ain't she a-puttin' in the water neither,'
observed Arundel.

Even Greta's limited studies had in-vol.

I. K

eluded Totters, and she laughed rather
more than Fred quite approved.

Arundel was engaged in devising a
monogram for Greta's note-paper.

'yere you christened Greta he asked.
or is it only short for something else ?'

'It's all the name I've got.'

It's a family name,' said Fred. ' I
think I shall have a Greta in my next
novel ; I like short names. What a mouthful
yours is — Arundel !'

It's practically the same as Job,' said
he, emboldened by the success of his last
adaptation, ' because " 'Army " is an impossible
nickname in civilized life.'

This fell rather flat, as Greta, in common
with many of her sex, was afflicted with
an ignorance of Pickwick.

'We've all got nicknames,' said Fred.
Maud is really Margaret — without the
second " a," you know.'

'Is that a distinction?' asked Arundel.

It's uncommon, at least. We've got
an old sampler of our great-grandmother s
with the name spelt so.'

Spelling wasn't a strong point with our
ancestors, especially the females,' remarked
Arundel.

'" Don't be irreverent. Our great-grandmother
was a female.'

Incroyahle.'

'You know Avhat I mean. She was very
clever.'

'You needn't tell me that. Are you
not her great-granddaughter ?'

Then there's Bob,' continued Fred ;
have you seen him lately, Greta ?'

Oh, yes, we often see him.' Then
Greta jumped up. 'I think I shall go
in the gardens ; it's a shame to waste this
lovely morning indoors.'

^ Does Bob admire his pretty cousin ?'
asked Arundel, as Greta went out.

Oh, yes ; but he was more taken with

ka

little governess they've got. He thought
her much prettier than Greta.'

I shouldn't mind seeing that little
governess.'

Oh, but I don't at all agree with Bob.
She's got a style of her own, though ; she's
very dark, with stone-coloured eyes, which
look as if they'd got into her face by mistake.
Bob raved most about her figure.
She's very lithe — looks as if she'd got no
bones.'

In her dress ?*

In her body. She doesn't look as if
she'd got them in her dress either.'

It's a case of admiring contraries, for
Bob is as bony as a rabbit curry.'

Bob is very distinguished-looking, and
he's very like Greta.'

In some totally unaccountable way he

is;

Do you think Greta at all like poor
Edith ?'

Not in the smallest degree.'

^ Mother says she has a look of her,
especially about the back of the neck.'

Rather a Monmouth Macedonian sort
of resemblance. There's a head above and
a body below.'

There's more individuality in a poll
than you think for.'

No one ought to have known this better
than Arundel, for he had been admiring
Greta's all through the service on the previous
Sunday, when he had happened to sit
behind her. But he could not recall the
one it was supposed to resemble.

• Well, I'm not getting on with my work,'
said Fred. ' I wish you'd go out, and walk
with Greta.'

'Miss Greta has given us the slip, but
I'll try to catch her up.'

Greta had walked straight to the round
pond, where Arundel joined her.

I thought I should find you here,' he
remarked. ' I should have tried the
fountains next. I know the points of attraction

strangers always make for. Send
me away, if you want to enjoy a monopoly
of boats and little dirty boys.'

I'm not particularly fond of my own
company.'

But I am,' returned Arundel, expecting
to see a repetition of the canary bird
movement.

'Are you ever in earnest. Captain Mace ?'

Very much so, at present.'

Have you no respect for anything ? I
don't mean myself,' she went on, hurriedly.
I don't expect you to think anything of
me, I don't want you to either ; but a
clever woman like Fred, you might do
something more than make fun of her.'

Make love to her, do you mean ? She
wouldn't have me.'

No, of course she wouldn't,' said Greta,
with an indignation to which he had not
the clue ; ' but you might believe in
her.'

Should you think me a hardened blasphemer,

if I ventured to bint a confession
of scepticism?'

'Well, if you don't think her clever,
which shows '

Drivelling idiocy on my part — don't
spare me, Miss Charlstrom.'

You must at least own that she is
wonderfully industrious.'

Well, I haven't quite made up my mind
whether it is industrious to cover reams of
paper with ink or paint, as the case may be,
without ever trying to improve the brew
my metaphors are getting mixed, I confess
it.'

'But Fred knows all sorts of things.
There's that little brooch, like an order, that
she wears to show that she knows all about
bandaging and dressing wounds, and she
has passed ever so many examinations.'

Heaven defend Tommy Atkins from her
ministrations. She would certainly add a
new terror to war.'

I think she's perfectly wonderful.'

So do L'

I can't understand a girl being like
that.'

Nor can L'

'What makes her go in for all these
things, I wonder?'

Did you ever hear of the Scotchman's
prayer, " Gie us a good conceit o' ourselves
" ? Heaven grants that prayer to
some without the asking. To be less profane
(I see you look shocked), did you ever
hear of the Brighton boatman's comment
on the Cockneys ? " They fears nothing,
'cos they knows nothing." '

Then you don't give her credit for anything
at all?'

Oh, yes, I do. She's got an immense
share of a quality which is very popular in
the present day. I think I must call it,.
'' go." She reminds me of the advice an
Irish parson I used to sit inter was always
giving us. I don't remember his exact
words, but the gist of them was, " Do-something

— mischief, if you can't do anything
else — but, at all events, do something."
He was an ardent Liberal, Miss-charleston,
but he didn't convert me, he
only drove me away, and a good many
others too. We wouldn't have his advice,
and his Liberal brethren didn't need it —
it's their motto.'

Fred is a Conservative.'

About as much as you are a Liberal.
She calls herself Conservative by family
tradition, but if ever there was a born
Radical ! — Her incapacity to keep quiet,
her passion for every theory with tantrums
in it. Don't think me a false
friend ; I say all these things to her face.
That's one good thing about Fred, she's
got one of the best tempers I ever met ina
woman.'

was if women weren't quite as good-tempered
as men. Why, the very worst-tempered
person I know is a man.' Then,
feeling as if she had been disloyal to Jack,

Greta went on : ' Temper isn't everything;
it's easy enough for people who
haven't got any feelings to keep their
temper.'

That's rather rough on Fred, isn't it ?'
asked Arundel, who could scarcely be expected
to know that Greta was defending
her lover.

You always misunderstand me !' Greta
spoke petulantly; then, seeing that her
companion only looked amused, she broke
out, ' perhaps I'm not worth understanding,
but I think other people do take me a
little more seriously than you do.'

Arundel's mouth grew demure, but his
eyes did not quite satisfy Greta.

^ You needn't think you're making me
cross,' she cried, more angrily than she had
yet spoken ; ' of course you never lose your
own temper.'

Oh, I am one of the cold-hearted people
you were referring to.' Arundel spoke
with irritating good-humour.

I wasn't thinking of you, but I daresay
you are,' replied Greta, too intent on self-defence
to regard amenities.

Next minute lie felt half frightened lest
he should think she meant to refer to
Edith. She had no idea that a pretty girl
might as well not tax a man with cold-heartiness.


Greta maintained a somewhat stiff manner
as they walked home, and she slightly
resented the fact that Arundel restrained
her from walking right under a passing-hansom
as she crossed the road.

You did meet,' was Fred's pleased exclamation
as they came in.

She was in the happy condition of an
author who feels that he has done a good
morning's work. She did not know that
the work was fated never to gladden other
eyes than her own. Greta was half disappointed
to find Arundel as good-natured
and ready to cater for the afternoon's
amusement as usual.

*He only regards me as a child,' she
ought, ' to be teased and foi
given my little treats as usual.'

thought, ' to be teased and forgiven and

CHAPTER X.

Greta's first letter home was subjected to
a severe scrutiny, not only by her mother
but by Aunt Sophy, who arrived just intime
to make a few disagreeable remarks.
Ojoal, who had enough at stake to give
Aunt Sophy more attention than she would
naturally have bestowed on an elderly
lady, could not see many traces of the
kindness with which Mrs. Daman had
credited her sister. But Mrs. Daman had
the recollections of long ago. Nature had
made the elder sister a shrewder woman
than the younger, and it had not, perhaps,
given her a larger measure of conceit. But
the vanity which found vent in the contemplation

of a pretty laughter was pleasant
(except, perhaps, to a few rival
mothers), whilst the vanity which exhibited
itself in the egotism of a plain old maid
was ridiculous. Rich enough to have no
need to work, poor enough to have to
bestow time and thought on small economies,
Aunt Sophy had not led a life which
was calculated to develop the more genial
side of her character. Her desire for appreciation
laid her open to the advances of
anyone who thought her worth conciliating.
Opal perceived this, and endeavoured
by her deferential manner to win favour
which would go far towards lulling the
suspicions which Emily Harrison's revelations
had aroused.

After dinner, when the sisters settled
themselves down for a chat. Opal showed
the good taste to withdraw into the schoolroom.
On the following day, Mrs. Daman
made some slight protest, but Opal insisted
that she was always happy at her studies.

Opal's ^ studies ' would hardly have enhanced
her J) rice in the educational market,
though, when we are a little more improved,
they may create a title to an
academical degree. French novels which
were happily Greek to the household, English
novels with heroines as probable and
respectable as the goddesses of heathen
story. And, beyond these, excursions
which were more ominous of evil nature
than the fooleries of frankly vicious romance.
Entwined with Opal's worldly,,
pliant temper was a strain as seemingly
dissimilar and really kin as Indian ferocity
is to Indian servility, a contradiction not
unlike that which makes effeminate, dreamy
Hamlet glut his hatred with imaginary
carnage.

Shrinking from the smallest personal
danger — shivering from the sight of a
graveyard by night — scheming for the
vulgares enjoyment of wealth. Opal dabbled
by stealth and half-afraid in readings

ivhich, as she tried to persuade herself,
gave promise of communion with disembodied
spirits, or even — at a safe distance
with something worse. It would not
have taken much to make her, in her
heart, a serpent-worshipper or a deified of
the woman who brought knowledge into
the world. The profane folly which has
renewed, in a critical period of English
civilisation, the grotesque blasphemies
which sprang up around the youth of
African Christianity had a mysterious
charm for her. No doubt her Indian blood
combined with her semi-education to make
her an easy proselyte. The absence of precise
expression or defined positions in a
crotchet did not disgust her. But this
was only a negative factor; there was
something more. The gust of excitement
which is said to have made the Israelitish
wives powerful agents in the apostasy of
their husbands, the ennui on which Comte
counted as a spring of revolution, urged

her on. She gloated over pamphlets which
promised, to a vague abstraction called
woman,' emancipation from civil and even
from social laws, and pleaded for a society
in which the hysterical temper should
rank above the coarse qualities of judgment
and courage.

x4nd with this dreamy mutiny cowardice
was curiously though quite naturally mingled,
a craven fear of the cold grave, an insane,
almost epileptic horror at the thought
of punishment beyond the grave. Opal's
nearest approach to religious aspiration
was a piteous hope that life might be
eternally prolonged without the awful
ordeal of a j judgment-day, and that, if she
must needs be better in order to be happy,
she might grow better by some undefined
process of development, spontaneously, as
it were, and without submission of the
will.

Meanwhile Opal was in the world, and
life at that little bit of the world called

VOL. I. L

Avonuish was becoming almost intolerable
to her. Her improved health made her
feel more restless than ever. Inclination
clashed with interest as it had done all her
life. She knew that only perseverance in
the dull straight line which she had marked
out for herself could win the position
she craved. Yet she sometimes felt
tempted to throw over respectability withall
its hindrances and start afresh as an
adventuress confessed.

I won't be an Aunt Sophy, come what
may,' she told herself, that lady being the
last type of social failure which had come
before her eyes. Her body stirred and
her face flushed in a heat of revolt at the
thought that Opal Carew might be doomed
to pass through life without ease and
pleasure, and the admiration which she
thought her due. In the warm, well-lighted
school-room, within sound of human
voices, she found courage for a half wish
that forbidden aid could be bought — of

course without danger. To the restraints
of religion and morality, she applied in
that moment something like the fallacy
with which Romeo presses the price of his
own death on his accessory,

Tbe world is not thy friend nor the world's law.'

In Opal's exalted frame of mind a marriage
with Jack, even if it could be compassed,
sometimes seemed but a poor thing
to aim at. Yet prudence told her that she
might do worse than marry a man who
was not only rich, but lively enough to
seek amusement, and weak enough for a
wife to do pretty well what she liked with
him. To marry him, and make the parents'
home head-quarters, as Greta meant to do,
Avould be dull enough ; but to win Jack
in a moment of pique, to divide him from
his own people by a breach which could
be made as wide as death itself, that would
mean a very different sort of life.

Opal started from her dream. Jack was
tapping at the French window.

l2

You here !' she exclaimed.

For a moment she almost connected his-appearance
with her half-conceived appeal
to the mysterious influences with which in
some of her imaginings she peopled the
unseen world. Jack's prosaic answer
brought her down, or up, to everyday life.

Didn't you know the governor wired ?'

No, but I thought he didn't seem quite
himself to-day.'

There's been a lot of bother since old
Kent died. I don't think I'm wanted
really, but of course I came.'

Have you seen him ?'

No, I wanted to get in without coming
across Aunt Sophy.'

He's in the dining-room asleep, I think.'

Then it's no use going to him. Have
they heard from Greta ?'

Yes.' Opal repeated the substance of
the letter, with notes by Aunt Sophy.

What's this ?' asked Jack, when this
entertainment was over.

Opal had huddled away most of her
literature, but Jack had captured one
hook, attracted by its paper hack.

I'm obliged to read French sometimes
to keep it up,' explained Opal ; ' but I don't
think that's quite the book for me, though
I've only just glanced at it. I wish I had
some one to guide me in my selection.'

I wish I could read French,' said Jack,
who was not, however, moved by any
desire to direct Opal's studies. ' I suppose
you can read it like English?'

Yes ; I'll read you a bit, if you like.'
And she read him a love-scene very glibly,
but with some few omissions.

Isn't that rather maudlin ?' remarked
Jack, who would perhaps have found an
imexpurgated edition less tame. 'I like
Marriott and Guy Livingstone. I don't
mind a good murder, too.'

'You'd like Gaboriau,' said Opal; and
she began giving him the outline of ' Le
Crime percival.'

I'm like the girl in the " Arabian-nights,"
' she thought, as she saw Jack listening
with some interest. It must be
confessed that he had also the solace of a
pipe. As with Scheherezade, Opal's story
was broken off at a thrilling point.

I hear your father moving, you'd better
catch him before he joins the others.'

Jack rushed out with the fear of Aunt
Sophy before his eyes, and for the rest of"
the evening father and son were closeted
together.

All next day Jack was supposed to be
helping his father, but after dinner he
made his way again to the school room.

Aunt Sophy can't bear smoke, I'm awfully
sorry of course,' he remarked ; ' won't
you come out in the garden ?'

You'll think me very silly,' replied
Opal, lowering her eyes, 'but Miss Gay '
(such was Aunt Sophy's inappropriate
name) * is sure to say something unpleasant
if she sees you walking with the governess.*

Oh, it's all right, they've got the blinds
down.'

Walking about a garden on a damp
spring evening was not so much to Opal's
taste as sitting in a warm room, but there
was a spice more of romance about it, and
she made no difficulties. But when Jack
seemed to be enjoying himself she suddenly
broke off.

I must go in now.'

They won't look for us yet.'

I don't want them to look for us, forme
at least.'

'You're much more prudish than Greta.'

Greta isn't a governess ; and I'm not
your fancee. But Greta is unconventional.
If she wasn't, I shouldn't venture to walk
about with her lover. Some girls wouldn't
like it.'

Perhaps you think she doesn't care
enough about me to mind.'

Oh, but she does care about you; she
must.'

Then Opal ran away, and, except a
demure good-night, she gave Jack no more
conversation that evening.

In the after-dinner hour, when Mr.
Daman slept in his chair and Bowwow in
her bed, Jack now sought Opal as regularly
as he smoked his pipe. Sometimes she
summarised Gaboriau and Du Boisgobey
for his benefit, sometimes he gave her elementary
lessons in billiards. She never
attempted to read him a love-scene again,
but if he showed any inclination to rehearse
one she threw no obstacles in the way.

Returning from Plymouth one afternoon,
Jack found Bob Charlstrom sitting at tea.
Having received a letter from home the
young man came, thinking, as he said, that
Mrs. Daman would like to hear the latest
news of her daughter. The mother had
replied rather inconsiderately that she
heard from her daughter every day. Then
Aunt Sophy pounced down on him and
talked of the army, giving full biographies

of any men who had become personages by
being known to herself. Bob did not look
happy when Jack came in. But he sat on
till the master of the house appeared. To
see a man in his house and not ask him to
dinner was an impossibility to Mr. Daman.
He being fagged and worried, his invitation
was perhaps less hearty than usual, but Bob
Charlstrom stayed. He was rewarded by
the sight of Opal across the dinner-table.
She betook herself to the school-room afterwards,
whilst the two young men strolled
out with their pipes. Jack did not betray
the secret of her hiding-place, but drove
the visitor off to the station without even
giving him a chance of wishing the governess
good-bye.

Opal spent her evening alone, raging.
If Jack had presented himself, he might
have become acquainted with a new phase
of her character. But, by the next
evening, discretion had again secured the
reins.

'What did that fellow come for?' asked
Jack.

Opal smiled.

To bring news of Greta.*

Oh ! that's all humbug.'

You. ought to be pleased at his coming,
when he knew Greta was away.'

Opal had secretly resented Jack's conclusion
that Greta must always be the
attraction.

Didn't you think he admired Greta ?'
was Jack's next question.

Oh ! yes, everyone must. But, perhaps
he knew she was engaged ?'

'- That he didn't. Well, I'm sorry you
didn't see more of your admirer, Miss
Carew.'

'A governess is never supposed to have
an admirer. She's bound to act on the
assumption that she's old and ugly. Not
that I care about Mr. Charlstrom. I suppose
people would say I ought to take him
with a curtsey, if he gave me the chance.

Well, I sometimes think, after all, that it
may be as well for a girl not to marry a
man she's too fond of; she becomes a
slave.'

Manner, voice, expression, in which her
whole frame bore part in a way impossible
and almost unintelligible to Europeans,
put the dots on the ' i's.' Jack must have
been much denser than he was, if he had
entertained a moment's doubt that Opal
was the girl whose affection would be a
slavery. He had never set up for a lady-killer.
The girl he loved had done her
best to keep him from any undue belief in
himself But he could not help thinking
that he was a hero in the eyes of one
woman. He began to find himself a much
more dangerous fellow than he had supposed.
The sudden call for discretion and
magnanimity rather raised him in his own
opinion. The more lightly he regarded his
adversary, the more pliant he became in her
strong, lissome, Oriental fingers. Reckoning

up her progress, she could tell herself
that she had not wasted her time. Greta's
return might, and probably would, break
their extreme intimacy. 'But at least
there is an understanding between us,'
Opal told herself. ' I don't think I am
only Brat's governess to him now.'

Poor Bowwow was Brat, in Opal's soliloquy.
The pet names of her little pupils
usually underwent some such transformation
when she was out of temper.

CHAPTER XL

Greta had been asked to Lancaster Gate
for a fortnight, and she had made up her
mind not to stay a day longer. Jack had
bound her by solemn promises, and he
was quite capable of coming to fetch her,
if she disappointed him. But, when the
time came, she found it rather difficult to
get away.

Stay till the week before Easter, we
shall be going away ourselves then,' pleaded
Fred.

Stay ! Why, of course she'll stay.
What should she go for?' said the old
general, who had only consented to her
being asked at all on the condition that
she should not stay long.

It's a long way to come for such a short
visit,' said his wife, who forgot that the
way had not grown longer since they sent
their invitation.

Greta won't care to stay after Arundel's
gone,' said Maud; then added, apologetically,
' We shall be so dull.'

That's just like Maud,' said Fred, when
she got Greta alone, 'she's jealous of you
now, she's always been jealous of me. I'm
never jealous of anyone ; I don't know
what it means. But Edith was just like
Maud;

I've been afraid to ask about poor
Edith,' said Greta; 'but, since I've got to
know you all, I've often wondered what
she was like.'

She was rather like Maud to look at,
only on a smaller scale. I hardly know
how to describe her in other respects. I
think she was rather like other people ; I
mean there was nothing; original about
her.'

I can't understand her falling in love
with Captain Mace.'

I don't know that she did fall in love
exactly ; she liked him very much, as we
all did. It was a good match, too, and
everybody wished it. Edith wasn't romantic
like me. It all came about by
degrees. Arundel used to be here a great
deal ; he had no mother or sisters of his
own, and he and Bob were chums. They
coached for their exam, together, only Bob
didn't pass that time. People said that
Arundel must be engaged to one of us ;
they usually picked out Edith, because she
was the middle one, I suppose. I think
the Pater spoke to him about it at last.'

Just like him,' thought Greta, as she
pictured Arundel making lazy love to all
the three girls, and holding out his sceptre
to one when the father interfered, instead
of falling headlong in love, as a man ought
to do. She supposed he thought any girl
would be pleased to take him because he

was ^ a good match Greta hated the ex
pression. Aunt Sophy had once used it
in speaking of Greta's own engagement,
and, in answer to the girl's indignant protest,
had declared that if it made no difference
to Greta herself, it made all the difference
to her mother.

Anything which seemed mean or sordid
offended Greta morally, much as suffering
or cruelty affected her physically. They
were amongst the ugly things of life to
which she would fain shut her eyes. Her
instinctive avoidance of such subjects had
been fostered by the old-fashioned comfortable
class of people with whom her lot
had been cast. But Greta's new friend
was too modern to be nice in the pursuit
of exciting topics. AYith horror, but some
admiration, Greta heard Fred discuss with
Arundel the life of Retinal Green. Had
she received the least encouragement, Fred
might have made Greta open her eyes still
wider.

Of course, as a Liberal, you know all
about it,' remarked Arundel to Greta,
when some involuntary shudder had betrayed
her disgust. * Under a republic,
you know, London would be all West-end.'

I know nothing about it, and I don't
want to,' replied Greta, pettishly. ^ I don't
live in London ; I couldn't help these poor
people if I would. Why should I make
myself miserable thinking about them ?
What good does it do T

None at all that I can see,' returned
Arundel. ' I'm rather in favour of girls
letting these things alone myself.'

Oh ! I call that selfish,' said Fred, who
felt herself a real worker. She had once
undertaken a class in Whitechapel, but
her ministrations had been cut short by
her father. ' Don't you take any interest
in your own poor, Greta?'

^ There are so few of them, and they're
not so very badly off,' said Greta, thinking
almost nth shame of the bottles of

VOL. I. M

port, the pounds of tea, and other creature
comforts which brought such a ready
return of thanks and love from her poor
people at home.

I think we ought to develop our sympathies,'
observed Fred ; ' if you don't find
misery at home, it's all the more reason
why you should seek it abroad. I can't
understand a strong healthy girl like you,
Greta, being so squeamish that you can't
even go over a hospital.'

Miss Charlstrom has fed on the roses
and lain in the lilies of life,' remarked
Arundel. ' Did you propose Guy's or Bedlam
as a gentle breaking-up of the fallow
ground, Fred? I know they are the sort
of places where you go to spend a happy
day.'

Well, I thought Greta might like to see
our institutions, especially as there isn't
much going on just now.'

Why, my visit has been one round of
wild dissipation,' cried Greta ; 'you don't

know what my life at home is like. You
must come and stay with us in the summer,
Fred, and then I'll introduce you to all my
nice comfortable poor people.'

^ Will you introduce me too, Miss Charleston,
if Bob and I make a tour in the
west ?'

To jest a fortnight in a hospital,' cried
Fred; ' but you're coming with us, Arundel,
and Bob too. We can't make our first
tramp abroad without our men.'

I'm sure you're quite above needing our
help.'

^ Oh, as to that I could travel all over the
world alone. But I can't go mountaineering
by myself, at least the Pater
wouldn't let me. And he's not fond of
promiscuous acquaintances. If Maud
could only walk like Greta, I should be all
right.'

I wonder you don't take your cousin
abroad with you,' remarked Arundel to
Fred a little later.

M 2

'• It wouldn't be a bad move, but I'm not
sure that the Pater would see it. It's
something new for us to go at all.'

It would be a great thing for you to
have Greta, as Bob and I couldn't be there
all the time,' said Arundel, very disingenuously.


Oh, I should like it well enough ; she
suits me doAvn to the ground.'

Arundel left that night, and even Greta
was obliged to confess that she missed him.
With the exception of Fred, the Charlstroms
were not a lively family, and Fred was less
amusing when she had no one to contradict
her. When Greta had to bid her friends'
good-bye a day or two later, she felt less
dull at leaving than she had expected.

Sitting in the train, thinking over her
visit and wondering that a fortnight could
seem so long to look back upon, Greta
scarcely noticed the stoppage at Swindon.
She was quite taken by surprise when
Jack came rushing along the platform.

Didn't you know I should meet you ?'
he asked, jumping in breathless.

I thought you might, but I hadn't begun
to look out for you yet.'

There was a final rush for seats, and an
old lady was thrust into their carriage. In
spite of Jack's murderous glances, she held
her place till they reached Plymouth.
She even ventured to address a little conversation
to Greta, who was as gracious asher
lover was sulky.

How she must pity me if she guesses
the state of things,' exclaimed Greta when
they found themselves alone.

Blow me up, do, I've not been blown
up for a fortnight,' returned Jack.

Poor thing, has it had no one to keep
it in the right way !'

If Jack winced, it was imperceptibly.
His delight at having Greta back was too
great to be marred by the shadow of a
secret. But he perhaps half regretted the
gorilla.

Having satisfied himself by a strict cross-examination
that Greta had scarcely spoken
to any man except the old general, Captain
Mace, whom he knew she disliked, and
his father whom the young loyer may have
thought safe. Jack took no interest in
Greta's experiences.

Mrs. Daman made a better listener,
but even she was unsympathetic. Her
feelings towards her first husband's relations
Were as unfriendly as ever, whilst
Greta had pretty well forgotten that she
had ever regarded them as enemies. The
recollection of chill welcome had been
effaced by the more recent recollection of a
warm farewell. But it had made a deep
impression on Mrs. Daman's mind. All
Greta's assurances that her friends had
pressed her to stay longer were less convincing
than the fact that she had, as
Aunt Sophy said she would, returned to
the day.

If Greta s family had wished to make

her a partisan of the Charlstroms, they
could scarcely have gone better to work.
Mrs. Daman's attitude of jealous suspicion,
Aunt Sophy's frank spitefulness, and Jack's
contemptuous indifference, all provoked
Greta to defend her friends with something
like the warmth of family feeling,
She had half resented the Charlstroms'
habit of speaking as if she were one of
themselves, and had set her face against
any exclusive appropriation of* herself
But she was not inclined to make one of
a party against them, especially when that
party was headed by Aunt Sophy. Greta
thought that this sole representative of
her mother's side of the family was certainly
inferior to her father s people, and she
did not wonder that they had never taken
kindly to her. It would be like Aunt
Sophy to put herself forward and overshadow
her sister. Before Mr. Daman
came on the scene. Aunt Sophy had been
the widow's one friend and counsellor.

Greta lead often heard her aunt relate how
she had made overtures on her sister's
behalf which the Charlstroras had not received
in a right spirit. Greta wondered
now what the Charlstrom version of that
story might be.

'When is Aunt Sophy going?' she asked
her mother impatiently, a few days after
her return.

I don't knovv' ; she is not going back to
Bournemouth, she talks of looking out for
something near us.'

'There's nothing for her, thank goodness.
But it's a dreadful thing to get a
homeless person into your house. Everything
seems out of joint now Aunt Soj^hy's
here.'

'It's not poor Aunt Sophy. Father's
worried and Jack's taken up, that's why
things seem uncomfortable.'

'It's horrid, nothing but shop all day
long and shop talk at night. "What's the

good of SO much bother ? It's sure to come
all right;

Mrs. Daman shook her head doubtfully.

It's bad enough to find you and father
full of business,' continued Greta, ' but it's
much worse when Jack can talk of nothing
else.'

In spite of Greta's distaste for business,
Jack tried to consult her about his affairs.

I'm letting myself in for lots of liabilities,'
he remarked ; ' it's your affair as
much as mine, but I suppose you don't
mind.'

I should think not ; I know nothing
about money and I don't want to, only I
wish there wasn't all this talk about it.'

Jack smiled with the superior wisdom
of a business man. As a future capitalist,
he felt himself master of the situation.

Greta did not praise him or call him his
father's good genius, as Opal did. Jack
scarcely knew how it was that the little

governess found opportunities of offering
her tribute, for lie rather kept out of her
way now. But he could not be unconscious
of her devotion. Everyone noticed
that Opal seemed out of spirits. Greta
declared that she must be suffering under
the depressing influence of Aunt Sophy,
whilst Mrs. Daman supposed that the governess
foresaw difficulties to herself in the
danger which threatened the family fortunes.
To Jack it was an open secret.
Opal did not care to dissemble ; it was part
of her game now to play with her cards on
the table.

In a few months everything would be
over, and, whether victorious or defeated,
Opal had made up her mind to find a new
field. It was only by assuring herself that
the present state of things would not befor
long, that Opal just managed to endure
the level life, her native restlessness, and
the non-arrival of the fairy prince. Any
hopes which had been raised by Bob

Charlstrom's visit were speedily overthrown.
He only called once more — to
bid good-bye. It chanced that Opal had
taken Bowwow that day to a tea-party at
the rectory. If anything had been wanting
to confirm Opal's distaste for the
church, it would have become a rooted
aversion from that hour.

CHAPTER XII.

keep Zulu and Fluff shut up; some
dogs at Dr. Hardy's have been bitten,' was
Jack's parting injunction as lie left one
morning for Plymouth.

Bright summer days had come, but Jack
was still almost as regular in attendance
at business as his father.

I believe you like it,' said Greta, who felt
rather like the little boy in the nursery
story who wanted the pretty horse to play
with him.

I like play better, everyone does,' replied
Jack, who nevertheless found some
excitement in his new calling.

Perhaps the ways of home-life were less

smooth to him than they had been a year
ago. He had not felt the same necessity
for wary walking in the days when personal
beauty was not found indispensable for
Bowwow's governess.

I must look after things myself,' Jack
went on, ' the governor's not what he was.'

He's not an old man yet, and I'm sure
he works hard enough.'

Hard enough to knock him up, at all
events.'

Oh, as for his falling asleep after dinner,
lots of people do that'

But the governor never did till lately.'

Do you mean ' Greta stopped short

indignantly.

What Aunt Sophy kindly hints ? I'm
not prepared to go so far as that.'

For Aunt Sophy was supposed by innuendoes
to convey a suspicion that Mr. Daman
showed undue appreciation of his own
wares.

'But,' Jack went on, 'I don't think it's-good

for a man of his age to drop walking
and take to sleeping all the evening in his
chair. And if Aunt Sophy could see how
little he eats in the day, and how he keeps
himself up by nips, she might have some
remarks to make.'

He was all right in the-winter ; he used
to walk home from the station wet or fine.
You hadn't the dog-cart then.'

It doesn't make any difference ; he'd
take Jackson's old trap if there wasn't the
dog-cart.'

It's not been a nice year,' remarked
Greta, meditatively, ' it began with this
bother.'

It began with the Olivers' ball, which we
enjoyed immensely.'

So we did, but we've had nothing nice
since. I believe that daojofer brought ill
luck after all.'

It didn't do us the only ill turn I care
about ; I took it away in time to prevent
that.'

You're as bad as Opal, you can't think
how superstitious she is. I'm afraid she's
infecting Bowwow.'

I always said she was rather weird ; but
I must be off.'

Jack started, then suddenly remembered
about the dogs and ran in to give his
directions.
Mrs. Daman looked rather alarmed.

'Perhaps Bowwow had better not go
out,' she began.

Oh, she'd get out of the way fast
enough,' returned Greta ; * the dogs
wouldn't, so I suppose they must be shut
up, poor things.'

'I'm going to tea with Mrs. Mol ; you
said Ellen should take me,' cried Bowwow,
speaking with much more decision than
her mother.

'Greta never sees any danger, do you
think it safe for Bowwow to q-q ? ' asked
Mrs. Daman, appealing to Opal.

'Oh, yes,* promptly replied the governess,

who had been looking forward to a quiet
afternoon, ' the dog is most likely killed by
this time or else miles away.'

Well, I must tell Ellen to be very careful
and give all dogs a wide berth. I know
it's no use trying to keep you in, Greta.'

I'm going straight into the lion's mouth,
literally to the dogs, as it happens. I'm to
lunch with the Greens, and I must pass Dr.
Hardy's on the way. His dogs will run out
and bite me, no doubt, but I'll get him to
cauterise me on the spot. You'll see me
back early, Jack promised to get away intime
for a ride. Keep the poker hot in case
of accidents,' added Greta, as she ran
away to get her hat.

Opal got rid of Bowwow early in the
afternoon and immediately settled herself
down to the enjoyment of a French novel.
She was leaning back in a delightfully easy
chair, trying to realise the edifying fancies
of the author, when Mrs. Daman's good-natured
voice broke in upon her.

'I've only this minute remembered that
I promised to send Mrs. Barber the Temple
Bar. Would you mind just taking it
round for me?'

Opal's first impulse was to refuse, but she
felt that she had cut away the ground beneath
her feet. How could she plead fear
of the mad dog, when she had declared the
roads to be safe for Bowwow ? Yet it was
agony to her to go out. With a sinking
heart she put on her hat, and, selecting the
stoutest umbrella she could find, prepared
to leave the safe shelter of four walls.

You may meet Greta, ' said Mrs. Daman.
This was not reassuring, since Greta had
declared her own road to be the very highway
of danger.

Opal had little more than half-a-mile to
walk. The road along which her way took
her was narrow and stony, enclosed by
the usual high hedges. Dead loneliness
prevailed. There was no cottage except
one, empty and ruinous, in which a man

VOL. I. N

was said to have murdered his wife It
enjoyed the reputation, unusual to so poor
an abode, of being haunted. There was
little to alarm the most imaginative in its
appearance now, under the bright summer
sun. But Opal's nerves were all quivering.
She drew herself together as she
turned the corner where the cottage stood,
and seemed to feel the realisation of a horrible
dream when she saw in the midst of the
narrow road, which lay before her, but one
object, a dog tearing as it seemed straight
at her. With a shriek, which was almost
a yell. Opal turned and rushed back, at a
speed which would have seemed impossible
to her in calmer moments. Half blind
with fright, she clutched at something
which advanced swiftly from the other
side.

The mad dog,' she gasped, recognising
Jack, with a spasm of relief.

Opal's breath lasted till she had got behind
him, but she could run no farther. She

saw Jack dodging from side to side to
bar the animal's access to her. But the
quickest man is slow compared with a dog.
With a moan Opal saw it passing on his
left when he stooped and caught it by the
skin of the back. The dog writhed round
and snapped. Jack dashed it down withall
his force upon the rocky ground, and
before it could rise again, crushed the life
out of it with one desperate stamp.

So furious was Opal's greed of safety that
the crunch of the little dog's ribs, which
would have sickened her at any other time,
brought only a delightful sense of salvation.
She even felt some fleeting resentment
at the air of compunction with which
Jack looked down at his work.

He didn't bite you, did he?' asked Jack.

^0. Oh, he has bitten you,' cried Opal,
tis she saw a narrow streak of blood stealing
down the back of her preserver's
hand. ' Do have it cauterised,' she cried,
excitedly.

n2

Don't get frightened, whatever you do
replied Jack, in an airy manner, turning
his sleeve and discovering a little ragged
wound about an inch above the
wrist. Then, drawing a silver case from
his pocket, he struck a vesuvian, and, before
Opal knew what he was about, had
cauterised the wound in a rough and
ready fashion.

Phew ! if that doesn't make it all right
I don't know what will. Now, just hold
your tongue about this, there's a good girl,
1 don't want to frighten mother or to tell
Greta that I've committed a murder, and,
by Jove, fancy Aunt Sophy pressing cold
water on me at every meal. Did the beast
fly at you ?'

Yes, but I ran away directly.'

I don't think it can be the dog they
talked about, they said he was black.'
It was a dirty white dog which lay stretched
at their feet. ' What made you think
he was mad ?'

He looked so wild and strange. See
how savagely he bit you too,'

'Well, I attacked him first. I'll tell
you what, Miss Carew, we'd better hide the
corpse and keep our own counsel. I'm
afraid I've killed nothing but a harmless
necessary dog after all.'

'Afraid!'

Well, I might feel myself a public benefactor
if I'd killed the dog there was all the
scare about. I'm not much afraid of hydrophobia
myself, I believe it's fancy half the
time. But I don't want my symptoms
watched; if you should see any signs of eccentricity
you needn't try to account for them.
There,' said Jack, as he heaved his victim
over the hedge, ' they'll think the keepers
killed him if he's found. Let's hope he
was a poacher. I must go and meet Greta,
What a jolly good thing she didn't arrive intime
to see this deed of blood.'

My book, I must leave my book,' said
Opal, still fluttered and incoherent, 'it's

for Mrs. Barber,' she explained, hoping
that Jack would offer to leave it, as he did.

You'd better get home, you look quite
knocked up,' he remarked, as he ran off.
Then he turned round once more to shout
a parting warning. ' Mind you hold your
tongue.'

Opal thought of nothing but her own
safety till she got home. If Jack had not
killed the right dog, it was still at large.
She felt that the sight of a black dog would
kill her outright, but she put no confidence
in dogs of any colour, they might all
be infected like the one that had just bitten
Jack. She scouted the idea that her late
enemy was harmless.

The house was reached at last, and Opal,
still tremulous as if she had risen from a
sick bed, crept back to the safe refuge of
the school-room. Her chair and her book
were just as she had left them. But the
novel had lost its charm, the excitement of
her own adventure was too strong; to leave

room for fictitious excitement. The whole
scene passed before Opal as she luxuriated
in her present security. Reviewing her
experience, she discovered that she had
failed to make use of a good situation.
She had never even thanked her deliverer.
She had expressed no regret that he should
be wounded in her service. She had displayed
no pity for the self-inflicted pain of
which she really did think with an honest
shiver. She had been insensible to everything
but a feeling; of satisfaction at not
finding herself the sufferer, and she feared
that the feeling had been genuine enough
to betray itself Opal did not want Jack
to think her selfish, especially as she had
never felt so warmly towards him as at
this moment. Physical courage was, she
told herself, the one quality worthy of
worship. She thought with a sort of longing
how safely she could go through life
with such a protector as Jack. He was
wasted on Greta, who was herself foolhardy.

With a rush of admiration for Jack, and a
desire to reinstate herself in his opinion,
Opal seized note-paper. He had told her
not to speak on the subject, but he could not
be angry with her for writing to thank him.

After some deliberation, Opal turned out
rather a clever little note, such as most
men would be pleased to receive from a
pretty woman. She was obliged to deliver
it herself, and she had to watch all
the evening for an opportunity.

Please read this, I'll never say another
word,' she murmured, standing before him
with downcast eyes and looking like a
model for Queen Esther.

You little silly, to make a fuss about
nothing, the poor beast was as sane as you
or I,' laughed Jack.

But this detracted nothing from Jack's
glory in Opal's eyes, since he had certainly
faced and killed the dog on the faith of the
bad name which she had given it.

CHAPTER Xii.

^ Oh, dear, what a horribly dull summer
we're having, how I wish something would
happen for a change,' said Greta, as she
came through the French mndowinto the
drawing-room, casting a longing look back
at the empty tennis-court.

Turn your hand to something useful,
I'm sure you'd find that change enough,'
replied Aunt Sophy, who was sitting alone
with a huge work basket at her side. ' Try
to make your own trousseau. Do as I
did when I was a girl, I never found the
time hang heavy.'

Did every girl make herself a trousseau,
when you were young ?' asked Greta, with
an air of surprise.

If I didn't make one for myself, I
made both your mother's. And I'm making
yours now,' returned Aunt Sophy,
holding up an imposing display of tucks
and feather-stitching. ' Not but Avhat I
might have had plenty of trousseau for
myself if I liked.'

What a female Bluebeard !'

'Well, I daresay I've had more lovers
than you have.'

You couldn't well have less. Jack is
my sole captive. Do you think if I lived
as long, I might have as many as you,
Aunt Sophy ?'

Girls usen't to snap at their first offer,
at all events.'

Not if they liked the man ? I call that
silly.'

But you're quite right to marry whilst
you can, I used to think you were throwing
yourself away on Jack— '

But you see there's more in !him than
you fancied,' cried Greta, eagerly.

Perhaps I do, but that's not quite what
I meant. You've been petted and covered
up in extravagant ways till you'd make
but a poor hand at living on small means ;
and that's what you'd very soon come to,
if it wasn't for Jack. My poor sister
thought she was doing a fine thing for herself
when she married Mr. Daman.'

And so she was — if we were beggars
tomorrow ! What can a man do more
than make his wife happy ? Whether he
makes her rich or poor is mostly a matter
of chance. Men aren't poor by choice.'

'Well, it's a lucky chance for you that
the man you're going to marry will make
you rich. But you're not married yet.
There's many a slip. Take care that little
governess doesn't wheedle your lover away
from you, she's trying hard enough.'

For a moment Greta remained speechless
with astonishment. Then she burst out
indignantly,

How cruel, poor little Opal !'

Aunt Sophy started up as she saw Bow-wow
run past the window with a plate in
her hand, the maid beside her carrying a
light table.

They're never going to lay tea in the
garden, I should get my death of cold.
Ellen,' she shouted.

Never mind her, don't hear her,' said
wicked little Bowwow. But Ellen stopped
short.

It's been raining all the morning,' observed
Miss Gay, 'no one but a child
would think of sitting out on the grass.
And little girls were not allowed to
order the household in my time,' she
added, severely.

They were seen not heard, weren't
they,' said Greta, ' but you know that's
not the way to make girls fit for the
franchise.'

Female suffrage represented the sun in
Aunt Sophy's political system.

As Ellen beo:an setting; out tea in the

drawing-room, Bowwow hastened to illustrate
the higher education of children by
throwing her plate of cakes on the floor
and herself after it.

We always have tea in the garden, we
hate tea in the nasty stuffy old house, no
one wants it but Aunt Sophy,' she cried,
passionately.

^ I'm shocked,' said Mrs. Daman, coming
in and finding her mutinous offspring
on the floor.

Bowwow lifted a refined head and pink
face from the carpet.

It's all her fault,' pointing the finger of
scorn at her aunt.

The mother felt secretly proud of her
pretty little rebel, and wondered why she
Alas blessed with such high-spirited children.
But she made a very creditable
pretence of displeasure. Bowwow was banished
to the school-room and sentenced to
have no tea at all.

Aunt Sophy was magnanimous enough to

intercede for her. She was rather fond of
Bowwow, as she had been fond of Greta at
the same early age. The poor lady would
have liked her niece still, if she had found
her friendship met half-way, but to give
all and expect nothing in return from
ungrateful exacting youth, requires more
philosophy or Christianity than she had
attained to. Bowwow did not quite like
being forgiven. The spirit of revolt was
strong thin her. She would not take the
cake offered by Aunt Sophy, but insisted
on helping herself to bread and butter.

Greta felt hurt at the child's ungraciousness,
though it simply reflected her own.
With some compunction she saw Aunt
Sophy preparing to resume her thankless
task.

It's very good of you to slave over my
work, but I wish you wouldn't,' she remarked.
' Mother, why do you let her ?
There's plenty of time for my poor people
to do it all.'

Your poor people would have to be
paid, and there are some things which
shouldn't come out of Jack's pocket,' replied
her aunt. Then turning to Mrs.
Daman she went on, 'I've been telling
Greta I wish she'd do some of it herself.
She won't believe me when I say there's
nothing like useful occupation.'

Satan and idle hands,' said Greta, good-humouredly.


Satan finds some mischief still for idle
hands to do.' It was Bowwow who supplied
the quotation, being instigated by
Opal, who liked to trot out her pupil.

Hum,' muttered Aunt Sophy, ' and pray
what do you know about Satan?'

Satan's the devil,' replied Bowwow,
gravely. ' I like the devil.'

Mother and governess stared aghast.
Aunt Sophy alone retained presence of
mind to ask, 'Why?'

Because he likes naughty people,' replied
Bowwow, promptly. 'Ashen I'm naughty

no one loves me but the devil, and so I love
him.'

Comment on Bowwow's original theology
was cut short by Ellen throwing open the
door and announcing ' Miss Charlstrom/
Fred came in with her usual little rush of
laughing and chatter. Apologising for all
short-comings as a correspondent she hastened
to make up for deficiencies by pouring
out all her news, past, present, and future.
She was staying at Motley, but the
family were at Baden taking baths for gout
at least the general was taking baths, the
others were drinking the Waters because
they liked physicking. Fred had no gout,
and no ailments real or fancied, but she
would have gone to Baden with the others
only she had been kept in town by her
publisher, waiting for proofs which it seemed
she had not got after all. She was
going to Baden next week, the medical
course would be over then, and they were
to start on their travels. She had rushed

down to Plymouth to remind Greta of her
promise to go with them. Fred fairly
carried Mrs. Daman by storm, riding down
all objections and taking consent for granted.
As for Greta's assurances that, however
delightful the idea might be, it was quite
new to her, Fred repudiated them in perfect
good faith. The idea was not new to
herself, she had talked it over in the
spring, and who could she have talked it
over with but Greta?

When Fred had whirled herself away,
promising to come early tomorrow and
make arrangements, the others fell upon
Greta, asking why she had sprung this
mine upon them, and wondering what Jack
would say.

I'll make it all right if you'll only let
me tell him myself,' said Greta, 'but
indeed I never heard a word about it till
to-day.'

Mrs. Daman was pleased and excited
over any amusement for Greta, but Aunt

VOL. I. o

Sophy, though she allowed that it would
be a good thing to cure her fidgets, threw
a little cold water on the arrangement.
She glanced significantly at Opal, who
was holding forth on the delights of foreign
travel and its beneficial effect on the
health. As Greta's health was perfect, this
seemed scarcely to the purpose. Opal perhaps
over did her part in her eagerness to
get Jack all to herself for a month. It
seemed the first step towards getting him
to herself for life. Her scheme was no
longer a mere question of self-interest.
Since the moment when Jack had rescued
her, something new had come into Opal's
life. Hitherto nothing outside herself had
had power to stir any active emotion in her
breast.

Bewildered by the experience of a life
which was no longer wholly self-centred,
Opal believed herself to love with the desperate
force of which she had heard and
read. Such affection as it was in her

nature to give, she did give, fiercely and
recklessly. Passions, which had lain dormant,
tortured her like the evil spirits
which she hadmshed to invoke. The rage
of impotent hatred, the fury of unheeded
jealousy, were drawing out all that was
tigerish, and worse, in Opal's disposition.
Centuries of Christianity and western civilization
had gone to purify the source from
which Opal drew the larger part of her
complex nature. Hitherto the alien current
had run in greater part harmless,
never mingling with the wider stream. Now
it threatened to become a flood. Opal, tempted
often to committed her fate to the worst
and wildest part of her nature, had yielded
at last. The mysterious personality which
must either dictate or crouch to the different
emotions, composing that which seems to be
oneself, had abdicated its command. If
Opal had ever resisted the evil impulses
of her passionate self-indulgence, she refused
to resist them now.

o 2

The crisis and its end were as ^^et invisible,
or partially visible, to one alone.
To most of those about the girl, insight
into such a character as Opal's was impossible.
Miss Gay had neither Greta's
innocence nor Mrs. Daman's simplicity.
She preached distrust, but an ungracious
person is seldom a successful preacher. Greta
turned a deaf ear to Aunt Sophy's warning.
Deceit and disloyalty had no real place in
her imagination. She believed Miss Gay's
suspicions to be merely the reflection of ill
will. Her only care was to coax Jack into
yielding graciously to her own wishes. She
meant to go with Fred in any case, but
she wanted to go with her lover's goodwill.
Jack came home in such high spirits that
it seemed almost cruel to dash them. But
Greta could never bear to wait. Even
when she saw unpleasantness before her,
she hurried to get it over.

I've got something to tell you,' she
began directly.

^ And I've got something to tell you,'
replied Jack.

Me first,' cried Greta, quoting a childish
expression which had been appropriated
by her in the days when her domineering
instincts first displayed themselves before
an admiring family. Then she told him
her plan, adding an entreaty that he
would not spoil her pleasure. 'It's the
last time I shall go away as a spinster and
the last favour I shall ask you,' she pleaded.
' Of course he was rusty at first,' she
told her mother afterwards, ' but he was
very good on the whole. And I've promised
to marry him a month sooner, the day
after he comes of age, if he likes. He's
^coino; to tell me all about the business
after dinner, and I've pledged myself to
listen for once. I'm rather glad he's got
his dear shop to amuse him whilst I'm
away.'

Walking up and down the old garden,
under the shadow of the grey church

tower, Jack unfolded his last news from
the ' dear shop.'

I say, Greta, didn't you always suppose
that poor old Kent and the governor were
partners?'

Yes, of course, Daman and Kent.'

Yes, Daman and Kent, but it's Scrooge
and Marley. It was our old Kent's father
who was the partner, he was the Kent whose
name is over the shop. Our old Kent only
lent the money, they say, at least that's
what his people are trying to make out.'

I suppose father has to pay it back
again all the same.'

Oh, yes, but it makes a lot of difference
in one way. If it's a loan, and we can't
pay everybody at once, Kent's heirs will
share with the other creditors. If he was
a partner, the other creditors will have his
property to fall upon when they've devoured
ours.'

Greta's resolution to be a patient listener
broke down assail.

You talk as if we were paupers, I
thought we were well off.'

It's wonderful with how little capital
a business can be carried on ; still I admit
I didn't know how close we were sailing to
the wind till I had to look into it. I suppose
the governor thought Kent was good
for years. Well, it comes to this: of course
I'd do anything for the governor, if you
don't mind.'

Of course I don't mind.'

But unluckily my promise isn't worth
twopence because I'm not of age. That
cad Simpson had the cheek to tell me that
I might get him to wait, and then, as soon
as I was twenty-one, take off my hat to
him. I told him I wasn't a thief, whatever
he might be, but that didn't help matters
much. In fact, if either side saw their
way clear, they wouldn't look at me. But
luckily they are both in a fog. We've had
opinions from London. One tremendous
swell named Copeland calls it a partnership,

and another tremendous SAvell says the
other thing. Both sides know that I'm good
for twenty shillings in the pound, so they
both consent to postpone operations on the
chance of my not being a swindler. I've
got them in a corner,' said Jack, triumphantly,
as if the intricacies of the law had been his
own invention for this particular emergency.
' I've been all the morning; putting my
name to papers which will make capital
delights if I go off the hooks before November.
The last dodge is that I shall bea
partner because some think that it will
give them a better hold on me. Others
say it's no good unless I tell a lot of lies
about my age, and that I shall have to
promise everything all over again. That's
what the lawyers are puzzling out now, I
suppose, whether they can get on without
the lies. I don't see that lawyers know the
law any better than you do, they only
know where to look for it. I'm game for
anything bar swindling. Only, if it doesn't

work, you won't be so well oiF, I'm
afraid

Oh we shall do well enough, I daresay.'


'We shan't starve. I think it would
he rather a lark to turn the shop into
a public. Let's tell Aunt Sophy so.
How should you like to be a barmaid?
^'The Greta's Arms." Stand at the door
and say, " Come to my arms !" '

In my Manola's dress ! But I say. Jack,
seriously, you're not going to be tied up all
your life, are you ?'

Oh, dear no, when things are once set
straight, I shall only be a sort of sleeping
partner, I hope, if I'm obliged to be a partner
at all. We needn't give up our
travels, though you are going to take the
edge off your enjoyment by going without
me.'

I shall only whet my appetite. And
you'll settle all these weighty matters ever
so much better without me to try and idle

you. Don't you know that I go about all
day singing,

Oh, call my brother back to me, I cannot play alone."

'That's a cheerful poem,' remarked Jack,
there wasn't much chance of getting that
brother back again, if I remember rightly

CHAPTER XIV.

The promised delight had come, after
seven eagerly counted days. The channel
passage was already only a bright memory.
Through a stormy summer night, the
train was rushing towards the German
frontier. In a coupe-lit the two girls slept
soundly, regardless of rain beating against
the windows, or flashes of lightning which
lit up the compartment more brightly than
it would have been lit by the lamp which
they had carefully shrouded.

Fred reposed comfortably on the cushions
and soft pillows with a railway-rug wrapped
round her. Greta lay full length on
the floor, a travelling-bag offering an uneasy
support to her head. She slumbered like a

baby till disturbed by a sudden dream
that the door had given way and she was
falling out on the line. Starting up in a
fright, she found that the door had really
given way to admit a man with a lantern,
who stood at her head addressing her peremptorily
in an unknown tongue. Hatless
and bootless, with ruffled head and
flushed face, Greta confronted him, indignant
at this invasion. The commissionaire
who had installed them in their snug coupe-lit
had promised unbroken rest till morning.
But remonstrance offers no satisfaction
when you find yourself for all practical
purposes dumb. Greta appealed to Fred
who was just wakening to a consciousness
of the situation.

'He wants us to get out,' explained Fred,
with a disgusted glance at the wet platform,
they're going to examine the small baggages.'


Why, it wasn't to be for hours yet,' said
Greta, showing her watch.

'That's for the heavy luggage. There
appear to be two examinations.'

Fred jumped out as she spoke, seeing her
precious bag, Greta's late pillow, in strange
hands. Greta hastily pressed her small
properties on the intruder.

He's got all the things, he seems to want
me as well. Tell him T can't find my boot,'
she cried, after her companion. But Fred
was hurrying away to find shelter. Greta's
persecutor, deciding that he could scarcely
pull a lady out of the carriage, shut the door
with a slam and departed. Still searching
wildly under the seat for a boot which naturally
appeared directly it was not wanted,
Greta found herself the sole inmate of the
train, which was speedily shunted into a
siding. 'They're never going to leave
this bit of train behind,' she thought.

Even the prospect of being left till
morning at some obscure station in a
strange land failed to damp Greta's high
spirits. She laughed aloud as she surveyed

her dishevelled hair in the little glass.
Crazy Jane,' she said, apostrophising
herself, ' they'll clap you in the nearest
asylum when you begin gibbering in vain
.attempts to explain yourself.'

By the time Greta had smoothed and twisted
her hair as best she could, and buttoned
her boots with a stray hairpin, the train
began to move slowly back again. The
lighted station full of little figures, moving to
and fro, came in sight. Men with travelling
caps tied over their ears and women with
little hoods tied round pale sleepy faces,
all with hands full of bags and baskets,
scampered through the rain seeking their
places which had no familiar packages left
in them to guide their owners.

'We don't look pretty when we are called
up in the middle of the night,' thought
'Greta, offering a striking contradiction of
her own theory as she put out her head
and beckoned to her cousin. Fred had
found some one to carry her bags ; she was

gesticulating wildly, so was her companion.
Greta inferred that the German language
wanted a good deal of action to help it out.

We shall become proficient in Dumb
Crambo she remarked, as they composed
themselves once more to sleep, with ill-grounded
hopes of a night's rest. But the
dawn of a summer morning reconciled
them to an enforced early rising. Fred
dozed at intervals, but Greta sat up wide
awake, unwilling to miss anything from
the moment she could see out of the window.
The country did not look quite so
strange as she could have wished, even
the flowers on the banks were familiar
friends. As the morning advanced and
the stations filled with people, Greta
looked vainly for quaint costumes. She
pounced on a curiously thick sandwich,
but found raw ham too striking a novelty
to be agreeable.

The day was chiefly passed in a railway
carriage. About midday came a halt at

the junction where they expected to meet
their friends from Baden. Leaving Greta
in charge of the baggage, Fred undertook
to find out all about trains. Whilst she was
vainly exercising such fluency in German
as an English education had given her,
Greta, encamped on the platform, addressed
all the most good-natured looking of
her fellow-travellers till she found one able
and willing to interpret for her.

The train from Baden was in, there was
no other for hours. On further inquiry
they discovered a telegram addressed to
Fred.

Go straight to the Waldhof at Waldherg,
Rooms engaged. Will join you to-morrow''

Greta's friend, who turned out to be an
English-speaking German, instead of a
German-speaking Englishman, as she had
supposed, gave the girls full instructions
as to their route. He furnished Greta
with a few phrases which she had worked
pretty hard before the journey was accomplished.

Fred's confidence in her own
powers was unshaken, but Greta insisted
that they would never have reached Waldo
if it had not been for the good-natured
German friend and her own variations
on the world schlegel. It was not an
easy place to get to, and the difficulty of
approaching it seemed to increase as they
drew nearer. Darkness was falling when
they at last found themselves on the single
line which led through the Black Forest to
their destination. There was a rush when
they reached the little station. People
who had been all day fighting for seats
and struggling over luggage were getting
rather short-tempered. Having found
that porters were not at their call here, as
at home, Fred and Greta seized their bags
and squeezed themselves into the last corner
of the Waldhof omnibus. A stout
commissionaire barred the way against the
little crowd pressing after them and proceeded
to take an inventory of his cargo.
VOL. I. • P

This resulted in the summary ejection of
one young man who had neglected the indispensable
telegram. Then they began
to climb slowly uphill in the darkness. They
could see lights here and there, showing
glimpses of a miserable-looking village.

It doesn't look much of a place,' remarked
Fred, peering through the window.

It looks horrid,' would have been Greta's
honest profession, but she was not going
to let herself own that the Black Forest
could be anything but enchanting. Though
even the Black Forest was only the gate
to Switzerland, the real land of her dreams.

As the omnibus climbed higher, flashes
of electric lio;ht shone through the trees.

The Waldhof !' cried one. ' The waterfall
!' cried another. ' Was that a rocket ?'
as there came a whiz and a flash.

'A dirty village and the Crystal Palace,'
observed Fred, in a low voice. * I don't
think we shall want to stay here long.'
' Isn't it stifling ?' asked Greta.

She had been obliged to shut the window,
her neighbour being a rheumatic
patient from Baden.

The Waldhof seemed as if it were perched
on the top of a mountain, so tedious
was the climb up to it in the heavily-laden
omnibus. Eager to stretch her
limbs, Greta sprang out directly they
stopped, only to be ordered back again by
the commissionaire. The two ladies were
to go to the dependance for the night, it
was quite close, they could see it over
there.

Then we can walk,' said Greta, determined
not to drive a step farther.

This being permitted, Greta led the way
down a steep stony drive towards lights
which indicated a house. Fred grumbled
a good deal as she followed. Unwilling to
own herself beaten, she felt tired, headachy
and cross. Breathing invectives
against the manager of the Waldhof, promising
herself revenge when her father

p2

came, and wishing for Bob who could, as
she said, ' give tongue' on occasion, Fred
came slowly behind her cheerful leader.

It's much better fun than going to the
hotel, we can go to hotels any day,' said
Greta, as they entered a long low cottage.

They were received by a pretty German
girl, whose beaming face and friendly manner
made up for any deficiencies of speech,
her English being almost as scanty as
Greta's German. She led them up an
easy flight of stairs into a good-sized bedroom,
which Fred pronounced bare and
Greta airy.

Look at the dear little beds, not a bit
like English beds,' cried Greta, discovering
two tight-looking little couches with
scarlet blankets strapped over them and
lace-trimmed feather beds on top. ' I
don't feel a bit sleepy though.'

'Well, I do then,' confessed Fred, breaking
out at last, ' my head aches, I want nothing
but tea and bed. Greta, you're an

insult to suffering humanity, I believe you
want to be out now, climbing up after the
electric light and the waterfall.'

"Well, doesn't it seem rather a pity to
be wasting one's time in bed when there's
so much to be seen.'

Nevertheless, Greta slept soundly, and
woke next morning to find sheets of rain
blotting out the landscape.

Fred was not altogether sorry for an
excuse to lie in bed.

We must try to get some breakfast
here, we can't go to the hotel this weather,
' she remarked, turning to sleep
again.

Having discovered some German dialogue
in a guide-book, Greta went forth
to give orders. But the young mistress of
the house, Mademoiselle Louise, now presented
herself, speaking good English.

She's so nice,' said Greta, as she returned,
bringing Fred a cup of tea. ' I wish we
were going to stay here altogether. It's the

foresters' house and not a dependance at all
But can they give us breakfast T
'• Oh, yes, we can have raw ham said
Greta, gravely. 'I've just learnt that
boiled ham is not good for man. Oh, how
I wish it didn't rain. We might have had
breakfast on a great wooden balcony with
a lovely view, if we could only see it.'

As they sat over their coffee and rolls,
the weather cleared, hills and pine woods
coming gradually into view. Greta ran
from one window to another, catching new
aspects of the place.

Look at the hills above us, though weare
up so high,' she cried enraptured.
Greta's idea of enjoyment was to have
infinite hills to climb. And Fred was seton
training herself for Swiss mountains.
Waldberg was the very place for them,
since the only difficulty was to get a level
walk.

After breakfast, Fred declared herself
ready to go out and explore. They must

find the waterfall. Disdaining to ask their
way, they missed the shortest and prettiest
route, but they enjoyed a sense of discovery
when the white column of water
with its dark background came into view.

Returning in the middle of the twelve
o'clock tahle-cVhote^ they made acquaintance
with a prodigious compound of boiled
beef and gooseberry jam which almost fulfilled
Greta's petition :

Let us have everything as funny as we
can for dinner.'

Some of the guests told tales of their
sleeping accommodation at the Waldhof,
which made Fred think better of her comfortable
room at the forest house. Finding
that only two rooms on the first-floor
could be secured for her party that night,
the other rooms being vaguely described
as rather high up, Fred decided on staying
at her present quarters.

We shall lose this if we don't look out,'
she declared, after a hasty interview with

Mademoiselle Louise. ' And now we must
make a rush for the station unless you
like to take the omnibus.'

Greta scouting this idea, they hurried
down the village street, arriving much too
soon for the train from Baden.

I wish Bob was coming,' said Fred, as
they walked up and down.

Greta could scarcely echo the wish. She
knew that Jack would have made much
more difficulty about her going if Bob had
been of the party.

Arundel promised to come if he could,'
Fred went on. 'I wrote from Plymouth
telling him our plans, but I hardly think
he can get away yet.'

This was no news to Greta. Fred had
spoken of Arundel before, though not, as it
happened, in Jack's hearing.

I hope he will come,' said Greta, after
a moment's deliberation, ' he's great fun,
though you know, Fred, he's not my sort of
man.'

The unfortunate man thus described was
in the approaching train, having left no
stone unturned to follow on their track
from the moment he received Fred's letter.
He had succeeded in overtaking some of
the party, and hearing that the others were
already at Waldberg, he was arriving in
the highest spirits.

Fred exclaimed with delight, and Greta
felt an excitement which surprised herself,
at the sight of Arundel. She could scarcely
tell whether the feeling was pleasant or
otherwise.

Do you mean to walk ?' asked Arundel.

'■ Rather,' said Fred, answering for herself
and Greta.

Maud hesitated an instant, then, seeing
that the way looked uninviting, she followed
her parents into the rapidly filling
omnibus.

Did you wire for a room ?' asked Fred,
^ you'll be put to sleep in the balcony or
the dog-kennel, if you didn't.'

i'm not particular. The dog-kennel
might be a tight fit perhaps.'

It's a very big dog,' said Greta.

What an unkind reflection on my size !'

Greta did not contribute much to the
conversation. She let Fred run on with
her own version of the journey, and
abstained from throwing any doubt on her
friend's prowess. But when Fred declared
that Greta could not speak a word of
German, Greta was moved to remark that
a word of German was exactly what she
could speak.

And a very useful word too,' she
added.

Do teach it me,' said Arundel, ' I learnt
lots of words, but they never happened to
be the ones wanted. I was coaching up
Ahn all yesterday. But they don't seem
to use Ahn at the railway-stations. There
ought to be a law about it.'

To make them use Ahn ?' cried Fred.

Or to make Ahn useful. I don't want

to know if the porter's female cousin hasher
false cat sold.'

'I don't believe that's in Ahn,' said
Fred.

Well, then, I don't want to go about
telling them that the chimney-sweep's
daughters have black faces. One might as
well be Mr. F.'s aunt. " There are milestones
on the Dover road." '

Well, I mean to make myself perfect in
German whilst I'm here,' said Fred. ' I sat
next a German at the table-dliote^ he speaks
English a little better than I speak German,
but I shall propose a plan for mutual improvement.
He shall talk to me in English
and I shall talk to him in German, and
we can tell each other when we make
mistakes.'

'You don't seem to have lost much
time in making acquaintances,' remarked
Arundel. ' Have you formed any alliance
for the improvement of your mind, Miss
Charlstrom ?'

No, I'm not sure that I've got a mind
to improve.'

Greta means to improve nothing but her
climbing,' said Fred. ' Look at all those
hills, Arundel, and prepare yourself to climb
them everyone.'

We're not exactly walking on level
ground now, are we ? I feel rather like
the man in " Excelsior;" I suppose that hero
had what you would call a real good time.
Oh, dear,' he added, with a groan, 'has this
thing got a top, Miss Charlstrom ?'

'You mustn't call Greta Miss Charlstrom,
or people will be fancying she's the eldest
daughter,' said Fred, ' we're all one
family here, you know. You must say
Miss Greta, if she won't let you call her
Greta.'

I shouldn't think of taking such a
liberty, even if Miss Greta permitted it,
which she wouldn't. I stand in great awe
•of Miss Greta.'

I see my presence has a depressing

effect, so I'm going to withdraw it,' said
Greta. *I shall just run into the cottage and
write a letter home, Fred, I'll come on
afterwards.'

Why, you wrote home yesterday, they
can't want another letter yet.'

I must write to Jack, I promised.'
Some passing impulse prompted Greta to
add, ' I'm engaged to Jack.' She would have
obeyed it if she had found herself alone
with Fred at that moment, but it was impossible
to blurt out such a fact before
Captain Mace.

Who on earth is Jack ?' asked Arundel,
as Greta ran away.

He's her brother, that is to say her step-brother
or whatever you call it, young
Daman. I don't think much of him, or of
old Daman either. But Greta swears by
them. She's off in a moment like a rocket
if you say anything disparaging. And
she's so eager not to seem ashamed of Mr.
Daman's business that I go in fear of her

calling out in the middle of table-dlwte^
My father keeps a shop." '

I think I begin to see why she calls
herself a liberal.'

Oh, that's all nonsense, she knows no
more of politics than a baby. She is a
baby so far as ideas go. She's had no
one to develop her mind or to make her
give a reason for the faith that is in her.'

But now we shall see the touch of a
master-hand.'

You may laugh as much as you like,
but I know a great deal more than Greta.
She's got mind and will too, if she'd only
use them.'

I don't observe any deficiency in the
last item.'

She's lived in one narrow groove,' continued
Fred, not heeding the interruption
as she planted herself in front of the hotel
to deliver her views. ' She's full of
country town prejudices, and bourgeois
notions. Don't you see it yourself?' asked

Fred, impatiently, as she found her companion
unresponsive.

i'm afraid I like bourgeois notions if they
mean some of our mothers', not to say our
grandmothers' ways.'

But she might be so charming.'

Isn't she charming.'

She's young and pretty, that's all you
think of. But she won't always be eighteen.
1 suppose you don't mean to say that she
couldn't be altered for the better in a single
respect.'

In one respect she might be altered very
much for the better.'

But Arundel refused to explain himself,
and Fred's penetration was for once at
fault.

CHAPTER XV.

We've been here a week, a whole week
said Greta, leaning from the balcony of
the forest house and drawing in a long
breath of the fresh, pine-scented morning
air.

A week of sunshine and revel in outdoor
life, a week of unthinking and all-sufficing
enjoyment. Although Linton and Lovely,
Exmoor and Torquay, had broken the news
to her, Greta never climbed the pine-clad
hills of Waldberg without a sense of surprise
at the surpassing loveliness of this
earth. The murmur of rills on their
several ways to the Rhine, the Neckar, and
the Danube, mingled in her ears with the

singing of birds and the chirping of grasshoppers,
from morning till night. For the
first time in her life Greta saw forget-me-nots
as thick as buttercups and daisies,
painting the meadows with delight. In
the complete joy of the present, Greta had
ceased to look forward even to the Swiss
mountains.

She gave herself no concern as to the
possible term of her stay. Till a recall
should come, home-life, with the small cares
which had lately ruffled its course, seemed
very far away. So did her engagement and
marriage and all the practical things of
life. Nothing was real but the little world
around her. There was a touch of fairyland
about this place, which had not even
been a name to Greta three weeks ago.
The very uncertainty of their stay at Waldo
made each day more precious. The
old general might any day give the word
to march. At present he was in better
health and temper than he had been for

VOL. I. • Q

years, and gave AValclberg the credit of
completing a cure commenced at Baden.
Lady Charlstrom's voice did not carry much
weight in the family councils, but, having
suffered from the heat at Baden, and hearing
gruesome tales of the heat of Switzerland,
she made no suggestion of moving.
Maud had made friends at Baden who had
followed her to Waldberg. Fred was cultivating
her German acquaintance, if not
her German, since her ideas usually flowed
too freely to be expressed in any but her
natural tongue. Greta made friends with
everyone, with the old women and children
who were always plaiting straws and giving
Gluten Tag to the passers-by, even
with the saturnine dog, on whom Fred
had billeted Arundel. She had grown
intimate with Mademoiselle Louise, and her
acquaintance with their pretty attendant
was progressing rapidly, though the two
girls could only exchange ideas by means
of signs and isolated words, peals of

laughter filling up gaps in the conversation.
Fred had grown as fond of the forest house
as Greta, and would not hear of moving to
the hotel.

It's much nicer to breakfast here,' she
remarked, as she joined Greta in the balcony,

we get it over sooner. And we
must start early for St Bauerin.'

Fred imported a slight air of business
into her pleasure. She had laid strenuous
injunctions on Arundel to be early at the
cottage, and he came strolling down the
steep incline from the Waldhof before they
had quite finished breakfast.

^ We're not ready for you yet,' she said,
• but I like early rising.'

It's an enforced virtue ; they clear out
the passages and coal-holes where the
bachelors sleep, first thing. As for the
coflPee-roora, it's a feminine bower till about
eleven. So I have no choice but to turnout.'


Did you see my German this morning T

q2

'Yes, but I didn't tell him where we
were 2:oin2:.'

You might have let him come ; he could
tell us all about the places.'

Not better than Baeddeker, I daresay ;
I brought him for your benefit. Miss
Greta's like me, she can look at a hill without
wanting to know its name.'

It's more than you can do for a man,
then,' retorted Fred ; ' you want his pedigree
and a reference to his banker before
you think him fit to speak to us.'

Fred left the balcony as she spoke, and
Greta, taking her hat, went down to
Arundel.

I wish you'd brought the poor German,'
she observed, ' Fred would have liked to
have him.'

So should I, immensely ; you don't
know how self-denying I am.'

It isn't as if Fred was a flirt, and there
isn't a bit of nonsense about her ; she never
thinks of such things,' said Greta, colouring

and getting a little involved in her
explanation as she suddenly remembered
that she was talking to a young man.

You needn't tell me that, I know Fred
extends her good fellowship impartially to
both sexes. I hope your interpretation of
nonsense isn't too wide, Miss Greta?'

I only know that I'm not romantic.'

Xo, I don't think you are,' said Fred,
joining them. ' You don't even care for
novels. Why, how far have you got in

success f

Oh, to where the people begin love-making.
But I liked them better when
they were quarrelling.'

Of course they begin with a little
aversion. Lovers always do in German
stories.*

But real lovers don't.'

Do 3'ou believe in nothing but love at
first sight, Miss Greta?'

No, I call that nonsense. People can't
love anyone they've only seen once.'

^''Love at first sight first-born and heir
of all," ' quoted Arundel.

I don't care for poet's talk.'

swill you give me a prosaic version,
then?'

I never define, I don't know how. And
I can't enjoy my walk if you want me to
be clever. Oh, what a glorious butterfly!'


^A Camberwell beauty, by Jove!' exclaimed
Arundel.

If it would only settle for a moment !'

I know you're hungering for a cork. I
daresay you've got pins about you.'

Brute !' returned Greta, shortly.

Have I put my foot in it ? I thought
you wanted a specimen.'

Finding that she had been betrayed into
taking chaff seriously, Greta sought about
for revenge.

Of course soldiers are cruel !' she remarked,
' and doctors '

'And butchers,' added Arundel; *I
wouldn't leave them out

'- 1 won't, or knackers either ; I daresay
they're all equally callous to suffering.'

We're not allowed to go about potting
our fellow-creatures indiscriminately, you
know.'

Greta, you don't deserve to be a soldier's
daughter,' said Fred.

I'm not at all proud of the distinction.'

Then you ought to be. I am. I think
very little of men who are not in the army.
It's the only thing I envy them. We can
do everything else better than they can,
but I'm afraid we couldn't stand campaigning.'


I could,' said Greta, with a happy
ignorance of the thoughts passing through
Arundel's mind.

They had got into the open country now,
and Greta's course grew erratic as monster
harebells and tiny red pinks offered irresistible

temptations. In her pink zephyr
dress and straw hat, a glow of sunburn
warming the soft tints of her face, the sunshine
lighting up her brown hair, she
might have inspired Fred's exclamation :
What a lovely picture.'
A sight to make an old man young
I wasn't thinking of the figure in the
foreground. A fitting figure, I confess.

Du bist wie eine Blume
So hold, so scion, so rein,"

as my German quoted when I asked him
what he thought of Greta.'

Hang your German.'

Arundel, you're getting sentimental.'

You've got your OAvn notion of sentiment.'
Then, as Greta came back to them,
he turned to her. ' I didn't offer to pick
for you because I know that's the best part,
but perhaps I may be allowed to carry your
spoils.'

Wait till I've stuck some in my dress
and made a bunch for Fred.'

^ And a bunch to stick in my dress too.*

Take as many as you like.' said Greta,
holding out her flowers. ' Why, your
fingers are all thumbs,' she exclaimed, ashe
began displaying the most painstaking
awkwardness. ' Put the stems even —
so '

Thanks, how clever you are, I only want
a pin now.'

'Well — if you'll promise not to use it in
the pursuit of natural history.'

Do you know,' said Arundel, as he
fumbled at his button-hole. ' I once asked
a lady for a tuft of primroses and she
looked as if I'd insulted her.'

Did she, how silly.'

Wasn't it ; would you believe that she
looked like an outraged canary?'

Oh,' returned Greta, with awakened
recollection. ' I wouldn't recall my own
impertinences if I were you.'

'You were awfully down on me that
day, I think you're a little milder now.'

I've found out that you're only a professional
jester, I didn't know how harmless
you were at first.'

" Get out, you funny little man," as Miss
Bothering remarked to Poker. That's
the way you regard me now.'

'Very much. But do look at the mute
reproach conveyed in Fred's vanishing
form r

Perhaps Arundel understood Fred's retreat
better. However little he might
desire a confidant, he could scarcely reject
the services of a willing and efficient ally.
Her eyes being opened, Fred showed her
usual activity in Arundel's service. The
novelist showed some skill in handling a
real plot. As consolation for playing an
outsider's part, she probably took notes for
the lighter scenes in her realistic romance
of the Old Bailey.

During their stay at Waldberg, Fred
developed a taste for sketching which
served her friend's cause, whilst it shed a

new radiance on her own future. She
already saw her Black Forest landscapes
on the walls of the exhibition, and read
glowing notices of them in the papers.
Her triumphs had hitherto consisted in the
skying of one or two tiny flower pieces
amongst a collection which was so select
as scarcely to enjoy recognition beyond
the circle of the exhibitors and their
friends. But Fred was blessed with a
double portion of the hope which is said to
spring eternal. Any success elated her,
no failure disheartened her.

I do think she's the happiest creature
in the world,' remarked Greta, one day as
they strayed away leaving Fred under a
big umbrella, washing in an expanse of
country which it was absolutely impossible
that she could have seen at once.

That's been my conclusion for sometime,'
said Arundel. ' She carries a fund
of entertainment in herself Most of us
want some amusement to fill up the day,.

Fred could amuse herself for forty-eight
hours in the day if she had them.'

^ Now, you're getting metaphysical and
making my head ache.'

I don't believe your head ever ached
in its life or your heart either. I'm convinced
they're both sound and good as
new.'

A doubtful compliment if it means that
I never thought of anything or cared for
anybody.'

You may have cared for your parents
and teachers, and pastors and masters.
That doesn't mean wear and tear.'

It's all aUke, I think.'

You're slightly ambiguous, but so fair
as I can grasp your meaning it seems
to me to show utter ignorance of the
matter.'

'I know more about it than you think.'

I'm sorry to hear it.'

Oh, you're thinking of heart-aches, I
know nothing about them.'

It's not likely you ever will.'

You carry them lightly enough considering
your wide experience. Oh, dear
she cried, as an almost forgotten episode
rushed into her mind, just a minute too
late, ' I beg your pardon, I forgot, it was
all before I knew you.'

In a former life, I think, or perhaps it
happened to another person. You heard all
about it?'

'Mrs. Randall told me — just after it
happened. I was very sorry for you.'

'Thank you for kind thoughts.'

I didn't think of you much,' confessed
Greta, eager to disown unmerited praise,
I always try not to think of painful things.
But in church — about people in this transitory
life, you know — I couldn't help thinking
of you then.'

I could ask no better place in your
thoughts, at least not at that time. Tell
me,' he added, after a slight pause,
can you fancy a boy and girl growing

up together, always fond of each other?'

'Like me and Jack,' thought Greta.
Oh, yes, I can fancy that quite well.'

Good friends like Fred and I might be,
only the girl happened to be much prettier
than Fred, and that made the boy more
sentimental about her.'

It always does,' said Greta, as if deploring
the fact.

Growing into man and woman, but
going on just the same, the girl at least
desiring no change. But the older people,
the wise ones, you know, find out that this
is not the conventional state of things. It
must be all or nothing. Rather reluctantly
the girl consents to make it all. Six
weeks end it. They might have let her
alone a little longer.'

Into answer, only a friendly look from
eyes as clear and guileless as a little
child's. Presently in a low voice Greta
said,

You went abroad.'

'As soon as I could. I don't believe in
change, not that sort of change at least,
but it was something to get away from the
condolences. Don't think me unfeeling,
but you don't know what it is to see every
face change its shape and expression at the
sight of you. I've been spoiling your walk,
I'm afraid. Won't you begin picking bluebells
again and crying out at the birds with
red tails.'

That's all I'm good for.'

^ Don't alter yourself whatever you do,

Be everything that now thou art
Be nothing that thou art not."

I won't ask you who wrote that.'

You'd better not. You're awful people

for quotations, you and Fred, I feel as if I'd

gone to school again.'

They had been wandering aimlessly

round the wooded hill, and came out on a

level gap in the pines overlooking the

village.

I shall run down to the post-office

and see if there are any letters,' said
Greta.

I'll come and interpret for you.'

Why, I'm learning to talk like a native.
Didn't I send a parcel by post and declare
its contents with their length and breadth
and weight?'

You got the whole town to help you,
so far as I remember. Given great natural
advantages and an obliging people to deal
with, who couldn't score? I'm obliged to
pull out my passport and talk pages of
pure German before they'll give me my
letters.'

Try Schiller's '' Song of the Bell," Fred's
always repeating it.'

I never heard her ; don't tell her so, or
she'll insist on reciting. Well,' added
Arundel, ' you don't look pleased with your
letter now you've got it.'

Greta was looking with some apprehension
at a closely written and crossed sheet
in Aunt Sophy's writing.

It wasn't worth calling for,' she declared,
beginning to read as she went along.

^ Nothing amiss, I hope?' said Arundel,
seeing her face cloud.

'Only something that makes me angry.'

They had reached a little wooden bridge,
and Greta leaned against the post, reading.
Aunt Sophy expressed herself lengthily in
the style of a time when brevity in a letter
was almost thought rude, at least by
women. She urged Greta to come home
and look after her lover. Opal, she explained,
was working her dark designs and
gaining a malign influence over Jack.
There was no limit to the ascendancy a
cunning, unscrupulous woman could gain
over a weak man. And Jack was as weak
as water ; Greta might remember that she,
the writer, had always told her so. As
for Opal, Miss Gay stated that she had
established her identity with the Opal
Carew of Brussels beyond all doubt. Her
present behaviour was just what might

VOL. I. E

have been expected from her antecedents.
Greta had better come quickly or it might
be too late.

Does she think I'm going to hight over
my lover ?' Greta asked herself, indignantly.
^ Does she suppose I'd try to hang on ton
man who didn't want me ?'

Then Greta reproached herself for taking
anything Aunt Sophy said seriously, and,
returning to her letter, found a postscript.

Remember, my dear niece, that this is
no mere question of your own happiness or
of your own selfish welfare. The fortunes
of your family depend solely on Jack. His
marriage with you will not only secure a
good provision to yourself, it will bind his
interests to those of both your parents.
Marriage with another would probably
estrange him and bring ruin to you all.'

Does she want to make me throw Jack
over,' thought Greta, furiously. ^ I'd doit
directly if I believed her. But I don't,'
she exclaimed, tearing the letter up and

throwing it into the stream. ' I wish I
had kept it and sent it to Jack,' she
thought, next minute, 'but I'll write to
him instead, and I'll write to Aunt Sophy.'

Greta began walking on, and Arundel
joined her in silence. She turned and
looked at him defiantly.

You needn't begin about canary-birds ;
I know I'm ruffled.'

I'd smoothe your plumage if I could.
I scarcely dare venture to offer you these
forget-me-nots ; I picked them whilst you
were rending your correspondent by proxy.'

It was a nasty, spiteful letter, and I
mean to write a nasty, spiteful answer.'

Do you always return evil for evil?'

Shouldn't you if some one tried to set
you against a friend ?'

I don't think I should notice it. Silence
is often as cutting as abuse, and always
much safer.'

I never think of what's safe.'

People don't till they've lived long

r2

enoiio:li to brew themselves a few tons of
hot water.'

Shouldn't you tell the person what was
said against them ?'

That depends on the person. All I can
say for myself is, let me be abused behind
my back by choice.'

Greta pondered for a few moments, her
fingers playing absently nth the flowers
which she had mechanically taken from
Arundel. At last she spoke.

Perhaps it shows a little distrust to
make people explain things ?'

CHAPTER XVI.

During Greta's absence Miss Gay found
full scope for the detective faculty which
she supposed herself to possess. She saw
-just as much as Opal chose. To be
found out was part of that young lady's
plan, but she did not mean to be wholly
found out at first. Neither did she wish
to be found out by Mrs. Daman. An explanation
with her employer might lead to
a summary dismissal which would disconcert
all her schemes, especially one which
she held in reserve. If she could not
detach Jack from Greta, Opal meant to
detach Greta from Jack. It would not,
she thought, be difficult to entrap Jack

into some appearance of inconstancy which
should provoke his fiancee to throw him
over. Opal felt confident that Greta would
tolerate no unfaithfulness in a lover. It
would matter nothing to her that the reis-n
of the strange goddess might be obviously
ephemeral. The smallest disloyalty would
be an unpardonable sin in Greta's eyes.

At this stage of her career, Opal was upheld
by a conviction that success awaited
her. She had been a believer in presentiments
all her life. Coming events had
more than once, in her experience, seemed
to cast their shadows before. The shadows
had usually been threatening, like those
which had almost driven her back from
the gates of the Glebe House. But now,
the vague oracle elated her with promise
of coming triumph. It told her, in a voice
audible to some inner sense, that the days
of poverty and drudgery were over, that
fortune was coming at last with both hands
full. Heedless of the fact that she had

never rightly guessed the form wbicli fulfilment
would take, Opal told herself that
the marriage she desired was plainly foreshadowed.
Confident assurance added
force to a will already stronger than the
one to which it opposed itself.

Jack had begun with fatally good resolutions.
Greta had never reigned more
absolutely over his affections than now ; it
seemed impossible that any other woman
could find a place even in his fancy.
Since he could not take himself from home
in the present crisis, Jack determined to
return late, to devote his evenings to
accounts, to bear the infliction of Aunt
Sophy's company rather than risk himself
within reach of Opal's wiles. Opal had
grown much prettier of late, he could not
help seeing that. She was a good deal
admired too. It was the season of garden-parties,
which were more comprehensive
than the formal winter entertainments.
Invitations were elastic, and Mrs. Daman

often sent Opal out with Miss Gay, who
had a starved longing after the gaiety
which she had never enjoyed. Opal made
the most of her opportunities. She had
thrown off the shrinking, half servile
manner with which she had been used to
seek favour.

Miss Gay brought home dreadful tales
of Opal's ' goings on.' On one occasion
when Bob Charlstrom had appeared, starting
up suddenly from some distant quarter,
Opal was reported to have scandalised the
county. This was at least an adequate
version of the fact that some one had said,
How that girl is flirting.' Greta was
not the only person who had power to
rouse Jack's jealousy. It was his nature
to be jealous — of his chums, of his little
sister, of his dogs when they lavished their
favours elsewhere. Even whilst he flew
from Opal's devotion, he did not like to
hear that she Alas consoling herself. In
his folly, he made an allusion which gave

her the opening she had been looking for.

Opal and Bowwow had met Jack on his
way home from the station. It was not
his fault if they took their walk in the
evening and chose to come his road. But
he need not have drawn Bowwow's attention
to an early bit of honeysuckle which
was sufficiently inaccessible to keep her
scrambling in the hedge.

My flirtations,' said Opal, taking the
word out of Jack's mouth. * I'm sure I
never seek them, I suppose every girl likes
to find herself admired. And I sometimes
think I must be revolting. I want to be
reassured now and then. But,' bending
her head with her favourite air of modest
submission, 4f you care what I do '

Jack looked back impatiently, but Bow-wow
was picking wild roses. He felt a
velvet touch on his arm as Opal spoke
again.

'Mr. Charlstrom wanted to know if I
was going to Fern Lea. It wasn't easy for

liirn to come, lie said. Shall I go ? I won't
if you'd rather I didn't.'

I don't think philandering with a fellow
like that can do you any good, it only
makes people talk.'

I don't mind their talk, I only mind
you. And I don't philander. Not one of
those men should kiss the hem of my
dress.'

As Opal was not like Greta, chary of her
condescension, this was saying a good deal.

But 1 can't be trampled on for ever,'
continued Opal. ' I don't mean to stay
here much longer. You needn't tell them,
hut I don't. I can't stand a good many
things, and I must make myself friends
when I can.'

'If you'll excuse my saying so, I don't
think Bob Charlstrom's a marrying man.'

Any man's a marrying man if he falls in
love. But I don't want him. No doubt I
ought not to allow myself preferences. Ita
taste above my station, I suppose, still

it's there,' said Opal, with a little plaintive
laugh.

Bowwow came running back, and Jack
congratulated himself on having got out of
an awkward position.

Next day Opal met him again. Bowwow
ran off at once.

Mr. Daman,' said Opal, with an air of
determination. ' I'm in a difficulty and
I've come to consult you. I think you are
my friend, at least I've got no other.
Long ago when I was at school, a man used
to send me letters and try to meet me in
all sorts of clandestine ways. There was a
good deal of love-making going on in the
school. The girls used to edge each other
on and think it grand, I suppose I thought
it grand too. I know I never really cared
about it, but I just followed the bigger
girls. One day there was a blow-up.
The governess didn't dare punish the rich
girls, and she was dreadfully afraid of a
scandal. But she was obliged to do something,

so lie made an example of me. It
didn't matter. There were a lot of prigs
in the school who were shocked of course.
One of the greatest prigs was a certain
Emily Harrison. Miss Gay has unearthed
her somehow, and means to bring her face
to face with me, Bowwow told me so.
I've done nothing to be ashamed of, but
I'm not in a position to face a garbled
version of that story. Anything serves
to take the bread out of a governess's
mouth. If this girl sees me it's all up
with my chance of getting pupils. If she
doesn't see me she can never say positively
that I am her Opal Carew. Listen,' she
added, as Jack seemed about to speak, ' I
won't hide anything from you. I let your
mother and Greta think it was my cousin
when Miss Gay told them this story months
ago. I didn't tell any falsehood. They
jumped to the conclusion, and I didn't
contradict them, that's all. But it makes
it worse for me now.'

Jack, seeing with the eyes of twenty only
one side of the question, and that the
extremely pretty one before him, declared
that it was an infernal shame.

It's cruel,' said Opal; 'my life isn't
too smooth anyhow. But won't you take
pity on me and tell me what I can do.
Emily Harrison comes the day after tomorrow.'


For how long?'

Only one day. She's going to Penzance.
Miss Gay has persuaded her to stop here on
her way,'

Have a telegram to call you away.'

Who's to send it ? You forget that I
haven't got friends like other people.'

I could send it, for that matter.'

And where am I to go when I've got
it?'

Oh, anywhere ; you must know somebody.'


I give you my word the only people
who would take me in are an old schoolfellow

and her mother who live in London.
And a journey to London, even third-class,
is ruinous.'

Don't let that stand in your way.'

I mustn't let anything stand in the way
if I can help it,' said Opal, bursting into
tears. ' I'm the most forlorn creature in
the world, and my living is going to betaken
from me.'

Not a bit of it,' said Jack ; ' I'm sure
mother wouldn't believe this Emily Harrison
against you.'

Pray don't tell her you know anything
abo u t it. And Bowwow mustn't let o ut that
she warned me.'

I'll answer for Bowwow. What shall I
wire ?'

'' Mother dangerously ill, come at once.

Polly"'

'Will you wire to them that you're

coming ?'

Oh, no, they'll take me in fast enough.
I can sleep on the sofa.'

The only immediate result of Opal's
scare was a four days' holiday, which she
spent joyously in parading Oxford Street
and Melbourne Grove with her friend,
picking up bargains with which the shops
overflowed in these last days of summer.
Thanks to Jack, Opal secured quite a little
feminine equipment.

Emily Harrison did not come to Avon-wish.
She sent Miss Gay a telegram declining
to break her journey. Perhaps
she had no taste for detective's work.
But Opal's flight was conclusive evidence
in Miss Gay's eyes.

Don't tell me she didn't know,' washer
answer to Mrs. Daman's defence, ' she's
quite capable of listening at the door.'

In spite of himself, Jack was drawn
closer to Opal by her confidence. He
had found something straight-forward in
her confession, and he was touched by her
genuine gratitude. Besides, he had found
it very dull when she was away. Before

long he was giving Aunt Sophy good occasion
to write lier warning letter, though
she was not yet quite behind the scenes.
Jack's scruples were sleeping and Opal's
cares forgotten in a happy dream, when
from the cloudless sky that hung above
Rheinfals a thunder-bolt descended on the
household at Avonuish.

CHAPTER Xiii.

The sound of a niiglity torrent had succeeded
the soft murmur of the Waldberg
rills. With wondering eyes Greta stood
gazing at a rushing living sheet of green
water which scattered showers of white
and iridescent foam. Half screened by
pink oleanders, she leaned over the broad
balcony of the Rheinhof at Rheinfals.
The wild riot of sio^ht and sound filled
Greta with a sense of exultation. It was
something widely different from the more
peaceful delight which she had felt at
Waldberg. The time of Sturm-und-Drang
was at hand. But the present was still all
in all.

I should like to be in the midst of it
VOL. I. s

cried Greta, watching with envious eyes a
little boat which was struggling backwards
and forwards, round and round, in the
eddy as it approached a narrow rock
which divided the Falls and offered a central
point of view to the adventurous.

You and Fred had better get Arundel
to take you,' said the general. ^ I don't
think it's much in Maud's line or mine.'

It makes me giddy only to look,' observed
Maud, turning away and posing her
fine figure against an orange-tree, to the
admiration of the tourists who were taking
every variety of light refreshment at little
tables on the terrace. Swiss maiden waitresses
flitted to and fro.

I wonder whether their dress would be
effective at a fancy-ball,' remarked Maudit's
much plainer than the Swiss costumes
people always wear. Do find out where
they get those great silver chains, Fred.'

Suppose I were to sketch one of the

girls suggested Fred, just roughly for
the sake of the dress.'

Oh, you won't go in a boat if you
"begin sketching,' objected Greta.

'We'd much better go in the morning.
There, that's the prettiest girl, I hope
she doesn't mind having her portrait
taken.'

She won't recognise it,' observed Maud,
who had sat to Fred herself

Greta did not join the little knot round
the artist. She remained looking steadily
at the Falls, and did not see the look of
intelligence which passed amongst the
others when Arundel came in with his
hands full of letters and stepped quickly
to her side.

Nothing for you. Miss Greta.'

I want to go in a boat,' was Greta's
only answer.

Let's go then. Might I suggest a mackintosh
over that dress ?'

You mustn't go without me,' cried Fred,
I want to go, though I know it must be
horrid. Xo one would think of o:oino^
twice.'

We can get nearer the Falls without
taking a boat, if you like,' said Arundel
addressing Greta.

Of course you won't go, Fred — will
you, Maud ?' said Greta, lingering.

No, thanks, it can't be half so nice as
this,' returned Maud, with a half smile.

Arundel led the way for some moments
in silence.

Has anything bothered you ?' asked
Greta, suddenly.

Nothing but the idea that my holiday
is nearly over.'

Greta exclaimed, with some consternation.
She had thought of her own holiday coming
to an end, but not of his.

'I ought to be shooting grouse next
week, it's " poor pa's " one diversion, and I
must give him a few days. Oh, dear, what

am I talking about, you'll think me an old
murderer. I suppose you'd never look at
me again if I ventured to send you some
grouse.'

It's a nasty cruel sport, but men will doit.
Jack loves shooting, though I'm always
tr3dng to make him give it up.'

I'll be more tractable than Jack, I'll
never shoot another bird if you'll like me a
little better for it.'

'^ Oh, you want to be bribed.'

I do. Think of all the innocent lives
you might save. I'm a dead shot, of course. '

What would your father say ?'

He'd be simply disgusted nth me ; I
should have to make play with a gun, you
know, only I should take care never to hit
anything, except a gilHe perhaps. But
I'll brave the parental disgust for your
favour.'

I won't trust you. You know I never
do take you quite seriously, I learnt that
early in our acquaintance.'

This was by no means the turn which
Arundel wished to give to the conversation.

'If I was ill-advised enough to try to
tease you at first, I'm sure I never venture
to do so now,' he said, with a slight falter
on the last word.

No, you've grown quite stupid.'

This might be considered an extinguisher
for a man who wished to talk sentiment,
but Arundel was not without resources.
He would have turned Greta's charge to
account if they had not at that moment
reached the chateau through which they
had to pass to get a nearer view of the Falls.
Greta hailed it as the threshold of enterprise,
Whilst Arundel found that he had
little chance of twisting the talk to his
purpose amidst an exhibition of musical
tables and chairs. Neither could he arrest
Greta's eager steps as she ran along the
little slippery jD^ths which led from the
chateau close down to the Falls.

Greta scarcely paused till she reached

the last resting-place, where the torrent
thundered almost within reach. Arundel
followed her closely to the farthest ledge.

I aren't touch you he said, as she
persistently rejected his hand.

Gretahadnot spoken since she came under
the spell of the waters. She looked rather
awe-struck, yet there was a feeling of
intensified life about her. As she gazed
on the fury of white, roaring water, she
was half-conscious of a desire to grasp the
present moment and hold it fast. She
made none of her usual running commentary
on the sights and sounds.

In silence they returned through the
chateau, across the bridge towards the
hotel. They did not go back quite the
same way as they had come. Arundel
contrived to lose the direct road and to
find a quiet path by the river. His face
was graver than usual. Greta knew it
though she avoided his eyes. He had
something to tell her. She had something

to tell him too, and lie knew that she ought
to tell her story first. But she could not
bring it out. He was the first to speak.

• If I believed it possible, I should say
you were tired. Won't you sit down ?'

It sounded like a prayer. Arundel had
never spoken to her in exactly that tone
before, but she had always been vaguely
conscious of liking his voice. With a
feeling of guilt, Greta sank on the little
bench, conscience telling her that she ought
to hurry on.

Some one has left a book,' she said, with
a last effort to make safe conversation.
S" Sonnets," — what is a sonnet?'

You don't like definitions. Shall I read
you one as an illustration ? — Perhaps this
may help me,' thought Arundel, fluttering
over the leaves with a half-smile as he
remembered that reading poetry was one
of his accomplishments. Thoroughly in
earnest as he was, he had a latent sense
of amusement at his lately revealed self.

The sonnet which Arundel chose did
not happen to be in the collection which
he held in his hand. It was only suggested
by a similar one which seemed too trite
for his purpose. But Greta supposed him
to be reading.

Beloved, my beloved, when I think
That thou wast in the world a year ago,
What time I sat alone here in the snow
And sav no footprint, heard the silence sink
No moment at thy voice, but link by link,
Went counting all my chains as if that so
They never could fall off at ans blow
Struck by thy possible hand, — why, thus I drink
Of life's great cup of wonder ! Wonderful,
Never to feel thee thrill the day or night
AVith personal act or speech, — nor ever cull
Some prescience of thee with the blossoms white
Thou safest growing '

The verse ceased, but the voice went
on —

A world without Greta. Would you
send me back to such a world?'

Greta made no sign, though she felt
him close beside her trying to read her
face.

Won't you even look at me ?' he asked.

Do you keep all your kindness for the
butterflies and the birds ? Have you none
for a man who loves you so that he feels
stupid before you ?'

Greta had drawn herself back into the
farthest corner of the bench. She kept
her hands tightly clasped as Arundel tried
to touch them. Her eyes had a shocked,
appealing look, her lips were white as she
moved them.

I ought to have told you before. I'm
engaged. Oh, my poor Jack !' cried Greta,
with a sudden gust of remorseful shame as
she rushed away.

Flying to the shelter of her bed-room,
she ran against Fred, who caught her arm.

Whatever is it ? You look as if you'd
seen a ghost.'

Let me alone ; I must go home,' gasped
Greta. Then, as Fred refused to let her
alone, she cried out impatiently by way of
explanation, ' I'm engaged to Jack.'

'And you never told us,' cried Fred,

indignantly, ' and you let poor Arundel goon
! Greta, you've behaved shamefully !
Where is he ? I must find him,' and Fred
ran away to try to console ' poor Arundel.'

It was ' poor Jack ' with Greta, Jack to
whom she had given a stone. She knew
now what a poor pretence she had offered
him by way of love. This was love — this,
which had made Waldberg Eden — this,
which had made her fly from Arundel —
this, which thrilled her with a fearful joy
even whilst she shuddered over her broken
faith.

From childhood Greta had accepted the
fact that she belonged to Jack. It seemed
now almost as if, being married, she had
let herself listen to words of love from a
stranger. Shame was her strongest feeling,
though she was conscious also of a
horrible fear lest her confession might cost
her Arundel. For a moment she had
been tempted to withhold that confession
if only for one day. She had always been

eager to clutch the moment's enjoyment.
From a dream of that golden day which
mio-ht have been, Greta tore herself to
think of Jack. She must tell him, come
-what might.

It was not Greta's nature to write
letters and tear them up, she put down
the first words which came into her head,
without even reading them over to see if
they could be softened.

My DEAR Jack,

I have made a dreadful mistake
; I ought never to have promised to
marry you. I know I have behaved
shamefully, but I can never marry you
now. Be as angry as you like, only don't
be too sorry.

Greta.'

Stealing down to post her letter, Greta
;saw Arundel come in with Fred. She
hurried away, but rejoiced to find Fred
following her.

What does he think of me?' she could
not help asking.

Not half so badly as you deserve,' said
Fred, sternly. snow perhaps you'll explain
Why you chose to keep us all in the dark.'

I've always been engaged to Jack and
I've never talked about it. I didn't want
to be tied up. And I never thought it
could do any harm.'

Didn't you, indeed ! Not all the time
you were leading Arundel on to make a
fool of himself?'

I never thought '

^ Nonsense,' cried Fred, sharply. ' Da
you mean to tell me you couldn't see what
Ave all saw, even mother. She didn't like
it at first, but we smoothed her over, telling
her you were better than a stranger.
We were so glad for your sake,' added
Fred, viciously ; * Ave thought Arundel too
good for you, but Ave did suppose that you
AA'ere a harmless little thing. And I Alas
really fond of you.*

You've been very kind, and I'm sorry
you're disappointed.' said Greta, wearily,
but I'll go away tomorrow. I'd go tonight
if I could.'

Arundel says he'll go. But be wants
to see you once more. I don't care whether
sou like it or not, you must see him. You
owe him some explanation.'

He won't ' began Greta, her heart

beating gladly at the thought of seeing
Arundel again.

He won't what — make love to you ? I
should think he'd had enough of that. A
stupid little thing like you, and as for your

Jack ' Fred's contempt expressed itself

in something approaching a whistle. Then,
remembering that she had pledged herself
to help Arundel, she went on, ' When will
you see him? he's not coming in to
dinner.'

Oh, I can't go to dinner, either !' cried
Greta, horrified at the prospect of a long
table-cT-liote.

It might be a quiet time for you to
meet. On the terrace perhaps. Comedown
presently ; I'll manage it,' said Fred.

The garden below the terrace was very
still, except for the unceasing rush of the
torrent when Arundel came down the path
to find a Avhite, rigid figure standing with
arms half raised as if to ward him off. He
stopped short before that mute defence.
But Greta's cry of poor Jack was still ringing
in his ears like music.

you want to hear all about it,' said
Greta, in a forced voice. ' It's rather a
long story.'

It can't have been a long engagement.'

As long as our lives, I think, at least I
suppose it didn't begin till my mother
married Mr. Daman ; I was very little
then. But I can't remember the time
when Jack was not my lover.'

You don't call that an en^^ao-ement ?
When did you promise to marry this
Jack r

They said we couldn't be really engaged
until Jack was eighteen. But I wore his
ring long before that.'

You wear no ring now.'

It's round my neck.' — Arundel inwardly
anathematised it. — ' But I've promised
to marry Jack again and again,' cried
Greta, with a sort of desperation. ' I promised
to marry him in November only the
day before I came away.'

This was too much. Nothing but the
force of training stayed Arundel's reproaches.
For a moment he believed that
the girl before him had been trifling.

'You don't mind torturing a man,' he
said, with a laugh which faintly indicated
the words he could not use. ' Tell me,' he
added, catching at a straw, ' why did you
call him '' poor Jack " just now?'

Did Arundel catch a gleam of reproach
in the mournful eyes which were trying to
look steadily away from him? For he
gained courage to ask,

Do you mean to go home and marry
Jack in November ?'

'No;

Greta,' Arundel drew a little nearer ;
but Greta raised her slight barrier against
him once more.

A sudden light glared from the dark
waters, there was a flash of fire across the
sky. Greta started violently.

Only fireworks said Arundel. ' And
I thought it would have amused you so
he added, tenderly, looking at the shrinking
figure beside him, and wondering if it
could be Greta. ' You nervous !' he exclaimed,
in his old voice.

Greta tried to laugh but her laugh was
a sob. Arundel pressed his advantage.

'Will you tell Jack that you cannot
marry him ?'

I have. No,' she cried, checking an exclamation
of triumph from the man beside
her. 'Not yet.'

Don't go away suddenly as you did

VOL. I. T

before,' pleaded Arundel. 'Look at this
atrocious outrage,' he added, gaily.

The chateau stood out white and staring
like a pasteboard castle against the red
tire. The Falls glittered with electric
lights. But no exclamation of wonder or
delight broke from Greta.

I wish ' she began and stopped.

She could not msh that she had never met
Arundel. There was no going back.

I want you to promise me one thing.'
Arundel spoke softly as if fearing to scare
Greta. ' Don't go home till you've heard
from Jack. I'll go if I must.'

One of us must go,' said Greta, but
the words seemed wrung from her.

I'll keep out of your way, only let me
stay,' pleaded Arundel, conscious of his
adversary's weakness.

Good-night,' returned Greta, avoiding
the question.

Shake hands at least, you used to do
that.'

It used to mean nothing,' replied
Greta, turning away with hands firmly
clasped.

t2

CHAPTER Xviii.

For a day or two Arundel kept out of the
way. For another day Greta avoided
Arundel. But when the last day of their
stay at Rheinfals came, Fred persuaded
Greta to come to the Falls in a boat. Fred
had refused to go without Greta.

And the Pater won't let me go without
Arundel,' she urged. ' You needn't mind
this once. He can't talk to you on forbidden
subjects with me in the boat.'

If it had not been for a new sense of
guilt, and a still keener sense of a new joy,
Greta could almost have fancied that the
Waldberg days had come back. Arundel
was the same except for something more

distinctly deferential in his manner to herself.
The swirl and dancing of the water
through which they made their way, the
thunder of the falling Rhine towards
which they came ever nearer and nearer,
seemed to enter into her very soul and lift
it above fear and care. Had she obeyed
the instinct which was thrilling in her,
Greta would have stood erect in the prow
as if to welcome and defy the avalanche of
white water that rushed and charged and
roared at her. The approach to the rock
was made without more than the usual
difficulty. The landing was, as it always
is, a somewhat delicate business.

Please to forget I'm not a boatman,'
whispered Arundel, planting himself in
front of Greta, and compelling her to take
his hand. ' I won't risk your displeasure
whilst you are on the edge of that boiling
cataract.'

I can climb up by the rail now,' said
Greta, as soon as she had landed.

Go on first then. Fred won't disdain a
hand.'

We've got it all to ourselves,' said Fred,
as they reached the top and stood under
the iron umbrella which they had contemplated
ambitiously from the opposite
shore.

^ We shan't have it long, there's a boat
List coming off,' remarked Arundel.

'What fun to see it come in,' cried
Greta, ' I hope it's a full boat, they rock
about much more.'

They're more likely to upset, you mean,
I didn't expect that from you. But I
begin to suspect your softness a sham,'^
added Arundel, in a low voice.

Fred began waving her handkerchief as
she distinguished her friends on the terrace
opposite.

Arundel ventured to address Greta confidentially.


Have you got that thing round your
neck still ?'

No, but I'm not free.'

I won't ask you to wear another today.'


'This is breaking our compact.'

1 made no compact. Fred may have
promised and vowed things in my name.
But I submit. Let's look for your boat.
I'm afraid there's only one man in it.'

Greta turned, then suddenly craned
forward, straining her eyes in an eager
startled stare. Then, clutching the rail,
she turned a white horror-struck face
towards Arundel.

It's Jack !'

I'll speak to him,' said Arundel, rushing
quickly down the rough steps. But
Greta flew after him.

No,' she cried, pushing past and compelling
him to give way lest she should
lose her footing.

Jack did not wait for the boat to get
very close. He frightened even the experienced
boatman by leaping on to the

rock with an effort which buried the bows
of the boat and sent it for a moment back
into the dangerous eddies. As Greta
stepped before his rival, he caught her
roughly by the arm which Arundel had
not dared to touch.

To Greta there was something moving
in the unshaven, dishevelled condition of
the usually spruce Jack. Even the dirty
hand, which clutched her white sleeve, had
a pathos of its own. But these little
things told against the boy with his rival.
Jack, nth his glaring eyes and generally
unrestrained demeanour, seemed to Arundel
an abnormal combination of cad and
savage. The middle of the whirlpool
seemed a fitter place for such a creature
than the position which he appeared to
claim.

I've come to take you home,' said Jack,
hoarsely, seeming prepared to drag Greta
into his boat.

Not by force, I suppose ?' said Arundel,

with ominous quietness, interposing himself
between them. ' No — as Jack turned
furiously upon him — ' not just now, if you
please. One moment, Mr. Daman,' he
added, suddenly, holding the rail with one
hand and extending the other to Fred,
who was in the rear. ' Just allow this
lady to pass.'

Jack drew instinctively aside as Fred
touched his shoulder, and the dealer in
sensations came delicately enough down
the descent where a slip might have been
a serious matter.

There were two persons between Jack
and Greta now, and Fred, at a sign from
Arundel, urged Greta on board the boat.

'We're not quarrelling. Miss Charlstrom,
we're all coming home together,' said
Arundel, With a laugh. ' This really isn't
a safe place to have a row in With women
about,' he whispered to Jack; then added,
aloud, ' We're coming after you in Mr.
Daman's boat, if he'll give me a lift.'

I'd much rather go with Jack,' said
Greta, mastering the sickness with which
the thought of a scuffle between the two
young men, in that now horrible place,
filled her.

Greta, do come, for heaven's sakes
whispered Fred.

Her ghastly face said plainer than words,
If you don't let Arundel manage it,
there'll be murder.'

Only let them get safe ashore,' said
Arundel to Jack. Then, as he saw the
boat tossing on its homeward journey, he
turned to him again. ' My dear fellow,
you can't chuck me into the middle of that
pool before everybody.'

I'm half-inclined to try.'

Upon my word, I'm thankful you're not
quite inclined. Of course, I'll give you a
chance if you insist, but for goodness' sake
don't let us frighten Greta by warlike
demonstrations.'

I'm not likely to want to frighten Miss

Charlstrom,' said Jack, with formal dignity.
You may as well understand that she will
be my wife in November.'

Well,' said Arundel, laughing, ^ you
can settle that on the mainland as well as
on a square foot of island. Of course I
won't ask you to take me in your boat if
you object.'

You can come,' growled Jack. He had
an uneasy sense of defeat, though neither
in word or deed had he and Arundel been
in actual conflict. But he was probably
mollified by Greta's expressed wish to go
with him.

When Arundel and Jack reached shore,
they found Fred waiting alone at the .
She addressed them sharply.

Greta can't see either of you to-day.'

She's not ill ?' exclaimed Arundel.

Jack only made an angry protest.

'Not exactly ill,' replied Fred, giving
Arundel a look which promised an explanation
later. Then, turning to Jack,,

she went on, ' I can take any message, a
letter if you like ; but it's no use making
a scene at the hotel. You won't see
Greta any the more. She won't see Captain
Mace either, that ought to satisfy
you.'

I mean to take her home,' said Jack.

She's quite milling to go home,' replied
Fred, again telegraphing silence to Arundel.
She'd rather have it all out at home. And
she will on no account see Captain Mace
before she goes.'

^ Why can't she go with me to-night ?'

^ I think you forget that you're not
really her brother,' said Fred, indignantly.
' Greta is in my father's charge, he
must find her a proper escort. And
I doubt whether he would even let you
be of the party if he had seen you just
now. Don't fancy you can carry off Greta
just as you like. We shan't give you the
chance.'

You can't prevent my seeing her.'

We can, if she doesn't want to. Come
now,' said Fred, good-humouredly; ' you
know you can't rush into all the rooms at
the Rheinhof till you find Greta. You've
begun so badly that we can't trust you ;
only behave like a rational being, and you
may come tomorrow as early as you like —
I don't mean in the small hours of the
morning.'

I shall sleep at the Rheinhof.'

I don't think you will. They haven't
got a hole or corner empty. And you
wouldn't see Greta.'

Get me Greta's written promise that she
won't see that fellow.'

I've given you her promise already, I'll
give you mine. Captain Mace will give
you his.'

Fred almost stamped as Arundel declined
to do anything of the kind. But Jack did
not want his rival's promise.

I wouldn't take the word of a fellow
who could steal another man's sweetheart

Arundel's obvious defence almost burst
from Fred's lips. But she felt bound to
respect hei* friend's warning look since she
was herself making large demands on his
faith.

When Fred had at last wrung some sort
of concession from Jack, and they had left
him at the little restaurant where the boats
landed their passengers, compiling an appeal
to Greta, Arundel broke out with as
much warmth as he could permit himself
to use to a woman,

why did you let Greta make that
ridiculous promise ?'

Hush,' said Fred, looking round as if
Jack might be stealing after them. ' Greta
has gone home already.'

'Alone!'

'What does that matter? We just
caught the omnibus at the corner. She's
off by this time. We had just money
enough between us. The Pater knows
nothing yet, you must help me tell him.'

That poor child with no one to look
after her, no carriage secured, and a night
journey.'

As if she cared ; no harm can come to
her. Don't be foolish, but just listen tome.
Jack can't go till tomorrow, I'll take
care he doesn't catch the first train ; you
must go to-night and get the start of
him.'

Give me her address. When does the
train go?' Arundel began pulling out his
watch as if that could tell him.

Not till the evening. You'll have time
to help me get over the Pater. He'll be
awfully angry, but he'd have been angrier
if we'd had the row at the hotel. I hope
there wasn't a row as it is ; I suppose Jack
went there first. What an ill-conditioned
boy it is.'

Can Greta care for him, do you think?'

No, she cares for you, I know it,' cried
Fred, triumphantly. 'Don't be down-hearted,
go in and Ain.'

CHAPTER XIX.

To Greta in lier excited state of mind the
long lonely journey offered no terrors.
She never thought of her comforts, which
were possibly not great, since the united
resources of the two girls only furnished a
second-class ticket. The journey from
London to Plymouth was made third-class.
Luckily Arundel was not there to
see.

Greta's mind was in a whirl, she felt impelled
to lily back to her old life, yet hated
to feel herself flying from the new life
which was a revelation. Her pleasant past
looked flat and dull now. She had eaten
of the tree of knowledge. Her teasing,
patronising relations with her boy-lover

seemed like child's play. Such love as she
had given Jack had been given in unconsciousness
that there was more to give.
Then came a man who seemed to demand
her life, and Greta had given him that
which she had not even thought of giving
to Jack. But between herself and Arundel
lay the barrier which could not be
passed without a painful, cruel conflict.

Fred's little devices were unknown to
Greta. She never doubted that Jack
would follow by the next train. But she
wanted to get home first to tell her own
story. It would be easy to tell her mother,
but Greta's heart failed her a little
when she thought of telling Jack's father.
He happened to be the first person she met,
and she saw that his face was a little changed.

Greta,' he said, with a sort of deprecating
sternness, ' you're not going to
throw my boy over, are you ?'

I can't marry him now,' replied Greta,
determined not to shirk the truth.

VOL. I. u

Then God help him !'

Blood went for something, after all.
Greta felt that she had lost a friend, but
she went confidently to her mother. There
could be no division between them. But
Mrs. Daman's thoughts ran on the same
lines as her husband's.

^ Greta,' she began, incredulously, 'you're
never going to play false with poor Jack.
Why, you'd break his heart.'

Don't make it worse for me, mother, I
can't help myself,' cried Greta. ' I'd sooner
cut my throat than marry that poor boy
now.'

Don't talk so wildly ; it's only a passing
fancy,' said the mother, looking as if she
saw the world turning upside down. It
seemed impossible that the comfortable
family arrangement which had pleased
everybody should be thrown over for a
stranger.

It was always you and Jack,' she went
oris pleadingly. 'I remember how father

used to say, " My boy's grandfather may
try to keep him away from me, but your
girl's too strong for him." You were little
things then, but it was always the same.
There never was such a pair of lovers. We
were so proud of you, and to think that
my girl should be the false one.'

^ Don't be too sure of that,' said Aunt
Sophy, who had been very quiet, watching
her opportunity.

Greta made a quick, impatient movement,
but Mrs. Daman went on, taking no
heed.

'Who is this Captain Mace that he
should upset everything? A man you
couldn't bear only a few weeks ago.'

I never disliked him,' said Greta, who
was beginning to know herself. ' I was
always thinking about him, always excited
about him from the beginning;. I wanted
him to like me, though I used to pretend
I didn't care. Oh ! I know now,' she
cried, as new light broke on the past, ' I

u2

was never quite myself after that first
fortnight, everything seemed much flatter
than it did before. But it wasn't much
then, if I had never seen him again I might
have forgotten, I can't now.'

Yes, you can,' said her mother, with
unusual determination. ^ Think of poor
Jack who loves you so. What can this
man care. Wasn't he going to marry that
poor girl who died T

Better a dead rival than a living ones
said Aunt Sophy, in a grim voice, ^ and
it ought to be rather a recommendation
that Captain Mace was thought
a good match for General Charlstrom's
daughter.'

Of course you mean Opal !' said Greta,
who had only heeded the first words.

She spoke rather defiantly.

I do mean Opal. You didn't condescend
to notice my warning ; it didn't matter to
you, perhaps. Will you take my advice
now ? Don't slip between two stools. If

this man wants to marry you, take him,
and let Jack be a dog in the manger, if he
likes.'

Mrs. Daman broke in.

Jack never cared for Opal, Tm sure of
that. If he did flirt with her a little it
was only because she threw herself at his
head, and Greta was away ; it was nothing.'

Meeting on the sly and walking home
together every day was nothing, wasn't it?'
said Miss Gay, viciously, * or sitting in the
billiard-room till eleven o'clock at night,
or kissing in the school-room.'

Greta was roused at last. But her
loyalty died hard.

I won't believe it,' she exclaimed.

You won't believe me, you mean.
Well, I wasn't the only person to see them.
Ask anybody in the place, ask the servants.'


I shall ask no one but Opal herself,'
said Greta, turning away.

Opal was in the school-room, with Bow-wow

in her favourite position at her feet,

Run away, darling, I want to talk to
Opal,' said Greta, bending down to kiss her
little sister.

But Bowwow hid her face and jerked
her shoulder impatiently.

Go away,' she cried, ^ I can't bear you.
What have you done to poor Jack ?'

Opal rose, and put the child gently out
at the door; then turning, faced Greta.
Bowwow's desertion had been another
home-thrust. Greta's face worked as she
spoke.

I want you to tell me the truth. Opal,
for all our sakes. Is there any truth in
what Aunt Sophy tells me ?'

*I suppose I can guess what you mean.'

'- I'll put it more plainly. Has Jack ever
made love to you ?'

Should you care if he had — no, no,'^
Opal cried, with an air of sudden bewilderment.
' I didn't mean to say that. You
want to betray me into saying something

to hurt him, and I won't. He's the best
friend I ever had, I won't say a word that
can be twisted against him,' she repeated,
incoherently.

Perhaps it wouldn't hurt him if he's
such a friend of yours.'

But he wants to marry you, he likes
you best,' exclaimed Opal, with an apparent
effort. ^ I would never stand in his way ;
I won't help Miss Gay to make mischief.'

I only want to know if it's true, that

he met you, sat alone with you ' Greta

could not bring herself to finish the
accusation.

You've got me in your power ; I don't
care what you think of me, but don't make
me tell tales of him. You don't know
what I owe him. He saved my life,' cried
Opal, dramatically, ^ that was months ago,
but he wouldn't let me tell you. He saved
my good name when Miss Gay made a plot
against me, only a few weeks ago. He
was so good to me, I could tell him everything,

things I didn't dare tell you. I
would kill myself rather than spoil his
life, and he likes sou best,' she repeated,
as if the words were wrung from her by
a generous impulse.

Thank you,' said Greta, coldly ; ^ I
meant to ask you to come and answer
Aunt Sophy, but I think you've told
enough.'

As she went to hide herself upstairs,
Greta felt sickened by the revelation of
falsehood which had been surrounding her
unawares. There must have been an
understanding between these two throughout.
Jack had always spoken of Opal in
somewhat slighting terms, yet he had been
winning her love, and sharing her secrets
all the time. Opal had gauged her rival
rightly. Greta made no more allowance
for passing infidelities than any other
honest girl of nineteen would. Her own
blunt breach of promise seemed candid
and whole-hearted beside those lapses from

integrity of which Opal's ingenious apology
had left Jack accused.

Greta felt impatient now for the interview
which she had dreaded. She calculated
the hour when Jack could arrive,
giving him the shortest possible time in
which to accomplish his journey.

But the unhappy boy was still delayed
by the unscrupulous manoeuvres of his
rival's partisan. Jack had only reached
the Rheinhof in time to hear that General
Charlstrom's party had left for Lucerne.
He followed them, to find that Greta was
no longer in their company.

Meanwhile the journey which Greta had
marked out was accomplished, though not
by Jack. Sitting alone, waiting and
watching, she heard an arrival just when
she had timed it. Resolved that no third
person should come between her and Jack,
she opened the door directly a step sounded
in the hall. ' Come in here,' she said,
and some one came in.

Greta started back as lie saw that it
was Arundel. But it was too late. He
had taken her hand, he was telling her the
story which she had made him leave untold.


Arundel had caught Greta in a weak
moment. There was no cry of ' poor
Jack' now. Resentment and distrust
seemed to have closed her heart against
him. Perhaps they only clouded her
judgment and perverted her sense of right.
Unconsciously she may have grasped at an
excuse for following her own will. She
listened, knowing that to listen meant to
capitulate.

You do like me a little bit, don't you ?'
asked Arundel, encroaching as he found
himself gain a hearing.

Of course I like you ; it would be easy
enough if I didn't.'

'And you won't let them persuade you
to throw me over, the moment my back's
turned ?'

Greta winced.

I suppose you'll never trust me ?'

I didn't mean that, but you know
you're only beginning to thaw a little,
whilst I've loved you from the moment
you came into that great room at Lancaster
Gate, with your head very erect and a
suggestion of crumpled rose-leaves in your
aspect. And I know it must be hard fora
girl to go against her own people,' he
added, gently.

I hope you won't mind, but I'm afraid
you'll get a cold reception.'

I got rather a warm one from a pretty
little thing I met in the hall. Your sister,
I should think, by her masterful spirit.'

Poor Bowwow, she'd be very rude to
you, I daresay. But my mother is sure to
be nice.'

'- Will you present me to her. Only
give me a few minutes first. You haven't
really promised to be my wife.'

You mustn't mind waiting a long time.

And you must go off to your father as
you promised.'

I don't mean to go further than Plymouth
at present. My father will be
delighted when he hears the cause. As to
your other condition, we may defer that
for a few days at least.'

But Arundel lost no time in pressing his
own view of the matter on Greta's mother.
Greta had presented him with an air of
decision which he found very encouraging.
Then she had left the two together to
make friends. She knew that Arundel
would find a short way to her mother's
favour if he could talk about herself

To Mrs. Daman it seemed the most
natural thing in the world that any man
should lose his head at the first glimpse of
Greta. Her heart clung to Jack, yet she
was not without a sense of triumph at her
daughter's conquest, It seemed a more
distinct tribute to Greta's beauty than the
love of a boy who had known her all his

life. Mrs. Daman liked Arundel's eagerness
for a speedy marriage. A lover who
held off from clinching his bargain was
only half a lover in her eyes. Besides, an
engagement to Arundel, with Jack in the
way, offered many difficulties. If the
wedding was to be, it had much better
take place before November. Though
willing to forward Arundel-wishes on
this point, Mrs. Daman supported her
daughter's opinion on the other. She
declared it to be impossible for Arundel to
stay in the neighbourhood or to visit at
the house whilst Jack was at home.

It would kill Greta to have scenes
between you two,' she pleaded.

In her heart she probably feared her
husband almost as much as Jack. She
was secretly eager to get Arundel out of
the way before Mr. Daman returned.

You mustn't take it amiss that I don't
ask you to stay,' she observed, as he made
no sign of moving. 'Jack may be home

any minute. You can write to Greta.
You've got her promise, that ought to
satisfy you. She's as true as steel.'

It was scarcely the moment to laud
Greta's constancy, but Arundel was not
likely to take exception.

I may see her before I go,' he said,
deferentially, though he had not the
smallest intention of leaving without.

Mrs. Daman immediately called her
daughter, who came in, followed closely by
Aunt Sophy. This member of the family
was prepared to receive the new-comer
with open arms, and Arundel, who knew
nothing of her except that she claimed
kindred with his Greta, met her friendliness
fully half-way. Not having much experience
to guide her. Miss Gay would have
insisted on seeing Arundel out, if Mrs.
Daman had not intervened.

For fully ten minutes, which seemed to her
like hours, the mother kept her sister in conversation,
whilst she listened fearfully for

Mr. Daman's step. With a long breath of
relief, lie heard the hall door slammed.
Then she heard Greta run upstairs. Five
minutes later Mr. Daman came in.

'Who was that jaunty-looking chap I
met round the corner?' he asked suspiciously.


Strangers were so rare in Avonuish that
Mr. Daman, like Bowwow, had suspected
Arundel's identity at once.

That captain hasn't been here, has he?'

Mrs. Daman's silence was an answer.

I hope you showed him the door.
Where's Jack?'

Not home yet.'

Mr. Daman's face showed sharp anxiety.

No letter ? And that fellow came from
the same place. Why couldn't Jack get
back too ?'

Mack's all right, you may be sure of
that.'

What do you know about him, have you
heard anything T

Mrs. Daman had never even asked after
poor Jack, she had been only thankful
to find his return delayed.

Where's Greta ?' asked Mr. Daman.

She's not very well, she's been upset,
poor girl. Captain Mace has been here ;
he won't come again,' she added, hastily,
but it's no use blinking facts. Greta likes
him, and she'll never marry poor Jack
now.'

If she means to marry anyone else she
shan't stop here,' said Mr. Daman, with as
much fury as he could muster ; ' she may
go away to her fine friends altogether if she
can't keep her word.'

^ Then I shall go too, I won't forsake my
girl.'

Mrs. Daman's flash of spirit died out
suddenly as Bowwow ran in.

He's been here,' cried the child to her
father, ' he stayed an hour-and-a-half. But
I wouldn't speak to him, I mean I wouldn't
be friends with him. I told him I hated

him, and I hoped he'd go away and get
killed in a battle.'

That's right, I wish they'd all told him
the same,' said Mr. Daman.

How did you know who it was ?' asked
the mother.

He wanted to come in so,' replied the
little observer, who had done her best to
bar the way. ' I ran out thinking it was
Jack, — why doesn't Jack come home?'

Bowwow pointedly addressed her father.
The division in the house was complete.
Miss Gay ran upstairs to caution Greta
against showing herself, whilst Mrs. Daman
went to sit through a miserable dinner.
Mr. Daman went on with his grievance
heedless of hints to regard the presence
of servants. Aunt Sophy and Bowwow
snapped at each other in the heat of unrestrained
partisanship. Mrs. Daman sat
wondering how long Greta would consent
to remain upstairs, and whether the Charles
would soon come home and offer to

VOL. I. X

take her in. Only a few clays before she
had been longing for her child's return,
now she was wishing to send her away.
And Arundel would soon take her away
altogether. Mrs. Daman had counted on
keeping Greta always, married or single.
There could be no such happy arrangement
now.

Mothers of plain daughters are spared
a great deal, after all,' she observed plaintively
to her sister ; ^ nothing of this sort
will ever trouble Mrs. Price,' she added,
naming the rector s wife, whose daughters
were singularly ill-favoured.

Let's hope Bowwow may grow up like
Nelly Price,' returned Miss Gay, with
grim humour ; ' there's always hope for a
child.'

She could never be a bit like her,' cried
the mother, flushing all over.

Mrs. Daman watched for her husband
to fall asleep after dinner, as usual, but

for once he kept awake. Anxiety about
Jack made him restless and irritable.

Tell her on no account to come down,'
whispered Mrs. Daman to Opal, who was
only too glad to be furnished with an excuse
for forcing herself upon Greta. It
was something new to find Greta sitting
quite still. But she had something to
think of now. It might have been well if
she had learned to hold communion with
herself sooner.

Come in,' she said, in answer to Opal's
knock, expecting to see her mother.

Opal gave her message, but still lingered.

I like to be alone,' said Greta.

I must speak to you.'

Then please make it short.'

I don't know whether you owe me a
grudge. But I can show you how to be
revenged. Only tell Jack what you asked
me, tell him I wasn't so ready with my
lies as I ought to have been, he'll think I

x2

tried to divide sou. But I didn't,' cried
Opal, clasping her hands and twisting her
lithe frame in a manner peculiar to herself.
' You never cared for him ; I knew
it all along, for I loved him. He loved
me too in a way ; but hell never forgive
me if you make me your excuse for marrying
the man you do love.'

Opal's voice rose till the last words
came out with a force which made them
resound in Greta's ears. Then, without
giving Greta the chance of reply, she made
a good stage exit.

CHAPTER XX.

I SHALL never change again ; I know myself
now. It's Arundel, or being an old
maid,' said Greta, with an energy which
silenced her mother.

It was the day after Arundel's visit.
And Mrs. Daman, who had pronounced
her daughter to be as true as steel, was
already trying to bring back the old comfortable
state of things.

I stand by Captain Mace,' said Aunt
Sophy, drawing her work-basket to her,
and I mean to get on with the trousseau ;
it may be wanted sooner that we thought.
Try to do a bit of Avork, Greta.'

If things were happier I almost think

I could replied Greta, looking with new
eyes on the work. ' It all seemed so
prosaic somehow when I was going to
marry Jack. I suppose I should have
jogged on without knowing ; I used to
laugh at romance, but now — I feel like
Undine when she had found her soul,'
cried Greta, quoting a favourite story of
Bowwow's in a desperate effort to make
her mother understand. But Mrs. Daman
had married Lice without tasting Greta's
present experience. Children had made
the romance of her life. It was easier for
the old maid to comprehend than for her.

I don't see that Undine was any the
happier for getting a soul,' she remarked,
doubtfully.

^ But she wouldn't have gone back. I
can't be happy, I've behaved too badly ;
but I wouldn't go back to what I was a
year ago,' cried Greta, pressing her hand
against a letter from Arundel, his first

letter which had come to her that morning.
She used to hand Jack's letters
round the family, there had been nothing
in his words to make them sacred.

Greta had told Arundel to go away,
and he had obeyed her so far as to leave
Plymouth. But he still lingered in the
west country, and the knowledge relieved
her sense of loneliness.

I don't like runaway matches,' said
Mrs. Daman ; ' but upon my word it seems
as if that would be the shortest way out of
our difficulty.'

What a pity Gretna Green's had its
day, it would be so handy for Arundel's
father,' cried Greta, with a flash of her old
fun, which died out suddenly as she heard
the door-bell ring.

It was an unexpected visitor, Mrs. Randall.
Greta recognised the hand of Arundel,
who had found a friend for her. But
Fred had in truth been the chief mover in

the matter, since Arundel had only seen
Mrs. Randall for the first time the evening
before.

Mrs. Randall might have known him all
her life from the warmth with which she
spoke of him and offered her congratulations.
Being good-natured, fond of Greta,
and still fonder of a love affair, Mrs. Randall
had responded warmly to Fred's request
for a helping hand. She felt that
Greta must on no account be allowed to let
a rich lover slip through her fingers. As
for Jack's claims, Mrs. Randall made very
light of them.

Ah yes, a boy-and-girl affair,' she remarked,
when Greta made some allusion to
her difficulties, ' you never told me anything
about that, and as for guessing, why,
we all thought you were within the prohibited
forces, I'm sure you ouo;ht to be.
But the best plan will be for you to come
and stay with me a little while, if your

mother will spare you, till all that has
blown over.'

Mrs. Daman would have jumped at this
offer, especially since she found that Mrs.
Randall was prepared to carry Greta off at
once, but Greta refused to move till she
had seen Jack. The idea of flying from
him to hide herself in a house to which he
might be refused admission, seemed to her
cowardly and unfair.

I must tell him myself,' she repeated,
standing out against all persuasions. 'If
you will take me in afterwards, I shall
be thankful to come.'

It would be so much better to write to
him.'

He would never be satisfied with a
letter.'

You're a self-willed child. Some one
told me so,' said Mrs. Randall, as she left
half displeased.

I seem to make everyone angry,'

observed Greta, looking as if she wondered
why life had become so difficult.

'You're half hearted,' returned Aunt
Sophy. ' you won't throw Jack over once
for all. I shouldn't wonder if Captain
Mace gets out of patience now.'

I'm not afraid of that. And I'm not
half hearted, I shall break with Jack' —
Greta caught her breath — ' as thoroughly
as you can wish, but I must do it by word
of mouth.'

I hope you'll tell him that you've found
out about his goings-on with that Opal ;
you may give me as your authority.'

No, there shall be nothing of that sort.
I know I'm false, I won't pretend it's because
he's false too. Don't try to make mischief
between him and Opal. If he wants to
marry her, let him.'

Greta had given no answer to Opal, but
the girl felt tolerably confident as to the
success of her appeal. She hung about

the lanes, with Bowwow, hoping to catch
Jack and have the first word. No one
heeded how the governess and pupil
passed their time. Mrs. Daman was always
content to know that they were out of
doors. Wandering in lonely country roads
was not to Opal's taste, but she was driven
by a feeling strong enough to master all
others.

Bowwow had been worked up into a
perfect frenzy of partisanship. Always
devoted to Jack and jealous of his interests,
with a lively fancy and the wisdom of eight
years, she was ready to believe in plots.
Eager to warn Jack, she marshalled Opal
the way the latter was going.

When their patience was at last rewarded
by the appearance of a dusty, jaded
looking traveller tramping along at a space
which would have shamed the local steeds,
it was Bowwow who flew to him, and with
unconscious cruelty poured out her story.

Jack heard it with a face which cut Opal
to the quick though not from any pity for
him. She offered a gentle apology for the
child's abruptness, whilst Bowwow clung to
Jack crjdng. Bowwow had believed that
somehow everything must come right when
Jack was once home. As they drew near
the house, Opal breathed a few words of
counsel to Jack.

Be firm, insist on your rights, be
masterful like this other man,' she added,
as a crowning argument.

Arundel's hand, whatever its consistency,
had always worn a silken glove for Greta.
Even at the moment when she had tried
him most he had permitted his anger
no expression. Jack, on the contrary,
rushed at Greta as if he found relief in
giving vent to his rage. The trick which
he supposed her to have played, in sending
him on a wild-goose chase to Lucerne, had
roused his temper even before Bowwow's
story stirred him to fury.

You thought to get rid of me whilst
you settled it all,' he cried, ' but I'm not
going to be put aside. I've got your
promise, and I'll make you keep it. You
expected me home every day, did you ?' he
exclaimed, scarcely giving her time to
speak, ' you think I'm going to believe that ;
I trusted you once, I won't trust you out of
my sight now. I'll never let you go again.'

This unbridled anger, this rough insistance
on rights, stood out in sharp contrast
against Arundel's forbearance. Nothing,
Greta thought, would have made him
speak so to any woman. She had come
out to meet Jack with a shade of softness
and humility in her manner. His mode of
receiving her seemed ungenerous ; remembering
what she kncAv of his relations with
Opal, it seemed almost base. But Greta
made no retort.

Say what you like, if it does you any
good,' she said, with a meekness which sat
strangely upon her.

ISTotliing that Jack could have said would
have moved Greta to marry him now, but
he could have touched her heart and
revived the old tenderness so far as it
went. A feeling almost like contempt, a
distorted and exaggerated reflection of her
old good-humoured patronage, possessed
her now as she heard him storm and
threaten in pitiful impotence.

Suddenly Greta's coldness smote Jack.
She had not usually been much moved
by his fits of passion, but she had never
received them in this silent, stony fashion.

It's no use talking to an image,' he cried,
with a sort of despair, throwing his arms
roughly about her.

Greta struggled, winding herself round
and twisting her face back over her
shoulder. Then, as he persisted, she
drove both hands against his chest, striving
to push him from her with such evident
resentment that he drew back. It seemed

like a declaration of war. For a moment
they stood looking at each other, then
Greta, with eyes still fixed fearfully on
Jack, retreated towards the door. He
made no attempt to detain her, but rushed
out into the open air.

Hours later Jack returned to find that
Greta had gone away, they would not tell
him where. She had left a letter for him.
Snatching it from Mrs. Daman's hand, he
tore it to pieces.

Next day Jack too left home, and no one
except Opal knew where he went.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED BY DUNCAN MACDONALD , BLENHEIM HOUSE.

-■^t^^'rySK

;*•."

•'>*.

h

m

I' ;-:

Vj

/f'r>i-v^

i^V,

V^. « »•!

Jv',:- >'

A.'^.^

-:<^

3*%'

■i.r.





i^

*M-.*3

^^^r

r?^*i-*C.- -

'VI'

■y>i

Kir

VOL. II.

BY

JANE STANLEY

AUTHOR OF " A DAUGHTER OF THE GODS.

There's a new foot on the floor, my friend,
And a new face at the door, my friend,
A new face at the door.'

IN TWO VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

LONDON :

HURST AND BLACKETT, LIMITED,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1888.

All Risr^its Reserved.

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/newfaceatdoor02stan

A NEW FACE AT THE DOOR.

CHAPTER I.

Mrs. Randall's bright drawing-room, looking
out on the Hoe, offered in the morning
as pleasant a retreat as two lovers could
desire. The mistress of the house was busy
in her own little sanctum, and only privileged
visitors were permitted to make an
invasion before luncheon. Arundel was on
the free list. He was at this moment
standing before Greta, looking almost as
anxious as he had looked when he persuaded
her to sit down on the little bench in
the garden at Rheinfals. He was waiting

VOL. II. B

for a second 'yes,' and the soft, girlish face
before him offered a riddle hard to read.

Arundel's Greta was different from the
girl who had held Jack in the hollow of
her hand. The love which had changed
the course of her life, had also, in some
measure, changed her nature. It was the
strongest feeling which she had ever known,
too strong to be quite consistent with the
childish gaiety which had distinguished
Greta. She was as chary of its expression
with the new lover as she had been with
the old, partly perhaps from a natural
reserve, more from the consciousness of
treachery which had never quite left her.
Arundel's wooing had not been too smooth.
He looked to marriage as the one means of
healing Greta's conscience, but she had
hitherto refused to name a time, much less
a day. It was something, that she had
been at last brought to consider the
question.

You're very patient,' she said, looking

lip with a smile which gave Arundel
hope.

I'm obliged to be. Since I've known
you, I'm like the Queen of Sheba, there's
no spirit left in me.'

'You mustn't take your revenge if I say,
next month.'

No, I'll be the most hen-pecked man in
the service, and the happiest,' he added,
with a lover-like demonstration, which
Greta promptly checked.

'You won't even let me kiss my own
wife,' he protested.

I'm not your wife yet.'

But you're going to be in about a fortnight.'


That's rather soon.'

Not for a quiet wedding such as we
want. Your mother and I settled it all,
subject to your approval of course. AVe
thought London would be the best place.
You could come up the day before with
your mother and Aunt Sophy. Mr. Daman

B 2

and my friend Bowwow need know nothing
till it's over.'

And you won't mind my coming to
church in my everyday dress ?'

I don't mind an ulster so long as it's
got you inside it.'

'And you won't ask anyone but your
father and Fred, if she's home ?'

Can a man's father be his best man,
do you think? It's unusual, but is it unorthodox?'


You might have Bob ; I don't feel as if
I could face strangers that day.'

You shan't, I promise you.'

My mother will give me away, and —
well, I never thought to have Aunt Sophy
for a bridesmaid,' said Greta, with a laugh
which collapsed suddenly as she remembered
how Jack would have appreciated the
joke.

You're very rough on Aunt Sophy ; I
don't say she's an ideal bridesmaid. Bob
would prefer Miss Carew.'

She must know nothing. I don't trust
her,' said Greta, quickly ; but she gave no
reason for her distrust. She would not
hint suspicion of her injured lover.

Greta never spoke of Jack to Arundel,
though he could not but be aware of the
invisible presence which made a sort of
barrier between his promised wife and himself.
She had told nothing of that last
interview which she remembered remorsefully.
Jack had taken no heed of the
letter which she had written in an apologetic
spirit. Greta had neither seen him
nor heard from him. Even her mother
did not know where he was. Only Mrs.
Daman guessed from her husband's composure
that Jack must be safe.

It's your last day,' said Greta, turning
wistful eyes on Arundel.

You've given me something to sweeten
it,' he replied, taking advantage of her softened
mood to possess himself of her hand.
Will you wear my ring when I am gone?'

'Yes, always, but don't give me anything
else, I hate presents.'

Jack had given Greta more presents
than she could reckon, and she had never
thought of returning them. Their relation
had not been like the ordinary relation of
lovers, and the common formality on breaking
g-off an engagement would have seemed
an insult to Jack. Everything which
Greta could find had been made over to
her mother, but forgotten trifles kept turning
up to remind her of the old pleasant
companionship.

What shall we do on your last day ?
I want you to enjoy it,' said Greta. ' I
should like you to remember it as the best
day of your holiday.'

Then be like your old Waldberg self —
only mine.'

You liked me as I was then, and you've
got to put up "with quite a different sort of
creature.'

I think most men might be content to

put up with you even as you are now,'
returned Arundel, pretending to look at
her critically. ' As it happens, I care too
much for You (with a very large capital
Y, you understand) to find any change for
the worse possible.'

If I were old and ugly, should you
care for me still ?'

It would be rather a sudden transition
to-day, but if the test came in the common
course of nature I should be found equal
to it. Not that you ever could grow ugly
if you lived to a hundred.'

Oh,' cried Greta, with genuine surprise,
' mine are just the looks to go off
early.'

£>u hist wie eine Blume,' quoted Arundel,
but not one of those that are only meant
to be looked at, thank goodness.'

Do you know that I am very ignorant ?
If you marry me, as you want to do, in a
hurry, you won't have time to find it
out.'

^ We'll take a lot of serious books on our
honeymoon, "Evenings at Home," and a
Blue-book or two.'

But, seriously, I know I'm ignorant.
That day we dined at your father's, when
I was staying at Lancaster Gate, people
talked about a lot of things I knew no
more of than the man in the moon.'

Shop, I'm afraid, lawyers will talk sometimes.
You needn't disturb yourself about
that, though I believe you are supposed to
know all the laws of your country as fast
as they're made.'

You all seemed to understand ; you
read the papers, I never do. I've tried
very hard since I came home, but they do
seem horribly dry.'

I don't think my father will want you
to talk newspapers, especially as you are a
Radical, you know. I mean to have that
out with you some day. But, seriously,
as you say, you've got wits enough and
lots of time before you. "We're not bound

to acquire all the learning of the Egyptians
in the next fortnight.'

I do like poetry, ' said Greta, meditatively,
' especially when it's read tome.'


Xo one had ever read to her but
Arundel.

" Sonnets from the Portuguese," I hope.'

I know that one by heart,' Greta's
face broke into smiles. She had bought
the book of sonnets directly she came to
Plymouth, and had searched its pages in
vain. But Arundel had given her a
collection of Mrs. Browning's poems. Books
were gifts which she took from him willingly.
In all their long intimacy, Jack
had never given her one.

I wish I could show you some of my
haunts,' said Greta, turning to another
subject ; ' do you remember asking me to
introduce you to my nice old people.'

I remember every word you sjDoke, at
all events. I was driven to many inventions

in those days. Even Fred hadn't
begun to see through me.'

Did you see through yourself?'

Rather, from the first evening. Didn't
I get up that dinner on purpose to show
you to the Judge?'

Did he know ? He was very nice tome,
I remember.'

He rather monopolised you, so far as I
recollect. That was more than I bargained
for.'

The Judge had plans of his own for
Arundel at that time. But he had written
Greta a very gracious letter since her engagement.
It is needless to say that he
knew nothing of the complications which
had hindered his son's courtship.

To-day Greta was resolved to put
thoughts of Jack from her. Arundel was
to leave by the night train, and she wanted
him to carry away nothing but pleasant
memories. It was doubtful whether they
might meet again before the time which

Greta had at last consented to fix for their
Averting.

'I shall come and see you the evening
before, at all events,' said Arundel.

'It will be better than comines here

again.

I shall only come if you want me.'

I shan't do that.'

Greta laughed at the obvious interpretation
of her words, but she knew that the
same thought was in both their minds. If
Jack did return, she was determined to
fight her own battle.

Ours mil be a runaway match, so far
as Avonuish is concerned,' she remarked.

In Greta's mind there was a sense of
unreality over the whole. She could not
believe that in little more than a fortnight
she would be married to Arundel. She
found herself counting the moments of this
day as if it Avere to be their very last
together.

In the afternoon they drove with Mrs*

Eanclall some miles into the country where
she had promised a beautiful nook for a
picnic-tea. Sitting opposite Arundel,
Greta studied his face at intervals, printing
it on her memory. She had photographs
which reproduced faithfully his
straight, strong features and close-cropped
dark hair, but the man had a look of vigour
and alertness more easily impressed on the
memory than on the surface of a plate. It
was something quite different from Jack's
boyish exuberance ; that seemed ephemeral.
If Arundel lived to be old, he would enjoy
life and be fit for harness to the last.

Arrived at their destination, Mrs. Randall
found a place sufficiently removed
from the lovers, who were making rather
a business of boiling the kettle.

'- You milk-white fawn, you're not domesticated,
you'd much better leave it tome,'
observed Arundel. ' She wants to
put the spirits of mine into the teapot,' he
explained to his hostess.

Mrs. Randall wondered placidly whether
the tea would ever get made, or be fit to
drink if it did. Meanwhile, she contemplated
her young couple with some faint
reflection of the satisfaction which used
to fill Mr. Daman and his wife when they
saw Greta beside her first lover. Healthy,
handsome, absurdly in love and rich, she
summed up, throwing Greta's beauty and
Arundel's purse into the common stock.
An amiable elation filled her as she thought
how well she had done for the girl whose
pretty face had attracted her. The Maces
(so Mrs. Randall already styled them) would
be a nice addition to her circle. She only
regretted that Arundel had not followed
his father's more stationary profession.

Having accomplished their task, the
lovers left the tea brewing itself to an
unwholesome strength whilst they strayed
in search of flowers. Arundel desired a
buttonhole, but the season for wild flowers
was on its wane.

I haven't given you anything but an
ugly photo said Greta, still haunted by
the fear that she had not made Arundel's
short courtship sufficiently pleasant to
him.

*You gave me a bunch of pinks at
Waldberg, with a pin out of your dress.'

^ Don't keep the pin,' cried Greta, with a
recollection of Jack's dagger. Then she
turned from the old, sore subject, and
smiled on her new lover. ' I should like
to see Waldberg again.'

In the winter?'

'No, in the spring, when it's full of
primroses. I suppose they do have primroses
there ?'

I wish I was an idle man to take you
just where you like.'

As Jack would have done, thought
Greta. It was a dreadful thing to have a
past intruding itself at every turn. Greta
gave a guilty start as she caught Arundel's
eye. She was not afraid of his trying to

force lier confidence, but she felt like a
child under his scrutiny. Arundel treated
her with a deference which would have
been impossible to her old playfellow, yet
she did not enjoy the same sense of superiority
over him. Familiarity had checked
love in the earlier instance. She had liked
Jack heartily, without admiring him more
than girls usually do admire the brothers
with whom they have been brought up.
Whether Arundel deserved the pinnacle on
which her fancy placed him or not, he had
gained it in the fair field which is open to
any well-mannered, well-looking man of
the world who comes to deal with a fresh
girl.

This isn't making tea. We're treating
Mrs. Randall very badly,' said Greta,
turning back.

Arundel detained her.

You'll write every day ?'

Yes, and post the letter myself,' replied
Greta, who had misgivings as to whether

Arundel's letters would go safely by other
hands than her own.

And you won't put off the day for
dressmakers, or any fads of that sort.'

^ Oh, dear, no,' replied Greta, remembering
that she had half her trousseau ready.

Above all,' said Arundel, dropping his
voice to a more persuasive tone, ' you
mustn't let yourself be annoyed by — anyone.
Don't let a childish promise weigh
too much on your conscience. He cannot
expect you to marry him now. Why,'
cried Arundel in a burst of virtuous indignation,
' I wouldn't take you myself if you
liked another man better.'

Whether he would have looked on contentedly
whilst Greta married the other
man, may be open to doubt. At present
he counted on marrying her himself in a
fortnight. Froui the height of his seven
and twenty years, all told, Arundel looked
upon Jack and Greta as very young people
indeed.

Though she could not have spoken herself,
Greta felt relieved by Arundel's allusion
to her secret care. He understood, she
thought. For the rest of the day she was
gay enough for Mrs. Randall to think her
the happiest girl in the world, whilst
Arundel whispered that she was trying to
make parting too hard. Yet her other self,
that new remorseful consciousness which
could never be stilled, was only standing
aside for a time. When Arundel was gone
Greta suffered a strong reaction. Jack
came back vividly before her. She pictured
him getting the news of her marriage. She
tried to think of Opal consoling him, but
the fancy broke down. Nothing but
misery would associate itself with the
image of Jack. The old love, which had
never been love, was all pain. The new
love, which was part of Greta's life, felt
like pain too. It seemed impossible that
happiness should be near, almost within
her grasp.

VOL. II.

I don't deserve it,' she thought, ' I've
been cruel and wicked, I ought never to
marry anyone.'

CHAPTER II.

Greta had no inducement to stay with Mrs.
Randall after Arundel had left. She did
not fear Mr. Daman or even Jack, for herself.
And the petting and fussing bestowed on
her as a bride-elect, was positively distasteful
to Greta. Besides, she wanted
to spend these last two weeks with her
mother.

I suppose I must let you go, but I feel
as if you were safer with me ' said Mrs.
Randall.

It must have been a presentiment,' she
told her friends afterwards, when Greta's
story was in every mouth ; ' I wanted to

keep lier, but she would go, she was so
wilfuL'

Hitherto Greta had been praised and
patted on the back for her wilfulness. It
had amused Mr. Daman and delighted the
mother who had been conscious through
life of an inability to hold her own.

'Well, what have you settled ?' was Mrs.
Daman's first question when Greta came in
looking fresh and animated after her three-mile
walk from the station.

It's to be tomorrow fortnight.'

Oh, I'm so glad, we can get on somehow
just that little while. But we must take
care not to let it out before Bowwow or
Opal;

I don't want to talk about it. Am I
to keep out of father's way still?'

No,' replied Mrs. Daman, who had been
straining all the influence she possessed
with her husband, ' he won't say anything
if you don't begin. You mustn't expect
him to be quite the same, you know.'

'Are we to be like strangers?' asked
Crreta, lier eyes widening with a look of
pain.

Never mind for a little while, it'll all
come right, I daresay.' But Mrs. Daman
did not feel so confident as she tried to
appear.

Any news of Jack ?'

No, but I'm sure he's all right. Father
knows about him. I believe that Opal's
in the secret, too.'

Then there must be something between
them. If Jack would only marry her ! I
do think she likes him,' said Greta, trying
to make the best of the doubtful bargain
she was coveting for her rejected lover.

She's a nasty sly thing ; I shall get
rid of her when I can,' said Mrs. Daman,
resentfully.

She aren't make a bother about anything
just now,' thought the 'nasty sly
thing,* who heard rather more than Mrs.
Daman supposed.

Opal had early discovered that the hall
offered great opportunities to a person
with sharp ears. The plants which she
sedulously cultivated were at once a screen
and an excuse for lingering. Bowwow
might perhaps have suspicions, but Bow-wow
was a partisan.

The child looked up as Opal retreated
with somewhat suspicious haste to the
school-room.

Are you going to write to Jack?' she
asked, seeing her governess open a little
paper-case.

Yes, but you mustn't tell. Tm obliged to
trust you, Blanche. But you're not a silly
little chattering girl.'

You're going to tell him Greta's come
home. Will he come, too ?'

I don't know ; he must decide for himself,'
replied Opal, who really took care
that Jack should have very little voice in
his own arrangements.

I wish you'd tell me where he is.'

I mustn't do that jet, even if I know,
and I'm not sure that I do,' returned
Opal, writing rapidly.

But you must know if you write to
him. What a little letter,' added Bowwow,
as Opal folded her note.

Quite enough.'

Opal had merely written, ' Meet me tomorrow
afternoon at the old place, I have
something to tell you.'

He'd be here directly if I let him know
Greta was at home,' she thought ; then
added, aloud, ' Blanche, to-morrow is the
day we go to pay Mrs. Mol. I want you
to make some excuse for not going with
me. Say you've got a headache, or you
feel tired.'

'Must I tell a story?' asked Bowwow,
with a grave stare.

I should have thought you might even
do that to help Jack ; but perhaps you
need only say that you don't want to go.'

But I do want to go very much.'

• Jack will be very angry if you don't
do what I tell you. He'll think you're
turning against him like the rest

Perhaps Greta will go herself.'
This was a difficulty which had not occurred
to Opal.

You must try to prevent her going.
Tell your mother that Mrs. ISlol is quite
wild about her treatment of Jack. That's
true, at least.'

Oh ! yes, she does go on,' said Bowwow,
"with evident relish.

It would only set Greta against him.
A poor old woman like that, who says
rude things because she nursed you as
children, would do Jack more harm than
good. Now, I'm going to post this ; you'd
better not come too, because it's near teatime.'


Bowwov/ looked wistfully after her
governess. She felt it a sort of treachery
against Jack to be friendly with Greta, and
her mother always took Greta's part.

Jealousy and a sense of injustice were
rankling in Bowwow's breast as she tried
to make a dignified entry into the .
A sudden lull in the conversation
made her feel more of an alien than
ever. No one asked for Opal. No one
would have asked for her, Bowwow
thought, if she had stayed away. Her
mother was taken up with Greta.

Poor Mrs. Daman was too much preoccupied
to notice her little girl. Greta's
hasty marriage, though it relieved her
from many difficulties, was an anxious and
bewildering event in Mrs. Daman's placid
life. The secresy surrounding it was hateful
to her. She would have liked to marry
Greta with a flourish of trumpets. People
she knew, and people she did not know,
were already pressing forward with congratulations.
Everyone seemed to know
a great deal more about Arundel Mace
than Mrs. Daman did herself. It was to be
hoped that they did so anyhow. Arundel

had in fact inherited considerable means
from his mother. Gossip had endowed
him more richly than heritage had done.
Gossip doubled the official income of Her
Majesty's puisne judges. Gossip magnified
Sir Edward Mace's former practice, and
antedated considerably the time at which
he had begun to enjoy it. Mrs. Daman
was not aware of that mysterious power by
which money always contrives to get itself
exaggerated. She was not above feeling
a little triumph, but it was tempered by
the consciousness that Greta was supposed
to have thrown Jack over in favour of a
better match. People were politely incredulous
as to the more romantic side of the
story. Even Mr. Daman declined to accept
his wife's explanation.

She thinks that fellow a swell,' was his
version of the matter.

Opal was the only person to whom Mr.
Daman could speak freely of Greta. She
seemed to take what he called the commonsense

view of the matter. Being engaged
to Jack, Greta was bound to marry him,
whether she wanted to do so or not. This
was Mr. Daman's point, and Opal professed
perfect agreement with him.

Only it's no use urging it till he's able
to marry,' she represented ; ' Jack can speak
with ever so much more weight when the
time comes. Greta would never put up
with him as a lover now, she'd only pick
quarrels ; remember how they used to
quarrel, even in the old days. Keep Jack
away till he can come and claim her promise
for next week.'

Opal urged this on Mr. Daman till he
accepted the idea as his own, and in his
turn pressed it on Jack. He believed that
he had himself induced Jack to leave home
in the first instance, but Jack would never
have gone if Opal had not promised to keep
him informed of everything which passed
at home. To Opal alone he confided his
address at a little inn on the borders of

Dartmoor, where he proposed to watch and
wait the turn of events.

You're less likely to let it out than the
governor, and you'll find out a lot more
than he could,' had been Jack's remark.

Mr. Daman knew nothing of the confidences
between his son and the little
governess.

Keep yourself hidden, and Greta will
come home,' had been his advice, and since
Jack wrote to him occasionally and came
once or twice to see him in Plymouth, he
was content to be kept in ignorance of his
hiding-place.

Opal had professed not to know where
Greta was staying, though she was wide
awake enough to connect her departure
with Mrs. Randall's visit. She assured
Jack that there was no fear of any decided
move being made whilst Mrs. Daman
remained at home. No letters came from
Greta, she was probably only remaining
away till Mr. Daman would consent to

receive her on something like the old
terms.

Jack had made a rush to London to see
whether Greta was at Lancaster Gate, but
he had found the house shut and the family
away. Neither he nor his father thought
of looking for Greta at Plymouth, where
she had kept herself close under Mrs. Randall's
direction. Jack himself shrank from
streets and chance meetings with friends.
The solitude of Dartmoor suited his present
frame of mind. No one knew him at
the little inn where he spent his nights,
smoking, and, it is to be feared, drinking.

Occasional meetings with Opal gave a
little zest to Jack's life. Their appointments
were always made at the old deserted
house to which Opal had been taken
the day after her arrival at Avonuish.
She had lost all the sense of horror with
which the place had at first inspired her.
She was learning to associate it with love-making
and the promise of happiness.

For something of love-making mingled
in her confidential interviews With Jack.
He had lost his loyalty to Greta. Since
she was faithless, there seemed no sense
in bis being faithful. She had forsaken
him for the first man who made love to
her. Jack had no intention of forsaking
Greta, but he was ready to accept the love
which was offered to him. His inconstancy
was as essentially masculine as
Greta's was feminine. Jack gave little
thought to Opal's part or rights in the
matter. He regarded her lightly as a soft
little thing made to be a slave. She had
contrived to draw out the worst side of
his nature, as he had unconsciously developed
the worst side of hers. Each meant
to use the other as a tool. Each felt
master of the situation. Jack never dreamt
that his fawning adviser supposed herself
to be twisting him round her fingers.
Neither could Opal believe that beauty

and devotion like lies were making but a
fleeting impression on Jack's senses.

Opal always went gladly to meet Jack,
but she had never gone more gladly than
on the day after Greta return. Everything
seemed to be playing into her hands.
Oreta's secret marriage would fill up the
measure of Jack's wrath. Opal had persuaded
herself that there was more of
anger than of love in Jack's regrets.
Wounded vanity and a boyish sense of
indignity made up, she thought, the
greater part of his suffering. Greta's last
repulse had left an impression which Opal
did not wish to see softened. She had no
intention of giving Jack her secret information.
If Greta had proclaimed her
intention of marrying in a fortnight, Opal
might have felt a difficulty in suppressing
the news, but, since Greta intended to
keep her in the dark — in the dark Opal
intended to be kept. Mr. Daman would

bear witness to the deception practised on
them both.

Opal made her way to Careyscombe by
fields, avoiding the main road. It was
with some trepidation that she took her
lonely walk, only upheld by the consciousness
that Jack was Awaiting for her. She
almost rushed across the grass when she
caught sight of his figure.

'What about Greta?' he cried, impatiently,
almost repulsing Opal's effusive
welcome.

With a look of scarcely-curbed rage,
Opal drew back.

She's come home. If you want to kill
your last chance, you'd better come too.'

Is he there ?' Jack's face showed something
of the wild animal, but it was the
animal which makes straight for its foe,
not a sleek, stealthy creature like the one
beside him.

'No, he's gone away, I don't know
where, but Greta doesn't expect to see him

for a month, at least I heard her tell Mrs.
Daman so ; she never tells me anything.'

Then she's been seeing him.'

I think so, but I closet know where
she's been. There was nothing but the
Kino-sbrido-e label on her box.'

How does she look ?'

^Yery well. She's in great spirits too.
She thinks it's all right now your father
has consented to receive her.'

'He has no business to receive her unless
she means to keep her word. I shall come
home.'

Then she will go away again. But do
as you like.'

'I'm not going to leave that fellow a
clear field.'

'Your father has forbidden him the
house. He'll stick to that, I know.
Greta's safe from Captain Mace so long as
she's at home.'

'But I'm doing no good stopping away.'

'Yes, you are. You're keeping watch

VOL. II. 1)

through me without frightening Greta.
When the time comes for you to be married,
you can put up the banns and insist
on her keeping her word, then and there.
Your father will back you up.'

This high-handed proceeding rather
recommended itself to Jack, though he had
a vision of Greta forbidding the banns.

I've told you all I know,' said Opal,
who had not quite recovered her temper.
I must go on to Mrs. Mol now, she was
my excuse for coming.'

'Wait a minute, you've plenty of time,'
replied Jack, who found his own time
hang heavily. ' I've a great mind to go
with you.'

Then Greta will find out you're in the
neighbourhood, and go off to the Charles
They're coming home this week.'

Jack did not go with Opal, but she stayed
with him instead. She had not much
fear of being found out, and would perhaps

scarcely have regretted it, if Greta
had heard of these stolen interviews.

Opal told Jack about Bowwow, touching
up the little scenes after her fashion ; she
gave a lively version of Miss Gay's latest
sayings, and drew a life-like picture of the
state of things at home, throwing in a few
allusions to her own grievances.

'Mrs. Daman would like to send me
away without a character because I won't
say I think Greta right. It would give
her a nice excuse if she saw me here with
you.'

No fear of that, no one ever comes here
but ourselves.'

Partly from inexperience, partly from
want of imagination, it never occurred to
Jack to distrust Opal. Knowing that she
was in love with him herself, he yet
credited her with an unselfish interest in
his affairs, simply because she professed it.

He perhaps judged of the sex by thespeci-

men. Greta was frank in all things, even
in her infidelity. Therefore Opal must be
frank too, even in her fondness for himself.
No girl. Jack thought, would have betrayed
her feelings so plainly if she had been capable
of dissimulation.

When she left Jack that day. Opal felt
as sure of him as if the wedding-ring was
already on her finger. She walked on air,
dreaming of the fair and pleasant years
which lay before her. Opal had counted on
marrying well, but she had not counted on
getting a young, good-looking husband
whom she could love. The struo'o-le and
scheming which her conquest cost her, endeared
it to Opal. She remembered the
chill with which she had heard Greta proclaim
her engagement on this very spot.

And I was to win after all,' she thought
with an odd notion of victory.

Meanwhile Jack was revolving every
possible and impossible scheme for recovering
Greta.

I'll fight to the last. If I'm beaten,
well, I'll go abroad — Central Africa or
something,' he thought, with confused notions
of big game and strange adventures.
'Poor little thing, I might do something
for her through the governor,' he told himself
as an afterthought, not referring to
Oreta this time.

CHAPTER III.

There was no sign of an approaching
wedding at the Glebe House. Yet Greta
was to be married in three days.

Mr. Daman showed so little interest in
his stepdaughter that it was not thought
necessary to tell him of her proposed visit
to Lancaster Gate. Mrs. Daman's journey
was to appear unpremeditated. Aunt
Sophy had undertaken to find some plausible
excuse for taking her sister early into
Plymouth. Mr. Daman need not be told
that they were going farther. They did
not intend to follow Greta till the very
morning of the wedding, and would arrive
just in time for the afternoon ceremony.

Opal guessed what Greta's packed boxes
meant, and racked her brains for some excuse
to keep Jack away a few days longer.
He had become almost unmanageable since
Greta's return.

Anybody might have suspected something
from Greta's restlessness. She wandered
aimlessly, in and out of the room, till
Opal felt inclined to shriek with nervous
impatience.

There's going to be a storm, I think, I
feel it in my head,' Opal said at last,
making an excuse to get away.

The sky looked cloudless, as Greta leaned
against the window, gazing up at it.

I shall go and see poor old Mol,' she
said, suddenly.

Don't,' cried her mother, ' she'll only
say something to make you uncomfortable.'

I've never been near her since,' said
Greta, referring to a visit which she had
paid just after the news of her inconstancy
got wind. ' I can't go away, and ' — Greta

had almost forgotten Bowwow. ^ She'll
think I'm angry.'

I'll go too,' said Bowwow, jumping up.

No, I'd rather fight it out by myself.'

^ Miss Carew's got a headache, and
Oreta's cross, it's very dull,' murmured
Bowwow.

Ellen shall take you to Buttered
Farm, and perhaps they'll let you see the
new baby,' said Mrs. Daman, as a happy
thought.

A baby was better than her old nurse.
BowAvow ran off in great glee, just as
Greta was beginning to relent about taking
her.

I wish you wouldn't go,' said Mrs.
Daman again.

It will do me good,' replied Greta, kissing
her mother with an unusual show of
affection.

The walk would do Greta good at all
events, Mrs. Daman thought. These were
trying days, but by-and-by, when Greta

was married and Jack had got over his
disappointment, things would go smoothly
again. With this comfortable reflection,
Mrs. Daman composed herself for a nap
which Greta had hitherto rendered impossible.
Miss Gay had gone to Plymouth,
there was a delightful hush and repose
about the house.

There was little repose in Greta s breast,
as she walked quickly along the familiar
roads for what seemed the last time. She
was not leaving home like a happy bride,
but in secresy and a sort of disgrace.
^ I shall be happy tomorrow,' she told herself,
thinking of the comfort of her lover's
presence. She pictured the meeting at
Paddington Station. How different it
would be from her arrival in the spring !
They would let Arundel take her in to
dinner of course, just as he had taken heron
that former occasion.

From a dream of her past and future
with Arundel, Greta was recalled by the

voice of one of her poor people. The old
woman was garrulous after her kind. A
little impatient at being held in talk, Greta
promised to send some beef-tea for a sick
child and hurried off, explaining that she
was on her way to Mrs. Molony. The
long-winded narratives of her pensioners
were always a trial to Greta. ^Yith a
desire to avoid meetings which seemed
inevitable on the high-road, she turned
aside, cutting across fields towards the
deserted house. There was no need for
her to pass it, but the place had a fascination
for her. Being near, she went out of
her way to see it once more.

Descending into the hollow, she stood
taking a last look, with her feet buried in
the long; o;rass which 2:rew round the
windows. Something darted across the
long room and made a rush at her.

Greta.'

Starting back violently, before she realised
who it was, Greta found herself looking

lier old friend-lover in the eyes as if lie
had to hold an enemy at bay. Probably
old recollections softened both of them.
Greta held out her hand saying, pathetically,


Be friends, Jack.'

Oh, Greta, are you really going to
leave me ?'

Yes. We should only both be miserable,
if I married you now. And I couldn't
do it.'

I shouldn't be miserable,' said the poor
boy. ' And a few months ago you didn't
think I should make you miserable, either,'

he added, bluntly. 'By ' he broke

out, ' it seems impossible, after all these
years.'

'Oh, Jack, it was a horrible mistake all
the time.'

He caught at the word.

How do you know that this isn't a
mistake?' His voice became for a moment
friendly and familiar, as well as pleading.

^ All I ask is — give me another trial, two
months, or a month, or six weeks in the
house together again — without Mace.'

It wouldn't be any good, it would only
make it worse for you.'

I'll risk that,' he cried, eagerly.

Some shade of pity in her voice had
given him hope. She saw it, and the resolution
not to deceive him made her manner
seem harder than it had been.

Jack, it is impossible ; you must take
my word for it, impossible.'

You're not married !'

Greta flushed.

No.' She would have added something,
but he burst out,

^ Oh, Greta, then give me this one
chance. If you won't let me come back
to the house, promise me not to marry him
yet. I don't want to come back if you'll
only not see him till over November.'

If I didn't see him for a year, for years,
it would make no difference.' The ardour

of her language brought the colour again
into Greta's face. ' Can't you take my word
for it,' she cried, reproachfully, ' you used
to believe me.'

Suddenly the feeling that she was not
dealing honestly seized and mastered her.

Oh, Jack, I won't be deceitful now.
I've promised to marry him very soon —
I've promised to marry him in three days.'

Greta drew back involuntarily at the mad
fury in Jack's face.

You shan't,' he cried, wildly, seizing
her wrist with a violence which he would
have been ashamed to use in his proper
senses ; ' I'll kill you first.'

His blind passion hardened Greta. Standing
erect and looking at him defiantly, she
said, coldly,

I'm not a bit afraid of you. You won't
frighten me ; but isn't it rather unmanly
to try?'

Jack dashed her hand away.

You've spoilt my life, you've made it

hell, and you expect me to take it quietly.
Go,' lie cried, waving his hands furiously
as if to drive her from him.

Greta went, moving mechanically in the
direction of Mrs. Molony's cottage. But
as she approached the road her heart failed
her. She stopped short and broke into a
fit of hysterical crying.

I can't leave him like this,' she thought,
trying to master the paroxysm. ' After all
these years,' she repeated, echoing poor
Jack's words. ' I must go back.'

She turned, then stopped, feeling it impossible
to face Jack in her present state.
It seemed a Ions; time before she could
recover herself sufficiently to approach
the house and creep round it calling,
Jack.'

There was no answer. Had he gone
away already? Perhaps he was in the
house, but too angry to answer her call.
She stole through the window.

jack!'

It was a shriek this time which rang out
shrilly over the old walls. It startled a
gang of labourers plodding home, and
hurried their shambling gait into a rough
trot, as they stumbled through hedges andover
ditches, their blunt, weather-worn
features moved into some expression
of wonder as they heard cries for help
following in piteous reiteration. Half-way
lip the slope they were met by a frantic
figure. Moved almost out of resemblance
to herself, with blood on her light summer
dress and something which gleamed a dull
white in her hand, Greta shrieked,

He has killed himself !' and led the way
quickly back to the house.

On his face in the middle of the long
room, Jack lay dead.

CHAPTER ly.

In her frenzy of grief and remorse, Greta
scarcely knew what followed the removal
of Jack's body. Her cry for help answered,
her last hope of saving life extinguished,
she still clung to what remained of her old
lover, refusing to be taken home till they
took him too. And somehow, before night
they were both under the home roof In
that distracted household there was no
sleep. It seemed as if there could never
be sleep again. The blow which had
fallen upon Mr. Daman seemed to crush
all sense out of him. But his grief appealed
to everyone, all could understand
the sorrow of a father mourning an only
son.

The silent, almost stolid sufferer who sat
alone, shrinking from even her mother's sympathy,
endured agony which stood outside
the common lot of humanity. Could it be
that Jack, whom Greta had loved with all
except the love he required, had killed himself,
and that she had goaded him to it ?

Greta had turned back with her heart
torn by their last interview, feeling that
she must yield any point but one, to makepeace.
She had found the door closed
against repentance. There was no longer
any Jack. She told herself that she had
destroyed him body and soul. His last
mad act had perhaps cut him off from
hope through all eternity. To follow him
by the same road had been Greta's first
instinct. The thought of her mother restrained
her. Not the thought of Arundel.
For awhile Greta's love was in abeyance.
She had gone back to the past with Jack,
that and the horrible present were the
only things Which had any reality.

VOL. II. E

When a new morning had risen, it
filled Greta with vague surprise to find
that Arundel had come and was asking for
her.

I can't see him said Greta, impatiently.

Mrs. Daman went away to give place to
Miss Gay. She was the only person who
had thought of telegraphing to Arundel,
and she did not mean to see him sent
empty away. Planting herself firmly,
she insisted on Greta's coming down, unless
she chose to have Arundel brought
upstairs. Having possessed herself of
Greta's key, she felt mistress of the
situation.

Ask him to go away,' implored Greta.

But Arundel was already beside her.

We can never be anything but friends,'
she began ; then, as she met a pitying look
which seemed to show comprehension, she
broke out piteously, ' Oh ! Arundel, I feel
as if I'd murdered him.'

Arundel sat dow beside Iter.

Will you tell me all about it ?' be said,
gently.

It was the first time that Greta bad
made a coherent statement. Words could
not make the scene more vivid, yet sbe bad
shrunk from repeating aloud that wbicb
was ever in ber mind.

Arundel listened intently, then be began
questioning. Greta wondered at the trivial
things be asked, ^ Had sbe called for help ?
How often ? How soon bad help come ?'

You came out with the dagger in your
band, were did you find it ?' be asked.

I don't know. Ob !' sbe cried, distractedly,
' it was my own little dagger wbicb
be gave me. If be bad taken anything but
that'

Arundel sprang out of bis seat with an
ejaculation wbicb be promptly suppressed.

My poor child !' be exclaimed. ' But
bow did be get bold of your dagger?'

LIBRARY

Mi)V»SlTY OF Illinois

I gave it him back the day after the
ball,' Greta broke off with a sudden pang
of remembrance.

Arundel's eyes were fixed upon her.

Why did you give it back ?'

He said it was unlucky, Mr. Daman

told us ' Greta got up and paced the

room. ' Don't make me talk of old times
she cried, wildly.

Only this one question. I don't want
to torment you. Did Mr. Daman — did
anyone see you give it up ?'

'I don't think so. V/hat does it matters
replied Greta, drawing away the hand
which Arundel was holding as if to force
her to stop and collect herself.

Mrs. Daman appeared at the door.

shave you told her?' she asked.

Not yet. Greta, you may have to tell
your story, or to answer questions at the
examination ' (Arundel avoided the word
inquest) ' this afternoon. You won't mind ;
it's only a form.'

I don't mind anything. Nothing can
Take it worse for me,' said Greta, bitterly.

You won't refuse to see me again ?'

^ If you'll only be a friend.'

I'll be anything you like — till I see
you through this,' added Arundel, mentally.

Mrs. Daman followed him.

Do try to get her to go out by-and-by,
when it's over. She's such a girl for
air.'

*I wouldn't make her go out yet, if I
were you.'

Arundel spoke gravely.

He feels it very much,' said Mrs. Da-man,
going back to her daughter.

Arundel certainly seemed to feel the
situation, as he stood alone in the hall
wondering which door he might venture
to open. The dining-room, he knew, had
its awful occupant. The school-room seemed
to be the safest place, But Arundel
drew back quickly as he caught a glimpse
of the interior. He guessed who was the

unhappy man who held his vigil there, he
recognised the forlorn little figure which
bore the old man miserable company in
silent, dog-like devotion.

In the drawing-room Arundel found the
two ladies who alone in that household
retained something like their usual
demeanour. It would be cruel to say that
Miss Gay was happy, but she was in
office. Opal's voice and step were hushed
as became an inmate of that house, but
her collected manner contrasted with the
general excitement.

Arundel found no difficulty in securing
the good offices of these two, and with
their help he came and went, unnoticed by
Mr. Daman. Later in the day he was
joined by a friend, a lawyer, as Miss Gay
with some surprise discovered, Mr. Lawson,
as he was called, had an interview
with Greta in her darkened room, besides
holding long consultations with Arundel.

As the afternoon advanced, the solemn

silence which had reigned over the house
was broken. Heavy footsteps sounded on
the gravel path outside and on the tiled
flags within. The door which had been so
jealously guarded was open now to strange
comers. Greta lifted her head and turned
her dry, strained eyes on her mother with
a piteous recognition of the intrusion.

'Will she have to be examined?' was
all the mother's thought. She had a
vague idea that Arundel had brought the
stranger up in the hope of saving Greta
from this ordeal.

For a time they could hear only the
murmur of voices below. Then the diningroom
door opened and another door,
the school-room this time. Mrs. Daman
heard her husband's tread. Some one
came out again, there was another summons
and another reprieve. Trembling all over,
Mrs. Daman waited for Greta to be called.
But no call came.

Darling, they're going away,' she whispered

at last, feeling as if the worst were
over. When the footsteps had died away,
Mrs. Daman went down. Arundel was
standing at the foot of the stairs with his
friend. It seemed as if some altercation
were going on.

You'd be stopped before you'd left the
port,' she heard the stranger say, ' and the
attempt would be damning evidence against
her;

The words which Mrs. Daman caught
seemed to her utterly unmeaning; but she
had a glimpse of Arundel's face, and her
heart seemed to stop.'

What is it ?' she cried, seizing his arm.

Arundel made an effort to smooth his
features.

We're only talking about the inquest.'

I'm so thankful they didn't want her to
be a witness,' exclaimed Mrs. Daman.

'1 wish to they had,' muttered

Arundel, looking resentfully at his adviser.

'My dear Mace, I take all the responsibility.

If the coroner had made a point
of it I shouldn't have made any difficulty,
but I'm very glad she's not allowed to talk
in her present mood.'

Mrs. Daman had turned away unconscious
of the danger his words implied.
With a feeling: that she was neglecting: her
husband in his trouble, she forced herself
to enter the school-room.

Mother,' whispered Bowwow, who was
sitting on the arm of her father's chair,
clinging to him.

*Send that fellow away,' growled Mr.
Daman, without looking up.

1 will.' Mrs. Daman did not know
that she was accepting an impossible task.
Relieved from the restraint of her presence,
Arundel was expressing himself freely to the
legal adviser whom he had called in, but
under whose dictation he rebelled. Afraid
to turn his back on the house lest he
should lose his footing, since Mr. Daman
had been roused to life by his presence, yet

longing to be in active iiglit for his wife,
as he already regarded Greta, it chafed him
beyond endurance to hear the cool counsels
of his friend, to whom Greta was simply a
case. They were debating now whether it
would be better to tell her the verdict.

'I'd better see her at all events,' said
Lawson, and Arundel led the way upstairs.
In the great crises of life there are no conventionalities.
Greta showed no surprise
at the invasion. She spoke in a dull dead
voice to Mr. Lawson.

It was kind of you not to have me examined.
I should not have minded, but my
mother would.'

Even her mother had not looked at Greta
with such wistful pain as showed on
Arundel's face now.

We're afraid you may be wanted yet.
Miss Charlstrom,' said Lawson, ' it may not
be all over.'

I don't care.'

Greta,' said Arundel, feeling as if he

could not let a stranger deal with her,
I know how brave you are, much braver
than your mother or me. You won't mind
going before Mr. Oliver if it must be.'

Greta looked as if she wondered at this
fuss.

Oh, what does it matter T

Arundel saw Lawson looking; at her
curiously. Feeling as if he must rouse
Greta at any price, he said, slowly,

Suppose they dared to say you did it.'

I did do it — I mean 1 made him do it.'

Lawson glanced at Arundel.

you mustn't say that before anyone
else,' he remarked, almost lightly. ' In fact
the less you speak about it at all, the
better at present.'

He had continued to eye Greta closely,
and apparently the scrutiny was satisfactory
for he added,

I'm not afraid of frightening you. You
have a painful trial to go through before
you can recover your peace and happiness.

The question is, not whether you hold yourself
morally responsible, the law requires
that you should be formally acquitted of
having killed John Daman with your own
hand.'

I,' Greta gave a sort of hysteric laugh.
Then she looked at Arundel as if she felt
herself the victim of an ill-timed jest.

Greta,' he said, taking her hand, ' it is
so. These fools refuse to believe that poor
Jack committed suicide. You were there,
they say it was your dagger.'

Intense wonder still showed on Greta's
face.

I,' she murmured again under her
breath. At last she spoke with some
animation. 'Does mother know?' then
with a quick relief she went on, ' Don't tell
her, don't let her suspect such a thing till
I come back. Oh,' with a sudden gasp,
'she could never bear it.'

Working this advantage, they were able
to secure Greta's attention. She recognised

the necessity of nerving herself. Greta
had no misgiving as to the result.

You're not afraid ?' she said, with astonishment,
as Arundel lost guard over
himself for a moment. That anyone should
believe this charge was incredible to Greta.
Arundel lingered behind Mr. Lawson.

Greta,' he said, clasping her in his arms
for a moment, ' if I could only save you
from this.'

Do you think I'm afraid ' she broke

off, suddenly, for her mother stood in the
doorway. The inquest over, the lovers together,
Greta looking a shade more like
herself — all these things brought comfort
to Mrs. Daman. She got rid of Arundel,
following him outside to explain that she
must see about Greta's mourning. There
were bales of black stuff in the hall. The
poor mother evidently felt mourning to bethe
most important business j must now. But
she had a difficulty in approaching the
subject with Greta.

^ She'll never be brought to try on a
bonnet,' she declared to her sister, ' we must
make Opal put them on.' Even at this
dreadful time, Mrs. Daman had a desire to
clothe her daughter becomingly.

she'll have to wear them some time,
it's no use choosing ugly things,' remarked
Miss Gay, as she turned over a selection of
grisly-looking goods with Opal.

A companionship that was not unfriendly
had sprung up between these two.

What a crowd there seems round the
house,' said Miss Gay, peering through the
Venetians.

It's been so all day. People are so horrid
about anything sensational,' returned
Opal. ' I suppose Greta ought to wear
sister's mourning — this would be pretty in
cashmere and crape,' she added, taking up
a fashion plate.

It's like a roar,' said Aunt Sophy, still
intent on the crowd outside. ' What's it
all about?' she asked, as Miss Perse the

village dressmaker came in looking rather
dazed, and ushered by Arundel, a fact
which struck Opal as significant.

Arundel maintained his post in the hall
pretty well all day. He was in frequent
communication with the servants and kept
the stable boy on active service. The
telegraph girl had never been so hard
worked in Avonuish. Mr. Daman did not
interfere, having again collapsed into a
state of stupor. Greta had forbidden her
mother to send Arundel away and wifely
duty naturally yielded to maternal. Towards
night. Opal (who was, as Aunt
Sophy remarked, really very considerate
made arrangements for sleeping at the
rectory, and intimated that a room was at
Arundel's disposal. Perhaps her consideration
was quickened by the discovery that
Bowwow insisted on sleeping in the little
room next her parents. Opal had never
liked solitude in her room overlooking the
tombstones.

CHAPTER V.

I'm glad we got her mourning in time.
She looks very sweet in that little bonnet ^
poor darling,' said Mrs. Daman.

Aunt Sophy looked grim. She was in
the secret, and the possible prospect of
having to break to her sister, Greta's committal
on a charge of murder, was more
than she could well face.

Mr. Daman and Greta met in the hall
for the first time.

It's outrageous,' he said, gravely, just
touching her hand. ' "We shall bring her
back all right,' he muttered gruffly to
Arundel.

Let's keep her between us,' was Arundel's

reply. He knew what sort of greeting
the accused girl was likely to get outside.
Jack had been popular, and if he
had not been put out of the way, at least he
had been jilted for a fine London lover.
Greta's absence from the inquest had not
only balked her little world of a coveted
excitement, but had raised a suspicion of
favour shoAvn to a lady.

With a kiss to her mother, a warnings
look in reply to Aunt Sophy's convulsive
clutch, and a sad smile at Bowwow, who
held aloof, Greta went down the walk with
her guard. Opal followed, trembling and
wondering what Greta could be made of.
The hoots and jeers of the roughs who
tried to throng her moved Greta no more
than the worst possible prospect before her.
She smiled gravely in her lover's face with
the little formula which was always on her
lips : ' I don't mind.' When they had
cleared the house she gave Arundel a
letter.

VOL. II. . F

Of course I shall come back — if not —
give mother this. Don't try to tell her.'

Very few words were spoken on that
dreadful drive. Perhaps Arundel alone remembered
that this should have been his
wedding-day. The company assembled to
hear Greta's examination might have been
wedding guests. Sir Edward Mace was
there and Bob Charlstrom. Greta recognised
Mr. Lawson, and saw beside his a face
dimly familiar. In the illustrated papers
which formed Jack's sole literature the face
of Mr. Meredith Jones generally appeared
when an unusually exciting trial was
pending.

This is only a formal affair, Miss Charleston,'
began Lawson, with an attempt at
cheerfulness, ' we shall be able to prove
sour innocence triumphantly when we get
you to London.'

Greta glanced apprehensively at Arundel.
Mother,' she half Whispered. She knew
now that they expected her to be committal.

She felt that Mr. Oliver treated her
with the sort of consideration which a
doctor offers to a patient whose case he
suspects to be hopeless. Amidst the conflicting
feelings which stirred Greta, fear
found no place. The horror which had
overwhelmed her at the discovery of Jack's
body, was too fresh to give place to any
other strong emotion. Self-preservation
had never been a powerful instinct in
Greta's healthy sanguine nature. It seemed
impossible that she should be condemned
for a crime which she had not committed.
To the minor evils of discomfort or disgrace
she was just now insensible.

The examination began. It seemed
tedious and often trivial. Yet, as Greta
listened, she became aware that the charge
against her was not the phantom which
she had supposed. Familiar figures passed
before her as in a dream — the old woman
whom she had met on the high-road —
Mrs. Molony, whose cottage she had never

preached

— the men who had come at her
cry — the doctor, whose words had destroyed
her last illusion. Other doctors gave
evidence which made Greta shrink and
writhe. Mr. Daman's evidence was given
with an obvious bias. He felt no doubt
that his son had committed suicide. Jack's
impulsive temper and crushing disappointment
fully accounted for the act. '• Suicide,
in a fit of temporary insanity,' would
have been Mr. Daman's verdict on the
inquest. ' Wilful murder against Greta
Charlstrom ' was absurd on the face of it.

Opal's evidence was brief She answered
each question to the point, and
volunteered no statement.

When the end came, Greta was prepared.
She had felt a little surprise, but no vexation
at the very small part taken by her
advocate in the business.

They don't hang innocent people,' she
said, looking with a sort of smile into
Arundel's furious, distracted face. ' Prison !

I'm strong enough to bear all that. Don't
talk to mother as if I were soft and tender.
Help her to keep her courage up. Tell
her I shall live on the hope of finding her
just the same when I come out. I shall
come out, I know that. But, Arundel, I
can never be your wife now.'

I won't be cast off. And I brought all
this upon you.'

No, it was my own doing.'

Mr. Lawson was at Greta's elbow.

The sooner you're off the better, Miss
Charlstrom. AVe'll have you safe in London
in a day or two. I'm not going to

trouble you with technicalities, but

There's a good reason,' he said, suddenly.

A knot of low-browed, slouching young
men, the black sheep of the neighbouring
villages and outlying suburbs, raised a
groan. Among them were some, whose
mothers, if not themselves, had before now
received Greta's help and sympathy intimes
of illness or privation.

It's all bark ; they aren't bite before
the constables,' said Lawson.

A constable opened the door of the fly
and stood respectfully waiting for Greta to
enter. When Arundel was about to follow,
she stopped him.

No,' she said, ' let me begin it now.'

Nor could she be dissuaded by any
prayers on his part that he might accompany
her. The constable at last got in,
and she held out her hand to Arundel. He
seized and kissed it.

'- Go to my mother,' she said ; ' go at
once.'

The hand was withdrawn and the fly
drove off. To be alone was a relief to
Greta, and hardness was at this moment
congenial. Her strange surroundings seemed
more akin to her changed self than the
familiar things which tortured her by their
associations. Self-indulgence is impossible,
tenderness distasteful to a creature racked
by remorse. In Greta's sound, vigorous

nature there had always been one morbid
strain. Suffering, physical suffering more
especially, had filled her with a sickening
disgust. With an inconsistency common
in human character, this quality was associated
with great physical courage and
even powers of endurance. Deadness o^
imagination makes some people enjoy seeing
or hearing of torture. Intensity of
imagination made the representations more
awful to Greta than the reality. She had
never made an effort to overcome her
sensitiveness. Fostered, like every other
bent of her nature, it had grown and
strengthened. And now this hideous
irony had come about. Greta, who had
stepped aside over a worm, and never put
even a wasp out of the world, believed
that she had goaded the man who loved
her to his death.

Jack, in a hundred different aspects as
she had known him through life, rose before
her ; a procession of Jacks seemed to

pass, all pointing towards the dreadful
end. The prospect of the roughest prison
usage had no terrors for a girl whose well-guarded
home was invaded by such spectres.
That night, nature asserted its rights
over Greta's young healthy frame, for the
first time since Jack's death. A few
hours of respite, then a strange unfamiliar
waking with the almost incredible situation
dawning gradually on her consciousness
to be grappled with afresh.

A cruel and piteous scene awaited those
whom Greta had left behind. Before the
carriage stopped at the Glebe House, a
frantic woman rushed to the door. When
had anyone seen poor Mrs. Daman rush
before ! There was a shriek and a horrible
laugh — they knew that no news had to be
broken. At first it was simply a maniac
with whom they had to deal. Arundel's
wild scheme of marrying Greta and taking
her off to Spain was nothing to the mad
projects of the unhappy mother. Mrs.

Daman recognised neither law nor necessity,
she would not have let her child go. That
God or man should permit such an outrage
on her Greta !

The dread of a new shock for Greta,
roused Arundel as nothing else could have
done. He was the only person who had
any power to deal with Mrs. Daman. She
turned from the husband whose devotion
and anxiety were for herself, to the man
who claimed some share in her idol.
Greta's name was a spell which Arundel
might venture to wield, Mr. Daman had, in
her eyes, rendered himself almost unworthy
to take that name on his lips. When Mrs.
Daman was calm enough to hear, Arundel
told each word and look of Greta's.

How brave,' said Mrs. Daman, looking
in his face for a kindred pride.

'Thank God,' murmured Mr. Daman,
and Aunt Sophy smiled, responsively, as
she saw the woman they knew restored to
them.

At last Arundel gave Greta's letter. It
had missed its purpose, but it served to
draw forth the first genuine tears.

She'll do now,' said Aunt Soj^hj, as
Arundel withdrew.

He was not to be left in solitary communion
with his misery yet. At the bottom
of the stairs, his foot touched some soft
moving object. Stepping aside he felt a
detaining touch and looked down at the
shining silky curls of Bowayow. The apple-blossom
face was disfigured almost past
recognition, by crying. Arundel lifted the
child in his arms.

'We shall have Greta back soon,' he said,
cheerfully.

Bowwow's swollen eyes opened a little
wider.

I wouldn't kiss her, or say good-bye.'

The child's heart was breaking under a
sorrow which bore some feeble resemblance
to Greta's own.

Wondering how much the little creature

knew, Arundel sat down with her on the
stairs. Bowwow had forgotten her enmity,,
and was very confidential. Directly Opal's
watch was withdrawn, she had picked up
some of the servants' gossip and retailed it
to her mother. Mrs. Daman's fears had
been roused, and Aunt Sophy had found
herself compelled to confess all she knew.
There had been no attempt to hide anything
from the child since. Instead of
going to bed, as Opal directed, Bowwow
had been gleaning a store of horrors in the
kitchen. It took Arundel some time to
dispel her illusions. She watched his face
doubtfully as he assured her that Greta
was neither in chains nor a dungeon, that
her trial would probably be over in a few
weeks, and could only end one way.

"• You do care, don't you ?' she asked at
last ; ^ they said you wouldn't marry her
now, even if she came out.'

Arundel uttered some hasty expression
which seemed satisfactory.

Cook says they'll make it manslaughter
said Bowwow, with a grave mystified air.
What does that mean? And — Oh,' catching
at his sleeve with a little burning hand,
Does penal servitude hurt?'

Greta knew nothing in detail of all the
efforts which where being made on her
behalf She resigned herself to prison life
with a calmness which astonished friends
and officials alike. Mr. Lawson had no
cause to complain of his client now, she
made no more wild speeches. The force of
character which had aggravated the waywardness
of a lively girl stood Greta in
good stead. She could meet any demands
which were made on her strength, even to
greeting her mother with a smile. The
instinct which prompted Greta to deceive
her mother was less active in her treatment
of Arundel. He had always appeared to

Greta well fitted to take care of himself.
Before him she need wear no mask, on him
she might lay her burdens freely. Arundel
might have been tempted to betray a little
more human weakness if he had known that
the very qualities which Greta approved
were steeling her to leave him.

The days passed very slowly. Greta
did not live long enough in her Devon
jail for habit to quicken the flight of a
monotonous life. She was spared the
tedium of waiting for the winter assize.
Her champions had little difficulty in showing
that she would find a more impartial
tribunal in London than in her own neighbourhood.
Later in the year she found
herself in a railway carriage with her
mother, Arundel, and a silent constable
who was responsible for her safe delivery
at Hollo way. It seemed a strange journey
to Greta, whose journeys had always been
associated with enjoyment. She sometimes
wondered whether death could have

changed the whole aspect of things more
completely. Her eyes lingered wistfully
on the familiar scenes. ' I may never see
them again she thought.

As they approached London, Arundel
watched his companions anxiously. But
the sight of Grettt's name in giant letters,
the sound of Greta's name shouted out —
the indications ofGreta's hideous popularity,
seemed scarcely to affect the prisoner or
her mother so deeply as they affected him.
It was all like a dream to Mrs. Daman.
Greta in prison — Greta to be tried for
murder ! She said it over to herself in a
vain attempt to realise it. After her first
outburst, Mrs. Daman had made strong
efforts to control herself, but she kept
Arundel in a constant strain of apprehension
lest he should fail to fulfil his
promise of bringing Greta's mother safely
through the trial.

The stay at Holloway was a short one.
Greta had reached London on Thursday,

and on the Saturday following she was
removed to Newgate. This journey seemed
scarcely so dream-like as those which
had gone before. Several weeks had passed
since Jack's death, and Greta Alas unconsciously
recovering from the stupor which
had followed that shock. On Sunday
morning she was taken to service at the
chapel. The last few Sundays had been
like other days — a blank to her. To-day
she thought of the Sunday when she had
last said her prayers at Avonuish church
and taken a silent farewell of the old place.
The life she was revelling in then, had
suddenly become so unbearable that even
death and disgrace had lost their terrors.

Greta could see little of Newgate chapel
from her seat in the women's gallery. As
she peered through one of the narrow slits
in the screen which shuts out from the
female prisoners all except the voice and
figure of the chaplain, there flashed across
her mind a recollection of something

similar, a gallery where she had sat with
other women looking through bars. Her
memory groped for a moment, then grasped
the association. The ladies-gallery in the
House of Commons, where Fred had taken
her last spring. Then and now ! Greta
almost cried out at the sting of recollection.
She had not heeded the opening
sentences of the service, but the familiar
words of confession fell on her ears and
suddenly touched a chord. She hid her
face and felt her whole being shaken by a
sudden storm. This pain was not the pain
of remorse which she had felt hitherto, it
was repentance. The whole weight of her
sin, the sin which had, as she told herself,
killed Jack, overwhelmed Greta. She
suffered as it is perhaps given to few
sinners to suffer in a lifetime. Hers was
only a confession ; she had no thought of
asking forgiveness, she was merely casting
off a burden which was intolerable.
Hitherto her prayers had been nothing but
VOL. II. G

wild outpourings for mercy on Jack's soul.
They were sanctioned by no article of her
church's faith, but if her prayers missed their
purpose they could do him no harm ; the
evil, if any, must fall on her own soul. And
she would have given that gladly to save
Jack.

The sacrifice of her body might perhaps
be required. Since she had heard her case
stated before the magistrates, it had not
seemed so impossible to Greta that an
innocent person might be condemned. She
pictured the possibility which lay before
her, and felt that she could face it ; if it
had not been for her mother, she might
almost have hailed it. Death cuts all
knots. Such a death seemed like atonement.
But the law might not avenge Jack.
Greta might be left to choose her destiny.
With the weak human desire of doing something;
to earn her own absolution, Greta
offered her sacrifice. Since her love had
cost Jack's life, it should be renounced.

It seemed comparatively easy to give up
Arundel now. But Greta knew that, if she
lived, the desires of life would come back.
Nothing but the atonement she was offering
could secure her against hope and even
happiness in the future. She might forget
Jack, forget all this agony, but she could
never love the desolate life to which she
was pledging herself. Having shut out
hope from her possibilities, Greta felt the
first lightening of her remorse. It seemed
to her as if Jack were appeased. She
scarcely knew how that rush of repentance
had relieved her soul or how closely it had
been akin to prayer.

The sermon did not move Greta. Her
deep sense of guilt and indifference to
punishment made her perhaps inaccessible
to the only arguments likely to move
ordinary Newgate offenders. The religion
of terror had always been incomprehensible
to Greta. Besides, she was in no mood to
listen to pleadings for her own salvation.

g2

What do I care for my miserable soul
if I have destroyed his !' was her inward
cry. But an answer came. ' Why are ye
so fearful ?' Then Greta understood that
she had been all along trusting her own
fate, yet fearful of trusting Jack's to the
same hand.

Her fellow-prisoners had little interest
for Greta. She could not see the men, but
the women were round her, miserable,
squalid-looking creatures mostly, who bore
a general resemblance to each other and
looked as if they hated Greta for her unlikeness.
Her gentle pitying looks perhaps
added to their irritation. Greta made no
conscious note of them, yet they lived,
photographed, as it were, on some page of
her memory. She had walked hitherto like
one stunned, conscious impressions and
connected thought were stealing back to
her. The ordeal which lay before Greta
probably helped to nerve her more than
she was aware of. If no counter-excitement

had folloAvecl the catastrophe of Jack's
death, despair would have held her without
a struggle.

In the morning hee; friends came, to be
received as usual with smiles. But it
seemed to Arundel that the smiles were a
shade less forced, and Greta a shade less
automatic than usual. She reproved him
with a touch of petulance for some indulgence
which he proposed.

I don't want to be treated differently
from the rest,' she insisted ; ' I wish you
wouldn't send me in things. I'd much
rather have dry bread in a little tin pail
like the others.'

It was delightfully like Greta to say this,
Arundel thought.

^ Only two or three days more,' he pleaded,
^ you must eat and sleep and walk in
this wretched place to keep well till we get
you out.'

I shall keep well, never fear. Mother,
I wish I felt as sure of you.'

Mrs. Daman's face showed suffering far
more plainly than her daughter's. Lines
and hollows marred its formerly smooth
surface, all shade of brown had vanished
from her hair. The last semblance of youth
and good looks had gone with a rush from
the woman of forty-five. But grief spares
the beauty of nineteen. Greta had lost
her colour, but her skin was as soft, the
outline of her chin and throat as round as
in her happiest days. Greta's eyes showed
like stars in her pale face. The earnest,
steadfast look which those who knew her
had seen at times, was a dweller in them
now.

Strangely at variance with her surroundings,
Greta leaned against the grating in
the dreary exercise-ground at Newgate,
trying to divert her mother's mind from
dwelling on her own wretched position.
As for the fearful fate which threatened
Greta, they had never dared to embody
that in words. But the girl shuddered

lest her mother should note the dismal shed
which stood at her own right hand, or
guess its awful purpose.

Later in the day, Greta had a long
interview with Mr. Lawson in the small
glazed room, watched from outside by a
warder who could note every gesture but
hear no word that passed. She saw him
again next day, but it was only to learn
that her trial took place on the morrow,
and above all things she was not to be
frightened, an exhortation urgently repeated
by Arundel at a later interview.

CHAPTER VII.

The tension was becoming so intolerable
that a little before ten on "Wednesday
morning Greta walked almost eagerly
through an under-ground passage which,
as she knew, led to her place of trial. She
ascended a few steps and found herself a
part of a small squalid crowd collected ina
sort of box, round which appeared to
spread a sea of eager faces at first indistinguishable.
She could see the scarlet-robed
judge in front, and stretching to his
left a long seat crowded with Avell-dressed
women and a few men. In a sort of well
stood Mr. Lawson, and close behind him
was the eager aquiline face of Meredith

Jones. They were immediately below
Greta, and behind her counsel were two
faces which ri wetted her attention, the
faces of her mother and her lover.

Some vague wonder how she and all her
companions were to be tried together
struck Greta as the charge against each
was monotonously repeated, and they
almost as mechanically, as it seemed to
her, confessed or denied.

Her own plea was given clearly and
deliberately, and then another ceremony
was gone through Awhile the names of the
jurors were being called over. The first
sense of vivid reality was brought to
Greta's mind when an official seated before
the judge said,

Let all stand back except Greta Charleston.'


There was a stir and sound of feet asher
companions descended the wooden
stairs behind her, and then she felt herself
face to face with her fate. Some feeling

not wholly different from the strange elation
which had filled her as she approached
the foaming avalanche at Rheinfals,
seemed to string her nerves as she drew one
quick breath and waited. A chair was
offered her, but she found that if she sat
she could not see her mother, and she rose
again instantly, looking with a smile at the
poor horror-struck face before her. The
counsel for the prosecution said some
words in a low tone, and an order was
given that all witnesses on both sides
should immediately leave the court. Some
phrases passed between Meredith Jones
and Mr. Thaddeus, the prosecuting counseL

I don't promise not to call her,' Greta
heard Meredith Jones say.

And now an incident brought a momentary
touch of absurdity into the pathos
of the scene. Poor Mrs. Daman had
gathered that she was referred to, and
before the junior counsel for the defence
could check her she had risen to her feet.

'My lord she said. The judge turned
towards her. * I'll be very quiet.'

A titter ran through the court, which
swelled into a laugh in the gallery over
Greta's head. The crier called for silence.

If that laughter is repeated,' said the
judge, ' I will have that gallery cleared.
If people cannot conduct themselves
decently, they have no business here.' He
turned to Mrs. Daman again, ' I have no
doubt of that, ma'am ; but, if you have to
give evidence for the prisoner, it will
weigh much more with the jury if you
have not heard the first part of the trial.'

Very well, my lord,' said Meredith
Jones, who had been eyeing the jury ; ' the
prisoner would have been thankful to have
her mother near her.'

Arundel was now on his feet escorting
Mrs. Daman out. Greta hoped for a moment
that he might be allowed to return,
but Mr. Thaddeus said,

Captain Mace must of course be out of

court if there is any chance of his being
called.'

Greta watched him out, and then felt
herself alone. But she sat down no more.
The trifling effort of standing, of which she
would have been unconscious at another
time, seemed to offer a slight relief. She
was past being conscious of eager eyes or
levelled opera-glasses. The sensation-longer,
who were feasting their eyes on
the girlish grace and beauty which might
be consigned to a brutal death, had no
existence for Greta. With a prisoner's
instinctive longing for sky and trees, she
had given one glance through the window
on her right. There was nothing but a
dead wall. The monotonous tick of a
large clock just over her head wove itself
inextricably into Greta's consciousness, it
seemed to be checking off the remaining
moments of her existence. For an instant
the love of life came upon her with full
force, there was a passing look of terror in

her innocent, wondering eyes, then she
collected herself and stood composed and
steadfast as before.

Mr. Thaddeus rose and commenced to
lay the case against her before the jury.
His manner was quiet, balanced, and, as it
seemed to Greta, self-restrained. Greta
was struck, and unduly— as Mr. Thaddeus
himself could have told her — encouraged
by his obvious care to exaggerate no point
against her. He sketched in a few sentences
the history of her first engagement,
its breach, the second engagement and the
departure of the deceased from his father's
house. It was not his part, he said, to
impute motives, the jury might draw such
inferences as were reasonably suggested by
the facts. The facts were, that John
Daman was undoubtedly killed by such a
weapon as that found in the hands of the
prisoner ; that this weapon was one which
was known to have been her property;
that the prisoner was alone with him at

the moment of this death ; that the deceased,
who would be proved not to be a lefthanded
man, could not, as medical evidence
would prove, have inflicted the wound
upon himself with his own right hand ; that
the prisoner's story was discredited not
only by this fact, but also by the fact that
no sheath for the dagger was found on
the person of the deceased, whereas the
weapon would be proved to have been
provided nth a sheath when first worn by
the prisoner. The jury could see without
his aid that the prisoner, if the sheath was
in her possession, might probably have
many opportunities of throng it away,
whereas it was at least improbable, though
not of course impossible, that a man would
for choice carry such a weapon about with
him unsheathed. Two other points, for
which he thought it necessary to prepare
them, were as follows : Firstly, the place
where the death occurred was a deserted
house, well known to both parties, but not

standing on any high-road, not therefore
in the road from any one place to another,
Secondly, the prisoner had made an undoubtedly
false statement immediately
before going to this house. She had said
that she was going to call on a Mrs.
Molony. Mrs. Molony would prove that
the prisoner had not been near her on that
day.

Mr. Thaddeus sat down, and a younger
barrister sitting behind him immediately
arose and called Mr. Daman, but his
leader checked him for a moment and rose
again.

I forgot to say, gentlemen, that it is
open to you to convict the prisoner of
manslaughter only, if you should believe
that she suffered from the deceased any
such provocation or threat as might excusably
throw her mind off its natural balance
for the moment.'

Mr. Field then commenced the examination.
Mr. Daman proved the age of his

son, the engagement, and the breach of
the engagement. He had seen a dagger
given by the deceased, it had a chased
silver hilt and sheath. The weapon produced
was the same weapon, so far as he
could tell, or one just like it, except
that it wanted a sheath. He had frequently
had to compose quarrels between
the lovers, the prisoner was teasing like
young girls sometimes are, and the deceased
was hot-tempered like a young man. He
had himself said that the dagger was unlucky,
as a joke. He had never heard of
the dagger being returned by the prisoner,
it was certainly not given back in his
presence. None of the deceased's family
had, so far as he knew, committed suicide
or shown symptoms of insanity. Deceased
was not a left-handed man.

Mr. Field, at a whisper from his leader,
sat down, and Mr. Daman was leaving the
witness-box when Meredith Jones said :

'Just tell me, sir, did you have many

opportunities of seeing the behaviour of
the deceased and the prisoner after the
breach of the engagement?'

I didn't see them together.'

Do you mean that they never spoke ?'

They never had a chance of speaking :
I mean after the separation.'

Just so. But you spoke to the prisoner,
I suppose?'

Yes, I begged her not to break the
eno^ao-ement.'

I mean, did she speak kindly of him
when she did speak ?'

Yes, she was always very kind, really.'

She was always very kind. Now, tell
me how it was that they never had a
chance of speaking, as you say, after the
breach.'

He left my house.'

How was that ?'

By my advice. Greta was stopping
away at the time, and I thought that if he
was out of the way she might return, and

VOL. II. H

SO they would have a chance of meeting — at
least her mother and I would have a chance
of influencing her. I wanted the marriage.'

• Your son left your house by your advice.
Do you know where he went ?'

He would not say where he was stopping.
I saw him at my place of business
in Plymouth.'

Do you know whether he had any
communication with the prisoner?'

How can he know ?' interrupted Mr.
Thaddeus.

'Deceased might have told him so.'

'• That wouldn't be evidence.'

Doesn't your lordship think that question
may be put.'

Not unless you have some statement of
the prisoner's.'

Well, so far as you know, had they any
opportunity of communication.'

Certainly not. He was always wanting
to know where she was.'

Mr. Thaddeus seemed about to interpose,

but apparently changed his mind. The
cross-examination went on.

^ So far as you are aware, did any letters
come to your house from the deceased for
the prisoner?'

None ?'

Did you carry any letters yourself from
either one to the other?'

None.'

Or any messages ?'

'No.'

Was there any reason why letters or
messages should not have passed between
them?'

None whatever that I can think of.'

So that, supposing either had wished
to make an appointment to meet at this
old house or anywhere else, you would
probably have known of it ?'

That does not follow,' said the counsel
for the prosecution.

'I think it does. I suppose if he'd
carried a message himself he would have

II 2

known it, or if any letter lead come to his
house.'

But he's not obliged to know all the
letters that come.'

Do you, as a general rule, know what
letters come to your house ?'

Yes, certainly, if it's anything of
consequence.'

And this broken engagement was a
matter of some importance, wasn't it ?'

Of the utmost importance in many
ways.'

And reconciliation would have been
welcomed by all of you ; you would have
done anything you could to bring it about ?'

Yes, certainly, everyone of us.'

That's all I have to ask you.'

Call Opal Carew,' said Thaddeus.

Opal gave no glance towards Greta as
she entered the court. She scarcely looked
about her at all, but only raised her eyes to
answer the questions put to her. Dressed
in black, with a small bonnet tied closely

over her smooth parted hair, she looked
rather old-fashioned but very quaint and
attractive in her demure propriety.

Miss Carew,' said Mr. Field, ' I've only
just one word to ask you. Do you know
the place where the death occurred ?'

Yes,' said Opal, in a very low voice.

'Have you been to it yourself?'

Never since,' said Opal, with a look of
horror.

Have you been there in the company of
the deceased, and the prisoner?'

Once.'

Only once ?'

Only once.'

It was a very lonely place, wasn't it?'

A miserable, lonely place.'

I needn't ask who took you there.'

They took me there the first day after
I arrived.'

'After you entered Mrs. Daman's employment
?'

The first or second day after ; they knew

it well, they seemed to think it one of the
sights of the place.'

So that if either did want to make an
appointment '

'Don't lead, please,' interrupted Greta's
advocate.

'That's all you want,' said Mr. Thaddeus,
interrupting in his turn. ' The place was
very lonely and they knew it well.'

'That's all we have to ask you, Miss
Carew.'

Opal more self-possessed than Mr. Daman
maintained her place, and Mr. Marks,
Greta's junior counsel, rose.

Were you present when the dagger was
given by deceased to prisoner?'

I was.'

'Do you know how it came to be given?'

Certainly, it was part of a fancy dress ?'

I think sou know something more about
its history.'

Yes,' said Opal, readily.

Don't be in a hurry, Miss Carew, I

want tHere to be no mistake about this.
Speak a little louder, if you can. Did you
hear Mr. Daman say that it was unlucky ?'

Yes.'

'How did they — I mean the deceased
and the prisoner— receive the comment ?'

I don't think they said anything at the

time.'

Afterwards?'

Yes.'

How long after ?'

Oh, after it had been worn at the ball

'Well?'

'We were all going to bed. The

deceased '

'Don't go too fast, please,' said the judge,

yes '

'The deceased spoke about his father
calling it unlucky, and asked her to give it
back to him again.'

'Stop, please,' said the judge, writing
fast. Mr. Marks watched the judge's pen,
and as soon as it stopped resumed.

Do you mean that she gave it back,
then and there ?'

Yes.'

You swear that ?'

I swear it.'

How did she come to have such a thing
about her ?'

She had the whole dress on, she had
put it on to show it to her mother.'

Can you positively swear that you saw
the dagger handed by her to him ?'

I can.'

You do swear it ?'

I do.'

What did you see him do with it ?'

I should think that he put it in his
pocket, I'm not certain ; I know he never
gave it back to her.'

You mean that you never saw him give
it back?' said Mr. Thaddeus.

I certainly never saw him give it back.'

Or heard of its being given back?' said
Marks.

Never.'

Now, Miss Carew, let me ask you.
Could you swear to that dagger?'

I'm not certain, but I should think so.'

What was it like ?' continued he, concealing
the hilt in his hand.

It was very pretty, but rather horrible.
The handle was like the body of a skeleton
with a skull at the end, and the hilt was
like a little bone.'

You all examined it, I suppose — in fact,
when it was first given ?'

'All, I think.'

You did ?'

Yes.'

Examine it now please, will you ?'

Opal drew back as the deadly little toy
was laid on the small shelf in front of
her.

I suppose you've had it in your hand
before ?'

No, never, I believe,' said Opal.

Well, take it up now, please, for a

moment. There's nothing to shock you
about it.'

Opal raised the weapon as timidly as if
it had been a deadly snake, and looked at
the grisly fancy of the handle.

To the best of your belief, and on your
oath, is that the weapon which was given
by the deceased to the prisoner, and given
back by her to him?' The judge raised his
hand and the barrister paused — ' and, sofar
as you know, never returned ?'

It is.'

You swear that solemnly.'

I do, most solemnly.'

Mr. Marks sat down, and it seemed
to the uninitiated as if the case was at an
end.

But Mr. Thaddeus rose, and the more
experienced became immediately aware that
the prisoner's leader was watching him asa
cat watches a mouse.

When do you say the return of this
gift took place ?'

About the end of January.'

And when, so far as you know, did the
prisoner and deceased last meet ? I mean,
of course, before the day of the death.'

Some time in August, I think, I don't
know exactly.'

More than six months afterwards.
They were living in the same house, of
course.'

Yes, except when she was away
visiting.'

How long was she away altogether?'

About a fortnight in the spring and then
about two months altogether.'

So that they were about four months
in friendly intercourse, and very intimate.
It was friendly and intimate, I suppose ?'

'Oh, yes, very.'

Did they joke and laugh and walk together
like other young engaged people?'

Yes, certainly.'

You were not always with them, I
suppose?'

^ Oh, no, of course not.'

I think you said that you were governess
in Mrs. Daman's house ?'

Meredith Jones made a slight movement.
Thaddeus went on.

You are there now?'

Yes.'

'Were you examined at the inquest and
before the magistrate ?'

Yes.'

Did you on either occasion '

Greta's advocate was on his feet in a
moment, but not in time to stop the rest of
the question — ' say a word about this return
of the dagger ?'

'Stop,' said Meredith Jones, checking
effectually Opal's tardy answer, 'you can't,
(turning to his antagonist) ' cross-examine
your own witness, you know that.'

I am not cross-examining.'

Aren't you ? I think I may ask for
the ruling of the court on that point.'
I can't say that it's cross-examination

as yet,' said the judge, she can't discredit
her unless she shows herself hostile.'

I don't think of discrediting her, m'lud.
I don't doubt that every word this lady
has said is literally true. I only want the
fact ; I'll put in the depositions, if my
friend likes it.'

It's matter for remark,' said the judge.
I don't see that I can shut the question
out.'

Oh, very good, m'lud, if your lordship
says so ; the prisoner's anxious, I may say,
that everything should be known.'

'Now then,' said Mr. Thaddeus to Opal,
you heard my question. Have you ever
told anybody of this before ?'

Oh, yes.'

'Yes?' laying his hand on some papers
in front of him.

You've got her answer,' said Meredith
Jones, showing the first signs of nervousness.

I mean to get more. Don't be frightened.
Miss Carew, nobody doubts your

word. You've mentioned it before. —
Where?'

Oh, in the house.'

'- Yes, I understand, in discussing this
affair ; but did you speak about it in your
evidence before the coroner or the magistrate
?'

There was a dead hush in court for a
few seconds. Greta's breast rose and fell
quickly as now for the first time her eyes
met Opal's. Attention had been so entirely
concentrated on Opal that Greta's demeanour
had almost passed unnoticed.
Her eyes had throughout been fastened
on the witness with a fixed expression
which might mean surprise, dismay, or, as
seemed most likely, intense anxiety.

Opal's answer came at last, in so low a
voice that it had to be repeated.

'No.'

The next evidence was of a kind which
made both Opal and Greta shudder. It
was that of the doctor, who was called

somewhat out of the usual order. He
proved the cause of death, and also that
the wound must have been inflicted either
by the left hand of the deceased or by the
right hand of some person standing opposite
to him or on his left. He was allowed
to o;o down without cross-examination.

The labourers who spoke to the finding
of the body were then called. They swore
to Greta holding the dagger in her hand,
to the marks of blood upon her dress, that
the body Alas lying on its face, and that
they saw no sheath lying near it. The
evidence of all four was substantially
identical, and so for the most part was the
cross-examination of Meredith Jones. He
got from them that they had first been
summoned by Greta's screams, that they
had never thought of looking for a sheath,
or expected to find one, that they had at
different times visited the place since the
removal of the body, and had always
found a number of persons examining it

and the surrounding land curiously. To
one younger and better educated than the
rest, he put in addition a different set of
questions.

Did he know that young Daman was a
member of an athletic club at Plymouth,
that he was the captain of a sparring club
there, that boxers used their left hands a
great deal, that the deceased was very fond
of using his left hand in other ways for
practice? Did he sometimes play single-stick
with it, and rackets ? Had the witness
seen him bowl with it ?

To all these questions the answer was
in the affirmative, and the prosecuting
counsel made no attempt to re-examine.

Mrs. Tucker was the next witness in
order, but before she was examined Meredith
Jones asked that Opal might be recalled
for a moment. Mr. Thaddeus faintly
objected that she had now heard a portion
of the evidence of other witnesses; but after
a short discussion consented that any question

which the judge thought proper
should be jut to her, and Opal narrated,
standing up in her place, the incident of
the mad dog. It was new to Greta, who
could hardly restrain her tears. Jack's
reckless courage had been perhaps the
thing that she best liked in him, and she
told herself remorsefully that it was cruel
after risking his life for one unworthy girl
to be driven into madness by another.
Before she had mastered her emotion,
Opal's examination was over. Her fresh
evidence showed that Jack had seized the
dog with his left hand. But its effect was
probably much impaired by a second question
which the judge put to her at the
instance of Mr. Thaddeus. She had to
admit that, when so seized, the dog was
passing on Jack's left, and could hardly
have been seized with the right hand.

Mrs. Tucker then entered the witness-box.
She had met Miss Greta, as she persistently
called the prisoner, on the day

VOL. II. I

Mr. Jack was killed. It Alas between the
Glebe House and the spot where the death
had occurred, also, between the Glebe
House and Mrs. Molony's cottage, the
road led directly to Mrs. Molony's cottage,
but not to the other spot. There was noway
to that except by a private road or
across the fields. Miss Greta seemed rather
in a flurry. She had known Miss Greta a
long time. She was always very kind ;
but not so pleasant-spoken this time as
usual, because she was in a hurry. Miss
Greta said she was in a great hurry to see
Mrs. Molony. She said she was going to
Mrs. Molony's, the witness was quite sure
of that.

Of this witness Meredith Jones could
make nothing. No cross-examination could
get anything from her to vary this last
statement.

With Mrs. Molony he was equally unsuccessful.
She testified as amply as he
could desire to Greta's kindness. She was

eager to declare the impossibility of her
dear young lady ever hurting anyone. Butin
defiant reply to Greta's counsel, she
insisted that Greta had never been near
her on the day in question. She was quite
sure that she Avould have remembered the
visit if she had received one. She had not
had a visit for a long time, not since one
day when she was afraid she had been
rather rude about Miss Greta's new engagement.
She had been afraid that her dear
young lady was offended.

Had she been out at all that day ?*
Xo, not till the evening, not till she had
heard of the death and went to see the
place. She was quite certain of that. Yes,
she knew she was on her oath and came to
tell the truth. Pertinacious cross-examination
only produced a repetition of all this.
If anything, it only made the witness more
obstinate. Greta saw plainly that the
poor old woman believed the lawyers to
be all in a league against the prisoner, and

i2

ill her excited, bewildered condition, failed
entirely to perceive the drift of lier own
evidence.

That's the case, m'lud,' said Mr. Thaddeus.
Meredith Jones rose.

M'lud, there's one witness whom I'll
ask my friend with your lordship's sanction
to put in the box.'

Don't you call witnesses, then ?'

• ]S[o, m'lud, we shan't want Mrs. Daman,
and if my friend will allow me to ask
Captain Mace a question ' — mr. Thaddeus
looked round with some surprise — ' it will
save everybody some trouble.'

If you want him, why don't you call
him ? it's not my business to make out sour
case,' said the prosecuting counsel.

But Meredith Jones was well aware
that, if he did not gain his point, the denial
of it would help Greta with the jury.

'You know I can't interfere,' said the
judge.

No, m'lud, what I mean is this : I only

want Captain Mace for the purpose of carrying
a little further evidence given by ray
friend's own witness, Mr. Daman.'

• On what point?'

Only this, m'lud : Mr. Daman spoke
of his son as an extremely impetuous
young man.'

I don't think that was the word,' said
the judge, consulting his notes.

No, m'lud,' said Mr. Thaddeus, reading
the back of his junior's brief sheets, ' " hotheaded,
like other young men." '

'Well, Mr. Thaddeus ?' said the judge.

Oh, m'lud, if that's all my friend
wants, I don't want to reply ; but I must
be allowed to treat Captain Mace as my
friend's witness.'

To this Meredith Jones could make no
objection, and Arundel was called and
Savor.

There was a little stir of interest in the
court as Greta's lover was put into the
box. There was an involuntary movement

on the part of Greta herself. She drew a
long breath as she fastened her eyes on
Arundel, who, after one rapid, expressive
glance, kept his own looks averted. With
a pang of self-reproach, Greta noted how
the anxiety of the last few weeks had told
on her lover. She recalled the gaiety
which she had esteemed a reproach to him
only a few months ago. He had not
known what it was to suffer then. Arundel
had never spoken a word which could
imply a slight on the dead girl, yet Greta
had always known that she was no real
rival. He could love and did love, but
Greta could never allow herself to be anything
to him now, she could never make
np for what he was suffering.

Arundel testified fully to Jack's hardly
restrained violence at Rheinfals, and to the
recklessness with which he had leaped
from the boat to the bank.

He did his best, I think,' said Arundel,.
to keep within bounds, but he hardly

succeeded ; in fact, I think lie would have
attempted to throw me into the falls, then
and there, if I had not half promised not
to balk him.'

Arundel hesitated, for his eye had caught
a shadow on the face of Greta's counsel.
But Meredith Jones was accustomed to
repair the slips of too willing witnesses.

I suppose, Captain Mace,' said he, laying
a slight stress on the title, ' that this
not very wise speech, if you'll allow me to
say so, was not made in the hearing of the
ladies?'

No, it certainly was not,' said Arundel,
with emphasis.

But, as Meredith Jones sat down, Mr.
Thaddeus rose.

I must ask you for the whole of that
story which my friend cut short.'

I didn't cut anything short,' said his
opponent, angrily.

Well, I must ask Captain Mace to tellus
now what he actually did say.'

'Mr. Daman, I think, said that he was
half inclined to fling me into the water.
That was after the ladies had gone away in
the first boat. I think I said, " Don't try
it now, try it another time," or something
to that effect. I never thought, or meant
anything by it, except to keep him quiet.
I thought so little of it that I went off that
nio-ht, and never saw him ao;ain alive. I
never said a word about it to miss Charleston
or to anyone else till this minute.'

Did not deceased take it more seriously ?'

I don't know that he did. He never
made any attempt to seek me.'

Will your lordship,' said Meredith Jones,
as Mr. Thaddeus sat down, ' ask the witness
if he has the least reason to suppose that
the deceased ever spoke of this absurd
speech to the prisoner?'

Well, witness ?' said the judge.

'Xo.'

M'lud, the witness saw the prisoner
frequently after this.'

Oh, frequently,' said Arundel.

I think your formal engagement took
place after this.'

I'll ask your lordship to put one more
question,' said Meredith Jones. 'Does he
from his knowledge of the prisoner's
character think it conceivable that if she
had heard of the possibility of a conflict
she would not have begged him to abstain.'

That's a question you may very well
put to thejuiy,' replied the judge. But
Arundel answered it.

'I'm certain, my lord, that she would
have begged me, and that I should certainly
have obeyed her.'

Then, that is the case, m'lud,' said Mr.
Thaddeus. He then proceeded to recapitulate
the evidence for the prosecution. He
touched slightly on those points to which
he had already referred, and enlarged on
those which had been heard for the first
time from the lips of witnesses. He spoke
of Greta's agitation deposed to by Mrs.

Tucker, and pointed out that, if, knowing
as she must have well known — the high
spirit and hot temper of her former lover ^
she for any reason anticipated a conflict
between him and Captain Mace, she had
at least a motive for the imputed crime.
It was not for him to say that she had
yielded or even that she felt the temptation
the jury must draw their own conclusions
from the facts. With the transfer of the
daofo-er from Greta to Jack, he dealt as
his re-examination had indicated that he
would deal. 'No doubt the weapon had
been so given back, but evidently in
obedience to a passing whim. The fancy
dress would be incomplete without it, and
nothing was more likely than that in the
course of six months the gift should have
been given again. If not, why did not
Miss Carew, an intelligent young lady
attached to the prisoner and her family
and in a sense dependent on them, mention
at the inquest or at the examination a fact

which would probably have cleared the
prisoner at once. The most obvious inference
was that the production of this
story, true in itself, but calculated to mislead,
was an afterthought. No one in the
house attached any importance to the
temporary change in the possession of the
dagger, because they all knew that it was .
temporary only. They must have known
that it had passed once more into the
prisoner's keeping, but in the many conversations,
melancholy and despairing conversations,
which of course took place about
this matter, it occurred to some one that
the incident might be so repeated as to
support the theory of suicide and dispose
of that of murder. He referred finally to
the position in which the dead body was
found. The slain man had been stabbed
to the heart, and had fallen forward as
men instantaneously killed do fall. The
theory of the defence was that the prisoner
had either seen him stab himself and drop

dead, or had found him lying dead, but
there was no evidence whatever that she
had followed what would be the natural
impulse in such a case, to lift the body.
He Alas her old friend, almost a brother,
by every tie except that of blood or law,
the companion of her childhood, her former
lover. Was it probable that being so
close to him as to o-et her dress stained
with blood, and sufficiently self-possessed
to secure the dagger, she should never
have thought of turning the body on its
back to look for the wound, or learn
whether there was any hope of life. Or
was it a more probable inference that, having
either in anger or premeditated crime,
or causeless fear, struck a fatal blow, upon
appreciating the danger of her position,
she should have tried to manufacture evidence
in her favour by screaming to men
whom she saw at a distance. He reminded
them again that, if they found in her
case certain palliations which the judge

would point out, they might acquit her of
murder and convict her of manslaughter.
He concluded by telling them that if they
should have any doubt, the prisoner was
entitled to the benefit of it.

The close of the prosecution was taken
as a convenient occasion for the court to
adjourn. With evident astonishment Greta
saw the spectators taking out flasks and
packets of sandwiches and beginning to
make their lunch. She had been standing
for some hours, her attention was no
lono'cr excited, she thought that she would
sit down, but after a short time the whisper
of her name brought her to her feet
ao;ain. Her mother and Arundel were
standing near the dock. Since she left the
court, poor Mrs. Daman had been a sad
charge to her friends. She had been
seated in the narrow passage through
which the judges, barristers, and sheriffs
enter. While Arundel remained with her,
he was able to keep her partially quiet by

constant assurances of Greta's safety, but
when he was called to give evidence her
agitation reached a pitch in which the
united influence of Mr. Daman and Fred
was powerless. Nor did Arundel's return
entirely restore her to her former state of
mind. The effect of his assurances that
all was going well was soon exhausted.
It is possible that his own confidence had
been shaken, and that his manner showed
it. As soon as it was possible to take her
into the court, Arundel had brought her
there as the best chance of soothing her.
There was only time for a few words of
encouragement. The court began to fill
again, and people settled themselves for the
great display of the trial.

An expectant hush fell on the court as
the leader of the criminal bar rose, leaning
as if carelessly with one hand on the desk
in front of him. The voice of Meredith
Jones had one characteristic of which he
would make good use. Strident and even

harsh in its liigli notes, its lowest notes
were singularly penetrating. They filled
every ear while they seemed to exact an
effort of attention. There was not one
person in the court who lost a single
syllable when he began.

Gentlemen, I may have sometimes
(though not often) spoken with as great a
sense of responsibility as that which rests
upon me now, but never yet have I risen
with the feelings of indignation and ' (he
turned slightly aside, eyeing steadily the
mass of well-dressed men and women who
tilled one portion of the court) ' of shame,
I say of shame,' he added (fixing his eyes
once more upon the jury), 'which fill me
now. Look at that young girl; she is
nineteen years old, she knows as little of
the world as you or I do of a young girl's
heart. She stands before you, her life
absolutely in your hands. If she were
free, if she were threatened neither With
an infamous death, nor with a reproach

which would render her memory a black
and bitter spot for ever in the mind of
everyone whom she loves, her lot would
still be a most pitiable one. A dear and
life-long friend, a young man whom she
loved like a brother, though unhappily
such love was not enough for him, the
mainstay of her mother and of one whom
unvarying kindness has taught her to
regard as a father, has been taken suddenly
away. More than that, it is impossible
that she should not associate with his
death the rash and childish engagement
which, injustice to him even more than to
herself, she felt bound to sever. And to
the anguish of this grief is added, as you
well know, the anxiety and the ignominy
of her present crisis. She who has been
the petted darling of a happy home stands
subject to the same humiliating restraints
and is confronted by the same terrible
danger as the most degraded of the women
who have ever stood in that dock. She

has no hope save in your masculine firmness
and discernment. And what are her
misery and humiliation to the affluent and
accomplished ladies who have strained
every influence to procure admittance to
this court to-day? A show, an experience
a fund for the gossip of afternoon-tea. If,
owing to some inconceivable misfortune,
your verdict should be one which I cannot
think of without incredulity, dismay, sickness,
horror, I think there will be only two
parties in this court whom it would not
overwhelm. One is the prisoner. I have
watched her, you have watched her ; I
never saw courage, long as my experience
in this court has been, which equalled hers.
She has stood there all day as if to render
up her life, her beauty, and her youth were
a very little thing. The other party,
gentlemen, is the pleasure-party which has
come to find delight in human agony, and,
gentlemen, in the almost inconceivable
event at which I have once ventured to

VOL. II. K

glance, they would not be disappointed.
The prisoner, I think, would probably fail
to provide them with the desired entertainment.
I have spoken of her courage ; I may
not — professional etiquette forbids me, as
you well know — call it the courage of
innocence. You alone have the privilege
of saying that, but this I may say : if ever
I saw a human being who knew how to
look on death, it is this girl of nineteen
years who stands within reach of my left
hand separated from me, as from all free
and happy men and women, by a gulf
which it will, I think, be your privilege to
abridge. But hers is not the only life
which you hold in your hands. If, before
we separate to-day, the walls of this old
court should ring to a shriek which will
sound in my ears for ever, then, gentlemen,
the sight-seers who have so patiently sat
out this trial will enjoy a sensation such
as the vapid lives which form their sole

poor shadowy pretence of an excuse have
seldom furnished them with. I am sorry
to say anything which may damp their
amiable hopes, but I think that you will
deprive them of their expected treat.'

The orator's voice had risen gradually
till the last sentence, when it dropped
suddenly into a sneering tone. He had
once more scanned the spectators, and then,
ao^ain chant-ins; his note to a cool businesslike
one, faced the jury once more with
the words.

Now let's see what sort of a case it is
on which you are asked to convict. My
friend told you that if you had a doubt
sou were to give the prisoner the benefit
of it. Well, gentlemen, I think I could
afford to be as generous as my friend and
to say, ^' If by any strange chance you
should have a doubt, give the prosecution
the benefit of that." '

He then went on with apparently conic
2

tempestuous carelessness to dissect the
evidence against Greta and the arguments
with which it had been marshalled.

I think I may say that the case against
the prisoner consists of about two facts,
that the man is dead and that she was
found near his body. Oh, no, I forgot,
there's something more, gentlemen. Don't
let me deprive the prosecution of the
benefit of it. The man was lying on his
face when found.'

He repeated at some length and almost
derisively the expressions used by the
counsel for the prosecution on this point.
She hadn't turned him on his back, there
is no proof that she did not try to lift the
body ; she had the dagger in her hand, and
her dress was stained, but you are asked
to convict this girl because she hadn't
turned over the body of this strong young
man. Let me see, I don't think that's all,
I think there's something else. I mean
some other fact, not some conjecture.

The prosecution are not so ricci in facts
that I ought to rob them. Of conjectures
they have given us enough and to spare,
heaven knows. The prisoner said that she
was going to call on Mrs. Molony, and she
didn't. She met Mrs. Tucker, and was ina
hurry, and, let me see, gentlemen, is
there anything else ? Oh, yes, the sheath.
The sheath is not found. The deceased
could not possibly have carried the dagger
without it, therefore somebody, who can,
of course, only be the prisoner, somebody
who had the sheath must have killed him.'

He went at length into all the evidence
upon the points, repeating and amplifying
everything that his antagonist had said
about them, and seeming all the time to
hurry impatiently and contemptuously
from one point to another like a man compelled
for form's sake to refer to matters
too trivial for serious consideration.

'Yes, gentlemen, it is quite true, the
prisoner within two days of her marriage

was flurried, was in a hurry in paying her
farewell visits, did say she was going to
call on her old servant, and did, before she
went to say good-bye to her, turn aside to
take a last look at the place where she had
played from childhood. I make my friend
a present of all these important facts, and
here's another for him. It is perfectly
true that the sheath of the dagger was
not found lying near the body. And I'll
go a little further, I'm anxious that my
friend should have the benefit of every
doubt. Since he is so fond of imaginary
facts, 111 give him one, or manufacture
one, whichever he likes to call it. I'll
suppose, if you like, that this young man,
never very careful of his skin at the best
of times, who, when he had everything to
make life precious, seized a mad dog by
the neck and laughed at the idea of hydrophobia,
and only cauterised his wound ta
quiet the anxiety of his companion, and
did it with a laugh and without wincing

as she tells us, would never think of carrying
an unsheathed dagger in his pocket. I
should have thought myself that a man
going to a lonely place to commit suicide
would not have been very particular
whether he scratched himself or not ; but
never mind, to please my friend let us
suppose that people in such circumstances
are terribly afraid of cutting their fingers.
What then ? What evidence is there that
the sheath was not to be found if those
who first arrived on the spot had looked
for it? I don't suppose my friend calls it
unnatural that a young lady, who finds an
old friend dead or dying, doesn't immediately
begin to look about to see if he
has dropped anything, and I don't suppose
he complains that the men who are summoned
by her screams didn't begin looking
for the sheath, because, as it happens, they
didn't know of its existence. For anything
we know, the sheath may have been
in the man's pocket and may have fallen

out upon the soft grass across wliicli they
carried his body to the road ; but if it
wasn't, if it was lying among the dust and
rubbish on the floor, does my friend imagine
that it would be there now ? It was
made of embossed silver, and immediately
the death was noised abroad the place was
visited by hundreds of poor people from
the surrounding; neighbourhood. Human
nature in Devonshire must be very different
from human nature in London, if nobody
would think a thing worth twenty or
thirty shillings at the least, worth picking
ups and keeping. If you were in the next
court yesterday you must have heard people
sentenced to penal servitude for passing
a bad shilling or half-crown, and I can answer
for it, that in this court you would
have heard a woman convicted of stealing
a piece of bacon valued at two shillings
and fourpence, or some such magnificent
sum. There, gentlemen, you have it all.
The only solid structure on which this case

rests : the absence of the sheath — the conversation
with Mrs. Tucker — the intention
to visit Mrs. Molony as soon as this most
unlucky farewell was paid to the old house
the position of the dead man's body.
There are absolutely, literally and truly,
all the facts. Everything else is conjecture
and imagination and froth. The
case is made up of might-have-beens and
perhaps. Perhaps the prisoner in a boat
at Rheinfals heard Captain Mace whisper
to the deceased that if he wanted to fight
he was his man. I don't know if you have
been at Rheinfals, gentlemen, but if you
have, you will, I think, bear me out, that
the roar of the biggest waterfall in Europe
does not conduce to make a whisper audible
at a distance of forty or fifty yards.
That was her only chance of hearing it,
you know ; but then, gentlemen, comes in
another perhaps. Perhaps she guessed it.
Perhaps she thought that Captain Mace
wasn't capable of taking care of himself.

You saw him, gentlemen, and you will say
how necessary it was that a young lady
should provide herself with a dagger and
kill his rival, just to make things safe. My
own impression is that, if she thought him
in need of such protection as that, he Avould
not have been much of a hero in her eyes.
You have seen her demeanour to-day, and
you will say whether she seems the sort of
girl to like a lover who required to be
kept in cotton wool. But never mind,
that's one of my friend's perhaps. Now
for the next. Before one person kills
another it is necessary, not only to have a
motive, but to know where to get at him.
The prisoner was absolutely ' — striking his
hand flat on the desk before him and raising
his voice — ' absolutely without the
knowledge. If ever anything was proved
up to the hilt, that is proved. From the
moment that he left the house to the
moment when she found him dead, she had
no idea where he could be. His father,

who was in constant intercourse with him,
swears that there was no communication
between them. But here my friend is
ready with another perhaps. Perhaps
a bird of the air carried the matter.
Perhaps it occurred to her that if she
looked in at the okl house on her way to
Mrs. Molony's, of course with a dagger,
she could kill him quietly out of the
way and make things comfortable. Perhaps
also, when she had carried out the
crime, she thought it would be a very
pleasant thing, and Avould conduce very
much to her safety, to be found near the
body with a knife in her hand ; so perhaps
she looked out of the window till she saw
some people going by, and then screamed
till they came and took her into custody.
Well, gentlemen, I think I've pretty well
exhausted my friend's perhaps, but there
is one more and he shall have the benefit
of it. Before you stab a man it is necessary
not only to have a motive, not only

to know where to find him, but also to
have something to stab him with. The
whole evidence, every atom and morsel
of the evidence on this part of the case
points in the opposite direction. It is proved
by evidence which my friend himself
declares to be absolutely true, the evidence
of Miss Carew, that this weapon was given
back to the deceased a few days after he had
given it to the prisoner. That is an absolute
fact, as you have heard ; Miss Carew
saw it with her OAvn eyes, and heard what
was said about it at the time. But here
comes in the last, and I think I may say the
greatest, of my friend's perhaps. I have
known my friend for years, I have often
watched him with admiration, and I think I
may say that I never saw anything better
done, even by him, in all my life. " Have
you ever" ' — befell into an obvious imitation
of Mr. Thaddeus' manner — ' " said a word
about this before the coroner or magistrate,
have you ?" Why, gentlemen, he knew she

hadn't. The question was for your benefit,,
not for hers. He knew she hadn't. There
are the papers before him on the desk,
there are the reports of everything that
she said both at the inquest and the examination.
They are in my friend's possession,
not in mine, he can let you look at
them if he pleases, and if he does, you will
see at once why she said nothing on the
subject. I will tell you why, gentlemen, if
youlike,and save you the trouble of looking.
She never uttered a syllable about it because
nobody ever asked her a syllable about
it. She did what every witness ought to do,
what before you have finished your labours
of this session, if you have not formed the
wish already, you will wish as I do every
time I go into court, that all other witnesses
would do — she contented herself with
answering yes or no to the questions which
were put to her. That is why she said
nothing about this giving back the dagger
till she was asked. And now comes in

what I have called the most magnificent of
my friend's might-have-beens. He can't
deny that the weapon was given back to
John Daman, but he says it might have
been given back again by John Daman to
Miss Charlstrora. Might — Avell, might is
a word which takes in everything, but,
unfortunately for my friend, his case just
carried him a little too far. He found that
Miss Carew was the confidential friend
both of the deceased and of the prisoner; he
found that she was familiar with them for
six months, but he never dared to ask her
whether, in all that time, either of them
ever uttered a single syllable to show that
the dagger, given and then given back in
her presence, had been given once more.'

Without change of tone or any indication
which Greta could perceive, he sat
down, and, while she was wondering
Whether his speech was over, the businesslike,
measured tones of the judge fell on
her ear. His summing-up was, from its

absence of novelty, a surprise to Greta ;
she wondered that the same things should
be said so often over and over again. The
facts touched on were not always placed in
the same prominence which they had been
placed in by the respective counsel, but
she could observe no other difference. On
the whole, however, she thought her cause
was suffering in his hands. The licensed
rhetoric of her advocate was less fitted to
pass through judicial analysis than the
measured arguments of Mr. Thaddeus. In
her self-accusing mood, this troubled her
perhaps less than the concluding words of
the judge, almost the only words which
did not seem to be anticipated. Though
they rather favoured Greta's cause, they
deepened her sense of guilt.

The theory of manslaughter appears tome
not to be plausible. It almost necessarily
involves the supposition that a
young lady of nineteen carried habitually
deadly weapons about with her. As to

the other two alternative theories, the
arguments and facts have been laid before
you with sufficient fulness. Only on behalf
of the theory of suicide I think I ought to
say a few more words. The deceased was
at an age when, to some natures, the loss
of any much-desired object appears to
render life worthless. Men who have
passed, or even reached middle life, are in
some danger of undertaking; the force of
emotions which they have outlived or mastered.
If we learn something with years,
we also forget something. That disappointed
passion will move men to desperate
acts, those who are familiar with these
courts know only too well. The least pardonable
form of jealous fury leads to murder
— the man takes a knife or pistol, and
stabs or shoots the woman Who has deserted
or rejected him. But suicide is not an
unknown form. I do not mean to judge
the conduct of the prisoner in breaking
her engagement. She is not being tried

for inconstancy. There are people who
hold that if a woman, or even a man,
becomes unwilling to fulfil a matrimonial
engagement, the best thing to do is not to
fulfil it. Others think that all promises
are sacred. What is important for us to
remember is, that if this young man of
twenty was so ardently attached to the
prisoner that all his plans of happiness were
inextricably associated nth the idea of
being her companion for life, that he should
kill himself is by no means incredible or
unprecedented. What we have heard of
him to-day appears to suggest that he was
one of those young men who are constitutionally
insensible to fear.' He added a
few words of direction, and then the jury
were told to consider their verdict. They
rose and left the court, as did the judge.

The female warder touched Greta on the
arm. She thought herself obliged to leave
the dock, otherwise she would have stayed
to look at her mother and perhaps speak to

VOL. II. L

her, while windows were being pulled down
and sturdy sightseers, who would not
sacrifice their places for the draught, were
chatting over the prospects of the trial, or
trying to wile away the time with knitting-needles.
But in truth Greta was not
altogether unwilling to descend. She
longed to find some place where she could
cover her face and go upon her knees.
The dread of being a show had helped her
to subdue all manifestations of emotion,
but she had been hard put to it more than
once. The last words of the judge had
completed the work which the whole trial
had been carrying on. Jack dead — Jack
described as the mainstay of the house — a
character which he had so joyously accepted
in his last friendly conversation with her.
Jack her old playmate whose affection for
her made life worthless to him without her
Jack whose utter fearlessness was now
cited as an argument to establish her
innocence — was a very different vision

from the living boy whom she had teased
and half-despised. The more she blamed
herself, the greater seemed her danger.
Fear — much less for her life than for her
honour, and the life and reason of her
mother — was beginning to invade her. She
had tried to pray, and had prayed, standing
and silently, without moving her lips
or folding her hands or raising her eyes,
but the habits of a lifetime demanded
physical expression. She thought that, if
she should be put into a room by herself,
she could kneel and clasp her hands and
pray aloud. And this she had and did.
Among her prayers for herself and her
mother, and for Jack's soul, were mingled
direct requests to her old playmate for
his forgiveness too. She did not count the
time, but she was falling into repetitions
which had become partially mechanical,
when the door was opened and the female
warder told her that the jury were returning
to the court. She felt a sense of cold

land

sickness, and her face must probably
have grown white, for the woman standing
beside her put one arm round her waist.
Greta, whose throat was at that moment
too dry for speaking, rejected the aid by a
gesture, and ascended the short flight of
wooden steps which led into the dock.
She hardly heard the names of the jury
called over, for her eyes were fixed on
the ghastly face of Mrs. Daman, who
seemed as if she would have slipped
from her seat but for Arundel's grasp.
She could see that he was holding her
mother's hand beneath the desk, and was
striving to thank him by a look when a
burst of applause and delight from the
whole court told how the trial had ended.
In the midst of the uproar, Mrs. Daman
seemed unconscious till Arundel, tightening
his hold, said something twice to her which
Greta could not catch. The second speech
must have brought consciousness, for Mrs.
Daman threw up both arms and turned to

the dock. Then Greta's self-control gave
way.

Oh, mother, mother she cried, leaning
forward and stretching out her hands.

Let the prisoner be discharged,' said
the judge, speaking apparently with difficulty.
A white-haired, soldier-like man
then opened a door which Greta had not
noticed, and offered his arm to help her
down one step.

^ We think it was suicide, my lord,' she
heard a juryman say, and the judge's
answer, ' I quite agree with you.'

But as she stepped some cord, which
had hitherto sustained her, seemed to be
relaxed, she did not fall nor visibly lose
consciousness, but she could never remember
how she came to be seated in a dark,
cool ]passage outside nth her mother's
arms round her, and Arundel holding a
glass of water against which her teeth
clicked as she tried to drink. In a few
moments a bonnet and mantle were brought

her. and she was hurried to a carriage in
the vain hope of escaping before she could
be recognised by the crowd outside. In
another passage she passed Meredith Jones
and Mr. Lawson.

Thank you,' she said, simply, givi-ngher
hand in turn to each.

^ Now, that's a queer case,' said Meredith
Jones, in a low voice to his friend, when
she had gone. ' She never did it, but who
did?'

Not the man himself.'

Not he. A young fellow of that sort
doesn't run the chance of tailoring the job
nth a knife, he buys a new revolver and
he'd use his right hand. You never saw
a fighting man fill his pipe with his left
unless it was old Bendigo.'

But you don't believe the sheath was
ever there?'

No, that's right enough. They brought
away the man's hat and stick, they'd have
seen the sheath if it had been there. Or

any clod who picked it up would be sure
to jabber about it.'

Have you got any notions ?'

No, unless it was some fellow at the
pub, where he was stopping. He may
have begun by stealing the dagger for
the sheath, and then if he discovered that
3'Oung Daman went mooning about the
country by himself, he might have got the
idea of stealing his watch and purse too.
Well, I wish Mace luck with her. By-the-by,
I wonder those two chaps never
thought of having it out when they were
abroad.'

Voice ancien role che hatailleur. Are you
at the "Lost Sheep" to-night?'

Yes, after eight.'

All right. Ta till dinner-time.'

CHAPTER Vii

In the first sense of relief Greta almost
forgot that the life given back to her was
marred and defaced — the wreck of a life.
When her friends pressed round rejoicing
and congratulating, she allowed herself to
be carried along by the general rush of
feeling. It was all one bewildering tumult,
the noisy triumph of the crowd who
thronged and cheered her, mingling with
the silent rejoicing of the two who had
passed with her through the shadow of
death. Her mother's gladness was all joy
to Greta. But Arundel had no part in her
life now. She had told him so, but she
knew that he still held to his rights as her
betrothed lover. Shaken by the events of

the last few weeks, Greta could scarcely
brace herself for the final cruel effort. It
Alas spared her this first day, since even
her lover's claims yielded to those of her
mother. Only with Greta beside her, and
Greta's hand in hers, could Mrs. Daman
enjoy the blessed sense of escape and feel
assured that the horror of the last few weeks
had passed like a frightful dream. By
laborious effort, Mrs. Daman kept up
through the long happy hours which followed
Greta's release. She would not fall
ill to spoil this day of rejoicing.

Mr. Daman had gone back to his home.
Thankful though he felt for Greta's escape
from what he had always declared a
shameful and wicked charge, he was still a
mourner. At her sister s earnest solicitation,
Aunt Sophy accompanied him. Opal
had found a home with her old schoolfellow,
and begged leave to stop a little
longer though her pupil had never left
Avonuish. Greta and her mother stayed

with the Chaiistroms. They had taken
Mrs. Daman in at a time when petty
slights and differences were forgotten, and
she had learnt to love them because they
Avere Greta's friends. Fred had shown
especial kindness. The lively little trifler
with sensation had not made so much of
the present crisis as might have been expected.
She had almost collapsed at the
approach of real tragedy, and found herself
positively unequal to remaining in court
when her own friend Alas tried. She
rather regretted now having missed a great
opportunity, and was bent on getting a full
report from Bob who had been a spectator
throughout.

Arundel was urgent against Greta's return
to Devonshire. But Arundel, as
Greta told herself, would have no voice in
her arrangements. It filled her with despair
to find everyone looking as a matter of
course to the wedding which could never
take place. By a certain silence, and

the absence of one person from the
dinner which was a festival in her honour,
Greta gathered that to Arundel's father at
least her decision would bring no very-great
regret.

I must tell Arundel tomorrow,' she
thought, with a sense of fear and faint
heart as she followed her mother early to
her room.

But tomorrow Mrs. Daman was ill.
For days she kept her bed with what the
doctor pronounced to be a somewhat
formidable attack of hysteria. It was part
of her malady that she could not bear Greta
out of her sight.

• I shall lose you altogether soon,' she
said one day, when she was getting well
enough to laugh at her own weakness.

Greta shook her head but said nothing.
She scarcely knew how Mrs. Daman would
take her resolve. But Arundel had to be
told first. It was cruel to keep him hanging
about waiting to catch a few words

with her and looking confidently to the
future.

About a week after the trial, Mrs. Daman
awoke to the consciousness that her daughter
was still suffering imprisonment, and
grew urgent for her to go out. ' With
Arundel,' she said. But Greta did not go
out. She had longed for fresh air and free
movement, but there would be no joy in
them now. The house was quiet and
empty except for Arundel, who hailed her
appearance with cruel gladness.

Greta spoke with quivering lips. Yet
her first words were conventional.

I never thanked you for all you did forme.'


Arundel looked at her amused and half
incredulous.

Thank me, indeed. As if it wasn't all
for myself ! Why, darling !'

For Greta was crying bitterly. It was
the very last thing she had meant to do.
She knew that her tears spoilt the effect

of her words, yet she persisted in her explanation.


You think it all right now — but it isn't
for me — it can never be right again — I
can't forget Jack — I made him do it.'
The words came out spasmodically between
sobs. 'And now,' she went on, trying
to steady her voice, ' I can never marry
you, never. It must all be over.'

It can't be over. You don't mean it,
Greta, it's a foolish, morbid fancy. What
good would it do that poor boy now !'

I couldn't do it.' Greta stood up and
seemed for a moment to conquer her weakness.
' Arundel, you must let me go. I'm
not afraid for you. You won't turn wild
and reckless because a foolish girl takes
back a promise she ought never to have
given.'

Don't be too sure of that. I mis^ht if
I was hopeless, but you can't make me
hopeless ; I shan't kill myself, because I
fully intend to marry you some day. I may

Lave to wait, you can make me do that, but
I won't give you up. If you send me
away, I shall come back. I won't give you
a chance of forgetting me.'

Perhaps you won't want to come
back.' The foolish words slipped out
almost involuntarily, but Arundel caught
at them.

Yes, I shall. Whatever I may have
been, I shall have no other love now.'

It would be no good.'

Greta, you're not yourself, you know
it; you've suffered too much, my poor
child, I won't ask you to marry me now.
Only don't talk of breaking it off altogether.'


It's kinder to do it now.'

There's no kindness about it. Are you
sure you haven't any other fancy in your
head besides Avhat you tell me ?'

No. I suppose some men wouldn't
care to marry a Avoman who'd been tried for

murder, but you're not like that. And — '
Greta hesitated.

You need fear no difficulty at all, T promise
you,' said Arundel, eagerly. As an
only child, he probably had his parent well
under control.

It's not that.'

Is it only some impossible notion of
making amends ? Come, I know you're
equal to any amount of self-sacrifice, but
isn't it rather hard to sacrifice me?'

Oh, Arundel, you won't take it seriously,
but it's like a vow.'

A very foolish vow which could never
bind anyone. For the wrong which has
been done,' said Arundel, gravely ' I take
my fall share of blame. I'm quite as
guilty as you.' * No,' interposed Greta.
But, my dearest love, don't run away with
the notion of setting everything right by a
self-inflicted punishment — perhaps it's nota
punishment to you though,' he said, suddenly,

with a little apparent resentment
perhaps you did like him best after all.'

I didn't,' cried Greta, her eyes filling
again.

Arundel smiled at the success of his ruse.

Then you won't make me give you back
your promise ? I shall never give it back
till you say that you don't care for me anymore.
I'm not sure that I'd give it back
then, unless you told me that you liked
some one else better. By-the-by,' he
added, quickly, 'you say you won't marry
me for that poor boy's sake — I suppose it
wouldn't prevent your marrying anyone
else ?'

I shall never marry,' said Greta, firmly.

At nineteen you pledge yourself to a
life of loneliness because you made one
mistake.'

I shall never marry,' repeated Greta,
even if anyone wants me.'

Oh, plenty of people will want you.
Tom Lawson has a dozen osiers waiting

for you already if you care to read them.'
And in spite of their misery they both
laughed. Then Greta drew back, startled,
as if she had allowed herself to lapse into
the old relations.

Be reasonable, be yourself!' pleaded
Arundel, taking her hand.

Greta snatched it away.

You ought to help me,' she cried,
desperately ; ' you don't knoAv what I feel
about Jack. I couldn't marry you ; I
should go mad with remorse.'

Greta hid her face as the scene at the
old house came back to her. She held out
her hand to Arundel.

Do o'o/

o

Greta,' he said, drawing back a few
steps, 'you're too unhappy for me to blame
you. But some day you'll see that you're
treating me very badly. I love you. I
don't think you have the least idea how
much,' he said, his voice rising. ' You've
promised to be my wife — you would have

VOL. ir. M

been my wife a month ago if this had not
happened — and now you send me away
for a scruple which has no sense in it.
Good-bye.'

He moved slowly towards the door.
Greta turned a piteous tear-stained face.
Arundel came back ; he put his arm round
her.

For the last time she said, lifting her
face.

I shall wait for you, Greta, and some
day you will be my wife,' said Arundel.
He had the last word.

For some time Greta stood where he had
left her. Then nth a sick yearning in her
heart and a feeling as of stagnation creeping
over her, she went back to her mother.
Mrs. Daman spoke eagerly as she entered.

I've got a letter from Opal ; she wants
me to let her off her bargain. And I'm
not sorry, though she came out very well
at the trial ; I'll say that for her. Read the
letter, dear, and tell me what you think of it.'

Greta ran lier eye down the page without
taking in a word ; then she tried again.
Opal expressed Alarm affection and gratitude
towards the family. She would not
think of putting Mrs. Daman to any inconvenience,
but her London friends wanted
to keep her altogether ; they had found hera
very advantageous place as daily governess
; they had persuaded her to ask if Mrs.
Daman would let her go at once. It
seemed a pity to travel back to Devonshire
if she meant to settle in London. A glowing
eulogium of Bowwow closed the letter.

Of course you'll let her go,' said Greta.

Oh, of course. Perhaps you'll white
and tell her. She says these people have
been wanting her a long time. I thought
Opal had no friends.'

I've heard her speak of Mrs. Allen and
Polly. Opal used to go to them when she
had a holiday. What will poor Bowwow
do?'

I think she's rather gone off Opal since

m2

our dear Jack died. She's such a strange
little thing ; she fancied Opal didn't care.'

I don't think Opal did care much.
When do you think you'll be able to «:o
home, mother ?'

I don't want to leave you till you're
married.'

Greta turned away her face.

I've told Arundel that I can't marry
him.'

Mrs. Daman gave an exclamation of
dismay.

^ You mean — not yet.'

I mean never. You'll have to keep me
always, mother. Shall you mind?' she
asked, lifting her head, as no answer came.

Mrs. Daman looked at her daughter
with a tender, bewildered expression.

Tien you did like poor Jack best,
after all?' she said, repeating in seriousness
Arundel's words.

CHAPTER IX.

In that debatable land which some call
Bayswater and others Nothing Hill, there
is a street, or rather road, which from
sufficiently small beginnings is now elongating
itself northwards and will probably
continue to do so until its career terminates
like many other careers in Kendal Green.
The older portion of the road, divided from
the rest by a thoroughfare of comparatively
rural houses standing in their own gardens,
has maintained a gentility scarcely affected
by its northern offshoot. No shop-fronts
or public-houses mar the aspect of the
bright little crescent where widows and
spinsters eke out a living by letting apartments
to single ladies or young married

couples. Sudbury Crescent offers no accommodation
for large families.

In the parlours of Xo. 31, Miss Gaj^
had made an occasional home during the
last ten years. Here she installed herself
about a month after the trial. Here she
succeeded in driving a hard bargain with
her landlady by which she secured the
drawing-room apartments for her sister.

Mrs. Daman had been sent away for
change of air, but she had not gone to
Avonuish. That was to be her home no
more. Jack's death had left but one course
open to his father. To wind up his affairs ^
break up his home, give up everything to
his creditors. And he chose to fight his
battle alone. His wife had something: of
her own, it Alas even less than Miss Gay
possessed, but the two could manage to
live if they kept together. Bowwow would
be little expense. ]mr. Daman did not
reckon Greta, his wife had not told him
that she refused to marry Arundel.

Poverty had seemed a very little matter
to the mother when her child was in peril,
it seemed little now compared with Greta's
peace of mind, yet a chill sense of some
very ugly reality came upon poor Mrs.
Daman as she alighted at her little lodging.
The dinginess and sordid respectability of
the interior depressed her, so did the smell
of cabbage-water which pervaded the small
passage.

It doesn't matter for me,' she thought,
though it really mattered to her far more
than to anyone else, ' but my beautiful
children !'

Her beautiful children were exciting the
raptures of the landlady. The solitary
servant, cleaned up for the occasion, stared
at Greta with admiration tempered by
anxiety as to the amount of service such a
young lady might require.

In her black dress, with her pale stern
face, Greta was more awe-inspiring than
she had been in happier days. Her tragic

story still left its mark on lier expression,
she was yet in the mood when the trifles of
daily life have no existence. Too young
to recognise the mighty power of time, she
believed that her present misery would last
for ever. A strange dismal journey seemed
to lie before her, leading; to nothing; but
age and death.

Aunt Sophy fussed over the arrivals
with some genuine hospitality and a very
real sense of importance. She had it all
her own way now. The family sheltered
themselves from notoriety under her name,
and depended on her experience to solve
the problem of their altered life. To her
accustomed eyes, the house looked comfortable
and the drawing-room really pretty.
She had hunted for miles before finding
anything so airy and central as these
cheerful houses with their tiny gardens,
balconies, and ill-kept little conservatories.

Bowwow expressed contempt for the
garden, but was somewhat mollified when

she found it inhabited by a tortoise. She
condescended to pick a few chrysanthemums
and brought back a pair of black
hands in triumph. Her mother carried her
off to bed, but Greta lingered.

Aunt Sophy,' she said, ' I wish you'd
persuade mother to let me do something.'

But you can't,' said her aunt, emphatically.


^If I'm not clever enough for a governess,
I could be a companion. I'd rather be a
shop-girl or a nurse than do nothing.'

^ Good gracious, child,' cried Aunt Sophy,
^ no one would take a nurse who'd been
tried for murder, or a governess either.
You're shut off from all these things, so it's
no use talking about them. Of course you
could hide your name, but it might crop
out. It may come out here any day, and
drive us from this place, and other places
too.'

Do you mean that I'm to be a burden
all my days?' cried Greta, with dismay.

Well, I don't see any help for it, if you
won't marry.' Aunt Sophy spoke sharply,
for she had no patience with Greta's
scruples. Receiving no answer, she went
on : 'If you were very good at fancy-work,
you might make a trifle, but it's a poor
thing. I'll tell you what, your uncle ought
to do something for you.'

Oh, let me be independent,' cried Greta,
throwing out her arms, 'you won't say anything,
promise me you'll never hint at such
a thing. Aunt Sophy.'

I won't interfere,' said Miss Gay, sulkily.
Her own scanty income had been in some
measure appropriated by the family.

I don't suppose we shall see much of
them,' remarked Greta, sadly, 'they're very
angry with me.'

A storm of indignation had broken over
Greta's head when she announced her
intention of remaining unmarried. All
the social disadvantages of the step were
laid before her by her angry relatives.

^ No one will ever believe it was your
doing,' remarked Fred, not without justice.

^ I shall never forgive you,' had been
her parting words, yet she came to see
Greta the day after her arrival in Sudbury
Crescent. Greta was never surprised at
any change of mind in Fred, and did not
ask herself what influence had brought her
there.

Having secured Greta to herself, Fred
began.

You won't mind my speaking rather
plainly;' then, without giving Greta the
chance of objecting, she went on: 'We
know all about Mr. Daman's affairs, they're
as bad as they can be. We know your
mother hadn't much to live on before she
married, so she can't have much now '

We can do very well, Aunt Sophy has
something,' interrupted Greta.

You'll enjoy living with Aunt Sophy,'
said Fred, eyeing her curiously. ' Well,
now listen. To-morrow you'll get a communication

from my fathers solicitor —
you're not to say anything about it, to him
especially, he doesn't want thanks. You
needn't be huify, and you needn't be grateful,
it's only fair,' said Fred, hurriedly,
looking quite as uncomfortable as her
companion ; ' I thought you'd take it best
from me, but I'd rather you didn't speak tome
about it again, only,' — Fred spoke imploringly,
— ' don't make a fuss. Ask your
mother, tell her not to talk about it though.
Remember we're a queer family, we like todo
things in our own way.' And Fred
hurried downstairs.

I shall come again soon,' she said,
apologetically, as she kissed Greta.

Fred had seemed flurried and uneasy,
but she recovered her self-satisfaction when
she turned into the Bayswater Road and
found a young man waiting for her.

I've done it beautifully,' she cried.

How is she, how does she look ?' he
asked, eagerly.

Oh, she's pale, and very quiet still.'

Tell me every word she said.'

Why, she scarcely said anything ; I
asked her to show me her room, and then
I began.' Fred repeated her own arguments.
' She looked rather shocked and
flabbergasted, so I just kissed her and
made off. But it's all right, she hasn't an
idea.'

Greta had certainly not an idea or she
would have starved with her family sooner
than fall into Fred's trap. Even as it was,
the cheque which she received next day
seemed to burn her fingers. It was drawn
by General Charlstrom's solicitors and was
accompanied by an intimation that the
same would be paid to her quarterly.

What's that ?' asked her mother.

Greta handed it over in silence. She
had not guessed the extent of their money
difficulties till she saw the relief in her
mother's face.

And only this morning,' said Mrs. Damns

I was wondering how many weeks we
could afford to stay here.'

There could be no question of refusal
after this. But Greta resolved to be as
careful and self-denying as it was possible
for one member of a household to be, lest
she should enjoy ease at the expense of
independence. She had sacrificed everything
now, and felt herself a useless, worthless
cumbered of the ground.

'When am I going to do lessons again?'
asked Bowwow, her shrill little voice startling
Greta.

I suppose I ought to take her,' she said,
gloomily.

But you don't know anything,' observed
her promising pupil.

You'll see,' replied Greta, accepting the
challenge.

We might send her to school now,' said
Mrs. Daman, who felt herself comparatively
a millionaire.

I won't go to school, Greta can hear me
my lessons.'

It'll do you good to teach Bowwow,
anything s better than moping about the
way you do,' said Aunt Sophy.

I don't mope.'

Because she made no complaint poor
Crreta believed herself to be keeping upwell.
Aunt Sophy's words were like goads,
but they proved more wholesome to her
victim than Mrs. Daman's tender, unintelligent
sympathy. Bowwow's lessons did
rouse Greta a little. The conflict with her
insubordinate junior did something to disperse
the listlessness of a hopeless grief.
Bowwow's frequent reflections on her sister's
ignorance suggested a possible improvement
of the hours which hung heavily on
Greta's hands. Arundel could never be
anything to her now, yet it pleased her to
think of sfrowino; into such a woman as he
would have admired. He had laughed

when she talked of her ignorance, but he
had never pretended to prefer an ignorant
woman.

But it is not easy to educate oneself
out of a child's lesson-books with no
teacher to o^uide or encourage. Greta
found it very uphill work. At last she
applied to Fred, who readily promised to
mark out a course. She kept forgetting it,
but the time came when Fred's hints and
Fred's books, or, to speak more correctly,
the hints and books which passed through
the medium of Fred, gave Greta a real
pleasure in her task.

Days without a gleam of peace or gladness,
days when pain was sometimes active
and sometimes dull and deadening, came
and went, bringing a season which Greta
dreaded. ' Let's have nothing to remind
us of Christmas,' she said.

But Bowwow pleaded for plum-pudding,
and Miss Gay declared that the landlady
would take them for heathens.

Father must come said Bowwow.

Her mother and Greta exchanged looks.

'Suppose I go away, I can go — somewhere,'
said Greta. She guessed that Mr.
Daman was waiting for her marriage to
make his home with them again. Mrs.
Daman had hitherto avoided telling the
truth. She knew that the tardy atonement
would seem mere folly to her husband.

Greta determined to shut out all thought
of anything but the religious aspect of
Christmas. Yet a gleam of earthly pleasure
mingled with her worship. In the
morning she received a card addressed in
Arundel's handwriting. It was the most
beautiful card she had ever seen, Greta
thought. What was more, it must have
cost its sender some pains to find anything
which should touch no jarring
note. He had sent it to remind her of his
existence after a silence of two months and
two weeks, which seemed like two years
even to look back upon. Greta had given

VOL. II. N

Arundel's ring and more valuable presents
to Fred to be returned. But Fred had told
her that Arundel refused to take them. As
Greta refused to have them, they remained
with Fred, ' till you recover your senses,'
she had said.

The books and letters and photographs,
Greta permitted herself to keep and to look
at perhaps oftener than was consistent with
a desire to forget. She did not want to
forget. It would have seemed like giving
up her last part in ArundeL A desire to
forget the subject of a sorrow shows that
the sorrow is growing less sharp.

It was with a sort of relief that Greta
watched the death of the year whose birth
she had greeted joyfully in that which
seemed another life. She told herself that
she would never welcome a year again, but
that no year could ever again bring her
bitterness equal to this. She recalled Jack
as he had stood beside her on the steps of
the Glebe House with a tenderness which

she had never given to him living. She
tried to picture life as it might have been
if she had never met Arundel. But it was
like putting out a light. There was no
going back to the old easy delusion now,
even in thought.

N 2

CHAPTER X.

You're not half such good fun as you used
to be, you'd have made a splendid story
out of that Avonuish tragedy once,' said
Polly Allen, after trying vainly to get a
few sensational details out of Opal.

Tragedy was never my line, I'm only
good at comedy,' replied Opal, trying to
speak lightly, but showing a good deal of
irritation. She had cut herself adrift from
Avonuish, and wanted to forget everything
associated with it. Gossip on the subject
was hateful to her.

You never seem to doubt that he did it
himself,' said Polly, unwilling to drop the
subject.

'Not the least, neither would you if

3'ou'd known him. It was just like him to
take her dagger too, for a bit of dramatic
effect.' Opal spoke bitterly. Whatever
she had felt or fancied about Jack living,
he could be of no use to her dead. Opal
was not one to have wasted tenderness on
any lost lover, but this man had never
belonged to her. She knew now that
Greta had been all in all to him, that she
had only fooled herself or let him fool her.
I wonder what became of the sheath,'
said Polly.

What nonsense it is about the sheath,'
cried Opal, excitedly, ' as if silver wouldn't
find its way to the melting-pot. It's just
one of the stupid little things lawyers make
€1 fuss about.'

I'd have given anything to have been
in court,' cried Polly, ' it was horrid of you
not to work it. But I'll forgive you if
you'll take me to see Greta, now she's in
town.'

I'm not going myself Mr. Charlstrom

told me they Avant to keep quite to
themselves.'

Mr. Charlstrom ! how formal we are.'
I msh you wouldn't make your underclothing
in the parlour,' said Opal, with a
disgusted glance at Polly's work, which
was spread out on the tea-table.

I'll put it away when your young man
comes. You'll be too fine for us to live
with soon.' Opal felt a great deal too fine
already. She loathed her friend's untidy,
harum-scarum mode of living, and wondered
how she could ever have tolerated her
talk and ways. But anything had been
welcome as an escape from the Glebe
House. There were no phantoms here.
And she was her own mistress, which was
a great point with Opal just now. After
Jack's death she had been thrown a great
deal with Bob Charlstrom, and his admiration
had developed into a genuine attachment.
But Opal had not yet secured a
footing in his family. They gave her no

encouragement to call on them, and Bob
was the only one who came to see her.
Opal would rather have met him anywhere
than in her present home. She was
ashamed of her friends, and doubted
whether Mrs. Allen and Polly in their
eagerness to forward her interests mio;ht
not rather hinder them. Opal was revolving
several schemes, and making up her
mind to a desperate venture, when she
heard a tap at the door. Polly jumped up
and hid her Avork under the sofa cushion.

It's Lieutenant Charlstrom,' she exclaimed.
Opal had often told her not to
use the title, but she always forgot when
she was excited.

Who did you think it was T asked Bob,
as he shook hands.

Oh, I thought it might be Opal's new
admirer, the young barrister who fell in
love with her in court, you know.'

Opal gave her friend a look. She wanted
Bob to know that she had another

string to her bow, but Polly might reveal
too much. The acquaintance had been
made in a somewhat irregular fashion, and
the suitor was not very eligible. He could
only be available for what Polly called a
shoehorn.' Perhaps he served this
purpose, for Bob, after fidgeting about a
little, observed that it was a charming
evening: for a walk.

And Opal hasn't been out all day,' said
Polly. Opal did not want to go out. Nothing
but the hope of an immediate offer
would have induced her to put on her
things and turn out in the dull winter
evening.

I was obliged to come, you look so
miserable in my friends' company,' she
remarked.

Bob made a polite disclaimer.

'■ Of course I like your company best.
I'm afraid you don't find it very lively,
walking at this hour, but you won't let me
take you anywhere.'

Certainly not. Should you like your
sisters to go to the theatre with men they
know as little as I know you ?'

Fred would go directly.'

That's not an answer. I know you
all cried out when Miss Charlstrom wanted
to go to a concert with some man she met
abroad.'

Oh, you mean a German she picked up
at AYaldberg. Come, you know more of
me than they did of that fellow. Why,
they didn't even know that he'd got a
wife.'

• Didn't Miss Charlstrom?'

I don't think she thought about it.
Why shouldn't he have a wife ?" ' she
asked, when the others were exclaiming.

I'm not sure that I should mind going
to the theatre with you if you had a Avise,
provided she made no objection.'

I've not got a wife yet, but I want one.'

Well, they say a man can always get
some one to have him.'

But there's only one girl I care about ;
I think you must know who she is.'

It can't be Polly, and you wouldn't
want to cut out Captain Mace,' said Opal,
smiling as if to intimate that her companion
must be more explicit.

Bob took the hint, and in five minutes
had offered compensation for a cold walk
in the dark. But he did not press for an
immediate marriage, or seem eager to present
his fiancee to his family.

Opal did not care for mere love-making,
at least not from Bob, who was less attractive
to her than poor Jack had been.

I shouldn't like a secret engagement,'
she said ; ' if I'm not good enough to be
recognised, I'm not good enough to be your
wife.'

Bob pleaded for time, he had never so
much as hinted at marriage to the general,
and he was entirely dependent upon him.

Opal did not wish to live on a lieutenant's
pay any more than her lover did.

I shall not say anything to the Aliens
till you have spoken to your father,' she
remarked, as she bid Bob good-bye on the
doorstep.

This meant that the young man was not
to expect any privileges till Opal was
received by his family.

I'm not going to wait for him,' she
thought, ' I'd rather try my chance as a
companion, I might meet with a lady going
abroad. I'd even take children again to
get out of England.'

But Bob was too eligible to be resigned
without a struggle. All night Opal debated
her latest scheme. She had never
seen her uncle since the scandal at Brussels,
but he had given her permission to come
to him if she found herself in any difficulty,
and she always kept him informed of her
movements. Perhaps if he knew that she
was likely to make a good marriage, he
might take her by the hand. ' But I must
get some credentials,' thought Opal, remembering

that her uncle might require
something more than her bare word.

Next clay's post brought a letter from
Bob, which committed him as fully as she
could desire. With this in her pocket,
Opal felt bold enough to apply to her uncle.
She did not dare to go to his house at Stamford
Hill, but made her way to jSTorfolk
Street, where he practised as a solicitor.
Opal had dressed herself carefully, wishing
to look as little like a poor relation as
possible. Her courage failed a little when
she reached her destination and sent in
her name. It oozed out still more as
she sat waiting and trying to read the
paper. She found herself wishing that her
relation had been anything but a lawyer,
and wondering whether he would be curious
about the Avonuish case. His voice broke
abruptly on her meditations.

Well, Opal, I suppose you've lost your
place ; I hope you didn't let your salary get
in arrears.'

No, it's all right. I didn't come about
that. I wanted to tell you that I Alas
engaged to be married — to General Charleston's
son. I thought you would perhaps
like to see him.'

Mr. Carew looked surprised, and Opal
enjoyed a moment's triumph. But he asked
quickly,

Does General Charlstrom approve of the-engagement
?'

He scarcely knows of it yet. Robert '
(Opal felt as if Bob would sound flippant
to her uncle) ' only proposed last night. I
came to tell you directly. I haven't told
anyone else, not even the Aliens, though
I'm staying with them. They would only
make jokes, and it's not a thing to joke
about. I thought you would advise me.
Will you read his letter ? I've not answered
it 3'et.'

Well, he writes like a gentleman,' said
Mr. Carew, ^ and I'm glad that you seem
to have behaved discreetly.'

'They call me a prude,' said Opal,
demurely. ' I never forgot your reproof
when I was a giddy girl of sixteen.'

Mr. Carew looked gratified.

I'm glad to say that I've heard nothing
amiss since. Did you refer this young
man to me?'

No, I didn't dare till I'd asked you. I
didn't know what he'd think if you refused
to have anything to do with me.'

Has he got anything of his own ?'

No, but he's the only son ; I knows he
has a good allowance now. I think General
Charlstrom likes me,' added Opal, making
a rather wide statement on the strength of
his having once spoken to her ; ' but he
doesn't know anything about me except
that I'm a governess. If he knew that I
belonged to you, it would give me a much
better chance.'

Opal did not think much of her uncle's
social standing, but it was a good deal

better than Mrs. Allen's, and lie knew that
the remark would please him.

If the father consents, he mil probably
insist on your waiting. I don't like longer
o^a elements,' said Mr. Carew.

Nor I. I'd rather give it up at once,
whatever it cost me. Robert may go
abroad any day. He talks of India. I
should wear myself out waiting for him.'

I'm glad you're so reasonable. I'll do
my best for you, so you'd better send your
suitor to me at all events. And, if we
settle things satisfactorily, I shall be very
pleased to see you both at Elm House.'

I mustn't let him see what strangers
my aunt and cousins are to me,' said Opal,
sadly.

Well, come and make their acquaintance
first. Suppose you come tomorrow.
We can put you up. Now I must go back
to my work ; but I'll send you in some tea,'
he said, graciously.

She's wonderfully improved he told
his wife afterwards. ' You needn't fear the
osiris associating; with her now. It's well I
took her in hand as I did.'

Fancy her making such a match,' said
Mrs. Carew ; ' why, we should think it
good enough for one of our own girls. I
declare they don't get half the chances of
being seen that a governess has. And that
girl's half a black, too.'

Only a quarter, my dear, and we needn't
rake that up just now. I should feel as if
I'd saved a trifle if I got that poor thing-well
off my hands.'

Did you have any talk about the
murder ?'

Not a word ; we had something else to
think of.'

'The osiris are longing; to hear all about
it ; they're quite delighted that Opal's
CO mi 



Opal's namesake was dead, but she had
still two cousins who received her with

open arms, feeling that lie had almost
become historical by her connection with
the great case of the day. Her love-aiTair
added a ncAv interest. They had themselves
reached an age when their friends
began to make their lives a burden to them
by wondering that they did not get married.

It'll be worse when they leave off wondering,'
Ruby would say, by way of
consolation.

Opal's lover claimed their first questions.

Do tell us all about him,' they exclaimed,
as they carried Opal upstairs to
take off her things.

Opal forced herself to break through her
reserve so far as to give a short sketch of
her acquaintance with Bob ; then she
showed his photograph, which happened
to be much better looking than the original,
and finally displayed her new ring.

Opals ! How unlucky,' cried Ruby. ' I
wouldn't have an opal engagement-ring
for anything.'

VOL. II. » o

I thought it such a nice idea. I always
wanted to wear my namesakes,' said Opal,
feeling a little chill nevertheless.

I'm sorry his name begins with a C, too,'
said Ruby. ' To change the name and not
the letter, is to change for the worse and
not for the better.'

It's a nice name though,' said her
sister, as she led the way to the drawing-room,
where they found Mrs. Carew waiting
at her tea-table.

We want to hear all about that dreadful
affair,' she began.

A volley of questions and exclamations
followed. * Was it true that Captain Mace
had thrown Greta over ? Did he think she
did it ? Did Opal ? Their father could
not believe it was suicide. Of course, no
jury would hang a pretty girl of nineteen.
Was Greta so handsome as they said?
They didn't think much of her photo.'

Opal explained that photographs did
Greta scant justice — she declared that

Captain Mace was still eager to marry her,
and maintained stoutly that whatever outsiders
might think, none of Jack's own
people doubted that he had killed himself.


Where were you at the time?' asked
Ruby.

I had gone to lie down with a bad
headache, I didn't even know that Greta
had gone out.'

How did you first hear of it ?'

I was still in my room when I heard
Mrs. Daman give a shriek, and I went
down to see what was the matter. It
wasn't Greta who brought the news, she
didn't come home till later, but they sent
some one from the place where they had
carried the body. Mr. Daman came indirectly
after ; it was very dreadful, but we
none of us dreamt of its being taken for
murder, we could scarcely believe it when
they accused Greta.'

I can't think why you never told about



the dagger being given back till you came
into court,' said Ruby.

I wasn't asked,' replied Opal, ' they
told me only to answer questions and to
say as little as possible. I didn't know how
important it was either It was only after
Greta was committed that we began to
rack our brains for anything which might
help her. We hadn't taken her danger
seriously at first.'

'And didn't you really know where
young Daman was all the time ?'

I thought his father must have known,
but I suppose he didn't, as he swore it.'

People do commit perjury sometimes to
save their friends.'

I don't think Mr. Daman would. He
was very angry with Greta, but I'm sure he
never thought she'd done it.'

'Father wonders they didn't find out
more about the place where young Daman
was staying, and the people he associated
with.'

^ I never thought about that.'

'And whether he'd ever been seen near
Careyscombe before — I mean after he left
his father's house.'

I don't suppose he had. I'm afraid I
must be going upstairs. I've got to unpack,'
said Opal, who had been obliged to
submit to Ruby's inquisition more patiently
than she did to Polly's.

It was a relief to find that her uncle did
not pursue the investigation. He came
home full of a more agreeable subject.

Well, I've seen your friend,' he began ;
he's a gentleman, I'll say that for him.'

Of course he's a gentleman,' thought
Opal, indignantly.

But he seems a little shy of speaking
to his father. I told him you could not
entertain his offer seriously till he had
spoken.'

Of course not.'

I told him also that I disapproved of
long engagements. I said you were staying

with me — it will be best for you to
stop here till this matter is settled — you're
not teaching just now ?'

Oh no, it's the holidays.'

It may not be necessary for you to
teach again. Unless General Charlstrom
should disapprove. Have I your permission
in that case to break it ois altogether ?'

Yes, but I should like to write to
Robert first, I want to tell him that I have
left it all in your hands.'

This was scarcely the explanation that
Opal gave. She represented to Bob that
she was not only dependent on her uncle,
but bound to him by ties of gratitude, and
that he insisted on managing the affair in
his own way.

He positively refuses to permit a long
engagement,' she wrote; 'you know I would
be content to wait for years if you did not
mind your fiancee working for her living.
But I could not disobey him, much less
deceive him, after all he has done for me.'

This sounded good and high-handed
as Opal read it over. And she thought
Bob would see the impossibility of lier
drudging on as a governess after she was
engaged to him. She went to bed in a
pleasant flutter of hope, and forgot to be
frightened when she found herself shut up
in a large dismal-looking room alone. There
was neither gas nor fire, but Opal lighted
all the candles she could find and left a
night-light burning near her bed. She
fell immediately into a light sleep, but presently
woke with a start, there was a hissing
in her ears and she found the room in
total darkness. Opal started up in one of
her paroxysms of frantic fear. She groped
instinctively for the matches which were
under her pillow, and struck a light.
Her night-light had burnt out suddenly,
and Opal guessed that she had been weakened
by its spluttering, but even this failed
to reassure her. She got up trembling,
and lighted her three candles ; she could

not spare one feeble ray of light, though
she thought there was a saying against
burning that particular number. A clock
struck twelve, an eerie hour which gave
no promise of daylight for more hours than
Opal cared to count. The room seemed
full of sounds just like her room at the
Glebe House, but her fears had been light
then in comparison with those which racked
her now. She dreaded to look round,
yet felt as if she must keep watch on each
corner of the room, lest Something should
approach her unawares. With a vague
notion of keeping off strange intruders.
Opal took her prayer-book and tried a sort
of incantation, it could not be called a
prayer. She remembered an ivory crucifix
which had been given her at school, and
wished that she had got it to hold in her
hand, it might keep off Something. Opal
was half-inclined to think that there must
be some virtue in those beliefs which seemed
such a comfort to people — to Greta, for

instance. But lie had never been able to
grasp the sort of theology which satisfied
Greta. There was something much more
tangible to her in the religion which had
been professed by those about her in her
school-days. Opal had always felt that
she could follow the formula of the Roman
Catholic Church much better than the
worship that found favour with English
people. With regard to religion, Opal had
something of the same feeling which
prompted Greta to pray for Jack's soul.
If there were no efficacy in it, still it
could do no harm. There could be no punishment
for belief equal to the punishment
threatened for unbelief. Opal had been
used to comfort herself with the reflection
that if there was no God there could be no
punishment for sins which did not break
the laws of man. She had given free rein
to every inclination, never dreaming that
her passions might become strong enough
to master the cautious side of her nature.

A momentary loss of self-control, a spasm
of jealous fury had sufficed to undo lier
most careful calculations. Opal had lost
faith in her own power to steer safely.

Life and death were both full of terrors
for her as she lifted hands to a God in
whom she had no actual belief, with a
vao"ue notion that He mio;ht make allowances
for her and a very earnest desire to be
saved from the consequence of her acts. To
sin and not be found out was Opal's unconscious
aspiration as she tried to frame a
selfish, half-hearted petition. If there was
any sign of grace about her, it might be
found in the fact that she shrank now
from the bare idea of those darker spiritual
agencies with which she had once half desired
to tamper. In her despondent moods,
she almost dreaded any signal success as a
favour for which some fearful price might
be exacted.

With a feeling that she must sleep or go
mad, Opal at last resorted to a remedy

wliicli she had kept by her, but had never
been driven to use. She hunted out a tiny
blue bottle and a measuring glass from a
corner of her bag, and very carefully meted
out a dose.

All the sounds and shadows which had
startled her, ceased as if by magic. The
comfortable reality of a stirring, waking
world was round her when consciousness
came back again.

CHAPTER XL

Ax anxious week followed for Opal. She
felt confidence in her uncle, believing him
to be more than a match for General
Charlstrom, yet half feared his attempt to
carry matters with a high hand. He fought
Opal's battle with arguments which it
would have been impossible for her to have
used without disenchanting her lover. He
wanted to see his niece married. She was,
he maintained, young and handsome enough
to have a chance of doing well for herself.
But an indefinite engagement might means.
loss of her best years. If she entered
upon it without his consent, he should
refuse to do anything for her in the future.
Mr. Carew reminded Opal's suitor that

an action would afford no compensation,,
since he was by his own confession scarcely
worth powder and shot.

The lovers were forbidden to meet, but
some correspondence passed between them.

I can do nothing with my uncle,' Opal
protested; ' of course it would be different if
I were his child. I suppose it is natural
that he should feel me a burden and wish
to set me off his hands for 2:ood and all.
He would give me to a man I did not care
for sooner than let me wait for you. Our
only hope is in your father's kindness. I
know you have always been a good son.
Mrs. Randall used to say Iioay steady you
were, and that you had never run into
debt or given trouble like so many young
men. It was one of the things which made
me first like you.' (' He might urge that
with his father, I daresay it hasn't occurred
to him, as he's rather dull,' thought Opal).
Then she added, ' Of course you keep my
poor little letters to yourself, I should like

you to burn them only I am afraid you
would not do that.'

Whether Bob used Opal's arguments or
not, General Charlstrom began to make
friendly overtures. The first move was
suggested by Fred, who had never taken
to Opal, but was fond enough of her brother
to try to help him.

We know so little about her, wouldn't
it be a good plan to ask her to come and
stay,' she observed to her father.

The general demurred a little, but then
gave in.

Mr. Carew in his turn debated the invitation,
but his wife and daughters declared
that it could only mean capitulation,
whilst Opal showed a triumphant letter
from Bob who evidently shared their
opinion. The feminine voice prevailed.
Mrs. Carew quite touched Opal's feelings
by suggesting that she must have new
things for the visit, adding that they would
help towards the trousseau.

With a thrill of delight, Opal saw herself
arrayed in becoming garments, and felt
that such were to be her portion for the
future. She set out for Lancaster Gate
with but few misgivings. Remembering
Greta's experience, she told herself not to
be disheartened by a cool welcome. But
opal was already a more important person
than Greta had been. Since Bob's heart
was set upon the girl, his family were prepared
to make the best of her. Bob was
known to be very obstinate — resolute, they
called it. He would hear his father out
and return to the charge.

'What have you to say against Miss
Carew ?' he repeated ; ' she's a lady, I've
heard you say so yourself

The general had dropped a few favourable
remarks about Opal at the time of the
trial, little thinking that they would be cast
up against him.

Everyone said how well she behaved,
and her evidence saved Greta,' persisted

Bob. The general uttered an impatient
exclamation. Greta had become a sore
subject. Bob went on : ' You know
nothing against her.'

I know nothing whatever about hers
neither do you.'

That's your own fault.'

Perhaps it was, in more ways than one
since the general refused to see the only
people who could have told him anything
about Opal. Even Fred's visits to Sudbury
Crescent had to be made by stealth.

Don't say a word about Greta before
my father,' was her first injunction to Opal
as she took her to her room, a much better
one than had been allotted to Greta the
year before.

Opal had no wish to talk about her old
friends. But she soon saw that she had
better feign interest if she wished to recommend
herself to Bob's sister.

Isn't it heart-breaking about Greta?
Did you ever know a girl so wrong-headed?'
said Fred, plaintively.

I can't understand her. There seems
no sense in it,' replied OpaL ^ I suppose
nothing but time can do any good.'

That's what Arundel says.'

Does she ever see him ?'

Oh, no, she won't let him. It's very
hard, now he's home again. We asked him
to come and meet you to-day.'

Opal had probably some charm of association,
for they found Arundel already in
the drawing-room. But Bob naturally engrossed
the new-comer. Arundel joined
Fred at the tea-table.

'I suppose we may consider it settled?'
he observed, with a glance at the lovers.

Oh, yes. She's pretty, isn't she ?'

I dare say most people would think so.'

You don't?'

I'm afraid I'm rather one-idea, on the
subject of beauty, at least.'

Opal makes a lovely photo.'

And some much lovelier girls do not —
at least, not in the general opinion.'

VOL. TI. P

I want you to make a victim of yourself
whilst Opal's here. Bob wants to take
her about, and I must play propriety. Do
be good-natured, and come too.'

It would be painfully like the parties
of last year, Fred felt. Perhaps Arundel
thought so too, as he answered rather
shortly,

I'm going away tomorrow.'

Oh, I'm so sorry. Where are you
o^oino' ?'

To the West, on a sort of forlorn hope.
I mean to put up at the inn where poor
Daman stayed, and go over every inch of
the ground. I want to question every
man, woman, and child in the place. It's
better than folding my hands ; but I'm
afraid it's no good, for I've very little doubt
it was suicide.'

Arundel raised his voice, and Opal
looked up suddenly

'They're at it again,' observed Maud,

ivho sat working half-way between the two
couples.

Arundel's going to try his hand at
detective work,' explained Fred.

'Then he'd much better get the real
article ; he'll only mull it,' said Bob.

I'm afraid there's nothing to mull.
Will you help me in one thing, Miss
Carew?'

Opal gave him a quick glance out of her
strange eyes which Arundel thought quite
settled her claims to beauty.

What is it ?'

About that sheath. I want you to
describe it to me as accurately as you described
the dagger at the trial.'

Oh, but I can't. I suppose I must have
seen it some time, but I don't remember a
bit what it was like. I noticed the dagger
because it was so odd-looking, but as for
the sheath ' — she stopped to consider — ' sofar
as I can recollect, it was a sort of scroll

pattern, something like the case of those
scissors you've got there,' she added, turning
to Maud.

Who finds the sheath finds the murderer,
I suppose,' said Bob, 'if there's a
murderer in the case, only there isn't.
What does your uncle say about it. Opal ?
I know he thinks we ought to have hunted
up a lot more evidence, and I suppose that
set Arundel on the track. Don't you feel
well?' he asked, suddenly, in a tone of
concern.

It's only excitement,' whispered Opal ;
the last week has been so dreadful, and
now I'm afraid of letting myself be happy
too soon. Oh, here's your father ; I think
I must have felt him coming.'

Arundel had gone back to Fred.

Greta would know what the sheath was
like ; will you find out for me. You needn't
tell her what I'm about.'

The general's entrance silenced Arundel.
He rose to go in spite of Fred's protestations.

But he found opportunity to ask
Opal if she had seen Greta lately. JVnd
Opal felt as if she must fall a good deal in
his estimation when she was obliged to
answer no.

Fred looked after Arundel rather sadly.

No love-making has ever prospered in
this house,' she murmured, half to herself

But everything seemed to go well with
the new lovers. Opal ingratiated herself
with the family, and especially with
the head of it, in a way which Fred
described as marvellous. Fred herself was
the one whom Opal failed to fascinate.

She's too soft and smooth for me ; I'd
rather a girl should be a little abrupt, like
Greta,' said Fred.

A sort of jealousy for her favourite was
perhaps at the bottom of her disfavour,
and she resented Opal's indifference to the
people with whom she had to live on
friendly terms.

Of course, you'll go and see them,' she

had said the morning after Opal's arrival.

Do they know about me and your
brother ?'

No, I haven't seen them since.'

I'd rather you told them first. It's
very silly of me, but I feel somehow as if
I'd stepped into Greta's place, and she
oughtn't like it, at least Mrs. Daman
oughtn't. Yet it seems unkind not to go,'
added Opal, with a slight misgiving as to
what might be said behind her back.

But Fred was not eager to carry the
news. Perhaps she still hoped that the
match might be broken off. But the
engagement had been tacitly recognised
from the moment Opal entered the house.
The next step was to bid her resign her
situation as horning governess and take
her name off the books of the Governesses'
Benevolent Association. There could be
no question of delay after this, and Bob
urged that his leave would be up in March.
Almost before she had made up her mind

to accept the situation, Fred found herself
helping to make out a list of friends who
must be asked to the wedding. Mr. Carew
had proposed to give a breakfast, but
breakfasts were declared to be out of
date.

Your uncle's got a good big house,
hasn't he?' said Maud, as she looked at the
long list.

Ob, yes,' replied Opal, who felt sure
that Mr. Carew would be pleased to fill his
house with General Charlstrom's friends.
You'll send a card to Greta, I suppose,'
she added, with a desire to propitiate
Fred.

Of course she won't come,' said Maud,
does she know anything about it yet ?'

'No,' replied Fred, with a little impatient
sigh. ' I've never been yet, and Arundel
keeps bothering about that sheath. He's got
a new fancy too, he wants a specimen of Miss
Gay's handwriting.' — Opal uttered an exclamation
— ' I don't know what it's for, he

only tells me that he's not making much
way, I never thought he Avould.'

If you think of going to the Damns,
Fred, I should like to go with you,' said
Opal.

Oh, don't go,' cried Maud, who was
inclined to monopolise Opal.

Fred felt a little jealous of an intimacy
which brought her sister into closer relation
with Bob.

I think Opal ought to go,' she said,
rather severely.

'Yes, can't we go now, at once, whilst
Bob's out,' said Opal, moving restlessly and
almost pushing away the list which Maud
offered, as if it hurt her to see preparations
for the good fortune which she scarcely
dared count upon.

Fred did not really want Opal's company,
and almost felt glad when visitors came in
and stopped the visit for that day. Next
day she went alone and found the family
out. But Fred left a little note for Miss

Gay, asking the address of a lace-cleaner
whom she had declared to be the best in
London. Miss Gay liked recommending
people, and Fred knew that she should get
a speedy answer.

The wedding-day was fixed, and Opal
had gone back to pass the short interval at
her uncle's house before Fred again found
her way to Sudbury Crescent. As she
turned out of Melbourne Grove, she met
Greta and Bowwow.

We've been to look at our almond-tree,
we go every day,' said Bowwow, pointing
triumphantly to a tree in one of the little
gardens which was beginning to show a
few pale pink petals against the blue sky.

'It's out early, I hope it won't be nipped,'
replied Fred; 'don't turn back forme, Greta,
I'll go your way.'

We're going to Birdcage Walk,' cried
Bowwow, running round, and taking Fred's
hand, ' we go for such long walks, and a
new one every day.'

• We mean to explore London by degrees
said Greta, with a cheerfulness which might
perhaps impose on Bowwow.

^ We've been to all the bazaars,' continued
Bowwow, ' only we never buy anything,
because we've got no money, you
know.'

Oh, nonsense,' said Greta, ' we've got
plenty for everything we want, only not
to throw away.' Then, remembering that
her friend liked better to talk than to hear,
she checked the flow of Bowwow's chatter.
Now tell ns your news, Fred.'

Well, I really have got some news, if
you haven't heard it.'

We never hear anything.'

There was a little restraint in Fred's
manner as she went on:

There's going to be a marriage in our
family.'

Greta's eyes grew fixed, and she held her
breath for an instant.

Bob,' continued Fred, hastily, ^ he's going

to marry Opal. Did you know there
was anything between them ?'

*Bob going to marry Miss Carew. Oh,
what fun !' cried Bowwow, skipping round
as if she meant to carry the news straight
home to her mother.

^ We used to think he admired her, but
I didn't know they'd met lately ; we've seen
nothing of Opal since she left us,' said
Greta.

It seems odd ;' then, with a searching
look, Fred added, ' you liked her, didn't
you?'

We liked her very much.' Greta satisfied
her conscience by putting the liking
in the past tense.

Bowwow broke in : 'I don't like her at
all, she didn't care a bit when dear Jack
died, though she pretended to be so fond of
him — she did,' persisted the child, as Greta,
conscious that she was treading on dangerous
ground, tried to turn off her remark ;
^ she always said she was going to make it

up between you ; and she knew where he
Alas all the time, and wrote to tell him when
you came home and everything.' Bow-wow's
statement produced more effect than
she expected. But Greta did not want
her to talk before Fred.

'You silly little girl, no one knew whereto
write,' she said, gravely.

Miss Carew did,' cried Bowwow, pleased
to find her talk of importance ; ' she told me
so, and she wrote to him and went out to
post the letter herself

Run on, dear,' said Fred, impatiently ;
then, as Bowwow very unwillingly complied,
she turned to Greta, ' I believe the child's
right, for it explains something which puzzled
us — Arundel has found out that someone
used to write to door Jack at the little
inn; he fancied it might be your aunt, but
I suppose it was Opal. I'll ask her about
it. And now, forgive my returning to a
painful subject ' — Greta winced — 'I want
you to tell me what that sheath was like.

Was it at all like this ?' Fred pulled Maud's
scissors-case out of her pocket.

Not a bit. It carried out the same
idea as the handle, only of course it wasn't
shaped like a skeleton, it was very delicate
work, something like ribs. What's the
good of finding out anything now?' asked
Greta. ' Is it because people still think I did
it?'

Fred suddenly remembered that Arundel
had told her not to speak of his investigations,
but she had gone too far to think
it worth while to draw back. They had
turned into a quiet road. Bowwow leading
the way with an air of offence.

He says some of those idiots down there
do,' said Fred. ' The woman at the inn had
the face to tell him that the young lady knew
well enough where Mr. Daman was, for she
used to write to him. When Arundel
drove her into a corner, she confessed that
all she knew was that letters in a lady's
handwriting came for him. He showed

her different writing, yours and mine
amongst the rest, but she said it wasn't
like any of those, it was a pretty little
flowing lady's hand. As Arundel says,
girls don't write pretty flowing hands now,
he thought it might be your aunt's, she
rather likes having a finger in everything,
3^0 u know. Does O^Dal write like that ?'

Yes, a very pretty hand, unmistakeably
feminine.'

Yours isn't — the woman said yours
wasn't a lady's hand at all.'

Greta looked thoughtful.

Opal must have held her tongue out of
kindness,' she said at last ; ' don't you remember
how anxious they were to prove
that there could not have been any communication
between us ?'

I suppose that was it, but I think it
comes very natural to her to hold her
tongue. I like outspoken people myself.'

Oh, but I hope you like Opal, as she's
going to marry Bob.'

Well, between ourselves, I can't take to
her ; I'm sure she's cold-hearted, she doesn't
seem to care a bit about any of you, or
about those people she went to stay with
afterwards, or even her own relations.'

But she had nothing to do with her
relations, they weren't kind to her,' said
Greta, eager to make excuses.

Why, she's staying with them now, she's
going to be married from their house, she
talks as if they'd been everything,' cried
Fred ; ' but I daresay she told you something
quite different. Well, perhaps I've
no business to say she's deceitful. But I
never knew such a poor thing, she can't
walk or go anywhere without getting
knocked up, and she's frightened of everything.'


I think she is rather timid.'

Timid ! I've heard of a disease called
panphobia, and upon my word I believe
Opal's got it. Once when we were driving,
the horses just slipped on the asphalte;

they were up again in a second, but Opal
turned blue with fright ; we could hardly
keep her in the carriage. Then she heard
a noise one night, and nothing would
persuade her it wasn't a burglar ; Maud
had to take her into her own room. But
the funniest thing of all was to see her
when a policeman came to the door. He'd
brought a paper about guardians or dog-regulations,
or some nonsense, but Opal
seemed beside herself She said it was because
policemen often brought bad news ;
I suppose they do sometimes bring word
when there's been an accident, but we were
all in. I don't know what she expected.'

Oh, she usen't to be like that ; she must
have got much worse,' said Greta.

• Well, I won't spend all my time abusing
my sister-in-law ; but the others do believe
in her so. And I've no one to talk to now
Arundel's away.'

Greta looked as if she would like to have
heard a little more about Arundel, but she

would not permit herself to ask questions,
and Fred went back to her lovers and told
all the arrangements for the wedding.

We shall send you a card,' she added.

Oh don't ; you know I can't come.'

Mayn't we go and see it ?' asked Bow-wow,
who had crept back to them.

You and Aunt Sophy, perhaps, if she
likes to go.'

Fred drew Greta aside.

Are you always going to live with Aunt
Sophy?'

Well, we began living with her for our
own convenience, it would be rather shabby
to throw her over now.'

But it's so horrid for you.'

It's very good for me, at all events.'

Oh, you're going in for mortification, I
see. We shall have you wearing a hair-shirt
next.*

'No, I don't mean that. Aunt Sophy
says hard things sometimes, though not so
hard as I deserve ; but it's her example

VOL. II. Q

which does me good. I don't say it as a
compliment,' added Greta, laughing. ' People
talk of the force of a good example, but
I think there's a great deal more force ina
bad one. I'm rather like Aunt Sophy,
and I should grow exactly like her if I
hadn't got a warning always before my
eyes.'

Come,' said Fred, gaily, ' I only know
one person fit to cope with you in such a
mood as this ; but Fm sure he'd deny the
resemblance.'

CHAPTER XII.

Opal answered Fred's questions quite
frankly.

Oh, yes, I wrote to him ; he wouldn't
go away till I promised to let him know
when Greta came home. You see, he
thought his father was under Mrs. Daman's
influence, that's why he kept him rather
in the dark. I don't know whether I ought
to have told anybody, perhaps I'd no
business to use my own judgment, but I
thought it might go against Greta. If
they knew I wrote, they might think I
carried messages. But I never did, I
never even gave a hint where Greta was
likely to be found. How the poor fellow

q2

chanced on her at Careyscombe is as mucha
puzzle to me as to everyone else.'

^ Haven't you any idea about it ?' asked
Fred.

'One can't help having ideas. I fancy
he must have hung about Greta's favourite
haunts day after day till he found her.'

That's likely enough, for it seems, from
what Arundel tells me, that it wasn't the
first time he'd been seen in the neighbourhood.'
Opal looked anxious for a moment.
Did he write to you ?' continued Fred.

Never ; Mr. Daman was quite right
about no letters coming to the house.
Jack didn't want it to be known that he
was so near. He gave me the address to
write to before he went away, but I didn't
know whether he meant to stop there, or
only to call for letters. "When does Captain
Mace return ?'

Oh, in time for the wedding, of course ;
it's not far off now.'

Only a fortnight, but it seemed very far

off to Opal in her nervous fear that something
would happen to prevent it. She
was not so near to marriage yet as Greta
had been. As she counted the da3^s,
Opal felt her strength waning with each
one. Wakeful nights, or nights of drugged
sleep, followed days of feverish excitement.
She could take no pleasure in the preparations
for marriage, which would once have
been a delight to her. She tried on her
wedding-dress, with a sick heart, feeling as
if it mio-ht never be wanted. Wedding-presents
poured in, but she scarcely cared
to look at them, and found herself wondering
whether the people who sent them
would soon be talking of Bob Charlstrom's
lucky escape.

As if to strain Opal's fears to the utmost,
Arundel only returned two days before
the wedding. There was a dinner at
Lancaster Gate that evening to which Opal
had been asked with her cousin. As they
drove from Stamford Hill, she was filled

with envy of the gaiety which found vent
in Ruby's light chatter. It seemed to Opal
sometimes as if she envied everyone, even
the people she passed in the street. Yet
she had never been so fortunate or so well
thought of as now. Even her unquestionable
claims to beauty were recognised as
they had never been before. Opal had put
on one of her trousseau dresses this evening,
a pale yellow silk which permitted
some display of the pretty neck and arms
which she had often covered regretfully.
She had been pale and languid all day, but
as she entered the softly-lighted room, her
cheeks were burning. She caught sight of
Arundel directly, and felt relieved. He
looked rather dull and bored, not at all
like a man who felt himself on an exciting
or promising track. But Opal had no
chance of hearing how he had f)i'0S23ered
till after dinner, when she contrived to
capture Fred.

He's done no good, you can see that by
his face,' said Fred.

But did he tell you so ?'

Oh, yes. I don't know why he stayed
so long, perhaps he was glad to get out of
the way of love-making. I shall feel for
him on the day, it must remind him so — '

Fred broke off as the men came up.
Opal tried to engross Arundel's attention.
But her conversation seemed to fall flat.
Even Greta's name failed to produce anything
but a polite semblance of attention.
It rather galled Opal's vanity to feel that
for this one man at least she had no
attraction whatever. She had always
been conscious of Arundel's indifference,
but she fancied that it had quickened into
a sort of repulsion.

Opal was not far out in her suspicion.
Arundel said very little about his journey,
he considered himself to have failed completely
in his object. But he had picked

lip fragments of gossip which gave him a
less kindly feeling towards the dead man,
the more so as he could not attempt to
blacken his memory to Greta. To him
there seemed nothing inconsistent in the
weakness which could lead a man into light
infidelity at one time and drive him to a
desperate deed at another.

As for Opal, Arundel had no definite
charge to bring against her. She had
turned out to be very much what he
thought her. If Bob could not see for himself
that the woman was a designing flirt,
it was not Arundel's business to open his
eyes. He was not covetous of the thanks
which wait on such offices. But Arundel
did not envy Bob his bride. He was not
pitying himself, as Fred imagined, but
rather pitying the bridegroom as he drove
with him through the dreary suburban
roads which lead to Stamford Hill on the
appointed day. His own efforts at mirth
seemed ghastly to him, though he kept

them up throughout the entertainment and
won golden opinions for helping to make
it go off well.

Nothing happened to fulfil Opal's forebodings.
During the long morning she
had been tormented by fears which had
ceased to have any definite form or limit.
She had been wishing that fashion had not
delayed the ceremony to a late hour. ' It
might have been over before this,' she
thought, as the clock struck twelve and she
went up to dress.

It seemed as if she really was going to
be married, when she saw herself in the
shimmering white satin and long tulle veil
which she had so often pictured herself
wearing triumphantly. The rest was like a
dream, with something of the dread oppression
of a nightmare behind it. The ceremony
once over. Opal did, for a brief space,
enjoy a sense of relief and exultation. It
was not till she found herself sitting beside
her husband in the train which was carrying

them to Dover, that a new phase of
terror presented itself. Like a flash came
back the old misgivings as to the full significance
which granted desire might have for
her. For the rest of that day Opal was
haunted by a verse which had fascinated
her in days when it had no such horrible
meaning as now :

What's the leopard-dog-thing constant at his side,
A leer and lie in every eye of its obsequious hide ?
When will come an end to all the mock obeisance,
And the price appear that pays for the mischance ?'

But Opal was young, and life seemed
long. Henceforth, she told herself, it
would mean nothing but amusement for
her. For a week she lived in a whirl
which left no room for despondency. Bob
liked to travel fast, to go everywhere and
to see everything. Opal was ]prepared to
like it too, but she forgot that she had no
experience of anything but the early hours
and regular routine which she had been
used to share with her pupils. Never a

strong woman at her best, she had suffered
too much not to have lost strength during
the last few months. Excitement kept
her up for a little while, but she soon began
to feel horribly tired.

Bob was not luxurious, he liked to 2:0
about in a free-and-easy way which did
not recommend itself to Opal. Perhaps he
fancied that a girl who had been poor all her
life would not mind roughing it. He put
up at good hotels, but never troubled himself
to telegraph for good rooms, so that
Opal had to climb many weary flights of
stairs, since she never dared trust the
life which she valued so dearly to the possible
perils of a lift. Opal groaned over
her new clothes when she found that she
had to keep packing and unpacking them
herself. She had counted on having a carriage
always at her command ; but Bob
liked walking, and failed to recognise the
fact that his wife never put her foot to
the ground by choice. He was fond of

Opal, but his fondness did not display
itself in the little cares and attentions
which she had always craved.

He never noticed that she looked tired,
and she was afraid to complain. The feeling
of insecurity which was becoming a
mania, gave Opal an almost slavish desire
to propitiate her husband. It was not
that she cared for him. As a companion
he bored her, she found him at once dull
and restless. Yet his company was better
than none, as Opal discovered when she at
last knocked up completely. There came
a dreary interval, when she spent most of
her time alone in the hotel. Then they
turned their faces homeward.

They were going first to Lancaster Gate,
and Opal felt as if the good time was coming
at last when they drove from Charing
Cross in the bright light of a spring afternoon.
As they approached the house, the
streets were full of gaily-dressed drivers
and walkers. Opal told herself that she

was now one of these prosperous ones
whom she had so often envied. This homecoming
was very sweet to the girl who
had only lived in other people's homes.
Whether she had been welcome to Bob's
family or not, she was one of them now
and her interests were their own. Opal
was prepared to be a model sister-in-law.
She had no jealousy. Bob's sisters might
monopolise him as much as they liked.
Opal had even some idea of bidding Bob
pay court to Fred as an easy way of winning
favour for herself, but she recognised
an uncompromising straight-forwardness
about him which did not promise well for
open attempts at management.

There was no want of warmth in Fred's
welcome to-day. It was so natural to her
to take the lead that she could scarcely
permit herself to be behind the others in
friendliness. Opal was petted and waited
on and made as much of as she could
desire.

How kind they all are to me,' lie remarked,
with genuine gratitude, when she
found herself alone with her husband.
Even Bob had seemed much better company
in his family circle than when the
burden of amusing him had rested solely
on herself.

I used to think you didn't quite hit it
off with Fred,' he observed, ' but it seems
all right now.'

Oh, she must learn to like me, I like
her so much,' said Opal, gushingly. ' I
think her friendship worth having.'

'She stands by her friends, you mean?'

Yes, Greta, for instance.'

She's quite right to stand by Greta, but
it's a pity she encourages Arundel the way
she does.'

It's no good, you think ?'

Not a bit. What's the good of a fellow
fooling on when a woman says no.'

I wish Fred would marry him herself.'

Don't try to manage it, whatever you

do. Women can't let things alone, but
they work ever so much better.'

If I had only let my own life alone,'
thought Opal. Her success had come
almost without seeking. Her best planned
efforts had brought nothing but possible
danger and selfish fear, which had usurped
the place of repentance or remorse, to
torture her and shut out all promise of
healing or future peace.

CHAPTER Xii

Why, it isn't Primrose Day !' said Mrs.
Daman, looking with some surprise at a
glorious basket of primroses on the .


Xo,' said Greta, bending her face over
the flowers. She knew what anniversary
it was, and that only one person would
have thought of sending her primroses on
that day. It was her first gleam of sunshine
since Christmas.

Mrs. Daman guessed enough to ask no
questions, but she watched rather wistfully
as Greta flitted about the room. An uneasy
activity had taken the place of Greta's
former listlessness. An instinctive desire

to fly from her own thoughts, and the repose
which could bring no ease to hers
was mingled with a wish to serve those
whom she had injured. Yet, strive as she
might, Greta often felt that her family-would
have been happier without her.

She had followed her own inclinations
once to their hurt, she might have followed
them now to their advantage. Yet the
resolution which she had made in the
chapel at Newgate bound her like a vow.
Even Ashen she doubted its wisdom, she
never dreamed of breaking it. She was
telling herself even noah that it was foolish
and wrong to be pleased at Arundel's remembrance.
It would be much better for
him to forget her. But it was early yet.
Some day she would have nothing left
but the remembrance of his love — the
dream might perhaps last for a few months
longer. Youth and health seemed dreadful
things to Greta in these days when
they only promised years of scarcely patient

VOL. II. R

endurance. In her efforts to serve those
about her, in half-formed schemes for making
her life in a wider sense useful, Greta
was struggling towards possible peace.
But she was conscious of nothing but failure
as yet. It was in no jesting spirit
that she had likened herself to Aunt Sophy.
She felt ungracious influences shaping her
character, she knew that in seeking to be
strong she might grow hard and unlovable.
Resistance against every expression of suffering
or disappointment was shutting her
out from sympathy, and she sometimes felt
as if she might lose the yjower of giving
others that which she never asked for
herself There was something strained
and unnatural for so young a girl in the
attitude which she had taken up since
Jack's death. She had hidden her grief
away like a wound too sore to be touched.
If she had told Jack's father half of what
she felt, he might have pitied and forgiven
her, but she had let restraint grow up till

it made a miserable division between them.
Mr. Daman's arrival had not added to the
happiness of the household. He had
refused to come till his wife and little girl
went to fetch him. Bowwow's love . of
importance was rather fostered by the
influence which she seemed to hold over
her father.

He can't bear the sight of Greta,' she
told her mother, with a little touch of
triumph which betrayed her sense of the
mother's partiality. It did not need the
child's reminder to bring home to Mrs.
Daman the downfall of her idol. It
seemed as if she was the only person left
to stand by her daughter now. Greta's
second infidelity had cost her the friends
whom her first infidelity had spared. Even
the mother's own tenderness was mixed
with a sort of forbearance which betrayed
disappointment. Opal's marriage had been
the latest blow to Mrs. Daman. It had
added a sting to her own defeat. She had

r2

been so proud of Greta's relations, she had
spoken of them ahiiost boastfully to the
yevj girl who was now taken into their
family, whilst her child — their own flesh
and blood — was cast out. No friendly
recognition of Greta came from anyone
except Fred. The allowance was paid
regularly, but Mrs. Daman took it with
compunction and she had to hide it from
her husband.

He'd never consent to live on Greta,
and he always hated the Charlstroms,' she
told her sister, who was the only person to
whom she dared open her heart.

He won't find out, he doesn't seem to
notice anything,' returned Aunt Sophy,
contemptuously ; 'his troubles have left him
half dazed, I think.'

Mrs. Daman offered no protest. It was
true that her husband usually sat with his
face buried in his hands and seldom joined
in the conversation.

He'll come round by-and-by, and then

he'll begin to ask questions she said at
last.

Well, it's no use meeting trouble halfway.
Perhaps Greta will come to her
senses yet,' replied Aunt Sophy, with a
glance at the primroses which Mrs. Daman
had carried up to ornament the drawing-room.


If Greta had thought of hiding them
away in her own little room she had abandoned
the notion, as she did all notions
which tended to self-indulgence. But
Bowwow found her sister an unusually
lively companion that day. As they returned
from their walk they saw a carriage
at the door.

A visitor, and only poor mother to
entertain her,' cried Greta, running upstairs.
Fresh from her walk, and with the
radiance of the primroses still about her,
Greta looked what she still was, after all
that had come and gone — a handsome,
healthy, high-spirited girl. She was quite

unlike what lier visitor had expected, and
a sort of greed of her strength and vitality
gleamed in the shifty, restless eyes which
met her own.

In a sudden whim, dictated by a sick
fancy, Opal had come to see and be envied
by her old friends. She had been to Mrs.
Allen and Polly, who had admired her and
told her she was the happiest girl in the
world. Opal often had occasion to tell
herself so — much oftener than she need
have done if she had believed it. But
there seemed something tangible in the
good fortune which other people recognised.

Her present visit had been less successful.
Mrs. Daman had received her with
something like inquiry in her eyes. But
O^^al would not apologise for her tardy
visit. She had been feeling it impossible
to keep up a one-sided conversation when
Greta came in with a frank welcome which
was evidently meant as atonement for her
mother's coldness.

You didn't give your name, did you?'
she asked, rather anxiously; ' you know I've
dropped it, and we aren't even own to
our relations.' Opal thought that this
reluctance was certainly mutual, but she
replied that she had given no name, being
warned by Fred.

How ill you look,' said Bowwow, who
had done nothing but stare at her old
governess.

Opal had dressed herself in a dainty
costume of brown velvet, relieved with a
little yellow, which she thought very becoming,
but the child's unflattering scrutiny
had detected that her face was pinched
and sallow.

Perhaps I go out too much ; I've never
been used to such dissipation,' replied Opal.
But she felt uncomfortable nevertheless.

Miss Gay's appearance made a diversion.
Visitors were few, and she had run away
to put on a fresh cap at the sight of Opal's
brougham. If she was not more cordial

than the others, she was a great deal more
inquisitive, and drew Opal out till she became
almost as amusing as in the days
when she used to make conversation for
Mrs. Daman. She told them how Fred
was writing a book about music, and went
every day to collect materials at the
British Museum ; how one of the Hamlets
whom they had met in Switzerland was
making up ' to Maud ; how they were trying
to get up private theatricals at Lancaster
Gate, but Fred wanted them put off
till she had more time.

Only we mayn't be here then,' said
Opal ; ' we're going to India, you know.
I'm so glad. I hate the idea of living ina
garrison town, but India has been the
dream of my life. People talk of the
climate, but I don't mind that.'

I dare say it will suit you well enough,'
said Aunt Sophy.

Opal flushed.

I'm a chilly creature, certainly. Well,

1 must be going ; I'm glad to have found
you all at home.'

Good-bye,' said Bowwow ; ' we shall
never see you again as you're going to
India.'

Oh, but India isn't so far ois,' said
Greta, following the visitor out.

Opal paused as she reached the little
conservatory on the landing.

Are you never going to relent ?' she
asked, looking steadily at Greta. ' Don't
you know that he's only waiting for you to
lift your finger. Let me tell him to come
back,' she whispered, eagerly. ^ I shall
see him to-night.'

Greta moved her lips, but her no was
scarcely audible.

^ Don't put it off too late,' urged Opal ;
he may go away— any day,' she added, as
Greta gave a start. * Everyone would be
pleased, your mother most of all, and
there's nothing really to prevent it ; it's
such utter folly.'

Don't, it's no use,' said Greta, drawing
back.

Then I shall tell him you don't care.
You'll be sorry when you come to your
senses, and find it's too late,' said Opal,
turning quickly to the door.

There was no fear of her telling Arundel
as she threatened ; he had given her no
opening for intimacy. But she would
gladly have done anything to settle the
matter between him and Greta. In his
present state of uncertainty, Arundel
seemed to Opal's excited fancy as if he
always held danger over her head. A
desire to get away from England had
taken possession of Opal now; she was
always looking forward, always fancying
that the next move would bring rest.

When Opal had gone, Greta went
straight up to her own room. 'Let me
tell him, I shall see him to-night,' had
raised a vision which she struggled to put
from her like a sin. She hid her face and

clasped her hands instinctively • then she-unlocked
a drawer, and took out a photograph
which she had been used to look at
every day. It had been rather neglected
of late. For that very reason, the happy
boyish face smote her afresh with a pang
which made everything seem dull by comparison.
The old sense of a guilt by which
she had forfeited all right to enjoy life,
came back upon Greta. Her own happiness
had seemed such a little thins: six months
ago, yet she was already feeding her fancy
with dreams of the love which she had
renounced. As she looked at Jack's picture
to strengthen her resolve, Greta yearned to
break the barrier which shut ois her dead.
She did not fear Jack now, it had seemed
to her lately as if she must be forgiven,
she only craved a sign that it was well
with him. The spirit-world had no terrors
for the girl whose sin was open and confessed
before God and man.

As she faced with renewed calmness the

dull road which stretched between her and
the grave, Greta began to dream of a
scheme for turning her darkest experience
to good account. She had never forgotten
the faces which had surrounded her in
Newgate Chapel. As one door after
another closed against her desire for work,
she had learned to think of finding employment
in the prison. Surely she might be
permitted to serve if she did not ask to be
paid. She only wanted to be allowed to
go and read to the prisoners and talk to
them. She thought that the women would
listen to a girl who had been put in prison
and had stood in the dock herself, better
than to ladies who had lived at ease.
Greta felt as if she might gain a new interest
in life if she were allowed to enter
upon some such service as this. The
monotonous routine of little home duties
had no power to lift her mind out of its
dull groove.

Greta sat thinking till the handle of her

door Alas rattled impatiently, and Bow-wow's
voice clamoured for admission. As
Greta turned the key, she met a white
scared face.

• Father's ill, mother wants you to get a
doctor,' cried the child, shrilly.

^ What is it ?' asked Greta, flinging on
her things.

I don't know, he got up and nearly fell
down ; Mrs. Turner says it's a fit, she thinks
it's very bad. Oh, do make haste, mother
thought you'd go quicker than anybody.'

A heavy April shower was dancing on
the pavement as Greta ran to the end of
the terrace where she remembered to have
seen a plate. The doctor Alas out, and she
ran on through the whirl of rain to find
another. This time she succeeded in capturing
a doctor, whom she brought back
with her. Bowwow was watching at the
window and ran to let them in.

Mr. Daman was lying on the sofa in the
parlour. Greta could not see his face as she

hung back, half-hiding herself behind the
others, but something in his helpless
attitude filled her with fear. She thought
that the doctor looked grave, he made
rather a long visit and gave stringent
orders as to treatment. without taking
.such a gloomy view of the case as the
landlady, who seemed to find a pleasure in
preparing Mrs. Daman for the worst, the
doctor evidently thought seriously of the
attack. Before he left, he asked a good
many questions as to Mr. Daman's health
of late. Mrs. Daman and Greta began to
reproach themselves for not having taken
alarm sooner. They looked at each other
fearfully when the doctor had gone. Both
shrank from divino' this illness the ill-omened
name which would indicate a helpless,
hopeless future. They even told each
other that it was not so, with earnestness
which betrayed their misgivings.

This sudden illness, with its imperative
demand on all the energies and resources

of the household, promised at first to absorb
Greta. But her usefulness was hindered
by the fact that the patient, as Bowwow
had said, could not bear the sight of her.
This was perhaps an exaggeration, but if
Greta had doubted that her presence had
painful associations for Jack's father, she
must have found it out now. Strong and
Cavilling as she was, her ministrations had,
for the most part, to be carried on outside
the sick-room. She worked hard enough
to win approval even from Aunt Sophy,
but the small cares of cooking and arranging
which fell to her share, whilst they
brought her into no contact with the
invalid, could bring little relief to the self-torment
which had taken fresh hold of her.
Mr. Daman's illness seemed the latest result
of her fault. She forgot that others
had noticed the change in him a year ago,
that he had suffered months of anxiety
before those about him knew that there
was anything amiss. Greta had not been

observant in the days when life seemed all
play, her faculties were growing fast in the
sort of forcing-house to which she had
been transplanted. She fancied that the
change was in her surroundings alone, yet,
if it had been possible for her to be put
back in her old place, Greta would still
have felt a new creature. Months had
done for her what the years of a long life
sometimes fail to do for others. She had
not only loved, but she had felt and suffered
to the fullest extent of her capacity.
By the exercise of every latent faculty she
had become full-grown in a sense to which
neither of the older women beside her had
attained. Her mother's sympathy was less
soothing, her aunt's sharpness less rousing,
as both fell farther short of her need. In
her loneliness Greta longed for the companionship
which had seemed to fill up
some gap in her life even before she had
felt the want of it. Nothing but the presence
of Jack's father, the visible reminder

of her wrong-doing, kept Greta firmly to
the resolution not even to think of what
life might be to her yet.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER Xii.

Mr. Da]man had become the central figure
in his household. As months passed on,
he became in some measure convalescent,
and was able to move about with a little
assistance. But the seizure which had
taken his family by surprise acted as a
Warning. Even Aunt Sophy, who had no
great regard for her brother-in-law, recognised
his claims. Mr. Daman made a few
protests. ' I'm afraid I'm a great trouble
to everybody.' Or he would say, uneasily,
^ I hope we're not spending too much.'

It was usually easy to pacify him. He
knew little about the expense of living in
London, and had never been told the extent

of Miss Gay's resources. But his wife
found it difficult to persuade him to go
away with her for a change, though she
had saved a little hoard for the purpose.

AYe must get him away somehow,' said
Greta, as the days grew long and the London
lodgings seemed stuffy to people who
had been used almost to live in their
garden. ' Ashy not give up these lodgings
and find country ones ?'

Mrs. Daman looked regretfully round
the little room which she had taken pains
to make home-like.

We may lose them altogether. We
shall never be so comfortable again,' she
said, with an instinctive dread of chancre.
1 shouldn't like to go away from the
doctor, either. And, if we leave London,
what will Bowwow do ?'

Bowwow's education was a pet project.
They had begun to save for it just before
Mr. Daman's illness made an urgent demand
on their store. Bowwow was to bes

2

sent to the high school ; she was to go up
for Cambridge examinations and carry all
before her. If she must be a governess
she should at least be fitted to take a place
in the front rank of her profession.

Aunt Sophy and I might keep the parlours,'
said Greta, with a feeling that the
others would enjoy themselves better without
her.

It would matter very little to herself
where she spent the next few weeks.
Every day was an anniversary. It was at
this time last year that Fred had carried
her off to Waldberg. As the days came
round, Greta could recal every walk that
they had taken, almost every word that
they had spoken. There would come a
time of darker memories. Greta felt that
it would be better for Jack's father and
herself to be apart then. Perhaps Mrs.
Daman thought so too, for she succeeded
in persuading her husband that they could
go away without much extra expense, and

that a holiday would be good for Boavwow.
Aunt Sophy knew of lodgings at Hastings
which they could have for a month. But
Mrs. Daman had resolved, when she once
got her husband away, to keep him till
after the anniversary of Jack's death

By staying at Sudbury Crescent, and
living in the rooms which were least likely
to let. Miss Gay and Greta managed, With
the payment of a small rent, to secure
the lodgings against ]airs. Daman's return.
London lodgings not being in demand during
August, they had the house to themselves.
Greta found the long hot days in
Aunt Sophy's company very tiresome, but
she was learning to recognise a good deal
•of unselfish kindness under an ungracious
manner and somewhat overbearing self-esteem.
It was a relief when Miss Gay
conceived the happy idea of asking her old
friend, Miss Withers, to stay With her.

In her former existence, Greta had
laughed with Jack over Aunt Sophy's passion

for the Bishop's cousin, as they had
called her. Now she hailed the appearance
of this inoffensive middle-aged lady, who
took Aunt Sophy completely off her hands
and seemed to divine the girl's desire for
solitude.

Whilst the two friends chatted over their
work, or indulged themselves with a little
shopping at Whiteley's, Greta dreamed
away the late summer days in Kensington
Gardens. The level turf which she paced
had no reality to her, she was in fancy
springing up the rocky hills at Waldbergy
she could see the dark thick pines in the
place of brown elms which were beginning
to drop a few dry leaves on her path. The
murmur of mountain rills, the rush of
waterfalls, made music for her, where no
sound was audible but the plash of an oar
on the Serpentine, or the shouts of children
watching the play of a cockney fountain.

Day after day, Greta lived over the warm,
bright life of a year ago, till the grey shallow

under which she dwelt seemed darker.
There was no sign that anyone else recalled
those memories. The anniversary of
Arundel's declaration, of Greta's engagement
to him, both passed without so much
as a flower to tell her he had not forgotten.
Fred was in Switzerland, Opal had
gone to India, there was no one to tell
Greta of her lost lover.

The anniversary of Jack's death passed.
Greta kept it much as fervent loyalists
used to keep the thirtieth of January'.
She got a letter from her mother on
that day, giving a hopeful account of Mr.
Daman, and speaking cheerfully of their
return. Aunt Sophy made no reference
to the date, but very shortly began urging
Greta to leave off her mourning.

It looks very shabby, and you've got
plenty of dresses put b}^' she said, referring
to Greta's unlucky trousseau.

I'd rather wear black all my life,' replied
Greta, wincing.

That's nonsense, besides you can't afford
it when you've got coloured things. Get
them out before your mother comes home,
she'll be pleased, I'm sure.'

Well, I suppose they must be worn
some time,' said Greta, resignedly.

As she opened the boxes, which had been
closed when her life was at its crisis, Greta
felt that the task was not inappropriate.
She was allowing herself a last indulgence
in sentiment. When the year had run its
course, even to the day on which she had
bid Arundel good-bye, she would put it out
of her life. It gave her a thrill to unfold
the dresses which had been packed for her
wedding-journey, but they would lose their
associations when she took them into use.
By way of breaking the spell, she put on
at once the dress which it gave her most
pain to touch.

^ You're right to wear that first, it's
getting a little late in the year for it,' said
Aunt Sophy. ' You might keep it for next

summer tlioiigli.' Then lie reflected that
there might be occasion for another mourning
by that time. ' It's very becoming, you
look well in brown,' she added.

Some one else had said so, and had
called her a harmony in brown ; that was
why she had chosen the travelling-dress, in
which she had meant to be married, of the
colour.

All the things seem too good for me
now,' said Greta, thinking how much more
becoming new dresses were than old.

It's cheaper to wear them than buy new
ones. But that's too good for every day.'

I may as well keep it on now.'

Oh, it was always get a thing and wear
it out directly with you.'

Not now,' thought Greta, but she felt
a little pleasure in her new dress all the
same.

It Alas just a year since Greta had put
on her mourning; to o^o before Mr. Oliver.
The scene came back to her as she hurried

through the streets which led to her
favourite haunt. The sight of grass and
trees brought brighter memories. It washer
living lover who usurped the first
place in Greta's thoughts. Jack was
retreating fast into the half-forgotten
land which sooner or later receives our
dead.

Greta lingered in the gardens with a
feeling of rebellion against the dull home
and dull company which would hinder the
free indulgence of her dreams. Tired of
wandering over the same ground, she took
a chair close by the water's edge and stayed
on, heedless of the fact that nurseries
with children and other steady frequenters
of the place had gone home, leaving her
rather unprotected. She was startled into
recollection by feeling some one come close
up to her side.

Greta jumped up resentfully to meet a
friendly glance, which made her dream-world
suddenly become real.

'Oh, I thought it was a stranger,' she
cried, with undisguised delight.

'You shouldn't come here alone,' said
Arundel, taking the chair beside her.

I have Bowwow generally.'

That's a protection.'

And I don't stay so late.'

I suppose you stayed late to-day because
I went to your house.'

'You did!'

Did you think I was going to stop away
for ever ? I meant to have waited a whole
year, but Fred was away ; I couldn't hear
a word about you. I used to go and look
at your house, but your shadow never
crossed the blind.' Then, dropping his
light manner, Arundel asked suddenly,
Do you know what day this is, Greta?'

It was the day which had been fixed for
their wedding, but the fact had made less
impression on her mind than on his.
Jack's death had at the time effaced all
recollection of the appointed day.

The happiness died out of Greta's eyes.
She had felt only the delight of seeing
Arundel, she had thought it a chance
meeting, she wanted him to sit and talk
with her in the old way. But he had come
with a deliberate purpose. Greta looked
at him imploringly, and a sort of struggle
passed between them before a word was
spoken.

Then Arundel drew his chair closer.

I didn't care for what you said, a year
ago, Greta. But you are yourself now, I
saw your own face for a moment. Why,
your very anger was like yourself,' he said,
smiling a reminder of old days. ' You are
no Ion O'er full of exasperated remorse, you

O CO ' J

can enjoy life and keep your promise tome.
— Don't say no,' he cried, as she tried
to speak, ' you thought a great deal of that
old promise, you reproached yourself for
breaking that — is the very same promise
to go for nothing because it was made tome?'


I ought never to have made it.'

But you did make it and I believed it.
You promised to marry me on this very
day last year, and instead of marrying you,
I had to see you carried off to prison. I
don't want to talk about my own troubles,
they mattered little enough, for through
all I felt you were mine. You are mine,
I have never given you up. And you
looked just now as if I could make you
happy.'

I shouldn't be happy,' began Greta.
But she knew it was not true. ' I should
be full of remorse.' She was not sure of
that either. ' No, it isn't that, but I feel
as if I'd made a vow.'

Rubbish,' muttered Arundel.

It's not rubbish. If I had really killed
Jack, and got off, you wouldn't wonder at
my not liking to marry you then ?'

I don't see why you shouldn't, if I made
no objection.'

But you would understand. I have

often felt worse than if I had killed Jack.
I should only'' have done the wicked thing
myself, instead of making him do it. And

I might have repented, but he ' Greta

stopped, and the old look of despair came
back.

You're encouraging the idea,' said
Arundel, watching her closely. ' You bring
it back and try to make yourself miserable
by way of expiation. It does no good.
Let me help you to drive such thoughts
away.'

Then Arundel dropped his voice still
lower, and pleaded as if he had never wooed
Greta before. She yielded weakly to the
delight of listening till she felt herself
giving way.

I mustn't, don't tempt me — if I gave
way to-day, I should go back tomorrow,'
she cried, with a conviction which silenced
Arundel. He even let her move away a
few paces.

You can't 2:0 home alone.'

She let him join her, and they walked in
silence, which Arundel was the first to break.

'Do you know, Greta, that a great many
people my own father for one, still believe
that Jack was murdered, though not, of
course, by you.'

In that moment of time — before I went
back ? And I saw nothing.'

People don't wait to be caught, and you
were scarcely in a mood to have noticed if
anyone had been lurking about.'

Greta looked incredulous. She was
lingering involuntarily over their walk
through the quiet deserted paths when
Arundel spoke again.

Last time we walked here '

'Don't,' cried Greta, with a full recollection
of the day when he had followed her
from Lancaster Gate. Then speaking in a
rapid nervous way she went on : ' Don't

come again, unless ' She looked at

him doubtfully with a yearning for the
occasional comfort of his presence.

Do you mean to offer me your friendship?
Thanks, I don't feel quite chastened
enough to accept that yet.'

Greta wondered if these were to be
Arundel's last words. She made a faint
effort to go on alone when they reached
the noisy, bustling road where the glare of
gas and confusion of sounds gave her a
sense of bewilderment. But Arundel kept
his place till they reached the corner of her
street.

^ Good-bye,' he said, holding her hand a
little longer than a stranger might have
done, and then standing to watch her till
she disappeared into the house.

Greta never knew whether she had said
good-bye or not. She rushed by her aunt
in the passage with an impatient shake of
her head, and shut herself into her room, to
struggle as she best could with the despairing;
consciousness of what might have been.
So long as she had been with Arundel, his
presence had upheld her. She had found

courage even to repulse him. Alone, she
felt ready to sacrifice every thinly only to
see his face again. He had told her the
truth. She had outlived her shame and
self-reproach, she was ready and eager to
enjoy life again. She told herself that her
vow was folly, she had been mad to doom
herself and Arundel to a life-long separation.
Greta was herself again, even to her
self-will and reckless desire to follow the
inclination of the hour. She had done
honestly according to her lights, but she
repented.

After a night of angry rebellion against
her self-inflicted punishment, Greta came
down with a hard, set face, feeling as if
there could be no way out of the misery
which beset her.

Aunt Sophy met her on the stairs with
an eager face.

A telegram,' she cried, excitedly.

Greta tore it open and read :

Father worse. Come at once.'

VOL. II. T

CHAPTER XY.

Greta had called a cab and was tossing a
few things into a bag when Aunt Sophy
ran up to her.

You needn't be in such a hurry, there's
not a train before eleven. And I've been
thinking whether it wouldn't be better forme
to go.'

I shall go. Mother sent for me. I'll
write directly and tell you everything. I
may as well go now, I don't mind waiting
at the station,' said Greta, impatient to
make the first stage of her journey. It
seemed a long time before the train started,
and, when it did go, it seemed very slow to
Greta who was haunted by the fear that

she might never see her father, and, above
all, never hear hmi speak kindly to her,
ao^ain. Her mother too, who could never
bear any trouble alone, might be passing
through the worst with no one but Bowwow
to help her.

Hastings was reached at last, it was only
a few minutes' drive to Castle Terrace
where Mrs. Daman was staying. Greta
save one quick glance at the windows and
saw with a gasp of relief that they were
open. The next moment, her mother
seized her with as much delight as if
Greta had brought healing; and release
from anxiety.

It's been much worse than last time, but
he's a shade better. I wonder whether you
dare go in,' she said, in a breath.

'When was it?' asked Greta, guessing
that there had been a second seizure.

Last night, too late for me to send,'
said Mrs. Daman, piteously.

'You've been up all night! Go and

T 2

lie down at once and leave everything tome.'


He can't speak at least, not distinctly.'

I shall find out what he wants. If I go
in quietly I shan't disturb him. Is Bow-wow
With him?'

No, I sent her to bed, she was up half
the night. He's alone, in there,' said Mrs.
Daman, "pointing to the folding door.

Greta pushed her mother gently away.
Go,' she whispered, ' let me stay with
him.'

Mrs. Daman rather reluctantly yielded,
whilst Greta crept softly into the sick-room.
She had made up her mind not to be repulsed.
Throughout the journey she had
been thinking of all she would have done
if she had her time to come over again.
With a deprecating air she approached the
bed. The quiet figure made no sign as she
stood looking down and noting with a
shiver that the mouth was slightly drawn
to one side. Sitting by the bed-side

watching with the helpless feeling which
the probable approach of death inspires,
Greta told herself that happiness was a
very little thing after all. Death seemed
no great evil to the girl who felt herself
shut out from the best things of life, yet
it dwarfed the enjoyments which she had
coveted a few hours before. The scene of
yesterday passed once more through Greta's
mind. There had been a moment of delight
when she saw Arundel beside her.
She had even been childish enough to remember
her new dress, and feel glad that
he should see her in it. They had greeted
each other gladly, but their parting had
been cold and formal. There had been no
question of appeal this time, no assurance
that in some utterly incomprehensible way
she should yet be Arundel's wife. The
second parting had taken all sweetness out
of the first. But Greta's rebellious mood
had passed. She knew that she had been
rash and headstrong, even in her atonement.

She had felt last night as if she
might, for Arundel's sake, if not for her
own, be justified in breaking the vow, as
she called it. But Arundel had gone away
in anger. He would try to forget her —
she must let him do it.

Teach me to wish it. Make him happy.
Teach me to do without happiness,' she
murmured, in the solemn solitude of the
sick-room.

A slight sound, some words which were
scarcely articulate, came from the bed.
Greta looked round, trying to guess the
invalid's wants. She took a glass which
stood at hand and offered it at a venture.
As he drank, Mr. Daman raised his eyes
His old kind smile came creeping slowly into
his face. Greta bent over trembling and
kissed him. He looked at her affectionately
and composed himself again.

He has forgiven,' Greta whispered to
her mother, when she came back after a
short rest.

He has forgotten,' thought the mother,
watching in a sort of terror.

As day by day she saw her husband
coming back to something more like life,
Mrs. Daman looked for a return of the old
shrinking from Greta's ministrations. But,
whether forgiving or forgetting, Mr. Daman
continued to smile placidly, and to Avatch
Greta moving about his room with the
same admiring fondness which had made
Mrs. Daman declare, years before, that she
had no cause to be jealous of anyone but
her own little girl.

There was no falling back after the sick
man had made his first slight rally. To
nurse hopefully is a comparatively light
task, and Greta drew recklessly on her
store of strength. The hours which she
snatched for sleep and fresh air seemed
hours of positive luxury.

We shall get through without a nurse,'
she told her mother triumphantly when

they saw their patient making perceptible
progress.

At last they began to lay plans for
moving him. They fancied he would get
on faster in the quiet house which they
had to themselves, than in this crowded
lodging-house. They had set their hearts
on his seeing a specialist, and that was impossible
to them at Hastings. Then Bow-wow,
who had been sent home on Greta's
arrival, wrote piteous letters. Aunt Sophy
was cross, it was horribly dull, she wanted
to begin lessons again, she wanted Greta
to take her for walks. Bowwow exhausted
her ingenuity in finding touching signatures
: ^ Your poor little deserted Bowwow,'
Your unhappy little girl.' Aunt Sophy,
on her part, wrote complaining that the
child was more trouble than a dozen
invalids. She was always running downstairs,
and spent half her time with Mrs.
Turner and the servant ; she would not do
anything useful, and pretended that she

could not even practise her music without
Greta. She wanted (this was underlined)
to run out and play in the street like a
little common girl. This quite overcame
Mrs. Daman.

I suppose we are common people, we
were never much,' said Greta, laughing.
But we can't let Bowwow grow up like
that. We must send her to school directly.'

We can't afford it this quarter. Illness
is so expensive, and I don't think I can bea
very good manager,' said Mrs. Daman,
deprecatingly. ' Oh, dear, whatever should
we do without your money, Greta !' She
lowered her voice as if her husband could
hear through the door, then went on, ' I'm
afraid of that man Simpson coming again,
now father's better.'

^ Simpson !'

Yes, I wrote and told you about him.
Oh,' as Greta looked blank, ' I think it was
the very day father Alas taken ill, you
couldn't have got the letter. But you

remember him ? he was one of the
creditors.'

Greta remembered that Simpson was the
name of the man who had told Jack he
mio'ht make promises and take his hat off
to the creditors when he came of age.

What about him ?' she asked.

'He'd found us out somehow, and I suppose
he thought we seemed too comfortable,
anyhow he taxed father with keeping
money back. He came and asked all sorts
of impertinent questions. He even got
hold of Bowwow ; I'm afraid she talked
rather grandly, poor child. But the worst
of it was that I didn't dare say a word
about your allowance lest father should
refuse to let us take it any longer. We
couldn't do without it now,' said Mrs.
Daman, almost in tears. ' We couldn't
afford doctors or anything he wants, it
would just mean death for him, or a hospital,'
added Mrs. Daman, with the horror
of a clinging home-loving woman.

^Hacl this anything to do with his-illness
?'

I suppose so, it was just before.'

'■ That man must never see father again,
not if I have to go on my knees to him.
You know what the doctor said about
another shock.'

In her fear of Mr. Simpson, Greta kept
constant watch, never losing sight of the
house even when she took her daily walk.
It was not till they were making arrangements
for leaving, that she ventured as far
as the railway-station to see about an invalid
carriage. Hurrying back she saw the landlady,
to whom she had given stringent
directions, parleying with a stranger at the
door. Greta flew to his side.

Are you Mr. Simpson ?'

Yes,' returned he, taking off his hat
with involuntary politeness, ' and you?'

Greta coloured, for she could not give
her real name.

• Never mind, I think I've seen yoa

before,' said Mr. Simpson, with a look which
reminded Greta that she had been a nine
days' wonder.

I can't ask you in, my father is too ill
to see anyone, but I want to speak to you.
Will you walk this way with me?'

Delighted, I'm sure.'

Greta was too much in earnest to stand
on dignity. She tried a persuasive tone.

Mr. Daman has had a stroke of paralysis.
Any excitement might bring on a fresh
shock which would probably kill him.'
Then, not liking her companion's mode of
looking at her, Greta went on stiffly, ' You
want to know what we are living on, I can
tell you exactly.' Then she told him the
amount of her mother's little annuity,
explained their partnership with Miss Gay,
and added that the bulk of their income
arose from an allowance paid quarterly to
herself by her uncle. General Charlstrom.
I give you my word,' she said, forcing
herself to look him once in the face, ' that

we have not a penny in the world from
any other source. You can verify my statement
for yourself, I will give you my
uncle's address.'

Are you going back to Sudbury Crescent
? I had my last journey there for
nothing.'

Then Greta remembered that Mrs. Turner
had told, what Aunt Sophy called a cock-and-bull
story, about some gentleman who
called and asked a great many questions.

Yes, we are, but don't come, please.'
The words ' I'll meet you anywhere you
like ' rose to Greta's lips, but something in
the man's face warned her that she had
better not offer to make any assignations.
She mended her expression.

Write to me if you have anything to
ask.'

I must have some name to address-you
by, you know,' said Mr. Simpson, with
a smile which she found intolerably
familiar.

Miss G. Gay.' Greta would not give
him the opportunity of repeating her
Christian name. But her voice was almost
pleading as she said, ' You won't try to
see my father?'

Since you make a personal favour of
it, I won't.'

Mr. Simpson held out his hand, and
Greta did not dare to refuse it. She walked
home in a state of hot indignation.
But when she whispered the result of the
interview to her mother she felt that success
had been cheaply won.

Next day, Greta forgot all about Mr.
Simpson in the excitement of getting the
invalid home. It was an anxious business
for the two women, and cost a good deal
more than they could well afford, but the
journey was safely accomplished. It was
a year since Mrs. Daman's arrival in the
little lodging-house which had looked so
uninviting to her. She now hailed it as
home, and even Mr. Daman seemed conscious

of something pleasantly familiar.
Tired though he was, he showed positive
animation at the sight of Bowwow. But
the child slipped away, and Greta found
her crying upstairs.

*He looks so ill and I can't make out
what he says,' she sobbed.

Don't tell mother so,' said Greta. They
had learnt to understand Mr. Daman's
speech well enough to persuade themselves
that there was nothing amiss with it any
longer. Aunt Sophy was lying in wait to
catch Greta.

You never told me he was so bad as this.
Why he looks like a dying man.'

Greta found this discouraging.

^ He is better, and he knew Bowwow
directly,' she protested.

Better than he knows you,' said Aunt
Sophy significantly. ' By-the-by, there's
a letter for you. From your uncle, of all
people. Perhaps he's forgiven you too.'
Greta seized her letter and carried it off at

once. She did not mean to tell of Mr,
Daman's latest annoyance, least Aunt
Sophy should express sympathy with the
enemy.

As Greta tore open the envelope, a letter
from Mr. Simpson fell out. Greta saw it
was addressed to her uncle, and then found
a little note to herself.

'Dear Greta,

Perhaps you can throw
some light on this extraordinary communication.
I confess myself quite unable todo
so. But I may as well write and tell
the fellow that I never gave you so much as
sixpence. Fred is away, or she would
send love.

Your affectionate uncle,
Peter Charlstrom.'

Greta was thunderstruck. Then it was
Fred herself — good, generous, little Fred.
Greta felt with shame that she had never
given her credit for doing even kind things

in secret. She was rather staggered at
the extent of Fred's resources, but she remembered
having heard something about a
legacy. Bob had grumbled at not getting
one too. Fred had often declared that
everything earned by her own talents was
devoted to what Arundel called, pious
uses. Her wares must have proved more
marketable than he supposed. Greta's
chief anxiety was about Mr. Simpson. He
Avould think that she had intentionally
deceived him and take active measures at
once. Then Greta suddenly remembered
Mr. Ord, her uncle's solicitor, who always
signed her cheques. She would ask him
to explain the mistake to Mr. Simpson.
Resolving to say nothing for fear of alarming
her mother, Greta went oiF early next
morning, took an omnibus into the city, and
without much difficulty found her way to
Mr. Ord's office. She sent in the name
which she seldom permitted herself to use
now, and was shown into the presence of
VOL. II. U

a grey fatherly-looking man, whom she
remembered to have met in the bright
days of her first visit to the Charlstroms.

Greta plunged into her business at once.

For the last year you have been paying
me an allowance which I understood came
from my uncle, General Charlstrom.'

I don't think I ever said so.'

I gathered it from what Miss Charlstrom
said. But I know now that she must have
sent it herself.'

Greta waited so obviously for an answer
that Mr. Ord was obliged to say something.


I'm afraid I can't give you any information,'
he said, very pleasantly.

^ You can tell me whether she sent it.'

I have no instructions to do so.'

How funny lawyers are,' thought Greta ;
then she made another effort.

I'm not asking from idle curiosity.'
And she told the story of her interview
with Mr. Simpson.

Mr. Orel did not turn a deaf ear now.

You should have referred him to me at
once he said.

I never even thought of it.'

Then Mr. Ord promised to make it all
right for her, and Greta went away rejoicing
though rather bewildered. On her
way home she stopped to make an appointment
for Mr. Daman to see the physician
on whom they built their hopes. Then
she called at Lancaster Gate and found
that Fred was expected back in the
evening.

After her unusually long absence, Greta
was eagerly seized upon by her mother
and Bowwow, who contrived to fill up every
moment of her time till the evening when
she wrote a hasty letter to Fred. It was
not till after she had put it in the post
that a horrible misgiving seized Greta.
Perhaps it was not Fred after all.

u

CHAPTER XVI.

At night, in the quiet of her own room,
Greta went over the interview which she
had held with Fred a year before. Suddenly
the truth flashed upon her. Throwing
herself on the floor and clasping her hands
almost painfully tight, she recognised the
reality of this idea which had never
dawned on her before.

I can't bear it,' she murmured, writhing
in her humiliation.

Enraged with her lover, doubly enraged
with Fred for playing into his hands,
almost doubting whether they could have
believed her to be so innocent as she
appeared, Greta laid schemes for asserting

her independence with a high hand. Had
it been daytime, she would have rushed
straight to her cousin ; she would have
told her mother, and tried to rouse a
kindred fury. But for something like
eight hours, Greta was shut off and driven
back upon herself She could not burst
into the invalid's room, any more than she
could rouse the household at Lancaster
Gate. An hour or two of helpless raging
brought her in some measure to her senses.
She remembered that it would be necessary
to use gentleness with her mother. The
loss of this money, which seemed as nothing
to herself, would be a blow to Mrs. Daman.
The expressions she had used a short time
before forced themselves back on Greta's
unwilling memory.

"We can't do without it. It would
mean death to him, or a hospital.' Greta
almost shared her mother's horror of the
alternative. She pictured her father
looking in hopeless bewilderment for the

faces he knew, and seeing only strangers.
Greta's active imagination worked in spite
of herself till a new side of the question
stood out. ' It can't be my duty to take
it she cried, in a despairing effort to
silence the voice which would make itself
heard.

Through the dark cold hours of the
winter night, Greta knelt with her arms
stretched across the bed and her face
buried in them, whilst a desperate warfare
raged between her tenderness and her
self-will. Without a moment's hesitation,
she had renounced her happiness and in a
measure her life. Yet she struggled against
the sacrifice of her pride, and, as she told
herself, her womanly dignity. To accept
help from her lover ! It lowered her in her
own eyes, it must lower her in his. For,
if Greta took Arundel's alms now, she
must take them openly, it would be impossible
for her to accept the shelter of a
kindly intention ed deceit. To accept such

aid for long would be out of the question.
But the pressing need might last only a
few months, it was perhaps a question of
the next quarter merely. Afterwards
Greta resolved that she Avould earn a
living somehow — then she suddenly reproached
herself for calculating on her
father's death. With a rush of remorseful
affection, she felt as if no sacrifice could
be too great if it secured his comfort — the
next moment she remembered that Arundel
had left her coldly as if he meant to
give her up.

I can't do it,' she cried, wildly, as the first
gleam of daylight came into her room.

She opened the window and leaned out
drinking in the keen air. The closed
houses opposite, the shuttered shops which
she could see farther down the street, the
horseless cab standing outside the mews,
suggested the repose of a sleeping world
with which she had nothing in common.
Why was her life so intolerably hard, she

asked herself, as she sat still undecided,
waiting wearily for the common routine
to begin again. She knew hoar her friends
would offer to solve the difficulty : ' Marry
Arundel,' they would say. Duty to the
dead forbade that. But might not duty
to the living demand her humiliation ?

Was it wrong to seek a sign, Greta wondered,
as she took up her little bible. She
opened it at the Psalms : ' Teach me to do
Thy will.' Greta repeated the words
earnestly.

I never tried, I have always followed
my own,' she cried, with conviction. ' Take
it and take me.'

An hour later, after she had bathed
and dressed herself, Greta thought that
she looked much the same as usual. But
it seemed to her as if she could never
carry her head so high again. ' I can't fall
much lower,' she thought, with girlish unconsciousness
of possible depths. She had
chosen her course deliberately and meant

to follow it without flinching, but duty
seemed more sordid than heroic and the
humiliation it entailed, rankled.

Mrs. Daman came down in unusually good
spirits, looking hopefully to the physician's
promised visit.

You're quite sure about the fee ?' she
asked, as she made a little business of
wrapping it up.

Greta felt remorseful as she thought of
the shock which had been so near overwhelming
her mother. She herself passed
the morning looking for news from Fred.
She could not soothe herself with any
doubts as to the truth of her guess, yet
she waited anxiously for its confirmation.
Fred's answer came quickly, but it proved
to be no answer at all. She wrote in great
excitement about an announcement which
had just been telegraphed from India.
Opal had a son.

I hope everything will go well now,'
Fred wrote, ' you know she has been most

dreadfully ill ever since they went out

Fred wrote too many novels to be a good
correspondent, and Greta had heard nothing
about Oj^al. Fred Event on to say that
she was kept in by a cold, so Greta must
come herself if she wanted to see her.
The Pater says you never come now.'
This was underlined and followed by a note
of exclamation, which intimated that Fred
could not account for her father's whims,
but considered the ban on Greta's visits
withdrawn.

The postscript made Greta start and
almost cry out.

I am afraid you behaved very badly to
poor Arundel last time. Do you know
that he has gone to Burma?'

Burma ! Greta remembered to have
seen on the broadsheets something about a
war in B u r ma. S h e j u mp e d u p an d r she d
out to buy a paper instantly.

The newspaper told Greta little, but
Fred might tell more.

Can you spare me to run round ?' she
asked, turning a terror-stricken face on her
mother.

Of course, go at once,' returned Mrs.
Daman, almost as much agitated as her
daughter.

Greta flew to Lancaster Gate and rushed
breathlessly into Fred's bed-room. She
had almost forgotten Opal's baby, but
remembered just in time to offer hasty congratulations
before pouring out questions
about Arundel.

He volunteered, it was all your fault,'
said Fred ; then, relenting at the sight of
Greta's face, she added, ' Well, perhaps not
that exactly. They're all wild after active
service. Bob's just the same, in spite of
Opal and the baby. But it's not likely
Arundel would have gone out of his way if
you'd said yes, as you ought to have done,
in September.'

He told you !'

I asked him how he could go away without

trying this luck again. Then he said
it was no good, it was all over. He was
much more down than the time before. I
only saw him that once.'

Greta had hidden her face, but Fred saw
that her shoulders shook, and the sis^ht
moved her good-nature.

I daresay he'll come back all right.'
This sounded almost presumptuous to
Greta. ' And, as to its being all over, he
made me promise to write and tell him
about you every mail ; that doesn't look
much as if it were over with him, any more
than it is with you apparently.'

Fred's words carried some healing. Greta
lifted her head.

I'd give him up ever so much sooner
than he should come to any harm,' she said,
as if she were offering to make a bargain
with fate.

'I thought you had given him up,'
returned Fred, laughing. ' But I see
it's all going to come right Don't fret

tiway your looks in the meantime. Keep
up a spirit as I do. Why, my own
brother's going as well as Arundel, the
only two men I care for in the world
except the Pater, of course,' added Fred,
dutifully. ' It's no use meeting trouble
half-way, I daresay the war will be nothing
but a march over.'

Will you tell me directly, whenever
you get a letter ?'

Yes, you shall read them too.'
'But you won't say anything to Arundel
about me?'

I shan't get many letters, if I don't.'
I mean, about what I tell you.'
Let out, you mean — you haven't told
me anything yet, I see you're in rather an
abject condition, but I have too much
respect for my sex to betray that.'

I mustn't stay much longer,' said Greta,
when she had found out everything about
Arundel's leaving, his journey, and the
earliest day at which they might expect a

letter. ' But there's one thing I must ask.'

I know — what you wrote about. Why
can't you let well alone ?'

'If you could only say it wasn't Arundel,'
Greta blushed scarlet.

I'm not going to tell you anything, you
can't help yourself now. There, go back
to your invalid, but come again soon.
Come every day, if you can. I'm an invalid
too. We get all the papers, and I'll show
you a splendid map of Burma. There's
nothing like a war for rubbing-up one's
geography. Greta ' — calling her back —
don't forget to congratulate the Pater.
He's awfully proud of the second generation.'


The poor old general's pride was not
gratified long. Congratulations Avere
swiftly followed by condolences. Opal's
baby only lived a few days, its birth and
death were successively announced in the
Times and the excitement of the first
grandchild was over.

The telegrams made no reference to
Opal.

So I suppose she's all right,' said Fred.

You said something about her being
dreadfully ill,' remarked Greta, who had
obeyed Fred's injunction to drop in everyday.


'Yes, but Ave don't really know anything
about her illness. She never wrote herself,
not once after they went out, and you
know what men's letters are. We kept
worrying Bob for particulars, but we never
got any. I don't suppose he wanted to

make any mystery about it, but You

never thought Opal at all queer, did you ?'

Oh, dear, no, the last person in the
world. What could put that in your head?'

bob talked of nerves — nerves may
mean anything. T daresay Opal was
frightened about herself, you know she
really wasn't quite rational on that point.
She was frightened at venturing herself ina
P. and 0., when it came to the point.

We had to keep the papers out of her way
when there were any wrecks. Don't go
yet,' she added, as Greta got up.

I must, I shan't be able to come tomorrow,
if I stay now.'

But Mr. Daman's so much better.'

'Yes,' Greta brightened. 'But he wants
quite as much looking after now he can get
about a little.'

And no one else can look after him, I
suppose. You'd better not make yourself
too useful, or they won't know how to spare
you when Arundel comes back.'

What's the good of talking like that?'

You must take him, you know, you
can't help it, you've sold yourself,' said
Fred, quoting an expression which Greta
had used in a moment of self-abasement.

As she walked home Greta asked herself
whether it was possible that she might
some day feel herself absolved from her
vow. It was a question which she must
leave for the present. She had given up

her will, and was trying to take one step at
a time in the spirit of Newman's hymn
which was often on her lips in these days.
It must be owned that she found this
passive course rather depressing at first.
She had no idea of purchasing happiness ^
in her own sense of the Avoid, by submission,
whilst the peace promised as a reward
Licked charm for her. But Greta dimly
comprehended that the cramped path in
which she forced herself to tread offered
her the only possible way of escape from the
self-made difficulties which threatened to
overwhelm her. She knew that the self-conquest
which had followed her night of
struggle had armed her in some measure
to encounter the fresh blow which was
even then awaiting her. The news of what
seemed like a final parting with Arundel
had fallen on a heart softened by submission.
Even so, it had been with something
like despair that she pictured him
leaving her in anger to meet risks which

VOL. II. X

her fears magnified. If he might only
]return safely, Greta thought that she could
bear the former separation patiently. Yet
she liked to hear Fred say that all must
come right, and she sometimes whispered
to herself that even miracles were possible.

CHAPTER Xiii.

Whatever her engagements might be,
<jreta always managed to run round to
Lancaster Gate once in the day, if it was
only to see the papers. Coming one evening
rather late, and guessing that the family
would be dressing for dinner, she flew upto
the craving-room and made straight for
the St. James s Gazette. The late edition
had just arrived, and was uncut, but Greta
had it open at the telegrams in a second.
Encounters with rebels,' caught her eye,
below she saw a small list of casualties.
One glance satisfied her that his name Alas
not there, but that glance expressed such
agony and relief as Greta's face had never
shown when her own life huno- in the

balance. Looking up, with a half-uttered
expression of thanksgiving, Greta found
that there was some one in the room. The
blood which had left her face rushed back
as she saw that it was Arundel's father.
They had never met since the trial, and
her beautiful eyes questioned him doubtfully
as to the greeting which she might
expect. For herself, Sir Edward had, at
this moment, more charm than any other
man in Europe. He must care, she thought,
wondering how he could have sat in the
room with an unopened edition of the
latest news, till she saw another copy beside
him. That Greta cared had been shown
pretty plainly. She was far too embarrassed
to make friendly overtures, but somehow
it came to pass that Fred found two people,
whom she had not ventured to bring
together, sitting in apparently confidential
intercourse with their heads close together
over a large map of Burma. After this
chance encounter, Greta met Arundel's

father frequently. He was almost as
regular a visitor at the Charlstroras' house
as she was herself Arundel's letters
were made common property, and Fred
received quite as many as Sir Edward
did. Fred was not sorry that he should
have an opportunity of seeing how constantly
Greta's name occurred in Arundel's
letters to her, though it was never mentioned
in the filial epistles. Sir Edward
preserved a discreet silence as to these
allusions, but discretion was not much
in Fred's line. She could not resist drawing
his attention to the fact that Greta
seemed in no danger of being forgotten.

'I suppose they carry on a correspondence
by proxy,' he observed.

Xo, indeed, Greta never sends messages.'

Her face is sufficiently expressive, perhaps
you interpret that.'

Tell me,' said Fred, boldly, ' now you
have seen Greta so often, can you wonder
at Arundel's infatuation T

I don't know that it was necessary to
see lier often. Seeing her once might help
me to account for a young man's infatuation.'


^ Don't talk as if her looks were her best
part. You may find other girls as pretty,,
but none so good and true.'

Well,' replied Sir Edward, judicially.
here is a young lady who has jilted two
men '

She never jilted Arundel.'

We used to call it jilting — jilted two
men under aggravated circumstances, the
wedding day being in each case fixed. I
don't know that having figured at the
Old Bailey is such a grace as to cover all
blemishes.'

'These are mere accidents,' cried Fred,.
in spite of them all she is as innocent and
single-minded as a baby.'

In spite of these accidents, she seems
all you say. No,' added Sir Edward, with

some fervour, ' I won't say seems, there can
be no seeming about that girl.'

'■ You do believe in her, after all,' said
Fred, triumphantly ; ' I wish you'd write
and tell Arundel so.'

I don't think he's waiting for my
approval.'

Ought we not to compel Greta to marry
him ?'

Certainly not. But I'm inclined to
think she will.'

On the strength of this conversation,
Fred felt herself justified in telling the two
people most concerned that Sir Edward
was eager to secure Greta as a daughter-in-law.'


He even thinks you clever,' she told
Greta a few days later.

Oh, dear, it must be because I can talk
about Burma. What will he think of me
when he finds I know nothing else.'

But Sir Edward had not been impressed

by the amount of Greta's information, even
on one subject, neither did he see occasion
to alter his opinion as to her capacity.

Fred's prophecy as to the war being a
walk-over might at first have seemed ina
fair way to be fulfilled, but fighting
was carried on in a straggling fashion,
which those at home found sufficiently
harassing. Fred often pitied Greta for
the dull home Which seemed to osier no
relief from care, but to Greta the very dulness
was congenial. They all lived under
a shadow, even Bowwow grew subdued
and womanly in the presence of the placid,
childish invalid. Mr. Daman's bodily
health in some measure improved, but he
never would be one of them aofain. The
physician, whose treatment had worked
some change for the better, pronounced
his malady to be of much longer standing
than they had supposed.

So far as Mr. Daman was concerned,
Greta might hold herself in great measure

Bob was supposed by his family to be
already in Burma. Yet mail after mail
had passed without bringing news of
Opal.

No news was good news,' Fred kept repeating.
Any uneasiness which might
have been felt, was subsiding with the
lapse of time, when a brief notice of Opal's
death reached England.

CHAPTER XVIII.

The almond blossoms had come and gone,,
leaves were thick on the trees which had
been bare sticks, when Greta had begun to
count time by the Indian mails and she was
still keeping the same calendar. There
had been no letters lately, even Fred was
growing anxious, she was perhaps less sanguine
as to the chances of war, now that
Bob's safety was at stake.

Of course he'll be very unhappy and
reckless,' she said.

Greta thought that he was not the only
one who might be unhappy and reckless.
Sitting close to the window to catch the
last daylight of a spring evening, Greta
was trying to read one of the books which

Arundel lead talked about during their
brief eno-ao^ement, when she heard the little
iron gate click. Fred was coming up the
path holding a letter. With a glance at
her parents, both sleeping in their chairs,
and a sign to Bowwow who nodded assent,
Greta stole out to take Fred upstairs.

Letters,' she asked, almost before she
greeted her visitor.

A very long letter, read it at once, I
can't stay,' said Fred, in a breath. Then
she put a restraint upon herself and kept
silence whilst Greta read :

Dear Fred,

'I am 2:oino; through the
most thrilling adventures. Six hours' quill-driving,
and five grains of quinine a day. I
was allowed to try a tacit the other day,
I suppose to keep up my spirits. As I
would not make out that he had done anything,
and had not the least idea what I
was entitled to do to him if he had done

everything, I condemned him to be photographed
and executed the sentence myself,
whereof I send you the results for your
album. Don't betray me to the public, or
I shall have a Curiosity committee hunting
me through every court in England.
By-the-by, I was nearly in for a real
Curiosity the other day. A sort of
jobbing native policeman wanted me to
fire on a lot of women and little brown
children who were eating their poor little
bit of rice under a tree. 1 explained to him
that when indefensible propositions were
made to British officers they were required
by the articles of war to remonstrate with
the proposer very seriously. I think he
believed me — from the way he rubbed himself.
I think I'm like the man in Kingsley's
novel, who laughed to prevent himself crying.
"What I really want to be always
saying to you is — see more of Greta, and
tell me more about her.

Friday.

I send you what I have written, just as
I wrote it, but I almost feel ashamed of the
nonsense I talked, with what I have to tell
you now. Poor Opal is dead; you know it
of course. I did not till the 150th came in
last night. I have not seen Bob yet, but I
saw O'JS^eil the surgeon. It seems she
never rallied after the birth of the baby
which only lived a day or two. Neil
doubts whether she was ever really in her
senses. I suppose she had the passion of
some women for jewellery (she did not
get much before she married, poor girl !) but
the form which her mania principally took
was a fear of being robbed. They brought
all the things which Bob had given her and
put them by her side to show that they
were safe, but something which she
particularly prized did not seem to be
there, for she kept searching under her
pillow and moaning, " Have they got it.
Bob ?" She was not always delirious, for

she listened eagerly to the chaplain, but
even on this point her mind hardl37- seemed
on its balance. She begged and prayed
Bob after much circumlocution to let her
see a Roman Catholic priest. Bob, who
was never very nice in his theology, got her
one at once, and would have brought her a
Brahmin or a Mollah if she had desired it,
but when he came back with Dr. Macarthy
he found her closeted with a Presbyterian
minister. However, the latter was deposed,
and Opal was, as I believe, received into
the Roman Catholic church, confessed and
absolved in articulo mortis. I must try to
see as much of poor Bob as I can, as soon
as he is fit to talk to anybody.'

The second part of the letter was written
more than a week later.

Dear Fred,

I just missed the last mail,
so you have the benefit of a larger
budget. I am writing this in Bob's tent

beside his camp bed. (Don't be alarmed
he is going on as well as possible.)
But we have had an adventure at last,
though only a little one. I had been doing
my best to cheer Bob up, though not with
any great success. I never thought him
a man likely to be crushed by grief, and I
should not have said that poor Opal was
the woman to inspire a very deep-seated
or powerful affection. But I can scarcely
understand any misfortune bringing a man
to the state of desperation, sometimes
sullen and sometimes half distracted, to
which poor Bob was reduced when I first
saw him. I was with him as much as
possible, for in truth I should never have
been surprised at his trying to cure with
a pistol some of the doubts and fears which
worried him. I took him on my expeditions
when I could, and it was on one of
them that he got into the scrape which
brought him here, and which by some strange
means or other seems to have done a good

deal to restore his senses. AYe had wandered
away from our party, for in fact we were
as much sauntering as really scouting,
Ashen I suggested that we might as well
turn back. We were standing in a track
of hot sand with prickly looking bush
on each side, sometimes growing within
fifty yards of the road, if it could be called
a road, but mostly standing back about two
hundred yards. The day was murderously
hot, and that was perhaps the reason why we
felt so conscientious about wandering too
far. We had just turned our heads, when
I noticed that Bob had not got his revolver.
" Oh, I've got this," said he, pulling
out a sort of pocket infernal-machine, which
ic appears poor Opal had bought for him in
Paris, called s,2yistoIeta something or other, a
sort of implement warranted never to kill
anybody but the owner, I should think.
'• This is the way it works," said he. There
was a little flash and a little bang and a
big big D from poor Bob, who was hopping

VOL. II Y

about on the other leg. The ball had
entered above his knee and ran down beneath
the muscles and along the bone.
Lucidly, it did not lodge under the kneecap.
The bleeding was not much, but the
pain Alas awful ; I would not have believed
that a limb could swell as quickly as Bob's
did. In less than two minutes he was
dead lame. There was nothing for it but
to get him on my back as I best could, for
if the shot should bring any of the brutes
down on us we should be in a hole.
Archer up," said Bob, the first bit of fun
I had seen in him, and off we started. We
got on capitally, though the sun and the
hot sand were simply cruelty to animals, and
parliamentary language (new style) from
Bob at every stumble, till we got to a place
where the bush came near the road, when
out jumped three or four black fellows with
rifles — repeaters too — (my blessings on Birmingham)
in their hands.

" If they can shoot worth a cent, we're

done," said Bob. Luckily they couldn't,
though one or two shots knocked up the
sand in front of us. What they might
have done if they had persevered, I don't
know. Bob was inspired to take a sight
at them, and either that, or my obvious funk
as I shambled along, struck them as so
comic that instead of murdering us they
put their hands on their knees and
absolutely yelled with laughter. We got
home at last more in want of a B. and S.
than ever we were in our lives, though
old O'Neil sternly forbade the consolation
to Bob, notwithstanding the skill with
which he had squeezed his mount home.
I'm glad the niggers preferred grinning at
us to murdering us, for I think, with only
three legs and one revolver between us, we
should have been rather an easy bargain.
What became of poor Opal's pistol I don't
know. Bob shied it, goodness knows where,
when it winged him, but as I am told that
it still contains seven or eight charges I

y2

piously hope that some of the most vicious
sort of dacoits may find it.'

'Do you think Bob's worse than he
makes out ?' asked Fred, abnost before
Greta had finished reading.

No,' replied Greta, trying to weigh the
matter as impartially as she would have
done if Arundel had been the one hit.
'He writes too lightly, I'm sure he's nota
bit afraid of having anything worse to
tell'

It may bring Bob home, that's one
comfort.'

Greta found herself almost wishing that
the positions had been reversed.

CHAPTER XIX.

Arundel's letter was quickly followed by a
scrawl from Bob.

Dear Fred,

Too shaky to write iiiuch,
but coming home by the Mysore. Thanks
to Arundel that I am coming home at all.
I should certainly have left my skin in the
jungle if he had not pulled me out of it —
literally. I will tell you all about it when
we meet, but I am so knocked up with the
beastly heat, and one thing and another,
that I can scarcely steady my hand. The
doctors say there's nothing for it but
England, and I agree with them,

Yours, ' Bob.'

Arundel gave no account of himself. It
was a partial comfort to Greta to be told
that operations must be over for the
season, but she did not want Arundel to be
shut up in a garrison in Burma or even in
India, she Avant him back in England.
As to what should follow, it would be time
enough to think of that when Arundel was
safe.

As the days grew warm, Mr. Daman was
able to get as far as Kensington Gardens
in a bath-chair. One glorious morning,
when the sunshine seemed almost to mock
her, Greta came down to go with him.
Bowwow was her usual companion, but on
this occasion Mrs. Daman also presented
herself, dressed for walking. When they
had encamped themselves under the trees,
the reason of her unwonted activity became
apparent.

You might as well run across and see
Fred,' she said, carelessly ; then with an

anxious look at Greta's pale face, she added,
Isn't there a mail in to-day ?'

With a quick grateful glance, Greta
turned towards the Bayswater Road.

Don't come back, you might miss us,'
cried her mother after her.

Greta crossed and rang the bell. Miss
Charlstrom was out. She had left word
that there were no letters.

After receiving this discouraging answer,
Greta felt in no mood to go back to her
friends. She knew that her mother had
meant to leave her at liberty. It was with
difficulty that she could keep the tears back
from her eyes as she walked home, trying
to comfort herself with the thought that
Bob was due in about a fortnight, and
must be able to tell them something. As
she reached her own door, it was opened
by Mrs. Turner herself.

There's a gentleman waiting to see you,
miss.'

That dreadful Simpson,' thought Greta,
turning wearily towards the little parlour.

He's in the drawing-room,' said Mrs.
Turner, who looked pleased and excited.
She had not kept lodgings forty years for
nothing. As Greta went upstairs, she
watched her, waiting till the drawing-room
door opened. Then, as a joyful exclamation
reached her, she nodded her head
approvingly.

If she could have looked a little farther
she would have seen lovers who met as if
nothing but distance had divided them.
Greta had forgotten everything but joy.
Then she drew back with a look of appeal,
she had no heart for reproof.

Arundel placed her gently in a chair,
resio^ninof even the hand which he seemed
at first tempted to keep.

You won't send me away directly, now
I've come straight from Burma to you.'

And you never told us.'

'No, I wouldn't let Bob tell either.

though we both came by the Mysore. He
wasn't up to the overland journey, so I got
a start. I wanted to take you by surprise
to see if you cared.'

Of course I cared. And you went away
angry.'

Angry ! Rather ungracious I'm afraid.
I had half a mind to come back and
apologise, but I'd tried going away in the
other mood.'

Greta felt as if they were getting on
dangerous ground. Should she ever have
courage to send him away again ? A
piteous entreaty that life might not be
made too hard for her, was breathed inaudibly.


If you had come to any harm,' she said,
faltering. ' I should have felt as if I had
killed you too.'

Greta,' said Arundel, very gravely,
you never killed anyone, not even indirectly.'
He paused for a moment as she
raised wondering eyes ; then, laying a stress

on every word lie went on : ' Jack did
not kill himself! We know who did it
now.'

Greta had started up.

'Jack did not kill himself! Oh, my
dear Jack.'

It was as if some one had told her that
Jack was saved. Greta had no thought
but of that. She even forgot the burden
which was lifted from her own soul. By
degrees a little doubt crept into her face.

How do you know?' she asked.

I was told by the person who had most
interest in keeping it secret. Not the one
who did it,' he added, in answer to her
look. ' She is dead.'

A look of awe came into Greta's eyes.
Arundel could not follow her thoughts for
the next few moments. Then, without
asking any question, she said,

She was not in her right senses, she
may not have known what she was saying.'

She did not, she betrayed herself

unawares, but it was true. Do you think
that Bob, poor fellow, would have believed
it, if there had been any doubt. Everything
confirmed it, and at last he found
this, hidden amongst her things.'

Arundel laid something, which glistened
dully, before Greta.

The sheath.' Greta almost shrieked
and shrank back.

Yes, the sheath. She seems never to
have had courage to destroy it, though the
desire to do so haunted her. She used to
try to throw things overboard on the
passage out, it was one of the first symptoms
of her mania. But this must have been
buried away in the hold. Bob found it
wrapped round and round at the bottom
of a great box. Well, it won't be kept
much longer, I only wanted to show it to
you. Poor Opal was mad at last ; Bob
thinks she was mad all along, better he
should. AYe "shall never know the rights
of it.'

However near they might be to the
truth, neither was likely to reveal any
suspicion to the other. Greta's loyalty to
Jack was rooted, and Arundel would not
try to shake her faith. They could never
know the rights. Even Opal could not
have told whether she was sane or mad, at
the moment when Jack had turned from
her love with something which looked
like disgust. She had believed herself to
have been for a moment possessed — by
something worse than her own unbridled
passions. There had been no premeditation.
If she had carried a dagger on her lonely
walk, it was only from an instinct of self-protection.
But Opal knew that no one
would believe her story after she had once
kept silence. Even the perjury, by which
she had made an effort to save Greta, might
be turned against her. Whatever her state
of mind might have been at the beginning.
Opal had passed over the borderland before
her child was born. But it was her real

character which showed itself without
disguise as her mind became disordered
and her last lucid interval was spent in a
despairing effort to save her own soul.

Greta,' said Arundel, after a long
silence, ' we must keep our own counsel ;
I promised for you as well as myself.'
Then his voice changed into its old key,
and he looked into her eyes as he had not
dared to look yet. ' Can you bear to bethought
a little inconsistent?'

For the first time Greta realised all that
the revelation meant. Her eyes opened ina
sort of wonder, she half clasped her hands.
Then she held them out in silent surrender.
If some thought of Jack's miserable end
cast a shadow over that moment of fulfilled
hope and granted prayer, it was perhaps-greta's
last tribute to his memory as a lover.

Coming in, hot and fagged from her
walk, Mrs. Daman toiled upstairs to find
Greta. With a half hope that she might
be spared a second flight of stairs, she

opened the drawing-room door and stood
transfixed. Greta had flown to the farthest
corner of the room. But Arundel came
forward and embraced Mrs. Daman almost
as if she had been her own daughter.

You see, I wouldn't take " no " this
time.'

CHAPTER XX.

What ! married already!' Bob had just
landed at Southampton, and Fred who had
met him was keeping close to his side
whilst he quenched an apparently tropical
thirst at the buffet. ' He didn't lose much
time,' added Bob, setting down his glass.

He thought he'd better make sure of
Greta. She made a little difficulty about
leaving the old man, but Mrs. Daman overruled
that. No mother was ever so eager
to get rid of her child, Greta said. As for
poor Mr. Daman, he's past missing her. I
don't think he understood that she was going
to be married, though she tried to coax
him into wishing her happiness. At last

he said, " God bless you, my child," and lie
went away delighted. He looked round
afterwards and asked, " Where's Jack ?"
they didn't tell her that. You'll want a
lot of nursing yet, Bob.'

So Greta has taken Arundel at last.'

Oh, yes, they rushed straight into each
other's arms without a word of explanation.
I knew she'd take him with a curtsey this
time. I told her so — after she was married.*

To bring her to a proper state of subjection,
I suppose.'

'So Arundel said. But he told me it
was no good, a man who had been three
times refused by his wife must expect to
be kept in his place. Well, I've married
them at last, and I think they'll do me
credit.'

How did Greta contrive to get round
the Pater ?'

Oh, that was my doing of course ; I
managed to get Greta round Arundel's
Pater too. He's got over the scandal. He

says Greta's equal to living down even her
own story.'

Here's their health, as I didn't drink it
yesterday,' said Bob.

Your hand's not quite steady yet,' said
Fred, sympathetically. ^ If it hadn't been
for your coming home, I should have made
them revive the institution of travelling
bridesmaid. They've gone to our dear old
Waldbero^. Gluck auf !'

THE END.

LONDON: PRINTED BY DUNCAN Macdonald, Blenheim HOUSE.

HURST & BLACKETT'S

LIST OF Jew WORKS

LONDON:
13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET, VV.

^

EACH IN ONE VOLUME CROWN 8vo, 6s.

Knight-errantry.

' Knight-errant ' is marked by the author's best qualities as a writer of fiction, and
displays on every page the grace and quiet power of her former-woTka^—Athenceum.

"The plot, and, indeed, the whole story, is gracefully fresh and very charming; there
is a wide humanity in the book that cannot fail to accomplish its author's purpose"—
Literary World. , . .

This novel is distinctly helpful and inspiring from its high tone, its mtenae human
feeling, and its elevated morality. It forms an additional proof, if such were needed,
that Miss Lyell has a mandate to vented"— Academy.

A Modern Englishman.

"This is a very admirable work. The reader is from the first carried away by the
gallant unconventionality of its author. 'Donovan' is a very excellent novel; but it ia
something more and better. It should do as much good as the best sermon ever written
or delivered extempore. The story is told with a grand simplicity, an unconscious poetry
of eloquence which stirs the very depths of the heart. One of the main excellencies of
this novel is the delicacy of touch with which the author shows her most delightful characters
to be after all human beings, and not angels before their time'— Standard.

TVE TTVO.

A work of deep thought and much power. Serious as it is, it is now and then brightened
by rays of genuine humour. Altogether this story is more and better than a novel."
Morning Post.

There is artistic realism both in the conception and the delineation of the personages;
the action and interest are unflagging sustained from first to last, and the book is pervaded
by an atmosphere of elevated, earnest thought— Scotsman.

IN THE alden Days.

"Miss Lyell has given us a vigorous study of such life and character as are really worth
reading about The central figure of her story is Algerian Sydney ; and this figure she
invests with a singular dignity and power. He always appears with effect, but no liberties
are taken with the facts of his life. The plot is adapted with great felicity to them.
His part in it, absolutely consistent as it is with historical truth, gives it reality as well as
dignity. Some of the scenes are remarkably vivid. The escape is an admirable narrative,
which almost makes one hold one's breath as one reads." — Spectator.

T\roN BY T^^i^ITINGh.

The Dean's daughters are perfectly real characters— the learned Cornelia especially;

the little impulsive French heroine, who endures their cold hospitality and at last wins

their affection, is thoroughly charming; while throughout the book there runs a golden
thread of pure brotherly and sisterly love, which pleasantly reminds us that the making
and marring of marriage is not, after all, the sum total of real life." — Academy.

LONDON : Hues AND BLACKETT, LIMITED.

MESSES. HURST AND BLACKETT'S

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

Reminiscences OF ETON (Kate's TIME).

By the Rev. C. Alli Wilkinson, Mea., Author of " Reminiscences
of the Court and Times of King Ernest of Hanover."
With Portrait of Dr. Kate. 1 vol. crown 8vo. Gs.
Mr. "Wilkinson's contribution to Etonian literature is a characteristic if not a

remarkable work, which may be read with pleasure and some amusement." — St.

James's Gazette.

LADY HAMILTON AND LORD NELSON. An

Historical Biography based on Letters and other Documents in

the possession of Alfred Morrison, Esq., of Fonthill, Wiltshire.

By John Cord Jeaffreson, Author of " The real Lord Byron,"

<tec. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
Mr. Jeaffreson may be thanked for the new and favourable light which he has
been able to throw upon the public and private conduct both of Lady Hamilton
and of Nelson'— <??o6e.

It only remains for us to compliment Mr. Jeaffreson upon the reliable, painstaking,
thorough way in which he has dealt with the story of Lady Hamilton,
without offending the moral sense of his readers." — Academy.

FOUR MONTHS' CRUISE IN A SAILING

YACHT. By Lady Ernestine Edgcumbe and Lady Mary
Wood. With Illustrations. 1 vol. crown 8vo. 7s. 6d.
Contents :— En Route— Algiers— In the Arab Quarter— Cast Away— Philippeville
and Constantine— Coasting to Carthage— Tunis— An Arab Harem— Malta—
The Knights of St. John— Sight-seeing— Hagar Them— ' Floating Fortresses'
—The World's Girdle— A Ball on Board Ship— Good-bye to Malta— Classic
Ground— Corfu and Avlona Bay— A Nice Bit of Seamanship— Cettinje— San
Georgia and Scarpello— Dalmatian Towns— Sebenico—Zara and Pola— Homeward
Bound.

RECORDS OF SERVICE AND CAMPAIGNING

IN MANY LANDS. By Surgeon-general Munro, M.D., Cab.,
Author of "Reminiscences of Military Service with the 93rd
Sutherland Highlanders," &c. Dedicated by Permission to
H. R. H. THE PRINCESS LOUISE. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
The story which Dr. Munro has to tell is one which never flags or ceases to
be instructive as well as interesting."- iSpectoior.

"These Records should be in the hands of every soldier, for the sake of the
information which they give and the spirit which informs them"— G/o6e.
"Full of interesting notes on the army and army life." — Orapfiic.
"All who love to read of the exploits of a small but almost invincible army
will be thankful to Dr. Munro for his spirited hook"— Publishers' Circular.
"A very entertaining hook"— Bookseller.

EIGHTEENTH CENTURY WAIFS. By John

AsHTON, Author of ' Social Life in the Reign of Queen Anne,' &c.
1 vol. small 4to. 12s.
The matter contained in this book is always pleasing and instructive. There
is certainly not a dull page in the volume"— G^Zode.

Mr. Aehtonhas produced a volume of light and pleasant characters"— Morning
Post.

Shinar SKETCHES: With Notes on Indian

Field Sports. By J. IMorat Brown, late 79th Cameron Highlanders.
With Eight Illustrations, by J. C. Dolman, Rei. 1 vol.
small 4to. 10s. 6d.

A glorious book. It is palpably the work of a true sportsman." — fforse and Hound.

"The Sketches are delightfully written, models of clear, bright, racy narrative,
and containing just those particulars that a sportsman wishes to know.' — Scotsman.

•' The author goes through the round of Indian sport, and writes in such a
pleasant fashion as to make his pages agreeable reading to all for whom the
subject itself has attractions ; the book has the additional advantage of some
spirited illustrations." — The Field.

Mr. Moray Brown records his long experiences among big game in India with
capital spirit and style ; there are some thrilling pages on pig-sticking and tiger-shooting"—
Tie World.

THROUGH CYPRUS. By Agnes Smith, Author

of " Glimpses of Greek Life and Scenery," &c, 1 vol. demy 8vo.
With Illustrations and Map of the Author's Route. 15s.
The cheerful and observant authoress has much that is new to tell us.''— Daily
Telegraph.

'through Cyprus' maybe heartily commended to readers who are fond of
an entertaining and chatty narration of incidents of travel" — Scotsman.

REMINISCENCES OF THE COURT AND

TIMES OF KING ERNEST OF Hanover. By the Rev, C.

A. Wilkinson, I\I.A., His Majesty's Resident Domestic Chaplain.

Second and Cheaper Edition. 1 vol. crown 8vo. With portrait of

the King. 6s.
"Mr. Wilkinson's descriptions of the Court balls, where even the ladies took
precedence according to military rank, of the characters he met with, and of the
Hanoverian clergy of those days, will be found decidedly inteves.iing."'— Spectator.
An interesting book, which abounds in characteristic stories of the old kmg,
in anecdotes of many celebrities, English and foreign, of the early part of this
century, and, indeed, of all kinds and conditions of men and women with whom
the author was brought in contact by his courtly or pastoral office"— is. James's
Gazette.

THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF PEG

Washington : With Pictures of the Period in which She

Lived. By J. Fitzgerald Molloy, Author of " Court Life

Below Stairs," &c. Third and Cheaper Edition. 1 vol. crown 8vo.

With Portrait. 6s.

"Peg "Washington makes a most interesting central figure, round which Mr.

Molloy has made to revolve a varied and picturesque panorama of London life

in the middle of the Isti century. He sees things in the past so clearly, grasps

them so tenaciously, and reproduces them so vividly that they come to us without

any of the dust and rust of time"— (?. A. S. in the Illustrated London News.

Mr. Molloy's work has the merit at least of being from the first chapter to the
last without a smile dull page"— Z)a% News.

CHAPTERS FROM FAMILY CHESTS. By

Edward Walford, Mea., Author of 'The County Families,' &c.
2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.
' Chapters from Family Chests ' are a great deal more exciting and absorbing
than one half the professedly sensational novels"— Z)ai7i/ Telegraph.

"Mr. Walford's volumes abound in what is known as the romance of real life,
and are extremely interesting reading"— Z^oi?*/ News.



NEW V^OUKS—Contiiiued.

THE EGYPTIAN CAMPAIGNS, 1882 to 1885,

AND THE Events which led to them. By Charles Rote,

Barrister-at-law, of Alexandria. 2 vols, demy 8vo. Illustrated

by Maps and Plans. sos.

"Mr. Boyle has done well in the interests of historical completeness to describe

not only the entire military drama, but also the political events connected with

it, and whoever reads the book with care has gone a considerable way towards

mastering the difficult Egyptian question." — Athenaeum.

"The Egyptian fiasco has found in Mr. Boyle a most painstaking, accurate, and
judicious historian. From a literary point of view his volumes may be thought to
contain too many unimportant incidents, yet their presence was necessary perhaps,
in a complete record, and the most fastidious reader will acquit Mr. Boyle
of filling his pages with anything that can be called padding"— ^ff. James's Gazette.

FOOTSTEPS OF JEANNE D'ARC. A Pilgrimage.

By Mrs. Florence Caddy. 1 vol demy svo. With Map of Route. 15s.
"The reader, whatever his preconceived notions of the maid may have been,
will soon find himself in sympathy with a writer who, by the charm of her descriptive
style, at once arrests his attention and sustains the interest of her
subject" — Morning Post.

THE FRIENDSHIPS OF MARY RUSSELL

Milford: As Recorded in Letters from her Literary
Correspondents. Edited by the Rev. A. G. Estrange,

Editor of " The Life of Mary Russell Milford," &c. 2 vols. 21s. '
"These letters are all written as to one whom the writers love and revere. Miss
Barrett is one of Miss Milford's correspondents, all of whom seem to be inspired
with a sense of excellence in the mind they are invoking. Their letters are extremely
interesting, and they strike out recollections, opinions, criticisms, which
will hold the reader's delighted and serious attention." — Daily Telegraph.

THE Bronze FAMILY, With Special Reference

to Patrick Branwell Bronze. By Francis A. Leland. 2

vols. 21s.

"This book is so full of interesting information that as a contribution to literary
biography it may be considered a real success." — Academy.

Mr. Leland's book is earnest and accurate, and he has spared no pains to
master his subject and present it with clearness; the book is valuable, and should
be read by all who are familiar with the previous works on the family " Graphic

MEMOIRS OF A CAMBRIDGE Chorister

By William Glover. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

"In these amusing volumes Mr. Glover provides us with the means of spending
a pleasant hour or two in his company"— T'im^^.

These volumes contain a miscellaneous set of reminiscences, comments, and
anecdotes, written in a light and jocular style. Mr, Glover is always cheerful
and never didactic." — Athenaeum.

WITHOUT GOD: Negative Science and Natural

Ethics. By Percy Greg, Author of "The Devil's Advocate,"

"Across the Zodiac," &c. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 12s.

"Mr. Greg has condensed much profound thought into his book, and has fully

succeeded in maintaining the interest of the discussion throughout." — Morning Post.

This work is ably written ; there are in it many passages of no ordinary power

and brilliancy. It is eminently suggestive and stimulating"— ^coi^Twa/z.

PLAIN SPEAKING. By Author of 'john Halifax,

Gentleman." 1 vol. crown 8vo. 6s.
"We recommend 'Plain Speaking' to all who like amusing, wholesome, and
instructive reading. The contents of Mrs. Crank's volume are of the most multifarious
kind, but all the papers are good and readable, and one at least of them
of real importance"— <S«. James's Gazette.

THE REAL SHELLEY: New Views of the Poet's

Life. By John Cord Jeaffreson, Author of " The Real Lord

Byron," " A Book about Doctors," " A Book about Lawyers," &c.

2 vols, demy 8vo. sos,

Those who have read Mr. Jeaffreson's account of Byron will be prepared to

find that impartiality is the distinguishing feature of his endeavour to clear away

the fancies and misconceptions which have been given to the world in some of

the biographies of Shelley, and they will not be disappointed. The author has

striven to ascertain, fairly and fully, the truth concerning a poet whose influence,

while it has been greatly exaggerated by his most enthusiastic admirers, is still a

living factor in the life of many." — Morning Post.

WOMEN OF EUROPE IN THE FIFTEENTH

AND SIXTEENTH CENTURIES. By Mrs. Napier Higgins.

Vols. 1 and 2, demy 8vo. sos.
"The volumes contain biographies of women more or less directly connected
with the history of Scandinavia, Germany, Hungary, Lithuania, and Poland
during the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries. The work is likely to be of permanent
value to the students of history'— Morning Post.

ON THE TRACK OF THE CRESCENT: Erratic

Notes from the Piraeus to Perth. By Major E. C. Johnson,
M.A.I., F. R. Hist. S., etc. With Map and Upwards of 50 illustrations
by the Author. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.
"The author of this bright, pleasant volume possesses keen power of observation
and vivid appreciation of animate and inanimate beauty. It will frighten
hours for many readers who will only follow the track of the Crescent through it£
pages and its numerous illustrations." — Morning Post.

MEMOIRS OF MARSHAL Bureau, From

His Private Correspondence and Original Documents, 1784 —
1849. By the Count H. mandeville. Edited, from the French,
by Charlotte M. Yonge. 2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.
This is a work of great value to the student of French history. A perusal of
the book will convince any reader of Bureau's energy, his patriotism, his unselfishness,
and his philanthropy and humanitj."'—At}ienceu7n.

GLIMPSES OF GREEK LIFE AND SCENERY.

By Agnes Smith, Author of " Eastern Pilgrims," &c. Demy 8vo.

With Illustrations and Map of the Author's Route. 15s.
A truthful picture of the country through which the author travelled. It is
naturally and simply told, in an agreeable and animated style. Miss Smith displays
an ample acquaintance and sympathy with all the scenes of historic interest."
—St. James's Gazette.

MONSIEUR GUIZOT in Private Life (1787-

1874). By His Daughter, Madame de Witt. Translated by Mrs.

Simpson. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 158.
Madame de Witt has done justice to her father's memory in an admirable record
of his life. Mrs. Simpson's translation of this singularly interesting book is
in accuracy and grace worthy of the original and of the sxibiecV— Saturday Review.

WORDS OF HOPE AND COMFORT TO

THOSE IN SORROW. Dedicated by Permission to The Queen
Fourth Edition. 1 vol. small 4to. 5s.
These letters, the work of a pure and devout spirit, deserve to find many
readers. They are greatly superior to the average of what is called religions
literature." — Athenaeum.

These letters are exceptionally graceful and touching, and may be read with
profit'— (7rap/«'e.

PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

THE GOLDEN HOPE : A Romance of the Deep.

By W. Clark Russell, Author of "A Sea Queen," "The Wreck
of the Grosvenor," &c. 1 vol. 6s.
Mr. Clark Russell is at his best in ' The Golden Hope,' which means that this
book of his is one of the finest books of its kind in our language." — Academy.

A HOUSE PARTY. By Ouida. (Second Edition.)

1 vol. crown 8vo. 6s.
The sketches of character are hit off with accuracy of observation and with a
firm and clear outline." — Daily Telegraph.

ON THE SCENT. By Lady Margaret Majestie,

Author of 'Dita,' 'Once More,' * Sisters-in-law,' &c. 1 vol
crown 8vo. 6s.
A bright and wholesome story"— 5^. James's Gazette.

THE SON OF HIS FATHER. By Mrs. Oliphant,

Author of " It was a Lover and his Lass," " Agnes," &c. 3 vols.
No previous work of Mrs. Oliphant better justifies her high position among
English novelists than her new book. It is difficult to speak too highly of the
truth, power, and pathos of this tale." — Morning Post.

Catherine. By the Author of lauderdale." 3 vols.

The author is really an able writer, and he has a good grasp of character." —

"A moving and animated story." — Daily Telegraph.

JACOBI'S WIFE. By Adeline Sergeant, Author

of 'No Saint,' ' An Open Foe,' <fec. 3 vols.
"The story is one of powerful interest." — Illustrated London News.
"A thoroughly interesting story, and is worth reading in its entirety"—
Literary World.

A GREAT PLATONIC FRIENDSHIP. By W.

Dl'TTON Bernard. 3 vols.
"Mr. Bernard's story is free from digressive description, is brightly told, and its
realism never degenerates into coarseness ; the story is from first to last exciting."
Morning Post.

A DATELESS BARGAIN. By C. L. Pirkis,

Author of "Lady Lovelace," "Judith Wynne," &c. 3 vols.
' A Dateless Bargain ' has supplied a fresh proof of the author's skill in turning
out very good and workmanlike fiction." — Academy.
"A clever and interesting novel." — Literary World.

PASSAGES IN THE LIFE OF A LADY m 1814,

1815, 1816. By Hamilton Aide, Author of "Rite," "Penrud-
locke," " Poet and Peer," &c. Second Edition. 3 vols.
Mr. Aide s new novel shows an accomplished and agreeable writer at his best

The characters are not numerous, but the individuality of each is Sustained all

through, both in speech and action." — Athenaeum.

PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

A NEW FACE AT THE DOOR. By Jane Stan-let,
Author of " A Daughter of the Gods." 2 vols.

BORN IN THE PURPLE. By Maxwell Fox.

3 vols. CShorthj.')

THE SPORT OF CHANCE. By William Sharp.

3 vols.

SWEET IS TRUE LOVE. By Katharine King,

Author of " The Queen of the Regiment," " Off the Roll," &c.

2 vols.

A DOUBLE WEDDING. By the Author of " St.

Slave's," " Janita's Cross," &c. 3 vols.

The tale is told with quaint and pathetic simplicity, and is in every sense a
charming story." — Morning Post.

The work is a combination of refined quiet humour and gentle pathos which
produce a delightful-vj^xoW— Whitehall Review.

THE GAY WORLD. By Joseph Hatton, Author

of " Amie," &c. 3 vols.

"The chief characters all have a certain charm. One follows with genuine
anxiety the course of their career'" — Globe.

The book is interspersed with many clever passages, bits of choice description,
and happy touches of character ; it is the ablest novel Mr. Hatton has
written'' — Academy.

CAST ON THE WATERS. By Hugh Coleman

Da-^dson, Author of " The Green Hills by the Sea." 3 vols.

The every day events of the tale are all forcibly and graphically portrayed."
morning Post.

The characters are well drawn in caricaturist's style, and the dialogue apt
and amusing'' — Scotsman.

IN BAD HANDS. By F. W. Robinson, Author

of " Grandmother's Money," " The Courting of Mary Smith," &c.

3 vols.

The volumes are alive with touches of humour and pathos, and are pretty
sure to be welcomed by novel-readers." — Athenaeum

THE TREASURE OF THORBURNS. A Novel.

By Frederick Boyle, Author of "A Good Hater," "Legends of
my Bungalow," &c. 3 vols.
"The story is excellent in its way, more than sufficiently well written, and with
certain touches of fresh originality that Tuft it out of the pale of the commonplace."
— Literary World.

WEEPING FERRY. A Novel. By George False.

2 vols.
'sweeping Ferry' is decidedly above the average of contemporary novels. —
Saturday Review. ,,

Mr. False's pages are simply and prettily written. —Scotsman.

COULD HE DO BETTER? By Arthur A.

Hoffman. 3 vols.
"The writing is throughout careful yet easy, never tame and never affected,
and the structure of the story has compactness, proportion, and symmetry.' —
Spectator.

m^-

^y\'\

3 0112 042061496
