OF THE

UNIVERSITY

Of ILLINOIS

StH3d

V. I

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/downwaynovel01stan

DOWN THE WAY

i\J

% iotol

By hope STANFORD

'Where is thy hand to lead me down the way ? "

VOL. I.

London :

JOHN AND ROBERT MAXWELL

MILTON HOUSE, SHOE Lane, FLEET Street,

AND

35, ST. BRIDE STREET, K.C.

fall rights reserved.]

PRINTED BY H. BLACKLOCK AND CO.,

7'), Abingdon ROAD, Malcontents



Vol. I.

CHAP. Page

I. — The Heart's Desire 1

11.— A Discord 12

III.— Sons-in-law 25

iy. Offshoot ?.r.

Y. — First Companionship . . . 46

YI.— In Edith's Honour 64

Il— First Influence 84

Ylir.— New Views 100

IX. — Confidences . . . . H^'

X.— Sisters 130

XL—The Hie Study . . 151)

XII.— Cousin Peter 172

XIII.— An Ordeal 187

Xii.— Good-bye 207

XY.-Lost 214

XYL— Laura's Vigil 226

XYIL— The First Letter 242

XYIIL— The Second Letter 262

XIX.— A Truce 2S2

CHAPTER I.

THE heart's desire.

Like many other men who, while possessing
a large share of the good things of the world
are yet disappointed of their heart's desire,
Mr. Wedgwood Hilton's life was clouded by
regret that he had no son to succeed him at
Blithefield Manor.

The fine house, built in the best style of
Queen Anne's days, stood in the midst of a
well timbered park, which had been in the
possession of the Hiltonss for nearly three

VOL. I.

centuries; but the original Elizabethan
mansion had been burnt down by Cromwell's
soldiers, who, according to tradition, had not
been particular in inquiries for the safety
of its owner and his family, one at least of
whom had perished in the ruins, which fact,
coupled with a want of money, had caused
a lapse of sixty years between the destruction
of the old house and the beginning of
the new. But since that time the Hiltonss
had prospered. Careful management and
judicious marriages had restored the family
to more than its former wealth ; and if the
present Mr. Hilton had possessed a son to
come after him, he Avould have been able to
leave him a rich man, even after giving
liberal portions to the five daughters whom
he regarded with mingled feelings of pride,
affection, and disappointment. He was anything
but an indifferent father. When his
wife mourned over the birth of each successive

daughter, he would remark, with
cheerfulness: ^' The more the better, my
dear ; we cannot have too many of them,
and can only hope for a variety next time."
But the fifth disappointment was too much
for Mrs. Hilton ; she never held up her head
after it, but quietly grieved herself out of
the world when her youngest little girl was
five years old.

Mr. Hilton had no thought of marrying
again. To have had a son to succeed him
would have crowned his life, and left him
scarcely anything to desire; but as this
happiness had been denied him, he set to
work to make the best of it, and to educate
his eldest daughter for the position, as his
heiress, in which he intended to place her.
The younger gii^s should be treated with
justice and liberality, but they could not all
be eldest daughters, and they would have no
more right to complain at their sister being

put above them than if it had been the
longed-for son.

There was one point on which Mr. Hilton
was very decided. Should Adelaide marry
contrary to his wishes, or should her husband
refuse to take his name and live at
Blithefield, there need be no difficulty, no
quarrel ; but the mantle would fall from her
shoulders to fit itself, as best it could, to
those of her next sister, who might, perhaps,
find it easier to fulfil the required conditions
; and if not — why, were there not
{iye of them ? " said Mr. Hilton, with a
half-humorous shrug of his shoulders; and
perhaps it might even come to the turn of
little Erica in the end, and atone in some
measure for the indifference of her mother,
who had regarded her as the crowning drop)
in her cup of disappointment.

Adelaide was anxious to do her best to fit
herself for her proposed position, and had no

doubt that when the time came for her to
marry, there would be no difficulty about the
conditions exacted by her father ; but alas !
soon after she was twenty she gave her heart
away to the rector of a neighbouring parish,
who had not even the choice given him of
changing his name and renouncing his profession
; for Mr. Hilton at once decided that
Adelaide must choose between her lover and
her inheritance, as he could not consent to a
clergyman as his successor, and had, besides,
a personal disinclination to the Reverend
Edgar Paget, whose soft manners, excellent
character, and handsome face, had won his
daughter's heart. He had nothing to say
against him ; he was a most estimable man,
to whom any girl's welfare might safely be
trusted, but he could never be master at
Blithefield ; and Adelaide, allowed to follow
her own wishes, retired contentedly to the
pretty country rectory, with ten thousand

pounds, and her sister Janet stepped into her

place.

For a year or two all went smoothly.

Janet was not so capable as her sister, nor

such a good manager ; but she was willing to

learn, and thought a good deal more of her

proud position than Adelaide had ever done,

and even went so far as to attempt to stifle

an affection for a handsome young officer

when she found that her father did not care

for his society. Janet was a good girl, but

if Mr. Hilton could have had his way, he

would, from the first, have passed her over

and chosen her next sister, Edith, as his

successor. It was, of course, an advantage

that Janet should be so tractable while he

was alive to watch over and direct her ; but

she would need more firmness of character

when his death put the whole management

of affairs into her hands, and when after a

time he found that, with the best intentions,

she still showed a lamentable incapacity for
business, and a patient and hopeless devotion
to Walter Bonar, he pleased both himself and
her by asking her lover to the house, when
he came home on leave, and at the end of
three months gave her a gay wedding, and
the same portion as her elder sister, and
turned his attention towards the training of
daughter number three.

It would be scarcely too much to say
that for three or four years Edith Hilton
had regarded her chance of being mistress
of Blithefield as almost a certainty.
Of stronger and earlier developed character
than her sisters, she had clearly
seen the points in which they and their
chosen husbands had failed to meet her
father s requirements, and had carefully
and dutifully trained herself to avoid them.
She knew that her sisters had failed — not only
from a natural incapacity for management,

but because the life they were expected to lead
demanded too great a sacrifice of personal
and domestic ease and happiness ; and she
resolved from the first that she would consider
her own wishes of no account in comparison
with the duties her high position
would force upon her, if she once made up
her mind to accept them, and on that point
she never felt a moment's hesitation. Her
elder brother-in-law, Mr. Paget, was amiable
and unworldly, and about as capable of
managing an estate as his second son, who
was still in long clothes at the time of her
promotion ; Janet's husband. Captain Bonar,
was endued with more worldly wisdom, but
it had been misdirected ; and fancying himself
a good deal more knowing than he was,
he had let himself get mixed up with a
rather disreputable set of companions, whom
he had solemnly promised to renounce before
Mr. Hilton would consent to intrust his

daughter to him. But a man, however honest
his reformation might be, who had a suspicion
of a fancy for racing and betting, was not
to be thought of as the master of Blithefield;
and although Edith knew that her father
would not have expressed to her a wish that
she should remain unmarried, she knew that
the only sort of person who would be
welcome to him as a son-in-law would be a
sober young member of Parliament with
staunch Conservative views, or a country-loving
younger son of one of the neighbouring
noblemen, who would not at all despise
a connection with the Hiltonss, and Blithefield
for a home.

It would be no great sacrifice, Edith
thought, if she was called upon to deny herself
the lot her sisters had chosen ; many women
were happy enough unmarried, even without
such prospects as hers, and having reached
twenty without even a passing flutter of the

heart, she considered herself in little danger
of the weakness — which at the same time
she despised and admired — of losing her
world for love. There was nothing hard or
unamiable about her; she had no theories of
woman's rights, and rather preferred the
society of men ; but she did think her sisters
foolish, if not wrong, in so lightly throwing
away the grand position, the power and influence,
which might have been theirs, for
the sake of the first wooers who came across
their path, and who, while in no way unworthy,
had nothing to distinguish them from
the common herd.

There was every reason why — as heiress —
she should marry, if her choice was a wise
one. Even in his lifetime her father would
prefer to have a son-in-law who would be
capable of more comprehensive management
than was in the power of any woman, however
gifted or willing she might be ; but the

one thing she dreaded was that a suitor
should present himself who should satisfy
her father and not herself, some one so excellent
that she could not reasonably refuse
him, and who yet might fall far short of her
ideal, or take from her the power and
authority which was fast becoming, by anticipation,
like the breath of life to her.
She had no objection to a king for her
domain, but she must be the queen ; it must
be a joint reign, or perhaps, unconfessed to
herself, she intended her husband to be only
royal consort, while she remained the sovereign
ruler.

CHAPTER II.

A DISCORD.

As time went on Mr. Hilton found more and
more reason to congratulate himself on the
marriage of his elder daughters. They had
always been affectionate, tractable, and
anxious to please him ; but ability was
wanting, and Edith's clear understanding
enabled her to comprehend, almost at a
glance, things which to the end of their lives
would have been to them a hopeless puzzle.
But glad as he was that these excellent and
incapable children had chosen other paths
for themselves, he rejoiced even more over
the fact that there was no probability — at

least at present — of the inheritance fallings
to the share of his fourth daughter, Laura.
Rather giddy little Erica, who would never
be anything but a butterfly, as mistress of
Blithefield, than the cold, ill-tempered, unlovable
girl whose otherwise aimless existence
seemed spent in making those with
whom she lived discontented with .themselves,
and dissatisfied with others.

The only plain one in a handsome family,
and the only unpleasant one in a set remarkable
for their amiability, Laura had from
childhood been rather neglected.

'^ My dear," said an out-spoken governess,
^^no doubt you cannot make yourself either
handsome or clever, but you can make yourself
pleasant and useful, and therefore
beloved ; at present you are neither, and
you only make yourself of importance by the
power you possess of making us all uncomfortable."
And this speech Laura remembered,

and this power she prized. They
might look down upon her as much as they
pleased, they might despise her dulness, and
pity her unattractive appearance ; but she
could make them feel, and she was not
sparing of her power, until even her father
felt the burden of her ill-temper and almost
hated her, as a discord in the harmony of
the household.

If Edith should by any means forfeit the
inheritance, of a surety it should not go to
Laura. It was his to do as he pleased with,
and he would rather sell his cherished property
than let it pass into her hands. Clever
enough to detect and even imagine slights to
herself, Laura had guessed her father's intentions;
and if she had felt in need of an
excuse for the discomfort she caused in the
household, she would have considered this as
amply sufficient. She did not particularly
irish to be mistress of Blithefield — she knew

that the management of the estate would be
too difficult for her ; but she hated the idea of
Edith's being put so far above her, and
would have rejoiced if she, like her sisters,
lead forfeited her place. She even felt
capable of trying to influence her father
against his dearly-loved daughter, of whom
she felt a bitter jealousy; but she would
probably only fail, and expose herself to his
anger, and after all she would gain nothing
by it herself. If Edith should make an unsuitable
marriage, which was very unlikely,
she felt sure that her father would strain
many points to evade putting her into the
important place, for which he had never
taken the pains to make her in any way
fitted.

Laura's bringing up had been in every
way injudicious. Her plain face and uncomfortable
temper had made the care of
her a duty in which there was no satisfaction;

and during several important years
of her childhood she had been systematically
neglected by her governesses, who, finding
that this pupil could never be a credit to
them, almost entirely passed her over after
her mother's death ; only gave her lessons
when it was quite convenient, and allowed
her to remain in a state of ignorance, which
nothing but great and continued efforts on
her own part in after-years could have
counterbalanced, and these efforts she had
no motive for making. She felt dull and
ignorant, for her faculties had never been
awakened ; and as after a time it was taken
for granted that it was a waste of labour to
give her more than the plainest teaching,
and that any accomplishment was beyond
her reach, she learned to think the same
herself, and made no attempt at improvement.
There was one thing, however, in
which she excelled, and to which she devoted

the greater part of lier time, and this
was needlework — not of a kind that required
originality, but which might be copied stitch
by stitch ; and over this she would sit by the
hour together, seldom raising her eyes from
her embroidery frame, and until Edith's
promotion aroused her jealousy, being, in
truth, as little interested as she seemed in
what went on around her.

Being only a year younger than Edith,
she was, of course, expected to join in her
amusements, and go with her into society,
and to this she made no objection; but the
only time she seemed to derive pleasure
from it was when she was given handsome
materials, and allowed to make her own
dress for some particular occasion ; then she
would shut herself up in her room, and
without asking help or advice from any one,
would appear at the proper time in a
costume so perfect in fit and workmanship

VOL. I.

that even Edith regarded her with wonder
and envy.

Laura's awakening to more active feeling
happened soon after Janet's marriage. At
a large party at a neighbour's house she
was sitting as usual a little withdrawn from
the rest of the company, watching them
from the half-shelter of a curtain, when
two ladies sat down near her, and not
being aware of her presence, began to talk
of her.

'^ I see Mr. Hilton has brought the ugly
daughter out again; I really cannot understand
his • motive in doing it : she pleases no
one, and never seems pleased herself," said
Mrs. Cresset, a lady of whom Laura knew
little.

^^ Well, poor girl ! " answered her companion,
Mrs. Fowler, '^ of course they cannot
very well keep her at home; I don't
believe there is anything worse about her

iliad a bad temper, and perhaps we should
not think so much of that if Edith was not
so very charming ; it does one good to see
that girl with her father : she so fond and
he so proud''

'eyes, it is fortunate for him that Edith
comes first; he must have passed Laura
over, she is neither clever nor good-hearted
enough for such a position. I wonder if
different training would have done anything
for her."

'^ I fancy not much, she seemed hopeless
from a child ; and I have known them all
their lives, you know. She was always what
I should call spiteful, and she frightened me
to-day by the look she gave out of her dull
eyes when some one trod on her beautiful
dress. I believe that is the only thing she
cares for, oddly enough ! "

Then something else attracted the attention
of the speakers, and Laura no longer

cared to listen. She was not vexed by what
she had heard — she was too well accustomed
to being called ugly and ill-tempered to care
about it; but her dislike of Edith swelled
into a passion as she contrasted their two
positions — neglect, coldness, and disfavour
falling to her share, while Edith possessed
beauty that no one could gainsay, talent —
at least sufficient for her father's requirements
— and the love of every one who
learned to know her.

Laura had no pride in Blithefield, and it
would have given her little pain to see it
pass into the hands of strangers; she felt
like an alien from the family, and it would
have been difficult to adjudge the portion of
blame due to her and to others. No doubt
the neglect shown towards her in her childhood
had soured her temper, but she had
since had many opportunities of making herself,
if not beloved, at least regarded with

kindness as she grew older; for Adelaide
had been too indolently indulgent to cross
her in anything reasonable, and Janet, from
a sense of duty, had tried to befriend her
.and bring her forward. Had the reign of
either lasted for a longer time the result
might have been different; but as it was,
they only succeeded in awakening in hera
one-sided interest in family affairs,
which roused her jealousy but not her
affection.

Nor were these sisters who had been kind
io her at home able to do anything for her
since they had married. Their husbands
detested her, for she generally contrived to
disturb them by allusions to their having
failed to satisfy her father's requirements, and
did not even scruple, with a kind of mocking
sympathy, to class them with herself as
victims to the favouritism shown to Edith.
Cheerfully as they had accepted their wives

and their portions, and excellent husbands as'-
they had proved themselves, they could not
but feel a pang of regret that beautiful
Blithefield was beyond their reach, especially
when they looked at their handsome boys,
whom they would have trained with strictest
care to fit them for the position of its master.
'' Poor little fellows! " said Laura one day,
when they were playing with their grandfather
and Erica on the lawn. '^ Who can
tell but that one of them would have been
the heir but for father's infatuation for
Edith ? " Captain Bonar's face flushed as he
turned silently away, but Mr. Paget would
not let the occasion pass. ^^ You are wrong
to make such a speech, Laura," he said
gravely; ^* there was never any thought of
Blithefield for us or for our children; nor
do we for a moment begrudge Edith the
position her good sense and good heart
fit her for so admirably; and you are

disrespectful in speaking of your father in
such a manner."

'^ Yes, perhaps," answered Laura, coldly ;
^' but I doubt if either you or Walter could
deny that at that moment you were thinking
that one of the boys ought to be master
here."

Mr. Paget laughed uncomfortably, and
hastily joined the merry group on the lawn ;
but placid Adelaide roused herself, and said;
'^ What makes you say such disagreeable
things ? You have no business to speak to
Edgar like that ! "

But Laura only shrugged her shoulders,
and went on with her work ; and just
then Edith, in a white dress, came out to
join them, her face glowing with happiness
at this family gathering ; and with a shout of
joy the little ones tumbled over each other
to get to her. Erica ran and clasped her
hand, and Captain Bonar involuntarily raised

this hat as a tribute to his sister-in-law, whom
he thought the noblest woman in the world ;
but while every one else smiled upon her,
Laura's face grew pale with anger and
jealousy.

CHAPTER III.

Sons-in-law.

Easter had fallen late, and the Blithefield
woods were carpeted with primroses, when
Mr. Hilton gathered a party of friends to his
house to celebrate Edith's twenty-first birthday.
He could not follow his inclination
and make it a day of great rejoicing, for
both Adelaide's and Janet's majority had
been only quietly honoured ; and although in
his own heart he considered this daughter
incomparably superior to them and to everyone
else, it would not do to let all the world
into the secret. He was therefore obliged
to content himself with making only three

or four additions to the party who had
assembled on former occasions, and was disappointed
of the company of his elder
daughters and their husbands ; Janet being
ke23t at home by a new baby, and Adelaide
by the recent death of Mr. Paget' s father.

^'I believe it is just as well that we are
not going to be there' said Adelaide to her
husband ; '^ for although I am sure that none
of us begrudge Edith her position, fallen
nature does give a sigh now and then at the
thought of our beautiful boys."

^' Yes, yes, my dear, it is natural fora
mother ; but the thought must be
checked."

^^ Of course, Edgar ! I don't often let it
come uppermost, and should never think of
mentioning it except to you ; but I am sure
Walter Bonar thinks a great deal more about
it than I do, especially since last summer,
when that uncomfortable Laura put it so

plainly before him ; she saw the effect and
often since has made opportunities for saying-the
same sort of thing''

'^ That girl's perverted nature is one of
the saddest things I know," said Mr. Paget
sighing. " I am often strongly moved to
tell her how unchristian and unbearable her
conduct is; but she is careful to avoid giving
me a chance, and leaves me at the first
word."

'' Yes, I have noticed that, and now for
some reason she includes me in her general
dislike, although when I was at home I
could get on pretty well with her ; but her
manner to us is almost pleasant in comparison
with what it is to Edith. I declare sometimes
it makes me shudder to see the bitter
dislike she has for her, and I could almost
believe she would be glad to do her an
injury."

'* I hope it is not so bad as that, dear; but

if jealous feelings are fostered it is, indeed,
hard to say where they will end."

But while the Pagets consoled themselves
.as best they might for their lost share in the
Blithefield festivities, the Bonars were not so
'easily satisfied. Janet's second boy was no
doubt a splendid little fellow, but he was a
great inconvenience just then, for there were
old friends assembled at her father's house
whom she seldom had a chance of meeting,
and it would also have been interesting to
see Edith doing the honours for the first
time to so large a party. She had never
been tormented by the vague envy which
troubled her husband, and would have simply
enjoyed herself without any uncomfortable
longings ; but with him it was different, and
although he well knew that he and his
children had not even a remote chance of
succeeding to Blithefield in the natural course
of things, he could not — strive as he would

and did — altogether check the thought that
by marriage or some other means, the sisters
might, one after another, fail to satisfy their
father's requirements, and that the estate-might
one day be in the market, and within
the compass of a very considerable fortune-which
he expected to inherit from a relative
at some future time.

No one, he thought, could reign more
worthily than Edith, he felt for her the
heartiest brotherly affection, was proud of
her beauty, her abilities, and the charm of
manner and disposition which made her
everywhere a favor-ite, but he scarcely felt
as if he could be cordial to her possible
husband. He had been perfectly well aware
when he married that he knew nothing
about the management of property, but
he would have willingly and easily learnt
all that was required, and he felt a
little sore at every one's taking it for

granted that he was unfitted for it. He
could understand it well enough in the
case of Edgar Paget: he was a clergyman
to the backbone, he could never have given
up his profession and devoted himself to
worldly concerns, it would have been almost
a mockery to ask him; but their two cases
were very different, and it would have been
a satisfaction to him through all his life if he
had had the chance of refusing for himself
his wife's possible inheritance. Even now,
when the thought came, and could not always
be driven away, that Blithefield might some
day be for sale, it was not for himself that
he looked forward, but for his son, his firstborn,
curly-headed darling, who, good husband
as he was, absorbed three-quarters of
his heart. And yet in spite of these uncomfortable
and unmanageable feelings, he
hankered after the festivities of Blithefield,
and thought that, as Janet was getting on

perfectly well and did not want him in the
least, he might laye been kindly urged to
join the party.

'^ I see no reason why you should not ride
over some time, Walter, and see what
they are all about," said his wife; and he
said he would do so, wishing at the same
time that she had suggested that she could
comfortably spare him for a day or two.
But even if she had it was probable that the
invitation to stay would not be given ;
Mr. Hilton would think it was his duty
to be at home; and Edith, knowing him
to be a fond husband and father, could
not have thought of suggesting that he
should remain.

Daisy Lodge — where the Bonars lived —
for Walter had left the army when he married
— was six miles from Blithefield, just
outside the country town of Mornington. It
was a pleasant little old-fashioned house,

covered with verandahs and creepers, and
had a good-sized garden, in which Captain
Bonar worked indefatigably, and which gave
him his chief occupation, besides his daily
ride on the handsome horse which had been
his father-in-law's wedding present. The
Bonars were comfortably off, and being so
nearly connected with Blithefield, were people
of some consequence in the neighbourhood,
although they went little into society, and
preferred living quietly ; but Janet never, if
she could help it, refused an invitation from
her father, and was much vexed at being
unable to take her share in the present
festivities.

'' Do ride over, Walter, and see what they
are doing," she said, the day after the
guests were expected. 'sand you might
ask Mrs. Mathewson to come and see baby
this afternoon. I am sure Edith will hardly
know what to do with an old lady; so it

will be quite a kindness to her, and I should
not at all mind your leaving me if you
care to dine there — indeed, I should like
it, for you could tell me all about it afterwards."


'' Oh, I scarcely think I shall do that ! "
said Captain Bonar; but he was pleased
with the idea, and with her for suggesting
it, and rewarded her by pretending to
admire the ugly little three-days-old baby,
who was, she assured him, the very image
of himself. ^^ And I should not be surprised
if he was even handsomer than Phil," she
said; ^^for I am afraid Phil's nose will
never be a good shape, and I can see
already that baby's will be just like yours."
An insult which her husband could scarcely
resent, and so passed over in judicious
silence.

'^ So you really wish me, dear, to go and
give messages to Edith and your aunt," he

VOL. I. D

said diplomatically, and being assured that
this was the case, he followed his own
inclination, and set o£E with an easy-conscience.


CHAPTER IV.

OFFSHOOTS.

There was one guest at Battlefield who,
without being aware of it herder, had been
brought there for a special purpose. Mary
Vemey — a girl about Edith's age — was an
orphan, with a small fortune of hee own,
enough to keep her from the necessity of
earning her living, but not enough to enable
her to live independently. Her aunt, Mrs.
Mathewson, in whose care she had been
placed, was a cousin of Mr. Hilton's, and
had been a good friend and wise counsellor
to him since his wife's death. She had encouraged
Adelaide and Janet in making the
happy marriages for which they were so much

better suited than for the position for which
they had endeavoured to fit themselves ; she
had pointed out to him the parts of Edith's
character to the development of which she
thought his attention ought to be specially-directed,
and she had proved to be right ;
she had advised him to send Erica to school,
and had so relieved Edith from the difficulty
of having in the house a governess older and
wiser than herself, and yet to whom she
could no longer defer ; and now finding how
hopelessly unamiable and unhelpful Laura
continued to be, she had persuaded him to
ask her niece Mary Verney to the house for
an indefinite visit, to be a companion to
Edith and to go with her into society, where
Laura's presence was more pain than pleasure
to herself and others. But in bringing Mary
to Blithefield just then Mrs. Mathewson had
a double object. She wished to persuade
Mr. Hilton to spare his dearly-loved daughter

to her for a while, and she thought that
Mary's company would make the house endurable
to him in her absence, which it
certainly would not be with only Laura for a
companion. Mary was bright, and cheerful,
and unassuming, and Mr. Hilton, who had
known her from a child, was disposed to
think would be a pleasant addition to the
family at any rate until Erica, who was
now sixteen, was old enough to take her.
place at home ; but it was understood that
none of the girls should be told of the
proposed arrangement until they were all
better acquainted, but that Mary should
simply be left behind for a long visit, until
they saw how matters turned out.

Mrs. Mathewson had set her heart on
taking Edith with her to London for two
months, and giving her the advantage of
glimpses into a wider world than was to be
seen at Blithefield. It was not to be expected

that she would learn much in so short
a time, but she would at least see that a
country neighbourhood, however admirable
did not embrace everything that was good
in the world ; and her standard of qualifications
for her husband and the f utm^e master
of Blithefield must necessarily be raised, by
meeting other people who were well worth
knowing, and who were able to combine-mental
culture with a practical knowledge of
the management of a rather difficult estate.
There were two types of men of whom Mrs.
Mathewson had a horror, and to one of these
she feared that Edith would fall a victim,,
unless she should be made acquainted with a
variety of excellencies.

Of the Eton and Oxford bred sons of
country gentlemen there were several in
the neighbor-hood of Blithefield, who were,
no doubt, well-principled, intelligent, and
unaffected, but narrow, and as it seemed

intentionally so, their hunters, their game
preserves, their cricket clubs and county
meetings formed their world, and as they
were now they would be to the end of their
days ; and should one of them marry a
woman whose aims were somewhat wider,
who wished to combine the virtues of the
country with the intelligence of the town,
there would surely be discord and collision
in the house. The second type, although
less commonly to be met with, was even
more to be feared, — the young parliamentary
prig, a son perhaps of some noble family,
who would talk and think a great deal of his
duties, would take his wife away from home
for several months in the year, would
manage the estate by his own theories and
despise her practical knowledge, and would
be quite incapable of the hearty, kindly,
wholesome intercourse which Mr. Hilton
held with all those connected with him, and

which seemed to have come by nature to
those of his children who resembled him,
and to Edith most of all.

Mrs. Mathewson had no wish to undertake
the responsibility of finding a husband
for her ; she would be quite contented with
teaching her whom to avoid ; and she would
have been far better pleased if she could
have persuaded Mr. Hilton to accompany
his daughter to London, and have thus
enlarged his views also. But this she knew
was impossible, and she was obliged to be
satisfied with his promise, given very unwillingly
on the first evening of her arrival,
that if Edith seemed anxious to go he would
do nothing to prevent her.

Besides Mary Verney, Mrs. Mathewson
had brought with her to Blithefield a
nephew, whose home had lately been broken
up, and who was for the present in want of
everything, occupation, interests, and, not

least, money, wherewith to give himself a
start in life. It was not altogether Geoffrey
Poland's own fault that at twenty-eight he
found himself in this condition, for he had
been forced into a life he hated, in a Government
office, by his father, just when he had
set his heart on going to Oxford, and, fresh
from a rather brilliant career at Marlborough,
had a good chance of distinguishing himself.
At the end of three years his father died,
leaving him a few thousand pounds, and
seeing no prospect of getting on in the
position which had been chosen for him, he
threw it up, followed his own inclination,
and went through Oxford with credit, but
with none of the distinction which he might
have gained a few years before, and then
found that he had nothing in the world todo
with himself. He could not afford to be
idle, and yet had no inclination or special
aptitude for any profession ; he would be

ashamed to continue long doing nothings
but for awhile it was pleasant enough,,
especially as his aunt, Mrs. Mathewson,
was delighted to give him a home, and he'
could always quiet his scruples by deciding
that at some not very distant time he would
go abroad, and find that indefinite '' something
to do " in which so many seem to
implicitly believe.

Geoffrey was not altogether an agreeable
man, he was inclined to be self-absorbed
and dogmatic ; but his aunt understood him,
and having no other near relations, he gave
to her all the affection which might have
been bestowed on a mother and sisters. He
was a handsome man, but scarcely pleasing ;
his distasteful work had given him a look of
discontent, and being several years older
than most men of his standing at Oxford, he
had kept to himself, and grown reserved
and melancholy. About a month before the

visit to Battlefield, his peace had been disturbed
by Mary Verney's coming to stay
with her aunt for an indefinite time. He
had never been accustomed to girls, and did
not like them ; and being unsettled and
vaguely unhappy, Mary's cheerfulness —
which Mrs. Mathewson had hoped would
have a good effect upon him — was, instead,
a constant jar; and longing for quiet, and
having a fancy just then for trying what
he could do in the way of literary work,
he shut himself up in his aunt's library, and
seldom appeared except at meal times.

Mary, who was simple and natural, and
all her life had been popular with every one,
had begun by cordially claiming cousinship,
and demanding his interest in her pursuits ;
but he had responded so coldly that she was
offended, and, being quick-tempered, did not
attempt to conceal that she disliked and
even in some measure despised him; for to

her energetic mind he seemed to be wasting
the best years of his life, and indulging
in unpardonable indolence, in taking so much
time for consideration before making a fresh
start.

It was not, therefore, entirely from
disinterested motives that Mrs. Mathewson
urged upon Mr. Hilton the advantage of
having Mary at Blithefield. Geoffrey was
far dearer to her than her niece could ever
be, and the longer he stayed with her the
better she would be pleased ; but she knew
that the discordant element in the house
would soon drive him away, and she determined
that it should be removed, if it could
be managed without injustice to Mary.

Geoffrey had been unwilling to go to
Blithefield; but his aunt strongly wished it,
and it was so seldom that she asked anything
from him, that he could not refuse,
especially as he had serious thoughts of

leaving her as soon as they returned, and
going for a few months' travel, to see if
new scenes and new companions would
suggest the hitherto unfound niche into
which he could fit himself for the remainder
of his life.

CHAPTER V.

FIRST COMPANIONSHIP.

The party whom Captain Bonar found
assembled at luncheon in the large hall at
Blithefield, which they used for every meal
excepting dinner, consisted, besides Mrs.
Mathewson and her nephew and niece, of
five or six people, all of whom were relations;
but, as Mr. Hilton said, they were
particularly fortunate in their relations, and
he had brought up his girls to look upon
their cousins as supplementary brothers and
.sisters.

There was one amongst them whom
everybody liked, and who was treated by
the whole family with indulgent kindness.

He had bestowed his affections on each
reigning sister in turn, but did not consider
himself mercenary in so doing ; it was only
a sort of worship of the highest, and the
position of the mistress of Blithefield did
seem to him very high, and he longed to
win her, although if he had done so he
would have been much embarrassed. His
sliding scale of devotion was a great joke
in the Hilton family; but Peter was quite
inoffensive, and even Captain Bonar, who
guarded his young sisters-in-law as jealously
as if he had been really their brother, could
not look upon his attentions as impertinent.

Peter had fully determined to make an
offer to Edith during this visit : he was not
going to let a prize escape him for want of
asking for it, and every one in the house —
Edith included — guessed his intention, and
was amused by it. He was an idle man,
but had quite enough to live comfortably

upon, and was a favourite amongst his relations,
especially with Erica, who, just as
Walter entered the hall, sent the whole
party into a roar of laughter by saying, with
gravity and apparent innocence : ^' Whatever
you do. Cousin Peter, please, don't
make me an offer when I am grown up, for
I should be quite certain to say Yes," and
Peter answered with equal gravity :

'^ No, my dear, I don't think you need be
alarmed ; you would always be too flighty
to suit me, even when weighted with additional
years and wisdom ! "

And then Erica stopped her brother-in-law
in his progress round the table to give
him a kiss, and introduce him to Mary
Verney.

The other members of the company were
not particularly interesting. There were the
Wedgwood, a self-absorbed young married
couple; Rachel Allen and her barrister

brother and two Misses Hamilton, none of
whom had ever missed being present at
weddings or other festivities at Blithefield;
and an old Colonel Arnold, just come back
from India, completed the party.

'' Very glad to see you, Bonar ! " said Mr.
Hilton, heartily, sand doubly so, as your
coming means good news of Janet''

'' Yes, she is very well, and it was she
who sent me. She wants you, Mrs. Mathewson,
and any other baby-worshippers of
the company, to go and see her new plaything."


^^ Poor Janet ! It was good of her to give
an excuse for your coming; but I daresay
she did not much like it," said Laura, disagreeably.


*why not?" asked Peter, wonderingly;
but no one else thought of noticing Laura's
speeches.

*^ I was longing for an invitation, Walters

VOL. I. E

said Mrs. Mathewson, pleasantly. ^' I have
not seen Janet since her wedding-day ; but
she has written me many a letter in praise of
Daisy Lodge, and I long to see it and her ;
and to tell you the truth, I so fully expect
to be asked to be godmother, that I have
got the christening cup already in my
trunk."

^^ I do believe. Aunt Sarah, you would be
godmother to all the world if you could,"
said Erica, laughing, sand give it — them
silver cups ! 0, Peter, which is right ?
my grammar will get mixed sometimes."

swell!" answered Peter slowly, 'you
see, it all depends on the sense in which you
use the word. If you mean to take the world
as an aggregate of individuals" — but here
he was interrupted by a general shout of
laughter, and one excellent thing about him
was, that he did not mind being laughed at ;
and when Erica patted him on the back and

cried, ^^ Bravo, Peter! " he was quite satisfied ;
for he wished to be amusing, and often found
that he was so, although he was seldom quite
sure how he had managed it. The only-two
grave faces at the table were Laura's
and Greofeey Poland's. Laura seldom
laughed, certainly not at Peter, whom she
detested ; for he had a way of saying with
apparent simplicity very cutting things
about her unpleasant manner, and would
sometimes stare at her as if she was something
incomprehensible when she gave an
ill-tempered answer to her father or sisters.
As for Geoffrey, he was altogether in a bad
humour that day. His aunt had talked to
him a great deal of Edith, of her good
looks, good disposition, and earnest endeavour
to please and satisfy her father, until he felt
convinced that this paragon, like all others,
must be odious, and had determined beforehand
to avoid her as far as possible ; but

almost immediately lie had been obliged to
confess to himself that his gracious young
hostess had not been over-rated. He could
not wonder that most people were fascinated ;
but then he was glad to say, he was not like
most people, and he rather disliked her the
more for having upset his preconceived idea.
No doubt she was a very good sort of girl,
just of the kind to be popular, but for
himself he should prefer that pale, quiet
sister, who, unamiable as she appeared, had
probably a great deal more in her than the
rest of the family put together. So, to the
surprise of every one, and not least of Laura
herself, he gave the chief part of his attention
to her ; not that he found her agreeable,
but that it suited his humour to go contrary
to other people ; and having given way to
his aunt's wishes by coming to Blithefield,
he thought he had done all that could be
expected of him, and was not bound to be

more sociable than he chose. Mrs. Mathewson
was rather amused than amazed by his
contrariety; it was much more convenient
than if he had taken it into his head to
develop a hopeless passion for Edith, and
it was a good thing to have Laura's attention
occupied, so that she had little time for
making herself unpleasant.

Before Walter had been in the room ten
minutes, Mr. Hilton resolved to take a
mean advantage of him, and throw upon
his shoulders the burden of entertaining this
somewhat difficult guest, who having hurt
his hand was unable to join the rest of the
party at tennis, and was not at all easy to
dispose of. The offer of a sort of general
stroll round had been refused in the morning,
but Geoffrey had afterwards become somewhat
ashamed of betraying his ill-humour,
and at the beginning of luncheon had
civilly begged to be allowed to accompany

his host in his afternoon ramble. But
although Mr. Hilton had agreed, he was still
offended, felt no inclination for the society
of this ^^ young weather-cock," and congratulated
himself not a little on his bright
idea of making his son-in-law take his
place.

'' Poland was going to stroll with me
through the oak wood this afternoon, Bonar,"
he said ; '' but I remember that I have letters
to write, and will ask you to be my representative
; you might take a look at the
clearing we made in the autumn, and see
how you think it looks, now that the
timber has been taken away''

^^ I have just promised Erica to be her
partner at tennis," answered Walter reluctantly
; '^ but, of course, the match can
stand over until another day."

^^ If Mr. Poland only wants a guide, I can
offer my services," said Laura, quietly. ^^ I

am going to the lodge for my embroidery
silks, which the carrier was to leave there
last night."

At least half the people at the table looked
at Laura, in amazement at her offering todo
anything for anybody ; but although she
was quite conscious of their surprise, she
took no notice, and Geoffrey hastened to
assure her that he should be delighted to
accompany her ; not that this was at all true,
for he could not persuade himself that he
liked her society ; but if Mr. Hilton did not
choose to go with him, he certainly would not
be bored with the company of that ^^self-
conceited puppy" over whom Edith and Erica
were making such a fuss ; for although Walter
did not deserve that description, he was
rather too particular about his clothes and
moustache, and would have looked the better
for a little neglect ; but he was a handsome
man, and knew it, and took a pleasure in his

good looks, while Geoffrey went almost too
far the other way, and did not condescend
to soften the ruggedness of his clever, hard-featured
face, by either beard or moustache,
although his aunt had persistently endeavoured
to persuade him to it.

But although Geoffrey appeared satisfied
at the prospect of the walk, Edith, knowing
what an unpleasant companion Laura
generally contrived to make herself, felt
bound to interfere.

'' Would you not rather drive with some
of our party to Mornington to-day, Mr.
Poland, and wait for the walk until tomorrow,
when father could go with
you?" she said, not meaning to vex her
sister, but to provide due entertainment for
her guest.

But although Geoffrey would have much
preferred the drive he could not well refuse
Laura's offer, and half an hour later lounged

through the park by her side, at least
enjoying the April sunshine.

^^I hope you will light your pipe, Mr.
Poland," said Laura, after rather a long
silence, which succeeded their first remarks
on the beauty of the day. ^^I am not
at all accustomed to the consideration
you might show to Edith or to any
other lady, and should not object to it
at all."

Geoffrey took advantage of this somewhat
ungracious permission, and then felt bound
to try to be agreeable.

•' What a pride you must all take in this
beautiful place ! " he said. ^^ It has been in
your family for hundreds of years, has it
not ? "

'eyes; and no doubt all the others are
proud of it, as you say ; but I scarcely feel
as if I had a right to share in their feeling."


sanded?"

^^ Why, you see, I know that father would
never give the place to me. With the others
it has been different, they have all, except
Erica, had their chance ; but, of course, I
know that I have none."

^^Why not?" asked Geoffrey, in surprise.


^^ My father has done nothing to fit me for
the position, and I could not fill it. He —
well — I will say — he is not proud of meas
he is of the others, and if it could be
possible for Edith to displease him, I feel
sure that he would make my incapacity an
excuse for passing me over ; he has Erica to
fall back upon, and she is being well
educated."

Of comes, Geoffrey could not know how
distorted and unfair this account of matters
was, and felt that he had no business to be
receiving such a confidence at all ; but Laura

had no intention of changing the subject
just yet, and went on —

^^ I daresay, being a sort of connection,
you have heard all about it — that my father
means to give Blithefield to the first of his
daughters who marries to please him, and I
am sure that Edith will do that somehow ;
but I think it is very unfair on my brothers-in-law
that they should both have been
passed over because she was always my
father's favourite."

This was very embarrassing, and Geoffrey
tried to change the subject by suddenly
pointing to a splendid cock pheasant which
was sunning his gorgeous plumage a few
yards from them ; but Laura just glanced at
him, and returned to her subject.

^^ If I were Edith I should be almost
ashamed to see Edgar and Walter, and still
more mv sisters ; but fortunately for her she
does not feel it in that waves

Fortunately, indeed!" said Geoffrey,
^' especially as she can be in no way to blame.
Now, Miss Hilton, is that the lodge we are
hound for, down there amongst the trees ? "
and then he contrived by asking many
questions to avoid further confidences for
the time. But when they had reached the
lodge, and turned homewards again, he found
himself at a loss for conversation, and Laura
took advantage of it.

'' What a terrible misfortune it is that we
have no brother ! " she exclaimed, as her
companion expressed his admiration for
the splendid oak woods which stretched
away on either side. ^^It is such a
dreadful idea that a stranger may some day
be master here. I do think that if Edith is
to inherit Blithefield she ought to remain
unmarried ! "

"' I am afraid that is rather short-sighted,"
answered Geoffrey, laughing; ^Hhe difficulty

would only be removed one generation ; lie
must leave it to some one."

'' Of course, but perhaps none of us would
be alive to see it pass into a stranger's hands."
Laura was surprised at herself for this newly
developed pride in Blithefield, which certainly
in general she was far from feeling ; but that
day it had fallen to her share for the first
time to exhibit its beauties to an appreciative
new-comer, and it had awakened in her a
passing — but for the moment genuine — enthusiasm,
which aroused great pity for her
in Geoffrey's mind ; for although he thought
her unattractive, and could see that she was
unamiable, he also saw that she was neglected,
and did not know that it was from her own
fault, and that from most people she would
have rejected kindness almost as an insult.
But with him it was different, he had not
attempted to be kind, he had simply talked
to her apparently because she wished it, and

she was not clear-sighted enough to detect
the perverse ill-humour which led him for
the time to thwart even his own inclinations.


After all, he thought, if it was a relief to
this poor lonely girl to tell him her grievances
it did not much matter to any one, he would
never betray her confidences ; so he let her
talk on, until by the end of their walk he
knew nearly as much of the history of the
Hilton family as there was to know ; but he
reserved to himself the right of judging their
characters from his own observation, rather
than from Laura's warped and unloving
descriptions.

** I do not think I have ever had a long
talk in my life before," she said pathetically,
turning round on the door-steps to look at
her companion, with more gentleness than
her face had often worn ; and Geoffrey resolved
that he would be kind to her during

the few days of his visit, and was sufficiently-interested
in her to intend, if possible, to find
out the reason for the general disfavour with
which she was regarded.

CHAPTER VI.

IN Edith's honour.

Although Mr. Hilton had contrived to avoid
the task of entertaining his uncongenial
guest, the letters which had furnished him
with an excuse made but little progress, and
as soon as Mrs. Mathewson returned from
her visit to Mrs. Bonar, he sought her out
and settled down to a long talk with her.

'^ Well, Sarah," he began, ^^may I inquire
what you hope to do in the end with that
surly nephew of yours ? "

'' Not that, Wedgwood ! Not surly."
^^ Well, perhaps, I should not have used the
word ; your — um ! — unsociable nephew : will
that do?"

^^ Has he ever been uncivil to you ? ''
asked Mrs. Mathewson, with some resentment.


'' Not exactly, but several times since he
came yesterday he has made me feel that
although I am his host, he would rather be
without my company. No, he has never
been uncivil — I could not say that, Sarah;
but his patience, when I have been talking
of subjects which interest me, has been too
studied, and he is as yet perhaps too young
a man to realise that affected interest in an
old man's crotchets is, if detected, almost an
insult. I do not doubt he means well, but
he takes little pains to conceal that he considers
the theories of the rising generation of
infinitely more value than the careful and
practical experience of a man of more than
double his age."

^^ Surely, Wedgwood, you must have misunderstood
him ! He has strong opinions
VOL. I. r

and is rather obstinate in maintaining them,
that I will not deny ; but I do not believe he
ever intended, at least openly, to set his
judgment before yours. Poor boy! his life
has been sadly mismanaged, and if now that
he is left entirely to his own guidance he
goes rather into extremes, who can wonder,
or blame ? "

'^ No, no, I do not blame — at least, not
much. I respect a young fellow who has the
courage to uphold strong and disagreeable
convictions ; I only say that his manner
might be pleasant. I have seen Edith
open her eyes in astonishment more than
once when he has not taken the pains to
conceal his contempt for some of my old-world
notions."

'' Wedgwood, you are accusing my nephew
of failing to be a gentleman ! "

'' No, I do not mean that. I have little
doubt that his manner would be tolerated or

even approved by most particular people, of
a sort, nowadays ; but I only say it does not
suit my ideas of courtesy. At luncheon, when
Edith ask him to join the driving party, he
refused more curtly than I thought fitting in
speaking to a lady ; but at least I shall have
the comfort of knowing that while she is
staying with you, no love-making will go on
from that quarter, and shall have no misgivings
in trusting her to your wise and kind
keeping."

'^ Yes, I think you may be easy on that
point," answered Mrs. Mathewson, laughing.
^^I confess that Geoffrey is a little beyond
my comprehension. Why, with a house-full
of pleasant, attractive girls he should
devote nearly all his attention to Laura is
odd; but I never saw the poor child so
amiable to any one before, and one only
wishes she would be the same to the rest
of the household."

^^ It would be an uncommonly good thing
for us all if she a ad Poland took a fancy to
each other," said Mr. Hilton, who in general
hated the idea of matchmaking, but had
suffered too much from Laura's temper not
to be eager to place her in the safe keeping
of some one else.

Well, I scarcely think I should be satisfied
for Geoffrey," answered Mrs. Mathewson
; '' you know I think a great deal of him,
and could not v/ish him to marry a girl who
contrives to make even her own family
anxious to get rid of her."

^^ Her ten thousand j)C)^iids would be
worth his having," suggested Mr. Hilton.

^' Wedgwood, I am astonished at you! I
don't know you to-day I If you thought
Geoffrey could marry her for that, I can
scarcely imagine you would be willing to
trust her in his hands."

^^No, no, of course not; but sometimes

^ our domestic cross ' — as Paget calls her — is
difficult to bear with, and m}^ poor Edith has
suffered sadly from her temper lately."

"Well — one can forgive her for feeling
considerable envy of her fortunate sister —
beauty, riches, and her father's love, which
for all we know might be a precious possession
to her if she could ever gain it."

Mr. Hilton looked uncomfortable. " Of
course, I do love the child in a certain way, I
would do anything for her good ; but even
you, Sarah, can hardly call her lovable."

'^No, and so you cannot wonder that I
am not particularly anxious that she should
fall to Geoffrey's share ; but here they come
up the avenue, and I suppose it is time for
Edith to give us some tea."

There was to be a large dinner hearty at
Blithefield that evening, and no one would
have been either surprised or annoyed if,
as had often happened before, Laura had

refused to appear. In all unimportant
matters she was allowed, for the sake of
peace, to take her own way unquestioned ;
but Edith was anxious that her sister should
not hold herself aloof on this occasion, and
went to her room before dinner to try all her
arts of persuasion if she found it necessary ;
but to her surprise she found Laura ready
dressed, and was almost startled at the effect
which a little well-chosen adornment had
made in her appearance. Her dress of pale
green, which had been chosen for a garden
party the year before, was almost severely
simple, but, being made by her own hands,
suited her to perfection, and was trimmed
here and there with bunches of delicate
geraniums, exactly matching the pale pink
coral ornaments which had fallen to her
share from her mother's jewel case.

^^ My dear Laura ! what have you done to
yourself ? you look perfectly lovely I '^

exclaimed Edith in amazement; ^' I never
saw you with such a colour in your cheeks,
or dressed with such care. Is it all to do
honour to my birthday ?" /'

Laura laughed a little awkwardly. '^ Yes,
that is just it' she said; '^ I supposed you
would like me to look as well as I could,
and as neither you nor father offered me a
new dress, I made the best I could of
this."

Edith felt a pang of self-reproach. It was
an undoubted fact that she did neglect
Laura ; but then she courted neglect.

^^ My dear child ! " she exclaimed, '^ if we
had thought that you would join in any of
the parties, you would have had just the
same dresses as I have."

^^No, no, Edith! stick to facts! I am
not the heiress : what does it matter how /
am dressed ? "

'^ I confess it makes a difference," answered

Edith, candidly and with dignity; "but you
would have had the same as Erica."

"' The schoolgirl ! Thank you ! I think I
pre-^'^r my-own scarcity to that ! "

"' Really, Laura, you are very difficult to
understand. If father had given you the
most beautiful dress in the world, you would
have managed somehow to make him feel
that he was insulting you ; but I must make
haste down now — will you come with me ? "

"No, thank you, I have no fancy for
humbly following after the sun."

A good thing for the sun on this occasion,
for it might be eclipsed," answered
Edith good temperedly, and then ran downstairs,
fervently wishing that it was possible
to do even her duty to Laura.

The dinner party was large, and somewhat
dull, and was intended chiefly to show
attention to those of the neighbours who
would not care to be present at the dance on

the following evening, wliicli was the chief
event to Edith and her younger visitors. It
was the first time she had been called upon
to entertain so large a party and a consciousness
of attention, and perhaps criticism,
brought a flush to her cheeks, although she
showed no other sign of nervousness, and
filled her place with dignity. Her father
watched her with undisguised pride, and
even Geoffrey was obliged to acknowledge
to himself that he could scarcely find a fault
in the manner of the young mistress of
Blithefield; but there was no doubt that
her beauty was greatly overrated, and he
did not himself admire the mixture of very
dark hair and large, light grey eyes, which
no one had ever thought of calling blue.

'^ Do you not feel proud of our cousin
to-night, Mr. Poland ? " asked Rachel Allen,
one of the guests staying in the house, by
whom Geoffrey was seated at dinner.

^^ I think your cousin suits her place very
well' he answered languidly.

^' Our cousin — I suppose she is yours as
well as mine."

^' I done know, I am sm'e ; I never thought
of claiming the relationship."

'^ Detestable man I " thought Rachel, who
in common with the rest of the girls in the
house, had taken a strong dislike to him,
and had only consented to go in to dinner
with him to please Edith, who had found
difficulty in arranging the guests. ^^ Of
comes she always fills her place well," she
went on aloud, '' but to-night she does more.
I think her manner is simply perfect, so
natural and dignified, although she must
feel frightened to death."

^^ For what reason ? " asked Geoffrey,
looking with some interest at this warm
partisan.

^« Why, of course, at entertaining so many

people for the first time, and knowing that
every one is thinking of her and noticing
her."

^^ Is every one ?"

^' Of course I We have all of ns only
come to do her honour."

^' I cannot say I had thought of it in that
light. I knew Miss Hilton's birthday was
the pretext for this gathering ; but 1 imagined
that any other would have done as well."

^^ Really, Mr. Poland, that is almost
incredible ; I think you wish to differ from
us all, and I believe there is not another
person in the house who has not paid some
sort of homage to the queen of the occasion."

Geoffrey laughed. ^^The queen must bea
little weary, I think, and my silence
must be better than a gift," he said; ^^but.
Miss Allen, I do feel a sort of fascination at
present in watching your cousin ; I wonder
if, when your attention is drawn, you will be

equally affected. Does not that chandelier
hanging just over her head strike you as
painfully threatening ? I have watched it
for some minutes now, and could almost
persuade myself I see it trembling in preparation
for a fall."

Rachel looked up in momentary alarm,
but the light dazzled her, and she could see
nothing.

The dining room was long and narrow,
and lighted by fine antique bronze chandeliers,
hanging by chains from the dark oak
roof. The dinner that evening being large,
the table had been lengthened, and Edith's
place was exactly underneath one of these
chandeliers, and when attention was called
to it her position was, as Geoffrey said, unpleasantly
suggestive of danger. Unable to
get rid of the impression, yet believing it to
be entirely his own fancy, he raised his eyes
to the light over and over again, and at

length was so convinced that this one
chandelier vibrated, while all the others
were steady, that he questioned the footman
at that moment at his side concerning its
safety. The man glanced at it, and seeing
that it looked all right, and being very busy,
he gave a hasty assurance that there was
nothing wrong, and passed on.

^^ You seem very uneasy, Mr. Poland,"
said Rachel, lightly, thinking what a queer
man he was, and that the last thing she
would have expected in hin was nervousness.

*^ I am," he answered, ^' but I do not feel
that I have sufficient reason for disturbing
the whole party. That particular chandelier
may be given to shaking for all I know ; for
my eyes cannot so far deceive me that it can
be all imaginary."

*^ I think you are dazzled," said Each el,
with double meaning, for she noticed that
when his eyes were not directed to the lights

they were fixed on Edith, and it appeared
evident to her that his former indifference
had been assumed. He made no answer,
but for a few minutes refrained from turning
his eyes towards the head of the table.

'^ Will the company make speeches?" he
asked presently.

'' Oh, no, of course not ! How dreadful
for Edith ! "

'' I thought perhaps that on an occasion
like this — when a person becomes a sort of
public character for a time — it might be
agreeable, but of course — good God ! do you
hear?" His exclamation and a sudden loud
crack alarmed every one, and he sprang from
his chair, reached the head of the table, and
throwing himself in front of Edith, pushed
her aside, as with a sway and a crash the
chandelier came down over the spot where
she had been sitting, and struck him to the
ground in its fall.

In a moment all was confusion, and no
one seemed to know what had happened ; but
Walter Bonar, seeing that Mr. Hilton was
unnerved by his darling's narrow escape,
took the command, and ordered that the
room should be cleared of every one whose
help was not absolutely wanted.

'^ Let me stay," said Edith, who had recovered
herself in an almost incredible
manner.

'^ I shall stay ! " said Laura, who was
already kneeling at Geoffrey's side, as he
lay pale and insensible.

'' No, no, go away, both of you ; we do
not know what has happened ! " he answered
hastily.

'' We will go when you do know ; we cannot
leave him like this," said Laura, firmly;
and with agony in her eyes, but an unmoved
face, she leaned over Geoffrey and helped to
raise his head.

*^ There is life in him," said old Colonel
Arnold, who had been looking at him and
feeling his heart ; and in a moment or two
his words proved true, for Geoffrey slowly
opened his eyes and moved his head,
although he sank back again immediately
into unconsciousness.

'^ Now, girls, you must go ! " said Walter,
authoritatively, and they silently obeyed.

^^ Where will you stay, Edith?" asked
Laura, as they went out into the hall.

*'I must go to the drawing-room. Oh,
Laura I did you see what happened ? Did
he really save my life ? "

^' Yes! and now he will die himself I the
only person in the world who has ever been
kind to me ! "

^^ Laura!"

^^Itis quite true! but never mind that
now ; let us go in together, as loving sisters
should ! Wherever you are I must be near

you, they will bring the first news to
you."

Fully half-an-hour passed, almost in
silence, after they went into the drawing-room,
before any tidings reached them.
The servants came in with coffee, but
they could tell nothing, except that Master,
and Captain Bonar, and Colonel Arnold
were with Mr. Poland in the dining-room,
with the door shut, and that the doctor
was sent for and expected every moment;
and even while they were speaking Laura,
who was standing at the window, caught
the sound of wheels, but she said nothing,
and sat down quietly close to the door.

Another long half-hour passed, and
Walter came in. She was nearest to him,
and looked up at him silently, and he was
startled by the intensity of her questioning
eyes.

'' He will do well," he said to her quietly,

VOL. I. G

and passed on, wishing to draw attention
from her.

A heavy blow on the head from the
massive bronze chandelier caused the
doctor so much uneasiness that he thought
almost nothing of divers bruises and cuts ;
but although Walter also felt that there
was grave cause for anxiety, he made as
light of it as he could to the guests; and
as those who were not staying in the house
were now anxious to disperse, he stayed
for a few moments to wish them goodnight
in his father-in-law's name ; and then,
before hurrying back to Geoffrey, stopped
to speak to Louisa in her distant corner,
and found that she had fainted. Richard
Allen had followed him, and Walter
whispered to him to stand between her and
the rest of the company. ^*Let us get
her out if we can without any one's knowing.
Poor child I although she is so quiet.

she has been terribly frightened," he said,
feeling unusually kindly towards his disagreeable
sister-in-law ; and as she began
to recover herself, and every one else was
engaged in saying good night, they
managed to get her out of the room
without being noticed, and, half carrying
her upstairs, gave her in charge of her
maid.

'•' I am sure she would rather we took
no notice of her being upset, Allen," he
said, as they went down stairs together ;
but when he got home he told his wife.
"And, my dear," he added, "if you can
believe in the possibility of a girl's falling
in love in two days in these prosaic times,
you may take my word for it that that is
what has happened to Laura." And Mrs.
Bonar felt it was very hard that just then
she could not go to Blithefield and judge
for herself.

CHAPTER VII.

FIRST INFLUENCE.

There were several pale and anxious faces
round the breakfast-table the next morning.
Mr. Hilton had been too horror-struck by
the danger to which his darling had been
exposed to feel it possible to make even an
attempt at a night's rest, and for several
hours had made periodical visits to Geoffrey's
door, not daring to enter, but getting a few
encouraging words now and then from Mrs.
Mathewson, who sat up in her nephew's
room, but stole out to give the welcome
tidings of quiet rest, of which she knew
Mr. Hilton longed to hear; then he crept

back to his own room, stopping for a few
moments at Edith's door to assure himself
that she was free from his own unrest, and
towards daylight he had fallen asleep in his
chair.

Every one had been careful to make as
light as possible of the accident to Edith,
and she therefore perhaps realised less than
others the extent of the danger from which
Geoffrey had saved her ; but she had been
sufficiently unnerved to dread being alone,
and had asked her little sister, Erica, to
sleep in her room ; an arrangement which,
however, she immediately regretted, for, but
for the fear of disturbing her, she would
gladly have stolen out, like her father, to
get tidings, now and then, of the man who
had been barely civil to her, and who had
saved her life.

But of all the party, if any one but Richard
Allen had thought of noticing it, Laura was

the one who lead evidently suffered most.
First an agony of resentful shame had
possessed lier at the thought that she had
betrayed her intense anxiety, to which had
succeeded an unreasoning conviction that
the truth was being concealed from her, and
that this, her only friend, would die — die
before she should ever see the face or hear
the voice again which, in two days, had
grown to be the dearest to her in the world.
Half a dozen times in the night she had
hoped to steal unseen to Geoffrey's door to
listen, and as often the light streaming
from her father's room, or the sight of him
as he went backwards and forwards, had
shown her that he was as wakeful as herself,
and that unless she chose to ask for tidings
from him she must bear her anxiety until
the morning. Conscious of the strength of
her own feelings, she failed to see how
natural and reasonable an inquiry would

have seemed to him, and how far he could
have been from thinking her foolish for
solicitude concerning the man who had
saved her sister's life ; and oppressed by the
same consciousness, she would not allow herself
to make inquiries from the maid who
called her in the morning, into whose care
Walter had given her half fainting the night
before. She would bear anything rather
than betray herself further, and was disgusted
at the sight of her heavy eyes and
white cheeks, which, if any one cared to
notice them, must bring remarks. But she
timed her going down with care, and met
Mrs. Mathewson outside Geoffrey's door.

'shave you had a good night?" she
asked, tremblingly, standing with her back
to the light, and leaning against the banisters
for support.

^' Yes, my dear, thank you, much better
than we expected, and although his head

is still confused, he knows me quite well
this morning," answered Mrs. Mathewson,
cordially, pleased with her unusual sympathy.


'she is not — he will not die?" faltered
Laura.

^^ Please God! — no. I do not think we
need fear that. The doctor is with him
now, and I have not yet heard his report ;
but I could see that he thought well of him
at the first glance."

Again Laura felt sick and faint with the
sudden relief, but this time she was mistress
of herself ; and just then Richard Allen came
out of his room, and noticing her pale face,
with a kindly joke drew her hand within his
own, and kept her for a moment or two at an
open window, while he congratulated Mrs.
Mathewson on the success of her night's
nursing.

^^ I believe we shall have this interesting

invalid about amongst us again in a few
days," he said, " and then we other fellows
will be nowhere in comparison with him ; so
I give you notice, Lam-a, that I shall expect
you to be very kind to me until he reappears
to claim attention from you all."

Laura looked at him gratefully. Was the
world changing all of sudden that people
should begin to be so kind to her ? And
somehow Richard spoke so lightly, and
seemed to think anxiety so natural, that she
no longer shrank from the thought that he
had known of her weakness the night before.

Breakfast was half over when Mr. Hilton
came hurrying in.

'^ I must apologise for my absence," he
said, ^' but I am sure that all my guests will
feel the claim of the injured one, and I am
glad to tell you that the doctor thinks well
of him. But, I am afraid we must give up
the dance to-night, Edith, the music might

penetrate to Poland room and excite him,
so I shall leave it to all you young people
to do the best you can to make up to om-expected
guests for their disappointment."

^^ Surely you will put them off!" exclaimed
Laura, hurriedly.

^^No, my dear, I scarcely see reason for
that ; but you must put your heads together
and get up a play or something for their
amusement. It is not every day in the year
that Edith's birthday comes, or that we
have so many friends gathered round us,

or Well, Peter, out with your great idea,

I see by your face you have one."

'^ A sort of May-Queen business would bethe
thing," answered Peter, gravely. ^' Put
Edith in a high chair and crown lier, and
some one might write an ode and recite it."

Edith laughed merrily. •' Thank you,
Peter, I hardly feel up to the position."

^ But we would support you, we would

see that it did not weigh too heavily, or
rather" — here Peter took advantage of a
general move, and stood close by his cousin
^^ if only you would authorise me, I would
support you and return thanks in your name ;
I could take all day to think over the most
appropriate terms."

Again Edith's laugh of amusement attracted
Laura's attention, and she turned to look at
her with undisguised contempt for her want
of remembrance of Geoffrey, and of her
own recent danger, which did not escape the
notice of Captain Bonar, who had ridden
over to breakfast.

*^ It is odd how habit has blinded all their
eyes," he thought; ^' it never strikes them
that poor little Laura can have any feelings,
while to me they are plain enough. But
somehow, except to Janet, I should feel ita
sort of desecration to speak of them. I
could never have believed that I could think

SO kindly of her. I wonder if that prig,
Poland, knows the impression he has made."
He would have wondered still more if he
had passed along the passage leading to
Geoffrey's room a few hours later. Mrs.
Mathewson was helping Edith to receive
her guests ; the servants were busy in their
various places, and no one was left with the
invalid but the trained nurse sent in by the
doctor. Whether Geoffrey's brain was more
disturbed than had been imagined, or whether
the bustle of preparation and arrival had
penetrated further than was anticipated,
was doubtful, but scarcely had the evening's
entertainment begun when he became wildly
excited, and beyond his nurse's control.
Over and over again she rang the bell, butin
vain, it rang only into the servants' hall,
and that was for the time deserted, Edith
wishing every one to share in the amusement
of seeing the hastily-got-up, but admirably-managed,

charades wliicli had taken the
place of the intended dance.

Quiet — absolute quiet, the doctors had
ordered ; but how was one unfortunate
woman to quiet the ravings and tossing of
a strong man in delirium? How many
times she had vainly gone to the door to
call for help she could not have counted,
when looking hopelessly along the passage
she saw a lady coming towards her.

^^Oh, ma'am!" she cried, ^^ please go
and send the master here, or send for the
doctor ! the gentleman's quite off his head,
and has frightened the life out of me."

Let me come and speak to him," said
Lam-a. She had stolen away from the company
just to pass by the door and hear that
all was quiet. '^ Don't be frightened, nurse ;
we will send at once for the doctor if there
is any need; " and with perfect self-command,
now that there was no one to watch her

Laura went in and stood by Geoffrey's bedside.
He looked at her, but did not
recognise her.

'' The lights !— the lights ! " he cried ; " I
tell you they do shake above her head !
Nonsense, it is not the servants' steps, the
others are still. Don't you see — it sways!
Oh God, it is falling ! " and he would have
sprung up but for Laura's detaining hand.

'^ Lie still," she said with authority.
^^ Move the light away, nurse. See — there
is nothing to fall. Think of the oak wood,
and the blue bells, and the pheasant stretching
himself in the sun, and the primroses
are so sweet — you said they were so sweet."
She took some from a glass at the bedside,
and held them to his face. He lay still fora
moment or two, seeming to enjoy their
fragrance. ^^ Laura? it was Laura went
with me— not Edith ! "

^^ Yes, it is Laura with you now, Edith is

not near," she answered, jealously. ^^ I will
stay with you if you will be quiet." He
murmured a few unintelligible words, and
almost before she had finished speaking his
heavy eyes closed.

*^ You're a wonderful young lady for
sure ! " whispered the nurse. '^ You can
manage him a deal better than I can ! "

^^Yes," answered Laura, hurriedly, ^^I
can manage him ; but I shall leave all the
trouble to you, and not come again, if you
say that I have been here."

^^ Bless you, miss ! it's not for me to talk
of the young ladies of the house ! " said the
nurse, making a guess ; and Laura, without
noticing it, went on — "I must go now; but
if you think it safe to leave him for a
moment I can show you my door, and you
can call me at any time if he wants me."
And then, seeing that she could do no
father good, she first sent a servant to stay

within the nurse's call, and then went back
to the drawing-room, before she had been
missed by any one but her watchful brother-in-law.


^^Just let it all alone, and make no
remarks," was the advice Captain Bonar's
wife had given him, when he had mentioned
the subject to her. '^ Nothing could be
better for us all than to have Laura taken
off our hands ; and if she really likes him it
may make a different person of her, not to
mention the use that her ten thousand
pounds mays be to him." And having a
great opinion of Janet's good sense, he
observed in silence.

The hurriedly-arranged theatricals were
received with indulgence by the guests,
who although disappointed, were determined
to make the best of everything; and if
Mr. Hilton's undisguised pride in his
daughter and heiress did bring a smile to

many faces, it was a kindly one, and all
agreed that Edith was in truth a charming
and gracious hostess.

Many were the conjectures as to who
would be the fortunate winner of such a
wife with so fair an inheritance ; and not
Mr. Hilton only, but others who were
interested in the matter, were inclined to
look with special favour on young Mr.
Offord, who had just come home from
India in consequence of succeeding to large
property in the neighbor-hood on the
death of a cousin.

Bernard Offord and the Hiltonss had been
playmates years before, and he felt far
more at home at Blithefield than at the
gloomy mansion at Offord Park, which was
only separated from it by a high paling. A
tender little sentiment concerning Adelaide
had kept the remembrance of the Hiltonss
fresh in his mind during his eight years'

VOL. I H

absence, and when he had heard of her
marriage he had imagined himself to have
received a blow, but somewhat to his disgust
he found that he got over it immediately,
and when for the first time this evening he
met Edith grown into a woman, he felt
that fate had been good to him in keeping
him a free man until they met again ; and
her pleased greeting of the ^^ Bernard" of
old days completed the conquest, begun by
her beauty and gracious manner, as he
watched her attentively from the other
end of the room before claiming her
acquaintance.

^^My dear boy, you will find that you
have not lost your old place amongst us,
although two of the nestlings have flown
since you were here last," said Mr. Hilton,
kindly.

sand the third?" asked Bernard, with
hesitation.

The third is all that a father's heart
can desire, and that is saying a good deal
from a man who wanted a son," answered
Mr. Hilton.

But as Bernard watched Edith with
attention he was not surprised at her
father's estimate.

CHAPTER VIII.

NEW VIEWS.

In a few days Geoffrey was considerably
better, and able to assert himself. '^ For
Heaven's sake, if you want me to keep my
senses, keep Mr. Hilton out of the room ! '^
he said to his aunt. ^^ He comes in here
bothering about his gratitude until 1 am
sick of his daughter's name, and he says he
means to bring her to speak for herself, but
that I won't have ! "

^'No, no, my dear boy! she shall not
come until you are much better," answered
Mrs. Mathewson, soothingly.

Now, if it was the quiet, ugly one it
would be different," Geoffrey went on ; '^ I

should like her to come in every now and
then, with her quiet ways. I fancied she
did come one night and put those horrible
lights out of my head somehow."

'^ I don't think she did, but I daresay she
would, if you like ; but she is not very
amiable, poor girl ! and we can never quite
answer for her."

swell, you might ask her if she would
come, but keep the heiress out of the way."

Mrs. Mathewson, fond as she was of her
nephew, also extremely enjoyed the society
of the other visitors, and was glad that
Laura quietly, but willingly, agreed to take
her turn of sitting with the invalid, and
helping to while away the tedious hours.

^^ Ma'am, you may tell me to do my duty,
and see that the gentleman don't excite
himself, but it's my belief, that watch as I
may — and will — the young lady knows
better than either of us how to keep him

quiet," said the nurse, when Mrs. Mathewson
called her aside to give her instructions ;
and no doubt she was right, for Laura, who
had brought her embroidery frame, seated
herself at Greofeey's side after a brief greeting,
and appeared so absorbed in her work
as to be unconscious of the restless eyes
which at first followed every movement of
her hands, and then gradually closed as the
patient, as if soothed and satisfied, sank into
a quiet sleep.

Laura," was his first word on waking,
and the ill-tempered, neglected, saddened
daughter of the house could not for the
moment answer him for sudden, happy
tears.

Dear child ! " he said, greatly touched
by her quiet care for him. ^' Have you
been sitting here all this while ? "

"It has not been long," answered Laura,
quietly.

^' Lor' bless you, sir, the young lady
has' t stirred hand nor foot this lower ! ''
said the nurse, bustling up.

Geoffrey turned irritably away. ^^ I do
not want any thing," he said, ungraciously.
^^ And you need not trouble yourself to stay
while Miss Hilton is here. Are you tired
of sitting there, Laura ? "

^^No, indeed! I like it. You have had a
good sleep, cousin Geoffrey."

Although he had refused to claim such
relationship with Edith a few days before,
coming from Laura it pleased him, and put
their intercourse on a comfortable footing.

^^Do you know," he said, after watching
her for a few minutes, while she went on
with her embroidery, '^I believe it pleases
you for me to be ill, you look so much
happier than you did before this wretched
accident."

Laura blushed deeply, for indeed it was

true. '^ Of course I am happy that you are
getting better," she answered hesitatingly,
'^ and I am glad too that you like me to be
with 3'ou ; you know, there are not many
people who care for my society."

'' Poor child I — or rather it is their loss
if they do not know the value of such unobtrusive
sympathy. But — tell me, Laura
did you come in one night — I am not
quite clear how long ago anything happened
— and bring me primroses, and drive
those lights out of my head ? "

^ ' Yes, you were talking so loudly as I
came along the passage that you frightened
me, and I came in to see what was the
matter."

I was sure you did, but that old woman
who watches me like a snake would have it
that it was my fancy."

^^ That was my doing ; I told her to say
nothing about it. I thought perhaps you

might not like me to have come, but indeed
I could not help it."

'^ I can forgive you' answered Geoffrey
smiling, and wondering to himself whether
when he got well again he should think
Laura ugly, as he had done at first, and
it was only the weakness of his invalid
condition which now made her appear
pleasing in his eyes.

'^ How long do you suppose the doctor
will condemn you to be my entertainer?"
he asked, after a pause.

^^ A week or two — I scarcely know — you
faust not go too soon," she answered.

^'No, I shall not wish to. Fancy being
laid up with no one, or — is it wicked ? —
only the kindest of aunts to cheer one's
dreary hours ! Don't flatter yourself, Laura,
that you exactly amuse me, but it is
something to know — I don't mean that
exactly, but to have a sort of idea that if

I asked you to do — what shall I say? —
catch that cock pheasant we saw the other
day, you would try to do it — just to assist
my recovery, you know."

^^ Of course I should," answered Laura,
simply. '^ But no one ever asks me to do
anything."

^^Why?"

^^ I don't know — yes, I think I do — it is
because most likely I should refuse todo
it."

'' Why ?— again."

^^ They do nothing for me ! They are
ashamed of the ugly sister. They throw
me a kindness now and then, but I do not
care to take the trouble of catching at it,
and they seldom waste their labour."

'^ Is that all their fault, Laura?" asked
Geoffrey, gently.

'^ Oh, I do not know ! " she cried, hiding
her face in her hands. ' ' Even mother did

not love me, I was always stupid or naughty,
and I did not care to be anything else, and
I never have cared ! I never was like the
rest, and no pains were wasted on me. Do
you wonder if I licet to give trouble, and
be as different as I could ? "

''■ I think I fully understand your feeling,"
answered Geoffrey, after a pause. ^^I — like
you — have never known the real meaning of
home life, but then I have never had the
chance."

senor have I," said Laura, more quietly.
^^ But all this talk of worries and difficulties
is not good for you now. Give me sympathy
when you are well again, but at
present my work is to do anything I canto
make the hours seem to pass more
quickly."

^' They would be very long but for you.
I hate having a fuss made over me, and
it is difficult to make people understand

that it is worse to be bored than to be in
pain."

^^Is it? I am glad of that! I am so often
bored, but I know little about pain and
have always dreaded it."

"You look delicate."

I am not. I have not Edith's colour,
or Erica's high spirits, but I have good
health."

Then why, without the excuse of bodily
weakness, have you made so much less of
yourself than you ought ? "

"I had no motive." began Laura.

Oh, foolish child ! " interrupted Geoffrey.
Has any one need of a stronger motive
than that of making a better man or woman
of themselves ? "

To what end ?" asked Laura, hopelessly.

Geoffrey hesitated. "you have been
brought up to believe in another world
after this troubled, perplexing, yet

pleasant and beautiful one ? " he said
presently.

'^ Yes, of course I laye been taught
that."

^'Do you believe in it?"

^^I don't know, I am not much fitted
for it."

'' There it is ! you have answered yourself
now 1 "

'^ I do not see what you mean."

'' You say that you are not fitted for a
higher life than that of this world, which in
your case has been exceptionally small and
poor, and yet you say you have had no
motive for making more of yourself ! "

"I see, but "

'' Wait a little, this question is too deep
for us to enter upon it until you have
thought over it; it would be like setting a
child to read a Greek play before he had
mastered the alphabet; but there is one

suggestion I should like to make to you —
you would get on much better with yourself
and with other people if you were more
self-satisfied."

Laura looked puzzled. '' Self-satisfied ? "
she repeated; ^' then, of comes, you don't
put the same meaning to the words that
I should."

'why not? Do you think it is wrong
to be self-satisfied?"

^^I have always heard it said so."
'^I daresay — but on what grounds?"
^^ Because — because — we all make ourselves
disagreeable and do wrong sometimes."


' Of course we do, but that is no reason
why we should not try to make an approach
to perfection, and, therefore, to self-satisfaction,
whereas it seems to me that
you have thrown the whole thing up asa
bad job."

^^ It seemed so hopeless, and nth no one
to help me ! " said Laura, sadly.

'^No doubt it did, but perhaps now I
can help you a little," said Geoffrey,
holding out his hand, and feeling immeasurably
older, and wiser, and nearer
perfection than his companion.

tell me a little more of what you
mean," said Laura, feeling so happy,
as he looked kindly at her and held
her hand, that she no longer found
difficulty in believing that even for her
the heights to which Geoffrey pointed
were not unattainable.

^^ My view is," he answered, ^^ that
some lives have been perfect, with all
the perfection of which they have been
capable, and those people have a right to
self-satisfaction ; they have used the powers
they possess to the uttermost; they have
made the most of their lives and gone as

far as they could go ; they ought to be
self-satisfied."

^^ But you would rob people of high
ideals of perfection''

^^Not at all; but I say that a person
whose ideal is not higher than he can
fulfil is likely to lead a better life, and do
more good to his fellow-creatures, than a
man who aims higher than he can reach
and impresses himself and others with a
sense of failure. In the first case a man
is self-satisfied, and would lose his life
rather than that satisfaction ; he lives his
best and highest, and a sense of self-depreciation
would be ruin to him. In
the second case a man may be striving
his utmost at times, but he feels that it is
allowed him by others and that he himself
can excuse a failure now and then. He
feels that he is what people would call a
^ fallible creature,' he is not supported by

that grand self-satisfaction wliicli is as the
breath of his life to the other, and the
failure of which from my point of view is
moral disease — if not death''

'^ This is rather beyond me," sighed
Laura.

Geoffrey drew away his hand, which was
touching hers, impatiently. ^' That is just
one of the things I quarrel with you about,"
he said. ^^ You take it for granted that
your capacities are small, and you save
yourself a lot of trouble by doing so ; but
as you could not expect to get to the end
of a journey by sitting down hopelessly by
the roadside, so you can never improve
yourself if you make up your mind that
it is impossible. You are very ignorant,
my dear, and therefore very helpless ; I
tell you so from the height of my superior
wisdom " — Laura returned his smile of
amusement: ^^But the remarkable ingenuity

VOL. I. I

and tenacity you have shown in keeping
yourself in a wrong position towards the
world, and especially towards your own
family, for all these years, shows that at
least you are not wanting in capacity and
firmness."

Laura blushed deeply, and felt as if she
ought to resent this plain-speaking, but
could not.

'^ Now I have given you a good lecture,"
he said, holding out his hand again; sand
if you are not too much offended, I should
like you to think over it and tell me
your conclusions some time. Now I hear
my aunt's voice, and she will say I
have talked too much. Are you angry,
Laura ? "

She clasped her other hand over his in
silence, and to his surprise he saw that
her eyes were full of tears, and she hurried
away, not venturing to trust her voice in

answer, and fearing to attract her aunt's
attention.

'^ Like Undine, the child's soul has to be
found," thought Geoffrey to himself, ashe
turned his head on the pillow and
closed his eyes that Mrs. Mathewson and
the nurse might leave him undisturbed.

CHAPTER IX.

CONFIDENCES.

At the end of a fortnight Blithefield was
nearly empty again, and Mrs. Mathewson
was impatient to get back to town as soon
as Geo&ey could be moved without risk.

Edith had made the house cheerful and
pleasant for her guests, although many
festivities which had been planned beforehand
were given up, every one feeling that
they would be out of place while Geoffrey
was lying ill. It was true that the
Wedgwood and Aliens, and others not
immediately concerned, often forgot the
invalid's existence ; but they all agreed
that the household party was far pleasant

than larger gatherings, and were not
disposed to find faults in any of the
arrangements made for their benefit. Mary
Vemey, who from the first was treated
almost like a daughter of the house, soon
became a favourite with every one excepting
Peter, whose high-flown conversation was a
constant irritation to her, although at the
same time she wondered that Mr. Hilton
and Edith allowed Erica without rebuke to
turn him into unceasing ridicule. It was
no doubt most tempting, and every one
seemed to think it justifiable ; but she
could not consider it so, nor could she
bring herself to listen patiently to him, but
persistently avoided him ; and he, finding
that she neither laughed at his ^^ ponderous
pleasantries," nor seemed interested in his
long-winded stories, considered her '^ a
most unintelligent young woman," and
wondered that Richard Allen, who was

considered clever, always found so much
to say to her.

Bernard Offord had been called up to
town on business almost immediately after
his re-introduction to the Hiltonss, and had
had little more than time to discover that
Blithefield had not only lost none of its old
charms, but that they were, if possible,
increased, and that the welcome he received
there was everything he could wish. In
the meantime he was looking forward to
meeting Edith in London, and was as
impatient for her arrival as Mrs. Mathewson
was to take her there ; and she herself was
distressed at being unable to avoid feeling
irritated at the delay, while she was
conscious that gratitude to Geoffrey should
have made his well-being her first consideration.
The unwillingness she had felt
to leave her father, when the plan was first
proposed, had gradually passed away ; after

all, it was to be for such a short time, and
she was naturally anxious to get a glimpse
of the world of which as yet she knew so
little.

I wonder very much how you and I
will get on in our change of places, Edith,"
said Mary Vemey, in one of the endless
conversations which they held together
during these trying days of waiting.
'^ To tell you the truth, my heart fails
me a little."

^^So does mine," answered Edith, laughing.


'your comfort," Mary went on, 'will
depend very much, I expect, on whether
you get on vnih. Geoffrey Poland better
than I have been able to do ; if not, judging
by my own experience, you will find Aunt
Sarah a hard taskmasters."

Well, you see," answered Edith, slowly,
*' I suppose I shall have an advantage which

you had not ; Mr. Poland has so sought
Laura's society that I can scarcely look
upon him in any other light than as a
probable brother, and I daresay you would
be shocked if you knew how grateful I feel
to him."

Mary laughed. ^^I have heard and seen
enough to tell me that Laura could be
spared from the family circle," she said.
'' But Edith, seriously, I cannot think
that marriage could prosper. Greofeey is
odiously disagreeable in his present state,
but I do not refuse to see that he may bean
unhewn god. I believe the precious
marble — with its capacity for beauty — is
there, but it needs a master hand to chisel
it into form, and as far as I can judge
Laura's power would be weak or perverted."

Edith was silent for a few moments. '^ I
was rather thinking of the effect of a master
hand on her," she said. '' I believe that.

as Walter said yesterday, such a marriage
would almost change her nature ; and,
unpleasing as I have thought Mr. Poland,
and with a clog of gratitude hanging
round my neck and nearly choking me,
I shall try to be pleasant to him for her
sake."

Mary almost imperceptibly shrugged her
shoulders; she doubted the good effect of
the efforts of the charming heiress to be
agreeable for the sake of her unattractive
sister ; but although bold in expressing her
opinions, she scarcely felt at liberty to suggest
this difficulty.

^' I have several times wished'' Edith
went on, ^' that father would let me stay at
home, and send Laura to town with Aunt
Sarah. It is all very well to put me off
with a joke every time I speak about it, but
there is no doubt that if a few weeks of
London society is of so much advantage as

they say, Laura stands in need of it more
than I do."

Mary laughed. *^ No doubt she does, and
perhaps her turn will come next ; but, my
dear, I am a year older than you are, and
of course wiser, and I tell you that you will
find it a great advantage to have had even
a little bit of a season before you go up to
town as a bride."

^^ Which, perhaps, won't be for the next
ten years," answered Edith. ^^No, I am
not going to be silly enough to say that I
shall probably never marry — it would be too
great a disappointment to father — but really
I have very little to gain by it."

'not much, certainly, except a goodman's
devotion ; of which, perhaps, you
have never yet stood in need. No, it is
true you have nearly all that you can desire
at present, but then the day will come "

^' Be silent, prophet of ill!" interrupted

Edith, laughing. ^^ I mean to gather my
rosebuds thankfully while they last, although,
of course, I know that some day they will
wither ; but we prize the few flowers winter
gives us almost more than summer blossoms,
and I am not afraid that they will be
wanting even in the darkest days''

swell! you are a very untried philosopher,"
answered Mary, sighing; ^^ but you
may be a true one. And now, to change
the subject, I want to tell you, that if it
was not for Erica I should be obliged to
draw back, and say that I could not stay
here while you are away."

why?"

^^ To begin with. I am desperately afraid
of your father."

Of dear old father I Why, Mary, how
can you be? He is the most harmless old
darling that ever existed."

«' Very likely, but he frightens me. Of

course he is everything that is polite when
he is aware of my existence — which is not
very often, but I fancy he does not care
much for any girls except his own; and yet
in spite of it I am terribly afraid he will
think it his duty to talk to me when you
are gone''

^^I don't think he will very much. He
likes to have cheerful people about him, but
he is often silent himself. However, you
may trust Erica for talking enough if she
gets any encouragement, but even she
cannot chatter to unresponsive Laura. At
any rate, I am only to be away two months,
and when I come back again I shall try todo
all sorts of things to make up to you, if
you have been dull."

^' I am not at all afraid of being dull here,"
answered Mary thoughtfully, ^^but it is that
I don't see that I shall be much good to anyone,
and —-oh, Edith — how I should have

enjoyed going out with you ! Of course, I
know it couldn't be done ; I couldn't afford
to buy my own dresses, and Aunt Sarah
couldn't give them to me, but I do envy you."

Edith looked at her with deep vexation.
'' Of course I did not know this," she said,
senor could I have done anything if I had.
I don't think much about money, because I
have always had plenty, but I thought you
only came here because you were tired of
going out."

^'I will tell you the real truth, Edith. I
am tired of going out when I can never
afford to be really well dressed. I am tired
of wondering whether this silk is too shabby
or that lace too soiled to appear again. I
am tired of wearing my one set of jewels night
after night, but there is one thing of which
I am still more tired, and which made me
eager to stay here, and that is Geoffrey
Poland and his cold superiority."

Edith gave a sort of shudder. ^^Mary,"
she exclaimed, ^' I will now tell you a real
truth. I almost hate Geoffrey Poland !
Remember, I have not seen him for a fortnight
— not since the day he was openly rude
to me, and then saved my life. Laura has
talked to him day after day, but he has
refused to see me, and has made me go
through all this time weighted with this
burden of unexpressed gratitude, and now I
can scarcely persuade myself to feel grateful.
And yet I must pretend to be, not only to
him, but to father, who — poor foolish old
darling ! — thinks that a few words from me
would wipe off any debt. Mr. Poland must
be a hateful sort of man to let one stay in
this strained position. .Does he want to
make me think of him incessantly? If
he does, he has his wish, but my thoughts
would scarcely flatter him."

Mary laughed. ^^ I am afraid," she said.

^ ^ that I shall not flatter you when I say that
I suspect he does not think very much about
you — at any rate, not enough to realise that
he is putting you in an uncomfortable
position. He probably thinks Kettle of what
he has done for you ; his nature is rugged,
not small ; he would despise the mean
advantage of keeping up an effect upon your
mind. No ; I know him well enough to
say that he probably feels a strong dislike
to you because he has saved your life,
and most likely he takes it for granted
that you equally dislike him for having
done it."

Edith sighed. ^^Oh, well, Mary, it is
very evident that I ought to go to London
to learn all this sort of thing. My country
mind knew nothing of such feelings a few
weeks ago, but it may be that at the end of
my two months' training I shall understand
that doing or receiving a kindness is a

reason for dislike, but at present my mind is
rather chaotic on that subject."

Mary laughed again. ^' Silly child I the
whole world is not like Geoffrey Poland's
perverted phases of temper, and it is of these
I have been speaking, perhaps, after all,
unnecessarily. His fancies were paramount
with Aunt Sarah when I was there; but
then, you see, proud as she is of me, I am
not of much importance, but Miss Hilton is
a different person altogether."

Edith interrupted. '^ Mary, 1 think Erica
must go back to school again. I feel I cannot
trust her with you; you are as uncharitable
as Laura herself."

^'I know, and I am quite half-ashamed,"
answered Mary penitently. '^I promise
you that Erica shall not know my wicked
feelings ; but it has been a relief to say it
out to you, and besides, I feel bound to let
you know that while I seem a quiet, easygoing

sort of person, I feel in reality like a
dormant volcano."

^* We must all walk delicately, then, for
fear of putting a foot through the crust''
said Edith laughing. '' But seriously, Mary,
I do not think you will feel any necessity
for an eruption while you are here. Thanks
to father's guidance, I believe we lead good
and pleasant lives at Blithefield ; there is
plenty to do, and it always seems worth
doing."

Mary sighed. ^'Is it not something in
yourselves which makes you think so ?
Perhaps Laura and I cannot feel quite
the same."

'' Laura does not, I know," answered
Edith ; ^ ' but then, she is not like other
people — but there is father calKng me and
I must be off."

^' No wonder she thinks her life good
and sufficient," thought Mary. ^^I am

VOL. I. K

inclined to doubt Aunt Sarah's wisdom intaking
her away if she wishes to study her
happiness. She won't come back the same
Edith, who is perfect in her father's eyes,
and I am afraid he will be just a little
disappointed."

Then she stood at the window, watching
the father and daughter pacing up and
down the broad carriage-drive in the warm
spring sunshine, deep in talk, and she
grieved a little for both of them in their
coming separation, short though it was to
be, and wondered whether Edith when she
returned would be able to give again the
whole-hearted attention with which she
now received every word and wish of the
father who adored her.

^' I don't mind telling you, darling," Mr.
Hilton was saying to his daughter; ^Hhat
since I have seen this strange fancy which
Poland has taken to Laura, I am much

happier about your going with your Aunt.
She tells me that I have no business to
judge of him by his decidedly unpleasing
manner, and that in reality he is a
sort of demi-god. It may be so, but it
would hare been a blow to me if you had
discovered it."

^^ But you would like him for Laura,
father?"

^' Certainly, if she has a mind to him. I
shall make no objection; she is not to be
mistress of Blithefield."

Edith was silent for a minute or two.
^^ Father, I wish sometimes that there was
no thought of Blithefield between you and
me," she said presently, putting her arm
through his and leaning against him. ''^ I
do so want you to love me only for myself,
and not because you fondly think me worthy
of my place."

^'My darling!" he answered fervently.

^^if I had the best son that ever man was
blessed with, you would still be first in my
love. It may be that I have taught you to
think too much of wealth and position, but
I have not spoilt you. You have a true,
kind heart ; you will be a gracious mistress
when the time comes. In my poor judgment,
I have done well in setting a high
standard before you of the duty you owe
to your place in the world ; and now that
you are going away from me for the first
time, all I ask you to remember is — that
when, some day, you bring me the husband
of your choice, I shall expect him
to be worthy, not only of you, but of
the things which I have taught you to
value."

Edith listened with reverence, and
silently pressed his arm ; but after a
while she began again in a lighter tone.
^'But, father, what is to happen if no

one very wise or good should ever care
for me ? "

^^I don't think we need contemplate that,
my dear."

^' But it is very likely indeed to happen,"
persisted Edith. '^ You think a great deal
of me, but it does not follow that any
other wise man will be guilty of such
folly, and then — may I marry some one
who is silly, or will you give Blithefield to
Laura ? "

^' God forbid I '' exclaimed Mr. Hilton,
energetically. ^^ No, dear ; if such a misfortune
should befall us as that you should
give your heart away, beyond recall, against
your better judgment, why each of your
sisters will be some thousands the richer,
and Blithefield will be in the market."

sand your heart would be broken, poor
old father ! Well, I will try to prevent
such dreadful calamities ; but if I do not

succeed, and insist on marrying a fool, don't
you think that if Laura marries Mr. Poland,
he would make a very good country squire
and master for the dear old place ? "

'^ It is time you went away, my dear, to
be cured of impertinence, and to find your
level ; you are getting beyond me. But this
I tell you, that rather than see that surly
fellow lording it at Blithefield, I would even
disinherit you if you took a fancy to him ! "

^^No fear of that, father. I don't deny
that Mr. Poland may have many good
qualities ; but I do not feel inclined to
interfere with Laura."

'^I should like you to comeback tome
whole-hearted, dear daughter," Mr. Hilton
went on. ^' You are young and have plenty
of time before you. It is only because I
feel myself getting an old man that I put
the thought of marriage into your head at
present. I feel," he added, between jest

and deep earnest, ^^that Blithefield churchyard
could scarcely hold me if my son-in-law
proved unworthy."

Edith hesitated for a moment, and then
answered with heightened colour; ^^ Choose
for me, father, while I am whole-hearted. I
have unbounded confidence in your love and
wisdom."

It cost Mr. Hilton an effort to keep back
the name on his lips, but he had not
mentioned Bernard Offord when, a few
moments after, they turned at the sound
of wheels to welcome Mrs. Bonar, who had
driven over with her husband for the first
time since the birth of the inconvenient
baby.

CHAPTER X.

SISTERS.

As the time was not yet settled for Mrs.
Mathewson's return to London, Mrs. Bonar
had come to beg that Edith would spend a
few days with her, and be present at the
christening of the new baby.

^^ Father can better spare you now, dear,
than when Laura is mistress of the house
in Aunt Sarah's absence ; and as Mr.
Poland has not yet appeared in public, you
have no duty to him to keep you at home,"
she said. And Edith rather unwillingly consented
to go to Daisy Lodge for three or
four days.

''I suppose there is no chance of my

getting even a glimpse of your hero," Janet
went on. ^^I confess I am all anxiety ; and
as your very devoted sister, I think I might
have an excuse for asking for an interview
with her preserver''

^^It is all very well for you to laugh,
Janet," answered Edith, gravely; 'but I
assure you that when you see Mr. Poland
the inclination will vanish. He is the most
uncomfortable person I ever saw; and I
consider the weight of obligation to him
under which the whole family is laid is
something almost too great to realise."

^' There is nothing like modesty, my dear
Edith ! "

^^You don't suppose I am alluding to
what he did for me — do you ? — that is
absolutely nothing compared with the benefit
of his taking Laura off our hands, and
making her happy. I tell you, Janet, that
since you have been married she has been

a perfect weight upon father and me ! She
will scarcely ever join in anything we do,
and yet always says something bitter at
being left out. She has taken half the
flavour out of all my pleasures for the last
two or three years."

^^ I know it has been very bad' said
Janet, sympathisingly. ^^ But are you nota
little more sure of Mr. Poland's intentions
than circumstances warrant? I alluded to
the subject to Aunt Sarah the day before
yesterday, and she assured me, with great
warmth, that there was nothing in it."

^^Yes, it is very odd!" answered Edith,
thoughtfully; ^^but she is the only person
who feels any doubt. You know, I have
not seen them together — for this gentlemanlike
hero refuses to see me, so I can
only judge from hearsay and probabilities ;
but father, of course, has been with them
every day, and he quite expects Mr. Poland

to speak to him on the subject before he
leaves. Of course, Janet, you are shocked
at the open way in which we speculate about
it, and. indeed, I am often disgusted at
myself ; but Laura is a trial, and you know
how much happier we should be without
her."

^^ Yes, of course I know," answered Janet,
gravely ; ^^ but I pity the poor child more
than any of you. I think, perhaps, Edith,
that having children of my own makes me
more able to feel for every one, and looking
back I often think we have all been hard on
Laura."

^^ Perhaps you are right," said Edith
impatiently. ^^I am sure I wish her the
happiest life in the world, only I shall be
truly thankful if she leads it away from
here."

Janet sighed — she loved Edith heartily,
but she was not quite as blind to her faults

as the rest of the family, and she feared that
her father's injudicious indulgence and
admiration would go far towards spoiling a
fine character. It was a trying position fora
girl to be placed in — to be the centre of
everything, with no mother to guide her,
and no wise friend to suggest the dangers
to which her father's blind confidence
exposed her. It was little that her elder
sisters could do for her— for their position
was one of delicacy — and to interfere in
family matters was almost impossible for
them. Mrs. Paget had tried it once, but her
father had not received it well. '^ No doubt
you would be right in most cases, my dear,"
he said, when she suggested that a little
more guidance would be an advantage to
her young sister ; ^^but you must remember
that Edith's position is peculiar, and I wish
her to learn self-reliance as early as possible."
And Adelaide had thought with a sigh,

that with her own handsome children round
her, she was not likely to forget the
peculiarity of circumstances which robbed
them of what she might, not unreasonably,
feel was their just inheritance.

But she was a good woman, and moderately
reasonable, and knew that she had chosen
for herself her humbler lot in the world, and
that it was her duty to make every one feel
that she had chosen wisely. She knew that
it was impossible that her husband should be
master of Blithefield ; he had determined
upon his calling years ago, before he had
ever seen her, and it was as a clergyman
that she had loved and married him, but —
might not her beautiful boy have been the
heir ?

What a pride she would have taken in
training him to be all that his grandfather's
heart could desire ! and young as he was —
only four his next birthday — she believed

she could already see in him the seeds of
a noble character, well fitted for the
position which no woman, with the best
capabilities and intentions, could ever
rightly fill.

Perhaps the elder sisters were rather oversensitive
concerning their position towards
Edith, and she would sometimes have been
glad to profit by their advice; but their
cautiousness had given her an idea that they
were incapable of forming opinions, when it
was only delicacy which had withheld their
expression ; and so she had learned to depend
upon herself in all matters in which she did
not consult her father, and often deprived
herself of the real benefit of their careful and
loving suggestions.

A winning graciousness of manner, shown
alike to her equals and to those beneath her,
concealed from people who did not know her
intimately the only serious defect in her

character — a want of tenderness in
feeling towards those with whom she
was not in sympathy. She was fond of
her sisters, Laura excepted, but her
father's injudicious training had taught
her to consider herself as made of
different stuff from the rest of the
family.

Adelaide and Janet were delightful, admirable,
were the best wives and mothers in the
world she believed, and were deservedly
popular amongst their friends and relations.
^' But then," she thought with unconscious
pride, ^Hhey never could understand father's
ways, and nothing could ever have made
them capable of managing Blithefield. I
can't imagine Edgar's checking Tonnage's
accounts, or Walter's judging of the proper
felling of timber;" but she never let her
thoughts lead her to directly contrast her
own home rule with that of her sisters, and

was not conscious of holding herself in
very high estimation.

Mrs. Bonar did not succeed in seeing
Geoffrey, although she sent a message to say
that she should like to make his acquaintance.

Laura came down with his answer, with a
flush on her cheek, and a difference in her
manner which her sister could not fail to
notice.

^' Mr. Poland is sorry, Janet, but he has
not seen any one yet but father, and begs
that you will excuse him."

Not a very agreeable gentlemen is he,
Laura?" asked Janet, smiling.

^' I do not find him disagreeable," answered
Laura, quietly, but with a manner
which checked further remark j and she went
out through the open window, and gathered
a handful of fragrant, richly-coloured wallflowers,
before she went back to sit with
Geoffrey, in the pleasant little room which

had been given up to his use, and which
always went by the name of the ''' blue
study."

Janet looked after her sister regretfully.
^' The child is changed, Edith, and it grieves
me that a stranger should have done more
for her than we in all these years''

Edith turned away a little impatiently.
^^ Of course she has changed — at least she
looks much brighter ; but I can't say that I
have yet found the benefit. I often wonder
how many words she and Mr. Poland speak
to each other in an hour."

^ ' I expect you will find Mr. Poland a very
different person from what you fancy him
now — at any rate, from father's account, he
has taken the trouble to be very kind to
Laura, and I hope when we can get a sight of
him he will think the rest of us agreeable."

Edith felt that her sister intended to show
disapproval, and was glad that Mary Yerney

VOL. I. L

came in just then with Erica, and the
conversation changed. Two days later Laura
and Geoffrey stood at the window of the
hue study, looking down on the party
starting for Daisy Lodge, in the waggonette
which Mr. Hilton was fond of driving with
a pair of handsome greys. Edith was going
to stay with the Bonars for a few days, and
Mrs. Mathewson, Mary Verney, and Erica
were to drive as far as Cornfield, where the
Pagets lived, and bring back Peter Hilton,
who had being staying there for a week.
Two days after Edith's return she was to go
up to town with her Aunt, for the doctor had
pronounced that by that time Geoffrey
would be fit to travel, and Mrs. Mathewson
only delayed her departure in order that she
might go with him. He had not yet left
the house, and had begged to be excused
from joining the party down stairs ; but
every one was inclined to believe that it was

want of inclination rather than strength
which kept him a prisoner.

Scarcely had the carriage disappeared
amongst the trees when Geoffrey turned
from the window, saying —

*^ I am going for a walk, Laura; will you
come and take care of me ? "

'^ Yes, gladly," answered Laura, understanding
him well enough to know that
solicitous fear for his health would at that
moment only annoy him.

^^ Don't think me perverse," Geoffrey
went on, ^^ I am quite aware that I have
made myself out to be incapable of the
slightest exertion ; but, to tell you the truth,
I have been pining for exercise for several
days, and it has only been the fear of having
a fuss made over my first appearance that
has kept me in."

^^ I can quite fancy that," answered Laura,
laughing; ^^ and you will find that I shall

not even say that I am glad to see you out
again."

'' I am sure you won't, and, what is more,
I don't believe you will feel it either — you
have looked quite blank this last few days
when I have told you how well I feel. I
believe you think me much more interesting
when I am ill."

^^Yes, J think I do," answered Laura,
slowly, and then, with a sigh, she went to
put on her hat.

'^ I should like to get to the top of a
hill," said Geoffrey, as they went out
into the sunshine. '' Every breath of this
delicious wind puts fresh strength into me."

'' I wonder if you could get as far as
the ^ Look-out ;' you look down over the
Blithefield woods, and see the road winding
about below you for miles."

^^ Let us try ; you are strong enough to
give me an arm at need."

*^ Oh, yes ; and we have plenty of time ;
the others will be away for two or three
hours."

Geoffrey put his arm through hers, and
they walked on in silence. Laura was
happy, and had no wish to talk, and
Geofeey was wondering whether before
they went home again he should have
spoken words which he was anxious to
keep back for the present, and yet which
had been many times on his lips in the
last day or two.

Why he should desire to have Laura for
his wife was a question which he was quite
unable to answer for himself, and yet in
his present mood he did desire it strongly.
She had neither beauty nor talent, she
was ignorant and generally unamiable ;
but somehow she pleased him, he was
satisfied in her presence, and missed her
when absent ; but yet he mistrusted his

own feeling. He had begun their acquaintance
from a sort of contrariety and
resentment against the world and all the
pleasant people in it; but very soon lie had
learned to take a true and sympathising
interest in her unhappy position towards
her own family, which had developed into
strong affection since the care she had
bestowed upon him during his illness. He
had studied her character carefully, and
believed that he could see in it great
latent power, which it would be an interesting
and satisfactory task to develop.
He had always scoffed at the passion of
love, and did not believe that he had it
in him to feel it; this quiet affection and
interest was sufficient, and was a higher
and purer feeling altogether, but he wished
it to be put to the test of absence. He
had no doubt of Laura's affection for him,
she showed it in every word and look

when alone with him and at her ease;
but he did not imagine that any one else
was aware of it. When her father or
Mrs. Mathewson came to sit with them in
the blue study, she was silent and undemonstrative,
and he thought that if he
could leave Blithefield without soaking
to her of the future, no one would
comment upon it, and he had no doubt
that she would trust him, and be content
to wait his time ; but he abbacy felt
impatient for the moment when he should
feel sufficiently sure of himself to return
and ask her to be the companion of his
life. Laura, on her part, had no definite
ideas on the subject at all. She felt a
sense of possession in him which made
her jealous beforehand of every word and
look he should bestow on others ; but how
it was all to end she did not know, and
did not care to imagine. He must leave

her, of course ; but he would come back
again, perhaps often, and she would have
Ills visits to look forward to, and his
words and kindnesses to live upon in his
absence. Of course, she had heard other
girls talk of their lovers, she had seen
her own two sisters wooed and won ;
but although she had felt even fiercely
envious of the love they gained, it had
never seemed possible to her that anything
of the kind should fall to her share. Her
own family did not love her, it was not
likely that any one else would, and indeed it
had seemed to her that she scarcely wished
it ; she hugged her loneliness and amiability
and almost found pleasure in them ; but
when Geoffrey came it was all very different
he was like no one else, he held himself
apart, as she did, and she felt drawn to
him at once. Then, when first they had
talked together, she had almost taken

pleasure in showing him what an unloved
and unloving existence she led ; and he had
not been repelled, but had been interested
and sympathetic, and had given her comfort,
even while he made her dissatisfied with her
own views and ways of life. He had not
said to her, as others had, that she was
altogether wicked and wrong in feeling and
showing such dislike to her fellow-creatures ;
but he had shown her that she was doing
injustice to herself, and had led her to regret
her position, and to seek for the reason and
the remedy.

She felt no new desire to mix in the
pursuits and interests of those about her,
but she seldom felt tempted now to obtrude
her want of sympathy and approval. She
still held herself apart, but she was willing
to accord to others that right to their own
ways and opinions which she had hitherto,
unconsciously, demanded only for herself.

^' Well, Laura ! " said Geoffrey, drawing a
deep breath, after a long silence, '^ I wonder
if your thoughts have been as perplexing as
mine."

^^ I don't think they have been perplexing,
things are much more simple than people
make out! One knows whether one is
happy or not."

^^ Does one ? " Geoffrey sighed. ^^ There
is the puzzle, Laura — does one know ? "

I know."

"Do you, child ? " he looked at her with a
compassion deep and tender, which in the
pleasure it gave him seemed to be like love.
Are you happy now ? "

Yes, quite."

'' And, I am happy too — with you ; but I
must go away, and then shall we be happy
apart? But," he added, hurriedly, " we will
not talk of that now, for I shall come back
again."

'' You will ? — you really will ? "

'^ Most certainly I shall ; but I cannot yet
tell you when it will be."

^' I do not so much mind that," answered
Lam-a, quietly, ^^for I am sure now that you
will come."

By this time they had gained the top of
the hill, and reached the Look-out, as the
particular spot was called which commanded
a wide and beautiful view of the surrounding
country. Below them lay the Blithefield
woods, a wide stretch of budding brown
oaks, tender green beeches, with here and
there a cluster of blue Scotch pines, and
then away for miles ferny heathy common,
which in August was like an unbroken purple
sea, but was fresh and sunny now with
golden gorse and shooting heather.

They sat down on a rough seat which
was placed at the best point of view, and
Geoffrey still kept his hand on Laura's arm.

'^ The world could scarcely show us anything
more beautiful than such a scene on
such a day ! " he said. '^ I am glad you do
not want to tell me the name of every hill
and church we see! It is just the wide
beautiful earth, and that is all I want to
know."

^' Yes, it is enough, but I never thought it
so lovely until to-day," she answered.

Geoffrey watched her face, which was half
turned away from him, and wondered how
much she understood of her own mind.
That his presence made her ha23py, and that
she had given to him the affection which she
had hitherto denied to any one else, he felt
sure ; but he did not think she knew it, and
he judged that it was better for her and for
himself that she should at present remain
unconscious.

At that moment he was quite sure that
some day, not very far off, he should ask

her to marry him, but not just yet. He
could not come before her father and ask for
her and her fortune until he had something
to offer in retm-n beyond his own small
income and good intentions ; he must at least
have determined on some way of earning a
livelihood ; and although he did not believe
that Mr. Hilton would make much objection
to his being poor, and he himself had little
scruple about accepting benefits from his
wife's portion which would benefit both, he
would very distinctly prefer that their
positions should be more equal. So, while
he could assure himself — as he believed he
could — that his silence did not make Lama
unhappy, he determined to leave matters as
they were.

^'See! the carriage is coming back, and
we shall not have more than time to get in
before them," said Laura presently, pointing
to a black spot on a distant white line of

road, which only her practised eyes could
have recognised.

Let us go back, then," answered Geoffrey,
with a regretful sigh. '^ Will you come up
here and watch me in the distance the day I
go away, Laura ? ''

*eyes." And then, as was common with
them, they fell into silence again ; and when
they came near the house, Laura drew a little
apart; and Geoffrey, smiling and understanding
her, withdrew his arm from hers,
and they got in just in time to avoid the
cheerful party returning from their' drive.

CHAPTER XI.

THE BLUE STUDY.

*' I WONDER if you will say that I have done
a very shabby thing, Laura," said Geoffrey
on the following Monday. ''' I know that
my Aunt has fixed on Thursday for going
back to town, and I have made an appointment
to be there on Wednesday ; for if I
travelled with her she would kindly fidget
over me, and treat me as an invalid, until
I should lose all patience and say something
which would offend her."

^'I think it is rather shabby," answered
Laura, smiling; ^^ but I can quite understand.
Not that Aunt Sarah or any one else

has ever been anxious to make a fuss over

'^ And a good thing for you, it has taught
you more than you are at all aware. But,
Laura, do you suppose she will really say
or care anything about it ? "

"' I should fancy she will, but I do not
know ; and she will have Edith with her, soit
cannot matter to her very much."

'^ No, and that is another reason why I
would rather go first. I should wish to spare
your sister any solicitude she might feel on
my account ; and when we meet in town I
shall be just like any other healthy commonplace
acquaintance she may come across."

'^ But of course you must see her before
you leave here."

^ ^ Do you think I must ? I am almost
ashamed to confess how disagreeable the
idea is to me."

^' I am sure father will be offended if you

do not ; he was speaking about it this morning
at breakfast, and I think he meant me
to tell you."

'^ Oh, well ! no doubt it is a farce to
suppose that I am unequal to the fatigues
of society ; but then you see society won't
let me speak the truth, and say that I am
not unable, but unwilling."

'' No, perhaps not, but they know the
state of the case pretty well — they generally
call you Diogenes."

Geoffrey laughed, but was also a little
annoyed. He much disliked being the
subject of a joke, and he also felt that it
might, not unreasonably, be looked upon asa
bit of affectation — this refusal of his to
mix with other people ; but after all, beyond
giving some trouble to the servants, which
could easily be recompensed, he could not
see that it made any difference to any one.

"Oh well!" he said, after a pause; ^' of

VOL. I. M

course, if your father looks at it in that
light, I must put aside my own inclination.
I will come into the drawing-room
tomorrow evening; but I shall regret our
pleasant, quiet hours here, Laura."

Laura did not answer, she could not trust
her voice; it seemed to her that with the
ending of these hours all her happiness
would pass away. Geoffrey guessed what
was passing in her mind and was touched,
but scarcely sorry. Her affection was precious
to him, and he would make up to her
hereafter for any pain he might cause her
now. Silence was natural between them,
and it was some time before he spoke again,
and then apparently irrelevantly.

^'I think," he said slowly, ^Hhat it is
only right that a man should be alone until
be has settled upon his path in the world.
However dear to him the presence of a
chosen companion may be, I think he should

deny himself until then. Do you agree with
me, Laura''

^^ I do not know. I have not thought
about it."

'' Will you think ? " he said, lightly
touching her hand. '^I should wish to
know whether you agree with me in this ? "

I believe in it if you say it is right,"
she answered simply.

Geoffrey smiled; she was quite unconscious
of her flattery. ^' Well, we will agree
in believing it, dear,"

And then Mr Hilton came in for his
usual morning call, and Laura worked
silently at her embroidery.

'you think you will be well enough to
travel on Thursday, Poland ? " said Mr.
Hilton, after a few general remarks,
wondering whether — as the time was so short
if Laura had been absent, Geoffrey would
have had anything special to say to him.

Yes, thank you. I think I may say that
I laye entirely recovered. ; but if it is not
inconvenient to you, I want to get up to
town on Wednesday."

Laura glanced at him with an almost
imperceptible smile.

'sit is Thursday. not Wednesday, that
sirs. Mathewson and my daughter propose
going."

Yes. I understand that ; but I have
an engagement for Wednesday, and my
Aunt's maid is so accustomed to travelling
that she is quite as good an escort as I
should be."

mr. Hilton looked puzzled : there was
evidently something he did not understand
and he wished Laura would leave them
alone, instead of sitting there silently
behind her embroidery-frame. Then a
bright thought struck him.

''Of course." he said-if you must

leave on Wednesday it is quite convenient.
I suppose you want to know the times of the
trains. Laura, will you run up to my
di-essinof-room and look for this month's
Bradshaw, and if you don't lind it there
it is somewhere in the study."

'soh, don't take that trouble'' said
Geoffrey. ''' I know there is a train about
eleven o'clock."

^^ Much better to make siu'e ! get the
book if you please, Laura."

But when she had left them alone
Geoffrey got up and walked to the window,
and remarked on the beauty of the fresh
young leaves, and the charms of the
distant view, until Mr. Hilton a\»t out of
patience.

'^ I don't believe the fellow means to
say anything to me after all ! " he thought.
^' And I can scarcely call him to account
for trilling: with her feeliuirs, when 1 have

no proof that she has any ; but he maybe
very sure that he will not enter
this house again if he has been misleading
us all."

'^ The park must look beautiful in
autumn," said Geoffrey, wondering a little
whether he would be asked to come and
see it, but not caring much, for he meant
to come before that with or without an
invitation.

^' Yes, of course the old trees look very
fine," answered Mr. Hilton coldly, and then
the opportunity was over, for Laura came
back with Bradshaw.

''I should think you will be able to join
us at dinner this evening," said Mr. Hilton,
when they had looked out and discussed the
times of the trains, which Laura had known
to the minute days before.

'thank you, if you will excuse me, I
would rather not. I have been quiet so

long that I shrink from a large party, but
I will join you in the drawing-room for an
hour tomorrow evening if I may. Tonight,
Laura, we have those designs to
finish for your embroidery."

^'I cannot stare my daughter from the
drawing-room this evening," answered Mr.
Hilton, chillingly. '' She must take her
proper place in her sister's absence ; it is
not right that she should leave everything
to Miss Verney, a comparative stranger."

^'My proper place?" exclaimed Laura,
looking up with her old defiant spirit. '^ It
is the first time I have ever heard that I
have one."

Geoffrey looked vexed, and Mr. Hilton
uncomfortable. ^'You will learn it when
you make the attempt," said her father,
after a short pause, and then went away
with a cool good-morning to his guest.

^^ Laura, don't let that spirit come over

you again, it grieves me," said Geoffrey,
standing in front of her, and looking down
at her gravely.

^' Oh, Geoffrey, I am sorry!" she answered,
looking up at him with tears in her eyes ;
*' but it loss hard to take away my last
evening ! "

^'And harder still on me, for I shall be
here alone."

^' Oh, do let me come! I hate to be with
them all, and no one will want me ! "

^^ Whereas I shall, very badly," said
Geoffrey, smiling. ^^But, dear child, it is
not for me to say what you may do ! you
must obey your father's wishes."

Laura bent her head down very low, and
was silent.

''^ Tell me what you are thinking?" said
Geoffrey, presently.

^'I am thinking that I owe my father
but little duty, and that I do not care

for his wishes'' she cried, with a burst
of passion. ^^ He has neglected and
slighted me all my life, and now spoils
my only pleasure! I will not do it! —
not if "

^' Hush, dear ! " said Geoffrey, laying his
hand upon her shoulder, and feeling sorely
tempted by her distress to break through
his resolution of letting time try their
feeling for each other. ^' You put me in a
strait. Try to control this dislike and
impatience, as I have to resist the strong
desire which struggles against resolves
which I believe to be right and necessary.
We are companions in difficulty here ;
be brave, Laura, and let us conquer
together ! "

Laura hid her face in her hands to hide
slow heavy tears which she could not
repress. She believed in him entirely, in
his goodness, his wisdom, and his affection

for her, although even to herself she would
not have called him her lover.

^' Geoffrey, " she said, looking up when
she could command her voice, ^^ I will do
what you tell me, but not from love or
respect for my father, for I feel neither, I
will do it because you say it is right."

*^Do it for that first, and other motives
will come," he answered, puzzled by the
extreme contrariety of her nature, and feeling
that the task of guiding her would indeed bea
difficult one ; but he had no wish to drawback
from it, although for a time he must
seem to do so, and leave her to struggle
a little way along the new road by herself.

Then a servant came to say Miss Laura
was wanted, and Mrs. Mathewson, at Mr.
Hilton's request, managed to keep her
occupied until late in the afternoon, when,
hastening to the blue study, weary and
impatient, fretting against a new restraint,

Geoffrey read aloud to her page after page
from books which he loved, and she was
learning to prize for his sake.

She felt rested and soothed by the time
the bell rang to dress for dinner, and
Geoffrey putting his hand on her shoulder,
said lightly, —

'' Make yourself as pleasant as you can,
my child, and if possible come by and bye
and say good-night, and tell me how you
have fared."

CHAPTER XII.

COUSIN PETER.

^'YouR preserver intends to appear this
evening and claim his reward, Edith; I
wonder what he expects or intends it to
be," said Mary Verney, when Edith returned
from the Bonars the next morning.

^^ Oh yes, Edie; Diogenes has really
promised to emerge," cried Erica, excitedly.
*^I could scarcely sleep last night after
father told us, I am so afraid of him, and
yet so anxious to see him."

^^ Silly child!" said Edith, laughing;
^^you seem to look upon him as a sort
of ogre, or else as a high and mighty
personage whose presence will affect everybody

; I can't myself see what difference it
will make whether he is in the room or not,
except that, of course, we must be very civil.
I don't fancy he would at all appreciate a
fuss."

^^ But he must be very odd or he would
not like Laura," persisted Erica.

Edith, fresh from Janet's kindly influence,
looked vexed. '' You should not speak like
that. Erica ; it is quite likely that Mr. Poland
may understand her better than we do,
and that with him all that is good in her
comes out."

Erica laughed. ^^ That is Janet all over,
with a little flavour of our clerical brother
in addition; but oh, Edie ! when a person
has done you one kindness they are so often
ready to do another ; couldn't you ask him
to set our minds at rest before he leaves
tomorrow, so that we may have no doubt
or anxiety about it ? "

^^You are a goose, Erica; and it is not
tomorrow but Thursday that we are
going."

^^ You are going on Thursday, if you
like, but he leaves tomorrow, he told
father yesterday."

^^He apparently does not care for the
society of ladies while travelling," said
Mary. '^ When we were coming down here
he went in a smoking carriage most of
the way."

^' He is a wise man," answered Edith.
^' There is nothing so disagreeable
as having to talk in a train, if you
do not feel inclined," but in her own
mind she felt a little annoyed at this
apparently persistent avoidance of her
company.

Late in the afternoon Peter made an
opportunity for speaking to her alone.

'^ Of course you are prepared," he said

solemnly but looking at her with an
expression of doubt and solicitude.

'prepared?" questioned Edith, with
surprise, she was too well accustomed to
him to be alarmed. ' ^ Why, Peter, has
anything dreadful happened for which I
need be prepared ? "

'^ Of course, I mean prepared with your
speech to Poland when he comes into the
drawing-room to-night."

'' I have not the least intention of making
one."

'not make a speech to the man who
saved your life ? "

''No, Peter, I don't believe in speeches."

Well I I must say, even if it vexes you,
that I think you will be neglecting a solemn
duty — to say nothing of the waste of an
opportunity of which you might make so
much — of showing your capacity for turning
the occasion to the best advantage. But

DOWN THE WAY.

perhaps, Edith," and here Peter spoke low,
and came near her, half drawing a paper
from his pocket, ^^ perhaps you scarcely
know what to say, and I have prepared
a sort of rough draft of a simple and
appropriate speech which could not fail to
please Poland and every one else."

Edith laughed heartily. '^ Thank you,
Peter, I do not doubt that it is beautiful;
but I scarcely think anything of the kind
will please Mr. Poland; he knows that I
am deeply grateful to him, and I do not
think he will expect me to tell him so."

'^ How can you have such a poor opinion
of your position and responsibilities ! " exclaimed
Peter, with some impatience. '^ But
perhaps it is natural that a woman should not
rightly understand these things, and if you
liked to depute me to make your acknowledgments
I think I can promise you that
they would be made suitably, and in

language which would do you no discredit'


Again Edith's merry laugh disappointed
him.

^^ Perhaps," he said stiffly, ^^you have
been beforehand with me, and have abbacy
expressed your gratitude, but if so it would
better become you to tell me plainly than
to turn my carefully-considered — and I may
say judicious — suggestions into ridicule."

^^ I am not doing that exactly, Peter,
indeed I am not ; and I have not even seen
him ! " cried Edith, still brimming over with
barely-suppressed laughter. '' But the whole
idea of my making a speech to that solemn
Mr. Poland, who no doubt intensely begrudges
me the safety of my small brains at
the expense of his own, is something too
absurd. Of course, if there was the least
fear that his injury was more than a mere
passing one, I should be too much grieved to

VOL. I. N

have a laugh left in my whole composition,
but when every one says that he has perfectly
recovered, I think I may be excused for
seeing that there is a comic side to this
painful load of gratitude which I owe to a
man whom I particularly dislike."

'^If you dislike him and feel your gratitude
a burden, it is all the more reason for
expressing yourself with care and consideration,
and if you will treat the matter seriously,
Edith, I wish to say that it is one of jDCCuliar
interest to me, and I think that acknowledgments
made at my suggestion would be
particularly suitable''

^^ Oh, Peter ! I almost believe you are
going to make me an offer!" cried Edith,
who found it impossible to be serious.

Peter looked highly important and complacent.
'^ Indeed, my dear Edith, you are
not far from the truth, but I was debating in
my own mind whether I should speak before

your departure for town — an engagement is a
great safeguard to a young woman tln:own
for the first time into the whirlpool of society;
but perhaps you have scarcely time now to
think over all the advantages, and it might
be better that it should not be spoken of until
you return home."

^' Then you feel no doubt that it will bethe
best arrangement for both of us ? " said
Edith, who felt the temptation to draw him
out was too great to be resisted, and only
wished that Mary was there to listen.

No, my dear cousin, I feel no manner of
doubt. Our being of the same name is
no mean advantage, and then I have known
you from childhood, and there are only
a few minor points in which I should wish to
make radical changes in your character.
Your father, I know, holds me in esteem,
and will not, I am sure, fail to be pleased
that his — may I say rather giddy young

daughter" — here he smiled indulgently,
^^ should have a judicious guide for her
inexperienced feet."

Edith could control herself no longer.
^^ Oh, Peter!" she cried, with a laugh of
such genuine and irrepressible amusement
that he shrank a step or two away from
her. '' I don't suppose you have the least
idea how utterly and entu-ely absurd the
whole idea is to me. I can scarcely fora
moment believe that you mean it as
anything but a joke, and in that light it
has been most successful, but it has gone
far enough, and I should like you to forget
it — as I shall. Now, I must run away, for
father wants me."

indeed, Edith! — I beg, — It is nothing
of the kind ! " stammered Peter, and he
held out his hand to detain her, but she
passed him quickly, and only turned as
she half opened the door.

^' We will be very good friends, Peter,
but I don't like your joke, and will never
listen to another word of it."

Then she hastened to her father's study.
Peter's offers were always common property,
and she had no hesitation in speaking on
the subject.

'' Oh, father ! that dear old Peter has
just done his duty and offered to be a
buffer between me and the vanities of the
world," she cried, seating herself in her own
particular low chair beside him.

^^ Poor Peter ! One more bid for Blithe-field
! Well, my dear, have you accepted
with gratitude this substantial safeguard?"

'' But really, father, it was very annoying,
especially as there was no one else there to
enjoy the joke."

^' Yes, and it is one that has been carried
quite far enough. I must give him a hint.
I believe he is in reality perfectly singleminded,

and has no thought of being a
fortune-hunter, but in our more worldly
eyes it has an unpleasant appearance. But
tell me — show did it come about ? "

Oh ! he wanted to write a speech forme
to make to Mr. Poland to-night, and
then went on to say that no one could
have a better right to do it than himself."


^^ I see. I was afraid, my dear, that a
spirit of mischief — in which you are not
always wanting — might have tempted you
to lead him on."

'^ Perhaps I did a little, father, after he
had begun, but not at first. Oh, I do wish
you had been there to hear him, and
see his solemn manner. We always told
Adelaide and Janet that when he proposed
to them it must have been the most amusing
moment of their lives, but they would
never tell us about it''

^^ Of course not; and I hope you will
show equal discretion."

Oh, father, really Peter does not count !
It would be so different with any one else ! "

'^ Nevertheless, my child, I cannot have
him made a laughing-stock for giddy girls,
as your own good taste will show you after
a moment's thought."

Edith looked very blank. ^^ Do you mean
that I must not even tell Mary and Erica ? "

Her father laughed. ^^ So that's too much
to expect of you ? Well ; if you must have
an outlet, I don't mind your telling Miss
Verney ; she seems tolerably discreet, but
Erica is an irrepressible child, and she
could scarcely resist ridiculing your solemn
lover to his face."

'but is he my lover, father ? I can't fora
moment believe it."

'^ Not as we should use the word, dear;
but according to his own standard he believes

himself to be. He feels a good deal of
honest affection for you; he has a great
liking for Blithefield, and a very good
opinion of himself. A combination of these
feelings is too much for him, and he forgets
the construction the world in general
would put upon his desire to marry
you, although at the moment it is sincere
enough."

'' I suppose he was equally sincere when
he proposed to Adelaide and Janet ? "

No doubt, but they were too discreet to
bring the tale of their conquest straight tome.
In one case my knowledge of it was
the result of my own observation, in the
other of inference."

A speech almost worthy of Peter
himself, father I " said Edith, getting up
and kissing him ; ^ ^ as you say I may tell
Mary, I must go and do it at once. After
all it is a great advantage to have

something to take off my thoughts from
the meeting with Mr. Poland."

'' You are but a silly girl still, my
darling!" said her father, fondly, ^'but
you understand my wishes and ways from
top to bottom, and you can be wise enough
when the humour takes you."

Yes, father, I am ^ the master in
petticoats,' as nurse used to say, and
looking at you from that point, it is
astonishing how very inferior the rest of
mankind seem in comparison. But, however
much you may scold me for being
silly, and laughing at Peter, I am sure
you are like me in this — that you would
give a good deal to see that speech which
he has prepared for me."

^^ I should have no objection, certainly;
it would probably be amusing."

'amusing? I should think it would,
indeed ! and father, I should not be in the

least surprised if he showed it to you, he
won't like it to be quite wasted, and it
will be a good opportunity for you to
lament together over my want of wisdom."

^^ Well, my dear — if I do read it it will
not benefit you, for honour will oblige me
to be silent about it."

^' We shall see," said Edith, laughing, as
she hurried away to find Mary.

CHAPTER XIII.

AN ORDEAL.

Laura looked forward to the evening-with
great anxiety. Geoffrey had given
her so much sympathy and such pleasant
companionship in the many hours which
they had spent together, and had so
evidently prized her society for her own
sake, that she had learned to put a new
value on herself, and longed to see
whether other people would do the same.
She had no wish to obtrude the feeling
which she and Geoffrey had for each other,
but she earnestly desired that it should be
seen and recognised, that every one round
her should know that she, the despised

and neglected one of the family, was in
her turn appreciated. She could hardly
have borne that her father, or sisters, or
any third person should have heard those
conversations in which she had revealed
her sad and perverted views of life,
although very often there was nothing
personal in them, but she would have
wished them to know that Geoffrey cared
to talk to her, and listen to her thoughts
on subjects beyond the small events of
every day.

She did not wish to talk to him much in
public, she knew that she should be almost
incapable of expressing an idea while others
listened, but she fervently and jealously
hoped that he, too, would say little more
than civility demanded. They might sit
somewhat apart, but within easy distance
of each other, in that pleasant silence which
is only possible between friends, broken

now and then by a few sympathetic words
which would show that they had much to
say if occasion suited. She knew so little
of Edith, and of late had seen even less
than usual of her, that she had no idea
how she would behave to Geoffrey or show
her gratitude. If she was demonstrative,
he would shrink from her, but she who
was so praised for the charm of her manner
would probably know exactly how to make
her thanks pleasant to him, and then —
thought poor Laura — no doubt he would
contrast them together, and discover that
it was only because lately he had seen
no one else that he had cared to be
with her.

A few of the near neighbours were to
dine at Blithefield that evening, for Mr.
Hilton saw no reason for showing Geoffrey
the consideration of keeping the drawing-room
quiet for him, and Laura was glad

that the occasion demanded that she should
dress with unusual care, and add some of
those little adornments which until lately
she had persuaded herself that she despised.
When she was ready, she went
as usual to the blue study for a few
minutes before the dinner bell rang.

^^ See, Laura," said Geoffrey, as she
went in, ^^ while you were all having tea
I stole out to the gardener and made
him give me these for you," and he
held out a bunch of fragrant carnations,
shaded from crimson to the faintest blush,
for which the Blithefield hot-houses were
famous at that time of the year.

^^ Oh, how lovely ! " cried Laura with
delight. 'somehow I never have flowers,
I have not worn them since that night — "

'' When I lost my head," interrupted
Geoffrey, laughing. '' No, I have noticed
that you have not. But, Laura, you must

not imagine that I shrink from the thought
of that evening. I have quite got over
the horror of it, and consider my recovery
complete."

eyes, I think it is, and are you very
glad to get back to the world again ? "
she asked wistfully.

*^ If by the ^ world ' you mean the
society I find in ordinary drawing-rooms,
I can truthfully assure you that I am not
but if instead you mean man's working
and fighting ground, I am glad, for I have
to win my way there before I can venture
to seek for my own personal happiness."

^^ But you will win it?"

'^ I believe I shall, at least I hope for
it. Laura, you should know best how much
I hope." He checked himself, for he had
already said more than he intended, and it
was a relief to both that almost before Laura
had time to fasten the flowers into her

bronze coloured velvet dress, the dinner
bell rang.

^^I suppose you can scarcely come up
here and bring me down, Laura," said
Geoffrey, smiling, as he opened the door
for her.

^^ I don't know ; I suppose not. Do you
think I might ? "

^^ No, dear, better not," he answered,
and sighed as he watched her down the
passage, thinking how. sad it was that she,
so young, should scarcely understand the
existence of a joke. ^^ But I will make
her happy, and teach her to laugh some
day," he resolved firmly, ^^ although it
may be that the time will be long incoming,
and the poor lonely child may
droop and weary, and grow distrustful, but
the waiting is of necessity, not of my
choosing, and I should be a fool to kick
against it."

By way of experiment Edith had arranged
that Laura should be taken in to dinner by
a stranger, staying with his friends in the
neighbourhood. Mr. Grierson had a reputation
for being satirical, and abrupt in
manner, and the girls of the house in which
he was staying confided to Edith that they
found it impossible to get on with him.

^' We will see what he and Laura can
make of each other," said Edith, mischievously
; '^ she has gone through a severe
course of training lately in King the unlike-able,
and perhaps she will understand him
better than we shall." And to her surprise
she found that the experiment was successful.


Mr. Grierson was struck and also interested
by the tall pale girl with a melancholy face,
who was dressed so much more plainly than
the rest of the company, and was glad to
offer her his arm, and still more glad when

VOL. I. o

she answered his first observations in as few
words as possible, and evidently did not
expect to be talked to. He liked to be left
at liberty to enjoy his dinner and observe
other people, and noticed that his companion
took his silence as a matter of course, which
naturally after a time made him wish to talk
to her.

'^ You are interested in all these people ?"
he asked, abruptly, with a general wave of
his hand.

^^ No, not particularly. I know them all.'^

*^ What a severe speech ! Miss — a — "

'^ Hilton," supplied Laura.

^^ Oh, indeed ! I did not understand that
you were one of the daughters of the
house."

^^No, probably not."

'' Your eldest sister at the head of the
table has an important and brilliant future
before her, I understand ? "

^^ Yes, but she is not my eldest sister, there
are two who are married."

'indeed I but I understood that this one
is your father's heiress."

^^Yes, by a sort of family arrangement,
which is a little puzzling to strangers,"
answered Laura, quietly.

Your father perhaps objects to matrimony
for his daughters ? "

No, not at all, but his heiress's husband
must fit into his mould," said Laura, unconsciously
quoting Geoffrey.

^' I see, and your elder sisters' husbands
did not quite fit ? "

^^No."

"You have another sister younger than
yourself, I think, — will the property go on
descending in case of continued failure, and
refusal of the round man to fit into the
square hole ? "

No, I believe it will go no further."

^^ An interesting family history. Miss
Hilton ; one wishes to be intimate enough to
know it better and watch it further."

^^ It seems commonplace enough to us,"
answered Laura.

'' Nothing can be commonplace which
has to do with your brilliant sister, I should
think," said Mr. Grierson, looking with
admiration at Edith's bright face at the
head of the table, and Laura sighed as she
thought of the contrast which strangers
must make between her and her sister, and
that she must ever expect to fade into the
shadow in her presence. It was very hard,
but as long as she could she would believe
that Geoffrey was not like other men, and
that regardless of Edith's beauty and charm
of manner, he would be faithful in his affection
for her.

When the gentlemen left the dining-room
Geoffrey met them in the hall, and after

short greetings from those whom he knew,
they all went into the drawing-room
together. Laura was, as usual, sitting a
little apart, and he went straight up to her,
conscious that all who were interested in
them would mark his doing so, but careless
at the moment of everything but
paying her an attention which he knew
would please her.

After a minute Mrs. Mathewson came upto
him, and with her Mary Verney, who
spoke pleasantly and easily, and altogether
ignored the fact that they had not met for
three weeks. Then came Edith and her
father, and she held out her hand and said —

'^ I am glad to see you again, Mr. Poland,"
and he said, '^ Thank you ;" wondering
whether this was to be all, and he had been
fool enough to shrink from a scene which
was never to be acted.

Then when Edith turned to other guests

Peter came, and fussily expressed his pleasure
at meeting again. Half an hour had been
sufficient to restore his self-esteem and composure
after Edith's rejection. She was buta
girl, he reflected, there would be plenty of
time for speaking to her when she had
sobered down a little, and doubtless after a
season of butterfly attentions she would be
more inclined to listen gratefully to his
honest proposals. He already felt a sense
of ]Proprietorship in her which made him
anxious to represent her in the best light to
the man to whom he owed a debt for saving
her life. It would not be well that
this stranger should think lightly of her
good heart or good sense, so drawing
Geoffrey a little aside he began a studied
apology for the absence of public acknowledgments.


^^ We are all truly glad to welcome you
amongst us again, Poland," he said; ^^ but

I am afraid my young cousin's somewhat
giddy manner may lead you to suppose
that she does not properly appreciate
what you have done for her, but I assure
you "

^^My dear fellow, nothing of the kind!"
interrupted Geoffrey, a little rudely. '' Miss
Hilton has shown her good taste in ignoring
an occurrence which it must be unpleasant
to every one to remember ; " and he turned
abruptly away, leaving Peter so ruffled and
disconcerted that Mary Verney, who had
been watching them, kindly hurried to him,
and claiming his attention, managed to
prevent him from displaying his wounded
feelings any further.

Geoffrey did not find the assembled company
particularly interesting, and many
times wished himself back again in the blue
study with Laura. He spoke little to any one,
and listened carelessly to music and singing

of average merit, but he sat most of the time
within speaking distance of her, and said a
few words now and then, which made her
content, without drawing general attention
upon them; but Mrs. Mathewson, who had
obstinately refused to believe it possible that
her fastidious nephew could give a serious
thought to this unattractive girl when others
were at hand, watched them a little uneasily,
and detecting now and then a look or smile
provoked by mutual understanding or enjoyment
of something that was going on, felt
that her confidence in Geoffrey might after
all have been misplaced, and that however
much she and every one else might underrate
Laura, he found pleasure in her sympathy
and companionship.

Edith, fearing to seem neglectful, came
after a time and began to talk to him.

^^You have not been able to see much
of our pretty home, Mr. Poland, but even

from the windows of the blue study you can
get some idea of it."

Yes, it is looking beautiful ; you will be
sorry to leave it for the smoke and dust of
London," he said, civilly.

'^ Indeed I shall, for it has seldom seemed
to me more lovely than just now, and I
owe it to you that I am saved to see it once
more," she answered, with quiet earnestness.
He bowed silently, and she turned to speak
to some one else, and the dreaded scene was
over. It had been well done, he thought to
himself, and she had said neither too much
nor too little.

^*Not a very formidable business after
all, Laura," he said, sitting down beside
her. ^^ Perhaps I should have paid her some
unmeaning compliment. What do you
think?"

'^ She might have expected it — I do not
know;" answered Laura, slowly; ^Mjut

I myself should have preferred your
silence."

^'But then you understand me, and it is
not given to every one to do that," said
Geoffrey, laughing; and as she smiled
back at him, Mrs. Mathewson, observant and
uneasy, thought it was quite time to claim
his attention.

Alien Edith sat quietly in her room that
night, and thought over what had passed,
she scarcely knew whether she was satisfied
or not. The idea of owing one's life to
another person must in most cases be
painful, but when the person to whom you
owe it is almost a stranger, who has yet had
opportunity for treating you with marked
indifference, the debt becomes indeed a
burden. Prejudiced from the first against
Geoffrey Poland, by Mary Verney's account
of his obstinate unsociability with her, and
by Mrs. Mathewson' s unwise exaltation of his

character, while at the same time she confessed
that his manner was often unpleasing,
Edith had scarcely had the choice of liking
him, and when added to that he had shown
no inclination to share in the kindly homage
paid to her on this occasion, as the cause
of the family gathering, and hospitality to
the neighbourhood, she could scarcely avoid
feeling irritated and offended.

She was not, however, narrow-minded
enough to forget that there were many
characters, especially amongst men, into
which she possessed no insight. Her father
she read like an open book, her brothers-in-law
were scarcely subtle enough to be
puzzling, and of other men she had had
small experience. Cousin Peter, Richard
Allen, and a few others, were often about
the house, too often for her to have thought
of especially studying them, but now she
recognised in Geoffrey something completely

new, and as it happened, disagreeable, but
certainly interesting. The most puzzling thing
about him to her was his liking for Laura,
who had persistently from childhood refused
to be one of the family, who had mocked at
offered kindness, scoffed at any attempts for
her improvement, and had been the one
daily thorn in the almost unruffled smoothness
of the Blithefield household. But the
fact remained, and Edith blushed that she
should feel vexed at it, he preferred unpopular
Laura to her own beloved, indulged,
and really right-meaning self. How coldly
and ungraciously he had taken her
acknowledgment this evening, and yet
she had painstakingly adapted it to what
she believed would be his liking ! But
would she after all have preferred that he
should have answered it with conventional
deprecation ?

'' Oh, it was nothing, I assure you ! of no

consequence at all, nothing to thank me
for!" No, she should have despised him
then, and with all her irritation against him
she had never yet seen reason to do that.
Well, he was interesting, there was no doubt
about it, and she a little envied Laura her
intimate acquaintance with him, but no
doubt when she saw more of him in the
prosaic light of every day companionship
her interest would grow less, and it was
only idle for her to think much about him,
for if he was to be her sister's husband
she would probably see little of him, for she
and Laura had never been good friends, and
marriage would only still more divide them.
^^But it shall not be my fault if we are
not friendly as brother and sister," she
resolved, before she went to sleep, ^' and I
should like somehow to prove to him that my
life was worth saving after all."

CHAPTER XIV.

Good-bye.

When Geoffrey went into the drawing-room
the next morning with Mr. Hilton, to say
good-bye, all the ladies of the party were
there excepting Laura.

^^ Well, Geoffrey, it is not a long leave-taking
for us, said Mrs. Mathewson, ^' but
it would have been more convenient and
sociable if you had waited until tomorrow."

^^ I have an engagement for this evening, "
he answered, shortly.

'' Yes, but I daresay it could have been
put off, but however that may be, you will
be at home to dinner tomorrow, of course ? "

^^I hope so. And now, I suppose, my
time is up''

^^ Where is Laura?" asked Mr. Hilton.
^' She will not like you to go without saying
good-bye."

'' I have just seen her' answered
Geoffrey; and then, when they had passed
through the hall, and he stood on the
doorstep, he added, '' Good-bye, sir, and
many thanks for all your kindness and
care."

'^ Oh, there is nothing to be said about
that, or I must speak again of the debt I
owe to you; but we shall be seeing you
here again very soon, of course."

Mr. Hilton felt that this was a needful
bit of fatherly wisdom for Laura, and that
it was quite necessary that the young man
should be reminded that attentions such as
his were expected to lead to something.

'^I hope so, indeed," answered Geoffrey,

earnestly; ^^but I have to put my shoulder
to the wheel and make some progress before
I can think of taking another holiday, even
to visit beautiful BKthefield.'' Then with
another shake of the hand he was driven
away.

Mr. Hilton tinned back into the house in
some distress. Had he done rightly by his
motherless girl in letting this young man go
away without finding out whether he was
in earnest in his liking for her, or had
only been whiling away idle time ? But
what could he have done ? he could not
force his daughter upon any man, he could
not lay himself open to the charge of
wanting to get rid of her, either for her
sake or for his own, and he was even
deprived of Mrs. Mathewson's help in this
perplexity, for she refused to see that there
was reason for supposing that Geoffrey had
any intentions, and, although her own mind

misgave her, declared that she believed that
neither he nor Laura had any feeling but
friendship for each other.

Meanwhile, as lie drove through the park,
Geoffrey's mind was equally disturbed.
Until Mr. Hilton made his parting speech,
which he had done with some emphasis, he
had believed that no one but himself and
Laura had any suspicion of their attachment
to each other — indeed, he himself had
scarcely known the strength of his own
feeling until Laura, white, trembling, but
tearless, stood up to wish him good-bye in
the blue study, with one hand grasping the
table for support. He looked down into her
sad eyes for a moment, and then put his
arm round her shoulders.

'^ Laura, my love I " he exclaimed, but
even then checked further words, and
kissing her gravely and earnestly let her
go. ^'I will come back, God knows, the

VOL I. p

first possible moment!" he said. ^^ You
will not be unhappy?"

'' Oh no, Geoffrey," she answered, her
eyes gentle and full of tears now, and
at that moment she seemed to him almost
beautiful ; but he believed he was right in
leaving her thus, and with a clasp of the
hand he turned away. '' You will watch
for me, Laura ? " he said from the doorway.
She answered with a silent gesture,
and he was gone.

All this passed through his mind again
as he drove on, at one moment regretting
his caution, and at another assuring himself
that he had done the only thing that was
right.

'' Stop here for a moment, please," he said
to the groom, as they came to a sharp turn
in the road; from whence, looking back,
there was a wide view of the Blithefield
woods, then he stood up and waved his hat

several times, and sat down again with a
smile. ^^ You can go on now," he said,
and the groom wondered, and thought the
'• young gentleman still seemed rather
queer in his head like."

One thought filled Geoffrey's mind all
through the journey up to town. ^' I love
her to-day : shall I love her in remembrance
a month hence?" he asked himself over
and over again, and no previous knowledge
of his own character enabled him to answer
the question. He distrusted himself to an
extent which was painful and humiliating,
and was, perhaps, unjust to her. He had
felt assured years ago, when the subject
had first interested him from a safe distance,
that he had strength of character
enough to defend himself from the ordinary
weakness of mankind, and that excepting
with his own consent, he would never fall
a victim to the undesirable passion of

love. He would, probably, marry some
day, rather late in life, but it would be a
woman whom his taste and reason approved
as a companion, and whose society would
embellish — but in no way disturb — his
com-se of life. And yet, now he bereaved
he vows in love, in love like any common
unreasoning fool I In love with a woman
who was neither beautiful, nor educated,
nor talented, to furnish him with an
excuse, who was passed over by all who
knew her best, and yet who, first in his
suffering and weakness, and afterwards in
the long hours of returning health and
necessary idleness, had been to him the
only truly sympathetic companion he had
ever known.

'^ After all," he thought, ^^what aa
absurd value each individual puts upon
himself ! I struggle and doubt, because I
am not sure that this girl is the best wife

that Providence can send me, quite as
much as from hesitation over the good 1
can bring to her. I know that countless
better men than I am go through life
without ever finding what people call, ' a
kindred soul;' and women without number
fairer and wiser than my little Laura —
live and die unmarried ; and yet I hesitate
for myself and for her, and am unwilling
to speak the words which would bind us
for life together."

But argue with himself as he would, he
still believed that it was the best wisdom
for them both that they should remain
apart for awhile.

CHAPTER XV.

LOST.

The party gathered round the luncheon table
a few hours after Geoffrey's departure was
a very small one.

- Peter — not feeling quite happy, and having
an uneasy apprehension that every one in the
house knew of his rejection — which yet he.
assured himself was only due to girlish
caprice and indecision, had made the most of
an indefinite invitation from the Bonars,
and had gone to inflict himself upon them
for a day or two before returning to his
bachelor lodgings at Brighton ; and Erica
was spending the day with a friend at

Mornington, where her father had gone on
business as a magistrate''

Where is Laura?" asked Mrs, Mathewson,
as she and Edith and Mary sat down to the
table.

^' I don't know'' answered Edith carelessly.
*' She is often late. Stephens, does Miss
Laura know it is luncheon time ? ^'

^^I struck the gong, miss, as usual,"
answered Stephens; "but I believe Miss
Laura has not come home''

Oh, it is all right, Aunt Sarah ; we never
wait for her if she has gone out," said Edith;
but she felt a Httle sad for her sister,
knowing that she must feel the loss of
her companion and friend. But there was
a good deal to be arranged and thought
about before she left home the next day,
and it was not until her father came home
late, and said,

swell, what has Laura been doing with

herself r " that she remembered that she had
not seen her since breakfast time. She
ran hastily upstairs and looked for her,
first in her own room and then in the blue
study, but she found her in neither.

^' Miss Laura went out a few minutes
before Mr. Poland left," said Ellis, the
girl's maid, in answer to inquiries.

^^ And you have not seen her since?"
asked Edith.

' No, miss. She has not been in, I'm
sure, or I should have seen her thick boots
and ulster. I never knew Miss Laura do
this sort of thing before, Miss Edith."

''• No, Ellis ; but she must have promised
to go somewhere, and then forgotten to
tell us," answered Edith, but she began
to feel really uneasy.

It was past six o'clock now, and Laura
must have gone out before eleven. It was
true that now and then she did not come

in to luncheon, but on those occasions she
had invariably come in to afternoon tea with
-a good appetite, and had given some sort of
account of her absence. It was so unlike
her to draw attention to herself in this
manner, especially when there might be
something to observe, and no doubt she
was feeling deeply the loss of her companion
her lover— Edith said to herself, although
she would not have let it pass her lips, and
there was nothing to be done but just let
her father know the state of the case, and
leave him to judge whether there was really
cause for uneasiness.

Mr. Hilton, feeling considerable doubt of
his own wisdom in the management of this
uncongenial daughter, spoke to Edith somewhat
severely.

'' You do not mean to say that you have
let all these hours go by, and when your
sister has not come in to luncheon or tea.

have passed it over without inquiry?" he
said.

^^ Well, you see, father dear, Laura hates
being fussed over, and we all knew that she
would feel dull to-day and would wish to be
alone ; and yet that is not quite all the truth,
for I have been so busy that, excepting at
meal times, I confess that I have not thought
of her."

^^You are quite sure that the servants
know nothing of her ? "

^^ Yes, father, I asked Ellis, and she
said that Laura put on her ulster and
thick boots, and went out just before
Geoffrey Poland left."

Mr. Hilton took a turn up and down the
room, and before he spoke again Mrs.
Mathewson knocked at the door and
came in.

^^ Well, have you found her, Edith?"
she asked, somewhat anxiously.

^' No," answered Edith, dejectedly.

^^ Sarah! it is not possible that that
nephew of yours has persuaded the poor
child to go off with him ? " said Mr.
Hilton, stopping in front of her, and
speaking with great agitation.

wedgwood! How can you think of
such a thing ? Of course not I If you
don't know your own daughter better
than that, I can answer for Geoffrey."

^^ But you see," said Mr. Hilton anxiously,
^^ you' nephew is not quite like other
people, and my poor child is different too.
They have not told us their thoughts all
this while, and it might be that they
have taken into their heads to go off and
get married without a word to anyone."


^' I am quite sure that Geoffrey'' is
incapable of such a dishonourable action,"
answered Mrs. Mathewson, angrily.

'' But, my dear Sarah, it might not
be altogether a dishonourable intention;
no doubt he has seen how deficient we
have been in sympathy towards this poor
child, and he might think that he was
doing well for her ; but after all it is mere
nonsense to talk like this, and she may
come in at any moment; at any rate, I
will go and have a look for her."

Mr. Hilton went round to the stables, and
in as casual a way as possible, sought out
the groom who had driven Geoffrey to the
station.

^^ You were in good time for the train
this morning, Morris ? " he asked.

^^ Yes, sir ; we had a few minutes to
spare."

^^Ah! you were not hindered on the
road then — you met no acquaintance ? "

^' No, sir ; we never stopped at all, except
just a moment when the gentleman made

me pull up a-bit while he looked back and
waved his hat."

'^ Oh, I see, to say good-bye, in case we
were watching him."

^^Yes, sir, I repose so;" and then Morris,
having nothing more to say, went on with
his work.

^^She cannot have gone with him," Mr.
Hilton thought to himself, as he went back
to the house. '' They certainly did not
meet on the way if Morris has told me the
truth, and she had not time to get to the
station. The child always was odd, and
has been left to take her own way, and
perhaps it is only foolish to worry over
her ; but I will do her the justice to say
that it is the first time she has caused me
real anxiety in all her life."

When the dinner-bell rang at seven
o'clock, Laura was still absent, and after
a hurried and almost silent meal, Mr.

Hilton felt that, in spite of his dislike to
calling attention to her strange behaviour,
it was quite necessary that some steps
should be taken to discover where she
was.

'' Do you think she can have gone to
Adelaide, or Janet ? " he asked of Edith,
meeting her in the hall, as, pale and
anxious, she came back from another
fruitless visit to Laura's room.

^'It is possible, father; we might send
and inquire," she said; but she did not
herself believe it would be of any use.

'' Surely, Wedgwood, you cannot still
think it possible that Geoffrey has taken
the child away?" said Mrs. Mathewson,
resentfully but anxiously, when he came
back from sending two men on horseback
to the houses of his married daughters.

^'No, Sarah, I do not say that I think
so, but I still consider it possible. In the

meantime, I am going with Stephens and
Morris all through the park ; there is no
knowing what accident may have befallen
her."

'^ Let me come, too, father?" asked
Edith.

'^ No, darling, it would be better not. I
should wish you to be here if she comes
home. God grant that it may be all a
false alarm ; but, at any rate, it has taught
me how dear the child with all her faults
is to me, and I trust to you to be kind to
her if she does come."

Edith's eyes filled with tears. ^^I am
afraid I have not been kind, father ; but
I feel now as you do."

It was past ten o'clock when the
men rem-ned with notes of distress and
anxiety from Adelaide and Janet. Neither
of them had seen anything of their sister,
and it was only the superior wisdom of

their husbands, who represented that the
could be of no use, which prevented them
both from hurrying to Blithefield, but their
father might count upon their being there
early next morning.

Edith opened and read the notes, but it
was much later before her father returned.

'' We have been all round the park,
through the greater part of the woods and
up to the Look-out, but can find no trace
of her," he said. ^' I fancied once that I
heard a faint call in answer to our shouts,
but it must have been fancy, for we could
not hear a sound again. Both lodge-keepers
say that they have seen nothing of
her, and Morris, after seeing the police,
came back by the station, but she had
not been seen there."

^^ Father, what do you think ? " asked
Edith, putting her arm round his neck.

*' I can think nothing," he answered.

'^ I can only feel that I have never been
a father to her," and Edith could not
answer better than by silent kisses.

Lights were kept burning in Laura's
window all the night, and the early
morning found the whole household astir
again ; but still there was no trace of the
missing girl. Morris and another groom
started off at daybreak to make fresh
inquiries in every likely part of the neighbourhood,
and after a hasty breakfast,
which Edith came down to give to him,
Mr. Hilton went out to direct the searches
of half-a-dozen men who were bidden to
leave not a yard of the estate unexplored.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER XVL

Laura's vigil.

The point in Blithefield Park which was
called the Look-out was about a mile away
from the house, and was approached by a
steep winding path, which although seldom
used was always kept in good order. A
group of enormous old Scotch firs marked
the spot for miles round ; and although Mr.
Hilton was not too gracious in allowing
his neighbor's to enjoy the beauty of his
estate, it was a recognised custom that
during the summer months those who
chose to apply at the lodge gates were
allowed to visit this beautiful point of
view, and admire at their leisure the

huge red trunks and spreading limbs of
these old noblemen of the woods.

For some yards on each side of them
the ground was cleared of undergrowth,
and a wide space of rough grass, broken
here and there by a patch of heather and
bracken, sloped down to a steep and
broken bank, beneath which the oak
woods began.

On one side of this cleared space a
very narrow path led further into the
woods, a jjath so little used as to be
almost forgotten, excepting by any one
who happened to remember that there
was a point, not easily gained however,
from which the winding road to the
station could be seen for a greater
distance than even from the higher ground
of the Look-out.

It was not until nearly midday that Mr.
Hilton, sick at heart of the fruitless search

for his daughter, for the second tire climbed
wearily up the wider path to see if there
were any signs of his returning messengers.
He was no longer either young or active,
and it was seldom now that he exerted
himself to walk so far, and the fact that
there was a path leading further into the
woods had for the time escaped his
memory ; but as he stood alone under
the solemn stately trees, straining every
nerve to catch a sight or sound, once
more he fancied that he heard the faint
cry, which, after vain search the night
before, he had unwillingly persuaded himself
was only the result of his own anxiety.
But now, as he stood there in the still
morning sunshine, a shiver ran through
him, as very faintly — not once — but twice
at least, he believed he heard a call,
^^ Father! Father''

^^ Laura! I am here! I am coming!"

he shouted, as with a sudden recollection
of the old path, now nearly overgrown,
he plunged through a wilderness of
withered ferns and springing heather,
calling at every moment, '^ Laura! Laura!"
But suddenly he stopped in dismay, for
his way was barred by fallen bushes and
mounds of earth, and looking up he saw
above him a freshly-broken bank torn
asunder by the roots of falling trees.
^^ Laura! Laura!" he cried again, and
then faint but unmistakeable came the
answer, " Father, I am here."

He was not accustomed to exertion, and
although excitement gave him strength it
was several minutes before, guided by her
feeble voice, he found himself beside her,
where she lay half-hidden beneath the
boughs.

''My child! Thank God, I have found
you ! Are you terribly hurt ? "

^^ No, father, I am not hurt, I think; but
I cannot move, and I have been here, oh,
so long! since yesterday."

^' Are you in any pain?" he asked, stooping
to her, and almost fearing to hear that she
had gone beyond that.

^^No, I believe it is true that I am not
hurt, but I am fixed down and cannot stir,
and oh ! I am so tired and cold ! "

Her father, by leaning over, could reach
her face where she lay, and he bent down
and kissed her.

^^ You must wait a little while more, my
child, while I go for help. I shall only hurt
you if I try with my own strength. To
think that I should have been such a thoughtless
fool as to bring neither food nor wine!
But God keep you until I get back again."

But even while he was speaking her eyes
closed, and her white face grew whiter as
she fainted away.

Hurrying back, shouting as he went,
Mr. Hilton met Morris at the Look-out. A
few words explained the matter sufficiently,
and the groom hastened away — first to send
two or three men to help his master, and
then on to the house to tell Edith what had
happened, and to bring back food and wine.

Mrs. Mathewson had telegraphed to her
housekeeper the first thing in the morning,
to say that her return was unavoidably
delayed; and although she did not for a
moment share in Mr. Hilton's distrust of
Geoffrey, she thought it only fair to him
to ask for a return telegram to say whether
he had arrived.

It was, of course, impossible that Edith
should leave home under the present
circumstances; and when Morris hurried
into the hall, too eager to go round the
back way, or stand on ceremony, she was
dividing her attention between a telegram

which Mrs. Mathewson had just received
from Geoffrey in answer to her own, and
anxious inquiries from Mrs. Paget, who
had driven over with her nurse and baby,
to stay with her father if he required her.

^^ She's found, miss ! " cried Morris, breathlessly.
^^ And she ain't much hurt, but just
half-starved ; and Master says will you give
me food and wine to take back, and send
for the doctor."

Edith rang the bell and gave her orders
to a servant who appeared on the instant,
before asking a single question ; but it
needed only a few words to explain that
Laura had been lying there helpless for
the last twenty-four hours while they had
sought her and feared for her in the wrong
directions.

Morris, starting at a run with the needed
restoratives, was out of sight before Edith
and Erica could get ready to start, leaving

orders that the low pony carriage should
follow them as quickly as possible ; and while
Mrs. Paget stood at the door watching them,
Mrs. Mathewson turned to Mary, who was
close beside her, and almost whispered —

^^Did you think she had gone with
Geoffrey, Mary ? Do you believe what they
say is true — that he cares for her ? "

*^ Yes, Aunt Sarah, I do believe it, and I
did think she l^.ad gone with him, but I ask
pardon from them both ; and oh ! how she
must have suffered Of course, she went
there to watch for him, and has been there
all this while. My heart aches for her."

Mrs. Mathewson had known Laura and
her unpleasant temper too long to share
in Mary's extreme sympathy ; but she
was obliged to acknowledge to herself that
she had been altogether wrong in the
view she had taken of late of Laura's
character.

She had believed her to be incapable of
the ordinary feelings and weaknesses with
which sh had had to deal in other girls,
and now she found herself brought face to
face with what was apparently a romantic
passion, with which she could not in anyway
sympathise. She had been most
foolish and short-sighted — she saw it now
in allowing Greofcey and Laura to be so
much together, but it was too late to
repent, the mischief was done, and she
could only console herself by thinking that
the nephew — who was as dear to her as a
son, would be doing well for himself from
a worldly point of view, if his infatuation
should prove lasting.

Laura, with her ten thousand pounds,
was not a wife to be despised, and he
seemed, to other people at least, to have a
genuine liking for her; but his aunt had
hoped that he would marry some one very

different, and had been prepared to ensure
that no money difficulties should stand in
his way, if he chose a wife whom she
should consider worthy of him. She had
had a dream — short-Kved, indeed, but
pleasant — that Mr. Hilton might so value
Geoffrey's character, that he would be
willing to overlook all shortcomings, and
recommend him to Edith's notice, in such
a manner, as to ensure her consent to a
marriage in which one would possess
wealth indeed, but the other those qualities
of mind which were infinitely above sordid
advantages, when it so happened that they
were not combined. But she had soon
awakened from such dreams. Mr. Hilton
in all unconsciousness — had made her
thoroughly aware that his son-in-law, the
husband of his heiress, must be heart and
soul a country gentleman, and she could
not but acknowledge that for such a

position Geoffrey was probably, of all menthe
most unfitted. But yet the dream was
dear, and even while softened towards
Laura, she could not feel it possible to
welcome her in Edith's place.

The return home from the scene of
the accident was accomplished quickly and
easily ; but even when Laura was rested and
restored, and able to talk, it was not quite
easy to understand what had happened,
nor was she herself clear about it.

^' I put my arm round a branch and
leaned forward," she said, ^' and then the
ground gave way under my feet, and I
fell, a long way down, and before I could
move the tree fell over me and held me
there ; " and then Adelaide, who was
sitting beside her, saw that she could as
yet scarcely bear the thought of it, and
she asked no more.

^' I suppose we must put off our going

i

indefinitely," said Mrs. Mathewson, grudgingly,
when she was talking to the doctor,
who, while he assured them that there
was no positive injury, said that he could
not yet foretell the effects of the long
exposure and nervous strain.

'^ If you will forgive my speaking
plainly," he answered, ^' I will say that
for Miss Laura's sake the sooner you go
the better. She is painfully anxious that
no fuss should be made over her, and I
imagine that she has some special reason —
may I conjecture that it is to save some one
from anxiety ? — for making as light of the
whole matter as possible. Unless something
unforeseen arises, I shall be inclined
to fall in with her wishes, and let her getup
and sit in her favourite study tomorrow.
She and I have met there many times in
the last few weeks."

He paused significantly, but Mrs.

Mathewson did not choose to understand
him.

^^ Of course, in that case there is no
reason for delaying our going' she said ;
^'and as Mrs. Paget will be here for a few
days, we may leave without anxiety."

^^ Oh, yes," answered the doctor, who
rather disliked Mrs. Mathewson and her
pronounced medical theories, and during
Geoffrey's illness had learned to be interested
in the disagreeable member of the family,
who had done so much towards his patient's
cure.

So it was settled, that as Mrs. Mathewson
had many engagements in town, she and
Edith should leave Blitheiield the next
morning, and that Mrs. Paget should stay
for a few days until the household had
recovered its usual calm.

That she should be left alone, safe, and
warm, and quiet, with the firelight shining

upon her as she lay in bed, and a soft air
from the open window moving the curtains,
was Laura's one desire. She was tired,
and aching in every limb, and intensely
wakeful, but she had no wish to sleep ;
she wanted just to go over in her own
mind all that had happened, and come
to a clear understanding with herself how
far she had betrayed her desire to catch
the last passing glimpse of her departing
friend. There was a careful and intentional
reticence in her thoughts which prevented
her from naming him even to herself asher
lover, excepting in moments when the
thought leaped up unawares, and even then,
mingled with happiness, came distrust of
her own power to retain him.

She believed in him completely, he would
at least be a faithful friend to her, and
although he had seemed to say that it might
be long before they met again, she was

rich in remembrance, and could afford to
wait.

She was patient and tractable, and did
everything she was told for the rest of the
day; she was so anxious to be well, and
to have no fuss made over her, and still
more anxious that Mrs. Mathewson and
Edith should not delay their going, and
so make the accident, which she knew
must come to Geoffrey's ears, appear of
importance.

She smiled to herself as she thought that
if she could tell him about it she should
not mind— she could make it seem natural,
and he would quite understand, and be
interested ; but the impression he would get
from the story as told by others might
be very different ; and yet she could not
bring herself to ask them to make light of it.

When she woke the next morning she
felt tired and weak, but there was no sign

of illness about her, and when the doctor
came he assured them all that there was
no cause for anxiety, and that he feared no
worse consequences than the exhaustion
which might be expected from the long
fasting and exposure.

Laura had been conscious that Adelaide
and Edith had come into her room several
times in the night, and had given her food
or wine, although she had been too weary
to speak or notice them much ; but it made
her heart soften towards Edith when she
came to wish her good-bye, and they parted
with affection, and yet Laura was well aware
that such emotion is but passing, and
leaves little mark on life.

VOL. I.

CHAPTER Xiii.

THE FIRST LETTER.

A FEW mornings after Mrs. Mathewson and
Edith left, Mr. Hilton found amongst his
letters a short note from Geoffrey Poland,
saying that he was busily trying to find
some permanent occupation, and thought
he had a fair chance of success, but for
the rest full of civil nothings, through
which ran a vein of cynicism undetected
by the receiver ; but there was a postscript
which said simply — ^^ Will you be kind
enough to give the inclosed letter to your
daughter, aura."

Mr. Hilton was considerably perplexed.
Should he be right in allowing a correspondence

between these two, when Poland
had given him no assurance that he had
any meaning in his attentions V And yet
it would be hard on both of them if he
put difficulties in their way, when in his
own mind he would thoroughly approve
of their marriage. His heart was softened
towards Laura in these days — since he had
so nearly lost her — and ten to one, he
thought to himself, she knew much better
how to manage her own affairs than he
did.

So after a short hesitation he quietly
handed to her both Geoffrey's note and
the enclosure, saying —

'' Poland seems busy just now, and setting
to work in earnest. I suppose we shall
not see him here again at present."

^^No, father, I suppose not," answered
Laura, quietly, and went on pouring out
tea.

^^0, father, do let me see Mr. Poland's
letter ! " cried Erica. ^^ I always feel so
curious about people's writing."

^' Certainly, dear, when Laura has read
it, and Miss Verney too may be interested,"
and Laura hurried through the note to her
father, and passed it on without remark.

Geoffrey had not said a word about
writing to her, and she had scarcely thought
of it ; but now, lying close to her hand
was a thick letter, sent to her openly, and
given by her father without reproof, and
her happy days were not yet all over
when this was allowed. It was an event
for her to have a letter at all; she had
no friends, and the family connections
always wrote to Edith or Erica, excepting
at Christmas or on her birthday, when
they did not like to leave her out She
could not read it in public, for then she
would be obliged to speak of it, and although

she had no thought of there being anything
special in it, she knew that it would be
meant for no eyes but her own, and
that no one else could understand its
meaning.

It was a recognised thing now that the
blue study should be given up entirely to
her use, and there she spent the greater
part of every day. She knew that Mary
had been asked to Blithefield especially to
be a companion to Erica, and to make the
house pleasant for her father, so she had
no scruple about disposing of her time as
she pleased. She took away her letter
to enjoy it in solitude, sitting by the open
window, in the chair she had always used
when Geoffrey was there. It was no love-letter,
but it satisfied her fully ; it was
tender and sympathetic, it abounded in
allusions to their talks together, it hinted
at a future of less interrupted intercourse.

and it seemed to her just the perfection of
what she most desired.

At the end he said, ^^ I hear that some
accident or something uncomfortable happened
to you the day I left, which delayed
your sister's leaving home ; but neither she
nor my aunt have vouchsafed an explanation,
and if not disagreeable to you, I
should like you to write and tell me exactly
what occurred."

Laura was surprised that he should have
heard so little, but then she knew nothing of
a conversation which had passed between
her aunt and Edith as they journeyed upto
town.

^^My dear," said Mrs. Mathewson, ^Hhe
less you say to Geoffrey about this foolish
business of Laura's the better."

'' Why, Aunt Sarah ? " asked Edith, who
did not at all approve of the light in which
her aunt regarded the matter, and fully

intended to be a good sister if occasion
arose.

^' Surely your own sense of propriety
should tell you, Edith, that her rushing off
like that at the risk of her neck was not
becoming to any girl ; and although Geoffrey
might for the moment feel flattered at her
wishing to catch the last glimpse of him, it
would scarcely raise her in his estimation."

Edith, to whom this view had not occurred
before, thought it might be as well to say
little about it, especially as she really knew
nothing of Mr. Poland's character, and so
answered his somewhat anxious inquiries
indifferently.

Laura, in her own mind, shrank from the
idea which Geoffrey might get from her
aunt or sister of what had occurred, but
there was nothing unpleasant in telling him
herself; they had agreed together that she
should watch for him, and she had seen him

stop and wave his hat before she left the
Look-out. She would like to give him an
idea of what had passed through her mind
as she lay there alone and helpless all
through the long day and night ; of her
strange feelings and the new knowledge
that had come to her of external things ; how
the pheasants had crowed within a yard of
her head, how the rabbits had more than
once brushed by her hand, and an owl had
skimmed closely over her, and small, rustling,
unseen creatures had been moving all the
night through, excepting in the quiet hc-ur
before the dawn, when all the world but she
seemed sunk in sleep. Even in the midst
of cold and weary discomfort she had sometimes
for a moment felt glad of her new
experience, and now that it was all over she
would not for the world have been without
it. She had not been frightened; from a
child she had no nervous fear of danger or

death, life had never been so sweet that she
should greatly regret to lose it, and although
these last few weeks had taught her that
even she might he as happy as the rest, she
had not in those lonely hours greatly cared
to live. she must feel sad and desolate
until Geoffrey came back again, and then —
but she had been resolute in letting her
thoughts go no further.

Late in the morning, while she still sat
at the window with the letter in her lap, her
father came to her.

** I want to have a word or two with you
my dear'* he said, "and I came here because
I thought we should the more easily understand
each other."

Yes, father," answered Laura quietly.

I wish you to tell me, as a guide to my
future conduct towards him, whether Mr.
Poland has spoken of any engagement
between you." Mr. Hilton had so little

experience, and still less knowledge, of his
daughter's character that he did not know
how to put it less abruptly.

'^ No, father."

^' Has he made you understand that he
means to speak of it at a convenient time ? "

Laura's eyes dilated, and her hands
clasped each other, but she again answered
quietly —

^^ He has not said so."

Mr. Hilton began to be impatient. '^ My
dear, I request that you answer me a little
more fully. This young man has sought
your society so persistently that I could not
but expect that he would speak to me on the
subject before he left the house, but instead
of doing so he only expressed a vague hope
of coming again. I wish you to understand
that I told him that I should expect to see
him, but gave no definite invitation, for I
have your welfare to consider, and if he has

been trifling with you it is better that you
should let me know it."

^^ He has not."

^' You understand him, then ? "

'' Yes — I don't know — oh, why do you ask
me, father?" cried Laura in great distress,
in which, however, there was not a shadow
of distrust of Geoffrey, although of course
her father could not comprehend it.

^^ I believe I am speaking for your good,"
he said, ^^when I tell you that he will not
enter this house again unless I understand
the meaning of his coming, nor shall I allow
letters to pass between you. I do not ask to
see this one, but it must be the last, and
I shall myself write and tell him that I
cannot allow any correspondence. My dear,
we have not been a good father and
daughter to each other, but I learned that
day when you were missing that you were
more to me than I knew before, and I should

be glad that you should come to me in
trouble."

Laura who had quickly recovered herself,
smiled with infinite superiority. '^ I am not
in any trouble, father, at least not in the sense
you mean. You think I am grieving over
Mr. Poland, and that he has disappointed
me, but you are quite mistaken. I do grieve
over losing his society, for I have no companion
now, but for nothing else, for I
believe him to be the true gentleman he has
always shown himself to me."

Mr. Hilton felt awkward, and as if his
well-meant, but rather forced sympathy had
been thrown back upon him. "' You mean "

he began; but Laura interrupted

him.

^'I don't think, father, there is any need
for you to ask me what I mean. 1 am
satisfied with his conduct, and I cannot
answer any questions about him,"

'^ You forget that you are speaking to your
father, Laura ! "

She was silent for a moment or two, and
then answered : ^^ It is not that I forget, but
that I hardly know how I ought to behave
to you as my father, for I have seen so little
of you. I could almost reckon on my lingers
the times that you have spoken to me in the
last year until Geoffrey came, and then it
was to him more than to you that I owed the
few words you spoke to me each day before
him."

^^ Laura!"

^^Yes, father, I am afraid you think it
wicked that I should steak like this, but
remember what a hard life I have had ! It
is bitter to a child to be always called
naughty; if you had thought about it you
would have known that it could not be true,
that there must have been faults as great as
mine."

Her voice failed her at the remembrance of
the years of blame and neglect, which yet she
knew were in a great measure owing to her
own perverse antagonism.

Her father took a few turns up and down
the room in perplexity, and Laura, who
hated a scene, and to whom a reconciliation
was worse than a quarrel, strained her
thoughts for an excuse for leaving him.
Geoffrey would have told her to speak a
gentle word, she knew, but she would rather
have been shut up in her room in disgrace,
as in her childhood, than patch up a hollow
peace.

"It is kind of you to say that you wish to
help me, father," she said at last, standing
at some distance from him, and speaking
slowly; "but you see I am in no want of
help, and not being accustomed to kindness,
I scarcely know how to take it."

She meant her words to sting a little, but

was astonished at the extent of their effect
when her father, without another word,
turned and left the room, leaving her in
ignorance of whether he was grieved or
angry.

But at least he had given her plenty to
think about. She could not now any longer
refuse to consider the question of what
Geoffrey's meaning might be. It was
evident that she would not be allowed to
keep him only as a friend, her father did
not understand such friendships. The
frank, good-fellowship which he had allowed
between Bernard Offord and the girls had
been very different, he had been companion
to them all until just before leaving for
India, when he had fancied himself in love
with Adelaide, and she had laughed at
him, but there was nothing in Geoffrey's
character or behaviour resembling this. In
her father's eyes he must be her suitor or

nothing ; and although she was satisfied, for
she believed that he loved her, she could
not say so until he had told her.

It was cruel to take away from her,
without reason, the one pleasure of receiving
his letters, for he told her in this first
one that he meant to write from time to
time ; she was not sure that she should not
rebel. She had been left to herself so long
that she almost felt a right to her own way,
and she believed that when she told Geoffrey
of her father's objection he would agree
with her that it was unreasonable, and need
Riot be altogether binding. It was true that
since her accident her father had been kind
to her whenever they were together, but it
was in his nature to be kind to anything
ivhich he fancied weak or suffering, and he
had left it to a stranger to discover first that
his slighted daughter had something to
recommend her after all. No, she could not

feel that these few tokens of pity, rather
than love, were more than a feather weight
in the scale against those long years of
neglect and misconception.

But yet she was sorry, very sorry, that
just when it seemed possible that a better
understanding was beginning, a more serious
difference than had ever before arisen should
come between them.

She could not explain the matter to
Geoffrey and ask his advice, but she believed
that almost at a word he would understand
the state of the case, and whatever he told
her she would do, even if he decided that
she owed to her father an obedience which
she neither regarded as a duty nor wished to
show. She understood that she had been
forbidden to answer this letter, but this
command she should certainly disobey ;
Geoffrey should not think her ungrateful or
careless, but how she should learn what he

VOL I. s

thought of the matter she did not know, for
she could not for a moment suppose that
her father would allow her to receive another
letter from him. It would have been better
after all if she had died out there in the
long, cold night, instead of coming back
again to a life where no one wanted her,
excepting the one friend who was forbidden.

It was a great effort to go down when the
luncheon-bell rang, but she scarcely dared
to disregard it, and her silence was nothing
unusual ; but her surprise was almost overpowering
when, as she was leaving the table,
again her father called her back, and said
quietly, but in a tone of displeasure —

'' You had better answer the letter which
Mr. Poland has written you, Laura, and tell
him that I do not approve of any further
correspondence. You can put yours into
this envelope with mine, which I wish you to
read, before you post it, at your leisure.

Laura took the letter in silence, and left
the room.

She had no notion what to say, and the
unexpected leniency was more difficult to
deal with than the sternest rebuke. It
cut away the ground under her feet, and
she could no longer feel herself a victim of
tyranny, when the disobedience she had
meditated was turned into a permitted
indulgence.

She went back to the blue study and sat
there a long while, seeing nothing of the fair
sunny sky and breeze-blown trees through
the open window, while the letter lay unopened
in her lap. Was it after all her father's
duty to refuse her this coveted pleasure ?
He had no cause to trust Geoffrey as she
did, with all her heart — believing that if
he loved her well enough he would before
long come back and take her, and if not —
well I they could be faithful friends through

all their lives, if only other people — well-meaning,
perhaps — would keep silence and
leave them alone.

She could not write her letter that day,
she must take long to think over it, and
she shrank a little from seeing what her
father had written, and yet her words must
be guided by his. She could not pour
out her thoughts to her friend if her father
had said anything which could lower her in
his eyes. Well ! She would read that
first, and then give her whole mind to
pondering over what this one only letter
she might write should contain.

Dear Poland," Mr. Hilton wrote, " I
am most glad to hear that your health is
entirely restored, and that you have good
prospect of occupation, which is so necessary
for every one, especially for a man of your
age. You may be sure that we shall always
hear of you with interest. I have given

your note to my daughter, and despised
her to answer it, but I have also told her
that I should tell you that I do not approve
of further correspondence. We shall hope
to hear of your welfare through Mrs.
Mathewson.

^^ Faithfully yours,

Wedgwood Hilton."

Laura gave a sigh of relief. There was
nothing there to wound her, although there
was no encouragement to further intercourse,
and indeed scarcely a loophole. Then she
put on her hat and went out into the
sunshine, and wandered up to the Lookout,
and sat there gazing out over the
fair, wide scene, with almost unconscious
eyes mitil the sinking sun warned her to
return.

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE SECOND LETTER.

Life went on very quietly at Battlefield
in Edith's absence. Mr. Hilton did not
care for society when she was not there to
take all the trouble of it off his shoulders,
and leave him free to see as much or as
little of any one as he pleased, and visitors
found that although Mary and Erica were
pleasant additions when Edith was there,
yet without her as the centre the house
did not seem at all like itself.

Laura was desired by her father to take
her place at the head of the table, but there
her duties began and ended, excepting every
now and then, when an invitation was so

worded that it could not be accepted without
her, and her father insisted on her going
with the others.

Mrs. Paget and Mrs. Bonar offered to take
it in turns to stay at Blithefield while their
sister was away, but Mr. Hilton would not
hear of it. It would be at the sacrifice of
the comfort of their own homes, and he
could not allow it, and thanks to Miss
Verney" they could get on very well, and
he would not even openly confess in his
letters to Edith that he missed lor, although
she could see it in every line he wrote.
Well, two months was not a very long time,
and when the weather was fine he could
be out a great deal, and could drive Mary
and Erica all over the country with his
favourite grays. About a fortnight after
Geoffrey Poland's first letter, Mr. Hilton
received another one from him, but as it
was lying underneath some others on the

breakfast table lie supposed that none of
the girls had seen it, and put it in his
pocket to read quietly in his study.

He was curious to see what it contained,
for he could imagine no reason for Geoffrey's
writing again, and Edith had told him
several times that he neither inquired after
any one at Blithefield, nor appeared to take
an interest in the home news which she
often discussed with Mrs. Mathewson at
breakfast time She tried to be a good
sister, and considerate friend, and always
spoke of Laura when she coidd find
occasion, and she was vexed that her father
had forbidden the correspondence, and told
him so ; but he only smiled to himself as he
read and thought — ^' Of course, one girl
would stick up for another in a thing like
that, and even Edith's wise little head was
not quite so strong as her heart." He was
rather absent during breakfast time, and

cast many glances at Laura, taking but
little notice of Erica's chatter, which Mary,
seeing that he was preoccupied, tried as
far as possible to direct to herself.

Perhaps, he thought to himself, he had
done just the wisest thug in forbidding
them to write, and had hurried on the
desirable climax in the most judicious
manner ; if so, who could say again that a
father did not know how to manage for his
girls ? He cut the usual discussion of plans
for the day very short, saying that he had
letters to attend to just then, and hurrying
to his study opened the envelope, which
contained a fastened but unaddressed
enclosure.

dear Sir," Geoffrey wrote, ^^I regret
that you should object to an occasional
correspondence between your daughter and
myself. It would have been a pleasure to
both of us, and we have many interests in

common ; but I must, of course, bow to your

wishes. I will, however, ask you to do me

the favour of allowing her to receive this

one more note which I inclose, giving her

information on some points which we

discussed together. If you object to her

receiving it, I request you to direct it back

to me, which will save you the trouble

of writing.

^' Yours faithfully,

geoffrey Poland."

Mr. Hilton felt thoroughly angry and
perplexed. '^ A bit of confounded impudence
on Poland's part," he considered
this request, and it put him in a
most uncomfortable position. After the
unpleasant scene which he had had with
Laura a few days before, he was anxious
to avoid further discussion with her, and
yet he considered that his position as her
father demanded that this breach of the

rule that he had made should not be
passed over without remark. Of course
the easiest thing for himself would be to
send the letter back and say nothing to
Laura about it; but this would be hard
upon her, and he did not wish to be hard,
only to protect her against her own inexperience
and Geoffrey's possible trifling.
If ^^ the fellow*' really cared for her he
would only put a higher value upon her
from having a few difficulties thrown in
his way, and if he had any sense he would
understand from the words which had
passed between them at parting, that
when he chose to come again he would
be welcome.

Well ! there seemed only one thing to
be done, give Laura her choice of having
her letter after he had read it, or of its
being sent back unopened, and he could
not doubt that she would choose the first

alternative, for lie had distinctly understood
from her that there was no sort of understanding
between them which would entitle
Geoffrey to write her a love-letter. He
was disappointed, and tried to believe that
it was for her sake, but, in truth, the
management of this daughter had become
too much for him.

Once more he went to seek her in the
blue study. It was a wet chilly morning
and although May was almost at an end,
he found her sitting by a bright little fire,
with books and papers spread out on a
table beside her, while her embroidery
frame was pushed back into a corner.
She rose hastily, gathering her things
together in confusion as her father came
in, but he was too much occupied with
his own thoughts to notice her.

' Laura, I have heard again from Poland
this morning," he said abruptly. She said

nothing, but changed colour a little, and
waited for him to go on.

'' He has asked me to give you another
note from him, but, of course, I cannot do
so without reading it, as I told him I did
not approve of his writing to you."

As he spoke he laid the letter on the
table. Lam-a was silent for a moment, then
she said resolutely —

"I should very much object to your
reading Mr. Poland's letter, father."

"" I am sorry to hear it, for it proves that
they are not suitable for you to receive."

'^ No, father, it does not prove that, it
only shows that he and I have thoughts
in which you could not share, and which
neither of us would wish to discuss with
you." She was trying hard to speak
sensibly and temperately, and was surprised
to find that she had only succeeded
in making him angry.

^^ I wonder you are not ashamed to
confess it to me," he exclaimed. ^^You
cannot imagine that I should allow any
sort of intercourse if the thoughts which
this man puts into your mind or fosters
there are not fit to come to my knowledge.
I shall certainly read this letter, and

if " but before he finished speaking,

Laura snatched it from the table and flung
it into the briskly blazing fire, then with
a white face she turned round and tried
to speak, but words would not come, and
she hurried from the room before he could
recover from his surprise.

It was not often that Mr. Hilton used
strong language, but a few forcible words
were a necessary relief when he found himself
alone, and hot and angry he hastened
back to his study and shut the door, with a
noisy violence which startled Erica from her
practising in the room above.

Had any man ever before been cursed
with such a daughter? he wondered in his
first anger. A daughter with such an
abominable temper, such unbounded insolence,
and such ingenuity in making
herself odious ?

All the kindness he had lately felt towards
her vanished again in this wrathful moment,
and he felt that his only desire was to get
rid of her; and yet she had shown him
lately, and had brought it home to him, that
her faults were due as much to his neglect
as to her own failings. Plain, perverse, uninteresting
; truly all these she had been
from babyhood ; but it was a terrible, almost
an unheard-of, misfortune that neither father
nor mother should have been able to love her
in spite of it all. A childhood without love !
it needed, indeed, a sweet and rare nature
to pass through it unwearied. But it was
too late to repent of all that now, and, at

least through all her life, she had had examples
before her of unfailing good temper and
unbroken affection amongst her sisters, who
almost seemed to be made of different flesh
and blood from herself.

It was hard enough at any time for a man
to be left with five motherless girls on his
hands, but when one of them was possessed
with a demon of perversity, the hand of misfortune
pressed heavily indeed.

Then, when he had calmed down a little,
it was the awkwardness of his own position
which struck him most forcibly. What
would he say to Poland? how account for
neither delivering his letter nor sending it
back ? He certainly had no wish to advertise
his daughter's ill-temper by describing
exactly what had happened ; for although he
would not, of course, wish any man to marry
her in ignorance of her faults, it would only
be a straining of honesty to allude to such a

scene as that just past. How much he wished
that Edith was there to talk it over with him,
and suggest some means ^^ of getting out of
the mess '' with dignity, and without compromising
Lam^a, and still more to soothe
the pangs of self-reproach for past neglect
which hurt in proportion to their truth ! Well,
he must think the matter over, and would do
nothing until the next day ; but whatever
happened, he would take care not to let
Poland think that in any way he had got
the better of him.

Then it suddenly struck him that he would
ride over and tell Janet all about it. She
was a ** comfortable" daughter in any perplexity,
and although she had never seen
Poland, she understood pretty well how the
land lay. So he rang the bell and ordered
his horse, and then found Mary and Erica in
the garden, and told them not to expect him
until dinner time, thus doing away with

VOL. I. T

the necessity of encountering his rebellious
daughter for some hours.

Erica had guessed that there was something
wrong when she saw her father go upto
the blue study, and had afterwards heard
the violent shutting of his own door ; but
although intensely curious, she scarcely dared
to ask any questions, feeling sure that the
difficulty must be a big one, as he was
apparently going to consult over it with
Janet.

^^1 do wonder what it is, Mary," she said,
when he had ridden away ^' There was
certainly some important letter this morning,
and it must be about Mr. Poland, if it
is anything to do with Laura."

'eyes, very likely; but I think we had
better not talk about it, Erica," answered
Mary. '' Your father is evidently in anxiety,
and perhaps Laura is in trouble ; but I don't
think even you are meant to interfere, and

we must just try to seem unconscious, and
keep the house as bright as we can."

^^ Oh, Mary you are so wise and good,"
sighed Erica; ^^ but you don't understand
that dear old father, generally, lets us say
and do what we please, and if he had
stayed another minute I should have
screwed up my courage, and asked him
what it was all about."

'^I am glad you did not, I am sure it
would have worried him, and he did not
look as if he could bear much more just
then. Now let us get as far as the river
and back before the luncheon-bell rings."

Erica felt a little offended, but was too
good-tempered to let it last long; but
there was a triumphant, " I told you so I "
in her look when Stephens brought a
message to say that '' Miss Laura was not
coming down to luncheon."

^^ Poor Laura! I am sorry for her," said

Mary when they were alone, ^^but I am
afraid neither you nor I could do any
good by interfering."

*not I, certainly," answered Erica,
carelessly. ^^ She would burn or freeze
me with a look the moment I went into
the room. She is quite sure not to appear
this afternoon, so let us drive the ponies over
to Adelaide's, and play tennis with Edgar."

And Mary reluctantly consented, not
seeing that she could do any good by
staying at home.

Mr. Hilton on reaching Daisy Lodge
felt still more deeply plunged into misfortune,
when he found that Janet had taken
her nurse and children to spend the day
with a friend. Captain Bonar was at
home, busy amongst his flower beds, but
of course the subject could not be mentioned
to him, and after having his
luncheon Mr. Hilton resolved to ride on

and see Adelaide, whose advice was sure
to be sound and good, if not so shrewd
as Janet's. But scarcely had he reached
the pretty rectory before the pony
carriage with Mary and Erica drove up,
and his second chance was gone.

Mr. Paget was out, so there was no
tennis to occupy the girls, and as Mr.
Hilton was particularly anxious that Erica
should know nothing of the matter, he
could not suggest that he wished for a
private conversation with Adelaide, and
could only fall in with Erica's suggestion
that as they had driven over alone — which
was rather against his rules — he should
ride beside the pony carriage and take
care of them going home. He tried to
forget his troubles, in playing with his
little grandsons, with whom he was a great
favourite, and had so far succeeded as to
be in the middle of telling them a story.

when Adelaide's question — ^^Why did not
Laura come this afternoon?" and Erica's
answer : ^^ Oh, she had a headache or
something, and did not come down
to luncheon " — put all his ideas to
flight.

Erica, too, had looked keenly at him
when she spoke, as if she suspected something;
and feeling thoroughly put out, he
made an excuse of being tired, and had
his horse brought round, leaving the girls
to follow at their leisure.

'^ You look worried, father dear," said
Adelaide anxiously, when she had followed
him to the gate, while the others remained
on the lawn,

'^ Yes, I am in difficulty, Adelaide, and
came to speak to you about it, but I have
not had a chance. It is about Laura and
that fellow, Poland ; but I don't wish Erica
to know anything about it."

'' Could you not stop and tell me now,
father''

'' No, my dear, she would see that there
was something wrong, and set her quick
wits to find out what it was and although
Laura has been much to blame, I do not
want the whole world to know it. I must
just make my way out of it as best I can."

^^ Shall I come over tomorrow and see
what I can do ? "

^^ Yes, I wish you would, but I must lose
no time in deciding what line I mean to
take ; " and then he rode away, feeling that
his attempts to shift his burden a little had
been very unsuccessful.

When he got home he went straight to
his study, and found lying on his desk an
undirected letter. He opened it in surprise,
and found a few lines from Laura, enclosing
another sheet.

'^ Since you went out," she wrote, '^ I have

written and posted a letter to Mr. Poland, of
which I inclose a copy for you to read. I
want him to know why I destroyed his
letter without knowing a word of its contents.


^^ Laura."

These few lines brought Mr. Hilton
instant, although only partial, relief. It
was an abominable piece of disobedience
on her part to write to the fellow again
after she had been forbidden, but it removed
from him the difficulty of explaining why
the letter was neither delivered nor sent
back, and although it must make him appear
as a tyrant, he did not particularly care for
that. It was clearly his duty, although a
distasteful one, to read the letter Laura had
written, and learn on what footing she
had placed herself. It was very short, but
it both grieved and angered him : —

'^ Dear Geoffrey, — My father brought mea

note from you this morning, but he would
not allow me to have it without reading it
himself first, and to this I could not consent.
I believe you will think me right in that ;
but I must confess to you that I lost my
temper over it and threw the letter unopened
into the fire, so I shall never have the least
idea of what you had written. You will
know that it grieved me. There will be
no use in your writing again ; I shall not be
allowed to receive a letter from you. I am
doing many of the things we talked about,
and hope in time to do more.

'' Your faithful friend,

^^ Laura Hilton."

*^ Poor child ! poor child ! " said her father,
when he laid it down ; '^ but I am doing what
is right for her against her will, and giving
him a chance of proving of what metal he is
made."

CHAPTER XIX.

A TRUCE.

But although Mr. Hilton felt much pity for
his daughter, it was impossible that he could
altogether pass over her disobedience and
undutifulness. She had saved him from the
difficulty of an explanation with Geoffrey,
and he felt secretly grateful to her ; but if he
allowed her to think that she could take
matters into her own hands in this fashion,
there was no knowing to what length she
might go. Thus he found it absurdly
difficult to decide what to say to her. She
could no longer be treated like a child, and
threatened with punishment, and he had no
reason to suppose that a few severe words —

which would have made Edith miserable
and repentant, and dissolved Erica into
tears — would have any effect upon her ; it
would need love to give point to the words,
and there was little enough of that between
them. Of course there was a sort of root
of affection for each other in their hearts,
from which on special occasions sprang a
forced and hasty blossom of emotion, but it
scarcely bore the light of common day, and
faded and drooped in an hour.

The whole thing was a horrible nuisance,
and he wished that it was consistent with
his position to say no more about it ; but it
was clearly his duty to watch over his
daughter against her will, and he had no
intention of shirking it, although by the
time the dinner-bell rang he had made up
his mind to say nothing until the next
morning.

In the meantime, Laura — although she

did not repent — was much frightened at what
she had done It was bad enough to have
burnt the letter, but to have deliberately
disobeyed her father by writing again was,
of course, infinitely worse. She did not
deserve kindness from him now, she knew
that well, but then there were — oh such
long arrears of neglect to be paid ! that
from her point of view, although, of course,
not from his, she felt that she owed him
little obedience.

It was impossible that she should appear
before him without his leave, he must be
deeply angry with her, and although she
could not tell him that she was sorry for
what she had done, she could and would
show him the respect of acknowledging that
she was in disgrace. So when the dinner-bell
rang she sent a message to say that she
hoped he would excuse her from coming
down that evening, and Mr. Hilton took his

place at the dinner-table with May and
Erica with a considerable lightening of his
spirits, feeling relieved an d cheerful. There
was a great deal in not having the culprit
before his eyes to remind him that he had
before him the detestable necessity of finding
fault with her again, and the girls, knowing
that he had been worried, exerted themselves
to amuse him with such good effect that
more than half Laura's self-reproach would
have vanished if she had seen how completely
he seemed to forget her, her faults, and her
troubles, while she, stealing out quietly in
the dusk, paced up and down the garden
paths, thinking what a different world it was
to her from that of a year ago, and how
far more different it might be if people were
allowed to harmlessly shape their lives
according to their own pattern.

Mr. Hilton generally went to his study to
smoke after prayers at ten o'clock, but this

evening Mary and Erica succeeded so well
in banishing, for the time, his unpleasant
thoughts, that it was nearly eleven before he
wished them good night, and he had scarcely
had time to settle himself comfortably in
front of the fire, when, after a quiet knock,
Laura came in, looking pale and tired, and
still in her morning dress, and stood at a
little distance from him, nervously grasping
the back of a chair.

^' I have come to ask you whether you
intend to forgive me, father?" she said. '^ I
supposed you would wish me to keep out
of your sight until you gave me leave todo
as usual, but uncertainty is so miserable !
And I could not sleep until I had asked
you whether you will allow me to comedown
to breakfast tomorrow ? "

^^ Of course! of course!" answered her
father, hurriedly, taken uncomfortably by
surprise, and not in the least knowing

what to say. '^ I never thought of
your staying upstairs ; but, of course,
you know that it must be understood
that this sort of thing will not happen
again ? "

'^ Yes, I suppose so," answered Laura,
wearily, ^' but I don't want to deceive you
father, and I had better tell you plainly
that I cannot make any promises. I think
it is quite impossible that we should
understand each other, but I will do my
best to obey you, only I must tell you
that occasions may arise when I shall feel
a right to judge for myself''

'^ That is all nonsense! You cannot
possibly have a right to put your judgment
before mine. But I think you are making
yourself out to be a good deal worse than
you need. You let your temper get the
better of you and acted very wrongly
to-day ; but you have confessed your fault,

and I am willing to forgive it, and say
no more about it."

He felt that he was acting weakly, and
scarcely doing his duty by his daughter,
at least not that strict duty which had
made him interfere about Geo&ey's letters;
but he was heartily sick of the whole
business, and only too glad of any loophole
for escape from further discussion. It was
not likely that Poland would presume to
write again, or that Laura would volunteer
any communication with him ; and as he
was far from wishing either of them to
think that he should disapprove of Geoffrey
as a bond fide suitor, it would probably be
wisest to say no more about him until he
chose to appear again.

Laura felt relieved by her father's manner,
but yet it jarred upon her that he should
seem to treat so lightly now a matter of
such importance to her. If he really did

not care much about it, why had he
interfered at all? She had supposed that
he did it from a sense of duty, and she
had felt respect for his opinion ; but if he
cared so little it could be scarcely more
than a caprice, and one that only pushed
her to a further distance from him.

She stood for a minute or two, waiting
for him to speak again; and at last he
looked up and said with the involuntary
sharpness of extreme discomfort —

'' You need not wait, Laura, unless you
have anything more you wish to say."

And she left him without another word,
with tears in her eyes, but hurt and angry,
and feeling that the distance between them
could hardly be greater than she should
wish.

When Mrs. Paget came the next morning
full of sympathy with her father, and
prepared to act as mediator — he felt a

VOL I. u

little awkward. He had certainly made too
much of the matter the day before, and
regretted it now ; and when Adelaide
kissed him with effusion, and said sympathetically,
'^I hope you feel better
to-day, dear father ? " he answered,
almost impatiently —

^' Oh, yes, thank you, my dear; 1 am all
right this morning. There is nothing like
sleeping over a difficulty, and Laura and I
have had a little explanation, and things will
go on as usual."

'^ You do not wish me to speak to her on
the subject, then ? " asked Adelaide with some
disappointment. She had half hoped that on
this occasion Laura might open her heart to
her.

^^No, I think you had better say nothing
about it to any one ; we understand each
other pretty well now, and I hope we shall
have no more difficulties."

So there was nothing for Adelaide to do
but to be rather kinder to Laura than usual,
and to parry Erica's questions, who, knowing
that something was wrong, and that she
was being purposely kept in the dark, felt
unbounded curiosity.

'' It was horrid of father, and not a-bit like
him'' she said; ^' but she supposed that,
having seen more of Laura lately, he had
learned from her to be disagreeable ; " and she
was additionally hurt from imagining, what
was indeed the truth, that Mary knew a great
deal more about it all than she did, for
Adelaide felt a necessity for talking to someone,
and allowed herself to speak as openly
to Mary as she would have done to Edith
if she had been at home.

Although supposed to take little heed of
what went on around her, Laura perceived
that the household was sitting in judgment
upon her, and feeling unable either to ignore

it or treat it with the contempt that she
would have wished, she asked for the use of
the pony carriage to drive to Daisy Lodge,
and see Janet and the babies. But even
then she was not allowed to escape observation
altogether, for Morris, who was driving
her, pulled up the ponies at a certain point,
and said with an air of being sure of interesting
her —

'beg pardon, miss, but 'twas just here
that Mr. Poland stood up and waved his hat
that morning you come by your accident.
Pull up a-bit, Morris,' says he, and I felt
put about like, not knowing what he was
after, but I repose he knew you was there,
miss ? "

'' Yes, Morris," answered Laura, feeling
that he did not intend any liberty, and that
to deny it would be foolish.

'' And then he says, 'You can see a good
bit of the road from that hill there in the

Park, can't you?' meaning the Look-out,
miss, and I says, eyes, sir, you can,' and he
sits down, quite contented like, and I never
gave it a thought that he meant you was
there, miss."

^^No, Morris, of course not," answered
Laura quietly, and her manner gave no
further opening for remarks.

A few days later Laura handed to her
father a letter she had received from Edith,
giving a pleasant account of what she was
seeing and doing, but with a postscript which
was evidently the cause of its being written.
'' Mr. Poland has just come in," she said,
sand has asked me to thank you for your
last note, and to say that he thoroughly
understands it."

Mr. Hilton gave back the letter without
remark, but with a cordial, '' Thank you, my
dear," and a kind smile, which showed
Laura that the effort she had made in

showing it to him was appreciated; but it
was with a heavy sigh that she went back
to the blue study, and tried to give her whole
attention to books, which she was slowly
learning to love, first for Geoffrey's sake, and
then for their own.

END OF VOL. la

fi

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS-URBANA

3 0112 042061439

OF THE

U N Diversity

or ILLINOIS

82.3
Stated

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/downwaynovel02stan

% ioijel

By hope STANFORD

■ Whore is thy hand to lead me down the way ?

VOL. II.

LONDON ;

JOHN AND ROBERT MAXWELL

MILTON HOUSE, SHOE Life, FLEET STREET,

AND

35, ST. BRIDE STREET, E.C.

'All rights reserved.]

PRINTED BY H. BLACKLOCK AND CO.^,

75, Warrington ROAD, E.C,

(680)

mimeroiis engagements, was, at any rate,
bringing no mental rest. She roused herself
with a start, as her aunt's voice sounded
somewhat sharply from the other side of
the room —

^' Edith, my dear, it is evident that I
have made a great mistake in taking you
from your rustic retirement. You are looking
dull and ill, and I can only suppose
you are worrying yourself over something,
although you will not let me into the
secret."

^'I suppose I am, Aunt Sarah," answered
Edith slowly, ' ' but it is entirely a matter
of my own feeling, and I daresay half of
it is imaginary ; at any rate, of this I am
sure, that I should make a great mistake
in speaking of it even to you.

'^ That is just the fault of your bringing
up," said Mrs. Mathewson, irritably.
^' All of you, from Adelaide to Laura — it

certainly cannot be said of Erica — seem
to think it a virtue to hide your thoughts
and brood over them."

'^ No, no, Aunt Sarah ! that is being
too hard upon us. We do keep our
thoughts — or rather om feelings — a good
deal to ourselves, I allow; but we are a
cheerful family, and don't brood over
them."

^^ Well, I do not know what you call
it when you are fretting yourself ill over
something you will not tell me a word
about, when most likely I could put it all
to rights in a moment."

^'I am not fretting myself ill over anything.
Aunt Sarah," began Edith, with
some irritation, when she was interrupted
by the entrance of Bernard Offord — unannounced
— as a privileged visitor. Mrs.
Mathewson, watching her keenly, fancied
she detected by her heightened colour the

course her thoughts had been taking, but
was much puzzled when, a moment or two
after, Geoffrey Poland came in, and Edith's
already flushed cheeks for a moment became
crimson, and she turned aside with
some trivial excuse.

^' I could scarcely believe in my good
fortune, Edith, when I heard that you had
thrown over your engagement with the
Sterndales," said Bernard. ^' This is my
only spare afternoon this week, and I was
longing to spend it here."

^^ Edith has turned lazy, and has rebelled
against every plan I have made for to-day,"
said Mrs. Mathewson.

^'For lazy — say tired," answered Edith,
laughing. ^^ You must remember I am
country-bred."

^' Tired, when your visit is little more
than half over? AVhat would you be at
the end of three or four months of balls

sjiifefes, and flattery ad ?nausea ? " inquired
Geofeey.

^^ Well, you see," answered Edith,
smiling, ^' I should begin by believing that
all the flattery was sincere, and then it is
astonishing how much of it you can swallow
without unpleasant consequences."

^^ Can even a beauty in her first season
persuade herself of that?" asked Geoffrey,
with an ambiguity which, although common
with him, alway puzzled and irritated
Edith.

^' That I am quite unable to say," she
answered, rising and going to the window,
followed by Bernard, who engaged her ina
low-voiced conversation which seemed
all absorbing, although every now and
then she let her eyes wander to where
Geoffrey was sitting talking to his Aunt in
apparent unconsciousness of her existence,
although if she could have overheard what

they were saying she would have found that
it chiefly concerned herself.

'' How do you think your experiment
on the country beauty is turning out ? "
inquired Geoffrey of his aunt, with an air
of only the laziest interest.

^' Really you are very provoking,
Geoffrey, " answered Mrs. Mathewson,
impatiently. '• One would think fi'om the
way you speak that Edith was an underbred
rustic, who had never seen a civilised soul
in her life"'

Her nephew laughed. '^I think perhaps
if we followed the exact meaning of your
last words we should be about right. I
don't imagine that Miss Hilton has had
much to do with souls of any kind, much
less with those anomalous ones which might
be called civilised. She strikes me as being
very much a child of nature, with a sweet
disposition and a certain shrewdness of her

own, but with intellectual capacities so
undeveloped that one might doubt their
existence."

^' I suppose that is a polite way of sa^^ng
that you think her a pretty fool," said Mrs.
Mathewson, angrily — she had no scruple in
speaking plainly to her nephew.

•' Not at all, I think her father has
succeeded admirably in teaching her
worldly wisdom of the kind necessary
for her future position, and as to little
details of every-day knowledge, necessary
to her new experiences here, you and
Offord are able and willing tutors to a
pupil who evidently gives little trouble;
but it never seems to strike any of you that
the girl must have a mind, and that it might
be worth while — I can't expect you to see
it as I do — as a duty, to put into it
something of a little more worth than a
knowledge of the usages of society, or the

management of that beautiful stumbling-block
in her path — Blithefield."

^^ Why do not you undertake the task
of developing her mind?" asked his aunt,
somewhat scornfully.

^' Heaven forbid ! " he exclaimed in haste.
'' No, no ! I leave that to wiser hands."

sand yet," Mrs. Mathewson went on,
irritated out of her usual good judgment,
^^you were so successful with Laura that
I wonder you are not eager to repeat the
experiment."

Geoffrey's colour rose. '^ Yes, I think
I was successful with her. I believe I
persuaded her that it was possible to make
something out of even her unlovely life,
but the flattered beauty and heiress would
scarcely be likely to lend a willing ear to
my poor opinions."

He left his seat and sauntered to the
book-laden table as he spoke; and Mrs.

Mathewson, as she watched him, wondered
whether there was just a tinge of hopeless
fancy in his depreciation of Edith, or
whether Laura, with every faculty undeveloped,
was in truth a more attractive
study to him. She herself had read and
talked much, but it had been all the
while with a conscious intention of fitting
herself to take a place amongst people of
cultured minds, rather than from a love
of the things she had studied, or a full
appreciation of them, and of their effects
upon herself. She had, especially of late,
given her attention to phases of theological
opinion, to her own great disquiet, and had
had many a long, fruitless, but interesting
discussion with her nephew, but she had
made it an especial request that such
subjects should be avoided in Edith's
presence, and he had willingly agreed,
feeling that he would have had the same

scruple in suggesting a doubt or difficulty
to her as to a child, while with Laura he
considered discussion a useful, perhaps
almost necessary, form of education.

The favourite child of a proud and
loving father, Edith scarcely seemed to
belong to herself ; it was for him rather
than for herself that she appeared to live.
To carry out his wishes, to follow his ways,
to be worthy of the fair inheritance he
would delight to give her, seemed to be
to her a sufficient object in life, and
Geoffrey felt that to disturb their perfect
agreement would be little less than
sacrilege. Well, fortunately, the man
who appeared to be steadily gaining ground
in her favour was not likely to prove
dangerously intellectual. They could laugh
through life together, untroubled by problems
which weighed heavily upon more
thoughtful people. But glancing towards

the pair at the window with impatience
and no little scorn, he was somewhat
embarrassed at meeting Edith's eyes, grave
and earnest, fixed full upon him, as if her
attention had wandered from her companion
; and with some curiosity he returned
to his seat by Mrs. Mathewson, drawing his
chair forward within earshot of the others,
wishing if he could to discover what had
been the cause of a look which betrayed an
unusual amount of interest in him.

But Edith was embarrassed also, and was
glad to turn to the p)i^iic) at Bernard's
request, and give them the benefit of the
last song she had learned with her singing
master.

Although living in his aunt's house, and
being scrupulously punctual to her hours on
any occasion when she expected him. to be
present, Geoffrey lived an almost independent
life. He had his own rooms, his

own pursuits and engagements and there
was none of that free and easy running in
and out of the drawing-room at all hours,
which would have been natural to a son
of the house. The lines had been drawn
by his own hand when first he accepted
the offered home, and he had never
repented. He was not much interested in
the fellow-creatures whom he came across
in his aunt's set of acquaintances ; he had
no wish to discuss their appearance, manners,
or circumstances, and of their characters,
which would have interested him, he could
discover almost nothing. They talked
ardently enough on many subjects, but they
did not seem to care to go below the surface,
or certainly not with him ; for somehow,
he never understood why, he appeared to
have a power of shutting up people, which
curiously enough Laura alone had never
seemed to feel.

He was conscious that Edith on her first
arrival had made considerable efforts to be
friendly and pleasant with him ; but he had
not responded, for reasons of his own, and
she had soon ceased to make any attempt
to break through his reserve; and once
only, when he bad asked her to send a
message to Laura, briefly describing the
circumstances, had there been anything like
friendly confidence between them. Now
he sat listening with a somewhat mocking
smile to Bernard's truthful if exaggerated
praises of her singing.

She sang with taste, and her voice was
clear and pleasant, but as yet uncultivated.
She was fully aware of its shortcomings,
but also conscious that she was fast
improving, and turning round suddenly to
seek for a little coveted praise from her
aunt, she encountered Geoffrey's smile, and
lost her temper over it.

'^ I am sorry I did not wait until you had
left the room, Mr. Poland," she said, closing
the piano; ^'but my aunt and Mr. Offord
take an interest in my progress, and you
must excuse my forgetting that I should
victimise you."

Geoffrey laughed outright. '^ I did not
mind it very much, and I think you have
improved considerably since I first heard
you," he answered, with intentional
patronage, which made Bernard mutter
^^ Conceited fool!" and drove Edith to the
window again to hide her impatience.

It vexes me that you and Edith do not
get on better together, Geoffrey," said Mrs.
Mathewson, in a voice too low to be overheard.
^^ I hoped you would have been like
brother and sister — no, of course not quite
that, but like friends and cousins, but
instead you seem to be the only person who
does not like her."

^' I lite her very much," answered
Geoffrey, indifferently.

^' That is all nonsense ! If you liked her
you would take some pains to be pleasant,
instead of which you always seem to avoid
her if you can."

'^ Shall I lay siege to the heart of the
heiress, placing my own at her feet ? If I
do, you must be responsible for the consequences,"
he said, getting up slowly, as if
the subject bored him, and laughing at his
aunt's earnest exclamation, ^* Oh, dear no,
that would be a calamity ! " he left the room
as the tea was brought in ; for although he
had drunk it daily with Laura in the blue
study, he had never been known to do so on
any other occasion.

CHAPTER II.

UNCERTAINTY.

^^When do you think of going down,
Bernard ? I want you to take a parcel forme
to Erica," said Edith, looking up to
question him from a letter she was writing,
while he lounged in a low chair beside her,
one morning when Mrs. Mathewson had
gone out.

^'I shall go down the same day you do''
he answered.

^^ That is all nonsense!" she exclaimed.
^' Of course I am not going to believe that
you intend to idle away another month in
town just when all the hay is being cut, and
everything at Off or d is crying out for you ! '*

There speaks the landed proprietress,"
said Bernard laughing. '^ Offord has cried
in vain for a year, and yet the heavens have
not fallen ; it may well do for a few weeks
longer without any terrible results.
x4.t any rate, it must do the best it
can, for I have promised myself the
pleasure of taking care of you when you
go home."

^^ Oh, no, you cannot do that, Bernard, for
I have just been representing to father that
it will be quite impossible for me to find an
escort, and that he must come uj) for me
himself; we want so much to get him here
for a day or two."

'sall right! then I will have a pressing

engagement which will call me home just

the day before ; but here I stay until then,

unless you tell me that you want to get rid

of me, Edith."

^ And in the meantime Offord House is
VOL. n. c

tumbling to the ground for the want of
timely repair ! "

^^ Let it tumble!"

'' Will you be contented then to live in the
workhouse, or the lodge cottage ? "

^^No, but I have not much idea of living
at Offord House — at least, not for long
together."

Edith looked at him impatiently ; but a
second meaning in his words seemed suddenly
to strike her, and she said no more, but went
back to her writing.

^'You know that I hope for a brighter
home than that gloomy prison, Edith," he
went on ; '^ but I am not going to talk of it
now. I want you to give me some good
reason why the hideous and dilapidated
mansion should be kept as a blot on the
beauty of the park."

^^You must live somewhere," answered
Edith, with embarrassment.

'certainly; but if the worst should
happen I might build a modern villa, which
at least might be comfortable."

^^ Goth !" she exclaimed with horror. " A
villa at Offord!"

'swell, I leave it to you to save it from
such a fate," he said, getting up and sauntering
to the window.

He fully expected and intended that Edith
should marry him; that the deer fence
between OfEord and Blithefield should be
pulled down, and the parks thrown into one ;
that the hideous Georgian mansion built by
a forefather, of porous and worthless stone
found on the estate, should be allowed to
crumble into ruins which might one day
become picturesque, while he lived at
Blithefield, a son-in-law after Mr. Hilton's
own heart, joining his wife's name to his
own. But he felt that the time had hardly
yet come for speaking of his plans — they

were too assured to be called hopes, and that
it would be more according to the fitness
of things, as well as to his own taste,
that Edith should accept him under the
shadow of the trees, which stretched like
an undivided mantle from end to end of
the two estates.

^^ Where is the boundary of Blithefield ? "
was a frequent question with Mr. Hilton's
guests, and one which even he was often
unable to answer, unless in the course of
their wanderings they had come in sight
of the high, moss-grown palings which
divided it from Offord.

It could not generally be said of Bernard
that he put a high value ujoon himself at
which the rest of the world would be inclined
to cavil ; but he had a clear perception of
the light in which Mr. Hilton would regard
him, and he knew that he should be more
welcome as a son-in-law than a man with a

title and great possessions, to whom Blithe-field
would be but one amongst many estates.
His own property had come to him unexpectedly
and in an indirect line, and was
large, considerably larger than Blithefield ;
but the land was poor and neglected, and the
southern slopes of the hills, of which the
Look-out was the highest point, belonged
to Mr. Hilton, while a large portion of his
neighbour's land was what Erica called at
^^ the front of the North wind," and boasted
of heather and Scotch firs as its most
abundant productions.

To the suitor whom her father approved
Bernard believed that Edith would turn a
willing ear. He could not discover that
any one had been beforehand with him, and
although she was admired and sought after
in the society into which Mrs. Mathewson
introduced her, he had perceived no formidable
rival. That a few hearts would be laid

at her feet before she left town he had no-doubt
; but as far as he could see she would
not stoop to lift one of them from the
ground ; and if he could not flatter himself
that as yet she regarded him with more
than liking, he believed that of that he
possessed a larger portion than any one else.

But while standing at the window he was
still dreaming of the broad estates and
united names, when a doubt suddenly arose.
Edith had left the writing-table and stood
beside him, and he had turned to her with
a smile which reflected his happy thoughts,,
when the door opened and Geoffrey came
in; and in a moment her face flushed, and
into her manner came a sudden consciousness
which Bernard felt that his presence
had never called forth.

^^ I beg your pardon," said Geoffrey,
after a momentary but awkward pause. '^ I
thought my aunt was here, and I had a

message for her ; but perhaps, Miss Hilton,
you will be kind enough to give it for me."

^^ Yes, certainly, if you cannot wait to see
her ; she will be in almost immediately."

^^No, I cannot wait;" and then he gave
the message and hurried away, asking himself,
as he walked quickly through the streets,
^^ Was he a fool, that Bernard Offord's love-making
should stir one single jDulse in his
heart, or cause him even a passing twinge
of envy ? " But in those few moments he
had left behind him in Bernard's mind a
new and starting doubt.

Did not Edith's embarrassment, and
Poland's constraint and hurry imply at least
a strong interest in each other ? How could
he have been so infatuatedly foolish as not
to consider what might be the probable consequence
of an everyday intercourse between
a clever man and a charming girl? He
would be the husband of the father s choice,

but how could he tell that the daughter
would be willing in everything to follow
his wishes ? Well ! he would not harass
himself by remaining in doubt, while
possibly he might be doing injustice to her,
nor would he waste an hour in laying siege
to a heart already occupied. Before he left
the house he would come to an understanding
of her feeling — not for himself, for that
there was no hurry, but for this abrupt and
unmannerly fellow, in whom it was evident
she took an interest.

But while he was hesitating and finding
it awkward to bring the subject forward,
she unexpectedly smoothed the way for him
by answering to his question — ^' Rather an
uncertain and uncomfortable inmate of a
house — om friend, Poland — is he not ? "

^' Yes, rather, to those who do not
understand him, but — I will trust you
with a secret, Bernard, — I should never

quarrel with him, for I expect some day
he will be my brother : we all suppose
him to be devoted to Laura."

^^ My dear Edith, that must be a joke !
Laura? while there are other girls to
choose from ? It is not possible ! "

^^ So we should have said a few weeks
ago, but I believe it is true. However,
dear old father, having no one to 'advise
him while I am away, is doing his best
to spoil it all by forbidding them to write
to each other."

No one ever thought of quarrelling with
Edith for her simple and harmlessly high
opinion of her influence over her father; and
Bernard was not likely to be the first to
begin when she had just taken a weight
from his mind, which, although only felt
for a few minutes, had been heavy. He
answered laughing,

^^ How can you expect him to know what

to do without his right hand, his working
brain, his — anything else that you may
fancy to call yourself'' And he felt so
happy and reassured that he did not
notice that Edith only listened to him
with a divided attention during the few
minutes longer that he stayed with
her.

Left to herself Edith sat down to consider.
Why was it, she wondered, that she found
herself daily contrasting these two men,
who just now filled so large a portion of
her life, with such an uncertain appreciation
of the merits of both ? Why did she sometimes
weary of Bernard's good sense and
good temper, and feel that Geoffrey's
uncertainty was more interesting? Why
did she fold her hands in a sort of helpless
patience when she thought of long, easy,
quiet years at Blithefield with the husband
of her father's choice, who would love her

'* 4

a thousand times better than she deserved,
who would be a wise counsellor, a tender
lover, but would scarcely widen by an inch
the good, pleasant, useful, but not sufficient
existence which she had already led for
the past two years. Then, again, why did
she half envy, half pity Laura when she
imagined the life of varied thought and
feeling, never the same but ever interesting,
which Geoffrey's wife would be expected to
lead?

According to the creed taught her by
her father, and no man had ever more
scrupulously fulfilled it when it was
brought before him, duty was religion,
conservative duty, which made a man
generous to his dependents, but indifferent
to the improvement of their minds, the
education of their children, or their
advancement in a world where their
forefathers had been good ploughmen, and

their duty towards God had somehow got
mixed up with doing a good day's work
for the master to whom God had sent
them. Edith's ideas had gone a little
beyond this, but not very far, for her love
for her father had always pulled her up
short when she had been inclined to think
that in these days progression was a necessity;
and yet somehow she knew that if her
future husband should be content with the
beliefs in which she had been nourished,
she should to some extent feel ashamed, and
out of sympathy with him ; and she feared
that Bernard would be content and increasingly
so as years went on. He would
be almost too happy and prosperous, and
she foresaw that it would narrow him, as
she was beginning to see that it had
narrowed her father; and as for herself
what chance was there that she
would escape the deadening influence

of unbroken prosperity, when even
her fears were now Httle more than a
sentiment ?

If Geoffrey had taken the trouble with
her that he had with Laura — if, even now,
he would give her a brother's help — she
believed that she might see a way out of
the difficulty, a way to fall in with her
father's wishes and to be a good wife to
Bernard and joint ruler with him at
Blithefield, without a necessity for crushing
down her own wider ideas of right and
wrong, which to her father would seem
subversive of all rule and order, and to
Bernard would appear Quixotic folly. She
was not at all sure herself that she had
not been somewhat blinded by the novelty
of opinions which — in spite of her aunt's
care for her — she had sometimes heard
discussed in her drawing-room, between
some of the clever and advanced thinkers

whom Mrs. Mathewson delighted to gather
round her, and with whom at the end of
half an hour she always appeared to
agree — or at least to sympathise — to an
extent which rather shocked Edith's ideas
of right and wrong. But then, perhaps,
it was because it was beyond her to follow
the lines of argument, and her aunt was
only agreeing with something which,
although clothed in new words, was old
truth after all.

Sometimes she wished with all her heart
that she had never left Blithefield, and then,
again, she was ashamed of such a wish.
Why should the world be too easy to her
wien to others it was full of difficulty?
Why should she take it for granted that
Bernard's apparent carelessness meant indifference
to everything but daily ease ?
And even if it was so, might she not — oh,
wonderful thought! — be the means of

persuading him to look at things more in
earnest, and might they not learn together
everything in which both were now
wanting ?

CHAPTER III.

EXPERIMENT.

Reasoning with himself that, as Edith's
fortune was apparently settled beyond a
doubt, there could be no misunderstanding
on her part, or danger to his own peace,
Geoffrey saw no reason why he should not
interest himself in trying to discover
something of her views of life in general,
and of the place in the world which she
wished and expected to fill. He was rather
glad that for once he had felt a sharp and
passing pang of envy for the happy lover
on whom fortune had seemed to shower
her favours; it gave him a clearer insight
into one of the strongest motives which

rule the world, and made him smile ashe
thought how insignificant and passing
had been its effect upon himself.

I suppose you look upon that as an
almost certain marriage," he said to his
aunt, as, in the middle of a grave talk, they
both stopped to smile at a merry laugh
from the balcony, where Bernard was
helping Edith to water the flowers.

"■ Yes, I suppose so," she answered, with
a little sigh.

But you wish it ? You are satisfied ? "

^' I suppose I wish it, but as to being
satisfied, I am afraid I am not. I confess
I should have liked a more brilliant match
for the dear child ; but I have no doubt that
her father is right, and that a man like Mr.
Offord who appreciates Blithefield is better
than a duke who would look down upon it."

^' To my mind Blithefield has ten times
the attraction of a larger place," said

VOL. n. D

Geoffrey, after a pause. ^^ There is something
so complete in its beauty, you can
take it all in and feel it, whereas in one of
those vast estates you must cut it up into
bits in your mind to realise it at all."

'' Yes, I know what you mean, and I agree
with you, as I believe Edith would ; but I
.should like to have given her a chance
with the best, and have seen what would
have come of it ; but her father told me not
to interfere with Mr. Offord ; so my hands
were tied, and although she does not know
it, she is almost as bad as ticketed ^ engaged.' "
You have the true instincts of a sportsman''
said Geoffrey, smiling. ^^ Never
mind the feelings of the game if only it can
be brought down I But I am a little curious
to know what Miss Hilton's own feelings are
whether pride in lier possessions swallows
up ambition."

''I doubt if she knows what ambition

means. She has learnt her duties, she
pleases her father, she is loved by every one,
she has climbed her heights ; and when
Bernard stands there beside her, the smnmit
will be crowned."

*'A worldly speech!" said Geoffrey,
quietly.

That is as you take it, just then I was
speaking of the world."

•' And I was thinking that perhaps on the
top of her mountain rests the lowest bar of
that high ladder we should wish every living
soul to climb. For some even the first step
is hard to win ; but she, with youth and
strength, and capacity, should get a long
way up if she was shown the beginning."

Mrs. Mathewson sighed ^' Your ladder is
at the best a hard one to climb, I fear,
Geoffrey ! "

^' Only because of such weights as that
beautiful Blithefield is to her. It should

not be a hard task or a distasteful one to
make the best of ourselves ; but we can't or
we won't do it, neither will we show others
the way from our own failures if we can
help it."

'well, Geoffrey, you make one very
uncomfortable with your theories, but I am
afraid they don't do much good, and I must
beg" of you again that you will not disturb
Edith's mind, and set her against the
position in which God has placed her."

^^ I suppose He set her down like a log,
and never intended her to move, " said
Geoffrey, scornfully. ' ' But no doubt you
are right in this, that mine is not the hand
to arouse her." But he turned away
murmuring to himself, '' I could do it
though. I could could make a new soul
shine through her eyes, and I half believe
she knows it." But there could be no
doubt that the task was not for him, and

he would not be betrayed into it unawares.
Not that he feared any danger to himself.
She interested him as a study, and perhaps
had her circumstances been different he
might have felt bound to bring the light
to kindle a fire which would j^i'o^^e and
refine the metal now wasting in disuse;
but his hands were tied by her wealth and
position, and, after all, his pains might have
been for nothing, and the fair-seeming
show might only cover poverty within.

Meanwhile the weeks were flying fast,
and Edith felt that as yet she had made
few of those sisterly efforts to be pleasant
with Geoffrey, which she told herself ought
to be made for Laura's sake. It was, in
fact, almost a necessity that she should
understand something of what was in his
mind before she went home.

Her father had mismanaged every tiling, and
had appeared to refuse further acquaintance

with Geoffrey ; but this she knew was not at
all what he really intended or wished, while
as far as Laura was concerned it was cruel.
She ]had been allowed to spend hours in his
company every day at Blithefield without
remark ; no one had even suggested a difficulty
; but because he had chosen to wait for
his own time for speaking of his hopes and
prospects, her father had been offended, and
had taken it for granted that he was trifling.
And when Edith came to think over it, she
herself was far from satisfied. During all
the weeks she had been in town Geoffrey had
only once mentioned Laura's name when
sending an almost necessary message. He
had shown no interest in Blithefield news,
and had appeared quietly to consent when
Mr. Hilton put a stop to his letters.

It was very puzzling ; and she thought
that when she went home Laura would naturally
look to her to set things right. And

yet what could she do ? She could not ask
Geoffrey bis intentions, and she could not
learn them from his behaviour ; she had, indeed,
few opportunities, for she seldom spent
an hour in his society, excepting at dinner
time, and then there were generally other
guests. If he did not avoid her, as she often
fancied he did, he at least took no pains to
improve their acquaintance. Perhaps he
very much disliked the thought of having
saved her life ; perhaps — but this she felt
almost sure was not the case — he resented
her showing so little gratitude, but she had
done it to please him when she herself would
have felt further expression of it a relief, and

it could not be undone now.

But undoubtedly she must make an effort

to understand him for Laura's sake, although

the task was disagreeable, from her belief

that he despised her ; and there was no time

to be lost, for there was some talk of his

leaving town almost immediately to go
abroad with a friend for a few weeks. But
it was difficult to find an opportunity for
speaking more than a few words to him, and
a consciousness of her wish to do so made
lier feel shy, and unable to take advantage
of one or two occasions which offered themselves.


But one wet morning, knowing that he
was in the study, which Mrs. Mathewson
said was too small to be called a library,
although it contained many books in which
more pretentious rooms were wanting, she
made an excuse of looking for something to
read, and went in to choose from the well-filled
shelves.

Geoffrey was writing at the table, and only
looked up for a moment as she came in.

*^ I am tired of novels ; do tell me of
something to read, Mr. Poland, if you are
not too busy," she said, after a vain examination

of row after row, and checking a
strong desire to run away again without a
word.

He pushed back his chair, and came and
stood beside her, not unwillingly.

'^ If you are tired of novels, you had
better, perhaps, try poetry," he said ; ^'but
I am afraid you will find nothing here that
can be called light reading."

'^ I think, perhaps, I could take in something
that is not very light," she answered,
smiling.

^^But J am afraid there is nothing you
will think even moderate. Of course, you
don't want Chaucer or Shakespeare, and I
think there is not much left but Spenser,
Milton, &c. My uncle, when choosing
his library, disdained more modern
poets."

'should I like Spenser — I wonder?"

^' I cannot decide that question. I fancy

girls don't get beyond ' Una and the Lion ^
as a rule."

But I don't think you know much about
girls, Mr. Poland, do you ? "

I may say nothing at all."

^^ Unless, of course, you may have learned
something from Laura, you have seen a
good deal of her," went on Edith, quietly.

^^ Yes, I have gained knowledge from
her, but not of that kind, she is not like
any one else — not at all like you, for instance.
I know whether she likes Spenser, for
we have read him together, but that
does not at all help me to judge of your
tastes."

^' I am glad Laura liked it, she does not
care for many books."

^' I did not say she liked it."

^^ But I suppose you would not have read
it to her if she had not ! "

'^ I am not so sure of that ; it is not everyone

who will only listen to what they like,
Miss Hilton, or who has it in their power
to do so."

'^Of coarse not, but in this case Laura
could have asked you to read something
else if she chose ; she was not bound to
listen to what she did not like."

No, but perhaps she might have done
it to give pleasure to me, when I was in
need of it."

'^ That is quite another thing — of course
she might have done that ; but now, if you
are not busy, will you give me pleasure by
reading to me a little, that I may see if
I like it?"

^^ No, thank you, Miss Hilton ; I must
decline to read poetry to you."

Edith looked up at him quickly and
angrily. She had been really trying to be
friendly with him for Laura's sake, and had
put aside offence at his want of cordiality,

and had made a great effort to overcome
the shyness she always felt with him.

'' I beg your pardon, Mr. Poland," she
said haughtily ; ^^ I did not imagine I was
asking a great favour."

'' No, it is not much of a one, but still I
must beg to be excused," he answered slowly.

^^ [ regret that I have interrupted you,"
Edith went on, rapidly losing her temper;
^^but I naturally saw no reason why you
should not be friendly with me, and I
might make excuses for wishing it."

^' Yes, you might make good excuses, but
it was not those which brought you here.
Have you ever had the truth spoken to
you. Miss Hilton ? or shall I be the first
when I tell you why you came to speak
to me to-day ? " said Geoffrey, urged by
an irresistible impulse, and speaking with
cold disapproval, believing that what he
was going to say was the truth, and yet

feeling it a hard task not to bend like the
rest of her world under her influence. '^ You
came because it vexed you that I should
hold aloof when every one else pays homage
to you; because you thought that a few
words would break down the wall which
you probably know I have purposely built
up between us, and it hurts you, not only
from vanity, but because you have a kind
heart, that any one with whom you have
to do should be cold to you ; but I will
tell you that I began it in sincerity, and I
have gone on with it With intention. I was
weary of your praises beforehand, and met
you first with genuine indifference. It was
nothing to me that you were beautiful, and
charming, and beloved. But when I saved
your life — there is no use in trying to gloss
over that fact — I was forced to think of you,
I confess, much against my will. Now,
since you have been here, I have been

equally forced to see that the world's estimate
of you is a true one. Shall I go further,
and say that it has been an effort, even, to
keep up indifference ? You could never be tome
what Laura is ; but — I know it has been
unconsciously — you have put us apart, and
made me unworthy of her. I do not say or
think that you have been in any way to
blame until to-day. Why did you come
here to-day ? " he cried, his voice changing.
^' It was only to satisfy a miserable vanity,
or something little better, and to gain a
worthless power ; but I tell you you have not
gained it, and never will ! "

He turned away, leaving her for a moment
speechless, and almost conscience-stricken.
And yet it was not true. There was scarcely
more than a grain of truth in what he had
said. She had resented his indifference ;
she had felt that it would be a triumph to
break through his cold reserve, and she had

once or twice of late allowed it to creep into
her thoughts that she might hold a different
and wider rule at Blithefield if she had a
mind like his to guide her ; but still she believed
thoroughly that it was for Laura's
sake she had made this effort to be friendly,
and it was this belief which enabled her, after
moment or two, to answer with dignity —

^' I am sorry I should have made it possible
for you to speak to me like this, Mr.
Poland ; but beyond unthinkingly giving
you the opportunity, the fault is yours —
not mine." And then she left him, and he
neither tried to apologise nor to detain her.

'^ A fool like the rest I " he said to himself,
^s he stood by the window. ^^ And I cannot
even say that 1 foresaw my folly and distrusted
myself ; but I can and will get over it
in a little while ; but in the meantime Laura
must suffer, and I can do nothing to help
her."

CHAPTER IV.

WELCOME.

A FINE hot July day, after weather wet
enough to keep all things fresh and green,
and warm enough to bring them forward
in their due season, welcomed Edith's return
after her two months' absence. The Pagets
and Bonars had come over in the morning
to escape the extreme heat of the day and to
be there when she arrived; and regardless
of possible sunstroke, Mr. Hilton had himself
driven the grays to the station, fully half
an hour too soon, and kept them standing
restlessly in the broiling sun, with what
Morris considered downright cruelty, especially
as he had to stand at their heads

and wage a ceaseless war against armies
of flies.

It was cool and pleasant enough on the
lawn at Blithefield, where the lazy party-sat
or lay about as it pleased them, and
only Adelaide's and Janet's handsome boys,
in the smallest possible quantity of holland
clothing, trotted backwards and forwards
from one to another. Even Laura was
there, sitting a little aside, and dressed
with care, to please a fancy of her own ;
for might she not probably hear something
of Geoffrey, after long weeks of silence, and
should she not in her own heart do honour
to the occasion ?

'^ I wonder, Adelaide, what changes you
expect to find in Edith. I fancy Janet
thinks she will have a halo round her
head, like a mediaeval saint," said Captain
Bonar, turning round lazily to his sister-in-law
; but Mary Verney answered for her.

VOL. II. E

I expect you mean a tangle of
fashionable little curls, only you do not
know the proper name, and at this
moment I have forgotten it ; but I do
think she has too much good sense to
spoil herself like that. Captain Bonar."

^^No doubt you know best what is in
my stupid head, Miss Verney ; but I stick
to the halo, for I believe in every-day saints,
and I consider Edith one of them."

Lam^a shrugged her shoulders, while the
rest of the party laughed, all excepting Mr.
Pao:et, who objected to the term saint being
used with levity, and while he had a strong
section for his young sister-in-law, often
deeply lamented her undeniable devotion to
worldly matters.

'^I don't expect to see much change in
her," answered Adelaide, going back to the
original question. ^' I expect she will be
rather better dressed, and a little less

interested in home details for awhile ; but
two months is not a very long time, after
all."

'sit may seem longer than a whole life,"
said Laura, almost involuntarily.

^^ Yes," answered Captain Bonar, with
interest ; '' but not in a life like Edith's,
whose every day has been filled with
interests. Of course, in town these have
changed, but she will find the old ones
here again when she comes back."

'' I think perhaps some of her new
interest will follow her," suggested Janet.

^' Or come with her, if you mean
Bernard," said Erica, laughing; ^^ for he
is going to take care of her on the journey,
and I foresee that he will be about the
house from morning till night — at least, I
know you were, Walter, and a frightful
bore we thought you."

My dear, you don't understand the

UNIVERSITY OF
Illinois LIBRARY

ways of lovers ; take them rightly and
they are most interesting studies ; but "

'' Here they come ! " cried Erica excitedly,
interrupting him without scruple ;
and as the grays came in sight down the
avenue they were pulled up for a moment,
and some one, who had been sitting
beside Edith, jumped out and disappeared
down a by-path which was a short cut
to Offord.

^' That is considerate!" said Adelaide.
^^ Bernard knew that wee should like to
have Edith to ourselves this afternoon;
he always was a dear boy."

^^ Don't you flatter yourself that he won't
be here to dinner," said Erica. ''I am
sure he will not consider us very long."

"■ I hope he will come," interposed
Mr. Paget ; ' ' for I have not seen him
yet, and I am anxious to make his
acquaintance."

Mary noticed that Laura was listening
with interest and curiosity to these remarks.
It was probable that, as she neither gave
nor received confidences from any one, she
was ignorant of the expected engagement,
and, of course, as yet it was not openly
discussed, although Bernard had asked for
and received Mr. Hilton's consent — implied
rather than expressed — to his doing what
he could for himself during his stay in
London. But Laura knew so little of what
went on in her own family, and was
so unaccustomed to interest herself in them,
that this state of affairs had never struck
her, as Mary now perceived, and it seemed
advisable that she should be as well
informed as the rest.

'' I suppose this will be the next brother,"
she said, walking beside Laura, as they all
went towards the house to be in time to
meet the carriage.

swill he? Will father be satisfied at
last ? " asked Laura, with interest.

1 think so ; but of course, you know, I
do not know much about it. No doubt
Edith will tell you."

'^ I do not think she will. London may
have changed her, but not quite so much
as that."

Then Mr. Hilton, with a triumphant
flourish of his whip, pulled up his horses,
and Edith was amongst them again, looking
pale and tired, and more quiet and less
bright than when she left them''

Oh, how lovely and fresh it all is !
There can be nothing like it, father ! " she
said, clasping her hands on his arm, ashe
stood beside her and looked at her
anxiously.

'•'' No, my darling ! there is nothing better,
and it is quite time you came back to it
again," he said uneasily, leading the way

back to the lawii where they had all
been sitting. This was not quite his Edith
who had come back to him ; he saw that
at a glance; but this was not the time for
remarking upon it, and the children's joyful
Av^elcome of " Auntie " brought back the old
look and smile to her face.

'^ Of course that was Bernard who
jumped out as you drove up the avenue,"
said Erica, as she handed Edith some tea.

'eyes; he came down with me. you
know."

'rand is he coming to dinner this
evening?" went on Erica, innocently.

'' Yes ; but he had to go home to dress."
And, fortunately, Edith did not see the
triumphant smile with which Erica looked
round at her brother-in-law.

'' And what has become of Geoffrey
Poland ? " asked Mary, presently, knowing
that Laura must want to hear of him, and

feeling that she was the only one who
could mention him naturally; but, looking
at Edith for her answer, she was much
surprised to see a sudden flush upon her
face, as she turned a little aside before
replying,

^^ Oh, I scarcely know; we have not
seen him for some time. He is going
abroad for awhile, I think."

^^ Going abroad? To find something todo,
I suppose?" questioned Mary, feeling
that it would be cruel to leave the subject
there.

'^ Yes, I think so. I believe some gentleman
living in Spain wants his help for a
time about some valuable old papers which
he has found, but I really do not understand
much about it. Now, Erica, I think I will
go in and get rid of some of this dust."

Edith turned as she spoke, and met
Laura's eyes fixed upon her with an earnest.

painful questioning, before which her own
fell, again her face flushed, and she was
thankful to little Walter for running boisterously
into her arms, and fully claiming
her attention until she followed Janet into
the house.

There was a short silence amongst the
groups left on the lawn before Mr. Hilton
said, with a sigh, and a settling of his
shoulders, which always meant a mental
burden, '' The child looks tired enough,
but no doubt a day or two will set her right
again."

'^ Oh yes, father," answered Adelaide ;
'' she only wants a little fresh air. London
must be frightfully trying this weather,
especially to a country girl."

'^ That is a good fellow, that young
Offord," said Mr. Hilton, following his own
train of thought. '' You have scarcely seen
him yet, Bonar ? "

'' No, but I like what I hear of him.
People tell me he has the making of a good
country gentleman in him''

Captain Bonar had fought his own battle
against unworthy jealousy, and conquered,
and had since found himself able to take
more pleasure in Blithefield than before''

Yes, I think he has ; but no doubt after
several years in India he will have much to
learn."

'^No doubt, but he can come to you for
lessons, and perhaps he will not mind
sharing them with Edith."

'' That is as it may be," answered Mr.
Hilton ; but he smiled more contentedly, and
the anxious look passed away from his face
as he turned to attend to the little grandsons,
who thought ^^ grandpa" the best playfellow
in the world.

After a few minutes Laura left her place,
and wandered away amongst the flowerbeds

T^dth a troubled mind. \Yhat could
there be in the mere mention of Geoffrey's
name which caused Edith such evident
embarrassment ? It was only half-an-hour
before that Bernard Offord had been spoken
of as a probable future member of the
family ; and if this was so, what should
make her face flushed and troubled when
Mary spoke of Geoffrey ? Could it be that
this sister, who had seemed already to have
almost everything the world could give her,
had also gained the crowning glory of his
love, which was scarcely now his own to
give ? She could not believe it unless he
told her so with his own lips. If she lost
her faith in him what would she have left
to live for ? Every thought seemed touched
by his directing hand, every wish and aim
pointed in a direction he had indicated,
every hope would have fulfilment in being
with him again. It would be like suicide

to take from herself the mental life which
she lived as far as might be by his guidance.
She would thrust away from her all such
unworthy doubts. He had said he would
come back to her some day, when it was
possible, and she would wait for that with
patient confidence, even if all the world
combined to show that in other eyes it was
misplaced.

Perhaps Edith might have a word from
him to say to her in private, and the knowledge
of it had embarrassed her ; if so she
would be in readiness to hear it, but she
would not put herself forward, nor should a
question concerning him pass her lips, however
hard such silence might be to maintain.


But unknown to her, every member of
the family was anxious to hear news
of Geoffrey.

^^ What is this about Mr. Poland?" asked

Janet, as soon as she was alone with
Edith in her room.

'' About Mr. Poland ? What about him ? "
said Edith hesitatingly, busying herself
with the things on her dressing-table.

^^ About Laura, of course. Do you
think he is in earnest, or has father been
unfortunate enough to put a stop toit
all''

^^ Indeed, I do not know, Janet, and I
had better let you know at once that I can
tell you nothing about him. He has
offended me very much, and I dislike
even to think of him. I tried to be
pleasant to him for Laura's sake, and
he chose to misunderstand me. I should
not tell this to any one but you. He maybe
in earnest, and I think from a few
words he said once that he is, but I have
no means of knowing for certain. I have
not spoken to him for a fortnight, and

he left town some days ago. I believe
lie has gone to Spain, as I told Mary ; but
Aunt Sarah knows nearly as little as I do."

^'It is very unfortunate," said Janet,
sighing. '' It would have been such a
good thing for Laura, and she has improved
so much lately. She looks anxious, and
I feel sure that she thinks a good deal
about it. Father has certainly made a
great mistake in forbidding them to write ;
it could not have done any harm."

'' No, but you must not expect me to
wish for him as a brother, for I should
simply detest him," said Edith, vehemently.
'' And now let us leave him alone, and tell
me all about yourselves, Janet."

'not just now, dear. I see Bernard
Offord coming through the park, and
I want to hear about him."

Edith turned round to her with a troubled
and questioning look.

^^You all like him, Janet?"

^^I love him already' answered her
sister, putting her hand on her shoulder.

^^But are you not going a little too fast,
Janet ? I assure you that as far as I know
he has no claims to such affection on your
part."

^•'Perhaps not yet, but I do not at all
mind being beforehand," said Janet,
placidly; ^^ besides that, we are very old
friends, you know. But, Edith, if you are
content with Bernard, there is no doubt
that such a choice would make my father
happy and satisfied."

'^ Yes," said Edith, after a ]Cause, and
with a deep sigh; ^' and after all, Janet, that
should perhaps be enough, if Bernard could
be contented ; but I think both he and I
look for something more."

CHAPTER V.

A COMPACT.

The day after his return, Bernard Offord
strolled over to Blithefield in the afternoon,
hoping to find an opportunity for speaking
to Edith alone.

He found that many things on his estate
required immediate care and attention, but
the amount of money which it would be
worth while to spend on repairs and
improvements would entirely depend upon
whether his future home was to be at
Off or d or Blithefield. There was no doubt
that, considering the size of his estate, he
was a poor man, for it had not come to him
in a direct line, and the late owner had

left every penny it was in his power to

leave to his nearer relations. Therefore,

although Bernard knew that he would be

giving up a good deal in allowing Offord

House to fall into ruins, and in letting the

whole property be known merely as an

extension of Blithefield, he also knew that

Mr. Hilton, if he chose, might find a far

more brilliant match for his heiress. But

there was something so friendly, and

pleasant, and natural in this joining of

interests, that, independently of his love for

Edith, it seemed the best thing that could

befall him.

Of her feelings he felt more than a little

uncertain. He knew that she liked him,

and took pleasure in being with him ; but

she showed it almost too frankly to please

him, and he sometimes felt as if it would

be dishonourable to take advantage of his

position towards her and her father and
VOL. n. F

persuade her into an engagement before
she had learned to know the meaning of
love. Nor did he feel as if he could himself
Tbe contented to settle down into the easy,
monotonous, although interesting life which
would belong to him as Mr. Hilton's son-in-law,
unless his path was gilded by at least
occasional gleams of romance — if not of
passion. His love for Edith was true and
earnest, and if he could feel that it was
returned it would suffice to raise both their
lives above common place ; but this he feared
was not at present the case, and he had been
especially doubtful during the last weeks of
her stay in town. She had welcomed him
as pleasantly, she had agreed to fall in with
his plans for her benefit as readily, as ever ;
but sometimes, while he talked to her, her
attention had wandered, and, with a start
and a blush, she had come back to the
knowledge — which pained her as well as

him — that for the moment she had forgotten
him.

He was quite ready to make allowances
for the novelty and variety of interests in
town, which might well excuse a divided
attention in the case of a mere acquaintance ;
but it was a different thing with her, and
it was a better sort of feeling than this that
he wanted from her.

Prudence suggested that his chances of
winning her would be increased if he waited
to speak until the novelty of her homecoming
had worn off, and she might begin
to feel want of variety of companionship ?
but in this instance he was resolved not to
be prudent. He would prefer to speak to
her while the flavour of the outside world
was still on her lips and she was able to
compare him in remembrance with other
men; and also for his own sake it was
important, for if he could have no horde of

winning her, the life he must lay out for
himself at Offord would be different indeed.

He found nearly the whole family
assembled on the shady lawn, as was their
custom in summer — a cheerful, pleasant
party to behold ! Mr. Hilton, surrounded
by his handsome daughters, Ayitli his grandchildren
playing at his feet ; Captain Bonar
lying on his back on the grass with the
inevitable pipe in his mouth : and Mr Paget,
in a low chair, enjoying everything, and
perhaps the newspaper most of all. Mary
Verney seemed to fit naturally into the
group ; and the only one wanting was
Laura, who preferred the quiet of the shady,
pleasant blue study, and knew that probably
her absence would scarcely be noticed.

'' Offord is a fine fellow!" said Mr. Hilton,
in a low voice to Janet, as Bernard strolled
towards them across the lawn; and she
agreed cordially, looking with admiration

at his tall, strong figure and his handsome
face, improved by the browning of several
Indian summers, and now scarcely fairer
than his curly hair, and the fine beard, of
which, perhaps, he was a little vain.

He was warmly welcomed by them all,
and felt encouraged by the blush which
accompanied Edith's greeting, although in
reality it was chiefly due to a consciousness
that the others were observing her.

^' You find considerable alterations in our
party since you used to come here, Ofibrd,"
said Mr. Hilton, lifting a grandchild to his
knee, and stroking the pretty curly head
which leaned fondly against him.

Yes, indeed," answered Bernard, looking
round, with a pleasant feeling of being
at home in spite of changes.

'you might have said improvements,
father," suggested Janet.

My dear, you could scarcely expect me

to find it an improvement to have my
daughters stolen from me''

^' Not stolen, only borrowed," said Captain
Bonar lazily. '' You see we bring them
back again — with interest. I don't know
what Paget thinks, but I believe these
urchins of ours are more valuable to you
than to their rightful owners, and bring
full forgiveness of what you call
robbery."

'' They are the finest little fellows I ever
saw ! " said Mr. Hilton heartily; ^^but they
make me look an old man, Offord. Now
tell me about your place, and what state you
have found it in."

*' Nearly as bad as it can be, I think.
Everything has been neglected, and for fear
it should tumble do^^m all of a sudden I
want you to bring your whole party over
tomorrow to see it, and give advice. AVill
you come, Edith ? "

*^ Yes, I should like to ; but has it really
gone beyond repair ? "

•" That depends upon how much I am
prepared to spend upon it. which at present
1 cannot decide ; but it is an ugly old place
at the best of times, and there would belittle
to regret in its destruction."

Then, feeling that he did not care to say
much about it in his present state of uncertainty,
he turned the subject, and discussed
the land with Mr. Hilton, contriving to
draw Edith into the conversation, in which
she was capable of offering an opinion and
taking intelligent interest.

But although it was pleasant enough to
spend an hour amongst the family party, it
was not at all what Bernard had come for.
The need for settling what to do with Ins
house was urgent, but it would be only
useless and wearisome to plan and discuss
its renovation if he was never likely to carry

it out ; and on the other hand, if he let
another winter go by while it was in its
present condition it would probably pass
beyond the reach of repair. It was vexatious
that these material considerations should be
in any way mixed up with his thoughts of
Edith ; but it could not be helped, and she,
with her father's practical training, would
be less likely than other girls to find fault
with it.

He could not altogether keep his attention
from wandering while Mrs. Paget
recalled episodes of their old days together,
and he started up with alacrity when Mr.
Hilton said —

"Come and look at the colts, Offord: I
have got a promising lot, I think, in the
paddock behind the stable ; you come too,
Edith, you have not seen them since you
came home."

She went willingly, putting her hand

through his arm, a common action with her,
and many eyes followed them as they
strolled across the lawn.

The colts first, and then the stables were
inspected and discussed, and while Mr.
Hilton stayed behind to speak to a groom,
Bernard seized his opportunity.

'^ Come round by the pine wood with me,
Edith — it is delightful there on a hot day ; "
and not liking to seem shy with him, she
consented ; but try as she would she could
find no words with which to break the silence
which fell upon them, as they wandered
along the dim, quiet path amongst the red
tree-trunks.

'' Let us sit down here," said Bernard, when
they came to a pile of logs, in a little
clearing, where the grass was already
springing up to meet the air and sunshine
which had first visited the ground the autumn
before ; and she had no choice but to agree.

'^ You must try not to be vexed with me,
Edith, for speaking so soon about what is in
my mind," he said, after a few moments,
leaning forward and touching her hand;
^ but it is almost impossible for me to help
it — at any rate, I have made it impossible
now by asking you all to Afford tomorrow.
I don't think I am made for the part of
hypocrite, and I can't gravely discuss with
every one what I ought to do to make the
house habitable when I hope never to live
in it."

'' No," said Edith, without looking up.
'^ You know, if I had said nothing about
tomorrow, it must have happened soon," he
went on, eagerly. ^^ Your father and everybody
else would be sure to come and
ask me what I am going to do, and I
want you to tell me what I am to say to
them."

^^ I do not know, indeed, I do not know

what to say ! " answered Edith, making no
pretence of not understanding him.

^^ But YOU see " he went on, '^ if you

could give me a hope that some day you
will like to marry me, 1 can let Offord
crumble into ruins at its own time ; but if
you think you can never like me, it will all be
different. I am not rich man enough to let
it tumble down, and then rebuild it. You
must not think I am wanting to press you
against your will, Edith ; but we know each
other pretty well now, and T hoped you
would tell me whether I am straining after
a prize which is beyond me."

^^I am afraid you will think that I
am copying every other silly girl in the
world," she answered; ^'but the real truth
is, that I do not want to marry any one at
present. I have got father and everything
I can wish for, and I do not want a husband."

^^ I know," said Bernard, thoughtfully ;

^^ and of course the fact is that you are not
in the least in love with me, and I don't see
what to make out of it all. Do you think if
I went away again for a few months you
would miss me, and learn to like me better ? ''

Edith laughed. ^^ I know I should miss
you," she answered, looking at him with eyes
full of pleasant affection, 'sand I scarcely
think I could like you better ; but that is not
good enough for you, Bernard."

'' I don't think it is. I want you to love
me really, so that you would miss me, and
think of me every hour that I was away ;
and I am afraid you are far enough from
that, Edith. The whole thing is hard upon
both of us, and I don't see my way out of
it at all."

Edith was silent, and he sat staring
amongst the tree-trunks with unseeing eyes,
his hands clasped round his knees.

'^ 1 want to tell you just what is in my

mind," she said presently. ^^ I do not
want to marry you or any one now ; but
when I do — and I suppose like most people
I shall wish it some day — it will seem
to me a necessity that my husband shall
widen my world, and make me understand
better what makes up other people's lives
and fills their minds. I don't want
Blithefield to be all the world to me,
and I think it was before I went to
London ; and then I felt that it was just
nothing except to those who live here,
and that not a person I saw would be
any the worse if the earth opened and
swallowed it up. Father has lived here
so long and so quietly that it is everything
to him, and I am afraid it and
Offord would be to you, Bernard ; and
I should quarrel with you for it."

^* I see quite well what you mean," he
answered. ^^ I know that ease and

prosperity does deaden a man's mind if
he gives way to it and lets it absorb him ;
but, Edith, what is in your thoughts about
a better sort of life ? What would you
have one do?"

^^Ah! that is just it!" said Edith,
with a heavy sigh; ^'that is just what
I want some one to show me. I can
only vaguely dream of teaching the world
round me to care less for food, and
clothing, and money, and ease, but I
don't see much further."

'^ And you don't think I could help
you?"

'' Bernard, I don't think you would
care to try ; and I am afraid — oh, I fear
very much — that after a while I shall not
care either. I shall be so happy with
father, and so contented with Blithefield
as it is, that I shall let all the world go
by as it likes."

Bernard got up and strolled away
amongst the trees without answering,
and she feared she had hurt and offended
him ; but after a few minutes he came
back again.

^^ Edith, do you want me to understand
that it is impossible that I can ever be
more to you than I am now ? " he said,
standing before her and looking down at
lier with a wistful look in his eyes which
deeply touched her.

'^I don't know; indeed, I don't know.
I care for you a hundred times more than
for any one but father, but "

^^You don't want to marry me?"

^* No, but yet — you know, Bernard, I
don't want you to marry any one else"'

He sat down beside her again an I took
her hand.

'• This is what it comes to, it seems tome,
you do not love me because I have

never done anything to show myself
worthy of love. I have worked in India
just as much as I have been obliged,
and no more ; and now I am simply an
idler, and you despise me for it, and I
am almost glad you do, for it will stir
me up to be something better. I will try
to make myself of more account than
an idle landlord, caring only that the
estate may thrive to put money in my
pocket ; and then next summer I shall
ask you again, when you have had time
to see whether I am in earnest. Will
you consent to this, Edith?"

^^ Yes, with all my heart," she answered,
putting her other hand in his, and tears
came into her eyes as he raised them
both to his lips.

'' And you will be pleasant and friendly
with me, and let me come and go as I
will, and take my chance ? I promise

you that I will not be a trouble to
you."

^^ 0, Bernard you are so good to me !
You will be welcome always. Do you
forgive me for all I have said to-day ? "

'^ I think, dearest, you have granted
me almost more than I could expect,"
he said. '^ My happiness seems far off,
but I do not despair of winning it. I
shall be with you constantly in perfect
agreement, and with good hope. I have
not much to complain of, have I ? "

'^ And will you let Offord House tumble
to the ground ? "

^^I do not know, I leave the thought of
that until tomorrow."

And then they wandered slowly homewards,
and found that time had flown,
and that the others had gone in to dress
for dinner.

VOL. n. G

CHAPTER VI.

NEW ALLIES.

The next morning, when Mr. Hilton and
Edith were taking a sort of general stroll
round, as was their custom after breakfast,
he said, somewhat abruptly, after a silence —

^^I had a talk with Offord last night,
darling, and he told me what he had been
saying to you. I want you to understand
that, whatever way you decide, I shall be
satisfied, and that I am in no hurry to share
my daughter's love with any man."

^^ And you are sm-e that you will not be
anxious or uneasy, father, if we take our
own time'' she asked, slipping her hand
into his arm.

^^Not in the least."

'' But do you think it is fair to Bernard
that I should keep him in uncertainty,
father?"

'' It seems to me that it is his own choice.
He tells me that he would rather wait for a
chance of you than have anything else the
world can give him. That being so, we had
better let him take his chance."

^^ You really like him, father ? "

''I shall rejoice if the day ever comes
when I have to welcome him as a son ; but,
all the same, darling, I don't suppose that he
is the only man in the world worthy of my
daughter ; and I wish her to make her choice
with perfect freedom."

^' I wish, father, you had given Laura the
same freedom you have given me," said
Edith, after a pause. She felt that there
was little in her own life that she cared to
talk about just then.

Her father's face clouded.

^' That has been a foolish business all
through," he said, '^ and perhaps I have not
managed it quite wisely; but what could
one do with a girl who is persistently perverse,
and a man who has not the honesty
to give one even a hint of his intentions ? "

^' Of course, I know it was very difficult ;
but I wish you had let them manage their
own way."

^^ I wish I had ; but it is too late now.
You ought to know something of the fellow,
Edith. In what light did he strike
you?"

^' I think his manner unpleasant," answered
Edith, with heightened columbus
wishing to speak moderately ; ^^ though that is
no reason why he should not suit Laura, for
she and I have scarcely an idea in common,
and would be sm^e not to think the same of
any one."

"But you don't know anything against
him?"

Oh, dear, no, father. I have no doubt
he deserves every word of praise Aunt Sarah
bestows upon him; only when she expects
me to call him agreeable, I am obliged to
demur."

"And he has never mentioned Laura to
you?"

"I cannot say that; he did speak a few
words to me about her one day, but I scarcely
understood him, and even on thinking over
it, I am not quite sure what he meant. I
believe he thinks of her a great deal, but
that he has more than one difficulty incoming
forward. I hope — oh, I do hope,
father — that it will come right in time ; but
we must leave it all alone for the present, I
think."

Mr. Hilton sighed.

'sand what is your opinion of her?" he

asked. '^ Do you not find her more amiable
than she was a few months ago ? "

'' I scarcely know, father ; I have not yet
spoken many words to her. There are so
many to talk to while Adelaide and Janet
are here, and she does not seem to care to
talk to me."

In this idea Edith was quite right, for,
after the first evening, Laura avoided rather
than sought occasion for speaking to her.
She had imagined beforehand that her
sister might have been the bearer of a few
words from Geoffrey, but if so she would
of course have given them on the first
opportunity ; and now it was evident that
there was nothing of the kind, and she
must look for some other explanation of
her embarrassment when his name was
mentioned. It might be that he had made
Edith understand that, in consequence of
her father's disapproval, all intercourse

between himself and Blithefield was at an
end, and if so, Laura felt that it was
mistaken consideration to keep her in
ignorance of it ; but even to save herself
from tormenting anxiety she could not
make up her mind to be the first to
mention him, and she felt some bitterness
towards Edith — who was quite sure to have
heard from her father of all that had
passed — for having said not a word to set
her mind at ease, or even to give her the
most ordinary information. But all the
while Edith was almost equally disturbed,
and could not feel herself to be entirely
free from blame.

To say the least, it had been a thoughtless
vanity which had led her to attempt
to break through Geoffrey's reserve; and
although, when she had confessed the
whole matter to Janet, she said nothing
more severe than that it was "unfortunate,"

and Mary, who had guessed beforehand that
something of the kind would happen, had
called Geoffrey '' a bear," her conscience
was still too uneasy to allow her to mention
his name with indifference, and her wounded
pride was still too sensitive to let her think
over the matter with calmness.

'^My dear, I do not know what you will
think, and you ought to know better than
I can ; but I should consider it wise to make
an effort to get Laura out more, and let
her see as much as possible of other
people, to take off her mind from this
unfortunate subject'' said Mr. Hilton, after
a long pause. ^' As it is, she is perpetually
poring over books, which I suppose that
fellow put into her head, and she looks ill
and sad, and will mope herself to death,
and slip through our fingers some day
before we know where we are."

'' Oh, no, father; it is not so bad as that,"

answered Edith reassuringly. ^^ I do not
think her looking ill ; she has always been
pale and thin, and she certainly looks
anxious; but I do not think you have the
least cause to be alarmed about her ; and as
to dragging her out, if she does not wish
it I must believe that would be a
mistake."

swell, my dear, I know it would be a
thankless task ; but I should like her to
see that there are people better worth
thinking of than Poland in the world — not
that I ever wish to say a word against
him, remembering what I owe to him,
darling ; but I never could and never
shall think him anything but obstinately
unpleasant. But there is not much profit
in talking of him ; if he ever comes again
I will be civil to him for Laura's sake.
By the bye, is she coming to Offord with us
to-day?"

I do not know, father. I have not said
anything to her about it."

^^ There it is, Edith!" said her father,
with some impatience. '' You leave her to
her own ways too much. I think you
should make a point of her going with us."

^< Very well, father. I will speak to her
about it as soon as we go in ; but I confess
the blue study is rather awful to me, and it
requires some courage to venture m where
one is sure one is not wanted."

'•' I have had my disagreeable moments
there, I confess," answered her father; '' but
after all, the poor child is not half so
disagreeable as we make her out to be."

Turning back they were joined on the
way by Bernard ; and on reaching the house
they found the rest of the party ready for
their stroll through the woods to Afford.

^^ But where is Laura?" asked Bernard,
looking round.

'^I suppose she is not coming," answered,
Janet. ^' We always leave her to do as she
likes."

'' Oh, but she must come; I cannot possibly
let her off ! "

'^ Very well, you must go and tell her so
yourself," said Edith, smiling.

^^ Where shall I find her?"

*sin the blue study, I suppose; she is
nearly always there."

Bernard ran hastily upstairs and knocked
at the door, and, being told to enter, found
Laura sitting by the window with a book in
her lap.

'^ We are just starting, Laura, and are
only waiting for you," he said, lightly.

Oh, please, do not wait ; I am not going,
of course."

'^ Very well, then, I am not going either."

Laura looked at him with a smile.
"What do you mean, Bernard?"

^^I mean that I expect you to come withall
the rest of the family to give your
opinion concerning my venerable abode,
and to partake of the unpretentious banquet
I have provided."

'' I shall like to come very much."
^^ Then make haste and get your hat;
it ought to have been on your head ten
minutes ago."

^' 1 did not know you would expect me."
'laura, my dear — I may say that, for I
have known you from a baby — you maybe
quite sure that I shall always expect you
when the others honour me with a visit.
Now I am going to look round your den
while you are getting ready ; I see traces
of an alien hand here since I left ; but I
hear the room was given up to Poland
when he was ill, and he is a man sure to
leave a mark for people who understand
him."

Bernard spoke from a sudden inspiration,
and the new light on Laura's face showed
that he had done well.

'^ You know him ? " she asked.

*eyes, T have met him often at Mrs.
Mathewson's lately ; but I suppose I ought
scarcely to say that I know him — he is nota
man who shows himself to everybody."

^' But you saw him with Edith, and she
knows him ? " said Laura, with some eagerness.


^^ I don't imagine that she knows a great
deal of him ; they would not have much
sympathy with each other — do you think ? "
he answered, anxious to reassure both himself
and her.

Not much I should think," said Laura,
seeing that the question was not interesting
to her alone. '^ Mr. Poland is rather
inclined to think that there might be
interests beyond the limits of Blithefield."

Yes, and so may we all ; but that need
not make us less sympathetic," said Bernard,
with a little irritation.

^^ No," replied Laura, after a pause, speaking
as easily as she could; ^'and I do not
suppose we shall see enough of Mr. Poland
to disagree with him seriously. He has got
his own work to do in the world, and
well-to-do people will not come much in his
way."

Then she went to put on her hat, and in
a- few minutes they joined the rest of the
party.

'' Take care, Edith," whispered Erica.
'^ I am disposed to think that Laura is
throwing a spell over Bernard next."

But Edith only smiled. It was almost a
pity that she was too sure of Bernard to
feel an invigorating jealousy, and had not
quite got over the notion that kindness to
Laura could only spring from compassion.

In spite of its ugliness the apparent
solidity of Offord House made it imposing
in the brilliant sunlight, if only from the
breadth of shadows it cast on the mossy
lawn which came up to its feet ; and it was
not Bernard only who thought, with regret,
that its appearance was deceptive, and that
it was in reality tumbling into ruins. But
here and there a leaning chimney,
crooked window-frame, and even now and
then an ominous crack in the masonry,
revealed the fact that its outside show was
to be distrusted ; and Mr. Hilton's practical
eyes decided, after examination, that the
whole building was 'rotten to the
foundations ; " and the visitors were unanimous
in their advice that the greater part
of it should be left to decay at its pleasure,
and that the east wing, which was much
sheltered from wind and rain by a wooded
hill, should be divided from the main part

of the house, and carefully repaired, and
made a storehouse for the valuable old furniture,
with some half dozen rooms beautified
and made comfortable for the master's use.

It was a painful day for Edith, and
Bernard saw it, and regretted that he had
not thought of it before giving the invitation
; and managing to draw her away from
the others, he endeavoured to chase away
her discomfort.

'^ You are sorry to see the old place
tumbling down, Edith; but I don't myself
see that it much matters. It would always
have been too big for me, and I could not
well have demolished it ; but it is welcome to
crumble to pieces as it likes, for I have a
hope before me that I shall never need it."

'^ But if that hope fails, Bernard ? " asked
Edith, with deep anxiety.

Then, dear, the few rooms I mean to
save from the general ruin will be amply

sufficient for the needs of a determined
bachelor ; and who knows but that the next
heir will be a man of means, who will build
a house after his own fancy ? "

Edith felt she could say no more, and
turned away with a sigh to j join the others ;
but she knew that to allow herself to be led
by a sentimental regret into giving an
assurance which her heart distrusted, would
be equally wrong to herself and to Bernard.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER VJI.

FROM Geoffrey's hand.

Mr. Hilton was never so liapj^y as when
he could make the excuse of doing honour
to some one a plea for asking his friends
to dinner, and on this occasion there were
many good reasons for hospitality. It was
not often that he had all his family gathered
round him, and the Pagets and Bonars were
leaving the next day ; besides which it was
only natural to suppose that every one
would wish to see Edith after her return.

So the dinner-party that evening had
swelled to a formidable size; and Laura
wished with all her heart that she might
have been excused from appearing, in spite

of a charming new dress which Edith, hy
her father's desire, had brought her from
London. But her sister could not hear of
it; and after stating her wishes, and finding
them opposed, she said no more, a
change from her former habits which they
noticed with pleasure and surprise.

It happened that she was particularly ill-placed
at the dinner-table, between a deaf
and dinner-loving squire and an empty-headed
young officer, who resented being
churned over to the ugly daughter," as he
expressed it to himself, and made little
attempt at talking to her, straining all his
attention to listen to Edith, who possessed
that crowning point to her many charms of
having just returned from town.

But the rest of the party were lively and
amusing, and Laura's silence was too usual
to be noticed, excepting by Edith, whose
conscience was sensitive concerning" hers

but with the unfortunate effect of making
her feel an unreasonable irritation. No one
could say that Laura made a parade of being
dull and silent, or put forward the slightest
claim to sympathy ; her manner was the
same as it had always been in society, but
to Edith it appeared now like a protest
against every one, and perhaps herself in
particular, and even in the midst of the
cheerful party round her she could not
altogether rid herself of the uncomfortable
impression.

Leaving the dinner-table dull, tired, and
dispirited, feeling herself at an immeasurable
distance from all with whom she had been
spending the last two hours, Laura went
slowly upstairs to the blue study, knowing
that probably she would scarcely be missed.
She would go and sit by the open window,
looking out into the cool, grey night, so
welcome after a scorching day, and lose

herself in thinking over the happy days
which had once been realities.

Languidly she opened the door, and then
stood still in surprise. The room she had
expected to find dark and cheerless was
lighted by her own reading-lamp standing
on the writing-table, close to which was
placed her favourite chair, pushed a little
aside as if it had but just that moment been
occupied. On the table lay a j^ile of books
in unfamiliar bindings, one ostentatiously
lying open on her blotting-book, which
seemed as if it had been lately used, and on
which lay an addressed letter.

'' Geoffrey ! " was her first thought; everything
in the room seemed to suo^orest his
presence, from the bunch of flowers thrown
a little aside, to the disarrangement of the
table, which he had never been known to
put or leave in order.

'' Geoffrey ! " she cried aloud, shutting

the door behind her and hurrying forward ;
but there was no answer to her call, and
looking searchingly round she saw that the
room was empty. The disappointment,
although the hope had been momentary,
was bitter, and her eyes filled with blinding
tears, but quickly recovering herself, she
turned eagerly to the letter lying before her.
^^ Laura, my greatest, my dearest friend,"
it began, ''I am sitting at your own table
to write to you and try to tell you what
is in my mind. I have stolen up here
through the garden door while you are
all at dinner and I knows that 1 must
not wait to see you ; but you will forgive
this, which is my only means of letting
you know anything about me, since your
father has forbidden my writing. I do not
attempt to defend my disobedience to his
orders, I simply say the need is urgent.
Laura, I am writing to tell you that I

am going away, out of England, for a
long while perhaps, away from you
because I have been weak — I might almost
say — dishonest, in taking from you a
portion of the love I had given you,
although I have never asked you to
accept it. I have only one thing to
say in justification, I did keep back the
words which you must have almost seen
upon my lips. Until I had proved myself
in absence, I would not ask you to share
a life which must for awhile be one
of struggle, although I believe you would
not shrink from it if you could put a
firm trust in me. Of that trust I am
not worthy, but, Laura, I believe I shall
be. I will say little of my failure;
sitting here, where everything speaks of
you, it seems as nothing, as if no thought
of mine had strayed from you, my first
love and my last ; for when this infatuation

has passed, as pass it will, I shall come
to you and you will forgive me. Forgive
me in your own heart now dear, and trust
me. I have wandered in fancy, and what
for the moment so alluring ? but with all
the truth of my soul I say, it is you that
I want for my life's companion ! Still I
have yet to earn my right to tell you
face to face that I am yours for life.

'^ Geoffrey Poland."

The letter dropped on her lap, and
she sat for a long time without moving.
She scarcely knew what was in her mind,
and whether he had given her pain or
pleasure. He told lier that this thoughts
had strayed from her, but she had
scarcely allowed herself to think that they
belonged to her alone ; he confessed
himself unworthy, but she put no such
high value upon herself as would exact

perfection from him , and then, oh springs
of hope in a desolate life ! He said that
he would surely come back to her.
Come back to her ! What could such
words mean but that one day life was to
hold for her all that she prized ? Geoffrey's
love, Geoffrey's companionship ! care after
indifference, plenty after famine! What
if he had stepped aside for a moment?
his straight path was to her, and she
might well wait patiently for his return.
Love was too rare and precious a possession
for her to throw it away for the sake of
a foolish pride. He was in no way
deceiving her, or making her of little
account. He would not come back until
he felt himself worthy of her, and when he
did come she would give him the welcome
on which he reckoned. Presently the
book lying open on the table caught her
attention, and, taking it up, she found a

page specially marked, which almost
seemed like a continuation of his letter, —

Some future day when what is now is not,
When all old faults and soles are forgot,
And thoughts of difference passed like dreams away,
We'll meet again upon some future day."

When all that hindered, all that vexed our love.
As tall rank weeds will climb the blade above.
When all but it has yielded to decay,
We' 11 meet again upon some future day."

^^ Some future day ! " she thought. ^^ Yes,
but it may be a long way off, and it will
need patience and courage to wait for it."

He had given her no idea of where he was
going, or what his work was to be during his
absence, and she wondered whether Edith,
or any one else, would think of telling her
anything that they might know. She would
not ask them, no — she could never do that,
nor would she let them guess that she had
heard of him. It was a deception that
could hurt no one, and she owed it to

him that she should be silent. She scarcely
wished that he had given her an opportunity
of writing to him, it would have been almost
too difficult, and she felt no doubt that he
had judged rightly in leaving things as they
were. He trusted her, that was certain and
evident, and he would not bind her by any
promises, knowing that they were unnecessary.
He raised her in her own eyes
by his confidence, and gave her strength to
bear the uncertainty of what might perhaps
be a long separation.

What was the cause of his going, and of
his thoughts having strayed from her, she
was determined that, if possible, she would
not think, and yet in her own mind there
was a distinct consciousness that she did
know the cause, and that if she allowed
herself to dwell upon it it would make her
life one of daily and bitter resentment.

Presently she was roused by a quiet knock

at the door, almost immediately followed by
the entrance of Ellis, the maid, who was
supposed to belong equally to the three girls,
but whose services Laura rarely accepted.

^' What do you want Ellis ? '^ she asked,
somewhat impatiently, as the girl stood
hesitatingly inside the half-closed door.

'^ I only came to see that you had got the
letter all right. Miss Laura," she answered,
quietly.

'' The letter ? " said Laura, jealously ; she
had hoped that no one else had been aware
of its existence.

^^YeS; miss, I saw Mr. Poland come up
through the garden door, and go down again
after a bit, and I met him, and he says — ' I
am doing nothing wrong Ellis, only leaving
some books and a letter for Miss Laura
before I go abroad, and I would rather do it
quietly than send a parcel by the train,'
and Miss Laura, I always knew he was a

gentleman, and he never said a word about
me holding my tongue, nor offered me
money, as many would, and I wouldn't tell
of him — not for anything, only I couldn't
be easy till I told you I'd seen him."

'^ Thank you, Ellis," saidLaura^ looking at
her with a gratitude which touched her.

'' And Miss Laura — he just said a word or
two more — he said, ^ Is she any the worse for
her accident ? You know she took care of
me when I was hurt,' and I said — ^ No, sir,
she's none the worse for it,' and then he
shook hands with me, and I knew that
meant — ' Take care of her, Ellis,' and I
would — oh, so gladly. Miss Laura, if you'd
let me!"

Laura looked at her with a brighter
smile than there had been on her face for
many a day.

^^ Thank you, Ellis," she said, ^^f ever
I want care or help I will come to you

before any one, and I am glad you know
that Mr. Poland only came to-day because
he is going away for a long while, and
wanted me to know it. He would not doit
again, for it would be wrong for him to
come without my father's knowledge, but
he did not think — nor do I — that it was
very wrong just this once''

^^No, miss, I'm sure it wasn't, and I'm
so glad he didn't ask me to hold my tongue,
he seemed to know I shouldn't say a word,
and I won't even to you miss after to-day,
unless you want me."

^' Thank you Ellis, I think I should
like to shake hands too before you go,"
answered Laura, feeling an indescribable
sort of comfort in her sympathy ; and then
as soon as lie was alone again she put
by her precious books, and went down to
the drawing-room, feeling an excitement
which made it impossible for her to sit in

the blue study alone, and a sort of pride
in herself, which made her almost eager
to come out of her usual reserve, and take
her part in the little world around her.

^' The child has improved, there is no
doubt about it ! " said Mr. Hilton, making
an opportunity for speaking to Edith, and
looking at Laura with surprise and interest,
as with flushed cheeks and bright eyes
she took her part in a lively conversation
going on round Janet.

"Yes, indeed father! I never saw her
so animated. She was dull enough at
dinner time, and I felt as hopeless about
her as ever, but something has pleased
and roused her now." And curious to hear
a little of what she supposed had produced
this effect, she joined the group, but
was grieved and surprised to see that as
soon as Laura was conscious of her being
near her, her whole manner changed, and

she shrank into silence. She would not
consciously cherish bitter thoughts, which,
if indulged, would poison the whole of
her life at home, but it was beyond her
power to control an instinctive shrinking
from the sister, who she believed had fora
time, it might possibly be unconsciously,
stolen from her Geoffrey's love.

CHAPTER VIII.

Self-distrust.

Leaving the blue study, after writing his
letter to Laura, Geoffrey took the path
towards the Look-out. He wished to avoid
observation, but if any one did see and speak
to him he did not feel that it would be
of much importance. He was rather glad
that he had seen Ellis, for he was not
ashamed of his visit; he had not been
detected in a crime ; and it was pleasant to
feel that Laura had some one near her
who was interested and sympathetic, and
now that he knew she would receive his
letter he cared little for consequences to
himself. A disagreeable scene and explana-

VOL. II. I

tion with Mr. Hilton would be the worst
that could happen, and, lying on his back
amongst the heather, with a pipe in his
mouth, under the soft sky of the summer
night, not many yards from where he knew
that Laura had kept her involuntary vigil
two months before, he fell into a philosophic
mood in which no worry was worth more
than the thought of the passing moment.

But after a while he forced upon himself
the consideration of his exact position.
Up to a certain point his mind was clear
the first woman who had interested him
sufficiently to make him msh for her daily
society was Laura, but in spite of this
recognition of her influence he knew that
there were many moods of his nature in
which she had no place. Whether these
were of value — and he might cherish them
while excluding her for the time — or whether
her presence would banish them into merited

oblivion, he was not able to decide, but it
seemed clear that he had no right to see
her again until he had decided, as far as lay
in his power, what part they should play
in each other's lives.

But for Laura and the sort of craving
he felt for her plainly showed, although
unspoken sympathy, the work he had before
him, with its change of scene, would have
been fascinating. An old Spanish gentleman,
living near Toledo, had in his possession
certain documents in the English language,
which were said to have been picked up on
the battle-field of Talavera, and sold by one
of Wellington's soldiers for a much needed
dinner. These papers, which had been
lying by unheeded for many years, were
supposed by their present owner to be of
inestimable value to the English nation, as
clearing up one or two doubtful points in
the history of the Peninsular War, but a»

he was himself unable to read more thana
word or two here and there of English,
and the few chosen friends who had been
allowed a sight of the treasure were almost
equally ignorant, it remained for some
trusted Englishman who was able to lay-aside
prejudice — in case of there being
anything compromising to the glory of his
country — to bring these precious records
within the reach of a nation which ought to
Regard them as a sort of revelation from
another world, and pay for them accordingly.


Geoffrey, to whom the work had been
recommended, had no particular faith in
either the worth or authenticity of the
documents, they might be interesting, but
could scarcely be valuable ; but the opportunity
was not one to be neglected. He
had a considerable knowledge of Spanish,
picked up first from certain playmates in

his childhood, to whom it had been their
native tongue, and afterwards from careful
study on his own part of a language so
rich in interest. It was of extreme importance
to himself just then that he should
get away from his usual surroundings and
test the strength of his own sentiments
(he would call them by no stronger name
until they had been proved), and he could
at least save the owner of these supposed
valuable papers from falling a prey to some
money-seeker who would undertake their
translation and publication merely for his
own interest.

He felt that in any case he must have left
England for a while. It seemed to him
that it was only by a change of every
surrounding that he could come to a true
knowledge of himself. In town everything
spoke to him of Edith, whom he strove
to forget ; in the country, every sight and

sound reminded him of Laura, whom it was
this best happiness to remember; but he
was bound to think for her as well as of
her, and it was plain that he must not see
her again with a divided mind. A new
country, new faces, new interests, would
drive away remembrance of all that was
not really part of his life, but affected his
imagination only, while the truer and
deeper sentiments of affection would remain.
There was one point at least on which
he could have no doubt, he — who had as
yet made so little of his own life — had no
right to take into his charge the sole
guidance of a mind in a great measure
dependent on his own ; his purposes must
grow clearer before he could venture to
judge for another to what ends life should
be shaped, but he had no hesitation in telling
Laura of his hope and belief that the time
would come when they should be always

together. He was not in any way interfering

with possible advantages, for he knew that

to no one but himself would she show her

mind, and that probably no one would care

to take the trouble of discovering it. He

had rescued her from the growing misery

of a purposeless existence and the deadening

influence of a disbelief in her own capacities;

she knew now — for he had taught her — that

she could make something of herself. Her

'^ human spirit " could no longer say —

We know not — what avails to know ?
"We know not — wherefore need we know ? "

Her knowledge might never reach far,
but it would grow, grow through all her
life he believed, even if it came to pass
that he and she should never meet again.
But of this he had little thought or fear.
He had pledged himself in that letter to
go back to her, and he was glad that he had
done it. It made a point to be aimed at

for the sake of some one besides himself,
and while brightening her Hfe would
strengthen his purpose of doing something
better than idly waiting for an opportunity
which might never come.

His thoughts turned but little towards
Edith. He had seen her from a distance
that evening, as they all strolled about the
garden for a few minutes before the guests
arrived, and he had been glad to find that
he turned from her to look for Laura. It
was true that his eyes soon went back to
her again, especially when she was joined
by Bernard Offord, but who could help
looking ^T.th pleasure at the sweet, fair face
and graceful figure which not her father
only thought the loveliest in the world ?

But the mistress of Blithefield, surrounded
by friends, and apparently without a wish
ungratified or a thought beyond the present
moment, was not the Edith who had

fascinated him for a time. Tt had been
when he had seen her a little wearied
with London gaieties, a little dissatisfied
for want of something — perhaps she herself
scarcely knew what — that he had felt a
dangerous inclination to try his power of
awakening a new sort of soul in her, and
supplying an almost unconscious need. He
had thrust the temptation away from him,
rudely perhaps, but that was as well both
for her and for him ; he could have no more
than a passing influence over her mind,
and might even be doing her an injury by
suggesting thoughts which she would be
compelled to stifle in the life which was
obviously a necessity for her. That these
thoughts were there already, that she
dreaded the narrowing effect of unbroken
prosperity and ease he did not guess, nor if
he had done so would he have acted differently.
Probably before he saw her again

she would have married the lover of her own
and her father s choice, and the duties of
Blithetield and Offord combined would give
her little time to bestow on the humble
suitor of her uncongenial sister, which would
most likely be the only capacity in which
he would again cross her path.

He had had an idea that it would be
pleasant to spend the few hours of the
summer niu'ht Ivinfr amongst the heather
at the Look-out, but the first few drops of
a thunder shower made him change his
mind, and decide that common sense, on
which he prided himself, suggested that as
it seemed he must get wet it would be better
for it to be on his way to some place where
he could find shelter, and perhaps a humble
change of clothing. He knew that there
was a small inn on the road to the station,
which he could reach in about a quarter of
an hour by striking across the park, and

setting out at a good pace he had gone
about half the distance when, at a sharp
turning, he came face to face with some one
coming from the house. It was too dark
to see each other's faces, but the man's
suspicious question, " Alio might you be at
this time o' night ? '' made Geoffrey answer
immediately —

^^ I am not poaching, my friend," and the
man's exclamation — "' ^^"hy, it's Mr. Poland!"
caused him uncomfortable surprise.

He much disliked the idea of his visit
being made a subject of talk amongst the
servants, and although he believed he could
trust Ellis, he could scarcely expect this
man to hold his tongue.

^'It's rather dark to be telling a man his
name," he said. '' I am sure I can't tell
whether I have ever seen you before."

'' But then you see, sii^, I knew you was
about to-night."

'* How did you know ? "

^* Well, sir, I'm what you may call keeping'
company with Ellis, Miss Laura's maid, and
I was hanging' about like to get a word with
her, and I see you come out, and I spoke to
Ellis and she said 'twas all right."

'^ I see. I think you are Morris, the man
who drove me to the station?"

'eyes, sir; that day you waved your hat
and Miss Laura happened of her accident."

Yes," said Geoffrey shortly, feeling
much annoyed at this second involuntary
confidence which was forced upon him.
'' And now I will say good-night to you,
and push on to some shelter,"

'' Good-night, sir, and you needn't be
frightened that Ellis and me won't hold our
tongues ; she mostly tells me things, but
she's close as wax, she won't tell no one,
not likely ! "

'' Thank you," said Geoffrey ; '' I shall be

glad not to have a talk made about it. I
came to have a look round before I go
abroad''

^^Just so, sir," answered Morris; and
Geoffrey felt a horrible certainty that he
winked, although it was too dark to see it ;
and with another hasty goodnight he
hurried away, in a savage temper, and
calling himself a fool for not having managed
better, and determining that rather than run
the risk of any further encounters he would
walk on to Mornington, a distance of seme
six or seven miles, and take the earliest
train to town from there.

There was something not altogether
disagreeable to him in his present mood
in facing the heavy storm apparently close
at hand. The stifling bar of a village inn
would be unendurable, and inquisitive
questioning more than his temper could
bear, and as strangers were probably rare

in those parts he would no doubt come in
for a full share of curiosity; so it suited
him better to fight against the wind and
rain, which burst upon him before the
first mile of his journey was over, than to
smoke his pipe in the midst of a wondering
and curious company, or to shut himself
up, and let his mind dwell upon the petty
annoyances the evening had brought him.

Chapter IX.

UNMANAGEABLE.

Mr. Hilton, who, like Edith, was troubled
by an uneasy conscience concerning Laura,
hearing that the Bonars were going with
their children to the seaside for a few
weeks, rode over to Daisy Lodge, to ask
if they would have any objection to taking
Laura with them, if she could be persuaded
to go.

Janet hesitated a little at first, it seemed
like spoiling their holiday to have this
*^ difficult" sister with them, but after all
might not the whole of her life be called
holiday ? with just enough of household cares
to keep her from being idle and dull ; and

with a husband who was devoted to her
and suited her exactly, and the most
beautiful children in the world, she would
indeed be selfish if she refused to take a
little bit of the family burden upon her own
shoulders.

^' I shall not object if Walter says nothing
against it," she said. " I do not suppose
that either of us could say that it would
add to our pleasure, but I shall not mind
that if it is really good for her."

'' I am sure it will be, and, my dear
Janet, the most barefaced bribery and
corruption is admissible between father
and daughter, and if you think that a
cheque for a hundred pounds would be in
any way useful towards your expenses,
I happen to have such a thing in my
pocket."

Janet laughed. '^ Really, father, you
spoil us all! Such gifts are godsend to

a struggling family ; ' but I will not look
at your cheque until I know that my part
of the bargain will be carried out."

'every well, my dear, you may make
your mind easy that you will not suffer
much any way ; but here comes Bonar,
and while I go and have another look at
the boys, you might find out his opinion
on the subject."

Janet found no difficulty with her
husband, he was interested in Laura, and
most willing to consent, especially as it
had been dawning upon him of late, that
such a life as his, without a trouble, and
almost without a worry, was a thing to
make a man reflect upon what the future
might have in store, and feel a little
ashamed to look in the face of those whose
lives were full of care or bare of happiness.

So Mr. Hilton rode home with a pleasant
sense that he was doing good to every one,

VOL. II. K

and, when lie reached the house, hurried
upstairs to the blue study, to give Laura
her sister's invitation.

He found her sitting at the window,
beside a table covered with books, but he
was at first too anxious to hear what she
would say to notice anything but the changes
in her face, as she argued the question
with herself.

'^ Thank you, father; I shall like to go,"
she said quietly, after a minute or two,
and he scarcely knew himself how much
he was relieved at her consenting, or how
plainly he showed it.

Well, my dear, I am glad you will
go ! The change will do you a world of
good, and you have not been away for a
long time, but I see you have plenty to
occupy you here," he said, by way of
being pleasant, and glancing at the books
on the table. '^ If you have been indulging

yourself in buying these, your pocket-money
must be running short, and must
need a little replenishing."

*' Oh, no, father'' exclaimed Laura, with
crimson cheeks, ^' I want no money — I did
not buy them."

^^ Borrowed them, then? I am glad you
have done that, Laura; people like to do
you a kindness if they can."

'^ I have neither bought them nor borrowed
them, father. Geoffrey Poland gave them
to me," said Laura resolutely, but her face
grew pale.

'^ Gave them to you before he left ? You
should scarcely have accepted such a valuable
present, my dear," said her father, with a
little uneasy suspicion that there was more
than he knew, and indeed the present was
a costly one, for the dozen or so of
volumes of poetry, essays, and a novel or
two, were the best that money could buy.

^^ He did not give them to nie when he
was here, and if I shed I have had no
chance of refusing them," answered Laura,
despising any useless or unnecessary deception.


^' He has sent them to you, then ? "

'^ He brought them himself and left them
for me. I did not see him."

^^ Laura!" said her father sternly, ^^ you
must explain this to me. I have forbidden
you to have any communication with
Mr. Poland until he chooses to come
forward like an honourable man. I have
done what I thought best for you, and you
are bound to respect my wishes. This man
has no business to come about here in secret,
and bring you presents, and I must take
measures to stop it."

'^ You need not do that, father, for I
believe that by this time he has left
England."

^^ Now, Laura, you must give me an
explanation of the whole business. I desire
you to tell me what understanding there
is between you."

Laura stood before him, pale and determined.
It was simply impossible that she
could betray Geoffrey's confidence, or repeat
what he had written ; it would have seemed
to her as great a sacrilege as saying one's
private prayers aloud in the market-place ;
she could but take her stand on a stubborn
refusal to speak.

'' I can tell you no more than this, father
that Mr. Poland was leaving England,
and brought me these books, and wrote
me a letter. He did not tell me where
he was going, or what work he has before
him, and I can tell you no more."

'eyes, you can I" exclaimed her father,
with uncontrollable irritation, losing his
temper, as usual, when he most wished to

keep it. ^^You can show me that letter,
and I command you to do so."

Laura involuntarily raised her hand to
her breast, where the letter had found safe
hiding, and there was an unconscious smile
on her face as she answered —

^^No, father, I cannot show it to you,
there are some things one cannot do. Oh, I
wish you would trust me a little as you trust
Edith ! I tell you that it will all be well."

Mr. Hilton walked about the room for
many minutes before he answered.

^^ Laura, this is the third time you have
set up your judgment against mine in this
matter, and you must clearly understand
that it will be the last. You must give
me your promise that you will have no
further communication with Mr. Poland
without my knowledge or else I must
send you away from here — out of his
reach."

*^No, father, I cannot, and never will
give you that promise, it would be better
for you to send me out of your house at
once, for I cannot obey you in this."

But for the thought which came suddenly
into his mind, that he need no hmger face
this difficulty alone, but might look to Edith
to lighten his burdens, Mr. Hilton would
have been inclined to take Laura at her
word, and send her away at once from
the home where she refused to yield a
daughter's obedience. But Edith would
know, Edith would bring her to her senses,
and while giving her the sympathy which
one girl would of course know so well how
to show to another, would also uphold his
authority, and show the wrong as well as
uselessness of opposition.

'^I shall leave you to think over what I
have said, Laura," he answered ; not without
a perception that such a course was cowardly.

'^ It is impossible that I should continue to
allow you to act in direct opposition to
my wishes and orders, but although you
will give me no assurance that you will
obey mCj I hope I can trust to your perception
of what is due to a woman's dignity
to show you that any underhand advances
from this fellow are only an insult."

'^ Father I '' exclaimed Laura, passionately,
and he felt that he had gone a little too far
and hastily retreated.

'' It was my duty to put the case strongly
to you," he said, ^' and now for the present
I will say no more." And while Laura
turned from him in anger and rebellion,
he left her, and went down to his study
to cool himself a little before seeking for
his counsellor.

He knew that he must be careful in
his suggestions ; it would not do to put one
sister too much over the head of the other ;

tut Edith's good sense and right feeling,
in which he had entire trust, would no
doubt teach her to steer clear of such
difficulties. But when at last he went to
seek her, and finding her alone in the
garden told her of his fresh vexations, he
was not a little put out by her apparent
unwillingness to give him any help.

really, father," she said anxiously, iritis
a matter in which I cannot interfere.
You know I never could get on with Mr.
Poland, in spite of the gratitude I owe him,
and Laura already feels uncomfortable with
me about it, so that his name has not
been mentioned between us. I would
so gladly save you all this trouble if I
could, but I do not feel that it is possible''


'well, I must go to Janet, I suppose?"
said her father, shortly. '' It is hard to owe
the fellow a debt which prevents one's

saying that it was an ill day when he
came into the house."

'indeed it is, father!" answered Edith,
with gathering tears. ^^ No one can feel
that more than I do, but I can't do away
with the debt, nor try to lower him in
Laura's eyes, it would be a poor return,
and I am quite sure an utter failure, nor
could I honestly find a word to say against
him."

'' My dear, I want you to do nothing of
the kind, but I hoped you would have
known how to convince her that such
underhand dealings cannot be allowed,
you might do that without offending
her or saying anything against your own
conscience."

^' Father," said Edith, slipping her hand
through his arm, ^^Mr. Poland and I had a
quarrel which makes it impossible for me
to speak of him to Laura. He may or

may not have told her about it, but
aiiyliow I am sure that she would listen
to no word of mine on the subject, and
I should only make mischief if I interfered."


^' Well, my darling, very likely you are
right," said her father, instantly pacified,
he could not bear to feel even a passing
discontent with this beloved daughter.
^^ But if Janet, while they are together,
cannot contrive to bring her to a better
frame of mind, and a knowledge of the
duty she owes to me, I shall find a home
for her elsewhere, I shall not subject
myself any longer to the perpetual irritation
and anxiety of her rebellion against
my wishes. There is no good in trusting
to the fellow's honour, for he doesn't seem
to have any, and one can't treat her like
a child and shut her up in her room
because she refuses to promise obedience.

SO if Janet fails to bring her to her
senses there is nothing for it but to send
her away out of his reach, until he chooses
to behave with a straightforwardness which
will be his only way of getting a welcome
from me."

And then he walked on in silence,
wondering whether it was only his fancy
that this visit to London had made Edith
less ready to share his annoyances, for
it was impossible for her to explain to
him the sort of difficulty she had in
interfering in any way where Geoffrey
was concerned.

CHAPTER X.

DISCOMFORT.

With this new discomfort about Laura
hanging over their heads, Mr. Hilton and
Edith were very glad when they reached
the house to have their thoughts otherwise
occupied by finding that Peter Hilton
and Richard Allen had arrived unexpectedly
and needed but little pressing
to persuade them to stay for a few days
before going on to Scotland, where they
intended to travel about for a week
or two together before grouse shooting
began. Peter, in spite of his pompous
manner, was always pleasant, and full
of good stories, and, although everybody

laughed at him, it was impossible to do
so unkindly, and he took everything in
good part.

'^ I would give anything to know whether
Peter made you an offer when he was here
last, Edith'' said Erica, when they went
up to dress for dinner. ^^It is very
disagreeable of you not to tell me. If
he did J I am sure it will be Mary's turn
this time, for he thinks me too young
and frivolous for such an honour yet."

^^You will get no satisfaction from me,"
answered Edith, laughing. ^^If he did,
it does not concern you, and if he did not
you can scarcely expect me to confess the
humiliating fact."

swell! Poor old Peter, if he does
think of Mary, I am afraid he is a little
late, I believe she is bespoken."

^^ My dear Erica, what do you
mean ? "

*^ Of course, I know very well that
Richard has come here to see her''

^^What has put that into your head,
you silly child? your mind seems full of
match-making . ' '

^^Not much wonder, is it? with so much
of it going on round me," answered Erica,
saucily. "What between Bernard and
Mr. Poland the air for some months has
been full of — what shall I say — sentiment.
And oh, Edith, I do believe Laura has
got into some fresh trouble with father. I
saw him coming down from the blue study,
looking so angry, that I hid behind a door
to get out of his way."

Don't be a little goose. Erica, and
make so much of things! If there is anything
wrong, it is not for us to notice it."

Oh no, of course not ; but do you think,
Edie, that Mr. Poland will ever come back
to her?"

'show can T tell?" said Edith,
with embarrassment; '^ and at any rate,
Erica, I am not going to talk about it.
All you have to do is to be as pleasant to
her as you can, especially when you think
she is in trouble'*

^^I can scarcely fancy being pleasant'
to Laura, I don't think we speak twenty
words a week to each other, but T will
say for her she is not half so disagreeable
as she was before Mr. Poland came."

^^ No, I am sure she is not ; and now here
comes Ellis to do my hair, and I wish you
would just knock at Lam-a's door and ask
her what dress she is going to put on this
evening."

Erica did as she was desired, but after
knocking was kept waiting for some time
before the door was opened.

'' I am not coming down to dinner
to-night," answered Laura, keeping her

face in shadow, and Erica felt sure from
her voice she had been crying, and hurried
back to Edith.

sall right dear, make haste and dress,
and I will go and see her, perhaps she hasa
headache," she said, but when she had
sent Ellis away, and thought over the
matter quietly for a minute or two, she
went down the passage and knocked at
her father's dressing-room door.

^^ Come in darling. Am I late?" he
asked, as she came and stood watching
him as he brushed his short grey curls.

^^ No, father, there is plenty of time,
but I came to tell you that Laura says she
is not coming down to dinner."

shave you seen her?"

"No, I sent Erica to ask what dress
she was going to wear, and she said she
was not coming down."

I see — I quite understand — once before

VOL. II. L

when I found fault with her, she thought
I meant her to stay up-stairs, but I will
put it all right in a minute' and without
waiting to put on his coat he hurried along
the passage. He, too, was kept waiting at
the door, but when Laura, pale, heavy-eyed,
and impatient, opened it expecting to see
Erica again, or perhaps Ellis, whom she
had already dismissed, she was much
surprised to find her father in his shirt
sleeves.

^^My dear, I beg that you will make
haste and get ready for dinner, we will
keep our differences to ourselves ; and you
know I have no wish to be hard ujDon you,
but only to keep you from what I think
wrong," he said, quite overcome by her
sad face, and when she vainly tried to
answer, and burst into a fit of helpless
sobbing instead, he could only pat her on
the shoulder and sav

'^ Come, come my dear ! you make too
much of it all, and for the matter of that I do
the same, but I shall be grieved if I miss
your face amongst us to-night," and then
hastily closing the door he hurried back to
his dressing-room, and was glad to find that
Edith had gone, and that there was no one
to notice that his voice was husky.

Ellis had a keen perception where Lam^a
was concerned, and guessed something of
what was going on, but she managed so well
that she succeeded in getting her ready intime
for dinner ; and, although Peter
remarked with his usual awkwardness, '^I
cannot say you are looking well or cheerful,
cousin Laura," no one else made any
remark on her silence, or the paleness which
was almost alarming to those who noticed it.

^^ Go to bed, Laura, I am sure you are
not well," whispered Mary kindly, as they
left the dining-room after dinner, and as

Mr. Hilton would never, if he could help
it, sit over the table after the ladies went
away, there was no opportunity for speaking
quietly to her again.

'' How is your friend Poland getting on,
Laura ? Have you seen him lately ? "
asked Peter, sitting down beside her, and
honestly believing that his question would
please her.

'' I have not seen him since he left here,"
she answered quietly.

^^ Oh, I conjecture he is busy after his
long holiday. What is he doing now ? "

'^I do not know."

'^ Geoffrey Poland — if that is who you are
asking about — has just gone abroad, to some
part of Spain I think, but we have not
heard much about it," interposed Mary.

'^ Oh, indeed; and what occupation does
he intend to follow there ? "

'^ I scarcely know, but in my last letter

to Aunt Sarah I asked her to tell me, so
perhaps I shall be able to let you know
before you leave'' answered Mary.

'sit is a mere matter of curiosity," said
Peter pompously. '' I cannot say that
personally I found him agreeable, but there
may be differences of opinion about him —
eh, Laura ? "

This was quite unendurable, and Richard
Allen came to the rescue by abruptly asking
news of a friend in Brighton, but no sooner
was that subject exhausted than Peter proceeded
innocently to distinguish himself in
another matter.

'' So you have got young Offord back
again, Wedgwood ? " he said to Mr. Hilton.
I should suppose he is a very different
sort of person now from what he was in the
days when he was always hanging about
Adelaide, and interfering with other jDCople."

*' Those days are so long gone by that I

have forgotten them," answered Mr. Hilton,
quietly. ''• But there are few men for whom
I have such respect and liking as I have for
Offord. He is likely to settle down into a
useful country gentleman, and will probably
take his seat in the House before long."

^^ Indeed! Now I should never have
guessed, from what I saw of him years ago,
that he would have developed into a man
of such brain power ; but that shows how
mistaken one is in judging from appearances,"
said Peter wisely.

^' What sort of appearance used Bernard
to have, cousin Peter ? Used he to go about
with his mouth and eyes open ? " asked
Erica mischievously.

'^ I scarcely think he opened his mouth as
often as you do. Erica," said Peter, severely,
and was delighted with the laughter with
which his retort was received, and between
Erica's various questions and Mary's attempts

to keep him interested, he had no further
opportunity for committing himself that
evening.

'^ If you could give Peter a hint I should
be obliged to you, Richard," said Mr. Hilton,
drawing him aside. "You are pretty well
up in our family history, I fancy, and you
can do it better than I can."

'^ So I was thinking," answered Richard,
readily, "but I am not sure that his anxiety
and solemn carefulness about saying nothing
he ought not will not be worse than his
present blundering."

Mr. Hilton laughed. " It is quite possible,
and yet I think a word or two must bespoken.
Poland is a forbidden subject at
present, but Offord is about the house a good
deal, with my full consent, and it is scarcely
pleasant to any of us to be reminded of his
bygone boyish fancies."

Which no one but our worthy Peter

would think of raking up," said Richard.
'' What a good fellow Offord seems to be,
from all I hear."

'^ That he is ! — a man a father might well
be proud of."

^' Or a father-in-law, I hope," suggested
Richard, kindly.

'^ Yes, but we must not be in too great a
hurry for all that. I should be glad for him
to learn to manage OfEord before Battlefield
comes into his hands."

Then Richard took Peter away to the
smoking-room, and watched for an opportunity
for saying his few words, but Peter
rambled on about one thing after another
until it grew late and Richard's patience
was exhausted.

'well! I think I will go to bed, Pm
tired," he remarked, making rather an
elaborate pretence of stretching his arms
above his head. *^By the by, Peter, you

rather put your foot in it to-night in talking-about
Offord."

^ Put my foot in it ? — in what way did I
commit myself ? " asked Peter, wonderingly.

'' Why, I thought you would have guessed !
Offord and Blithefield will make a noble
estate some day, when they are thrown into
one."

'' Do you mean that it is intended that my
cousin Edith shall take Bernard Oxford for
her husband?" asked Peter, with a sudden
air of dejection which was a little touching.

'' I fancy the young people intend it at
any rate, and I don't think her father will
make much difficulty."

Peter took a turn to the other end of the
room to hide a very real vexation, it could
scarcely be called disappointment, and yet
his visions of reigning at Blithefield, although
always somewhat misty, had been golden ;
and. being in no way mercenary had beautified

his elderly life. He would not have
known what to do as master of an estate, he
was too easy-going to like responsibility,
and too self-sufficient to allow any one else
to manage for him, but somehow for several
years it had been his favourite dream. He
did not think about it very often when
absent, for he was a man whose mind was
easily engrossed by the affairs of every-day
life, but it was something to fall back upon
in the dull moments ; and the idea that he
would one day confer upon Blithefield the
benefit of marrying its heiress had become a
very real part of his mental existence.

That he was only twelve years younger
than Edith's father did not seem to him of
much consequence ; indeed, the guidance of
a matured mind would be of incalculable
benefit to a young girl placed in a responsible
position, nor did he in the least care for
the wealth it would bring to him, his own

six hundred a year more than sufficed for
everything he wanted ; and he was even
generous in giving when his ^' excellent
judgment " approved ; but the importance
of the position to be acquired was infinitely
pleasant to his imagination, and he modestly
felt himself to be deserving of it.

'^ Well! no doubt Wedgwood ought to bethe
best iuds^e of what is best for his
daughter's welfare, and I have no reason to
suppose that the young man is not in every
way most estimable, but it appears to me
that it would be better for all parties if a
person of mature judgment was at the head
of affairs. Now, I think, that like you,
Allen, I am somewhat fatigued by the
journey, and I shall be glad to retire."

And Richard felt sorry for him, although
he knew that his disappointment would
scarcely last for more than a few days.

CHAPTER XI.

PERPLEXITIES.

While cautioning Peter about Bernard
Offord, Richard had forgotten the second
part of his duty, which was to warn him
against mentioning Geoffrey's name in
public. It seemed quite absurd when he
came to think over it that there should be
such pitfalls in the way of conversation ina
simple family, and he still held to his
own opinion that it would be better to
leave it all to chance than to the certainty
of Peter's blundering attempts either to
keep clear of the forbidden subjects, or to
apologise for having inadvertently brought
them forward. But there was no opportunity

for saying anything before breakfast
the next morning, and they had not been
many minutes sitting at the table when
Peter began —

By the bye, Edith, when we were
talking of Poland last night it quite
escaped my memory to inquire whether
he still feels any bad effects from that
blow on his head ? "

"Indeed, I hope not; I have never
heard anything about it," she answered
hurriedly.

Oh no," interrupted her father, " he
got over that very soon ; there is not the
least fear of his feeling the worse for
it."

''I suppose he used to complain a
good deal of his head, Laura ? " Peter
went on, turning to her. " You ought to
know, for you were kind enough to
devote a great deal of your time to him."

'^ No, I did not hear him complain of
it at all''

^^ Of course it is proverbial that people's
tastes differ, but I do not yet comprehend
how you contrived to get on so well with
him ; I confess I found his manner a
little, I might even say, rough," continued
Peter, with an air of settling down to
an interesting subject, but Mary came to
the rescue.

'^ Oh, you must know Geoffrey well to
understand him," she said; ^^ and talking
of manners, I think you would have been
interested by some very odd people we
met at Mrs. Paget' s a few days ago,"
and then she contrived to amuse him so
well by her description that there was no
further opportunity for returning to the
uncomfortable subject.

'^ I gave our friend a hint about Offord
last night, but forgot Poland. I am very

sorry, and will be sure to say a word to
him presently'' said Richard to Mr. Hilton
after breakfast, and he went out to join
Mary as she strolled about the lawn with
Peter, who was reflecting that this was
really a very sensible and entertaining
young woman, who knew a good deal
more of the world than Edith or her
sisters. He could well have dispensed
with Richard's company just then, but
Mary turned to him with relief.

'^ You were asking about Poland at
breakfast time'' said Richard, when they
had taken a few turns, '^ but I daresay
you noticed that no one was very ready
to talk about him. The fact is there is
some sort of misunderstanding between
him and Hilton, and it is better to
avoid the subject altogether."

*^ A misunderstanding?" said Peter inquisitively
— he was a gossip to the

"backbone. ^'I conjecture it is of a
somewhat romantic character, I imagined
when I was here last that there was a
certain inclination on the part of ''

Oh, we need not trouble oneself about
the cause," interrupted Richard, ^^ but I
wanted to let you know that Hilton does
not care to talk about him, nor for the
matter of that does any one else in the
house. Is not that Offord coming across
the park, Miss Verney ? "

'^ I hope that young man is all that
Wedgewood thinks him," said Peter
solemnly; ^'but I fear that a few years
passed amongst a race like the Hindoo,
remarkable for the dishonesty of their
principles and practice, is not likely to
have strengthened his morals."

Oh, his morals, and principles,
and all that are right enough, you
may be sure; he is a capital fellow from

all I hear of him," answered Richard
laughing.

^^ I should like to hear your opinion of
him, Miss Verney," said Peter, turning to
her. 'you have had more opportunities
of judging than our friend here."

'' Oh, but really I am not called upon to
judge," interrupted Mary, who was getting
very tired of Peter. '' I can only say that I
believe he is as good as he is pleasant."

'' Such an opinion from Miss Verney is
indeed convincing ! I shall allow myself
the satisfaction of thinking the very best
of the young man for the future," and then
Peter hurried to meet Bernard with extended
hand, and greeted him with a cordiality
which was a little embarrassing to everyone.


Beautiful as was the weather, and many
as were the charms of Blithefield, the party
assembled there did not shake together

VOL. ir. M

very comfortably and no one seemed particularly
cheerful. Mr. Hilton was much
disturbed about Laura, and could not at all
decide what to do for the best. He honestly
believed that Geoffrey was behaving badly,
and was trying to keep up an underhand
acquaintance with her, either for the purpose
of persuading her into a private marriage
with the idea of getting possession of her
fortune, or merely by way of amusement,
without any serious intention of coming
forward as an honourable man should, and
in either of these cases it was manifestly
her father's duty to protect her, even at
the cost of giving her pain. On the other
hand, Laura had assured him that, although
there was no engagement between them,
she was satisfied with things as they were ;
and by peremptorily forbidding all future
intercourse he might be destroying the
one chance of a happy life for her which

her peculiar temperament made it so difficult
to secure. He had in the heat of the
moment, when she refused to give any
promise concerning her future conduct,
threatened to find a home for her elsewhere,
and when he came to think over it calmly
he was disposed to consider that it was the
best thing to be done, but yet it seemed
hard to punish her for another's fault,
especially as, in spite of her assurance
to the contrary, Geoffrey's behaviour must
cause her at least uneasiness.

Although, when he was with her, she
unconsciously irritated him into sharpness
of speech and manner, he really felt
tenderly towards her. She was obstinately
uncontrollable, there was no doubt about
that ; but she behaved as if convinced that
no other course was open to her, and was
only waiting for events to justify her. For
the first time in his life he was disposed

to think Edith a little selfish for her refusal
to interfere in the matter. Of what consequence
was it if she had quarrelled with
Geoffrey ? it was not his conduct but Laura's
which she was asked to find fault with, and
it was straining" gratitude and generosity a
little too far when she refused even to use
her influence to persuade her sister to
obedience. Laura's pale face was a perpetual
reproach, and although — as he desired
—she joined the rest of the party as usual,
be could not help knowing that in her own
heart she considered that he was unreasonably
hard to her.

Edith also was ill at ease. She felt that
she had been cowardly in her avoidance
of Geoffrey's name with Laura when first
he came home, yet she could not now
break through the reserve between them;
and, after all, how small her reason had
been. Of what consequence was his

accusation? He had accused her of inordinate
vanity, and of sacrificing everything
to it for the moment, but what did
it matter to her whether he thought her
vain or not ? She had coveted this good
opinion, and would have valued it, but he
had told her that she had not gained it,
and had only thrown over him a passing
glamour, which, while he felt it, he despised.
It might be that he was really what she
imagined — wiser and more deep-thinking
than others — but he would give her no share
in his thoughts, and she would banish him
from her owt.

But besides all this difficulty about Laura
she felt her own position an uncomfortable
one. She had scarcely noticed, when they
were alone, that Bernard, although perfectly
unobtrusive in his manner, claimed nearly
all her attention, but now she found that
when she wanted to talk to Peter or Richard

she had to leave him with or without an
excuse, and this was not quite the freedom
she had expected. Nor was she too much
absorbed by her own vexations to notice
and be annoyed by the uncomfortable
position in which she saw that Mary was
placed, although she said nothing about it.
Perhaps but for Erica's laughing remark
about Richard Allen, Edith would scarcely
have noticed how anxiously he sought
Alary's society, but she did see it now,
and also that Peter was perpetually thrusting
himself between them and teasing her with
compliments which, only her respect for
Mr. Hilton and her place as his guest, made
her receive with civility. Not knowing that
Peter had been told of Bernard's position,
and fearing to draw upon herself a renewal
of attentions which much annoyed her,
Edith scarcely saw how it was possible for
her to interfere, and her father was not

in sufficiently good spirits to bear much of
Peter's society or in any way to be worried
about the matter.

But although she showed little outward
sign of it, Laura was the one who really
suffered most fi^om anxiety. Her father had
told her that unless she gave him a promise
that she would have nothing more to do
with Geoffrey without asking his consent,
that he should send her to live away from
home, and she was astonished to find with
what almost despairing pain she anticipated
such a change. A few months ago she
would have thought of it with indifference,
she was unhappy at home, and would
probably be the same anywhere else, but
now it was so different ! The blue study
was the dearest place in the world to her,
the Look-out the most beautiful spot upon
earth, and that she should be torn from
them, whatever her fault, seemed a tyranny

and injustice against w^hicli her whole mind
rebelled.

She had no reason to suppose — indeed, it
was most unlikely — that Geo&ey would try
again to communicate with her privately ;
it was only under the pressure of difficulties
that he had done so before, and he had
asked her forgiveness for the necessity ; but
if an occasion should arise again she would
give no promise that she would not take
advantage of it. Nor was it possible for
her to explain the circumstances. Geoffrey
told her in his letter that he was coming
back to ask her to be his wife, but he had
not done so yet ; he had told her that she
was the only woman he should ever wish
to marry, in spite of the passing fancy
which had come between them ; but although
she clearly understood it all herself she was
not at liberty to explain, even if she had
Ravished. With all her heart she rejoiced that

he had told Ler the truth ; it had hurt her,
but there could be no secret between them
when they met now, and when he came
for her she would go with him, leaving
father, sisters, and home for the sake of
the only person in the world who loved her.
She did not understand her father's opposition,
but she supposed that it must arise
from an unconquerable dislike to a man
whose character was a puzzle to him, and
who had certainly taken no pains to conciliate
him, and she supposed that he would
make great difficulty about their marriage ;
but when Geoffrey said " come," she would
go, for she knew that he would not come
back to her until she might believe in him
and trust him completely.

CHAPTER Indifferent

VIEWS.

I EXPECT the architect to-day, to give his
opinion about my tumble-down mansion,
and it would be a charity if some, or all,
of my friends here would come over and
hear his report and make suggestions,"
said Bernard Oferd, appearing at the
Blithefield breakfast-table one morning ;
and Mr. Hilton answered cordially —

^^Oh, yes, Offord, we will all come; we
have nothing very pressing to do to-day."

But when Bernard looked at Edith he
saw that she was unwilling. However,
it was agreed that some of the party should
appear, leaving it uncertain which it should

be; but Peter put himself forward, and
expressed the pleasure he should feel in
'Viewing the crumbling relic of antiquity
previous to its demolition."

' I am afraid one can scarcely say much
about its antiquity," said Bernard laughing.
*'If it can count a hundred birthdays it is
as much as we can give it credit for; but
there is something curious in seeing a
building so massive, and apparently indestructible,
falling into ruin. No doubt,
neglect had something to do with it; for
I fancy that a certain amount of repairs
would have kept it together much longer."

^^ It was built all wrong from the first,"
said Mr. Hilton. seven Edith here can
tell you that those great slabs, which make
such a good show, are put the wrong way
up for resisting the weather*'

^^Live and learn!" said Bernard, "I
had no idea you were a geologist, Edith."

^^ Indeed, it is the one subject in which
I am well grounded ; I have been familiar
with ^ formations ' since my babyhood.'^

'-'- 1 am glad to hear, my dear cousin,
that you have given your mind to such
solid studies," interrupted Peter. ^^ I had
imagined that "

'^ That my mind had' been wholly given
to — croquet ? — which I suppose was the
favorite amusement of my youth. But
now, Mary, we have sat a long time over
breakfast to-day, and the garden looks
tempting." And she led the way through
the open window down to the lawn,
followed by Richard and Bernard.

'^I am afraid you do not care to come
to Off or d to-day, Edith," said Bernard,
when they had strolled out of hearing.

^^ No, I think I will not come this time,"
she answered.

"For any reason you will tell me?"

^^I daresay you guess the reason,
Bernard."

^^ Perhaps I do, but I may be wrong.
I think you are afraid of my showing too
plainly how much I care for your opinion,
and you have scruples about influencing
me in the matter. Is that what it is,
Edith ? "

^^Yes, it is chiefly that."

'' But you need have no scruple, for if
you tell me some day that I must always
live at Offord, it would give me pleasure
to think that I have done what you think
best about it, although it can never be
of much importance to me what the house
is like. I mean to do the very best I
can for the land and for the people ; but it
is no way my duty, that I can see, to build
or rebuild an expensive house which would
be a burden on the estate."

^' I quite agree with that, and I may

-say so to you, when I should be foolish
to say it, before all the others ; but father
likes me to give my opinion plainly, and
is so certain to ask for it, that I should
be put in a wrong position. I want to come,
you know, Bernard, for I am so interested
about it all; but I had better stay at
home."

'rand I entirely disagree. You know
that your coming will please your father
and — me; besides it will save me the
task of telling you all about it afterwards."


'' And what shall you do if I dictate,
and take the whole matter out of your
Lands?"

'' Of course that is just what I want, and
you will come ? "

'' I do not know — perhaps. It is a great
temptation to go and explain to the architect
the ffeoloD-ical failings in the old

building, which, of course, I understand
much better than he."

^^ Well, my darling — I mean — Edith, no
doubt you do, and at any rate you can teach
me all about it, for I am profoundly
ignorant."

'^ 0, Bernard, there is that uncomfortable
Peter going to inflict himself upon Mary and
Richard again ! I wish you would call him
off," exclaimed Edith, not altogether sorry
to be interrupted, and he obeyed, but not
without a protest against such self-sacrifice.

'' Shall you go to Offord this morning,
Miss Verney ? " asked Richard, as they
strolled about under the shade of the beech-trees.


'^ Yes, I think so. I am fond of looking
over the old place, and it will be interesting
to hear the architect's opinion."

I am not going," said Richard, shortly.

'rare you not? What a pity! and you

were sang last night that you had never
been over it all."

'^ Well, to tell you the truth, I don't care
to go with Peter, he makes himself such a
nuisance, hanging on to people so that one
can't get in a word, that I may just as well
stop at home."

^'And leave the whole benefit of him tome?"
said Mary, smiling.

'^ That is just it ; he is certain to stick so
close to you that no one else can get a
chance, and I confess it gets beyond my
patience."

'' But there are one or two things I should
like to show you, and he will be so occupied
in instructing the architect that he will
have no time for us."

^^If we could start just a little before
the others, I know such a jolly path
through the wood if you will come."

^^ Too narrow, perhaps, for our portly

friend to follow ; yes, I should like to go a
new way, and will be ready in good time."

On this occasion Laura was left in the
blue study undisturbed. She stood at the
window watching them start, wondering
until the last moment whether they would
call for her, and feeling what she told herself
was a foolish vexation at being left out this
time. But about an hour after they had
gone Mrs. Bonar drove over in her pony
carriage, and was not altogether sorry to
see Laura alone.

^' Ashen you have given me some luncheon
I propose that we should stroll over to Offord
and meet the others," she said ; and Laura
was pleased with the idea, and as she got on
better with Janet than with her other sisters,
she was really glad to be with her.

After they had discussed the coming visit
to Folkestone, and other matters, Laura
resolved to break through her usual reserve

VOL. IT. N

t

and say a few words to her sister about
Geoffrey, for nothing more had passed between
her and her father — indeed, he seemed
to have forgotten the matter altogether,
and her anxiety to know what he intended
to do was becoming intolerable.

^^ Janet, has father spoken or written to
you about me in the last few days ? " she
asked, abruptly.

^^No, I have not seen him or heard from
him since that day when it was settled that
you were to go with us."

^^You are being very kind to me now,
Janet, and I am going to ask you to do
something more — I want yoa to ask him
if he means to let me come home again
after I have left you."

^' Let you come home again ? Why what
else should you do ? "

^' I daresay he will tell you all about it,
but I would rather say something first. He

said he should not let me live at home anymore
unless I promised that — that I would
not have anything to do with Greeley
Poland without telling him first, and I
cannot promise that, Janet ! "

^^I do not understand; you must tell mea
little more," said Janet gently.

^' It is so difficult! indeed, I can tell you
very little; but before Geoffrey went
abroad he came to the house one evening
when we were all at dinner, and left some
books for me and wrote me a letter, and
father came to know of it — I had to tell
him, and he was very angry, and said I
should not live at home unless I promised
not to hear from him again without his
consent, and I shall never give that promise."

'^ But, my dear, it all sounds very wrong !
If Mr. Poland really wants to see you and
write to you, why does he not come forward
and say so ? "

*^ That is just what I cannot tell you; he
has told me his reason and I am satisfied.
Why cannot father leave us alone ? "

*you cannot expect me to sympathise
with you in that, Laura ! "

'^ Of course I cannot, for it has all been
so different with you. [ have always gone
my own way, and no one has cared much
whether it was a good or bad one, or has
thought it of any consequence until just
now, when it 7S of the greatest consequence
to me, father for the first time judges forme,
and interferes with my only happiness.' '

'' It does seem hard, I own," answered
Janet ; ^^ but you know that this is the first
thing of importance that has happened in
your life, and father is bound to take care
of you."

'sand protect me from the extreme
danger of getting a letter now and then
from a person with whom I was allowed to

spend hours of every day," said Laura
scornfully.

*' You must not be vexed with me, Laura ;
but of course father would not have allowed
that if he had not supposed — well it must
be said — that Mr. Poland would have told
him before he left that he wished for your
society, not only for a week or two, but for
always."

Laura's face flushed, and she smiled a
little to herself.

He did wish that, she knew, but she
could not say so until he should say it too.

** And you know," Janet went on, " it
was undoubtedly very wrong for him to
come here secretly."

'^ But he had no choice!" urged Laura.
He could not go away without a word tome,
and father would not let me have letters
by post, and he did not even try to see me .
But Janet, I do not want to talk about it, for

I can explain nothing ; but I do want you
to find out from father whether he means tolet
me come home again."

^' Should you be very sorry to leave
Blithefield, Laura ? "

^^ It would break my heart ! " cried Laura
passionately. ''' He would have no right to
send me away ! If I have done wrong he
has driven me to it ; and after all what
have I done ? "

'' My dear, I do not properly know about
it all, but I am afraid you have set up your
judgment against father's many times lately,
and have made him ano^rv ; but I believe it
would be all right now if you would give
him this promise that he asks for."

^^ But I cannot; and why should he ask
it from me ? I have told him that I know
what is in Geoffrey's mind, and am satisfied.
Why can he not trust me ? "

But that is not the way that a father

should take care of his young daughter,
Laura. You are not twenty yet, and you
know nothing of the world ! If Mr. Poland
is really right-minded he ought to come
forward and speak openly to father, but
until he does that you are bound to promise
that you will have no private communication
with him."

^^I will never promise that'' said Laura
obstinately. ^'If he writes to me I will
read his letters ; if he comes I will see him.
But he can do neither the one nor the other
now, for he has gone away. If father says
I am to leave home I must, but it will be a
cruel tyranny."

** Laura, yom heart is very hard towards
father ! Do you not think that he as well
as you may be grieved about all this ? "

*' I do not know. If he would trust me,
there would be nothing to trouble him ; and,
Janet, he might well trust to me and to

Geoffrey. It is only because I am not like
the rest of you that he thinks me wrong,
but that is too old a grievance to be worth
talking about, and I think I hear their voices
in the distance, but I do want you to say
that you will ask father if I may come
home again."

^^Yes; certainly I will do that," said
Janet, quietly and sadly, '' but, although
with all my heart I am sorry for you,
Laura, I think you are very wrong towards
father."

^^ I cannot help it ; indeed, I cannot ! "
said Laura earnestly, and there was no time
for saying more, for at that moment the
party returning from Offord came through
the gate of the boundary fence in front of
them.

CHAPTER XIII.

^i ATI rk-n-na "

AT ODDS.'

The visit to Offord had not been a success,
and Bernard scarcely knew whether or no
he was to blame for it. It seemed to him
that the whole party was out of sorts to
begin with. Edith and her father were
depressed, Erica unusually silent, and Mary,
evidently irritated by the persistency with
which Peter sought her out, had made it
almost impossible for her without incivility
to speak more than a word or two to anyone
else.

The pleasant stroll through the wood,
which Richard had planned with her, had
come to nothing ; for Mr. Hilton had

detained him until the last moment, and
when they all started together, Peter planted
himself beside her and would not be
displaced.

Mr. Gay, the architect, was worried by
the varied opinions with which he was
expected to agree, and was obliged to take
refuge in a dogmatic statement of his own
views, which pleased no one, and which,
when he was alone with Bernard, he took
trouble to explain were extorted from him
by necessity, and while good in themselves,
might well be modified.

^^ The expense of restoring the whole building
would be enormous, '^ he said. ^' There
is scarcely a foot of the walls that is sound,
except on the south-east side, where it has
been sheltered from the weather. My
advice would be to have that part thoroughly
repaired before winter sets in, and to
leave the rest until the spring, when you

will be able to judge better of the strength
of the building. From what you tell meno
one has paid much attention to it for
years jjast, so we can scarcely tell how
gradual its decay may have been, and it
would be a pity to pull it down before
it is necessary, especially as you have nowhere
to store the valuable old furniture. '^

This suited Bernard's views very well,
he had little doubt that by the time the
spring came he should have a tolerably
clear idea of what Edith would say to him,
and without pressing her for an answer
before the appointed time, he should know
whether or not the rest of his life was to be
spent at Offord.

He was obliged to leave the Blithefield
party to go home by themselves, promising
to bring Mr. Gay with him to dinner at
seven o'clock, but he contrived to get
a few words aside with Edith, and found

that she seemed so disinclined to give an
opinion about the house, that he felt disheartened,
and disposed to say that it would
be all the same to him if the whole place
crumbled into ruins, but noticing his
vexation, she hastened to assure him that
she should be delighted to talk the whole
matter over quietly with him, but in the
midst of so many conflicting opinions, she
scarcely cared to raise her voice. Then
she put her hand inside her father's arm,
while Peter walked beside Mary, and
Richard was obliged to content himself as
best he might with Erica's chatter.

It was a relief to them all when Janet
and Laura came to meet them, and as they
stood together for a minute, Mary, seeing
that Richard's temper was ruffled, suggested
that he should now show her the new
way he had spoken of in the morning,
but unable to recover himself in a moment,

he answered with a show of carelessness,
that he was sorry, but they had long
passed the turning, and must content themselves
now with following the common
path; and Mary could do nothing better
than take refuge with Laura, begging her,
in a hurried whisper, not to leave her with
Peter, who was already calling her to look
at some fern or flower which he represented
as unusual.

Laura, awakening to a consciousness of
Mary's perplexities, was interested, and
put herself between them where the path
was narrow, and he tried to insist on Miss
Verney's keeping close beside him, for fear
a bramble might catch in her hair.

Janet walked with her father, and
detaining him a little, until out of earshot
of the others, she began to speak to him of
Laura. But he was tired, or impatient,
or in some way indisposed to be indulgent,

and she found that she had done rather
harm than good by her interference.

snow, my dear Janet," he said; *4f
you are going to uphold the child in disobedience,
and make her think herself
ill-used, I must of course refuse to let her
go with you."

^^ Nothing was further from my thoughts,
father, but she has such a dread of being
sent away from home, that I am anxious
she should not be kept in suspense
about it."

'^ Well I T have not made up my mind
on the subject, I must consider over it
further," answered Mr. Hilton, who was
not at all inclined to be dictated to. '^ She
must very distinctly understand that I
mean to be obeyed, and while I have
no wish to be hard upon her in any way,
I shall not allow my authority to be
disputed."

'^ But you will let her come back after
we leave Folkestone, father?"

^^ Oh, yes; I shall let her do that,
of course, but how long she remains
here will entirely depend upon her
conduct."

And Janet was obliged to be content
with such poor comfort as she could take
to Laura, fearing that a contest between
two such strong wills could never come to
a satisfactory ending.

The next morning Mary, wishing to do
Laura a kindness, handed her a letter
across the breakfast table saying —

'^ There is a message for you from
Aunt Sarah, and you may as well read
the whole letter."

^' Give my love to Laura, and tell her
I am glad she is going with Janet, she
shuts herself up too much at home, and
the sea breezes of Folkestone will put a

new life into her, but she must be careful
at first about sea bathing."

So wrote Mrs. Mathewson, and Mary-thought
the message a sufficient excuse
for giving Laura an opportunity of
reading all that her aunt could tell of
Geoffrey's plans and movements. She
knew very little, but even a word or
two might be better than nothing, and
Mary felt pitiful over these uncomfortable
lovers.

Laura read it through with care, but
without a change of countenance, it was
better than nothing, and yet she almost
wished that Mary had not shown it to
her.

'' Thank you for letting me read it,"
she said quietly. ^'I suppose you will
show it to father." And Mary did so
rather unwillingly, but she respected her
anxiety to avoid any approach to concealment

from him which could be
avoided.

Mr. Hilton read the letter in silence,
but he appreciated Laura's motive, and
hoped that his judicious severity was
bringing her to reason.

Richard and Peter were expected to start
for Scotland the next day, but soon after
breakfast Peter, with a very important
face, followed Richard into the garden,
and proceeded to inform him that he had
changed his plans.

^^ There are some circumstances you
know, my dear Allen, in which a man
may be excused for altering his mind,
and I hold that it is so in the present
instance ; nor would you, I am afraid,
find me an agreeable companion while
my mind is so much occupied with other
thoughts, but I think, in justice to myself,
I must confide my reasons to you."

VOL. n. o

^^ Oh, no ; pray do nothing of the kind ! "
exclaimed Richard hastily, with disgusted
anticipation of what was coming.

^* But, my dear friend, I really must
exonerate myself from what must seem
like mere caprice. I daresay you may
have conjectured that I should be thinking
of settling down in life, but it is only
lately that I have been fortunate enough
to come across a fitting help-meet, but
now I propose without hesitation, although
after a little delay which seems to me
advisable, to request Miss Verney to dome
the honour of accepting my hand."

'^I suppose you have no doubt of what
her answer will be "^^ " said Richard with
scorn and rage, which Peter was too self-complacent
to detect.

^^ Well, I confess I feel tolerably hopeful.
We have had a great deal of conversation
of late, and many opportunities for

becoming acquainted, and I believe her
to be a young woman of sound good
sense and principle."

Richard could stand no more, but turned
abruptly away, without attempting an
excuse to the astonished Peter, and
striking into the woods, walked on for a
long way scarcely knowing where he
went, muttering execrations on ^' the
pompous fool" with his 'unbounded
assurance," who interfered with everything
and had spoiled his holiday. It was too
disgusting to think of his raising his
eyes to Miss Verney, although, of course,
no one could doubt for a moment what
her answer would be, but he could not
linger on and watch this detestable
courtship, nor could he at j^i'esent speak
of his own hopes, which had grown very
precious, after Peter's intentions had been
confided to him. No, he must go away the

next day, leaving his rival in possession
of the field, but he would not insult Mary
by a moment's fear that she would hesitate
to dismiss him as soon as she understood
that his compliments and attentions had
any meaning in them. And after all there
was nothing to make much of a fuss about.
His lips were sealed for the present, and
he must submit to be banished for awhile,
but he could soon come back again, and
although his holiday would be nearly over,
he could at any tipie be sure of a welcome
at Blithefield when he could manage to run
down for a day or two.

So, after smoking a couple of pipes, he
strolled back, assuring himself that matters
might have been a great deal worse, and
only fearing that if Peter's attentions
became too complacent and obtrusive he
should scarcely be able to refrain from
'kicking him."

When he had nearly reached the house
he came across Mr. Hilton, wandering about,
looking disconsolate.

^•Iwas just wishing I could come across
you, Allen," he said, ^' for I am more thana
little perplexed, and find myself in a
position I never bargained for ; it is bad
enough to manage for one's own girls, buta
little too much to be called upon to act
as father to others."

'^ What has gone wrong? and who is
the offender ? " asked Richard ; but he knew
what it was all about.

^^ Well, you see, I feel I may speak to
you, because Peter told me he had done
so. He wishes to pay his addresses to
Miss Verney, and although, of course, he is
rather old for her, I suppose it would be a
desirable thing."

^' Good heavens ! you cannot seriously say
anything so horrible ! " exclaimed Richard.

'^ The idea of his daring to think of her, a
hideous old fool like that ! with his pompous
manners, and a mind so narrow it is scarcely
worth recognising ! "

'* Come, come, Richard ! you are rather
too hard on Peter. We know he is not
over wise, but he has a good heart, and
every one feels kindly towards him. He
seems honestly attached to Miss Verney,
and I should imagine she is a sensible girl,
without any immoderate romance about her.
If she thought she could put up with his
odd ways for the sake of his kindly nature,
I think she might do worse."

'' Surely, Hilton, you cannot mean what
you say ! "

^'I do, indeed! Peter has a sufficient
income to keep them in comfort, and she
would bring something towards expenses ;
she has no home, and he is prepared to give
her one that she need not despise, although

it would not be luxurious. She is a good
bit older than Edith, and he is — well — ten
years younger than I am. If she thinks
she can like him I am disposed to offer my
good wishes."

Richard would have liked to shout out
his anger and knock some one down, but he
was forced to restrain himself. He should
only do harm by betraying his own secret
just then ; and was it not just barely possible
that by so doing he should be standing in
her way ? She had been very pleasant
with him, gentle, and sympathetic, and
altogether what he liked to call ^^ womanly,"
but it could not be denied that she had
also been good to Peter, and it might be
that she would feel it wise to constrain
herself to accept the kind heart and
comfortable home of which Mr. Hilton
thought so much. So he forced himself to
say, after a few moments' silence —

^^ You are disposed to favour the match,
then, Hilton ? and do not think that Miss
Verney would be throwing herself away ?"

^' I can't quite say that, and of course I
have really no voice in the matter, she is
only under my charge for a time ; but if she
should hesitate and come to me for advice I
should feel bound to represent Peter in the
best light I could, and I don't suppose Mrs.
Mathewson could stand in the way."

^' I think you will be doing Miss Verney
a cruel wrong if you do not save her from
such a degrading marriage ! " exclaimed
Richard vehemently, unable to keep his wise
resolutions ; but seeing that Mr. Hilton
looked at him curiously, he tried to explain
away his excitement.

^' Of course, you see — to me Peter seems
an elderly man, without much to recommend
him, and I think Miss Verney might
do better'*

^* Yes, perhaps ; but thank heaven it is
not for me to decide. I can only make up
my mind on which side I ought to weigh
down the balance, if they do me the honour
of asking my opinion, and of course I could
not refuse to let Peter remain here for a day
or two and try his chance."

'^ But it is a terrible thing for a girl to
sacrifice herself for the sake of a home,
especially to a man like that ! Do reconsider
your opinion Hilton," said Richard
earnestly.

'' Well, yes ! I think I will," answered
Mr. Hilton, again looking at him with watchful
interest ; and then Erica ran out to tell
them that the bell had rung long ago, and
that every one was tired of waiting for
luncheon.

CHAPTER XIV.

FLIGHT.

^^ Do you ever give an invitation to the blue
study, Laura?" asked Richard, following her
into the hall after luncheon.

'^ I have never done it yet, but I should
like to ask you," she answered, smiling at
him, for she had not forgotten his kindness
when Geoffrey was huit ; and although they
spoke few words to each other in the day,
each was interested in the other.

'^ It seems a haven of refuge at present,"
he said, with an air of weariness ; and Laura,
who had been watchful and understood more
than he imagined, led the way in silence.

*swell! I think you have got the

pleasantness room in the house," he said,
throwing himself back comfortably in a
chair, which he felt sure was not the one
Geoffrey had preferred.

'^ Yes, I think so too ; but it is such a
little room that no one has much cared to
use it, and I do not think I need feel overburdened
with the favour of having it for
my own."

^* Certainly not, but still you enjoy it so
much that it must seem like a favour. I
well remember the last time I was here ; it
was the first day Poland was allowed to
move from his room, and you sat just where
you are sitting now."

"And you said you thought he would be
foolish if he tried to get well too soon."

Yes, a man cannot expect to get such rest
and care as he had here more than once or
twice in a lifetime."

Then, seeing that she was not [inclined to

pursue the subject, he turned to his own
concerns.

'^ I had a selfish object in asking to come
here, Laura ; I want you to do me a
kindness."

'eyes, if lean."

'' Oh, it is not much, it means a great deal
more to me than it will to you. I want you
to write and tell me when Peter leaves here
and — and if anything has happened."

'' I will write at once, but I am sure
nothing will happen."

^' You know what I mean ?" he asked.

*^ Yes, of course I do. I am afraid he is
very troublesome to Mary''

'^ You don't think she likes him at all,
or would think it wise, as your father
suggested, to secure a comfortable home ? "

'^ You ought not to think of such a thing,
Richard ! "

'' Well, I am half ashamed, but there is

SO much worldly wisdom going about, and
on the other hand everybody is doing wrong
things from such extraordinarily high motives
now-a-days, that one never knows what may
happen, but I am quite ready to believe
that I am wrong in doubting what Miss
Vemey would have to say to such a question."

** Go to Scotland and enjoy your holiday,
and come and see us on your way back'
said Laura, cheerfully, ^^or rather"— she
went on in a graver tone, '' come and seethe
others, I am afraid it is probable that I
shall not be here."

'' Are you going to stay a long time at
Folkestone then ? "

^^ No, about three weeks I believe ; but
father and I don't agree, and he talks of
sending me to live away from home."

^' But you would not wish that, Laura ? —
you do not want to leave this pleasant
place ? "

^^ Oh, no ! it would be almost the worst
thing that could happen to me ! "

Of course it would, and then think how
bad it will be for Poland when he comes
back and finds you are not here ! It will
be easy enough for him to discover where
you are, but I venture to say that this room
is the place of meeting he has in his
thoughts."

Laura turned away her face to hide the
happiness his words gave her, and he was
afraid he had gone too far.

^^ Laura, my dear," he said, ^' you must
forgive me, for I can't help guessing what
has been going on, and I think Poland is
perfectly right in waiting a bit until he
sees his way, before he comes forward ; and
I don't think you are the sort of girl to
doubt him."

^^No, but it is not quite as you fancy,
Richard, only of course If can't tell you

about it, and father gets angry and won't
trust either him or me, and if I am sent
away every one will think it is Geoffrey's
fault, and I cannot say a word for him."

*^ Never mind, a few harsh thoughts won't
hurt him, he is not made of such weak stuff
as that, Laura! But no doubt you will
make up your mind to do what your father
wishes, and it will all come right."

^^Not in that way," she answered, firmly,
^^but we will say no more about it please,
Richard, and if you will tell me where to
send a letter I will write down the address."

Then Richard walked about the room, and
made various remarks, and talked about
Laura's books, and went away, feeling that,
although at present they were companions
in misfortune, there was reason to hope
that for both of them things would come
right in the end.

It was rather hard on Mary that he

avoided her persistently for the rest of the
day, wor certainly she was not to blame,
and Peter's attentions were odious to her,
but she owed him civility as Mr. Hilton's
cousin and her fellow-guest, and she would
not let Richard's ill-humour influence the
behaviour which she judged to be right.

'^ I feel confident that you fully excuse
my change of plan, Allen, since I have
informed you of the importance of the
occasion," said Peter, drawing him a little
aside while the others were saying goodnight,
and Richard answered hastily —

*^ Oh, dear, yes ! it makes no manner of
difference to me," and turned to whisper to
Laura, '^ Remember your promise," and then
held out his hand to Mary, saying —

'' Good-bye, Miss Verney. I shall be off
too early to see any of you in the morning.
I hope I carry your good wishes for ' the
twelfth.' "

Mary's face turned a little pale, but she
merely answered, ^' Good-bye, I wish you
every success," and went up to her room,
while Edith stayed behind to assure Richard
that she should not fail to appear at the
breakfast-table at seven o'clock, and see the
last of him.

^^ Good-bye, Laura dear, and keep a good
heart as I shall," he said, following her to
the foot of the stairs, and to her own great
surprise, she turned back to give and receive
a cousinly kiss.

^^I wish you could have stayed on with
Peter," said Edith, as she gave him
his coffee the next morning, and being
alone with him hoped that he would tell hera
little of what was in his mind ; but
he did not feel at liberty to do so, and
scarcely wished it. Lt was better to
leave things alone for the present, and
he could hurry back at any moment

VOL. II. P

when Laura sent him word that the coast
was clear.

^^ Thank you, Edith. I don't think
Peter's society is much inducement, but I
hope I may look forward to a day or two
on my way back to town, if your house is
not full for September." Then Mr. Hilton
hurried in, and Edith was vexed that she
had not made more of her opportunity.

Mary made an effort to be more than
usually cheerful that day, and consoled
herself by a few sharp speeches to Peter,
who was for the moment a little dismayed,
and wondered if it were possible that
remiss Yerney's temper might have in ita
slight mixture of caprice." But he
comforted himself by thinking that when
once under his direction such a trifling
fault might soon be amended. However,
it was as well to do nothing without due
consideration, and as he was not now pressed

for time he would wait for a day or two
before bringing matters to a climax.

Mary was rather ashamed of allowing
her own vexation to influence her manner,
and before the day was over endeavoured
to make amends, so he soon forgot his
doubts and became more attentive than
ever, until she could no longer endure it
in silence, but went to Edith for sympathy.

'^ Of course, you will have to take your
turn; we all go through it," said Edith,
laughing. '' But I am very sorry that
you should be annoyed. What do you say
to staying with Adelaide for a day or two
until Peter has gone ? "

'^I should be thankful if she would
have me."

'' I am sure she would, with pleasure ; and
we might drive over to-day. I will just
speak to father about it, and Peter need
know nothing until you have gone."

^' But, Edith; I do not want you to
talk to your father about this stupid
business'

'you may be sure he has noticed it long
ago, he is well accustomed to Peter's ways,
so if you will see about your things, Mary, T
will go and talk to him."

But to her surprise her father hesitated,
and looked uncomfortable.

'' Well, I suppose I must betray Peter's
confidence and tell you about it, Edith, but
it must go no further, and Miss Verney
especially must have no hint of it. He
seriously wishes and hopes to marry her, and
has spoken to me about it."

'father!" exclaimed Edith, laughing
merrily; "how can you be so absurd,
and pretend to take Peter's attentions
seriously ? "

There is nothing absurd about it, my
dear," he answered a little irritably, for he

was not quite comfortable about the matter,
and felt that he should scarcely have allowed
attentions to his guest without knowing
her wishes, which he resented when paid to
his daughters. ^' It is the habit of all
of you to turn Peter into ridicule, and I
regret that I have not discouraged you, but
there is a great deal to recommend him
besides his kind heart, and Miss Verney
might do much worse than accept a goodman
and a comfortable home."

Edith felt frightened. This was a new
phase in her father's character, and she did
not know how to deal with it. She did not
dare to laugh any more, although the whole
thing still seemed too absurd to be spoken of
seriously, but she must make another effort
for her friend.

^^ I am quite sure, father, that Mary would
not listen to him for a moment, and as that
is so, surely it would be better for him as well

as for her that she should go away for a day
or two."

'' Perhaps it would, if you are certain that
she could not be persuaded to look upon the
matter in a sensible light ; but still I do not
see how I can consent to it after allowing
Peter his opportunity."

'soh, he knows that we do not always
consult you about our little plans, father ; and
this one was certainly made without your
knowledge, and really I do not think that
Mary can stand any more of him, and if she
stays here she will shut herself up in her
room for the greater part of the day while
his visit lasts."

swell, do what you think best, Edith,
this sort of thing is more in your line than
mine, although I have served a pretty severe
apprenticeship lately."

^' Poor father!" said Edith, kissing him.
^^ Who would be troubled with the management

of girls ? '' Then she went away and
ordered the carriage, and they arranged
so well that Peter, who had been
out for a walk, only saw them from the
distance.

Mrs. Paget was much amused at Mary's
flight, but sympathised heartily, and was
glad to receive her for a few days, and Edith
drove home rejoicing, but she felt a little
sorry for Peter when she saw how his face
fell as she drove up to the house alone, and
found him watching for their return.

'^ What have you done with Miss Verney
? " he asked anxiously.

adelaide has asked her to stay at the
Rectory for a few days, and I am just going
to send over some things for her," and
without waiting to watch the effect of
her news, Edith hurried in to give her
orders.

Peter took a turn or two up and down, he

was much put out and disappointed for the
moment, but felt that it was quite possible
that this visit might prove an advantage to
him. He could easily go over to the Rectory
the next day, and might even find a better
opportunity for speaking quietly to her there
than at Blithefield, and he was not quite
sure that this running away was not a good
sign. ^^ Young women were proverbially
uncertain where their feelings were concerned,
and it might be an innocent stratagem to test
his sincerity. Well, he could easily pardon
that, and perhaps it only added one more
charm to Miss Verney's pleasing character."
So before he went in he had smoothed his
ruffled feelings, and talked even more than
usual at dinner time to Bernard and a friend
whom he had brought with him, until Edith
wondered whether his feelings were indeed as
shallow as she had always supposed, and
Laura smiled to herself as she thought how

exactly a verse in the little green volume
Geoffrey had sent her fitted the occasion —

They were my friends, 'twas sad to part ;
Almost a tear began to start ;
But yet as things run on they find
That out of sight is out of mind."

CHAPTER XV

Peter's dignity.

*^I PROPOSE — with your concurrence, Wedge-wood
— to ride over and call on Mrs. Paget
to-day and see Miss Verney," said Peter,
the next morning after breakfast; for the
night had brought him uneasy thoughts,
and he felt by no means so complacent
about Mary's flight as he had on the
previous evening, and if she needed being
talked into a sensible frame of mind
the sooner the process was begun the
better.

^^You need not be in such a hurry,
Peter; I thought you would come over
to Mornington with me to that sale at

Ponsonby's, I hear there are some useful
farm horses to be sold," answered Mr.
Hilton, who was anxious to save Mary
from persecution.

^^ Under any other circumstances I should
be glad to go with you, Wedgewood, but
I confess that at present 1 am scarcely in
tune for such a busy scene. 1 propose to
make this day an important epoch in my
Use, and until my happiness is assured
beyond a doubt I am not equal to giving
my mind to other aft'au's. You will forgive
me, I feel convinced''

^' Oh yes, of com-se ! but, does it not
strike you that perhaps Miss Verney has
foreseen what you wish to say to her,
and has given you a delicate hint that her
answer would be unfavourable ? "

^' Yes, that has occurred to me, but
on the other hand we must remember
that it is in the nature of woman to desire

to be sought, and it may be that she
wishes to put me to a test."

^^ I do not at all think that she had
any such purpose," said Mr. Hilton, ^^but
if you have quite determined to speak
to her no doubt the sooner it is done
the better, for the sake of both of
you."

^^ Yes, thank you, Wedgewood, and, with
your permission, I will borrow the brown
cob ; but I should prefer that my young
cousins did not guess my errand until I
return and acquaint them myself with
my happiness."

'^ I shall say nothing you may be sure,"
answered Mr. Hilton, but he smiled to
himself as he thought how certainly Erica
with her quick eyes would notice his
departure and guess his errand.

Mary was sitting with Mrs. Paget and
the boys, deep in a book of nursery

rhymes, when Peter rode up to the
Rectory door.

'^ I am afraid this has not proved a
refuge, Miss Verney," said Adelaide,
smiling, '' for I see that Cousin Peter
has just arrived on father's brown cob,
and he is so carefully got up that I am
sure he has something special to say."

But I need not see him, you will let
me run away?" exclaimed Mary, rising
so hastily that book and work fell upon
the floor.

'^ I really see no use in putting it off,"
answered Adelaide. ^'It is quite evident
that he means to tell you what he has in
his mind, and if he does not see you
to-day he will come again tomorrow."

'^ But the very thought of listening to
him fills me with disgust," cried Mary,
then she quickly corrected herself. '' Of
course I ought not to speak like that of

your cousin, Mrs. Paget, but really I could
scarcely help it."

*' I can quite understand, and I am very
sorry for you, dear," said Adelaide kindly.
^^ It is an experience we have all gone
through with Peter, and none of us have
minded it much, it came as a matter
of course, but you are not accustomed to
him and take it more seriously. However,
I honestly believe that there will be no
use in your running away from him, he
will be sure to find his opportunity."

She had scarcely finished speaking when
Peter came in.

^' Perhaps I should apologise for my somewhat
untimely visit, Adelaide," he said,
holding her hand; 'but before I leave I
hope to make an adequate excuse. Miss
Verney, you were cruel to run away from
us, but you see the loadstone has drawn
the magnet ! "

Mary bowed coldly and in silence, but it
needed more than that to check Peter's self-complacence.
He praised Mrs. Paget's
needlework, patronised the boys, who listened
to his watch, climbed upon his knee,
and were not old enough to object to his
pompous manner, while they did discern
his kind heart, and really showed himself at
his best until, not possessing an opportunity
for speaking to Mary, he felt it necessary
to make one.

^' We were much disconcerted by your
abrupt departure yesterday. Miss Verney,
and as my time is short I came over hereto
have a little conversation with you."

Mary still said nothing, but Adelaide
interposed with kindly cruelty.

'' You might take Peter round the garden,
Miss Verney, while I go and order his
favourite curry for luncheon," and Mary
knew that it was useless to object.

^^ I fondly imagine that you are scarcely
ignorant of my purpose in coming here
to-day, Miss Verney," said Peter, when they
had got to a safe distance from the house.

'* Oh, of course I know ; you came to say
good-bye to Mrs. Paget — and to me, as you
will be going away so soon."

"No, that was not my object, far from it
indeed ! and I think, Miss Verney, you can
hardly have misapprehended me. I cannot
express myself better than in the words of
the poet —

All that in woman is adored,
In thy dear self I find —
For the whole sex can but afford
The handsome and the kind.'

And perceiving in you all other unspoken
virtues, you can scarcely be surprised at my
laying my hand and heart and humble
fortune at your feet."

I am sorry, Mr. Hilton ; but it is quite

impossible for me to accept the honour you
offer me," answered Mary, feeling self-possessed
now that the crisis had come.

'' Oh, my dear girl, do not decide too
hastily," said Peter, with an unconsciously
paternal air of familiarity, with which she
felt she ought not to be offended. ^^You
are young, you know, and perhaps hardly
know your own mind, and it will be my
pleasure and privilege to direct your steps
in those paths which we may tread
together."

'^ No," answered Mary firmly; ^^that can
never be ! Your paths and your guidance
would no doubt be excellent, but they would
not suit me, and I am sure you will feel that
there is no more to be said."

^^ Not at all! not at all ! I only admire
your womanly modesty and desire to be
won with difficulty, but you may rest
assured that you only appear the more

VOL. II.

charming in my eyes, as no doubt yon have
anticipated, and I am well content — "

^* I beg your pardon ; but I have given
you a decided answer, and you have no
right to say anything more to me on the
subject," interrupted Mary angrily, considering
in her own mind which pathway
afforded the quickest way of escape.

'' My dear Mary, I adore your bashful
unwillingness .! " began Peter, laying his
hand on her arm, but she abruptly shook it
off, and, facing him with angry eyes, she
said with warmth and decision —

'^ I beg that you will understand, Mr.
Hilton, that your proposal is extremely
disagreeable to me, and I shall consider
any further allusion to the subject a
liberty," and, before he could recover from
his astonishment, she took refuge in a side
path, which the gardener's boy was weeding.

He stood still for a few moments, and

then took a turn or two up and down,
realising after awhile what had happened.
The same adverse fortune which he had
encountered several times before was following
him now. The helpmeet who had
seemed appointed for him by Providence
had proved a delusion. She had refused
his honest affection ; scorned the advantages
he would have heaped upon her, and was
no longer deserving of regret. He had
forgiven his young cousins when they
rejected him, for with them there had
always been a lurking sense of unfitness —
they had far more than he to bestow — but
with Miss Verney it was widely different.
She was an orphan and homeless — not
penniless — or else he would not have felt
justified in paying his addresses to her,
for his own modest means would not suffice
for the whole bm-den of married life, and
it had seemed eminently fitting that they

two — both of them alone in the world —
should have journeyed through life together.
But no doubt he had been mistaken in his
estimate of her character. She did not
possess the sound good sense for which he
had given her credit, and that being so he
had no reason to regret her. No ! on the
whole, perhaps, it was a fortunate escape
from irretrievable error ! It would have
been a terrible calamity to discover after
marriage that exterior charms were the only
ones his wife possessed, and he ought indeed
to feel sincerely grateful to her for showing
herself to him in her true character.

After a few minutes of self-communing
he almost believed that he had himself
decided that the marriage would be imprudent,
and he both looked and felt so
cheerful when he went in to say good-bye
to Mrs. Paget that she imagined that nothing
of importance had passed on either side, and

was not a little amazed when he said —
almost with complacence —

^' This will be farewell for some little
time to come, my dear Adelaide. I shall
probably be leaving Blithefield tomorrow,
and my numerous engagements will prevent
my return for some considerable period.
Remember me to your excellent husband,"
and then he rode away, with nothing of the
disappointed lover in his appearance to call
for sympathy.

"Well, what has happened'' asked
Adelaide, when Mary came into the room a
few minutes later. '' Peter has been
saying an indefinite good-bye to me,
but he does not appear to be brokenhearted."


'• Oh dear, no I " I made myself so
disagreeable to him that he probably only
feels relief at getting rid of me," answered
Mary, laughing. ' ' I do not think his heart

will be broken this time. I believe it is a

case of —

Three days endured your love for me,
And it was lost in other three.'

My mind may be tolerably easy on his
account''

^' Yes, he takes that sort of thing with
philosophy," said Adelaide. ^' My chief
fear is that one day he will fall a victim
to some adventuress ; so far he has looked
too high, but I fear a reaction. However,
out of compliment to you, I suppose we
may consider him safe for a little time to
come."

Peter had far too high an opinion of what
was due to his own dignity to reappear at
Blithefield in the light of a disconsolate
suitor, and as he disliked the idea of
getting in as luncheon was over, and the
brown cob was still quite fresh, he rode
on to Mornington, where, meeting with

Captain Bonar, they had a beefsteak together
at the ^^ Prince of Wales's" and
played a few games of billiards, so that
it was late in the afternoon before he
returned.

Mr. Hilton was taking his usual stroll up
and down the terrace before dinner and
Peter joined him.

^^ Well, how have you fared?"

^^ A difficult question to answer, my dear
Wedgewood ! Miss Verney and I have
discovered that we are unsuited to each
other, and it is most fortunate that we have
found it out in good time ; on the other
hand, I am of course disappointed that
she should not prove to be the second
self I had hoped to find in her."

Mr. Hilton laughed quietly, but with
much , enjoyment.

^* So she would have nothing to say to
you, Peter?"

^'As I intimated before, she succeeded
in proving to me that we are unsuited,"
answered Peter, with dignity. 'sand as
I should be sorry to be the cause of her
absenting herself from Blithefield, I will,
with your consent, renew my interrupted
engagements and travel up to Scotland
tomorrow."

^^ You will scarcely think of joining
Allen — shall you?"

'^ I propose to do so. Knowing his plans,
I have little doubt that I shall be able to
come across him at some point of his
route."

^'If you take my advice you will let
him alone for the present. Why, my
dear fellow, did it never occur to you
that you were rivals ? "

^^No, indeed, Wedgewood, such an idea
has not crossed my brain I'' answered Peter,
with surprise and deep vexation, and after

a moment or two of silence, he turned
towards the house, saying —

*^ With your permission I will now retire
to prepare for dinner. I am somewhat dusty
and travel-stained after my long ride."
And Mr. Hilton almost wished that he had
held his tongue, but Richard was quick-tempered,
and had been much annoyed at
pretensions which he considered an impertinence
on Peter's part, and it was probable
that a meeting just then would lead to a
quarrel between them.

Peter was usually quiet during the
evening, and even the next morning had
not quite recovered himself, for somehow
the idea of a rival upset him more than
the fact of Mary's rejection, and the
necessity of avoiding Richard disarranged
the plans he had made for weeks to come.
But although even Erica felt sorry for
him, they all knew that his vexation would

quickly pass away, and fortunately during
breakfast lie remembered that some friends
who had gone to Homburg had suggested
his joining them there, an inspiration
which enabled him to say good-bye with
comparative cheerfulness.

^' It is no use for you to ask me, for I shall
not tell you a word about what happened,"
said Mary, when Edith drove over to the
Rectory, to take her back to Blithefield.
^'And if you will not think it unpleasant
of me, Edith dear, I should rather like to
accept an invitation which I got this
morning from my cousins near Canterbury.
I am , I feel "

^ ^ A little upset by all the worries there
have been lately? I am sure I do not
wonder," said Edith, kissing her; ^^ I am
only sorry because we shall have a good
many people here in time for the first
and I looked forward to your help

you."

^'I can come back when you want me,"
answered Mary, ^'but if you do not mind
I will go away for a few weeks first."

And so it was settled, and Laura, as she
had promised, wrote and told Richard all
the news. It was such an event for her
to get a letter that, when the answer came,
and she did not offer to show it to anybody,
her father felt puzzled and a little uneasy,
but he knew that he had no right to be
suspicious of her without good reason, and
two or three days later she started with the
Bonars for Folkestone.

CHAPTER XVI.

Laura's recall.

The Bonars found Folkestone pleasant and
healthy, and having old friends there, who
introduced them to new ones, they had no
want of society, and as Laura also not
only improved in health, but became more
cheerful and talkative, and seemed thoroughly
to enjoy the change of life, they prolonged
their stay into September, for Captain
Bonar, although enthusiastic over pheasant-shooting,
cared little about partridges.

Laura was the least troublesome visitor

they could have had. Mrs. Bonar did not

ike to let her go about much by herself,

so she started off in the mornings with

the nurses and children ; and while they
established themselves in some pleasant,
sheltered nook, she wandered away where
she pleased, with one of Geoffrey's books
as companion, returning to them at a stated
time to get back for the mid-day dinner,
after that she was ready to be with Janet
as much or as little as she pleased for
the rest of the day.

The great advantage that Laura found
in her new surroundings was that every one
took it for granted that she would be
pleasant and sociable. There was no tradition
of disagreeable manners to be fought
against, as there was at Blithefield, and inconsequence
she felt at liberty to be her
natural self, and always the self widened
and sweetened by Geoffrey's influence.
Sometimes she longed for the little blue
study with its associations, but on the whole
she was well contented with her present

surroundings. But one day, when she came
in with the nurse and children for the early
dinner, Janet met her with a grave face.

^'I have just had a letter from father,
Laura'' she said, '' which puzzles me and
makes me uneasy. I do not know whether
you will be able to explain it. He sent
Mrs. Hughes off with it last night, she slept
in London at her daughter's, and came on
here as early as she could."

Laura looked frightened, it must be something
serious for such an important personas
Mrs. Hughes, the housekeeper, to be
sent such a distance.

'^ Is any one ill?" she asked.

^^No, but father says you are to go back
immediately. Laura, have you done anything
wrong that I know nothing about ?
Anything to make him very angry ? "

^^No, Janet — nothing," answered Laura,
with a sinking heart.

^^ I cannot think what it can be," her
sister went on ; ^' but here is his letter."

'' My Dear Janet, — I have sent Mrs.
Hughes to bring Laura back, and I beg
that you will start them off as soon as
possible. I fear that I have grave reason
to find fault with Laura, and that she has
persuaded others into wrong-doing; and it
is necessary that she should come home at
once to answer for her own conduct — if
not for theirs.

' In haste, your affectionate father,

Wedgewood Hilton."

'^I have no idea what it means," said
Laura, when she had carefully read it
through several times.

Mrs. Hughes says she has orders to
say nothing, but she let slip that it was
something to do with Ellis and Morris," said
Janet.

Laura's face flushed. ^^ Janet, it is just
possible that it may be something about
Geoffrey Poland. You know he came one
night, and Ellis saw him and talked to
him, and Morris met him in the park ; but
I told father myself that he had been there,
and he can have no farther cause for being
angry'*

'' My dear Laura, how very unfortunate
that the servants should have been brought
into the matter!"

'^ It is all father's fault from beginning to
end'' cried Laura. '^ He would not let
Geoffrey write to me openly and harmlessly,
and he was obliged to do so in secret ; he
knew that I should need to hear from him
before he went away for such a long time,
and he used the only means he could. Of
course, he would gladly have avoided seeing
the servants, but unfortunately they came
in his way. Ellis told me about it the same

night, and the subject has never been mentioned
between us since, excepting once,
when she told me that Morris had seen him
too. If father is angry with me, it is for
some imaginary cause ; he has known for
weeks past of Geoffrey's visit."

'' Poor child ! I am grieved to think of
any fresh difficulty for you," said Janet,
gently. '' And I shall not know a moment's
peace until I hear what has happened.
Walter has been looking for you everywhere
and we have packed your things, for
you must be off in half an hom Now,
come and have some luncheon before
you go."

But Lam-a felt sick with anxiety and could
eat nothing, and felt irritated as well as
miserable, because Mrs. Hughes either could
not or would not tell her anything.

^^ If you say the word I will come with
you, Laura," said her brother-in-law, as he

VOL. II. R

and his wife went with her to the station to
say good-bye.

^^Oh, no thank you, Walter; you could
not help me." she answered, with eyes full
of tears.

^' Do not be vexed with me," he went on,
*^ but believe me it will do you no good to
fight against your father'*

^^I have no wish to fight against him or
any one," said Laura, hopelessly. ^' I can
only suppose that he wishes to get rid of
me, and has found some excuse, but it is no
fault of mine." Then there was no time
for more than sympathising kisses before the
train started.

The journey to town passed in silence.
Mrs. Hughes was tired, from unusual
travelling, and slept peacefully ; and after
a weary hour of waiting in London, and
a quick run down to Mornington, they
reached Blithefield before dinner was over;

and Laura hurried up to her room, noticing
with dismay that an under groom had met
them at the station instead of Morris, and
that one of the housemaids waited upon
her in place of Elis.

In a few minutes, dinner being over,
Edith came to her, and would have kissed
and welcomed her, but she stood aloof.

*^ I have been brought back as if in disgrace,
Edith ; I must understand it all and
clear myself before I can kiss you or touch
your hand. I have no doubt that father has
told you what is in his mind, and what new
reason he has found for making me miserable
and disgracing me in the eyes of every one ;
but until I know what fault he has to find
with me I will keep myself apart."

^^ Indeed, I can tell you almost nothing,"
answered Edith, sadly. '' Father is so
terribly put out that he will scarcely speak
to us ; but I believe that it is something todo

with Morris. He was caught poaching the
other day, and father was going to dismiss
him at a moment's notice, when he said that
you would speak for him, and Ellis knew the
reason ; and then father sent for her, and I
expect was very angry ; but I am not sure
what happened, for he has not let her come
near us since, and I believe she is to leave
tomorrow." Laura's face brightened a
little.

'^ If father will listen to me, I think I can
put all that right, Edith. Ellis has done
nothing wrong. When will he be ready to
see me ? "

"• Not until tomorrow morning, he told me
to tell you."

'' He can scarcely expect " began

Laura, but she checked herself. '' Well,
never mind. Now Edith, please go away, I
would rather be alone."

^^ There is supper ready for you in the

blue study — shall I not go there with
you?"

^^ No, thank you; but I suppose I must
have something' answered Laura, wearily.
She had eaten nothing since breakfast, and
felt faint, and she would want strength for
the interview which she fully intended to
have with her father before she went to bed.
He might wish to put off explanation until
the morning, but to her it was unendurable,
and as soon as she heard him go into his
study after prayers, she would go down and
speak to him. She dreaded the meeting
inexpressibly, but it was better than suspense,
which was as cruel to Ellis as to herself.

Meanwhile, instead of going into the
drawing-room as usual, Mr. Hilton went
straight to this study after dinner. Laura
could scarcely be more miserable than he; for,
as usual, he had acted on impulse in sending
for her and repented it immediately, and yet

felt that it was due to himself to keep up an
appearance of righteous and well-assured
severity.

Two days before Morris had been found
by one of the keepers with a gun in his hand
and a pheasant in his pocket, and was of
course unable to deny his misdeed. He had
been suspected before, but nothing had been
proved against him, and he was such a
respectable and trustworthy servant in every
other way that Mr. Hilton was inclined to
shut his eyes to suspicions. But now that
the case was proved against him beyond a
doubt, and was known to every one on the
estate, the matter could not be passed over,
although, in consideration of his good character,
Mr. Hilton refused to prosecute, giving,
instead, notice to leave at the end of a week.

Morris was terribly distressed; he had
been about the place ever since he was a boy,
and felt himself completely one of the family.

The ^^ young ladies" had been his especial
charge, and he had been proud to teach them
to drive, or to jump the low fences in the
park on their ponies. Thoroughly honest,
steady, and sober, the one temptation he
could not resist was a shot at the pheasants
for the pure love of sport, for what to do
when he had shot them was always a puzzle,
and he generally left them lying where they
fell. He knew well that by every shot he
fired he ran the risk of losing his place ; for
Mr. Hilton was unmerciful to poachers on
principle, but there was an awful pleasure in
it, all the greater because seldom indulged,
and there were moments when his good
character seemed scarcely so weighty as
three or four cartridges in his pocket. He had
always had a blind confidence that he should
somehow escape undetected when the shooting
fever became too strong for him, and he
was not sure that Thornage — the bailiff —

had not now and then winked at his misdemeanors's
; but Jackson, the new under
keeper, had no reason for screening him, and
would of course have considered it a breach
of duty ; so, to the regret of every one, he was
hauled up before his master red-handed, and
Mr. Hilton felt that he had no choice but to
dismiss him.

Having exhausted all his eloquence in
protestations— not of innocence, but of
blamelessness for the future, Morris, at his
wit's end, said a few words which he regretted
as soon as they were spoken. '^ Ask
Miss Laura, sir ; she'll tell you I can keep my
Avoid," he said, but felt immediately that, ashe
was not at liberty to speak of her reasons
for trusting him, he had better have been
silent.

^^ Why do you bring Miss Laura's name
into the matter, Morris?" asked Mr. Hilton
quietly, but a suspicion of underhand

dealing, which could only have reference
to one person, instantly rushed into his
mind.

Morris was terribly confused. swell,
sir, Miss Laura '11 tell you if I say I'll
do a thing I'll do it ! Ellis '11 tell you
too."

'^ 1 am glad that Miss Laura can give
you a good character on that point; but
you must, if you please, tell me what
reason she has for doing so," said Mr.
Hilton, speaking with studied moderation
from the excess of his anxiety.

Well, you see, sir," answered Morris
awkwardly, ^^I says to Miss Laura, I'll
hold my tongue, and I've done it ; Ellis
'11 tell you as I've kep' my word to her, and
I'll keep it to you, sir, if you'll take it."

Mr. Hilton was puzzled and disquieted.
What occasion could there have been for
the man to make a promise to his young

mistress to which it was evident that he
attached so much importance? He could
scarcely ask him to break his word, that
would be setting an altogether wrong
example, and his only hope was that by
speaking to Ellis he should gain some
clearer knowledge of what had occurred.
It was a long time before he took any
further notice of Morris, who stood expectant
and anxious before him.

^^I should indeed be glad," he said at
length, ^^ if Miss Laura could give me
such evidence of your trustworthiness as
should enable me to believe in your
word, but at present I fear that I have
shown almost undue indulgence by not
prosecuting you, and for the sake of
example, I wish you to leave at a week's
notice. You will not be required to do any
work for me during that time, and you
can employ yourself in looking out for a

new place. I shall be glad to give you
the best character I can with honesty."

*^ Oh, sir, give me a chance ! " cried
Morris eagerly. ^* I'll never shoot a head
o' game o' yours, not if I starve! Ask
Miss Laura if I can't keep my word ! "

^* That will do, Morris. I have told you
the utmost I can do for you," said Mr.
Hilton sternly, grieved and displeased by
this second appeal to his daughter; and
Morris went away dejectedly, feeling as
if the good of life was over for him.

As soon as he had gone Mr. Hilton rang
the bell, and desired that Ellis should be
sent to him. Her engagement to Morris
was well known, and Stephens was scarcely
surprised at the summons.

Ellis came after a few moments' delay,
frightened but firm. No doubt she was
to be told that she must give up either
her place or her lover ; and much as shoved

the young ladies there was no doubt
that Morris must come first. She was
therefore not a little surprised when Mr.
Hilton begun —

'^ 1 have sent for you, Ellis, to clear up
a point which Morris has left doubtful.
I am sorry, both for his sake and yours,
that he should have allowed himself to
give way to temptation. He is anxious
to give me his word that he will not
offend again, and has told me that both
you and he can trust to Miss Laura to
say that he will not break it. In her
absence I desire you to tell me what
reason she has for so trusting him."

Ellis stood for a few moments considering.
It was evident that Morris, in his difficulty,
had made a foolish blunder in bringing
in Miss Laura's name, and it was hard to
know how to get out of it. Neither she
nor Mr. Poland had asked either of them

for the promise of silence which they had
freely offered, and which seemed even more
binding than if demanded. She did not,
of course, know that Laura had told her
father of Geoffrey's recent visit ; and as
she had held her tongue for weeks, she
resolved to do so now at all hazards. If
Miss Laura chose to come forward and
prove that Morris's word was to be trusted,
all might yet go well, but they must wait
and see whether this would happen. So,
after a long silence, she could only say
hesitatingly —

*^ Miss Laura knows us well, sir — she
knows Morris won't break his given
promise."

'^ That is all nothing," interrupted Mr.
Hilton, irritably. '^ Of course, I know that
he is trustworthy on most points, but he
has given me to understand that Miss
Laura can tell me an especial reason for

believing his word, and that you know it,
and it will save a great deal of trouble
if you tell me at once what that reason is."

^^No, sir, I cannot tell you," answered
Ellis, firmly and respectfully. ^^ We've
passed our word to Miss Laura, and we
won't neither of us break it."

'sit is a pity that both of you should
lose your places for an imaginary point of
honour ; it is scarcely probable that Miss
Laura has any secret matter of importance
to confide to you," said Mr. Hilton, who had
no idea of how to talk to his servants,
excepting on every-day matters, and left
everything else to his daughters, and then
ashamed — but unable to control his
anxiety, he went on after a moment's pause :
^' I shall, however, be disposed to pass over
your want of respect towards me in refusing
to answer my questions, if you can assure
me that you have been in no way connected

with private communications or the carrying
of letters unknown to me, from — from
anyone to Miss Laura''

^'I humbly beg your pardon, sir, but 1
can give you no answer, it's Miss Laura's
business," answered ElKs ; and it was then
that Mr. Hilton, after angrily forbidding
her to wait any more upon the ladies,
gave her a month's warning, and sent off
Mrs. Hughes with scarcely a word of
explanation on her ill-advised visit to
Folkestone.

CHAPTER XVII.

EXPLANATION.

The blue study, with a bright little fire incase
she should feel cold after her journey,
for it was now the middle of September,
and a dainty little supper, with plenty of
hot coffee, laid out upon a low table before
which her favourite chair was placed, gave
Laura a welcome which was as pleasant as
it was unexpected, and her heart warmed
towards Edith, who had no doubt ordered
these preparations in token of her sympathy.
Feeling rested and refreshed, and tolerably
hopeful that she should be able to explain
and set matters right, she was waiting
anxiously for the time when she might

expect to find her father alone in the study,
when there was a low knock at the door,
and Ellis came in, looking anxious and
nervous.

^^ Oh, Miss Laura," she said, 'they're
all just gone in to prayers, and I've run
out of my room to tell you that master must
send us away if he likes, but neither Morris
nor me '11 ever say a word about
Mr. Poland."

Laura felt indescribably annoyed. There
was something almost disgusting to her in
the idea of a secret understanding between
herself and the servants for which they
suffered; and yet she could not but keenly
appreciate their loyalty.

'' I am afraid there has been a mistake
somewhere, Ellis, which has done harm tous
all," she said. ^^ I am sure you and
Morris have done everything which is kind
and honourable. It did not strike me to

VOL. II. s

tell you that my father knew of Mr. Poland's
Visit. I told him myself, and I am afraid
that yon have been putting yourselves in
difficulties for nothing — and me, too, for the
matter of that ; but I hope now that I shall
he able to put it all right."

Ellis was puzzled, but there was no time
ior explanation. She had been forbidden
to speak to the young ladies, and could not
venture to stay longer than the few minutes
while prayers lasted. She could not at all
understand Miss Laura's apparent indifference.
She had supposed that keeping
the secret of Mr. Poland's visit was a matter
of importance not only to him but to her
young mistress, and she scarcely felt firm
ground under her feet when assured that
it was all nothing. Was it for this that she
was losing her place and character ? She
forgot for the moment that the promises
made by her and by Morris had been

voluntary — they had been neither besought
nor bribed — '^ a fellow feeling" had urged
them both to give what comfort they
could to apparently unhappy lovers, and
their promise, which had seemed at the time
an easy thing to give, had been accepted as
freely as it was offered. But now, when —
although it was from their own want of
judgment — it had assumed larger proportions,
it seemed hard that it should be
undervalued. It was all very well for
Miss Laura to say that her father knew all
about it — that did not make their silence
of less importance. How they might have
talked and gossipped ! What a great and
never-ending scandal they might have made
if they had been unscrupulous ! And now,
when both of them might be losing their
places from keeping their word, she turned
round and said, '^ it was nothing."

Laura, glancing suddenly at Ellis's blank

face, guessed something of what was in
her mind.

^'It is not that I in the least undervalue
your kindness and Morris's in keeping
silence," she said. ^^ The matter might
have caused me much annoyance, although
it was not very important; but I am so
much vexed with myself for not having told
you that my father knew of Mr. Poland's
coming. He was angry about it, but that
was better than keeping it a secret, and of
course he would wish, as I do, that it should
not be made a subject of gossip."

'^ But, Miss Laura, can you explain to him,
and will he let us stay ? "

'^ I will certainly tell him about it, and I
have little doubt that he will let you stay ;
but I do not know about Morris — poaching is
so serious, you know."

Ellis burst into tears. '^ Oh, Miss Laura,
if Morris is turned away and gets into bad

company that'll become of him ? and he so
steady now! Times and times I've said,
^ You're little better than a fool, Morris, to
go risking your place for them nasty
pheasants — which you never taste.' And he
just seems as if he couldn't help it. Oh,
Miss Laura, I must run away or Mrs. Hughes
'11 catch me and scold ever so."

And Ellis hastily retreated, while Laura
sat down by the fire, trying to control her
unreasonable terror of the coming interview.
She had been so offended, so distressed, so
wounded by her father's behaviour about
Geoffrey all through, that it was unspeakably
painful to her that the subject should be
revived between them. She had nothing
to tell him, not a word or line to prove
Geoffrey's honour ; but she was not disappointed,
for she had not expected it, nor
would she wish to see him again until this
^^ passing weakness" of which he had told

her had died away, and he could come to
her without a doubt of her place in his life.
But not a word of this could she explain,
matters were just as they were, but although
while she grew a little weary she was never
distrustful, she could not expect others to
believe blindly in honour which in their eyes
had never been proved.

Presently there was a knock at the door,
and Edith came in to say good-night.

^^ You will not stay up worrying yourself
over it all night, Laura?" she said anxiously.

*' Oh, no ! thanks to the supper you have
given me I am quite refreshed, and since I
have had a talk with Ellis I think I can put
things nearly right. Has father gone to his
study ? "

^^Yes, but you won't disturb him there,
Laura ? "

'' Certainly I must. Do you think poor
innocent Ellis or I could sleep if T did not

explain it all to him ? It will not be my
first difficult visit there !"

^ You are braver than I am, Laura ; I
should be frightened to death if I saw father
very angry."

^'That is because you love each other,"
said Laura, simply, unconscious of the dreariness
of her speech. ^^ And now Edith, goodnight,
I will go at once before my courage
fails."

But when her sister had gone, after a
kiss which she now no longer refused, she
stood for many necessary minutes to prepare
herself, and then hurried down the wide
dim staircase and knocked at the study door.
Her father was sitting with a newspaper in
his hand, vainly endeavouring to give his
attention to it, and as Laura went quietly in
he looked so anxious and troubled that a new
sense of compassion for him came over lier
and made her first words settle.

^^I wanted to speak to you to-night,
fathers' she said, ^^ for we are all in trouble
until I have explained." And her manner
influenced his, and checked the angry impatience
with which at first he was inclined
to greet her.

'^I would rather put off explanation until
the morning, Laura ; I desired Edith to tell
you."

^' She did tell me, but I came because I
am sure you will be glad, father, as I am,
that it has all been a misunderstanding, and
no one is to blame."

Of course to Laura the crime of poaching
fell into the background of importance
in comparison with the other charge against
Morris and Ellis.

Mr. Hilton got up and stood with his
back to the fire.

^^ I shall be glad, indeed, if you can prove
that," he said; " but I am afraid that even

you can scarcely say that with a gun in
his hand a pheasant came into Morris's
pocket by accident."

^^No, but T have not got to interfere
with that ! I want you to tell me what
you have against me and against Morris
and Ellis for my sake, and then I hope to
prove that it is all nothing."

^^ What I have against you," answered
her father, slowly, watching her carefully,
^' is that you have used Morris and Ellis
as messengers between yourself and Mr.
Poland after I have forbidden you to have
anything to do with him."

He fully believed this to be true, although
on slight foundation.

^' I have done nothing of the kind,
father," answered Laura, firmly.

'' Can you deny that both of these
servants saw and talked to him on his last
secret and most dishonourable visit?"

'^ No, I have no reason for denying it,
they both saw him and talked to him, but
understanding that he came from necessity
not choice, they gave an unasked for
assurance that they would say nothing.
The whole difficulty has arisen from my
dislike to mentioning the subject. I ought
to have told them that you knew from me
of Mr. Poland's ^dsit, but I did not do so,
and they have nobly kept their promise of
silence to him and to me."

Mr. Hilton felt that the explanation was
reasonable, and could scarcely avoid being
convinced, and at heart he was glad, but
he was placed in a painful and humiliating
position, and could not see how to come oat
of it with dignity. stifle he stood silent
and embarrassed Laura spoke again.

'^ You will believe my word, father, and
allow Ellis to stay — will you not ? And
T am sure with all my heart that you may

trust Morris too, if he gives you a
promise."

'^ Ellis can stay, of course ; I suppose she
has not been to blame ; as to Morris, I must
take time to consider, Laura. I am sorry — "

*^ Please, don't say a word to me, father I "
interrupted Laura, eagerly. ^' I think you
will trust me better now, and all that I care
for is that every one in the house should
know that Ellis has done nothing wrong."

** I will see to that. Kiss me, my dear,"
said her father, and then she went away
without another word.

Edith was watching at her door as she
passed along the passage.
^^ It is all right, father understands it all,
I am going to tell Ellis," she said; and
Edith went back to her room and cried
with relief, and went quietly to sleep, but
Laura lay awake far into the night, wondering
when these difficulties would be over.

and wearying for the day to come when
Geoffrey would stand between her and her
troubles.

The breakfast room at Blithefield, in
which prayers were held, had two doors
in the same wall, a few feet apart, which
Erica declared were made expressly as a
tribute to the dignity of Mrs. Hughes, that
she might come in and go out at the head
of the long procession of servants without
turning round.

Mr. Hilton, however, had never perhaps
properly appreciated the value of this
arrangement until the morning after Laura's
return, when, prayers being over, his abrupt
exclamation, 'mrs. Hughes," of necessity
arrested the whole party, so that every one
could hear the few words he had to say.

'' I wish to tell you, Mrs. Hughes, and I
am glad that all the servants should hear
me, that Miss Laura has explained to my

full satisfaction the matter in which I
believed Ellis was to blame. I regret having
found fault with her without cause, and I
wish you to request her in my name to
continue her services to the young ladies."

'' Yes, thank you, sir, and we're all glad
to hear it," answered Mrs. Hughes, and
with admirable discretion led out her party
without another word.

Erica stared at Laura with new-born
respect that she should have been able to
bring about such a revolution, and the three
or four visitors present felt awkward ; but
Laura had been through more uncomfortable
scenes than this, and sat dowTi to breakfast
with tolerable composure, and Bernard, who
was in the habit of coming over early, and
had nearly equalled Edith in his anxiety to
know what would happen, gave her a
brotherly pat on the back as he went to his
place, which giving Erica an excuse for

laughing, put them all at their ease
again.

Later in the morning Morris had a * ^ hard
time " in his master's study. It was not only
that Mr. Hilton held poaching in hatred and
contempt, but that he felt that he was
risking his reputation amongst his fellow
'game preservers by letting him off at all,
and certainly it should not be done
easily.

But the matter was difficult, for he had
strong scruples about exacting promises.

^^ I do not wish to burden either your
conscience or my own in that way, Morris''
he said. ^^ If you gave me your word
and failed to keep it you would add heavily
to your present fault, and I should in some
measure feel myself to blame. I must
therefore take precautions, and shall require
an explanation of your presence every time
you are seen in the woods, and on the first

suspicion which T consider well-grounded,
you must leave my service."

eyes sir, thank you sir," answered
Morris, touching his forehead several times ;
'^ but if you please, sir, may I drive the
young ladies?"

^^ Oh yes, of course, your work will be
just the same. If I did not think sufficiently
well of you to allow of that I should dismiss
you at once."

And then Morris left the study with a
light heart and many excellent resolves.

CHAPTER XVIII.

SETTLING D0\\^\

Richard Allen, after a somewhat disturbed
and half-hearted pursuit of grouse in Scotland,
was suddenly called back to town,
and detained there on business for three
or four weeks ; so that it was the end of
September before he was at leisure to run
down to Blithefield and see what effect
absence had had upon his own feelings
and Miss Verney's.

Meanwhile the Hiltonss had been entertaining
one set of guests after another,
an occupation which Edith and her father
thoroughly enjoyed, for although Mr.
Hilton was scarcely equal to a long day

over the stubble himself, he took a
personal pride in every good bag that
was made, and was especially pleased
this year, because beyond all comparison
Bernard proved himself the best shot of
the party, for he had been a keen sportsman
in India, and had disdained nothing that
came in his way, from tigers to quails,
being a man who went in for things whole-learnedly,
and with content, knowing that
great prizes would not fall to his share
every day. Nor did he lose hope or
patience because the great prize of his
life seemed no nearer to his hands as the
weeks went on.

Edith had found it easy to recover her
spirits in Laura's absence, when there was
no sad face to vex her, and no ever-present
sense of self-reproach to trouble and irritate
her, and Bernard almost grieved over her
apparently perfect content, which left little

VOL. II. T

room for him. And yet if he could have
looked into her heart he would have seen
that she could not hide from herself that
every day she found fresh reason for liking
him, and for admiring not only his wise
management of his own estate but his
unobtrusive influence over her father in
matters which she had long and vainly
wished to alter.

Perhaps if these things had not been
brought before her every day she would
have still better appreciated them ; a sharp
inconsistency now and then would have
thrown his usually reasonable character into
relief ; an error of judgment would have
shown her how clear-sighted his common
views were; while even an occasional fit of
ill-temper would only have called her attention
to his ordinary connnand over himself.
She was not conscious of what was
wanting to kindle her respect and liking

into love ; she only knew that when she
allowed herself to think of the future,
which was not often, she felt a vague
discontent at the dead level of ease and
comfort and protecting care which seemed
to lie before her, and which would scarcely
leave room for her own individuality. She
was a necessary part of everything at
Blithefield, and Bernard would make her
the same at Offord ; but she could only bea
comparatively small 23art, and she sometimes
envied even Lam^a, because, although
she was of small importance in the world,
she held her little place entirely because
of what she was herself.

It also vexed Edith not a little that most
of her guests seemed to take it for granted
that there was or would be an engagement
between herself and Bernard, and sometimes
she made such efforts to prove her
indifference that he smiled quietly, as if

in indulgence of a spoiled child, and,
following her lead, would markedly avoid
her for a few hours ; and then she would
feel that this was not exactly what she
wanted, and in private even shed a few
tears of vexation.

One or two of the guests had come to the
house, attracted not so much by the goodness
of the sport as by the fair young mistress ;
and for the first day or two, before they
saw how the land lav, had made themselves
very agreeable ; but the light in which Mr.
Hilton regarded Bernard, although shown
unconsciously, was so unmistakable, that
good taste seem to oblige them to drawback,
and Edith, having her full share of
love of admiration, felt this to be a grievance,
although she could not deny that Bernard
showed to advantage amongst them all, and
was a lover of whom any girl might be
proud.

Bernard felt tolerably confident that
matters would come right for him in the
end ; but he would clearly not be fulfilling
his part of the contract with Edith if he
did not leave her perfectly free to become
acquainted with the excellencies of other
people, and compare them with his own. He
therefore refrained from specially seeking
her society in those days ; and having taken
a liking to Laura, whom he found an intelligent
companion, and although curiously
ignorant of ordinary subjects of interest,
none the less interesting herself for that,
he gave a good deal of his time to her,
both to her pleasure and profit Books,
pictures, music, and all other things which
make life pleasant and beautiful, interested
her now, since she had known Geoffrey,
with all the charm of novelty, and the confidences
she gave to Bernard concerning her
excursions of discovery into each in turn

both touched and amused him. It was
he who suggested that a seldom-used piano
should be sent up to the blue study ; it was
lie who laughingly brought her a shilling
paint-box, desiring her to show what she
could do with that, and promising, if she
proved herself worthy, to present her with
one of greater value ; but, what perhaps gave
her most pleasure of all, he entrusted her with
a key of the fine old library at Offord,
which was kept locked whilst the workmen
were about, and told her to borrow what
books she pleased.

Laura was glad to have the piano, but
discovered, after a fortnight's plodding, that
she had no taste — at least for that style of
music ; but with her paint-box she was more
successful, and although she discovered that,
at any rate without teaching, it was useless
to attempt anything more ambitious than
flower painting, she was herself sm-prised

at her success in that, for the delicate and
elaborate silk embroidery to which she had
given so much of her time had trained both
eye and hand.

Bernard was beginning to share in the
general belief at Blithefield that they had
seen the last of Geoffrey Poland. There
was no known reason why he should not
have come forward long ago if he had so
wished ; but he seemed to have dropped
altogether out of the world which had
formerly known him, and Mrs. Mathewson,
writing from Switzerland, had mentioned in
each letter lately that she knew nothing
about him, excepting that he had left
Talavera and gone further south. If it
should be that Laura was never to see him
again, it was an ahiiost necessary kindness
to bring some fresh interests into her life,
and Bernard saw that her own family were
quite unable to be of service to her in this

way. Her father had an ever-present consciousness
of having treated her hardly ; and
although he would have wished to give hers
various indulgences, felt an awkward ignorance
how to begin, and so let the matter
slide. Edith felt more warmly towards her
sister than in days gone by, but distinctly
recognised that there could never be genuine
cordiality between them ; while Erica declared
that Laura was always developing
in new directions and she was almost afraid
to look at her.

Mary Verney was the only member of
the household who still believed in the
likelihood of Geoffrey's return. She understood
him better than the others ; and
although she did not possess the key to
his present conduct, she firmly believed
that he was only waiting for the moment
which he felt to be the right one to turn
the lock, and display to the world as much

as might be necessary of his motives. She
herself had returned to Blithefield after a
round of visits, feeling somewhat dull and
dispirited. Peter's attentions had been
disagreeable at the time, and had caused
her much annoyance ; but she had not
supposed that the effect would have lasted
after his dismissal, or that any one could
have misunderstood hers and she could not
hide from herself that she was not a little
vexed that during all these weeks Richard
Allen had shown no disposition to resume
the pleasant intercourse which Peter had
interrupted, and she bestowed a large
portion of the blame upon her unfortunate
and unsuccessful suitor.

Could it be possible that any one could
think that she had given him encouragement
? The thought was too horrible !
She had only shown him what she considered
necessary kindness and civility; but then

some men were — well, perhaps rather stupid
in these matters, and Mr. Allen, nice as he
was, might have this one weak point. She
had been back at Blitheiield for more thana
fortnight before it occurred to any one to
mention his name, excepting with the passing
information that he was very busy, but
hoped to run down for a day or two at
the pheasants by-and-by. She was, therefore,
taken by surprise, and felt the colour
which rushed into her face must betray her
to every one as no better than an impressionable
school-girl, when Mr. Hilton looked up
from a letter he was reading at the breakfast-table,
and said carelessly —

^^ Dick Allen hopes to run down this
evening, Edith, and says that if you cannot
conveniently put him up, he will ask Off or d
for a bed."

'soh, we can gladly find room for him,
father," answered Edith cordially ; and then,

with a sudden remembrance that the matter
would interest Mary, she looks round to
make some remarks to her, but, seeing her
discomfort, hastily turned away her eyes
again, and spoke to Erica instead.

'^ Some of you girls had better take
Morris and the ponies and meet him by the
six-o'clock train," Mr. Hilton went on ; and
the others having engagements, Laura said
she should like to go. She had an idea that
he might wish to ask her a question or two ;
and although she had nothing to tell him,
she might manage to give him an assurance
that there was no one in his way.

sewell, I call this good of you, Laura!"
he said heartily, when he and his guns
arrived at the station, and he came out to
the carriage and took the reins ; for he was
one of the few people whom Morris allowed
to drive the ponies. ''Do you know, if I
had been asked what I should like best, I

should have said a little talk with you.
Now, I am not going to waste the few
precious minutes by being shy over the
matter, so just tell me all about things
since friend Peter went away."

Laura found that, although she had so
little to tell, every word was interesting,
and he did not forget a delicate inquiry
about her own difficulties, instantly changing
the subject, however, when he saw that she
had nothing to say. They were both well
pleased with each other, and he looked so
happy as he jumped out of the carriage and
joined the party sitting on the lawn before
dressing for dinner, that Mary thought to
herself that he at least had not been
suffering from anxiety since they parted.
Edith did not send them in to dinner
together, for she knew that Mary would not
like it on that first evening ; so they had
little to say to each other until later,

when Richard seized a quiet moment, and
said —

^^ I hope sou do not forget, Miss Verney,
that you promised to walk with me through
the woods to Offord, and the promise has
not yet been fulfilled — will you come tomorrow
? "

^^ Surely the pheasants are of first importance
? " answered Mary, nervously.

"" I suppose some temporary disarrangement
of ideas, as our friend Peter would
say, makes you forget that ^o-morrow will be
only the thirtieth," said Richard, smiling.

'^ But, Mr. Allen, your jDath is no longer
new to me, I went through it a few days
aoo."

Richard looked vexed. '^ Of course, Miss
Verney, I shall not press you to go if you
do not like it," he said.

^^ But I should like it," answered Mary,
and then turned to speak to some one else.

^^I should say that would be a keen
sportsman," said Major Harper, who had
driven over with Captain Bonar the next
morning, laughing as he watched Richard
sauntering away with Mary, with much
apparent carelessness, towards the Offord
woods ; and Mr. Hilton smiled indulgently,
and had no wish to interfere, nor did he
put a single obstacle in the way when,
late in the morning, Richard came to him,
as the best representative of a father that
Mary possessed, and asked for his consent

and good wishes.

I am sm^e it is quite a blessing to have
a comfortable pair of lovers, who know their
own minds, in the house at last," said Erica
to Mrs. Bonar ; and her sister laughed and
agreed with her, and thought that in this
case it would be difficult to find a reasonable
objection.

CHAPTER XIX.

ANXIETY.

September had been brilliantly fine and
warm, and was perhaps the pleasantness time
of the whole year at Blithefield ; but October
began badly, and seemed determined to keep
up its character. Whole days of wind and
heavy rain stopped the shooting, and Edith
and Erica had to exert themselves to the
utmost to find interest and occupation for
their guests. The lovers, of course, could
not be expected to do much, but even they
occasionally awoke to the fact that time was
not passing quite so pleasantly for others
a for themselves, and would make some
spasmodic attempts at being more generally

agreeable. Indeed, every one did what they
could. Bernard came over one morning and
invited all those who were inclined to brave
the weather to go to Offord and ramble over
the old house, and have luncheon in the big
hall, an invitation which seemed to be
impromptu, but had really been devised
between himself and Edith the day before.
All were eager to go, those who were delicate
could drive ; but some of the company felt
that there were occasions on which ^' two
under an umbrella " was anything but an
unpleasant position.

Another day. Captain Bonar brought
over a band of strolling conjurors, from
Mornington, and made them give performances
in the big hall, which rather
interfered with dinner, but furnished much
subject for conversation, for of course
half the party were ready to declare that
the tricks were childishly simple, and could

be seen through in a moment, although they
wisely declined to put their assertions to
the test.

Bad as the weather was, Mr. Hilton
persisted in setting every one an example of
activity, and either rode or walked out
every day, returning in a soaked condition,
which caused his daughters great anxiety,
and seemed beyond the reach of ordinary
preventives. But at last one morning,
when least looked for, the sun shone
brightly through the windows of the
long southern front, and the faces
round the breakfast-table reflected its
brightness.

But an unusual thing happened — the
guests had to wait for their host ; and when
at last he did appear, and with a hurried
bow wished them all good morning, and
rang the bell for prayers, after the first few
words his voice failed, and touching

VOL. IT. U

Richard on the shoulder, he made him take
his place.

Perhaps Mary had never before admired
her lover so much as upon this occasion,
when he was called upon at a moment's
notice to conduct a service which he knew
little about, before a large parts of guests,
and a still larger one of servants ; but the
first tones of his full, deep voice reassured
her, and he went on unhesitatingly,
although there was scarcely a head in the
room that was not turned at the unexpected
sound.

^^ I don't know what to make of myself
this morning," said Mr. Hilton, when the
servants had passed out. ^'My bones are
aching, and my head going round ; and
if I had not had you to fall back upon,
Dick, I should have come off badly."

^^You must have caught cold, father
dear," said Edith, anxiously. '^ You have

been so obstinate about going out in the
wet, and now the sunshine has got into
your head. Make haste and drink some
hot coffee, it will do you good."

She made him give up his place at the
foot of the table, and sit beside her ; but
he could eat nothing, and although no one
seemed to notice him much, they all thought
him very ill. He insisted on going out to
see the sportsmen start, and to speak to
the dogs; but he soon went back again,
and, confessing himself beaten, was persuaded
to go to bed, and send for the
doctor.

Don't let a fuss be made about it,
Edith. I have got a chill somehow, I
bereave, that is all, and make Bernard take
my place in every way he can."

'^ No, you must let Richard do that,
father dear, it will be more fitting for him,
being a cousin, and staying in the house

and all," answered Edith, with embarrassment.


*^ I would much rather it was Bernard ;
but settle it amongst yourselves," said her
father, wearily, unconscious of the awkwardness
of the position in which he had
intended to place her; but Edith thought
of a still better arrangement, and sent to
beg Janet and Walter to come and stay fora
while, and it was fortunate that they could
come to share her responsibilities, for a
severe chill, caught in one of his imprudent
walks during the wet weather, turned to
rheumatic fever, and for a few days Mr.
Hilton was in great danger, during which
he could scarcely bear any one to come
near him but Edith and Bernard, and Mrs.
Hughes who nursed him indefatigably.
Janet stole in for a minute or two now
and then, but he scarcely noticed her, and
Laura and Erica vainly begged to be

allowed to do the same, one could not be
admitted without the other, and he shrunk
with unreasoning dislike from seeing
Laura.

Every hour that Bernard could spare
from overlooking his own affairs was either
spent in the sick room or in seeing that
matters went right at Blithefield. Neither
of Mr. Hilton's sons-in-law knew anything
about the management of an estate, and
the blind confidence he had in Bernard
eased his own mind of all anxiety while
it caused him many difficulties, by placing
him in a false position towards every one,
and towards Edith most of all. He was
scrupulously careful to take no advantage
of it, and to treat his temporary authority
as a mere matter of convenience; but he
could see that she felt the position keenly,
although he did not perceive that one-half
of her vexation was caused by a very

natural touch of wounded pride, because,
after all his trainiiiir and her wilUno: study
of his ways and ideas, her father passed
her over as if incapable, and gave the
government into other hands.

The visitors, of course, dispersed as soon
as the serious nature of the illness became
known : but the Bonars staved, and sirs.
Paget came for a few days, so the house
was saved from the desolate feeling of
unavoidable desertion. The few days of
anxiety and danger were terrible ones to
Laura. She hated scenes, she despised
sensational reconciliations and ever^i^hinsr
of the kind — it would have been torture to
her to see her father suffering and to be
able to do nothing to help him ; but she
felt a passionate desire to stand right in
his eyes, and that as he lay there in
danger of his life, if he thought of her at
all. it might be as of one whom he had

misjudged and who was now justified in
luH sight. Hie blamed herself for what was
past but with no morbid exaggeration ; the
fault had not been wholly hers, it dated
back 80 far that nie scarcely cared now
to think front whence it had sprung ; but
she felt that lie could almost give up the
fair hopes of future days if the weight of
her father's displeasure and want of love
could be lifted from her heart. Then the
time came wljen lie was pronounced out
of danger and even on the high road to
recovery, and she could see no reason
why he arid she should any longer be
estranged ; so watching her opportunity,
when Mrs. flushes was absent, she went
quietly into Isis room.

^^ I am glad you are getting on so well,
father," she said in a commonplace tone,
going up to his bedside and kissing him,
and he, with a sense of relief, as from the

lifting of a burden, held out his hand
and answered —

*eyes, my dear; thank God! I am
much better, and I am glad to see
you."

And then Laura, although not without
a quiver in her voice, for he still looked
terribly ill, told him how beautiful the
woods were looking in their autumn glory,
and that she hoped that in a few days he
would sit up and see them ; and then Mrs.
Hughes came back and she went away,
but not until her father had said —

^^ Come again tomorrow, my dear."

Mrs. Mathewson had come back to
town to arrange about the letting of her
house before going to Nice for the winter ;
and when she heard that the doctor
advised a few weeks at the seaside with
warm baths for Mr. Hilton, and that he
was in some perplexity, not caring to

transplant his whole household to St.
Leonardss, nor to leave his young
daughters behind, she wrote and offered
to take Erica abroad with her, and give
her the advantage of perfecting French
and Italian in a foreign city. Such an
opportunity was not to be expected again,
and Erica was wild to go ; but then came
the question, who was to be left at
Blithefield ?

Edith, of course, must go with her father,
and much wished for Mary's company for
the few weeks before her marriage, which
was to take place at Blithefield as soon as
they got back again ; but Laura could not be
left at home alone as the head of a large
household, nor could Mr. Hilton make up
his mind to shut up the house for the first
time in his life ; but at last, after much discussion,
Janet came forward and solved the
difficulty, by proposing that she and her

husband and children should transplant themselves
from Daisy Lodge, and keep Laura
company.

^^But, my dear, there is still a difficulty,
and I do not see how to get over it," said
her father, when he had expressed his entire
approval of the plan as regarded the household.
'^ You must not be offended when I
say that I could not put the management of
the estate under Walter s care ; he has, of
course, had no opportunity of learning to
understand such matters, and he might not
like to be here and see Bernard in authority,
for he has offered to manage everything forme
in my absence."

^' I don't think you need mind about that,
father," answered Janet; ^^for although lam
his wife, and prejudiced, I must say that
Walter has the very best temper and the
largest mind of any man I ever saw ; and if
you could only let him manage the stables

he would be perfectly happy, and he understands
that thoroughly."

"• With all my heart, I shall be grateful to
him for it : but Janet, it is a delicate thing to
suggest that he must leave everything else
to Bernard."

^^ Oh, I will put that all right, and if you
have no other difficulties, you may go to
St. Leonardss quite happily."

'^ Well, my dear, there are one or twa
more, but perhaps you can clear those away
also ; one is about Laura— supposing that
fellow should appear, what would you do ? "

^' Put it all right in five minutes,"
answered Janet. ^* Nothing can be easier
than to find out what he means, if he does
come ; but I am almost afraid he never will.
But, father, you may trust that to me as
comfortably as you can the horses to Walter;
and now for another one."

*^ Perhaps you have seen something of this

for yourself, Janet — I mean Edith's vexation
and unwillingness about leaving Bernard in
authority."

^' Yes, father, I have noticed and can quite
understand it ; but 1 think we must leave
them to settle it between themselves — we
can do no good by speaking."

^' But I can't bear to see the child
vexed ? "

'^ It cannot be helped, and I think it will
pass off better if unnoticed. She has said a
word or two to me, but I could give her no
advice ; she must settle it herself with Bernard,
and I feel sure that he will not let it goon
much longer without explanation. I don't
think you need worry yourself over it,
father ; I believe it will be all right." And
Mr. Hilton felt that Janet was a comfort to
him, although, of course, no one could ever
be like Edith, his pride and darling.

Edith was, indeed, disturbed and very

unhappy in these days when her father and
Bernard were settling matters between them,
almost without consulting her ; but beyond a
few words to Janet she bore her vexation in
silence.

But Bernard, although not unobservant,
could not let her unspoken objections influence
him in a matter where her father's
comfort and ease of mind were so largely
concerned, and it was not until everything
was settled that he spoke to her on the
subject.

But one dav, when there had been many
matters under discussion, and Mr. Hilton
had been especially urgent that he should
use his own judgment and decide questions
requiring immediate attention without referring
to him, Bernard, looking at Edith,
saw that her eyes were full of tears, and,
making some trifling excuse, she hurried
from the room. After a few moments he

followed her, and guessing that she would
take refuge in her favourite comer — the
deep bay window curtained off from the
big hall — he joined her there, and found her
leaning her head against the heavy oaken
shutter in an attitude of extreme dejection.

He put his hand gently on her arm, and
she turned round to him — not unwillingly —
for she, too, felt that the time had come for
an explanation between them.

'^I think, Edith," he said, 'That you are
making yourself unhappy about a fancy
which I assure you exists in your own mind
only."

She looked up quickly, but said nothing,
and he went on : '' You think that by taking
the place your father is so anxious to give
me I am laying you under an obligation
and drawing a sort of net round you ; but I
assure you it is not so."

^^But, Bernard, how can I help feeling

it?" she cried eagerly. ^^ How can I show
my gratitude and prove — " but he interrupted
her.

'^ Do not let such words be used between
us, dear. I am doing it all for you, and
you know it ; but I think I do most things
for the same reason, and it is my pleasure.
I am not adding one feather weight to the
debt which every woman owes to the man
who loves her. I shall not shorten your
year of liberty by a day, I shall not claim
one privilege which you have not given me
before, and I am not laying you under any
obligation in my own eyes or your father's
by doing what gives me pleasure and helps
him. Will you not look at it in this
light?"

Edith was silent for a moment, and then
looked up at him with eyes from which
the trouble had passed away.

'^ O, Bernard ! " she said, ^' how can I

say to you often enough, how good you are
to me ! "

He raised her hand to his lips — as he had
done many times before — and went away
in silence, but not unhappily.

END OF VOL. II.

OF THE
U N Diversity
or ILLINOIS

V.3

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/downwaynovel03stan

% iofati

By hope STANFORD

Where is thy hand to lead me down the way ? '

VOL. III.

LONDON :

JOHN AND ROBERT MAXWELL

MILTON HOUSE, SHOE LANE, FLEET STREET,
AND •

35, ST. BRIDE STREET, Eg.

[All rights reserved']

PRINTED BY H. BLACKLOCK AND CO.j

75, Warrington ROAD, E.C,

(680)

CHAPTER I.

AWAKENING.

It seemed to Geoffrey Poland as if he had
gone to sleep amidst a tumult resembling
the end of the world, and had awakened in
heaven, when one morning he found himself
lying on a pile of cushions on the deck of a
yacht, with nothing but white sails and
blue sky to be seen, and nothing to be heard
but the rush and ripple of water round a
flying keel. What had happened to him,
when he had lost consciousness, what might

VOL. III. B

be his — at present unseen — surroundings,
seemed matters of complete unimportance.
The sun warmed him, the air blew softly,
laden with health for him, the waves sighed
and murmured a lullaby, and consciousness
was but half complete before he fell into a
quiet and dreamless sleep.

It was almost evening when he awoke
again, and found a middle-aged man with
a pleasant face and weather-stained clothing
sitting beside him.

'' What is the latitude ? " asked Geoffrey,
after a moment's consideration.

'' About 42^," answered his companion.

'^ And how did you manage to pick me
up, Gordon ? "

The stranger looked surprised.

How do you come to know my name ?
you have seemed conscious of nothing since
I brought you on board."

^^I have had the privilege of your

acquaintance for several years," answered
Geoffrey.

^^ And I have had the pleasure of nursing
you for three days, and never until this
moment discovered that you were my old
friend Poland ! Don't let me hear much of
man's intelligence for some time I "

'^ But am I so altered ? " asked Geoffrey.

'^ My dear fellow, I see no points of
resemblance at present excepting in eyes
and voice, and as your eyes have been
closed, and your voice used only in confused
muttering, I have not had much chance."

'^ But now tell me all about it. You,
found me ill at Valencia ?"

^^ Yes, in a stifling room in a noisy hotel,
where no one could understand a word you
said. I was bound to be at Genoa on a
certain day, and could not leave you behind,
so between us we got you on board. You
have come to yourself sooner than I expected,

the fine air has done marvels for you, and
has left little to my skill'

'^ What has been wrong with me ? "

^^ Well, a touch of low fever, which somehow
affected your head more than it
ought."

^^ I can account for that, I expect it is a
weak point with me at present. I got a
knock on the head a few months ago, and
although I got over it pretty soon, I have
been reminded of it several times since."

sand then, by way of doing yourself
good, you go and sit out in the glaring sun
and nearly get a sunstroke ? "

' Well ! it must have done something of
the kind, I suppose."

^^ Now you have talked enough for one
time," said Dr. Gordon, dogmatically, 'sand
your chief duty is to lie on your back and
suck oranges."

sand sleep," added Geoffrey, and in a

few minutes had followed his own prescription.


Dr. Gordon sat and looked at him attentively.
It was, indeed, scarcely surprising
that he had failed to recognise him. Instead
of a clean-shaven face and close-cut hair,
there was now a thick black beard and an
untidy crop of curls ; his complexion, which
had been pale almost to whiteness, was burnt
by the Spanish sun to a deep brown ; and
the thinness of his face made his eyes
unnaturally large, and seemed to change
their expression. He looked as if he had
gone through trouble as well as illness, of
late ; and his friend, remembering his former
strength of mind and body, regarded him
with kindly regret.

Dr. Gordon himself was a man who
declared that he made the enjoyment of
life a profession, and he stuck to it closely.
Until nearly thirty he had been a poor

man, having expended the whole of a small
capital on his medical education, which
had been of the best, and in which he had
distinguished himself; but he hated the
routine of his work, and when a relation
died and left him a considerable fortune,
he at once gave up his practice, and
indulged the desire of his heart by buying
a yacht, in which he spent most of his
time in cruising about the Mediterranean.
He was well-known at many Spanish and
Italian ports, and had patients amongst
the English residents in most of them —
entirely for his own benefit, according to
his own account; for it was part of his
scheme of enjoyment to do distasteful
work occasionally, that the pleasure of
idleness might not pall. It was also in
accordance with a theory that he refrained
from marrying, although lie had been
tempted to do so several times. Marriage

was a pleasant possibility to contemplate,
but he felt assured that in reality he should
find it prosaic. When he wearied of his
roving life, he intended to take a year
or two of hard work again, until idleness
became once more a luxury ; but he was
afraid that a wife, and the world on her
behalf, would find objections to his treating
her in the same way, and leaving her to
herself for a time when the pleasure of her
society grew a little monotonous. But he
much enjoyed the process which he had
gone through several times, and called
falling in love. Wien the matter threatened
to become serious, if the lady lived in
Spain, he straightway started for a cruise
as far as Suez, and was absent for several
weeks, that he might give himself the
pleasure of looking forward to seeing her
again. Did she live in Genoa? he went
to look up an old friend in Devonshire, and

found when lie came back again that the
enchantment had passed away, and that,
besides having enjoyed by anticipation all
the delight of meeting, he had returned
perfectly heart whole.

He had no scruple in indulging his fancy
in this manner, for he was an unattractive
man until well-known, and knew it, and
had never yet had to accuse himself of
heartlessness. His life — which according to
himself was ruled by nothing but selfish
motives — was in reality more than half spent
in active benevolence ; and when he assured
his crew, and even Geoffrey, that he had
taken him on board entirely for his own
convenience, it was scarcely strange that he
was not implicitly believed.

But, although an intentional roughness
of manner saved him from praises and
thanks, which would have been distasteful,
he was capable of a tenderness and consideration

towards those who were helpless,
aud under his care, which was repaid by
devoted friendship. If at forty he could
not flatter himself that any woman had
given him her whole heart, he was equally
conscious that there were women, and men
too, who would never, to the end of their
lives, hear or speak his name without
gratitude and affection, which he set above
all other prizes ; and in reasonable moments
he assured himself that such friendship
amply fulfilled the demands of his sympathies.
It was to soothe the sorrow
of a young wife, and lighten the
sufferings of her slowly dying husband,
that he was hastening back to Genoa,
according to promise, judging that the slight
risk Geoffrey Poland might run was not to
be considered in comparison with the comfort
and confidence his presence could give to
the watcher and the sufferer. And this was

but one out of many instances, although
even here he took pains to assure himself
that the chief motive for his hurried return
was his own desire to see whether, after a
month's absence, a certain lady retained her
hold upon his fancy. It was almost
evening when Geoffrey awoke again, and
found himself carefully sheltered and covered
up from the cooler air, while Dr. Gordon sat
smoking his pipe beside him.

^' I am better'' he said, raising himself on
his arm, and looking round him with a sense
of having lost his senses for an immeasurable
time, and having now entirely recovered them.

^^Yes," answered his friend, 'but don't
talk, food is the first requisite." And
Geoffrey, feeling that he owed perfect
obedience, said no more. But a little later
he chose to assert himself.

'' You have told me how you found me
and brought me on board, Gordon ; but I

want to know what sort of state I have been
in since, and for how many days I have lost
consciousness ? "

^' You have been under my care three
days."

Have I been talking nonsense ?" asked
Geoffrey, with sudden distressing apprehension.


Dr. Gordon smiled. '^ You have talked
a good deal, but far be it from me to say
that it was nonsense."

^^ That means that I have made an
absolute fool of myself," said Geoffrey, with
irritation.

'' Not at all, my dear fellow. I hold that
occasionally the ravings of delirium contain
more meaning than the utterances of so-called
sense. I at least imagined that I
could trace a certain coherence in your
muttering, although the clue, of course, was
wanting."

Did I mention names ? "

^^Yes, often."

^^ Gordon ! you are only trying me. You
will do me infinitely less harm by telling meat
once the particular form of my folly."

'' There were two names often on your
lips, one — the least frequent — was uttered
with protests against its power being more
than passing ; the other was generally accompanied
by an assurance that some offence,
to me unknown, was of trivial character,
and might well be pardoned by the lady,
Laura, who seems to hold the strings of
your life."

Geoffrey lay silent for a few minutes.
^^ Thank you, Gordon," he said at last. unconscious
moments confirm the impression
you have gained. I will talk no more tonight,
if you please ; but I believe my sleep
will be sound and healing."

CHAPTER 11.

DR. GORDON.

'' I HAVE business which calls me ashore
to-day, Poland," said Dr. Gordon, appearing
in Geoffrey's cabin the next morning. "■ In
half an hour we shall have anchored off
Genoa, and as soon as I have seen you
established on deck I shall be off. I maybe
detained several hours, but my boy Tom
will look after you like a woman."

Yes," answered Geoffrey, lazily. '' Don't
trouble yourself about me ; I shall be more
than content —

*With half-shut eyes ever to seem
Falling asleep in a half dream ! ' "

^^ Dream away, my dear fellow, as long as
you don't —

Lend your heart and spirit wholly

To the influence of mild-minded melancholy ;

To muse and brood and live again in memory.' "

'' It won't do me any harm," answered
Geoffrey. 'sin fact, it is a necessity. The
whole object of my being away from
England is — ^ to live again in memory,'
until I have determined how big or little a
part in my life such memories should take.'

^^ Ah, well ! you will perhaps tell me something
about it by-and-by," said Dr. Gordon,
with affected lightness, feeling that his cure
could never be complete while some unexplained
puzzle was weighing on his brain,
and having no scruple about prying into
personal matters when it was for the good
of his patient.

An hour later Geoffrey was lying quietly
on deck, propped upon luxurious cushions,

sheltered from sun and wind by a carefully
adjusted awning, and within full view of
Genoa and its harbour, its churches and
palaces, its background of rocky hill sides,
fortress crowned, with the further range of
Apennines beyond. He admired and enjoyed
it immensely, but being in a somewhat
unhealthy state of mind, he set to
work to analyse his enjoyment, instead of
taking it as it came and being glad of it.

It was beautiful — far more beautiful than
he had imagined it could be — this wonderful
city, hung midway between blue sky and
bluer sea, bathed in sunshine and glorified
in distance. A city to di-beam of, to lie
awake at night and remember when London
fogs came through windows and shutters
and clogged one's throat. A city to which
one longed to bring a second self, and watch
the awakening admiration, the kindling
enthusiasm which would bring back the

glory of one's own first pleasure with the
newly added joy of a perfect sympathy.

Having decided that this sympathy was a
necessity, he could not refrain from going
back to the old puzzle of where he should
find it. A year before he would have said
'^ nowhere ; " six months ago he would have
wondered if the spoiled darling of her father
and her many friends had had '^ all the soul
pampered out of her," or whether the clear
mind and generous heart had stayed fresh
and unspoiled through it all, and capable of
giving that free full sympathy he craved ;
but to-day he believed — almost with
certainty, and rejoiced in believing — that
it was Laura alone whose company he
coveted.

All tln-ough these long months he had
wavered, not for his own sake but for hers.
He would not go back to her until he could
say with a truth, which neither she nor he

could doubt, that he wanted her to be with
him through all his life. He did not any-longer
doubt it himself, but he could as yet
see no way of proving his truth to her.
He had been ill, and idle, and miserable,
ever since he had parted from her ; he could
urge nothing on his own behalf ; he had not
one pretension to bring before her father,
not one claim on his confidence. How
could he venture to go to him, and ask to
take a daughter from his house ? How
could he presume to match his little fortune
which hardly more than supported himself
— against her ten thousand pounds ?

It was true that the luxurious home he
should be asking her to leave had never been
a happy one. She had pined and fretted
there, had been neglected and disliked ; but
she did not know the meaning of poverty,,
and it should not be his task to teach her.

But somehow to-day his brain felt clearer
VOL. in. c

his mind stronger than it had been for
months. Perhaps the warm, languid air of
the Spanish towns in which he had been
lingering had overcome his strength, and
had been partly responsible for the almost
hopeless depression and lack of energy from
which he had suffered; perhaps the cure
at Blithefield had not been so complete as
it had seemed, and the dulness of his brain
had been due to physical causes while he
had been calling himself ^^an idle fool,"
and had assured himself over and over again
that if he was worthy of the name of a man
he should never appear before Laura until
he had in some way proved himself worthy
of her. But to-day clouds and gloom and
self-distrust rolled away as if by magic ;
to-day it was possible yet to be of some
account in the world, and have something
to offer which a woman need not despise.
Perhaps it was clear air and returning

health, perhaps it was Gordon's wholesome
society — it mattered little. To-day life held
possibilities for him of which he would
strain every energy to avail himself, and
then — but not until then — he would have a
right to see Laura again.

^' Your lonely day — about which I have
suffered some self-reproach — has done you
no harm, Poland," said his friend, when he
returned late in the evening, and had looked
at him critically.

No ; on the contrary, my own society
has been the best. I had some accounts to
settle with myself before I was fit for much
talk; but I have got them pretty clear now,
clear enough to warrant my laying them
before you — when you have time and inch-nation
to give me a helping hand."

'^ To-morrow, Poland, with all my heart !
To-night I bar much talking ; you are
scarcely a giant in strength yet, nor have I

a clear mind to give you. I have had a
trying day, which is against my principles
and takes me some time to recover."

With a gesture of impatience and disgust
he flung his half-smoked cigar over the
yacht's side, and starting up took a turn or
two up and down the deck.

'' But yet you find a certain sort of
pleasure in your distress and disquietude,"
said Geoffrey, after a pause, during which he
had been observing his companion carefully.

'^ How do you know ? "

swell, there is an elasticity about you;
you looked troubled but not weighed down ;
you have suffered to-day, but there has been
an excitement in your pain which has been
almost pleasure, and must have been the
result of some unselfish action."

^^ Thank j^ou for the compliment ! I will
give an account of my day if you like, and
you may judge how far I have deserved it."

^^ Just what I should like — if you will
allow me a pipe, doctor," answered Geoffrey,
settling himself comfortably amongst the
cushions ; and after proper professional
hesitation Dr. Gordon allowed the indulgence
and began.

'^I came back here last night according
to promise, to see a young fellow to whom
I had allowed two months of life at the
utmost, and he and his charming little wife
knew it. I find I made a mistake and
should have given him three, which means
so many more days of happiness for him —
for he does not suffer — of watching and
unreasoning hope for her — for, poor child !
she will not despair — and of anxiety and
attention from me, which is against my
theories and upsets my calculations."

^' And affords you much unselfish satisfaction,
"interrupted Geoffrey.

'' I am glad to hear it, but it is of a nature

too subtle for me to have discovered it.
However, I have yet only told you half my
day's work. This is the other : I went to
see a girl from whom I parted two months
ago, thinking she might be the pivot on which
my life would turn. I come back and find
her an immovable finger-post pointing towards
the Church of Rome. I was implored
by despairing relatives to try my influence,
and did so ; it had formerly been great, but
Father Peter, Paul, or Silas had been beforehand,
and my possible bride had sworn to bethe
bride of heaven. You say that I am
pleasantly excited, Poland ; if so, it is with
the excitement of relief that I have been
delivered from a life-long bondage to that
woman's narrow soul." He took several
turns up and down before Geoffrey spoke
again.

^^You have had a rough day's work,
Gordon, but you have made something out

of it, if I know you right. You have been a
tower of strength to that sorrowful pair,
and a strong — although at present it seems
unavailing — protest against a misguided
woman's bigotry."

'^ Yes, perhaps I may have been all that;
but I have gone against my principles and
have been distressed over it," answered
Gordon, with a forced laugh. '^ And now,
my dear fellow, for your benefit and my
own, I will say good-night ; we shall both bethe
better for a rest."

But when Geoffrey awoke from his first
sleep, an hour or two later, he fancied he
could detect his friend's footsteps in the
restless tread he heard on deck, as if he had
chosen to keep the watch, in despair of
finding the rest he needed.

^'You will be content to remain on board
for a day or two, Poland ? " asked Gordon
the next morning, when Geoffrey had taken

him by surprise, and, although pale and
weak, had appeared at the breakfast table.

^'You have treated me as your child by
adoption, but there is such a thing as outrunning
one's welcome," answered Geoffrey.
I imagine that my right course would be to
go ashore, and stay at some quiet hotel until
I am able to travel."

^' Yes, and by way of a cure sit and boil
your brains in the burning sun until there is
not a halfpenny to choose between you and
a lunatic ! Well, my friend, do it if you
please; I am scarcely at peace with the
world to-day, and a quarrel or two more or
less wont count for much in making up the
score."

^' Perhaps if you are in that humour I had
better stay for a day or two as a safety-valve.
I am not of much account at present ; but if I
can save the rest of your world from a blowup
it may be worth while," suggested

Geoffrey, who was longing for a few days
more of ease and peace.

*^ Perhaps, when one comes to think of it,
it may be ; suppose we leave the question
until further notice."

'sall right," said Geoffrey, and found
Kettle difficulty in settling down contentedly
to another lonely day.

CHAPTER III.

WHICH ?

To wear out heart, and nerves, and brain,
And give oneself a world of pain ;
Be eager, angry, fierce and hot,
Imperious, supple — God knows what,
For what's all one to have or not."

^' That has been my sort of work to-day,
Poland," said Gordon, coming back late in
the evening, and sitting down wearily in a
large swinging chair by Geoffrey's side.
^^ Good heavens ! it has been a hard task
to persuade a dying man, with a flicker of
life in him, not to make plans which break
his wife's heart ! and then to go from them
to convince a pretty narrow-minded girl,
who has been petted all her life, that her fit
of religious fervour is only a passing craze !

I seemed to gain my end in both cases, but
of course I can't expect that my influence
lasted beyond the moment. But now I have
had enough of myself, and it will be good
for me, and for you too, if you will give mea
dose of your affairs."

Geoffrey was silent for a minute or two,
and looked out over the sea with his head
raised on his hand.

*^ The moving cause of my being here just
now," he said at length, ^'is that I was
fool enough to bestow the valuable gift of
my affections on two women at the same
time, Without being able to decide whether
my passion for one, which was the maddest
folly, was an unpardonable treason to the
other, whom I might hope to make the
companion of my life, which even in my
most insane moments I anxiously desired."

'san awkward position!" said Gordon,
smiling a little. ^^ Were they friends ? "

'^ They are sisters."

*' Worse and worse! Are you going to
tell me more''

^^ Yes a great deal more; but I warn you
that I have no intention of stating the matter
fairly. You shall have the entire benefit of
my prejudiced point of view, and you can
make what you please of it."

^^ All right; 'minds diseased' are as much
in my line as bodies, and after having
listened to you for a night or two, I am
prepared to find that you are not altogether
sane on this subject."

Geoffrey laughed. ''I have no occasion
to fear that you will be sentimentally
indulgent, I know. No doubt, a good bitter
dose of truth and common-sense is what I
want."

^^ What you want is to state your case
concisely. I shall allow no more talking than
necessary."

^' Last spring," Geoffrey began, '^ I was
dragged down, much to my disgust, to stay
at a country house to meet a family party
assembled to do honour to the birthday of
an heiress and spoiled darling. I was sick
of her praises beforehand, and, being prejudiced,
began with more than a little
aversion, and, at first I believe from contrariety,
I gave all my attention to another
daughter of the house, who seemed neglected
and even disliked by every one, and who,
I must confess, was on first acquaintance unprepossessing
; but she interested me at
once, and I took trouble to get on with
her, even before an accident threw us much
together. It so fell out that I was the
means of saving the heiress from danger, if
not death, and got a blow on the head for
my pains. I was bad enough for a few
days I believe, and my friend, Laura,
came to me as a saving angel, understood

my wishes without a word, sat silent or
talked as seemed good to me, kept out the
rest of the family with their gratitude, and,
perhaps best of all, gave me in herself a
most interesting subject for study. Of
course it was the old story — ' Juxtaposition
is great ' — but it was something better than
that. I felt a reverence for the girl's
ignorance and helplessness. I could see
that her faults were those of training, to
begin with ; self-fostered, as she grew older,
from the consciousness of the small account
in which she was held in a family of
handsome, clever sisters. I had fancied
myself above the usual weaknesses of
mankind, and had believed that if I ever did
choose a companion for life it would bea
woman whom my clearest judgment should
thoroughly approve ; and behold ! instead, I
wished to take to myself an unformed,
uneducated girl ! Well, I will say no more

about her — perhaps one day you will see
her, and be one of the few who can detect
her charm. After three weeks of daily
intercourse I got well and left her, intending
to test the strength of my regard before
speaking to her ; but I did not entirely carry
out my wise resolutions — at any rate, I gave
her to understand that I should come back
to her. So far, however, all was well, until
as the perversity of fate would have it — I
was immediately after thrown into the
company of her sister, the heiress, whose
life I had saved. She was beautiful, she
was charming, she was determined to please,
and — truth will out, Gordon — I was dazzled.
Any fool knows that the moon is beyond
his reach, and I never had one flattering
hope ; but I felt that I had forfeited my
right to Laura until this insane fancy had
passed away, and I wrote and told her so
whether wisely or not is open to doubt

from some points of view ; but I believe in
honesty on big occasions — in minor matters
the ^ tangled web ' often pays best. Well,
I have been wandering about the country
for the last seven or eight months, wondering
whether my folly was cured, and whether,
with a clear conscience, I could ask Laura
to marry me as soon as I have a home to
offer her. But I think my brain has been
dull, Gordon — at least this decision has been
beyond me, lost in the mists of doubt until
yesterday. Since then the air has cleared.
I can think; I can judge; I can find the
way about in my own mind since then,
I believe you have saved more of me than
you know."

^'Now, am I to give advice?" asked
Gordon, a few minutes after Geoffrey had
ceased speaking.

^^Yes."

'^ Go home to Lady Laura, and ask her

boldly what she thinks of you. But as you
can't get there just in a hurry, spend your
leisure in devising a means for earning her
bread."

^^ Excellent advice ! " answered Geoffrey ,
'^ But you have not considered the incalculable
folly of human nature. What if,
when I see them both again, the old contemptible
glamour overpowers my reason,
and I sacrifice my life's companion for the
witchery of a beautiful face ? "

Gordon shrugged his shoulders. ^^ Of
course, one can't quite provide against that
or any other aberration of intellect. It is
a pity you can't decide without bringing
the vexed question before either of them.
Look at them from a safe distance, for
instance, if the testimony of your eyes is
sufficient — and really, my dear fellow, I
don't see why you shouldn't ! — I venture
to predict that if you were to show yourself

VOL. HT. D

at their home, neither one nor the other —
know you intimately as they may—would
recognise in the browned, bearded — may I
say ruffian for the sake of turning my
sentence ? ~ the clean-shaven, carefully-apparelled
gentleman of their former acquaintance.
Keep yourself as you are,
and you may safely defy recognition and
make up your mind at your leisure."

Geoffrey laughed. ^^ Scarcely a justifiable
advantage to take," he said.

'^ I don't see it. Of course it is a confession
to yourself of your own weakness, but
you don't go telling the world of it. A few
years hence in a confidential moment you
may speak of it to your wife ; but she will
probably regard it as an act of sentimental
devotion, and will have little disposition to
resent it. If matter continues to triumph
over mind, and the pretty face puts the
kindred spirit at a discount, it is as well that

you should know it ; there is no good to yourself
or any one else in moving about the
world in a state of doubt."

Your doses of good sense are somewhat
bitter, doctor ; but I need the tonic, and you
have mixed with it a spice of fizzing excitement
which will make it go down more
easily."

'^ Well, I am rather taken with my own
idea," said Gordon complacently ; ^^ but it is
crude enough at present, and will give work
for your idle days to bring it into form.
Now for another cigarette, and then to bed."

Left alone again the next morning,
Geoffrey found that there was indeed plentiful
occupation for his thoughts for many idle
days. Gordon's suggestion had made it
possible for him to see Laura again and judge
of his own strength, which he had been
wishing to do with a persistency which
refused to be crushed by the apparent hopelessness

of the case. It was impossible that
he could show himself openly at Blithefield
until he was certain of his own mind. He
could scarcely go to Mr. Hilton, and say, '' I
believe I love your daughter, and wish to
marry her, but I am not quite sure ; will you
have any objection to our further acquaintance
? I have nothing to speak of for us to
live upon, but I daresay I shall earn something
some day ; " and, speaking plainly, this
was exactly his position. Gordon's advice
was only the plainest common sense when
he suggested the necessity of devising means
of earning bread before asking any woman
to marry him ; and although he had supposed
himself to be considering the matter for
many months past, he was conscious now
that it had only been in the most desultory
fashion ; and with the new vigour of returning
health he felt a profound contempt
for his long-continued inaction.

He must settle on a definite line of life
before he could venture to present himself
before Laura ; and although five years ago he
had given up his place in the Foreign Office,
thinking the drudgery unbearably irksome,
he now felt that idleness was equally tedious,
more especially as it brought with it, as a
necessary consequence, a denial of his right
to ask any woman to share his poverty —
more especially one who, like Lam^a, would
come to him with money in her hand.

Although he had thrown away his best
chance, he still had friends at headquarters,
and he resolved to lose no time in applying
to them for any post, however undesirable,
which would give him a prospect of earning
at no distant time an income sufficient to
warrant his asking Laura's father to allow
an engagement between them, which was,
for the present, the utmost he could hope
for. He had spoken to Gordon of being

still in uncertainty, and of a doubt of his
own strength of mind when he was
brought face to face with the sisters
again, but in reality he felt little fear.
He thought he would, however, adopt his
friend's suggestion, and taking advantage
of his altered appearance, would visit
Blithefield in secret, and put his constancy
to the test before speaking to Laura or
her father ; but even this should be
deferred until he could give some guess
at his future prospects, and not another
hour should be wasted in idle dreams
and wishes when there was so much to
be done before his character could be
redeemed.

'^ These are the fruits of your advice and
my own cogitations," he said that evening,
handing Gordon a number of letters
addressed to men in authority. '^ I have
humbled myself and asked for favours

which I once despised; but the sort of
pride which night have stood in my way
has gone out of me, and I can be content
at first with an opportunity of showing
that I mean work."

'' I think you will do now," said
Gordon shortly. ^' To-morrow I will take
you ashore for a little change of scene
and society."

CHAPTER IV.

DIFFICULTIES.

The few weeks which Mr. Hilton had
expected to spend at St. Leonardss
lengthened into months before the doctors
considered him equal to the long journey
back to Blithefield ; and it was not until
the frost and snow of a hard winter had
disappeared, and February had brought,
towards its close, a few warm days of
spring promise, that he was allowed to
return.

Irksome and trying as it had been to
him to be absent so long from home, to
Edith it had been more painful still. Ever
since Janet's marriage, which had brought

the inheritance do^Ti to her, Blithefield
shad been the centre of her life. That
she, and she alone, could be its worthy
possessor had been daily instilled into her
mind by her father ; that she, and she
only, through his training and guidance,
could carry out his schemes and rule
according to his laws, had been a creed
almost as strong as religion ; and yet
now, when she had done her best to fulfil
her duty, certainly it had not been a hard
one although it had absorbed the greater
part of her thoughts, she was set aside,
and her father, through a long unexpressed
yearning for a son, had put Bernard in
her place. It was hard upon her, she
thought, very hard ! Was it for this that
she had toiled through pages of accounts,
that she had given her mind to rotation of
crops, thinning of woods, and rearing of
cattle ? which if not necessary were undeniably

dull ; while in matters in which
she could have interested herself heart
and souls she had been checked by the
objection which she was unable to answer —
'' My dear, I cannot allow you to pauperise
the labourers; they have good wages and
should learn to live upon them. Of course,
in cases of sickness you should supply
them with necessaries ; but in ordinary
times it is our duty to teach them to
provide for themselves." And as this was
no difficult matter under a master whose
actions were as liberal as his expressed
principles were rigid, she found herself
left with little to say. But as she grew
older, in her own mind she rebelled
against the creed in which she had been
nourished, at first with a shamefaced
consciousness of treachery to her father's
training, until she went up to town
and learned a little of the world's

opinion, by listening to divers conversations
held in Mrs. Mathewson's drawing-room.
The scorn in Geoffrey Poland's
voice when he commented on the idea
of" duty which left men in disturbed
enjoyment of pickled pork and muddy beer
without a thought beyond them — had
roused her to a wholesome, if painful, consideration
of her own views on the subject,
and of the line which she should think right
to take when the responsibility of guiding
the daily lives of men, women, and children
should fall upon her. And yet now, when
she had awakened to a fuller knowledge of
her powers and duties, authority was taken
from her and given into hands which she
was forced to admit were more capable than
her own. That it should be given to
Bernard, the man of all others whom her
father would choose for his son, was of
course a matter over which she ought to

rejoice ungrudgingly; but she could not.
She was filled with a youthful, imperious
love of power, the natural outcome of her
training ; it had been held up before her for
years as her future reward ; and now, when
she felt herself equal to its possession, she
was set aside !

Rule, my darling," her father would
have said, ^^but rule in everything by your
husband's guidance ; " and she felt that she
must rebel against it with painful and
passionate rebellion.

But through it all she felt no resentment
against Bernard. No, she rather thought
of him with a contradictory sort of regret.
How well he would have advised her if the
case had not been his own ! How clearly
he would have seen every difficulty ! How
fully she could have trusted his opinion !
Thus she felt through the long months
they were forced to spend at St Leonardss,

and her father often remarked with uneasiness
that she was restless and dispirited.
Once — fancying that she was fretting for
home — he suggested that she should change
places with Janet and return to Blithefield
for a week or two ; but she refused, smiling
a little to herself at his complete miscomprehension.
How could she go back as
mistress while Bernard was there as master
in everything but name ? Then Mr. Hilton,
imagining it would give her pleasure, wrote
without consulting her, and asked Bernard
to come and stay with them for a few days,
and tell them how everything was going on
more fully than was possible by letter ; but
he excused himself, saying that he was too
much occupied just then, having been made
a magistrate, and put on the committee
of the county Agricultural Society, and
altogether made to feel himself a man of
importance ; but in reality knowing that it

would not be at all agreeable to Edith to
hear hin talk with the familiarity of months
of authority of all the details of her home
surroundings.

Mr. Hilton was disappointed, but put it
down as another mark of the high principle
and trustworthiness which he so much valued
in him, and was consoled by finding that
Edith, to whom he had spoken of his invitation
as soon as it was sent, did not take the
refusal at all amiss, and appeared neither
offended nor regretful.

They had the advantage of Mary Verney's
society during the greater part of the winter,
for her wedding had almost of necessity
been put off for a few months. The tenant
of the house in town which Richard had
taken, and to which he had hoped to bring
home his wife at Christmas, was seized with
a dangerous and lingering illness, which
made it impossible for him to be moved ;

and the idea of furnished lodgings for an
indefinite time was so disagreeable to both
of them that they agreed to wait, with all
the patience they could muster, until things
came right ; and when at last the sick man
got better, and the house was at their command,
they were persuaded to put off the
marriage for a few weeks longer until the
Hiltonss could return to Blithefield, and the
wedding, as originally intended could take
place from there.

Mr. Hilton had consented, before leaving
home, to trust Laura entirely into Janet's
hands.

^'I shall be sure to tell you anything of
consequence that comes to my knowledge,
father ; but I am not going to make myself
a spy upon her, for I am convinced she
may trusted," Janet said. But her father
answered with some impatience —

That is all very well. I believe with

you, that lie may be trusted not to go
against her own ideas of right and wrong,
but unfortunately her code and mine do
not agree. It is my duty to protect her,
not only from this fellow, but from her
own mistaken notions, and you will be
neither a good daughter nor a good sister
if you foster in her mind one thought of —
of this sneaking rascal ! ''

Janet laughed heartily. ^^You will
frighten me with such hard words, father.
But all I can say is that I believe you
may trust to my admirable discretion,
which, of course, I inherit from you, to
keep Laura out of mischief."

"My dear," said her father, pathetically;
"what can a man do but trust to his
daughters, when he is laid on his back
with rheumatism V

And Janet laughed, and kissed him,
and assured him that she sympathised

deeply with his liard fate, and rejoiced
that Providence had given her sons instead
of daughters, so that she might have a
chance of getting her own way without
suffering from over-consideration.

But all tln-ough the long winter not a
word had come from Geoffrey. Perhaps
it was the consciousness that every one else
must distrust him, and believe that he had
forgotten her, which kept Laura from
doing so herself. Perhaps it was the new
interest which he had taught her to take
in ^^ books, and work, and healthful play,"
which made the time pass with at least
moderate swiftness, although there were
weary days sometimes. She scarcely cared
to inquire too closely into her own mind
in the matter ; but of one thing she felt
sure, he hould come back, even if it was
only to tell her that he was convinced
that, for the future, it would be better

VOL. III. » B

for both of them that they should be
strangers.

Often in imagination she had lived
through that scene, and prepared herself
for it. She thought she could say good-bye
to him calmly, for he had brought her
infinite good, and even without him her
life need not of necessity be empty now.
She worked hard to educate herself, she
cultivated every faculty of which she could
imagine herself possessed, and she was
conscious that her labour was rewarded.
Her thoughts had expanded, her world
had widened indefinitely in the last few
months, and as well might a flower complain
that the sun which had warmed it to
maturity would sometimes cease its shining,
as she that the mind which had quickened
her o\vn had left it to herself to complete
its development. The struggle to maintain
an untarnished faith in him, not only in her

own mind but before others, strengthened
and matured her unformed character, and
even softened her daily manner; so that
Janet and her husband wondered, and
found increasing pleasure in her company,
while Bernard regarded her with brotherly
affection. Once only Janet had spoken
of Geoffrey.

Laura, do you expect him to come
back ? " she said ; and Laura answered —

^^Yes, perhaps, but very likely not as
you think; it may be only to show me
how well we can live apart."

And Laura's face was so quiet and
earnest that Janet went away with tears
in her eyes.

But about Christmas time Laura's
thoughts were diverted from her own
affairs by a fresh trouble, into which
Morris brought himself, through his uncontrollable
fancy for other people's

pheasants. He had given his master a
voluntary promise that he would not again
fire a gun on the Blithefield estate, but
he contrived a compromise with his conscience,
by passing through the fence into
the Offord woods. Ellis had gone to
St. Leonardss with her young mistress,
so there was no one to give him a word
of warning to keep out of mischief, and
many a stolen hour of sport did he enjoy
undetected. But warily as he had chosen
his place, Bernard's suspicions were at last
awakened, and he made it his business to
discover the truth concerning certain stray
shots, of which the keepers either could
not, or he thought would not, give him any
account.

He was disposed to be more lenient with
poachers than Mr. Hilton ; but when, as he
supposed, Morris combined trespassing with
poaching, and kept his word to his master by

a mere quibble, he saw little reason for
indulgence ; but not wishing to make the
matter public, he took upon himself the task
of watching, and at the end of the second
day, after narrowly escaping a shot, caught
Morris pocketing a pheasant, and in Mr.
Hilton's name gave him an immediate dismissal.


Morris tried entreaties and promises ; but
finding these of no avail, took refuge in
insolence, and refused to recognise Bernard's
authority.

'' You're not the master at Blithefield yet
Mr. Offord!" he said tauntingly, and Bernard
could say nothing, although his face
burned with anger.

^^I discharge you in Mr. Hilton's name,"
he said, after a moment or two ; ^' but if you
think it will serve your purpose in any way
to wait for a written order from him you can
do so, but my next communication with

you will probably be accompanied by a
warrant.

^'I'U take my chance," answered Morris,
carelessly ; but when he came to think over
it his spirit sank. It would have been bad
enough three months before to be dismissed
without a character, but now lie had put his
foot in it ten times more deeply by adding
trespassing to poaching and impudence to
both. Very clearly the downward course he
had marked out for himself came before him
as he walked back in the gathering dusk,
and he would have nothing but his own folly
to blame for it.

A post of responsibility and confidence,
good wages, a kind master, young ladies
always ready with a pleasant word, whom it
was a pleasure to serve, and the daily company
of Ellis his sweetheart — all these he
had been fool enough to throw away. But
even while remembering it the blood tingled

in his veins with excitement, as he thought
of those stolen hours of delightful sport, in
which he proved, at any rate to his own
satisfaction, that he only wanted a little
practice to be as good a shot as any of the
'' swells " who came down to shoot with ^' the
master," and thought no small things of themselves.
He cursed his folly, but he revelled
in the thought of these forbidden pleasures,
until he pulled himself up short, and began
to consider how he could save himself from
utter ruin.

Clever and capable as he knew himself to
be, he also knew that a man without a character
had little chance of gaining a decent
position ; he must fall many steps to begin
with, and disappointed and disheartened he
felt that he should scarcely care to keep himself
respectable unless — but this he could not
venture to hope for — Ellis should stick to
him. He wouldn't ask her; he wouldn't

say a word to drag her down with him;
he would just wT:ite a line and say good-bye
pretty careless-like, and as if 'twere nothing
to him," and then maybe she would
forget all about him, and he wouldn't have
that on his mind.

Then suddenly, with a gleam of hope, came
the thought of remiss Laura." She might
stand between him and this ^^ uppish young
gent that wanted to be master before his
time." She might plead with her father
for him, which he could never have the
face to do for himself, and at least she
might give him a few days' grace before
the whole world was told of his fresh
iniquity.

The consequence of this new inspiration
was that when Laura went back to the blue
study after dinner, she found a curiously
folded note lying on her writing-table, which
Morris, knowing the house pretty well, had

contrived to convey there unseen. She
opened it with curiosity.

'^ Honest miss," it said, ^' Being in
nibble I make bold to ask a few mints
speech. Please speke threw the winder after
diner, — yours humbly, Morris."

^^ Poaching again, I suppose. Poor, foolish
fellow ! " said Laura to herself. Then she
went to the window and ojDoned it. '^ You
want to speak to me, Morris ? " she called
down.

^^ Beg pardon, miss, if you please,"
answered Morris, from below, involuntarily
touching his cap in the darkness.

Will it do tomorrow ? "

*' Please, miss, I'm afraid not."

'' Very well, if you go round to the
kitchen, I will tell Charles to send you to
the gun room to me for orders."

'^ Thank you, miss, I'm sure I " said Morris,
gratefully, wondering why in former times

they had all agreed that Miss Laura was '' a
cross-grained 'un."

^^ Is it poaching again, Morris?" she
asked, severely, when, a few minutes later,
he stood before her, cap in hand, in much
distress and confusion.

Yes, miss, but 'wasn't at Blithefield —
I've kept my word to master ; 'twas t'other
side of the pain's ; and young Mr. Offord, he
caught me and said I was to go tomorrow,
and no character, and it's just the ruin of
me ! "

^^ Indeed, Morris, I am afraid it is, but I
do not see what I can do."

'- Well, miss — may be a word from you — '*

^^But what can I say, Morris? This is
not like a first offence."

'' First or not, it shall be the last, miss, I
can tell you, if so be I get the chance to
keep respectable. 'Ain't me only, it's Ellis ! "

^^I know," said Laura, gently. ''I grieve

for her ; but how can you expect my father
or Mr. Offord to trust you again ? ''

'' Miss Laura, I don't believe the master 'd
turn me away to ruin. Let me have a
chance with him ; and if he says ^ go go I
must, but 'won't be so hard to hear from him."

'' No, I can understand that. Well,

Morris, all that I can do for you is to send a

note to Mr. Oft'ord, asking him to speak tome

before he mentions the matter to anyone.

I do not expect that I shall do any

good, but I will try — for ElKs's sake as well

as yours."

*^ Morris's thanks were inarticulate, but

Laura understood them ; and saying goodnight,

she hastened away to write a note to

Bernard which should at least delay any

proceedings he might intend to take in

the matter. He came to see her the next

morning, and they had a long uncomfortable

interview.

'' Well, Laura! " lie said at length, '^ you
are undertaking a serious responsibility in
answering for this fellow's future conduct,
and I am doubtful how far I am right in
allowing myself to be persuaded ; but to
please you I will take no steps in the matter
at present, unless I find further cause of
complaint ; and as I have said nothing about
it to any one, he can go on as usual until
yom* father comes back ; then I shall feel
bound to lay the case before him, and you
must expect to come in for your share of
blame."

Laura smiled a little. ^^ I can bear it,
Bernard ; it will not be the first time, and
I would go through a great deal more than
that to save Morris from the ruin of going
away without a character, and Ellis from
such bitter disappointment in him."

^' Well, I don't know how you have
managed to talk me over, Laura ; but you

have made me feel somehow as if 1 had
intended to behave like a ruffian."

^^ Never mind!" she answered, smiKng.
'^ And when you are speaking to Morris it
will relieve you and do him no harm if you
give him a bit of yom* mind — I give you
free leave."

^^ Thank you, madam, I intend to avail
myself of your kind permission." And
with his wrath still red-hot, Bernard sought
out Morris, and treated him to language a
little more forcible than he afterwards cared
to remember.

CHAPTER Y.

UNDER-CURRENTS.

"^' Well, I confess it will scarcely seem like
going home if Bernard is not there to
welcome us and give an account of all that
has been going on," said Mr. Hilton,
throwing down a letter on Edith's writing-table
with an air of extreme vexation, a
day or two before they were to leave St.
Leonardss and return to Blithefield.

^^ Is he going away, father?" asked
Edith, with some eagerness, wondering
whether she felt pleased or disappointed.

^^I suppose so. You can see what he
says."

But it took her some minutes to understand

clearly the carefully worded letter in which
Bernard explained that — as Mr. Hilton was
now returning to look after things for
himself — he was anxious to fulfil a long
deferred engagement to run over for a week
or two to visit some friends in Paris, and
as everything was in order, and Thornage,
the bailiff, was prepared with an account of
their joint stewardship, he saw no reason
for putting off his visit, and intended to
start the day after his letter was written.

^^Not quite a friendly thing, Edith?"
said her father when she had finished reading;
for having been considered a great deal
during his illness, he found it hard to endure
even a slight appearance of neglect.

'^ I don't see it at all in that light, father,"
answered Edith, anxious to suppress her
own inclination to be vexed. ^' It is just a
little bit of awkwardness — common to men,
you know — which makes him seem eager to

be off. I have no doubt it has been
inconvenient to him to be tied to Blithefield
for so long ; but I am quite sure he is
unconscious of showing impatience, and
nothing can be kinder than his written
welcome on our coming home."

^' No, no ; that is all right and just as
it should be. But a day or two more could
not have hurt him, and would have been
in every way more pleasant and conveniently

Edith scarcely knew how to reply, for
it seemed to her that this might be an
act of great delicacy on Bernard's part, and
a means of showing that he did not consider
himself of paramount importance, in spite
of the authority which had been given into
his hands, or it might be that he had seen a
little more deeply into her mind than she
had suspected, and knew the unworthy
jealousy of which she was guilty, and from
a large-hearted magnanimity not only forgave

her but was considerate of her weakness
and wished to spare her.

She confessed to herself that it would at
least have hurt her vanity to have heard
lira talking familiarly of details which it
had taken her years to master but had
probably come to him almost by nature ;
and, besides this foolish smallness of mind,
there was the more pardonable fear that
her father's manner would be too paternal,
and would place both in the awkward
position of making silent but intelligible
protests to each other against his unconscious
assumptions. At any rate, she persuaded
herself that she was glad he was going,
although of course she should like to see
him again, and all the time she had been
away had not met any one to be compared
with him.

They had many acquaintances at St.
Leonardss, and the time had passed pleasantly

VOL. ni. F

and cheerfully ; but, after all, she was convinced
that she could never be really
contented except at Blithefield, her whole
heart and happiness rested there; but the
question of how far Bernard was now concerned
in that happiness was one she still
shrank from considering. She had not seen
him for nearly four months, for he had been
unable or unwilling — perhaps both — to visit
them at St. Leonard's, and she looked forward
to their meeting as likely to afford
a true test of her own feeling concerning
which she was still miserably uncertain.
The perpetual although unconscious pressure
of her father's affection and high opinion
could not fail to be of great weight with her,
but she knew that consent gained through
outside influence would not content Bernard,
and she should, in truth, be ashamed to offer
it to him.

She was beginning to understand now that

the exalted but vague ideas of great and
indefinite duties to the world which had perplexed
and tormented her on her return from
London were at least exaggerated. Neither
she nor Bernard, with their best efforts, could
set the world right, or even largely influence
the course of events, excepting in their immediate
neighbourhood ; but to lead good lives,
set good examples, rule and direct those
under their charge wisely and kindly,
teaching them to make the most of themselves
and of their lives, this was no task to
be despised, no small end to be gained, and
to be discontented with such duties while
vainly longing for a larger influence was
only to imagine oneself possessed of a
higher character and capacity than anything
but personal vanity could suggest. If she
could learn to fill her place as well as
Bernard filled his, she ought to be and would
be content, and she was impatient to

exchange the idle life of St. Leonardss for
the daily round of duties and interests
which awaited her at home.

In addition to all the delicate motives with
which Edith credited him, Bernard had
another reason for his absence of which she
knew nothing, and this was his position
towards Morris. Since the last offence he
had shown his displeasure by distance of
manner, instead of his former geniality ; but
they were seldom thrown together, for as
Captain Bonar had the entire management of
the stables he never visited them excepting
in his company. If the man had been a
servant of his own, he would have considered
that his position demanded an apology for
insolence ; but things being as they were,
he left it entirely to Morris's own judgment
whether it should be offered or not ; and after
many days and numberless mental conflicts,
Morris did manage to get out a few lame,

uncomfortable words, intended to express
his sense of wrong-doing, which Bernard
accepted gravely, while at the same time
he detected in them an uncontrollable
animosity.

So things had gone on quietly again, and
when the time was at last settled for Mr.
Hilton's return, Laura persuaded Bernard
that as so many weeks had passed since
Morris's offence, and his conduct had since
been excellent, it would be unwise and
unfair to rake the matter up again ; and her
father's health being still feeble, they could
scarcely venture to worry him about such a
vexatious matter ; so, against his own judgment,
he was persuaded to pass it over,
although not without a few words of stern
warning.

I must caution you, Morris," he said,
^Hhat if you are ever brought up before me
for a similar offence, I shall deal with you

with severity, and having only a damaged
character in this respect to fall back upon,
you will probably come badly off."

'' I don't think you'll catch me again,
sir," said Morris, touching his cap, but with
a manner which almost crossed the borderland
of insolence.

Laura too had her few words with him
before her father came home.

^^ If I were you, Morris," she said,
'^ I would sell that gun ; it ought to be
quite useless to you, and is only a
temptation."

Morris was silent for a few moments, and
then answered with a great effort —

^^ Miss Laura, if you tell me to I'll do it,
though it'll go hard ; but you've just saved
me, and I can't never pay you but by doing
as you tell me — me and Ellis 'd serve you to
the end of our days."

'^ I like to know it, Morris ; and I am sure

it is only right that you should do this,'^
said Laura, gently. ^^ Ellis would say the
same, I believe''

^^ I'll do it, Miss Laura; I'll take it over
to Codlingbourne to-night, the gunsmith
there is a sort o' mate of mine, and he'll
sell it for me."

And then Morris went away and gave his
gun a last polish and kept his word, although
it was a far harder task than Laura could
imagine.

Although no one but himself and Laura
knew anything of Morris's last offence,
Bernard felt that it would be impossible for
him to face Mr. Hilton's first inquiries of
how things had gone on in his absence ; but
Captain Bonar and Thornage, the bailiff,
could in all honesty give satisfactory
answers, for they knew of nothing wrong;
and when he came back, at the end of a
fortnight, everything would have slipped

back into the old grooves, and close questioning
could be avoided.

As for Laura, she felt that she had little
need to fear inquiries ; her father seldom
talked to her more than was necessary, and
was certainly not likely to expect practical
information from her ; and even if a few
awkward questions should be asked, she
would have little difficulty in avoiding direct
answers. That such deception could be
wrong was a view of the matter which never
struck her; she had been so accustomed from
childhood to keep her own counsel, because
no one had taken the trouble to inquire into
her doings, that it had grown into a habit,
and, excepting to Geoffrey, she felt no
impulse to speak of things which interested
her, and saw no necessity for giving confidences
which were not demanded from her,
either by right or by her own sense of the
dues of friendship.

CHAPTER VI.

MORRIS.

If Mr. Hilton had been in a mood to be
pleased he would have felt that, although
Bernard had chosen to be absent, he had no
reason to find fault with his welcome home ;
while Edith was conscious that her pride in
Blithefield, and love for all belonging to it,
had increased almost unreasonably doing
this long absence.

When the carriage drove up to the door
Stephens and Mrs. Hughes came forward as
mouthpieces for the rest of the servants,
and intended to distinguish themselves
by a few well-chosen words which they
had carefully considered beforehand; but

Stephens, on meeting his master's outstretched
hand, could manage nothing buta
^^ God bless you, sir ; " and Mrs. Hughes,
forgetting her high position, subsided into
tears and a half incoherent, "" Welcome
back, my pretty dear ! " to the young mistress,
who had been taken from her arms at
her christening, and had always been in her
eyes the flower of the flock.

^^ Has all gone on well, Janet?" asked
Mr. Hilton, over his cup of tea in the 
; and in perfect good faith she
could answer in her ignorance —

eyes, everything I believe, father. You
left it all in such perfect order that things
would have been ashamed to go wrong."

And Captain Bonar chimed in with —
^' Yes, by Jove! the best-ordered stables,
not to mention the household, one could
wish to see."

And Tenura, who had purposely kept

apart, felt thankful that it was not
necessary for her to disturb the pleasant
impression.

^' It was a bit of bad management on
Offord's part, going away just now. I
have a hundred things to ask him," Mr.
Hilton went on ; but Janet, with a little
touch of jealousy, hastened to answer —

'^ Oh ! Walter or Thornage can tell you
everything. Of course, Bernard has looked
after business matters ; but we can give
you a pretty good idea of everything else."

Mt. Hilton, smiling to himself, wondered
what else there could be of any importance ;
but he respected Janet's good sense as far
as it went, and felt a comfortable assurance
that under her rule household matters had
gone smoothly ; and it was not to be
expected of her that she should have
Edith's capacity for Tvdder responsibilities ;
she had done all he required by overlooking

the servants, and preventing Laura
from doing anything foolish.

^^ And the colts are getting on well? and
the men have done their work all right
in the stables, Walter?" he asked.

^' Yes, very well indeed; the only trouble
I have had was with Jones, about the hay,
as I wrote to you, and that was soon set
right."

'rand Morris? how has he been going
on ? no more poaching ? "

'' No, I have not heard a word against
him ; he has been as steady and quiet as
possible, rather low-spirited of late, but
then Edith has been cruel enough to keep
his sweetheart away so long."

Laura rejoiced that no one looked at
her, for she felt as guilty as Morris himself
could have done ; and then Janet's boys
came in, and absorbed every one's attention
until it was time to dress for dinner.

Mary Verney had stayed behind in
London, to make final preparations for
her wedding, which was to take place
in three weeks' time, and for which Mrs.
Mathewson and Erica were to return from
Italy; and in spite of all the efforts which
Janet and her husband and even Laura
could make to give him a cheerful
welcome, Mr. Hilton felt dull, and rather
injured that their dinner party was so
small, and Edith found herself echoing
his frequent regrets that Bernard had not
stayed at home to meet them.

'' There is something to be said for a
town, after all," he remarked, after several
scarcely suppressed yawns. ^' There you
can be pretty sure of having a friend or
two to come in in the evening ; but here
when Offord is away, there is not a soul ! "

^' You will have company enough next
week, father," answered Edith cheerfully.

^^ Erica alone will keep us all alive, for
she is quite certain to have seen more in
three months than most people would in
ten years, and anything that is queer
will lose nothing by her description."

'^ No. my dear, she will be bright enough,
and I shall be glad to see the child back
again ; and now I am tired, and I think I
will go to bed." And the rest of the
family, with a blank sense of failure,
followed his example.

The next morning was bright and
cheerful, and the little party met round
the breakfast table with recovered spirits.
Mr. Hilton had received a letter from
Bernard, filled with most kindly congratulations
on his retm^n; and enclosed
was a note for Edith, which, simple as it was,
seemed to her to be intended for no eyes but
her own, and was valued accordingly.

'' Thornage is coming at eleven o'clock,

darling, to go thu-ough the accounts and tell
me how things have been going on :
will you come and hear what he has to
say?" said Mr. Hilton, after breakfast; and
Edith, who had been longing to be asked
that she might feel assured of her own importance,
gladly agreed.

But when Mr. Hilton went to his study,
before it was time for Thornage to appear,
he found other matters to attend to ; for a
knock at the door was followed by the
appearance of Morris in a condition of
painful disquiet and confusion.

sewell, Morris, nothing wrong in the
stables. I hope?" inquired his master,
pleasantly ; but Morris had to take a moment
or two to recover himself before he could
answer.

^^No, sir, there all right; but I make
bold to have something to say to you."

^' Yes, Morris, certainly ; I am quite ready

to attend. You have not been getting into
trouble again ? ''

'beg pardon, sir, but that's just what
I've done, leastways I haven't had no trouble
to speak of, for Miss Laura and Mr. Offord
they said they wouldn't tell on me, and
'wasn't at Blithefield, sir — I've kep' my word
to you —twas at Offord," he went on eagerly.
*' But there ! I couldn't never face you with
that on my mind ; so I says to Ellis last
night, ' I'll just make a clean breast,' and
she says ' Do,' and Miss Laura says, ' Sell
that gun o' yours, Morris, or you'll begetting
into mischief again ; " and it's been
gone this four weeks; and if you say 'Gogo
I must ; but nobody shan't have it to say
I didn't tell you myself."

'' This is very serious, Morris," said Mr.
Hilton, gravely, and the offender could only
smooth his cap in silence for awhile, and
then suddenly burst out with —

'' Beg pardon, sir I but nobody knows a
word but him and Miss Laura."

Mr. Hilton felt much relieved. It altered
the case a great deal that no one would be
injured by the bad precedent if he should
make up his mind to pass over the offence,
but it was necessary to make at least a show
of severity.

swell, Morris, I must, of course, inquire
further into the matter. I cannot at all see
my way to keeping you as my servant when
I cannot trust you ; bat we must let it stand
over until Mr. Oxford comes back. You
have done very well in telling me of it
yourself, but the fault remains. You can go
now."

^^ Yes, sir, thank you, sir." And Morris
went away relieved, but unhappy. He did
not much think that his master would dismiss
him, but he had fallen from the high place
in his esteem which he had formerly held,

VOL. III. G

and it galled him to think that he should
owe a favour to Bernard's forbearance, for
he owed him a grudge for cutting and
contemptuous words spoken in anger, which
he could never forget, and, while knowing
that he deserved them, could never forgive.

Ellis had gone to Laura in tears to hear
all that she could tell of this fresh trouble,
declaring her intention of '' sticking to '' her
lover whatever happened, and in the midst
of her sorrow feeling inordinately proud of
his ^' pluck " in confessing to his master.
Laura was somewhat perplexed at the new
turn of affairs, and wondered whether she
would come in for her share of blame from
her father ; but, to her surprise, he did not
mention the subject either on that day or
any other, being partly moved by the
thought that she must be saddened and disappointed
at hearing nothing of Geoffrey,
and partly by dislike to a scene with her.

which would certainly be stormy, and when
both might say many angry words which
they would afterwards regret.

'^ You see, Miss Laura' said Ellis, when
lie had relieved her mind by a long outpouring
of fears and sorrows, '^ Morris and
me '11 have to go when Miss Edith's married.
Morris couldn't never serve under Mr. Oxford."

Laura looked at her in grave surprise
and disapproval ; it had never before struck
her that this matter was regarded as settled
by the entire household, who, while in no
hurry for a change in their present comfortable
positions, were somewhat impatient
to discover a reason for the delay.

^^You take a great deal too much for
granted, Ellis," she said, coldly.

'swell, miss, it isn't me more than the
others, and we can't help seeing that Master
treats him like his son, and Mr. Off or d
worships Miss Edith's steps."

^^ It is not a subject for us to talk
about ; but, speaking of Morris, I most truly
hope that when he does leave it will not
be in disgrace."

Ellis, feeling rather set down, at last
retired. She longed to boast to some one of
Morris's courage in facing the ^^ Master' but
it was not to be thought of, and she could
only remind herself that they were very
fortunate in being able to keep this new
disgrace a secret, although — like Morris —
she failed to see that the offence was in itself
a great one.

As for keeping this important matter from
Edith's knowledge, Mr. Hilton felt that he
was not capable of it, and not having given
Morris any promise of silence, he saw no
reason for denying himself the satisfaction
of telling her all about it during the few
minutes they where alone before Thornage
came with the accounts.

Edith was distressed and disappointed,
for she had a high opinion of Morris, and
lead believed in his reformation, but her
mind was chiefly occupied in wondering
how far Bernard was right in consenting to
conceal so grave a matter from her father.
The offence, of course, had been against
himself, and if he chose to forgive it he was
at liberty to do so, but she scarcely felt that
he was justified in keeping her father in
ignorance of the untrustworthiness of his
servant, and yet she felt proud of him for
his generosity and large-mindedness in overlooking
an offence so deadly in the eyes
of landowners, and could not help feeling
that he and she would probably think alike
on some matters concerning which she was
not at present — with all her father's indulgence
— allowed to express an opinion.

Pheasants no doubt were a necessary
adjunct to the pleasures of a country house

afforded occasions for the gathering
together of friends, kept idle gentlemen
employed and out of mischief during their
holidays, and were of value in cooking;
but it would be better, she thought, that
they should all perish from the face of the
earth than that they should be the ruin of
sober, honest men, like Morris, who were
unable to resist the temptation of proving
that their own skill as sportsmen was equal
to that of which their masters were so
inordinately proud.

But, knowing that her father would have
no patience with such a dangerous and
democratic heresy, Edith resolved with a
sigh that these thoughts should be confided
to no one, not even to Bernard himself.

CHAPTER VII.

bernard's part.

Whether he should find a marked change
in Edith's manner to him after their long
separation, and whether she would detect
the fact — of which he was perfectly conscious
— that his love had grown in absence
to an extent which made him intensely regret
his promise of silence, which was still in force
for some months to come, were matters
which filled Bernard's thoughts, and made
his visit to Paris wearisome and profitless.

He had felt that it was impossible that he
could meet her on the terms she had fixed
if he had been at Blithefield on her return.
His joy at seeing her again, his anxiety for

her approval of every detail of his management,
both at Blithefield and Offord, must
have been expressed too warmly for a man
who was not allowed to call himself her
lover, and yet to have drawn back in anyway
from Mr. Hilton's cordial affection and
gratitude would have shown caprice and
mock modesty for which he would have
despised himself. But after a fortnight
everything might be expected to have
calmed down. Thornage and his subordinates
would have come in for their full
share of approbation, and Mr. Hilton would
perhaps have forgotten how much time and
care had been given to Blithefield, and
would be less embarrassingly fatherly
in his acknowledgments ; while having
given by letter a welcome to Edith on her
return he might be less tempted when they
met to overstep the boundaries of friendship.
Nevertheless, he did look upon the meeting

as a soi-t of test of their future relations.
It was absurd to suppose that they could goon
as friends until an appointed time, and
then all of a sudden become either lovers or
strangers, affection or indifference must
grow, and he half feared that while he felt
the one, she in absence might have learned
the other.

He gave no notice of his return, but
walked into the drawing-room at Blithefield
one evening after dinner, as if there had
been no break in their usual habits, and
received a welcome which more than contented
him. Edith's voice and hand
trembled as she greeted him, and away ina
moment flew the fancy that she was indifferent,
and yet he was not 'Going to befool
enough" to build too much upon this
first meeting. He had taken her by surprise
and startled her, it might not be exactly the
feeling he desired which made her voice so

low and her manner so shy, and at any rate
he would not take advantage of it, but
would follow the lines he had laid down for
his own guidance for many months past.

But while he was resolving on a slight
distance of manner which should put her at
her ease and make her feel that he had no
intention of presuming on the position in
which her father had placed him, Edith had
settled in her own mind that the only place
she could occupy with dignity would be one
in which she asserted herself, and while
feeling and seeming grateful, showed that
she looked upon his authority as only
a temporary and beneficial necessity.

^^ Bernard, tell me about the colts — has
the blue roan gone to be broken for me ? "
she asked, pleasantly, when her father's
attention was called to something else, and
he was at liberty to talk to her.

^'No. Has not Morris told you? His

temper has proved a little uncertain, and
Captain Bonar and Morris have agreed that
he is scarcely to be trusted for you."

' We know all about Morris, Bernard,
he told father himself," she said in an
undertone.

^^Did he? Well, I half thought he
would. Better that than owe nne a favor',
he would think ! "

"Why does he dislike you?"

Bernard looked quietly at her, and
laughed a little.

I beg your ladyship's pardon, but the
reason as revealed to your humble servant
must not be spoken in your hearing."

She was silent for a moment, and then
said hastily —

Never mind, it is of no consequence."

^^ You see," he said, bending forward, so
that he might not be overheard; "I have
been altogether in a false and awkward

position, and they have all been very good
to me on the whole, but I am glad it
is over."

^^It was too much to ask of you," said
Edith, gently.

'you know it was not that, the work
was nothing, it was the idea, which no
doubt I exaggerated, that they would think
I was taking too much upon myself. I could
not be perpetually assuring them that your
father wished my authority to be absolute
in his absence, and Miss Edith has been
many times quoted against me''

They both smiled, and then she said
hurriedly, as Janet came towards them —

' I am glad you told me it was difficult,
instead of making it out all a pleasure."

"You would not have believed me if I
had said that?"

' Not quite, and I should have felt as if
you had slighted Blithefield."

'' Yes, it would almost be an insult to
talk of the management of such a place
as being only a pleasure, when to do it
thoroughly has been the life's work of men
like your father."

Edith's eyes sparkled with pleasure.
^' You do think it a great thing, Bernard,
to learn to rule well in a place like this,
even though it is such a little bit of the
world?"

^' It is a bit that would be too big for the
powers of many of us," he answered,
gravely. ^' You have been brought up toit,
and scarcely know how great your work
is. I undertook the responsibility for a
time, only because I had an object in view,
of which you know I never lose sight."

^^ AndOfford?" asked Edith, not offended,
but wishing to change the subject.

'' I don't think Offord has suffered.
Thornage has taught me a great deal this

winter, and yet has never been disrespectful
of my ignorance''

^^ My father and I went through all the
accounts with him."

^' Did you? I thought you would, and
did you approve of our management ? "

*^I should differ on a few points."

"Thank heaven! I never could stand
a — a — a woman who agreed with me in
everything," and then, fortunately, Mr.
Hilton called him away while the word
'wife" was almost trembling on his lips.

^Yhen Stephens brought in the tea, he
brought also letters which had come by
an evening post, a new institution which
Mr. Hilton despised but enjoyed.

Edith was reading out bits from a note
from Erica, announcing the day of their
arrival, when her father looked up from a
letter he had received, and said with a
broad smile —

•^ My dear girls! I am so sorry for you,
you rust be prepared for bad news."

'' Yes, father, we are all quite prepared,"
answered Edith, placidly.

^^ Peter is married ! "

'soh, father! you must show us the
letter before we can quite believe that I '^
exclaimed Janet ; and Mary Verney, who
was not so well accustomed to his ways as
the Hiltonss, and could not yet forget his
visit to her at Mrs. Paget' s, exclaimed

'* Impossible ! "

^^ Perhaps, Offord, you will have the
kindness to read the letter aloud, as I am
not believed," said Mr. Hilton, meekly.
^^ When I am credited with a poor sort of
invention instead of speaking the truth,
I can only acquiesce in the verdict that
my day has gone by, and give my authority
into more competent hands."

It was not only Janet who felt it

strange that it never struck him that
Captain Bonar's claims as his representative,
even in little matters, were
stronger than Bernard's, but they could
not be asserted in public, and Bernard
after a hurried question to Edith, '^ Is it
allowable ? " and her assurance, ^' Oh
yes, Peter's letters are public property,"
proceeded to read aloud the precisely
written sheet in which each letter was too
carefully formed to be more characteristic
than a schoolboy's copperplate.

My dear Wedgwood, — As my nearest
kinsman I feel that it is both pleasurable
and appropriate that I should make to you
the first announcement of my felicity, and
I therefore take an early opportunity of
informing you that on Tuesday, 26th
ult., I was espoused to an amiable and
charming lady whom I had the good
fortune to encounter during my stay at

Homburg last autumn. You will natus-ally
be somewhat anxious to learn particulars
concerning Mrs. Peter Hilton, but the
novelty of my condition must be my
excuse for stating them briefly.

'^ As regards worldly goods we are on an
excellent equality, for my beloved wife
being at one time in pecuniary difficulties
yielded to the solicitations of a most
estimable person connected with trade,
and when left a widow a few years later
found herself placed beyond the reach of
future necessities, but has ever been sorely
in need of communion T\T.th a mind and spirit
akin to her own, united as it fortunately is,
in my case, with family and position.

'^ To the charms of physical and mental
maturity she joins an elegant wit and
cheerful manners, which cannot fail to
recommend her to all who make her
acquaintance ; and I cannot but feel that

VOL. III. • H

my young cousins, who have laboured
under somewhat of a disadvantage in seeing
so little of the world, may derive much
benefit from her society and intimate knowledge
of circles from which they have
unfortunately been hitherto debarred. Not
that I wish to cast any reflections upon
your excellent management of your family,
my dear cousin, and I consider that your
elder daughters have made most respectable
marriages, but it gives me satisfaction to
reflect that, in consequence of my happy
union, the younger members may enjoy
the advantages of a less circumscribed
acquaintance previous to embarking upon
a lifelong partnership.

'^ My wife unites with me in kind
compliments to you and to your circle, and
nth the hope of a speedy meeting, — Believe
me, my dear Wedgwood, faithfully yours,
^' Peter Henry Hilton."

The portly widow of a pork butcher! "
exclaimed Mr. Hilton, when Bernard had
finished reading with due solemnity. ^^ I
am sorry for him poor fellow, but not
surprised. I always feared he would fall
a victim to some schemer; and, after all,
it might have been worse, for at least she
seems to have brought some money with
her. But, Miss Verney, you have much
to answer for, you might have saved us
from the infliction of these mature charms*'

^' Oh father, I can scarcely believe it is
true;" cried Edith. ''I feel quite disappointed,
and as if Peter had slighted us
all, but no doubt it will be an immense
advantage to enter ^ select circles ' under the
wing of Mrs. Peter Hilton. I can fancy
how eager Erica at least will be to profit
by it."

''My dear, you must not set the child an
example of being satirical," answered her

father. ^^ I wish, Offord, that amongst your
many acquaintances you might be able to
find out something about this person before
we ask her here."

^' All in the day's work, I suppose. Is
there anything my father would not ask you
to do, Bernard ? " said Edith in an undertone.


I am always at his service," he answered
and added aloud, '' There is one little difficulty,
we are not told Mrs. Peter Hilton's
name either before or after her first marriage,
so I am afraid I cannot do much at present."

Then Mr. Hilton and Janet wandered o£E
into many and vain speculations, while
Edith and Bernard talked together of the
many things which had interested them
during the long months of their separation.

CHAPTER VIII.

Tonnage's COTTAGE.

Almost on the outskirts of the Blithefield
property, with only a narrow belt of pine
wood between it and the high road, stood
the comfortable cottage in which Thornage,
the bailiff, had lived for thirty years. He
was a widower, with two sons doing well in
Australia, and his house was kept for him
by his sister, a middle-aged, '^ comfortable"
widow, who felt that it was as much credit
and satisfaction to keep a home in order fora
brother as for a husband, and had never
been persuaded for the second time to enter
upon the troubles of matrimony. But she
did sometimes wish that her range of duties

was a little wider, and that she had some one
besides her brother to look after and make
comfortable, and once or twice she had
been made completely happy by being called
upon — with Mr. Hilton's full consent — to
take in a lodger for a few days, in the shape
of some wandering artist or angler, or someone
who, charmed with the quiet and beauty
of the neighbourhood, was only too glad to
secure the two clean, pretty rooms in the
whitewashed cottage, where roses and
honeysuckle, and all things sweet and rustic
looked in through the diamond-paned
windows.

In one of his talks with Laura Geoffrey
Poland had heard a full account of the
cottage and its occupants, and having at
that time no doubts or self distrust to disturb
him, had at once resolved that if occasion
should ever arise he would try to gain
admission to this quiet refuge, and idle

away a few delightful days in the woods of
Blithefield and Offord, which were — within
certain limits — open to every one who took
the trouble to apply at the lodge-gates.

Casting about in his mind for some means
of carrying out Dr. Gordon's suggestion,
that he should return to Blithefield and —
himself unnoticed — test the strength of his
regard for Laura, or his infatuation for
Edith, the remembrance of Thornage's
cottage came across him like an inspiration.
There was no fear of his being recognised
there, for neither the bailiff nor his sister,
Mrs. Butler, had ever seen him, and even if
they had it was most unlikely that any one,
even an intimate acquaintance, should recognise
him in his present altered condition.

Here — if this worthy brother and sister
could be persuaded to take him in for a few
days — he might look about him at his leisure,
and judge dispassionately of his own state

of minds neither being distracted by the
excitement of a first meeting after long
reparation, nor driven away in sudden disappointment,
if the strength of his feeling
did not correspond with his expectations.

But his o^TL impatience hindered his
recovery, and it was the middle of April
before Gordon would consent to part with
him, or considered him fit to face the uncertainties
of the English climate. But in
the meanwhile Geoffrey's time had not been
wasted, for the letters he had written to
people in authority seemed likely to bear
fruit, and he received what almost amounted
to a promise of a good appointment abroad
as soon as a vacancy should occur, always
supposing, of course, that there should be
no great political changes ; and for the
present he had ample occupation for his idle
hours in improving his already tolerable
knowledge of Italian, which was likely to

be of much use to him. He fek that, armed
with this pretty well-assured prospect, he
could venture to present himself to Laura's
father, if — when they met, he should find her
unchanged in her regard for him, and
should judge himself worthy of her. He
did not consider it of particular importance
that his worldly possessions should greatly
exceed hers, let them have enough for
comfort between them and it did not much
matter from which side it came, and
although she had been brought up in the
midst of luxury she had taken little advantage
of it, and had tastes as simple as
his own.

He had resolved that whatever might be
his state of mind he would see her and
explain everything, he owed it to her, and
believed she would also consider it a debt,
and it was necessary for his own peace as
well. But much as he thought of her it

never crossed his mind that she should have
suffered from the opinion of other people
that he had slighted and forgotten her. He
supposed that Mr. Hilton by stopping their
correspondence intended to show that he
would disapprove of him as a suitor for his
daughter, but he scarcely supposed that this
would continue when he went to him
with Laura's consent, and with improved
prospects. There might perhaps be difficulties
at first, but they should be fought
against and conquered, and the neglected
unloved daughter could not be said to owe a
very heavy debt of filial gratitude or
obedience. He wanted her, and no one else
in the world seemed to desire her company,
therefore she belonged to him, and he had a
rio^ht to her which he did not intend to
relinquish unless she herself desired it.

Again the larch trees were budding and
the woods were full of primroses when, after

nearly a year's absence, excepting for those
few stolen hours in the summer, he once
more visited Blithefield. He slept at
Mornington and drove over in the middle
of the day, taking with him his modest
luDfDf-aD^e, so that if Homage would consent

CO O / o

to receive him he might take up his quarters
there at once. Now that the possibility of
meeting was so near, his impatience became
almost uncontrollable, and to his infinite
satisfaction he found it was to Laura
that almost all his thoughts turned. But
when the question of lodgings was comfortably
settled — for Mrs. Butler prided
herself on keeping every corner of the house
in perfect order — and he had finished a
homely but admirable dinner of eggs and
bacon, and was lighting his pipe before
setting out for a stroll, it struck him with
keenest apprehension that having heard
nothing of the Hiltonss for six months

there might be changes in the family
of which he had had no warning.
His aunt, Mrs. Mathewson, had written
occasionally, and her letters had followed
him from place to place, but she had never
mentioned their names, for she was not
anxious that he should be reminded of them,
and although refusing to believe in his
liking for Laura, had an uneasy feeling
that the ground was not quite firm under
her feet, while, as Edith was manifestly
beyond his reach, there was no object in
bringing her before his mind. It could
scarcely be said he feared that Laura
might have been taken from him by some
unknown rival, for as she had kept herself
apart from sympathy before he came he had
no reason to expect that in these few months
she would have changed her nature and
become sociable and attractive, but of comes
it was quite possible that she might be away

THORN age's cottage. 109

from home, although she had told him
many times that she had no friends to
visit, and perhaps his carefully-de vised
scheme for seeing her might end in nothing.

He had shrunk from talking to Mrs. Butler
on the subject when she brought in his
dinner, being anxious to betray neither
interest nor curiosity which she could convert
into a cause of gossip, but now seeing her
from the side window feeding her poultry
in the yard, he joined her, and after
showing due interest in the young broods,
asked a few questions about the family
before venturing on their domains.

Mrs. Butler was very ready to talk. She
had no intimate knowledge of the ' ' young
ladies," for although they pretty often came
to see her, she had never been a servant in
the house or had daily intercourse with them,
but she felt it was right and necessary
that she should be posted up in their affairs

as far as possible without laying herself open
to a charge of gossipping, and Thornage was
sure to tell anything which he might have
seen, or heard, in his daily visits to the
house, knowing that she would make no
mischievous use of the information.

So now she told Geoffrey many things
which he knew perfectly well before, about
the elder daughters and their marriages,
before she came to subjects of greater
interest.

^^They do say Miss Edith— Miss Hilton
as is now — is bespoke for young Mr. Offord,
but there I don't know, sir, if so be it is so
they keep it pretty close, for never a word
has Thornage heard tell up at the house,
only the young gentleman's been master here
while Mr. Hilton's been away at the seaside."

'^Mr. Hilton been away all the winter?
No one ill I hope ! " asked Geoffrey,
anxiously.

^' Just himself, sir, he was took with
rheumatics and the doctors ordered him off,
and Miss Edith went with him, and Mr.
Offord — quite nice and pleasant like — was
made the master, and we all guessed what
that meant."

'' But was the house shut up ? Did all
the family go ? "

^*No, sir, Miss Janet that was — Mrs. Bonar
and her husband come and stopped with
Miss Laura — that's one of the young ladies,
and little Miss Erica she went to foreign
parts along of an old lady as used to
come, I can't mind her name''

^' So one of the young ladies was here all
the winter ? "

^^ Yes, sir. Miss Lam^a, they do say she
wouldn't go ; she's always been contrary
like, and just between you and me, sir — "
here Mrs. Butler lowered her voice, almost
to a whisper — " I've heard she keeps

expecting of a young gentleman to come
back again as took up with her last year and
then went off as careless as you please and
never heard of since."

Geoffrey's face flushed. '^ And now they
are all at home again you say ? " he said,
turning away.

'^ Yes, sir, leastways for all I know,
but I'm not one as gossips or hears
much."

'' And you are quite sure that I shall not
be considered trespassing or taking a liberty
if I walk through the park."

Bless you, no sir, Mr. Hilton always
allows that to any gentleman as lodges here,
and if you want a real fine walk you should
go to the ' Look-out,' as they call it. Fine
and fond Miss Laura is of that place, she's
there most days, Thornage says."

'thank you, Mrs. Butler, then I'll be
off at once," and pulling his broad-brimmed

hat over his eyes, Geoffrey started with a
lightened heart.

There had been no startling changes,
of that he was assured; that Edith would
be either engaged or already married to
Bernard Offord, lie had looked upon as a
certainty, and was surprised that it was as
yet only indefinitely talked about ; but
with regard to Laura, in spite of Mrs.
Butler's gossip, perhaps now, for the first
time, he realised how great and lasting
might be differences of mind and habits
of thought, which were outwardly little
apparent.

She had not been taken from him,

but she might of her own will have

wandered away into a pathless mental

distance from which she would never wish

to return, or she might feel that he had

thrown aside all claims upon her sympathy,

and meet him as a stranger. But why
VOL. ni. I

torment himself before his time ? He had
come to learn the truth concerning himself
and her, and should his courage fail at
the very outset?

CHAPTER IX.

THORN age's lodger.

With a restlessness born of the bright spring
weather and Nature's awakening, Laura
found the monotony of her life growing
daily more oppressive. Everything at
Blithefield had settled down quietly again
after long interruption ; Mr. Hilton had
recovered his activity and again rejoiced
in making Edith a sharer in every interest ;
Erica spent half her time in town with
Mrs. Matthews for the advantage of
lessons ; and Mary Verney's wedding was
over. Perhaps in the minds of the few who
were in the secret this was only a welcome
lull before the storm of changes which must

take place if at the end of his year of
waiting Bernard should find Edith willing
to marry him, to admit him into her beloved
home, and give up to him that first place
which she had hitherto occupied and rejoiced
in; but to Laura, who knew and cared little
pout the matter, and on the whole would
have thought Bernard rather too good for
Edith, it seemed as if the life had gone cut
of her human surroundings, and only she
and Nature were awake and dissatisfied.
The trees thrust forward new buds, the
plants pushed their fresh leaves through the
earth, the birds chose for themselves new
nests and new mates, and she sympathised
with them all; but to her came no hope of
change, no sign that life held anything
better for her than remembrance and
regret, and a but half-awakened sense
of power over her own mind, and possibly
a little world, if she chose to try,

but of the idea of which she was ah-lady
half weary.

There were days together when, in
disgust at herself and her surroundings, she
wished passionately that Geoffrey had never
crossed her path, that she had been left to
the slumber of discontent and hopelessness
from which she had seldom awakened to
pain, and then, with contempt of such
unworthy shrinking, she would tax herself
to the utmost to cultivate those powers
which he had been the first to show that
she possessed.

No one ever mentioned his name to her
now, and she was glad, for they could
only speak in condemnation, and she was
determined not to condemn, but she had
little hope of seeing him again.

Hurrying home one April afternoon,
after spending an hour or two under the
shelter of the great pines at the Look-out,

coming down a narrow pati through the
oak wood she came suddenly face to face
with some one — a stranger — who bowed
and very slightly raised his hat, and passed
her quickly ; but, short as was the time for
observation, and stranger as he appeared,
there was something which made her involuntarily
turn and look back, and she
found that lie had done the same. For a
moment he hesitated, as if coming forward
to speak, and something in his attitude
seemed familiar, but he turned away again
immediately, and quickening his steps was
soon out of sight, while she, wondering at
her foolish fancy, hastened home.

Well, he had seen her again ! and for the
moment his impulse had been to call her to
sum and never to let her go, but his will was
strong — he had come to prove himself, and
he would not be fool enough to give way at
the first moment. She looked dull and

sad. He had seen it at a glance, and he
longed to comfort her and make her feel the
same confidence in the future which lightened
his steps on his way to the place which she
had so lately left. He could make her
happy — he felt sure of that — but he would
be without excuse if he should make himself
part of her life again, while a doubt of
himself lingered in his mind.

' Homage tells me that his sister has
taken a new lodger for a week," said Mr.
Hilton at dinner time. '' A foreigner she
thinks, but he speaks English. A decent
sort of man, quite a gentleman, they say,
so they told him he might wander about the
place. If either of you girls happen to
come across him you will know it is all right."

*' I did come across him this afternoon,
father," said Laura,

"Did you? What sort of a looking
fellow was he ? "

^^ I hardly know, lie looked like a
foreigner."

And so he did, but in her own mind she
also said, ^^ he looked like Geoffrey."

'-' I suppose it will be only civil if I go
and look him up tomorrow, and if he seems
a gentleman I may as well ask him to
dinner, Edith," said Mr. Hilton, with his
universal hospitality.

^' By all means, father, if you can feel
sure that he won't turn out something
dreadful or run away with the spoons. I
wonder what brought him here ? "

'^ He told Mrs. Butler that he had heard it
was a pretty part of the country, and wanting
a quiet week came down to see it. Now I
come to think of it, Offord had better call
first and get a sort of idea of him before
we make his acquaintance."

Edith said nothing, but looked and felt
vexed as she always did when her father

claimed from Bernard, as if it was a right,
the performance of any troublesome duty
which would otherwise have fallen to his
own share. But when Bernard came in a
little later he expressed his perfect willingness
to look up the stranger — indeed he
thought to himself that it would be better
that he should have a look at him before he
was introduced to the girls, for Mr. Hilton
was a little apt to let his hospitality outrun
his discretion, and a guest for his dinner
table was a temptation he often found it
hard to resist.

^^No doubt the master '11 call upon you,
sir, he mostly does when we have a gentleman
here," said Mrs. Butler, when she
brought in supper for ^' Mr. Phillips" as
Geoffrey had called himself, that being his
second name. ^' And a nice pleasant gentleman
you'll find him, and perhaps he'll ask
you to go and see the young ladies, and

as for Miss Edith; bless her! to see her's
to love her ; not that I should say that to
you, sir, but it's just a manner o' speaking,
you know."

^^ Yes, I quite understand," answered
Geoffrey, quietly ; but in his heart he was
dismayed. It was quite a different matter
being brought face to face with one of the
family from only risking a chance meeting
in the park or woods, and much as his
appearance was altered, it was impossible
that he could venture upon an interview
with Mr. Hilton when voice or manner
might at any moment betray him. He had
been a fool to come ! but still it was worth
much to feel that confidence that his
faith had returned to Laura which the mere
sight of her had awakened. Even if he had
to go away again at a moment's notice he
felt that, returning to his proper self, he
might come forward publicly now and

proclaim his wishes, but he earnestly desired
that he might have time to put himself
further to the test.

'' It would be very kind of Mr. Hilton to
think of calling on me, Mrs. Butler," he
said, ^' but I am particularly anxious to avoid
society of any kind, and keep perfectly
quiet. I have only just recovered from a
severe illness which must be my excuse ;
perhaps your brother would be so kind as tolet
Mr. Hilton know, that he may not have
the trouble of coming for nothing."

Mrs. Butler was surprised, but she supposed
'^ the quality " knew their own ways
best ; only this gentleman seemed so
*' simple-like " in his manners she should
have thought he would have considered a
visit from the master an honour.

Left to himself Geoffrey could not help
laughing over his own embarrassment, which
indeed made his position almost ridiculous.

To take advantage of his altered appearance,,
to make quiet observations, was a very
different matter from being detected in
disguise and obliged to account for actions
and motives which he himself scarcely cared
to analyse, and he hardly knew whether
he should shrink most from Laura's wonder
at the course he had taken, or from Edith's
disdain of his weakness and self-distrust.
Even at the risk of seeming churlish he
must refuse Mr. Hilton's visit, and the only
effect of the whole matter would be that the
pleasant week he had promised himself must
be shortened into two or three days.

The next morning, on his way to superintend
the cutting down of some oak trees,
Bernard happened to pass near Thornage's
cottage, and reflecting that a visit at any
hour could only be considered an attention
by the stranger who was lodging there, he
turned aside to call upon him.

The woodland path made a sharp turn
before reaching the cottage gate, and while
still out of sight fi^om the windows, Bernard
involuntarily stopped at the sound of voices
within a few yards of him. For a moment
or two he stood in a puzzled attitude of
attempted recollection, and then with a
sudden gesture of surprise, as a few more
words in a deep full voice met his ear, he
exclaimed, half aloud, 'poland — of course ! "
-and looked through the screen of trees with no
little anxiety to see his impression confirmed.
But all that he saw at first was Thornage
training a rebellious hop-bine over the porch,
while a man carelessly dressed, with a dark
beard and sunburnt face, leaned out of the
window talking to him.

''A chance resemblance," said Bernard to
himself, but even while he said it the voice
sounded again, and he thought he could not
be mistaken.

Looking scrutinisingly at the figure at the
window, he was increasingly impressed with
a sense of familiarity. It was true that the
face which he associated with that voice was
pale and beardless, and the man before him
was brown and hairy ; it was true that
Geoffrey Poland had been severely plain and
precise in dress, and that ^^Mr. Phillips's '^
careless yachting suit and red tie were a little
'loud," but underneath these differences
there was an indefinite likeness which was
uncomfortably striking ; and, scarcely knowing
why, Bernard felt that there was something
which he ought to find out. A few
minutes' conversation must set the matter at
rest, and he was stepping forwards to speak
to Thornage first, when the stranger jumped
out over the low window-sill, and lent a hand
to the training of the creepers, and again
Bernard stood and looked at him while
doubt almost became certainty.

Then arose the question, '^ What should
he do?" Strictly speaking, the matter was
no business of his. Even if Poland had
come back in disguise he could scarcely be
justified in interfering with him, or even in
mentioning the fact to Mr. Hilton without
reason for doing so. It was an act of folly,
but might be nothing more, and he believed
that Laura's happiness was deeply concerned
in his return. She had been very patient,
she had made no complaints and given no
confidences, but he knew she was waiting,
and that half her life was bound up in the
fulfilment of this long-deferred hope. Nor
could he speak to Edith of his difficulty, for
he knew that there was no confidence
between the sisters, and he could not quite
forget his own jealousy of Geoffrey although
he had struo^ofled hard and with tolerable
success to overcome it. At least he must
take time to consider before facing

Thornage's lodger, whoever he might be,
and so turned away unseen to smoke a
meditative pipe or two before beginning his
morning's work.

He strolled up to Blithefield before
luncheon — still with a doubting mind, and
found Mr. Hilton on the terrace.

'^ I fancy that is rather a queer fellow
that lodger of Thornage's," he said in an
aggrieved tone. "' He sent a message which
sounded civil enough, but when translated
meant that he declined to make my acquaintance.
I have told Thornage he had better
look out what he is about."

^' There is no use in my calling then,"
said Bernard, thinking that this refusal was
only a further confirmation of his suspicions.

Not the least I should say, but I don't
at all like it, and I have told Thornage I
can't have the fellow all over the place."

Bernard smiled to himself at the keenness

of Mr. Hilton's resentment at his attentions
being declined, but was far from being sorry
that it was so. If this was Poland it was
most undesirable that he should be hanging
about, and most unfair to Laura, and he
determined that he would spare no trouble
to find out the truth.

^^ Did either of you girls see anything of
that fellow from Thornage's this morning ? '*
asked Mr. Hilton, at luncheon time.

^^ I have not, father; I have not been
further than the gardens answered Edith.

^^ I met him in the oak wood," said Laura,
with an embarrassment which caused Bernard
much disquiet.

'^ Did he speak to you ? "

No, father."

*^ I should wish you not to give him the

slightest encouragement if he does speak. I

have reason to think he is an objectionable

sort of fellow," said Mr. Hilton, who was
• VOL. ni. . K

now ready to credit him with almost any
crime.

Laura's face flushed, but by an effort over
herself she remained silent.

'^ You had better not go roaming about
while he is here, Laura," her father went on.
It will only be for a few days, and I should
much object to his scraping acquaintance
with you."

Again Laura obliged herself to say
nothing, but she did not feel sure that
she should obey. That she was neither
helped nor hindered in her every-day life
seemed to her sufficient excuse for following
her own judgment, and the perplexing and
increasing likeness she saw in the stranger
to Geoffrey exercised a sort of fascination
over her, and gave her a strong desire to see
him whenever she could, even if it was only
at a distance. Indeed she had almost made
up her mind to seek for an opportunity of

speaking to him, that the illusion — for she
told herself it could be nothing else — might
once for all be destroyed. Her silence was
unnoticed by her father, but Bernard looking
at her felt sure that she intended to disobey.

After luncheon he and Edith strolled out
and wandered up and down the terrace.

'^ It is not a very pleasant idea having
this man of whom father was speaking about
here, so that one might meet him at an'
moment," said Edith, looking round, as if
afraid she would hind him listening.

'^ No, not pleasant, certainly. I have
often thought it would be better to make
inquiries before giving any one the run of
the place, but your father is too kind and
hospitable for that. However, I don't think
he has any other reason for thinking badly
of this man than that he has declined to
make acquaintances''

^' Oh, that is quite enough for father I "

answered Edith, laughing merrily ; and the-subject
of their conversation passing at that
moment amongst the trees, out of earshot
but within sight of their bright faces, felt ashe
stopped for a moment to look at them as
lovers, that he could do so without a sigh.

'^ That difficulty is over," he said to himself,
as he strolled far into the woods;
'' and now I can speak to Laura with a
clear conscience."

CHAPTER X.

CARNATIONS.

Lingering at his breakfast the next morning,
Oeo&ey mused over the littleness of things
which can strongly influence daily life, and
smiled to himself at the difficulty he felt
in finding an excuse for leaving his lodgings
four days before his time was up. It was
impossible to discover anything to find
fault with, Mrs. Butler made him perfectly
comfortable, he had had no letters, and
had not even seen a newspaper, and his
appetite had already so much improved
that he could not make a pretence of
illness.

^'It seems to me," he said to himself,

^'that having placed myself here, I must
stay for the appointed time, if I wish
to avoid remarks ; but I would be off this
very moment if I could find an excuse, and
hasten back again in my own proper person
to beg Laura from her father."

Then he went on to think of the several
times on which he had seen the sisters — at
a respectful distance for the most part, as
any casual passer-by might have done, so
that there had been no intrusiveness in his
observation ; and on two occasions, when he
had met Laura, face to face, he had
constrained himself to do nothing but bow.
He had in no way presumed upon his
disguise ; he had put himself into a delicate
position, and had behaved with delicacy;
so far he had nothing to reproach himself
with, but the sooner he got out of it the
better.

He supposed that in the character of

Mr. Phillips his refusal of a visit from
Mr. Hilton, had put a stop to any further
offer of civility ; but it had not entered his
mind that Bernard Offord would be likely
to notice Thornage's lodger, or that since
yesterday morning he had watched him
often and carefully, that he had seen him
pass Laura in the oak wood, and had been
ready to start forward at a moment's notice
if he had presumed to speak to her.

Yet convinced as Bernard felt of his
identity when before his eyes, he invariably
wavered during his absence, having no
proofs, and being unable to guess at a
motive for disguise; and, after all, his
strongest reason for suspicion was Laura's
embarrassment whenever the stranger's
name was mentioned. She must at least
see the same likeness which had struck him
so forcibly; but when he had tried to
approach the subject with her, she had so

quickly and decidedly avoided it, that he
felt he could not thrust himself into her
confidence.

That fellow at Thornage's seems to be
behaving himself very well," said Mr.
Hilton ; and even Bernard could say nothing
to the contrary, and do nothing but observe
him carefully.

'^ It's magistrate's day, and Master and
Miss Edith 11 be away to Mornington, and
Gray says he'll show you the greenhouses,
if you like, su," said Thornage, coming in
after breakfast to speak to Mr. Phillips.

^'I should like it, but there are are other
ladies in the house — I might be in their
way," said Geoffrey.

•' Oh, there's only Miss Laura, and she's
mostly away in the woods," answered
Thornage ; and then he waited to show the
way, which Geoffrey knew perfectly of old.

The greenhouses were a blaze of flowers.

which the head gardener was delighted to
show; and with the idea that, in spite of
his name, Mr. Phillips was a foreigner, he
had a great deal to ask concerning the
plants of other countries. The crowning
glory of the place at this time of the year
was, as Geoffrey well remembered, the
forced carnations, which they came to last
of all, where he stood lost in what Gray
fondly hoped was speechless admiration,
but which was in reality an overpowering
memory of that evening, a year ago, when,
while he was still supposed to be an invalid,
he had hurried out for flowers for Laura,
-and had returned with a handful of her
favourites.

^^ Miss Laura sets mighty store by these,
sir," remarked Gray, as if answering his
thoughts; 'ellis — that's the ladies' maid —
comes most days and picks some for
her."

Geoffrey roused himself and looked
round, just in time to see a woman's
dress disappearing through the further
door, and unconscious that a moment
before Laura had stood watching him
from behind a screen of leaves. The
dress belonged to Ellis, of course, and
he was glad that he had escaped the
scrutiny of her sharp eyes. Beautiful as
flowers were, he was not disposed to linger.
Gray's talk worried him ; so after receiving
a small bunch of perfect blossoms, he hurried
away, longing to be alone with the thoughts
which they had sent crowding into his
mind.

Passing through a corner of the garden
in view of the house, he saw Laura in the
distance, walking slowly, and evidently
on her way to the Look-out. Seized
with a sudden fancy, he turned aside into
the oak wood, which on that side came upto

the edge of the lawn ; and knowing of
a short cut by means of which he could
get there before her, he hurried on, and
laying the carnations at the foot of a pine-tree
which he knew was her favourite
place, he went on a little further where
the young leaves were thick enough to hide
him, and he could watch her unseen. He
would not speak to her if he could help
it — it would make things easier for her
by-and-bye with her father : but his desire
of testing her affection had become uncontrollable,
and he knew that his flowers
would bear a message from him.

Left by herself for the day, as soon asher
father and Edith had driven away,
Laura went into the garden intending, if
she could, to be contented without her
usual walk. From thence she had seen
the stranger conducted to the greenhouses
by Gray and Thornage ; and seeing that

an opportunity had come of setting her
doubts at rest she had at once resolved to
go in by the further entrance, and in a
manner which would seem quite natural,
go forward and speak to him ; for this
likeness was so tormenting, and this fancy,
she assured herself, so unreasonable, that
she could know no peace until she had
seen him face to face and assured herself
once for all that he was a stranger — or —
Geoffrey ! But her courage had suddenly
failed her, and looking at him from behind
a screen of leaves she had doubted, and
believed, and doubted again ; and feeling
at the last moment that she could not face
him before others, turned away before he
had awakened from the silence which had
fallen upon him on his first sight of the
flowers which spoke to him of her.

It was no longer possible to be contented
with the garden, and the day was so warm

and sunny it was unreasonable to expect
her to stay at home. It was vexatious
that her father should have laid any
injunctions upon her, and impossible that
lie could follow them ; and after all he
had only said that ^^it would be better
that she should not wander far from the
house," so succeeding pretty well in quieting
her scruples, she took her own way and
followed her own thoughts.

She strolled slowly along, for she had
the whole day to dispose of as she pleased,
and was too restless and excited to settle
down to any of her usual occupations.
She must put an end to this miserable
uncertainty, and if she could meet the
stranger alone her courage would be equal
to the task, but with other eyes upon her
she could do nothing.

She was a long time on the road, Geoffrey
thought to himself, watching with impatience.

After all, she might not be coming
that way just then, and he must leave his
flowers to speak of him, and only guess at
the answer he longed to receive ; but
presently he saw her in the distance, and
his heart beat so quickly that he wondered
to himself that he could ever have doubted
of the power she held over him.

Coming forward wearily and listlessly, it
was not until almost at the foot of the tree
that Laura's eyes lighted upon the flowers,
and then with flushed cheeks and eager
hands, she sprang forward and raised them
to her face.

^^ Geoffrey I" she cried aloud, looking
round her with startled eyes, and for a
moment his resolution failed ; he must
speak, he must tell her that the long waiting
was over, and that he gave to her equal
love for that which he could no longer doubt
she still felt for him; but care for her

restrained him. He would not startle her
into an acknowledgment which he should
delight to win from her when free from his
disguise, nor had he any right to put herat
such a disadvantage with her father and
every one else, as must be the case if it
should become known that they had met in
defiance of authority, and as if ashamed of
themselves ; and not daring to trust himself
any longer, after seeing that her face grew
bright and happy, and that his flowers were
raised over and over again to her lips, he
hurried away.

In two days more, dear, I hope to be
with you," he said to himself, as he walked
quickly back to his lodgings, where he
astonished Mrs. Butler by announcing that
he had suddenly made up his mind to do
something else, and wished to leave the next
morning as early as she could arrange to get
him and his luggage taken to Mornington.

'^ You didn't find the eggs bad this morn-^
ing, sir ? " she asked anxiously, not being
able to imagine any other possible reason for
his sudden departure.

^^No, Mrs. Butler; they — like everything
else you have given me — were perfect ; but,
you know, the best of us are not always
reasonable, and I have taken a fancy to be
off, and do something in a hurry which I had
thought might wait."

^' Well, sir, I can only say I'm sorry, and
I've done my best ; and I do hope they won't
say up at the house as I couldn't make you
comfortable."

'^ Oh, I'll take care of that," answered
Geoffrey carelessly, and then corrected himself
and added: "' Of course, I mean that I
should be glad to tell everybody how
splendidly you have treated me, and what a
first-rate place it is to stay at. Why, Mrs.
Butler, I shall be quite - sorry to leave you,

although I have only known you three
days."

He held out his hand and gave hers a
kindly clasp ; and she went away somewhat
comforted, thinking to herself, with a smile,
that there did not seem much ^^ sorrow about
him ;" for almost before she closed the door
he was getting his things together, and
whistling a lively little Spanish love-song.
Even he scarcely knew himself in his new
mood, and felt as if he could safely defy
recognition from those who had only seen
him in the days when he had not known
what it was to be happy.

VOL. in.

CHAPTER XI.

FACE TO FACE.

A VAGUE uneasiness and sense of being wanted
at home induced Bernard to refuse an invitation
to meet Mr. Hilton and Edith at an
informal dinner at the house of a brother
magistrate, when business was over, and it
was scarcely five o'clock when he rode up to
his own door. Nothing but necessity would
have kept him from devoting that day to the
investigation of Thornage's lodger, of whom
he had become increasingly suspicious. It
was quite likely that he was wrong in believing
him to be Poland in disguise, but he
was convinced that he was not what he
appeared to be, and the pertinacity with

which he haunted those parts of the park
and woods where Laura was generally to be
found, and yet refrained from speaking to
her, filled him with uncomfortable curiosity.

Having given Lam-a a careless warning,
and made a protest against the stranger's
unsociability, Mr. Hilton had thought little
more about the matter, and had no more
scruple than usual in leaving his always
neglected daughter to take care of herself
while he and Edith spent the day with their
friends. Bernard felt that it was not altogether
just that he should be blamed for
following his usual ways and leaving Laura
to do exactly what seemed good in her own
eyes; but if some day mischief should
befall her," he would find it difficult to hold
her father excused.

As soon as he had given his horse to the
groom, he took his way — scarcely knowing
why he did so — towards Thornage's cottage ;

but even if the time was not well chosen ^
there was no reason why he should not seek
the meeting which had never yet directly
come to pass, and he was beginning to feel
that there was a certain injustice in harbouring
suspicions the truth of which he had not
yet taken the trouble to investigate.

Crossing the end of the flower-garden,
which was the shortest way from Offord to
Thornage's cottage, he was just in time to
see Laura pass into the oak wood before him,
apparently bound for the same place. It was
not late — only half-past five, and the days
were lengthening fast — but he knew that if
her father had been at home she would not
have been there, and more than ever convinced
that it was right that some one
should be on the watch, after a moment's
hesitation, he followed her.

Since her first meeting with the stranger
in the wood Laura had known no peace.

The whole interest of her life being centred
in one person, it was to him that all her
thoughts turned, and every fresh occurrence
seemed to point to him ; but she was sufficiently
aware of her own weakness to be
anxious to guard against it, and until to-day
had been moderately successful. That the
stranger had suggested Geoffrey when they
first met and bowed in silence, and that the
feeling of familiarity had groTvm on each
following occasion might — she tried to persuade
herself — be merely the result of her
own imagination, unduly concentrated on
one point ; but to-day she knew there was
something more, and that in some measure
her fancies were justified. Her favourite
flowers laid at the foot of her favourite seat !
This could be no delusion of a mind grown
weak by indulgence of an absorbing sentiment,
and she could know no rest until the
truth had been made clear to her. The way

seemed simple when she came to think over
it ; she needed only to hear the stranger's
voice, and every doubt must be set at rest.
If she met him wearing the flowers, if he
were indeed Geoffrey, he could scarcely pass
her by ; and should this occasion fail, she
would not scruple to go on to the cottage,
trusting the moment to furnish her with
an excuse, not of speaking to him, but of
hearing his voice.

Bernard seeing the direction she was
taking, and hastening after her, decided that
the inevitable time had come for saying
a word of warning. If this mysterious
stranger should really prove to be Poland,
he was behaving dishonourably, and at all
risks Laura should be warned against him ;
so argued the man, whose straightforward
and unimaginative mind had never troubled
him with uncertainties. That she was on
her way to a meeting which had been

planned between them, he could scarcely
doubt ; and he felt an infinite pity for this
neglected girl, who T\T.th every phase of
mind unguided, could not be expected to
know or care what seemed right in the
eyes of others. But whatever else was
uncertain, his path was clear, knowing, or
perhaps he should say guessing, what seemed
to have struck no one else, on him was
thrust the duty of remonstrance ; and even
if he had felt no anxiety for her or care for
her well-being, her claim upon him as
Edith's sister was too strong to be set aside.

There was still a long stretch of narrow
path and a sharp turning between Laura
and Thornage's cottage, when Bernard,
by means of a short cut, met her face to
face.

'^ I thought it was you, Laura, and
hastened after you ; it is late for you to be
turning away from home," he said, lightly.

anxious to conceal all motive beyond that
of friendly protection.

^^ Father and Edith have gone out for
the day ; there is no need for me to be home
early'' she answered.

'^ No need but your o^vn good. You will
be benighted if you think of going further ;
but it will not matter now that I am here to
take care of you."

He had not failed to see her embarrassment
and discomfort, but thought it wiser
not to notice it.

'' Thank you, Bernard, I am accustomed
to walking by myself, and I — I like it,"
she answered.

' Yes, I know it is pleasant ; but this is
not quite the time I should choose if I were
you — when yom father is away, and there
is a stranger about, whose acquaintance
he does not wish you to make."

^' And Avhat may be the matter with the

stranger?" asked Laura, haughtily, her
old spirit of contrariety rising strongly
within her.

'^ I know scarcely as much about him
even as you do," answered Bernard, looking
at her keenly. '^ And very likely he is
all right, but people of as much experience
as your father and I have, know that
strangers are apt sometimes to scrape
acquaintance that is hardly to be desired,
and may afterwards be disagreeable, and
we all know that it is a privilege to be on
speaking terms with a Miss Hilton."

His words ended in jest, but Laura's own
thoughts supplied them with a second
meaning which she resented.

^' Thank you! I am quite accustomed
to taking care of myself, and I am not
afraid that any one will ' scrape an
acquaintance ' with me that I do not desire ;
at any rate, I may suppose myself safe from

such annoyance in my father's woods. You
can have nothing to take you further in
this direction, and I am fond of a solitary
walk, so I will say good night."

^^ Laura, my dear, in spite of your polite
dismissal I am not going to leave you here
alone'' answered Bernard, with brotherly
kindness, but unmistakeable obstinacy.
^' You may say that it is not late for you
to be out, but it is later than your father
would like, and there are reasons — Laura,
you, too, may imagine that there are reasons
why you should not Wander about alone
while this doubtful stranger, who has refused
our acquaintance, is likely to intrude upon
you at any moment."

Laura grew paler while he spoke, but
after a scarcely perceptible hesitation
answered coldly —

^^I cannot, of course, pretend to understand
these dark hints against the character

of a gentleman of whom we know nothing ;
and as I have not the least fear of any
annoyance I will go my own way."

Take another path, Laura ! Do not
go directly in the way of Thornage's
cottage ! "

^^ Bernard! you are almost insulting!
Do you mean to imply "

*^ Do not let us quarrel, Laura," he interrupted
; ^'but it will be best for me to
speak plainly. AVhat I mean is this — that
you and I have both seen that there is some
mystery about this stranger ; perhaps the
same thought has struck us both, at any
rate we are both anxious to set some doubts
at rest. I am very far from wishing to
offend you, but I think you were bent on
some such errand, and I beg of you to
reconsider and to turn back. Shall I speak
more plainly?"

^^No, no!" answered Laura hastily,

shrinking from having her own thoughts
put into words. '^ I will go back, but I will
go alone."

'' Certainly; I should not think of intruding
upon you a moment longer than I feel to
be absolutely necessary. Do not be vexed
with me, Laura. I would do anything for
your good." He held out his hand but she
would not take it, and turning abruptly
away, hurried back towards home in anger
and humiliation.

She would never forgive Bernard's interference.
What right had he — ? But almost
before the thought was formed in her mind
it was arrested, and she stood still, pale and
trembling, for through the wood behind her
rang the sharp whistle of a shot, followed by
a loud cry, and after a momentary pause of
horror, she turned and ran swiftly back to
the place where she had parted from him in
anger.

It took but a minute or two, but it seemed
to her that into that short space of time were
crowded years of regret and sorrow. The
cry was his, the silence must be his death ;
and when she turned the corner of the pathway
and found him lying there with pale
face and closed eyes, she sank on her knees
beside him, crying, '' Bernard ! Bernard ! "
and lifting his helpless hand, bathed it with
her tears, murmuring to herself in unreasonable
agony, that she, in her anger, had
been responsible for his death.

But a loud crashing through the wood
aroused her, and a moment after Thornage's
lodger stood beside her.

'^ Good God ! Offord ! " he exclaimed; and
at the sound of his voice doubt became
certainty.

^^ Is he dead — Geoffrey ?" she asked, looking
up at him with eyes intensely questioning.

It was no time for explanation, and kneeling

down beside her, he made a silent and
hurried examination.

*^ I think — I believe he is alive," he said,
with a momentary clasp of her hand; '' and
now you must leave me here and run for
help."

A sudden terror came into her mind.
^^ Who did it?" she asked, scarcely daring
to give voice to her thought.

'^ I do not know, I cannot guess : but it is
no time to think of that, every moment is
precious ! " but while speaking he raised her
from the ground with a tenderness which,
she felt with shame, sent her on her way,
even at that terrible moment, with joy at
her heart.

CHAPTER XII.

morris's treasure.

Morris had so far kept his promise to Laura
three months before that he had at once taken
his gun to a neighbouring town and given
it into the care of his friend the gunsmith ;
but, while desiring him to sell it, he had put
such a high price upon it as to be almost
equal to a prohibition. It was too great a
favorite to be lightly parted with, and,
although ^\dshing to do what was right, he
saw no necessity for an overstrained punctuality
in fulfilling a promise which he
felt that not one man in a thousand would
have given unasked.

The gun was a good one, and no doubt

in its best days had cost a great deal of
money ; but it had had many misfortunes,
and by the time it came into his hands
had gone through an amount of patching
and mending that would have caused some
distrust to an ordinary mind, but to him
seemed only a guarantee of its intrinsic
value. If the barrels had beer bad who
would have cared to give them a new ;stock ?
while if the new wood had not been well
seasoned and of undoubted grain, it would
never have been added to such a splendid
^^bit of browning" as this weapon, which
had already brought him into so much
trouble. The gunsmith at Codlingbourne
felt that his friend Morris had put him into
somewhat of a dilemma. He had sold him
the gun as a bargain, giving it far more
than merited praise, but he could not agree
to the extravagant admiration bestowed
upon it by its present owner, and was

scarcely prepared to promise that lie could
get for it the same price that he had received
nearly a year before. It had not from the
beginning been quite an honest transaction
on his part, for he knew that a man in
Morris's position had no business with a gun,
and would be rather shy of showing it to
those who would be best able to judge of
its merits ; therefore — although while selling
it he had expressed his opinion that it was
one of the few good guns of the age — he vf as
not altogether pleased at having it returned
to him for sale. In the first flush of pride at
being able to afford such a possession, Morris
had willingly given a five-pound note for it,
feeling a simple confidence in the integrity
of a man to whom such treasures were
common, and its value being rather increased
than diminished in his estimation by all the
difficulties into which it had brought him, he
was not disposed to part with it at a sacrifice.

VOL. in. , M

The gunsmith had sent him word several
days before that a friend of his from the
other side of Mornington wanted a gun of
that description, and wished for a meeting
at the " Rising Sun," just outside the gates
of Blithefield to see it and discuss its merits,
and Morris had been anxiously waiting for
an opportunity for bringing it home again
unnoticed. Knowing that while '' Master
and Miss Edith " were out he might safely
reckon on two or three hours to himself, he
had walked over to Codlingbourne, and after
a friendly glass or two with the gunsmith,
had taken his cherished favourite to pieces
with tender care, and packed it into an
unsuspicious-looking bro^vn paper parcel, and
taking it under his arm, had reached the
Blitheiield woods unnoticed, but here temptation
had become too strong for him. There
could be no harm in unpacking it and
jutting it together once more at his leisure,

noticing the perfection of its fit and the
beauty of all its appointments, and then,
when this was done and the cartridges were
slipped into their places that it might be all
complete, it seemed quite foolish to take it
apart again. He could easily hide it behind
a tree until night, and then smuggle it into
his own room over the stable unnoticed,
and meanwhile the mere act of carrying
it over his shoulder was an indescribable
pleasure.

He should not at all mind meeting
Thornage or one of the keepers, it would
be easy enough to explain to them what
he was doing, and the 'master" was
safely out of the way, so he walked along
light of heart at having his treasure once
more in his possession, when, looking
through the trees before going round a
corner, he saw Bernard Offord not twenty
yards before him ; the man of all others

whose just severity he had reason to fear
and to whom it would be almost impossibly
difficult to give a satisfactory explanation
of the fact that the gun which he had
promised to sell was still in his possession.
Reasoning with himself quickly but

clearly Morris could see no better course

t/

than concealment. He wished to do what
was right, he honestly intended to keep
his word ; but if he was caught with his
gun in his hand, how could he expect
any one to believe in the innocence of his
intentions who was beforehand prepared
to judge him ?

Quietly and hastily he slipped behind
some budding hawthorns already thick
enough to hide him, trusting that the
sound of his own footsteps would hinder,
the '^ young squire " from detecting his
presence. A turn in the path would bring
them within a few yards of each other,

but the underwood made a good screen
and there was little to fear, nor was there
time for considering the danger which
was already close at hand; but while
Morris held his breath, expecting in
another moment to be safe, Bernard
stopped suddenly as if to listen, and in
his fright and surprise Morris threw up his
arm, his gun got entangled in the branches,
there was a flash, a report, a cry, and then
silence, and in his first agony of fear and
horror he turned and ran.

A few minutes later Laura, hurrying to
the house for help, met him returning down
the narrow pathway.

^' Miss Laura — is he dead?" he asked,
with voice so hollow and cheeks so pale
that she instantly guessed at half the
mystery.

Thank God ! no, but we must run
for help," she answered ; and then, as

Morris's danger suddenly struck her, she
asked eagerly, ^^ What have you done
with it, Morris ? Where is the gun ? "

'^ I've hid her in the fork of the big
ash-tree, miss ; no one won't never think
of looking there. Miss Laura, you know
I never went to do it ! "

'^ Of course, it was an accident, but
people might not believe it ; Morris, you
know that I shall never tell ! Now run
to the house, you can go quicker than I
can, and bring held."

Only too glad to follow Laura's well-meant
but ill-considered advice Morris
hurried away. Of course no one would
understand, it made him shiver as he
thought how easily it might all be misunderstood,
and a simple confession of the
truth seemed impossible, but he had little
time for thought as he ran panting and
trembling towards the house.

'' Lord bless us ! Mr. Offord shot ?" cried
Stephens, who was indulging in a pipe
out of doors, as he would not be called
upon to wait at table that evening, and
was the first person whom Morris came
across. '' Bless my soul ! are they bringing
him here ? " he went on, and Morris
for the first time remembered that on that
point he had no orders.

^^ I don't knoAY," he said; ^' Miss Laura's
there, and told me to run for help."

^' Dear, dear ! " cried Stephens, nervously ;
'^ we must ask Mrs. Hughes. But how ever
did it happen ? "

I don't know I " said Morris desperately ;
"but there's no time to talk. I'm off back
again with the men. Shall we bring him
here?"

Their eager voices had gone further than
they knew, and Mrs. Hughes put her head
out of a window to ask what was the matter.

'' Mr. Offord ! Bless us all ! \yiiatever
will Miss Edith say ? Bring him here ? — of
course they must, we'll be ready for them ! "
and she hastened away, too wise a woman to
be overcome by the shock the news had
given her.

Meanwhile, knowing that she could do no
good by following Morris, Laura went back
to the place where she had left Bernard.
During the few minutes of her absence
Geoffrey had not been idle, for with quick
and skilful hands he had cut away coat
and . waistcoat, and with his own handkerchief
and Bernard's had made a hasty
bandage, which had already almost stopped
the bleeding from wounds in his side from
big shot, in a cartridge which Morris had
unheeding taken from a mixed pocketful.
As Laura came up Bernard opened his eyes,
and found Geoffrey bending over him.

Why did you do it, Poland ? " he asked

confusedly, trying to draw himself away
from the supporting arms.

Geoffrey drew back with an involuntary
movement of horror, which made Bernard
groan and close his eyes again.

'you cannot believe I did it, Offord!"
he cried, ^^ I am as innocent as a child
of a thought of harm to you, Laura
knows "

^' Laura," said Bernard feebly, stretching
out his hand ; '^ Laura, who did it ? "

^^ Never mind now, dear Bernard," she
answered, kneeling down beside him. '^ It
was not Geoffrey, and no one meant to do it ;
it was an accident."

^^ Do you know?"

'' Yes, I know."

^' Was it Morris?"

'hush, hush ! no one must hear you say
it ; keep quiet now until help comes."

'' Laura," said Bernard, raising himself

slightly, and mali great effort ; ' ' tell Morris
to keep silence, and no one need ever know.
Poland forgive me — I think I scarcely know
what I say — but will you promise to say
nothing?"

^' I promise," answered Greofcey quietly,
^^ and if it will not trouble you to keep
another secret, I will beg you not to say that
I have been here; the explanation must
come another time, and I believe Laura will
forgive me''

She held out her hand to him in eloquent
silence, feeling that it was no time for
words.

After a moment or two Bernard spoke
again. '^ You should not stay here,
Poland," he said; 'they think you are a
stranger and will not know "

Laura looked up in sudden alarm. '^ Oh,
Geoffrey ! "

'' Do not be afraid," he answered quietly;

^^I will go when I am not wanted any
longer. I was going tomorrow in any case,
and will come back to you openly without
the disguise of which I now feel ashamed ;
but I have taken no undue advantage of it,
and you will not judge me, Laura, until I
have told you all my tale."

^^ I have always trusted you," she answered.
'^ Yes, always ; " and then she bent down
over Bernard and raised his head, and tried
by every means to ease the discomfort of
his cramped and painful attitude.

The minutes seemed hours, but before
many of them had passed there was a sound
of footsteps in the distance, and Morris,
with half-a-dozen men, came in sight.

^' Go on, Laura, and see that all is ready,"
whispered Geoffrey, anxious to spare her
from seeing the pain of removal, and she
went at once, feeling a pleasure in obeying
him.

Before speaking to the men, Geoffrey
resolved to let Morris into his secret; it
was almost impossible to keep it from him,
and as suspicion of having caused the accident
— to put it in its lightest phase — would
probably be divided between them, he felt
it was necessary that they should understand
each other, and together guard against their
common danger. He saw that Morris looked
at him inquiringly at the first sound of
his voice, and standing close beside him, he
said in a low tone —

'^Be silent, Morris, my friend. It is not
the first time you have done me a good
turn," and with a gasp of astonishment
and the apparently irrelevant exclamation,
^^ Miss Laura!" he nodded his head once
or twice, and turned to the task of lifting
Bernard as painlessly as possible on the
rough bed of leaves and branches, which they
had spread upon a hurdle to receive him.

At the side-door of the house Geoffrey
stopped.

^^ They do not know me here' he said,
'^ and I can be of no further use. No doubt
Miss Laura has sent for her father and the
doctor. If you can be spared by-and-by,
Morris, I should be glad if you would bring
me news to Thornage's cottages

having seen the wounded man received
^^th tender care by Mrs. Hughes
and Stephens, and hearing that the doctor
was already coming up the avenue, he
turned away, resolving that he would not
see Laura again until he came back to her in
his proper character.

CHAPTER XIII.

AT FAULT.

Laura had never felt the want of sympathy
between herself and her belongings more
painfully than when called upon to break
the news of Bernard's accident to her father
and Edith. By the doctor's advice she had
not sent to them to hm-ry their return, for
they could be of no use, and it was better
that they should be spared the suspense of
that terrible hour before it could be decided
for certain whether Bernard's life was in
instant danger. How severe the injury
might prove to be could not be judged at
present, and after sending a messenger to
Mornington to telegraph for a London

surgeon, the doctor could only wait and
watch, and feel thankful that there was no
one to harass him with anxious inquiries to
which he could give no answer.

The mixture of anxieties in Laura's mind
was so great that she was puzzled to
discover their due proportions. That Bernard's
life should be saved seemed at one
moment the only thing worth wishing for ;
after that came the thought of the importance
of Morris's secret ; and then that Geoffrey
should remain unknown and unsuspected
seemed a matter of such weight in both their
lives that for the time she forgot all other
cares. But the thought of what his retm-n
might mean for her was one that she tried to
put aside. This was no time for selfish
hopes ; it was enough for the present that he
had come back again, and the dreary daily
monotony of her life was over.

Mr. Hilton and Edith were detained bv a

mistaken order given to the coachman, far
beyond the time they had intended, and it
was not until nearly eleven o'clock that they
reached home.

Pale and weary with anxiety and watching,
Laura's face, as she came slowly downstairs
to meet them, was sufficient warning
that something was wrong, and, together
with the silent and solemn bow with which
Stephens received them at the door, .made
Edith take sudden hold of her father's arm
and cling to it, while he asked uneasily, but
with attempted carelessness —

swell, Laura, were you getting alarmed
about us ? We are much later than we intended."


'' No, father, I was not afraid for you, but
we have been wanting you."

What is it?" asked Edith, hastily.

•' There has been an accident, but it is not
so bad as it might have been. Bernard is here."

'^ Bernard ? Speak out, Laura. What is
it, Stephens ? " questioned Mr. Hilton, impatiently.


Stephens came forward.

*well, sir, Mr. Offord has happened of
an accident, and got shot, but Dr. Reynolds
thinks he'll pull through, and he's tele-gramme
to London for a surgeon."

Edith hung heavily on her father's arm,
and Laura came and stood beside her.

'rit has been a bad accident, father, but
the doctor thinks he will get on, and so does
Mrs. Hughes. She is With him now, but she
will come and tell you more. I told them
to bring him here."

'' Quite right," said her father ; and Edith,
turning suddenly to her, cried, '' Oh, Laura!"
and laid her head on her shoulder, and in
her own new-found happiness Laura felt
towards her with infinite tenderness.

'' He will live — every one thinks he will

VOL. III. N

live," she whispered, and then held her
breath to listen to her father's question.

'who did it?" he asked, sternly, in a
voice which made her long to shrink into the
shadow.

'^ We don't kn(jw, sir ; we haven't got no
means of knowing," answered Stephens,
deprecatingly, feeling almost guilty in his
ignorance.

'^ Of course you sent at once for the
police ? "

'' No, sir, not as I know of; we've all been
that anxious and listening for you to come,
and sending off to town and all ! "

'' Well, well ! I suppose there has not
been much time lost. But how on earth did
it happen, and what does it all mean ? " He
felt helpless and angry and anxious, and did
not know what to say first.

'' We know very little, father," said Laura,
quietly. '' Bernard was in the oak wood — •

he had come to meet me, as I was out late —
and I heard a gmi fired, and he cried out,
and Iran back to him, and found him there."

'sand that gentleman that's lodging at
Thornage's come and bound him up," interrupted
Stephens.

^' Take my word for it, he did it himself,"
exclaimed Mr. Hilton. '' I always knew he
was up to no good."

^' Father ! " cried Laura, involuntarily.

^^ Did you see him?" he asked, turning
sharply upon her.

'eyes, he was there beside him before I
got there."

'' Have you been making acquaintance
with him ? " demanded Mr. Hilton, with the
irritable suspicion which he always felt of
this unloved daughter, and unable even at
this anxious moment to repress it.

'' Hush, father," said Edith, gently, laying
her hand again on his arm.

' I had not spoken to him until that
moment, but I supposed that at such a time
even your reasonable commands might be
disobeyed, and I ventured on a few words,"
answered Laura, coldly.

Mr. Hilton grew pale with anger, and
would have spoken violently, but Edith
interposed.

^^ Father, how can you stay talking here
when Bernard may be dying ? Let us goto
him at once. Laura, come with me — he
scarcely knows what he says just now."

But Laura refused, gently, but firmly.
She felt that it would be almost well that
there should be a quarrel between her and
her father just then, he would not be so
anxious to seek information from her,
although no one but she could give it. She
had but to stick to her story that while
running to the house for help she had met
]morris and sent him on instead, and no one

could suspect the part which he had taken,
but she felt cold and sick at the thought
that Geoffrey might be in danger. How she
longed to see him for a moment and warn
him of her father's suspicions ; but she knew
that he had been wise in refusing to enter
the house, when at any moment he might be
recognised, and it would be only selfish
solicitude to seek him out at the risk of
drawing attention to their acquaintance.
She must wait with what patience she could
for an opportunity of his making, and in
the meantime as soon as Edith was alone
she would go to her and do her best to
comfort her.

A small room on the ground floor opening-out
of a side passage had been hastily prepared
for Bernard, Mrs. Hughes rightly
judging that he could not bear to be carried
upstairs, and as this part of the house could
be shut off from the rest, and was seldom

used, lie could be kept perfectly quiet.
Being solemnly conducted there by Stephens,
Mr. Hilton was on the point of entering, when
Dr. Reynolds came out and closed the
door behind him.

^^ You must not go in ; Indeed it is quite
impossible," he said, firmly, seeing by Mr.
Hilton's impatient gesture that his authority
would be disputed. '' He has just become
conscious, and if he is excited I will not
answer for his life. I should be glad to
speak to you about it all if you will let me
come to your study."

Mr. Hilton was annoyed, but he was
still more anxious.

^' Is he in danger ? " he asked.

'' I fear so, but as yet I have been unable
to find out how much he is hurt, no doubt
they have told you I have telegraphed for
Sir John Force. The wounds are shot
wounds and must have been fired within a

few yards, but we have all been too much
occupied to think of who did the mischief."

^' I feel no doubt," answered Mr. Hilton,
hastily, ^^ it was that stranger fellow who
has been lodging at Thornage's, and has
refused to have anything to say to us. I
was only waiting until I had heard what
ynu had to say about poor Oxford before
sending for the police to see after him."

^' The man who helped so carefully in
bringing him home, and had bound up his
wounds— not so badly either, before I came?
I can scarcely think that."

^^Who else could it be?"

^* Well, one of the keepers might have
done it by accident and have been afraid to
say so."

'not possible my good friend, they
would know that if it was so we should find
it out in an hour. I make it a rule that
no guns are allowed in the woods this time

of the year, when the pheasants are nesting.
Jackson, the head keeper, has them under
lock and key, and the others know better
than to break mv rules. I had some trouble
with one of the grooms about a gun a
short time ago, but he sold it, and — there's
an end of it."

But Mr. Hilton spoke with dawning
uneasiness. Was it possible that Morris
could have had a hand in this ? That after
all, the gun was still in his possession?
This must be inquired into at the first
available moment, but it was late now, and
every one was upset, and the policeman,
if he was doing his duty, would be out on
his beat, and just then the doctor interrupted
his thoughts by saying —

'' Of course, Mr. Hilton, you, as a
magistrate, know much better than I can
how much weight to attach to a mere
suspicion, but all the men who helped this

Mr. Phillips to bring Mr. Offord here seem
to have a high opinion of his judgment
and kindness, and it would be a little
incongruous that he should take so much
trouble to save a life which he had just
attempted to destroy."

Mr. Hilton felt that his suspicions were
perhaps unreasonable, but in the absence
of other clue they were too valuable to be
lightly discarded; it would, however, be
better to follow his own judgment without
discussion, and he therefore changed the
subject by asking for some details of
Bernard's condition, which, although serious,
seemed by no means hopeless.

Then he went to comfort Edith and hear
what she had to say, and she being
frightened at the idea of bringing such a
terrible accusation against any man without
a shadow of proof, beyond prejudice, and
the absence of any one else to accuse, he

was easily persuaded to let the household
get what rest it could, and put off sending
for the police until the early morning.
Nor did he feel equal just then to a
further explanation with Laura, which
would probably be useless and certainly
disagreeable.

CHAPTER XIV.

Gone !

As soon as he had found that he could be of
no further use at the house, Morris had
hastened to meet Geoffrey, being, above
all things, anxious just then to avoid Ellis's
questioning, not having yet decided how far
it would be wise to tell her the truth. His
anxiety to do something for Bernard had
been so evident, and his distress so great,
that the doctor — who knew him well — had
taken trouble to reassure him, and he had
left the house somewhat comforted on that
point ; but he felt that he could scarcely
flatter himself that his dart in the miserable
business would remain undiscovered, and

considering bygone offences, there was little
doubt that things would go hardly with him.
Perhaps, after all, it would be wiser to
'make a clean breast of it," or to '^ bolt."
but he would hear Mr. Poland's advice before
doing either.

His own troubles had been as yet too
absorbing for him to have felt much wonder
or curiosity about Geoffrey's appearance ;
but as he walked along the woodland path
which was now quite dark, although it was
not yet eight o'clock, he began to think that
the whole thing was 'mighty queer," and
to wish to know a great deal more. He had
seen Thorn age's lodger a time or two, but
had never noticed him particularly, and the
discovery of his identity with Mr. Poland
had taken him completely by surprise. Of
course he was come ^^ after Miss Laura,"
but unless he meant to persuade her to run
off with him, Morris could not see any

object in his disguise, and scarcely thought
well of him for it ; but yet he sympathised,
knowing that ^' Master had been none too
pleasant ; and after all, where would Miss
Edith have been if he hadn't taken that
crack on his head instead of hers."

But lie had not much time for reflection,
for Geoffrey was on the watch and came to
meet him, and after telling all he knew concerning
Bernard's condition, he found it a
relief to give a detailed account of his own
troubles.

'^ You have got yourself into a fine mess,
IVIorris, but there should be a way out of it
if this gunsmith can be trusted to hold his
tongue'' said Geoffrey, when he had heard
the story of the two occasions when Morris
had so nearly lost his palace by poaching,
of his voluntary promise to sell his gun, and
the reason of his getting it back again."

'' He's safe enough, sir."

^^In that case, if you take my advice you
will return it to him to-night. It will certainly
be inquired for, and if it is found in
his hands it will go far to clear you."

^^ Yes, sir, so it would; but I don't see as
it can be done."

^^ Oh, we must find a way; but now, all
this time that I have been talking to you I
have had another thing in my mind to fall
back upon. Tell me what you think of this
If I disappeared to-night, and could not
be found anywhere, would it not be said
that I had shot Mr. Offord ? no one knowing
anything good of me."

''Oh, sir!"

^' Think of it as coolly as you can, Morris,
I shall run little risk ; only three people
know who I am, and all three of you will
be silent, Mr. Offord, because he wants to
screen you — you for your own interests, and
Miss Laura — well, perhaps, you can guess

Miss Laura's reasons when I tell you that I
hope she will very soon be my wife."

Morris touched his hat and smiled,
although it was too dark for Geoffrey to do
more than guess at something of the kind.
"All I have to do," he went on, "is to
disappear to-night as if afraid of inquiry.
To do this I must get rid of this natural
disguise, and you must take me to your
room and help me to shave and cut my hair
and change my clothes, and then, I think,
that the stranger who will take a ticket for
town tomorrow morning at Mornington
will scarcely be recognised as Thornage's
lodger."

But, sir ! "

My good fellow, there is no time for
scruples or for talking. It is already eight
o'clock, and you have first to help me to
get rid of this disguise, and then to take
your gun to your friend at Codlingbourne.

You had better give him a hint that you
have some one to back you up. Now you
must give me a quarter of an hour to get
back to my room and change my clothes
for some which have not been seen about
here. These and a few books I shall leave
as a legacy to Thornage, there is nothing
about them to betray me ; then I shall
come to you to be my barber, and if we
make haste there will be time enough
for you to take your gun."

Morris was silent lor a moment and
then said nervously —

'beg pardon, sir; but I don't deserve
as you should be so good to me. I never
shouldn't have had the sense to think of
it all for myself, and you to take it all
on you like that!"

'rit is not much after all that I
am taking, Morris," answered Geoffrey,
laughing. " You see my disguise is quite

complete excepting to those who know

me well. The police are not likely to do

anything to-nights and in the morning I

shall be out of their way, and Mr. Phillips

will have ceased to exist excepting in the

form of an old portmanteau and some

equally old clothes, which I am afraid

will be a constant wori-y to Mrs. Butler fora

while. I don't intend to show myself at

the station until a reasonable hour, when

there will be plenty of other people about,

and no one will remark upon me in

particular. Now if you will fetch that

gun that has brought you into so much

trouble I will go aid change my things

and be back here as soon as you are.

Mrs. Butler and Tliornage have gone upto

the house to hear all about it and

have promised to come back and tell me.

I can let myself in and out with my

own key, but when they return the bird
VOL. in. o

mil have flown. Now don't waste another
moment, there is plenty to be done, and I
want to see you back again from Codling-bourne
before I start''

Geoffrey's preparations were quickly
made, and when, half an hour later, he
looked at himself in the little shaving
glass, which hung in Morris's room above
the stables, he was almost startled by the
change in his own appearance He had
irrown accustomed in the last few months
to his thick beard and long hair, to his
loose yachting suit, flannel shirt and a
handkerchief knotted carelessly round his
throat, and the white linen and well fitting
clothes, which he had brought in his
portmanteau to Thorn age's in case of
emergencies, seemed almost unnatural.

'' Bless my soul, sir ! you 'aunt like
the same gentleman ! " cried Morris in
admiration, Ashen, in somewhat clumsy

but effective fashion, he had clipped
Geoffrey's long locks with the stable
scissors, and had watched beard and moustache
disappear. Then having cleared
away everything suspicious they started
together for Codlingbourne, Geoffrey
having promised to keep him company
to the entrance of the town.

'' Take my advice, Morris, and ask him to
give you a sovereign for it and have done
with it," said Geoffrey, before they parted
company, and Morris found his friend the
gunsmith, who felt rather uncomfortable
about the whole matter, very ready to
agree to those terms and give a promise
that he would hold his tongue.

The whole business was arranged so
quickly, and so little time was wasted on
the way, that Morris had got home again
before his master's return, and had established
Geoffrey comfortably in the hayloft

for the many hours which must pass before
it would be time to start for Mornington.
Then in the early grey dawn he brought
him some breakfast, and parted from him
with a heart so full of gratitude that words
died upon his lips.

** Sir, I can't never " — he began, but Geoffrey
interrupted him, and holding out his hand
gave him a cordial grass). " I don't want a
word Morris, I quite understand, and I rather
enjoy giving them all the slip. Remember
to tell Miss Laura that she will see me back
again as soon as I think it wise to come."

Then he lighted his pipe and started on
his way, wondering as he walked along what
the next turn would be in that course, which
for him had never yet run smooth.

(Jroing up to the house very early, almost
as soon as he had seen Geoffrey off, Morris
found many of the household already astir,
and while he was standing by the kitchen

fire hearing about Mr. Offord's restless night
and Mr. Hilton's terrible anxiety, a message
came that he was to drive the brougham to
Mornington to meet the London surgeon by
the first down train, and was to go to
^' Master's study first for further orders."

It was too early to start yet, and Morris
felt with a sinking heart that there was time
for many questions before he could make any
excuse for seeing after his horses. As he
went through the hall on his way to the study
he saw Laura on the stairs and she beckoned
to him to stop and speak to her.

'' Come in here," she whispered, opening
the door of the empty dining-room. " Now
tell me what you mean to say and do ; it will
be my turn to be questioned next, and we
must tell the same tale, but as far as possible,
Morris, we must speak the truth." *

Yes, miss, Mr. Poland he' ve told me what
to sav."

Laura looked at him quickly and anxiously,
'' Mr. Poland?"

'^ Yes, miss, he told me himself 'twas him,
and bid me tell you you'd see him back
again as soon as he thought 'twas wise ; for
Miss Laura he's gone away to make them
think 'twas him as done it, he's done that
for me."

Morris's face flushed with pride and gratitude,
but Laura felt sudden terror.

^^ Oh, Morris, how could you let
him? they will find him and bring him
back ! "

'^ No, miss, leastways he thinks not, he's
shaved his beard and changed his clothes and
walked off quite quiet like to the first train
from Mornington, and nobody wouldn't never
guess 'twas the same man."

^^ I guessed."

'^ Well, you see Miss Laura 'taint quite the
same," said Morris, unable to repress a knowing

little smile, which confused her and kept
her silent for a moment.

^' And the gun ? " she asked presently.

'- Mr. Poland made me take it back last
night to Codlingbourne, and Smith heave
promised not to say a word, and if Master
asks ' Where's that gun ? ' I can say straight
up, ' It's there.' "

^^ Yes, Morris, and now that I understand,
you had better go to my father," said Laura,
who felt dazed and frightened, and unreasonably
angry with him for allowing Geoffrey
to run such a risk.

He seemed to read her thoughts, for he
said earnestly, ^' 'Wasn't none of my doing,
Miss Laura, Mr. Poland, he said, 'twas to be
done, and 'wouldn't do him no harm, and if
it did I've only got to speak up and say I
done it."

Yes, yes," she answered quickly. ^' Mr.
Poland knows what is best, you were quite

right to do as he told you. I shall know now
what to say when my father questions me''

'^ x^nd Miss Laura, you don't think 'twas
mean and sneaking' o' me to let him go and
make believe 'twas him ? "

'^ No, I think it was a noble thing for him
to offer and you were bound to obey him."

If 'wasn't for Ellis, I'd speak up now,
Miss Laura ! "

'^ You would be quite wrong. Of course,
it is possible that the time may come when
it would be right for ^^ou to speak, but you
must do as he tells }'ou now."

Then Morris bowed himself out, and
knocked with the best courage he could
at the study door.

'this is a sad business, Morris," said
Mr. Hilton, looking at him keenly, as he
stood before him in a sort of desperation
which kept him cool. '^ I sent James an
hour ago to the policeman, for, of course,

the thing must be thoroughly investigated,
but I wanted to speak to you myself.
What have you done with your gun ? " he
asked the question suddenly, wanting to
take him at unawares.

'sold it, sir," answered Morris.

sand you have never bought another?"

No, sir, of course, I knew you'd think
o' that."

'you could expect nothing else after
all that has passed, that is the evil of not
having a blameless character to fall back
upon," said Mr. Hilton, in his most severely
magisterial manner. '' But I must tell you,
Morris, that most probably your room
will be searched as well as others, for
evidence of your guilt or innocence, and
supposing that you were the unfortunate cause
of this accident, your confessing it to me
would tell considerably in your favour."

Morris was silent for a moment, but he

was not going to lose his place and his
character, and let Mr. Poland run all this
risk for nothing, so he answered, looking
his master firmly in the face, '^ Mr. Offord
couldn't a' been shot without a gun, sir,
and I haven't got one. I hope they'll search
my room and prove it true."

Fully possessed by his own idea, Mr.
Hilton was easily convinced. 'swell,
Morris," he said; ''I scarcely thought it
was you, you have had two pretty sharp
lessons. Now, I am going to place confidence
in you, and tell you what I do
think, that it was that fellow who has
been lodging at Thornage's ; he has always
seemed to me a suspicious character, keeping
himself so close, and refusing to see anybody.
He might have got poaching about
and let off his gun just then by accident,
or if it was not that, he might be some one
who had an old grudge against Mr. Affords

a man who has been about the world ashe
has must have come across some queer
company' Having had plenty of time for
thought during the long night hours, Mr.
Hilton had constructed some ingenious
theories of which he was proud. '' The
strongest ground for suspicion against
him," he went on, 'sis, that he has
disappeared. Thornage thought he was
in bed last night when he got home, and
did not like to disturb him, but it appears
more likely that he had already gone off.
I have written a description of him, and
sent it to the police, but Thornage either
cannot or will not say much about him,
and no one else is familiar with his
appearance ; but he must be a remarkable
looking man anywhere, with that long
hair and beard ; and as the inquiry will be
telegraphed all about the country, I scarcely
think he can get off."

Morris drew a long breath. ^^ Well, sir I
you might call his beard remarkable, and
that long hair on his shoulders'' he said,
with what appeared to him to be deep
cunning. ' ' But I should think he'll lay
up somewhere for a day or two if 'twas
him."

Of course, we must be prepared for
that, and I shall take care that a very
thorough search is made. I shall look
to all of you to bring me any evidence you
can find. I told James as he was one of
the men who brought Mr. Offord hereto
take the policeman to the exact spot
where they found him, and I don't doubt
that they are there by this time ; and
I have written this note to the superintendent
at Mornington, for you to leave on
your way to the station. Now, it is about
time for you to get ready."

Morris went away with a lightened heart,

thinking that if Miss Laura had heard him
she would have been satisfied that he had
not departed far from the truth, while
Mr. Hilton congratulated himself on the
skill and delicacy by means of which he
had found satisfactory evidence of Morris's
innocence.

CHAPTER XV.

SUSPENSE.

Although at the first moment almost overwhelmed
by the calamity which had befallen
Bernard, Edith had quickly recovered herself,
and with resolute self-possession had
asserted her intention of going to him at
once and watching beside him ; but when
her father returned with Dr. Reynolds
±0 the room where he had left her with
Laura, she found that her intended devotion
was an impossibility, and that, for his
patient's sake, the doctor was firm in
refusing to admit any one but Mrs. Hughes
into his room. Absolute quiet was essential ;
besides which, a few" rambling words which

came sometimes from Bernard's lips seemed
to point to some mystery in this sad affair,
which it was advisable to keep from the
knowledge of every one, excepting a person
who could be trusted as thoroughly as
Mrs. Hughes — the old friend and servant
of the family. '"^ Laura, Poland, Morris''
were names which fell frequently from
Bernard's unconscious tongue, and while
the matter remained unexplained the doctor
judged that such suggestions could only be
painful and might very possibly be harmful
to innocent people. He, of course, knew
nothing of Thornage's lodger, and Poland's
name seemed to him the wildest raving ; but
having had considerable insight into the
state of affairs during Geoffrey's illness a
year ago, he was well aware that to one
member of the family at least it was
important that his name should not be
brought forward in such connection.

^^I hope you young ladies will both go
ofl: to bed at once," he said, with the
kindly freedom of long acquaintance. '^ Of
course we know that you cannot help
being anxious ; but I do not anticipate any
change in Mr. Offord's condition at present,
and in a houseful of servants like this, it
is necessary to set an example of doing
one's usual duties, or else you'll have the
cook saying tomorrow morning, ' Please,
ma'am, my feelings wouldn't let me broil
the bacon for breakfast.' "

They all laughed in spite of their anxiety,
but Edith was careful to give no promises.
Bernard, if he was still conscious, must be
already wondering that she had not hastened
to him, and if he should send her a summons
what would he think if it found her
sleeping ?

So, refusing Laura's offer of staying with
her, she went to her own room, and dismissing

Ellis, who was so much upset as to
be scarcely equal to her duties, she sat
down by the bright little fire in her
dressing-room, prepared to be awake and
anxious until the morning.

But sad and apprehensive as her young
mistress felt, Ellis was perhaps still more
to be pitied. Knowing her lover's weakness,
it was impossible for her to be blind to the
probability that a gun accident concerning
which no one knew anything had some
connection with him , and that he had avoided
seeing her and had left the house as soon
as he could, confirmed her fears. If he was
innocent he would have stayed to reassure
her ; and that Miss Laura had said, '^ I shall
not want you to-night, Ellis — it is very late
and you had better go to bed," only served
to make her more uneasy, for she had been
almost a witness of the accident and probably
knew all about it, and had been so kind

VOL III. p

in former troubles, that Ellis felt sure that
if there had been any comfort to give
she would have given it.

She longed to steal off to her young
mistress's room and hear all that she could
tell, even if it was to confirm her worst
fears, but the maids were all upset by the
evening's events, and kept running in and
out of each other's rooms until so late that
she could not venture to seek the longed-for
reassurance, and could only cree]) into bed
at last, trusting that when morning came
Morris would tell her the whole truth,
however terrible it might be.

When all the house was quiet and apparently
at rest, and only she and the watchers
in Bernard's room seemed to be awake,
Edith found solitude unbearable, and
hastily dressing again, she crest downstairs
to her father's study, feeling that
he, too, might be awake and watchful.

The door of his room was partly open, and
a light was burning, and, going in softly, she
found that he had fallen asleep in his chair,
with Stone's ^^ Justice of the Peace " laid
open on the table before him. She did not
want to talk, she only needed the comfort of
a living presence, and to him the first news
of a change would be brought ; so, drawing
forward a low seat, she sat down close beside
him, resting her head softly on his knee, and,
consoled and reassured, she, too, fell fast
asleep.

^' Pretty lamb ! she's had a hard time of it,
though she don't say anything," said Mrs.
Hughes to herself, when she came and looked
in at the door very early in the morning, to
tell her master how the night had passed
but, gently as she was moving away, her
presence roused Edith, and she started up
with a frightened cry that disturbed her
father.

Edith, my darling ! what is it? Oh, is
that you, Mrs. Hughes, I must have been
asleep for a few minutes I think," he said
guiltily, as if his watchfulness could have
been of use to Bernard ; and Edith, looking
at the clock, was equally ashamed to see for
how many hours she, too, had lost consciousness
of their terrible anxiety.

'^ Mr. Offord isn't to say worse this morning,
sir," said Mrs. Hughes; ^^but he's had
an unquiet night and seems low. I'm just
going to get a cup of tea for the doctor, and
I thought maybe you'd have some too if you
were about. Miss Edith, dear, you've never
been sitting up all night ? "

^^ Well, Mrs. Hughes, I have been fast
asleep at any rate," answered Edith, smiling.
'^ To tell you the truth, father, I got frightened
and came down to you, and I did not like to
disturb you, so I sat down here and have had
quite a good night's rest."

*^ Yes, my darlings but now you had better
go and lie down for an hour or two. No
doubt Bernard mil be anxious to see you as
soon as the doctor ^t.11 let him, and a bright
face is the best for a sick room you know."

Edith obeyed, but no sooner had she laid
her head on her pillow than she found it
impossible to rest, and getting up again she
Tapped herself in a thick shawl, and sat
down by the open window through which
the early morning sun was shining, to
prepare herself for the meeting which she
had no doubt she would go through during
the next few hours.

She was braced and refreshed by the cool
air and her long sleep, and the beauty of the
morning came as a sort of consolation, but
yet she was sorely puzzled, and uncertain
about the coming interview. Her whole
heart had grown tender towards Bernard in
the hours of his danger and pain ; she felt

that her place ought to be beside him, and
she wished it to be, and yet she would rather
that it was as her dearest friend that she
Watched over him, and that the question of
love and future marriage should be kept
far away out of sight for the present, for that
the young man, full of life and vigour, should
be in danger of death she failed to realise.
He was grievously hurt, she knew ; it might
be long before he recovered his strength and
came about amongst them again, but that he
should die was not an idea consciously
present in her mind.

Leaving Morris to make his way to the
dreaded interview with his master, Laura
passed through the folding-doors into the
passage, where Bernard's room had been
chosen, hoping to hear some further tidings
rather than expecting to see him, but almost
as soon as she appeared Mrs. Hughes came
forward and said in an eager whisper :

'^ Miss Laura, Mr. Offord is asking for
you, and I believe it would do him a power
of good if you were to go in; but Dr.
Reynolds said he wasn't to see anybody, and
I aren't ask you."

'^ No, Mrs. Hughes, you are quite right,
but if Mr. Offord wants to speak to me I
shall go without leave, and I think I can
promise that I shall do him no harm. You
see I was almost the first to find him, and
he may think that I can tell him something
that he wants to know."

Mrs. Hughes made no opposition, and
Laura went on through the open door into
Bernard's room and found him anxiously
watching for her. His face brightened as
she came in, and he seemed clear and
collected, but his voice was low and weak.

*^ I want to ask you, Laura — or, as I
can't talk much, tell me everything that
happened."

^^ There is not very much to tell, Bernard.
Father, not knowing who he really is, thinks
it was Thornage's lodger who did it, and he
went quietly away last night that father
might go on thinking so, and not suspect
Morris."

^^ Laura," interrupted Bernard, ^^was it
true, or was it a dream, that it was Geoffrey
Poland?"

^' It was true, but no one must know ; "
then, after a moment, she went on, ^^ Morris
was bringing home his gun to show it to a
man who wanted to buy it, and was startled
by seeing you suddenly, and his gun caught
in a bough and went off."

^' Laura, do you believe all this is quite
true."

'^ Yes, I believe it thoroughly," she
answered, after a moment of painful doubt.
'^ I saw him a minute after it had happened,
and lie was terribly distressed."

'^ Poor fellow ! " murmured Bernard.

'^ Morris helped Geoffrey Poland to get off
by the early train from Mornington, and he
says that he had got rid of all his disguise
and could not be known as the same man."

^^ Lam-a, did you know all the time who
it was?"

^^ I only guessed ; I did not know until I
heard his voice for the first time as he knelt
beside you."

^^ I am glad. What mil he do now ? "

^^ He will come back."

^^ To you?"

^^ Yes, to me," she answered, her whole
face growing bright with happiness. '^ Now,
Bernard, I have told you all I can, and I
must not stay. I will come again when you
send for me."

^^Do not let Edith come," said Bernard,
anxiously. ^^ I could not bear that she
should see me like this, it would be unfair to

her. How could she know how much of
what she felt was only pity? Keep her
away, Laura ! "

If I can."

'' Tell her that I wish it."

^^Yes, if she will listen to me." Then
Mrs. Hughes called to her, and Laura
hastened away.

A little later, after he had dismissed
Morris, Mr. Hilton stated his intention of
seeing Bernard for a few moments with such
firmness that Mrs. Hughes, in the doctor's
absence (for he had gone away for an hour
or two and was to come back with the
London surgeon), was obliged to give way,
and Bernard, although able to say very little,
was glad to see him.

He knew that it was right and necessary
that the circumstances of his accident should
be investigated, but he was anxious that
inquiry should not be pushed father than

was absolutely needful, and he could say
with truth that he had no evidence to give
upon the subject. He had known nothing
until he had found Laura and Thornage's
lodger kneeling beside him, and he was in
no way bound to state what his own hurried
and imperfect conclusions had been. Mr.
Hilton's suspicions had now, in his own
miiid, become certainties, and he had no
doubt that they would be as satisfactory to
Bernard as to himself.

'' You may be sure, my dear boy, that we
shall find out the scoundrel and bring him
back, and punish him as severely as the law
will allow. He has got off cleverly at first,
thanks to my folly in not putting him in
charge last night, but a man of such remarkable
appearance cannot possibly escape unnoticed,
and we'll have him safe enough
by-and-by."

Bernard smiled a little, he was glad to

find how completely Mr. Hilton was on the
wrong track ; but the few words he was able
to speak were spent in repeating the wish he
had already expressed, that Edith should be
spared the pain of seeing him in his present
condition.

^^ I am afraid she will be vexed'' said Mr.
Hilton, '^ but I think you are right," and
then he saw that he had stayed as long as
Bernard could bear, and went away.

Laura, too restless and anxious to settle
down to anything, or to wish as usual to be
alone, was walking uj) and do^ai the drive in
front of the house waiting for breakfast, and
her father went out and joined her. She was
glad, for it would be a relief to get through
her explanation with him, and she knew now
exactly what she had to say.

He pressed her closely with questions, and
she answered them with apparent openness,
but he gained no further information from

her, and heard nothing which interfered with
his doubts of the stranger, of whom almost
from the beginning he had been shrewd
enough to feel suspicious.

Laura's task was hard, but she felt bound
to follow Geoffrey's wishes, and add as far as
lay in her power to the effect of his efforts to
prove Morris's innocence. So she listened
patiently to all that her father had to say in
support of his mistaken theory, and smiled
to herself at his description of the intending
murderer's ruffianly appearance, which, while
it was strongly insisted upon, was Geoffrey's
greatest safeguard. But she hailed with
relief the arrival of Dr. Reynolds with the
London surgeon ; and Janet and Captain
Bonar, who came soon after, diverted the
attention of her father and Edith, and
although she had to repeat to each of them
separately the story she had taken such pains
to learn, it was worth the trouble, for she

found that they, like every one else, were
eager to accept a theory which took away all
discredit from those with whom they were
directly concerned.

The London surgeon's verdict was cautious
but favourable. The injuries were severe,
but with due care might not prove to be
dangerous. He was perfectly satisfied with
Dr. Reynolds's views and treatment, and saw
no necessity for coming again, but of course
he should be at Mr. Hilton's service should
he see fit to send for him.

CHAPTER XVI .
geoffrey's welcome.

Mrs. Mathews was sitting at breakfast
with Erica in her London house, discussing
a letter which she had just received from
Edith, giving news of Bernard's progress,
when, with his usual air of being at home,
and as if his absence had been one of
days instead of months, Geoffrey Poland
walked in.

'^ My dear boy ! When did you come
back ? Where have you been all this time?"
and a dozen other questions and exclamations
had to be got through before Geoffrey had
time to answer, and although he said as
little as possible about himself, it was long

before Mrs. Mathewson came round to the
subject about which he was most anxious to
hear.

You find us in distress," she said, at last,
'^ for we heard the day before yesterday
that some wicked wretch had been trying
to kill that nice young fellow, Bernard
Ofltord, to whom Edith is as good as engaged.
Yes — Erica knows all about it as
well as I do, so I do not mind speaking
before her on that point."

^^ But he is not dead ? " inquired Geoffrey,
anxiously.

^^No, thank God! not yet."

'^ Oh, Aunt Sarah, you know Edith says
that they have every hope, and she did not
write until she could tell us so," interrupted
Erica.

sand she made a great mistake," Mrs.
Matthews went on. ' ^ Of course, I should
have gone down at once and helped them to

take care of him. They have not even got
a nurse, and although Mrs. Hughes is all
very well, she does not know everything.
What would have became of you when you
were laid up there, Geoffrey, if I had not
looked after you ? "

Geoffrey smiled, and thought, perhaps,
there was some one else to whom the greater
part of his comfort was owing, but he only
said — ■

^' Yes, my dear aunt, we all know you
have a talent for making us comfortable ;
and now I want you to tell me all about
this barely averted tragedy."

Mrs. Mathewson answered by handing

him both Edith's letters which were lying

on the table beside her. ^^ I should be glad

if you would read them aloud, Geoffrey,

I have been so upset that I scarcely feel as

if I had taken it all in properly," she said,

but he refused to read them even to himself
VOL. Tir. , Q

saying, that he should be quite satisfied with
the account they could give him. The
letters were, however, so quietly written
that a stranger could have judged nothing
from their contents, and after all Mrs.
Mathewson quoted one sentence and Erica
another until almost the whole of them was
made known to him.

^^ And so they seem quite in the dark as
to who caused the injury ? " he asked.

^^Yes, but no doubt they are right in
supposing it to have been this suspicious
stranger. How Wedgwood can allow his
love of hospitality to run away with him to
such an extent as to let people, of whom he
knows nothing in the world, have the whole
run of the place I can't imagine. I am sure
that after this no one — man or woman, ought
to walk about there alone."

Erica laughed. '^ I am afraid. Aunt
Sarah, we are all too fond of the woods to

be frightened out of our enjoyment of them.
I cannot fancy that half-a-dozen murders
would keep Laura away from her favourite
walk to the Look-out, and supposing — what
I don't believe — that some wretched man
had shot at Bernard on purpose, we may be
pretty sure he has no designs on any one else,
and would keep as far away as possible."

*' As to Lam^a," said Mrs. Mathewson,
who was always ready to say a disparaging-word
of her before Geoffrey, '' she has been
allowed her own way so long, that I suppose
she would take it at any risk."

^' Poor Laura ! " said Erica, regretfully, for
as she saw more of the world she understood
better with what injustice her sister had been
treated, '^ If she has had her own way it has
not always been a pleasant one, and I very
much doubt if she would agree that she had
had it at all."

*^ No, she is scarcely what you would calla

spoiled child," said Geoffrey, quietly*
'' But as to this accident of Offord's, I shall
be able to tell you more in a day or two, for
I propose to go down to Blithefield tomorrow
to see Mr. Hilton— on business."

^^ My dear Geoffrey I " exclaimed his aunt,
uneasily.

'eyes, and T can take any messages you
like. I came to-day partly to tell you, Aunt
Sarah, that I have had an offer of the Consulship
at , and I shall probably accept it."

^' That broiling place in the Mediterranean
? "

^^ Yes ; I do not think we shall mind the
heat."

Mrs. Mathewson felt that, in spite of her
anxiety, it was impossible to question him in
Erica's presence. She had been uneasy ever
since his visit to Blithefield, first fearing that
in consequence of her own imprudence he
had fallen in love with Laura, whom she

particularly disliked ; then when after
Edith's visit to town he had gone away
without giving any account of himself she
had imagined that it was because of a fancy
for her which he knew to be hopeless ; and
now when he had come back again after
80 long an absence it seemed to be
only for the purpose of throwing himself
into the way of difficulty and temptation
again.

^^ Erica, dear, if you have finished breakfast
we will go upstairs, and I want you to
come with me to the study, Geoffrey ; I have
a great deal to say to you," she said, and for
the next half-hour Geoffrey patiently endured
unlimited questioning, but at the end of it
she felt that she had gained little satisfactory
information. Not that he wished to mislead
her beyond a point that was necessary, but
that the history of the past year, although of
deep importance to his own mind and

character, had little in it of interest for other
people.

'' And you are really going down to Blithe-field
? " she asked.

^' Yes, and I will see you as soon as I come
back, but I do not wish to speak of my
business beforehand."

^'You have had plenty of time to think
over everything, Geoffrey ? ''

'eyes, and I have thought a great deaL
As to this Consulship, I believe it is best forme
to take it, it is not worth much, three or
four hundred a year, I think, but it is something
to do, and an opening for other things.
In some of 'your wanderings you will come
and see my Mediterranean home? They
say the place is lovely."

"Yes, but I feel anxious, Geoffrey. You
will tell me more soon ? "

^' I will tell you everything at the first
possible moment ; it will be my pleasures

and no one else has such a claim to be
bothered with my joys and sorrows," he
answered, smiling and kissing her, feeling
that for the past year he had been selfish
towards her in his silence.

It had, of course, been impossible for him
to go down to Blithefield and speak to Mr.
Hilton about Laura while Bernard's condition
was causing them all anxiety, and he had
waited a week in order to get accustomed to
his old ways of life again before going to see
Mrs. Mathewson, and hear the news. His
own observations, and the report he had
heard before leaving Blithefield, had led him
to hope that the accident although serious
might not be dangerous, and his time had
been so much occupied by his o^vn affairs
that he had had little leisure for dwelling on
the subject. He had kept himself quiet incase
by any possibility he might have been
traced, but the change in his appearance was

SO complete that he had little fear of it, and
he had left nothing behind him which could
afford a clue. Meanwhile the promised
appointment had been offered to him, and
he had spent much of his time in making
inquiries as to the fitness of the place as a
home for Laura, and had satisfied himself
that from his point of view, and therefore
he believed from hers, there was little left
to desire, and he had now only to gain her
consent before sending his final acceptance.
He expected that Mr. Hilton would make
difficulties, even perhaps, at first, refuse his
suit altogether, but that must be got over
somehow. Laura, he was sure, would be
firm, and the relations between father and
daughter were in this case so peculiar that
the amount of affection to be outraged by
opposition was small and hardly to be considered.
His income, although not large,
was sufficient, and on that score, Mr. Hilton

could make no reasonable objection, nor
could the distance of his future home from
Blithefield be called a serious obstacle, for
Laura had not been happy in her father's
house, nor had any one there taken pleasure
in her company, and a merely sentimental
dislike to the idea of separation was not
likely to be felt on either side. But if by
any means it should happen that she proved
to be beyond his reach he must make his
plans anew, throw up the appointment, and
go back to Gordon for awhile to learn something
of his philosophy, and admire, and
perhaps some day imitate, his satisfying
benevolence. But he believed in Laura, and
started for Blithefield with an easy mind.
Dismissing at the gates the man who had
driven him from the station, it was about
three o'clock when he reached the house,
and found Stephens standing at the open
front door watching the receding figures of

Mr. Hilton and Edith, who had gone outriding
and were disappearing in the
direction opposite to that by which he had
come.

^'No, sir, I am sorry to say master's just
gone out, but Miss Laura's at home ; if you'll
step in I'll go and find her, sir," said Stephens,
after a respectfully cordial greeting, glad to
think that at last some progress was to be
made in the romance in which he, in common
with the rest of the servants, had been much
interested.

*^ Thank you, Stephens; I need not trouble
you. I daresay I shall find Miss Laura in
the blue study as of old."

'' Yes, sir, she's mostly there, but sometimes
she sits with Mr. Offord ; you mayn't
have heard that he's lately happened of a
terrible accident and got shot ? "

'' Yes, I heard something of it from Mrs,
Mathewson, but I shall be glad to hear

more'' said Geoffrey, anxious for any information
he could gain about Morris ; and, to
his infinite amusement, for the next ten
minutes, Stephens regaled him with a description
of the truculent appearance and underhand
ways of Thornage's lodger, of whom
every member of the household felt it their
duty to copy their master in feeling
suspicious. There was much satisfaction,
too, in being persuaded of his guilt, as it
removed all idea of blame from any one in
Mr. Hilton's service, and enabled them to
watch the efforts and inquiries of the police
with calm interest and superiority. Managing
at last to cut short Stephens's story, Geoffrey
ran upstairs and knocked at the door of the
blue study with a low lingering knock
which Laura had been accustomed to use
during his illness when he had feared unwelcome
visitors, and when he went in she
had already come forward to meet him.

^^ You expected me ?'' he asked, taking her
hand.

^^ Yes, I knew you would come soon — when
it was safe. Geoffrey, is there no risk
now ? "

^^ Not a bit! I have been talking to
Stephens, and from his account, Thornage's
lodger is too black a villain, and was too
suspicious from the beginning, to be associated
with a harmless man like me. Now,
Laura, I expect that you and I are equally
weary of all that business ; we will talk about
ourselves ; there is a lifetime in interest to be
accounted for since we parted in this room
a year ago."

*^ It has been a long year!" said Laura,
quietly.

^^ My love, I know it! But you would
not have had me come before ? I boasted to
you if you remember that I was beyond all
ordinary human passions, and when I discovered

my weakness I did not know how to
deal with it. Laura, shall I tell you all that
was in my mind? or shall it be a page, not
hidden away, but utterly destroyed for both
of us ? '^

Can it be destroyed, Geoffrey? Can I —
disliked and neglected and imperfect — satisfy
you in place of your beautiful dream ? "

Geoffrey took both her hands, and looked
at her long and earnestly. ^' Laura," he
said at last, with a smile both tender and
humorous, 'Ho me you are the most
beautiful woman in the world! Are you
satisfied ? "

She looked at him with an answering
smile. '^ If you could always see me like
that, Geoffrey ! "

''My love, why not? Has not the time
come to both of us ' when thoughts of
difference passed like dreams away ?' Stick
to me, Laura ; we want each other, and I

don't think anybody else particularly wants
either of us. Don't let a sentimental idea of
duty and sacrifice spoil both our lives, everyone
would be sorry afterwards when it was
too late."

'' I know, but they have been much kinder
to me lately," said Laura regretfully.

Geoffrey laughed. '^ A little kindness
goes a long way with you, dear. Shall you
think my brain has turned when I make the
ware of you my chief happiness ? "

^^ I do not know — I think perhaps I shall ;
but you have so much to teach me,
Geofeey!"

^^ I think the first lesson will be one I shall
have to learn with you — that it is right and
reasonable that we should be happy."

' Well ! I shall have learned a great deal
when I come to understand that what is
called reasonable can be pleasant," said
Laura sighing ; and Geoffrey hastened to

assure her that if she found the word disagreeable
it should never pass his lips again,
but that as long as it suited her fancy, their
lives should be passed together in the enchanted
novelty of a fool's paradise; ^'and
then, one day," he said, " we shall wake up
and do a little bit of good in the world
together."

CHAPTER XVII.

FATHER OR LOVER.

Geoffrey's return was an event of considerable
interest to every member of the Blithe*
field household, and Mrs. Hughes could not
refrain from speaking of it to her patient,
but was alarmed and disconcerted by the
eagerness with which he made inquiries and
begged to see the visitor. This was a serious
responsibility, and she did not at all know
what to do for the best in the absence of her
master and Miss Edith ; but, after reflecting
on the necessity for humouring invalids, she
knocked at the door of the blue study, and
requested Mr. Poland to be so kind as to
spare a few minutes for Mr. Offord.

^^Not that he's any business to see you
sir, but he's set his mind on it."

'^ And that is quite enough, Mrs. Hughes ;
I will go and see him for a short time, and
will be so discreet that I can promise you I
shall do him no harm. I will follow you
directly. AVill you come too, Laura ? "

^^ Yes, I often see him; he is a good friend
of mine," she answered, and willingly led the
way.

^' Are you not running a risk, Poland ? "
asked Bernard anxiously, as he met his
visitor's cordial clasp of the hand.

'^ No, I think not, only your keen eyes
and Laura's discovered my identity, and
inquiry does not seem to have been pushed
as far as one expected."

^' No, I refused to allow rewards to be
offered, and Morris's gratitude is almost
too great to you and to me."

*^ Poor devil I It is not much I have

VOL. HI. • R

done for him. I think he is worth a little
risk and effort — with all his faults.

^' Yes, I have had a talk with him
once or twice since this happened, and I
believe it will be the making of him.
Lam-a, give me your hand ; that is right I
Now, Poland, I want to speak to you as
if I was her brother — you know such folks
take liberties ! Could you prove that your
coming here was all right, in spite of
disguise, if it should so happen that you
were discovered and pulled up?"

Geoffrey laughed. ^^ My disguise was
one with which nature supplied me.
Deprive me of the services of a barber
and the use of razors for a month or two,
and you will see Thornage's lodger again.
But, speaking seriously, Offord, Laura and
I have had an explanation." Here he
leaned forward and put his hand on
her shoulder. ' ' We understand each other.

and I shall not consider it necessary
to explain my past motives even to her
father. I am glad that for once she should
have your brotherly care ; but I think,
Laura, you will scarcely need it.

She looked at him and smiled.

^^ Forgive me! and don't be discouraged
by prejudices, Poland," said Bernard.
^ Laura, dear sister, I believe I must give
my consent."

Laura laughed, but insisted that the
invalid was exceeding his privileges and
must be left to rest, although, on his
promising to be silent, they consented to
sit beside him for a little while, and tell
him of the future to which they looked
forward.

''I don't regard this place as one
where we are to spend our lives," said
Geoffrey; 'but I must get into a habit
of work, and this will do as well as

anything else to begin ^dtli. I like the
idea of the beautiful foreign country for
Laura better than a town house and
narrow society , and I shall have time
to spare for working up any subject
which may seem likely to lead to future
openings. Laura, the chief part of our
outfit shall consist of blue books."

*^ I think I could learn to understand
them."

^^Yes, and I expect you will. OfEord,
no one could refuse you anything in your
wounded condition, put in a good word
for us, we should be on our way in two
months' time."

Bernard promised, and then Mrs. Hughes
came and ordered the visitors away.

^'' Are you frightened, Laura?" he asked,
detaining her for a moment.

^* Yes, a little. Father will be hard to
persuade."

^'I am afraid lie mil; but knowing all
about it I do not scruple to say, be firm."

'^ I cannot help it, it is all I have to care
for," she answered, and then hurried away
to get ready for a walk with Geoffrey in
the now leafy oak woods.

Stephens confessed afterwards to Mrs.
Hughes, that when, half an hour later, his
master rode up to the door he felt sall of
a tremble " when he had to go forward
and tell him that a gentleman had come
to see him. ^' Mr. Poland, sir."

^^Mr. Poland!" exclaimed Mr. Hilton.
^' Of course you told him I was not at
home."

^^Yes, sir, and he said he would wait.
He's been sitting with Mr. Offord, but
he's out walking in the park now, sir."

^^Did he ?" began Mr. Hilton, but

checked himself ; it was impossible to
inquire about Laura from Stephens.

become in, Edith," he said hastily, and
g-oing before her into his study he scarcely
waited until the door was shut before he
exclaimed angrily, '^ What can have brought
that fellow here ? With my consent he
should never have come inside my doors
again ! Edith, go at once to Laura and
tell her to come and speak to me. I can
scarcely believe she has seen him, knowing
what I think on the subject ; but I must
make sure."

Father, dear, don't be hard upon them ! "
said Edith, anxiously ; but he put her aside.

^' My dear, I cannot be dictated to on
this subject, I know what is right ; " and she
could venture to say no more before going
to look for Laura.

But she was not to be found, either in her
own room or the blue study ; and when
Edith rang the bell, Ellis appeared in a stat
of half-pleased, half-frightened excitement.

'' Oh, have you heard, Miss Edith?— Mr.
Poland came just after you went out, and
he and Miss Laura have been talking to Mr.
Offord, and now they're gone for a
walk''

You must be mistaken, Ellis; no doubt
Mr. Poland has gone out, but Miss Laura
must be somewhere about the house," said
Edith, in dismay.

No, miss, I saw them go, just as they
used when Mr. Poland was here before,"
answered Ellis, who had also been somewhat
taken aback by their hardihood ; while
the truth was that they were both so prepared
for difficulties that they scarcely
considered their own conduct could increase
them.

Laura felt that her father's dislike to
Geoffrey was almost entirely prejudice, and
as such could not be guarded against, while
an hour of the happiness of being too-ether

Alas too precious to both of them not to be
secured at all hazard.

'' I see them just coming back, miss,"
said Ellis, who had gone to the window ; and
hastily snatching up her hat Edith ran
downstairs and out through the side door,
and hurried to meet them, trusting that she
might be in time to send one of them in
alone and so save the outbreak of her
father's anger, which would surely come if
he saw them together. She save her hand
to Geoffrey but scarcely spoke to him, and
turned eagerly to Laura.

'^ Father wants to speak to you," she said ;
swill you go to him in the study? and I
will stay out here with Mr. Poland for a
little while."

"Your father is angry at my coming,"
said Geoffrey, "I expected that he would
be; but I can justify myself in his eyes.
Laura, I will see him first."

^'No, Laura had better go," said Edith,
anxiously, but at the same moment she saw
that her care had come too late; her father
had grown impatient and suspicious, and
had come out to see for himself whether the
intruder was returning, and now stood on
the terrace watching them. He did not take
a stop to meet them, but when they had
silently approached him he bowed coldly to
Geoffrey and said —

^^I understand that you wish to speak tome,
Mr. Poland — Laura, go in with your
sister ; " and then, when the girls were out of
hearing, he went on. ' ^ I had imagined that
you would understand that I did not expect
a visit from you."

'' I quite understood that ; but I hope when
I have explained matters to you, you will
think differently," answered Geoffrey,
quietly.

*'I cannot see that there is any need of

explanation between us. I trust that I long
ago expressed my gratitude fittingly for the
great service you did me ; but I regret that
circumstances, which we need not enter
upon as you understand them as well as I
do, compel me to say that I do not wish our
acquaintance renewed."

'^ That is to say, Mr Hilton, that if you
could you would decline to enter upon I'le
subject of my marriage with your daughter."

'entirely! it will not, if you please, be
mentioned between us."

^^ I came here to-day for that purpose and
no other," answered Geoffrey. "' I am sorry
that it is disagreeable to you, but it cannot
be avoided. I have been speaking to your
daughter "

^' Good Heavens ! you tell me that to my
face ? " exclaimed Mr. Hilton, no longer
able to control his anger. '^ Have you none
of the feelings of a gentleman, sir, that you

venture to seek her out after I have given
you to understand that I decline your
acquaintance for myself and for her ?"

^* You put the case too strongly," answered
Geoffrey, determined not to take offence.
'' I grant that I knew that you would allow
no correspondence between us ; but I expect
at least a hearing when I tell you that
I have come to-day to ask your consent
to our marriage, now that I can offer your
daughter a pleasant home, and can assure
you that I shall have sufficient means to
keep her in comfort, although not, of course,
with the luxury of your house ; and that
she has consented to share what I have."

Mr. Hilton scarcely listened ; he was
intently occupied in keeping back the
violent words of dislike and anger which
came readily to his lips. He honestly
believed that this man had been trifling
with his daughter's affection, that he had

won it and wearied of it, and left her to
break her heart over him if she pleased ; but
what his object might be in coming back
again he was unable to guess. A man of
strong prejudices, it was impossible for him
to realise that there might be good in a man
for whom he felt a personal dislike, and
Geoffrey's ungenial manner, both before and
during his illness, his resolute refusal of all
expressions of gratitude, and his obstinate
unsociability had impressed him almost as
crimes ; and yet if he had come forward and
asked his consent to an engagement with
Laura before he went away for the first
time, he would have seen no sufficient reason
for refusing. He would have thought the
match a bad one for a girl in Laura's
position, but as far as money was concerned
he was a man of generous thoughts, and
would have had no suspicion that the lover
was a fortune-hunter. But when Geoffrey

went away in silence, giving no explanation
of his motives, he thought badly of him,
and blamed himself and every one else for
having let matters alone and taken no care
for Laura; and being still sore with self-reproach
Geoffrey's attempt at correspondence
before saying a word of his intentions
had seemed almost an insult. Even then,
if he had given some explanation, it might
have been well received, or at least duly
considered ; but a whole year had passed —
a year during which, even while absent, he
had brought quarrels and discomfort into
the family; and although Mr. Hilton would
have been puzzled to decide how far his
dislike was based upon facts or upon his
own imagination, he distinctly felt that he
was justified in feeling it.

Geoffrey waited long for an answer, and
then spoke again.

^' I hope, sir, that you have decided — on

thinking over it, that there is something to
be said in my favour. Besides, some private
reasons for my silence, which your daughter
understands, I think I need only remind
you that it was not possible for me to come
forward until I had assurance of sufficient
means."

And I wish you to understand, sir,"
interrupted Mr. Hilton; 'that until these
private reasons are explained to me, as well
as to my daughter, I refuse to consent to
any intercourse between you. That is my
final decision, and excepting upon that condition
I decline your acquaintance."

'^ Your condition is unreasonable, and I
refuse to accept it ; nor do I think that your
daughter will feel bound by ties of duty
which, by your own consent, have hitherto
been almost ignored between you. I shall
have no scruple in persuading her to break
such ties, which have been only in name."

*' I must thank you for giving me notice,
which will enable me to take precautions,"
answered Mr. Hilton, pale with anger ; " and
now, sir, if you please — having decidedly
and finally rejected your suit — I will wish
you good day."

But Geoffrey resolved to make one more
effort. "' Mr. Hilton — you have not considered
it necessary to treat me with the
ordinary civility of one gentleman to
another; you seem to have determined
beforehand that my motives must be bad,
but I can scarcely doubt that you will reconsider
the matter. Mrs. Mathewson will bethe
bearer of any message from you."

^' Thank you," said Mr. Hilton coldly.
^' Should such occasion arise I shall not fail
to take advantage of her kindness." Then
he turned resolutely away, and Geoffrey
felt that on that day at least there was
nothing more to be gained from him.

Returning to the house, Mr. Hilton rang
the bell and desired that Laura should be
sent to him ; and after a few minutes she
came down to the study, and Edith With her.

^^I wish to tell you, Laura," said her
father, with unrelenting severity of tone and
manner, '' that I have refused to give my
consent to an engagement between you and
Mr. Poland, either now or at any future
time. If you msh for reasons, you must
know that I do not in anv way think well
of him or consider that I should be justified
in giving you into his care."

^^ Father!" exclaimed Edith, pleadingly.

^^ My dear, this is no affair of yours," he
answered, sharply. '^ I hope, Laura, I have
no need to be assured that you will obey mein
having no further acquaintance with
him."

Laura said nothing for a few moments;
then, moving her hand from Edith arm,

she took a step or two forward, and answered
firmly —

'sin this matter I owe to Mr. Poland a
greater duty than to you, father. I have
given him a promise and I shall keep it.
I would obey you if I could, but in this I
cannot."

Mr. Hilton started from his chair in
violent anger, but again Edith interposed.
'father I Laura! Do not speak like this
to each other ! Oh, it is dreadful I Laura,
you will not go against father's wishes ? "

Mr. Hilton gave Laura no time to answer.

'' You will give me a promise of obedience
or you will leave my house at once. I will
have no disobedient child here to be a curse
to me," he said, and Laura turned to him,
with a white face, and answered,

''I must go, then, father. You ask of me
more than I can do ; more than you have a
right to expect, after all these years when

VOL. III. s

you have neither loved me nor cared forme.
Edith — it is useless ; you can do
nothing ! " and she turned and left the room,
with a long, backward look, as if taking
leave of it for ever.

CHAPTER XVIII.

BANISHED.

^' Edith, I must go away at once. I will goto
Adelaide," said Laura, turning her pale
face to her sister as soon as they got outside
the study door. ^' I can't stay here, even if
father would let me. I must go now — in an
hour ! Help me to get away."

^^ Laura, dear, he did not mean that ! "
''I do not know — I scarcely care; but
I must go," answered Laura, excitedly.
^' Edith, don't you understand — I must see
G-eofltrey, and I cannot see him here. I
suppose I owe that obedience."

Then, when they had gone upstairs
together, and stood at the door of the blue

study, she begged her sister to order the
carriage and tell Ellis to pack her clothes,
whilst she herself collected her cherished
possessions.

' You need not take much ; you will soon
come back again," said Edith.

^' I shall never come back ! No, Edith ;
you are kind to me now, and I am glad of
you ; but you will not miss me, and Geoffrey
wants me. I am not to be pitied — not in
the least; but it is hard to go away in father's
anger, and I have not done wrong. I
cannot give up all my life."

^' I think you are right, if you can
perfectly trust in Geoffrey."

I can trust him perfectly ; he has hidden
nothing from me," answered Laura proudly
Then she shut herself into the blue study
and locked the door, and stood looking round
her with an agony of regret. Here the
happiest hours of her life had been spent,

here she and Geoffrey had learned to know
and love each other, here she had lived
through her joys and sorrows alone ; and
although she knew that she was going to a
new life with him — a life happier than her
happiest hours had ever been — she clung to
the memories of this room with passionate
fondness.

There was little in it that she could call
her own. She had not gathered round her
that multitude of small possessions in which
girls delight; but she lingered over her
task, and when everything was collected she
sat doTvm for the last time by the little
writing-table, and leaned her head against
it with bitter, regretful tears. Her life here
was over. For nearly one and twenty years
she had lived as an alien in her father's
house, had wasted precious time and precious
powers in vain and sullen discontent and
apathy, and now what would she not give

to have them to live over again ? But she
had abbacy spent too long in brooding over
troubles and grievances; there were other
things to do now, and with a last lingering
look at the dear room and all that it held,
she gathered up her books and left the old
life behind.

When Ellis, with silent tears, had packed
what was needful and received orders
about things which for the present must be
left with her, Laura felt that there was one
more farewell to be said ; she could not
leave without seeing Bernard.

It was past seven o'clock now, and her
father and Edith were at dinner — a dreary
and silent ceremony it would be to-night,
she knew, but it must be gone through, and
at least it had the advantage of leaving
her undisturbed.

Every one in the house knew by this time
that Miss Laura's lover had been dismissed

and every one sympathised ; but when to
this was added the news that she was leaving
home at once no one knew what to make
of it. It was all very well to say that she
was going to Mrs. Paget' s, but she couldn't
stop there always, and master might wait
long enough before another gentleman offered
to take her off his hands — not that she wasn't
more pleasant in her ways than she used to
be-but there! she wasn't like Miss Edith
or Miss Erica, and it wasn't every one that



knew where to find the good that was
in her.

Mrs. Hughes had taken twice as much
interest in her since she had been sent to
Folkestone to fetch her home, and had not
the heart to refuse to let her see Mr. Offord,
although she believed that he was just falling
into a quiet doze.

I shall scarcely disturb him, but I must
see him for a moment, Mrs. Hughes," said

Laura, as she went in gently ; and finding
him asleep, stood looking at him silently,
with tears in her eyes. '^ Good-bye, dear
brother," she said softly at last, bending
down and kissing him, and he woke and
looked up at her with a smile.

shave you come to say good-night ? Is
it late?"

^' No ; not very. I came to say good-bye.
I am going away; and as long as I live I
shall be glad to remember how kind you
have been to me."

Bernard held out his hand and clasped
hers. ^^ I remember, now ! Poland has been
here. Is your father angry, and sending you
away?"

^^ Yes ; I am going to Adelaide. Bernard,
I could not give him up ! "

^^No, of course you could not. I believe
it will all come right ; at least, we will do our
best."

^' I know sou will. 1 must go now,
Bernard."

'^ You are not unhappy, dear?"

^^ No, not unhappy ; but very, very sorry,
more sorry than I could tell you."

^' Yes, but I hope your good-bye to us
all is only for a little time." Then, with
another silent kiss, she left him.

Morris was waiting with the ponies to
drive her, and she went away quietly,
Edith not daring, with all her father's
indulgence, to leave the dinner-table to see
her. The first mile was passed in silence,
and then Morris's mind was too full to be
kept any longer under restraint.

^^ Beg pardon. Miss Laura ! but 'tient
cause of Mr. Offord's accident you're
going away ? "

'^No Morris," answered Laura, slowly,
bringing herself back with difficulty to a
remembrance of what was in his mind.

No, you may be quite easy ; it is nothings
to do with that."

Morris pondered for awhile. '^ Miss
Laura," he said presently, '' if ever Master
should want to know that Mr. Poland's
a good 'un, I'll speak uj)."

^^ Thank you, Morris," said Laura, both
touched and amused; ^^ I know that you
are right in thinking that, and Mr. Ofiurd
knows that it is an honourable gentleman
whom I am going to marry ; but I am afraid
my father will never believe it." Laura's
protest was rather to the world at large
than to Morris, but it served its purpose.

'^ We'll all wish you good health on the
wedding-day, Miss Laura; and if ever
there's a good turn to be done to either of
you, Ellis and me '11 be the first to do it.
'Wasn't only yesterday 1 told her the
truth of Mr. Offord's accident, and she
said she'd stick by me all the same, and'd

be glad to serve Mr. Poland on her
bended knees."

^^ I am glad you have told her, Morris ; it
is right that there should be no secrets
between you. I hope some day before
long I shall hear of your happy marriage,
and we shall not forget you, although by
that time I may be a long way o& in a
foreign country."

^^ Thank you, miss; we do think o' that
public on the Mornington road, where the
hunting gentlemen come — but there, you'll
be back long enough before that."

"It may be so," said Laura, and then
she was silent until they reached Mrs.
Paget' s house, when, hearing that she was
in the nursery, saying good-night to her
children, she went up and joined her there.

My dear Laura, this is very sad ; but,
of course, we will take you in and welcome
you," said Adelaide, when she had taken

her sister to her own room and heard what
she had to say. ^^ I don't know what Edgar
will think; but it can't be helped, and no
doubt father will come round."

^^I would have gone to Janet, if she had
been at home," said Laura, feeling sore
and miserable, and inclined to think that
every one was against her.

^'My dear, it is perhaps better for you
to have come to a clergyman's house, and I
think Edo^ar will see it in the same licht.
It is a terrible thing for a girl to be sent
away from her home, and we must expect
that people will talk ; but they cannot say
much as you have come here."

'^ I will go away again this moment, if
you are afraid of people's talking. I don't
care where I go," cried Laura, with angry
tears.

^^ That is nonsense," answered Adelaide,
-calmly. ^^ You know that I am quite

ready to receive you, and I am more than
glad to think that you will have the
advantage of Edgar's advice''

^^ But you had better go and tell him
before I unpack my things," said Laura.
'^ He, too, may think of people's talking, and
wish me to go away." And Adelaide, who
was always afraid of Laura's temper, was
glad of an excuse for leaving her just
then.

Mr. Paget agreed with his wife that
it was all very sad, and deeply to be
lamented; but he was quite willing that
Laura should stay until matters were
arranged in some fashion.

^^ I think your father must give way
after a while," he said; sand in any case,
I shall be glad to keep the poor child until
we have brought her to a clearer sense of
duty."

^^ But what shall we do about Mr.

Poland ? Of course he will know that
she is here, and will come to see her."

^^Let him come! My dear, Laura has
been a stumbling-block in the Blithefield
household, not entirely by her own fault,
and there is a perversity in the idea of
forbidding her marriage which does not
commend itself to me. I think you should
write tomorrow to Mrs. Mathewson and
tell her the state of the case, and if she
suggests no objections and gives a good
account of her nephew, I shall be disposed
to favour the young couple, and trust to
your father's future forgiveness. What
does it matter whether we like the young
fellow or not ? it is Laura who has to
spend her life with him. I should like
to see her for a few minutes to-night and
say a word of kindness, as well as of
counsel to all possible submission to her
father's wishes."

Laura came down, obediently if unwillingly,
feeling that nothing that could be
said could hurt her more than her father's
words, and was surprised when her brother-in-law
came forward and welcomed her
cordially and said —

'^ My dear, I am grieved to hear of
these family differences ; we can only trust
that by doing the very best in our power
we may be shown the way out of them,
and you may feel sure of a welcome here
until there is another home to claim
you."

Laura was touched and Adelaide was
astonished, for neither could know of the
still vivid remembrance of bygone years
and long past romance which, in the midst
of his married happiness, moved Edgar
Paget's heart to sympathy with unfortunate
and rebellious lovers.

CHAPTER XIX.

LAURA'S AMBASSADOR.

When Geoffrey left Mr. Hilton, having
fared no worse than he expected, he was
somewhat puzzled what to do next. It
was impossible for him to go back to the
house and try to see Laura, he must at
least show that amount of respect for
her father's prejudices, setting aside the
probability that he would be refused
admittance ; nor was it likely that Laura
would be allowed to receive a letter from
him openly, and he did not choose to send
any communication through the servants
unless driven to extremity ; so for the
present he felt helplessly at a standstill.

But lie could not make up his mind to leave
Blithefield just yet, in case some happy
chance might occur of which he could
avail himself without puttin':^; her into
further difficulties.

He was worried and offended, added
to which he was hungry and not at all
inclined for the long walk to Mornington
before finding food and lodging; but yet
he did not choose to be seen hanging
about the neighbourhood, where, no doubt,
gossipping tongues would be busy with
his name. Lighting his pipe he wandered
about the woods for an hour, and then
comines in sight of the house from a
distance he saw the ponies driven up to
the door, and although he was too far off
to distinguish one face from another, he
felt no doubt that it was Laura who left
the house a few minutes after and drove
away.

VOL. III.' ' T

'^ That crusty old father of hers has turned
her out, I suppose," he said to himself;
'' very well, my darling, it may be all the
better for us in the end ; and now I must
watch and see where you are going. But
when Laura came by a little later she was
unconscious that he was watching her from
only the distance of a stone's throw, and that
he kept the carriage in sight until there could
be no doubt that she was bound for the
Paget' s pleasant rectory.

The temptation to speak to her was strong,
almost too strong to be resisted when he saw
how pale and sad she looked ; but he felt
that he was right in letting her pass by, and
that the words of comfort which he could
have spoken were better unsaid until she was
safe in her sister's care ; nor would he be
doing right by Morris in making him a party
to a stolen interview.

Remembering a little country inn in Dor-field,

not far from the Paget' s house, he
looked for and found a night's lodging there ;
and the next morning about eleven o'clock
walked over to the Rectory and asked for
Mrs. Paget.

^' I do not think we have ever met, but
you will know all about me when I tell you
that my name is Poland," he said.

^^Yes," answered Mrs. Paget, ^^we expected
you."

^' I hope my visit is not unwelcome?"

^^ Not at all. But my husband will talk to
you, for of course you know that we are in
rather a difficult position ; but we sympathise
with my sister and with you."

^^ Thank you," said Geoffrey cordially;
'^ and I think if you do not mind I would
rather talk to you than to Mr. Paget. I am
afraid I am accustomed to express myself
rather strongly, and I can make little pretension
to orthodoxy ; but I would willingly

steer clear of offence with every one belonging
to Laura — I am sure you know that
she allows me to call her that, or else I
should not be here."

^^ Yes, I think I know a good deal about
it," answered Adelaide smiling ; ^^ but really
I am half afraid to speak as kindly as I wish
until you have seen my husband."

^^ Then I shall of course be glad to see
him at once. I do not yet know exactly
why Laura has left home, but I feel that
both of us stand in need of kindness ; and,
after all, does it not strike you, Mrs. Paget,
that society is given to putting itself out
a good deal too much about the fate of two
of its units ? "

Adelaide did not feel equal to discussing
the question, and became still more anxious
to hand the visitor over to her husband ; but
she wished to bo everything that was kind to
lier sister's lover, and answered :

sewell, of course, everything to do with
Laura seems important in my eyes, and my
husband and I are inclined to think that she
has been treated severely ; but at the same
time, you must quite understand, Mr.
Poland, that we do not wish to go
against my father."

'' That is to say," said Geoffrey a
little impatiently, ^Hhat although I am
sure you feel kindly towards us, you will not
undertake any responsibility."

'^ Really, it will be much better for you to
talk to Mr. Paget," answered Adelaide uncomfortably,
and as Geoffrey bowed silently
she hurried away.

*^ Mr. Poland is here, Edgar," she said,
finding her husband in his study, 'sand I
want you to see him at once ; I am not at all
sure that I understood him, but he seems
very much in earnest."
Has he seen Laura ? "

^' No, not yet; lie wished to talk to us
first."

Quite right. Well, I will go and bring
him here where one can talk undisturbed ;
and you might tell Laura that he is not
likely to suffer severely at my hands, and
that I will send him out to join her in the
garden."

Mr. Paget greeted his visitor cordially,
and only a few words of explanation were
needed to make matters clear between them.
I tell you plainly, Poland, that before I
consent to take your part against my father-in-law
I should like to hear what Mrs.
Mathewson has to say about you."

Geoffrey smiled. ^^My aunt has an
exaggerated opinion of my merits ; I advise
A ou to take what she says with caution.
But seriously, I am not at all afraid of
any amount of investigation which you may
think right. There have been one or two

difficulties in my life which Laura knows
and forgives ; they may perhaps be dragged
into the light of common observation, but I
scarcely think the trouble would be rewarded.
After I have seen Laura, I intend to go back
to town and tell my aunt all about it ; and I
am sure that if you think it would be wiser
or in any way more agreeable to you or to
Mrs. Paget that Laura should go to her, she
will consent to take care of her until our
really very simple difficulties can be
arranged."

'' My wife and I will on no account consent
to part with our sister at present," said
Mr. Paget, kindly; 'but after you have
seen her to-day I shall think it right to ask
you to stay away until we have communicated
with her father and Mrs. Mathewson."

'eyes, I suppose it is right," said Geoffrey,
reluctantly ; " but our time is short and I
am unwilling to waste it, in two months my

wife and I must be on our way to our new
home."

"I do not think that will be possible,
Poland. Mr. Hilton may be induced to give
his consent in time, but hardly in such a
hurry."

'' I do not at all expect it, and I tell you
frankly that I shall do my best to persuade
Laura to do without it. I am conscious
that he can find no real objection against
me, and in a week or two Laura will be
legally her own mistress. Good heavens I
what would the man wish to do with his
daughter if she went back again now to
that ungenial home of hers where from
week's end to week's end no one addresses a
word to her but of the most trivial commonplace
? Why she would be better off if she
married a travelling tinker who had a fellow
feeling with her than she has been in the
midst of luxury and mental starvation ! "

I can't quite go with you," said Mr.
Paget, ^' but I have grieved over the neglect
from which she has suffered. Now, no
doubt you will like to find her in the garden,
I desired my wife to tell her that you would
join her there."

The Rectory garden at Cornfield was of
that old-fashioned and delightful kind, full
of nooks and corners and shady deaths, which
seem made for pleasant talks, and on that
bright May morning, with the apple trees in
bloom, Geoffrey and Laura found it a
paradise.

'^ I am grateful to your father, dear, for
unintentionally giving us a helping hand,"
said Geoffrey. '^ If he had been at all
moderate in his severity it would have been
altogether a different thing, I should have
tried all my powers of argument before we
proceeded to extremities, but now that he
has gone so far as to send you away from

home I feel that it is open to me to take
matters into my own hands."

Then followed an hour of earnest discussion
and consultation before Geoffrey
went back to town to see Mrs. Mathewson,
and when Laura came in to share the
children's early dinner there was a look of
cheerful determination on her face which
won her brother-in-law's cordial approval.

^^ I think she and Poland will know how to
manage their own affairs," he said to his wife.

^^ Yes ; but still they have asked me to
intercede with my father, and I have promised
to do the best I can. Will you come
with me, Edgar ? "

But Mr. Paget had an uncomfortable
consciousness that his father-in-law did not
think much of him, and therefore judged
that it would be wiser that Adelaide should
go alone to plead Laura's cause.

Mrs. Bonar and her husband had been

called away from home by the death of a
relative who had left them money, and they
all felt that it was unfortunate that just then
they should have been deprived of Janet's
good sense which always had weight with
her father, but still Adelaide hoped that her
own influence might do a good deal, and
felt a strengthening sense of importance as
she inquired from Stephens where his master
was to be found, and hearing that he was
in the study went there immediately, without
giving her courage time to cool down.

^^ I am glad to see you, my dear," said
Mr. Hilton. ''No doubt you have brought
a message of submission from Laura, which
will put an end to my painful necessity for
showing displease."

"No, father; I think both you and I
know her too well to exjDCct anything of the
kind, and really there is a very great deal
to be said for Mr. Poland."

''If your object in coming is to tell me
that, Adelaide, we shall disagree. I expect
apology and promise of obedience from
Lam-a before listening to anything on her
behalf; while as for him — he knows that
nothing but complete honesty on his part
could induce me to listen to him, and even then
I reserve to myself the right of refusing to
entrust a child of mine into the care of a
man of such ungenial disposition and uncertain
temper, to say nothing of his want of
means and the distance of his future home
from every one concerned in Lamia's welfare.'^

'' Father, if you would only let some of
us explain to you ! there are so many things
to be said in his favour ! "

'' I fail to see them now, and in all
probability shall continue to do so ; but
still, should he give me a satisfactory
account of the last year, and show himself
willing to wait until he has been proved

worthy of trust, I may consent to listen
to him. Meanwhile, my dear Adelaide,
although I have no quarrel with you, I say
you are mistaken in taking up his cause, and
that you will do no good by it."

Adelaide considered for a few minutes,
and then answered firmly : '^ I grieve that
you should take the matter in this way,
father, for many reasons, but chiefly because
I fear it will drive them to extremities.
No one can expect that Laura will behave
as any girl would whose home had been a
happy one, and we know that by fault on
all sides she has not been happy. It would
not be surprising, either, if she should feel
that — to say nothing of her being almost
twenty-one — in sending her away you
renounced authority over her; you have
been too hard ujDon her, father ! Edgar
says the same."

^' It is sufficiently painful that I should

be obliged to show severity to one of my
children, and it would be a useless addition
to quarrel with you," answered her father.
^^ You fully understand my meaning in this
unhappy business, and if you are sincerely
anxious for your sister's welfare you will do
your best to carry it out. I am glad that
she should have the advantage of your
countenance until I can allow her to come
home again, but if it would be in any way
more agreeable to you, I will make a point
of finding a suitable home for her elsewhere."
^^No, thank you, father; my husband
and I are anxious to show her kindness,"
answered Adelaide, coldly; and then, without
even seeing Edith, she drove home again
with a sense of complete failure.

CHAPTER XX.

A day's events.

The doctors had decided that Bernard was
getting on very well, that the wounds were
healing properly, and that, with due care
and absence of excitement, he might expect
to get about again at the end of a month,
and no doubt if everything had gone on as
usual at Blithefield such would have been the
case, but Laura's farewell visit, and the
difficulties suggested by it, joined to the
sense of his own incapacity to help her, or to
hinder mischief, and the want of any one
but Mrs. Hughes to tell him what had come,
or was likely to come to pass, worried him
into a feverish condition which caused Dr.
Reynolds no little anxiety.

On the subject of family troubles, Mr.
Hilton, during his visits twice a day, was
silent, and beyond the fact that Laura was
staying with the Pagets, and that Adelaide
had come to see her father and had gone
away again apparently in low spirits, Mrs.
Hughes had no information to give. How
much Bernard longed for a sight of Edith
and a few minutes' talk ; what a fool he
called himself for his over scrupulous refusal
to see her at first, how he raged over his own
incapacity and weakness, and fretted himself
into a sort of nervous fever, were things
which those around him could not guess, and
yet the doctor knew that his patient's mental
condition was all wrong, and was chiefly to
blame for his want of progress, and would
have been thankful to get Laura back again
with her singular power of bringing rest and
confidence in weary hours of pain and illness.

During the fortnight which had passed

since the accident, the police, in spite of all
their endeavours, had not made the slightest
discovery. The few people concerned lead
kept their own counsel ; the gunsmith, whose
mind was uneasy, had gone through a visit
of inquiry without giving any information
beyond the fact that he had bought Morris's
gun from him, and with apparent willingness
had shown the different pieces now undergoing
repair, and Bernard's firm refusal to
allow a reward to be offered had put a stop
to extraordinary zeal. Perhaps his character
suffered a little in consequence, and some
people said that Thornage's lodger, who still
remained a most mysterious being, was someone
who had an old grievance against him,
but such rumours if they ever reached his
ears would hardly disturb his peace, and
would even have been welcomed as a proof
that suspicion had not been directed to the
ever regretful cause of his misfortune. Added

VOL. III. u

to pain and weariness, and a sense of being
trouble to every one was the knowledge
that Offord House ought before now to have
been overlooked again by himself and the
architect, and preparations made for either
repairing it or pulling down such parts as
were unsafe, and yet here he was tied like a
log to the comfortable little room, which he
had learned to detest as a prison from which
at present there was no chance of escape.

So passed another dreary fortnight, and
then Janet drove over to Blithefield to make
her attempt at bringing about a better understanding
between her father and Laura, but
she, too, failed. Bernard, however, was the
better for her visit, for she came and talked
to him, and told him a great deal that he
wanted to know.

^' So you have not seen Edith since your
accident ? " she asked, looking at him
curiously.

*'No; of course it would not have been
right, she is tender-hearted and pitiful, and
might have been tempted to show me kindness
which she would afterwards have regretted."


^^No doubt you are right," said Janet,
but he felt that her manner expressed
disapproval.

^' As for Laura — " he began, but she interrupted
him.

*' As far as Laura's past is concerned 1
shall be glad to tell you all I can and hear
what you think, but respecting her future I
am bound to silence. We must give up all
idea now that father will change his mind,
his conditions are not reasonable, and we
have no longer any hope of altering them."

'•' Weill" said Bernard, wearily, but also
with a smile at himself, ^' one is apt to think
a good deal of one's own influence, and I
feel as if everything had gone wrong because

I am laid up here ; perhaps when I get about
again the world will improve a little."

^^I hope it may be so, it i.s a worrying
world just now' said Janet ; '' get well as
fast as you can, Bernard, for there is no
doubt that we all want you."

Janet did not come tu Blithefield again
until one bright June morning, when she
and Adelaide appeared together.

Edith met them in the garden, and saw
by their faces that they had come on some
special errand, but she asked no questions,
even when Adelaide said —

^^ Is father in his study, dear ? We want
to speak to him, and you must come with
us." She led the way in silence.

Mr. Hilton greeted his daughters warmly
as usual, but he, too, saw that there was
something strange and felt uneasy.

Adelaide went forward and put her hand
on his shoulder.

^^ Father, Janet and I have come to tell
you that Laura was married this morning."
Her father turned his face away but said
nothing, and she went on. ^' We thought it
best, we did not know what else to do, they
had quite made up their minds, and Laura
was twenty-one two days ago, so Edgar
married them in his own church, and Janet
and Walter were there. You will not
quarrel with us father ? we have done it
for the best." Edith, it is as great a surprise
to you as to father, we thought that was
right."

*' I am glad of that, Edith," said her
father, in a low voice.

^' Will you all leave me now, I will talk
to you by-and-by."

And the sisters went away and sat in
Edith's little sitting - room and cried, but
none of them regretted the morning's work.

'^ I don't see what else could be done,"

said Janet, ^^ Geoffrey Poland has to be off
in a few weeks, and it seems more likely
that father will be reconciled to them before
they start if he has plenty of time to think
over it ; he is not the sort of man to do it at
the last moment, and besides that, we all
saw that Laura was fretting herself to death,
not that she wavered for an instant in her
intention to marry Geoffrey, but she thought,
perhaps, they ought to wait, and he would
not agree ; so the sooner it was all over and
done with the better."

I think so too'' answered Edith, but it
was all a shock to her.

After awhile her father sent for her, and
desired her to tell her sisters that he would
rather wait to see them again until another
day. ^^ I am not angry with them, although
I think they have been wrong ; but I have
much to think over and would rather be
alone."

'' Will you not tell me a little of what is in
your mind, father ? " asked Edith, anxiously.*

^^ Not to-day, darling. I think I will
have the brown cob and ride over and see
Jenkinson ; there is business which must be
arranged."

^^Wait for a day or two, father dear,"
pleaded Edith, fearful that in his first displeasure
he would do injustice to Laura, for
Mr. Jenkinson was the family solicitor, and
was associated in her mind with wills and
marriage settlements. But her father would
not be persuaded.

''My dear, I must be the judge of the
right time for business. You had better
keep your sisters with you if you like, I
shall probably not be home until dinner
time."

But Adelaide and Janet could not stay,
and by three o'clock Edith was left alone,
feeling desolate and miserable, not venturing

to say a word of the morning's event, even
to Ellis, without her father's leave, and
realising for the first time that Laura, vrith
all her congeniality, was to be missed and
regretted. She wandered out into the
garden and filled her hands with summer
flowers, white pinks and roses and lilies,
which she and her father loved ; but to-day
they gave her no pleasure ; she was dissatisfied
; she was alone ; there was a
want in her life which she had never felt
so strongly before ; and with a sudden
inspiration, and with her hands still full of
the sweet-scented blossoms, she went in
across the hall, through the side passage,
and knocked at Bernard's door. He was
much better and had been sitting up for a
day or two now, and she had waited
anxiously for an invitation to go and see
him, but it had not come, and she felt
to-day that she must go without it.

Mrs. Hughes came to the door and gave
her a broad smile of approval. you've
brought Mr. Offord some flowers. Miss
Edith ? and glad enough I am, I can tell
you; he's that low to-day I don't know
what to do with him. Mr. Offord, here's
Miss Edith come to see you." Then she
discreetly withdrew.

Edith went forward and found Bernard,
a shadow of himself, sitting propped up
with cushions by the open window. The
change in him was greater than she had
expected, and she could scarcely restrain
a cry of dismay as she realised his past
pain and present weakness, but as his face
brightened with pleasure at seeing her he
seemed almost his own self again.

'' I am so glad, Edith, so glad you have
come I It was not fail' to ask you, you
know," he held tightly the hand that
was willingly clasped in his.

'' Oh, Bernard, I did not know ! somehow
I never felt that it had been so bad as
this."

'' That was just why I did not want
you to come, it is something so mueli
better than pity that I have wanted all
these months past that I could not put
up with alone, and I am getting well
now ; to-day you cannot look at me and
feel yourself a giantess in your strength*'
he said smiling.

While he still held her hand she sat
down on a low chair beside him.

^^ Bernard," she said softly, '^ I am
going to tell you what is in my mind.
I came to see you to-day because I wanted
you ; not because I thought you wanted
me. I have known all this time, while
you have been ill and have not let me
come to see you, what I should tell you
when you asked me what my thoughts

had been, and to-day, when I am lonely
and wretched and have no one to speak
to, what could I do but come to you?"

Bernard smiled, her words were but
half reassuring and yet he understood her.
'^ You are quite sure that you have not
come out of kindness to a poor broken-down
fellow who is sick of being shut up
here so long?"

^^ Quite sure."

^^ But, Edith, it is ever so much too
soon for me to speak, that day in July
is weeks off yet ! "

Edith started up with flushed cheeks.
^^ Really, Bernard, you are quite foolish
to take things so literally ! Must one be
tied down strictly to a word?"

^^ Edith?"

^^ Oh, Bernard, I want to talk to you,"
she said, sitting down beside him again ;
but he thought that his turn came first,

and for the next half-hour he found so
much to say that neither knew that she
had been nearly silent.

Mr. Hilton, returning from his ride,
went in by the side entrance and knocked
at Bernard's door, and hearing voices
went in without waiting for an answer.

Edith would have started up, but Bernard
still held her hand. ^^ Father!" she exclaimed,
with blushing cheeks and happy
eyes. father!" echoed Bernard, and
Mr. Hilton stood still and looked at them.

^' Edith, my darling, you knew that I
had been hurt to-day ; have you done
this to please me?"

^' No indeed, father, it was — to please
myself I think."

'rand I am left out altogether," said
Bernard.

^^ Well, you are a sort of necessity you
know," said Edith, smiling; '^ but father

and I must always come first with each
other."

Bernard smiled too, but it was with a
sigh, for he realised over again the truth,
which had oppressed him before, that to
Edith her father while his life lasted must
be first, although perhaps, he might flatter
himseK, not quite dearest.

CHAPTER XXI.

THE CULTIVATION OF HAPPINESS.

^' Of course, Wedgwood, when sou telegraphed
for me yesterday, I knew that
something had happened, but I was quite
unprepared for these events," said Mrs.
Mathewson, when she had come down
from town, bringing Erica with her, in
answer to Mr. Hilton's urgent summons.
nothing can be more delightful than
Edith's engagement ; I always thought she
was a foolish girl for putting it off so long,
and if I had had the management, I could
have set it right long ago ; but if I live
for the next fifty years, I shall always
strongly disapprove of Laura's marriage.

^* But, my dear Sarah, you have invariably
spoken well of your nephew ! "

Mrs. Mathewson made a gesture of
hopeless impatience.

^' Surely, Wedgwood, you can't imagine
that I think it a bad thing for her ! No,
indeed, that is very far from my thoughts ;
but 1 deplore that Geoffrey should have
married a girl whom we all know to have
such a bad temper."

'^ Perhaps she may improve indeed, I
think she has done so already ; but, like
you, I grieve over this foolish business,
although, probably, from very different
reasons, and greatly as I blame her, I
cannot avoid reproaching myself also for
her having married in this manner."

'sand yet you tell me yourself that you
persistently refused your consent ! "

^'You have all been very ready to take
me at my word," said Mr. Hilton, resentfully,

forgetting, like so many other peoples
that if you only say a thing often enough
it will generally be believed in the end,
and that he had so often asserted his
intention not to countenance Laura's
engagement, that every one thought he
must mean it. '' However, I have done
the best I can for her, I saw Jenkinson
yesterday, and desired him to draw up a
settlement, which will tie up her money
pretty closely. I hardly imagine that under
the circumstances Poland can find much fault
with that."

'really, Wedgwood, one would think
that you credited my nephew with entire
want of principle," said Mrs. Mathewson,
with offence.

'' Not that I hope, but you must confess
that I have not as yet had much reason to
think well of him. But, my dear Sarah,
I did not ask you here to quarrel with

you, or give yon offence, but because Edith
will want your advice and countenance,
and there are many things in which your
help will be invaluable to both of us. If
we differ concerning the relative worth
of our belongings — why, it is the way of
the world, and we are people of too much
experience to expect to set that right."

After all, when Mrs. Mathewson came
to think over it, Geoffrey had not done so
badly. A wife with ten thousand pounds,
even although it was strictly tied up, could
not be considered as absolutely without
advantages ; and disagreeable as Laura's
temper might be he seemed not to mind
it, while at the distance at which they were
to live, no one else could suffer from it.
If only one's personal conceit and love of
giving opinions could be set aside, it might
be possible to realise that people knew their
own affairs best; and there was this great

VOL. HI. X

consolation to fall back upon, that Erica
absolutely needed her care, for she would
not be wanted at home when Edith married ;
and being pretty and lively, and a little
wanting in solidity of character at eighteen,
she would require a good deal of counsel
and supervision before she attained to that
inevitable necessity — a suitable marriage.

Mr. Hilton's solicitor did not find his
task of drawing up a settlement an easy one,
for he could not for some time discover
where Mr. and Mrs. Geoffrey Poland were to
be found, not knowing that Dr. Gordon's
yacht had met them at Dover, and that the
first few weeks of their married life were
spent in cruising along the coasts of Devonshire
and Cornwall, landing whenever the
fancy took them, accompanied for the most
part by their host, who pronounced them the
least objectionable pair of married lovers he
had ever met with. '^ There is much fair

open space in your wife's mind which it will
be your privilege to fill, Poland," he said;
^^ I do not think she will refuse me glimpses
into its pages now and then, and I expect
that until you let me know that I am wearisome
your beautiful home will find me a
frequent visitor."

^' The oftener the better," answered
Geoffrey, cordially. '^ I suppose that my
wife and I am about the most unpopular
couple that could be found ; so you need not
be at all afraid of coming in the way of other
visitors."

'' But it will be made up with her people,
I hope?"

"' I don't know, nor do I much care. If
she wishes to meet any advances they may
make, I shall not oppose it ; but neither of
us see our way to being the first to come
forward ; and although the married sisters
hare certainly been kind, there has been too

strong a flavour of disapproval mixed with it
all to make one eager for future intercourse."

Nor when they returned to London was
there anything in the arrangements Mr.
Hilton had made to make Geoffrey feel more
cordially towards him. Laura's money was
to be protected in every way that was
possible from being used by her husband ;
and she was so angry for him that, if he
had allowed her, she would have refused
altogether to have anything to do with it ;
but to this, of course, he could not consent.

'^ And after all, dear, what does it
matter?" he said. '^ We have gained each
other, and leave all such stings behind us ;
we can well afford to bear, and then forget
them."

Meanwhile day after day, Mr. Hilton
looked for a letter from Laura, not of penitence
or apology —-he knew her too well for
that, but making some sbi«t of excuse, and

showing a desire to be reconciled ; but no
such letter came ; and as Edith and Erica
were forbidden to write, and Adelaide
and Janet thought that they also ought
to make at least that recognition of their
father's authority, it came to pass that
Geoffrey and Laura sailed in Dr. Gordon's
yacht for their new home, without any
attempt at reconciliation on either side.
But just before Edith's marriage in September,
she asked for and obtained leave
from her father to write to Laura, and
received an answer which, although sea and
land divided them, brought them closer
together than in all their lives before ; while
to Bernard, Geoffrey wrote a long letter
about things in general, besides a good deal
about himself and his wife.

** We are at present devoting ourselves
with much success to the cultivation of happiness,"
he wrote, '^ a blossom which has

hitherto been sadly neglected in our lives.
We find work and sympathy the chief things
necessary for its growth, and with the
addition of beauty of surroundings it attains
full perfection."

Poor Laura ! '' sighed Edith, with 
regret, when Bernard read
her the letter ; but he only laughed at hei'
misplaced commiseration.

'^ Such comfortable well-to-do folks as
we are scarcely deserve to know what such
hardly-earned happiness as theirs means," he
said; ^^but we may have the satisfaction
t)f feeling that while they are cultivating it
for themselves — and out there it is scarcely
open to them to do anything else —-we have
many opportunities here of helping other
people at least to sow the seeds, and we may
hope that some day, not very far off, we
shall meet and compare our husbandry."

When that day of reconciliation comes.

perhaps the only blot left on Mr. Hilton's
satisfaction will be the fact that Thornage's
lodger and his share in Bernard's accident
seem likely to remain impenetrable mysteries.

THE END.
