OF The
N 1 VLR.SITY
or Ill Noise



St2c

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

DEC 2 3 1881
NOV 281981

L161— O-1096

SKETCHES AND STORIES

IN BARRACKS AND OUT

Bv J. S. WINTER

Vol. L

Xoubon

Chatty AND Winds, PICCADILLY

1881.

[^// Rights RcseyueJ.]

PREFACE

s^ I HAVE . received orders from my publishers to
■^ write a Preface to the collection of sketches now
^- to be offered to the public.

A Preface ! What an order ! I would as soon

S write another volume ; it certainly would be the

easier task of the twain. It has to be done, of

course ; but how, I don't know. I never wrote a

Preface in my life. I have not the least idea how

^- to set about it ; though I am in an utter

^ agony of apprehension, lest defects in this absolute?;

necessity should "mull" the effect of the whole.

1 have consulted a friend on the subject,

-.who says: "Pooh! if you can write a book full

>^of sketches, you can write a Preface;" and he

:- Says it as glibly as if it is nothing more

:> difficult than an acceptance of a dinner invitation,

•^^and can be dashed off at a moment's notice.

I explain to him that " a book full of sketches "
is an easy matter. I simply take a real soldier
out of a real regiment, and give him somebody
else's real name ; I put real jokes into his mouth,
and relate real incidents which happened to him
or to somebody else. But I cannot do that with
a Preface ; where shall I find a Preface in real
Use?

My friend assumes a serious aspect ; and, leaving
the question of the Preface altogether, remarks
that, in his opinion, I am playing a dangerous
game.

Supposing," says lie, wisely, " supposing any
fellow recognizes his own portrait."

I know that " any fellow " is much more likely
to recognize some " other fellow's " portrait than
his own ; though, goodness knows, they are nearly
all unvarnished enough for the most obtuse self-blindness
to see clearly through the thin disguise
cast over them.

Mais revenons n nos inoutons otherwise our
Preface ! I fear all this is terribly out of order ;
yet there are one or two tidings I should like to
say. whether they are out of order oi not.

I wish the sketches to be taken strictly for what
they are — portraits from life of our British-born
sons of Mars. I own frankly that characters and
incidents are, for the most part, real characters
and incidents, slightly shuffled and embroidered ;
and that (ill have a foundation of truth.

The old letters introduced into " His Princess "
(date 1759-1761) are simply copies of the originals.
I certainly did mend up the spelling and the
punctuation a bit — both were vile ; for, finding it
such a nuisance to wade through them myself, I
feared my readers would never trouble to look at
them, unless I translated them into plainer English.

And thus I launch my military children (not
quite of fancy) upon the world ; dedicating the
portraits to the originals — to all t]\e gentlemen who
have been unconsciously my models, I make my
bow, and sign myself the thereby greatly obliged

Author!

in 2010 within funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/cavalrylifeorske01wint

I'ACfK

I. — TIegijihntai- Like; . 1

11. — A IIegimentat- Martvi; . 15

111. — A 1{egimi;nt.vi, \'ai,i;xtixj: 44

IV. A RlXUMEKTAI, rOET 67

V. — The Hero of the Regiment. . . . 103

VI. — The Ordeal liv I'aint . 134

Vll. — A Cherub's Face i xdeu a Forage-cain. . . 152

Vltl. — Calcraft — A Trooi'hk . 173

IX. — The Victoria Cross 192

X. — The Captain of 1'-1'i;(jo1' . . 204

XI. — The Sign of thi; "stolen Swan" . . . 228

Xll.— HrMi>Ti-l)uMnv 244

XIII. A IvEGIMENTAI, AuTdCHAT . 256

EEGBiEXTAL LIFE.

Very few people have any conception of how
severe a school the Army is. I speak more especially
of the mounted branch of the service, because
popular writers of fiction are more fond of " writing
up " cavalry officers than any other.

One has grown intimately acquainted With life in
the mess-room, as so many authors depict it. One
has learned all the names officers are popularly
supposed to bestow upon one another. There is
always a colonel, old, white-haired, and singularly
amiable, who is a sort of protecting father to all
his officers. He looks after their love-affairs, of
which, by-the-bye, in real life, a chief is supposed to
remain in blissful ignorance. He sees they are not
"put upon"' by their seniors; is frequently spoken to
as " old fellow," and very often falls in love with the
young lady Who has gained the affections of one
of his " subs." of, say, six weeks' standing.

VOL. I. B

Then comes the major; generally a woman-hater
this. Why a major should invariably hold the fair
sex in detestation is not often explained ; but there
the truth is, stern and unvarnished, and the reader has
to make the best of it. Sometimes this woman-hater
falls in love, and is transformed into a husband of the
most exemplary description, but more often he remains
in his unpleasant character to the end of the chapter.

I wonder does it never occur to the writer that, in
the natural course of events, a man fond of soldiering,
who sticks to it, must get promotion? In that case,
does the major take up his predecessor's paternal line
of action, and Alas the typical chief a woman-hater
also, before he obtained his regiment ?

Amongst the captains there are various characters;
there is one who can do anything or everything. lie
can sing, hunt, fish, ride — he can Avin a steeple-chase
on the veriest screw, by virtue of his brilliant riding ;
he can shoot, draw, and paint, act, dance, and
do everything under the sun with equal perfection.
He is one of those whom the gods love, and he does
not die 3^oung. He is like the princess in the fairy
tale, who was fortunate enough to have three fairy
godmothers, for every luxury and blessing seems to
have been showered down upon him. He is singularly
handsome, too — generally of the type Which, but for
the moustaches, might serve for the face of a young

duchess ; lie has more money than he can spend,
-•vhich, as he is in a cavalry regiment, must be considerable.
He has a wonderful constitution too, for he
can drink all night — brandy-and-sodas, save the mark !
and yet he is up With the lark in the morning, at
some innocent and healthy pursuit, which, though
you might find occupying a schoolboy, never, in this
Avorld, induced an officer, after a night of unlimited
brandy-and-soda, to turn out of his comfortable bed
until the very last moment. And the most wonderful
of all is that, in spite of these excesses, our hero's
eyes never lose their brightness or their clearness;
his hand and aim are invariably as steady as a rock.

To finish the list of this gentleman's charms, he is
an accomplished flirt ; his very name is a terror
to mothers and husbands, and yet he usually ends
by marrying some insipid unformed child just out
of the schoolroom, and, like the married major,
settles down into a steady-going country squire,
without a wish or an idea beyond his childish wife,
his hunting, and his short-horns ; in fact, he sinks
into a state of bucolic stupidity, and altogether
forgets the days when he was the boast — very
frequently the toast — of " ours," and was known far
and wide as "Beauty" so-and-so.

Then there is another captain who smokes. Of him
we do not see very much ; his life, his thoughts, his

b2

conversation, and his character may be summed up
in the smile word .smoke ; and so very properly his
existence, for us, is but hazy.

The senior subaltern and his duties are utterly
ignored ; and most prominent of all these military
children of fancy is the young cornet. He is very
young, this Wonderful boy, and he has a decided
tendency to go wrong ; but every one pets him and
makes much of him, and he is popularly known as
"Baby" or '• Prettyface," sometimes as "the Cherub"
or " the Seraph." For this youth the protecting
friendliness of the fatherly colonel comes into play,
and it is wonderful how many duties and infringements
he is excused. He, like our friend the popular
captain, is fair to look upon, being of the duchess
type, graceful in bearing, and dainty in coloring.

Lastly, we have the regimental surgeon, whom
we must one and all own a perfect monstrosity.
He is lanky, ugly, ill-dressed, speaks with a strong-brogue,
or maybe a Tyne-side twang or Northumbrian
burr, and altogether excites the curiosity of the
reader as to how such a man attained his position.

Sometimes we are admitted into the troop-rooms,
and the chief feature we find there is the blind
devotion of the men to the officers, or one officer
in particular : not only blind devotion, but passionate
admiration and keen interest in all their proceedings.

How very, very different is real life in a barrack !
How respectful the " sir "with which the colonel and the
major are addressed ! How very different is the behaviour
of the junior officers, and how mercilessly severe
are the manner and judgments of "the senior sub"!

The very slightest infringement of regimental rules
is visited with an ante-room court-martial ; and the
punishments awarded are no mere child's play ; they
are often corporal, and in all cases severe.

In one regiment, which for convenience' sake we
will call the cuirassiers, taro subs., lately joined,
omitted to rise for early stables, when it was their
turn for duty as orderly-officer. The result was, not
that these two only were reprimanded, but that the
whole of the subalterns were called into the orderly-room,
and, to use their own language, were "jolly well
slated." The two delinquents were not especially
mentioned, and thought to hear no more of the
matter. Xot so. The others simply bided their
time until midnight, Avhen, the senior officer having
retired, an ante-room court-martial was called, and the
defaulters were brought up for trial, and, being convicted,
sentenced to punishment. And in what did
that punishment consist ? Xot in a " slating," but each
was sentenced to receive three strokes of a birch rod
from every member of the court-martial ; that is,
about thirty strokes each, and well laid on !

As soon as a subaltern joins his regiment, he is
submitted to a course of practical jokes, ill-treatment,
and bullying all round, to which he must offer no
resistance, or his career will be a short one. For
instance, a few years ago a man named Eoyd joined
this same regiment, and on his first evenings anion o-st
his new comrades was " drawn." That is to say, he
was visited in his room during the small hours of the
morning and ordered to go down into the ante-room
for court-martial, the charge against him beings that
he had risen from the dinner-table whilst an officer
senior to him remained sitting. Eoyd, being of huge
stature and gigantic strength, stoutly resisted, and
eventually picked up the largest man in the room,
carried him out on to the landing, and dropped him
over the baluster on to the flagged passage below.
The effect was magical ; in an instant all the hubbub
Alas hushed, and the injured man was raised. Fortunately
the result was nothing worse than a sprained
ankle and a severely-bruised hip. lie took it very
quietly, and merely looked up at Eoyd, who was
standing near, and said coolly, "Til have you out for
this."

Very possibly the new-comer did not think much
of the threat, but his career Alas virtually over ; at
every hour of the day and night did he have cause
to repent that hasty action, and during the autumn

manoeuvres of that year the climax came. It was in
this wise : on a pouring wet day, or rather night, he
had to visit the pickets, and as, for some reason, he
had no horse, was compelled to do the rounds on
foot. On coming in after a tramp of some miles
thoroughly soaked and tired out, he was ordered to
visit yet another outlying picket six or seven miles
away. Then was his tormentor's opportunity ; he
Avould not permit him to take a troop horse, though
he himself Alas riding. Tired, cold, and wet, this
young subaltern reached the picket ; something went
wrong, as did his temper, and he swore at one of the
men. His fate was sealed. His senior immediately
put him under arrest, and he was told by the colonel
that he must send in his papers or undergo trial by
court-martial. Of course he left the regiment.

A young officer is not even permitted to dress
himself as he pleases. It was reported in the anteroom
of the cuirassiers that one of the junior officers
had been seen in Piccadilly wearing an Inverness
cloak. On his return fr()m town he was ordered by
the senior captain to produce the article in question
and it was burnt before his eyes.

"Whilst you are an officer of the cuirassiers, sir,"
said the senior captain, "you will dress like a gentleman,
and not as if you had bought your clothes out
of a slop-shop in Bloomsbury."

Regimental LIFE.

Sometimes a newly-joined officer attempts the 
style of intercourse with his seniors,
but his intentions are nipped in the bud With marvellous
celerity. Such an one joined the cuirassiers
during the leave season, and tried his system upon
the major.

"Ah, Houghton," said he, one day after lunch,
while several officers, including the major, M'cre
standing about the ante-room fire, "will you go down
to the rink with me this afternoon?"

The cool audacity of this proposal stopped every
tongue in the room, and all listened breathlessly for
the major's reply.

"I don't mind," he said rpiietly, much more quietly
than they expected, but probably he wished to see
how far this young gentleman's assurance would take
him.

Ah, very Avell. I'll be ready about four o'clock,
so come round to my rooms and look me up."

This was a matter for the senior sub's notice, and
although he was not in the room at the time, the
conversation was quickly reported to him, and he
as quickly sent for the delinquent.

Xow look here, young chap," he began, " this sort
of thing Avon't do at all. If the major asks you to
go anywhere with him, you will tell him whether
you'll go or you won't, but you'll not propose going

to the rink or anywhere else with him. And another*
thing, when yon address him yon Avill say 'major'
or 'sir.' I am very much astonished that the major
did not speak to you himself about it."

Then life in a barrack is by no means such an
existence of ease, luxury, and time-killing as novelists
would fain make us believe. Take, for example,
the duties of the orderly officer for the day. He
must rise at six o'clock for early stables, or the
whole of the subalterns suffer in consequence ; then
he has to go round the breakfasts, see that they are
all right, and hear any complaints ; then if it is not a
field day he must ride with the troops to watering
order ; he must visit the hospital ; then come morning
stables, and as likely as not, if he be stationed at
Aldershot or Colchester, he will be on court-martial,
for which he has all the nuisance of getting into full
dress, and may think himself very lucky if he miss
the orderly-room business and the round of the
dinners. In the afternoon he must again visit the
hospital, and probably there will be a parade ; certainly
he will have the picket to mount, and as likely
as not he will have to walk a mile or so to do it.
Then he has the first hour's rest of the day, and at
half-past five he must turn out again for afternoon
stables and the "teas;" then hospital once more. He
does eat his dinner in peace, but he must receive the

10 Regimental LIFE.

Avatc'li-setting reports and mount the guard ere bedtime.
Xor should mention be omitted of the number
of times the orderly officer has to sign his name and
to change his uniform. If his turn fall upon Sunday
he must accompany the commanding officer round
the married quarters, but as some compensation for
that he escapes church parade, and so is spared the
trouble of getting into full dress — no light matter,
more especially in the item of the boots.

The imposition of fines is another method of
punishing infringements of regimental rules. If an
officer is not properly shaven, if he puts on any part
of his uniform wrongly, he must pa' for the champagne
drunk at dinner that evening. This fine is
also enforced for swearing or using bad language in
the presence of the chaplain or any senior officer,
and also for dropping the sword. On certain occasions
an officer must pay when it is not a case of
fining. If he gets promotion, if herrings home the
regiment from the drill field for the first time as
commanding officer, if he Avis a race, or is going to
be married, at all such times he has to "stand"
champagne.

Our novelists do well to give their military heroes
an inexhaustible rent-roll. There are very few such
out of the Guards, and. soldier servants have to be
very well up in methods of getting rid of duns, and

such other unwelcome visitors as their masters do
not care to be at home to.

Another terrible mistake made by novelists is the
magnificence "with^which they surround their heroes
in quarters. If such could but once peep into the
room (for an officer has seldom but one room,
even if he is no longer a subaltern, excepting at
Colchester, where each cavalry officer has a room
about 12 feet by 14 and a tiny dressing-room, juh^t
half that size) of any ordinary hussar, dragoon, or
lancer, he or she — I suspect it is most often the
women who are so fond of soldier heroes — would
"never again depict him in rooms resembling a very
fine lady's boudoir. Oh, the patched walls, the bare
paint, the marks on the door where the lock gave
way the last time the owner was "drawn" by his
comrades, the blackened ceiling, the almost invariable
absence of window-blinds, the miserable regulation
fender fastened to the floor, the more miserable
regulation coal-scuttle, and, most miserable of all, the
regulation barrack chairs ! It is all so wonderfully
unlike the barrack-room of fiction. There is the very
rickety crib of a bed, made to take in pieces upon
occasion, and which by daytime the servant, with the
aid of cretonne covers for the pillows and a fur carriage
rug, converts into a sofa ; and there is the
dressing-table, likewise hung all round with cretonne,

and which strikes one as being remarkably high for
its purpose. Just pull the cretonne curtain a little,
and half the front will open, showing you that it is
but a make-believe table after allan stripped of its
hangings, would stand forth a packing-case ! Well,
it is both a toilette-tal)le and a wardrobe now, for
piled upon the shelves, which have been put in temporarily,
are the various suits of clothes belonging to
the owner of the room.

Then over there, on the other side of the room, is
the inevitable chest of drawers, which, when travelling,
just fit nicely inside the dressing-table. They
are exactly like the drawers in every room in the
barracks ; are of mahogany, have brass handles, and
a despatch-box and writing-desk combined in the
middle drawer at the top. Then the lid of our
friend's bath, being: fitted with three less which screw
in and out at pleasure, makes a very convenient writ-unstable
if covered with a cloth, and into the bath
itself, for travelling, the legs go, together with the
tripod, washing-stand, and the tin basin and ewer.
Some officers have pianos, but they are always hired;
and most officers have a few pictures and little trifles
to scatter about their room. For instance, a couple
of fur rugs thrown across the huge barrack armchairs
take off from their ugliness much ; and if a
soldier is fortunate enough to know a lady dio will

work him a cover for this cot, his room Avill look
much more presentable. And yet at best a soldier's
room is but a " shake-down ; " and if he be rich or
poor, he seldom attempts to make it otherwise. The
handsomest room I ever saw in barracks was that of
a captain of dragoons; in fact, he had been fortunate
enough to secure two large rooms, those which, if he
had required them, would have been allotted to the
major. This man was very rich, and had certainly
taken a good deal of trouble to make his rooms
habitable, and yet — well, they were only barrack-rooms.
There Avere the usual make-shifts ; and when
the fur rug slipped off the great easy chair in which
I sat, I saw the broad straps which served for arms,
and which told me it was just the same as I had seen
in barrack-rooms so many times before.

The rooms of a well-known colonel of cavalry, a
man who now possesses a title and thirty thousand
a year, were simply beggarly, not nearly so handsome
as was the one little room of his Yet., of which I
had just a glimpse. And why ? Because one room
was the man's home ; the other was not.

One more Avord and I have done ; it concerns the
fancy names bestowed upon soldiers in novels. They
are all fancy names, and in real life do not exist. In
no case have I ever known a name given in recognition
of a man's personal comeliness, such as Cherub,

Beauty, Adonis, Apollo, Prettyface, and the like.
One of the handsomest men I ever knew was commonly
known as The Spider. Why, I cannot tell —
not because he was like one. In closing, I will give
a few names I have actually known : The Infant
(weighing twenty-one stone). The Cob, David, The
Winter Apple, King Lobo, Old Muzzle, The Spider,
Landy-fandy-Widden, Sprouts, Bole, The Admiral,

Paddy K , Tin Whistle, Illigant John of Bath,

The Lady-Killer, Mother Hubbard, Billy Buttons,
Piggie, Alphabet. Most frequently men's own names
are abbreviated ; thus at one time in a distinguished
lancer regiment there were any amount of Bills and
Bills. In another of hussars, the name of David
prevailed ; nearly all were David, even a racehorse
belonjTinij to one of the officers.

When the personal appearance of an officer is not
prepossessing, a name is quickly found for him. Any
remark on the subject of "looks" meets With a rejoinder
sharp and to the point. Said one cuirassier
to another,

Why, your nose is so stuck up, one might hang
one's hat on it."

Well, my dear chap," was the ready reply, " one
certainly couldn't on yours."

And it was true enough.

OR, Hoar GEEAED ST. Hilary WAS Driven LN'TO ^lATEBIONY.

Chapter I.

Maine hay in St. Hilary's room to night."

Lieutenant Gerard St. Hilary came leisurely doAvn
the broad corridor and staircase of the officers'
quarters in the cavalry barracks at Milchester, and
crossed the passage leading to the ante-room. As he
turned the handle of the door a fragment of the
conversation within fell upon his ear — " Malice hay in
St. Hilary s room to-night."

"The deuce ! " ejaculated that young gentleman.

Sentry-box him first," cried a voice, which he recognised
as Captain Gurney's, a man well up the list
of captains, who was old enough to have knoAvn better,
and if that doesn't fetch him, hammer the door in."

Ha, ha, ha ! " laughed a chorus of voices, under
cover of which the intended victim beat a retreat.

Sentry-box me ! Ah, thank you. Captain Gurney,"
he exclaimed, when he had reached the shelter of his
own room ; " forewarned is forearmed, and I'm on
my guard this time."

Hastily changing his undress for mufti, Mr. St.

Hilary made the best of his way out of barracks,
going in the direction of Milchester.
The regiment of which he was biitt-in-chief for
practical jokes, was the 52nd Dragoons of famous
Peninsular memory. Perhaps his unfailing good
temper made him more subject to this form of wit
than would have been the case if he had borne
malice and sulked.

An outsider would, perhaps, say, Why did not he
report the offenders, and so secure peace ? But anyone
with the least knowledge of regimental life could
answer, that for a subaltern to adopt such a course
would simply be to limit his career in the army to a
very short period. Of course during the process he
blustered a good deal, and frequently threatened to
tell the chief all about it the very first thing in the
morning ; but, fortunately for his brother officers,
Gerard St. Hilary had a peculiarity. After two a.m.
he could not keep his eyes open, and was glad to
make any bargain which would leave him in peace.

It was invariably the same ; Lieutenant St. Hilary,
lightly clad, as likely as not soaked with water,
standing in the centre of a group of excited comrades
in mess-dress, expressing his determination " to have
no more of this foolery, by Jove."

Go it, Jerry ; pile it up, my boy!" one would cry,
amidst the jeers of the bystanders.

I'm surprised at yoii, Albert," poor Jerry would
cry, in disgust. "I'll report you in the morning,
upon my soul I will, though you are a captain."

Small heed did the 52nd take of these awful threats.
Was not the end unchanging ? Presently St. Hilary
would begin to shiver ; then Sleep would come
dropping her grains of sand into Gerard's blue eyes,
and his comrades knew that then was their time.

Now, Jerry, old man, if you forgive us, you shall
go to bed."

Well, let me be quiet," was poor Jerry's answer
(it was always the same), " and I'll say no more
about it."

The gratitude of the rioters was generally shown
on these occasions by the careful Avay in which they
tucked Gerard up in bed and reduced his room to
something like order. Alas ! only something. Order
generally took days and a visit to the upholsterer's to
effect, with much groaning from Jerry's man on the
subject of what he called " them idiots."

Poor Gerard had undergone every possible form of
practical joking, and he was become a little tired of it;
the trodden worm will turn, and he was thoroughly
determined to put a stop to it once for all, though it
must be owned he didn't quite know how to set
about it.

However, enough on that head. I will just explain
VOL. I. c

what is meant by "sentry-boxing" and "making lay,"
and then go on with my story.

The doors of an officer's rooms are iisuaily made of
strong material, the hammering in of which is a long
process ; in order, therefore, to draw the victim from
his lair Avithout his suspecting mischief they knock
at his door, and tell him the colonel or the major
wants him at once, or cry "Fire!" at the other end of
the corridor. If this succeeds, well and good ; but
on gala nights the sentry-box is brought into play.
It is placed close against the victim's door, after the
manner of a trap, so that when he comes out he may
go crash against the back of the box. I need not
add that the more bruised and angry he is the better
pleased his comrades are.

Making hay is simply breaking or turning topsy-turvy
everything the intruders can lay their hands
upon.

The cavalry barracks at Milchester are about a
mile from the town, which is a cathedral city, chiefly
noted for the beauty of its young ladies and the good
tone of its society.

In common with most cathedral towns Milchester
was just a little dull. In summer the Botanical
Gardens, and in winter the Winter Palace, were the
principal places of amusement. To the latter Mr. St.
Hilary made his way, it being, when my story opens,

the dreary month of November. It was an "off" day.
Had the bonny dappled hounds been after their little
red-coated friend, Captain Gurney would probably
have come in too tired and stiff to think of anything
beyond his dinner and his bed ; but there was no
meet that day, and thus we have a striking instance
of what Satan finds for idle hands, which is not, I
trust, too severe a reflection on the gentlemen of her
Majesty's army.

It was three o'clock; the Palace was full, and a
crowd of well-dressed people were promenading to
the strains of "Gerleibt und Yerloren" waltz.

Gerard passed in with all speed, and quickly
made his way up and down the gay throng, as though
seeking for some particular individual. He was
evidently a great favourite with the fair sex, for
Wherever he Avent he was greeted with smiles and
other little pleasantries. Tall, short, fair, 'or dark,
all seemed equally pleased to see him. ' There were
girls in blue and girls in green, in sealskin and sable,
in spoon bonnets and pork-pie hats ; and for each and
all he had a bright word or compliment, but he
lingered with none.

He did not find the object of his • search very
readily, for he was a trifle short-sighted, and, as I
know from experience, the wearing of an eyeglass confines
one's sight to the space immediately in front.

c2

At last his patience was rewarded ; walking
slowly with several gentlemen came a j'oung lady
who attracted the attention and admiration of all.
She was not very tall, rather under than over the
middle height, with a "graceful fig-ure and carriage,
delicate little hands and feet, and a small mignon face,
of which the nose was just a wee bit up-turned, and
the eyes were brilliant gleaming hazel. Her hair,
Which was extremely abundant, was twisted round
her small shapely head in massive coils, and was of
the deepest auburn hue. She Alas dressed in a
tight-fitting costume of prune-coloured serge, and
her hat was of the same material. Her Avast and
throat Avere clasped by heavy silver belt and
necklet.

The name of this young lady Alas Elinor Warwick.
Her father held the appointment of deputy-assistant
commissary-general. She lived on the same side of
the toAvn as the barracks Avere situated, and Alas, as
Alas natural from her father's position, on Avery
intimate terms With both the cavalry and infantry
officers stationed in Milchester.

The preference Alas, however, giA'cn to the former,
and Mr. St. Hilary enjoyed the distinction of being
Miss Warwick's slave-inches. Poor Gerard, slave-inches
and butt-inches! Xot an euA'iable fate;
but the former office he Avould not have delegated

for any consideration, while words will not
express Mr. St. Hilary's feelings on the subject of the
latter.

It was a remarkable fact that, although ladies
never could see anything in Miss Warwick, " a little
pert snub-nosed thing," she always had three or four
men " in tow." On that afternoon she had a cavalier
either side, Avliile one or two others made up the rear.
As she said herself, " The clumsy fellows could never
get out of the way; it was just like walking with
outriders."

Gerard went up, this blue eyes ablaze, and sauntered
alongside of her for some distance, to the intense
disgust of the man he had supplanted. Miss Elinor
had, however, no intention of allowing him to remain
there. Her way of showing him favour was by
ill-usin£j him, yet oiviuij him certain small liberties
which she did not accord to the men she took the
most pains to please. One man would say to another
when she was ordering Gerard about, " I would not
stand that ; what a big duffer the fellow is ! "

But Gerard Avould not have exchanged the sweet
familiarity of his intercourse with Elinor for all the
civil speeches in the world ; in fact, it was a case of
Betty know'd her man."

'you're coming to our ball. Miss "Warwick?"
asked he.

Oh, yes, of course ! " she answered, in a quick,
clear voice.

"How many am I to have? " pleadingly.

I really don't know. How many do you want ? "

Every one."

"Well, but you can't have them. I'll give you one
quadrille if you like, the third."

And four waltzes besides ? "

Xo," very decisively. " I'll give you three, if
you will make yourself generally useful and agreeable
this afternoon ; do your duty like a man, you know."

"May I walk home With you ? "

Well— yes. "

I won't do it for three," announced he, leaning
forward with a dangerous look in his blue eyes.

"Four, then'' said Elinor, in rather a frightened tone.

And supper."

"Xow, Mr. St. Hilary, you're asking too much.
It's not in reason."

And supper," repeated our hero hrmly, " or I'll
not stir an inch."

"Well, go away."

Away he went, having learned a soldier's first
lesson thoroughly'. He managed to keep Miss
Warwick in sight, and when she disappeared from
the gay throng, he followed in time to help her
into a huge fawn-coloured paletot, which, as the

inhabitants of Winchester remarked, "no one but
Miss Warwick would have the courage to wear."

As the two walked home together through the
dreary November fog, Elinor became aware that
something was amiss With her companion. More
than once he sighed dolefully, and was altogether
so different from the Gerard St. Hilary whose jolly
laugh was heard every two minutes, that she was
completely puzzled.

"Whatever is the matter, Mr. St. Hilary?" she
said, at last.

Oh ! " moaned Gerard, with another long sigh,
I've got such a dose before me to-night."
"A dose?"

Yes ; the fellows are going to make hay in my
room to-night."

Make hay ! " repeated Elinor, in a tone of real
surprise. " What, in November ? "

• Then Gerard told her what he had heard, and
described the process.

"I assure you. Miss Warwick," he said, shaking
his head solemnly, " that by this time tomorrow
everything in my room will be smashed to bits."

Yliat a shame ! " cried Elinor, warmly. " If I
were you I'd try — "
"That?"
She reached up to her companion's ear, and

whispered a few words to him ; he burst into a roar
of laughter.

By Jove, what a brick you are ! " he cried, forgetting
his manners. " I never heard such a splendid
idea in my life. Gad, what a clever girl you
must be ! "

It's quite original," she responded, saucily.

Its absolutely perfect," replied Gerard, " and
worthy of you in every way. How they will hop
to-night ! "

Elinor's musical treble joined his deeper laugh ;
and as she parted from him at the gate of her
father's house, she turned back, and said impressively,

Mind it's white, and don't stint the quantity." /

All right,' answered Gerard ; 'I'll get plenty." j

He did not go into the barracks, but walked past
them straight into Milchester, meeting on his war
several of the officers returning to dinner. He evade
all their enquiries and offers to go back with him, ail
went on his way alone. He stopped at the first
tinner's slip he came to, and purchased the largest
flour-dredger they had. This he took with him,in
spite of the showman's entreaties to be allowed to said
it. He next went to a general dealer's, and made
another purchase, which he put into his pocket villi
much care, and as though he were very much afraid
the paper might burst. What could it be? /

Lieutenant St. Hilary Aveiit to mess that night with
a face as innocent as that of a little child.

"Well, Jerry, my boy," quoth Captain Gurney,
what have you been doing to-day ? "

Gerard looked at his superior sideways. He would
have known what this display of affectionate interest
meant without any previous warning.

Palace," answered he, with laconic laziness.

Was the lovely Elinor there ? "

Yes."

Did you see her home ? "

Of course."

Have tea there ? "

No ; I had some shopping to do," with a little
grin at the remembrance of that same shopping,
"I'm downright done up. Trailing up and down
that Palace is fifty times harder work than hunting,
I shall turn in early to-night, to be fit for tomorrow,"
with another small grin at the look of
intelligence which passed round the room. "Are
any of you fellows going to the theatre to-night?
They're having The Rivals''

Yes," answered Gurney ; " lout I can't go. I've
promised to go in and see old Patterson to-night ; so
I'm on duty."

On duty," thought Gerard ; " on duty with a
sentry-box."

After this the conversation was on general topics ;
and soon after eleven o'clock Gerard, with many
yawns, departed, ostensibly to bed. To that haven
of rest, however, he did not go, but, piling up his fire,
threw himself into an easy chair, and quietly bided
his time.

He had not long to wait ; for presently he heard
the sound of men treading lightly in their stockings.
Thereupon he carefully snored, so as to make them
believe he was safe in the arms of Morpheus.

He's fast asleep," he heard Middleton say.

Then fetch it, and be quick," was the answer.

As noiselessly as possible the heavy sentry-box was
brought up and placed against his door. Then the
officers, retreating, went laughing, and with much
joking and bear-fighting, to their different rooms,
shutting the doors with good hearty bangs, which
seemed to indicate retirement for the night.

In a few moments a sharp knocking began at
Gerard's door.

"Hallo I" bawled he, in a sleepy voice; "who's
there?"

Please, sir, the colonel wants you at once. There's
something wrong with B troop, sir."

B troop was Gerard's.

"Tell the colonel to go and be hanged," was
Gerard's unceremonious answer.

"I aren't, sir," was the reply.

You aren't ! Then go and be hanged yourself I
This fish don't bite."

He twigs it !" shouted Middleton. " Come out,
you beggar, or we'll stove the door in ! "

"Stove away, old man ! " laughed Gerard, rising, and
taking his flour-dredger to within a yard of the door.

Come on !" yelled Gurney's voice. "Leave ho,
push with a will, boys ; nothing like hay making ! "

Gerard Awaited till they were all exerting their
strength to the uttermost ; then flung open the door,
showering the contents of the flour-dredger upon
them as they tumbled headlong into the room.

"Ah!" (sneeze.)

Ugh !" (sneeze.)

"Brute!" (sneeze, sneeze.)

I'll pay you out for this !" gasped Gurney, shaking
his fist at Gerard, Avhile the tears ran doAvn his face.

Will 5^ou !" laughed Gerard, sending another
shower full into his face ; " then take that, and that,
and that, and make hay elsewhere, confound you !
I'm about sick of this game ;" as he spoke keeping up
a continual shower upon the intruders.

Having, swearing, spitting, sneezing, choking, and
stamping, the crestfallen officers made the best of
their way down the corridor in all the ignominy of
utter defeat. From head to feet they were covered

With the strongest white pepper, the embroidery on
their mess-jackets forming grand receptacles for the
frightful powder. Their hair, eyes, noses, mouths,
and moustaches were all filled with it, and it was
hours before the terrible sneezing and choking subsided.
So thoroughly was it scattered over each
practical joker, that for several days the opening of
a door or window would send a fresh waft of it across
the ante-room or dinner table, to the intense disgust
of the more peaceably-disposed members, who were
loud in their demands that for the future St. Hilary
should be left in peace.

In peace, however, Gerard St. Hilary was not
allowed to remain. On making his appearance in the
mess-room on the morning following the feu du j^joivre,
he was greeted with a volley of forage-caps, newspapers,
and other small missiles of a similar character.

He came into the room with a jolly laugh, his
blue eyes shining with merriment, and looking, in his
well-got-up hunting costume, as he always did look,
thoroughbred."

Expect a good run this morning, Gurney ?" he
began, as he sat down, " or is your cold too bad !"

My cold ?" said that gentleman interrogatively.

"Yes. I heard a good deal of sneezing in my
vicinity last night."

Ah, you rascal," cried Gurney, laughing in spite

of himself ; "-we arc going to pay you out for that
fine trick,"

"By Jove, how 3'ou did sneeze!" cried Gerard,
With shrieks of laughter. " This was it, major :
Ugh I' (sneeze) ; ' Ah ! ' (sneeze) ; ' Brute !' (choke) ;
ril pay you out for this !' (sneeze, choke, choke,
sneeze.) Gad, it was fine !"

Serve them right," growled the major; "they'll
let 5'ou alone now, St. Hilary."

Will we !" cried a chorus of voices ; " don't flatter
yourself, Jerry."

At this moment another officer in " pink " entered
the room, and seated himself next to St. Hilary.

Ton my soul, Deny," he began, " but that was a
scurvy trick you played us last night. I can't get
your confounded pepper out of m}" moustaches."

That's awkward for you. Jack," laughed Gerard.
It's my idea that when fellows get engaged to be
married they should leave their neighbours in peace."
Perhaps you're right," answered Jack Hilton.
Anyhow, I left my man cursing you after the fashion
of Rheims ; but, unlike the little Jackdaw, you seem
to flourish under it amazingly."

I had an uncommonly good night ; and you'd
better tell your man that 'curses, like chickens, come
home to roost.' "

I think his come home to him with every shake of

my clothes or movement of his brush," cried Hilton,
lauo'hinGf.

Ha, ha, ha !" screamed Gerard, in high glee.
Well, I must be off. Are you coming. Jack ?"

At the door he turned back to lire a parting shot.

"I hope on my return, my dear fellows, to find
that the influenza is somewhat improved."

You were a big fool too, Jerry," said Jack Hilton
gravely, as the two rode through the soft November
fog. " I never sav any fellow in such a rage as
Gurney was in last night — never in all my life. ••■ He
swore he would be revenged on sou ; take my word
for it he will. They're going to fill your bed with
beetles to-night."

That's pleasant," said Gerard grimly. " However,
you are a good fellow to tell me. And now let us talk
of something else ; what's done cannot be undone,
and I suppose I must grin and bear it."

They found the meet that day but very poorly
attended. There was only one lady present. Of
course that one was Elinor Warwick.

Well," she inquired eagerly, as Gerard rode up,
how did it answer ? "

Oh, if you'd only been there !" cried Gerard, giving
lier a graphic description of the stampede ; but.
ending with, " I hear from Hilton that I am to suffer
a perfect martyrdom of retaliation."

"Poor tiling !" said Elinor softly ; whereupon Gerard
forgot all his troubles, and only remembered that,
whatever happened, he would be sure of Elinor's
loving pity and commiseration.

The word which he had used to Elinor Warwick in
jest was realised by him in all its stern hideousness.
A martyr he in very truth became. It seemed as
if his tormentors could neither forget nor forgive
the feu du jioivre. They no longer dared disturb him
at night — their fear of his pepper-pot was too wholesome,
but by every other means in their power did
Xhej worry and anno' him. His bed was, as Jack
Hilton had predicted, filled with cockroaches ; and
this course was followed up by frogs, dead mice,
fender and fire-irons, plentiful administration of lard
and wet sponges. His boots Avere filled with burrs
or cobbler's wax, and, in fact, his life was made a
burden to him. On the day of the ball, however,
matters came to a climax.

Chapter II.

It Alas a fortnight after the feu du jioivre. The
officers had tried their best to get Gerard made
orderly" on that day. but failed; and, while he was
down at the Palace with Miss Warwick, set their wits
to work to devise some new form of torture. They
went to the colonel, and asked as a great favour that
dressing for mess might be excused, on the plea that
it would be a great nuisance to dress twice, and their
full dress was very inconvenient to dine in on account
of the heat.

"You see, colonel," said they, "we shall be obliged
to dance all night, and we want to begin as cool as
possible."

With a slight demur the colonel consented, and
then they knew that their trick was safe.

Gerard went in rather late, and on hearing that
dressing was excused, sat down to dinner without
going near his rooms. At nine o'clock one of
the mess Waiters came behind his chair, and
whispered that his man wanted him at once.

From the sudden "hush"" in the room poor Gerard
suspected mischief. His man was awaiting him at
the door with an anxious face.

What's the matter ? '" demanded Gerard.

Oh, sir," exclaimed lie, " I hardly dare tell

Gerard dashed up to his room, and there on the
bed lay his tunics and mess jackets, with every
seam neatly ripped up. Going to the ball was out of
the question ; etiquette would not permit him to go
in ordinary evening attire.

Don't look like that, sir," said Jones, in an imploring
tone — for Gerard had never uttered one
word, but stood gazing on the wreck of his property,
grooving whiter and whiter every moment — " don't
look like that ; I've sent for the master tailor. I
should think he will be able to get them sewn up
in something like time."

In a few minutes that functionary arrived, but
could not promise that the work should be complete
before midnight. For three weary hours did Gerard
pace his room, giving no answer to the various knocks
from the men who wanted to know how their trick
had succeeded.

Soon after midnight Gerard was in a cab, driving
as fast as possible to the assembly rooms, where the
ball was given. Colonel Clifford, with whom he Alas
a great favourite, Alas standing near the door Avhen
he passed in.

Well, my boy," he said kindly, " you are very
late."

VOL. I. D

Yes, sir, I am rather," answered Gerard, his voice
shaking stilL

Why, what's the matter, St. Hilary ? — you are
very white. Are you not well ? "

Yes, thanks, colonel ;" and Gerard passed on.

Xow Gerard was engaged to Miss Warwick for
the first, fifth, tenth, and sixteenth dances. The tenth,
he very well knew, was the supper waltz. He found
that the ninth was then being danced ; so, after all,
though he had missed two dances with her, he was
not so very badly off.

He hung about looking for her, and at last saw her
bright chesnut hair in very close proximity to Captain
Gurney's scarlet-clad shoulder. Gerard's blue eyes
flashed at the sight, for Gurney was not a favourite
of Elinor's ; yet here she Alas sitting in an out-of-the-way
corner, flirting desperately with the man who
had done his best to prevent his coming to the ball.

He waited impatiently for the dance to end, that
he might claim Miss Warwick for the waltz, and
meanwhile amused himself by studying her face and
dress, which was of white silk, unrelieved by any
colour. Her hair was plaited in a long braid, and
hung far below her waist ; and nestling in it were
two white roses, placed just at the top of the braid
behind the left ear. She wore no ornaments whatever
; and the only specks colour she had about her

was a large bouquet of crimson and white flowers wliicli
Gerard had sent her. His foolish heart throbbed at
the sight of it ; but it sank to zero when she raised
her face, and he saw that it was as white as her dress,
and that she had, what he had never seen there before,
a hard glittering look in her gleaming hazel eyes.

At last the dance was ended, and the instant the
signal sounded for the next one Gerard crossed the
room, and, bending his arm to Elinor, said,

My dance, I believe."

I have given your dance away," said Miss Warwick,
coolly. " I sat out the two best waltzes of the
evening waiting for you, and you really must forgive
me if I did not care to waste any more." And
taking Captain Gurney's arm she SAvept away.

Gerard was thunderstruck. He stood for a
moment speechless With rage and astonishment-this
was a catastrophe he had never bargained for.
Xo, poor fellow ; he had expected to receive at
Elinor's hands sweetest pity and commiseration.
He determined not to leave the room AA'ithout an
attempt at an explanation ; so he followed them,
and began gently.

Will you not let me explain ? "

But Elinor Alas too thoroughly ^ngiy to listen to
reason, and she faced him haughtily.

Thank you, Mr. St. Hilary, that is quite un-vol.

I. D 2

necessary. I assure yoii, it is not of the slightest
consequence."

With a frigid Httle bow she passed away, leaving
Gerard with anything but a pleasant expression on
his usually pleasant face. He stood and watched
them go down the room ; he saw Captain Gurney
bend towards her, as though he were saying something
especially tender ; and the sight of that, and
the sound of the light laugh with which Elinor
answered it, were more than he could bear. He
rushed out of the room, and entering the first cab,
ordered the man to drive as quickly as possible back
to barracks.

Tell you what, George," said one of his tormentors
to another, " I wish I was well out of this joke ;
that fellow will go mad."

Umpli ! Gurney is such a beggar for running an
idea to death."

Gerard reached his room in a state of misery too
intense for words. He felt sick and dizzy, and was
thankful that for once his bed had been left in decent
order. Sleep, however, he could not. He tossed
about to and fro ; ' his bed was hot and uncomfortable
; and first one and then another of his comrades
disturbed him by coming along the corridor with
clanking of spurred boots.

At last he sank into a troubled fretful doze, which

lasted until Jones came to wake him at six o'clock,
for he was orderly officer that day. When the candles
were lighted, what Gerard in his agony called the
fiendishness of the plot " was revealed : from head
to foot he was as Mdiite as any miller.

His man befjo-ed him not to have his usual bath,

CO '

but be rubbed down with coarse towels as quickly as
possible.

If you get into water, sir," lie entreated, " it Avill
all turn to paste. I'll rub it off in a fear minutes."

You'll have to be uncommonly quick," said St.
Hilary, grimly ; " for I must be out in ten minutes''

Jones rubbed and scrubbed with a will, until
Gerard was quite clean and presentable, except on one
point. That point showed itself with painful obtrusiveness
: it was his hair. That, and his particularly
long yellow moustache, were as white as the driven
snow. Jones got a couple of big brushes, and worked
hard ; but though a tremendous cloud of the treacherous
white powder came off, no perceptible difference
was made in Lieutenant St. Hilary's appearance.

I don't knoAv what to do, sir," said he at length,
M'ith a great sigh.

At this moment a knock was heard at the door.

Come in," roared Gerard.

Stables, sir," announced an orderly ; " the adjutant's
out, sir, already."

This was the last ounce on the camel's back.

Good heavens !" gasped Gerard. "Ask him to
come up here."

Presently the adjutant came up, amazed at the
unusual request.

Just look here, Harrington," said Gerard, displaying
his whitened hair ; " see what those brutes have
done. I can't come into sio-ht like this."

Certainly not," answered he, promptly. " I'll tell
Hilton to do your duty."

And I say, Harrington, don't peach, there's a
,good chap."

But Harrington, a " gentleman adjutant," was a
married man, and did not approve of the pranks
which Avere carried to such excess amongst the
officers of the 52nd Dragoons. So he departed Without
vouchsafing any reply to Gerard's continued entreaties.


He breakfasted alone, and soon after ten o'clock
the colonel sent for him to the orderly room.

"What's the meaning of this, St. Hilary?" began
the chief, sternly.

I couldn't go on duty like this, sir," said poor
Gerard, deprecatingly.

What in the world — " began the colonel, suddenly
breaking off into roars of laughter, as his eyes fell
upon Gerard in all the freshness of a hoary old age.

Then, recovering himself, said stiffly, " This should
have been reported to me at once."

Please, sir," said Gerard, " I've been trying to get
it out."

Again the colonel was afflicted with a sudden convulsive
choking, something between a cough and a sneeze.

Well, you had better report it now."

I don't know who did it, sir," was the reply.

My good fellow," said his chief, " I admire your
principles immensely, but you don't expect me to
believe that you could be covered with flour from
head to foot without knowing who did it ? "

Yes, sir," answered Gerard, laughing, " for they
filled my bed."

"With flour?" said the colonel incredulously.

I don't think it is flour, colonel ; it's scented,
and I think it's complexion stuff', and that, you know,
is made to stick on."

Umph ! Well, you are excused duty to-day ; go
away." And Gerard went.

After another brushing by Jones he went to
luncheon with as unconcerned a face as he could
put on, and for a few moments no one took any
notice of him.

Presently, however, Captain Gurney left his seat,
and, coming behind him, took a leisurely survey of
his still whitened locks.

What have you been doing with yourself, my
boy? Have you been acting in private theatricals,
or are you going to a bed masque at the Palace tonight'


Gerard answered never a word ; and with another
attempt at chaff, Captain Gurney retired to his seat.

I should advise you to let that fellow alone,
Gurney," said the surgeon-major, next to whom he
Alas sitting ; the chief's " awfully keen about it and
St. Hilary had some difficulty to prevent peaching."

Oh, Jerry 'd never peach," said he carelessly.

I don't know ; but apart from that you are
knocking the poor lad's health up."

The poor lad's four-and-twenty," laughed Gurney,
with a sneer.

He cannot stand having his rest broken, and you
must stop it," said the surgeon, decisively. " If anything
more of this kind occurs I shall report it
immediately. I won't stand by and see anj^ fellow's
health tampered With, and this persecution has gone
on beyond all bounds."

Gerard St. Hilary sat throughout the meal in
dignified silence, and presently his dog-cart Avitli his
high-stepping roan mare Alas brought round, and he
drove away in the direction of Colonel Warwick's
house.

The young lady's anger had cooled doAvn during

the night, and she vas repenting very bitterly her
unkindness of the previous evening. She told herself
that she ought to have listened to his excuses.
If, as Captain Gurney had hinted, he had purposely
avoided dancing the two first dances with her, why
had he come for the supper waltz of all others ? He
would never ask her to make friends again, and she
had thrown away her life's happiness at the instigation
of a man she thoroughly disliked and despised.
Poor Elinor ! She did not realise, till she thought she
had lost him, how very dear the yellow-haired,
blue-eyed dragoon had grown to her !

She sat alone in her pretty drawing-room — alas,
that she had no mother to share it with her ! — and
wondered, with a dull aching at her heart, whether
all those happy days were past and gone, never to
return.

She heard a carriage drive up to the door, but
so little did she expect Gerard that, Avhen he was
ushered into the room, she uttered a low cry of
surprise and joy, and went with outstretched hands
to greet him.

"So you have forgiven me?" said Gerard, forgetting
all his sorrows at the sight of her tender hazel
eyes.

Elinor hung her head, the painful blushes coming
thick and fast.

I was very rude last night, and unkind, but I
thought — " she stammered.

You thought what ? " said Gerard, eagerly.

I — I thought you did not care to dance so many
times With me, for Captain Gurney said you were
lounging about your rooms doing nothing."

Curse him ! " muttered Gerard under his breath.
So you thought I had forgotten you, did you,
darling? And if I lead, would you have minded
much ? "

Elinor did not speak ; and, strange to say, Gerard
did not notice the omission, for he established her ina
low chair in front of the blazing fire, and bending
over her, said, in a dangerously gentle voice,

My child, you were very cruel to me last night ;
nothing else than the cause which kept me away could
have held me from your side."

Then he told her all his troubles, and showed her
his still whitened hair, which, in her agitation, she
had not noticed. Poor Elinor was in an agony of
confusion and regret.

Can you ever forgive me ? " she murmured.

"Yes, my love, on one condition — that, as a
penance for your sins, you give me your darling
self."

"That will be a curious penance," said Elinor,
looking upwards lovingly. " No penance at all."

"Don't be too sure. I shall be horribly jealous,
and exacting to a degree. I shall not allow any flirting,
and shall probably make your life a burden to
you."

I shall not want to flirt," whispered Elinor.

Won't you, my darling ? Will your great, stupid,

lumbering husband content you ? "

Elinor thought he would — she thinks so still.
* * * * # •

Amongst the regimental plate of the 52nd is a
large golden pepper-pot, encrusted with jewels, and
the date engraved thereon is that of Gerard St.
Hilary's wedding. It was given by Elinor's wish in
remembrance of the regimental martyrdom which
had gained for her the truest heart that ever beat,
though her husband frequently assures her that he
had made up his mind ages before, so that it
(mly listened matters by a few weeks.

OR, Hoar Patrick O'SHAUGHNASSY WAS HELPED INTO
MATRIMONY.

Chapter I.

EuN ? " said Patrick O'Shaiighnassy, in answer
to a question put to him, as he slipped into his
chair at the early mess-dinner, just as the soup
was being served ; " run ? B-y Jove ! I should
think I did run, as hard as ever I could lay legs to
ground ! "

What made you so late, Pat ? " inquired George
de Lyle, the " senior sub," next to whom he sat.

"Up at the colonel's. Mrs. Liflbrd had a lot
of girls in to tea, and I couldn't get away," he
answered. " Just had seven minutes to get here
and dress in."

Sharp thing, that. Why didn't you wait for the
late dinner?"

Concert down town ; can't get off going."

Did you try ? " said De Lyle slyly.

"Well, no," said the other honestly, "I didn't."

Mr. De Lyle laughed, and, when after a very hurried
meal Pat O'Shaughnassy rose from the table, remarked

to his neighbour on his other hand that "it
really is an awful pity, but Pat, poor devil, is
going the way of all the others."

What way's that ? " said the man in question,
who, being brother to one of the officers, and only a
visitor in barracks, did not understand the allusion ;
I don't see anything amiss with him."

I'll tell you," answered De Lyle. " You must
know that the colonel is guardian to a niece, who is
immensely rich and very pretty, but the most terrible
flirt in creation. Well, whenever a young fellow
joins, it is part of the programme that he shall go
through a course of instruction at Miss Clifford's
hands. They all do, just as children have the
measles and the whooping-cough."

"And how old is Miss Clifford ? "

Oh, perhaps two-and-twenty ; and really the very
nicest girl you ever met. She takes them all in hand,
and, somehow, contrives to keep good friends with
them, even after they've got their dismissal. Xow
the joke is, that Pat O'Shaughnassy has known her
ever since she left school ; and as he stands second
on the list of subs., he might reasonably be expected
to knows better. Within the last few weeks
he has literally lived to the tune of Alys Clifford.
The days he is on duty he is an absolute nuisance
to every one ; indeed, T am obliged to lock my

door against him. And yet, do you knoAv, I'm
sorry for him, for he's a downright good sort
of chap."

An Jioiir hater the regular mess-dinner was in full
swing, when suddenly Captain Gurney asked " what
had got Pat O'Shaughnassy ? "

The old game," answered a voice from the other
end of the table.

Silly fool ! " remarked the senior captain, with
great contempt.

He's not been polished off quite so soon as they
usually are," observed Jack Hilton. " I should have
thought Miss Clifford would have got sick of him by
this time."

Don't know," laughed another. " Pat's very
amusing sometimes. I heard a lady ask him, at St.
Hilary's wedding, whether his name was pronounced
O'Shanassy or O'Shaucknassy, as she knew both
families. Pat told her, With the most barefaced
coolness, that he wasn't an Irishman at all ; he
came from Kent."

"Awfully good!" cried a chorus of laughing
voices.

"Ah, but he said a neater thing than that," put in
Jack Hilton. " One day last week Miss Clifford
asked us to go into tea on Sunday afternoon ; and
Pat said, gravely, ' I think I will be on duty, but I'll

come if I can ; but if I don't come, 3-011 Avon't expect
me'"

This raised another laugh. Most of my readers
are probably aware that it does not take much to
provoke mirth and hilarity at a military dinner-table.

Stop a bit, stop a bit," cried Jack ; " you haven't
heard the cream of the joke yet. On Sunday, you
know, young Drew was on duty ; so Pat and I went
up to the chiefs together.

"'So you managed to get off,' said Alys, as we
went in.

'Well, no I didn't,' answered Pat.

'then how is it you're not in barracks?' she
asked, evidently thinking he had been fool enough
to sneak out unawares.

"because I told Micky Drew's man to call him
early this morning ; and faith, the poor chap got
up, in all the cold, and did my work, without being
any the wiser.' "

"And the beauty of the joke is," continued Hilton,
that Pat, in his innocence, really thinks he has
stolen a march upon Drew, and hasn't a ghost of an
idea that his name was changed for Drew's in the
order-book late on Saturday nights,'

"How was it his man did not tell him ?" said someone.


"Because, to make all complete, Pat told him that

Mr. Drew was going to take this duty tomorrow ;
and, of course, the man having seen the order-book,
thought nothing about it. It was pure good luck this
pitching upon Drew, though."

"By George I"' exclaimed Captain Gurney, "this is
the 12th, surely. We must send Pat a valentine !"

So we must ! " cried the others.

I wonder if Miss Clifford will send him one ? "
said Fred Gordon.

Xot she. Suppose we send him one from her."

So we will. What shall it be ? Hollo, Gurney !
what have you got in your head now?"

For the senior captain was leaning with both
elbows on the table, his face buried in his hands.
Presently he raised it.

"Wait a minute, you fellows," he said, slowly.
Pat's on dut' tomorrow, isn't he ?"

Yes."

Then we'll write a proposal from him to Miss
Clifford, and send the note by an orderly; her
answer, which is safe to be a refusal, will be a
grand surprise for him on St. Valentine's daye."

This daring proposition was received in silence ;
the officers of the 52nd Dragoons looked from one
to another in speechless amazement, mingled with
admiration for the master-mind which had conceived
this brilliant plot.

At length Fred Gordon relieved his feelings by a
prolonged "B — y Jove!" and then the Avhole assembly
broke out into a torrent of eager questions.

"Will it be safe?"

You'll tell us exactly what to say to Pat?"

You'll write as if from him ? "

"I suppose she is quite sure to refuse him ?" said
Jack Hilton, doubtfully.

Safe to," replied Captain Gurney, confidently, " it
will be the best joke we have had since St. Hilary
got spliced."

Who will write it ? " said George Wintringham ;
because it must be done carefully, and made
spoony enough."

I'll write the rough copy," replied Captain
Gurney, " and then we must get hold of some of
Pat's writing to imitate."

"You need not do that," announced Fred Gordon ;
Billy Childers writes exactly the same fist as Pat."

Are you sure ? "

Perfectly certain ; I don't think even Pat himself
could tell the difference ; and Miss Clifford weill
not be so familiar with his hand as all that."

By the united efforts of the officers the folloAviiig
letter was produced :

Cavalry Barracks, Milchester,
February 13th.

My dear Miss Clifford, — I have Ice trying for some time to
VOL. I. E

speak to you on a subject-which lies very near my heart ; but,
somehow, I have never had an opportunity. I am not much of a
hand at letter writing, but I think you must know what I mean.
"Will you marry me, darling? That I love you with all my heart
and soul you must have known for some time, and, faith I I can't
help thinking you do care a little for me.

I am fast all day in this dreary barrack-square, so won't you
send me one little word to say you will be my valentine tomorrow ?
and make the very happiest man in the world into

Patrick O'Shaughnasst.

Captain Gurney read this brilliant production
aloud.

There !" he exclaimed, in a self-satisfied tone, "I
think that reads like Pat, particularly the wind up.
scan any of you suggest an improvement?"

There was a general reply in the negative ; they
all considered it beyond improving.

One of you run up to Pat's room and get some
of his own paper ; it will be in the blotting-book on
the writing-table — don't bring that with the regimental
crest on ; bring his Manfred

Gordon said he would go. He very soon
returned with the spoils, and the letter was copied
and ready for sending in no time.

Chapter II.

The following day Captain Gurney sent an orderly
to Colonel Clifford's house with the letter, and after
some little time the man returned, with a note
directed in Alys Clifford's bold handwriting to
P. O'Shaughnassy, Esq. According to orders, he
took it to Captain Gurney 's room, where several
of the conspirators were Awaiting to receive it. Their
senior, however, locked it up, out of harm's way,
saying,

I suppose a lot of young fools like you would
be tearing it open, because your curiosity could not
wait till another day ; but I'll have none of that
nonsense. Into ; here it stays until I post it, and you
will see it opened With the others tomorrow at
luncheon."

"Are you going to post it?" said Billy Childers,
in amazement.

Why, of course, you young duffer ; you don't
suppose I'm going to give it to Pat, do you ? Lord
bless the child, he's as innocent as a serpent ! If it
were not posted Pat would smell a rat directly, and
never believe it came from Miss Clifford at all."

The answer was accordingly posted ; and on the
following day, as usual on the feast of St. Valentine,
VOL. I. E 2

LIBMKf ^
BI«Vei«fTY0F«i.8H0IS

all the letters were saved until liniclieon, at which
meal the officers were assembled to enjoy the fun.

"Here's one for you, Chin," said Patrick O'Shaugh-
massy," taking a packet from the heap ; " come, open
it out, man, and let us see."

The packet contained a lady's long fur ruff, and a
very official-looking note, purporting to have come
from the commanding officer of the both Hussars
(for Mr. DrcAv had only a few months before exchanged
into the 52nd from that regiment), to the
effect that the caudal appendage had been found in
Sub-Lieutenant Drew's quarters, and was therefore
forwarded, with a request that any other such property
which Mr. Drew might have left behind should
be at once removed, otherwise his late quarters in
— Barracks would be seriously incommoded.

Mr. Drew might certainly have passed for the
missing link we hear so much about, and his regimental
cognomen of Chimpanzee, more often
shortened into Chin, suited his personal appearance
to a nicety. As usual, he had to laugh off his
chagrin with the best grace he could muster, when,
happily for him, the general attention was diverted
from him, as Patrick O'Shaughnassy carelessly
picked up from the heap on the table the delicately
perfumed crested note, which was to convey such
startlijio- news to him. He did not dream that it

came from Miss LifTord, and turned it over with
infinite contempt.

"Ugh!" said he, "an afternoon tea, I suppose.
My dear Captain O'Shaughnassy ' — Ah, I know their
little ways."

For the love of heaven, don't sit drivelling there,
man ! " cried an impatient voice.

Oh, it isn't a valentine," remarked another, in a
disappointed tone, when O'Shaughnassy took out a
note and beo-an readings it.

Go on with the others," said Gurney, in order to
avert suspicion ; a command which no one obeyed,
all being too busy watching Pat, amid a silence which
had become quite oppressive.

"What the d — " began he, then checked himself, and
turning the paper over, read it again; changing colour
the while from scarlet to white, then from white to
scarlet, as though he could not make up his mind Which
was most becoming to his complexion, finally compromising
the matter by remaining the colour of a
mangel-wurzel. He picked up the envelope and
examined it ; then he took up the letter again carefully.

Well," he said at last, surveying the eager faces
crowding round him, " you chaps have got yourselves
into a fine shindy this time, and no mistake about it."

What is it ? what does she say ? " they cried, as
with one voice.

"sidon my — ," he began.

"Here, give it me," said Gurney, who began to
suspect Pat was right, and they had got into a
shindy," as he said — " give it to me ; " at the same
time snatching it out of his hands, and reading it
quickly.

It was not a very long epistle, but its contents
excited an oath, not loud, bat deep, from between
the reader's closed teeth.

I told you so," said Pat, reassuringly.

What is it ? " cried the others. " She has not,
surely, accepted you ?"

O'Shaughnassy nodded.

Oh, well, it's all right, then, " said Gordon, in a
relieved tone. " Pat's got all he wants, and she need
never know anything at all about it : a very good
thing for Pat, I say."

Perhaps Pat says the contrary," interposed that
young gentleman. " Pve not asked Miss Clifford to
marry me, and, what is more, I am not going to do
so. I don't intend to marry a woman simply to get
you fellows out of a scrape. No, no ; Pat
O'Shaughnassy may be a thundering fool, but he's
not quite such an idiot as to do that."

"Why, Pat," exclaimed Jack Hilton, "we all
thought you were ' dead nuts ' on Miss Clifford."

"Did you, really? Well, all I have to say is, that

you've got yourselves into a pretty shindy this time,
and won't there be old Harry to pay when the chief
comes home ! By Jove ! I wouldn't stand in your
shoes for a good sum. Perhaps, after this, j^ou will
be leaving your neighbour's private affairs alone."

Dash it all !" snapped Gurney, " why can't you
marry Miss Clifford, and have done with it ? You've
been dangling after her, morning, noon, and night,
for weeks."

"To tell you the honest truth, my dear fellows,"
said Mr. O'Shaughnassy, with slow deliberation of
utterance, " to tell you the honest truth — / am
already engaged to he married!"

Chapter III.
If the hero of this little history had suddenly
emptied a pail of iced water over the group of
officers assembled in the mess-room of the Milchester
Barracks, a more perceptible shiver could not have
run through them. Xot a word was spoken. The
brave men who Avould have cheered their troops on
against an enemy, or faced grim death without a sign
of flinching, looked in one another's faces blankly,
each asking a tacit question — " What are we to do ?"
receiving for answer — " I'm dashed if I know ! "

In their midst stood Patrick O'SIiaughnassy, taller,
by some inches, than any of them ; his arms carelessly
crossed upon his broad chest ; his good-humoured
face wearing a pleasant smile, and his gray eyes — real
Irish eyes they were — shining with mirth. At last the
smile deepened into a laugh, M'hich displayed strong
white filbert-shaped teeth.

Well, as I said before, gentlemen, you've got yourselves
into a pretty shindy."

Xo one can compliment you on the pleasing
variety of your remarks," sneered Captain Gurney ;
that's the fourth time you've made that brilliant
observation."

So it is. Well, Gurney, you've a very good opportunity
of showing your wonderful cleverness,"
said Pat, who could aflbrd to be civil, " and letting the
world see if you are as clever at getting out of scrapes
yourself as you are of getting other fellows in. When
you've got the thing settled, I'll change the ' into '
into ' out,' and say it as many times again. I'm going
now. I shouldn't like my presence to be any hindrance
to the general conversation. Good-bye."

With a gay laugh, O'Shaughnassy went noisily out
of the room, and ran quickly up the echoing corridor
to his own domain. Safely there, he immediately
locked the door, and flinging himself on his bed, indulged
in the luxury of a hearty laugh, rolling over

and over — burying his face in the pillows to smother
the sound of his hilarity. At last he calmed down a
little, and, smoothing out Miss Clifford's letter, which
he had recaptured from Captain Gurney, read it again
With care. I mentioned before that it was not
lengthy ; indeed, it ran thus :

You have made me happy — very liapp)- indeed. Of course I

will Ije your valentine tomorrow. Whose should I be, if not

yours ? —-ways your own,

Alys.

Mr. Patrick O'Shaughnassy kissed the crumpled
paper rapturously.

My darling, my sweet Alysl" he murmured, blissfully.
Then his more natural mode of expressing his
satisfaction came in the words, " B}'' Jove ! what a
lucky chap I am ! "

Could Mr. O'Shaughnassy be alluding to the young-lady
about whom there had been so much discussion
below ?

His next movement was to change his uniform for
plain clothes, and, after locking Miss Clifford's note ina
secure place, to light a cigar, and proceed to search
amongst the chaos on the table for a pair of gloves.
Whilst he was thus employed, some one tried to open
the door.

Come in ! " roared Pat. " Come in, you fool, can't
you ? Oh, the door's locked, is it ? Well, old man,"
as Jack Hilton came in, " what's up now? "

Pou my word," began Jack, dolefully, " low the
deuce we are to get out of this business I don't know ;
I've a good mind to send my papers in at once."

About the best thing j'ou can do," said Pat, consolingly,
and still continuing his search ; " and as
you're going to be married, it won't make much odds
to you."

By George ! but Gurney is in a funk."

And so should I be," said Pat, " if I were in his
shoes — a confounded fool ! It's to be hoped this wil
cure him. Well now," having found his gloves, " I
must be off; ta-ta ! "

Stop, stop ! " cried Hilton ; " where are you
going ? To the colonel's ? "

Xow, my good fellow, do you expect me to go
and patch up your damages just by being asked?"

Lord I I didn't know ; you always do go there."

If it's any satisfaction to you to know it, I'm
going into Milchester."

To meet Miss Clifford? " said Hilton, eagerly, like a
drowning man ready to catch at the weakest straw.

I am not going to meet Miss Clifford," said Pat,
looking back at the door, and closing it just in time
to escape a missile, in the shape of a boot, which Mr.
Hilton flung at his head. Ah, it is only in a university
or a barrack that one man can go into another man's
room and flies; his own boots at his head without

provoking offence ! Truly there is something of
Arcadia in both places I

When Patrick O'Shaughnassy told Jack Hilton he
Alas going into Milchester, he was speaking sober
truth ; for into that most dreary of dreary towns he
really did go. At the first stand, however, he took
a cab, and pulling up the blind windows, ordered
the man to drive to Colonel Clifford's. The chief's
house was in the centre of a village about a mile
and a half from Milchester, on the road which led
past the barracks.

Having satisfied himself by a peep from the little
window at the back that none of the officers were insight,
he slipped out, telling the driver to come back
in an hour, and answer no questions.

He found Alys Clifford sitting alone in the drawing-room,
and, as she sprang up with pretty eagerness to
meet him, took her bodily into his arms.

My darling ! My best and dearest! "

For some time their conversation was not rational,
nor indeed was it fluent. Then Patrick, feeling that
life is short and time is fleeting," set about broaching
to ]\Iiss Clifford the subject which was just then
occupying the attention of the gentlemen in the Mil-chester
Barracks.

My darling," he began, with a cough, " join got a
note from me yesterday ? "

Miss Clifford raised lier head from this shoulder and
reo-added him with blaiilv amazement.

o

Of course I did, and answered it. You didn't
write to me again, did you ? "

I didn't write at all," blurted out Pat.

Did not write at all ? What do you mean ? Are
you mad, Mr. O'Shaughnassy ? "

Well, it was ' them.' I knew nothing at all about
it till I got your letter this morning."

Them ? " repeated Alys, slowly, unconsciously
using Pat's ungrammatical form of speech. " Did
they write the letter I got yesterday ? "

Yes, confound them ! "

And did they see mj answer ? "

I could not help it," said Pat, humbly. " What
was one against so many ? You won't be angry with
me, will you, my darling ? "

Captain Gurney and Mr. Hilton," said a servant,
opening the door.

Alys Clifford came forward as the two men walked
into the room.

I never, in all my life, heard of such an ungentlemanly,
disgraceful action, never. I could not have
believed it possible. Unmanly, cowardly ! " she cried,
passionately, though the sound of tears was in
her voice. " I do not know which of you is the
worst or the most to be blamed ; but as surely as

I am Alys Clifford, I will never speak to any of
you again."

She vanished into an inner room, and the three
men stood as if turned to stone. All the colour faded
from Patrick O'Shaughnassy's ruddy face, leaving it
as white as death. He crossed the room to where his
senior was standing, and gripped his shoulder with
trembling fingers.

As I live, I'll pay you out for this fine trick," he
said, in a low voice, shaking with suppressed passion.
You shall live to repent it, confound you ! "

Then he stalked out of the room without another
Avord.

I shall send in my papers at once," said Jack
Hilton, in the tone of a martyr. " As for you, Gurney,
you had better shoot yourself."

Umph !" said Captain Gurney, doubtfully.

Chapter IV.
A WEEK passed away, and still Colonel Clifford did
not return from his leave. The officers of the enduring
that time, went through various stages of
misery.

Occasionally they displayed symptoms of swaggering
bravado, but thej^ neither deceived themselves nor

each other ; and the general tone of society in the
mess-room might be fairly described as " hang-dog."
Colonel Clifford vas a martinet of the very fiercest
calibre, and the dread with which his return was
anticipated was simply pitiable.

The state of Mr. O'Shaughnassy's temper did not
add to the general hilarity of the community. As
George De Lyle expressed it, " Pat was for all the
world like a bear with a sore head."

None of them ventured into his room, nor indeed
said a word to him on anj^ subject whatever, except
one or two who were not involved in the scrape.

Jack Hilton kept his word and sent in his papers,
so consequently felt a little more at his ease than his
comrades ; and Miss Clifford kept her word and " cut "
the whole of them, which was, as Herald told
her, an awful shame, on the strength of which she
made an exception in his favour, and flirted with him
in a disgraceful manner. For poor Patrick O'Shaugh-
massy she had no mercy. At the Cathedral, Palace,
or theatre, and at all other places where they met,
she did not deign to notice him in the least, though
he, poor fellow, as all his comrades knew, tried again
and again to soften her wrath.

At the end of a Aveek the news came that Colonel
Clifford had fallen in the hunting-field and broken his
arm. Pm afraid his officers were not so sorry as they

should have been ; but the accident meant to them a
respite, and when Mrs. and Miss LifTord departed to
join the sick man, they fell back into their old ways
and breathed freely once more.

Patrick O'Shaughnassy's ill-temper, however, increased
visibly, and, after a fortnight not very
pleasantly passed, he announced that he had got a
month's leave and was going to be married.

Going to be married !" cried the officers in chorus.
Why, Pat, we all thought "

"What business had you to think, then?" retorted
Pat, it must be owned somewhat uncourteous. " I
can't stand this any longer ; so I'm going to get
married, and see if that will mend it."

At the door he fired a parting shot.

And I hope you'll find it pretty Avarm Avhen the
chief comes back."

Selfish brute ! " remarked Captain Gurney, when
he had gone.

Poor devil ! " commented De Lyle. " I never
thought Pat would have taken it so much to heart.
Anyway, I do pity the girl."

The weeks slipped away and still Colonel LifTord
was absent ; his broken arm proved very troublesome,
and he had received such a shaking from his fall that
'his medical advisers forbade his returning to duty for
some time. At length he was able to do so, and the

major announced that he might be expected on the
7tli of the month, during the week that the Yeomanry
Cavalry were assembled in Milchester for their annual
training. This news filled the gallant officers of the
52nd anew with dismay and consternation. They
were in " no end of a funk, by Jove." And when it
was reported that he had arrived in the town, and
did not make his appearance in the barracks, it
was considered a very bad sign, from which they inferred
that his wrath was indeed terrible.

Whilst this black state of affairs was being discussed
in the ante-room, Patrick O'Shaughnassy
Avalked in, looking as bright and jolly as if he had
never had a trouble in his life.

I hear the chief's back to-day," he said, with a
hearty laugh. " I suppose you men are all quaking
in your shoes ! "

No one answered, and there was silence until
Gordon said that they understood he had gone away
to be married.

So I did," he answered.

And didn't it come off? We never saw any
announcement."

Come off? Of course it did. The missis is down
at the 'Eoyal Swan'"

Who is she ?" asked Billy Childers.

AYho is she ? Why Mrs. O'Shaughnassy, of course."

Shall we see her at the ball those yeomanry
fellows give to-night ?"

Oh, yes. Good-bye. Wish you good luck for
tomorrow."

A few hours later, the officers of the dragoons went
into the brilliantly lighted ball-room.

Do you think the O'Shaughnassys have come ? "
said De Lyle to one of the hosts.

"Yes, half an hour ago at least. "What a pretty
girl she is ! You'll see them somewhere about," said
he, and moved away.

There's Pat, "said Gurney; "and, by the Lord Harry,
he's dancing With Alys Clifford ! What does that mean?"

She looks happy enough, and better friends than
Pat's wife will like if she hears the story."

Oh, she never will hear it. Pat isn't such a fool
as to tell her himself. I wonder which is she ? "

There's Pat. I say, Pat, aren't you going to introduce
us to your wife ?"

Oh, yes, to be sure. Come along."

He led them across the room to where a lady,
dressed in the richest bridal costume, was talking
with other ladies.

My darling, here are some of my brother-officers
come to make your acquaintance," he said. " Captain
Gurney and Mr. Gordon — Mrs. O'Shaughnassy."

To their unspeakable astonishment, Mrs. O'Shaugh-

VOL I. F

massy had the dark eyes, the pure profile, and the
smiling mouth of Alys Clifford.

Why — Miss Clifford ! " gasped young Gordon.
I — I — you — at least — "

"Ah," she laughed, "you are thinking of the
tragic vow I made the day I found you out. Well, I
have kept it. I am not Alys Clifford now, you know."

And I think I kept mine," laughed her husband
joyously. "I think I paid you all out. Oh, did we
not steal a march upon you ! I can tell you, though,
it Alas precious hard work keeping up the sulks."

Although everything came to such a happy and
orthodox ending. Colonel Clifford said a few words the
next day, which brought the tingling blood into the
cheeks and ears of his listeners ; and, since that time,
Captain Gurney finds it as well to leave his friends'
private affairs in their own hands. He has learnt
from experience that there is a Nemesis which repays
even such apparently insignificant unkindness ashe
took so much pleasure in inflicting upon others,
for into two of the most pleasant houses amongst the
married officers' of the 52nd he is never asked ; and
although Gerard St. Hilary and Patrick O'Shauo-h-
massy, having obtained their hearts' desire, would
Willingly forget and forgive past offences, their wives
imperatively decline to give Captain Gurney the
chance of making more mischief, on the very
sensible ground that "prevention is better than cure."

OR, BORROWED Pleases.
Author of " A Regimental Martyr," " A Regimental Palestine.'

Chapter I.

It Alas just eleven o'clock when Stephen Harold

went up the dreary stone staircase to his rooms on

the second floor of the block, known as G, in

Colchester Barracks, He was very tired, for he had

been orderly officer for the day, with the delight of a

court-martial thrown in. The colonel had been

particularly disagreeable all day, and he had after

dinner, worse luck, as he told himself, somehow got

into conversation with the major, who had talked the

prosiest and driest of "retook" for two long hours.

It was, therefore, with a sense of intense relief that

he found himself free to go to bed, with no fear of

being orderly officer again for at least a week.

He went slowly up the empty, echoing stairs, his

Savor clanking after him noisily, and entered his

room, banging the door to, as if he Avanteded to try

the strength of its panels and the reliance to be

placed on its lock. Everything looked very comfort-vol.
I. r 2

able and inviting; the lire blazed brightly in the grate
and cast a pleasant, mellow glow over the whole apartment
; the crimson curtains, drawn closely over the
windows— there were no blinds — if a little faded and
shabby by daylight, looked well and cosy enough in
the fire-light's fitful glow, which danced and gleamed
over everything — now on the broad frames of the
pictures, then on the ivory keys of the open piano.
It flickered across Stephen's crisp, curly, yellow hair,
.and for a moment dazzled his tired grey eyes, so that
he had to put up his hand to shade them. Then he
slipped off his belts, hung his forage cap on one of
the pegs behind the door, and sank lazily into the
huge arm-chair, with a sigh of the deepest content
that the worries of the day were over. And it certainly
kad been a tiresome day ; he didn't know what had
possessed the chief lately but he was very different
to what he used to be : perhaps it was with getting
married ! And then a vision of a bright face, with
ruddy brown hair and laughing blue eyes, came
before him and he decided that matrimony could not
surely be the cause of the lamentable alteration in
the commanding officer of his regiment. But, all the
same, the bright face and the ruddy brown hair and
laughing blue eyes did not belong to Mrs. Clifford, but
lO Judith Scrope, the fifth daughter of the brigadier-major's
father-in-l:iw ; that is to say, she As^as Mrs.

Winton's only unmarried sister. Stephen wondered
wistfully what she had been downfall day ? He had
passed her house, or rather the brigadier-major's
house, that morning, when he rode with the troops to
watering order, but not a glimpse of her had he
seen, either in going or returning. There had been a
garden party up at Lexden, he believed ; he wondered
had Judith been there ? He hardly thought so : she
had said a few days before that it was getting too
cold for garden-parties, particularly as she did not
care much for lawn-tennis. Having arrived at this
important conclusion, Stephen thought he Avould goto
bed ; he upheaved himself therefore out of his
chair, locked his door, kicked his boots off, not
without an anathema upon their tightness, and, after
a careful survey of himself in the glass, Avent into the
little inner room where his bed was, and in less than
two minutes was sound asleep. But in that sleep —
at least, it seemed so to him, it was not like the half-moment
between sleeping and Awaking, but must have
been drawn out over hours — Stephen had a dream, a
truly awful one, for he dreamed that Judith Scrope had
married the Devil, and that they had come to take him
away to the infernal regions, that they might there
amuse themselves and the numberless legions of the
imps and fiends, by putting him to death by torture
of the most cruel and lingering description.

As might reasonably be expected, Stephen Harold
awoke with a start, trembling in every hmb, and
with great beads of agony standing out upon his
forehead. There was a great noise going on, and fora
moment he hardly realised that he had just then
no fiends to encounter worse than his brother-officers
and comrades-informs. As soon as the truth
of the situation flashed across his brain, he jumped
out of bed and opened the door into his sitting room.
Pouf ! It was all filled with smoke ! Then those
confounded idiots were trying to blow his door in.
Ugh ! the rooms would smell of gunpowder for a
seek. He went back to bed and laid listening to
them. He could hear hushed voices just outside the
door, then a dead silence, save for a faint sound
^s of one metallic substance tapping against
smother ! He knew what that meant well enough ;
they were filling the lock with powder. Then there
was a breathless pause, followed by a scramble across
the landing and a fous — f — f — fizz — hang! Stephen
leaned out of bed, and, as the smoke gradually
cleared away, saw, with a thrill of intense satisfaction,
that the door had not given way. Of course he
did not doubt for a moment that they would
ultimately succeed in effecting an entrance — he had
been there too often for that — but still it was some
satisfaction to know that they had had a good deal of

trouble in doing it. He lay peeping round the door
between the two rooms, so that he might hear what
went on, and yet be ready to jump under the bedclothes
and feign slumber when the crisis did come.
They were wonderfully quiet ; whatever could they
be at now ? He had not the smallest hope that they
had gone away and left him in peace ; he knew
them all too well !

Scatter a good lot under the door," he heard
a voice say ; Chantry's he thought it was.

All right," was answered with a laugh.

Quick as thought Stephen sprang out of his bed.
Confound them ; the whole place will be on fire," he
muttered, then ran and flung the door open. "What
the devil do you want ? " he asked fretfully. " Hang
it, I do think you might choose a night Avhen a poor
devil hasn't been on duty."

He might as well have talked to the winds ! There
were eight or ten of them, all flushed with champagne
and full of mischief, exasperated by the two tedious
hours they had to remain, whilst the major was
prosing to Stephen. Amongst the babel of voices
Stephen's was lost entirely, and they shoved him in
with scant ceremony, and began " hay-making ! "

Poor Stephen was so thoroughly tired and sleepy
that he almost dozed off as he stood, notwithstanding
the general havoc which was being made

of his furniture, ile half hoped they were going
to leave him in peace and quietness, when they had
turned everything thoroughly topsy-turvy, and he
wished they would be quick and get their task done.

Unfortunately, he had left the despatch box drawer
in his chest open, and, one of them perceiving it,
half-a-dozen hands plunged into it instantly ; that
roused him quickly enough.

Oh ! confound it*' he exclaimed, energetically,
and rushed into the midst of the excited group,
leave that alone, Avill you ? "

But the harder he fought, the more they persisted
in ransacking the contents of the drawer. He raved,
he cursed, he swore, to no more purpose than
making them laugh.

He was a fine strong young fellow, nearly six feet
in his stockings ; but what was the strength of one
man — in his night shirt too, and with bare feet, which
every now and then got a prick from his tormentors'
spurred heels — against so many?

"Hold him fast, can't you?" said Captain Gurney,
in an authoritative voice, as Stephen almost succeeded
in wrenching a handful of papers out of his grasp.
Oh, by jove, they're poems !"

A shriek of laughter greeted this announcement,
and Stephen struggled yet more fiercely to shake off
his captors' grip.

"They're poems," said Captain Gurney complacently,
crossing the room leisurely and proceedings
to liijht the two tall candles on the mantel-shelf.
"Ye-es, they're poetical effusions, Xoav, if you'll
keep the 3'oung cub quiet, I'll read them aloud."

A cheer of applause greeted his proposal, followed
by renewed but ineffectual efforts from Stephen to
free himself. At length, however, order Alas
sufficiently restored for the senior captain to make
himself heard.

To an old glove ! " he began amid loud cheers
and an authoritative order of " Silence !"

Crumpled and Motionless,

Tarnished and torn ;
You're to be pitied, but —

You she has-worn.

Pressing her little hand,

Happy you were ;
You toyed with her earring.

Played with her hair.

Fortunate more than all,

Blessed finger tips ;
You kissed her dainty cheek,

Even her lips.

Father strong that," said the reader, by way of
comment.

Constant companion,

But for a day ;
Truly your happiness

Fleeted away I

AVliy all this rhapsody ?

Youre but a glove,
Bringing before me

The ghost of a love.

Like you, love faded, and

Lightly Twas worn.
Lightly was thrown away,

Tarnished and torn 1

So she tossed you over, did she, Stephen ? " said
Hugh Smilingly, more commonly known as the
Cabbage."

But Stephen, uniting his efforts unavailing, had
relapsed into sulk' silence, and did not reply.

Old Stephen looks as black as a double-distilled
thunder-cloud," laughed Jenny, sending a pellet of
paper at Stephen's head.

Here's another," said Gurney, at that moment.

Oh, let's have it by all means ! " cried Hunt.
Don't be shy, Stephen ; never mind chaff, old chap.
Tell them to do better if they can."

Devil take you," growled Stephen civilly

By no means," his comrade returned sweetly ; "I
always like to encourage juvenile efforts."

Shut up ! " Stephen cried, trying once more to
get away from his warders.

"Do you Avant to hear any more ? " Gurney asked.

Yes, yes," they all cried ; " let's have them all."

All right ; then here goes."

THE PRISONER AND THE FLOWER.
A prisoner had a flow' ret,

That grew within the niche
Of his window, barred with iron —
In his flow'ret he was rich I

It was his sole possession.

His garden and his park ;
It made his cell less dreary.

And his gloomy life less dark.

A ray of sunshine used to come.

For one hour of the day ;
The flow'ret drank its radiance.

And flourished bright and gay.

A wall was Iniilt beyond the cell.

It blocked the sunbeam bright ;
The flow'ret drooped and faded, for

It missed the cheerful light.

The prisoner mourned for the ray,

That each day stayed an hour.
And cheered his life and kept in bloom.

His paltry little flower.

The flower was Hope, that flourished in

The ray, your presence dear ;
Fate was the wall that grew beyond ;

My life the prison drear.

The flower is dead, and dark and dull

Is now the prison wall :
No sunshine of your presence casts

A glory over all.

01(1 Stephen seems to have given it up as a bad
business," laughed Gurney, sneeringly.

I've heard it before," put in Hunt, thoughtfully.

the idea, at all events. Wasn't there some Italian
chap, Who — "

Yes, his name was Pic — dash it, what was it ?
Pic — Pic — well, something like that, said Standish."

"By gad, but it's pretty, Stephen"' remarked a tall
man, Who had hardly spoken as yet, by name Cosmo
Lawson.

Dam," returned Stephen, politely, at which the
screams of laughter rang out anew, " I say, are you
fellows going to let me get into bed? It's beastly cold
here."

Bring him nearer the fire," commanded the
senior, " and listen to this."

TO AX OLD CLAY PIPE.
'Tis Lut a cutty,

A copper it cost ;
Yet I feel somehow

A friend I hive lost.

Clayey companion,

Faithful ami true,
I was proud of the blackness

I'd given to yoii.

I've smoked you while skating,

Sharpest the Breeze ;
Returning from drilling,

Marching at ease.

Most defective line," put in a laughing voice ;
why, hang it, it sounds like a dragoon at the
manoeuvres."

Keep quiet"' was the unceremonious reply from
the reader, who continued —

Oft on the river, too,

Laid in a skiff,
I basked in the sunlight

Enjoying; a whiff.

Stretched on the sand, too,

Watching the sea.
Thinking of nothing,

I puffed at thee.

Plans I projected.

In council with you,
Dreams I indulged in

That never came true.

Calming all fretfulness

Out of my soul ;
Placid forgetfulness

Came from ycnir howl.

All things must finish.

And pipes have an end ;
Your elton bowl's broken

Too badly to mend.

Yes ! Lastly I broke you,

Companion of clay ;
No more shall I smoke you,

Eut — throw yo.i away.

They had all remained quite silent to hear the last
poem, but as Gurney's voice died away a torrent of
comments broke forth.

Old Stephen will be Poet Laureate yet," quote one.

By gad, but they are clever," said a second.

"Don't look so black, old man," cried a third;
there's nothing to be ashamed of in them."

"■ I think," put in Hunt, " that after that we ought
to let old Stephen go to bed, poor chap. After all,
he got the worst of the major's infliction."

I think so, too."

And I."

And I. I say, shake hands, Stephen, and
don't bear malice. They're deuced good verses."

Half-a-dozen hands were stretched out to grasp
Stephen's, and, by the time he was free, Captain
Gurney had gone.

He did not stay out of bed ver' long; he snatched
up the loose slips of paper ofl" the mantel-shelf, and
gathered up those scattered about the floor, tumbling
them all into his drawer and locking it securely.
Then he went to bed, as before and slept, not
dreaming this time that Judith Scrope had married
the Devil. His visions were even worse than that, for
he dreamed that she had married Captain Gurney ;
and when he awoke lie was not sure that, of the two,
the latter Avould not be the greatest and most dire
calamity : he absolutely hated the senior captain.

Chapter H.
There was no doubt whatever that Stephen Choroid,
lieutenant of the 52nd Dragoons, was very much in

love Avitli the brigadier-major's sister-in-law. That
the senior captain of that regiment was in the same
boat with him Alas a fact not generally so well known ;
nevertheless it was perfectly true. At last Captain
Gurney had fallen in love ! not, mind yon, in the
lightly-come-lightly-go " fashion, in which nine men
out of ten are perpetually paying court to the sightless
god, but in real, genuine, downright earnest. He
had, two or three years earlier, been attracted by
Mrs. St, Hilary — then Elinor Warwick — and later, he
had admired Alys Clifford, sufficiently to do everything
he could to prevent Patrick O'Shaughnassy
from marrying her ; but for neither of these ladies
had he ever felt as he did for Judith Scrope, He
used to wonder sometimes what there was in the girl
to make him care for her so much ? She was hardly
a beauty — indeed, her beauty was chiefly of the kind
known across the Channel as du diable. She was
young and bright, had clear, laughing blue eyes and
ruddy brown hair, but she really was not a beauty.
Captain Gurney admitted that, and yet — and yet —
those laughing eyes disturbed his slumbers quite as
often as Stephen Thorold's ; and since he had known
her, he had grown almost tired of practical joking.
After all, he thought, when he left Stephen's room
that night and sought his own — after all, it was but
poor fun ; and he didn't know if it was not rather

beneath him to indulge in it. He would, most likely,
be major before very long, and then, of course, that
sort of thing would be utterly out of the question
— as impossible almost as for the commander-in-chief
himself. And so, he thought, as, with a great
sigh, he Hung himself into a chair and stared moodily
into the fire, he didn't know if it would not be as
well to give it up at once. It certainly was but stupid
work, and lately he had found it but poor sport —
that was since he had known Judith. And then
Captain Gurney leaned back m his chair, and, closing
his eyes, gave himself up to delicious waking dreams,
dreams of the bright chesnut-haired girl that he
had learned to care for, even so much that he wanted
to amend his ways for her sweet sake — dreams of
her, Judith Scrope no longer, but his wife — dreams of
her, together with him, in foreign lands on their wedding
tour — at home in the old house, where he had
scarcely ever cared to go since his mother died,
because the memories, which pervaded the whole
place, seemed out of harmony with the life he was
accustomed to lead ; quiet, happy, respectable
dreams they were, in Which Judith Scrope was the
leading figure.

The little travelling clock above his head rang out
two sharp strokes, ere Captain Gurney roused himself.
Then, unlike Stephen, he divested himself of

his clothes very dchbcratel}', and sta^'cd to read
several much-crushed papers ere he, at length, sought
his couch — and the papers were some of Stephen's
poems of which he had taken possession !

When Stephen Thorold turned out of his bed the
following morning, his man had set his room in something
like order. Therefore, to his master's eyes, the
hay " Which had been made the previous night was
of a very trifling description. He looked round
with an air of satisfaction, and muttered : " Xot
so bad ; they've torn that chair-cover, though. I
say, Simpson — Simp — son ! "

Yes, sir," Simpson answered, bustling in with
taro large cans filled with water.

See Mrs. Saunders mends that chair-cover," he
said ; " I think that's all the damage."

"This 'ere glass vase smashed, sir," Simpson returned,
pointing to an empty space on the top of the
drawers, " and the piano's scratched a good deal."

Umph ! Well, there'll be the deuce to pay when
Aggio see's that. Ah ! well, I suppose it can't be
helped."

There was no doubt of that ; and Stephen Thorold
was a young man of as fairly a philosophical turn of
mind as may be met with now-a-days — ergo, he said
no more about the mischief done in his room but set
about dressing.

VOL. I. G

Five minutes later the outer door opened, and Hunt
entered.

"Are you here, Stephen?" he asked, as he pushed
the door open. He glanced round the empty room,
and hearing the splashing of much water in the
adjoining apartment, seated himself leisurely in
the largest of the three easy chairs to await
Stephen's appearance. At last he came — fresh, rosy,
smiling.

Oh, it's 3'ou, is it ?" he remarked.

Yes. I say, old man, you're in for it, and no
mistake."

In for what ? " turning sharply round, and looking
inquiringly at his comrade, with his comb suspended
in the air above his head, and his curly hair
all over his eyes.

"For a three weeks' march."

Stephen groaned aloud, and banged his comb
down, with an ugly naughty word upon his lips.

No use making a row," laughed his friend.

No, hang it ; I only wish there was," returned
poor Stephen, in great disgust. " How do you
know? Where is it to?"

It's to Dublin, With that draft of horses for the
4th," he answered. " And I know, because I've just
been down to the mess, and the major told me."

Why on earth, I wonder, couldn't the colonel

have sent Osborne ? " Stephen grumbled, taking up
his brush again and proceeding with his toilet.

Oh ! " with a laugh, " he has got out of it nicely.
Told the colonel he has a boil under his knee, and
got the doctor to back him up."

Brute," said Stephen, with a sigh. " By Jove,
but I will pay him out for this."

Can't you get up an ailment ? " Hunt laughed.
Why, look at me," he returned dolefully ; " a miserable,
pasty-faced duller like Osborne can alway's be
ill on occasion ; but I — why, the chief would only
laugh at me."

Well, you must make the best you can of it," his
friend said, rising and taking a leisurely survey of
the numerous little knick-knacks on the mantel-shelf.
I say, Stephen."

Well."

Has it ever occurred to you how Gurney is
altered ? "

"Adhered! Xo."

"Ah ! I thought you'd have seen it. I can't make
out whether he's getting old, or fallen in love, or
what ; but, if you just think of it a moment, he is
very much tamer and quieter than he used to be."

Yes, perhaps he is," Stephen answered. " He

doesn't care so much about ' drawing ' fellows as he

used to do. Getting past it, I should think."

VOL. I. G 2

But 110 suspicion of the truth crossed his mind.
He found, Avhen he went down to the mess, that
Hunt's news was but too true. His orders were to
start at nine the following morning in charge of a
draft of forty-four horses and thirty-four men — the
horses for the 4th at I)ul)lin. and to return with the
men by sea from Dublin to Portsmouth, and back to
Colchester by rail. " It will take at least three
weeks," muttered Stephen, blankly, when he had
learned these details and given up a forlorn hope
which had, until that moment, flourished in his
breast, that, after all. Hunt's information might be
but a joke.

Cost you a pound a day," said one officer.

Wish I was going," cried another.

Horrid bore ; the responsibility and all that,"
quoth a third.

I shouldn't mind it but for the beastly sea part
of it," remarked a fourth.

But Stephen took no heed of their comments ; he
hurried through his breakfast, and was already outside
the mess when officers' call sounded. He was one of
the first into the office, and, as soon as he had received
his orders, asked for leave from morning stables.
It was granted, as a matter of course, and Stephen
rushed up to his rooms, hurrying off his uniform and
dragging on plain clothes with double-rpiick speed.

"Hollo, Stephen, Moliere are you ofl' to"' cried
one or two comrades who were dawdling about outside.

Bye, bye," Stephen shouted in reply and was off
like the wind.

His way took him to the brigadier-major's house
on the Lexden Road, Which he reached in an incredibly
short time, ringing a peal loud enough to
awaken the seven sleepers, and supplementing his
efforts by a prolonged hammering at the door. He
was performing in the last respect when the man
Hung the door open.

"Miss Scrope at home, or Mrs.Winton?" he asked,
mentioning Mrs. Clinton as an afterthought, must fonte
sake of appearances.

The ladies have gone up to town, sir'' the man
replied.

For the day ? "

Yes, sir. They are to return by the last trahi."

Oh !— thanks."

He left a card, though it was so early in the day,
and turned away feeling dazed and queer, for upon
such a calamity as this he had not for a moment
counted. And yet, that two ladies should go up to
town for the day was not an unusual occurrence ; it
Alas only particularly unlucky. For a moment, ashe
Avent slowly along the pretty road, he Wondered
Avhetlier it Avould be much use to go up to toAvn after

them ? Xo ; it would be like looking for a needle ina
bottle of hay, or a pearl amongst a peck of barley.
Xo, that was out of the question ; but there was one
thing he could do. He might be at the station — by
accident, of course — when the last train came in, and
there would be no chance of missing them. Having
decided upon this plan, he went more hopefully into
town to do a moderate amount of shopping, necessarily
of a very moderate description in Colchester,
and found his way back to barracks in time for
lunch. Most of the officers were already at the
meal, and the moment he showed himself in the
mess-room he was greeted by a volley of chaff.

Hallo ! here's D.C.L.," one laughed.

Stephen looked very blank indeed. " What the
deuce is the joke of that?" he asked.

"I say, Stephen," cried another, "j^ou won't forget
me when you get to the top of the tree ?"

What tree ? "

Stephen Thorold, D.C.L., Poet Laureate," he
laughed.

Oh ! shut up," Stephen cried, with great good
temper, all things duly considered.

Are you good at impromptus, Stephen ? " asked
a bald-headed captain, who, having been in the
ranks, was much older than any officer at the table.

Pretty fair," said Stephen, and forthwith put up

a long arm and emptied the contents of the mustard-pot
over the ancient captain's hairless pate. " Of
that kind at least, my friend."

Stephen was like Betty, of world-wide renown ;
'• he snowed his man," and he disposed of Captain
McKey's chaff in a more summary manner than he
would otherwise probably have dared to do. For a
moment the laugh turned against the Scotchman, but
it surged back to its original butt immediately.

Well," remarked the captain next in seniority to
Gurney, " I've been in this regiment a good many
years, and I've seen a good many changes. We've
had fellows who could sketch and paint ; fellows who
could sing and play, or shoot and ride ; but I'll be
shot if we ever turned out a poet before."

By-the-bye," exclaimed another, " how did the
chief get to hear anything about it ?"

Stephen looked up, the very picture of dismay.
The chief," he gasped.

Yes, man, the chief ! I heard him laughing with
the major about it this morning."

Where P "

Oh ! I was lying on the sofa in the ante-room,
and they were outside."

What did they say, Standish?" Hunt asked.

The colonel said he understood they were very
clever, and then the major — confound him — croaked

out that lie thought Thorold would be better employed
learning his duty instead of occupying his
time in trashy sentimental verses."

AVhat did the chief say ?"

Oh ! he laughed outright and said, ' Well, I
dare say you will never waste your time that way.' "

The tide was quite turned from Stephen then, and
the absent major took up every one's attention.

I should think not, ugly brute," muttered one
officer. " I never could understand how he kept
civil long enough for that nice little wife of his
to marry him."

Xor I," Stephen answered. " Hoav miserable she
does look always."

Oh ! they say he thrashes her," put in the man
on Stephen's right.

]Nonsense," said one or two incredulous voices.

Fact ! I've seen her wrist all finger-marks myself,
though of course they oughtn't be his doing ;
but, from the Avay I've seen her watching him when
I've been calling or dining there, I should be inclined
to believe the worst."

I wonder she doesn't leave him."

"Nowhere to go. Don't yi)u know who she was ?"

Not an idea."

Her father was major of the — rd Foot, and she
hasn't a relation in the world — she told me so herself."

Poor little soul," said Stephen, tenderly. "Soli;
but upon my ^vord, the Avomen have hard times
very often ;" and then he wondered, would the time
ever come when he would leave black tokens of his
fingers upon Judith Scrope's little slender white
wrists ? Stephen felt very sure he would not ; but
then, doubtless, no man — not even the objectionable
major — starts with the fixed intention of leading his
Avise a life of terror and Wretchedness.

Colchester is not a particularly amusing place, and
the day seemed almost as long as the previous one had
done. Stephen dandled through the dull afternoon
as best he could, and hailed the dinner-hour With
unusual gladness ; generally he did not care much
about it — one Avay or another. The colonel Alas
dining that night, so he Alas spared any very marked
chaff, and the little that Avent on, in a subdued tone,
in his neighbourhood he did not mind. He could
not help reddening a little, though, Avhen Colonel
Clifford addressed him once or tAvice, but since he
said nothing on the subject he did not care for that
very much either, and so the evening slipped over
quickly and pleasantly enough — rather too quickly for
Stephen, for it Alas nearly eleven Avhen the colonel
rose, and he Alas free to betake himself to the station.

He did not, naturally, spend much time in changing
his clothes, and, being a good Walker, Alas at the

.station long before the arrival of the train. Well,
that was a comfort I He longed about the platform,
looking at the placards posted up on the walls,
consulting his Avatch, and thinking it not a little
strange that Major Clinton had not come to meet his
wife and sister-in-law. Perhaps he was away ; at
all events, it would be all the better for him, for he
Avould be able to see them safely home, and thus
have a chance of saying what he wanted to say to
Judith. He had not to wait very long, for presently
the appearance of a light in the distance told him
that the train Alas coming. The light gleamed larger,
and clearer, and nearer, through the darkness and the
night-gloom, and then, the train, like an insinuating
monster, glided almost noiselessly up to the platform,
and the passengers for Colchester streamed out.
Stephen stood still and Avatched eagerly. There Alas
Bernard of the Artillery, Lucy of the sooth and
his Avise, a fcAv soldiers, the quartermaster of his OAvn
regiment, and a dozen or so of shabby civilians and
women — and there was no Judith Scrape.

Poor Stephen Alas utterly dismayed. He Awaited
until the train had taken its departure, and then he
Avalked slowly out of the station like a man in a
dream, refusing an osier of a seat in Captain Bernard's
cab Avithout thinking of Avhat lie Alas doing. What
could he do? Tliev must have returned bA' the five

o'clock train ! What a fool he had been not to come
lip and meet that one on the chance of their having
come by it ! Well, he had never thought of it, and
it was no use crying over that now ; nor could he
very well make any excuse to go to Major Winton's
house at that time of night. Therefore he could do
nothing but submit himself to Fate ; that was what
Alas ai>-ainst him. When he reached his rooms he

o

opened his blotting book and took therefrom a sheet
of paper, on which was written a little poem which
had escaped the eyes of his tormentors on the
previous night.

Ris MIT.

Alia ill ilia,

Wall almond vasool ila !
Fellow mortals-wliy complain !
When you suffer grief or pain ?
Or why triumph when you gain?

Kis mit I It is destiny !

Surely as the minutes climb,
KounJ the mighty clock of Time,
And the hour's succeeding chime.
You fulfil your destiny.

See a man crowned with success,
Fortune ever seems to bless.
And he knows no bitterness :
He fulfils his destiny.

See a man, who, for no sin,
Ev'ry effort beaten in.
Ever fated not to win :
He fulfils his destiny.

Grieved be not tlicn or gay,
Whether rough or smooth your way,
Take things as they come, an I say,
Kis mit 1 It is destiny."

AVhat is joy or sorrow worth ?

Valueless hoth grief and mirth ;

AVe are puppets on this earth I

Kis mit! It is destiny."

I believe there's something in it," Stephen said
ahjud, as he kind the paper back in its hiding-price.
"At all events, I've done my best to see her, and
failed, so Fate must have had something to do with it.
If it's for the best ' Kis mit ' will keep her true until
I come back. I'll run the risk of trusting her."

And so it happened that Stephen Thorold went
away from Colchester without seeing Judith Scrope
again, though, if he had known what a very determined
rival he had in the person of Captain Gurney,
It is probable that he would not so readily have left
his future so trustfully to Fate ! And thus also it
was that he never missed the verses, which had been
purloined during the scramble on the previous evening
; he had thrust those left on the chimney-shelf
back into his drawer, and never thought of examining
them closely to see if any were gone.

Chapter III.

Stephen Thorold had gone, and then Captain
Gurney had, he feU, a fan field ; for, Avliat was best
of all, there Alas no probable, or, indeed, possible,
chance of his return for at least three weeks. And
Avhat might he not b3 able to do in three weeks ?
He sauntered up to the brigadier-major's house that
afternoon, and, more lucky than poor Stephen had
been on the previous day, found Mrs. Clinton and her
sister a" home. He was just in time to join them at
their afternoon cup of tea, and contrived to make
himself so agree able that Mrs. Winton asked him to
dine on the following evening.

And li lead a good deal of chat With Judith, too,
for several other people came in, and so engrossed
Mrs. Winton's attention. He was very glad of that,
of course, and thought Judith's blue eyes looked
more irresistible than ever ; he caught himself thinking
Wistfully, yet With great happiness, that, if only
lie could Avin them f(^r his OAvn, if only he could
teach the bright face to brighten at his return, the
soft eyes to sadden Avhen he left them, — he thought
this future Avould havre much more real placid, lasting
joy than he had ever had in the past. His past had
not b^^n hao'rr ! He avis ashamed, nov that he

contrasted himself with this ruddy-haired, brie-eyed
girl, wearing in all her looks and words, and surely
he could trust his life upon it, in her thoughts, too,
the white flower of a blameless life : " he was
ashamed of his past ; it was so widely apart from
her's. The last fifteen of his five-and-thirty sears, he
had spent to worse than no purpose. If he could
have gone to sleep at twenty and never wakened
up to the present day, he felt even such oblivion
would have been better than his worse than wasted
years.

"What are you thinking of?" Judith asked suddenly.
" I am sure of something unpleasant."

The past," he answered, briefly.

"Dear me," with a laugh. "Has that been so
very disagreeable ? "

It has been regretful," said he, gravely, " and I
regret it, though I never did until — now."

Oh ! " she cried, lightly, " it is never any use
looking back ; and between you and me. Captain
Gurney, I always thought it a little — a little — what
shall I say? Avell, spiritless."

"Your past and mine have been different."

How do you know ? " she asked coquettishly.

Captain Gurney smiled. "I know what mine has
been," he answered, the smile about his lips deepening,
" and I look at you and — voila .'"

Some SAvift, subtle instinct told Judith that he Meas
right. She knew nothing of the wild orgies, the
reckless dissipation, the mad follies and sins in which
his life had been spent, but she looked in his face and
she saw the traces of those years' work but too plainly
visible. Perhaps Captain Gurney saw that she perceived
it, for he changed the subject abruptly, and
they drifted away into other topics of a less personal
nature, and presently Miss Scrope showed him a
well-drawn caricature of the commanding officer of
the sooth, which Major Winton had brought home
from their mess-table the previous evening.

I say it is incomplete," she said, brightly ; " it
should have a few words or verses of explanation at
the foot ; but Mr. Esmond, who drew it, says he has
no gift that way."

Let me add the foot-note," he suggested.

Very well. Here is a pencil, or do you care for
ink?"

This will do, thanks." He wrote a few hues
hastily beneath the sketch, and handed it to Judith
for perusal. She looked half-puzzled for a moment,
then began reading, in a low voice, " Speaks short and
sharp, eyes unsettled, face flushed. Alas ! poor Roland.
That bout last even, must have been too much e'en
for thy seasoned head, or perchance the dice were
unpropitious, or perchance some fair dame — but no,

metJiinJcs you could not fret yourself for that, my
2?Mlo8opMcal Roland. But cheer up : care, thou
hou-est, brought a cat to an untimely end''

Where did you get that ? " the girl asked ; "what
is it out of?"

'• Oh, it is part of a scene I wrote some years
ago"" the soldier answered, carelessly. "I thought I
had mistaken my vocation, and ought to have been
poet instead of dragoon."

Oh, you write poetry ? "

'• Certainly not," with a laugh. '• But in my
schoolboy days I strung a few lines together, and
thought them verses."

"You have not any with you, I suppose? "

My dear young lady, most assuredly not"' he
returned.

I am so fond of poetry"' Judith said, dreamily ;
I wish you would bring some of your verses
tomorrow evening ? "

If you really insist upon it"" in a deprecating tone ;
but really, ]Miss Scrope, my poor attempts are — are
not worth the trouble of reading."

Bring them," said she, imperatively : " I shall be
dreadfully disappointed if you do not"'

"Then you leave me no choice," he replied,
gallantly.

He betook himself brick to barracks a few minutes

later as sorely puzzled as ever any man was in this
world. What he should do he didn't know. He
knew perfectly well that the verses he had spoken of
would only make Miss Scrope laugh — being the
merest doggrel, of this type —

Oh ! my heart is very sore,

For I shall never see her more,
And very often I could roar

For Mary Jane !

Oh ! I loved her very much,

And my love for her was such,
I could bear no one to touch

My Mary Jane !

My love had eyes of liquid hue,

She vowed she would to me be true.
She said it, with her head askew,

• My Mary Jane !

He felt it would not do to take such an " attempt "
as that for Miss Scrope's inspection. He was completely
hedged, for he dared not go without them ;
and where to get any fairly good original poems he
did not know. Then suddenly an idea occurred to
him. Ah ! why should he not copy out those verses
he had taken from Stephen Thorold the other night?
Happy thought ! He would act upon it.

Act upon it he certainly did, and found his way to
the Winters' house the following evening, fully prepared
to undergo a searching examination from Miss
Scrope on the subject of verse writing.

"I hope 5'ou have not forgotten the verses," she said,
confidentially, when he gave her his arm into dinner.

VOL. L H

I could not forget anything you wished," he
responded.

Oh," remarked Miss Scrope, a little blankly : she
had not bargained for that tone of devotion. But
after dinner, all the same, she demanded the poems,
and-with a little show of unwillingness. Captain
Gurney produced them. She took them from him
and began reading, in the way she had done on the
previous da", almost to herself.

CHARGE OF CHASSEURS.
The smoke cleared away as the foe was advancing,
Their massy battalions loomed darkling and large ;
The sun on their bayonets was fitfully glancing,
As the notes of our trumpets rang out for the charge.

And Fortune, alas ! ever fickle, had left us.

And hurled us from victory into defeat ;

Of our hest and our bi-avert Black death had bereft us,

The rest of the army was beating retreat.

The Goblets were routed, the fellows who spouted,
In terms so heroic — the ci-devant braves ;
Save the wounded and dying, the rabble were flying.
Mixed up with the line and the tawny Zouaves.

An aide-de-camp, panting, our orders had Brought us,
With bloody foam flecked was his gay sabretache !
He reeled, ere our lesson he fully had taught us.
The blood welling under his yellow moustache.

Our colonel's stern face, as he turned to address us,
Lit up with the battle-glow, lurid though wan,
The foe must be checked ; you perceive how they press us.
My lads : we must stop them, or die to a man."

Miss Scrope laid the paper down With a long, long
sigh.

I think it is perfectly lovely," she said, at last.

Oh ! hardly that ! " Capta Gurney answered, with
much hiimihty. " Mere doggreL"

I don't see why it is always necessary for people
to depreciate their own works," she said, gravely.
stow, if I had written that, you would have been in
raptures over it."

"Very possibly."

Then, why affect to despise it because it is your
own ? I am sure if I were sufficiently clever to have
written that, I should be very very proud of the
children of my fancy."

Oh ! how her SAveet words of praise echoed in his
heart, and made it throb on with double speed : he only
wished they really were his own, but then, she would
never know !

Give me another," she demanded.
TO —

Who was that to ? " she asked, coaxingly. Of a
surety, there seemed but little chance for poor
Stephen.

I will tell you some day," he answered.

No ; tell me now."

Can you not guess ? " looking full into her blue
eyes.

I," with a rippling laugh. " Xo, how should I be
able to guess ? Well, since you wont tell me, I must
go on reading."

VOL. I. H 2

Oh, my dearest, may you never

See a face you love grow cold ;
And contrast that growing coldness

With the smile you knew of old.

Long to make another effort,

To express the love you feel ;
And then, groaning, see the utter

Uselessness of such appeal.

Tien may Time he swift to banish

All your weary weight of pain :
Time at last the wound shall conquer.

Though the scar may still remain.

I like that even better," said Miss Scrope, decidedly',
" and I shall keep these." »

No, no, I beg not."

Yes, I shall indeed," and, as if to prove her
words, she unlocked an inlaid box upon the table and
put the papers away. "And now, since you have
entertained me so delightfully, I am going to sing to
you."

Chapter IY.
The days slipped away and wore into weeks, and
the weeks glided on until they formed a month, ere
Stephen Thorold returned to head-quarters. He appeared
smiling and happy at mess that night, for he
had arrived early in the forenoon, and had therefore
had time to pay a visit to a certain villa on the
Lexden Road, and where, if the truth must out at
once, he had had a most satisfactory interview with

a young lady called Judith Scrope. If Stephen looked
bright and happy, the senior captain Alas the very
reverse. He greeted Stephen with a growl, scarcely
touched his outstretched hand, and " shut up " every
effort he made to converse with him, with scant ceremony.
And poor Stephen was so very innocent and
unsuspecting of the tumult which was going on in his
senior's breast. He had come back from a tiresome
three weeks' march, a wearisome dawdle of twenty-four
hours in Dublin Bay — waiting for orders — a more
wearisome voyage of four days, with fearfully rough
weather, and a long railway journey back to the
place where he should find his love, where he had
found her. What wonder was it that, having seen
her and set everything " right," he should be overflowing
with kindliness and ban home to all his brother
officers ? He took all their chaff good-naturedly, as
usual ; he told them all about his long journey, and
caused screams of laughter by the recital of his adventures,
and then someone asked him if he had
written any more poetry ?

Well, no, I haven't," he answered, cheerfully ; " and
I say, whilst the subject is afloat, I may as well tell
you that I did not write those verses you made such
a fuss about just before I went away."

Oh ! by jove ! " cried one.

Who wrote them ? " asked another.

Anyone eve knoAv ? " said a third.

Well, I'm not at liberty to tell you, except that
they were written by a lady," he answered.

A lady ! " They were all too much astonished to
make a noise, and most of my readers will know that
it takes a good deal to astonish officers of dragoons.

In spite of their efforts to discover avIio the author
was, Stephen refused to tell them ; but presently, when
Captain Gurney came up and asked him the question
plainly, he gave him a plain, straightforward reply.

Who wrote those poems, Thorold ? " he asked
curtly.

Miss Scrope," said Stephen, quietly.

Captain Gurney stood cjuite still for a moment, and
Stephen, being like Duncan Grey of old "a lado'Grace,"
forbore to look at him at all, but confined his attention
strictly to the pictures on the opposite wall.

The older man tried for a moment to think ! The
events of the past month surged into his brain with
painful distinctness ; how Judith had praised the
poems and lifted her blue eyes with such innocent
sweetness to his — how she had held him at arm's
length, vet each day drawn him on a little further and
a little further — how she had — bah ! he couldn't think
of it any longer, but he rapped out two short words,
which nearly sent Stephen's gravity off the balance,
and they were — " Little Devil ! "

Bi THE Author of "A Regimental Martyr," "A Regimental Valentine,'
A Regimental Poet," &c., &c.

Chapter I.
Captain Gurney Alas utterly tired of his old regiment,
and had made up his mind to leave it. So long
as his comfort depended upon the behaviour of his
.brother officers he was very well content, for all
soldiers are willing to overlook practical jokes, and
subalterns are compelled to do so. But sometimes
the juniors have wives, and when those wives are
very beautiful and very popular women, they have it in
their power to make matters particularly unpleasant
for any officer to whom they may have taken a dislike.
However greatly an officer may be offended
and annoyed by so-called jokes, even though they
have been carried beyond all bounds of reason, three
words will generally set everything straight and make
him forget all about it ; but with his wife reconciliation
is not always so easily effected : if she resolutely
declines to forget what is past, and cannot forgive
fun " — at the worst only intended to relieve the

tedium of dull country quarters — the unlucky offender
may find this life much less pleasant than it might
otherwise have been to him. Now this was precisely
the box in which Captain Gurney found himself, and
he did not relish the position at all. When, after
dinner or ball, the men were, one and all, raving
of the beauty, and the wit, and the charms of Mrs.
Gerard St. Hilary or Mrs. Patrick O'Shaughnassy, not
forgetting Mrs. Stephen Thorold, it was galling in the
extreme to this gallant gay Lothario to be obliged to
own that he had no acquaintance with any of them.
When all his comrades Avent on Sunday afternoon to
the house of ' one or other of those ladies, for an early
cup of tea, he could not do likewise, because he had
not been asked. When he met the two first in the
street, (Judith was more merciful) they looked him
.full in the eyes without the slightest inclination of
either handsome head ; he felt all his temper — and it
was a passionately fierce one— surging up tumultuously
within him, and he vowed bitter vengeance
against the pair of them, and looked forward with
intense eagerness to the day when he should have
brought one or both of them to his feet, when they
should acknowledge his powder and atone for by-gone
scorn with pleading humiliation : dien those eyes
which looked so straight ly into his own, should droop
before his in supplicating fear. Nay, I must confess, he

looked eagerly forward to the time when Gerard St.
Hilar' and Patrick O'Shanghnassy should find their
hearts desolate ; but

There's a divinity that shapes our ends,
Enough-hew them how we will.

The day which Greville Gurney anticipated never
came. Without doubt, he was handsome enough
and fascinating withal, but, bless you, the man never
got a chance. Elinor St. Hilary and Alys O'Shaugh-
massy wouldn't have him at any price . . . they both
agreed that their safest plan would be to keep on
the firm ground of non-acquaintance, and not trust
themselves upon the perilous and extremely uncertain
ocean of Captain Gurney 's friendship. At last he
felt he could endure life in the old regiment no
longer : he was too fond of his profession to dream of
leaving the army, but he made up his mind that he
must exchange, dien, to his unspeakable joy and
satisfaction, he obtained the majority, and immediately
exchanged with Major Ford of the 7th
Lancers, then in India. So he turned his back
upon the old set, followed only, I fear, by the
regrets of his commanding officer, for he was a
smart soldier, whom Colonel Clifford was sorry to lose,
and Colonel Cornwallis was glad to gain. He gave a
handsome piece of silver to the mess-plate, and had a
ijrand farewell dinner fjiven to him, at which, if mv

reader had been present, he might reasonably have
supposed that the officers were, one and all, convinced
that the hope and the prestige of the regiment were
departing from them in the person of Greville
Gurney, and yet they knew — and, what was worse, he
knew — that they were all very glad to be rid of
him. But his advent into the 7th was eagerly expected,
more especially by the chief, for smart
officers, like good-looking curates, are at a premium,
so he felt that the change was all for the best.

He had never thought, or indeed intended, to go to
India ; but, after all, he rather liked the idea. The
7th had only some three years to remain in India,
and, by the time he returned, lie could set about
finding a wife in downright good earnest.

However, before the good ship sighted the Rock,
the idea had entered his brain and taken very firm
root there, for, curiously enough, he found amongst
the passengers Mrs. Cornwallis, the wife of his new
colonel, and her sister. Miss Bannister.

Violet and Dorothea Bannister were co-heiresses,
and had been left orphans at a very early age. In
appearance they were not much alike, for Violet, the
elder by two years, was fair, with a gentle, saint-like
expression of countenance, and large limpid eyes, of
so deep a blue that her fanciful young mother had
insisted upon her being called — Violet.

You know, Jack," she had said to her husband,
when he demurred a Utile, wishing himself to call the
child after her, " we can give the next one my great
mouthful of a name," and so the child was christened
Violet, later shortened into Vi ; but when the next
one came there was no question of dispute about her
name, for the young mother lay in a darkened chamber
above, while a grave-faced clergyman performed the
ceremony of baptism in haste, fearing that the morsel
of humanity, whose tiny life had cost so dear a price,
would die in his arms ere it was concluded.

But the child did not die : the elder Dorothea,
with all her strong affections and her bright hopes of
life, passed away ; but the younger one, with her few
hours' hold upon existence, struggled on and lived.

About her name there had been no question, but
by it she was never called. Mr. Bannister could not
bear the sound of it, and Alas eagerly glad when, somehow,
the tiny, dark-haired, dusky-eyed child came to
be known in the household as Floss. So Floss she
was called, and Floss she remained, long after her
father had followed his young wife across the dark
river, and after Yi had been three years married to
Colonel Cornwallis of the 7th Lancers.

When Yi had married, at twenty, to go to India immediately
— for she had met Colonel Cornwallis whilst
on leave — Floss had not been in very robust health.

and the doctors had. advised her not accompanying
her sister just then. She therefore Avent to hive with
the aunt, with whom they had spent all their holidays,
and who divided her time equally between Paris,
London, and Scarborough. The three jeers had
passed in a perfect whirl of pleasure for Floss, but
she had not followed her sister's example and entered
upon the holy estate of matrimony. Mrs. Garth Alas
in no hurry to lose the girl who made her life so daily,
hourly bright, Avhose fascinating ways made her house
the most sought after domicile in Whatever town they
happened to be living ; and so it happened that Avhen,
after a few hours' illness, Mrs. Garth Alas taken away
from the pleasures she loved so dearly. Floss Alas
completely left alone. She had no relatives but the
CornAvallises, and she telegraphed to \i to come, if
possible, to settle their aunt's affairs, and take her
back to India With her.

Thus it happened that, after a three months' sojourn
in England, Mrs. Cornwallis Alas returning to her
husband, taking Floss With her. And then everything
seemed couleur de ros to Greville Gurney's eyes.
Surely no man Cater Avent that voyage With a more
contented heart than his ! He had nothing to do,
nothing to Avorry him, no disagreeable, handsome subalterns'
Avives to annoy him With their airs and graces;
he had no temptations to indulge in his old favourite

pursuit of practical joking, and he had at all hours
of the day Floss Bannister to watch and talk to. And,
of course, it was pleasant for the sisters to have the
major of their own regiment travelling with them :
they made pleasant little excursions wherever they
stopped ; they had a dozen little innocent jokes of
their own — that is to say, strictly among themselves —
which they did not share with the other passengers,
and the trio enjoyed life immensely. It was colder de
rose for all of them. Yi, who was going back to her
husband, and to seeing whom she counted the days
and almost the hours, used to sit idly under a huge
white umbrella, thinking of little else save the stern,
bronzed face, with its well-waxed dark moustaches,
which was to her as no other on the whole earth; and
Floss, always restless, always with some employment,
flirting with Greville Gurney, who, for his part, was so
supremely, calmly happy, that he almost wished the
voyage would last for ever.

But it did not : in time it came to an end, and they
reached Bombay, where they found Colonel Cornwallis
waiting for them. It may readily be imagined
that during the days which followed Captain Gurney 's
opportunities of seeing Floss Bannister were not
lessened : he opened his eyes in astonishment at the
marvellous way in which the chiefs little wife bloomed
out and expanded after they landed ; he could hardly

believe it was the same Avoman. He had wondered
during the voyage if she could really be Miss Bannister's
sister ; they seemed so different : the one all
fire and vivacity, the other so languidly indifferent to
all subjects save that of reaching Bombay. But now
that he saw her under what Floss called " favourable
circumstances," he was fairly dumb with amazement.
It was as if a little sickly bud, with seemingly not
sufficient strength to bloom, had suddenly been transformed
into a gorgeous rose, with all her velvet-like
petals, her fragrance and her many graces set forth
for the benefit of all beholders : he wondered if
Floss would ever love him like that ? He did not
know ; he was not sure. He thought she seemed
brighter and more sparkling when he was near her ;
he fancied her great dark eyes lighted up with more
than their usual radiance when he approached her ;
he tried hard to persuade himself that he was quite
sure she loved him, but he could not altogether
succeed. He had made several mistakes upon that
same subject lately, and, somehow, he had not heart
enough to put it to the test and have done with it.
He haunted the colonel's bungalow until the chief
suggested to his wife that Gurney had better take
lodo-ino-s with them altogether, but he o't no further
with Floss. Try as he would, he could not induce
her to look at anything in a serious light : if ever he

approached, no matter how cautiously, the topics of
loneliness or marriage, Floss immediately opened out
upon what she called her " views."

I don't think I quite believe in marriage, Major
Gurney," she said one day, when he had expressed
his envy of a fellow-officer, who was just entering the
holy state. " It's all very well for men, but for us
poor women ! — why, it is neither more nor less than
giving up a kingdom to become a slave. Xow, just
take me for an example ! I have now between
twenty and thirty adorers — humble, abject adorers."

"Yes, I know," muttered Major Gurney between
his teeth. There were just seven and twenty, without
counting himself.

Xot that I consider them very delightful," Floss
continued, with gravely pursed-up mouth. " In fact,
strictly between you and me, they are rather a
nuisance, so many of them. But then, supposing
I was to marry one of them — wdiy, he might turn out
like the husband of a friend of mine. What do you
think he does ? "

Beats her perhaps," suggested the major.

Much worse," Floss cried, energetically — she had
not been in India long enough to become languid.
She is five and twenty, a gentlewoman by birth
and education, the mother of two children, and he
never gives her a penny ! "

By Jove ! " muttered the major, in astonishment ;
but perhaps she has money of lier own ? "

Xot a farthing."

But how does she dress herself ? "

Oh, when she cannot do without a dress any longer,
he goes and buys her one, and he pays her dressmaker's
bill himself. I have seen him buy six pair of
gloves for himself and. one for her ; and once, when I
was staying there, he went himself to pay a woman
who had been helping in the kitchen," she ended,
indignantly.

"What a mean hound!" ejaculated Major Gurney,
in very real tones of condemnation.

The mischievous laughter in Floss Bannister's dusky
eyes deepened, and the indignant ring in her voice
grew more pronounced.

Ah ! but I told that story once to a man who
wanted to marry me," she laughed, " and he used
those very words, ' What a mean hound ! ' I must
admit that tlicy sounded so real that he completely
took me in, but I heard not long afterwards that
during the nine years he was married — for he was a
widower — he never once bought his wife a gown, and
the only decent dresses she had, her mother gave her! "

Within himself Major Gurney groaned. It was
no use arguing with Floss any further, he knew ; she
had triumphed. Yet he laughed! He had, he was

perfectly aware of it, many objectionable points, but
meanness was not one of them. He laughed half a
dozen times that day at the idea of his paying Less's
bills, and doling out a pair of gloves at a time. He
thought it would be rather nice than otherwise to
have those coaxing eyes up-lifted to his, that
coaxing mouth teazing for a new dress or a set of
furs, to hear her winning tones saying persuasively,
Greville, do buy me that bonnet."

And yet to him there was something absolutely
appalling in the idea of a pretty woman not being-able
to have as many gowns and bonnets as she
required. He should like the coaxing eyes, the
coaxing mouth, and the winning tones dearly enough,
but he would prefer to hear them say, " Greville, do
take me for a drive," or " Darling, release don't stay
away a moment longer than you can help," to
Greville, do buy me that bonnet."

When a man is in love it does not take much to
put him into a perfect paradise of bliss — only about
as much as is required to throw him into a fever of
unrest and misery. Major Gurney that evening was
happy — very happy. He went to bed and slept
soundly ; he did not often do that. He was not bitten
once by anything during the whole night, and he
dreamt that Floss Bannister had come and put her
soft arms round his neck and said, "Love me,

VOL. I. I

Greville." Poor fellow, it was like falling from
Heaven into the nethermost torment, when he woke
to find his bearer's black face peeping through the
curtains, and " Four o'clock. Sahib," sounding in his
ears. Why it was an absolute insult to Floss that a
wretched Hindoo should recall her to his mind.

As usual, during his morning ride, he fell in with
the Cornwallises and Miss Bannister, and, for a
wonder, the latter was unattended.

How grave you look," she remarked, when they
were riding quietly abreast, " Had a bad night ? "

Quite the contrary — an unusually good one," he
replied.

Then what is the matter?" she persisted.

Oh ! I've been thinking of what you said yesterday,"
he returned gravely.

What about ? "

About ^ettino- married."

An expression of intense amusement came into her
eyes, as quickly followed by a certain tenderness,
which, if Major Gurney had noticed, would have set
everything straight between them ; but unfortunately
he did not, for Floss's face Alas bent almost to her
saddle.

"And what have you been thinking about? " she
asked at length.

Well, of course, what you told me was very bad,

very despicable," he answered, " and a fellow, who
believes like that to his wife, ought to be sent to
Coventry ; but, still, there's something to be said on our
side. Stow, I know a lady, Miss Bannister, who never
speaks to her husband, if she can possibly help it."

Perhaps he deserves it," Floss suggested.

Very likely, only that is hardly the way to help
liii to grow better, is it ? "

Floss pulled her horse up sharply. " Don't speak
to me in that way," she cried ; " I'm not anyone's
wife, thank goodness — if I were, I should behave
myself properly ; but don't bully me for some one
else's misdoings." And then, like two silly children,
they burst out laughing, and rode on again. The
major, however, had something to say, and he meant
to say it.

And I once knew a lady who spent just five
times as much as her husband could afford. He
was a barrister; and to see the poor chap toiling and
slaving and Working to provide things for her, without
thanks even. Oh ! by George! but it did make
my blood boil. She used to do all sorts of things,
too, that he didn't like ; and once, she proposed a
mad freak, which I said I was certain her husband
vv'ould never permit.

' Permit,' she laughed. ' Pooh ! — I have a hold
over that man.' "

VOL I. I 2

Hateful wretch ! " cried Floss, passionately. " I
should like to marry her to Windy's husband — he
would let her see ! Hateful wretch ! "

But, still, although he had gained a victory over
Floss, it cannot be said that Major Gurney's wooing
throve apace. As if to make up for the serious conversations
they had indulged in. Floss, for a few
weeks, gave Major Gurney but little of her society.
Of the seven and twenty adorers, each had a turn —
such a turn, too, that with every one a match was
predicted ; and then one or two new ones arrived on
the scene. Floss polished them all off. Lie was
very particular, too, to carry on her warmest flirtations
just under the major's nose, driving him
thereby to the very verge of desperation.

And then the Cornwallises obtained leave, and went
to Simla, from whence he heard plentiful accounts of
Floss's doings, and, shall I dare to say it, misdoings ?
Poor Major Gurney, he railed at the fate which
would not give him leave ; at the utterly unjust and
unequal way in which the little blind god distributes
his favours ; and thus March and April slipped away ;
and then he had fresh cause for grumbling, for just
as the Cornwallises returned, an attack of fever laid
him on the sick-list, and another fortnight passed
before he saw her.

And, Avhen at length he was able to crawl over to

the colours bungalow, there were rumours afloat,
which put such thoughts as favour and marriage out
of his head, rumours which gave the officers grave
faces and the wives fearful hearts, for the chiefs of
them was — Mutiny.

Chaise II.

All English people know the history of that fearful
struggle by heart — some by the brotherhood of
nationality, others by bitter heartaches and weary
blanks in the family circle, which may be filled up
never more. And there are not a few who can look
back to those weary months, when they stood cheek
by jowl with grim death, with famine, torture, and
even dishonour in his ghastly train. The words
Cawnpore," '' Delhi," and " Lucknow," are sufficient
to brings to our minds scenes and details which
sickened us to read, and which sicken us now to recall
to our remembrance. How gently - born,
delicately-nurtured women and little children went
through fearful privations and hardships during that
awful time, only to end by finding themselves
widowed or orphans. How thousands won for themselves
a glorious crown of martyrdom, cruelly as did
ever saints of old. How parents saw their little

innocent babes murdered before their eyes while waiting
for their own turn to come. Husbands shot their
wives to save their honour — the tender Avives whom
they had brought from the safe shelter of their English
homes. How, even after that, we are told, they died
praying to the end — died, seeing resistance useless, as
only the English aristocrat can die — and are not the
English of the truest aristocracy, inasmuch as they
can fight like tigers and die without a murmur?

Colonel Cornwallis's first anxiety Alas to get his
Avise and sister as much out of harm's Avay as possible,
and to the comparative safety of Simla he decided to
send them, but, Avhen the arrangements Avere all completed,
an obstacle, unthought of before, presented
itself in the shape of Mrs. Cornwallis's consent. He
had taken that for granted. The idea of gentle,
obedient Yi dreaming for one moment of setting up
her Avill in opposition to his had never occurred to
him. Yi, avIio lived and breathed and had her very
beings him ! Yi, Who drooped and faded like a
flower torn from the parent stem, if parted from him
even for a da'. That Yi should flatly refuse to go
he had never anticipated, yet that Alas Avliat she did.

I Avon't go," she said, decidedly.

Neither AA'ill I,'' announced her sister.

Colonel Cornwallis fairly groaned. That Floss
should shoal her Avill Alas nothing ncAv, or that she

should fuUo^v her sister's lead, once m a way. If Yi
had stormed and cried, had begged him, with sobs and
tears, not to send her away, he would, he knew, have
prevailed, but Vi did nothing of the sort. She lifted
her great violet eyes boldly to his, she folded her
hands placidly, and she said, " I won't go."

Neither will I," said Floss.

But my dearest," the colonel replied, " God only
knows to what this may lead. In Simla you Avill be
fairly safe. Think of my anxiety', if I see you here-suffering
and am unable to help you, think of my
sorrow, if — if you are Abounded, if — Oh, Yi, my-darling,
you must go ! I shall at least have the comfort
of knowing that you are safe. I mist upon your
going."

Xo," she replied, firmly, " I will not go. I have
never once crossed your will since our marriage day.
I cross it now by refusing to obey you. It is no use
insisting, I 'refuse to obey. I took 3'ou," she continued,
with a sob in her voice, " for better for worse,
for richer for poorer, till death us do part ! This is
my place, and here I remain."

"But, great heavens!" cried the major, who was
present, " you may be killed ! ^Te cannot tell
what the consequences may be. Floss " — stepping
forward and taking her hand — " Floss, persuade her
to do as we wish."

But Floss turned upon him with an indignant flash
in her dark eyes, and flung the hand from her. " Do
you think we Bannisters are cowards ? " she cried,
passionately. " If there is danger, we can share it ;
privation, we can try to lighten it ; death, we candie
like christians." And so they gave in, and the two
brave girls won the day, but not before Colonel Cornwallis
tried once again.

Supposing I am killed, Yi," he said gravely, " I
shall die with the agony of knowing that you are left
at the mercy of these savages. Will you add that
misery to my difficulties ? "

No, Bruce," she answered, " if we should be taken,
I shall find death come sweetest from your hand, out
of the pistols which I have loaded and polished for
you so often ! Yes, in that case, to save me greater
torture, you will shoot me — it will be over in a
moment ! If you are killed, I can trust your officers
to protect me, and, failing them," with a smile, " I
shall have quite sufficient courage to send the bullet
home myself." And so the day was won !

The story went from mouth to mouth, bringing tears
to the eyes of the rough stalwart troopers, courage to
the drooping hearts of their wives, avIio had not had
the chance of escape, and comfort to the souls of the
two men, who knew now what was the depth of those
brave, loving, faithful hearts. They were glad then

that their entreaties had not prevailed, for the two
gentle girls had not stayed to become a burden and a
hindrance. Their time was fully occupied, tending
the sick and wounded, cheering the brave little band —
Which grew daily smaller and smaller — going fearlessly
amid shot and shell on their rounds of hope and
mercy, the sisters won the passionate love and admiration
of every man, woman and child in the garrison.
It was Vi, who gave her last tin of milk for the sick
child of a private's wife ; it was Vi, whose breast
pillowed the dying head of trooper and officer alike ;
Yi, who wrote down loving messages of farewell, to be
given if she should live through the rebellion ; it was
to please Vi, that wounded men hushed their groans
and terrified Avomen tried to be brave. And Floss,
Avhatofher? Of the nursing and the cooking and
the washing she did her share, but there was one
duty she took upon herself and never failed in. The
chaplain had enough upon his hands in burning the
dead and helping Vi to comfort the dying, more than
twice in the day, he could not visit the out-posts.
Floss went almost every hour ! How the men looked
for her coming. With her pale, pale face, and her
dark eyes, with her dark silky hair cut close to her
head, partly on account of the terrible heat, partly to
save time and trouble ; Avitli her gown, which had
once been white, but alas ! was now all stained and

yellow, and with her brave heart, open to all alike
now, she seemed to them like some glorious angel, for
surely it was the light of Heaven, which shone upon
her face. Sometimes she brought her Bible and read
a few verses, sometimes she sang a hymn, but more
often she knelt simply down and repeated " Our
Father " in her clear ringing tones, ending " The Lord
bless us and keep us."

She would bring to one man news of his sick wife,
to another tidings of his wounded comrade, to all
courage and comfort, and still she did not shirk her
woman's Avork.

And then the labour which fell upon her grew
heavier, for Colonel Cornwallis was grievously wounded.
Yi, Who had worked like a very slave, left much of
her work in the hospital to Floss ; she could scarcely
be torn from her husband's side, and so Floss worked
larder than ever. Her face grew paler and more
wan, her eyes more haggard, her gown more torn and
yellow, and upon the little hands, which had once
been so white and soft, the traces of work became
more apparent, and the enemy crept closer and closer.
As her work in the garrison grew heavier, so did her
self-imposed labour of love at the out-posts and fortifications
diminish, for, with almost every day, she had
fewer to visit. Every day brave, bronzed, bearded
faces were missis— faces that had brio-tenet at her

coming ; ej'es that had lighted up With tenderest love
for her Avere doav closed in the sleep of death ; lips
that kissed the little Avork-worn hands gratefully AA^ere
silenced for ever. She missed them, With a bitter
heartache, and dared not trust herself to think Which
face might be gone Avhen she came again ; but she
bore up bravely through it all.

In Avhat the defenders of the garrison Avere pleased
to term safety, the misery Alas greater. Xo one had
time for grief: Widows sav their dear ones carried
away, but they might not sit doAvn and Aveep ; there
Alas more Avork than could be done Avaitinfr for their

o

hands. E'en Yi, having managed to get her husband
a room alone in the little bungalow Which stood in the
compound of the one they had occupied, but Which
noah formed the hospital, left him a good deal, that
she might lighten her sister's load ; and so the time
Avent on. Amongst others, the chaplain Alas killed, so
then Floss Alas the only comforter of the defenders.
They Avatched, anxiously enough, the pale face groaning
paler, the circles round the dark eyes deepening ;
they noted the least falter in the gentle voice, Which
had not much ring left in it, Which had neither time
nor strength for reading or for hymns, Which noah
only gave utterance to those taro short prayers,

Thy Kingdom come,
Thy-will be done.

Only that and " The Lord bless us and keep us''

Chapter III.
At last Greville Gurney had given iu, not from
Abounds, not sunstroke, not from malady of any kind
only from sheer fatigue, from overpowering sleep.

Some of the men lifted him on to a mattress and
carried him to the first room of the hospital. eTust
as they turned away Floss came out of an inner
apartment with scared eyes and a single word upon
her lips — " Wounded ? "

Xo, no. Miss, darling," answered one of them ;
only dead beat he is ; an hour of sleep '11 do him
all the good in the world."

Ah I " with a great sigh of relief, then leant her
head against the wall and closed her eyes. The big-irishman
looked at her in silence for a moment.

"I'd just go an' lie down me-self, if I was you.
Miss, dear," he said : " at last you'll be wearing' herself
out, and we'll have never a soul to say a word of
comfort to us."

I'm afraid I must," she answered ; " I'd go and
lie down by the colonel, only I'm so tired."

The big lancer picked her up like a baby, and ran
across the compound with her, taking her right into
the chiefs room, not a little to Vi's dismay, who
feared she was hurt

Miss Floss is just tired out, mem," he announced,
and we've frightened her to death by carrying in
the major-who's dead beat."

"I thought he would have to give in," Mrs.
Cornwallis said, as the man retired. " Lie doAvn
here, Floss, and I will go and see after things."

Could you go round the posts ? " Floss asked, imploringly.
"They will be expecting me, and it wouldn't
take you long : just the ' Our Father' and the blessing,
Vi."

Yes, I'll do it," and then she went away.

And so the two brave souls slept heavily. Floss within
sight of the wounded colonel, and Greville Gurney
on the floor of the hospital ; and while they slept, the
enemy crept a little nearer, forced the defenders back,
and covered the space between the two bungalows
with their fire. At the very first shot Vi Cornwallis sped
back to her husband's side, just as Floss, with dazed
eyes and scattered senses, sat up on her bed, wondering
what the noise meant.

What is it, Divi ? " she asked.

I think the end has come," she said calmly ; " let
me have your hand, Bruce, darling." All her bravery,
all her courage rose to the surface then. She sat
down quietly beside her husband, With one hand in
his, a revolver in her right hand, and a second lying
ready loaded on the bed.

'' What's that?" Floss cried, clasping her hands
together.

There was no answer : a shell came through the
roof with a crash, while from the opposite building-rose
a wild shriek of " Fire ! "

What's that? " Major Gurney asked, starting up
from his hardly-earned repose.

A young officer, just entering the room, answered
him hastily, " A shell has sent the colonel's room
to smash, and they're all there I "

Greville Gurney sprang from his couch without a
moment's delay, and ran as fast as possible round to
the side of the hospital, opposite to which the Cornwalliseses'
room was. A little group of soldiers and
ladies were standing within the shelter, one of the
women sobbing unrestrainedly.

Good heavens ! are you going to leave them there?"
Greville cried passionately : " a wounded man and two
helpless Avomen in a burning house ! "

The roof has fallen, major," one of the men replied,
" and there is a sharp fire between us."

So there was: they could watch the bullets whistling
and whirling through the air between them and the
Cornwallises' hut. As the man spoke several officers
came running to the spot : " The colonel's room ? "
one asked.

"Yes, Fm going," the major answered.

So am I," and " So am I," cried the others.

No, no ; I'll have no married men," Greville cried
decidedly. " Maude, you may come."

As he spoke he caught up a mattress, and dashed
straight across the open space, followed by young
Maude, both of them reaching the verandah of the
opposite bungalow in safety. There, under the verandah's
scanty shelter, they found the two women, who,
between them, had managed to drag Colonel Cornwallis
out of the rapidly-burning building. Floss
uttered a glad cry, as the two men ran round the
corner ; little Mrs. Cornwallis breaking into a passionate
torrent of tears.

Maude, you are less than I," Major Gurney said,
hurriedly, when they found the ladies were still unhurt:
" take Mrs. Cornwallis ; she is the least. Put your
arms round Maude's throat, Mrs. Cornwallis, and try
your best to keep behind the shelter of the mattress."

I won't leave Bruce," the little woman announced :
you must take him first."

"Nonsense : do as we tell you," imperatively.

I won't," sitting down by her huslxmd and taking
his hand.

You must," said the major firmly Colonel, will
you use your inlluence ? " bending over him tenderly.
"Mrs. Cornwallis objects to leaving you, but we wil
come back for you, when they are in safety."

"Go, my darling," said the colonel faintly, "bnt
kiss me first,"

Yi bent over him to do his bidding, and did what
was, perhaps, the best thing she could possibly do
under the circumstances — fainted away.

That's better," muttered Greville. "Pick her up,
Maude, and run off with her: stay, have your mattress
so," tearing a long hole in the cover for the young-man
to pass his arm through.

Xow, Floss, trust yourself perfectly to me."

No, no ; I'm heavy," she answered, " I can run,
you've no idea how fast ; and I'll slip this long skirt off,
and surely between us we can carry Bruce across."

Nonsense ; I must take you myself," he answered.

Well, then, here is the mattress Bruce Alas on when
we dragged him out ; let me take that and go by myself
; I'm not afraid. Oh! Major Gurney, wdiat is the
matter with Bruce — is he dead ? "

Fainted," he returned briefly, " all the better for
my purpose. If you're not going to take that skirt,
I will use it as a sling, and regularly hang him round
my neck, so ;" then, having slipped the long muslin
skirt under the colonel's knees, and tied a knot ready
to slip over his head, he turned to Floss : " I must
see you off first, darling."

I am ready when you tell me."

Major Gurney arranged the mattress to the best

advantage, and led lier to the corner. " Floss," lie
said, hoarsely, taking her by the hand and bending his
face down to hers, " will you kiss me before you go ?
and if I get hurt — for I shall have a good weight to
carry," looking doubtfully at the unconscious form
beside them, " I shall know if you cared or not."

Yes, dear," Floss answered, simply, holding up
her face to his.

Xow go," he said, quietly, " go at once."

Floss Bannister turned her soft, dark eyes upon
his in silence, and, with that one look, ran boldly
round the corner, and was lost to view.

Alone ! " cried a dozen eager voices as she gained
the opposite verandah. " Why, where's Gurney ? "

"Bringing the colonel, "Floss replied, at which poor
Yi's tears broke out anew — tears of gratitude those.

Where's Mr. Maude ? " Floss asked, looking round.

Shot in the shoulder : Dr. Moss is attending to
him."

All my fault," Yi sobbed.

Hush ! here he is," as Greville Gurney left the
shelter of the opposite building, staggering under the
heavy weight of the still unconscious colonel, yet
keeping to his task bravely, and holding his slender
cover as best he could between them and the enemy's
fire."

He'll do it ! " cried one.

VOL. I. K

Somebody run out and help him," said another ;
let me go."

Into, no, Jack," cried an anxious-wife, holding
him back.

Let him alone," put in another, With his arm in a
sling ; " he'll manage it best alone."

He's shot ! " Floss screamed ; "I sav it. Oh ! I
tell you, I saw it. I saw him stagger."

No, no, it was the chief's weight."

I don't know ; he's very shaky'— now — put your
hand out; I've only one. Ah! here he is. Bravo!
well done! " as the major reached the shelter, and a
dozen hands were ready to relieve him of his burden.
"Hold up a moment, man, till we get it off," trying,
With his left hand, to free the major's throat from the
muslin sling.

I can't," he gasped, sinking on his knees.

Hollo ! " forgetting his shattered arm in his effort
to hold him up ! " You're not hurt, surely ? "

I'm done for," Greville said, faintly ; " did she get
in safe ? "

Mrs. Cornwallis, with an ingratitude for which she
may surely be forgiven, had flown to her husband's
side, and left his deliverer unheeded ; but Floss, with
a face so white and eyes so filled with pain, that the
little group stood aside to let her pass, came swiftly
beside him, and lifted his head upon her arm.

I am here," she said, softly ; " the doctor will he
With us in a moment"'

No use, dear ; it's all up," he gasped : " got a
bullet through my lungs."

Don't talk," she said, imperatively.

Make— no difference, and there are some things
I must say. Floss, if all this trouble had never been,
would my love have been of any good ? Would you
have ever loved me ? "

For one moment she raised her eyes to the sorrowful
sympathetic faces round them, then she answered
clearly,

If it pleases God to take you from me, I weill come
to you in heaven — Floss Bannister still."

Thank you, dearest. No, don't touch me, doctor ;
no use."

My dear fellow, we cannot tell that till I have
looked at you," the surgeon said, kindly.

No use ; it will be over in a minute or two now.
Floss, if ever you come across any of the old 52nd tell
them I am sorry now I did not make myself more to
them ; that I thought of them all kindly at the last."

Yes, I'll tell them," Floss answered, in a strangely
far-off sounding voice.

I dare say they've forgotten all the old quarrels
noah," he said, faintly ; then, after a long silence,
"Still there, Floss?"

VOL. I. K 2

Still here, darling."

He smiled at her words, and felt blindly for her
hand. His breathing grew more laboured, his face
mere deadly pale. Then a sudden glad light flooded
into his blue eyes, the smile on his lips deepened, and
he tried to speak again. But the effort only ended
in a crimson stain upon the kerchief Floss held to his
lips, followed by a sigh and a shiver, and Greville
Journey lay dead, With his face turned up to the
brilliant Indian sky, surely one of the grandest heroes
that ever Queen or regiment boasted of. And
beside him lay Floss Bannister, in the blessed unconsciousness,
which sometimes comes to lull our keenest
agonies, for a little while, to rest.

It was months later that Geoffry Maude, writing
to Stephen Thorold, gave, at Floss Bannister's desire,
Greville Gurney's last message to his old comrades,
and Mrs. Stephen, with tears in her soft eyes, read
the letter to such of the regiment as had assembled
in her drawing room that Sunday afternoon, for tea
and chat. It was received in silence, more than one
hardy soldier turning away to hide the emotion he
was ashamed to show. Alys O'Shaughnassy had
hidden her face against her husband's arm, but little
Mrs. St. Hilary looked up bravely, though there was

an oininuiis glitter of tears in her large eyes, and a
l)iteoiis quivering about her mouth.

I always liked him," she said, trying hard to
steady her voice, "I always liked him, and I'm sorry
I bore malice so long. So are you, Alys, I know ;
but he was a gentleman and a brave soldier, and he
will have forgiven us. He has come out in his true
character — that of a chivalrous hero, and now that
he has gone where mistakes and resentment have no
]place, lie will surely know how deeply we regret
him, how any ill-feeling there may have been between
him and us is blotted out by the glorious
way in which he has shown us all how duty maybe
done ! " And then the little woman broke into a
passionate torrent of tears.

(3K, :\iy First DAY IN THE ]Regiment.

Here he comes ! "

By gad, so lie does ! Hurrah ! Some sport tonight.
"

"Looks rather pale, doesn't he?"

Yes, and will want a good deal of setting up,
loo."

"Poor devil! I pity him."

As I was not at all atfli(^.ted — in that instance I
might have said blessed — with deafness, these were
:i few of the remarks I could not help hearing, as I
drove up to the officers' mess of the cavaky barracks
at Colchester, where I had come to join the regiment,
to which I had been gazetted a couple of months
before.

Quite unwittingly, I had chosen a very poor time
for presenting myself. "Mid-day stables" were just
over, and almost all the officers of the regiment were
Awaiting about the verandah till luncheon should be
ready. They were none of them in very amiable
tempers ; for they had just heard in the office that

a letter had come down for them to hold themselves
in readiness to march to the autumn manoeuvres at
Aldershot, and Aldershot is, as most people know, a
spot no cavalry officer rejoices to find himself near,
even when there are no manoeuvres going on.

Anything more uncomfortable than were my feelings
that morning could not be easily imagined. I
had never met my regiment before. I knew none
of the men, and I was quite at a loss to know to
whom I must address myself. However, I was compelled
to act ; and stumbling out of the cab, with my
heart in my throat and great beads of perspiration
breaking out upon my forehead, I stood for a moment
while my future comrades inspected me, as if I were
a polo pony for sale.

My hesitation lasted but an instant. I chose my
man, an elderly, rather good-looking officer, with a
bald head and well-waxed moustache; so, with a
ghastly grin, I blurted out,

I've come to join."

Oh, have you ? " said he, carelessly, and with an
expression of intense amusement on his face? "Your
name's Winter, I suppose? Oh, all right. Come along
with me, and I'll introduce you to the colonel. I
think you have not met him yet ? "

Xo," I answered, beginning to feel a little more
at my ease.

"Wait a moment; 111 just make you acquainted
with these fellows first."

This terrible ordeal over, I was hustled off by my
elderly friend to be presented to the colonel, whom
we found sitting in the office with his adjutant making
arrangements for the coins manoeuvres.

"I've brought Mr. Winter to see you, sir. He's
come to join," said my guide.

Ah, how are you?" said the colonel. "I'm very
glad to see you; for we're rather short of subalterns,
and every addition is a great help. Have you got
your uniform and that sort of thing ? I hope you'll
like sour work. Are you fond of riding ? "

I answered modestly that I was, but I was afraid
my experience in that line was rather limited. As I
spoke, a few riding school anecdotes began to crop
up in my mind; for, during the two last months,
every man I had met seemed to consider it his duty
to impress upon me the fact, that a riding-school is
neither more nor less than a second inferno.

Brought any hunters down with you ? "

Xo, sir."

Umph ! A pity ! This is a fair hunting district.
However, those are little additions easily made, and
I've no doubt you'll soon fall into the ways of the regiment.
You'll find your brother-officers quite ready to
help you in anything so far as sport is concerned."

Of a truth I did ; for as soon as it became kno^vn
that I Alas anxious to buy a hunter, there Alas
scarcely an officer in the regiment who Alas not
anxious to sell me one, " perfectly sound, and quite
good enough to Avin a steeplechase."

My interview With the colonel O'er, I Alas taken
by my elderly friend to haec lunch. On the AA-ay to
the mess-room Ave met an officer, Who seemed to me
Avery old to be still in the army.

Here's old Muggins, the riding-master," said my
guide, Avhom I afterwards found Alas called " the
Fossil," on account of his antique appearance. "Well,
Muggins, this is Mr. Winter, just joined."

"Ho!" said Mr. Muggins. "Glad to see you.
Fond of riding ? Hey ? "

I returned the same answer that I had given to
the colonel on that subject, and Mr. Muggins grinned
a grin Which somehow reminded me of a cat playing
With a mouse.

"Ho, my boy," said he; don't knoAv much about
it, don't you? Well, Ave'll soon tickle you hup a bit.
Hey, Moore?"

"Yes, I daresay," in rather a bored tone. "Come
along, Winter. Beastly old cad, Muggins!" he burst
out, as soon as Ave Avere out of earshot. "Always
sneaking about and getting the young chaps into
trouble, except they happen to be Cavilling to bribe him."

At lunch I was posted next to a young subaltern
of about six months' service, who, having himself
just got over the rough part of joining, thought it
his bounden duty to "swagger" over me. He was
a babyish-looking, flaxen-haired cornet, with about as
much hair on his upper lip as you might find upon
that of a boy of twelve. He went — as I very soon
heard, in spite of my fright — by the name of "the
Boys," occasionally varied by that of " the Brat."

"Ah ! which is your county?" drawled this youngster,
quite affecting the old soldier.

Devon," said I, trying in vain to swallow a lump
of cutlet which had found its way into my mouth ;
how, I was really too much excited to know, for I
was painfully aware every eye in the room was upon
me.

Ah ! any hounds down there ? "

Oh yes. I think so," I stammered, being in too
much of a "funk" to know, or rather remember,
whether there were or not.

Ah ! " said my young cornet ; and there our conversation
ended, and I was thus enabled to hear a
little of what was going on at the other end of the
room; for two or three fellows, who had finished
their lunch, had left the table and were standing ina
group on the hearthrug.

"I should like to buy that chap at my valuation.

and sell him at his own," said one. " I'm rather hard
up, and a profit might help me a bit."

What a rum wdj the young beggar pronounces
his A's ! " said a second, taking no notice whatever of
the previous remark.

Ah ! " put in a third, " yes, poor devil ! Probably
he's only just learned them."

Not much to look at, is he ? " said the first
one, following up his own train of thought.

It may easily be imagined that these remarks did
not tend to cure my extreme nervousness, which was
evidently taken for " swagger."

After I had finished, or pretended to finish, some
lunch, during which I managed to capsize a tumbler
of beer half into my plate and half over the table, I
was shown my room by the boy of tender years, who,
being junior, was told off to look after me and set me
straight a bit.

My room proved to be about thirteen feet square
by eleven high, and there I found two men busily
engaged in unpacking my furniture, which had been
sent down from town the day before.

Amongst a great number of deficiencies I found I
had forgotten to buy sheets for my bed ; but, luckily,
one of the men, who was servant to another officer,
managed to borrow a pair for me until I could get
some sent up from the town.

Ill course of an hour or two my room was put into
something like order ; and, just as the men were
leaving, I asked how my luggage had got there, and
who had paid for my cab. They told me that they
had done so, having rescued my boxes from a lot of
young officers, anxious, I daresay, to discover where
I had bought my uniform, belts, boots, and, indeed,
everything I possessed.

In my gratitude for their thoughtfulness I inquired
how much they had paid the cabman, magnanimously
intending to double it Avhen I repaid them. The
price they named, however, entirely precluded the
possibility of this ; in fact, it was so large that it
Avould, I thought, have been sufficient to buy the cab
itself, horse, man and all, out and out. One of the
men informed me that he had been ordered to look
after me, until I had got a servant of my own, and
that he would return at half-past seven to dress me
for dinner. As there was only about an hour to spare
I sot out some writings materials and wrote a letter to
my father. Then I lay down upon my new bed until
half-past seven should arrive.

I think I must have fallen asleep, for I remember
nothing until I heard a loud " jar-r-r-r-at " at my
door.

Come in ! " I cried.

It's half-past seven, sir, and I've brought you

some hot water and your uniform ; but I can't find
no mess-waistcoat, sir."

The devil ! " I ejaculated, remembering suddenly
that my tailor had told me the day before that it still
required a little pressing, but should be sent down
that night without fail ; a promise he had, of course,
taken infinite pains not to keep.

Perhaps I can borrow one for you, sir," suggested
Robinson.

'• For goodness' sake, go and try," I said, eagerly.

He left on the table a letter, which I immediately
opened and found it was an invitation from the
colonel and officers of the regiment to dine. Not
knowing the custom of the service, I at once set that
down as " chaff," and the idea of answering it never
once entered my head.

In about five minutes Robinson returned, with a
dilapidated article, which I almost failed to recognize
as a cavalry mess-waistcoat.

I am not going to put that thing on I " I said,
with much indignation.

Robinson, however, assured me that, even if I had
it, it would be useless to wear anything better ; for
the tooth Foot, who were quartered on the opposite
side of the town, were to dine with the 52nd Dragoons
that night, and there was sure to be some extra
rough Avork going on.

When my dressing was complete, I found, as everyone
does on joining, that my uniform did not fit as
it seemed to do in the tailor's shop. My overalls
were too loose and baggy, and not high enough in the
Avast. ^ Indeed, it was only by strapping them up till
I thought they would crack that I managed to make
the top of the overalls and the bottom of the waistcoat
meet at all. The borrowed waistcoat, too, was
so tight and uncomfortable about the neck that I
thought if I could persuade anything more solid than
soup and champagne to pass down my throat that
night, I should be extremely luck3\

At last I Alas ready, and compelled to betake myself
off in spite of the utter discomfort I was in. It Alas
Wonderful how I missed the tails of my ordinary
evening coat ; and I Avent doAvn the steps — one could
hardly call them stairs — and along the verandah into
the ante-room, feeling as if I had suddenly been
transformed into an exceedingly long-legged Manx
cat.

Here I found a couple of Waiters busily handing
sherry-and-bitters to a room full of officers, some of
Avliom, from the difference in their uniform, must, I
kncAv, belong to the tooth. I approached one of
the latter, in a very deferential spirit, and had certainly
not said a dozen Avords before he remarked
Ah, I suppose you ve just joined ! "

This Alas a fact Avliieh I was most anxious to conceal,
and the same sort of feeling crept over me which I
should fancy comes over a man suddenly convicted
of theft. I thought further parley with him would
be useless, as he Avould be sure to laugh at everything
I said, so I left him and sat down in a corner by
myself until dinner was announced.

Being a guest, I was allowed to pass in amongst
the first few, and had the pleasure of sitting next
Major Silver, a man devoted to hunting, and never
haj^py except in the pursuit of that sport or when
talking of long runs, hunters, and hounds. Xow, as I
wasn't ver' well versed in that line, we bored each
other terribly, and I was glad when he transferred his
conversation from me to his right-hand neighbour,
and I Alas left alone. I was very tired with unpacking
; the dinner Alas so long, and the ready banter
and chaff so bewildering, that once or tAvice it Alas as
much as I could do to keep myself from falling asleep
an achievement Which, if I had indulged in it,
Avould have probably been attended by very serious
consequences, and of Which, so long as I remained in
the army, I should nearer have heard the end.

Happily, however, dinner could not last all night,
and at eleven o'clock the colonel and major, With
some of the senior tooth guests, rose and Avent into
the ante-room. I Alas floating them, at a Avery respectful

distance, when — whirr, squash I — against the
back of my head came an over-ripe orange, which
sent me flying, as I thought for a moment, into
another world. I turned as quickly as I could to see
who had thrown it, but not a man was out of his
place, there was not a smile upon a single lip. One
of them, however, asked me to come back and have
another glass of champagne before I went to bed.
So I returned, and had the pleasure of a glass of wine
with a man called Burroughes, the senior subaltern,
and a wild harum-scarum sort of fellow, as I afterwards
found to my cast.

This glass was followed by another and another and
another, with first this and then that member of
the mess, and, as the order of the night was no
heel-taps," I began to think that the best thing I
could do would be to slip away and be off to bed.
So five minutes afterwards, little thinking how
eagerly my brother officers were awaiting this event,
and fondly imagining they were all too much occupied
to take any notice of me or my exit, I quietly
went to bed. In ten minutes I was sound asleep ;
but how long that sleep lasted I cannot say. I only
know that I had a terrible dream, for I thought I had
fallen into the hyena's den at the Zoological Gardens,
and then I awoke. There was such a yelling and
shouting and hollowing at the foot of my stairs that

at first I feared there must be a fire or something of
that sort. I soon discovered that the sounds were
approaching ray door with starting rapidity ; and
then, catching the sound of my own name, I knew
instinctively that they were seeking me and meant
me no good.

My first idea was that the best thing 1 could do would
be to jump out of bed and slip on a smoking-suit or
dressing-gown, and pretend I hadn't been to bed at
all ; but, on consideration, I thought I would stick to
my bed and feign sound sleep. I was fool enough
to imagine that perhaps, if they found me asleep, they
might go away. Poor deluded Cornet Winter !

My heart had given a tremendous jump when I
first heard them ; and as they came nearer and
nearer, so it got higher and higher, until by the time
they reached my door it was fairly in my mouth.

Has he locked the door? " I heard a voice say.

Yes, rather."

Oh, capital ! "

What could that mean ?

Go on, somebody."

In two minutes my door gave way, and about a
dozen officers came rolling and tumbling over each
other into the room. Then a voice, which I recognised
as Burroughes's, called out,

Winter ! "

VOL. I. L

jNTo reply

Winter ! "

This time a little louder.

Still no answer,"

Young devil's slamming ; pull him out.

Thereupon one or two seized the bar at the head
of my bed, while as many others took hold of that
at the foot, and they completely overturned me on to
the floor, where I lay quite helpless with fright.
Two young fellows immediately lifted me up, and, in
spite of my urgent protests, conducted me downstairs
to the ante-room, a prisoner of war, and
dressed exactly as I had tumbled out of bed, with
the addition of a pouch-belt and girdle, which they
put on over my night-shirt to give me a martial bearing,
as they termed it. I found that the ante-room
table had been completely cleared of the newspapers,
which were usually scattered upon it, and five chairs
had been placed round it. In front of each were put
blue paper, pens, and ink. I grew more and more
frightened when I found I was to be tried by court-martial
for a great and heinous offence committed
against her Majesty.

Burrouo-hes did not waste a moment in takins his
seat at the table as president of the court-martial,
and the other four were quickly filled in by junior
officers. A sixth was appointed prosecutor ; two

were announced as Witnesses, and three were told
off as a guard, one of them being promoted to the
rank of corporal of the guard in charge of the
prisoner.

The charges were then read as follows : 1. Conduct
prejudicial to the maintenance of good order
and discipline on the part of John Strange Winter,
cornet of the 52nd Dragoons, in having, at Colchester,
on the night of the 10th of July, 18 — , gone to bed,
whilst several guests, officers of another regiment,
remained in the ante-room — it being the duty of
John Strange Winter, cornet, to entertain them. 2.
Conduct unbecoming a subaltern in going to bed
whilst senior officers remained in the ante-room.

I was then placed at the foot of the table between
my escort, one of whom shouldered a pair of tongs
and the other a shovel, while the corporal of the
guard was armed with a poker, wherewith he every
now and again gave me a dig behind, if I did not
stand bolt upright at " attention."

I was asked if I objected to be tried by any of the
officers whom I sav at the table, and on receiving
my answer in the negative, the oath was read.

You shall well and truly try and determine the
case according to the evidence in the matter now
before you, so help you Jorrocks, &c. "

This was taken in due form, and with the utmost

VOL. I. L 2

gravity, Handley Cross being, I believe, the book
used ; and the trial proceeded.

Lieutenant Bates, on being duly sworn, stated f
Sir, at Colchester Barracks, on the night of the
10th of July, 18 — , I saw the prisoner now before
the court-martial sneak off to bed about half-past
eleven. There were several guests, officers of another
regiment, still remaining in the ante-room. I was
also present when the prisoner was arrested in his
own room."

Lieutenant Cavasson, being duly sworn, stated :
Sir, I was in the mess-room when the prisoner
went to bed. There were several captains and other
senior officers still in the room".

This closed the evidence for the prosecution, and
the question was put to me,

Have you anything to urge in your defence ? "
I told them in a tremulous voice that I really was
very tired, that I did not dream I was committing an
outrageous offence, and that I wouldn't do it again.

Then I was conducted out of the room whilst the
court considered its sentence.

Whilst wee were waiting outside, my guards, with
the witnesses and junior officers, amused themselves
and terrified me by relating previous sentences, and
wondering what I should get. It was awfully cold
waiting about, for, although it was midsummer and

very hot in the day, yet, in the small hours of the
night, to wait ten minutes in a draughty hall, with no
more clothing than a night-shirt and a pouch-belt, is
a very different matter. At last we were summoned
within, and I was led to my place at the foot of the
table. Lieutenant Burroughes broke the silence,

John Strange Winter, you have been found
guilty of two very glaring and very heinous offences,
and this court has adjudged that you receive two
strokes from a birch-rod from every member of the
mess now present. I hope it may be a warning to
you for the future."

This announcement was received by my tormentors
with a ringing cheer. I was ready to sink with
fright when I saw the birch produced, and rough
hands were laid upon me. My guard with the tongs,
although apparently the roughest of the lot, whispered
to me to " hold my jaw, and neither struggle
nor cry out ; " and something in the kindly voice told
me his advice was good, so I took it.

The castigation was mere child's play, except when
it came to Boroughs's turn.

Ah, this won't do," I heard him say ; " we shall
have the vounsf beg-gray laughing' in his sleeve at us.
We really must show him that there is something-like
discipline in the regiment." And he certainly did.

Well, come now," said that stern gentleman,

when my punishment was over, '• the young one's
plucky, at all events."

If my brother officers had administered necessary
strictness, I certainly could not complain of the way
in which I was treated afterward ; for they carried
me off into the mess-room, Adhere we found a supper
of grilled bones and devilled kidneys, and so forth,
spread upon the table.

Ashen we had eaten and drunken I was ordered to
mount the brass and sing a song. The '* brass " was
a square piece of that metal formed by the meeting
of the leaves of the table ; and a queer figure I must
have cut in my scanty attire. The' seemed to think
so, for they all laughed and cheered heartily.

I had the sense to know that a moment's hesitation
would be fatal to my popularity, and I dashed
at once into the first comic song that came into my
head. It was the story of a sailor who got castaway
upon an island, taken prisoner by savages, Who
appropriated his clothes to themselves, finally marrying
him to a princess of the blood royal. It was
received with uproarious applause ; but, unfortunately
for me, I did not get to the end without an
interruption. I only sang as far as,

And there behold me standing,

A-waistcoat for my clothes,
A hat and boots, striped red and blue,

And a rinir stuck through mv nose,

wlieii, to my dismay, I heard a voice suggesting that
it would be all the better if I were dressed in character.
The idea caught like wildfire — two pots of
]paint Avere produced, whence I know not, and in an
incredibly short time I was daubed from head to foot
With rings of red and blue paint, and again mounted
on the brass to finish my song.

At last the revelries Avere ended, and I Alas permitted
to go to my room, thoroughly Adorn out, and
half-stifled by the disgusting smell and feeling of the
pahit. Luckily I knead something of art, and had a
big bottle of turpentine with me, Which, With the
help of a palette-knife, brought most of the stuff off.

It Alas broad daylight ere I sought my couch ; and
when at length I fell asleep, it was only to dream it
all over again, and to sing in fancy the chorus of
ray song,

Jam-see, see-me, jabber see hoy !

Jabber, donee, pores,
Hikey, pike, sikey, crikey,

Chilingowoolahbadoree !

3^

It was just a cherub's face under a forage-cap which
met Colonel Cotherstone's angry gaze, as he sat bolt
upright in his chair one Saturday afternoon. A
cherub's face, smooth and fair, which had as yet not
the faintest signs of a moustache ; a face with languishing
azure eyes that went straight to Colonel
Cotherstone's heart, in spite of this anger and the
popular belief tluit he was in the fortunate possession
of a lump of adamant instead of that too frequently
inconvenient organ. The scene was the colonel's
quarters in the cavalry barracks ta York ; the time,
between three and four in the afternoon ; drainatif<
personae, Colonel Edward le Gendre Cotherstone,
Sergeant-major McAllister, and Private Edward
Jones, F-troop. It was Private Edward Jones who
owned the cherub's face, the languishing blue eyes,
the long lithe limbs, and, alas, also a bad character.
The description would not have applied at
all to the chief, who was largely-made and
stalwart, with a sunburnt, rugged face, and hair
plentifully besprinkled with grey. Nor would
it have either done for the sergeant-major, who,

while owning the most irreproachable character, was
fat and bald, and moreover did not possess a good
feature on his broad red countenance.

"Sergeant-major, you can go," said Colonel
Cotherstone curtly ; whereupon that personage,
having saluted, departed, feeling pretty sure that
Private Jones was coming in for a severe wigging, or,
as he put it, " The colonel's going to give it 'improper."


But Colonel Cotherstone did not immediately set
about the task which he had imposed upon himself.
An obstacle, not very often coming between commanding
officers and their troopers, presented itself in the
shape of that dainty cherub face, with the fair waving
hair and the languishing azure eyes, so like another
face that he had known Ions; SL^ioand loved! At last,
however, he forced himself to speak.

And how long is this state of things to continue ? "
he demanded, sternly.

Private Jones maintained a discreet silence, but he
shifted his long legs nervously, and lowered his eyes
until the colonel could no longer see them. Once
their gaze withdrawn from him he was able to speak
fluently enough. Usually Colonel Cotherstone did
not find himself at a loss for words.

Xow, look here, Jones," he said kindly, yet with
sufficient firmness to make his Avords impressive, " we

must have a change. Almost every clay I hear of
some fresh misdemeanour, idleness, insubordination,
Avork half done or left undone altogether, infringement
of rules, absence without leave. What is the
end to be ? "

Private Jones shot one swift glance at his chief's
keen angry face, opened his mouth as if to speak,
but ended by remaining silent ; the colonel, however,
continued :

By what chain of circumstances you came to
enlist, I don't know ; but if you imagined for an
instant that your birth would permit you to ride
rough-shod over everything, why, you made a mistake.
Because you are a gentleman, because you can
speak half-a-dozen languages, because 3'ou have got
through your fortune and made an utter fool of yourself,
you cannot be excused jour duties or have your
misdoings passed over without punishment. I daresay
it's hard for you to be restricted, to obey the
non-commissioned officers, to turn out of sour bed at
five o'clock, to live With men of a different rank from
your own ; but 3'ou should have considered all that
before you brought yourself down to your present
position. With your advantages of education, you
might get your commission in the course of a few
years, and win back the position you have lost ; but
whilst your present bad conduct continues, I can do

nothing for you. I cannot pass you over the heads
of men Who do their duty conscientiously, men whom
I can trust. If you do not choose to alter your present
ways, you must male up your mind to remain a
private always ; there is no favouritism in the army.
You have now been five months in the regiment, and
those five months you have utterly wasted, always
shielding yourself behind the fact that by birth you
are a gentleman — by birth and by education. I tell
you, sir, those two facts are a disgrace to you, simply
a disgrace, instead of a blessing and an honour. As
yet I have kept you out of the degradation of the
cells ; but I find that punishment by fines is of no
avail — the punishment of a fine simply falls upon
your mother."

Private Jones lifted his face all crimsoned by shamed
blushes, and repeated Colonel Cotherstone's concluding
words,

My mother, sir ? "

Your mother, sir," returned the chief, sternly.
If you have no consideration for your family, for
yourself, for the honour of your old name ; no shame
at the contempt of your officers, no dread of what
the end of all this will be, does the thought of the
mother who bore you never cross your mind ? "

The lad turned away in confused silence.

Answer me ! " thundered the chief.

He spoke then for the first time, spoke iu such a
soft drawling voice, that Colonel Cotherstone absolutely
shivered, it was so like that other voice :

Yes, sir, I do ; only it is so hard," M'ith a heavy
sigh .

What is so hard — your work ? "

Xo, sir ; I don't know that I find the work so
bad. I could always groom a horse well, and the
stable-work I soon got used to. And I don't mind
the men — they're rough, but they're good-natured,
most of them ; but it's the non-commissioned officers
I cant stand them, sir."

Why not ? "

I can do with old McAllister, sir," said the lad
eagerly, almost forgetting his drawl ; " but the
sergeants iu F-troop — Oh Lord I " with another sigh.
K I please one, I displease another. It's having so
many masters, and each thinks he has a right to
bully me as hard as he likes. Because they've got
a few shillings' worth of gold lace on their jackets,
I suppose."

"Which they have won by their own good conduct,"
rejoined the colonel. " I'll tell you what it is,
Hamilton : you're a young fool, With only a little
further to go in the direction you're in now, to find
yourself at the devil."

You know me, sir ! " the lad gasped.

"I knew your — people," answered the colonel,
curtly. He had almost said " your mother," but
changed the word in time to " people ; " " and
for your name's sake — not for sour own mind — I will
give you one more chance. If I move you out of
F-troop into Sergeant-major McAllister's, will you
give me your word to try and reform ? "

The crimson tide flushed anew over the lad's fair
face, a rush of feeling (could that darkness be tears ?)
flooded into his azure eyes. He forgot that he was
only Private Jones, and that the tall man with the
stern bronzed face before him was that awe-inspiring
being " the commanding officer," Colonel Cotherstone,
one of the strictest martinets in the service — he forgot
it all. He only remembered that he was Hamilton
of Glenbarry, and that this was the first real kindness,
except old McAllister's, that he had met with for
months. In the impulse of the moment he held out
his hand, and said heartily, " I'll try, sir."

Colonel Cotherstone just laid his fingers in the outstretched
hand for a moment.

Very well, Hamilton, I'll take your word," he replied,
gravely. " Now you can go."

When the door had closed behind the lad, Colonel
Cotherstone sat down again in his arm-chair and tried
to think. But think he could not. A vision of a
cherub's face under a forage-cap came persistently

between him and this thoughts. Hoav many years
was it ago that just such a head and face had lingered
in his memory ; just such a cherub's face, and under
a forage-cap ? And yet there was a difference. The
mother's sweet brie eyes had looked straight into his
own, with never a shade of the shame he had seen in
those of the son that very day, and the forage-cap
from under which the mother's golden curls had
strayed bore the gold band of an officer, instead of
the simple yellow of the dragoon.

He was not altogether easy in his mind, that big
bronzed soldier. He knew that, in spite of his stern
words, he had treated Private Jones a great deal too
easily, else he would not have sent the sergeant-major
away. It is not alton-ether usual for commanding
officers to talk to refractory soldiers as he had talked
to Private Jones, and yet —

Xo," he muttered, " I couldn't be hard on Mary's
boy, who came and looked at me with Mary's eyes,
and talked to me with Mary's soft tongue. Poor
little Mary ! " and straightway his thoughts flew back
to the little scene enacted ever so many years ago,
and which had been recalled so vividly to his memory
that afternoon, a scene of which the principal incident '
was a cherub's face under a forage-cap.

Naturally, before Edward le Gendre Cotherstone
had obtained his regiment, he had held the respective

positions of major, captain, lieutenant, and cornet.
Well, it was when lie was only Cornet Cornerstone,
and but two-and-twenty, that lie was foolish enough
to fall in love.

At that time the cuirassiers were quartered at
Edinburgh, and it was in the modern Athens that he
and his fate met. That was one-and-twenty years
before the opening of this story, when Colonel Cornerstone
was forty-three, a first-rate soldier, and, considering
all things, fairly popular, though his officers,
especially the subalterns, quite believed in a theory,
now of many years' standing, which declared him to
be minus several important internal arrangements,
one of which was a heart, the other being the bowels
of compassion. He certainly was very hard. They
all vowed he had not a single soft spot in his whole
composition, but they where wrong. A soft place he
had, and the unruly lad with a cherub's face had been
lucky enough to find it out.

As I said before, Edward le Gendre Cotherstone
was two-and-twenty when he fell in love for the first,
indeed the only, time. He was driving along Prince's
Street one afternoon, when a small Skye terrier
managed to get itself under the horse's heels, and, in
addition to that, one of the wheels passed over it.
At every period of his life Edward Cotherstone had
been as keen as a hawk is popularly supposed to be,

and a vision of a golden-liairecl girl dressed in bla(d<,
who uttered a piteous cry, and put two little black-gloved
hands out to rescue the little animal, who was
howling frightfully, caused him to pull up the trap
with a jerk, and jump down.

"Oh, I am sorry," he said, bending over the little
creature, now whining piteously in its young mistress's
arms. "I am so grieved. I hope it's not
much hurt."

The girl's blue eyes, half drowned as they were in
tears, flashed an indignant glance at him.

Wouldn't you be hurt ?" she asked, bluntly, pointing
to the wheel as she spoke, " if that had gone right
over your body ? "

AVhat can I do to help you ? " he asked, wisely
ignoring the question. " Can I drive you home? "

I live at Portobello," she answered, helplessly.

Please let me drive you there," he urged. " Let
me hold him whilst you get in, and then I'll lay him
ever so carefully on your lap."

And so he had his own way ; that was a little
peculiarity of Edward Cotherstone's. He took the
door from her with the utmost tenderness and without
eliciting a single cry ; and when she had mounted
into the high trap, he restored it to her gentle keeping.
On the way down to Portobello he gathered
that the young lady's name was Stewart, Mary

Stewart, and that she lived with her grandmother,
who did not often go out. She told him, too, that
she was seventeen ; and that Fluff, the injured Skye,
had been given to her by her cousin, Hamilton of
Glenbarry. She also told him that her father had
not been dead many months, and that she had been
both to London and Paris. In fact, she was so very
communicative, that he thought he knew everything
there was to be known about her ; but, notwithstanding
her apparent candour, there was one trifling
circumstance, Which, had she mentioned, would have
spared hmi many a bitter heartache. She did not
mention it, however ! He took her to her home, and
sent his trap away, as she wished him to examine and
determine the full extent of the dog's injuries. He
was introduced to the aged grandmother, Who took
quite a fancy to him by reason of having been at
school — goodness knows how many years previously !
with his great-aunt. She, too, mentioned Hamilton
of Glenbarry, and mentioned him, moreover, in a
way which did not show that any large amount
of love was lost between them.

He does not always behave very respectfully to
grand mamma," Mary confided to him, in an undertone.
" He calls her ' old lady,' and she can't bear it."

Confounded cad ! " thought Mr. Cotherstone.

They found, upon examination, that Fluff was not

VOL. I. M

very much the worse for his accident ; and little Miss
Stewart was comforted beyond measure when the
young cuirassier assured her that when the bruises
had passed off he would be all right again.

But of course he called next day to ask after Fluff
and ascertain if Miss Stewart had recovered from her
fright. He was also remarkably attentive to the old
lady, and won her heart as easily as he did that of
her granddaughter. For some few months this kind
of thing continued. Edward Cotherstone grew more
and more happy ; but little Mary faded somewhat,
drooped as does a floweret for lack of water and sunshine.
Sometimes she frightened him, she looked so
2:)ale, so wan and fragile ; then again she would
brighten when he appeared, and throw him into fresh
transports of love and happiness ; and so the pretty
play went on until it was played out, for one fine
morning in June the crash came. He had gone in
for half-an-hour, because he knew Mrs. Stewart would
not be visible so early in the day. Mary looked so
bright and fresh, that the young soldier was tempted
to take her in his arms and kiss her, calling her by
every fond endearing name he could think of, telling
her over and over again how he loved her, how very,
very dearly he loved her, his little Scottish lassie, and
a good deal more in the same strain. And Mary,
what of her ? She never drew back, never whispered

the faintest hint of that secret which lay between her
and him — the secret which once or twice he had
almost stumbled upon. Sto, she clung to him with
an almost despairing passion, which made him feel
uneasy in spite of his happiness ; she twined her soft
arms round his throat, and cried incredulously,

Do you really love me, Eddie ? "

Eeally, my darling," he answered.

And then she broke from the clasp of his loving
arms almost impatiently, though the love-light still
shone in her azure eyes, the dimpling smiles still
played about her tender mouth.

I shall try on your cap," she announced, coquettishly
; then stuck the golden-bordered little cap on one
side of her head, and, turning from the glass, looked
at him with passionate love filling her blue eyes, love
which she had caught from his. The sound of a
carriage stopping without caused her to turn her
head, and when she looked at him again the smiles
had frozen on her sweet mouth, and a nameless
horror had taken the place of the tender light
which a moment before was shining in her eyes.

Oh, my darling, what is it ? " the young soldier
cried, in sudden affright.

It is Hamilton of Glenbarr}-," she answered, in a
hoarse whisper.

"What is he to you?" Cotherstone cried, passionately.

VOL. I. M 2

He is my—"

Your what ? For God's sake speak, and let me
know the worst ! " he said, fiercely.

He will be my husband," she answered, in a
voice almost inaudible.

With almost brutal roughness Cotherstone thrust
her away from him, caught up his cap and gloves,
and strode out of the house, where he had spent such
blissful hours, and where, alas, he had had such a
bitter blow — and he never saw her again.

The following day came a piteous note of explanation
— how her father had wished it ; how she had
given Hamilton the promise to please her father when
he was dying ; how she had not had courage to tell
him earlier, because she had never dreamed he could
care for her ; how she was very, very unhappy, very
with a great dash under the adverb, and a woeful
blister just below — how, though she must keep her
promise, she would love her darling Eddie best all
her life long.

And that was the end of it. A few weeks later he
saw the announcement of her marriage in the papers,
and then he tore her letter up and set himself to
forget her. On the whole he succeeded fairly well.
He threw himself heart and soul into his profession,
with what result we have seen. He succeeded in
making every one, even himself, believe he was a man

of the consistency of stone ; and yet when Private
Jones — brought in to receive a severe lecture, not for
one but for a dozen misdemeanours — came and looked
at him out of Mary's blue eyes, and talked to him in
Mary's soft voice, he could not find it in his heart —
his adamantine heart — to be hard upon Mary's boy.

The vision of the cherub's face under a forage-cap
threw him back with painful distinctness to the
time, one-and-twenty years before, when he parted
from Mary. He realised, that Saturday afternoon in
November, that perhaps he had been very hard upon
her, poor little soul ! He might, at least, have stayed
and said a few kind words to the poor little woman,
who was bound to a man she hated ; that she hated
Hamilton there could be no doubt, for the look of
loathing and horror which leapt into her eyes as she
realised his presence proclaimed her feelings plainly
enough. Ah, poor darling — she had got from " poor
little soul " to " poor darling " — but he felt now that
he had been cruel to her ; he might, at least, have
answered that heart-broken, despairing letter, and so
perhaps have made her lot less hard to bear than
probably it was. Well, at all events, he had not
been hard upon the boy, that was one consoling point.
Boys will go wrong, especially when they have no
father to keep them straight. He had suspected all
along who Private Jones really was, though until

that very afternoon he had not been quite certain.
He wondered if a letter to his mother would do any
good. She was a widow now, poor soul — Hamilton
had been dead ten years, he knew — and naturally she
would be glad to know there was some one who took
an interest in her only child — that Mrs. Hamilton of
Glenbarry had had but one child Colonel Cotherstone
was also aware — and certainly if he wrote a few lines
she could not take them amiss, and they might be a
comfort to her.

And so Colonel Cotherstone sat down to his writing-table
to pen an epistle to his old love, Mary Stewart,
the mother of that exceedingly wayward young gentleman.
Private Edward Jones, F-troop, cuirassiers.

She called him after me, too," murmured the commanding
officer of the cuirassiers, as he selected a
pen. " Poor little Mary ! "

It was easy enough to write " Nov. 14th " under
the printed " Cavalry Barracks, York," which was
already stamped on the paper, but he found the next
part scarcely so easy. His most natural impulse was
to begin, " My dear Mary ; " yet, when he had written
it, he thought it too familiar, so took another sheet.
Having put another " November 14th " at the top, he
began, "My dear Mrs. Hamilton — "

"What shall I say next?" he said aloud.

It took hint a long time to write that letter ; but

at last lie accomplished it. It was not very long, and
it was rather stiff. It ran :

Mv Dear Mrs. Hamilton,

I have only this afternoon discovered that your son has enlisted in the
cuirassiers under the name of Jones. He has been five months in the regiment
; and though as yet he is impatient of restraint, I am in hopes that we
shall make a good soldier of him, and, in the course of a few years, that he
will obtain his commission. Any interest of mine, you may be sure, he will
not want.

Believe me, my dear Mrs. Hamilton,
Most faithful yours,

Edward Le Gendre Cornerstone.

That was the letter he wrote and sent. Three days
passed, during which he received no reply — a fact
which Worried him somewhat. On the fourth day,
however, he received a note, by hand, from Mrs.
Hamilton; asking him to call and see her at the
Black Swan Hotel."

He happened to be just going out when the note
reached him, so he thrust it into his pocket — not
without a certain feelings of tenderness at the sisjlit of
the dainty delicate characters— and took his way into
the town. He did not go very quickly, though ; he
called at the florist's half-way, and bought a flower
for his button-hole — a white rosebud it was. He met
some people that he knew, and stayed to chat with
them.

But, dawdle as he would, he came to the hotel at
last. Every one who has been in York knows that
it is not very far from the cavalry barracks to the

Black Swan." Colonel Cornerstone went into the
hall and asked for Mrs. Hamilton.

Was Mrs. Hamilton at home ? "

Certainly. AVould the gentleman step this
way?"

And so they led him up-stairs and ushered him
into a room, where, seated by the fire, was a lady — a
lady with wavy golden hair, with soft blue eyes, and
two little white hands outstretched to greet him— his
old love, Mary Stewart.

How am I to thank you ? " she cried. " I have
tried for all these five months to find out what my
boy was doing. I couldn't persuade him to come
home, and I have been so unhappy about
him,"

Has he^mever written to you ? "

Oh yes ; every week regularly. But I did not
know that he was in York. His letters came from
London ; and the only address was a London postoffice.
He said he was not in prison, but he couldn't
tell me any more."

No, he has not been in prison," Colonel Cornerstone
answered, smiling, as he thought of the near
shaves he had had in that respect.

I didn't quite understand your letter," said Mrs.
Hamilton presently. " Why should he be ashamed
of the profession he has taken up — too much ashamed

even to tell me what it was ? Why should he have
any restraint placed upon him ? Have the other
officers so much restraint ? "

My dear Mrs. Hamilton, your son has enlisted,^^
said the colonel kindly, Avondering at her ignorance.

"How enlisted?"

He is not in my regiment as an officer," he
said.

What ! My boy a common soldier ? "

A private," corrected Colonel Cotherstone, gently.
Yes, that is what he is."

M}^ boy," cried the little woman, brokenly, " my
boy, Hamilton of Glenbarry, a soldier ! Does he
have to groom a horse, pray ? "

Certainly."

And to do stable-work ? "

Yes."

"Does he have to salute you?"

Of course." In spite of himself a smile broke
over his face. " I hope that is not very hard for
him."

Not to you," she said, impatiently. " No one
would mind saluting you, of course ; but the others !
You don't mean to say he is obliged to put his hand
up so " — with a ludicrous imitation of a salute — " to
all the young subs., to the riding-master even ?"

He certainly has to do so," answered the colonel.

Hamilton of Glenbarry salute, touch his hat to a
riding-master!" ejaculated Mrs. Hamilton. "I tell
you it is absurd, utterly absurd ! "

Whilst he remains in the ranks it must be done,"
said the colonel, smiling still at her vehemence.

"Then he shall not remain in the ranks," she
cried. "How soon can I have him released?"

Will you take my advice," he asked, " and leave
him for a few months, or until I advise you to buy
him off?"

"You would do what is best for me?" the widow
faltered.

"You know I would," touching her hand for a
moment. That was a great advance for Colonel
Cotherstone ; but the old influences were strongly at
work in him.

I don't know why you should be so good to me,"
she said, rather forlornly. " I behaved very badly to
you, and yet — "

Yet what? " drawing nearer and taking her hand.

I was so unhappy," she said, simply.

They were both standing on the rug : he, a large,
fine, upright figure in grey tweed ; she, a dainty
thing in purple velvet, looking absurdly young to bethe
mother of Private Jones.

Why were you unhappy, and when ? " he asked,
possessing himself of the other hand.

When you went away ; and — and because —
I—"

Well ? " he asked, eagerly. " Because you — "

Because I loved you so," she said, hiding her
face upon his breast.

If Colonel Cotherstone's dream of love was rudely'
interrupted one-and-twenty years before, when, on
that June morning, Hamilton of Glenbarry turned
up so inopportunely, he made up for it when he
found his little love in the hotel with the sign
of the " Black Swan " at York. It would be hard
to say who was the most surprised at the event
which followed, or rather at the announcement of
it. I doubt Whether the officers, when, the next
evening after dinner, their chief announced that
he was going to be married, were as thoroughly
surprised as was Xed Hamilton, when, a free man
again, he entered his mother's room at the " Black
Swan '' ; and I am perfectly certain that his astonishment
did not equal that of his mother when she
found how faithfully Edward Cotherstone had loved
her all those years. Perhaps the most thoroughly
amazed of them all was Colonel Cotherstone himself.

To the intense amusement of the whole regiment,
his wife calls him " Eddie." The young ones say
that he grew tired of having no heart, so managed to
feet his brains exchanged for one : but if one of them

goes a little wrong in duty or any other respect, he
very quickly finds out that the chief's brain is as
keen as ever it was in the days when he was popularly
believed to be altogether deficient in certain
internal arrangements, of which a heart Alas one.

''^%m

The Cotlierstones had been married a few months,
and were Having at a pretty house in the village of
Fulford, which les about half-a-mile beyond the
cavalry barracks at York.

Mrs. Cotherstone was standing at the window of
the dining-room, watching for her husband, and, at
the same time, taking notes of the interesting process
of putting a horse into a cab belonging to the inn
opposite. Very slow about his job the man was ;
the straps seemed to get wrong as each one was
fastened. The horse was not particularly anxious to
expedite the work, and kept shifting his position
every moment, at v\'hjch proceeding the man expressed
his disapproval in a series of " gee-whoops "
and " gerrup-ma-lads," of which the animal took but
small notice. Then he went inside the inn, for a
glass of beer evidently. Mrs. Cotherstone was disgusted.
She could, she felt, have put that horse in
and been at the house to which it had been ordered
in less than half the time that it had taken the man
to fasten one strap. She wondered if it was wanted

to catch a train ? It couldn't be for a wedding — it
was after one o'clock ; then, but to be sure, it might
be wanted for a funeral ! She drummed her little
fingers impatiently upon the window-ledge, and
wondered indignantly how much longer that man
was going to be drinking that glass of beer ? Why,
she could have drank half-a-dozen glasses of beer in
that time, she was convinced, though Mrs. Edward
le Gendre Cotherstone was not given to beer !

Then a divertissement fortunately came, in the shape
of a tall, soldierly figure, in undress, carrying a
whip in one hand — a man with a stern bronzed face,
having, just then, a most pre-occupied expression. It
cleared, however, as he perceived the golden-haired
little lady at the window, much as a thunder-cloud
disperses before the genial influence of the sun, but
not before she had noticed the unwonted darkness.

What is the matter, Ned ? " she asked, as he
entered the room.

Oh! nothing particular, my darling," he answered ;
it is only that poor devil, Calcraft, again."

Again?" the little woman echoed, blankly ; "and
after you gave him such a talking to ? "

Her tone implied that since the colonel had taken the
trouble to give Calcraft a " talking to," his gratitude
ought to have induced him, from that time forth,
to become a model of good conduct and amiability.

It isn't all his fault," said the colonel ; " but he
is quick-witted and sharp-tongued — the two qualities
often go together — and, somehow, he has contrived
to get out of his sergeant-major's good graces ; you
know what that means ? "

Bullying, I suppose? ''

"Bullying is rather a mild general term for it,"
Colonel Cotherstone answered. " In detail it means
nagging, continual fault-finding, swearing at, reporting
— that is one side. On the other it means, never
doing right, always doing wrong, always being late,
never being clean enough, everlastingly breaking or
infringing rules, being perpetually goaded to the
verge of madness, being taunted, scorned, made
nothing of; and, like a boil, matters generally come
to a head — they have come to a very decided head in
Calcraft's case, poor devil."

"Well? " said Mrs. Cotherstone, in a tone implying
that he was to continue his story.

He is rather a favourite of Dickson's — he is in
Dickson's troop, you know. He has looked after him
as well as he could ; but what can an officer do
under such circumstances ? Next to nothing ; and
this morning the crash has come. Sergeant-major
Lucas and his wife live at the end of a verandah,
which Calcraft has to pass every morning with a big
bucket of cold water, and, being an awfully hot-night,

they had left their window wide open. It
seems that this morning Lucas hadn't turned out
so early as he ought to have done, not by an hour or
more, and as Calcraft passed along the verandah
with his bucket of water, some fiend whispered into
his ear that the water was very cold, that the window
was wide open, and that the Cases' bed stood immediately
beneath it. Of course it was all done ina
moment, and Calcraft took to his heels, and then
there seems to have been a royal row. Calcraft, the
usual scapegrace, Alas accused, and was marched off
to the cells, poor beggar, to await a trial by court-martial.
However, there's one thing I can and will
do ! I can't save Calcraft, but, by George, I'll be
down upon Lucas for being late."

"Can't you get Calcraft off?" Mrs. Cotherstone
asked in a voice choking with laughter, and wiping
the tears from her eyes as she spoke.

"Utterly impossible," he returned, decidedly; "a
court-martial must go by evidence, not by private
favour."

I shall give him a sovereign for himself, when I
see him," Mrs. Cotherstone announced. If anyone
had made such a startling proposal to Colonel Cornerstone
a year previously, he would have positively
jumped off his seat with horror, and expressed his
opinion that such a proceeding would infallibly send

the service to the dogs in no time ; but on the present
occasion he merely possessed himself of one of
Mary's little delicate hands, and, with an indulgent
laugh, told her she must keep her doings to herself.

Don't let me know anything about it, for it won't
do to have it said that I encourage insubordination
in the regiment."

Some of my readers may have seen the interior of
a barrack-cell. Such will know that they are not
pleasant places. Those who have never entered one
must take my word for it ! Private Calcraft knew
them well, and each experience he had of them he
found them less to his taste. During that brilliant
summer-day he sat pondering over the fate which
had led him into disfavour with Sergeant-major
Lucas. How was it that he hated him so ? He was
quite sure he had never done anything to merit it:
no one else in the whole regiment hated him as
Lucas did. I cannot say that he Alas particularly
repentant for what he had done, and there was nota
shadow of doubt that he Alas the culprit, though
as yet he had maintained a stolid silence upon the
subject ; but he found the confinement of his cell
irksome, and he would like to have heard what his
comrades Avere saying about his exploit, Which Avould,
he knead, be on every tongue in the barracks. Well!
he should get it "proper," as he put it, for this

VOL. I. N

business, lie had no doubt. They were sure to be
pretty hard upon him, he so often got into trouble,
and of course they would take the sergeant-major's
account before his ; not that he had any account to
give. He had, as yet, kept quiet, without attempting
any explanation, and he thought that would be the
best course to adopt, whatever came of the affair ;
besides, what had he to say ?

He leant forward, with his elbows on his knees,
and watched a ray of sunshine, which had had sufficient
bad taste to Aweary of the outer world and
penetrate, by Avay of a change, into the cell. Calcraft
was very glad to see the sunbeam, though it seemed
to him that it couldn't have very much sense to conn?
in there, when it might have stayed outside and be
free, and then he fell to wishing that he, too, was free.
He wondered how it was that he had borne th(3
tyrant's tyranny so long. Many a man would have
made a bolt of it, and trusted to luck that he didn't
wake u|) some fine morning to find himself branded
with the letter which would be a shame to him as
long as he should live, even to his grave. But no!
After all, he Avouldu't be such a mean-spirited coward
as that. He had fought on for five years, and, come
what might, he would fight on a bit longer. Maybe
Lucas would be leaving the regiment, or dying, or
something; of that sort, and then see if he didn't show

his officers that he had some good in him, after all!
He could just fancy the kindly approval in Captain
Dickson's keen blue eyes when he won a good conduct
stripe, or was made corporal ! Aye ! He would
keep up his ]pluck for a while longer, and try if
matters wouldn't mend a bit. Just as he arrived at
this satisfactory conclusion, the door of the cell
opened, and the object of his thoughts appeared —
Captain George Dickson.

Calcraft jumped up from his bench, and Captain
Dickson sat down upon it.

Well ! you've made an awful mess of it this time,
Calcraft," he observed.

"Yes, sir," returned Calcraft, with a salute.
"It's no use trying to keep you straight," the
officer observed, testily " I shall have to give you
up altogether."

Calcraft made no reply ; hitherto he had exulted
much over his exploit, but since it was to cost him
the kindliness of his captain, he began to look at
it in quite another light.

"And, by-the-bye, Calcraft," said Captain Dickson,
suddenly, "what the dickens were you doing in the
verandah at five o'clock?"
Wasn't there, sir," he replied, promptly.
Sergeant-major Lucas says it was striking five as
the bucket of water came through the window."

VOL. I. N 2

"Then it couldn't be me as threw it, sir," said
Calcraft, solemnly, " for, when five o'clock struck
by Fulford church, I was standing just outside
the door of F-troop room, with Private Wells and
Corporal Fraser — as they'll both tell jow, sir."

"Fll look into the matter," answered the captain,
rising ; " and, Calcraft, if you should be lucky
enough to get over this business, just let it be a
warning to 3'ou."

"I will, sir," he said, earnestly enough, but
whether some expression in his captain's eyes upset
his gravity or not I cannot say, only at that moment
his solemn red face relaxed, and the hearty
laughter came bubbling up to his lips : it might beat
the remembrance of the douche-bath, which he
had so successfully administered to his enemy, and,
as he dared not laugh outright, his feelings found a
vent in a violent fit of coughing, and Captain
Dickson beat a hasty retreat ; perhaps he Ravished to
laugh in comfort out of Calcraft's sight.

In due time Calcraft was brought before the court-martial.
The sergeant-major told his story glibly
enough ; in truth, there was not very much to tell.

On the morning of the 10th of July he was in
bed, the window Alas open at the top, the church
clock at Fulford struck five — he was perfectly sure
as to the time, because he had compared his watch

with it: just as he laid the watch down a bucketful
of water was emptied through the window over the
bed ; he could not see the face of the man who did
it, but he saw the hands ; he could positively swear
to their being the prisoner's hands ! "

So ended the case for the prosecution. Sergeant-major
Lucas retired with a well-satisfied smile at
Calcraft, who returned it with a defiant stare.

Then — greatly' to the sergeant-major's astonishment
— appeared two witnesses for the prisoner, Corporal
Fraser and Private Wells, who both deposed
positively to the truth of Calcraft's statement, that, at
five o'clock on the morning of the 10th of July, he
was standing with them at the door of F-troop room.
Corporal Fraser also deposed that the prisoner was
not out of his sight until after half-past live. Accordingly
Calcraft was acquitted !

Xow Calcraft had made Captain Dickson a distinct
promise that, if he should be lucky enough to get
over the affair, it should be a warning to him ;
therefore immediately he found himself a free man
he at once proceeded to break it. First of all, he
informed the non-passed sergeant-major — who, to
save himself from censure for being late, had set
the time back a whole hour, and so enabled
Calcraft to get off scot-free — that the way to catch
a bird was by putting salt on its tail, for which

CALCEAFT^A TROOPER.

valuable information he did not even deign to thank
him.

Finding that had no effect, Calcraft, like an idiot —
as most soldiers are when left to themselves— occupied
himself for a week in taking every available
opportunity of passing along the verandah, in which
his enemy's room was situate, singing at the top of
his voice the refrain of a little song —

The old old story was told again,
At five o'clock in the morning !

Finally he brought matters to a climax by asking
if he and "the Missis" had found the water very
cold? Flesh and blood could stand it no longer.
The sergeant-major went to Captain Dickson, and
reported that Calcraft had owned to throwing the
Vater ! Calcraft denied it, and repeated what had
really taken place. Lucas held to his story, and
eventually Calcraft's patience — of which he had not at
any time a very large stock — gave way, and, in spite
of his officer's presence, he rushed at his enemy, and
administered a sound drubbing ! That was fatal !
There was the tedium of another court-martial : the
thrashing — and it was a sound one— counted for a
good deal, and the provocation and the bullying, on
the other hand, Avent for next to nothing. Calcraft
received the longest sentence Which could be given
to him, also the prison-crop, and was heard no more
of until he was once more free.

August and September slipped away quickly
enough to most people, but very slowly indeed to poor
Calcraft, in his durance vile. The longest period,
however, must come to a close, and the darkest night
end in morning. His term of imprisonment did come
to an end, in time ; but as to his night of troubles
ending in the morning in • peace and quietness, why,
that was quite another matter. Calcraft thought his
trials and difficulties grew denser. At first he tried
hard to keep straight, for he knew if he could but
rise to the rank of corporal, his enemy's power
would be considerably lessened ; but, try as he would,
it seemed quite impossible for him to succeed. The
glorious autumn days passed by, each one finding hill
sunk a little deeper in the slough of despond, each
one leaving him a trifle more wretched than the last,,
and more passionately desirous of lying down to dien
peace. Yes ! it had come to that. He had begun,
to look back to the long, dreary weeks he spent im
the cells as a time Avhen he had known what it was
to have peace and rest. He felt himself a disgrace to
his regiment, yet they would not let him do any
better, and he did try ! He fancied — for he had
grown morbidly sensitive of late — that when his
officers passed him they looked at him With scorn —
all fancy, poor fellow, for they never looked at him at
all, or bestowed a second thought upon him, though

Calcraft, poor devil," was their usual way of speaking
of him when they did mention him, and most of
them hated Lucas as much as they pitied his victim.
Still a contemptuous pity was not calculated to improve
the state of a man on the verge of madness, as
Calcraft at that time was ; and had it not been for two
persons, he would not have borne up as long as he did.
Those two persons were the colonel's golden-haired,
gentle little wife and Captain Dickson. For them both
Calcraft, in his utter misery, conceived a passionate
.-adoration. First in his poor tormented heart he
held the lady. She had carried out her intention,
which she had announced to her husband, and, on the
first opportunity, had given Calcraft a sovereign,
which he, poor chivalrous fool, had had a ring put
through, and slung it to his watch-chain ; and whenever
she met him her gentle " Good morning, Calcraft,"
fell upon his ear with such an accustomed sweetness
that he could have flung himself down and kissed her
very feet, in gratitude for the kindness which cost
her nothing, but which, to him, was the one ray of
sunshine which brightened his lot. Xo, not quite
the only ray ; he had forgotten Captain Dickson.

Towards the end of November Captain Dickson's
servant died, and he chose Calcraft to fill his place.
Then his troubles lightened somewhat, for he was
necessarily less in his enemy's power; but, unfortunately,

the partial reprieve had come too late — the
evil had gone too far, and he was unable to shake off
the effects of the past five years and the continual ill-treatment
he had endured — the shame and degradation
M'hich had been thrust upon him during the
past few months.

Things had gone badly enough with him since the
day he joined the regiment ; but until that fatal July
morning when he had succumbed to the voice of the
fiend, which prompted him to pour a pail of water
over Mr. and Mrs. Lucas, he had gone on his careless
way, almost unmindful of anything his enemy might
do to torment him. His long term of imprisonment
he had endured with a considerable amount of cheerfulness
and pluck, expressing his opinion to more
persons than one that the thrashing he had administered
was well worth the after-consequences. Alas !
he had not at that time counted upon what was to
follow ! — it surpassed even his ideas of what bullying
meant, and he had had considerable experience in that
respect, as has been shown. If he had gone inttD
Captain Dickson's service immediately after his
release from the cells he might have been able to
carry out the good resolutions he had formed during
his confinement : as it was, the partial reprieve came
too late ; his spirit was cowed utterly, this aspirations
after something nobler were crushed, his courage

gone ! The very appearance of the man was changed ;
his fearless brie eyes had acquired a wild unsettled
expression, and he seldom looked any one straight in
the face ; his face, Which had once been of a healthy
red, had faded to a sickly pallor, and the flesh had
fallen away from his cheeks. He had lost the careless,
swaggering gait Which had once distinguished
him and now seemed to have no energy for anything
but sauntering — no, trailing is a better word — trailing
about the quaint narrow streets, taking no notice of
man, woman or child. If Captain Dickson happened
to be out or was dining at mess he did not even do
that, but stayed in his room — which he had leave
to do — being sure there of peace and quietness.

The winter days crept on, and Calcraft's spirit sank
lower, his despondency increased, his face grew paler,
and his air more dejected. Just before Christmas
he got a kick from a horse, which laid him up for a
fortnight in hospital. A year before he would hardly
have noticed it, but, in his weakened state of body and
mind, the trifling accident proved more serious ! Not
that he minded it : he had a happy time of it in
hospital. The doctor always had a pleasant, cheery
word for him ; the nurses, if rough, were kindly, and
treated him just the same as the others ; his master
went across to see him every morning, and lent him
more books and papers than his poor dazed eyes

could bear to read, and, greatest of all the little
pleasures which fell to his lot, Mrs. Cotherstone
herself sent him a basket of grapes and oranges on
Christmas morning, which threw the poor fellow into
a perfect fever of anxiety, until he had despatched a
note of grateful thanks, which, if he had but known
it, brought the scalding tears into the gentle little
•\^'oman's soft eyes ! Oh ! those grapes and oranges !
it seemed like desecration to eat them. Willingly
woidd Calcraft have kept them, like the sovereign
on his watch chain, as precious relics !

But at last this pleasant time came to an end and
he was pronounced well enough to resume his duties.
So he had to turn his back upon his pleasures, and
go back to the old routine. He found, to his utter
dismay and horror, that Captain Dickson was going
on leave for tv\'o months and could not take a servant
with him. Oh ! the agony the news caused to Cal-craft's
heart. Oh ! the bitter, bitter disappointment
and dread !

He took the news quietly enough, for his master
was rather late and in a hurry to be dressed ; but
when the long process was finished, and he had gone
clanking along the echoing corridor and down the
stone steps, Calcraft flung himself down upon the bed,
and burying his face among the pillows, broke into
such a passionate torrent of tears, that the private's

wife who kept the room tidy, happening to come in
at that moment, stood stock-still in the doorway,
absolutely aghast. Her womanly instinct, however,
impelled her to make some effort to comfort him.

What's up, Galcraft ? " she asked, advancing to
the bed, and laying a hand — which, if coarse and
work-worn, was kindly — upon his head : " is there
something else gone wrong ? I wouldn't take on so
about it if I eras you — though Ism sure, poor chap,
it do seem never-ending."

She was a good-hearted woman, and she meant todo
kindly ; yet, if she had quietly gone away and left
him to sob the cobwebs out of his brain his agony
might have passed ; as it was, he jumped up and
rushed out of the room, stung afresh by the shame
of having been discovered in tears by a woman.

He never stopped to think ; he tore across the
barrack-square and out of the gates, though the
sentry asked if anything was amiss as he passed.
Galcraft never heard him ! On he sped, seeing
nothing for the blinding tears which filled his eyes,
hearing nothing for the agony throbbing in his
brain. On he went ! along the path leading through
the drill-held, unaware that Captain Dickson had
flung himself off his horse, and, followed by half-a-dozen
dragoons, had started in pursuit with a cry
of " Great God ! the river ! " Galcraft never heard

or saw anything save that broad stream shining
through the trees at the other end of the drill-field
— the river, where he might find what he had
been seeking so long, a haven of forgetfulness and
peace !

Ah ! the yell which rose up from the on-lookers
as the tall figure sprang headlong into the water,
followed, an instant later, by the officer and a young
private, who had been Calcraft's friend ! There was
just one moment of suspense before the captain's
dark, close-cropped head appeared above the bank,
and then that of the private as they dragged the
poor fellow on to the walk.

Colonel Cotherstone just reached the walk as Captain
Dickson gave Calcraft's arm an angry shake.

What are you thinking of, you d d idiot ? "

he asked, indignantly.

Calcraft looked at his preserver in a blank, dazed
kind of way. " You'd best have let me finish it, sir,"
he answered, indistinctly, and then fainted away !

Dash me ! " said the young private, wiping the
water from his face — there might have been a few
tears there, too — " Dash me, if I ever saw anything
like that ! "

"Here, some of you get him up to the hospital
at once," ordered the colonel ; " and you, Captain
Dickson, the sooner you get those wet clothes ofi"

the better ; you, too, Johnson : you have acted with
great bravery, but there is no need to have rheumatic
fever as a consequence."

I'll tell you what you shall do," said little Mrs.
Cotherstone, when she heard the story a few hours
later ; " you shall buy his discharge — don't you call
it so ? — and give him to me."

But what will you do with him ? "
Make a butler of him," was the prompt reply.
For many weeks, though, it seemed as if Calcraft
would have no need of interest or of anything else
in this world. He lay on his bed in the hospital,
raving in brain fever, and, when at last that left him,
the doctors found the prostration and weakness
almost worse to deal with than the fever had
been.

But they brought him round after all, or perhaps,
as Dr. Markham declared, the medicine which did
him most good was when Mrs. Cotherstone went to
see him, and asked if he would like to leave the
army and enter their service as a butler.

But I don't know anything of the work, ma'am,"
he stammered, though the pleased flush on his poor
worn face showed how intense was his delight at her
proposal.

But you can learn," she answered, decidedly ; and
so poor Calcraft's future was settled.

He progressed with amazing rapidity after that,
and, in order to complete the cure, Mrs. Cotherstone
sent him to her Scotch place for a month, where, ashe
himself said, he was almost too happy to live.

Xot very long after this Mrs. Cotherstone presented
her lord with a son and heir. Oh ! that child ! How
in the years which followed Calcraft worshipped him.
No service which the youngster exacted was too
difficult for Calcraft to perform ; to him the boy's
wishes and commands were law, absolute as " the
laws of the Modes and Persians, Which altered not I"
All the passionate gratitude which the mother had
raised in him he lavished upon the boy, and the
sweetest music that ever rang in his ears was when
the tender, imperative child's voice sounded through
the house, with the word which Alas oftener upon
his lips — that word was " Cal craft ! "

WHY MAJOR CEEYKE DID NOT "WIN IT.

It was midwinter. The afternoon of a dull December
day was craving to a close, and as yet the lamps
were not lighted in the drawing-room of the house
which the Cornerstone called home. A blazing fire,
however, lighted up the room sufficiently for little
Mrs. Cotherstone to study the pages of a book which
she held in her hand. The colonel sat opposite, tired
out by a hard day's work, and more than half asleep.
The boy, now nearly a year old, was on the rug
between them, holding a court-martial on his father's
boots, occasionally pricking himself with the spurs,
and making his tiny hands excessively dirty, his hands
and his little embroidered frock.

Ned," remarked the colonel's wife, apropos of
nothing, " I've been looking in the Army List'"

Eh, Avhat, my darling ? " suddenly rousing himself
into an upright position.

I've been looking in the Army List'' she repeated.

Oh, is that all ? I thought something had happened
to the boy," sinking back in his chair again.

Reminded of the bov, Mrs. Cotherstone looked

down, and, seeing his occupation, uttered a scream
(»f disgust, which the child quickly echoed by a loud
crow of delight.

Dir-ty boy ! " cried Mrs. Cotherstone, in energetic
staccato tones ; " such a mess he's in. Being the bell,
Ned dear, please."

The colonel did as he was told, and a moment later
our old friend Calcraft appeared, looking quite irreproachable
in his faultless evening attire.

Take him away, Calcraft," cried the little lady ;
he has made himself so dirty with Colonel Cornerstone's
boots."

As Calcraft advanced, the child put out two
dimpled arms to him, and expressed his satisfaction
in a series of " 

fond he is of the child ! " said the colonel's
wife, as the door closed.

Yes," answered the colonel ; he was rather
sleepy.

I've been looking in the Army List" Mrs. Cornerstone
announced for the third time, " and I cannot
find anywhere that Major Creyke has the Victoria
Cross."

Of course not," returned the colonel, with a
laugh.

But he has it."

Certainly not."

VOL. I.

But they always call him ' Y.C. Creyke,' " she
said, ill a mystified tone.

It is only a nickname, child ; " he often cared
her "child," though she had a son of age.

However did he get such a name ? Oh, I am so
disappointed, Ned. I have been fancying all sorts
of bravery ; and now it has gone."

Oh, he has bravery and pluck enough ; you need
not be disappointed," he answered. " He gained the
name out in the Mutiny, though he did not win the
Cross itself."

And how was it ? " she asked, with deep interest.

Well, I can only give you the merest outlines of
the story," he said, " for it's a good while ago, and
my head was in a state of confusion for a loilg time
after that awful business had been cleared up.
Creyke's father and mine were, from their earliest
boyhood, upon terms of the closest friendship ; their
fathers had been the same before them. My father
owned the Hall ; Creyke's father was rector of the
parish. Well, Creyke was only a year younger than
I was, and somehow we fell into the same line as our
fathers and grandfathers had done before us, and our
friendship was, I really believe, more passionate and
tragically inclined than even their's. We where lucky
enough to get into the same regiment, and we were
so silly as to get sent to India, soon after which

the Mutiny broke out ; it was just after you Avere
married, Mary."

"Yes," she replied, " but the regiment did not go."
"No. The 7th Lancers were short of subalterns,
having lost several by cholera or misadventure, and
I volunteered to go ; they wanted taro. Of course
Creyke insisted upon going too, though his father and
mine came down to us, and did their best to persuade
us not to go. It was no good. I had made up my
mind, and Creyke's mind was mine ; so we went. It
was all very jolly at first : we liked India, and there
was any amount of splendid sport. We liked the
regiment, and Colonel Cornwallis was a down-right
good sort, with the sweetest, prettiest little wife you
ever saw. The fellows used to fight almost as to
whether Mrs. Cornwallis or her sister. Miss Bannister,
was the lovelier. For my part I admired the colonel's
Avise the more of the two — I always did like fair Avomen
best : Miss Bannister Alas very dark. It Alas no
good any of the subalterns looking at her, for the
major Avent out in the same ship With her, and made
matters safe ; though I don't think they Avere engaged.
Well, the Mutiny broke out, and then Ave found A\diat
taro splendid Avomen they AA^ere ! They had always
been admired, but after the siege began they Avere
simply idolised. Hoav they Worked ! Nothing seemed
too hard for them : they cooked and Abashed and
VOL. I. 2

nursed until they were fairly worn out, always cheering
us on, always ready in any emergency ; they
seemed to shrink from nothing. Mrs. Cornwallis
made no distinction ; it might be the sick baby of an
officer's Avise or of a private soldier, it was all the
same to her ; and as for Floss Bannister, I believe any
man in the garrison would have walked straight into
the enemy's lines at a word from her. Well, towards
the end, Major Gurney was killed, and we thought
the shock had killed her too ; but, an hour after we
had buried him, she went her rounds as usual. I
never shall forget that night ! Creyke and I were on
duty together at one of the outposts, with one gun
and perhaps a dozen men. We could see the black
brutes moving about, but we couldn't hit them.

' I've had two shots at one of those black fiends,'
I heard one fellow growl to another, ' and I've missed
him both times.'

' I don't expect we'll have no luck, since Miss Floss
has given up coming' — not that we can expect it of
her, the darling' ; ' for I must tell you she had been
accustomed, in spite of her pressure of work inside
the garrison, to visit the outposts every hour or soever
since the chaplain died. At his death she took
up his work where he left it, poor chap, and she stuck
to it bravely right up to the time of the major's
death. Every hour or so lie used to come. Sometimes

she sang a hymn, or read a few words, or just
said the Lord's Prayer ; if a soldier's wife was ill, and
he couldn't get off duty to see her, he might trust
Miss Floss to bring him news half-a-dozen times a-day.
Well, after the major was killed, we never expected
to see her again ; for it had been a terrible blow for
her, and they carried her away from his poor body
in a dead faint. We hadn't been back long from the
funeral, and just as the trooper ended, 'we can't
expect it of her, the darling,' she appeared.

' You ought not to have come,' Creyke said to her,
reproachfully ; ' no one expected it of you, after
such a shock as you have just had.'

' My duty is to the living,' she said, in a perfectly
calm voice. ' I have done my duty to the dead, and I
thank God for it. Major Gurney has shown us all how
gloriously we may do our duty, and I will not be the
first to sit down and say, "I can struggle no longer'"

If her tears were dried up Creyke's were not,
and he turned away his head that she might not see
them ; he had loved her for months, poor chap, and
I believe he would have given his life for Gurney's, if
he could have taken that dreadful look of suffering
out of her eyes. She turned away from him then.

' Is Robert Moss here ? ' she asked.

' Here miss,' he answered, stepping out from
behind another man, With suspiciously Ave eyes.

' Your wife seems a good deal better,' she said.
I have just seen her, and she sent her love to 3'ou.'

' Thank you, miss,' he answered, turning away,
with eyes overflowing again ; then, in a choked
voice, ' Maybe you'll give my love to Mary, and say
I'll come in as soon as I can get off.'

She only stayed a few minutes, and just as she
Alas moving away, a great hulking Irishman ran after
her and caught her gown — a great brute, that had
been one of the worst scamps in the regiment.

' Shire, miss, darling,' he blurted out, ' ye won't
try to stop the blessed tears from coming' ? They'll do
ye a power o' good, Miss Floss, an' we can't bear to
see ye look like that.'

She lifted her soft dark eyes to his for a moment,
and then she laid her little work-worn hand in his
great fist.

' My tears are all burnt up, Michael,' she said,
gratefully ; ' but I shall not forget what you have
said to me.'

And then she went away, and our watch dragged
on. Each day, for the past fortnight, we had been
sure matters could not get any worse, but somehow
they did.

It was not many days after this that they drove
us back from that very outpost, and we were obliged
to leave one of our few o'uns. The command had bv

that time fallen upon a man named Hood, a first-rate
officer, though still rather young.

' It's a pity to let them have that gun,' he exclaimed,
vexedly. ' Their fire's bad enough, but to have our
own guns turned against us will be too bad.'

' Couldn't it be spiked, sir ? ' Creyke asked.

' Yes, of course ; only the chances are ten to one
against it's being done : the fire is so heavy there,'
he answered.

Of course a dozen volunteers stood out immediately,
Creyke and I amongst the rest. I was
chosen at once, and Creyke insisted upon going too.
We were determined that the brutes should not have
the gun ; but, upon my word, it was anything but
pleasant, running right in the face of the enemy's
fire, with only a half-ruined wall for shelter. I can
tell you we accomplished our task expeditiously — -I
know my only idea was how soon I could get out of
danger ; for we were in almost as much peril from
our fellows' bullets as from the enemy's, as a continual
crossfire was kept up the whole time. Just as
we turned for a rush from the shelter of the lialf-
ruined wall, I heard a yell from the black fiends
behind us ; and before I had gone three yards I came
down to the ground with a crash, with what I knew
must be a bullet in my shoulder and a second in my
hip. Creyke heard only the yell and ran on. I tried

to get up and follow him ; but I fell back, half-fainting
with the pain, and shut my eyes, with a
feeling that it was all up with me. I don't remember
much more, until I found Creyke bending over me
with more resolution in his face than I had ever
seen in it before.

' It's all right, old chap,' he said, coolly. ' The
brutes have winged you, but I'll have you inside in
five minutes,'

' Go back, you'll only get hit yourself,' I
answered.

' Can you use your legs ? ' he asked.

' Got a ball in my right hip.'

I saw him take out his penknife and begin ripping
up a scarf which happened to be lying near, and
then I fancy I must have gone off again ; for, the
next time I opened my eyes. Floss Bannister was
bathing my forehead, and the doctor was bending
over me.

' You're a noble fellow, Creyke,' I heard Hood
say. ' If we are spared to get out of this, I shall
recommend you for the Cross.'

' I don't do it for the Cross,' I heard him answer,
coolly. ' I'm glad we prevented those beasts getting
the gun, and I couldn't leave Cotherstone to die out
there. I should never have faced his father again, as
long as I lived.'

' Xever mind your reasons,' Hood said, warmly,
they don't lessen your heroism, whatever they
were.'

Crej-ke came round to his then, and asked if he
could help in any way.

' Lend me a penknife,' answered the doctor.

' Oh, by Jove ! I've left it behind me,' he said, ina
disgusted tone. ' I'll run and fetch it.'

' You will do nothing of the kind,' put in Hood,
imperatively.

' But it's the only one I have, sir,' returned
Creyke mildly.

' I forbid you to go ; I distinctly forbid it.'

' Oh, I must go, sir,' he said, quietly ; 'I shan't bea
minute.' And he did so, returning in a few minutes,
breathless, but unscathed. ' Here's your knife,
Doctor,' he said, as coolly as if he had fetched it
out of the hospital.

' Xow, sir,' I heard Hood say, sternly — I could
only just hear him, for they Avere trying to move me,
and I was turning very sick and fait again — ' you
have chosen to disobey my orders, therefore I shall
not recommend you for the Cross. It is given for
valour, not for foolhardiness.'

"And that was how Creyke missed the V.C," he
ended.

And Avhat became of her ? " Mrs. Cotherstone

asked, "wiping away her tears, which had been falling
plentifully during the recital.

The last time I heard of her, she was still living
with the Cornwallises ; and I fancy she would have
yielded to Creyke's prayers, only she promised Gurney
just at the last that she would meet him in heaven —
Floss Bannister still. Of course, you know, Mary, I
don't mean that she has forgotten him ; but perhaps
she might have been induced to let Creyke care for
her, but for the promise."

"And Major Creyke?"

Creyke ! Oh, there will never be any one like her
for him. He will love her all his life, as he will never
love any other human being. I wonder I never told
you all this before, darling. I am afraid I've been
so happy myself that I have never thought of other
people's troubles ; and, somehow, I don't care to
look back to the time when I had not found you
again."

Mrs. Cotherstone put her soft hands into her
husband's with a most tender smile upon her fair face.
I hope I may meet her some day, Xed," she said,
earnestly. " I should like to see the woman who
saved your life for me ; and as for Major Creyke —
Ah, now I think, I shall never be able to make
enough of him."

Only don't make me jealous,' he interposed.

And how was it," lie asked presently, " that you
came back to the cuirassiers ? "

My darling, at heart we were only volunteers —
at least, that is to say, our interests and pride Avere
ail centred in the old regiment. AVe always looked
upon ourselves as cuirassiers ; and as soon as I had
a chance of a troop in the old regiment I took it.
The Cornwallisses had left then, for the colonel was
too badly wounded to be fit for service again ; and,
as Floss Bannister was gone, Creyke exchanged at
once, though he lost ever so much seniority by
doing so."

Will he ever marry, do you think ? "

Floss would not have him."

Ah, but I meant any one else. Men do such
things, you know, Xed."

'• Do you think I could ever have married any one
but yourself? " he asked.

Of course not," she replied, indignantly.

Well, then, I don't think Crevke will either."

*' XoT exactly handsome," said Captain Dickson, in
reply to a question put to him by a brother officer,
but the sort of girl that every second man would
turn round to look after."

Ah ! " returned the other — by name, Cough —
comprehensively, and as if he perfectly understood
the description, " and what class?"

Oh ! a lady, decidedly," said Dickson, hastily.

What a queer thing we've never met her," remarked
the other. " Perhaps she's some parson's or
lawyer fellow's daughter."

Very likely," said Dickson, indifferently. " Shea
splendid woman, whoever she is. She did fetch
me, no mistake about it."

Where did you see her ? "

"At the Minster ; followed her down Coney Street,
and then she went up Mickle-gate way."

Lives that way, probably," suggested Cough.

Probably," returned Dickson ; and then they fell
to talking of other things.

But the remembrance of the lady did not fade

from the memory of the man whom she had so favourably
impressed. Try as he would, he could not get
her out of his head. Whilst he was dressing for mess
that evening, her face and attitude kept rising before
his eyes, until he was vexed with himself for being
such a fool. Still, she was grand, there was no doubt
about it. He had gone to afternoon prayers at the
Minster partly because he had nowhere else to go,
and partly because the anthem announced to be sung
was of unusual beauty, and immediately upon entering
his attention had been attracted by a lady in
the stalls opposite — a young lady, apparently about
twenty, with dead-gold hair and a perfectly colourless
face. Captain Dickson had eyes keen as any
hawk's, and he " spotted " the dead-gold hair and the
colourless face instantly ; also that she had large
dark eyes ; to be sure, they might be grey, or even
deep blue, but at that distance they had the appearance
of dark eyes.

When the service began, and she rose to her feet,
his admiration still further increased, for he perceived
that she was of magnificent build and proportions.
She was clad in some tightly-fitting, soft material,
of a dark blue shade, and round her throat, below
her plain linen collar, she wore a broad band of gold.
Captain Dickson immediately decided in his own
mind that dark blue and old are the most becoming

colours a woman can wear, especially if she chance
to have dead-gold hair and a perfectly colourless
complexion.

I am afraid he did not attend very much to the
service, nor to the anthem Which he had gone to
hear ; his eyes scarcely ever strayed from the grand
figure opposite, in the blue dress with the collar of
gold. And yet, when the object of his admiration
had disappeared over Ouse Bridge, and he had
betaken himself back to barracks, snatches of the
lovely music kept rising to his lips —

These are they which came out of great translation, and have washed their
roLes, and made them white in the Blood of the Lamb.

Ah ! what haunting music it was ! Why — he wondered
— why, as the emblem of great tribulation,
should there rise before him a colourless face framed
in dead-gold hair ? Surely she could not have come
out of great tribulation ! It was only a proof of the
strange fancies which at times creep into a man's mind.
And yet he remembered most vividly how, during the
anthem, she had seated herself with what he would
swear was a sigh, and, closing her eyes, leant her head
back against the carved oak, and remained so until
the anthem was ended. It was not a happy gesture —
it was the gesture of a woman who, as yet, had not
realized the truth of the words they were singing —

They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more ; neither shall the
sun light on them, nor any heat.

They shall hunger — no more ! Just then, as
she sat clown, he caught — or he fancied so, which
was almost the same — a wistful glance from those
dark eyes which told him very plainly that it had
not come to her to hunger no more. He was quite
right : there are many kinds of hunger.

Three days later he met her in the town, and her
face haunted him more than ever — for it had the rare
characteristic of being nicer as you approached
nearer to it. Captain Dickson had a good look at
her, for she never even glanced towards him. He
saw that she wore the same dress as he had seen
her in before, and that there was a younger girl
with her, evidently a sister, from the similarity of
costume and also from the striking resemblance of
person. True, she was of a brighter, rosier, more
lively type, and looked at the tall dark-haired soldier
Avitli interest enough ; but, to his mind, she was not
half so charming as her sister, who took no more
notice of him than if he had been some country
clod-hopper on a market daj^ and who seemed to
him to be the living personification of that ideal
woman of whom the poet sings —

Faultily faultless, icily regular, splendidly null, dead perfection, no
Tiiore.

And yet, when he came to think of it, it was hardly
an apt description. Each feature was good, and yet

the whole was not handsome — faultily faultless, so far
good — the face was cold, it was also regular in
outline. Good thus far, but for the next clause he
had a different opinion — he could not agree with that :
a vision of wistful dark eyes came before his mental
vision and a pale face, against a back-ground of dark
oak ; the face was not null, though the perfection of
it might have been described by some people as
dead. A great man has said, that every face should
be a history or a prophecy : her's contained the
history of cruel suffering.

He tried several times to find out who she was,
but without success. Then he met her in a shop ;
on that occasion, her umbrella, which had been set
against a chair, was thrown to the ground, and he had
the pleasure of picking it up and restoring it to her.
She thanked him with a bow and a grave smile, but
without speaking. Captain Dickson wished she had
spoken ; she had, he felt convinced, a sweet voice, as
tender as her face and he would have liked to hear it.
Presently her sister asked her a question about something
she was buying, but still she did not speak, only
bent her head. Captain Dickson wondered impatiently
if she had guessed how much he wished to hear her
voice, and was trying to tantalize him. But no ; the
utter unconsciousness of the girl's face was a sufficient
answer to his question. Had he been a wooden

dummy standing there, she could not have taken less
notice of him — nay, had he been a dummy, she
might have looked at it.

She moved towards a stand of photographs at the
side of the shop, and presently her sister addressed
her. " Xell, do you want any of these ? " she asked.

Xow surely she must answer, thought Dickson, but
she did not, only shook her head and turned again to
her study of the photographs. How aggravating !
Well, he had learnt something — her name was Sell !
Xell ! — what a lovely name ; and then the sisters
turned to leave the shop, seeing Which Captain
Dickson made a rush for the door.

Permit me," he said, politely, holding it Avide
open.

"Thank you," said the younger sister, but the
elder merely bowed again, with another grave smile,
the counter-part of that which she had given him
before.

Who are those ladies ? " he asked, Avhen they
had gone.

Their name is Yansittart, sir," the man replied ;
*' they live somewhere on the Mount — Mrs. Yansittart
is a widow."

Ah ! really." Captain Dickson's tone implied
that he was not much interested in the Yansittart
family, yet, for all that, he repeated her name a
VOL. I. r

hundred times to himself, just for the pleasure of
hearing it: " Nell Vansittart." He didn't know when
a name had taken him so ! He wondered impatiently
why she couldn't have spoken — just " thank you," asher
sister had said ! Surely two words couldn't have
been much trouble ! And then an idea occurred to
him, Which made him hold his breath with the very
horror of it. Could it be that she was dumb and had
not power to speak ? Dumb ! could that glorious
creature be dumb ? — dumb as the beasts which
perish ! Was it that which gave those soft eyes such
a speaking language of their own ? Could it be that
which gave that gravely sweet smile such pathetic
eloquence ? Oh, heavens ! — surely not ! Dumb ! —
why she could not be dumb, for she was not deaf.
No, no ! — what an idiot he was ever to fancy anything
so repulsive, so horrible. He would hasten to dress
for mess, that he might go down and forget that so
hideous a conception had ever found a place — even
for a moment — in his mind.

But still, he could not shake off the painful impression
which his conjecture had produced, and his
brother-officers were not slow in discovering that
something unusual was amiss with him.

What's the matter with Dickson ? " one asked
of another.

Don't know, fallen in love, perhaps*' was the reply.

Oh ! he'll get over it," laughed the one who had
spoken first.

"What does Dickson look so blue about to-night?"
was asked at another part of the table.

"Can't say; his young woman's given him the slip,
perhaps."

Very likely. I say, Dickson, what's up?"

Up ? " said Dickson, stupidly.

"Yes, up — wrong — amiss — anything you like?"

Oh ! nothing."

Has she turned out a failure ? "

She ? " repeated Dickson, who, having his head
full of Nell Vansittart, wondered how Gore could
know anything about it.

Why, bless my soul, man!" cried the other, " you
might as well be deaf and dumb, for all the information
one can get out of you."

Deaf and dumb ! Captain Dickson started so
violently at the words that a general laugh went
round the table. He did not laugh, only went on
quietly eating his dinner.

Must be in love," remarked a young " sub." to
his neighbour, in tones just loud enough for Dickson
to catch. " And, oh ! by Jove'! what beastly bad
rissoles these are ! 'Pon my soul, one might get as
good in any cook-shop."

Captain Dickson looked up, and fixed his cool blue
VOL. I. p 2

eyes upon the speaker. " I'll tell you what it is,
young man," he said, in a quiet, distinct voice, which
could well be heard all over the room ; " if we have
any more of your nonsense about the mess-cookery,
well send you home to rough it for six iveeJcs."

Dickson may have fallen in love," said one man
sotto voce to another, " but his tongue's as caustic
and his wit as keen as ever it was."

Neb. — Before I go on with my story, I may as
well remark that the dissatisfied " sub." did not
venture to open his mouth during the rest of the
evening.

Well, not many days after this, the yeomanry ball
came off. Captain Dickson went in good time, just
on the chance of the Vansittart being there. As a
reward, he had not been in the room five minutes
before he perceived the younger of the sisters
standing near one of the pillars, in animated conversation
with a yeomanry officer. He went straight
across the room and asked for an introduction, and
having obtained her card, put his name down for
the next dance. It was a waltz, and he enjoyed it.
The girl was pretty, well-dressed and a good waltzer ;
moreover, he was looking forward to being introduced
to her sister.

"Perhaps you will introduce me to your sister,"
he said, when she suggested returning to her mother.

My sister is not here," lie answered.

Indeed ! How is that ? I hope she is not ill ? "

Oh, no ; but — she does not visit ; " and then,
having secured another dance, he was obliged to
leave her.

She does not visit. Yes, that was what she
said. There was not the slightest doubt about her
words or her meaning — she does not visit. What
could there be to prevent her from visiting ? There
must be some cause, he argued ; young women
of twenty, or thereabouts, don't shun the world's
pleasures without some very good cause. Then
what could that cause be ? He danced once or
twice with her sister and discovered that her name
was Constance ; that since their father's death they
had lived in Edinburgh, and that they had only been
in York a few months. Miss Constance could not
say whether they were likely to remain long or not —
she thought not ; but it would depend chiefly upon
her sister.

I wonder," said Captain Dickson, in his most
deferential tone — " I wonder if you would be
offended if I asked you a very impertinent question
? "

You had better ask it and see," she returned,
with a laugh. " \Yhat is it ? "

"I have seen you and your sister in the town

once or twice," he answered ; " and I should like
to know why she does not visit."

Miss Constance looked down at her gloves, tore a
flower from her bouquet, destroyed it, looked up
hesitatingly, as if his question was an unwelcome
one, and then looked down again.

If you would rather not answer it, pray say so,"
lie answered, gently. "It was really a most impertinent
thing to ask."

No, no, not at all," she said, hastily. " The fact
is, Captain Dickson, my sister had a misfortune a few
mcHiths ago, and wee have never been able to persuade
her to go into society since."

Oh, yes ; I understand," he answered.

But understand he decidedly did not ! A misfortune
! It had an ominous sound about it which
lie did not like at all A misfortune ! " Why,
bless me," he thought, " there can't be anything
wrong with her morals ; and what could it be else
to make her withdraw entirely from the world?"

She was right in her head, that was very certain ;
then what could it be ?

The following day he walked up towards the Mount,
hoping to meet them — meaning the Vansittart. Just
outside Micklegate Bar, he saw them in the distance,
coming towards him. He stopped and held out his hand
to Constance, Miss Vansittart walked composedly on.

And thus during several weeks were this efforts
baffled. At length she gave up going into the town
with her sister in the afternoon, and, once or twice,
Avhen he had contrived to get himself asked in to have
a cup of tea, she never went into the room ; once, he
just caught sight of the tail of her gown, and a
glimpse of her dead-gold hair, but to him she was a
very will-o'-the-wisp : it seemed absolutely impossible
to reach her presence. But still he did not give up
his object ; he was determined to know her, and at
last he succeeded, for one day he went in with Constance,
and entered the room too suddenly for her to
escape.

"Let me introduce Captain Dickson, Nell," said
Constance : " My sister — Captain Dickson."

Being in her own house. Miss Vansittart could not
well avoid laying her hand in Captain Dickson's outstretched
palm, and, having done that, she could not
immediately leave the room as she would have
liked.

How very cold it is to-day," he said, addressing
himself pointedly to her.

Again that little grave bow : he was non-passed.

I'll ask her a question," he thought, then said
aloud, " Do you skate at all ? "

I do not," she answered, flushing vividly as sha
spoke.

He understood it all in a moment. Those three
words had told him what it was that Constance had
called " a misfortune." Miss Yansittart had, through
some accident, lost her voice, and could not speak
above a whisper. All his soldierly tact and polish
came to his aid now. He would not let her feel ill
at ease with him. He took a seat beside her and
talked away as fluently and pleasantly as if young
ladies who could not speak above a whisper very
often came in his way, and presently, when Constance
went to take her hat otf, and Mrs. Yansittart left the
room for a moment, he remarked, coolly, " Do you
know. Miss Yansittart, I have been trying to make
your acquaintance for ever so long?"

Yes, I know," in that strange whispering voice,
which thrilled his very soul's inmost recesses, " but
I — never see people."

Yes, I understand exactly. Of course I didn't
know until this evening, but I understand now.
You won't keep out of my way again, will you?" he
asked, persuasively.

But — ," she began, hesitatingly, " is not my voice
very disagreeable to you ? "

Disagreeable ! " he echoed, " no, indeed ; I don't
admire your screaming women, whose tongues go five-and-twenty
to the dozen until you are deafened."

I always feel so reluctant to speak," she continued,

" for some people look astonished, and others
smile, as if there could be anything amusing in
having lost one's voice — in such a deprivation."

"When people display a visible lack of brains you
should be lenient, Miss Yansittart," he said, gravely.

Yes, perhaps ; only one is apt to think only of
one's self," she answered.

Then the others returned. Poor Mrs. Yansittart
"was so charmed to see Xell interested and pleased
once more, that she could not make enough of the
man who had wrought the change. He lingered
until the irate cook was only forcibly restrained from
rushing up stairs to give him a piece of her mind —
not a small piece by any means ; but at last he did
take his leave.

Mrs. Yansittart followed him out into the hall, " I
don't know how to express my gratitude to you," she
said, " I have not seen Xell so bright and like herself
since she met with the accident which deprived
her of her voice ; and, you knows" — with a sound of
tears m her tones — " you know what that must be to
her mother."

Mrs. Yansittart," he said, quietly, " I wish you
Avould give me a general invitation to come here."

Whh all my heart."

Thank you much," he answered, heartily, and,
]u-es-ing her hand, departed.

He was too late for mess, but he had some dinner
in his room, and went into the ante-room afterwards.
He found there one or two strangers who had been
dining at mess — strangers to him, that is to say. One
of them was speaking as he entered the room :

Have any of you met some people called vansittart
— a mother and two daughters? I heard they
had come to York."

What makes her keep out of sight now ? " someone
asked.

(3h ! poor girl ! She was engaged to Towers-brooke,
of the Drab Horse, and just about a year
ago we were all staying at BuUidean — Gylglen's
place. Well, Miss Vansittart — Nell, every one called
her — slipped into a deep brook one afternoon, and
got soaked to the skin. We tried to persuade her
to go into a cottage and get dried there, but she
persisted in driving home — some six miles. Towers-brooke
was always a queer-tempered fellow, and, of
course, he was anxious about her, but he told her —
roughly enough, and before all of us — that if she
didn't do as she was told, he would never speak to
her again. She didn't hesitate a minute : a dog-cart
was standing by, so she jumped in and drove off by
herself. Towers-Brooke never said a word, he drove
the drag back to Bullidean, with a regular pack inside
— for four had crone in the dog-cart — and he never

oiice opened his mouth the Avhole way ; I happen to
know that, because I sat next to him. We reached
the house about six o'clock, and he was off to
London at seven, without his dinner even. Mrs.
Gylglen was rather vexed about it, but Nell Vansittart
was taken so ill with some lung complaint that
no one had time to talk or think of anything else,
and the end of it was, that she lost her lover and
her voice — hard upon her, poor girl ! "

He wouldn't be much loss," remarked one of the
audience.

"I think she was fond of him," returned the guest,
in a musing tone, " and there* was no doubt whatever
about Towers-Brooke's feelings, only he was one
of those determined chaps that would keep his word
if it spoilt his whole life, and killed him in the end."

Oh ! one of your pig-headed brutes," drawled a
cuirassier, who had not been particularly charmed
by the description of Mr. Towers-Brooke, " or what
some people call ' lira.' "

Yes, exactly."

"Ah! well, I think Miss Vansittart has done well
to get out of it. Men of that calibre are all very well
iu story books, but they are the very devil to live
with. I happen to know, because my old governor's
one of the sort ; if I were a woman, I'd rather marry
ever such a fool."

A clever sort of clap," put in another.

Clever as daylight," responded the guest, " as
clever as daylight, I dined with the Drab Horse on
the day of their last steeple-chases, when Brooke had
ridden a horse of Jefferson's and won the cup, which
was open to the army. Of course they made a great
fuss about it, and toasted the horse ; then they
called for the owner, and Jefferson got up in the
most approved style, laid his hand on his heart and
bowed on all sides. They thought they were going
to get a speech out of him, but they couldn't, so they
called for the jockey. Towers-Brooke got up and
made his bow.

' I think my master has said enough for both of
us,' said he, and sat down again."

Very good," laughed the cuirassiers en masse.

And that same night," he continued, " old Fits
who was colonel at that time, by way of
mixing the company, had asked the E. C. priest to
meet the chaplain and another parson. The introduction
opened the proceedings : the chaplain, an
enormously fat man, very bald and urbane, was
walked up to the priest as soon as he entered the
room.

' Oo-o,' said the colonel — you know his extraordinary
way of speaking — 'Oo-o — let me introduce
3'ou to my very good friend, Father O'Eeilly.'

I never saw a man's face fall as his did in my
life ; if old Fitz-Hiigli had presented him to the devil
himself — horns and 'hoof and all — his bow couldn't
have been more solemn or his face have expressed
greater disgust. The priest, who was a jolly sort
of chap, saw the joke in a minute. Well, the other
parson had just arrived in time to see the meeting
between the two, so old Fits-Hugh took the priest's
arm and led him across the room.

' Oh ! Lloyd, Oo-o — let me introduce 3'ou to my
very good friend. Father O'Pieilly.'

He looked back at us, as he spoke, to see if we all
fully appreciated the crowning point of his little jest,
but, to the general disgust, the new-comer held out a
hand, with a hearty ' How are you, O'Eeilly ? '

'show are ye, me dear fellow?' returned the
priest.

' Oo-o ' gasped Fits-Hugh ; ' then you know
Father O'Eeilly? Oo-o!'

' Sure, yis. Me good friend Lloyd often comes
an' smokes a pipe with me,' answered the priest.

I really don't know whether the roar of laughter
which followed was at the colonel's done look or at
the righteous horror on the chaplain's fat face.
Perhaps it was at the remark with which the Irishman
finished up the colonel's little plot.

' I'm always delighted to meet any friend of

yours, colonel,' lie said, taking a glass of sherry and
bitters from the tray as he spoke, ' but I make a
rule of drawing the line after the Establishment.'

And now we must be going, Russell," he said,
rising, " or your wife will be locking us out."

Captain Dickson, after a while, went up to his room
in a strangely meditative mood. There was a roaring
lire blazing up the chimney and a newspaper lying
on the table. He sat down in his accustomed chair,
for the first time since he had joined the army,
thoroughly dissatisfied with his life. All at once it
seemed to have grown utterly distasteful to him. He
looked round the little room,, with eyes no longer
blind to the many makeshifts and shabbiness which
it contained. There were the common deal legs of
the table protruding from beneath the torn, stained
cloth which covered it ; there was the usual make-believe
dressings-table, with its cretonne hanfyinos,
and the petticoated chairs — how his soul loathed
them ! — and there in the corner, with which regularly
every morning he barked his shins, was the big
bath, with huge patches of paint knocked off; and
there were the window curtains, which made a point
of coming down every time he tried to draw them.
Hitherto he had merely suffered all these things
because he felt it was not-worth while to have anything
better, to be at the mercy of soldier servants

and railway porters ; but, somehow, of late a great
craving had taken possession of him — a craving for a
home : a home in the country, with decent hunting
and shooting ; with pleasant society, where there
would be no practical jokes nor after-dinner songs,
such as he could hear them singing in the ante-room
at that moment —

oil I my Jem — Jemima,

She's left her loving Sam !
And gone to he a Maronite,

In new Jerusalem.

Ugh! how sick he was of it all. Xo wonder: he
had heard Gore sing that song almost every night for
the last five years. He invariably got on a chair and
see-sawed his arms up and down whilst he sang it.
He didn't know, or rather he never attempted, any
other, and he could not be said to how that. Oh,
how weary he was of it all! The stale jokes! He
knew every one's story, and just at what part of the
evening it would be brought in. A new story or
joke was a perfect godsend to them ! Would they
never grow tired of trying how much mustard and
pepper Martin could take without finding out his
food had been tampered with? Would they never
cease to treat old Barber's bald head as a round of
toast, and butter it? Would they never discover
that life maybe of better worth than turning men out

of their beds as soon as they have got comfortably
into them, and marching them about draughty corridors
in scanty attire, at the risk of rheumatic fever
and king complaints? He wondered, with a long sigh,
how he had managed to live to thirty years of age
without finding all this out? It was because — and
his heart told him the reason quickly enough — he
had never taken a fancy for a country house and a
wife who should have dead-gold hair and a colourless
complexion.

He leant back in his chair and gave himself up to
the pleasure of contemplating his castle, which, as
yet, was iji nuhihus. How different it would all be.
What long, quiet cosy evenings they would have together.
She must sit always close beside him, else
he would not be able to hear wdiat she said — the girl
he loved — the girl with the strange whispering voice
and the serious eyes, with their wistful, pained expression.
Curse the fellow who brought that shadow
into them ! And yet, if things had been otherwise,
Xell Yansittart would be to him as nothing. He
must not forget that.

There was one thing, however, that he forgot completely
— or no, he could not be said to forget it, for
the idea had never presented itself to his mind — that
was, that it was possible Miss Yansittart might not
find herself able to care for him as he cared for her,

nor did lie admit, even to his OAvn mind, that it was
probable. She still cherished some of the old tenderness
for the man who had once loved her — Towers-brooke.


George Dickson never thought of these possibilities
and probabilities, so they did not trouble him. For
the next few weeks he went on his roseate way
with a brave joyous heart and eyes which saw not
the tiniest cloud upon the horizon of his future.
Day by day he found his way to Mrs. Vansittart's
house, and with each visit Xell was more gracious to
him, more at ease, more friendly, until at last he
summoned up courage, when one afternoon he found
her alone, to unfold to her his glowing visions of the
future.

You cai'e for me ? " she repeated, incredulously.

Yes, dear ; is there anything astonishing in
that?" he said, with a tender smile.

Oh ! Captain Dickson ! " she gasped, her Whispering
voice growing louder because of her pain, " indeed, I
never thought of this — I expected it was Constance."

Oh no ; it is yourself."

But I never thought of it !"

Will you not think of it now ? " he pleaded.

Oh — no, no ! " — it would be hard to say Whether
the pain in eyes, or voice, or face, was the keenest —
you do not understand ; you do not know."

VOL. I. Q

He guessed instantly that she Alas thinking of
Towers-Brooke. " I know all about the man Who
treated you like the hound he is," he said, savagely.

Don't say it," she said, holding out her hands imploringly
; " I cannot, will not hear a word against
him."

You love him still ? " he asked, incredulously.

Love him ! " she repeated, heedless of the pain
she was inflicting, " oh ! how I do love him— still."

You would take him back — now ? " Dickson
asked.

Take him back ! " she echoed, " oh yes, indeed —
if he came to me maimed and tattered, crippled and
blind, deaf and dumb, I would still take him back
gladly ; but," with a sad smile, " he will not — he will
keep his word."

And then he left her.

It was all over. He Avent back to his barrack-room
and hated it worse than ever. He had thought to
escape from it all, but he had been mistaken. There
it all was: the stained table-cloth, the deal legs
of the table, the sentries pacing up and doAvn outside,
Gore sino^incf in his room next door —

Oh ! my Jem — Jemima,

Lie's left lier loving Sam,
And gone to be a Maronite

In new Jerusalem.

There was the quarter-master's baby squalling just

across the corridor, and the adjutant's Avise scolding
her servant. There was that poor devil, Calcraft, in
the hospital, and the man he had got in his place
knew as much about varnishing boots as he did
about making mince-pies. He was thumping at the
door at that moment.

Sergeant-major Lucas wants to speak to you,
sir."

Very well." What could that be for ? Nothing
to do with Calcraft, for he was safe in hospital. He
had a good mind to cut it all, but for the present
he was obliged to hear Avhat Lucas had to say :
for, however ill the world used him, he Alas still
the Captain of F-troop.

VOL. I. Q 2

He made a very bad senior sub., there Alas no
doubt about it. In the first place, lie had ten names,
a circumstance which told against him ; in the second,
he had a great many distinguished relations, and as
these "salt of the earth" were not permitted to remain
quietly at home with their Avives, but were ostentatiously
paraded on every occasion as, " Getty, my
cousin, you know," or " Sir Lucian Wordsworth, my
old uncle," and a dozen such others, they told against
him likewise. As the cuirassiers — those who Avere as
distinguished and those Who Avere not — frequently
said, it is doubtless a fine thing to be fifth cousin
to an earl — called, for shortness, Getty — and to have
an uncle in Parliament, Avitli the additional charms
of being: a baronet and a millionaire : still, even

o

of those good things, otlicr people might have too
much.

Then also he had no money, and he had, Avorst of
all, a mother I Yes ! he had a mother, and she called
him "Lucy." Xoav, since he possessed such a superabundance
of names, she might as Avell have called
him bv any of the others, but, bv one of the absurd

freaks of coddling love Avhicli some mothers indulge
in, she called him "Lucy;" his brother officers called
him '• The Alphabet ; " his name, however, in all
its glory, shone thus — Lucian Wordsworth John
George Lawrence Geraldine Sholto Montague
Cosmo Abdy — ten of them — and his mother called
him "Lucy," and his brother officers "The
Alphabet."

Mr. Abdy was an only child, indeed, at the time at
which the little incident I am going to relate took
place, he was the only son of his mother, and she
was a widow, Mr. Abdy jiere having died some
fifteen years previously, to the very great detriment
of his son's bringing-up !

lie was not ornamental, and he was certainly not
useful ; in person he was singularly unprepossessing :
his height Alas considerably over six feet, and in
Avidth he might be, perhaps, about one-sixth of his
height — barely twelve inclines ; his shoulders were of
the class known as " champagne," in truth, they were
so very much of the champagne order that he seemed
to have no shoulders at all, only an enormously long
neck, to Which, somehow, his arms were attached;
lie had also remarkably long legs, slightly inclined to
knock about the knees ; and, to crown all these
charms, he had a foolish round face, with boiled-gooseberry
eyes and white eye-lashes, a nondescript

nose, a huge mouth, bad teeth, and a mop — a perfect
mop — of curly flame-coloured hair.

So much for his personal appearance ! now for his
accomplishments. Well, he had a personal appearance,
though to be sure it was not much of a one to
look at, but accomplishments — he had none ! Shoot
he couldn't. To many other pursuits the same
description accurately applied — to polo, cricket,
riding, swimming, and indeed to most of the hundred-anemone
amusements to which soldiers devote themselves.
He was once knoAvn to drive the drag back
to the Blankhampton barracks, the others having
stayed in the town, and on reaching his destination
was hailed by an impudent young sub., who hadn't
quite got licked into shape, with "Hollo! Abdy, wdiat
have you done with the others? — killed 'em all, eh?"
To finish the list of Mr. Abdy's charms, I need only
add that he wore his hat on one side, and fancied
every Avoman he met was in love with him ; now
there was no doubt whatever about the hat, but as
for the other —

Oh !-sad some power the giftie gie us
To see oiirsels as it hers see us ;
It wad frae mony a Plunder free us,
And foolish notion.

The cuirassiers had been quartered in Blank-hampton
nearly a year, and had naturally made a
arose circle of friends in the town and neighbourhood.

Shortly after Christmas Mrs. Abdy arrived,
and took up her abode in private lodgings, announcing
her intention of remaining some time — several
months, at least.

Her first proceeding was to take advantage
of her son's absence at a house in the vicinity,
where he had gone for a couple of days' hunting,
to go up to the barracks with her maid, and —
Avhat she called — "put poor dear Lucy's things
tidy," to the intense delight of such of the officers
as were in the barracks.

Xow probably the last person a cavalry officer
would like to set loose in his rooms would be his
mother — excepting, perhaps, his sweetheart — and
'• poor dear Lucy," not dreaming that such an onslaught
would be made during his absence, had left
everything in the utmost disorder, it having never
occured to him that such an idea would present itself
to the old lady's mind. The very first thing, therefore,
that she was enabled to do was to read his love
letters, the result of which was that she indignantly
declined offers of help in her self-imposed task
from any of the officers, and betook herself back
to her lodgings, without having put any of
'' poor dear Lucy's " things straight at all,
having, in truth, left them rather more untidy
than she had found them.

Having thought the matter over, with the help of
lier luncheon and a glass or two of sherry, Mrs. Abdy
came to the conclusion that the sooner she could get
Lucy " married the better. That happened to be
exactly " Lucy's " own opinion, and, like his mother,
he, too, inserted a clause in the matrimonial scheme —
the clause was inonei/. What he wanted was youth,
beauty, birth, amiability, talent, style, and money.
Those were Avhat he wanted. What, however, he
had made up his mind to have was money — as
many of the others as he could get, but money first
and foremost. lie had tried a good many young
ladies with the requisite amount of gilding, but, unfortunately,
lie had not been able to induce them to
see things in the same light as himself. Young ladies
who have twelve or fifteen hundred a-year of their
own have usually an exalted opinion of themselves,
and look for a little, or, if they marry a poor man,
they take care he is something to look at, at all
events.

Up to the time of the opening of this story Mr.
Abdy had l)een evidently unappreciated, for he Alas
a bachelor still.

The more his old mother turned the matter over
in her mind therefore puzzled did she become,
and at last she put on her hat — she was sixty-five
at least, but she wore a hat — and sallied

out for a promenade down the High Street.
She had Avalked the length of the narrow street,
and, having crossed over the road, was proceeding
leisurely back, by the other side, when a voice
exclaimed,

Why, can that be you, Mrs. Abdy? Alio would
have thought of seeing you in Blankhampton? "

Mrs. Smilingly ! " cried Mrs. Abdy, in as great
astonishment, " and Who Avould have thought of
seeing you, indeed ? "

"Ah, who indeed? I'll tell you how it is. My
daughter is perfectly wild about hunting, and having
tried all the other hunting districts in England, I
think, made up her mind that she should never be
happy until she had had a few weeks with the
Blankhampton Hunt. It ended, of course, in our
coming, and she has gone out for her first run this
morning."

Then have you taken a house ? "

"Oh, dear no ! We are at the 'Golden Swan' —
a very comfortable hotel, too. I want to go as far
as the Post Office ; will you walk with me, and then
come back and have a cup of tea ? "

Thanks, very many," returned Mrs. Abdy, willingly.


And what has brought you into this part of the
world y" Mrs. Chillingly inquired.

Oil, LiiC3''s regiment is here. My son, yon
know."

Oh, really ! Very nice for yon. I suppose yon
are in lodojinrrs ? "

Yes," she answered, " my son has gone to stay a
couple of days at Sir Hugh Brooke's — the great iron
people, yon know ; but he will be back this afternoon."


I never met him," remarked Mrs. Chilhngly. " I
never was so surprised as when I saw you walking
quietly along."

This was just the chance Mrs. Abdy had been
looking for. j\Iiss Chillingly was an heiress ; her
father had been something in the cotton-spinning
hue, and had left three hundred thousand pounds
between his wife and daughter. She was young,
very pretty, a splendid horsewoman, and a charming
girl. Could anything be devised to suit " Lucy "
better ? "

For the next few weeks her whole attention Alas
devoted to the task of bringing the tAVO together,
Lucy " himself AA^as more than Cavilling. Eoscy
Chillingly seemed very Avell pleased at his attentions,
and Mrs. Chilhngly, Avhose influence Avent for a good
deal in Mrs. Abdy's calculations, having become
utterly tired of being dragged about the country at
her daughter's SAveet Avill, Alas charmed at the idea.

k^he didn't in the least care who Eosey married so
long as he was a gentleman, and of " Lucy's " family
there could be no question.

Amongst the officers of the cuirassiers the
marriage was spoken of as a settled thing ; they
were expecting every evening that Abdy would
announce the news ; but one afternoon an accidental
carelessness made just all the difference in the true
state of the case — in this wise : Miss Chillingly Alas
not entirely unknown to the regiment — indeed, with
one of the officers, Mr. Bernard, there had been some
very, very tender love passages, which had been
broken off through a misunderstanding —-broken off
and never quite cleared up. It happened that when
she was returning from a long day's hunting, with
"Lucy" in close attendance and her groom behind,
Geoffry Bernard had overtaken them, and, seeing a
certain softness in Eosey's face and a certain defiant
swagger in Abdy's manner, he greeted her and
rode on with them. He fancied — could it be all
fancy ? — that she seemed suddenly relieved, and at
parting he was bold enough to ask, in an undertone,
if he might call on the following day ?

Surely," said the girl, turning a pair of brilliant
blue eyes up Wistfully ; " come in and have a cup of
tea. My mother will be delighted."

Then he thanked her, and with Abdy, Who had

not overheard the Utile arrangement, sh:)wly rode
back to barracks.

But although " Lucy " had not overheard the
conversation between Eosey and Bernard, he knew
the latter Avell enough to be aware that he was
more than inclined to go in on his own account,
and he determined on the morrow to have the
whole thing settled and done Avitli one Avay or
another. AVhat Alas the use, he argued, of shilly-shallying
any longer? Faint heart ne'er won fair lady
and a good deal more.

'walk down into town with me, Abdy?" said
Bernard, suddenly, as they entered the gates.

All right ; come round to my rooms when you
are ready," he replied.

After all, it would be as well not to lose sight
of Bernard during the next few hours.

So presently Bernard went round to Abdy's
rooms — he had been lucky enough to secure
two.

Ready, Abdy ? "

'• Xot quite," returned a voice from the inner
room, and evidently from behind a towel. "Shan't
be a minute."

Xow Geoffry Bernard was very much in love,
and considered all things fair in love and war ;
therefore, seeing a letter lying open on the blotting-pad,

lie made no more of reading it than if it had
been his own. Dishonourable, of course it Alas, but
true for all that ! It was not long, and the ink Alas
still Ave :

My Dear Miss Ciiillixgly,

AVill you meet me at the Seven Willows tomorrow afternoon at three
o'clock ? I want to ask yon a very important question, and at j-our hotel one
is never free from interruptions. Devotedly yours,

L. E. J. G. L. G. y. M. C. Andy.

IIoAv the deuce does he remember them all P "
murmured Geoffry bernard, as he strolled to the
pier-glass and began admiring himself. When, a fear
minutes later, Abdy entered, Bernard Alas resting his
arms upon the chimney-shelf and his forehead upon
his arms, staring into the fire in the bravest of
brown studies.

Asleep, old man ? " Abdy asked.

Very nearly," Avitli a start and a laugh. " What
tiring Avork hunting is."

Carefully so," returned Abdy, folding the letter up
and directing it.

But all the same, Geoffry had not kept Avery closely
to the truth Avhen he said he Alas nearly asleep ;
he ncA'cr Alas further ois from sleep in the Avhole of
his life. His quick brain Alas busy, and the result
of his cogitations Alas that, Avheii they got doAvu to
the club, he Avrote a note, and the cflect of the

note startled the whole of Blaiikhampton the following
morning in such a manner as had not happened
for years. In this way : the hotel of the " Golden
Swan " was in the centre of the principal street of
the town, a narrow thoroughfare, having barely
room for two carriages to pass; the business of the
hotel having increased, the owner had secured the
house opposite to the original one, and thus the
hotel was in two parts, one on each side of the
street. In order to attract notice, he had over
cither entrance door a huge gilded swan, and extending
across the street from one house to the
other, a sign about a foot broad and placed about
sixteen feet from the ground, thus :

Ml THE GOLDEN SWAN. ^

Well might the respectable inhabitants of Blank-hampton
be startled the following morning, when
in the BlanJchampton Daily Herald they read the
following announcement :

A LONG Jump.— We understand that Mr. L. B. J. G. L. G. S. M. C. Abdy,
of the cuirassiers, has undertaken to clear the sign of the " Golden Swan " without
assistance of any kind. See advert.

Of course everyone turned eagerly from the local
news to the advertisement sheet. Yes ; there it
was :

THE SIGN OF THE " GOLDEN SWAN." 2o9

HE SIGN OF THE "GOLDEN Swan"— Lieutenant Ally, of the
cuirassiers-n-ill jump the alive sign, IN FULL UNIFOEil, at
3 o'clock this (Wednesday) afternoon.
The public are invited to attend !

Had Colonel Cornerstone been at home, Bernard's
ruse would not have succeeded so well. As it was,
no notice was taken of it, for the major was not
out of barracks during the morning, and Bernard
took good care that the paper containing the
announcement should not come within his reach,
Mrs. Abdy was away', having gone to visit the
]crooked — "the great iron people, j'ou know" — and
so at half-past two " Lucy " went quietly out
of barracks to keep his appointment with Miss
Chillingly. Just about that time a little regiment
of upholsterers were busy laying down straw and
mattresses in order to break; the fall. The windows
of all the houses and the hotel were full of ladies;
there was a crowd of gentlemen about the steps of
the hotel and at the coffee room windows, and the
jniblic had gathered in great force in the street
itself.

What does it all mean ? " exclaimed Piosey, as
Geoffry Bernard entered their sitting-room about
twenty minutes to three.

Haven't you seen the papers ? "

The London papers — yes."

The Blanlhcnnj^ton Daily Herald, I mean," lie
answered, taking a copy ont of his pocket and
pointing to the advertisement.

As Miss Chilhngly read, an angry light came into
lier eyes, and she bit her hips nervously. So Mr.
Lucian had simply been trying to make a fool of
her. "Well, thank goodness, she had not intended
to go.

She laid the paper down and walked to the
window, whither GeofFry followed her.

"He will never jump over that' she said, Avitli a
look at the sign.

I should think not," GeofFry answered.

Why is he going lo attempt it? "

I really cannot say."

And so they waited and waited, until three of the
clock struck — the hero of the day did not appear.
The crowd began to grow impatient ; so did Eosey
Chillingly.

"Is he coming, do you think?" she asked at
last.

I daresay not," said Geoffry, coolly. " He has a
trick of forgetting his appointments."

Again she turned to the window with that sudden
flush upon her fiice. Geoffry took advantage
of it.

Eosey," he said, in a low tone (they were alone,

for Mrs. Chillingly had gone out of the room to fetch
something), " can you forgive me for what took
place two years ago ? It has made me very unhappy."


"Has it?"

Then somehow his arms found their way round
her, and she felt his passionate kisses upon her lips.
Poor "Alphabet," waiting savagely in the wind about
the Seven Willows, was quite forgotten by both of
them, until a series of groans and hisses from
without recalled them to what was going on in
the street.

They have given him up," she cried ; " the men
are taking the mattresses away. Oh, I do believe,
Geoffry, it is all a hoax ! " At which Geoffry burst
out laughing.

Yes ; it was all a hoax. Towards five o'clock Mr.
Abdy found his way into the room to see the lovers
sitting together on the sofa and Mrs. Chillingly busy
writing a letter. Unfortunately, the homely comfort
in the cosy room was too much for him, and he lost
his temper.

Of course, 5'ou have had a fine view of all this
foolery that has been going on," he said to Eosey.

"Well, we saw the preparations and the crowd,"
she answered ; " but you never came — why did you
not?"

VOL. I. R

It is a hoax," he ahiiost shouted. " I have been
"nearly mobbed on my way here ; but, never mind, I
know whom to thank for it, and I'll be even with
him yet," at which Geoffry burst into a fit of
smothered laughter.

Oh, don't be angry," the girl said, soothingly.
Kit was only meant as a joke, you should take it
as such. ' Give and take,' you know, should be the
motto for the army." But well-meant as her sympathy
undoubtedly was, the sight of " Lucy's " livid
face and flaming eyes was too much for her, and
she, too, relapsed into a perfect agony of hilarity', in
the midst of which the enraged officer rushed out of
the house.

I hope I shall never see him again," she laughed,
for I shall never be able to keep a grave face. Oh !
won't he pay you out for this ? "

Not he," returned Geoffry, carelessly, " because I
shall not give him the chance."

After dinner that evening he announced his
engagement to his comrades, receiving the congratulations
of every one present excepting Abdy.

Won't you wish me joy, Abdy? " he asked.

No, sir ; and, what is more, I shall report this
disgraceful hoax to the colonel tomorrow," he
thundered.

"Very well," returned Bernard, carelessly. "You

might as avcII be pleasant about it, for I shall
leave the regiment immediately ; and, if it's any
comfort to you to know it, you never had a
chance from the first."

That was quite true, but during his whole life
Lucian Abdy cherished the most bitter hatred against
his successful rival, and if any one desired to throw
him into a transport of rage he had only to mention
the hoax, which, as he thought, cost him the
heiress —

THE Sign OF TEE " GOLDEN SWAN ! "

VOL. I. n 2

When lie first joined the regiment lie was called
Fatima," but before very long his nom de fantasie
was changed to " Waugh." However, just before he
obtained his troop, an incident took place which
gave rise to a third sobriquet — that of " Hunipty-
Dumpty ; " all three names suited him fairly well :
Fatima," for he Alas frightfully obese ; " waugh,"
because it was the expression most often on his lips ;
'• Humpty-dumpty " — but no, that requires a story
to itself !

The regiment was the Drab Horse, and had succeeded
the 52nd Dragoons at Wellington, where they
became great favourites w^itli all the people roundabout,
and that, mind, was a very great credit to
them, for the departure of the 52nd had been looked
upon almost in the light of a public calamity, and the
good folks of the neighbourhood regarded the newcomers
with anything but favourable eyes, until their
unaffected pleasantness won for them as golden
opinions as Wellington had ever bestowed upon any
regiment before.

The yeomanry ball Alas over, the two county
gatherings — the hunt and the officers — lead both
done their duty, and there had been private dances
ad libitum, but the neighbourhood was not satisfied
they wanted a fancy ball !

Have you heard about the fancy ball ? " Hills
asked at mess one evening.

No, what fancy ball ? " said Paget.

There's to be one on St. Valentine's day," he
answered.

Subscription ? " some one asked.

Of course, at the assembly rooms."

"Awfully jolly! — Avhat shall you go as?" cried
Hartley.

Xever thought of it ; I suppose we shall be
obliged to make asses of ourselves — uniforms not
admitted."

"Quite right, too," put in a third man, warmly;
I always myself thought uniform a scurvy Avay of
getting out of it — nearly as bad as pink."

I say, Jimmy," Hills called out, " what are you
going as ? "

Waugh," returned Jimmy Desmond, scornfully.

Oh ! as ' Waugh ; ' well, my man, keep on eating-bath
chaps at the rate you've done lately, and you'll
be able to do the part to perfection," Hills laughed.
'Pon my Avord," he added, sotto voce, " it won't belong

before lie turns into a veritable pig, that
Waugh ' of this is inimitable."

"I knows — cliawictaw that would suit 'Waugh'
to per — section," drawled a high-toned deliberate
voice from the other end of the room, " suit him —
doAvn to — the ground."

What is it? " Hartley asked.
Hump — ty-Dump — ty," returned Carruthers,
coolly, and continuing his dinner as unmoved by
the roar of laughter wliicli followed his suggestion
.as if he had remarked that the day Alas cold, and
no one had taken any notice of it.

Waugh," exclaimed Desmond, savagely, " I think
^ Champagne Charlie ' would suit you as well as
-anything."

Carruthers looked up deliberately, and settled his
glass so as to " fix " the speaker ; the others waited
in silence to hear what the smooth silver tongue
would rap out — more than erpuil to the occasion,
they were sure.

My dear — chap," he said, calmly, " Champagne
Charlie in the original — er^Avas — ah — a vivacious —
person ! Xow my deadliest enemy — ah ! excuse the
tragic element — could hardly accuse — me — of being
Vivacious."

By George, no ! " put in Hills, amid a roar of
laughter.

" And ' Champagne Charlie ' Alas — undeniably — a
cad — and I really don't think," he Avent on, plaintively,
" that I am — a cad."

"Perhaps you intends to go as Adonis?" put
in a rough voice, from the extreme end of the
table — it belonged to the quarter-master.

Carruthers turned his melancholy dark e\^es upon
the speaker, Avitl; just the faintest expression of
contempt on his handsome face.

Ah ! no — I had — some thoughts of — er — taking
your rule — that is, if you don't mind lending it to me,
once in a Avay."

Oh ! no, not at all ! Avhat is it ? " Groves replied,
seeing his Avay to Avhat might be a good
thing.

It Alas a good thing, but scarcely in^the way he
expected, for after a long pause, Carruthers said
gently,

I — er — thought of going — as — suiy^jrte^^ cent I
And I fancy I had the bAvute there," he added in an
undertone, for the benefit of the others, Who — most
of them — kncAV Avhat it Alas to borrow money from
the gentleman in question, at something like sixty
per cent, interest.

As the days passed by, the fancy ball Alas the
subject uppermost in every one's thoughts, and
many Avere the suggestions for " Waugh's " costume :

one tlioiiglit the " Fat boy in Pickwick," another
Magog " — only where was Gog to come from, the
Drab Horse not being able to produce him ?

Waugh," however, put all their ideas to flight by
announcing grandly that he intended to go as Coeur
de Lion !

Coeur de Lion ? " repeated Carruthers, for once
taken aback.

Bless m}^ soul ! " put in Hills again.

Take my advice, Carruthers," quoth " Waugh,"
drily, " and go as ' Champagne Charlie,' " and then
he bolted out of the room before any of the men
assembled could answer him.

C(£ur de Lion'' Carruthers said again ; " but —
oh, by — Jove ! — you never shall."

In his desire to be emphatic he was quite eager, he
almost forgot his drawl.

Captain Carruthers said nothing more upon the
subject that afternoon. It wanted but three days to
the ball, and many were the speculations as to how
he would manage to prevent Desmond from being
present in the character of Cour de Lion ; that he
might be unable to do so never occurred to them —
they knew him too well for that.

That evening Carruthers sat next to Desmond at
dinner, a most unusual circumstance.

Carruthers means mischief," remarked one officer

to another, "just watch him keep filing up
Waugh's' glass every time he turns his head."

' Waugh ' 's screwed already," responded the
other.

But Desmond proved that he was not more than
half-seas-over, and, as the re-filling process "went
steadily on, he very soon showed that he was all-seasoned
by rising to make a speech, and after stammering
out " Gentlemen, I — I — " collapsed, all of
a lump, under the table.

The beast's drunk again," said Carruthers, disdainfully
; " here, some of you fellows, get him off
to bed."

So off half-a-dozen men carried him, swinging him
up and down, and shouting at the top of their
healthy voices — •

With A hiUy-huileo, hilly-h.uilee, Io .'

Officers' call" had just sounded, and the officers
of the Drab Horse had assembled in the orderly
room.

Where is Mr. Desmond ? " asked the chief.

Mr. Desmond was not forthcoming, that Alas evident.


"Orderly, go and let Mr. Desmond know that
officers' call ' has sounded."

The orderly departed hastily, and, after an absence

of five minutes or so, returned, Avitli a purple face
ind without Mr. Desmond.

Mr. Desmond says he can't come, sir."

A look of astonishment passed among the officers,
and Colonel Torres, for a moment, positively stared
at the orderly, as if he could not believe his ears.

God bless my life and soul, sir ! " he thundered,
*' am I the commanding officer of this regiment or
Not? Cant come! Upon my word, the service is
coming to a pretty pass ; an officer cant come when I
send for him. Mr. Hills, have the goodness to tell
Mr. Desmond to come here immediately ? Cant
some ! Upon my soul ! " &c. acl libitum until Hills
returned, quicker than the orderly had done, but, if
anything, slightly more purple about the face, and
Avitli eyes steadily bent downwards, and lips tightly
compressed.

Mr. Desmond will be here in a moment, sir," he
said to the irate chief.

In a moment," he growled, turning angrily as
the door opened to admit the culprit.

Xow, Mr. Desmond — er — why ! God bless me
what — the devil ! — "

His inteijaculatory remarks Avere lost amidst a
smothered explosion of laughter from the officers, in
which he himself, though he gallantly tried to keep
grave, was compelled to join. The only person in

the room who did not laugh was James Desmond.
There he stood, in this undress, with his forage-cap
stuck jauntily on one side of a perfectly bald head,
his long moustache had disappeared, also his short
whiskers, hair, eyebrows — sit Alas all as bare as the
back of your hand ! Yes, there he was, with his
great, round, red face, his little pug nose, with one
arm akimbo, the other hanging by his side— the personification
of " Humpty-Dumpty."

I have said that the only person in the room who
did not laugh was Desmond, but I must make
another exception — that one was Carruthers, who
put his glass carefully in his eye and surveyed his
comrade gravely.

By — Jove ! " he remarked, at length, then
dropped his glass and looked at nothing.

What is the meaning of this, sir ? " the chief
demanded, making a great effort to keep his countenance.


You know as much as I do, sir," Desmond
replied, grandiloquently, looking only at his commanding
officer, and folding his arms, in which
position he looked so supremely absurd that the
smothered mirth bubbled out again.

By a mighty effort Colonel Storeys frowned his
officers into silence once more, and turned to the
india-nant " Wauii'h."

Let me hear about it," ]ie said, sternly.

I went to bed, as usual, last night, sir," he
answered, " and this morning, when my servant came
in he dropped his can of water and rushed out of
the room. I thought that perhaps he might be ill,
but when I got up and looked in the glass — I perceived
the cause."

And you mean to tell me that such a change
could be brought about without your having some
idea of what was going on ? "

I do, sir."

Humph ! " Colonel Torres's face Alas a very
expressive one, and he looked more than sceptical
on the point. " You say you went to bed as usual
last evening ? "

As usual," returned Desmond.

Humph I Well, gentlemen, you are all subject
to suspicion in this affair. I must ask you if you
considered Mr. Desmond ' as usual ' when he retired
from the mess-room ? "

Mr. Desmond," answered Carruthers, calmly,
was considerably the worse for champagne when
he left the mess-room last evening."

Ah ! " muttered the chief, comprehensively,
^' does that mean that he was drunk ? "

T>M7/— drunk," returned Carruthers.

Ah ! " remarked the chief again, if possible With

more comprehension than before. " Mr. Paget,"
addressing a notorious practical joker, "may I ask
why you are laughing ? "

Paget pulled himself up and straightened his face,
without making any reply.

This is a very serious matter," said the colonel,
gravely, whereupon Desmond gave a malignant leer
at his brother officers. " Mr. Desmond goes to
bed, very drunk and gets up in the morning minus
his hair. Either he has done it himself, or the blame
rests with one or more of you."

A murmur of denial ran along the line, only
Carruthers put his handsome nose two inches higher,
without condescending to speak.

You hear, Mr. Desmond," said the colonel, coldly.
"This is not the first time I have had to speak to
you about playing pranks with your personal appearance.
However, since your experiment this
time has failed as signally as did a previous one, I
will give you a couple of months' leave, and request
you to return to your duty a less conspicuous object
than you appear at present. You are excused all
duty to-day."

Surely that was the most cruel part of it all.
Some ten years before " Waugh " had been intensely
desirous of possessing a moustache, and since Dame
Nature considered him too young to have the

coveted adornment, lie had denounced her for an
old-fashioned stupid, and foregathered with the regimental
surgeon, who told him, in strict confidence,
that he had a recipe which would bring out a pair
of moustaches with the rapidity of lightning.

It will sting a bit, but you mustn't mind that,"
said the surgeon, gravely.

Waugh " was heroic. Bless you, he didn't mind
a little mere pain. What would that be in comparison
to the delight of having a pair of moustaches
of his very own ?

Reader, do you know what a cantharides blister
is? Well, that was what Dr. Hale gave "Waugh"
to bring out his moustaches ! It didn't hurt him
at first, and he put it neatly along his upper
Hp, with a little defiant twirl at either end, to
make him look fierce — but he didn't look fierce
very long : the blister did that part of the business.
In vain did " Waugh " writhe and tug ; he
couldn't move it. It held on to his unfortunate
upper lip like grim death or a leech, until eventually
the epidermis thought the discussion not worth going
on With, so bade a friendly adieu to the cutis vera and
set off on his travels with the blister. That was bad
enough, but the roars of laughter which greeted him
Avhen he appeared at breakfast the next morning,
With a clearly defined raw patch, just the shape of a

moustache, extending along this upper lip and perfectly
correct in detail, even to the knowing little
twirl at either extremity, they were much worse.

And to have that raked up now, and made an
excuse to let the real culprits off, Desmond felt and
said, in no measured terms, that it was disgraceful
utterly disgraceful !

But it was no use attempting to argue the point
with the colonel, so he took himself off on his leave
in dignified silence and — a wig, returning at the expiration
of it, looking all the better for his mysterious
shave, for his hair, which before had been persistently
straight, grew curly, and really improved
his appearance immensely.

And thus, though he did not go to the fancy ball
in any character, life, so far as he was concerned,
was a perpetual fancy ball ; for as long as he remained
in the regiment he was never allowed to
forget how he had once appeared in the character of
Humpty-Dumpty." And — he never got drunk
ao-ain as lor as he lived.

Who was lie ? Why, the colonel, of course ! What
others man in that big family of over-grown children
occupies the proud position of absolute monarchy?
And what was his name ? Thomas Crevecocur,

He was an autocrat — an absolute monarch —
a martinet of the fiercest and most unreasonable
description, and he commanded the gallant regiment
known as the 18th (Eoyal) Dragoons. Behind his
back they called him " Tommy," " Our old man,"
Old Fireworks," and the like ; but to his face
it was " yes, colonel," and " no, colonel," in the
most mealy-mouthed manner.

Occasionally the youngsters played very judicious
pranks on him ; that is to say, when " Tommy "
got three sheets in the wind he was wont to unbend
considerably, and they therefore had to fall in
with his humour, and if he joked — joke back again;
but it was unsatisfactory work — so akin to playing
with lighted matches over an open barrel of gunpowder.


Well, one evening, after an extra big night.
Colonel Crevecoeur retired to his rooms, rather

iioarer to l)eina' half-seas-over than was usual even
Avitli liii, wli(^ eoulil stow away a bottle of cogiiae
a-day Avitli ease and rouifort. lie Alas desperately
sleepy — almost too sleepy to walk at all ; the night
was awfully cold ; on the ground outside the snow
h\j thick, and the hires in his I'oouis l>urnt brilliantly
as fires do in frosty weather — casting mellow
pleasant glow over everything. Up to the sitting-room
lire-place Colonel C'reveccrur Avent, meandering
thereto in graceful curves, Which so delighted him,
that he unburdened his soul by a burst of language,
popularly called "choice Italian." And, somehow,
his legs seemed more inclined to continue the graceful
meandering movements than the rest of him did,
so he caught at the chimney-piece to steady himself;
a liberty Which — as it was merely a sham shelf of
wood and fringe, put to hide the hideous regulation
fish t(^ the hideous regulation grate — that article
promptly resented by breaking down, with all its
freight of letters, horse-shoes, candlesticks, ]photograph
frames, and odd little Indian ornaments and
figures. Happily the glass was safely screwed to
the wall, and the fire happening to flicker up just
then hit a brilliant blaze, Colonel Creveccrur
caught sight of his own handsome countenance,
and suddenly became aware that he had been
having too much.

VOL. I. S

What a deemed red face you've got, CrevecoQiir,
my boy," he remarked confidentially, gazing idiotically
at the reflection of cheeks flushed scarlet,
^vhite moustaches, fiercely waxed, and close-cropped
Avhite hair, all rumpled up on end.

'■'' Been having too much — very wrong — shouldn't
do it — bad example to set the young 'uns — serrated
serrated — sooner the better."

XoAv since a roaring lire was alight in each of
the rooms, the use of a candle was entirely superfluous
; but Colonel Crevecanir, being in as great
a state of absent-mindedness as was ever Sir Isaac
Newton when he made the little hole for the kitten-though,
to be sure, the cause was a very different
one — troubled himself to stoop for a candle and
stick from among the debris on the floor. He fished
up the stick first ; then the candle. But, alas !
the candle was broken, and being slightly too
small f(U- the candlestick, required fitting to a
greater nicety than his head was capable at that
moment of conceiving or his fingers of carrying
out.

Dem the candlestick ! " said Colonel Crevecanir,
flinging it across the room.

Still it did not occur to him to betake himself
to bel without any extra light ; stooping, he placed
the broken candle between the bars, with the effect

K)f making a big l)laze in the fire, but none where he
wanted it — at the end of the candle.

Dem the candle ! " he exclaimed, tossing it hit
the lire ; then sat himself down to recover this
breath — his eyes closed, and in two minutes he
was off to sleep as sound as a church.

He must have slept for about a couple of hours;
for he awoke, with a start, to find the fire burned
very low hi the grate, the room in darkness, and
the big clock hi the gate tower striking three.

Colonel CreveccEur sat up hi his chair, as sober
as a judge, "I must have been asleep," he muttered
; " gad ; how deuced cold it is."

As he passed the window to go into the next
room, he drew aside the curtain to look at the
night. The square was as light as day — on the
great expanse of newly-fallen snow the full moon
shone down bravely, bringing each sentry-box and
each snow-capped range of troop-rooms into view,
with the startling distinctness of a photograph.

He only stood there for a moment, but, as ill-luck
w(,)uld have it, a man in plahi clothes came
quietly out from between the chief block of officers'
quarters and the commanding officer's house, and
passed quickly towards the nearest troop-room —
unchaUeihjed by the sentry immediately below Colonel
CreveccEur's window. He did what, of course, any
VOL. I- ,s 2

other coinciding officer in the service would
have done, lie iliino- up Ids Avdudow, and demanded
angrily the reason of the non-challenge?

I didn't hear him, sir," stammered the nnfor-
title sentry in dismay

"You — didst — hear — hiui," in tones of the most
Avilhei'ing scorn, "and what the devil did you
mean by not hearing him, sir? What are you
there for, sir? Who is he? What is he dohig
ont, prowling about at this time of night ? Upto
no good, Idl be bound. Til not have men
prowling about at all hours."

The man in plain (dotes had quickly enongli
vanished at the hast scnmd of the colonel's voice,
but the old autocrat was not going to be done
in that fashi(ui. It was just the time for relieving
guard, and whilst he was yet speaking, the
corporal of the guard made his appearance, and
performed that ceremony.

Put this man under arrest ! " thundered the
autocrat, " and turn the guard out."

So there was a scurry back to the guard-room,
a hoarse " Guar-r-r-r-r-d tiu"-r-r-r-n out," a great
scramble and sculfiiug and catching up of carbines
plainly audible across the silent square — then a
tramp of spurred heels, as the guard marched
down to the commanding-officers quarters.

"Sound reveille!" shouted the colonel.

Out rang the trumpets and out came the regiment,
wondering if a big riot was on, or a monster
lire, or maybe an invasion. But, after all, it was
but a great to-do about nothing ! Who had been
out hi the square during the past half-hour?

The delinquent stood out instanter. " Me, sir,"
he announced without any circumlocution whatever.


Oh, you ! " With a frightful sneer on his handsome
old face; "and, ]pray, Avhat were you doing
out of your (quarters at this hour?"

I'm Mr. Bartholomew's servant, sir," the man
explained ; " I've been helping Dr. Scott to ]put
'ot fanning on 'im, but when he dropped ors to
sleep the doctor said I might as well go to bed,
as he could do weary well by his-self for the rest
of the night."

Now as young Bartholomew was suffering from
a severe attack of inflammation of the lungs,
there was nothing further to be said — therefore,
with a very bad word, the old colonel banged
doAvn his window, not even condescending to dismiss
the guard, and whilst the orderly-officer
was hesitating whether to take that responsibility
upon himself, one of the men broke into a hearty
lauiih.

Up went the window again !

All, all ! my line fellow, 111 teaeli you to
laugh on the other side of your mouth ! " the
-colonel roared. " Mr. Mordaunt — let the regiment
be ready in full marching order in half-aii-hour."

Full marching order — at three m the morning,
with the thermometer at ten degrees below
;hero, and snow a foot deep on the ground ! In
two minutes that barracks might, with reason,
have been likened to pandemonium : such a
cursing, such a swearing, in truth, in the space
of live short minutes you might have heard as
great a variety of oaths as would have served
to ill this volume ; su(di a hasty blacking of
boots — such a Polishing of helmets — such groan-his
over soiled gloves and facings, which there
was no time to clean — such a hurrying, such a
scampering of orderlies to apprise the married
officers living in the town — such a rousing of
whole streets to find the married men living out
of barracks — siudi a grooming and stamping and
kicking of sleeping frightened horses — such a
plunging and slipping and neighing, until, at
last, they were ready to start.

All through the town! Such a flinging up of
windows — such thrusting out of sleepy heads to
know if an enemy had suddenly invaded the

country — such wonder as the loud sirius of
Auld Lang Syne" and "The girl I leave behind
me" rang out upon the frosty air — such bitter
tears of sweet little modest maidens, who did
not like to appear en dei/iic toilette, and guide sure
the brave isle were off to India at least — such
hurried mental totting u]) of unpaid bills !

Then out into the country! Infusing the inhabitants
of village after village, and making
them wonder if the (queen was dead, that the
soldiers made so much fuss? One — two — tlu-ee —
four — five — six — seven long slippery, dismal, miserable
miles by a round Avliich brought them back
through the town again, where the Avorst was
to come. 'A good mile from the town clouds
quickly drifted across the moon, and the snow
began to fall again in heavy blinding wreaths ;
several horses suddenly became utterly unmanageable
and frantic, lashing out every minute when
they were not stumbling, and stumbling when they
were not occupied in kicking — one fell, breaking
his rider's leg hi two places, hi the fall ; a second
came down, a couple of hundred yards further
on, smashing a fore-leg horribly ; a third ran his
head bang against a lamp-post, tumbling over as
dead as a door nail, at Avhicli another terrified
animal made a clean bolt of it and tried to

jump a, house, With the result of turning a
somersauh. and huuhni;- in the gutter with a
broken back, jerking his rider ' off, ' with, happily
more serious injury than a couple of broken
ribs.

It was a ghastly night's work, and truly morning
light rose upon a ghastly sight Three
gallant chargers lay stretched stiff and stark upon
the trampled blood-stained road ; two hospital
cots were filled that before had been empty ;
anger and disgust was on evcr}^ face, well-nigh
rebellion and mutiny in every licart !

Amongst it all Colonel Crcveca-ur stalked, grim,
silent, vigilant, like an avenging spirit — a mighty
big spirit for such a very trivial a misdemeanour.

In due course the story was wafted to headquarters,
With what effect never transpired. The
dignity and the authority of a commanding-officer
must be kept u}) of course — yet many m
the regiment suspected that when, not many weeks
later, Major Force was gazetted to the connnand
of the regiment, rice Tli(.)mas Crevecoeur, resigned,
the retirement had been politely compulsory.

So he passed out of the regiment which he
had ruled so long with a rod of iron, and with
him — With one exception — passed away the last
of the old race of marliuets.

%.'

^

E'ti:- '

iiliiii

3 0112 042061124

«f^>^.''v

i^ma

> >»^

s::^<^^^'^

.CC'C'vC^/^

^6C<^c^

<r ~r < -
--r-r-rti

OF THE
U N IVLRS City
or ILLINOIS



St2c

v. 2

Theft, mutilation, and undermining of books are reasons
for disciplinary action and may result in dismissal from
the University.
To renew call Telephone Center, 333-8400

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS LIBRARY AT URBANA-CHAMPAIGN

L161— O-1096

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/cavalrylifeorske02wint

SKETCHES AND STORIES

IN BARRACKS AND OUT

By J. S. WINTER

IN rrVO VOLUMES

Vol. II.

Chatty AND Winds, PICCADILLY

1881.

vail Rights Reserved

CONTENTS OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

I.— Ills Peixckss

II. — By-and-bye

III.— Superseded

IV, — The Lady-Killer-in-Chief
V. — The Sad History of Bob Sabretasche .

VI.— A Satanic A.D.C

VII. — Sergeant the Honourable Hlgii Braisazon

VIU.- N.

OR, AS WE Gt) ON

IX. — A Regimental Lodge.
X. — Conscience .

Page





ti-2














HIS Princess.

Dick Carter stood in front of the ante-room fire,
"with his hands behind his back. It was Christmas-eve,
and on the last day of the year the regiment
was to sail for India's coral strand. For his part,
Dick wished India's coral strand was at the deuce ;
but then, since neither his nor any other Cuirassier's
wishes could alter either the position of India's
coral strand or the sending thither of the regiment,
Dick had no alternative but to accept the situation,
which he did with much swearing — what his Princess
called " choice Italian."

Who is to have the depot ? " some one asked
presently ; " are you. Carter ? "

Can't afford it ; I've too many of those beastly
bills. Why don't you take it?"

If I can get safe on board, I shall be in luck,"
he laughed.

I can't say I altogether look forward to being on

VOL. II. B

board," put iu Dickson, in accents of great disgust ;
for I overheard Mrs. Newcombe telling Mrs. Hey,
in Jones's shop yesterday, that the voyage will be
great fun, for they will dine with the officers everyday."


By Jove ! " murmured three or four voices, half in
surprise, half in indignation ; for Mrs. Newcome was
the adjutant's wife, Mrs. Hey that of the quartermaster.


"Mrs. Newcombe having been out before knew
all about it, and was initiating Mrs. Hey into the
mysteries and delights of ship life. Mrs. Hey was,
I fancy, rather taken aback by the prospect of the
daily dinner, and gasped out ' Oh ! lor.' "

A perfect roar of laughter greeted the words, and
he continued. "They neither of them saw me forever
so long, and then Mrs. Hey made a clean bolt
of it. I wasn't sorry, for I'd been wanting to laugh
for some time."

The only one who did not join in the laughter
was Dick Carter, who, still before the fire, was
gazing abstractedly out of the window, past the rows
of ugly barrack-buildings, to the murky sky beyond.
Almost unconsciously his Hps screwed themselves up
and he whistled softly the notes of a song, which
he had heard the night before —

AVill YOU think of me and love me, as you did once long ago?

Curse it," said Dick, savagely.

"What?" Scott asked, innocently, never thinking
of the words of the song, indeed it was doubtful if
he knew them.

Oh ! everything," Dick returned, volubly ;
India — bills — everything." But, all the same, it
was neither India nor the bills which made that
vigorous anathema slip off his tongue just then.

He snatched up the poker and stirred the fire
energetically — to speak with entire correctness, he
did not stir the fire at all but smashed it, as if it
was the coral strand of India, and he had a special
mission to send it to the deuce.

Then, seeing that the chatter of voices had gone
on again, he straightened himself up once more and
went back to his occupation of watching the sky,
thinking the while. He had one or two very unpalatable
thugs to think about just then : first of all,
there were his bills — not that he objected to a few
bills, he had had them, bless you, ever since the
days when he had emerged from frocks and tunics
into knickerbockers — he would have bills, as he
very well knew, to the end of the chapter ; he
rather liked them, there was something so uncomfortable
in paying ready-money, counting out the
coins, haggling over the change, and getting discount.
Dick felt rather ashamed of that discount ;

VOL. II. B 2

but then, to be sure, the times when he had
received it were few and far between — like angels'
visits. No ! he hadn't the least objection in the
world to a few bills ; he had never been what he
called " a ready-money devil ; " but, unfortunately,
there were other people concerned who were not
so easy-going as Dick was — those were the creditors.
He had been forced to put his pride in his
pocket a good many times of late, and, like several
others of the Cuirassiers, he knew that if he could
manage to get on board the Jumna without being
arrested, he should consider himself very lucky.
Then, besides the bills, he would have on the
morrow to be present at the men's dinner — just to
say a word to them ; and on the following day he
would have to make a regular speech, for he was
to give a dinner to his troop, which would cost a
lot of money — not that he grudged a few pounds ;
but he was so awfully hard-up just then, there
was no doubt about it. Well ! he supposed he
should get over the bills and the confounded speech
in time ; but there was another matter at which
Dick could not look so philosophically. Unconsciously
his whistling broke out again —

Che faro senza Eurydice " but there he

stopped with a suddenness which was a shriek of
pain in miniature, and stood looking blindly at

nothing, with such pain in his brie eyes, that it
would have made your heart ache to see it ! Not
that his brother officers noticed anything, more than
that " Carter was down in the mouth to-day, poor
chap ; " they were busy, one in retailing, the others
in Hastening to the story of a quarrel which Captain
Long had had with his wife that morning, and which
Mr. Scott had overheard from his room, which stood
at right cano-les to the Long's dining room. What
do you say? you don't believe cavalry officers
descend to such little mean tittle-tattling as to
discuss matrimonial squabbles? Then that only
shows all you know about cavalry officers !

Ordinarily, Dick Carter was as good a hand at
talking scandal as any officer in the regiment ; but
on that occasion his mind was otherwise engaged.
He was wondering how he was to get over the
parting with his Princess. A fine fellow he was,
this same Dick, lithe of limb, tall of stature — for
he was but slightly under six feet, square in the
chest, strong, graceful, careless — a very head ideal
of a cavalry officer — with a sensible face, clean
shaven, save for a heavy moustache of reddish-brown,
a face which would have been handsome
had it not been for a certain squareness in the
jaw, but which could not be thought ugly, for the
beauty of the keen blue ej'es and the brightness of

the fair hair above it. Looking at him for the first
time across a room or a street your first impulse
Avould probably lead j'ou to remark, " What an
ill-tempered, haughty' face ; " but if 3'ou were brought
close to him, aud he wished to be civil — that just
made all the difference in Dick — in two minutes
you would be entirely won by his fascinating smile ;
but then, perhaps, his persuasive voice and manner
might have had a good deal to do with the change.

And whilst Dick Alas thinking rather dismally of
the immediate future, the orderly officer for the
day entered hastily.

Oh, you're here, Carter ! " he exclaimed ; " there's
an uncommonly suspicious-looking chap asking for
you ! "

'^ Where ? Who ? "

Dick was on the alert in an instant ; for a
moment his Princess was forgotten.

A writ, I should say," Havers laughed ; " and
the bearer of it has just been bundled ignominiously
out of your room by your man, who informed him
you had gone to Paris, and were not coming back
to England at all ; but would join the regiment at
Malta."

Clever chap," Dick murmured, as he put on
his hat and caught up his gloves and stick, departing
hastily.

It vas but a step from the back door of the mess-rooms
to the house in which he Alas quartered.
Dick's long legs took him up the stairs four at a time,
and with such haste, that he almost annihilated
Craddock, who was occupied in washing the flagged
landing between his master's rooms and those of
Mr. Scott. He paused in his task, and sat back
upon his heels with the flannel floor-cloth in his.
hands.

Just had a bum-bailiff here, sir," he said, coolly

Yes, hang it ! I know," returned Dick, savagely
Can you keep him out if he comes back here, 
think ? "

"I'll punch his 'ed if he comes up my steps'"
Craddock replied, in a matter-of-fact tone, though
a slow smile of delight overspread his fresh, good-looking
countenance.

Dick laughed outright. " All right, then, I'll trust
to you."

Very Avell, sir," and Craddock went on deliberately
washing the landing and then the stairs.

In order that he might hear anything which
transpired, Dick left his door open, and presently he
heard an oily voice asking if Lieutenant Carter had
come yet?

"■No; Lieutenant Carter hasn't come yet" re-pied
Craddock, calmly.

I've heard as 'ow he's in this 'ouse," remonstrated
the visitor.

Oh ! you're Hke for to know best," was the sarcastic
reply.

I must come up and see for myself,' he went
on, emboldened by Craddock's unlooked-for mildness.


Oh ! yer must, must yer ? Then let me tell yer,
me fine gentleman, that I'm a 'ones dragoon Avhat
serves her Majesty the Queen, and I don't take
Government pay for washing steps for the likes of
you to walk up and down."

Oh ! I won't make no dirt," the bum promised,
eagerly.

I don't expect yer will," returned Craddock,
affably.

Xow the emissary of the law — I suppose a bum-bailiff
is an emissary of the law — being a small spare
man of ten stone or so, felt that a personal contest
with a dragoon standing over six feet in his
socks, and riding about thirteen stone-ten, would
hardly suit his purpose ; therefore, taking up his
position against the jamb of the outer door, he
proceeded to try and discover whether Craddock
was of the class which, like the deaf adder, refused
to hear the voice of the charmer, or whether he
Alas open to blarney ? Now, upon certain occasions,

Craddock was open to blarney, bnt then that was
when the donor of it was of the softer sex ; to a
buni-baihff Craddock was as hard as iron.

It's only bad sort of weather," remarked the
emissary, pleasantly.

Excepting for a suppressed growl, Craddock did
not condescend to return any reply.

Sort of Weather when one wants something
Avarm inside, eh ?"

You'll get something warm outside if you hasn't
ors soon," returned Craddock.

Did you feel dry at all ? " said the emissary,
presently, ignoring his opponent's last remark. " I
must admit I feels dry myself."

Ah ! there's a pump over yonder, at the stables,"
answered Craddock, significantly, " and there's some
water in this 'ere bucket, though, to be sure, it
hasn't over clean."

Having finished off the first half of the stairs, he
rose from his knees, stretched himself, and coolly
planted his back against the wall. Seeing that, the
emissary returned to the charge again, this time with
a ludicrous assumption of authority, which made
Dick and his man both laugh out aloud.

Come, come, young man, you must let me come
up them stairs."

You'd better try, that's all," said Craddock.

I know Lieutenant Carter's np there."

Lieutenant Carter saint up there, I tell yer,"
thundered Craddock, with utter disregard of the
punishment in store for fabricators.

"Now look 'ere"— speaking confidently — "I'll give
you 'half-a-crown for yourself if you'll let me come
up them stairs."

Chuck us ser 'ars-crown," answered the dragoon,
suspiciously.

With much fumbling the emissary produced a
shilling, which he held poised on his finger.

Half-a-crown," said Craddock, solidity.

Say a florin."

Half-a-crown," was the dogged reply — " not a
halfpenny less."

After a good deal of circumlocution, the half-crown
was thrown from the emissary to the servant.
Dick, leaning against the door of his room,
wondered what Alas coming; next.

o

Now, I've paid up fair, so let me see into them
rooms," said the emissary, eagerly.

Craddock cast a glance of most thorough contempt
at him, and dipped his floor-cloth once more into the
bucket. " I'll see you d — d first," he returned, deliberately,
as he wrung it out, and went on washing
the landing, at which Dick burst into a wild fit of
uncontrollable laughter.

Craddock glanced up carelessly. " It's all very fine
for you to laugh, Jinks," he said, in his stolid imperturbable
way ; " it hasn't your turn to wash the
steeds down, or may be it wouldn't be so funny. Is
Mr. Scott's mastiff in his room ? "

Yes," grunted Dick, disguising his voice.

Then just let 'im out, there's a good chap ;
he'll make pretty short work of this cove down
here." Then, as Dick opened Scott's door, " 'Ere
Lion, come along — set 'em ors" — but the emissary
had departed, a good deal faster than his wont. ,

Seeing the result of his ruse., Craddock sat down
on the stairs and just roared with laughter, till he
could roar no longer, and Mr. Scott going in found
the laughter of master and man so irresistible that he
could not ask what was the joke for the merriment
which absolutely choked him.

Craddock, go and see which way the brute's
gone," said Dick, presently.

Just going out of the gates, sir."

Then come along," cried Scott, hastily ; " there's
a cab just driven up to the mess, and I told him to
wait, thinking you might want it."

Thanks, old man," said Dick, gratefully.

For the present the danger was over. As they
drove towards the gates Dick uttered a sigh of
relief — a sigh Which quickly, however, turned to

one of impatience, as a few bars of " And Lang
Syne" floated out from one of the buildings they
passed.

Practising that thing already," Dick said, with
what was almost a groan. " Goodness knows
it's bad enough when it comes to the last,
without hearing it every day for three weeks
previously."

Auld Lang Syne " was the farewell air when
the Cuirassiers departed from old quarters for fresh
ones Like many another, Dick hated it as though
it were poison, but he had never before detested it
so cordially as he did then. I know one regiment
which always used to play "When other hips and
other hearts " — I daresay they play it still, only they
have been frizzling in India for ten years, so I
have not had an opportunity of judging ; I knew
another which kept to the hackneyed " Girl I leave
behind me ; " and another which of late has played
Sweethearts " for the march out. Of them all, I
consider " The girl I leave behind me " is the best.
There is a certain jollity about it — it is almost impossible
to feel affected by it. Once, though, when
a gay and gallant regiment, of famous Peninsular
and Crimean memory, was leaving a town prior to
embarking for India, there was an unusual amount
of weeping and wailing over the departing heroes ;

bitter were the tears shed to the strains, which
somehow always make me laugh :

My love, I will come back again
To the girl I leave behind me.

Oh ! the tender partings^the fond women folk
who clung to the stirrups and tramped some miles of
the way for a last hour together. Oh ! the passionate
injunctions, "You'll not forget me. Jack?" I
doubt not that under their gay trappings many a
poor fellow's heart throbbed painfully, many an eye
was dim beneath the shelter of the busby, with an
emotion none guessed aught of save themselves.
A change came o'er the spirit of my dream, and it
was eventide." Past the gate came two girls, who
in the morning had been especially and particularly
demonstrative in their leave-taking, and With
them — if you please — two men of the relieving
regiment.

Sarah," said one to the other, as they passed,
now isn't these chaps a deal better than the
'Seventh ? "

'Seventh !— bah ! " returned Sarah, scornfully.

Oh, Sarah ! Sarah ! — I minded me of the sore heart
and the moist eyes I had noticed in the morning,
and I Alas sorry, till I remembered that Jack and
Bill were probably playing the same old drama at
the first halting-place.

Where are you going, Dick ? " Scott asked, as
they neared the town.

"the Swan'"

Ah ! "

Scott asked no further questions.

Dick's Princess, who with her brother had come
to see the last of him, was staying at " The
Swans".

And what was lie like, this Princess ? Not
handsome, certainly, as Dick once said to her himself
: " You are perhaps not exactly handsome " — he
had hitherto stoutly maintained that she was — " but
then, don't you, see, you are the sort of girl that
every second man would turn round to look
after."

That's the prettiest compliment any one ever
paid me in my life," laughed the girl, gaily.

She was standing by the window as Dick entered
the room, a tall girl, in a closely clinging gown of
black ; a girl ^\^th good dark eyes and a perfect
form. She would, perhaps, have been better-looking
had the eyes been more often filled with laughter,
had there been a less haughty expression of the
mouth, less resolution in the whole face, voice and
gestures. She never looked haughty to Dick,
though, to him, voice and gestures Avere always
tender : when her eyes rested upon him, they always

shone with that tender love-hight which comes to
the eyes of all of us at some period of our lives
or other.

"Are you going to take me for a walk, Dick?"
she asked ; " it is late, but still, you may as
well."

Dick explained the circumstances which had
prevented him from going earlier, and added, moreover,
that it would be as well, perhaps, not to
venture out that day more than was absolutely
necessary.

After tomorrow it won't matter," he ended ;
a writ must give eight days in which to pay up,
and by that time we shall have sailed,"

Oh, Dick ! " said the girl with a suppressed sob.
Alas ! the love-light had been dimmed by tears very
often of late, and there was a suspicious brightness
in the dark eyes upturned to him then.

Dick bent down and kissed her very tenderly.
"What has my Princess done with all her pluck?"
he asked, then hurried on with an earnestness which
showed how little trust he had in himself. " When
it comes to the last, my darling, you won't give
way, you'll be strong and brave, that I may be able
to keep up too? You'll just say 'good-bye,' quietly,
without any fuss."

I don't know — but I'll try," she answered.

You know, Princess, you are strong and brave ;
not like some women, who have no pluclv ! Gather
up all your resolution and let me remember you
smiling to the last."

I only have one weakness," she said, with a
Wistful tenderness, which showed how firm a hold
upon her that weakness had.

"And that is "

Yourself," she replied, simply.
And you call me a weakness ? "
My love for you is a weakness, because — oh !
Dick, you won't go away and forget me ? "

Of course not. My love, it will soon be over :
just two years, till I get my debts paid, and then
I shall come home, and we will laugh together atour
fears at parting. It will only be two years.
Princess — three, at most — before I come home
to you."

You never will," she said, calmly. " Dick, dear,
sometimes you wonder that I am low-spirited, what
you men call ' down in the mouth,' " with a gleam
of laughter struggling through the sadness in her
eyes ; " but you are careless, and I am not. You, if
you have Avhat you wish in the present, are content —
you don't look into the future. I do, and I count
the hours, almost the moments, that are left tome,
because I know that they are the end."

They are not the end ! " lie cried, passionately ;
when I come back, we will go to Italy together,
and then I will make you cry jieccavi for your
foolish fancies now."

Yes, we will go to Italy together," repeated the
girl, dreamily. " What a pity it is that we cannot
go to Italy now, whilst we are young, whilst we
love each other. Oh ! what a nuisance money is
how vexed I am that I am poor."

I don't care," he said, defiantly.

Don't you ? " she asked, wistfully ; " but
then, don't you see, you have not any money
either."

No, by Jove ! I liavn't ; I only wish I had,"
he exclaimed, ruefully.

What a pity one cannot sell one's pedigree,"
she said, musingly.

Is it long ? What do you value it at ? " he
laughed.

Why, where do you think those came from ? "
she asked, holding a row of filbert nails just in
front of his nose.

Came from ? I should think you growed 'em,"
he replied, making an effort to kiss the fingers.

Growed 'em, of course ; but they don't grow
by chance."

No, perhaps not ; the Greeks did not admire

VOL. II. c

filbert nails," he said, coolly ; " too near an approach
to the claws of a beast, you know."

I should have given the Greeks credit for more
sense," remarked the Princess, superbly ; " but, since
I live in the nineteenth century, T am very glad to
possess my filberts, without worrying about the
ancient Greeks."

Just then a knock was heard at the door, to
which Dick called out, " Come in."

There's a gentleman wants to see you, sir,"
said the waiter.

A gentleman. What sort of a gentleman ? "
Dick asked, suspiciously.

"Well, sir," returned the man, looking round
cautiously, " it's Mr. Goodenough's clerk."

And Who the dickens is Mr. Goodenough ? "
demanded Dick, rising.

Oh, he's a lawyer, sir."

"Oh! a lawyer, is he? Well, don't let Mr.
Goodenough's clerk come up here, that's all. By-the-bye,
how did he know I was here ? "

Saw you come in, I think, sir."

"Ah! where is he?"

In the bar."

Then let him stop, if he likes. I suppose all
customers are good for the house — eh ? ' With a
laugh.

Well yes, sir, of course," the waiter replied.
I believe lie means to wait until you come out."

At this intelligence Dick and the Princess lao-hed
aloud.

"He'll have to wait a 2:ood while, then," Dick
laughed. "I suppose you've some spare rooms?"

Oh ! yes, sir."

Then I'll sleep here to-night. I didn't intend
to turn my rooms upside down until Monday, but a
few days won't make much difference. Don't let
that brute up here, waiter, that's all."

Well, sir, I'll try, of course ; but if he insists oncoming
up ? "

These are my rooms," put in the Princess,,
with sudden dignity ; " you had better tell him
that these are Mr. Yilliers's rooms, and that he
cannot enter them. I wish," she continued to Dick,
that Jack Avould come in, I don't know where he
has gone,"

'• Oh ! it's all right," he laughed.

I should have thought, now," she went on, plaintive',
" that you were quite capable of breaking a
clerk's head for him ; when I first knew you, you
used to talk very largely about twisting any one's
neck, Who presumed to look twice at me, but it
seems to have been all idle swagger."

Oh ! I would break his head or twist his neck

VOL. II. c 2

with the greatest pleasure, only, don't you see, if he
sees me, he will be able to serve the writ on me."

Oh ! I didn't know," she said, rather blankly.

Presently the waiter came back, and closing the
door behind him, set his back against it,

If you please, sir," he began, solemnly, " he says
he won't go away, not if he sits in the bar till morning
; and I don't believe he will, he's a determined
sort of fellow is Johnson."

He's very welcome to sit in the bar till he turns
to a mummy," Dick replied, politely ; " you can tell
him so, with my compliments, if you like."

Well, sir, but if he steals up here ? — I can't be
watching the staircase all the day."

Look here, waiter, just keep Mr. Johnson out of
my way and I'll give you a sovereign. Here it is."

Well, I'll do my best, sir " — the sovereign had
made all the difference to Joseph — " but, if you'll take
my advice, you'll keep this door locked, and go in and
out through Mr. Villiers's bedroom." The brother of
the Princess occupied an apartment opening out of
the sitting-room and having a second door on to a
landing, connected with the principal corridor and
staircase. " If he stays, as I think he Avill, I'll bring
dinner up by the billiard-room and the backstairs."


What fun," cried the Princess, clapping her

hands, as Dick turned the key behind the retreating
servitor ; " I feel as if we had gone back a few
hundred years and were being besieged — this was
the sort of thing my crusading ancestors Avent in
for. It is like the siege of Jerusalem in miniature,
only we are on the wrong side of the barricades."

Did your ancestors go to the Crusades ? " Dick
asked.

Of course ! We came over with the Conqueror
and did all the Crusade business, and finally settled
down in Ireland, intending to become respectable
gentry ; unfortunately, we got mixed up with royalty,
and learned from experience that ' he who increaseth
riches increaseth care.' The elder branches of the
family — the semi-royal family took good care of
themselves — couldn't keep to their quiet, respectable
country life, but must needs get attainted for high
treason, so, of course, forfeited their estates. Perhaps
they had got a few drops of the wild Irish blood
mingled with the cool determined Norman stock —
any way, instead of being a belted earl now. Jack is
only a poor sailor, with nothing a-year but his pay.
Our men never could keep their money ; they could
make it, or — in the elegant fashion of former times —
take it, but they could not keep it. My own grandfather,
after serving through the Peninsular, after
being with Abercrombie in Egypt, and with Picton at

Waterloo, after being in twenty-four engagements,
besides skirmishes, hadn't sense to stick to what he
had got, but went and put — 'invested' he called it —
all his money in some manufacturing concern, as a
sleeping partner. He woke up one fine morning to
find the others gone and himself saddled with all
the liabilities— a fine end that was for Abercrombie's
aide to come to."

So your grandfather was an officer ? "

Yes— his brother too ; and a good way back on
my mother's side we have more fighting blood. I
have some letters of my great-great-grandfather,
written to his Avise from Flanders, where he went
with his regiment, the 1st Dragoon Guards."

She left the room, and presently returned With a
bundle of old letters, very yellow and frayed, in
her hand.

Oh ! are they not old ? " lie laughed, sitting-down
upon the rug, and untying the string.
What is this ? Oh ! listen :

Cornet Villiers. W. to Henry Tiller'.

s. d.

1760. Fell. 5. For a pair of water-gilt Bosses 012 o

For a superfine web sercingle, leathered with

neat's leather . . . . . o 4 •*6

1 761. Jan. 10. Fora Rich officer's cap of black and scarlet rel vet,

embroider'd with gold, and a guard over the

Head chac'd & water-gilt &c 6 16 o

A green oil cloth cover for Do. lin'd with baize &

for a deal box to pack it in 010

1761. Jan. 10. Paid the carriage of the Cap by the coach to
Leeds

Allowed for Yr old Loss

Due to Balance £7 12 6

9th April, 1762. Received then the full contents and all demands,

Henry Tiller.

Here is another :

"Guildford, December 27, 1759.

"Dear Love, —

I doubt not that you still be surprised at never receiving a letter of
so long a time from me, but I hope you'll excuse me as-we never have been
quartered above two or three days at one time at any place, this seven weeks ;
nor do we expect to stay here above a month, as we shall relieve the Queen's
Dragoon Guards, now on the Coast-duty, near where my uncle lives : but I
expect to have the pleasure of seeing you in Yorkshire, for I hope to come
recruiting in ye spring. My servant asked me leave to go to London for a
week, which I have given him. I gave him money to buy a barrel of
oysters and pay carriage to Yorkshire, as soon as possible. I shall send you
something from London, as I shall ask leave for a day or two to go there, for
I am but thirty miles from Town. It is a fine place and a pleasant country
that I am quartered in. I command a party of forty men and horses. The
troop is divided into three different quarters — this place, Farnham, and Calming.
Cornet Jeffreys desires his compliments to you, and the rest of the
gentlemen, though unknown to you. You were acquainted with Jeffreys in
Chelmsford-he lived with Oldham in Cope's. My duty to my mother,
love to brothers and sisters. Please, Dr. Love, you and my little ones accept
the same, and I wish you a happy Christmas and a-many of them, from your
affectionate husband, " Wm. "villiers.

This place is in Surrey.

It is very good writing," the Princess laughed,
but the spelling is queer, and half the words
abbreviated."

I daresay he could fight," Dick said, with great
contempt on the subject of spelling. " Go on."

"Bingen, April 17, 1761.

"Dr. Love, —

"Iliave got safe to this side the water. I at this time lie at anchor
in the River —

I cannot make ont the name of the river,"
Princess put in —

"and in a few hours disembark and go to the ph\ce I have dated my letter
from. The men and horses of the party I belong got all safe here but two
horses, which died in the passage here, for we had two or three very rough
nights, though I never was sick at all. We are got into a very fine country,
and the people are very civil, but I don't know one word they say. We are
ordered to lie at this place nine days to rest, and then we march for the
army, which lies at a place called Hamlin, from which place I will, as soon as
I arrive, write to tell you how to direct to me, though I believe I am come
too late for fighting, for we are told here that a peace is concluded on. But
it is Avery certain to have a —

I don't know what that word is," she broke off,
' p-s-a-tion ' — Oh ! it must mean a passage — yes —

a passage of arms betwixt the French and our army. I have got a very
good and sober servant. He comes from Gisbourne, in our neighbourhood.
I'm ordered to get another servant and two more horses, which I shall get in
three days, but the fresh servant I only hire from month to month, as he is
for nothing but to lead and take care of my bought horses. I assure you, the
sea has made such an alteration in me that from eating very little, I am
become a glutton. I am healthy and very well. I don't know what more to
say, as we at present have no news, but I am quartered at a gentleman's
house, and the quarter-master says — for he has just been to wait upon me —
that I shall always be quartered in such houses on our march till I get to the
army, for I do assure you I am at present a very great man, for the colonel
has gone forward to join the army, and I am at present the commanding
officer of our men and horses, which consist of 230 men and horses, besides
two cornets and two quarter-masters, all under my command, and will be,
until I join the regiment. I am allowed hay and corn for seven horses everyday
for nothing. Wine here is no more than nine pence a bottle. Brandy at
four shillings a gallon. Eating we don't pay anything for, till we get to the
regiment, but wine and brandy we are obliged to carry with us to our
quarters, for their beer is worse than water. The beer the common soldiers
drink is brewed from nothing but straw.

S. Wiseman is with me and Thomas and D.ivid Nutshell and the Valleys,
and almost all the men I enlisted ; J. Foster and both Briggs are with me.

"Beg my duty to my mother, and love to brothers and sisters and my
little ones. I be the blessing of Gol miy atteai yo.i all is the sincere
prayer of your affectionate and loving husband,

"William Villiers.

I send this letter back by the captain of the ship that brought me over.
My old friend, Major Lichfield, is here, and desires his compliments to you.
I have just been on board his ship to breakfast-with him. General Douglas
commands us all to the army ; he is a very good-natured gentleman — it-was
he that reviewed me on Blockhead when I was in Sir F. Cope's regiment. *

The next two letters," observed the Princess, as
she paused and scanned them carefully, "are from
my great-great-grandfather."

Very likely — go on," that was what Dick usually
said when his Princess was talking — "go on."

Eolstadt, June 12, 1761.
"Dear Love, —

Since my last, dated 21st May, from Barrington, we marched to
this place, which is situate but nine English miles from Paderborn. It is
a very pleasant country all round us, if ye army had not distressed ye poor
inhabitants so much by their being situate in and near this neighbourhood
for two campaigns before this. We expect marching from these quarters ina
day or two to a place called Dryburg, which is about sixteen English
miles from this, where we are to encamp. The army of the allies are to have
three different encampments : one commanded by Duke Ferdinand, the others
by the Prince Hereditary and General Spoken, which are to act in three
different ways, to observe the movements of the French army. We are very
quiet, and by what appears at present, shall continue so, for at this place there
is nothing talked of but a peace. A cornet in this country ought to have
besides his pay, four or five hundred a year. We cannot do with less than
five horses, and, if we should have a vigorous campaign, I shall be obliged to
keep six horses and three servants. I myself keep two servants besides a
dragoon at present, which I pay twenty shillings a week to, and two shillings
a week to the dragoon, out of my two pounds two a week. I do assure you
this place for a gentleman of ye cavalry is the most expensive I ever saw, for
no officer in this regiment can live upon less than twice his pay, but all our gen-cope's

Foot.

theme are men of very great fortunes and never regard the expense, ^vhich they
are in fact obliged to be at. I have no news at present, but, if ans-thing extraordinary
should take place, I will give you a line ; but I cannot think why
my brother has not answered any of my letters that I have wrote to him. I
beg in your answer to this you will be so good as to let me know the reason.
I would write more fully in regard to my affairs but that letters are very apt
to miscarry. When you write to me, you must pay the postage out of England
or the letter will not come to me. I have my health very well, which I
hope you and my children enjoy, which is the constant prayer of your affectionate
husband till death, " W. Leach.

Direct for me as under :

"To Cornet Leach, of tie first Regiment of Dragoon Guards,
With the Allied Army in Germany.
Neb. — I beg you will not let one post slip before you write me an answer
to this.

"You may tell Joshua Anxiety that his brother has left the regiment he
was in, and they do not know where he is.
My duty to my mother, &c.

How strange to read all those little tender private
details written nearly hundred-and-twenty years
ago," said the Princess, dreamily. " I wonder what
your letters will read like a hundred-and-twenty
years hence, Dick?"

Or your's ? "

Mine ! " with a wry face. " Any one who gets
hold of my letters to you will be sure your Princess
was neither more nor less than a housemaid. I
write horribly. But, still, it is strange, is it not?
Ah ! "— holding the yellow-brown carefully-folded
paper out at arm's length — "how my great-great-grandmother
watched for that ! How lie kissed it
and perhaps cried over it and loved him — ' her
affectionate husband till death.' He was getting

very home-sick when he wrote that ! You see,
Dick, it was not ' do this and do that ' in those
days — it was 'I beg you will not let one post
slip.' "

"Why, do I not pay my Princess homage
enough ? " Dick asked, tenderly.

Too much, Dick," with a quick sigh. " Well,
do you care to hear any more — I believe there is
some account of an engagement in one. Yes, here
it is : —

"House of Laborer Camp, July 17, 1761.
"Dear Brother, —

"I take this opportunity of writing to acquaint you that yesterday

we had an engagement with the French army, a few miles from the ground weare

now encamped on, which is the same ground we were on before the

action began. On ye 15th, at 9 o'clock at night, we were ordered to strike

our tents and march, which we did. The French army lay in the front of us,

and they marched off from their left a few hours before we did. Yesterday

morning, at day-break, they began their attack, which lasted till six or seven

o'clock. Our cannons and small arms played very brisk and continued till

near nine, when the French found it too warm to stand and were obliged to

retreat with great loss, the ground being covered with dead. The loss on

our side is very few, their loss in killed and wounded and prisoners amounts

to upwards of 8,000 men, 11 pieces of cannon, four of which are i8-pounders

Amongst their killed are several officers of distinction, the report is that we

have two lieut-generals of theirs prisoners. As to anything more, I must

refer you to the newspapers, only that if they had not retreated when they did,

they would have lost a body of 6,000 men more than they did ; and that this

battle has added great honour to Prince Ferdinand, for their army are at this

time three times our numbers. I am very well and safe. From, dear brother,

Your most affectionate,

Wm. Leach.
"My love to my wife and children.
"Duty to mother and love to sisters, and please accept the same yourself.

What battle would that be Dick ?— Minded ? " *

"I believe Minded was in 1759. It must have
been a pretty sharp engagement — how many did
the French lose ? "

"Killed, wounded, and taken prisoners, 8,000,
11 pieces of cannon — four l8-pounders. I wonder
what they would have thought of the 81-ton gun
and the ' Devastation ? ' "

"I wonder what fighting will be like in another
hundred years?" Dick laughed.

Scientific slaughter, I should think."

Well, finish the letters."

The girl turned them over in silence for a few
minutes, heedless of Dick's injunction to go on,
and then she suddenly gathered them up, with a
resolute face. " I can't read any more," with a gasp
of pain, " there is only parting and poverty. I dodo
not find either subject pleasant just now, they
both cost me so much."

Sing to me then," he answered. " I want you to
sing to me as much as possible this Aveek, Princess,
for heaven only knows when I shall hear you again."

"After this week, never any more, *Dick," she
told him, with grave sadness.

Oh ! nonsense ! — are all the foolish fears back
again ? "

The Battle of Villenhauscn, July 16th, 1761.

I do not think," she said, simply, " that they
have ever been away."

And then she sang for him a tender song, with
a passionately pathetic refrain —

Oh ! my lore, I loved her so,
My love that loved me years ago.

That song had lived in Dick's memory for
months ; would he ever quite forget it while he
lived?

I cannot sing ! " she cried, with feverish impatience,
rising from the ' piano and going back to
her place at Dick's feet. " I can do nothing but
dread — Oh! the future, how afraid of it I am.
I wonder, Dick," with sudden wistfulness, " how
soon it will take you to forget me ? "

When the bullet goes through my heart," Dick
answered, earnestly, "I nay forget you."

And the Princess laid her head back against the
heart which was to beat for her always, with a
smile, and was comforted.

And the days crept over, until the last had come.
Jack Yilliers had left the pair pretty much to
themselves, feeling that, except at meals, he was
an unwelcome addition to their company. Dick
took his Princess for long walks — he had now no
fear of writs, and they were positively showered
upon him — he showed her all the little sights of

the place, and lie helped liii to buy such of Ids
outfit as he had not procured in town ; and, in time,
the last afternoon came — the very last time that
she would put on her hat and go out with him ;
the last time they would go into a shop like two
children and buy nought, or toffee — the last time.

Dick," she said, when she came into the
sitting-room, dressed for walking, "let me have
the cross."

Yes, child, of course."

I.t was an " Iron Cross of Prussia," which some
friend of Dick's had found in Berlin and which the
Princess had vainly coveted for some time.

Buy me a steel chain to Aver With it. I want
to have one of your choosing," she said, softly.

And so they went to some dozen shops before
they could get what they wanted ; but they got it
at last, and went back to the hotel together.

Dick," she said, as they reached the door,
"you won't have champagne to-night?"

Oh ! Ave must, child — the last night."

Yes, I knoAv," impatiently, " and then you Avill
drink to our next merry meeting, and I cannot
bear it — indeed I cannot, dear."

"I Avon't, indeed."

Xot one Avord ? "

I promise."

Dick kept his promise faithfully, but just as he
raised the first glass to his lips, he looked full at her ;
the girl threw her glass down and, with a passionate
burst of tears, rushed into the inner room, Weeping
as if her heart would break. But presently, mindful
of her promise to be brave, she went back and held
her glass for Dick to fill.

To our next merry meeting," she cried, courageously.


Her tears were all gone, there still lived in the
girl some of the cool determined spirit of her crusading
fore-elders, and she had, for Dick's sake, forced
the scalding drops back — it must have been— even
to her heart. And so, on that last night, she sang
and laughed, wearing a brave smile to hide the
utter agony within her.

"I want you to keep my helmet for me, whilst
I am in India," Dick said, during the course of the
evening.

Very well ! " she answered, " I will take care
of it."

The moments sped quickly on and midnight
had come. More than once Jack Yilliers had
dropped asleep before either of the others thought
of bed.

I don't think it's wise to sit up all night," Jack
said, at last, sleepily.

Xo, no— I am going to bed at once," the Princess
answered.

Shehnade no attempt to undress, but threw herself
on her bed and drew a fur rug over her, lying
listening to the sounds about the house until all
was silent. Still she did not sleep : she heard the
clock in the hall strick one — two — three ; then, very
soon, the sound of the boots — she supposed it Alas
the boots — hammering at Dick's door. Evidently
Dick had been already up when the servant went,
for when she, a few minutes later, entered the sitting-room,
he was there, trying awkwardly to fasten his
belts.

Let me do that," she said, hastily.

Are you there, my darling ? " he asked, turning
quickly at the sound of her voice.

She fastened the belts in silence, her shaking-fingers
scarcely able to perform the task. She
spoke no word, only her face grew more and more
deathly pale, her eyes more intensely dark, the
weight of pain on her heart more and more crushing
; once she looked at him, but what she saw in his
face made her keep her eyes resolutely away from
it, was she not nerving herself to get through the
next hour bravely ? But the silence was broken at
last, when she saw him trying to force some things
into a bag, more than it would hold.

Let me do that," she said, calmly, taking them
out of his hands.

She dared not look at him, the hands trembling
so nervously before her told her what she would
see if she should look up into his face, and a
great tear which fell with a splash upon her wrist
warned her that she must be strong, for Dick's
strength was fast deserting him.

It is snowing fast," Dick said, turning to the
window, and drawing aside the curtain.

Is it ? " said the girl ; her voice sounded almost
indifferent, so great was her effort to keep her
tears back. Oh ! if he would but go now, she
thought, passionately ; now, without a word.

But Dick did not. He crossed the room to her
side, and stood watching her packing the bag.

Linda ! " he said, using her name almost for
the first time since he had known her — for he
had passed from " Miss Yilliers " to " My Princess "
"Darling, it has come."

She dropped the bag and its contents, and
turned to him, looking then with sad hungry eyes
into his white quivering face'.

You — won't — forget — me," she managed to say ;
you'll — think of me — sometimes."

But Dick never answered ; he took her in his
arms for a moment, as if he would never, never

VOL II. D

let lier go again. The girl felt her head swimming
and her heart sinking yet lower — then her kisses,
the last she would ever give Inn, fell upon the
brass guard of his helmet, and its icy coldness
brought her to herself.

It was all over then — at the door he turned
and looked at her for the last time. A pair of
blue eyes beneath an Indian helmet, a pair of
dark ones under a mass of red-l^rown hair, and
m both such dire miser", that I can write no
more. The door closed, and he was gone.

She heard him clatter down the stairs and tramp
along the stone-floored hall, then she ran to the
Window and flung it open wide for 3'et the very
last look. The tall, soldierly figure passed out of
sight amid the driving snow ; but the girl sank
on her knees and stayed there, half unconscious of
auo-lit but that the end had come. Jack, coming;
out of his room, found her there, wet with snow
and almost frozen to death.

Come in, old woman," he said, persuasively ;
you will get your death."

I am past that-jack," she answered.

Am I to give him any message ? " for he
was going up to the barracks for Dick's cabin
trunk.

Tell him I am not crying or anything ; that

I'm quite quiet and cool," isle answered, and turned
to the window again.

Oh ! why did she want to hear it ? What Alas
she listening for ? It came presently,

AVe t"n-a hae paddle in the Turn,

From early morn till cline ;
But-neve-slandered mony a weary foot,

Sin' the days of Auld Lang Syne.

I feel nothing ! " cried Dick's Princess, stretching
her cold hands to the Avild snow ; " I am past
feeling."

But it Alas not so Ancien Jack returned, on
his AA'ay to the station.

"Let me go, too," she pleaded.

1^0," he said, soothingly ; " poor Dick's awfully
cut up ; and you'll break doAvn, and make it
harder for him."

"I am as cool as — as an iceberg," she cried.
I must go, Jack."

So he let her go.

They Avere too late to see him again — the doors
of the station A\'ere closed. The cabman drove
them up close beside a Iota" railing, from AA'hence
they could see the long train. They could see
three or four officers of other regiments, who had
come to say a Avord of farcAA'ell ; but she could
not see Dick. Once, amid her tears, she saw' the
waring of a handkerchief, and wondered if it Alas
VOL. II. D 2

his? The band struck up again, and the train
moved. One bj one the instruments ceased — there
was an attempt at a cheer, which ended in a
huge sob, and the Eoyal Regiment of Cuirassiers
was gone ; they had passed away into the distance,
and Linda Millers stood in the dim grey mist of
that December dawn, alone. She might have
cried :

My eyes are full of tears, my heart of love,
My heart is breaking, and my eyes are dim ;
And I am all a-weary of my life.

OR, HOW Richard Carter SHOT AT A Pigeon A2^'D
BROUGHT DOWN A CROW.

And by-and-bye Dick's letters to this Princess grew
shorter and more constrained ! With each one the
girl lost her pluck and her brave on-looking to the
future. She was troubled at the change, though
she hardly knew in what it consisted.

At first Dick's letters had been one passionate outpouring
of an imprisoned spirit — imprisoned in that
huge gaol known as India. Oh ! how he hated India
and everything Indian. He should die, he cried
out, away from everyone he loved ; he had no one
to care for him, no one to think of him. He had
heard of the splendours of Indian scenery, of the
magnificent profuseness of nature there. Bah ! it
was hideous, hideous, hideous — a dirty, dusty, dismal,
deserted, miserable hole, something like Aldershot,
only, compared to India, Aldershot was a perfect
paradise. He believed there was fine scenery in
Kashmir, but all that Dick had seen on his march to
Unapore was hideous, hideous, hideous — that was
what India was in Dick's opinion. He didn't know

■\vhicli he hated most — Bombay ; the railway carnages ;
the bungalows, where they put up for the night ;
the half-barrels, which were provided as baths, and
against the unfinished edges of Ayhich he had nearly-broken
this legs twice, or the station at which
they ultimately arrived. He hated it all ! If he
had a preference, it was for Bombay, because it was
so many miles nearer to England than Unapore.

For a month or two his detestation of India and
everything Indian increased. He wrote to Linda
that he had been to a ball at Avliich there were
thirteen ladies present, balanced by two 
men ; the belle Alas Mrs. Newcome, a fact
which so utterly disgusted him that lie went home
before the end of the first dance, and gave Indian
society up as a failure.

Then he got leave and went to Simla, where
the ladies came under his especial censure : " I don't
like the women here at all," he wrote to his Princess,
they are vulgar to a degree : they call you by
your surname and talk very loudly, they smoke
and drink B. and S. and positively guzzle champagne
whenever they can get it, as for their morals, they
are nil! Here they are during all the hot weather
carrying on no end of a life, while their poor devils
of husbands are frizzling doAvn in the plains. I
cannot do with them after a pet like you," followed

by a good deal of tenderness, wliicli the Princess
read and smiled at, and, worst of all, was foolish
enough to believe.

And then Dick fell ill — his letters were brimful
of that one subject ! His leave was almost up and
he should have to go back to Unapore and die —
there was not the least doubt about the during ! The
men were dying off like sheep, the only times the
band was heard was when the " Dead March " was
played — that, the Princess gathered, was about
every hour or so. Three officers had died within
a few hours of one another — to be sure one was
in consequence of a fall from his horse, and another
had steadily killed himself by drinking, she had
seen that in the papers — the colonel had had a
very bad go of fever, Creyke was very ill, and
Dickson, so Dick had heard, was a perfect wreck.
Poor Dick ! — in one week more his leave would
be over, and he must make up his mind to go
back to Unapore and die.

Ah ! how she wept over that letter, With a wild
sense of rebellion against the ill-fortune which had
made her anything but a great heiress, who could
have given her soldier-hero all he wished in a
country more suited to his tastes than India had
proved to be. Poor Princess! Alas! she had a
passionate adoration and fair prospects, but passionate

adoration is unfortunately not good to eat,
neither will it provide shelter and raiment ; and, as
for prospects, she knew as most people do — or, if
they don't, they will very soon find out — that it is
but ill work waiting for dead men's shoes. And
so she could only weep over Dick's letters, and
gather such papers as might interest him, or make
her eyes ache by writing long letters, telling him
over and over aiiaiu how she was always thinking
of him all the day — aye, and for the matter of
that — half the night too.

By the next mail came a still more disastrous
letter ! His health was worse : so ill, indeed, was
he that a medical board was to sit on him at his
rooms with a view to further leave. At the end
of that epistle was a postscript to the effect that
the board had obtained for him four months' sick
leave. Once more her spirits rose, she breathed
freely ; she went about the house singing like a
lark, so glad to heart was she that her boy had
been successful. She carried the letter about with
her, she read and re-read it, she talked to the
photograph she wore in her locket, and she "wrote
Dick the longest letter she had ever written to
him or to anyone else, during her whole life. She
took his helmet out of the case and cleaned it
carefully, until it shone like burnished gold. Xever

had Dick's soldier servant bestowed such tender
attention upon it. She put it on her own head
and looking in the glass, tried to cheat herself into
the belief that they were not dark eyes which she
beheld beneath it but the true blue orbs, which
she had seen there aforetime — that the heavy
knot of brown hair which tilted it up behind was
not there in reality, but only the back of Dick's
close-cropped head. It was of no use, the face
under the helmet was that of the Princess, and
Dick's was thousands of miles away amid the lovely
scenery of Simla — yes, he had retracted his first
opinion somewhat, and admitted that Simla was
lovely. She fell then to wondering Avhat was he
doing? Thinking of her, of course — thinking of
his Princess, and calculating how soon he could
save sufficient money to take him back to England
and her. Oh ! Princess ! Princess ! why did you
go about all that brilliant September day, with
the self-same song upon your lips, which Dick had
cursed so heartily on Christmas Eve ? —

In the gloaming, oh ! my darling, think not bitterly of me,
Though I passed away in silence, left you lonely', set you free ;
For my heart was crushed with longing, what had been could never be,
It was best to leave you thus, dear, best for you and lies for me.

Why did your heart's gladness find its vent in
words like those? Could it be that they were a
fore-shadowing of what was to come, the first of

the by-and-bye? Presently a letter came, hot less
profuse ill terms of endearment than the former
ones had been, and yet the scalding tears rushed
into the girl's eyes as she read it, a blank pain
settled down upon her heart, never to be quite
lifted any more — she could not have told what
manner of pain it Alas nor why it had come, therefore
I use the word "blank" advisedly. The letter
was loving, but it was evidently written in great
haste ; it ended " God speed my darling," and yet,
in his carelessness, he had blotted the words. He
Avanteded this, he wanted that ; Princess Alas to do this,
to get that. Why should it pain her so sorely?
She could not tell, it Alas the undefinable 
Avhicli had begun the by-and-bye !

Amongst other news Avhicli this letter contained
Alas that there Alas to be a fancy-ball, to Which
Dick Alas going in the character of the Earl of
Leicester, '• of the time of Queen Elizabeth, you
knoAv," he added. Ah ! surely that Alas the un-kindest
sting of all — "the time of Queen Elizabeth."
What had come to Dick that he took it for granted
that she did not knoAV to Avliat period of history
the Earl of Leicester belonged? And so the pain
settled doAvn upon her heart and stayed there !

The bright September days crept over and chill
October came in, but there Avere no letters from

Dick. The girl fretted and worried and pined to
know what could have chanced. Surely he must
be ill that he did not write. She got the helmet
out and cleaned it again, she looked up his old
letters and read them a dozen times over — all of
them save the last one, there was but one line of
that she cared to remember, that was the " Godspeed
my darling " at the end.

The days crept on. Twenty of October's thirty-one
sons had come and gone, the Indian mails
were in, but there was no letter from Dick. All
that day the Princess stayed in the house, lest the
precious missive might come, and coming, lie one
moment unread ; but no, it came not —

It came not, no, it came not,

The night came on alone,
The little stars sat one by one.

Each on its golden throne.

So the Princess Avent to her bed and slept, fora
wonder, long and heavily ; and towards morning
.she had a dream. She dreamed that at last the
longed-for letter had arrived, and that it was buta
letter of farewell, conveying the announcement
of his approaching marriage. She awoke with a
gasp of relief that it was, after all, only a dream.
How could an idea so idiotic have got into her
brain, she wondered? Dick marry! The idea was
too absurd. What, to one of the Avomen Who " are

vulgar to a degree, who call men by their surnames
and talk very loudly, whose morals are nil, who
drink B. and S. and positively guzzle champagne,
whenever they can get it ? " How supremely absurd
to think of Dick's marrying one of those.

And yet the impression produced by the dream
could not be shaken off, it was so distinct : she
had seen the letter so plainly — the bluish foreign
paper stamped with the crest of the regiment,
Dick's careless yet firm writing — it had been all too
real. There was only one thing unlike Dick — its
utter coldness. Whatever his failings had been —
and, dearly as she loved him, she had not been
blind to them — no ! though she had loved his very
faults, because they were his, coldness had not
been one of them. She tried to argue herself into
the belief that, since dreams always go by the
rule of contrary, Dick's next letter would bring
her good news — perhaps ! Ah ! the thought which
flashed across her mind made her very heart standstill
for a moment : perhaps he had somehow contrived
to get leave and was coming home. And
so, amid hopes and fears, the next few daj's slipped
over, and at last the letter appeared.

Its a very thin one," murmured the Princess,
ruefully, as she opened it.

The first thing that cau2flit her eve was the

end. Xo " God sjDeed my darling," not even the
more usual termination, " Your own Dick " — no,
nothing of his usual tenderness. It was a new
sensation which thrilled through her heart asher
eyes fell upon the four words which concluded
the letter, for they were, "Yours truly, Richard

er !

Cart

The by-and-bye had come !

It is not necessary to give the letter in detail. It
was incoherent, very. The handwriting was shaky,
the tone half-tender, half-bland ! The latter was
indeed one of the expressions he used : " You don't
know how it pains me to tell you thus blandly — "

Blandly," repeated the Princess, with a passionate
sob, " fancy Dick bland — to me."

And what was it that he told her, thus blandly?

It was merely the fulfilment of the dream which
she had not been able to banish from her mind.
Dick had — well not exactly forgotten her, but he
had made up his mind that the only way out of
his difficulties was by a rich marriage, and so he
was going to be married !

The lady — he called her a lady, so the Princess
concluded that she was not a girl — was called
McPhearson ! She was rich ! She was handsome !
She was loving ! She was going to pay off all his
debts — or at least, her father was going to do so.

"which amounted to the same thing ! Her people
Heed in London, and she was staying in India fora
little while with a married sister. Dick was
cpiite sure if the Princess knew her she would
like her awfully. Linda was not so sure of it —
she was rather doubtful on the subject, but that
Alas nothing ; and that was all — excepting " jours
truly', Richard Carter," over which the Princess
wept most bitterly of all. And then, when her
first grief had passed somewhat, she began to
put two and two together, to think the matter
over. She was not exactly a fool and she knew
life pretty Avell, indeed — considering her short
experience of two-and-twenty years — better than
most people.

The lady was Scotch ! There could be uo doubt
of that. Iter father lived in London — then what
was she doing out in India ? She must have gone
out on " spec," husbanddiunting ! The Princess
wondered was she oldish ? Probably she was older
than Dick or he would never surely have spoken
of her as " this lady ! " And Dick owed some four or
five thousand pounds, Which Mr. McPhearson was
going to pay ! To the Princess's tolerably keen
mind that hadn't a Scotch sound about it ! If
Dick had been a nobleman she could understand
some rich city man " shelling out," but for a simple

sub. in a cavalry regiment — "^vliy, it vas absurd — it
hadn't a Scotch sound about it.

The result of her calculations was that she wrote
and recommended Dick to get his debts paid before
he was married.

Ladies," she wrote, " who are young, rich, and
handsome, have no need to go out to India lius-
band-hunting, unless there is something very very
shady in the background. If she has gone all the
way to India to catch a husband, I don't believe
her father will be willing to pay four or five
thousand pounds for him — it hasn't a Scotch sound
about it, Dick."

But Dick did not Avait to receive her advice. His
anxiety to secure his pigeon was too great, and it
was not many Aveeks after she had received the
news of his intended matrimonial Venture, that she
say an announcement in the Times —

On the 7th hilt., at Simla, by the Er. , Eichard Carter, Esquire

(the Cuirassiers), of Breakdown Castle, County Cork, to Lily, youngest
daughter of Andrew macpherson, Esquire, of 17 Dodington Crescent, AV.

And so it Alas all over — the bullet, Which Alas,,
in piercing Dick Carter's heart, to make him forget
his Princess, had found a billet — perhaps neither
of them had looked forward to its being a bullet
of gold. Well ! the end had come : Linda Millers
might sit doAvn and Aveep her very heart out, or

laugh and forget him. Dick wouldn't care which —
at least, that was what she told herself, and she
had a fair knowledge of life — considering her years.
During the week which followed, she got very-tired
of seeing that same announcement — in every
paper in which the notice of a marriage could be
put was it found : Times, Telegraph, Standard,
Daily News, Illustrated London News, the Graphic
nay, when one day turning over some numbers
of the Queen, she came upon the following,
over which she laughed out aloud — and, be it
known, she had of late done very little in the way
of laughter. It came under the heading of the
Upper Ten Thousand at Home and Abroad " : —

A marriage has been arranged between Mr. Richard Carter, Cuirassiers,
of Breakdown Castle, County Cork, and the youngest daughter of Mr.
Andrew McPhearson, of 17 Tollington Crescent, Kensington, W.

Poor forsaken Princess ! She laughed till she
cried, and she cried till her head ached, and then
she went to bed and sobbed herself to sleep — but
she cut the announcement out and put it away
with that of the marriage.

The Upper Ten Thousand " — no, I won't be
quite sure that it was not under " Marriages in
High Life," but any lady reader will know — it makes
no matter, for both were equally absurd. The
Princess was certainly anxious to know which of
the two families had inserted the numerous announcements

of the marriage. One of them must
be very proud of the alliance — of that, there could
be no doubt. She rather fancied it was on the
McPhearson side, for she had an idea that the
Carters had not a great deal of money .to spare —
at least, Dick had always said so.

And that was the end of it all. Dick Carter had
found himself a bride in India, and the girl whom
he had called his Princess had to get over the
change as best she could — she did 2;et over it intime.
The old obstinate spirit, which had fought
so bravely in the Crusades under Coeur de Lion,
lived in the girl still ; the cool determined brave
heart With which her grandsire fought through
the Peninsular — for the Yilliers had all been gallant
soldiers for generations — which carried him into
Egypt (one of Abercrombie's chosen staff), and to
Waterloo with Picton, it lived again in the girl.
She was heart-broken, ill, weary of her life : she had
lost what she valued most upon earth but she
struggled on — on to the time when the fair prospects
had become substantial realities ; to the time when
she could look back to the old days and see only
the brightness ; when she could admit that, as they
were, things were best ; when, thinking of Dick
tenderly still, she could bear to listen to the strains
of that old Scotch melody, which had wrung her

VOL. II. E

heart so sorely as they floated to her, through the
driving snow, that chill December morning, when
she and Dick had said "good-bye," to meet on this
side of the grave never more — though then they
had both looked forward to the by-and-bye.

But that was not quite the end. Xot many
months after Dick Carter entered the bonds of holy
matrimony a series of announcements appeared in
the papers, which made the Princess — I call her by
the familiar name still — come to the conclusion that
it was from the McPhearson side that the numerous
notices of the marriage had emanated — not that
this one was in connection with a Averting, on the
contrary. It ran thus :

On the 25th, at 17, Dodington Crescent, Kensington, W., Andrew
McPhearson, Esq., aged So j-ears. Dearly loved and deeply regretted.
Indian papers please copy.

How strange," remarked the Princess, " to say
Indian papers please copy,' Avheu he has two
daughters married in India."

Yes ! It was perhaps a little strange, and something
else rather astonished her — his age. Eighty
years ! She came to the conclusion that— and all
her information was by that means — Mrs. Eichard
Carter was in all probability a good deal older than
her husband, Who was seven-and-twenty. To be
sure Mr. McPhearson might have married late in life,
and " Lily " might be the youngest of a very large

family ; but, still, the chances were ten to one against
it. Of that, however, she had no means of knowing,
except she had troubled herself to write to some of
her friends in India, which she did not do. Xo ;
she saw the notices of the old man's death in the
papers with a sigh and a certain feeling of sadness.

Dick had soon come into his kingdom ! No doubt
he had quite forgotten her by this time, she thought,
quite ceased to regret her, that is. That he could
forget her was, of course, utterly impossible— as long
as he lived, he could never remember leaving for
India without a thought of the girl who had risen
at four o'clock in the morning and bidden him
adieu, to the strains of " Auld Lang Syne ! "

And time crept on. It was some months after
the death of old Mr. McPhearson that the Princess
was in London with her mother, on their way to the
sunny Hieland. They stayed in the great city, to
see the Academy and one or two theatres, at one of
which they witnessed that old-world comedy, " She
Stoops to Conquer ! " The play began.

"I wish people would come earlier," remarked
the Princess, plaintively, as she rose, for about
the twentieth time, to allow some people to pass.

"The places on this row are all filled now," returned
the mother, consolingly.

At the last comers she scarcely glanced, except

VOL. II. E 2

UBRARt
IINlVERafTf OF

to notice that one was a tall lady in a grey opera
cloak, the other a young man, apparently her son.

The play went on, and to it the Princess gave
her undivided attention until it Alas ended.

Splendid play," she observed, when it was over.

It was to be succeeded by a farce, and during
the interval the audience behaved as an audience
at a theatre generally does behave. The men got
up and moved about, speaking to their acquaintances,
the usual trays of ices and wine were sent
round, women criticised other women's dresses,
there was general bustle and hum of voices.
Suddenly the Princess became aware that a gentleman
had come behind her, and was speaking to
the lady in the grey opera cloak.

Oh ! we are in Tollington Crescent," she said,
evidently in answer to some question.

Tollington Crescent ! She pricked uj) her ears
immediately ; it was a magic sound to her. She
turned her head, and saw that the lady was in
mourning, then she turned it away again.

Oh, my mother's gone down to Mouth ! "
she said — again the Princess had missed the question
"my brother's got a little son. She has gone
down to see her grandson."

But your brother has been married some time'*
said the gentleman : " this is not the first ? "

Oh, no ; but the first boy — the son and
heir."

The last words were, however, spoken in a tone
which plainly showed that the addition, " and
heir," were intended as a joke, and meant to be
received as such.

Ah ! the first that counts, I suppose ? "

Er— yes ! "

A moment's silence, then the lady spoke again,

I have not seen 3'ou for some time."

Xo ; I have been out of town for six weeks."

Eeally ! I thought that perhaps you had
already gone to India."

Oh, no."

When do you go ? "

In about six weeks. And have you heard from
Laura and Lily lately ? "

Oh, yes ; they are both very well."

Still at Simla ? "

Oh, yes."

If the Princess had been a fainting sort of
young lady, she would probably have fainted ; but,
as she was not, she did nothing of the kind. She
turned rather pale, and a deadly sickness crept over
her ; but she preserved sufficient presence of mind
to carefully examine the appearance of the lady
from Tollington Crescent ! Xow, up to that moment,

she had never for one instant doubted the reality
of the riches in the McPhearson family ; but, after
five minutes' survey of her neighbour's dress, they
took unto themselves wings and fled away — as the
reader may have known reputed riches do before
to-day.

Mrs. richard Carter's sister — for, of course, she
was a sister — had taken off, or rather thrown back
her cloak, after a fashion ladies have when a theatre
becomes too warm ; the Princess was glad of it,
for it gave her a more favourable opportunity of
studying her person. She was a tall woman,
perhaps six or seven-and-forty — she might be a
little less, but that was what she looked. She had —
the Princess began with the crown of her head and
worked slowly downwards — she had Scotch stamped
on her ! Her hair was of that peculiar hue just
now so fashionable, and known as " cardinal red ;"
not ordinary rod hair, lout a deep scarlet. By way
of a head-dress, she had a bit of rustle-black
feather, what, I am told, is best described as
feather-trimming, and which, as the Princess told
herself scornfully, she wouldn't have picked up in
the street, much less have worn it about her
person. Her face was long, with an undeniably
good nose, high cheek-bones, a hard mouth, and
lack-lustre eyes of the description known as " boiled

gooseberries ;" it was a face without any softness
in it, wliicli might, perhaps, have been accounted
for by the brick-dust colour of the complexion and
the scarcity of eye-brows and lashes — it might be
that the Process was a little prejudiced !

But to continue : Mr. Eichard Carter's sister
wore a gown of some thin black material, " not
worth ten shillings," Princess said afterwards. The
bodice was cut square — it was cut very square : so
square, that, had the wearer been a lady of Yenus-
like proportions, it might have been thought by
a fastidious person to be cut too square. As it
was, the Princess's eyes beheld a broad expanse of
fleshless bony chest, which absolutely made her
shiver. " It was like a dead woman's neck !" she
said afterwards.

The sleeves of this gown did not come down to
the waist, but ended at the elbow — probably they
were what .ladies describe as elbow-sleeves — at all
events a pair of very sharp angles protruded under
the frilling Avhicli fastened them off. On her arms
she wore black mittens of open-work. Now, I take
it, that, possessed of a pair of beautiful hands and
arms, a lady can not do better than pretend to
cover them with open-work mittens. Mrs. Eichard
Carter's sister had got the mittens, but, alas ! she
had neither the beautiful arms nor hands. The

Wrists were long and large, the hands had no
breed about them ; the nails were square, and they
were not very clean, moreover they had those white
blemishes upon them which are commonly known

as " gifts " —

A gift on the thumb is sure to come ;
A gift on the finger is sure to linger.

If there be any truth in old sayings, Mrs. Eichard
Carter's sister had a great many presents in store.
sot only had the nails " gifts " on them, but the
surrounding skin had grown over them so as to
almost hide the half-moons which most people admire.
Xot only Avere the nails objectionable, but
the fingers also, for they turned up with a thick
lump of flesh beyond the nail, and gave them the
appearance of being bitten. She wore a considerable
quantity of rings, but there' was not —
Princess especially noticed that — a diamond amongst
them, or, indeed, one of any value. She thought of
the filbert nails and the four or five valuable
rings hidden away beneath her own gloves !

On one arm — no bailiff's man ever took more
careful account of the knick-knacks of a house
than the Princess did of this lady's personal adornments
— on one arm she wore a fourpenny black
snake bangle, on the other a heavy bracelet of
gold ! She took especial notice of that bracelet —

it was a huge onyx, as large as a Avaliiut, and
set in '' a broad band of gold." She knew, as most
people do, who have given their attention to such
things, that the onp^, like the amethyst, is not a
very valuable stone, and when set in gold of good
quality diamonds and pearls are used also — there
were neither diamonds nor pearls in the bracelet,
so the Princess came to the natural conclusion
that the gold massive setting hailed — perhaps from
Abyssinia.

I don't believe," she said afterwards, " that
there is any money at all."

Cannot be much," answered the mother.

So the Princess went back to her hotel and
thought it all over. What a strange coincidence,
that she should be thus brought in contact with
the sister of the woman who had succeeded in
marrying Dick, and still more strange that by her
conversation she should have known who she was.

The result of her cogitations was, that on the
following morning she suggested that they should
take a hansom as far as Somerset House and just
have a look at the old gentleman's will.

Her suggestion was soon carried into effect.
They drove through the grand quadrangle, and
were set down at the will department. On entering,
they Avere informed that they must purchase

a shilling stamp, and then she was given a big
book, and told to look out the name. She had
but small difficulty in finding it :

Andrew Mcpherson,

17, Tollington Crescent,

Kensington, "\V.

There it stood.

Then they were directed to the reading-room, and
told that the will should be sent in a few minutes.
They found the room, in which were a few chairs,
a bench or two, a lung table, and two grave-looking
clerks, watching to see that the documents were
not tampered With.

And presently the will appeared.

You must read it at the table," said one of
the grave clerks, as the Princess stretched out
her hand to take it.

Oh ! must I ? I did not know," she said,
apologetically. " Under twenty thousand pounds,"
she said, with a little gasp, to the mother.

There was the usual legal preamble as to the
soundness of the testator's mind, then everything —
all my houses, lands, furniture, books, pictures,
carriages, horses, domestic animals, and things" —
was left to the wife for life, with the exception
of the sum of one thousand pounds, to be paid
at once to the trustees of his granddaughter,

I don't like that word ' schooling,' " said the
mother, critically.

It has rather a third-rate ring about it," replied
the Princess, continuing her perusal of the
will.

At his wife's death or marriage the testator directed
that to each of his daughters, Marion Bagot,
Janet Neville, and Laura Ashburnham, he gave the
sum of two thousand pounds, to be invested for
them — though only with their written consent — by
the trustees named in the will, the interest to be
paid to them, or only upon their written receipt.
In the case of any of them dying without children,
their money was to return to such brothers and
sisters as might be living or have left children.
To Mary Adelaide Lucy, if, at the time of her
mother's marriage or death, she should be unmarried,
he gave three thousand pounds ; but if
she should be married, she was only to receive two
thousand, as her sisters — in either case, less one
hundred pounds "had in anticipation."

Bless me," the Princess ejaculated, blankly,
whatever can that mean ? "

'• To take her out to India, of course," returned
the mother, " and little enough, too."

It wouldn't buy her outfit," gasped the girl.
But to continue :

To his son, Donald, the testator bequeathed the
sum of one thousand pounds, unrestricted (at his
mother's death, that is to say). To his son,
Mclvor, the sum of one thousand pounds, less three
hundred " had in anticipation." The remainder of
the money to be equally divided amongst his six
children.

"And that is all," said the Princess, " but look, it
says ' late of Calcutta ;' I wonder what he has been ? "

He has evidently made his money himself, and
he does not intend some idle extravagant fellows
to marry his daughters and spend it," Mrs. Villiers
replied.

The Princess turned the document over thoughtfully.
" I wonder which is the codicil ? " she said,
aloud.

There is not one."

But it says the ' Will and Codicil.' "

I think," put in one of the grave personages
at the end of the table, " that it is merely a clerical
error, but I will inquire."

It was merely " a clerical error."

Princess thanked him, and said " good morning."
She did not speak until they had got half-way
across the quadrangle.

Then when her mother dies — which may be
twenty years hence — she Avill have, at the outside,
about a three-and-forty pounds a year strictly
tied up to herself— Dick being able to touch
neither principal nor interest — and if she dies without
children, it goes back to her family. Of
course she may have money of her own; but, no
if that were so, he would not have provided
the other thousand. Xo ! a hundred-and-forty
pounds a year ! I wonder if he is very fond of
her ? He didn't use to like red-haired women !
If not — why I should have been the better match
by far — but then, to be sure, I had no money
then."

The] Princess's money had come, as many things
do come] in this world, too late. Oh, the pity of
it!£Oh,'the pity of it!

Chapter I.

She Alas always called " Pretty Polly." When she
first came from school (that grand London school,
where the terms were a hundred a-year, icith
extras) her mother made an effort — not a small
one, for when Mrs. Hugh i^ntrobus made an effort
it was usually one which might be classified as
prodigious — to have her called by her proper name
of Mary! Perhaps that was one of the very few
instances on record in which an effort of Mrs.
Hugh's had proved a failure ; but a failure it undoubtedly
was, and a very signal one, too. Xo
one could, or would remember to call her anything
but " Polly ;" and so, at last, Mrs. Hugh
gave it up, and even fell back herself into the
old familiar habit of calling her eldest daughter
"Polly."

Polly's father was a lawyer, not a particularly
distinguished one — indeed there were people in
Blankhampton ill-natured enough to say what
money he had he had not come by in too honest

a fashion ; but that is rather beside the question.
Certain it is, that Mr. Antrobus was a Lawyer,
and hardly at the top of the tree ; he had married
a lady whose father was in the cotton-spinning way,
Avithout much money, but With remarkably large
ideas. One of Mrs. Hugh's ideas Alas that Polly
Alas the most utterly beautiful young Avoman Who
had cater been born— many mothers think the
same ; another, that Polly Alas destined to make
a brilliant matrimonial alliance — Mrs. Hugh never
said anything so common-place as marriage. Having
made up her mind on those taro important points,
Mrs. Hugh felt that Polly Avould have small opportunity
of encompassing that desirable end so longs
they remained in the house at forty pounds rent,
Which they had occupied since their marriage ; so she
cast about in the neighbourhood of Blankhamp-
ton, and finally decided upon the Eiver House asa
suitable abode.

XoAv, the Shiver House Alas quite the best in
the Vicinity, and Alas, in fact, a mansion in miniature.


"It Avill suit us exactly, Hugh," she said, Avhen
they had finally arranged With the landlord, and
Avere inspecting it With a vicar to re-decoration ;
a charming hall ; and these glass doors Evil]
keep the vestibule and upper gallery as Avarm as

possible. And the library — I should think we
should have enough books to fill up the shelves,
Hugh ! As for the dining-room, it is a superb
apartment ; Ave shall require nothing but a carpet
and really, Hugh, I think "vve might afford a
Turkey ! The drawing-room : ah ! the girls must
look after this ; Mary " — she was as yet in the
Mary period — " Mary will be able to exercise her
ingenuity. Back-stairs and servants'-hall : well,
Hugh, when we can afford a hilliard-table, this
will be the very place to put it in."

She had probably forgotten that in a billiard-room
a side-light is objectionable ; perhaps she
had never known it : but that is not apropos of
the subject. Upon one point she was right —
inside and out the Eiver House was all that could
be desired. It stood in the midst of tastefully
laid-out grounds, sloping in terraces down to the
river's bank, or rather to the public promenade
which led to the city, half-a-mile away. Xot quite
so far off, in the opposite direction, were the
Cavalry Barracks, from whence Mrs. Hugh — though
she did not say so — thought it not improbable
Polly's splendid match might come.

In due time the Antrobus family removed to
the Eiver House, and Polly began to feel she had
taken her proper position in the world. Now

that her home was a mansion in miniature, With
a servants' hall, a housekeeper's-room, a courtyard,
and stabling for twelve horses, she felt she
could invite, or, at least, feel equal to inviting,
any of the city heiresses or noblemen's daughters
with whom she had associated at Miss Seville's.
True, there was only one nobleman's daughter in
that establishment : her father was an Irish
earl, and not even a representative peer ; her
dresses were always shabby, and her bills were a
long time unpaid. And equally true was it that
the Attributes could have done without a servants'
hall ; and had not a housekeeper to occupy the
room-set apart for her ; nor got horses to fill the
stables. Still, the stables, and the housekeeper's
room, and the servants' hall were indisputable facts,
just as it was that she had been at school with
an earl's daughter, and Polly felt that the several
circumstances added to her dignity not a little.

And so Mrs. Hugh received her friends in the
big drawing-room with bland complacency, and
Polly swept her trains along the polished floors of
the vestibule and passages as if she had been
accustomed to parqueterie all her life ; while the
younger girls, To-To and Baby, narrowly escaped
breaking their necks by daring rambles on the
roof itself.

VOL. II. F

It was April-when they entered upon their new
domain : soft bahny weather, so that Polly was able
to parade about the garden paths in an evening,
with a scarlet shawl twisted about her shoulders
and a natty little sailor hat, with a ribbon of the
same colour, perched on the elaborate coiffure of
twists and coils, in which her fair hair was arranged.
She certainly Alas very pretty, everyone
acknowledged it. She was tall, being rather above
the middle height, but, when you had said so much,
that was about all that could be said for her figure —
it was not actually a bad figure, but, most assuredly,
it was not a good one ; she had pretty hands, with
long slender fingers, and her face was as fair asa
blush-rose ; her forehead was low and white, and
her flaxen hair fell on either side in the rippling
Avaves you may have seen in a Greek statue ; her
nose was slightly inclined to be aquiline, and her
mouth, it must be owned, was the least prepossessing
feature in her face — it was undeniably a foolish
mouth, weak and without character, yet the lips
were red as cherries and, dien parted, displayed
a row of even, pearl' teeth, so beautiful in themselves
that few persons noticed the weakness of
the mouth. Her eyes were blue, not particularly
large or expressive, but of a lovely turquoise tint,
and her complexion was glorious — there was not

the least flaw in it, it was perfect : of the delicate
whiteness of Parian marble, with an apple-blossom
flush upon it — it was a complexion which would
have made a plain face charming. Xow Polly was
most emphatically not plain !

She was a nice girl too — good-natured and gentle,
and, though somewhat given to romancing and very
much given to dreaming, had no bad habits. She
played very nicely Thalers's " Home, Sweet Home ! "
and other pieces of that calibre ; she kept the
flower-vases in the drawing room carefully arranged,
and she spent a good deal of her time in the garden
the " grounds " the Antrobus family called them
sitting in a careless, yet graceful attitude, on some
rustic bench, with a book in her hand, of which
she read but little. Polly never did a stitch of
sewing, but for the most part dreaming of that
grand future which Alas coming, and trying how
near she could model her person and her manners
to those of a young duchess.

A young duchess " was Polly's favourite ideal,
though she had never seen one herself, and Lady
Edith O'Shaughnassy's description of the young
Duchess of Ballycorum was not at all the same
class of person as Polly's Duchess of Dreamland.

Just a slip of a girl, with a wide mouth and
two great staring black eyes," Lady Edith had
VOL. II. i- 2

said, " and dressed nine days out of ten in a
gown of rough homespun and a thick grey jacket,
with no end of pockets, and her boots — just regular
brogues."

And for church ? " Polly had asked.

Oh, not much better. A brown velveteen dress,
with a jacket like it, and a brown felt hat, with a
scarlet wing in it — sometimes a sealskin jacket, but
not often, for Ballycorum is three miles from the
church, and the duke's a big man, so she's warm
enough walking."

And does a duchess walk three miles to
church ? " Polly gasped, all her most cherished
ideas thus being turned topsy-turvy.

Of course — no one has his horses out on
Sunday" in our part," Lady Edith answered,
promptly; "but when old Lady Ballycorum is at
the Castle she uses the pony carriage."

It was very evident that her grace of Ballycorum
did not belong to the same order as the Duchess
of Dreamland — perhaps it was because she was an
Irish duchess! Polly's "grace" lived in an atmosphere
always heavy with perfumery, surrounded
always by masses of hot-house flowers and rare
exotics. Upon every occasion she made a toilette
and even her negligees where of the richest silk and
velvet, profusely decked with ivnceless old lace ;

with Iter, diamonds were so much a matter of course
that even her bedroom sappers were adorned with
buckles glittering with those costly gems — only the
Duchess of Dreamland had nothing so common asa
bedroom, she had a sleeping apartment ; she
summoned her footman by means of a silver bell,
and when she felt "a little low" — which she did
sometimes, in an exceedingly refined manner — drank
rare wine out of a fragile goblet of Venetian glass ;
she was quite too luxurious to walk a step, and
apparently did not stand in need of exercise Eke
less privileged mortals.

As for the duke, he was but a lay figure. Once
Polly had exerted herself sufficiently to begin a
novel, with herself in the character of a duchess for
heroine, but she came to one sentence so thrilling
that she straightway fell a-dreaming, and the novel
was never finished — ■

May laid her hand on the embroidered sleeve

of the duke " after that it was impossible to

go on.

Well, the glorious summer months passed over,
and the family at the Eiver House seemed no
nearer to attaining their object. Their intimacy with
the barracks did not altogether progress — Mr.
Antrobus called on the mess and received a few
days later a couple of cards, left by two gentlemen.

who did not even ask if he was at home? Mrs.
Hugh called on all the officers' wives — for the
Cuirassiers had been ordered to Blankhampton a
month after the Attributes went to the Eiver
House— but the calls had been returned and their
invitations declined : the Cuirassiers would not have
them at any price. However, they did manage to
scrape a tolerable intimacy with the pay-master,
whose back windows overlooked the Eiver House
gardens; and when, in due time, the invitations
for the officers' ball were issued, through Captain
Lewis's interest one went to the Eiver House.

Polly was almost roused out of her habitual
serenity. As for Mrs. Hugh, she folded her fat
arms and beamed about the house with benignant
triumph.

You must have a new dress, Polly," she cried.

Oh yes," Polly returned — that was a matter of
course.

"Have you thought of anything nice?"

Yes," answered Polly, after a moment's pause ;
I will have azure and silver."

Chapter II.

There was a sound of revelry by night."

So there was : the Blankhampton Assembly Rooms
were brilliantly lighted and superbly^decorated. At
the entrance stood taro sergeants, each bearing a
silver salver, one to receive the cards of invitation,
one to dispense the programmes. Between them
and the outer entrance stood a guard of honour,
and within the room itself was stationed the regimental
sergeant-major, ready to bawl forth the name
of each fresh arrival.

On the right of the doorway, some yards within
the room, stood Colonel Cotherstone,. and opposite
to him his officers en masse — only they were not
exactly en masse, for they stood in a straight road,
for the most part with their hands behind them, looking
for all the world like a class of very gorgeous
schoolboys just about to say their lessons. And so,
after all, they were. My simile is not far wrong,
for were they not one and all about to repeat the
lesson which officers seem to be so proficient in
learning, and which they are all so willing to teach
to others ?

'' I wonder," muttered Anthony Creyke to his next
neighbour, Eliot Cardella, " if old Dare expects I

shall dance with his daughters, because if he does — "
he broke off suddenly, for into the Honourable
Eliot's grey eyes had come a gleam of surprise, and
he exclaimed, " Gad ! what a pretty girl ! "

It was Polly — and Eliot Cardella was the Earl of
Mallinbro's second son !

Major Creyke looked after Polly and remarked,
*' Pretty well." He did not admire pink and white
Dresden-china sort of girls.

Eliot Cardella dropped out of the line at once
and marched off to where Mrs. and Miss Antrobus
were standing with Captain and Mrs. Lewis.

Good evening, Mrs. Lewis. May I ask for the
first ? "

Under any other circumstances Mr. Cardella would
have seen Mrs. Lewis on the top of the guard-room
clock before he would have asked her to dance, but
to all general rules there are exceptions, Polly
made one that night.

I believe the second is a galop ? " he said to
Polly, With that deferential air of courtesy which
implies so much and really means so little.

I believe it is," returned Polly, glancing at her
card.

I'm afraid I don't dance very well, excepting
a polka," he began ; " but if you will do me the
honour "

I shall be pleased," said Polls serenely.

"May I take a polka also?" he asked.

Oh, yes," Polly answered — she would have
danced an Irish jig with Lord Mallinbro's son.

And so the ball began ; Cardella walked through
the mazes of a quadrille with Mrs. Lewis, and Mrs.
Antrobus sat blandly watching her daughter do the
same with Captain Lewis. She thought she had
never seen Polly looking so well. Her dress of
sheeny, shimmering blue silken stuff was wreathed
with frosted silver gauze, and studded here and
there With large frosted water-lilies ; round her
Avhite throat she wore a string of pearls, and half-hidden
in her flaxen hair were half-opened .
.

Who's Cardella talking to ? " one Cuirassier asked
of another ; " very pretty girl."

Ya-as," returned the other, with the instinctive
hauteur a soldier invariably puts on when speaking of
some one a shade beneath him ; " fathaw's a lawyer
fellah ! — always hanging about the barracks. Keep
clear of attorneys myself, one never can be sure
they haven't a writ or two in their pockets — combining
business and please at the same time, you
know. Cardella seems taken."

Young fool," said the first speaker, emphatically.

Meantime the band had struck up, and our couple

Started ; but, after two turns, Eliot Cardella abruptly
stopped.

I must apologize for bringing 3'ou into this
mess," lie said, in a tone of concern.

It is of no consequence," said Polly, sweetly,
regardless of the strip of torn silk floating behind
her, and the big frosted water-lily tossed to and fro
amongst the dancers like a cork on a stormy sea.
She was unaware that her substantial foot had comedown
like a half brick on that of her partner, and
he gallantly kept the knowledge to himself.

I won't put you into further risk," he said,
politely. " Shall I find you another partner, or will
you forgive me and sit this dance out ? "

I do not think there is anything to forgive," said
Polly, in a soft murmuring voice, and raising her
turquoise blue eyes artlessly to his ; " I would
just as soon sit out with you as dance with
anyone else," but there was the faintest emphasis
on the word you, as if she preferred sitting out.

You are too flattering," returned the incorrigible
flirt, sinking his voice to the level of
her's, and bending his eyes tenderly on her face.
Shall we find a seat here ? "

Here " was a small lounge, almost hidden behind
a folding-door and a screen of flowers, and just the
very place Polly felt was best for a tete-astute with an

earl's son. She sank down in a languid attitude, lier
azure and silver draperies falling in graceful folds
about lier.

I am so sorry," said Cardella-when he had
squeezed himself into the small space left for him,
to have spoilt sour beautiful dress I What a bore
you must think me."

I do not think it was you Who did it," Polly
answered, innocent' ; " I believe it was Colonel
Cotherstone."

Very likely."

In his heart he did not in the least care who
had done it, and thought the colonel much more
likely to be the delinquent than himself. When a
man gets to the chiefs age he ought to give up
capering in a ball-room.

I say, Cardella," said Dickson, ten minutes later,
look out what you're after, that girl's father is a
lawyer — not of too high repute either. I don't
deny that she's awfully pretty — only be careful."

Oh! she's awfully pretty," Cardella said, readily,
but have you seen her feet? By George ! they are
heavy! The major's mare. Bonny Bell, trod on my
foot last week, and it was nothing to hers," olancini^:
in Polly's direction.

Same foot ? "

Yes, worse luck."

Poor devil," laughed Dickson.

Who, having overheard the above conversation,
would have expected to see Mr. Eliot Cardella make
his way to Polly's side as soon as she was free? And
yet that was what he did. Probably the mere fact
that there Alas a sharp father in the background only
made him more ready for the fun of flirting with her.
Everyone knows that an Englishman enjoys sport the
better when it has an element of danger in it.

Mr. Cardella," said Polly, in her soft voice,
*' who is that strange-looking officer over there ?"

The elderly man ? "

Yes."

Oh ! that's our surgeon-major — ' Chronohoton-
logos,' Ave call him."

Polly opened her blue eyes very wide indeed.

What do you say ? " she gasped, at last.

His real name is Williamson," Cardella laughed,
*' but we call him ' Chronohotontologos.' "

It is most — extraordinary !" ejaculated Polly.

Chron why her mouth would be out of shape

for ever if she contrived to pronounce half of it.

Why do you call Dr. Williamson strange ? " he
asked, presently ; "I assure you he is one of
the very cleverest men you ever knew. Let me
introduce him to you ; you'll be charmed with
him."

No thank you," returned Polly, icily, " I would
rather not."

But why ? "

I do not take much interest in — doctors," she
said, calmly

It was all Cardella could do to avoid expressing
his amazement by a long whistle. Fancy this
lawyer's daughter turning up her nose at a manlike
Williamson, particularly when she had gone to
that very ball under the auspices of Lewis, whose
father had been master tailor of the 17th Hussars,
and who himself had risen from the ranks.

Must be a complete fool," thought Cardella, with
an intense desire to burst out laughing. But when
he took Polly back to her mother's side, and a
partner immediately claimed her, something in Mrs.
Hugh's fat bland face made him seat himself beside
her. Dickson happening to pass just at that moment
felt " the young fool " must have utterly taken leave
of his senses.

May I take you to have an ice, or a glass of
wine ? " he asked, courteously.

Oh, no, thank you ! I enjoy looking on."

And so do I," he responded. " I suppose I
ought to be hard at work introducing people, and
so on, but I really hardly know a soul here, and I
looked after most of the decorations."

You look tired," said Mrs. Hugh, blandly.

I am a little tired," he admitted.

Ah ! those tiresome field-days ! " she responded,
sympathetically ; " I am sure they must be trying.
I really do not know how you sacrifice yourselves
so cheerfully, there must be so much restriction
and general unpleasantness."

Well, it isn't so bad as Oxford," he laughed.

Oh ! are you an O.c-ford man ? "

Yes," Avondering wdiat she could find so astonishing
in that.

My brother," said Mrs. Hugh, With the air of a
person playing the last trump, " is the Dean of
Brazenface."

Brazenface," Cardella repeated ; " Avhat is his
name ? "

Fullerton," said Mrs Hugh, more blandly than
before.

"Not Billy?" the young man cried, forgetting
his manners and suddenly recalling the dean.

Ye-es," her tone Alas a trifle less oily.

Oh, I remember Billy Avell enough " — utterly
forgetting that it Alas her brother of Avhom they
AA^ere speaking ; " yes, I kncAv Billy and Billy kncAv
me. Little fat man, With a squint." The expression
on her face made him, all at once, remember hoar
completely he had set his foot in it ; and, to coA-er his

own embarrassment and her discomfiture, he began to
speak volubly. " And so he is your brother, Mrs.
Antrobus ? Why, what a little world it is after all !
I daresay you and I have lots of mutual friends, if
we could only compare lists."

Mrs. Hugh's fat countenance literally shone with
delight. He thought, in a good-natured way, that
she really was a very jolly old lady, and was evidently
not prone to take offence ; for he had certainly
"been extremely rude, and ninety-nine ladies out of a
hundred would have never taken any notice of him
iigain, but this one seemed to enjoy the joke as much
as he did.

Xow, if Eliot Cardella had been in the Palace of
Truth instead of the Blankhampton Assembly Rooms
lie would have learned one or two things which
should have surprised him not a little. First, that
Mrs. Hugh Antrobus did not consider herself at all
old ; and also, that her beaming did not arise from the
joke concerning Dean Billy, but from his having so
completely put himself upon a level with her : it
vas a new sensation for her to be thus chatting
.amicably with an earl's son, and, like the young
gentleman in Locksley Hall, she

Looked into the future as far as eye could see.

In fact, she looked rather further, for she saw
Polly, Polly no longer, but the Countess of Mai-linger'

— she disposed of Viscount Cardella without
any ceremony — a coronet on her fair brow
and costly diamonds flashing upon her fair throat
and rounded arms. Seeing all that, lie might well
beam .

6^(?6>c/-night, Mr. Castella," she said, when he
saw them into their cab, an hour or two later, " we
shall be charmed if you will call."

That cab was a great trial to Polly, but with a
little make-believe, it was easy to fancy it had
C-springs and brocaded cushions ; but still, she Alas
not sure that to Mr. Cardella it might make a
difference.

Chapter III.
It was the day after the ball. Major Creyke and
ten or twelve officers, chiefly juniors, were at
luncheon, and there was one guest, the chaplain.

I say, Mr. Brandon," said the major to the
guest, " did you happen to hear the riddle the
colonel asked the Dean last night ? "

No ; what was it ? "

Why are two young ladies, kissing each other,
performing an act of the highest Christian virtue ? '*

Give it up," said the chaplain, at once.

It Alas quite ecclesiastical."

Give it up," he repeated.

Because they are doing unto others as they
would that men should do unto them — men, you
know."

Oh ! the point isn't exactly obscure," laughed the
chaplain ; " Avhat did the Dean say ? "

He bolted."

I should think so."

At that moment a discussion arose at the other
end of the table, almost amounting to a squabble,
in tb'i midst of which one of the youngest officers
rapped^out an ugly word. The major rose at once
and rang the bell.

Mr. Brandon, will you take cherry brandy ?"

Yes, thank you."

So will I. You," looking at the others present,
will have what you like ; and," turning to the
servant, " put it down to Mr. Corner, for using bad
language in Mr. Brandon's presence."

For a moment the subaltern looked a little dismayed,
but since there was no remedy for the
major's fiat but cheerful acquiescence and an avoidance
of evil speaking for the future, he was obliged
to get over his chagrin as best he could.

By-the-bye, Brandon," remarked the major, presently,
" do you know anything of a man called An-tribus
— you've been here longer than we have?"

VOL. II. G

"Lawyer?" the chaplain asked.

Yes I — Ives at ai bio house near the river,
and has a pretty daughter."

Xo, I don't know them personally — they had
not been there very long Avhen you came ; Captain
Kennedy had that house before them."

And you don't know anything about him ? "

Xo, I can't say I do, except that he does a
good deal in the money-lending way. ^Vhy do
you ask ? "

Because they contrived to get to the ball last
night— through Lewis, I suppose ; if I'd known
anything about him, I'd have struck his name
off the list."

He's coming down the square now," put in
Dickson, suddenly. "I'm off!"

So am I," cried the major. " Come up to my
rooms, Brandon, and have a cigar."

In consequence of this, Avhen Mr. Antrobus
arrived at the ante-room it Alas tenantless, and,
having left the regulation amount of paste-boards,
he was obliged to go away, as wise as he went.
Even Eliot Cardella cleared out with the rest.
It was all very well, he argued, to amuse himself
for an hour or two with a pretty girl, but
to entertain the old money-lending father, when
all the other fellows had cleared out at his

approach, was rather more than he felt iiichned
to do. Moreover, he had half-promised the old
woman to call, and, if he saw Mr. Antrobus
then, he could hardly do that. Xot that he
had quite decided to call — he did not know, he
was sure, whether it would be exactly wise— it
would be almost like putting his head iijto the
lion's mouth ; and yet, she was awfully pretty,
there was no denying that.

He went up to his room in a very undecided
frame of mind. He wanted to go and see Polly
what he did not want, Alas the objectionable
father and mother. He wondered, impatiently,
why nice girls need have objectionable belongings,
how much nicer it would be to " shunt "
them, as they do in the States.

He drew a chair to the fire and smoked a
pipe, then he changed his clothes, and sat down
ajjain in a Greater state of indecision than
before. They say that a certain road is paved
with good intentions. Now Eliot Cardella's intentions
were undeniably good — in fact, they were
rather better (in a worldly sense) than good, for
they were cautious ; and 3'et — yet he hesitated a
little longer, and finally succumbed to the voice
of the tempter, and betook himself to call at
the Eiver House. Polly Alas very pretty, and
VOL. II. ■ G 2

Eliot Cardella was particularly susceptible to
feminine charms — as a consequence, four o'clock
found him chatting pleasantly in the drawing-room
at the Eiver House with Mrs. Antrobus
and Polly.

That visit was quickly followed by an invitation
to dinner, which occasioned a little more hesitation
on Cardella's part, and ended by being accepted.

Oh, that dinner party ! It lay like a leaden
weight on Mrs. Hugh's mind for a week ; she
could not get rid of it, night or day — it was
like a lump of indigestible pudding, and much
Averse than a bad conscience. Polly never worried
herself about anything ; she superintended
the decorations of the table and put fresh flowers
in the vases — then she dressed herself carefully
and went down, in good time, looking very
graceful in a gown of pearly-grey silk, finished
at the throat and Wrists with some antique rose-point,
which Mrs. Hugh said had been her grandmother's.
At her throat she had a bunch of large
sweet-smelling purple violets, secured by a tiny
brooch of seed pearls in the form of a leaf, and
in her hair she had several clusters of the same
fragrant blossoms. Polly certainly had some very
good points, she was never impatient, and if she
tried rather too much to model herself after Tennyson's

heroine, who seemed to her to be very haut
ton — " Faultily faultless, icily regular, splendidly
null, dead perfection " — why she never condescended
to anything so vulgar as quarrelling, and
upon all occasions she was very pleasant to look
upon. Some people may think that a very small
virtue, for which Polly deserved no praise, but
men will all agree with me, that it is a very
great matter indeed.

As usual, Mrs. Hugh was late, and only scurried
into the room as the first vehicle rolled up to
the door. Polly, who had been gazing reflectively
into the fire, turned, as Cardella's voice fell upon
her ear, with a pretty pleased smile of welcome
and — well, for once, she was vexed, for there
stood Mrs. Hugh, with her dress well tucked up
about her, displaying a not too clean white petticoat,
the long folds of silk gathered up under
her arms, just for all the world as it was
when she went into the kitchen in the morning
to look after the cuisine. Polly could have shaken
her ; but, since that was impracticable, she interposed
her own slight person and flowing draperies
as much as she could between the Honourable
Eliot and the vast bulk, which she called " mother,"
and at the very first opportunity gave the dressa
vigorous tus.

Do let your dress down, mamma," she said, in a
sharp whisper.

Dear me ! how absent-minded I am," remarked
Mrs. Hugh, bhmdly. " I don't know wdiat I should
do, Polly, if I had not you to look after me."

Which, for Polly, was out of Scylla into Charybdis.
She needn't have troubled herself : Cardella was not
sufficiently interested in Mrs. Hugh to notice her ;
he only saw Polly, and thought she Alas looking
prettier than usual, with that sudden deepening of
the apple-blossom flush on her cheeks, and that shy
uplifting of her blue eyes. And oh ! by Jove !
what a jolly gown she had got on. That jolly
silvery grey, with such lace as his mother often
wore, and those velvety, sweet-smelling violets,
fastened by the little pearl brooch. He did not
know much about dress, but he thought lie looked
very distinguished and quiet.

I was so disappointed not to meet you at the
Daansr}^ last night," he remarked, somewhat awkwardly
f(jr Polly, Who had never been asked to the
Deanery in her life, but fortunately he did not give
her time to reply. " Such a lot of hideous Avomen
there Avere too," he said, resentfully, as if they had
all been asked for his especial annoyance.

Perhaps you are very bad to please," she said,
softly.

Oh ! I know a pretty woman when I see one,"
he returned, coolly. "What lovely violets you have;
I smelt them the moment I entered the room."

The children got them for me," Polly said,
deprecatingly. " We generally have plenty in the
hot-house."

I wish they would give me some," he returned.

You shall have some of these," unfastening her
brooch as she spoke.

I will keep them for ever," he said, in a low voice.

Or throw them out of the cab window," she
laughed, " like the gentleman in ' Sweethearts.' "

I thought he threw them overboard," Cardella
murmured, lazily leaning against the chimney-shelf,
and regarding Polly With the well-satisfied air with
Which all men regard a pretty woman, leaving the
tender passion quite out of the question.

Oh yes, of course ; he threw them overboard
after all the protestations he made, but she — kept
hers."

Xever make protestations myself," he remarked ;
*' awfully bad plan."

I thought you said you would keep those violets
for ever," said Polly, raising her blue eyes for an
instant.

By Jove ! wdiat pretty eyes," thought Cardella ;
then, aloud, " So I shall."

Ob, nonsense ! " the girl laughed, twisting one or
two of the flowers in her slender fingers.

"Don't you believe me ? " throwing a little extra
warmth into this tone, that he might make her lookup
again. A moment later he wished he had not
succeeded ; the full glance of her eyes had disappointed
him. They were pretty in colouring,
but there was no soul looking through those blue
windows ; the face was nearly perfect, for the only
approach to a fault lay in the mouth, and he noticed
nothing beyond the red ripe lips and the even pearly
teeth, but it was quite expressionless : there was no
fun playing about the mouth, there was no awakening
of that fierce fire which lived in his susceptible
heart ; it was an artistic mask — " icily regular,
splendidly null, dead perfection."

"Do you never keep your souvenirs V he asked.

"/? Oh, no!"

For the first time a gleam of expression came into
her face and eyes — a half-quizzical, half-dismayed
look, which made him forget his disappointment, and
think how awfully pretty she was. If her sense of
humour was somewhat latent it was there, and
Cardella was just in the frame of mind to enjoy
calling up an unusual trait in her character, more
than if she had been clever enough to see and
appreciate every little joke that cropped up.

She contrived — quite accidentally, of course — to
pilot her " gentleman " to the seat next to Eliot,
who had taken in Mrs. Hugh, and presently, under
cover of the general chatter and Mrs. Hugh's
benignant attention to her right-hand neighbour,
contrived to inform Polly that he thought her name
remarkably pretty.

Mary ? " she said, inquiringly.

Xo, Polly ! There is something very soft and
sweet-sounding about it, and really, in these fine
days, anything homely and old-fashioned is pretty."

It has the advantage of being both," Polly
said, with a laugh.

It has. Xow ni' mother is called Gladys
Elizabeth • Tudor, but my father always calls
her ' Nancy.' "

I like that," remarked Polly, With great decision.
It was true. If the Countess of Mallinbro'
was called " Nancy," it would create no surprise if
her daughter-in-law was named " Polly." All the
same, she made up her mind that, if she ever
came to be the Honourable Mrs. Eliot Cardella,
she would spare no pains to have the name of
Polly put aside in favour of May.

Practically, Polly finished the Honourable Eliot
off that night, for after dinner she sang — it was
only a simple ballad she chose, and her voice

Alas not a fine one, though she sang expressively.
He had heard the song scores of times : the
great Canadian singer : at amateur concerts ; in
drawing-rooms such as this ; ground out from
barrel-organs, and vet there he was listening toit
again, with all his soul in his eyes and a
strange yearning and fluttering at his heart, such
as Polly's dead perfection by itself could never
have had power to bring there.

What made the assembly shine ?

Robin Adair !
What made the ball so fine ?

Robin was there I
What-when the play was over,
AVhat made my heart so sore,
Oh I it-eras parting with —

Robin Adair.

Music had always been a passion with him : that
dear quaint old ballad conquered him — the earl's
son, and Polly was the daughter of a not too
reputable attorney. What an odd world it is I

Chapter IY.
A FEW weeks had passed ! Two men were talking
in Captain Dickson's room — at least, Eliot Car-della
was talking and Dickson louno-ino; in a chair,
With a pipe in his mouth and clothed in very 
cords and pink, was listening attentively.

And so you've regularly got let in," he remarked
between the puffs at his pipe, when Car-della
had finished what he was saying ; " and ^vhat
are you going to do ? "

Dashed if I know," he said, ruefully.

That'll your father say ? "

Say — he'll tell me to go to the devil, as sure
as fate. You see, Dickson, blood is his hobby. He
Wouldn't care if Cardella and I married girls without
a farthing, so long as their pedigrees where all
right, but "

The daughter of a money-lending country attorney,
with rather a shady reputation into the
bargain," suggested Dickson, "will hardly be likely
to meet with a warm welcome, eh ?"

Just drive him frantic," returned Eliot, promptly.

'Pon my soul, you are an ass," Dickson laughed,
with delightful frankness ; " because, you know, I
warned you from the beginning what it would
lead to."

So you did ; but then I never dreamt of its
coming to this."

But they did. I should exchange into a regiment
in India and cut the whole concern, if I
were you."

Oh ! I couldn't very well do that," Cardella
returned, doubtfully, " what would she think ? "

Oh ! well if you want to marry her — *' Dickson
began.

Why, I like Polly well enough," he said, hesitatingly,
" and, if it was not for the governor, I'd
marry her at once and cut the lot, though I'm
not exactly "

In love with her ? " Dickson suggested.

Yes, just so."

Well, my dear chap, I don't see how I can
help you — I'd go in and make violent love to her
myself, if I thought she would throw you over
for me, but I am sure she would not."

You are a much richer man than I am."

But you've got a handle to your name," rejoined
the other. " No, really, I don't see what
you are to do but go on with it, or get out of
the country and cut the whole concern."

Cardella's coming tomorrow, for a fortnight's
hunting," said Eliot, dismally.

There really seemed to be no loop-hole for
escape. The more Eliot Cardella pondered over
the fix into which he had got himself, the .worse
did his situation appear. He had gone through
the whole family programme : Mrs. Hugh had
attempted — ineffectually, it is true — to embrace
him ; her husband had wrung his hand and pretended
to dash away a few tears at the same

time ; the two younger sisters at once began to
call him Eliot with, what seemed to him, unnecessary
distinctness and vain repetition ; and the
young cub of a brother, who was, he believed,
articled " to his father, had linked his arm in
his future brother-in-law's and walked the whole
length of the High Street with him — after which
he had gone back to barracks in a towering
rage and relieved his mind by making a confident
of Dickson, who could see as far through
a milestone as most men.

And the cream of the whole affair was that
he was not in love with Polly a bit ; he liked
her well enough, and certainly admired her ; but
her belongings — they very nearly maddened him :
what effect they would have upon his father he
was afraid to think — the courtly old earl who had
married the dark-eyed, olive-skinned daughter of a
duke, and who would see no charm in Polly's fresh,
fair, apple-blossom loveliness. Why, he would not
admire Venus herself if a drop of plebian blood
ran in her veins. What would he think of
Polly ?

The following day Viscount Cardella arrived at
Blankhampton, and established himself at the sign
of the " Golden Swan." Between the brothers there
was a striking likeness, but the viscount was larger.

fairer, handsomer than Eliot, and with even more
of the old earl's courtly grace about him, and
decidedly a greater capacity for flirting than his
brother.

As soon as he had asked after home, Eliot
plunged head foremost into the subject just then
uppermost in his thoughts.

I'm going to get married, Cardella," he announced,
abruptly.

Going to get married, are you ? " returned the
viscount, whom for the future we shall call Cardella ;
what a fool you must be," with great cheerfulness.
Is she good looking ? "

Very." Eliot wished everything was as satisfactory
as Polly's looks.

Who is she ?"

Her name is Antrobus."

Antrobus — never met her. Got any money ?
Who's her father ? "

I don't think she'll have much money," Eliot
said, dubiously, " and her father's a lawyer."

"A lawyer'' Cardella exclaimed, all the cheerful
interest vanishing from face and voice. " You mean
a barrister ? "

I mean a lawyer," returned Eliot, firmly.

Good life !— what will the earl say ? "

I daresay he will cut me," Eliot answered, with

a nervous laugh, wliicli lie tried vainly to make
defiant.

And you've fallen in love ? "

Xo, I liavn't. I like her very well, but — oh !
damn it all, Cardella, I've got let in, so I must
take the consequences. I always was the fool of
the family."

Cardella said nothing, but sat looking into the
fire, with a grave face.

There'll be all the more money for you if the
governor cuts me off," Eliot said, bitterly.

Don't suggest anything so horrid, my dear old
chap ; there will be enough for both of us,"
Cardella answered, soothingly. " I was only thinking,
if you really don't care for this girl, it seems a pity
to spoil your whole life. I'll tell you what, you
must take me to see her. Can you take me to
dinner to-night ? "

They told me to take you — like their cheek ! "
he cried, angrily',

Then send a note up at once. I shall know
better what to do when I've seen them."

The result of this was, that Lord Cardella and the
Honourable Eliot went that evening to dine en
famille at the Eiver House. Eliot thought his
brother had taken leave of his senses, for the moment
he beheld Polly he, metaphorically speaking

fell down and worshipped her, which, with the
utter unreasonableness of human nature, he highly
resented. Hang it all, but it was too bad of Car-della
to go poaching on his manor like that. Of
course, if he chose to marry Polly, the earl's
pleasure or displeasure would make but small difference
to him, since the personal property was
nothing in comparison with the entailed estates.
Therefore, when Cardella Avent back to his hotel,
Eliot turned in the direction of the barracks With
a sulky " good-night," at which the viscount laughed
out aloud.

It happened that the next afternoon, when returning
from hunting, he fell in with Dickson, and, after
a little desultory chat, suddenly remarked :

By the way, Dickson, can you tell me anything
about these people my young brother's got mixed
up with ? " — Eliot Alas five-and-twenty.

I don't know them myself," Dickson replied,
but I understand the father's a third-rate attorney,
who does a good deal in the money-lending line."

Ah ! " murmured the viscount, comprehensively.

But Captain Dickson's information made no difference
whatever in his manner towards the family
at the Eiver House. He told Mrs. Hugh that Polly
was a perfect aristocrat, at Which Mrs. Hugh beamed
so intensely that the viscount caught himself Avon-during

what he should do if any part of her skin
gave way.

He assailed Polly on her weakest points. He
from the first refused to call her Polly, as a name
utterly unsuited to her delicate style of beauty : he
invariably called her May I He monopolised her
altogether. Eliot looked sulkily on, whilst Cardella
sauntered about the town with his fiancee, or hung
over her at the piano. His horses stood idle in their
stables, for though he had gone to Blankhampton for
the express purpose of hunting, he spent all his
mornings in the drawing-room at the Eiver House,
tete-astute with Polly, and invariably to the intense
astonishment and surprise of Mrs. Hugh, when he
made his appearance in the dining-room, and begged,
with the courtly grace which had broken a score or
so of hearts, for luncheon.

Polly's manner to Eliot grew colder and colder.
He was all very well, she argued, but only a second
son after all. Lord Cardella was more her style ;
the way he made love — and he made very desperate
love indeed — was so different to Eliot, who had
seized hold of her, and almost crushed her to death.
Lord Cardella was accustomed to lift her hand to his
lips in a manner Polly thought most entrancing.

Of course, to be the Honourable Mrs. Shot Car-della,
would be an enviable position, but the

VOL. II. H

Countess of Mallinbro' — ah ! that was her true
sphere !

And so the days crept on, lengthening as they
passed, and Cardella still angered at Blankhampton.
The breach between the brothers grew wider and
wider, and bets began to pass freely among the
Cuirassiers as to which would come off the victor.
They all thought them both a couple of fools for
their pains, but, of course, they knew their own
business best.

Cardella's devotion to Polly grew more and more
tender, Eliot's face sulkier, and his temper more
uncertain, until, at length, Mr. Antrobus took him
into the library and asked if it was true that his
income depended entirely on his father's caprice?

Quite true," Eliot returned, " except for ten
thousand under my mother's settlement."

Then I think it will be best for the engagement
between you and my daughter to come to an end,"
he said, gravely. " I am not a rich man, and I have
three other children to provide for. It had best end."

I decline to give her up," Eliot answered, hotly,
excepting she writes and tells me she does not care
for me."

I think she will do so," said Mr. Antrobus,
quietly ; " I believe I am doing what is best for the
happiness of you both."

When Eliot got back to barracks, he found his
brother in the ante-room, having, for a wonder, gone
to lunch there, instead of to the Eiver House.
During the meal a note was brought in, addressed
in Polly's well-known telegraphy :

The Hon. Eliot Cardella,

Cuirassiers.

Eliot knead its purport before he opened it. It
ran :

3Iy dear Eliot, —

I think my father's decision is for the best, but I hope ere shall
remain all our lives sincere friends.

Believe me, al-says truly yours,

Mary Antrobus.

That was the end of it. He put the note in his
pocket, and asked Cardella presently to go up to his
room —

I've something to show you."

Cardella, who had resolutely refused to acknowledge
any cloud between his brother and himself,
followed him, and Eliot put the note into his hands
with a laugh and one word — " Superseded."

Look here, Eliot," he said, when he had read it,
*' I have got you out of the most confounded scrape
you ever were in in all your life. I shall go back to
town this afternoon, and I hope you'll be as grateful
as you ought to be, when you've got over this a

VOL. II. H 2

little," at wliicli Eliot Cardella burst into a fit of
hearty, uncontrollable laughter.

The sulks, like the devotion, had been put on, but
though the brothers had been playing at [across
their plan had succeeded.

I will leave the reader to imagine how the family
at the Eiver House felt the next days Avhen
Mrs. Hugh received a card :

Viscount Catella,

P. P. C.

Chapter I.

Most awfully shabby," said Dorothy St. George,
calmly ; " but then, since I have not another, Avhat
am I to do ? I am not a spider, therefore I cannot
evolve a new gown out of my own inner consciousness."


Let me give you a gowan — two gowns," pleaded
Jack Sinclair, flushing a little under the girl's steady
gaze, yet looking very handsome and .soldierly in
the brilliant June sunshine.

My good Jack," returned Miss St. George, quietly,
"have you sufficient money to pay your debts?"

No," he admitted, unwillingly.

Then how can you afibrd to buy me gowns ?
And how can you imagine for one moment that
I should take them, if you could ? "

If you loved me " he began.

My good Jack," said the girl again, gravely,
lifting her azure eyes leisurely to his, " it seems tome
you are a great deal too well assured of the
state of my feelings. Some people, you knoAv, have

a habit of counting their chickens before they are
hatched."

Oh, Dolly, you do love me ! " he cried.

Perhaps, just a little," half indifferently ; " certainly
not enough to let you buy me — clothes''
with a sudden shamed flush at the bare idea of it.

Jack Sinclair sighed impatiently. He had no such
pride himself; but then, to be sure, no cavalry
officers ever have, except they are rank men. He,
that very morning, had shaved himself in Brough-ton's
room, because Boughton had just had his
razors ground ; he had passed on to the next room
to sponge the remains of the lather off his face,
because Boughton was using his sponge and basin
for a like purpose ; he had borrowed a collar-stud
on his Avay back to his own quarters, because his
laundress had sent his shirt home minus a button
at the throat ; and before he finished dressing he
had lent his last clean cotton tie to Dickson, who had
got two days' leave ; he had surrendered his hairbrushes
to Squints, who had walked in for no apparent
reason — perhaps because some one was using
his — and had helped Ponto out of a difficulty by the
loan of a shell jacket. Thus Jack Sinclair, accustomed
to regard his belongings and those of his
brother officers as public property, could not understand
why the suggestion that he should buy his

fiancee a gown — which, goodness knows, she stood
sorely in need of — need bring that shamed flush to
her proud face.

Then how will you do ? " he asked at length,
rather ruefully.

Stay at home," she laughed ; then sang, in a
rich mellow voice,

Stay, stay at home, my heart, and rest.
Home-keeping hearts are happiest ! "

Oh, I daresay !" Jack put in, very ruefully indeed.
But the girl only laughed and sang on :

For those that wander, they know not where,
Are full of trouble and full of care :

To stay at home is best."

But, Dolly, my darling," he interrupted,
"couldn't Mrs. St. George lend you a dress?"

"sirs. St. George," answered Dorothy, regarding
him gravely, yet with laughter in her brilliant eyes,
is possessed of one presentable gown besides the one
you see her in every day."

I'm sure she would lend it to you," cried
Jack.

It is a moire antique'' said Dorothy, as if there
need be nothing more said upon the subject.

Well, what of that ? I remember, the last time
I was at home, my mother was wearing one, a bright
green one it was, with white-pot buttons — she said
they were porcelain, but I knew better."

All ! " remarked Dorothy, without much interest.
Then you'll come to the sports tomorrow,
clarhno- ? "

o

The moire," returned Dorothy, " is of the most
startling rose-colour you ever saw. Why, Jack, all
the women would be laughing at us."

Let them," he rejoined, fiercely ; " who cares ?"

I do, for one. Xo, Jack : some day, when weare
rich, I will go to the sports ; and 111 give a cup,
and you shall run for it."

I don't see why" 3'ou can't come in the gown
you've got on," he grumbled, " it looks awfully
jolly ;" but, all the same, he was very Avell aware
that the garment in question was very, very shabby ;
it was so entirely out of keeping with its wearer.
Jack thought, as he watched her that lovely June
day, that he had never seen a more perfect picture
than she made as she sat upon the river's bank, the
willows and the turf making a background against
which her radiant loveliness shone out more like a
o-em in a dark setting than anvthino- else he could
think of. She had taken off her hat, and the sunshine
streamed down upon her golden head, giving
the heavy braids the appearance of a diadem.
Jack wished passionately that he could have given
her a crown of rubies and diamonds ; and yet he
knew that no old would ever become her as did

those imperial coils of lustrous hair, no sapphires
could ever equal the beauty of her azure eyes.

And yet she was so very, very shabby ; her brown
stuff gown was positively threadbare — " bright as a
sixpence," she said. One little foot was visible
beneath the frill of her gown, and an inch or two
of a slender ankle : they, the foot and the ankle,
were all right. Jack had admired them dozens of
times ; but the boot which covered the foot, oh, it
made him absolutely shiver ! — seven-and-sixpence a
pair, with square toes that seemed to be of an
inquiring turn ! Ugh ! Jack looked from them to
his own patent leather and canvass boots at thirty-live
shillings a pair, and thought of the dozen or two
of others which stood all in a neat row in the lowest
compartment of his cupboard, and he had the grace
to feel ashamed of himself. If Dorothy St. George
could case her little slender feet in such boots as
those and keep out of debt, why need he, a great
hulking brute, with feet like potatoes, have a boot-maker's
bill as loner as his arm ?

o

He looked, too, at her little hands folded idly
before her, such pretty hands, with pink-tinted filbert
nails ; then his eyes fell upon a certain mark along
the forefinger of the one which lay uppermost, and,
bending down, he kissed it as if he would fain kiss
that disfiguring seam away. Oh, why shoidd she

have to work so hard, whilst his sisters, not half so
fau dawdled their time away, and gave dresses to.
their maid such as Dorothy could never afford to
buy ? Oh, why should it be ? A flush mounted to the
young man's brow, and his eyes sank before the
glory of hers : the question Alas easy to answer.
He had " sown the wind " in a long course of reckless
extravagance, in the raising of his father's just
auger ; now he was " reaping the whirlwind " in
banishment from home, and in the pain of knowing
that between Dorothy St. George and him lay a
long array of debts which he had no money to
pay.

And there are people who say our sins do not find
us out in this world !

Oh, my darling ! " he cried, with a sudden burst
of passion, " how I will make up to you for all this
some day ! "

Some day," she repeated, wistfully ; " if, by the
time you come into your kingdom, you have not
repented, Jack ! "

"Repented! ^yhy?"

You will be rich, I still poor."

Supposing I remained always poor and you
became very rich, would ydu desert me, Dolly?"

I cannot say, I am sure," she laughed. " I have
always been so awfully poor, you see, that if I Avere

suddenly lifted up in the world I might tiptilt my
nose even at you."

Ah, you don't mean that," he said, coolly.

"there's many a true word spoken in jest'" she
quoted, gravely.

Then, thank God, there is no chance of it ! " he
cried, vehemently.

No, indeed," with a smile, half bitter, half sad.
Do you know. Jack, that 1 don't know who I am ?
I never shall know it."

Yes, yes ; you told me. Don't talk about it."

But I must talk about it. I'll tell you now,"
she answered. " To begin at the beginning, I must
tell you my mother's name was Meredith. At sixteen
she was left to the care of her uncle, a clergyman
in North Wales. Her father also had been a
clergyman. She had not been many weeks at 
before she met my father, who was staying in
the neighbourhood for the trout-fishing. He fell in
love with her and married her ; my great-uncle married
them himself. After the marriage they went
abroad ; and one day it came out quite by chance
that he had been married under a false name —
George St. George. He assured her that the
legality of the marriage was certain. He told her
also that his reason for deceiving her was because
his uncle, who had very large unentailed estates, had

arranged a marriage for him ; and if he heard anything
of my mother, would probably cut him off
with but a very small property. My mother never
troubled herself about it ; she loved him, and she
had perfect faith in him, and so a few months passed
over. He seems, although quite young, being only
seven-and-twenty at the time of the marriage, to
have had a most passionate and unforgiving temper,
as my mother found to her cost — and mine ; for one
day she angered him so much that he left her. I
fancy she had been in a passion herself, and had
cried out that she no longer loved him. Whatever
it was, he never forgot it or forgave it. ' You
shall never see me again,' he told her ; ' and you
.^liall never know echo you are.' From that day to
this she has never seen him. For anything we know
to the contrary, he may have been a chimney
sweeper. Mother went back to Llangwylt, and I
was born there ; and when her uncle died six years
ago we came here, to starve upon seventy pounds a
year," she broke ofi', bitterly.

Did she never try to find him out ? "
Uncle Meredith wished to do so but mother
was too proud."

What a strange story I" Jack said, thoughtfully;
'• and, oh, by Jove ! what a beastly temper he must
have had!"

Ah ! that's where mine comes from," rejoined
Dorothy, calmly. "Who's that. Jack?" as a boat
passed them, a graceful outrigger, with a man in
white flannels, who came as near to the bank as he
could venture, evidently to stare at her, and who,
after a salutation to Jack, sculled away, and was out
of sight in no time.

That, my daring, is the handsomest man in the
service," Jack answered. " We call him the ."


Chapter II.

The Lady-Killer-in-Chief had changed his flannels for
his ordinary clothes — light grey trousers, and a coat
of grey velveteen. He certainly, as he sauntered
doAvn the High Street at Blankhampton, merited the
homage which was paid to his personal appearance
when his brother officers spoke of him as the handsomest
man in the service. Time only fault in his
face was its extreme coldness : cold classic features ;
cold blonde hair, irreproachably parted down the
middle, and brushed straight away behind his ears
without a hair being out of place ; cold hazel eyes,
large and beautiful in themselves ; and a cold smile,

like the flickering of a feeble winter sun over snow-topped
mountains. An utterly cold manner too —
which to women seemed irresistible — and perhaps the
most cutting caustic wit that had ever made itself
felt in the mess-room of the BLankhampton Barracks.
Swaggering leisurely down the High Street he met
with Dickson, who, as a matter of course, stopped.

Where have you been ? "

I've been for a pull. The river's awfully jolly
to-day, and, by-the-bye, Dickson" — plunging at
once into the subject uppermost in his thoughts —
*' can you tell me Who that girl is Sinclair goes
about with — tall girl with golden hair ? "

"•I don't know her name. I believe Sinclair's
going to marry her."

Going to marry her ! Ah ! is it settled ? "

I really don't know. She's a very handsome
girl," remarked Dickson, carelessly.

Uncommonly," Montagu replied, with what, for
him, was great warmth. " And so Sinclair's serious ? "

Oh, quite so ! " adding with a laugh, " has she
taken ' you rather ? Xo use ; she's awfully in
love with Sinclair."

Pooh ! I'll cut him out in a week," cried Montagu,
confidently.

I don't believe she'll look at you."

Won't she ? Well, you'll see ;" and then the

two men parted, and went their respective ways,
neither of them in the least aware that the subject
of their conversation was just Within the door of
the shop behind them, and had heard their whole
conversation, with proud scorn filling her violet
eyes, and utter contempt on her imperious mouth.

Bryan Montagu did not find the task he had set
himself altogether easy to accomplish, for he could
not succeed in making a start. In the first place
he did not know dio she was, nor where she
lived ; and since he never met her anywhere he
could not obtain an introduction. However, at
last, he happened to meet her with Sinclair in a
shop, and asked boldly to be introduced.

bliss St. George was very gracious to him. She
smiled so enchantingly that Jack straightway went
ofl' into a towering rage and scolded her all the
way home, at which she laughed more heartily
than he had ever heard her laugh in his life. To
add to his wrath, Montagu informed him during
dinner that evening that Miss St. George was
really very decent-looking ; " and I believe I
passed you on the river one day last week," he
ended.

Yes, and you turned and stared at her as if
she'd been some little milliner-girl," Jack returned,
sulkily.

The penalty of beauty, my dear chap," hiughecl
Montagu, lightly. " Now I assure you I'm so
accustomed to be ogled that I should feel quite
uncomfortable with people who didn't admire me."

Miss St. George didn't admire you, at all
events," retorted Jack, with a short laugh ; " for
she said she never saw such a ' screw ' in her
life."

At which Bryan Montagu, who was really a
very pretty oar, though, perhaps, with a slight
tendency to " screw," was, for once, taken aback ;
and registered an inward vow that before many
days were over he Avould pay Miss St. George outwith
interest for that unflattering remark. And
pay her out — how ? As he had made many another
girl suffer before — broken-hearted for the cold hazel
eyes which for her had been wont to have no
coldness in their clear depths ; for the straight-featured
classic face which had made itself her
heaven ; for the sound of the smooth persuasive
voice which would fall upon her ears never more,
or, if perchance it did so, fraught only with
slighting indifference, more hard to bear than
silence. That was the plan Mr. Bryan Montagu
marked out as Miss St. George's punishment.

Accordingly, the following afternoon, instead of
betaking himself to the club, or his more favourite

river, he turned in the direction of the village in
which Mrs. St. George's little house was ; and, as
hick would have it, just as he passed the Cornerstone's
house he saw Miss St. George emerge from
the gate of her cottage, and turn down the lane
leading to the river. He followed instantly, and
reached her just as she was about to pass
through the little gate which opened into the
Eiver Fields.

Mr. Montagu lifted his hat with his most fascinating
smile. Miss St. George blushed becomingly,
and half drooped her splendid eyes. Mr.
Montagu thought he had never before beheld so
lovely a face. Miss St. George thought — well, she
looked as if she found herself in Arcadia.

You are going for a walk ? " he asked.

Well, no. I am going to sit by the edge of
the river and read," she replied.

May I come with jow and talk instead ? " he
asked, imploringly.

Oh yes, if you like," she replied, calmly, thinking
what a lucky thing it was that Jack was
safely out of the road, being on duty that day.

Any one who could have heard their conversation
that afternoon must have laughed, even if it
had been Jack Sinclair himself; they were so
awfully polite, to begin with ; each seemed to be

VOL. II. I

trying low fascinating lie or lie could be ; each
seemed so desperately anxious to make the other
pleased. They got along like a house on hire,
which is, as every one knows, a tolerably rapid
rate. In fact, they got on so well that Mr.
Montagu had already advanced as far as personal
compliments ere Miss St. George found out she
really must be going home, with, an emphasis on
the '• must," by which she evidently intended to
convey to him the fact that only stern necessity
compelled her to move at all. * But they got still
further before they reached the gate of Mrs. St.
George's cottage ; for, after a little circumlocution,
she promised to meet him at the same time and
place the following afternoon. All the same, she
raised but very little objection before she consented,
and Mr. Montagu felt he had never come
across a cherry so ripe and ready to fall into his
mouth.

Hollo, Sinclair ! "' he called out to Jack, whom
he met in the square. " Down in the mouth, eh ?
Ah, it's an awful nuisance not hoeing able to get
out of the square, isn't it ? Particularly when
there's a nice young woman half-a-mile ofi' waiting
for you. And she did look so nice this afternoon."


The hot anger leapt into Jack Sinclair's grey

eyes, but his heart grew cold as lead within him,
for he had never felt very sure of Dorothy ; and
if ]montagu made up his mind to go in for her,
he knew well enough that he would spare no
pains to accomplish the desirable attainment or
putting his (Jack's, that is) nose out of joint.

How do you know ? " he growled.

Because she has been with me for the last
three hours," ]montagu returned, coolly.

I don't believe it ! " poor Jack thundered ;
but all the same he felt from the other's manner
that it was true.

Just as you like, of course, my dear chap,"
said Montagu, carelessly ; " but go along the path
leading through the Eiver Fields tomorrow afternoon
between three and four, and you will see
for yourself."

Sinclair turned away without answering, for Montagu's
quiet manner had left him without hope.
Of course the following afternoon he went, and
saw for himself that his comrade had spoken
truly. There, just visible about the river's bank,
was Dorothy's hatless golden head, and in suspicious
nearness to it Montagu's sleek blonde
caput ; and whilst he stood there watching and
half hidden by the hedge, her merry laugh rang
out upon the still summer air in a peal which

VOL. II. I 2

re-echoed in Jack's heart like the death-knell of
all his dearest hopes. Oh, he was reaping the
whirlwind, and no mistake about it !

Now, did you do as I advised ? " Montagu
asked him at mess that night, in a tone of sneering
triumph. " Are you convinced ? "

Hang you ! " cried poor Jack, passionately.

By no means," returned Montagu, calmly, going
on with his dinner as if that was the chief object
of his existence. " You shouldn't allow yourself
to fly into such transports of rage, my dear chap ;
it's not good form, to begin with ; it's bad for the
digestion — bad every way. You're a deuced good
fellow, Sinclair ; but you go into everything with
such terrible earnestness. It spoils you, my dear
fellow ; and it will be getting you into trouble one
of these days, take my word for it."

But during the weeks which followed Jack's
rage had time enough to cool. As far as Dorothy
was concerned, he had resigned in favour of Bryan
Montagu, Who had contrived to get the entree to
the house, and who pretty nearly lived there.
Twice Dorothy had written to know why he kept
away, and to ask him to come ; and both times
he had sent a formal reply, declining the invitation.
He scarcely went outside the barracks, and
when he did so, went between six and seven — a

time when he knew Dorothy was very unlikely
to be out.

At last, however, he was one day compelled to
go into the town early in the afternoon ; and about
half-way down the High Street he saw Dorothy and
Montagu coming on the same side of the street.
They were close upon him before he perceived them,
but he did not hesitate a moment. He turned
sharply to the right, and crossed over to the other
side without so much as a look, and without any
recognition whatever. Dorothy turned very white,
but she kept a brave front to the world, and laughed
it off as usual. Montagu tackled Jack upon the
subject that evening.

Xow, I tell you what it is, Sinclair," he said,
leaning back in his chair, and surveying Jack with
much amusement in his eyes, " your behaviour is
what / call uncommonly shabby. Blow-hot, blow-cold,
you know."

Mind your own business," returned Jack, sulkily.

Ah, conscience touching you up a bit, eh ?
Well, it's what you must expect, whilst you behave
as you've done lately. Oh, Sinclair, you've a great
deal to answer for ! you've brought desolation into
a once happy home, grief to a once happy heart.
Of course, it's right and proper that you should
pay attention to the fair sex ; their youth and

beauty demand it ; the honour of your regiment
requires it ; but you should not concentrate your
attentions, mj dear chap— you should not concentrate
: they should be more general and less
marked."

But Jack was as sulky as a bear with a sore head,
and would have no argument on the subject, so
Montagu was obliged to have it all to himself.
Xot that that had any effect on his tongue ; he never
let Jack rest a moment.

Ah, you may well look so blue," he would cry,
With such a conscience as you must have — enough
to give you the blue devils for the rest of your life !
Think of the young affections you have blighted,
think of the inseparable injury your heartless conduct
has wrought, think of the gay hearth now made
desolate, the light heart which' will be light no
more. Look at him, gentlemen " — appealing, after
the manner of a counsel in a court of justice, to the
crrinnino- officers round about — " look at the depraved
individual who stands before you, the male
flirt. Ah, Avell well, Sinclair, of all my sins, and
they are many, I do not carry on my conscience the
shameful weight of young fresh affections trifled
with, won, and thrown aside."

Poor Jack ! he met Dorothy often enough nov.
Dorothy always alone, With no Bryan Montagu in

attendance, but Avitli, oh, such a blanched face, such
a world of woe in the azure eyes, that if Jack had
Ravished for revenge there it was. But Jack wished
for nothing of the kind. The sight of his false
love's white face only made him miserable, so utterly
miserable that he could have fallen down upon his
knees in the very street, and prayed her to try and
look happier ; he could have choked the very life
out of Montagu as he sat sneering and jibing at
the mess-table, only that would not give him back
to Dorothy, or take away that piteous woe from her
face. And then Montagu took his long leave, and
Dorothy grew whiter and whiter, until at length he
missed her altogether, and feared she must be ill.
Once or twice he felt half inclined to ignore the
past and go and see her, but the remembrance that
she was fretting for Montagu kept him back ; she
Avanteded Montagu, and Jack Sinclair would be of no
use ; and so when his turn came for long leave he
went away, sore at heart as was ever Dorothy St.
George, with her's breaking for love of the man who
bore the nick-name of the Lady-Killer-in-Chief.

Chapter III.
The Cuirassiers had left Blankliampton for Colchester,
en route for India, and Dorothy St. George
had seen nothing more of her two lovers since the day
that Jack Sinclair Avent away on long leave. True,
Bryan Montagu had called twice ; but Dorothy
had not seen him, being indisposed — otherwise
lying on her bed in the exhaustion which usually
comes after violent weeping. Mr. Montagu had
stayed half an hour each time, talking serenely with
Mrs. St. George, and left, with graceful regrets that
Miss St George was not well enough to see him ; and
that had been all, that was the end. And yet she
could not forget the past ; she was not allowed to go
out of the house, for a terrible cough had taken
hold of her ; she could not rest anywhere : she
thought herself that she was going mad. As the
year drew to a close, and the day fixed for the
embarkation of the regiment drew near, she persuaded
her mother to take a daily paper, that she
might see the latest, and indeed last, intelligence of
them. She was not hard to persuade, for a great
dread had come over her, lest her child, who was
all she had in the world, should be taken from her ;
and so for a time the paper was left at the house

daily. The ne^vs about the Cuirassiers was but
scanty, and Dorothy used to fling the paper down
and sigh piteously each day, hoping that the next
would tell more. And at last the sight of their own
name caught her eye, and she for the first time
looked at the paper with an interest unconnected
with the Eoyal Regiment of Cuirassiers.

If this should meet the eye of Florence Meredith-who in September,
l8 — , was married in the parish church of Llangwylt, North Wales, l>y the
Rev. David Meredith, to George St. George, gentleman, she is requested to
communicate with Messrs. Owen, Lucas, anil Co., Gray"s-inn-road, London,
when she will hear of something to her advantage.

Dorothy read it aloud to her mother.

"What does it mean?" she cried, thinking it
mio;ht have something to do with — with —

It is to say your father is dead," Mrs. St. George
replied, an ashen hue overspreading her face.

And you will Avrite ? "

At once," she said, in a trembling voice. " If
he has relented, things may be very different
for us."

Two days passed by, and no reply came. Dorothy
was wildly curious, fretfully impatient, and, when on
the second morning the postman passed the house,
intensely disappointed.

"I believe it is a hoax," she cried.

But it was not so. Towards noon an imperative
knock resounded through the house, and the
woman who had gone every day to help since

Dorothy's illness ushered into the tiny sitting-room
a small grave gentleman, clad in black, and with
an irreproachable white neckcloth.

Mrs. St. George?" he said, with a grave bow.

Yes," she answered, rather faintly. " Are
you — — "

"My name is Lucas. May I ask if this is your
daughter ? "

"That is Miss St. George," she answered,
haughtily : the words " your daughter " rather
angered her.

•• Pardon me," said the little old gentleman,
politely, '• this lady," taking Dorothy's hand and
leading her a step forward, " is the Countess of
Beaurivage. You are now the countess dowager ;"
at which theatrically-told piece of news Dorothy
burst out laughing, and her mother sat down
and quietly fainted away.

Xot only had great honour come upon them,
but also great Wealth. The lately deceased earl
had managed, shortly before his death, to pick
a violent quarrel wit-h the heir-presumptive, and
to annoy him had left a will giving an exact
account of his marriage and what had taken
place since, and leaving every farthing he possessed
to his daughter ; his wife he left unnoticed ;
but then, as Dorothy said, it didn't much matter.

And so the sailing of the Crocodile passed apparently
out of mind.

The romantic story of the Earl of Beanrivage's
marriage and the succession of the beautiful young
girl to the title was naturally enough wafted into
all the papers. Those containing it were handed onboard
the Crocodile at Malta, and read almost simultaneously
by the two men who had known Dorothy
St. George most intimately in her days of poverty.

■• Think what you've missed, Sinclair," drawled
Montagu ; '• who would have thought of little St.
George turning; out a countess in her own right ?
By Jove I it almost equals a novel?"

'• I suppose you'll find it worth while to go
back and marry her now?" said Jack, bitterly.

Pooh ! Xot I ! I amused myself with her ;

but as for marrying " He did not finish the

sentence, for Jack few at him like a tiger, and
flung him head-foremost down the companion
ladder ; whence Mr. Bryan Montagu was picked
up extensively bruised, and very careful to give
Jack as wide a berth as Alas compatible with the
capabilities of the ship,

Curse you ! " Jack shouted after him. " I
don't believe she would have you at any price ! "
And yet it puzzled him to guess why Dorothy
had acted as she did.

One week the regiment remained after landing,
at a place called Deolalee ; and when they went
forward to Unapore, they marched without
Mr. Bryan Montagu, who returned to England by
the next steamer. He had seen enough of India
during these seven days, he said ; but Jack
Sinclair always felt, with a thrill of satisfaction,
that he had something to do with his return. He
had not forgotten the time, not far distant, when
Bryan Montagu had talked of the delights of
India with what was nothing short of rapture.

Chapter IY.
Three years passed away before Jack Sinclair
returned to his native shores. He did so then
because he had come into his inheritance ; for
his father had gone into that higher region
where such things as earthly riches and troubles
have no place. But he died, blessing Jack to
the last ; and Jack had been sent for, reaching
his home, alas, too late.

And so he was no longer Jack Sinclair the
dragoon, troubled with numerous debts and other
difficulties, but Sinclair of Cleve, the owner of a
good estate, the head of a good county family.

It was perfectly astonishing how nice every one
seemed to find him. The self-same people who had
looked very much askance at " that dreadfully
Avild fellow, Jack Sinclair," found out that, after
all, young men will be young men, and that
wild-oats are best sown. Some ladies even went
so far as to affirm that the wildest young men
make the best husbands. Those were ladies with
marriageable daughters.

But they angled and baited their traps for
him in vain. Jack would have none of them.
His mother remained the undisturbed mistress of
Cleve, and his sisters declared he must have left
his heart in India.

Jack said, "Exactly so;" and then they wondered
why he hadn't married her ? Effie suggested
that perhaps she was married already ; but the
more strong-minded Laura scouted that idea
altogether. She was sure Jack would not be
such a fool as that. No, depend upon it, Jack
did not feel altogether satisfied about her. Perhaps
her family was not to his liking. That the lady
might be unwilling never entered their heads.
Was not Jack " Sinclair of Cleve," with seven
thousand a year?

However, their conjectures brought them no
nearer to the truth, since Jack turned a deaf

ear to all their hints, and invariably answered
them with the same word. " Exactly."

You ought to marry"' Laura told him one
day.

Exactly," said Jack, easily.

Then why don't you ? " she asked. " I'm
sure you're in love."

Exactly."

To say the least of it, the answer was discouraging.


However, in love or out of it. Jack did not
change his condition. He went about in the
character of an eligible bachelor, and seemed to
find the position a very pleasant one ; at least,
he certainly made no attempt to alter it. He
had returned from India in the summer, and
during the autumn and Winter seemed as if he
was trying to make up for the society he had
missed during his sojourn in the East. The
family at Cleve saw but little of him until
Christmas, when he remained at home a whole
fortnight. At the end of that time he went
northwards to pay a long-promised visit at the
house of a man who had been in the Cuirassiers
when he first joined the regiment. He had a long
and cold journey, arriving about an hour before
dinner. Major Holrovd went out to the door to

meet him, with a thousand apologies for not
having been at the station, three miles away.

The fact Alas, my bailiff came in just as I
Aras starting ; and as his business "^as urgent —
roof of a cottage tumbled in, worse luck ! — why,
I was obliged to go round and make some arrangements
for the family until it can be attended
to," he explained.

It really did not matter," Jack answered.
How is Mrs. Holroyd ? Oh, there you are ! "
as he followed his host into the inner hall.
How are you ? And how's our old friend,
Ethel ? "

Grown a monster," ^Ii's. Holroyd laughed.
You'll see her presently, no doubt. You'll have
a cup of tea. Captain Sinclair? I remember your
old weakness for it. I think you must know
every one here, excepting perhaps Lady Beau-ravage."


Jack turned from a young lady who was greeting
him effusively with a great start. Yes, there
she was ! The one love of his life. Xo longer
pale, no longer with that look of hunted pain
in her great azure eyes ; but calm, smiling, self-possessed
; and sitting near to her was Bryan
Montagu. Jack determined, as he held out his
hand with a grave bow, that' his visit at Lark's

Nest would be cut short on the following day by
a plea of " urgent private affairs."

Then you do know her ? " Mrs. Holroyd cried,
seeing the friendly, yet half-distant salutation.

I used to know Captain Sinclair," answered
Ladj^ Beaurivage, distinctly, " very well indeed ;
but, for some reason or other, he cut me."

Dead as a door-nail," Montagu affirmed.

I cannot believe that," cried Mrs. Holroyd,
emphatically.

It is quite true," answered Lady Beaurivage,
calmly ; " ask him if it is not so."

I won't ask you. Captain Sinclair, because I have
too much faith in you to believe it," said the hostess.

Unfortunately it is perfectly true," Jack returned,
gravely.

Why?" some one asked, thoughtlessly.

Why ? " he repeated. " Oh ! you must get
Lady Beaurivage to tell you that ! " at which the
young countess blushed so vividly crimson that
every one laughed ; and Mrs. Holroyd, to spare
her further confusion, made a move, and carried
her off to dress.

'• Of course there's no truth in all that nonsense
about your cutting her?" Major Holroyd asked,
when he and Jack were left in possession of the
hall.

Oh yes, it's true enough," Jack answered, bitterly.
*' If I'd known she was staying here, I shouldn't have
come, and as it is, I think I lead better leave you tomorrow."


But what on earth lias she done ? "

It was just this way : Lady Beaurivage was
engaged to me, and jilted me — for Montagu.
That's the whole story, Ilolroyd, and the less I
see of her for the future, the better."

"Then why doesn't she marry Montagu?"

Sure I don't know," Jack returned, forlornly.

"Because," Major Holroyd continued, "he has
l)een running after her for three years, to my
certain knowledge. He worships the very ground
she walks on, and she always .^eeim as if she
detests him. To be sure, one never can tell what a
woman is up to," he ended ; " but, at all events,
Jack, I don't see that they need drive you
away from us ; you've done nothing to be ashamed
of."

Xo, exactly," Jack answered.

Then you'll stay ? "

Yes, I'll stay," holding out his hand and griping
his friend's hard, a display of feeling of which
he repented instantly, and marched off upstairs,
Ravishing he hadn't made such a fool of himself.
All the same. Major Ilolroyd, standing staring

VOL. II. K

reflectively into the fire, did not consider he had
made a fool of himself at all.

Queer concern that," he muttered. " 111 keep
an eye upon them"'

So he did ; but he learnt remarkably little. The
intercourse between Lady Beaurivage and Mr. Montagu
was exactly as it had been aforetime — abject
worship on his part, persistent snubbing on hers.
Jack Sinclair kept aloof from both of them, and
spent most of his time with small Ethel, a child often,
who had been a great pet of his in the old
da^^s, before he fell in hn^e with Dorothy St. George,
otherwise Lady Beaurivage — and time slipped onlie

came in one afternoon after a long day's hunting,
tired and wet, having missed all the others and
returned alone. Just as he reached the hall he
saw Lady Beaurivage, with three of the children
clinging about her, coming down the stairs ; and
as he never met her, if by any chance he could
possibly avoid her, he slipped into the library,
thinking; they would be ejoino- on to the drawings
A moment later, however, the door of the
library opened, and the four, not seeing the red-coated
figure in one of the deep window-seats
entered, and went to the other end of the room,
where was the fire-place. His first impulse was to
o-et up and ^o away, but he could not do that

without speaking to Dorothy, and if he did so,
Ethel would instantly entreat him to stay ; therefore
he remained where he was, almost hidden by
the curtain, and listened patiently while Dorothy
related a long fairy tale.

And then they were married, and lived happily
ever after," said the soft voice, tenderly, bringing
the story to an abrupt termination.

"Well, and what then?" Dick asked, eagerly;
"what then, Dolly?"

Oh ! nothing more than that," she answered,
with a soft laugh : " what more would you
have?"

People are always happy when they get married,"
put in Ethel, wisely.

"Who told you that ?" Dorothy laughed.

"Captain Sinclair said so, because this morning
I told him Jinks was going to be married, and
he said, ' Happy Jinks ! ' Would you like to be
married, Dolly "

It would quite depend," Dorothy said, guardedly.

"If it was Mr. Montagu?" Ethel suggested.

Oh no, not at all ! " very emphatically.

If it was Captain Sinclair ? He's very nice, you
know, Dolly."

Is he ? "

I like Captain Sinclair best of any one I know,"

VOL. II. K 2

Ethel returned, critically ; '• and he's got the
prettiest dressing-case I ever saw. And he's going
to buy me a Avatch and chain when he goes back to
town — a real one, you know ; so, Dick, you may
have the old one mother's keeping for me. I say,
Dolly, if it Alas Captain Sinclair?"

Captain Sinclair would not have me," said Lady
Beaurivage, with what sounded to Jack like a
sigh.
"I'll ask him, if you like," Ethel cried, obligingly.

Xo, thank you," With a genuine laugh.

Tell us another story, Doll', do," put in Jim, imploringly.


Do you know that the bell has rung for the
nursery tea?" Lady Beaurivage asked, "and that
you were promised some honey ? "

"I forgot. Come, Dick, Ethel, let us be off;"
and away the three youngsters scampered, leaving
the literary to the other two occupants.

And so they got married and lived happily ever
after," said one of them, moving forward into the
firelight.

Lady Beaurivage started violently, and jumped
up from her seat.

"I did not know you Avere there," she exclaimed,
confusedly, Avondering anxiously if he had
heard Avhat Ethel said about himself.

"My little friend, Ethel." he said, coolly, " asked
you if you would like to marry Montagu, and
you said, ' Oh no, not at all I " If it is not too impertinent,
may I ask Why you did not give the same
reply when she asked you another question ? "

Lady Beaurivage remained silent, and Jack continued
:

AVould not the same reply have done ? And
how is it you have not married Montagu ? "

Rush ! " cried Lady Beaurivao-e, without much
dignity, but With a very large amount of expression,
at which Jack laughed out aloud. It might
be that the laugh gave her courage, but certain
it is that she put out her two pretty hands with
an imploring gesture, and faltered, " Don't be cross
with me any more, Jack ! "' She seemed to have
parted With her dignity altogether.

A heart of adamant must have melted before
those azure eyes shining through a mist of tears ;
and Jack's heart was not of an adamantine quality,
so far as Dorothy was concerned ; and so somehow
his arms found their way round lier, and the
golden head was pillowed on his breast.

What did you do it for ? " he asked after a
while, without much regard for grammar.

And then she told him of the conversation she
overheard, and how she lead determined to pay

the Lady-Killer out in his own coin, never considering
that Jack should object.

"And I thought afterwards," she stammered,
*' that perhaps you only wanted an excuse to get
out of it."

Oh, my daring ! " Jack cried, reproachfully.

And so they were married, and lived happily
ever afterwards.

"Fools climb to fall: fond hopes, like seemed doves for-nant of better
light, mount, till they end their flight with falling"' — •/. Reading.

When Bob Sabretasclie was a youngster old Sabre-taste
pere was frequently asked a question, to which
he always made Bob reply — this was the question:

And what are you going to make of Bob ? "

The major invariably passed the question on to
head-quarters. "Bob! Avliat are you going to be?"

A soldier," was Bob's prompt reply.

And what branch of the service are you going
into, pray ? " lie would further question, with many
signs of suppressed delight on his sun-burnt face.

'swell — I won't be a dirty mud-crusher" — only
five-year-old Bob pronounced it crushed.

Xow, sir," or " Xow, madam," as the case might
be, the major would cry, with honest pride, " there's
a proof for you that ' what's bred in the bone will
come out in the flesh.' "

You need not be vulgar, major," put in Mrs.
Sabretasche, with quiet severity. Mrs. Sabretasche
was a large, fair, placid Avoman, possessed of
ver' decided ideas as to right and wrong, but

Avithout sufficient energy of mind or body to do
more than utter a feeble protest against the latter,
Avhile she did nothing at all to further the cause
of the former. She folded her large white hands,
lifted her expressionless blue eyes to her laughing
husband, and remarked quietly — as if lie was saying
How fine a day it is " —

"You need not be vulgar, major."

*' Pooh ! nonsense, Maria, my dear — nonsense !
The lad's vocation in life is chosen — it was born
with him. Bless you — he is but just five years old."

Six next month," interposed the wife of his
bosom, indifferently.

"Well, nearly six then — what matter does it
make ? lie's a mere baby still ; and," turning to
his visitor triumphantly, " I assure you he runs up
his ' ticks ' in the village as regularly as if he
were five-and-twenty."

"And who taught him that, I should like to
know P " asked Mrs. Sabretasche, with something
like warmth. " lie ought to have been whipped."

Pooh ! nonsense, my dear. I tell you ' what's
bred in the bone,' etc. It's born with the lad —
born in him. He's a regular dragoon in miniature
at five years old — well, nearly six, then — that is
five, isn't it? A clever little chap he is, though
I sav it, that shouldn't. Bob ! "

"Ya-hath," returned the youngster, in a drawling
voice, which sounded delightfully absurd on his
juvenile lisping tongue.

'• What do you say when you don't want to goto
bed ? Hey ? What a — what a — "

D — d bore," finished the baby, in a tone of
quiet indifference, which showed he Alas ignorant
of the signification of the words. Then, interrupting
his father's proud noisy mirth, " I say, father,,
mother took me to church to-day and I saw — "
dropping his voice and speaking very impressively
^" I six\v—tlie JJeviir'

Eh ! Ijless my soul — what I " exclaimed the
major, jumping almost out of his chair.

Xow you see the result of your teaching,"
put in Mrs. Sabretasche, in a tone of desperate
resignation ; '• it was old Sir George's monument
that we went in to see.'

"■Ha! ha I ha!" laughed the major, uproariously,
the boy's not so far out of it, after all ! Old
George Leroy Alas as nearly akin to the old gentleman
as human beings ever go. Bless the lad,,
he's a real Sabretasche — a chip of the old block ;
bless me, and only five years old."

"And father," Bol) continued, climbing on to
the majors knee and sitting with one hand squared
on his hip, like a dragoon on horseback, " Tom

Leslie put his tongue out at me this morning and
said I was a molly-coddle. I'm not a molly-coddle,
now am I?"

That depends upon what you said to him," answered
the major, gravely.

"Well," said small Bob, with a long sigh, "I
said I might be a molly-coddle, Jut if he called
me so again, I'd just punch his head."

"Quite right too," remarked the* major, with
infinite satisfaction, and looking as stern as his
pride and laughter would permit.

Such a volley of abuse Bob poured out," complained
Mrs. Sabretasche ; " I Avould have given
him a good whipping, only, it's no use beating
the child for your fault — and it is your fault, major."

"Xow look here, Maria," said the major, with
much decision, "a soldier's one thing and a
]parson's another. If you wished for a parson, you
should have married a parson ; but you didn't, you
married a Sabretasche, of whom you must just
make the best, and, what is more, you must not
grumbles my boy takes after me, it's only natural
that he should. The Sabretasches have always
been soldiers — they take to the army as young
ducks to water, and I Avon't have the Sabretasche
traits of character knocked out of him — you must
simply make the best of us both."

That was the principle upon which j'oung Bob's
education Alas completed — the result of that education
I will Relate in the pages which follow.

Young Bob went through the usual course of
training which boys of his class undergo. From
the hands of a tutor to Eton, and from Eton to
Sandhurst, at which place he lost a year's
seniority for insubordination, or some such misdemeanour.
He received the news with characteristic
coolness — characteristic of both parents,
for it combined his mother's quiet calmness with
Ins father's spirit of don't-parish dare-devilish ;
that is to say, he touched his cap when the
decision of the powers-that-be was communicated
to him, said, "Very well, sir," and went out of
the awful presence — and laughed.

'' What will your governor say ? " a friend asked
him.

"Say? That they're a set of thick-headed old
idiots," answered Bob, laughing yet more. "Just
the way they served him — so he can't say anything
to me, if he feels inclined."

However, when Bob went home, with two
months' leave and a commission as sub-lieutenant
in that most distinguished res rim eut, the Scarlet
Lancers, old Sabretasche was far too proud of
him to cavil at so trivial a matter as the loss

of a yccir's seniority. He superintended all the
details of Bob's outfit "svitli a delight only to be
equalled by that of a bride selecting her trousseau.
He coached him in all the etiquette of the mess-room
— no small task that — and on parting he
gave one piece of advice — one only.

Xow, look here, Bob," he said, as they were
driving through the green lanes on their way to
the station, " there's one thing I should like to
say to you before you go."

All right," said Bob, cheerfully, flicking at
the flies as he spoke.

"I lay no restrictions upon you," said the gallant
old major, rather wistfully ; " I never have done.
I don't think I have ever bullied you in any way."

'Deed, no," returned Bob, readily.

And I should like to feel that I can trust
to your honour, never to play a woman false.
It's a wrong once done. Bob, that you never
get over as long as you live, a remembrance of
that kind comes back to you years after you'd
fain forget all about it."

Bob looked down from his high driving-seat
a little curiously at the handsome flushed old.
face, which his own so strongly resembled.

"I say, father," he remarked at last, "are
you speaking from experience ? "

Perhaps I am," lie admitted, " but take my
advice about it, Bob."

I think I Avill," said Bob, quietly.

Xot another word was spoken between them
till they reached the little country station, whence
Bob departed for Colchester, where his regiment
Alas quartered.

Good-bye, Bob, my boy — bless you," cried
the major, rather huskily the train started.

"Dear old chap," murmured Bob, as he lit a
cigar and put his feet on the opposite seat.
"" By Jove ! though, who'd have thought he had
ever gone in for the character of a gay
Lothario ? "

Arrived at Colchester, Bob betook himself
and his belongings in a fly to the barracks,
drawing up in front of the mess with considerable
clatter and dash — taking into account that
after all it was only a fly.

lie jumped out and addressed himself to one
of two officers in undress uniform, who were
standing in the door-way.

Er — good morning," said Bob, in no wise
abashed.

Good morning," said the latter of the vain,
with civility.

I suppose you are officers of the Scarlet

Lancers," Bob remarked, blandly. "My name is
Sabretasclie, er ■"

Oh ! Sabretasche-er, is it ? " interrupted the
officer, with an amused smile. "Well, Mr. ,
I suppose you've come to join?"

Exactly-er," returned Bob, easily. " Where
shall I find my quarters, and can I report ni}^-
self to the colonel at once ? "

Well, as I happen to be the colonel, you can,"
said his new friend, smiling, while the shorter man
laughed outright.

Bob was, however, thoroughly equal to the occasion,
awkward as it was. He took off his hat,
displaying a handsome curly head, and said, with
the utmost gravity, as if he had not spoken before,
I have the honour to present myself, sir."

As for quarters," the colonel continued, " this
is Mr. Mothers, the quarter-master."

Taking this as an introduction. Bob looked at the
quarter-master and said, "How do?" with a nod
of the current description.

Just at that moment, two other officers appeared
round the corner, to whom Colonel Keith introduced
the new arrival.

And Whitfield," he said to the younger of
them, "just look after Mr. Sabretasche to-day, and
put him in the way of things generally."

Certainly, sir," answered Whitfield.

He entered the cab with Bob, and drove off to
the quarters allotted to him. The colonel stood
where they left him, looking after the retreating
vehicle.

I've no doubt he'll make a smart soldier," he
remarked, when he had watched it quite out of

sight, " but he'll want a good deal of his d d

cheek taking out of him "

Notwithstanding that such was the opinion of
their commanding officer, the Scarlet Lancers did
not find Bob Sabretasche's " cheek " so very easy
to eradicate. He had l)een too well coached by
his old father to make any mistakes in his intercourse
with his senior officers — the respectful " sir " with
which he addressed his colonel or major, the quiet
air of deference with which he received their
opinions, when they were contrary to his own, at
the same time sticking resolutely to his original
sentiments — all were faultless, and the senior sub-had
no occasion to polish off Bob's education on
that point. He submitted to be drawn with imperturbable
good nature ; in fact, so good that they
soon found there was no fun in disturbing him, for
was he not always as ready for a midnight frolic as
they were ? He was thoroughly well up in mess-room
etiquette, and was never to be caught tripping

ill those little matters which necessitate the imposition
of a fine.

And so the first terrible months — or what are
usually so — passed over for Bob Sabretasche very
easily ; and then he was summoned home by a
telegram, telling him that the large, handsome,
serene woman, who had been so placidly careful
of his morals, was dead, and his father left alone.

Bob took the news badly. In all his twenty
years of life he had never had such a blow as that.
In truth, he had never had a blow of any kind
except in the matter of that year of seniority, which
he had taken as a joke. When the telegram arrived
he was at lunch, and, just when about to put it into
his pocket, he saw, with a great start, that it was

from , near which town was his father's

house. He happened to be sitting just opposite
to the colonel, and asked, by a look, if he might
open it. The chief nodded, and Bob, under cover
of the cloth, tore open the yellow wrapper.

Your mother died this niorniw/ ; praij comer''

For a moment Bob sat perfectly still, then, feeling
his composure giving way, Hung the telegram with
etiquette to the winds, and rushed out of the room.

"What's the matter?" asked the chief, as the
door closed with a great crash.

The man nearest to Bob's vacated place picked

up the telegram and glanced at the brief sentences
^vhich conveyed so much.

His mother is dead, sir," he said, quietly.

All !" murmured the superior, comprehensively,
-svith a sia'h to the memory of a gentle woman avIio
had passed away twenty years before. He continued
speaking, but, later, he went up to Bob's room, and
told him to get home as soon as possible. " I'll
arrange your leave," he ended, kindly.

And so Bob Sabretasche went home to the old
house where he had lived and been happy, but, alas !
in which he would live and be happy never more.
That telegram was but the beginning of the end.
The death of the fair placid woman whom he had
loved broke the old soldier down utterly, and
within six months Bob found himself alone in the
world, with no near relatives, but one-and-twenty
years of age, and with a fortune of as many thousand
pounds entirely at his own disposal.

Just at first he was too much stunned by his
double loss to do anything more than his duty.
He did do that in a dull, mechanical way which
presently put him on the sick-list, and gave the
doctor no small amount of trouble ; and then
Time, the comforter — who does such Wonders for
all of us — took him in hand, and smoothed the
harsh lines of his sorrow into the more tender

VOL. II. L

lineaments of a loving recollection, so that by the
time the regiment moved its quarters to Liii-painter,
he was able to enter with great zest
into all sporting pursuits, and found a good deal
of enjoyment in the pleasures of society.

The better to cultivate both. Bob set up a
stud of fourteen hunters, likewise the smartest
Stanhope phaeton which could possibly be procured
; for that he had two high-stepping chesnut
cobs, which, with a couple of chargers, brought
the total number of his stud up to eighteen —
and, be it remembered, his income was about a
thousand a-year. For a year or so he certainly
went the pace. Quoth one of his friends to him
one day,

I don't know what your income is. Bob, but
if it is anything under eight thousand a year,
you must be a fool"'

Income be bothered," returned Bob, carelessly.
*' Come round and look at my coach — it's a clipper,
out-and-out the smartest I have seen for ever so
long."

Yes, the crowning point of Bob Sabretasche's
folly was to set up a coach and team of his
o^vn. He threw his money right and left like
water — water which cost him nothing — and, at
three-and-twenty, had managed to get so nearly

through his one-aiid-twenty thousand pounds, that
he pulled himself up sharp one fine morning,
and wondered what the deuce would be the end
of it all?

His sudden awakening came in this wise. A
few days before he had received an intimation from
his bankers to the effect that his account was
over-drawn. He at once telegraphed to his
lawyer for money, and from that acute gentleman
had by return of post a letter suggesting,
since his patrimony was reduced to five thousand
pounds, the advisability of not further
lessening it. Bob awoke from his course of
reckless extravagance like a somnambulist suddenly
recalled to consciousness. Since his father's
death he had never given money-matters a
thought. He had been terribly cut up by the
loss of his parents so near together, and had
taken to spending money more for something todo
than from any other cause. He had fancied
it would be very jolly to have fourteen hunters,
a coach and team, and the cleverest cobs in
the service, but as to how those luxuries were
to be paid for had simply never occurred to
him. Had he not, from earliest childhood, been
accustomed to have anything or everything for
which he felt the smallest inclination?

VOL. II. L 2

He sat, Avitli the lawyer's letter in his hand,
for a long, long time, looking thunglitfnlly into
the fire. Well, he had gone the ]pace, there was
no don't about that. It had been great fun
whilst it lasted, but, after all, he didn't know
that he was not groaning rather tired of it all.
This continual visiting, the dodging of gracious
mammas With young and lovely daughters, and
daughters also neither young nor lovely. How
they had tracked him down, to be sure ! He
glanced up at the dozens of pressing invitations
for the month to come, Which were lying about
the chimney-piece, and in spite of his suddenly
sobered senses, burst into a fit of hearty laughter
at the thought of the time and pains which had
been taken, and wasted, in trying to hook him
really wasted, for was he not, after all, of
the worst class of detrimental : a poor man,,
with expensive tastes ? The laughter soon ceased
as the stern reality came back to him again
with ten-fold vigor.

"By George! what a fool I have been," he said,
emphatically.

Still, it Alas no Use crying over spilt milk,
no man can eat his cake and have it. Bob
had undoubtedly partaken Avery greedily of his.
As he sat there in the tAviliofht of that cold

March day, With the red fire-glow playing over
his handsome face — from out of Which all the carelessness
and fun had been driven — two or three
lines came into his mind, lines Which he had
read ever so long ago, when he had been young
Bob felt that he had grown awfully old since
then ; when he had not taken to squandering
money like an idiot or a cotton-spinning cad —
as he told himself, wrathfully ; Avhen he had had
a dear, good, gallant old father, to whom he
could have carried all his troubles and had
kindly advice. Yes ! it was in those far-away
happy days, which Avere never to return again,
that he had read them, little dreaming how soon
the time would come when they Avould be applicable
to himself:

Fools clime to fall : foil liopfS, like seemed cloves for want of hetter light,
mount, till they end their flight with falling.

"And — oh! Lord," Bob groaned, "I have been
a confounded idiot, and serve me right to come
such a cropper."

And then he roused himself, With a mental shake,
and looked round the pretty room. It Alas pretty,
in spite of the take-to-piece-able barrack-room
furniture. The Avails Avere hung With pictures from
cornice to dado — yes. Bob had the room decorated
in that stAde ; there Avere A-elvet-hung lu'ackets, a

superb flounce of lace, worked h\ the hand of some
fair Lady, adorned the cliimney-vaUxnce ; there were
hot-house flowers and rare old china in profusion
so that the whole was tasteful and pretty'. Well,
he thought, with a sigh, there would not surely be
any need to disturb that. The little trifles had costa
good deal, to be sure, but if sold they would fetch
very little, and he did not exactly wi>li all his
brother officers to know low deeply he was dipped,
therefore, he concluded to let the room remain
untouched. He got a bit of paper, and jotted
down what he had left out of the wreck of his
fortune :

jCS-OOO — capital.

Well ! that wasn't so bad to begin with, he
thought, with an attempt — a very. poor one, too — •
at self comfort. Five thousand pounds! Why,
it was only the other day that he met a man — a
cotton-spinning fellow — at Lord Agate's, who had
given as many guineas for a necklace for his
daughter, and thought nothing of it ; and now
that sum was all Bob had in the world, except
what he might be able to realise from the sale of
his horses and so on. Queer little tiling that same
daughter was — little, shm, rather ugly thing,
with a wide mouth, very soft eyes, and no shape to
speak of.

I believe she was spooney on me," Bob said,
aloud, to the walls or his reflection in the glass
maybe ; " yes, su sure she was, and she was
engaged to a fat, vulgar old brute, thirty years
older than herself, she told me. Poor little soul.
Queer sort of taste, though, he must have. Lord!
I Wouldn't have kissed her for a thousand pounds."

But it was no use thinking about Lily Eay or
Lily anybody else. So he returned anew to his
calculation, as to what he might reasonably expect
his horses to bring him. Bob didn't quite know
Whether fourteen hunters were not too many for
any man — it was hard work to keep them all Li.
Fourteen hunters — put 'em at a hundred a-piece.
Very few of them were of less value than that,
whilst most of tjiem were worth a good deal more.
If they fetched a little more, the difference Avould
pay off any little debts that might be standing. We
must do Bob the justice to say that he had no debts
to speak of. " Well, then :

'• Capital ;f 5.000.

Hunt hers £1 .400.

'• Coach ;i^ 1 50.

Team ;^400.

"The coach cost three hundred guineas," Bob thought
ruefully, " and I've only had it a few months : it
ought to fetch a hundred and fifty — I'll put it at
that. The team is worth six hundred — every penny

of il — Int I suppose I shall have to throw them away
at four. Oh — h ! Lord ! but this is a bad business —

'capital ;^5.ooo.

"Hunters £^,400.

Coach ;C 1 steam

^400.

'pay

'• Umph I goes in expenses !

''••Total i:6.950.

'• Total, six thousand — nine hundred — and — fifty,"
Eob mused ; " call it seven thousand. AVell, se — even
thousand, at five per cent. — three-fifty a year. How
the deuce am I to live on three-fifty a year and a
subaltern's pay? I suppose the phaeton and the
cobs must go — though I did hope to be able to
keep one of them, at least."

He sat working out this unpleasant problem for a
long, long time, Without much success, and then,
somehow, his mind wandered off to Lily Eay and her
five-thousand-guinea necklace. AMiat a little ugly
thing she Alas. At least, perhaps not exactly ugly,
but she'd a very wide mouth, and no shape at
all. She was, somehow, iinki.^sable.

Xow, Jinks ; what is it ? "

"Well, sir — it's a lady," returned the man, holding
the door in his hand.

•' A lady I Oh .' the devil — tell her Lm out,"
Bob answered, shortly — he did not want troubling
with any ladies, just then.

The man departed, closing the door after him,
and Bob thought to hear no more of his visitor,
but, a moment later, a querulous, imperious voice
rang through the corridor, which caused Bob to
-spring from his seat in double-quick time.

Which are Mr. Sabretasche's rooms ? Show meat
once. I Avill wait until he comes in," it said.

Bob flung his door open, and a tiny creature, robed
in rich furs and closely veiled, stepped out of the
darkness into the circle of light cast by the fire.
In the background stood Jinks in silent amazement
perhaps he doubted for a moment if the small
creature might be a fairy or not, only the ordinary
cavalry soldier is not a speculative animal — but as
his master shut the door in his face, he concluded
that all was right, and departed about his business.

As the door closed, the visitor tore her veil
aside, and Hung — literally Hung herself into Bob's
astonished arms.

'• My dear Miss Eay," he gasped, " what does
this mean ? "

Dear, darling Bob," cried the poor little
person, clinging to him convulsively, " they've been
so cruel to me — oh ! so cruel to me. Look,"
pulling back the furs from her small wrists and
displaying the Avhite skin all bruised and livid. The
sight elicited a cry of horror from Bob, and an

Ugly sharp word from between his teeth. " Oh I I
hated him so — I couldn't many him"' Lily went
on, with a great shuddering horror in her tones
and in her soft eyes — the eyes were really pretty,
if nothing else was — " and papa said lie Avould male
me love him : but he could not." triumphantly-for
I love — you"'

"But you don't mean to say he used personal
violence towards you P " Bob cried, aghast.

I'm black and blue all over," she answered, confidently.


'• Low beast," cried Bob. with emphasis.

Just what I told him'' remarked Miss Eay, with
a long sigh. 'however, it doesn't matter. I'm all
safe with you."

Poor Bob trembled in his shoes — did this little
body expect him to marry her ? Bob was absolutely
sick at the bare idea of it.

'• What made you think of coming to me ? " he
said, abruptly.

The soft eyes turned upon him in reproachful surprise.
" Why — have you forgotten your promise y "
she asked, with quivering lips.

Did I promise you anything ? " he said, tenderly,
for, after all, if he did not admire her, she
was a woman, and he was mindful of those cruel
bruises. " What was it that I promised r "

Oh! " cried the poor child, ■'.vith a sob of terror —
she was but seventeen — "you promised me, if ever I
needed a friend, I might come to you and trust
you to take care of me. Don't 5'ou remember ?
It Alas the nio-ht of the ball at Lord Acfate's.
You cannot have forgotten it," she ended, with a
Tail of despair.

To be sure not, certainly not," he said, soothingly,
though he had no recollection of it whatever.

I don't believe you even remember it," she said,
sorrowfully, " you mid you liked me and I believed
you, but, after all, 3'ou don't want me, and if 1 go
back they will kill me. Oh! they will kill me!"
shrinking back with every appearance of terror.
'• So cruel they were — how they hurt me. I didn't
care so much then. I thought I could get away to
you and-be safe, but you did not mean it at all,
and you don't want me."

For a moment Bob stood irresolute, trying to
think ! He looked at the swollen, bruised wrists
of this poor little soul, who had Own to him for
protection, relpng on his promise. Then a sudden
recollection came over him of the day when he
joined his regiment : how he had driven his father
to the station, and the dear gallant old man had
asked him — the only favour he ever remembered
him asking — never to play a woman false ! In

that brief moment of reflection he remembered
that he had squandered his father's fortune — that
this father was dead ! Should he then fail to keep
his promise to his dead father, the very first time
he was tried? Assuredly not ! If his whole life
was to be sacrificed, it would only be a slight
reparation to the gallant memory he had so soon
forgotten.

You may trust me to take care of you, Lily,"
he said, kindly, bending down and laying his hand
on her shoulder. She flinched from the touch,
gentle as it was, thereby forcing another oath from
between Bob's teeth.

Good heavens, child ! *' he cried, passionately
incredulous, " you don't mean to say that they
really struck you ? That you cannot bear to be
touched?"

I daresay it will soon go off," she said, trying
to be brave, though the tears were stealing" down
her cheeks, " and — and you won't send me back ? "

"On my word — no!" he answered.

And then he turned to the lire, trying once
more to tliinlc — to realize his position. He was
not at all sure, since Lily was only seventeen, that
he could marry her legally without the consent
of her father ; of course, he would have to marry
Tier, and equally of course, Mr. Eay would not

consent. Then again, Avliat the deuce were they
to hive upon? Three-fifty a-year and his pay? It
was absurd ! He sat down on the sofa beside her
and took lier hand in his — very carefully this time.

Do you know, Lily, that I am a poor man ? "
he asked.

"Eeally? I thought you were very Avell off,"
she said, placidly.

But I am not, indeed. I have been very reckless
and extravagant since my father died, and I
have only about four hundred a-year left."

"Ah! I am so tired of being rich"' she cried,
gladly ; " it will be ever so much nicer to be
poor ; you don't know"'

I don't, indeed," said Bob, doubtful

I've ever so much money with me," Lily
went on, producing her purse " I wish you
would take care of it, please, I might have it
stolen ; and Bob, dear, will you go and pay the
cabman, and tell him to bring my luggage up
here ? "

"Your luggage!" Bob gasped; "my poor child,
you cannot stop here. Don't you know that this
is a barrack?"

"To be sure; I told the man to drive here,"
she said, innocently ; " Avliy, soldiers always live ina
barrack, don't they?"

Bob fairly groaned aloud ; however, he went and
paid the man, and had the luggage— a goodly
pile of it — taken upstairs.

Hoar did you manage to get off?" he asked.

Papa went to London with — him, to get a
special license," she said, simply, " so I packed
up all I thought I should want and — me voila

And when does he return ? "

Jot until tomorrow morning," clapping her
hands gaily, " when he will find me — gone."

Well, I must be ' gone,' too, to make some
arrangements for your accommodation," Bob said,
ruefully.

But you will come back ? "

Oh ! yes — in a few minutes."

He went hastily to the colonel's house, and
knocked at the door of his sitting-room.

o

"Are you busy, sir?" he asked, as he entered.

Colonel Keith looked up from his writing, " Oh !
is it you, Sabretasche ? Yes ! I am rather busy.
What is it?"

I've got into a terrible mess, sir," Bob said,
wistfully ; " but perhaps the major will help me,
if you are too busy."

No, no, sit down and tell me all about it,"
the chief replied. He made a rule of always
encouraging the confidences of his subalterns, whenever

he could : so Bob sat down and told him
all about it.

'what had I better do, sir?" he ended.

Do you say the girl is here ? "

Up in my room, sir."

She can't stop there, that's very certain," said
the chief, hurriedly ; " we'd better see if Mrs. Wilson
will take charij^e of her." Mrs. Wilson was the
adjutant's wife, and lived in the upper part of the
colonel's house. " You see, Sabretasche, I can't
help you in this matter, as I'm not a married
man ; if I had been, I would have taken her home
at once."

"You are very good, sir," Bob said, gratefully.

It's a very unpleasant business to be mixed up
with," he went on ; " you see, if the father chooses
to be awkward, he can Withhold his consent
altogether."

"Exactly! That is what I thought," said Bob.

"And you say they have positively beaten the
child?"

Her wrists are as black as my coat, sir," Bob
returned, indignantly.

And I suppose you've been in love with her
all along ? "

In love with her ! " Bob echoed. " Oh, dear
no ! The fact is, she has come to me, relying on

a foolish promise, made in jest, from wliicli, of
course, I cannot go back now. Well, sir, I'll go
round and see what I can do with Mrs. Wilson."

I'll come Avitli you," said Colonel Keith, kindly.

The adjutant's tender-hearted little wife did not,
however, wait to hear the whole of Bob's story, but
rushed impulsively to his room, and did not so much
as wait to put on her bonnet. A few minutes later
Lily found herself b}^ her new friend's fire, her feet
on a stool, a cup of tea in her hand, her adoring
eyes fixed on Bob's face, and her ears filled with
the muttered exclamations of half-a-dozen stalwart
officers, Who had already heard the story, and were
one and all ready to pay Mr. Ray and — him
back in their own coin with ample interest. Poor
little Lily had never been made so much of during-all
her seventeen years of life ; to her it was all
delightful. The tall, and for the most part, good-looking
officers in their handsome mess dress, the
kindly affectionate hostess, and her lover. Bob. Oh !
it was like fairy-land to her. She gave no thought
to the future, she had almost forgotten the past,
and so little did she look below the surface of the
present that she never noticed how sorely troubled
Bob was. How was she to know that his very soul
was sick at the thought of his marriage, Avhile his poor
brain was puzzling over the miserable question, how

Avere they to live on four hundred a-year? If she
had known precisely what was passing in his mind,
she could scarcely have understood his feelings — she
loved him ! She had never looked at the other side
of the question. As for moneys, lie had always had
so much of it that poverty was only a name to her :
she knew nothing of its stings. For the present,
she was exalted into a heroine, and the worship she
received was very pleasant to her.

The following day Colonel Keith and Bob went
over to Keystone Hall, Mr. Eay's residence. They
found him at home and apparently in that state of
calm which invariably succeeds a storm. He was
a Httle, burly, ill-tempered looking man, evidently
standing in much awe of the stern-looking gentleman
commanding the Scarlet Lancers.

Colonel Keith stated his business in a clear and
concise manner, ending by demanding — not asking —
for a written consent to his daughter's marriage
with Mr. Robert Sabretasche.

I'll never speak to the hussy again ! " roared
the irate father, breaking into a passion once more.

Will you have the goodness to sign this paper ? "
asked the colonel, calmly.

She's no daughter of mine, sir," screamed Eay
pere.

The law, however, rules otherwise," answered

VOL. II. M

the colonel, with provoking coolness ; " will you
sign it or not ? If not, we shall procure a summons
immediately for assault and battery."

"Sign it, yes, and be glad to be rid of her!"
Eay roared ; " only, young gentleman, don't think
as 'ow you're going to get any of my money " — in
his excitement long disused terms cropped up
again — " you've played fast and loose with me, and
the girl's all you'll get."

Bob turned his nose skywards in huge contempt,
but kept silent : he had immense faith in his chief's
conversational powers.

Xow, sir," said Colonel Keith, when he had
put the signed and witnessed paper carefully into
his pocket-book and buttoned his coat over it,
*' let me tell you, sir, that you are, Avithout exception,
the most scoundrelly, cowardly cad I ever
spoke to or ever heard of in my whole life. You
say you disown your daughter, but, if ever she
speaks to you again she'll be a confounded fool —
there, sir."

After Avliich the pair stalked out of the house,
leaving the astonished OAvner literally beside himself
With rage and fury.

Sabretasche," said the chief, Alien they Avere
in the train again, " Averse done that fellow in the
oye ; I've not only got a Written consent to the

marriage, but also resigning all claim to any personal
property, money, or jewelry, which Miss Eay may
have taken away with her — properly witnessed, too."

"It really is awfully good of you, colonel," said
Bob, even in the moment of victory unable to
repress a sigh.

"I'm sorry, though, that you don't think more
about her, poor little thing," he continued.

All the chivalry in Bob's nature rose up at the
Avords. " Oh ! it's all right sir," he said, hastily ;
I shall not illus her," at which assertion Colonel
Keith laughed heartily.

A fortnight followed, during Which Lily Eay
remained as the guest of the adjutant's wife, and Bob
contrived to make arrangements for disposing of
his horses and setting his affairs somewhat in order.
The hardest pang of all was parting with the cobs,
but they had to go — happily for Bob's peace of mind,
not much under their proper value.

On the whole, his " effects " realized more than
he had expected, so that he was able to pay just
over three thousand pounds into his bankers' hands.
His small fiancee, having had this step in view for
some months, had spent very little and saved the
pocket-money her wealthy father had lavished upon
her. Thus they had nearly three hundred pounds
between them to go on with, which, considering

VOL. 'II. yi 2

the doleful condition of their joint circumstances,
was not so bad. Still, how to keep a wife on five
hundred a-year was an resolvable problem to the
man Who had been living at the rate of some seven

o

thousand a-year.

"I don't know how we shall manage it, Lyle
said, the day before the wedding.

"Manage Avhat?" she asked.

Why lii'inii, of course — we shall only have
about five hundred a-year, all told," he answered,
gloomily.

The poor child slid d(n\-n upon her knees before
Inn. "Am I a great bother to you ? '' she asked,
AvistfuUy.

If Worried and unwilling. Bob was still a gentleman
and kind of heart. " Xo, no, child," he said,
hastily ; " only we must live somehow, and neither
of us have tried pinching before."

I shall not Avant any clothes for an age," she
said, confidently. "I've been expecting something
of this sort — though I didn't know you were so
poor — so I bought a few silk dresses. I have them
at the bottom of one of my boxes — not made up,
you know."

"Oh! but I don't know that dresses cost so
much," said Bob, carelessly.

Oh ! but they do, indeed — a lot. That jacket

cost a hundred guineas' pointing to lier sables lying
on the sofa ; '• but, of course, it will not last a lifetime."


Well, but Lily — it is servants and house-keeping
and nil that," he said, in a perplexed tone.

"Oh! do you Avant many servants? — tlie3^'re such
n nuisance — poking and prying into everything
one does, and counting the mouthfuls one eats — I
hate them."

Bob shivered — he did not hate servants.

And you know, Bob, dear, there are my jewels.
We can sell them. I don't care for them. I shall
love your two rings better than all the diamonds on
earth."

(3h ! we can't sell your jewelry — besides, it
won't be worth much," Bob answered.

Xot worth much!" she echoed. "Ten thousand
pounds, if a penny. Why', my necklace (most five
thousand guineas."

But you don't mean to say y(ju l)r(jught that
away wut-li you?" Bob cried.

Do you suppose I left it behind?" Lily asked,
opening her eyes very wide.

Wh)^, bless, me, what a clever little soul you
are," he said, with a laugh. "Who's that? Oh ! is
it 5'ou, colonel? Come in, sir."

I say, colonel," lie said, after a while, " did you

not tell me that you made some arrangement Avitli
Mr. Eay as to his dato-liter's belonmnsfs ? "

Certainly — he signed a paper, giving up all
claim to any personal property, money, or jewelry,
she may have taken away with her. Wliy, is
there likely to be any trouble ? "

Bob burst out laughing. " She has brought all
her jewelry with her," he answered ; " that is all, but
it may make a great difference to us," for he had
made a clean breast of his misfortunes to the
colonel long before.

Nevertheless, they had hard work to make both
ends meet. Bob, at three-and-twenty, and Lily,
but seventeen, knew as much about house-keeping
as did the babes in the wood, ergo — they were nota
little imposed upon. Then, on the other hand.
Bob could never allow himself the luxury of a
growl, for, as surely as he began, did the tears well
up into Mrs. Bob's eyes, and she immediately went
in for the luxury of a good cry. Bob, like a good
many other men, hated a scene, and tears invariably
acted upon him as does a red rag to a bull ; so he
came to the conclusion that his best plan was to
abstain from growling. On tluit score, matters went
rather more smoothly, but there were other* scores
upon which they persistently declined to go
smoothly at all. Lily irouhl make a practice of

spooning him. Poor Bob ! He had never got over
his first feeling that Miss Eay was unstable, and
now that she was transformed into Mrs. Bob
Sabretasche, he did not find his original opinion
altered. But that was not the worst of it. Mrs.
Bob made a rule of being more openly demonstrative
in public than in private. She liked, poor little
soul, to make a display of her affection for her
handsome stalwart husband ; to sit with her hand
in his ; to call him by all manner of absurd and
endearing names, regardless of the presence of his
brother officers, who, one and all, treated him to a
volley of nursery names and spoony terms, whenever
he ventured to show his face in the ante-room.

Xow, ' Bobbie-wobbie,' " the first would cry,
come and sit next to me, ' Duckie-wuckie.' "

Whereupon Bob would shut the door with a
crash, and betake himself back to his mismanaged
home, to endure the same from Lily, only with the
difference that poor little plain Lily was most
thoroughly in earnest. Poor Bob ; the great change
in his life told upon him frightfully — the brightness
faded from his eyes ; the soldierly, swaggering gait
grew cpiiet and preoccupied, the smartness in his
pierson vanished, and the officers of the Scarlet
Lancers one and all agreed that poor old Bob really
lead gone off woefully.

And tlieii, a new trouble came uponTthem. In spite
of her childish Ava's, little Mrs. Bob, as they called
her, was a great favourite with the whole regiment.
Most of them remembered the poor little bruised and
swollen wrists, and admired her for the pluck she
had shown in cuttings the home lot and riyino- for
succour to the manwdiom she loved. To the officers'
wives she was so good-natured and gentle that they,
too, admitted lier into high favour, and thus it
happened that by-and-bye she began to notice the
behaviour of other men towards their wives. It was
an eventful day for both of them when Mrs. Bob's
eyes were thus opened. She perceived that Bob,
though long suffering and courteous, never made
love to her, and although there are many, many
wives who would prize those two desirable qualities
before a little love-making and a lot of bullying (is
not that the usual mixtures), Mrs. Bob began to pine
for that Avliich was denied her. She cared nothing
for courtesy, less for long suffering, and she did
crave for Bob's love. She one day, in a burst of
confidence, said as much to one of the married ladies.

My dear Mrs. Bob," said she, kindly, " you
should never judge one man by another, they show
their affection so differently; and, I assure you, Mr.
Sabretasche never was of an effusive nature. I
never knew him flirt with anv one."

But the little Avomaii remained unconvinced, and
immediately adopted a new demeanour towards her
lord and master. She ceased all the little caresses
and endearing terms which had so worried him,
but which, With the usual contrariety of poor
human nature, he somehow missed. lie looked at
her as she ate her dinner in silence, and Wondered
if she Avere " seedy ? "

Oh, Lily, the colonel's coming doAvn to dine
to-morrow, there's something on at the theatre,
so Ave'll dinner at seven," he remarked.

Very Avell," said Lily, quiet', and Avithout
lifting her eyes.

Then, not a little to his astonishment, instead of
bringing her dessert plate round to his side, she
left the room Avithout speaking. Xot that Bob
]minded that much, but it Alas rather stupid alone,
and an awful bore having to pick his oavu Walnuts ;
Lily certainly Alas an indefatigable Walnut jK^eler,
there Alas no doubt about that. Ugh ! — he flung
the unoffending nut-crackers doAvn with a crash,
and broke a plate in so doing, Which brought
him to himself again.

"Queer thing to go off like that," he mused;
"she's such a good-tempered little thing."

It never occurred to him that the trodden Avorm
Avill turn at last. This poor fragile little Avorm,

upon whom he had been treading so ruthlessly
for months, had turned at last, and Bob did not
like it. He felt as if some soft little bird had
suddenly repaid his caresses by trying to peck his
eyes out. AVell I no, he admitted, not eare-'<ses — he
could not shut his eyes to that fact.

However, it Alas no use sitting looking at that
broken ]plate all night, so he roused himself and
went into the drawing-room. His wife was sitting
in a huge chair, with a novel in her hand. She
never looked up Avhen he entered, and did not,
as was her wont, fly to fill his pipe — bless you,
no, she did not mind smoking — to give him a
light, to fold his paper just where he wanted to
read, or to do the hundred-anemone things, in
the doing of which she had made a veritable slave
of herself. Bob felt himself personally aggrieved.
Xc) sooner was he settled in his chair than he
discovered that his tobacco-pot was missing.

Do you know where my tobacco is, Lily ? "

I believe it's on the dining-room chimney-piece,"
she answered, indifferently.

Bob fetched it with a groan — an inward one. Tien
he filled his pipe, but a lighter or a match there was
not. He had not a scrap of paper or a fusee about
him. and at last he thing the offending pipe into the
fire.

"I say, Lily."

M — m ? " said Lily, reading on.

Have you a head-ache ? "

"Oh, no."

A moment later the book shared a similar fate
to the pipe, being unceremoniously banged under
a sofa.

"Then what is the matter?" Bob asked. "Why
did you go off without any dessert ? "

"I went off," said the little woman, bravely, "because
you did not want me. I don't like making
myself too cheap, and I've done a great deal too
much in that way lately."

Bob stood irresolute. He had schooled himself so
carefully in the belief that he did not Avant her, that
he felt it would be like telling lie to say otherwise,
and yet, the prospect of peeling his own walnuts, of
filling his OAvn pipe — in fact, of doing the hundred-anemone
things that Lily had regularly done for him,
was absolutely appalling — therefore he compromised
matters by saying,

I never said so."

Not in words," retorted Lily, significantly.

What do you mean, child ? "

"Just Avhat I say!" she cried, with hysterical
passion. " You don't Avant me, though you swore
to love me — to love and to cherish me. Yes ; I

suppose you married nie for pity, for you don't
really want me, and I wish I was dead ! "

Bob Sabretasclie was not a very clever young-man,
and it dawned upon him that he lead really
trodden upon that meek little worm very unmercifully.
As always happened when he was in a
dilemma, a vision of the kindly, handsome face of
his dead father rose before him, and the frank
voice rang through his ears : " Xever play a
woman false. Bob ; it's a wrong once done that
you never get over as long as you live ; a remembrance
of that kind comes back to you, long after
you'd fain forget all about it."

I wish I v\^as dead," Mrs. Bob went on, tearfully,
and so, I dare say, do you."

I do not," he cried.

"But since I am not" — Avithagreat sigh — "I think
I will go away. Perhaps they " — she always spoke of
her people thus — " perhaps il^ey will take me in
again."

The handsome old face vanished, and in its place
came a vision of himself as he would be in the long
years of the future — alone, growing middle-aged and
old — and alone.

"' Don't speak like that, Lily," he cried, taking her
in his arms, " I cannot bear to hear you."

But you don't Avant me, I loiow you don't."



"On my word, I do.'\

She had taken his word before — she took it again.

And, after all, when old Eav died, they came in
for something like a million of money, and they did
not have to wait so very long' for it either.

Lucy Moore wa'^ cook in the family of a Avell-
to-do professional man in the old city of Liliminster,
and, to nse her mistress's words, was a perfect
treasure. In these days perfect treasures are very
bad to meet with in any class of life, but most of
all in the kitchen ; a fact of which Mrs. Johnson
was very well aware, and for that reason took
great care of Lucy and did everything she could
to make her satisfied With her place.

Many people maintain that servants are what
the mistresses make them, so perhaps Mrs. Johnson's
own disposition may have had something to do
with the excellence of Lucy's. Never had a girl
so kind and good a mistress — so Lucy said ; and
never had any mistress a better servant — so Mrs.
Johnson said. Her kitchen was always the very
picture of neatness — the dish-covers and pans shone
like burnished silver in the sunshine, the range Alas
never dull, the oven was always clean when required
a little circumstance most housekeepers understand
the value of. And best of all, was the appearance

of Lucy herself. Her plentiful brown hair Alas
always smoothly brushed and coiled into a neat
knot at the back of her head, she had a bright
intelligent face with soft grey eyes, good teeth, a
white throat, and invariably a clean collar. Small
wonder was it, therefore, that Mrs. Johnson was forever
haunted by a great fear, lest some unprincipled
young man should discover Lucy's charms and carry
her off in triumph — still, as Lucy was turned three-and-twenty
and seemed bad to please, she Alas
not without hopes that the evil day might yet be
put off for an indefinite period.

But Mrs. Johnson had reckoned without her host,
for one fine morning, when she Avent as usual into
the kitchen, Lucy took her breath away by expressing
in the much-dreaded formula, that she
*' should like to leave this day month, i'm."

"To leave!" the poor lady gasped; " why, Lucy,
what is the matter ? "

Well, m','' returned Lucy, with a blush," it isn't that
anything's the matter, but — Lm going to be married."

"Married' With a great sigh; "AA^ell, Lucy, I am
glad for your happiness, bnt, oh dear, Avhat shall
I do Avithout you ? "

Oh ! there's plenty more to get, m'," said Lucy,
with a pleased blush, " and it's such a good place,
you are sure to get suited."

W(A\, we must hope so," returned Mrs. Johnson,
not very hopefully. " And so you are going
to be married, Lucy? I hope you have made a
careful choice — marriage is a serious business."

Yes, m', but he is a very steady young man,"
Lucy answered, proudly.

And what is lie ? — what is his name, Lucy ? "

His name is Jinks, m'. Yes, m', Henry Jinks,
and he's a soldier."

"^ soldier — oh, Lucy!" Mrs. Johnson almost
screamed. " Oh, I am sorry — I am sorry ! "

There's no call for that, m', F in sure," said
Jjucy, in an offended tone, " he's a very fine young-man."


But, my poor girl, you don't know the life
you have before j^ou," cried the mistress — ,
and classing all soldiers as "bad ina
lump " — " you don't indeed. A soldier has some
four-pence-half-penny a day, when his expenses
are paid, and how can you live on that ? — after
being accustomed to a good table, too. Why, even
if you can get put on the strength of the regiment,
you will only have one room^])erhaps not that — and
seventeen dirty soldiers to wash for."

Well, m'," Lucy answered, " I never saw a dirty
soldier yet, and I fancy' if one was to keep himself
dirty he would very soon get himself into trouble ;

and as to washing for them, I'm not going to do
that. He's got leave to be married, but I'm going
to live as cook With Mrs. Sabretasche, one of the
officers' ladies. My young man is servant to Mr.
Sabretasche and lives in the house, and so as Mrs.
Sabretasche has had a deal of trouble-with her
servants, being a very young lady, I'm going to
be cook-housekeeper for her."

And how will you do, if you've half-a-dozen
babies ? " the mistress asked.

Why, m', Mrs. Sabretasche says she'll risk that,"
Lucy answered, with another blush.

And so in due time Lucy Moore was transformed
into Lucy Jinks, and took up her abode in the
Sabretasches' domicile. Everyone was benefited by
the change excepting Mrs. Johnson, who got an
idle, dirty, incompetent person in Lucy's place, and
never ceased bewailing the loss of her perfect
treasure. On the very first evening of Lucy's rule
Bob Sabretasche had a dinner as well-cooked ashe
could have got at the mess, and his satisfaction
reflected itself upon Mrs. Bob. JSTot that she cared
much about cooking, but it was nice to see Bob
pleased.

"Tell your wife, Jinks," said Bob, when the dessert
was placed on the table, " that I've the very highest
respect for her — she's a very clever woman." And

VOL. II. N

SO Mr. and Mrs. Jinks were pleased also, for everyone
likes well-merited praise.

It's a great piece of good luck, Lily," said Bob,
when Jinks had departed ; "we must take care of
them both, for Jinks is a clever servant, and a
woman who can cook like that is not to be met
with every day."

No, it is a comfort," Lily answered.

For a few months this delightful state of things
continued. Lucy was a careful, conscientious
manager, and made everyone around her comfortable.
Jinks was as happy as a man could be, and
the Sabretasches positively revelled in little dinner
parties, when all at once there came a change.
Not in the cooking and not in the housework,
that was as well done as ever. No ; the change
was in Lucy herself. She all at once grew nervous,
listless, almost sullen. Her hair was rough, her
collar awry, and she complained perpetually of headache.
Jinks was beside himself and forgot half the
duties he had to perform, for which Lucy rated him
soundly, reducing him thereby almost to tears. Mrs.
Bob told Bob she was very uneasy about Lucy ; and
Bob, who had noticed the change in her personal appearance,
asked the doctor to step in and look at her.

The doctor did step in, and immediately asked
if she had anything on her mind?

Lucy looked nervously round and stammered,
*' Xo, sir," Whereupon he promised to send her a
little soothing medicine.

In due time the medicine arrived and Lucy took
it — she also took some wine, which Bob sent down
for her ; but neither medicine nor Vine had the
slightest effect upon her nerves, and after a few
days she confided to Mrs. Bob that she must leave
the house.

"Leave!" Mrs. Bob echoed, blankly. "Oh!
Lucy, why?"

I never ! " exclaimed Jinks, the plate in his hand
falling to the ground in his consternation.

The devil ! " ejaculated Bob, aghast.

Ah-h-h-h ! " shrieked Lucy in terror, then sank
down upon the nearest chair and, covering her head
with her apron, burst into a torrent of tears.

It was an unusual and impressive scene. Mrs.
Bob sat in her chair weak and trembling, she Alas
just then in delicate health, as Bob remembered ;
Bob himself stood staring at her, and Jinks — very
white and open-mouthed — held on by the end of
the sideboard, looking alternately from his Avise to
the broken fragments of the plate lying at his feet.
At the door stood the scared house-maid, having
been attracted by Lucy's prolonged scream, and
in the midst sat Lucy herself, sobbing and shudder-vol.

II. N 2

iii and, after the manner of her days, swaying to and
fro, as if in the most dire agony of mind and body.

"iS'oAv come, tell us all about it," said Bob, persuasively


I dare not stay, sir," Lucy sobbed.

"But why? Jinks hasn't been ill-using you,
surely' ? "

Why, Jinks isn't that fond — " muttered the
owner of the name, under his breath.

Well, what is it, Lucy," Bob urged, " if it's not
Jinks ? "

Oh ! sir, he's as good and kind," Lucy said
between her sobs, " as a man can be, and I'm that
fond of him, it would break my heart to part from
him. And I like Sarah — we never have no disagreeable
in the kitchen at all. I like you all,
sir, and I thinks a deal of mistress, I do — but I dare
not stay. I'm not safe in this house, and I must get
away somewhere."

Has any one been annoying you ? " Bob asked.
"By Jove! I'll break his head for him."

Me too," put in Jinks, stolidly.

Not safe," Mrs. Bob repeated, incredulously,
Avhile Sarah scurried in and shut the door ; " why,
Lucy, who can do you any harm here ? "

"I'll tell you all about it m'," said Lucy, wiping
her eyes with her apron. "You know I always

gets up early, for master's breakfast must be had
punctuaL"

Yes, I'm sure you do, Lucy," Mrs. Bob answered.
You know, dear, when Jane was here, you often
had to go without your breakfast and get something
to eat m the mess,"

Yes. Well, go on, Lucy," said the master.

When I awoke on Monday morning — a week
yesterday as Alas — it was nearly half-past seven,
and I hurried to get down, thinking of master's
breakfast, you know, m'. Thinks I — I shall have
to run to get it in in time, but, if you'll believe
me, sir, when I went into the kitchen all was
done. The floor had been fresh washed, the
grate black-leaded, the fire was burning — a big fire,
too, it was, such as I never keeps — the kettle was
filled and hanging on the bar, even the plates and
cups that you'd had on Sunday night was all
washed and put away. All was done — the steps
had been Abashed, the hall SAvept out, and it's been
just the same ever since. I Avent up to see if
Sarah had been helping me, Which I thought Alas
cjueer, as in general she isn't a very good 
; but there she Alas in bed, sound asleep, just
as Ld left Jinks. Oh ! I must go," she ended, With a
fresh burst of tears, " I must go, for Lm not safe
here."

"But Lucy," said Bob, at last, "why are you
not safe ? — who do you thmk has done all this ? "

Lucy looked cautiously round, puckered up her
apron into a thousand creases, glanced furtively at
her husband and Bob, then at her mistress sitting
astonished and tired and finally said, in a frightened
whisper, "I think it's the devil!"

As I am writing a true story, I must confess that
at this point the four persons dio had been listening
breathlessly to Lucy's tale began to laugh, not
merely did they begin, but they continued — they
laughed until the' were obliged to sit down and
cry with the effort, while Luc", thinking the whole
world — nay, two whole worlds — were against her,
once more threw her apron over her head, and
absolutely wailed aloud in her terror and dismay.

XoAV come, Lucy," said Bob, still struggling with
his laughter, "go down and get your breakfast,
whilst we think over this business."

But supposing he should really come, sir," Lucy
protested, " and I should see him — tail and hoof and
all. Oh ! I don't know what I should do."

Jinks or Sarah will stay with }'ou," he said,
soothingly, " and you know, he never shows himself
to more than one person at once."

But perhaps he'll come in the morning and
carry me off."

Oh ! nonsense, Jinks and I will sit up to-night
and watch for him, and if a loaded revolver does
not settle him, we must call in the police. Now go
and get your breakfast. Mrs. Sabretasche is quite
upset by all this."

The two women left the room, and Jinks followed
more slowly, looking thoroughly mystified.

"A Satanic A.D.C, eh. Jinks?" remarked Bob
Sabretasche, cheerfully.

The very rummest go as ever I 'herd on, sir,"
Jinks replied, as he closed the door.

"Well, it really is odd. Bob," said his wife, in a
puzzled tone ; " now isn't it ? "

"Very. I say, Lily, all this has upset you. Of
course, Lucy's a very clever cook and all that, but
it's very tiresome of her to have her heroics just
now. She must be rather touched in the upper
story."

"Well, do you know, I always thought her a
remarkably sensible young woman," Lily answered,
gravely. "However, to-night, you and Jinks will
see what you will see. What a bore, though,
sitting up. I wish, Bob, you would let me sit up,
too."

Certainly not," he replied, with much decision.
He did, however, let her sit up an hour later than
usuaWpartly because she was excited and wakeful.

unci partly because he looked forward to the long
night's vigil with not a little disgust. He had many
and many a time sat np all night in his bachelor
days, gone to bed at cock-crow to snatch an hour's
feverish sleep, and tumble up cross and heavy to his
duty ; that was all very well, but to spend the long
hours of the night in a silent house, with only a
book and a pipe to keep him awake, was a decided
nuisance.

I knew it was too good to last," he said, thinking
of Lucy's little dinners. "Jinks," he said, when
the others had gone to bed, " go into the diningroom
and pile up a good fire ; I will do the same
here — and remember, whatever happens, the women
are not to be frightened."

Jinks obeyed, and in a very few minutes the house
was as silent as the grave.

One— Two— Three— Four.

This is becoming tiresome," Bob yawned, rousing
himself out of his chair, with a great stretching of
his long limbs. " Hollo ! what's that ? "

That " was the opening of the door above,
followed by the sound of a footfall on the stairs —
not a quick, light tread, but slow and somewhat
shuffling. He strode to the door, just in time to
see Jinks appear at the opposite one, poker in hand,
and, looking up the stairs, he saw Lucy herself descending

them, her eyes set in the fixed grassy stare
of a somnambulism. He stepped Lightly across the
hall, seems that Jmks was about to speak.

"JSFot a word, for heaven's sake ! " he Whispered.
The figure m her long loose night-dress passed more
swiftly by them, and the young man night Jinks
by the arm, perceiving that he was trembling and
had grown ghastly pale. " Don't you see that she
is walking in her sleep? " he whispered.

Lord ! sir," returned Jinks, prosaically, " blest
if I knew what to think, except she'd gone out of
her mind."

They watched her, in silence, for nearly an hour,
whilst swiftly and with wonderfully little noise she
performed all her morning's duties — then she went as
quietly back to bed again, and in two minutes was
sleeping as peacefully as a tiny child.

Now then. Jinks, the quicker we get to bed the
better," said Bob, with a shiver and a yawn, then
thanked his stars that it was his cook and not his
wife who had a fancy for roaming about the house
in her night-dress during the small hours of the
morning.

"And so you see, Lucy," he said, with a laugh,
a few hours later, " it wasn't such a very bad devil
after all."

I don't know for that, sir," Lucy retorted

brightly — lie had taken the teazing very pleasantly
" most of us finds ourselves quite bad enough to
manage. Jinks tells me that A.D.C. means an
officer who helps the general, and I think most of
us might apply for that post to him, as I thought
it was."

You are right there, Lucy," said Bob, in answer
to this somewhat incoherent statement.

He looked across the table at Lily's wan face,
which of late had seemed all eyes, and thanked God
that he had sent in his resignation of that not too
creditable post before it was too late. He kissed her
very kindly before he went out, even more kindly
than usual.

We must tell Jinks to lock the door for the
future," he said. " I cannot have you worried, for
you have grown very precious to me."

How is that ? " she asked, with a flush of intense
pleasure.

Because Lily, my child, you have taught me
that I can get surer and better promotion than as
A.D.C. to his Satanic Majesty," Bob answered,
gravely.

Kiss me," said the girl, simply.

Chapter I.

The Honourable Hugh Beabazox had come to the
end of his tether, and, as most people know, that
is a remarkably unpleasant position. I was going
to say that most people kno^y it from experience,
but as it is not very long since I myself did feel
such a thrill of indignation from a similar supposition,
I will refrain from inflicting the like upon
any one else. Yes ! I went to a military temperance
meetings — a kind of mission from soldiers to civilians
but I cannot say that I went as a sympathizer.
I heard very bad speeches, shocking singing, and
I think the very worst pianoforte solo I was eyer
condemned to listen to. Assuredly I did not goto
hear any of those things. I went to hear the
band, which was an exceptionally fine one, but I
was none the less disgusted when the quarter-master
got up and told us, he was quite sure we all knew,
from experience, that " drunken joy brings sober
sorrow." If he had " touched pitch " and seen the
error of his ways, it was rather too bad to cry

out that the Avhole world was — or had been — as bedaubed
as himself. However, we have been leaving
the Honourable Hugh to be what the stock-brokers
call a " lay-bye," and must return to him without
further ado.

In the first place, Hugh Brabazon was a younger
son of a very noble and mighty house. He was
fair to look upon, exceedingly so, standing over
six feet in his socks, and being well-built, active,
and very graceful ; he had merry blue eyes, well-cut
aquiline features, and chesnut hair, which grew
in little short curls all over his head.

He had come of a race accustomed for many
generations to be extravagant, and the family trait
was not less marked in Hugh than it had been in
any of his ancestors. He was extravagant, with a
generous open-mindedness which might have been ^
all very well if his purse had been proportionately
long and, in fact, inexhaustible ; but, unfortunately,
such was not the case : he tried the experiment
of running a I'ace between his inclination and his
purse, and, as generally happens, the latter got the
worst of it and made a bad second. What was
still more deplorable, Hugh's tether pulled up with
a jerk so sharp, that, as the most expeditious way
of settling matters, he left his " engagements" to
arrange themselves, and — 'listed for a soldier.

Taking all things into consideration, it was an
utterly idiotic move to make ; for if the House of
Brabazon had not much money, it had considerable
influence, and in a little time he might have been
pushed into something, or he might have married
some wealthy young lady hailing from the City,
who would gladly have given her thousands for
the sake of obtaining those six magic letters, "Hon.
and Mrs," before her name. However, Hugh did
not give the House the opportunity of exerting
the influence it undoubtedly possessed, but brought
his afliiirs to a climax by pushing himself into the
Scarlet Lancers as Private Hugh Brown.

Of course, the officers saw at once that he was
a gentleman, though the truth concerning him did
not creep out for some time ; therefore, they put
him into B-troop, commonly known amongst the
men as " the gentlemen's troop."

There he found his old chum, Bertie Le Merrier,
in all the dignity of a lance-corporalship. The
sergeant-major was a scion of one of the oldest
north-country families and an M.A. of Oxford to
boot. There was the son of a major-general ; the
son of a high dignitary of the Church ; the son
of a major, and Teddy Lloyd, Who had been at
Eton with Hugh ten years before.

As he recognized one after another he lao-hed.

and declared the new life would be glorious fun.
Poor Hugh ! He did not laugh very long ! — he
had to grow accustomed to a good many things
before he learned to laugh again in the old, gay,
light-hearted fashion ; for, when the novelty of
his surroundings had worn off, he was supremely
miserable.

He was always forgetting !— that was his great
stumbling block. He meant well, but remembering
was such hard work. When he met Joey
Parsons, who had fagged for him at Eton —
a little snub-nosed imp, idiom he had bullied
and thrashed, and now had to salute — well, it
was hard work. Not that Hugh cared a fig
for the actual fact of saluting, not a bit of
it. He was Lord Brabazon's son — a scion of one
of the oldest and proudest families in the kingdom,
and his position — his birth that is — was unalterable.
He knew that nothing could make Parsons ^76^r^
anything but a brewer, With no claims to any
other distinction than the possession and pride of
a certain income. Besides, Hugh had the old
noblesse oblige feeling very strong in him ; he was
Private Hugh . Brown, No. 842 — worse luck— and
Joey was Sub-Lieutenant Parsons, and must therefore
be respected as such. No ! it Alas not that
at all that bothered him ; but Avhen he met Joey,

dressed like a tailor's advertisement, strutting into
the town, with a cigar in his mouth, and the most
perfect unconsciousness that the man who passed
him was anything but one of the " men," was in
fact Hugh Brabazon, who had thrashed him dozens
of times, his inclination to give him a dig in the
ribs and shout " Hallo, Joey ! " was at times almost
too strong for him ; and usually, the nearly-forgotten
salute was so hurried that, had not Joey himself
been taken up with the novelty of Ms surroundings,
and so full of his own importance, he might have
recommended Sergeant-major Green, M.A., to see
that Private Brown, No. 842, was properly instructed
in the manner of saluting his officers when out of
barracks.

And then there was the food ! Hugh really did
not know whether, taking the life all round, the food
was not the most trying part of the whole business.
It might be wholesome, he confided to Bertie Le
Mesurier, but oh ! dash it, it was unpalatable. The
restriction, the work, the horrible drill, drill, drill,
the more horrible uniform, in which he was so
uncomfortable and felt such a long-legged idiot, the
most horrible riding-school, and the lack of a corner
he could call his own, were all very bad, undeniably
bad things, but he didn't know that the food Alas not
the worst. The bare table, the tin plates, the coarse

food, and the three-pronged steel forks — oh ! how he
did prick his unfortunate mouth, until at last he
went in desperation to the town and bought himself
a silver spoon, knife and fork, with a case to keep
them in. As he said, with grim humour, he had
stood god-father to Private Brown, and Alas bound to
come down with a christening craft.

Just at first it did not ooze out in the regiment
who Private Brown, Xo. 842, Alas when at home.
Those in B-troop Who kncAV him Avere gentlemen,
and respected, his incognito, as he did theirs. But
murder Avill out," and before many months had
elapsed, the secret of his real name Alas generally
It came out in this A\dse. It happened that
Sub-Lieutenant Parsons desired to change his servant.
It occurred to him that Private BroAvn Alas an exceptionally
clean, smart-looking fellow, and he intimated
that he should be glad to select him for that
purpose. I am bound to say that Hugh immediately
Avent off into the most agonizing paroxysm of
laughter that ever embarrassed a private or ruffled
an officer's dignity — Sub-Lieutenant Parsons's dignity
Alas undeniably ruffled.

"What the devil do you mean, sir?" he demanded.

For a moment Private BroAvn struggled against it,
but it Alas of no use, the laughter broke out again,
in a more exhausting burst than before.

The little officer looked up at the big private in
utter astonishment : this was a breach of discipline
too awful to realize, but, as he looked more closely,
a gleam of recognition came into his short-sighted,
boiled-gooseberry looking e^^es.

I have seen you somewhere before— where ? '" he
he asked, authoritatively.

The laughter bubbled up to Hugh's lips again, butin
moderation this time.

It would be rather turning the tables, if I became
fag for you, Joey," he said, with good-natured
contempt. "• Excuse the familiarity, sir, but one is
apt to forget sometimes that you are anyone but
that young limb of evil, Joey Parsons, and I anyone
but Hugh Brabazon."'

Hugh Brabazon ! " Joey repeated, " and in the
Scarlet Lancers ! — I must have been blind ! "

I often thought so," Hugh said, easily. " Well,
sir — Lord, fancy my saying 'sir' to you! — I am
very much flattered that you would care to have me
for your servant, but "

Xo, no, of course not," said Joey, hastily, and
resuming his official tone. " Well, Brabazon, I'm
awfully sorry that you've come down to this, the life
must be an awful change for you, and if I can do
anything to brighten it, you may count on me, for the
sake of old times."

VOL. II. O

Thank yon, sir," answered High, simply.

He sainted him as nsnal, as he walked away, but
stood watching the small receding form with a linge
scorn on his month and in his handsome eyes.

What is it, High ? " said Bertie Le Mesurier.

The scorn changed into a sigh. "A new sensation,
Bertie," he said, with a short laugh. " Ah ! I wish
I could go back to the old ones, when I didn't have
a brewer's snobbish son inviting me to clean his
boots and brush his clothes for him."

Did he do that ? "

Yes ; did me the honour to wish me for his
servant."

What did you say ? "

Say ? I didn't say anything ; I just roared."

Lao-hed? " Bertie echoed.

"I should think I did," laughing again at the
remembrance. " I believe he thought of putting me
under arrest, only he didn't."

I wouldn't do that again, though, Hugh. Ridiculing
your officers is a serious thing ; besides,
he may make life very much more unpleasant for
you in many ways, if he thinks fit."

But he won't," returned Hugh, confidently, " he
won't. You are heir to a baronetcy and I am Lord
Brabazon's son, so we are both sure of Joey Parsons's
civility.' "

My good chap, I am Corporal Black and you
are Private Brown," lie expostulated.

He knows us both, take my Avord for it," Hugh
laughed. " Moreover, he wants to marry one of my
sisters, who won't look at him. I never met him
after I left Eton, but I heard all about it from the
girls : they used to make awful game of him."

The danger-signals mounted up to Bertie's face,
and he asked, with a great assumption of carelessness,
which sister the little cock-sparrow was after ?

Gwen," Hugh replied. " Yes ! it was Gwen, who
oh ! hang it, Bertie, she hasn't forgotten the old
days, any more than you or I have."

Bertram Black, lance-corporal of the Scarlet
Lancers," said Bertie, in a hopeless voice, " and she
is the Honourable Gwendolen Brabazon, one of the
most beautiful women in England."

With a heart to match her face, bless her,"
cried Hugh. " She won't forget the heir of the
Le Mesuriers for a low little scrub of a Cockney
brewer."

'• I wished I dared think so," Bertie returned,
Wistfully.

Well, nov look here, old man : Gwen's the only

one of the lot who has stuck to me through thick

and thin. Eva's not so plucky as Gwen, and she

is the only one Who knows where I am. I send

VOL. II. o 2

my letters through her maid, and Gwen Writes tame
every week regularly. I heard from her this
morning. If you care to see lier letter you can,,
she ^von't mind."

"Care!" Bertie repeated.

Yes, I see you do. You will see what she
says about you, and, since she has sent me two
photographs exactly alike, she must have meant
me to give one to you. You can take your
choice."

He handed him the dainty, perfumed letter and
left him — glad of his friend's' pleasure, but with
a sigh on his lips, a dull pain in his heart, an
utter sense of weariness and restless impatience
with everything around him, and a vision before
him of a fairy figure, most often clad in scarlet and
white garments, of two soft brown eyes looking
into his own, of two red-ripe lips upraised to his,,
of the feeling of two rounded white arms about
his throat, and a soft voice whispering, " I love
you."

He folded his arms upon the railing of the
verandah, and saved through the December ofloom
across the scarcely visible rows of barrack buildings
to the twinkling lights of Liliminster, two miles
away, and, as he leant there alone, an exceedingly
bitter cry rose to his lips.

"Oh, Xell, Xell, Xell! If I could only bring
the old days back again. Oh, Xell!"

All vas quiet around him! There was an occasional
clatter of spurred feet on the corridor behind
him ; a bad piano went " ting-ting-tum-tum " in the
officers' quarters ; there was, now and then, a
sound of laughter from the next block, where the
V married people lived, and he could hear the
measured tramp of the various sentries. Still, the
great deserted square was quiet, and Hugh Bra-bacon
leant on the railing, gazing across it into
vacancy — vacancy as utterly blank and empty as
his troubled heart.

A shower had fallen during the afternoon, and
it might be that the raindrops Avere still hanging
from the roof of the verandah, and so had fallen
upon his uncovered head and down his face upon
his clasped hands ; and yet surely the rain-drops
would not have been warm ; warm ? — the drops
which fell upon Hugh Brabazon's hands were
scalding hot. Poor Hugh ! He had got over the
roughest part of the new life, but the little glimpse
of the old, which had come to him in his conversation
with his whilom fag, Joey Parsons, and with
his sister's lover, Bertie Le Mesurier, had been
more bitter to him than all the changes he had
yet undergone, and most bitter of all was the

fierce yearning which rising in this heart had forced
that passionate cry from his Quivering hips — '• Oh
Xell, Xell, Xell ! "

Chapter II.

Two years had passed away, and Hugh Brabazon
was still in the Scarlet Lancers, not as private, but
as Sergeant Brown.

During that period of time many changes had
taken place in the regiment. Sergeant-major Green.
M.A., had resumed his own honourable name as a
commissioned officer, and his jDlace had been taken
by the son of the major-general, who, if wild, was
a first-rate soldier. Bertie Le Mesurier had gone
back to society, as Sir Bertram, some months before
the brilliant August days on which I take up the
threads of my story ; and if there was no Gwen
Brabazon down in the old Devonshire house, there
was an Honourable Lady Le Mesurier to be found
at a certain Elizabethan mansion, styled Best Courts
who bore a strong resemblance to that very
beautiful young lady, and Who frequently wrote
to Hugh as '" your very loving sister"" The son
of the " dignitary " was doing as well as might
reasonably be expected, considering his training,
which must have been on the principle of " the shoemaker's

missis going the worst shod." Eddie
Lloyd the' had left behind them at Liliminster, in
his quiet grave, and Hugh was advanced to the
dignity of sergeant. Such were some of the changes
which two years had Wrought in the " gentlemen's
troop " of the Scarlet Lancers.

It was a blazing August afternoon — most people
know what that means, but happily for them, only
a limited portion of the community know what
it means when the words at Aldershot are placed
after it. The sun literally poured down, it teemed,
it shone cats and dogs, if one may be allowed the
expression ; and every living thing in Aldershot
was probably nearer to sunstroke and heat apoplexy
than he or she had ever been in his or her life.
Reader, have yow ever been to Aldershot? Do
you know the bare, bleak, shelterless combination
of flints and grit of Which Aldershot is composed?
For my part, I think Burns was rather out of it
when he described his farm as the " middling o'
creation," he could never have seen Aldershot. I never
knew a soldier yet who did not hate it, and it has
often been a source of marvel to me to determine
how it is that any one can live there from choice,
and there certainly are people Who do so.

The Scarlet Lancers were in barracks — not camp —
and on that particular afternoon Sergeant Hugh Brown

was very busy helping Sergeant-major Todd — otherwise
Geoffrey, eldest son of Major-general Colquhoun,
Tac., Cab. — to do nothing. Each was in possession
of a door-post of the sergeants' mess, that being the
only spot where anything approaching to a draught
of air was obtainable. Within the long room various
bundles of scarlet and gold lace were lying about in
more or less advanced stages of the two complaints I
have just mentioned, which, as the heat of the day
wore off, might end in nothing, or in the hospital and
the " Dead March in Saul."

Awfully hot," murmured Hugh, sending out great
clouds of smoke from a well-coloured meerschaum,
and thereby making himself very much hotter.

Beastly hole, Aldershot," returned the other ;
and I'll be shot if there are not some tourists
coming to look round. Fancy any one sufficiently
idiotic to come to Aldershot for a 'airing!' Why,
town must be cool to this."

Hugh turned his head in the direction his friend
had indicated.

Mr. Sabretasche,"' he exclaimed, in disgusted
tones ; " Mr. Sabretasche and ladies. Hi ! you
fellows," putting his head inside the room ; "here's
Mr. Sabretasche bringing some ladies round the
barracks."

The several bundles of scarlet and cold, struggled

up from their various recumbent attitudes, and there
was a general buttoning of jackets and straightening
of ruffled locks.

"Mr. Sabretasche might know better, on a day
like this," one growled, with a great sigh, as the last
button slipped into it's place.

Hugh took no notice — he was too lazy, and the
weather was too sultry to admit of argument with
any one. He straightened himself once more against
the door-post, and thanked Heaven it was Mr,
Sabretasche and not himself who was making the
round of the barracks.

Can Ave come in, Sergeant Brown ? " said Mr.
Sabretasche, at his elbow.

Certainly, sir," Hugh answered, With a boat for
the little lad', Who never Avould, under any circumstances,
pass him without recognition, and avIio persisted
in calling him " Mr. — Browne

o

Good day, ma'am."

Good afternoon, Mr. — Brown," she returned, " is
it not Avarm ? Too Avarm for sight-seeing, is it not ?
But Ave have a lady staying With us, Who has never
been in a barrack in her life, so Ave braved the heat."

Hugh was about to make some courteous rejoinder,
Avhen he looked past Mrs. Sabretasche at the face of
her visitor, visible for the first time, since, as yet, she
lead carried a large Avhite sunshade. For one moment

Ids heart seemed to stand still — then it went hurrying
on again in such fierce throbs that his brain was in a
whirl, and he felt as if he must fall. By a mighty
efibrt he controlled himself, and bent courteously
down to the little wife of his officer.

It is very hot ! Will you not rest here awhile,,
ma'am ? '' he said.

If he desired and intended to meet Mrs. 's
ofuest without recognition and as a stranger,
she did not fall in with his views. On the contrary,,
she went a step nearer to him, and laid her two little
hands on the gold embroidery of his sleeve.

Oh, Hugh ! " she said, in a piteous voice.

Sergeant Brown moved a step away from her, and
the little hands fell to her side again.

Why, Nell I " cried Mrs. Sabretasche, in surprise.

What are you doing here ? " the girl called Xell
asked, blankly.

"This is the sergeants' mess, ma'am," Hugh replied,
coldly ; " and I being a sergeant — Sergeant Brown,
at your service — live here."

"You — live — here'' the girl echoed. She looked
around her with eyes Avliich saw no comfort, no
beauty in the room, which was, in truth, both comfortable
and pretty. She took in every detail : the
long table with its green cover, the prints, and one or
two water-colours on the walls, the pair of silver

cups, the various presents given by sergeants who
had left, either as officers, or to go back to their
own position, at the vase of flowers on the side
table — it was really a very pretty room, but she
saw in it only misery, discomfort, and ugliness,.
and elevated a nose already inclined that way by
nature. " You, Hugh Brabazon — live — here ? " she
repeated.

Sergeant Brown, if you please, ma'am," Hugh
said, by way of correction.

Don't tell me," she cried, imperatively. " Do
you think I do not knows yon?"

"It would be more kind, then, to pass me," he
said in a low voice.

"I will not pass 3'ou. What have I done that
I should not speak to you P "

It is what I have done," he answered.

At this point, Mrs. Sabretasche betook herself
into the billiard room, whither her husband and
the other members of the sergeants' mess had gone.
JSTell, perceiving that they were now alone, put her
hands on Hug-h's arm ao-ain, and, as the wall was
behind him, he could not escape; in fact, the tall
man was at the little woman's mercy.

'what have you done?" she asked — then in
sudden alarm, 'not gut married, surely, Hugh?"

"Married," he repeated, scornfully, "to whom'"

Oh ! well, I didn't know. One never knows
what may or may not have happened. I can't say
I should have been surprised, after the horrid Avay
you treated me."

Xell I " he said, reproach idly.

Oh, you may say ' Xell I ' as hard as you like."
She laughed — a suspicious laugh it was, for there
was a sound of tears in it, and there were glistening
drops in her soft eyes. " Pray, since we
cannot stay talking much longer in a sergeants
are you coming to call upon me whilst I
am with the Sabretasches?"

My dear child — I am Sergeant Brown, and your
host is Lieutenant Sabretasche," he answered. "Do
be reasonable — it is not likely I can be on visiting
terms with them."

"Cannot you come for once as Hugh Brabazon?"
she asked.

"It is impossible. Here I am only Sergeant
Brown."

Just then Bob Sabretasche came out of the
billiard room, followed by his wife.

Brabazon," he said, simply, " will you come to
my house, as soon as you can this evening ? "

Hugh looked down upon his uniform and
hesitated.

Xever mind that. I'll send Jinks out," said

Bob ; " I'm sure you and Lady Helen are dying
to — to — talk old times over."

I am, I frankly admit it," said Lady Helen, with
saucy coolness; "but my opinion is that Mr.
Brabazon wishes to shirk the acquaintance."

Yes, do come," supplemented Mrs. Bob, '• and
I will show you my babies."

"Come 'and show me the rest of the barracks,"
said Helen, in a Whisper so coaxing that Hugh
hardly knew whether he was standing on his head
or his feet. "Do come, Hugh; don't be nasty.
Yes, Mr. Sabretasche, he will come this evening ;
and, in the meantime, he is going to show off the
rest of the barracks to me."

"Very well — come, Lily, let us go on in front,"
Bob answered, with a laugh.

As the two figures passed the windows, Sergeant-major
Todd and another sergeant went to the door
and watched them out of sight — the tall man in
scarlet and gold, and the little woman in scarlet
and white.

"She's a deuced pretty girl," Todd remarked;
I wonder who she is. Seems to have her own
way with Hugh."

She is Lady Helen Fairfax," Smith answered.

"Oh, you know her ? '*

Yes ! She didn't see me, though. Yes, I know

lier : my sister "married her cousin, the earl. Lady
Helen was engaged to Brabazon ever so long ago."

Then you are Harry Tyrrwitt — how well you've
Icept your secret."

Yes," with a laugh ; " but don't let it go any
further."

"Oh, no. So that is Lady Helen Fairfax, is it?
I've often heard of her. I didn't know old Hugh
was spoons on her. How was it they did not marryat
first?"

'' Hugh got into debt and other difficulties, gave
her freedom by letter — and bolted. I didn't know
she cared for him still, or I might have let her know
his whereabouts long since — however, I suppose
it will be all right now."

But later, when Hugh turned up again, he did
not look at all as if it Alas all right ; of a truth, he
was most woefully puzzled. Little Xell, whom he
loved so, had crossed his path once more, and would
not be treated as a stranger. Poor dear little
Nell, who had no money, and ought to marry a
duke at least. The delight of seeing her was still
visible in his brightened eyes and in the tender
smile upon his lips, still with him in the passionate
throbbing of his heart ; and yet — what was he todo?
He was Sergeant Brown and she was an
carl's daughter, as poor as she was proud and

lovely. Even if he left the army, they could not
live upon air.

He spoke to no one, being like a man asleep. Nor

did he rouse out of his reverie until he found him



self in Mrs. Sabretasche's drawing; room, admiring
the younger of her two babies, and — as his quickly
beating pulses told him— once more near Nell
Fairfax.

Bob was not in the room. Mrs. Sabretasche went
the length of weaving a polite fiction about an
important letter, at which Lady Helen had the
audacity to laugh aloud.

We expected you to dinner, Mr. Brabazon,"
said little Mrs. Bob, when the baby-worship was
brought to a close.

Ohj you are very kind," Hugh answered, " but
I couldn't very well come to dinner,"

Why not ?" Xell asked.

"My uniform," he began.

Oil ! we sent Jinks and his wife to the theatre,"
Mrs. Bob laughed, " and the other two servants
brought the dinner in for us. We did capitally,
did we not, Xell ?"

Yes, all but the visitor."

Well, I must take this little lady up to the
nursery Will you excuse me for a few moments,
Mr. Brabazon ? "

Certainly ! " He opened the door for her, and
Xell, watching him, thought that, although he could
not have seen much of ladies during the past three
years, he had lost none of the courtly grace for
which the Brabazons had ever been distinguished.

Xow," she said, as the door closed and he
came back to the window, '• what have you to
say to me P"

I don't know Avhat to say," he answered, drawing
her to him and looking down into her clear eyes.
I think, Nell, you are making it harder for both
of us."

Do you know," she asked, gravely, " what I
think of you ?"

"Xo, how should I?"

I think, when you went off as you did, that
you behaved abominably. Yes, Mr. Hugh Brabazon,
disgracefully, and now you are going to do penance
for your sins. You are, in fact, going to marry
me."

My darling, we cannot live upon nothing," he
expostulated. "You cannot live in barracks, on
a sergeant's pay."

Of course not, you foolish man."

Child, I have no money besides."

But I have ; did you not know it ? Yes, Aunt
AVinny left me eight hundred a-year, with a

recommendation to marry for love, if I could.
Now Mr. Sabretasche, who is quite the most
charming man I know, tells me that in a year or
so you will have your commission. Until then
I shall live ' retired.' Meantime, you are going to
marry me at once."

I won't do it," he said, stoutly.

Oh 3'es you will," she replied, quietly. " If
you don't, do you know what I shall do ? I shall
take lodgings in the town and loaf about the
barrack gates, watching for you : and every time
you appear, I shall cry aloud in heart-rending
accents, 'Will you — will you — will you?' ad
libitum. ''

My darling, you cannot marry a sergeant," he
cried, fighting desperately against himself.

I not only can, but I will," she replied. " Why,
bless the man, I shall not be Mrs. Sergeant Brown,
but Lady Helen Brabazon ; and it may only be fora
few months."

Then why not wait ? "

Because I won't. !Neo, no, no ! I tell you,
I will not go away from Aldershot as Nell Fairfax.
/'// droicn myself first !—t\\Qve !" she laughed. " Oh •'
it will be great fun. I shall have a nice house —
say in Trinity Terrace — and a couple of maids, and
a nice little carriage. Why, we shall be as jolly
VOL n. p

as possible — only, they tell me, you may not live
out of barracks."

And you shall not live in them," he said, with
much determination ; " to that I have made up my
mind."

Oh I then you have made up your mind to do
as I tell you — otherwise?"

'• I suppose so," very reluctantly.

Hugh," she said, suddenly growing grave, " you
do care for me still?"

Oh ! my darling," he exclaimed.

'• As much as ever ? "

'• A thousand times more ! " he cried, passionately ;
never a day that I have not thought of you ; never
a night that I did not see you in my dreams ;
never a church-parade that I did not pray for your
happiness, never mind what my life would be without
J'OU."

Very considerate of you, I'm sure," she remarked,
nodding her head sagely ; "very considerate, ve — ry!
And did you ever wonder if I sometimes thought
about you?"

"Often!"

'• I'm glad of that. I might have been married
heaps of times, but, somehow — I say, Hugh, when
you get your commission, we shall be quite ' swagger '
people : with our two absurd titles, my eight



hundred a-year and your pay — Why Ave shall be

positively affluent."

*****

It Alas less than a year after this, that the following
announcement appeared in the Gazette:

I5tli Lancers. — Sergeant the Honourable Hugh Braliazon to be Sub-lieutenant,
vice "William Muirhead Taste, promoted.

VOL. II.

p ::

OR, AS AVE GO OX.

Sooner or later — it may be sooner or it may be later
but sooner or later, and generally sooner — Ave find our
evil deeds, Avords — nay, even our evil thoughts — come
home to us : Ave get paid out — as ice go on !

My pet theory is that no place of eternal punishment
exists — if one does, our treatment is unfair, fordo
Ave not each and all expiate our sins — as Ave go on ?

If Ave do something Ave knoAV to be Wilfully Avrong,
Why it Avon't be very long before Nemesis comes doAvn
upon us With a crash and makes us Avish Ave had left
that particular thing undone ; if, on the other hand,

Ave err through ignorance or foolishness, N

Stoops doAvn upon us as relentlessly as a music-master's
pencil on the knuckles of his pupil — Ave
rub our knuckles and Avish Ave hadn't done it, but
the pain is there, all the same.

The rule applies equally Avell to every phase of life
from the highly criminal misdemeanours doAvn to
those little flirtations with sin, so slight that one can
hardly tell if they be right or Avrong. It is as universal
as that Ave Avere all born and that Ave shall all

die — the only variation X permits is, that he

sometimes pas's his bills sooner, sometimes later ; bnt
I fancy most of my gentle readers will agree with me
that he does not make a rule of taking long credit.

And not only to us of the present day does the
theory apply — you may look as far back through the
by-gone ages as you will, even to Adam and Eve, a

period when our friend X had only just gone into

business and had had but two customers, and there he
is in full force. In many — nay, in most cases — the
paying out " seems inadequate to the particular evil

deed, word, or thought for Which our friend X

has awarded it : just think of the lengthy punishment
which followed — and faith ! is still following; —
the purloining of that one apple !

There was Lot's Avise — it could hardly have been
agreeable to be turned into a pillar of salt, though
probably she knew but little about it ; and there was

Hagar, Who sniggered at Sarah ! Aye ! but X

.in the shape of Sarah herself, pulled her up sharp
one fine morning, and I wonder how often after that
did Madam Hagar wish she had kept a civil tongue
in her head ? I ^nn afraid that is what a good many
of us wish, besides Hagar, the bondwoman !

Of course, you have read the story of a wise old
gentleman called Merlin, who lived ever so lon^r as'o
so long, that neither you nor I can hx the precise

date — a wise old man, who knew the artfulness of
womankind as well as any wary woman-hating old
bachelor in this, the enlightened nineteenth century :
a wise old man, who knew pretty nearly everything
there was to know. Who, I wonder, would have believed
that he could be such an old fool as to lend an
ear to Vienne's blandishments — an utterly unscrupulous
young person, whom he did not even like, possessed
of a reputation which, like many other things,
would not wash : an adventuress of the most pronounced
type? X did not delay levy long in

presenting Merlin with his account —

Ami in the hollow oak he lay as dead,

And lost to life and use, ami name and fame.

From imaginary history into real is Int a step — as
many a one finds who slips ever so little from the
realms of truth into the region of fiction — and there,
staring us straight in the face, is the history of a
certain king, who stuffed himself with lampreys and

died. In that case X evidently considered a

moderate paying-out of no use. Possibly he had
tried it in the form of indigestion many times before,
and witlKHit much effect, so clinched the matter
by quietly putting His Majesty out of the way of
lampreys for the future.

Out of the pages of history I might go on swelling
my number of proofs (/(/ lib iii dii. There was Elizabeth,

of gracious memory — good Queen Bess ; a bad-tempered
termagant she Alas, gad-zooks ! Every
child knows a story in which Bess, Essex, a countess,
and a ring, played important parts — who, I wonder,
would have been any of them ? There was the
Martyr King ! — what of his promises ? As I
said, one might go on multiplying instances forever,
but that is what I must not do, for my
story is strictly of the present day.

Perhaps in no class of life is my theory so
indisputably apparent as it is in the service. Over

every camp or barrack X keeps an eye, and

careful indeed is he to keep his accounts in strict
order. Xo vestige of a rule may be infringed,
no duty shirked, no ill-temper pass unpunished,
no honour remain unnoticed ; and among the
Scarlet Lancers no longer credit was given than
in any other regiment.

The Scarlet Lancers had been nearly six months
at Liliminster — quarters with which they were very
well satisfied. They had good hunting, good
society, roomy, comfortable barracks, a convenient
hospital, and an excellent cathedral service on
Sunday afternoon. Better than that, there was a
circus — at least, during three months, one had been
settled in the town — a respectable little theatre,
and a subaltern Who bore practical jokes with

the most angelic and lamb-like demeanour. Nay,
I am not by any means sure that Anthony
Geoghegau's disposition might not have ranked
higher than either of the two standards I have
quoted, for I fancy by the end of a month or
so even an angel or a lamb would have rebelled
against the course of treatment he was expected
and, in fact, did undergo. Yes, he might
have taken a very high rank, the first prize,
indeed, if he had gone in for competition at a
patience show, had not a circumstance occurred
which caused a change. Ever* form of practical
joke did he experience that the ingenuity of man
could devise, but at last, after two years of martyrdom
borne in uncomplaining silence, the trodden
worm turned With such a vengeance that the
gentlemen knoAvn as the officers of the Scarlet
Lancers began to think it as well to run up no

more ' ticks ' with X , by means, that is, of

Anthony Geoghegan.

The awful change came about in this wise.
Like many Irishmen, Anthony was of a fair-haii'ed^
blue-eyed type, a tall strong man, much given to
laughing, and scarcely seeming to possess a temper
at all. He was fairly well ofi', had no debts, and
was not a little sick of barrack life and broken
rest. So he fell over head and ears in love, and

announced to his disgusted comrades that he was
going to be married. The Scarlet Lancers were
bitterly taken aback.

"Tony going to be married!" enchained
Choke, when Tony had departed, after making
the announcement. "Oh! that's the very devil"

"Make the most of him whilst Ave have got him,"
suggested Hartog.

"Who's the girl?" asked Joey Parsons.

'• Miss Linden," returned Bob Sabretasche, " her
father was Colonel of the coeli Hussars. Awfully
nice girl, but I fancy rather a sharp temper."

A comprehensive "Ah!" came from the lips of
the several officers assembled, and in the mind of
more than one an idea suggested itself that out
of Miss Laden's sharp temper not a little fuu
might be had. Whilst they were still talking
over Tony's engagement, he passed the windows of
the mess-room, apparently with the intention of
going into the town.

Hollo, Tony ! " shouted Hartog, throwing up the
window beside which he was standing.

Yes," was shouted back.

Do you dine here to-night?"

Xo — concert in town," Alas the answer.

An idea has occurred to me," said Hartog,
shutting; the window. " Tone is n-oinc: to dine in

town — with Mrs. and Miss Linden, of course — afterwards
going to a concert."

Yes," said the others, crowding round him.

"Dundas five minutes ago got out of a hansom
with his gun and eight or ten brace of young rooks
danirhnQ: to a strings."

"Well?" they cried, impatiently.

Well ! " Hartog laughed ; '" Tony's man will
lay his things out early of course, and whilst he
is at his tea we will place the young rooks — bless
'em — in connection with Tony's dress clothes, and
then, in all probability, we shall have considerable
diversion at the concert this evening."

"I don't see the joke," said Joey Parsons, at which
three or four of the others laughed again.

That's because you are a Cockney, my child,"
Hartog laughed. "But just try the experiment of
shaking few vouno- rooks over your own clothes,
and you'll very soon find yourself in the plight our
young lover Avill be in to-night."

Xot fleas ? " Joey ejaculated. " Oh I I think that
Avill be rather beyond a joke — Averse no business to
worry the girl."

"The girl had no business to hook one of our best
men," one growled in reply. " We shall never get
another Tony."

All unknowing of the plot against him, Anthony

Geogliegan riislied into barracks at the very last
minute to dress, and without going into the mess-room
jumped into a cab and drove off to his Jja7}cees
domicile. Before he had got half way there Tony
was woefully uncomfortable. Thei had found their
way to his skin and were biting as if they had fasted
for a month. Probably they found Tony better
supplied with blood than the young rooks had
been.

Ugh ! dash it," muttered Tony to the cushions of
the dilapidated cab, " I must have got a flea."

A flea — dozens if he only knew it, but he didn't.
He shook himself like a Newfoundland dog just out
of the water, but, although perhaps he momentarily
displaced them at their operations, they returned to
the charge With more fury than ever, and Tony went
into his lady-love's presence in as uncomfortable ca
state as ever any lover was in. Uncomfortable ! — he
Alas undergoing torture!

Miss Linden was alone in the drawing-room. Such
a pretty girl, sharp as any hawk, with brilliant hazel
eyes, nut-brown hair, and a complexion like cream,
with just a dash of pink across the cheeks ; a lovely
girl, and at the sight of her Anthony Geoghegan forgot
his bodily discomfort for a moment, and took her
in his arms and kissed her.

You have not been very loose said, smiling

up at him. " Mother is not yet ready."

"I'm hid of that — ersche!" with a great jump
and a mental ejaculation of "Lord, how the devils do
bite."

"What's the matter? " said Evelyn.

"Nothing, darling, just a twinge here, that was
all," laying his hand on his left side.

Your heart is not affected, Anthony ? " she said,
in sudden alarm.

"Xo, no, a mere stitch — ersche."

Anthony, it is there still," she cried.

Another mental ejaculation of " yes, dash it — it's
there safe enough."

Suppose you give me a kiss — that will cure me
safe enough," he suggested.

Miss Linden was not averse to the cure he proposed,
and put her arms round his neck very
affectionately — her arms were very pretty, Tony
particularly noticed that, and her throat and
bosom Avere as white as snow.

What a pretty dress that is, Evelyn," he remarked.
"I've not seen you wear it before."

Xo ; I'm glad you like it, dear. Do you think
this colour suits me?" she asked.

I believe there are two," returned Tony, absently.

"What?" said Evelyn, opening her brilliant eyes
very wide. "Two Achates

— , I believe I was tliinkinor about something
lie stammered, reddening a little. " Forgive
me, darling, you were speaking about the dress.
Yes ! I like that soft creamy colour very much,
and those quaint yellowish trimmings are charming."

Soon after, Mrs. Linden appeared, and they went
in to dinner. At first Evelyn talked a good deal,
but gradually relapsed into comparative silence,
and Mrs. Linden had all the conversation to herself.


This is dreadful," said Tony to himself ; " I shall
never be able to exist through the concert."

He Avatched his fiancee furtively, and presently
noticed an uneasy movement of one shoulder, and
saw one little hand steal up the sleeve of her
gown.

She's got one," he thought ; " there must have
been ever so many."

However, at last the repast was ended ; and after
a cup of coffee, they betook themselves in a cab
to the concert room: Mrs. and Miss Linden, of course,
occupying the back seat. That fatal drive ! Xo
sooner did Mrs. Linden, avIio was a lady of
ample proportions, get settled in her chair, than
she whispered to her daughter, who sat between
her and Tony —

"My dear. Eve got a flea about me."

So have I," returned Evelyn, tragically ; " I
believe I have got two."

Then she had to listen to a tender little speech
from Tony — he had a lull just then — but as soon
as she turned her head, Mrs. Linden claimed her
.attention again.

My dear, I shall never be able to stay all the
evening. This thing is driving me crazy. I never
would sit quiet with a flea about me."

"Hus — sh — sh — sh," whispered Evelyn, with a
nervous glance behind her. She just looked aside
in time to see Tony make a vigorous attack upon
one arm ; he had taken the opportunity, whilst
her head was turned, to give his sleeve a good
scrub up and down. He reddened so visibly, that
an unworthy and suspicious thought made its way
into her mind.

Dear me," she reflected, " I've heard Irish people
care dirty, but — " She gave one swift side glance
,at Tony's fair skin and spotless linen, and immediately
went off into a fit of laughter, impossible
to explain, in spite of his entreaties that she should
do so ; but for all that perfectly intelligible to
half-a-dozen pairs of eyes, looking on from the
other side of the room.

Assured of the success of their plan. Jack Hartog
hind his confederates continued the treatment, and

for a fortnight or so the three victims were submitted
by means of poor Tony — to a perfect plague of
fleas.

It is a most extraordinary thing," exclaimed
Mrs. Linden, one evening, after Tony had taken
his departure, and she had been entertaining on a
more lavish scale than usual, " that when Anthony
comes, I seem to have these things worse than
ever. I'm sure it's far too early in the sear for
them. I can't think where they all come from."

It happened that on that very same evening
Tony went back to his room rather earlier than
the mischief-makers expected, and surprised them
cat work with the batch of young rooks, Which daily
fell victims to become the means of discomfort to
three unsuspicious and unoffending people. Tony
entered the room quietly, not from any desire to
creep in unawares, but simply because his thoughts
were occupied and he was therefore walking slowly.
The scene which presented itself was decidedly a
novel one. Found the sofa-bed, with its bearskin
cover, stood five or six officers, and in their midst
Jack Hartog, with the bunch of birds tied on to
the end of a stick. He was shaking and roUinor

O CD

them ujDon the fur rug vigorously, amidst roars of
laughter from the entire assembly.

What the devil are you doing ? " exclaimed

Tony, in very genuine and open-mouthed astonishment.


The group confronted him, with a start, but Jack
Hartog turned round coolly, with the stick still in
his hand,

Oh ! it's you, is it, old man ? "What's brought
you back so soon ? "

It's half-past ten," Tony answered. " What on
earth are you doing here, and what the deuce are
those birds for ? "

Birds ! " Jack repeated ; " what birds ? "

Why those young rooks, you've got tied to that
stick, of course," Tony retorted.

Well, the fact is, we were going to put them
into your bed," Hartog said at last, with a great air
of making a clean breast of the matter. " Little
joke, you see, Tony. There, now, don't turn
crusty, old chap. We've let you alone lately, and
we haven't much more time left to plague you in."

The light began to dawn upon Tony's mind. He
crossed the room, and in silence took a pistol from
its case on a side table.

Now," he said, quietly, " you fellows clear out
of my room or, upon my soul, I'll fire. I've found
you out, at last, but take my word for it, you've
played your last joke in this room."

After a faint show of resistance they did leave

the room, Hartog allowing the buds to remain on
the floor. Tony picked them up, slipped them off
the stick, and flung them after the retreating party,
catching Hartog just in the nape of the neck, and,
as Tony said to himself, with a grim laugh, making
him thorough" uncomfortable for the rest of the
night.

He shut the door and locked it, flung the fur rug
from the bed into a remote corner, and sat down
to think. Xow, nine times out of ten, when a manor
woman sits down for the express purpose of
thinking, the matter on hand is of an unpleasant
nature ! So was it with Anthony' Geoghegan. His
thoughts were very bitter, for not an hour previously
Evelyn Linden had spoken to him very
seriously, and asked him to take back his ring and
consider the euCTacrement at an end. Naturally, he
had pressed her to give him some reason, but in
vain. She only repeated that she wished the
engagement at an end.

Tell me you no longer care for me," he said
to her, '• and I'll go away and never trouble you
again''

I cannot marre yoi-b" said Evelyn, evading his
question.

\yhat have I done ? " the poor fellow cried.
"soh ! Evelyn, I would have made you so happy."

VOL. II. Q

OR, AS WE GO OX,

Miss Linden shuddered— yes, positively shuddered,
as Tony particularly noticed.

It is of no use, Mr. Geoghegan, I have not
been happy the Last fortnight, neither has my
mother, and, believe me, it is best at an end."

Until he reached his room her decision had
puzzled him, but the little episode of the rooks had
enlightened him considerably — poor little darling,
she had been eaten alive as he had been. However,
tomorrow he would go and ask her plainly if that
was the cause of his dismissal, and then, surely,
everything would come right.

Unfortunately, he was on duty the next day and
could not get out of barracks, but on the day
following that he hurried to Mrs. Linden's house
and found — the place .shut up.

For a moment Anthony was bewildered — then it
dawned upon him that, after all, the fleas could not
have been the cause of Evelyn's desire to close the
engagement : evidently, she wanted to be rid of
him ; evidently, she cared nothing about him. He
remembered how, on the night of the concert, she had
put her soft white arms round his neck and kissed
him, but it had all been a sham — make-believe love
counterfeit coin !

He never thought of writing to her or of trying
some time in the future to win her woman's heart.

90:

Oil ! no. The Scarlet Lancers had accomplished
their end finely, but the process had left Anthony
Geoghegan with a decided distaste for practical
jokes ; indeed, if the truth be told, he vowed a
mighty vow that his brother officers should get no
more fun out of him.

Xor did they ! During the morning of the
following day a couple of intelligent Workmen
appeared, asking for Mr. Geoghegan. He took
them up to his room, and they spent about a 
measuring the dimensions of the doorway
With a foot-rule.

Going to have an iron door put, Tony ? " was
the careless question of an officer passing.

Oh, no ! " returned Tony, in as careless a tone.

For a week nothing new appeared in Tony's
quarters, but at the end of that period the intelligent
workmen came on the scene again, one carrying
a bass full of tools, the other having a large,
light burden, carefully enveloped in cloths. They
made their way to Tony's room, the door was
closed, and, beyond a little screwing and hammering,
no one could o-uess what was c^oincy on.

Tony himself gave them no opportunity of discovering.
He did not go to dinner until the very
last minute, and dien one Who had waited to
see him leave his room tried the door, it was

VOL. II . Q '2

locked. Evidently there Alas some mystery in
Tony's apartment, but Whatever it Alas, Tony did
not enlighten them He was a little quiet throughout
the meal, but not in the least sulky, and
towards eleven o'clock betook himself to bed, with
a civil "good-nights"'

The conspirators waited half-an-hour or so before
they followed . him, as they had done regularly
every night since he had caught them with the
rooks. They stepped softly along the corridor and
tried the door.

It was open !

Yes ; the handle turned easily and the door
opened. Clarke and Hartog stepped into the room
lighted only by the fire-glow, when '• Hur — r — r
r — ah ! " was their simultaneous cry.
"What is it?" asked those in the rear, pushing
them forward again to meet that invisible enemy,
which once more extracted that shuddering cry
from both of them.

AVhat the deuce is it ? " cried another, pressing
forward. " Oh — h ! Lord, what's that ? "

Galvanism," replied Hartog ; •• but where is it ?
Hi ! get a light, somebody, and let's find out what
and where the confounded thing is."

Clarke fetched a light from his room opposite,
and beheld, if you please, a squire cage, fitting

completely over the door, made of strong brass
wire, and attached to it an electric battery, which
stood on a table by Tony's bed.

Oh, there can't be much strength in that,"
said Hobbs, scornfully, " I'll pull that down in
two minutes."

Try"' returned Hartog, shaking his fingers.

He put his back against it and tried to force the
Vires through, but Tony turned on such a current
of electricity that the youthful Hercules fell to the
ground in something very much like a swoon.

"Oh! hang it, Tony, don't kill the poor chap ! "
exclaimed Harrogate

the poor chap out of my room, then,"
returned Tony from under the bed-clothes, " and
don't trouble yourselves to come drawing me anymore.
I am perfectly sick of it, and, bead, I
won't have any more of it ; " after which, he rolled
himself afresh in the bed-clothes, and refused to
utter another word.

And that was all about it ! The denouement is
awfully flat, is it not ? Yet, Avhen a thing comes
to an utter and complete close, one can make
neither more nor less of it.

So the officers of the Scarlet Lancers felt
fiat — very I It Alas no use attempting anymore
fun Avitli Tony. They betray to Avish his

engagement had gone on, for it would have been
better to have lost him altogether than to have
had that tantalizing birdie inside that impregnable
electric cage. And Tony Alas so wonderfully good-tempered
about it, too ; if he would only have
sulked, or been disagreeable, it would not have

been half so bad. Ah I X had taken a novel

way of paying off old scores that time.

And Evelyn Linden — what of her ? She and
her mother remained some months away from
Liliminster, on an allowance of so much a week

from X . His coinage was varied — bitter tears,

sad sighs, sleepless nights, yearnings, longings, regrets.
Poor Evelyn !

It was not long after their return home that
Joey Parsons, in a burst of confidence, told her
all about the plot of the rooks and the electric
cage. She said very little ; but when the good-natured
young soldier had gone, she wept — tears

so bitter, that X relented and put an idea into

her mind to write Tony a note, asking him to
call on her. She sent it by the man-servant, expecting
he might perhaps come the next day, but
within an hour he appeared — Hushed with expectation
and hope.

Oh ! Tony," she cried, springing from her seat ;
and Tone kissed her .

OR. HOW JACK IIARTOG WAS slade A FREEMASON.

Chapter I.
Take my advice, Jack," said old General Hartog
to his son, when he joined the Scarlet Lancers,
never be surprised at anything. Take everything
as a matter of course, and if the laugh happens
to turn against yourself — laugh harder than any
of em."

Very well, sir," said Jack, cheerfully.

And remember this, if — and of course they
will — if they attempt to hoax you, always let them
play the game out, before you show them you are
not such a fool as you look."

I suppose I do look a fool," said Jack, rather
ruefully, stealing a glance at himself in the glass
opposite.

'• Well, my dear lad, you're an uncommon hue
fellow, there's no doubt about it," the old soldier
answered, eyeing his son's six feet of splendid manhood
proudly ; " but men who don't manage to
get into the army before one-and-twenty — and then
do it by the back door, otherwise the militia —

can't be said to be particularly distinguished in
the brain line."

"Xo, I daresay not," returned Jack, carelessly.
Well, never mind, sir, I'm a first-rate shot, good
cross country, A-1 at lawn tennis, and a very decent
hand at whist ; and if there's any lighting, I'll let
them see that I'm worthy of my name — see if I
don't."

I don't fear but that you'll do that, Jack,"
said the old man, with something like a mist
gathering before his keen blue eyes. "I need not
have said anything nasty about the back-door,
I might have remembered there were no examinations
in my time."

Oh ! never mind," cried Jack, lightly.

He was not thin-skinned concerning his mental
accomplishments ; did any one of his own standing
chaff him about past failures, he would quote
coolly —

Xo, I garnet speak Frenss an' I garnet speak
German, but I tan puss your 'ed"'

A speech Which, with the addition of a certain
swacro-erincj feature of his strong" rio-ht hand and
arm, generally had the effect of diverting the current
of the conversation into widely different channels.

A few days later this handsome, swaggering
young fool left the paternal mansion for the quarters

of the Scarlet Lancers, just then at Blankhampton,
Adhere, as is not invariably the case, he met with
a cordial reception. His brother officers " took "
to him. He was very goodly to look upon, for
he had a nice, fresh, fair face, with blue smiling
eyes and a pleasant mouth, disclosing good even
teeth ; he was tall and straight, too, with firm,
strong, graceful limbs, and an inexhaustible fund of
good humour. They all declared he was " awfully"
good tempered. Their most trying jokes he bore
with blissful good nature ; which, though it perhaps
took a little from the zest of their amusement, decidedly
won their admiration and esteem. When
they amused themselves by smashing his furniture,
he set to work and smashed with the best or the
Avorst of them.

Do you think I'm going to see my things
smashed and have none of the fun ? " he demanded,
coolly.

When he found every coat, tunic and jacket he
possessed carefully scavu as to arm-holes and pockets,
instead of flying into a rage, as they expected, he
sat down on his bed, and cried "Splendid!" And
when they got into his room one night, when there
had been a big mess, and cropped his fair curly
hair like a convict or a Frenchman, he sold them
all by going into raptures of admiration over his

appearance every time he came within sight of a
mirror. After that they left him alone ; they said
it was no use chaffing such a fool.

If Jack had quietly allowed matters to remain
there, I need never have written this history ; but
unfortunately, from his youth up, he had been
impressed with an idea that the inner life of a
cavalry regiment is absolute Pandemonium. ^""o
doubt in the general's younger days it was so ;
for his stories so far threw the doings and misdoings
of the Scarlet Lancers into the shade, that his son,
so far from ]perceiving that they were tired of playing
their practical jokes upon him, only imagined the
calm preceded, instead of succeeded, the storm. He
was, therefore, more closely on the look-out for chaff
than ever ; and bearing in mind that he was always
to let them play their game out, before he shewed
the extent of his wisdom, expressed no surprise
on hearing that there were a good many Freemasons
in the regiment, and that they had a lodge of their
own.

He simply did not believe it ! He had never
heard of anything of the kind from his father, and
imagined in the casual mention of the institution
that a deep-laid plan was brewing for his especial
delectation.

'' I suppose you are not a Mason, Hartog ? *' said

the major, one evening after mess, a few days after
Jack had first heard of the lodge.

No, sir — wish I was," said he, with apparent
innocence, though he was ready to burst with
laughter.

"Do you? Oh! there is no difficulty about the
matter. There is no lodge here in Blankhampton,
and a good many are glad of the opportunity of
joining ours. I fancy when we leave they will form
one. We have a lodge to-night, shall I propose
you ?"

If you please, sir," said Jack, cheerfully.

"I encourage soldiers to join — though, as you probably
know, we are not allowed to invite persons
to join our body — I always encourage any desire
to do so. A soldier never knows to what part
of the world he may not be sent at an hour's notice ;
and if he is a Freemason he will always find a lodge
open to him, or brother Masons to hold out the hand
of fellowship to him."

"Exactly," said Jack, rather hazily.

Perhaps, Scot, you will second him ? " the
major said, turning to a grizzled old captain on
his right.

To be sure, major," with a merry twinkle in
his hard blue-grey eyes — or what seemed so to
Jack.

You're in for it. What a fool you were to
say yes," laughed a subaltern afterwards.

Oh ! I always was a fool — all the Hartosfs
are," returned Jack, with praiseworthy good nature.
I wonder what they do ? Are you one of
'em ? "

Oh, no ! I'm a Catholic."

"Well, what's that got to do with it?"

Priests won't let us have anything t(^ do with
'em. Xever knew what it was to be thankful on
that score before ; slit the major's blarney up
in a moment."

"What do they do?"

Stick you on a red-hot gridiron, and chevy
you round the room with a poker."

Oh ! come nov," incredulously.

"So they say, but of course I can't speak from
experience. By Jove, though, what a fool you whereto
say yes."

•• Well, if they begin any of that stuff on me,
I shall take to my fists," laughed Jack, of course
thinking Jane in the secret also.

I wonder what kind of a jumble they'll make
of it," quoth he to himself that night, as he slowly
undressed. " Of course, their game will be to gull
me enough to make me long to get into a genuine
concern, and get kicked out as a consequence.

Lord! what a joke to tell my old governor; it
beats his yarns hollow."

Chapter II.
By means of moveable furniture, ornaments and
jewels, the members of the Scarlet Lancer Lodge
of Free and Accepted Masons had made a very-pretty
interior. A spare troop-room had been
divided by temporary partitions into the correct
form of an oblong square, vestibule and outer room.
They were necessarily obliged to dispense with the
three grand pillars — the Doric, Ionic and Corinthian ;
but the ceiling was painted in a representation
of a celestial canopy of divers colours. They had
a very handsome floor-covering of moveable par-query
work to represent the mosaic pavement,
the blazing star, and the indented or tessellated
border ; the tracing board, rough and perfect
ashes, were also in due position, and all the other
paraphernalia of skull and cross-bones, coffin, tassels
and the like.

It Alas to this room that Jack Hartog made his
Avay on the evening appointed for his initiation
into the secrets and privileges of Freemasonry. He
was met bv a sergeant, actio; as Steward, who

was waiting in the outer room to prepare him
for entrance. It occurred to him, Avhen the man
explained his duties, that it was scarcely the right
thing to bring a non-commissioned officer into the
working of a practical joke upon a subaltern ;
and for the first time he, like his father, pronounced
the non-purchase system a mistake.

'• It has lowered the tone of the army," said Jack
to himself.

"You'll have to take your jacket off", sir," said
the Steward.

"My jacket ; why?"

It is necessary, sir," was the answer.

Jack shrugged his shoulders, but off came the
jacket. "Any more?"

Your waistcoat also."

Oft' came the embroidered Waistcoat — he began
to wish himself out of the business safely.

You must bare your right arm, sir," the Steward
continued.

I say, they're not going to tattoo me ? " he
asked, apprehensively.

Xo, sir," with an amused laugh. " Xow, undo
your shirt at the throat, and pull up your left
trouser so as to leave the knee bare."

Anything more ? " Jack asked, satirically.

"Oh, yes! slip your right heel out of your boot."

"Well, of all the tom-foolery ! " Jack began, too
hopelessly surprised to be in the least amused.

"And empty your pockets and take sour rings oflV

"Lord bless me!" he ejaculated, blankly.

Hollo ! what's that for ? "' as the sergeant
lifted a rope with a running noose.

To put round your neck — it is technically
called, a cable-tow."

Then let me tell you, you are not song to
2Dut what is technically called a cable-tow round
tiny neck," said Jack, with considerable decision.

"Must be done, sir, if you mean to be initiated
to-night."

"Oh! blow your initiation — and what's that for?"

"To blindfold you."

Ijhndfuld me ! Xot if I know it ! Why, I
might be scalped, before I could say ' Jack
Robinson.' "

Xo fear of that," laughing outright.

Well, all this tom-foolery," glancing down at
his odd figure, " is quite enough, without the
rope or the bandage, and I don't intend to submit
to either of them."

You cannot enter the Lodge without them,"
was the decided reply. " Wait a moment, sir,
and I'll fetch one of the officers out, who will
convince you that it is really necessary."

He went to the door of the Lodge, giving one
distinct rap — so Jack thought, but it was the
Tyler who performed the ceremony — and after an
instant's parley. Captain Scot came out and asked
what was amiss ?

Why, they Avant to put that rope round my
neck," said Jack, indignantly.

Of course."

"And to blindfold me?"

To be sure — the two most absolutely necessary
parts of the ceremony."

"Then I'll be d d if I will," said Jack,

emphatically, sitting down on the chair, and beginning
to straighten his apparel.

"You can do as you like, of course, my dear
chap," said the grizzled captain, good-naturedly ;
but as the colonel and the major are both enthusiastic
Masons, and as the major has proposed
5'ou himself you will seriously offend them both,
besides making yourself the laughing-stock of the
regiment. They will all say you were too big a
coward to join."

That decided him, and, with a great sigh, he
resigned himself to go on.

Now look here — if there is any red-hot iron
business, I shall kill the first man I get hold of,"
he said, as his senior left him.

All right," with n laugh.

Xow, sir," said the Steward, leading him to
the door.

It-was as well that he was in ignorance of the
pointed sword held to his breast as he walked,
or he would probably have turned tail, in spite
of that significant hint about making himself the
lauo:hin2;-stock of the regiment.

There was a moment's parley between the Steward
and the Tyler ; then the latter gave three distinct
knocks. This was followed by a rap-from within,
the signal of alarm, and, after a slight pause, a
voice asked,

Who is there ? "

"A poor candidate is in a state of darkness,"
answered the Steward, " who comes of his own
free will and accord, and also properly prepared,
humbly soliciting to be admitted to the mysteries
and privileges of Freemasonry."

(draw it mild," put in Jack, sotto voce.
"Be serious, sir, it is a grave business," exclaimed
the Steward, earnestly.)

How does he hope to obtain these privileges?"
asked the Inner Guard.

"By the help of God and the tongue of good
report."

Halt, till I make due report."

VOL. II R

Then there was a repetition within concerning
the poor candidate in a state of darkness, during
Which Jack resigned himself to the inevitable, with
a murmured protest on the utter profanity of the
proceedings.

"And I don't go in for being saintly myself,"
he ended.

You'll get into serious trouble if you are not
quiet," came in a warning whisper from his guide.

Then the door was Hung wide open that they
might enters it closed behind him, and retreat
was effectually cut off.

Chaster III.
It was about two hours later that Jack Arrogance
more clothed in his mess-dress, went into
the mess-room, where those who had dined at the
late dinner still lingered. He was hailed with a
shout of laughter and " Xow then, brother, how
did you get on?"

"Frightened you out of your wits, hey?"
Have a glass of champagne, my boy," and the
like.

Jack seated himself and made a grave survey
of the faces assembled round the table.

I don't go in for being straight-laced," he remarked,
deliberately, " I wasn't brought up in that
way ; but upon my word, they went beyond a joke
to-night."

"What did they do, Jack? What's it like ?
Did the' stick you on the gridiron."

Xot a bit of it ! Xever heard of a tamer sell
in my life."

"Well, what did they do?"

The' just made a fool of me," said Jack, ruefully.


Impossible, Jack ! that was already accomplished,"
laughed one.

But Avhat did they do ? come tell us," cried
another.

Well, first they undressed me."

Undressed you ! " with a great yell of laughter.

Very nearly : I had to take off my jacket
and Waistcoat, empty my pockets and pull off my
rings, my shirt was undone at the throat, my right
arm and my left knee bare, and my right heel
pulled out of my boot. Then they stuck a rope
round my neck and a bandage over my eyes —
under which, all the same, after a little judicious
frowning and wrinkling of my nose, I could see
beautifully. "

"Yes, what then?"

VOL. n. R 2

Oh ! a lot of blarney about a poor candidate
in a state of darkness begging for light, and all
that rot. Oh ! it vas splendidly got up, only the
ceremony was awful trash ; any fool could have
seen through it in a moment."

"Why, Hartog, you don't think it was a joke —
a trick ? " said one of the listeners, suddenly perceiving
the truth.

Of course it Alas ; never heard such twaddle
in the whole course of my life."

My dear chap, it was the real thing," Kerr
asserted.

"Oh, yes! no doubt," With a knowing laugh.
"You're all in the joke, and think you'll be able
to gull me into trying to get into a real Freemasons'
club, and get kicked out. Ah! but I aunt quite
such a fool as I look."

Hartog, I assure you there is no joke at all
about it," he persisted.

Well, now look here," said Jack, " I've an
uncle, who's ever such a great swell in the lodge
the Prince of Wales belongs to, and I've often
tried to get the secrets and things out of him ;
though of course I never could. Whenever I chaff
him about Freemasonry, he invariably turns as
solemn as you please, and says it is a very impressive
and grave ritual, requiring a great deal

of thought and care to understand and get proficient
in. He couldn't say that of all the humbug
and tom-foolery that went on to-night. Wh}^ everyone
knows that the Freemasons' signs and secrets
are awfully difficult to learn, and this was Avhat
they showed me to-night — that's the first sign,"
making, as he spoke, the sign of an entered apprentice.


One of his hearers rather recoiled. " Don't do
that again, Jack, it's so horribly suggestive — particularly
With knives about. Ugh ! it gives one the
shivers."

Well, that was it — the first. Xo, I'm Avrong,
the first was a kind of goose-step ; then that ;
then the grip, which " — holding out his hand for
any of them to take — " was just that and nothing
more. As if I was such a fool as to swallow
all that."

Did you swear much. Jack ? " some one asked.

(3h ! no end — on my knees too — most profane,
I consider it. Yes, on my knees, with my right hand
on the Bible, aid holding one point of the compasses
to my heart, so. Well, I cannot say what I did not
swear, all sorts of impossible things. There was
something about cutting my throat, and tearing my
tongue out by the roots, and burying my body in
sand of the sea at low water mark."

What ! Burying yourself ? " cried a laughing
voice.

Jack looked puzzled for a moment. " No, I
suppose they were to bury me," he replied ; " and,
between you and me, gentlemen, I am thoroughly
ashamed of having had any part in the affair. I don't
go in for. being saintly, as I told you, I wasn't brought
up in that way, but I have some respect for sacred
tidings, and I don't approve of bringing the Bible
and the name of the Almighty into practical jokes,
and I'm very much surprised at a man of the
major's age for doing so."

Well, don't let him hear you say so, that's all,"
laughed Lucian.

Hartog, it is not a joke," repeated Kerr, emphatically,
for the third time.

Kerr, it was a joke," returned Jack, with equal
emphasis. "I tell you there was something about
that chap that Meas after Euth — I forget his name —
and what could he possibly have to do with Freemasonry
P "

Oh ! that was " began Lucian, then broke off'

short, for in the doorway leading from the anteroom
stood the major himself, looking straight at
Hartog, with a face of thunder.

Lucian's sudden stop and look of blank dismay
caused every head to turn that way, and a hush, as

of death, fell upon the excited group. In an instant
Jack realised the truth ! For the first time in his
life he knew what a sensation of sickening fear
meant — he could not think or speak, he Alas
conscious of nothing but that those terrible cold

o

eyes were fixed upon him, and that he had made a
mistake which would probably wreck his whole
life.

Amid that death-like silence Major Bernard
advanced into the room, and laid his hand upon
the back of a vacant chair at the head of the
table, his cold eyes — like the flash of steel, several
of them thought —-were still fixed upon Jack's fast-whitening
face.

At last he spoke — not loudly, but in the suppressed
voice of a man utterly possessed by a
storm of intense passion.

"Well, sir," he said, at length, in accents of
cutting scorn, " you are a credit— to— your regiment
a cried — it — sir."

Jack spoke no word — only his widely-opened
blue eyes remained fixed upon his superior's, with
a fascination piteous to behold.

You have this evening," the major went on,
in the same terribly low tone, " taken solemn oaths
before God and your fellow men, which you have
broken. Do you know, sir, that you have ruined

A lUXilMEXTAL LODGE.

your life — that you have forfeited your cLaim to
be called a gentleman, and earned the contempt
of every honourable man?"

"I — I thought — " Jack began, piteously, but Major
Bernard cut him short, and continued —

Your evidence would not be accepted in any
court of justice in the world, sir," he said, scornfully,
" do you know that ? "

Jack looked despairingly around, and caught
at the arm of the man next to him, that he might
steady himself. The major went on —

How is it possible that your father's son can
have so little value for his honour, so little respect
for himself, so little respect for a stainless name,
which to honourable men is in itself alone another
term for chivalry and valour, I cannot imagine.
Have you no notion of the value of your Avord?
Have you no respect for your solemn oath ? "

Again he tried to speak, but this time his
trembling lips refused their office, and the sound
died away in his throat. Only he held Kerr's
arm with a harder grip, and his blue eyes remained
fixed on his major's f^ice, as they had done from
the beginning, while in his brain and heart one
question was repeating itself over and over again,
"What will the general say?"

"All I have to say is," said the major, "that

3'0ii will be formally expelled from the b(3dy of
Freemasons, and that my private acquaintance Avitli
you is, from this day, at an end. I have done."

He turned on his heel, as if to leave the room,
but Jack suddenly loosed his hold of Kerr's arm,
and with one despairing look at the major,
staggered out. As the door crashed behind him
Major Bernard turned back to those standing about
the table.

I suppose, gentlemen, he has told you everything
? " he asked.

Everything," replied one or two voices.

He was once more turning away, but Kerr
stopped him.

Wait a moment, sir," he said, hastily, " I
must give you some explanation of this, since
Hartog seemed unable to do so. He really believed
the whole affair was an elaborate practical
joke. I have been trying to convince him that
such was not the case, ever since he came in here.
Is it not so ? " appealing to the others.

Yes — certainly."

A joke ! " echoed the senior, indignantly, " I
play a joke upon him — a lad like that — or, indeed,
upon any one. He must be a fool."

I don't think he is particularly clever, sir,"
Kerr answered, " and as for what he told us, it

didn't amount to much, for we couldn't make head
or tail of it — neither for the matter of that did
he seem able to do. I think you may trust him
to divulge nothing further, and you have our word
that what he has disclosed is safe with us. Is it
not so P " turning to the others once more.

Oh, yes — yes, of course!" they all cried.

But the major was not thus easily to be mollified.

Utterly without principle," he muttered, grimly.
Hollo ! What's that ? "

That was the sound of a pistol-shot, followed by
a heavy fall on the floor above.

"Good God! the young idiot has shot himself!"
cried Kerr, pushing the major unceremoniously
aside. He ran along the verandah and dashed up
the stairs of the quarters adjoining, just as a
trooper's rough voice rang out vigorously for help.
The adjutant's wife ran out of her rooms on the
same floor, and several officers and servants followed
Kerr, who forced the door open with one shove
of his strong shoulder, to find Hartog lying on the
floor, bleeding profusely from a wound in the
shoulder.

I was in his room when he come up," said
the servant, as they turned him over. " He told
me to go out, and I seed something was up — I
heard the click of the pistol, and I must just have

tried to bang the door in as he took aim, and
startled him."

Hollo ! what's this ? " exclaimed the old surgeon-major,
entering.

"It's your damned Freemason tom-foolery ! " returned
Kerr, savagely. " Is he much hurt ? " in a
gentler tone.

Iso, no, nasty flesh wound through the shoulder
have him off the sick-list in a fortnight. Xow
clear out, all of you ; Mrs. Gray Avill stay with me,
and Ford, you stop ; all the rest, clear out — we can
do better without you."

They went back to the mess-room, where they
found the major, very white and grave, and withall
the anger and sternness faded from his face.

How is he, not dangerously hurt, I hope ? "

The intense anxiety in his tones rather touched
Kerr, who had mentally determined as he descended
the stairs to make out the worst possible case, and
give him as great a fright as he could.

Moore seems to think the danger lies in possible
contraction of the muscles," he answered, " the ball
has gone clean through the top part of the shoulder."

There is only one way in which iiis life can be
saved from ruin," said a young officer, coming
forward, " and that is for us all to get made Masons
at once."

You are right ; I had thought of it," Major
Jieriiard answered. " It is not customary — indeed
it is forbidden that we should invite others to join
our body, but I have the greatest respect for his
father — a braver soldier and a truer gentleman
does not live — and I had already determined to
ask you, who have heard his folly to-night, to save
him from further trouble concerning it."

I shall be very glad," said Kerr, without hesitation.


And I — and I," in a chorus from the others.

And what about Jane — he is a Catholic ^ "
asked Major Bernard.

I have been sitting with Wynne all the evening,
major. I only ran out when I heard the pistol-shot."

That is all right," in a relieved tone ; " oh, here
is Moore. Hoav is the patient ? "

Conscious again, and crying on Mrs. Gray's
shoulder like a baby. AYhat a nice little woman
side is. I say, what was the matter? — a quarrel?"

"Oh, no — only a mistake," said the major, who,
now that this anger was gone, did not care to
further publish Jack's misdoings. " Perhaps, Kerr,
you will go up and set his mind at rest. I will
come and see him in the morning. For the rest,
gentlemen, I need not ask your silence and your
forbearance."

"Xo, major, no — certainly not."

And the request comes Avitli a good grace
from you"' o-rowlcd Kerr, as the door closed behind
him.

Poor Jack wasn't far out of it," remarked
Lucian, when the still angry Kerr had betaken
himself to comfort poor crest-hillel Jack upstairs,
it must be a precious tom-foolery business. They
won't get me there a second time, I can tell
you."

Poor old Jack," how the major did slang him,"
laughed another. " I say, what was that about
Euth?"

It wasn't Euth," returned Lucian, " it was Boaz."

Chapter I.
He was alone ; a handsome, grey-eyed, sunburnt
man, in a fairly-comfortable room. I am not going
to describe it ; only so far as to say that the
chair in which he sat was a very big one, and
that the hire. to which his long legs were stretched,
blazed half-away up the chimney, though it was
but the beginning of October.

Oh ! confound — tTcr/y-thing," he observed disconsolately
to the walls, or maybe the fire, and
clasping his hands at the back of his smooth
sunshiny head. '• I don't knoAv what to do. I'll
be hanged if I know what to do. Poor little
Pussey, how her face did cut me up. I can't get
it out of my head ; nor the widow's either, for that
matter. Poor little Pussey I and yet I can't help
myself."

lie upheaved himself from the depths of the
big chair — a fine fellow, nearly six feet in height,
with clean active limbs and a perplexed handsome
face ; grey as to the eyes, and fair, if a good deal
.sunburnt, as to the complexion; just the man everyone

calls " Charlie " on the very slightest provocation.
As he marched about the little room, his long
legs sadly inconvenienced by its narrow confines,
the door opened, after a knock from sturdy knuckles,
and a lancer in the usual cavalry soldier's deshabille
of unbuttoned jacket and his cap at the very back
of his head, entered, carrying carefully a small
parcel, a pair of newly varnished boots and a
sword.

What's that, Fraser ? " the officer asked, wheeling
round.

Parcel, sure ! " returned Fraser — not his regular
servant, who was on sick-leave.

Opened, it proved to be a box containing a
bunch of dainty blue forget-me-nots, over Which,
despite Fraser's presence, Charlie Kerr fairly groaned
aloud.

'• Here ! stick 'em into water and get me dressed
for mess — sharp," he said, smothering a second
groan.

"Here's a label on 'em, sure," remarked Fraser,
as he lifted the flowers out of their cotton-wool
covering.

"A label!" taking it impatiently — then read-for
the last time. Good hyeT A moment later the
label was burnt to a cinder, and Kerr had turned
to the toilette-table.

Get me dressed — sharp," he repeated.

There were other flowers in the room besides
the forget-me-nots — a great Indian enamelled tray
tilled with the rarest hot-house exotics and ferns,
waxen camilla, fragrant tuberoses, gardenias, moss-rose
buds, eucharis lilies and many others ; flowers
more fit for the bridal bouquet of a princess than
for the bare-looking room of a cavalry officer.
They had come up from the town but an hour
ago, from the handsome widow, whose face, just
then, filled his heart, together with a little woebegone
countenance belonging to the sender of
the forget-me-nots — Pussey, whose message had been,
'good hide."

'• Well, if this here ain't a rum start," mused
Fraser to himself, trying to fit the message on the
label with the perplexed shadow in his master's
grey clouded eyes — the eyes that the men of the
Scarlet Lancers were wont to declare could see
straight through a stone wall.

He would have thought it a considerable "rummer"
start, if, after he had left the officer alone, he
could have seen him bending over the dainty blue
flowers — irresolution in his heart — a forgotten tenderness
on his tongue — and what were almost like
tears in his grey eyes.

"Poor little Pussey! Shall I go back and make

friends With you again? You'll forgive me, I
know — nobody' '11 ever be as fond of me as you,

and yet " He lifted up his eyes to the brilliant

lot-house blooms, and in one instant all the old
tender pure love had vanished, before a remembrance
■of the newer, stronger passion, for the rich handsome
widow, who had taken his heart captive by
one single france.

"Lord help me! I'm getting more like a drivelling
idiot than anything else," he muttered savagely
between his white teeth, and with another great
groan ; " oh ! but these women do play the very deuce
With one. The poor little Avoman weill get over
it and marry a curate in next to no time. Anyway,
it Wouldn't have done to marry her, feeling
as I do — it wouldn't have been fairly honest.
There's dinner — faugh ! all the sherry and bitters
in the mess won't give me an appetite to-night."

Just then the door of the opposite room was
opened and a young man came forth, singing gaily
to the time of his spurred heels :

Over the hills and far away !

In a village by the sea,
A small sweet rose of a maiden dwells,
Who is dear, so dear to me."

Charlie Kerr flung open his door, with a very
.audible and a very naughty word.

VOL. II. s

What's the matter now'' laughed a voice behind
him.

Oh, I hate fellows who sing ! " Kerr growled,
testily. " Always caterwauling about the place
like a confounded maid-of-all-work."

With loving lips and true grey eves,
I call her my Rose-Marie I
Over the hills and far away,

Dwells my love, my Rose-Marie."

Sang Calvert in front of them.

You're engaged to some girl down in the West,,
ain't you?" Preston laughed.

"No, I'm not," curtly.

But you were," rejoined Preston, prickly, adding
to himself, as Kerr looked stonily at nothing,
"Ho, ho! my friend, so that's where the shoe
pinches, is it?"

Of a certainty the shoe did pinch horribly, though
not quite in the place Preston thought.

I wonder, is there any pinch of a moral kind,
which is not somewhat alleviated by one's dinner ?
Under the influence of gravy soup and salmon the
discomfort of Kerr's pinch subsided considerably ;
an entree of chicken's livers ; and venison, with French
beans, found him at peace (pro tern.) with himself,
the world, and every one else. He had not reached
that age when a mess-dinner becomes a nuisance ;
when a man listens impatiently to oft-told stories,

and looks to the rising of the senior officer as a
blessed relief. He was j^oung and strong, and
handsome, if not possessed of any very great intellectual
powers ; he enjoyed hearing Power tell
how he had " spotted " the prettiest little girl that
afternoon he had seen for a twelve-month, "With
eyes like saucers, I give you mj word of honour ;
and the neatest little pair of steppes in England ; "
how he had promptly tackled her, and been met
with as prompt a "Who are you? I don't know
5'ou ! " How he had taken off his hat, with the
utmost politeness, and explained that his name was
Power, of the Scarlet Lancers ; how the incognita of
the saucer eyes had looked him up and down, and
through and through, until "By gad,'you know, I felt
like some shop-lifter," finally drawling out "Ah!
and a credit you are to the Scarlet Lancers, Pm sure.
Have they all manners as polished as yours ? "

He enjoyed hearing Garnet, the third up the list
of captains, despite his fifty and odd years and his
bald head, groan over the evil fate which had sent
him into the army twenty years too soon, or had
made the abolition of purchase come — so far as he
was concerned — twenty" scars too late.

"Pd be a major-general now, by gad, if Pd never
been under the confounded purchase-system," he was
wont to remark.

VOL. II. s 2

And with "poor old Garnet," as they called lira,
was a tradition of a pert young sub., who had
condoled with him one day somewhat after the
fashion of the comforters of Job — a tradition which
by frequent repetition had. passed into a universal
plaster of comfort, for all the ills which can fall to
the lot of a soldier. "Never you mind. Garnet,"
this youngster had called out, on the occasion of a
troop being bought over the then senior sub's
head ; " never 3'ou mind, Mr. Garnet, sir — you'll
soon be dead, an' then you'll be as well off as any
■of 'em ! "

Garnet had got his troop, and the pert young sub.
had broken his neck at a steeplechase, and his
mother's heart at the same moment, but his comfort
remained a regimental fixture.

It was not Garnet who entertained them on that
particular evening, but the colonel himself, dio,
Avhen once started on certain subjects, was wont to
hold forth until half his listeners Avere asleep. His
most favourite and inexhaustible topic was the end
to which those old women — otherwise the War Office
are supposed, amongst a certain class of officers,
to be bringing the army.

Gad, they'll bring it up to something," he went
on volubly to those in his immediate neighbourhood.
"What is the ]test fad? Norfolk jackets and

gaiters! Xor — folk sac — sets and gai — tears. All I
can say is, the day that sees my men measured
for Norfolk jackets and gaiters sees my papers
sent in likewise."

"Well, but, colonel," Kerr advanced mischievously,
for the sake of argument, " there are a
good many advantages to be urged in defence of
the scheme — there's no denying that."

And what are they ? " explosively.

"Ease and freedom, to begin with."

A good soldier wants neither ease nor freedom,"
retorted the colonel, fiercely.

Faith, sir," put in Graves, laughing, " I often
feel on a field-day as if I'd be thankful for a
little of either."

Oh ! you'' with unconcealed disdain. " I've
no doubt. If ever you come to command a
regiment, you'll do without field-days altogether,
I daresay."

Oh ! I never shall come to that," laughing
again.

For the good of your regiment in futuro, it
is sincerely to be hoped not," Colonel Wilson
retorted.

"Well, but colonel," from Kerr, with a kick
to arrest the attention of his neighbours, " such
a uniform would certainly be cheap."

Cheap, sir ! We don't want cheapness ; it
'woiild simply open the army to a lot of snivelling
vagabonds our present expenses keep out of it,
Non-purchase lets 'em in, and the outfits keep
'em out,"

But, I've another plea to urge," Kerr went
on, wickedly. " Less conspicuous in the field.
There's no getting over that."

"And, bless my soul, why should you try to
get over it," cried the chief, almost bursting
with exasperation. " England always has been
conspicuous in the field, and, please God, England
always will be — not but what she's made a sad
hash of it lately. And whose fault is it? Not the
generals' fault — nor the officers — nor the men,
but those moUy-coddhng stingy old women, who
please to call themselves the authorities! Sending
out one man where ten are needed. Less conspicuous
in the field ! Good heavens ! what
next? Mark my words, the day that sees England's
army clad in Norfolk jackets and gaiters?
will see England's glory go down with a rush
that she will never be able to recover."

"But no army is so conspicuously clad as ours."

"What army has ever been as uniformly
glorious? Do you think I have forgotten, amongst
all these ncAv fads, how a handful of us kept

our ground at Inkerman, against ten times our
numbers of those infernal grey-clad Russian brutes,
that we could hardly distinguish from the grey
mist ; only 1 ,400 of us, and Ave kept our ground six
long hours, until the reinforcements came up and
saved us? What was good enough to lick the
russians in at Inkerman, ought to be good enough
to lick Afo-hans and African savages."

"But you'd have done just as well in your
.shooting-jacket or your morning-coat," Kerr maintained.


I don't know — I don't know at all."

Well, sir, if poor , of the , had been

in undress during that sortie from Caubool,
depend upon it, he would have been spared the
agony of carrying a bullet eight months in his
stomach before it killed him ; his scarlet facings
cost him his life."

Oh ! very likely. An individual case, that.
Would you re-organize the whole army because of
sone case ? Xo, no ; depend upon it, I know rather
more about piratical soldiering than any of you —
or half those duffers up at the War Office, for the
matter of that."

And, remembering the half-dozen medals and
clasps Colonel Wilson displayed on the breast of
his tunic, they were all silent. He had got the

best of the argument. He rose from the table,
with a laugh.

They'll not carry it in my time ; by then they'll
have made me a staff officer, with twenty letters
after my name — D.A.C.G. — a kind of head-cook
to the district, and open to tips from the contractors
; eh, Mordaunt ? " bringing a heavy friendly
hand down on the shoulder of the man nearest to
him.

During the whole harangue Mordaunt had been
half asleep, but on being distinctly addressed roused
himself with a start. " Never you mind, sir,"
pulling himself together, sleepily ; " never you
mind. Colonel Wilson, sir ; you'll soon be dead,
and then you'll be as well off as any of 'em."

Perhaps it was the absence of the usual laugh
that warned him he had put his foot in it —
perhaps it was the boiled-lobster expression on
the chief's astonished face — any way, Mordaunt
suddenly became very wide awake indeed, and
stumbled to his feet, with a stammering apology.

Oh, I beg a thousand pardons, colonel ! I
did not know it was you ; at least, I'm afraid
I must have been half-asleep ; you know, sir,
I've been up three nights."

Colonel Wilson cooled down instantly. " ,
how is Colyon to niirht ? "

"Bad, sir, bad — very. I don't believe he's had
au easy moment the last eight-and-forty hours ;
and really, what with the sitting up, lifting and
moving and rubbing — anything to get a moment's
ease for him — and the field-day — I could pretty
nearly go to sleep as I stand. It's a horrible
business — rheumatic fever,"

Oh, horrible — horrible ! Well, if you are going
to do all this nursing, you must be excused field-days
and duty."

Thank you, sir",

I think, Mr. Graves, you are the next for
duty?"

"Yes, sir."

Nice for you, Graves, you lazy beggar ; you
were going away on Wednesday, Weren't you ? "
laughed Calvert, as the door closed behind the
colonel and Mordaunt.

"Say a swear. Bones," laughed another"'

Nev — ar mind, Bones," put in a third.

"Ah, that poor devil's got rheumatic fever,"
answered Graves. " I couldn't cut up nasty at
sparing Mordaunt to him ; and oh, by gad I if
ever I get rheumatic fever myself, let me have
Mordaunt to look after me."

"Why?"

Never saw anvthiuir like it — rub — rub — rub,

chafe — chafe — chafe, up and down, just Hke a
woman — only ten times as strong. Poor Colyon
yells out if any one else goes near him. I
suppose Mordaunt's caught the knack of it."

Poor old Mordaunt, what a good-natured chap
he is," Kerr put in ; then, beginning to laugh,
*' oh, but it was good his coming out with ' comfort '
to the chief: I thought he was croino- to burst."

No wonder Mordaunt Avent to sleep with that
everlasting jaw — jaw — jaw droning, in his ears,"
laughed Preston.

o

'• And Mordaunt wasn't the only one either,"
added Calvert, 'look at old Garnet."

Kerr jumped up from his seat in a moment;
*' Hus sh ! don't wake him, get the mustard-pot
— quickly."

Where is it ? "

How the deuce should I know ? Ask Farmer."

Stop. I've got a mustard-leaf in my room ;
I'll feet it in a minute. There now, stick it in
water for half-a-minute, and clap it on his
bald head."

So they did ! For full five minutes Garnet
slept serenely on, then he awoke with a yell,
like the war-whoop of a wild Indian.

What a dream," he spluttered, rubbing his eyes.
Eut it wasn't altogether a dream — it continued.

*' What the devil ! — " he began ; then he put his
hand up to his head and found them out. "Why
can't you leave a fellow alone ? "

"And what was the dream, Garnet?" Kerr
asked, Avhen he had recovered his laughter,

"Oh, I dreamed I Alas like the soldier at
Peri," Garnet answered, Wiping his head, gingerly.

And what was he ? "

"Don't you know? A black sheep — and died
and didn't go to Paradise, but the other place.
Less you, in two days back he came for his
blanket — he said it was cold, compared to Perils''

Ha — ha — ha ! you know then what you'll
have to expect," cried Kerr. "Hollo! who's that?
why its Booties ! Well, Booties, old man, when
did you come, and where do you hail from ? "

London — Antwerp — Amsterdam — Norway, &c.,"
returned Booties, concisely. " How are you all ? "

Oh, flourishing," answered Kerr, for everyone ;
^' except Colyon, who's down with rheumatic fever."

Colyon !— very bad ? "

Very bad ; won't get over it, poor chap, Pm
afraid. Well ! have you had good sport ? "

Splendid ! never better."

Picked up any extra good stories ? Garnet here
has just come out with a new one; and oh, such a
joke! The chief's been having an extra jaw tonight

on those ' damned old women up at the
Horse Guards, sir,' and sent Mordaunt off as sound
as a church. Mordaunt's been up three nights with
Colyon. The chief spoke to him suddenly and
he blurted out, ' Xever you mind, sir, you'll soon

be dead, and ' "

" Xo, " cried Booties, with an incredulous laugh.

Fact ; the chief's face was a study, and so, by
Jove, was Mordaunt's, when he got fairly awake !
Well, any news ? "

"Xo; but I came across two splendid ''Arrys'
yesterday."

Go on," cried half-a-dozen voices : Booties was
a favourite story-teller.

One was at Antwerp — at dinner. I found him
in the midst of a group of deferential foreigners,
who probably thought him a lord at least, from
the flash rings on his fingers and the amount of
pomatum on his head. Perhaps they expected to
improve their English — heaven knows. I didn't
hear the beginning, for I was looking at a little
girl over the other side of the table — the smartest
girl I've seen for an age : jolly dark hair and
eyes, and a regular English figure; all said and
done, English girls "

"But, 'Arry — get on," impatiently from Calvert.

Oh, yes, to be sure. Well, 'Arry, leaning his

elbows on the table, with graceful negligence, caught
my attention with, ' Ah ! the last time I was outside
of a 'horse I got short ors, and the 'horse 'e must
'ave known 'is way 'one better than I did, for when
I got 'one the pore 'horse Alas standing a-poring at
the stable dore.' My little gal, across the table
looked at him for full five minutes, then muttered
under her breath, ' Pore 'Arry.' Gad, it was fine ! "

Of course a great roar of laughter greeted the
story, nor was he permitted to relapse into a reverie
on the attractions of the little girl, with the jolly
dark hair and eyes.

Go on," said Kerr, " let's have the other."

Oh ! the other was at Amsterdam ; a lanky,
loose-limbed, lantern-jawed, yellow-toothed Yankee,
with eyes like a dead cod-fish, and a skin like
an old parchment deed ; with a wife to match.
Charteris and I breakfasted at the Amstel, and these
two sat opposite. I never so much as looked at the
brute, as you may imagine, but he tackled me, with
A fine city this, sir.' ' Oh, er — awfully so ! ' I
answered. Then he tried Charteris ; you know
Charteris ? "

I do," answered Preston. " Big — fair — impressive
; speaks at the rate of a word a minute, with
a ' haw ' or ' er ' thrown in."

"That's the man. Says my big Yankee to him,

I kind o' kalkalate these yere Zoo — logical Gardens
are the best in Eu — rope'' Charteris looked up
opened his mouth, then shut it, pulled one arm a
little out of his sleeve, then the other, ' I — er —
think — not.' ' Oh, yes ! I kalkalate they're regular
tip-coppers.' 'Really,' returned Charteris, with
mature deliberation over each word ; ' but-haw —
I-er — think — if-er — you-er — go — to-hav — the-er —
Guard — dens — in-er — Regent's-er — Park — you-'U-er — '
I guess not ! ' broke in Jonathan, ' at these yere
Gardens they've a real live hippopomi and his
missus — only ones in the world.' ' Haw — no ! ' said
Charteris, gravely, ' If-er — you — go-er — to — Regent's
Park, you-er — Avill — not-er — only — see-er —
Mis-taw — Hippopotamus — and-er — Mrs. — 
— but-er — Baby — Hippopotamus-er — also.'
I can't quite give you the way in which Charteris
said 'really' and 'only' and 'baby,' but I can tell
you that not the least little bit of amusement flickered
on his good-looking wooden face, not the faintest
twinkle came into his steady blue eyes. Gad, he
might have been giving evidence on a court martial !
it kept me from bursting out laughing in Jonathan's
face. The Yankee collapsed ; not one word — good,
bad, or indifferent — did he utter to anyone at the
table ; but when a waiter brought him bread instead
of beer, didn't he slang him, rather. However, the

scream of the joke is to come ; and, oddly enough
neither Charteris nor the Yankee heard it. He left
me at Antwerp to go on to Paris, and there I picked
up some charming people — half Dutch, half Pore
— father, mother, and two pretty
daughters. I was telling one of them about it when
she said, ' But, do you not know dat de latest Ba-bee
Hippo was born of de Amsterdamsche parents, and
sold to de people at Regent's Park ? ' Now, did
you ever hear of such a sell in all your days ? "

Pooh ! you make it all up as you go on, " Calvert
laughed, struggling with a yawn.

Not I. Well, I am as tired as a dog, so I'll
be off to bed. Good night, you fellows."

So am I," said Kerr, following him ! " I'll
come With you."

As Kerr turned and closed the door behind them.
Booties — otherwise Ally Ferrets — slipped his arm
into that of his friend.

"What have you been doing, whilst I've been
away, Charlie ? "

The usual grind. I had three days in town last
week."

See Mademoiselle Mignon ? " with a laugh, and a
squeeze of the arm he held.

"Yes, I saw her," the shadow leaping into his.
grey eyes again.

And did she send me a message ? I say, Charlie,
old fellow, I'm glad your future wife likes me as
well as she does ; I should detest a woman who
was jealous of me, and somehow nine women out
of ten are jealous of their husband's - friends."

Pussey will never be jealous of you. Booties."

No, I'm sure she won't. Did she tell you I calledon
her, as I passed through ; and, as I had the afternoon
to spare, I took her to the Academy ? "

She wrote to me of it."

Yes ? I admire her immensely ; such a perfect
little lady — a regular Mademoiselle Mignon. After
all. Charlie, we poor devils, knocking about from pillar
to post, we can appreciate that sort of thing when
we meet with it, which is not often. Now, little Mademoiselle
Mignon is not only so excessively pretty, but
so true and simple with it. She spoke out so nicely
.about you ; never made a bit of sham humbug about
what she cared for you. ' If anything were to come
between Charlie and I, I should die,' she said. We
were looking at a picture, that suggested the idea ;
.and she said it as if she meant it too."

I hope not," said Kerr, gravely.

'• I hope not, too," rejoined Booties, misunderstanding
him. " Not that there is any fear of it. I think,
charlie, when you are married, I shall make up to
the younger sister ; I just saw her for two minutes."

Booties — I'm — not going to be married."

What ? "

At least — that is — it's all off," said Kerr, miserably.


^'' All off!" Booties echoed, "is it possible? Lord,
how these women do take us in. I would have
staked my very life and soul on her fidelity." In
answer to which Charlie fairly groaned. Somehow,
the groan let a light in upon the other's perplexity.
*' Oh, " he remarked, in tones that were decidedly
changed, " then it's join, is it ? you surprise me."

Kerr looked up. " Don't speak in that tone.
Booties," he began, but Booties interrupted him.

"My dear fellow," with a laugh — a make-believe
sort of laugh, " it's no earthly concern of mine,
I've no right to take any ' tone ' at all ; as I said
before — you have surprised me."

But I want to tell you "

I want to go to bed. I'm dead tired," trying
hard to make his voice and manner the same ;
talking and telling won't do any good, so goodnight."


Good night," answered Kerr, wretchedly. Left
to himself, he determined that he would ask for
two days' leave on the morrow ; that he might go
back and beg the girl who loved him to forget the
cloud which had come between them, and let things

VOL. II. T

be as they had been aforetime. He thought over all
Booties had said about her — "Mademoiselle Mignon
—a perfect little lady — so excessively pretty — so
true and simple." What a fool he had been to let
such charms be thrown into the shade by the face
of a woman he barely knew ; a widow — a Mrs.
Smith I Thank heaven, the warm terms in which his
best friend had spoken of his first love had opened
his eyes, just in time. Xot for a week had Kerr
felt so happy, as when he got into his bed that night.
Calvert came singing to his room, just afterwards :

An arm like iron and a muscle like steel,
A heart for a friend that can always feel,
A will, once made, no man can repeal.

This is what an Englishman is made of."

And that time Charlie Kerr did not greet Calvert's
singing with an oath, or a growl as to " a caterwaul-inst
maid-of-all-work."

Chapter II .
It was a great Frenchman who said, " All things
come to him who can afford to wait." Between you
and me, that was one of the most wonderful truths
ever written ; only, there are so many who cannot
afford it. Many an artist would make a great name
if he could wait, but he cannot ; he must daub

away at pot-boilers and push through the drudgery of
teaching, trusting to some future time of comparative
ease of circumstances to be able to work for a
name ; and, long before that time draws near, his
style is fixed, and he has sunk into a slough of mediocrity,
from which he will never be able to extricate
himself.

How many a writer of talent might make his
mark, if he could take time with his work, prune
it and pare it, re write and re-model! But he
cannot do that ! The sordid needs of to-day outweigh
the golden promises of tomorrow; and after
awhile he finds himself written out, with no elegance
and purity of style to fall back upon, when the
freshness of his ideas has gone ; like the artist, his
style is fixed, and a bad, jerky, slip-shod style it
is — the style that must get on — the style that cannot
afibrd to wait.

And how many there are who cannot afford to
wait, in a moral sense ; whose good resolutions, if
carried out at once, would tide them safely over
many a slippery place ; but, put to the test of
waiting, fail them altogether, and end by an even
greater backsliding.

Charlie Kerr was one of these. Could he have
gone straight up to town and renewed his love
for the girl he called Pussey — Mademoiselle Mignon —
VOL. II. T 2

iu reality, Rosa Wendell — it is quite certain that
I should have had no further story to tell, save
of the orthodox satin and orange blossoms ; but,
unfortunately, leave he could not obtain.

"I am sorry to refuse you, Kerr," the colonel
said to him ; " but I have just had a letter to say
the Duke is coming on Friday, to inspect the
regiment — with a foreign personage in the background;
shouldn't wonder if it's the Crown Prince;
and I have had to recall those who are away.
You can have leave on Saturday, if you like."

Thank you sir," he answered, real disappointment
gnawing at his heart.

His good resolutions did not fail him that day,
for he had not so much as a glimpse of the
fascinating widow; but on the following afternoon,
when after a very long field-day and a long parade,
he was sauntering down the High Street, he met
her, in all the charms of her beautiful womanhood.
Of course, he stopped ; ostensibly to thank
her for the flowers she had sent him — he had
already done so formally on paper — but, in reality
to feast his soul on the glorious loveliness of her
amber hair and the blue radiance of her large
eyes. Once, whilst he was speaking, it occurred
to him she was different.

Does your head ache, Mrs. Smith ? " he asked.

"j\Iy head — oh, no! thank you," she replied.
I am going home — will you come in and have
a cup of tea ? "

"I shall be delighted," he answered, turning to
walk beside her ; and then, alas ! the last of his
good resolutions went towards the paving of that
famous road, which leads ever downwards and
downwards.

They had their cup of tea tete-astute ; and certainly
Mrs. Smith did her utmost to amuse and entertain
her visitor. She had only been about a fortnight
in Washington, where she had taken a furnished
house for three months. She explained to him
that she had flowers and fruit and things sent
from her own place in Wiltshire every morning;
and, by means of the first-named, managed to give
her rooms a tolerably home-like appearance.

"Did you not wonder at my sending you the
flowers ? " she asked.

Perhaps a little ; it was very pleasant wonder,
though," he told her.

"Yes. I sent them for a reason I will tell
you of some day ; tomorrow, I will send you some
for a very different one."

You are quite too kind," he murmured. " Do
you know, Mrs. Smith, I am sure you are not
Avell — or you're bothered — or something?"

"I am — worried," she answered, lifting her great
clear limpid eyes to his. "I went up to town
yesterday to see my mother ; and there \ heard
news that has worried me, more than I was
ever worried before, in all my eight-and-twenty
years."

I am very sorry to hear it," with a very gentle
sigh of commiseration. " I hope Mrs. — er — you see
I don't know what your maiden name was — but
your mother, I mean ; I hope she is not ill."

•• My maiden name was Blithe," answered Mrs.
Smith, watching him through half-closed eyelids.
'• Xo ; my mother is not ill, thanks."

She chatted on for the best part of an hour ;
talking fluently and well on many topics, charming
him as poor little Rosa Tyndall had never been
able to do — charming him, as a beautiful, rich,
thoroughly cultivated, travelled woman of eight-and-twenty
can charm a man of the world; and
the result of it all was, that he went away more
hopelessly infatuated and entangled than ever.

'• Come in tomorrow afternoon," said the fair
widoAv at parting. " Come any day after five ;
you Avill always find me in."

Before he dressed for mess, he thought the
whole scene over again, with a pipe. In spite of
himself, he was a little puzzled. There was something

in the background ; something behind all
the sweet speeches, the coquettish glances, and,
for the life of him, he couldn't make out what that
something was ? He knew very well, that if he
were not desperately in love with her, her evident
well, what should he call it ? — her — her — preference
for him, would fill him with disgust ; and
yet, behind the coquettish glances was a certain
hard glitter that reminded him of cold steel ;
among all the gay laughter was an artificial ring
that jarred upon him ; in spite of the downright
spooney manner, he had a very fixed idea that
if he were to give her a kiss she would slap his
face — probably slap it hard ! He couldn't make
her out ! Was she some adventuress, on the prowl
for a husband, and did those costly hot-house
blooms come from Covent Garden ? Who was
she ? Mrs. Smith might be anybody ; and though
he had known a dozen different Bolithos, all in
good society— yet the name might be but assumed.
He couldn't understand it a bit ; but, oh, how
gloriously lovely she was! and how he longed and
looked forward to the days, when she would lay
that proud head down upon his breast, and promise
to be his own. She might be an adventuress of
the most outrageous type — her "place" might be
-a humbug — her name a sham ; her person was

what he had fallen in love with, and, as to that,
there could be no deception.

The inspection-day came and went ; so did the
Duke ; so did the foreign personage, who wasn't a
crown prince at all, but only a Saxe-somebody or
other ; but Kerr never applied for the leave the
colonel had promised him. Day after day found
him in Mrs. Smith's drawing-room — the only visitor.
K she was, indeed, as he had suspected, an adventuress,
she played a very concentrated game — a
game that would inevitably land her wish.

And yet, he was more puzzled than ever. The
cold steel look, the artificial laughter, and the stand-selfishness
still remained, though he went in and
out of her house like a dog in a fair, and they
had become very intimate ; nor did she seem in
any hurry to get her fish landed. Her three
months' term had almost expired, and yet the
momentous words Iliad never been uttered ; the
words he was dying to utter, and those he was
dying to hear. Twice, on the days he was on
duty, his brother officers, one or other of them
had mentioned the fact that the handsome widow
had been up to town ; they had seen her at the
station, and so forth. Yet, lie had not mentioned
the circumstance to him on either occasion ; though
when he had spoken of it, she had answered carelessly

enough, " Yes, I was in town yesterday ; "
in a manner which had not encouraged him to
ask for further particulars.

He was not very happy at that time ! He did
not think she cared anything about him ; though
he could not shut his eyes to the fact that she
encouraged him, as much as a lady could do. At
all manner of inconvenient and unexpected hours,
too, the remembrance of Mademoiselle Mignon's
little wan face recurred to him, in a way that made
his ears tingle and his cheeks burn ! Not that he
ever heard her name mentioned. The only one of
his brother officers who knew her name was
Booties, and during the past two months between
Booties and himself a barrier had risen up, which
the one could not and the other would not breakdown.
Outwardly, Booties was the same, but he
never entered Kerr's room now; he never called
him " Charlie " or by any of the odd terms of
endearment soldiers are accustomed to apply to
one another ; least of all, did he ever mention or
allude in any way to the girl, whom he had
called "Mademoiselle Mignon — the perfect little
lady — so simple and true."

December had set in and half the fellows were
on leave. Washington was deserted, and many
people wondered that the handsome AvidoAV, who

made so few friends and seemed so entirely taken
up with the tall lancer, stayed. " Charlie's widow,"
the fellows called her ; and Charlie, hearing them,
used to smile, wondering if she would ever consent
to run the risk of becoming so ?

I say, Charlie," said one of the fellows to him
one afternoon, when he was on duty ; " I saw your
widow this afternoon; she came down from town
in the next carriage to me. Booties was with her,
and, 'pon my word, they seemed so awfully thick,
I didn't like to get into the same carriage, though
I was going to."

Booties ! " echoed Charlie, blankly.

"Booties," the other repeated-and the widow
was crying — crying like anything."

It was inexplicable — Booties and Mrs. Smith?

The idea of the two together seemed as impossible
to him as a union of fire and water. Why, he
couldn't have said, for he had never heard either
mention the other. He was, however, so astonished
and so curious, that he went into his old friend's
room ; a thing he had not done for weeks.

I say, Booties," he said, entering.

Booties, who was lying in a big chair, smoking,
looked up. "Oh, is that you, Kerr?" with a
sudden politeness, that cut Charlie to the very
heart ; " have a chair."

Have you been to town ? " Charlie asked.

"Yes, I have. Why?"

I say, I didn't know you knew Mrs. Smith."

"Didn't you? I've known her some time."

Eeally. She was in town to-day also ? "

Yes," looking straight into the fire ; " she's a
very nice woman, comes of a nice family."

"What was she crying about, to-day?"

Who told you she was crying ? " turning to
him sharply'.

Preston told me."

Oh, Preston ; he Alas in the train, then. It
was some family trouble. Ask her yourself, tomorrow.
I daresay she'll tell you."

Oh, I'm sure she will," returned Charlie, stung
by the other's tone, and rising ; " well, it's time t(j
dress."

Accordingly, about five on the following afternoon,
he went down to Mrs. Smith's house. The 
was empty, but she came to him almost
immediately. The awful change in her appearance
struck Charlie instantly.

My own darling, what is it ? " he asked.

She drew her hand away from the eager clasp
of his, and sank on to a couch, pointing to a
chair.

But Charlie did not take it ; he fluno- himself

down at her feet ; and, now that the flood-gates of
his passions were opened, poured out the whole
story of his love — his adoration — his abject worship
for her.

Do you want me to marry you ? " asked Mrs.
Smith, in a very low voice.

My dearest, I have been wishing that ever since
the day I first saw you," he cried.

I have something to tell you " — with an evident
effort.

"I don't want to hear it." He thought the
confirmation of his suspicions was at hand.
'nothing will make any difference in my love
for you ; I will hear nothing."

You must." She sat upright, and pushed the
golden hair off her white forehead, with a weary
gesture. " I have told you that my maiden name
was Blithe."

Yes."

My mother married again."

You did not tell me that."

Nevertheless, it is so. She married early. I
was but a child — and she had two daughters."

Yes."

The eldest of these two, whilst staying in Cornwall
a few months ago, met with an officer, who
fell in love with her."

Yes ! " He was becoming horribly interested by
lier story. '• Yes ! And his name was "

Kerr — Charlie Kerr," said Mrs. Smith.

Oh, God in Heaven ! " he gasped.

I was always very fond of Eosey ; and I took
this house, solely to give her the pleasure of being
with you — in deference to her wishes, I did not
mention the relationship between us, when you
Avere introduced to me. The child wished to surprise
you by her sudden appearance here."

•' And — and "

'• And I ruined her life — all innocently. It never
entered my mind you could have a false thought
in your head, until I saw Eosey, the week after
you jilted her."

''Xo I no ! " he cried out.

Jilted her," Mrs. Smith repeated. " I couldn't understand
it ; but when I met you, it suddenly became
clear to me. From that moment I set myself to win
your love — your heart — and I think I succeeded."

'' Yes ! you succeeded," he said, growing whiter
and whiter each moment.

•• And do you think, Mr. Kerr," her eyes all
cold steel now, "that I shall be likely to answer
yes ' to your very flattering proposal ? "

He did not speak at all, but slowly rose up to
his feet, with a face like a statue of marble.

I have succeeded iu punishing you," the widow
went on, '• but what will give my Httle sister
back ? "

I will ! I have been a scoundrel, a cad, a
brute, anything you like ; but I am not altogether
callous. She knows nothing of this ; let me go
back and make friends with her again ; I know she
will forgive me. You have dealt out justice to me
with a merciless hand, be merciful now, and trust
me to give my whole life for her happiness."

It is too late," she answered, " my sister died at
noon, yesterday." Then she broke down altogether,
and hid her face among the cushions of the sofa.

For five minutes he stood watching her ; then
he went out of her house, like a man in a dream,
to carry for his whole life the burden of an upbraiding
conscience, which had tried so very very
hard in the days that were gone to keep all this
misery from coming to pass.

In his room, Calvert was singing —

With loving lips and true grey eyes,
I called her my Rose-Marie !
Over the hills and far away,
Dwells my love, my Rose-Marie."

The stick and gloves Charlie Kerr carried
slipped from his fingers on to the floor; and the
fingers flew to cover the handsome grey eyes, that
were full of tears !

ti

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS-URBANA

ililllllllil

3 0112 042061132
