^

—Wither.

BABY'S Grandmother

L. B. WALFORD

AUTHOR OF ' Troublesome DAUGHTERS,' * MR SMITH: A PART
OF HIS LIFE,' 'PAULINE,' 'COUSINS,' ETC.

TX THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXIV

All Fights reserved

B&3
y.l

^

Coi TENTS OF THE First VOLUME.

I

II.

III.

IV.

V.

VI.

VII.

VIII.

IX.

X.

XI.

XII.

XIII.

XIV.

XV.

COME, ADVISE ME, BROTHER,

a YET YOU USED TO SEEM HAPPY,"

LOTTA, .

IT IS NOT HER BEING YOUNG," .

MATILDA LONGS TO TASTE THE DOUBTFUL CUP

AGAIN,

THE TWO GODFATHERS,

A PRETTY SCRAPE YOU WILL GET INTO,"
A STRANGE EFFECT,
ROBERT HAS CAUSE FOR COMPLAINT,
THE REAL WOUND AND THE APPARENT ONE
CHALLONER IS IMPATIENT TO BE GONE,
teddy's CONFIDENCES,
Wheel ENCROACHES,
TEMPTED BY OPPORTUNITY, .
HOPING STILL,

4-

PAGE


















in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/babysgrandmother01walf

{(

CHAPTEE I.

COME, ADVISE ME, BROTHER.

But fixed before, and well resolved was she,
As those who ask advice are wont to be."

—Pope.

Beauty, health, ease, and a charming temper,
had all combined to hide from an inquisitive
world the years that Matilda Wilmot had spent
upon it. She looked young — she was young.
If her skin was as fair, her eyes as bright, and
her tresses as luxuriant as they had been
twenty years before, not less was her blood
as impetuous and her fancy as warm. She
still walked, rode,, danced, and skated with the

VOL. I. A

best — was the star of the neighbourhood, the
theme of every busy tongue, the envy of every
jealous heart; and one abominable fact undid
it all — Lady Matilda was, heavens ! a grandmother.


"It is the most ridiculous thing," said her
brother, — and Teddy did not relish ridiculous
things in connection with himself and his belongings,
— '' it is the worst piece of luck that
could have happened, that baby coming. Puts
us all in the stupidest position. Just as if you
and I were not laughed at enough already, the
way we go on. Oh, I know, I know well
enough. They say we're a queer lot, and that
sort of thing ; and it will be worse than ever
after this. I say, you know, we must do something
; it's no use staring at each other, and
doing nothing to help ourselves. We shall be
quizzed all over the place."

*' So we shall." Matilda looked him in the
face without the shadow of a smile. " What
are we to do ? Come, advise me, brother.
Think of something quickly, please."

Ah, but that's it. It's easy to say, ' Think
of something ; ' but what the dickens am I to
think of? There is only one way out of the
scrape that I see, and that is for you to marry
again, and cut the whole concern here."

I have been married enough already," rejoined
his sister. " Try again, my dear. Your
prescription does not suit the complaint,
doctor."

Complaint ! Well, I am glad to hear you
have the sense to complain at least. Ton my
word, it's too bad. However, all I can say is,
you marry again."

And all / can say is, I have been married
once too often as it is."

You women have no logic about you,"
burst forth Teddy, impatiently. '* Can't you
see, now, that having had one bad husband at
the start, it's long odds but you get a better to
go on with ? Can't you see that ? Bless me !
it's as plain as a pike-staff. It stands to
reason."

Very true ; to be sure, it stands to reason.

But, my dear brother, ' better ' is a vague term.
How much 'better,' I should like to know?
And then you evidently contemplate my taking
a course of husbands, increasing in excellence
as I 'go on' with them. Pray, how
many will be required ? "

Good gracious ! you are unreasonable. I
never said such a thing. Why, you might
hit on the very man for you the very next
time."

I might, certainly."

And then — there you are."

True ; then — there I am."

Well, but," proceeded Lady Matilda, with
infinite gravity, "supposing, Teddy, — just
supposing, for the sake of prudence, you know,
you are always telling me that I am not so
prudent as I ought to be, so I intend to make
an efibrt in future, — supposing, then, that I
did not?"

Did not what ? "

Hit on the right man."

Well, of course — of course," said Teddy,

slightly flustered, as was natural, by the suggestion,
— " of course, you know, you must take
your chance. I tell you, it's long odds in your
favour, but I can't say more than that. No
man can say more than that. If you marry
again "

In the abstract. Yes."

In the abstract ? Yes." He had not a
notion, poor boy, what she meant, for Teddy
was simple, very simple, as perhaps has been
already gathered. " In the abstract, if you
like. You marry again, anyway; and then —
there we are."

Then — there we are," repeated Lady Matilda,
with the same cheerful enunciation and
the same immovable countenance as before ;
"but, pardon me, dear Ted, explain a little —
how?"

'' Don't you see how ? I'll soon show you,
then. When you marry, I can come and live
with you, and we can live anywhere you
choose, — I am sure I don't care where, so long
as it isn't here "

(" Abstract husband, no vote," sotto voce
observed Matilda.)

We could go far enough away," proceeded
her brother ; *' we could now, if we had a little
more money — if we had not to hang on to
Overton. I can't make out sometimes," with
a little puzzled expression, — " I can't quite
make out, Matilda, how it is that we haven't
more money between us. I thought you had
married a rich man."

*' Oh, never mind — never mind that ; we
know all about that." Lady Matilda spoke
rather hastily. " Money is not interesting to
either of us, Ted, and I want to hear more
about your plan. Tell me what we should do
when wee had gone away from here, and whereto
go, and why go at all 1 "

As to what we should do ! We should do
very well. I don't know what you mean by
that. And then it's easy enough settling
where to go. There are heaps of places, very
jolly places, that I could get to know about,
once I was on the look-out for them. Places

always crop up once you are on the look-out ;
any one will tell you that."

And now, why should we go at all "? "

Why 1 " Teddy opened his eyes, and
stared at his sister. " Why ? Have I not
been telling you why all this time "? I do
believe you think I like to talk on, for talking's
sake." (She did, but never let him
know as much, listening patiently till the
stream had run dry ; but on this occasion
Teddy was too sharp, and the subject was
too engrossing.) " Why 1 To get quit of it,
of course," he said.

''Of it? Of what?"

That disgusting baby."

Are you speaking of my grandson, sir ?
Are you talking of a hapless infant only a few
hours old, you unnatural monster ? Shame
upon you ! fie upon you, young man ! Pray,
Mr Edward Surface, reserve such epithets in
future for other ears ; and be so good, sir, at
the same time, to draw off some of the vinegar
which is visible in your countenance, and let

me have it presently as a fitting accompaniment
to the oil which we shall see exhibited
in that of my trusty and well-beloved son-in-law
— since one will counteract the other, and
thus shall I better be able to digest both.
Why, Teddy, what an idiot you are ! " said
Lady Matilda, dropping all at once her mocking
accents, and speaking gently and playfully
; " what an ado you make about the
simplest and most natural thing in the world !
I am married at eighteen, so of course Lotta
improves on the idea, and marries before she
is eighteen. I have a daughter, she has a
son : in every way my child has followed the
lead given her, and indeed eclipsed her mother
from first to last."

Fiddlestick ! Eclipsed her mother !
Lotta ! '' cried Teddy, with undisguised contempt.
" Lotta /" he said again, and laughed.

Oh, Teddy, Teddy, you are not a good
uncle. How can you laugh in that unkind
way Be quiet, sir — be quiet, I tell you ; I
won't have it. From a o^rand - uncle, too !

Grand - uncle ! Think of that, Teddy, love.
Dear, dear, — 'tis really vastly surprising, as
the old ladies say."

Vastly — something else," muttered Teddy.

Mr Grand-uncle," began the teasing voice.

Oh, shut up, can't you 1 Grand-uncle ! "
said Teddy, with such distaste that it seemed
he loathed the very term, independently of its
adherence to himself — "grand-uncle! "Was
there ever such bosh ? It really "

What I was going to say was," pursued
his sister, merrily, " that as the baby is a boy,
and youths under twenty do not usually
affect matrimony in this country, — I may be
permitted to entertain some hopes that I shall
not be converted into a great - grandmother
with the same delightful celerity with which
I have already been turned into a grandmother."


Then there was a pause, during which the
brother looked gloomily out of the window,
while the sister found apparently a more
agreeable prospect in her own thoughts, for

she smiled once or twice before she spoke
ao^ain. At last she rose from her seat. " I
shall go over this afternoon, of course," she
said.

Over to Endhill ? "

"Yes."

Over to see that baby ? "

Yes."

'* What on earth — do you really mean it?
Are you really going to waste a whole afternoon
slobbering over a wretched baby ? "

Only about ten minutes of it, dear ; don't
be cross ; I shall not ask to see Lotta, as she
had better be quiet "

When is she ever anything else ? "

So we can just ride over, come back
through the town, see what is going on, and
have a fine gallop along the cliffs afterwards."

Now if there was one thin or in the world
Teddy Lessingham loved, it was to see what
was going on in the old county town near
which he had been born and bred ; and if
there was another, it was a gallop along the

high chalky downs when the tide was full,
and the sea-wind was blowing; the waves rio;ht
up over the beach beneath. Still he made a
demur ; he looked at the sky, and looked at
Matilda, — " We shall get wet, of course."

Of course. Old clothes. It will do us no
harm."

I don't mind, I am sure, if you don't.
What time then ? " For though the young
man had not been formally invited to go, let
alone being consulted as to the expedition, it
was assumed, indeed it was as much a matter
of course that he was to be Matilda's companion
as the horse she rode. To be sure he
was. Where could he have gone but where
she went ? What could he have done that
she would not have a part in ? He never had
a purpose apart from hers : her will was his
law ; her chariot-wheels his chosen place.

Nor was the widow less ardently attached
to her young brother. She, the quickest-witted
woman in the neighbourhood, never
lost patience with never wearied of, her poor

foolish Teddy, who, as was pretty well known,
was not quite, not quite like other people, and
yet was so very little wrong, wanting in such a
very slight degree, that it was almost a shame
to mention it, — and yet, if the truth were told,
it was perhaps even more awkward and trying
in some ways than if there had been more
amiss. For Teddy considered himself to bea
very knowing and remarkably wide-awake
fellow. On his shoulders, he felt, rested a
heavy weight of responsibility, and cares
manifold devolved on his far-reaching mind.
For instance, who but he kept up the whole
social credit of Overton Hall in the eyes of
the world 1 Did he not entertain strangers,
remember faces, do the civil to the neighbourhood
generally, whereas Overton and Matilda
never thought of such things ? Overton was
*' a very good brother, a precious good brother,
and he was not saying a word against him ; "
but without saying a word against him, it is
certain that the speaker felt and was scarcely
at pains to conceal his sense of his own super

ADVISE ME, BROTHER." 13

priority. Overton, he would complain, had no
idea of keeping things up to the mark — had
no nous, no go in him ; whereas Matilda, poor
Matilda (here he would wag his head with
sombre sagacity) — poor Matilda was such a
flighty, here - there - everywhere, happy-unlucky,
devil-may-care sort of creature, that
if it were not for him, — oh, it was no wonder
Teddy had a serious aspect, all things
considered.

Perhaps Matilda was at times diverted and
at times provoked ; but at any rate she took
care that no one else should be either one or
the other in her presence. In everything she
supported and fortified her brother. He lectured
her, and she listened dutifully. He put
forth his wisdom, and it was met by gentle
raillery or grave assent. His wildest assertions,
his most pitiful arguments, were softened,
smoothed, and helped tenderly out of
the conversation, — so that even those who
liked the fair Matilda least — and they were
women, we may be sure — even those allowed

that she was wonderfully, extraordinarily
nice " with Teddy.

Now Teddy could be irritating. There
were times when he would be sharp, sharp
as a needle, and sharp inevitably at the
wrong moment and in the wrong way. The
thing that it was particularly desirable that
he should not see, and should know nothing
about, he would perceive by intuition — and
that, however absent-minded and dull and
stupid he might have seemed but the moment
before. There was no evading his
penetration, and no putting him off the scent
once he struck it : he saw like a lynx, and
heard like a Eed Indian, when it suited
him.

Then perhaps when such smartness was
particularly mischievous in its results, and
Teddy would meet with the mildest of rebuffs
from those whom he had so wantonly maltreated,
he would be very highly aggrieved
indeed. Perhaps the rebuff might never even
come to be spoken, but a something in the

air would show that all was not well, and this
was enough ; he was out of favour, and he
was bound to show resentment ; nor, when he
thus took the bit between his teeth, could all
the united efforts' of Overton and Matilda dislodge
it. He was not to be either cajoled or
coerced out of his mood. Silence, obstinate,
unyielding, leaden-weighted silence, would be
his refuge ; and while the fit lasted, which
it might do for days at a time, neither the earl
nor his sister had much peace of mind. Vague
misgivings would creep into their bosoms and
betray their presence by uneasy whispers and
glances, if Teddy's whereabouts were unknown
for any length of time : if he lingered out of
doors after the o-reat bell had sounded from
the tower at luncheon-time or dinner-time,
one would be at the staircase window, and
another looking casually out of the front door.
They would watch him disappear across the
park, and when once the tall handsome figure
was out of sight, and Teddy could have no
suspicion that he was being spied upon, one

or other would be pretty sure to follow, and be
merely strolling about in the same direction,
if by chance they were obliged to let him see
he was not alone. He would not address the
intruder on his solitude. He would look
angrily away, mutter to himself, and pass on.
The servants would understand that Mr Edward
was in a " temper," and avoid him ; his
very dog would make no efforts to engage his
notice.

But this is Teddy at his worst. These ugly
days are few and far between, — thank God
they are, or what might they not lead to ?
They come but seldom, and go as they come,
unquestioned, unblamed. Gradually the cloud
begins to roll away, a softer look steals back
to the face, the lips part in a smile, the whistle
to Gruff brings Gruff rampant to his master's
side, and it is plain that all is to be right
again.

Overton nods to Matilda, and she nods back.
Overton addresses Teddy as though nothing
had happened, and Matilda takes it for granted

that he will join her in some little jaunt or
other, previously arranged and ready to be
brought forward, — and they both talk away
to him and take his arm, and pat him on the
back, just as if he had not persistently avoided
their company as much as he could for the last
thirty or forty hours, and had not, when compelled
to endure it, maintained an unbroken,
sullen, affected unconsciousness of their presence.
That is past, and he may be approached
again. He looks a little anxious, a little
ashamed : a vague feeling of having been
naughty oppresses the lad as it would a child,
and his spirits gratefully rise as he perceives
he is not to be punished for his misbehaviour.
If Overton were cold to him, or, worse still,
were Matilda to quarrel with him, all Teddy's
happiness in life would be gone, for these two
beings people his world, and in their unfailing
forbearance and affection he basks as in sunshine.


Yet Mr Edward talks sensible enough,"
avers the old major-domo of Overton, who has

VOL. I. B

known Mr Edward from his cradle. " Foreseen
folks as taken as they could be with Mr
Edward, I can tell you ; and my lord not
being married, nor looking that way, there's
many would jump at the young one on the
chance. Lord bless you, he ain't far wrong,
not by no means I he is just a bit simple and
foolish like ; but who's to know that that sees
him in company? — such a fine well-set-up young
gentleman to look at, a-talking here, a-talking
there, always quite easy and comfortable, and
dressed — there ain't a better-dressed gentleman
in London. For one coat of my lord's
Mr Edward have half-a-dozen; and as to
trousers, Joseph here tells me he wouldn't
like to give a guess even at what his trouser
bill is. My lord, he pays : bless you, he
don't say nothing to nobody, but he just
pays and keeps the receipts. He ain't as
poor as Mr Edward thinks, d'ye understand ?
'Twould never do to let Mr Edward have
every severing he wanted, or we should soon
be in the workhouse ; but he gets his little

bit of money that his father left him, just to
make believe, d ye see "? He gets it paid
regular down, and he fusses over it, and
thinks it's all he have to live upon, — and to
be sure he can see well enough 'tis but a trifle,
so that just keeps him down nicely. To
hear him sometimes telling folks how poor he
is ! But he forgets, you know, — he forgets,
does Mr Edward. Lor' ! you may talk to
him by the hour together, and he don't know
nothing at the end. Tell him a thing, and
he takes it in all right enough; but it just
goes through and through his head without
stopping — in at the one ear and out at the
other, before any good or bad comes of it.

If it weren't for Lady Matilda ," and the

old man shook his head.

It was in this light that the Hon. Edward
Lessingham was looked upon by the inmates
of Overton Hall.

CHAPTER II.

YET YOU USED TO SEEM HAPPY.

A coronet, my lord goes by,
My lady with him in the carriage, —
You'd never guess from that proud eye
It was a miserable marriage."

—Axon.

And now we must more formally introduce
our readers to Overton Hall itself, and to the
three representatives of the Overton family
now alone remaining, since they were, one
and all, so far from being unremarkable, that
in any rank, among any associates, they must
still have attracted notice. As it was, as the
first people of the place, they were an unfailing
source of gossip, conjecture, and comment
in a particularly barren and unfruitful neighbourhood.
Providence had been kind to the

parish in bestowing on it such a patron as
Lord Overton, and such a pair as Teddy and
Matilda for his brother and sister. No three
people could have done more for the dull out-of-the-way
old-world part they lived in, and
that involuntarily ; for, truth to tell, it was
not all the money they gave away, the schemes
they organised, the example they set, which
was half so much valued amono- the vil] backers
as their freaks and fancies, their whims and
vagaries, their doings and sayings, their goings
and comings, — these were the real benefit, the
real, actual, positive benefit, which was conferred,
and for which gratitude was due.

Overton Hall, far from the busy world —
at least as far as it is possible to be in England
in these highly strung and terribly communicative
days — four miles from a small
and sleepy wayside station, in plainer terms,
was sunk in a hollow (though Lady Matilda
would never allow as much) — was, at any
rate, far down the slope of a long low Sussex
hillside ; and although pleasant enough as a

summer residence, was looked upon by all but
its inhabitants as absolutely unendurable after
the fall of the leaf. When October had once
fairly set in, the park would be a series of
swamps, over which faint blue mists hung
incessantly ; the red walls of the old Elizabethan
mansion would be visible for miles on
every side when the thin scrubby woodlands
around had been stripped of their foliage ;
and it had been said over and over again that
no people but the Overtons themselves, no
residents less pertinaciously attached to their
native place, would ever have lived on through
winter after winter in such a dreary spot.

That they did so, however, from choice,
was a priceless boon to those who, from necessity,
followed their example. So little of the
Overtons went such a long way ; they were so
rich in resources in themselves, so replete with
material for the wits of others to work upon ;
one was so unlike the other, and all were so
unlike the rest of their neighbours, — that the
one universal feeling was, that they could

never have been replaced, had any evil chance
taken them away. What they did, and what
they left undone, was of almost equal interest ;
why Lord Overton took a morning instead of
an afternoon walk, made talk for half-a-dozen
toDo^ues. What carriages Event from the Hall
to meet such and such a train '? When they
returned ? Alio were in them ? Was Teddy
seeing the guests off when he was met driving
down on the following day ; or were they
stopping over Sunday ? All of this was food
for ardent speculation ; and the erection of
new park palings, or a fresh lodge at the edge
of the lovv^ wood, was not of more vital importance
than the health of Matilda's sick
parrot, or the consideration as to the length
of time her whimsical ladyship had worn her
one bonnet in church.

Although all three were thus constantly
before their public, it, however, by no means
followed that they were on the same footing
in the public mind ; and strange to say, the
elder brother, the least striking, the least

notable as he was of any, had to him the jas
given ; but then the case stood thus : Lord
Overton was one whom no one — except, perhaps,
the very very few who had known him
closely from boyhood — believed in. He was,
at the time our story commences, in the prime
of life — that is to say, he was forty years old,
and looked his age. He was short, stumpy,
plain, and worse than plain, coarse in feature,
and marked, though but slightly, with smallpox.
He was, in fine, not passively, but
aggressively ill-favoured ; not insignificant,
not one who might have been, cast in a mould
whence hundreds more of the same could be
turned out to order if required, but he was
the unfortunate possessor of a face which
might have been constructed upon trial, and
found so unsatisfactory as to have been never
reproduced.

But then he was the Earl of Overton. What
signified it to the Earl of Overton how he
looked, or of what formation was his nose, or
chin, or mouth? AYhat did it matter that he

shambled in his walk, slouched in his chair,
and sat inches lower than his sister ? What
though he had not Teddy's easy grace and
swinging step, or the bell-like tones of Matilda's
voice ? He was the Earl of Overton. These
things were, or ought to have been, considerations
quite beneath the Earl of Overton. In
virtue of the solitary possession birth, he
should have been more potent than the Apollo
Belvedere, or the sage aesop. He should not
have supposed it possible that he could look
amiss, or act amiss, or talk too much or too
long.

Nobody could believe that he did think it
possible ; and thus it was that, as we have
said, nobody believed in the man himself.

He was a mystery — a cynic ; he was proud
as Lucifer ; he was mad as a March hare. It
was said of him that not all his ancestors for
generations back had held themselves so high
as he did. He was dubbed a recluse and a
monk ; while, to carry out the pleasant suggestion,
the Hall, itself would be termed the

monastery (but if it were one, like unto some
in the olden time it must have been, when
monks were merrier than they are now).
This, however, is an aside between the reader
and the writer, — in the eyes of the good folk
round the simile was apt. But what puzzled
them a little, and set one or two thinking, was
this, that after all, though everything that was
heard of Lord Overton bespoke him proud,
stern, and self-contained — after all, if you
met the earl face to face, if he had to
look at you and lead to speak to you, his
look was wonderfully meek and his voice
gentle.

Now Lord Overton thought no more of
himself than if he had been a city scavenger.
That was the real truth, and in that truth lay
the perplexity. People could not understand,
would not, indeed, credit for a single second
the notion that so great a man could be
humble-minded.

And how came it that he was so ? Probably
after this fashion. His parents had been vain.

selfish, and ambitious ; and they could ill
brook the idea that their first-born, their heir,
the future head of the house, should give no
promise of bringing to it either honour or
repute. Overton had from infancy been awkward,
ugly, and illiterate. There was no hope
that he would shine either as a politician, or
as a courtier, or as a soldier, or as — in short,
anything. Teddy had eclipsed him in beauty,
Matilda in intellect, and the latter had been
the father's, the former the mother's darling.
With neither had he been in the smallest
degree of consequence, over neither had he
possessed any influence, and they had only
noticed his being the eldest as a fresh source
of vexation, since he did the position so little
credit.

It had all sunk deeply into a nature already
reserved, bashful, and backward.

Not all the subsequent fuss about the peer
in possession ; not all the flattery of time-servers,
anxious to worship the risen sun ; not
even time and reflection, could shake Overton's

conviction that he ^Yas a nobody, and would
always be a nobody.

It was impossible, Matilda said to open her
eldest brother's eyes. He could never see that
he was needed, never suppose that he could be
wanted.

For instance, it was intolerably palpable
when old Lady Finsbury — the dear old
dowager who lived in the very small house
along the London Road — when the old lady
herself drove to the Hall on purpose to secure
the party for a little dinner — such a little
dinner as she could give and liked to give, —
it was plain that the presence of Overton
himself on the occasion was not only desired,
but was of first-rate importance. He was
more than wanted, he was anxiously, painfully
wanted, — but the idea never occurred to him
that it could be so. He thought it very kind,
uncommonly kind, of Lady Finsbury to ask
them all ; but three out of one house were
quite too many for her little room — (Lady
Matilda winced and looked at the speaker.

Meantime Matilda would be groaning inspirit
at home. "Oh, Overton, Overton,
when will you learn to understand, when
will you ever say the right thing ? Can't
you see, oh, can't you see, you dear blind,
blind, blindest of blind beetles, in what a

dreadful state of mind you have sent home
that poor harmless unoffending old lady ?
She had done you no injury, she had come
brimming over with goodwill and lovino;-
kindness to us all, and instead of accepting
graciously her little overtures, and crowning
her with joy and gladness, you dashed her hopes
to the ground, and seemed to take pleasure in
trampling upon them when they were there."

Good gracious, Matilda, what do you
mean ? What have I done ? "

Done — done ! * that which can't be undone,'
I can tell you, my dear. And after all,
why would you not go ? You have no reason
for refusing. You had not even manners to
put forth the ghost of an excuse "

^' As to excuse, I told her the truth.

I was very much obliged, and I understood
perfectly, — she thought she could not ask
Teddy and you without me, and so she asked
me too, — but she did not want me a bit, and as
I did not want to go, I thought it was much
the best way to take it on myself to refuse.

She was quite satisfied. Did you not see she

stopped asking me at once "

'' Yes, indeed, I did see that."
*' Well, what more would you want ? "
"Want? Oh, Overdone"— she stopped to
laugh and sigh in despair — "who could
believe you could be so — well, never mind,
you meant it for the best, but you never,
never do yourself justice ; and how are people
to know that it is all because you are so unfortunately,
outrageously, insufferably modest ?
They won't believe it, nobody will believe it ;
and besides, you do say such things : now you
can see this, surely, that Lady Finsbury could
not like your reflecting on her little rooms ? "

"I did not 'reflect' on them at all. I
merely said we were too many for them ; I
reflected ' on us if I ' reflected ' on any one."
If you thought we were too many, why
should not Teddy have stayed at home, or at
least have offered to stay at home, and you
and I have gone together ? That might have
been done."

'sto be sure it might, — but to be sure, also,
I knew better than that. Why, of course,"
continued Lord Overton, with a momentary
bitterness which showed that although the old
wounds of childhood might have been healed,
they still woke and smarted at times — '' of
course, any one would rather have Teddy
than me. Don't you suppose I know that ?
Teddy ornaments the rooms, and keeps everybody
going with his talk, while I am good for
nothing. Do you think I have forgotten that
he was always sent for to the drawing-room
as a boy, while it was never thought desirable
that mis studies should be interrupted ? Did
he not invariably accompany our mother to
town when she went to one gay place and
another, and was not I left at home ? Who
taught me to play and sing, or gave me
masters for dancing, or sent me abroad to
learn languages ? I am such an oaf that I
can't enter a room like other people. I can't
speak a tongue but my own. I am not fit for
society "

You are fit for any society. Overton, my
dear Overton, don't talk like that," said
Matilda, springing forward to put her hand
on his arm as he was turning to leave the
room. " You deceive yourself — indeed, indeed
you do," — her own eyes reflecting the moisture
in his. " Teddy, poor Teddy, you know
what he is ; surely you do not begrudge him
advantages which have just made him passable
— just enabled him to go through the
world without bringing down its ridicule

upon his head; surely you see ," she

paused.

I see, Matilda — I see, I know, I understand;
but I cannot help feeling — oh, you
know well enough what I feel."

And you are so kind to him," pursued
she, with a sudden sob ; " yes, you are — you
are. No one would be like you to him — the
best, the dearest, the "

Well, well, never mind ; why, it's all right,
of course it's all right ; they meant to do their
duty by us both, I suppose ; and one ought

VOL. I. c

not to speak against one's father and mother —
specially when they are dead, but "

Think what they did for me," said Matilda,
in a low voice, but with drier eyes.

Her brother was silent.

*' Did they not marry me when I was but a
girl, a child ? " pursued his sister ; '^ did they
not give me to a man more than twice my
age, who neither loved me nor feigned to love
me, who was incapable of loving any one but
himself? who made my life a burden "

Yet you used to seem happy."

Was I happy ? It must have been after
a strange fashion then. Ashy, Overton, you
say I used to seem happy. To seem f Yes ;
that is exactly the word. Was it likely I
should do anything but ' seem ' ? To show the
truth, to lay bare my wretchedness for every
passer-by to gaze upon ? No, indeed. The
thing was done, and I had but to keep up the
farce as best I could. Well, well," continued
Matilda in a brisker tone, '* well, well, those
days are past, and we are all very happy

now, — are we not, dear? As to your being
jealous of Teddy "

I never said I was jealous. How can you
think such a thing ? "

As to imagining that Teddy can in any way
fill your shoes, or take the place of Lord Over-ton
in the sight of a hostess "

o

say, that's it ; I can follow you there.

Possibly Lord Overton might be welcome, but
I I myself "

But you — you — yourself, being as you

are. Lord Overton, cannot disassociate your
person from your title, your body from — let me
see what ; at any rate you will not refuse the
next invitation, and send home the next fair
dame who brings it, dying with chagrin V

Perhaps she would after such a discussion
endeavour still further to explain matters, but
the end of any such attempts would be almost
always the same — a sort of storm of admiration
and vexation on her part, and partial and
temporary enlightenment on his.

Such a gleam would soon die out. He

would go to the next party as lie had been
bid, would go internally quaking and outwardly
cold and frigid, and although endeavouring
to do his best, would somehow contrive
to do it with the very worst effect possible. He
would not stand on the hearth-rug ; he would
not play the earl ; the most unostentatious
back seat would infallibly be his resort, and the
nearest person to him — quite possibly the humblest
individual there — had such conversation
as he possessed. It was not much : he would
look wistfully and enviously at his younger
brother, who, with artless complacency, and
in the very best of spirits, was prattling away
first to one and then to another ; who was
moving about from place to place as anything
caught his eye or engaged his attention ; who,
during the dinner which followed, would be
beset on every side by fair ones anxious for
his attention, for attention which he seemed
willing and able to distribute to each and all
impartially, — and he would wonder how Teddy
did it. No such brilliant effusions came from

him, no such happy sallies set the table laughing.
It was hard on his companion, Lord
Overton would consider ; and graver and
graver would grow his voice, and longer and
longer his face, as the hours wore on. When
all was over he would heave a sigh of relief,
but even the relief was tempered by apprehension
of a probable lecture on the way
home ; and thus it was scarcely to be wondered
at that society liked the unfortunate
nobleman little better than he liked society,
and that although some — the charitable —
merely called him stiff and stately, the greater
part of his acquaintance characterised him as
eaten up with pride.

And what of Matilda, the widow, the
mother, and now the grandmother ?

She was, as has been already said, a lovely
woman ; full of animal life ; warm-blooded,
high-spirited, and impetuous ; a passionate
partisan or an unsparing adversary ; one who
loved or hated with equal warmth ; generous
to a fault, or sarcastic to acrimony. At the

age of thirty-seven — for she was three years
younger than Overton — she still possessed ina
redundant share the freshness, energy, and
spring of youth — perhaps also some of its
incompleteness. There was still promise to be
fulfilled, still material for experience to work
upon ; but this only added, as it seemed, to the
charms of one already so charming— one who
was too charming to be perfect. Her voice
was soft, yet rich ; never raised above an even
medium note ; yet so clear was the enunciation,
and so resonant the tone, that wherever
the sound of it was carried, words and meaning
could be discerned also.

In figure she was tall, and though not
more fully formed than became her age, yet
giving indications that, in after life, she might
become stout rather than thin.

But who shall describe the lustre of her
large dark eye, by turns soft, subtle, searching,
or sparkling, brimming, and mischievous ?
Who could forget the exquisite pose of her
head, the broad low brow, the play of her

How it came to pass that, with lovers in
plenty, she had never contracted a second
union, even Matilda herself would hardly have
been able to explain. She neither was, nor
had ever affected to be, a broken-hearted
woman, one who had played out her part in a
troublesome world, and had fain have no more
ado with it : so far indeed from this being the
case, people did say that, having been married
off as fast as possible by parents who were
solely anxious to get the skittish lass off their
hands, the poor thing had been mercifully
deprived of a husband whom no one could
tolerate, and that probably the happiest day
of her life had been that which saw her, all
beclouded from head to foot in trappings of
woe, brought back a widow to the home of
her childhood. Over that home the kind

Overton now reigned, and over him Matilda
herself meant to reign. She meant it, and
she did it. Never had sister found a warmer
welcome, and never had one been more needed
or appreciated. She had flown at her brothers'
necks, kissed, hugged, wept over them with —
we hardly like to confess what kind of tears,
but perhaps the two may have guessed, — at any
rate, in their satisfaction, and in her own, each
felt that, with Matilda back again, a new life
had begun. Every want was supplied, every
void filled up. Soon there began to be heard
a firm light tread up and down the broad
staircase ; a cheerful woman's voice would
issue forth through open doorways ; and by-and-by
a jest and a laugh would peep slyly
out when Matilda's lips were open, as though
half afraid to make known their presence, and
yet unable to hide away longer. Sounds of
music echoed from distant chambers ; flowers,
dewy and fragrant, met the eye about the
rooms ; there were parcels on the hall-table ;
there was a riding whip here, and a pair of

gloves there ; and a neat little coat would be
found hung up among the men's coats on the
stand, and a sweet little hat would perch
alongside the brothers' hats upon the pegs ;
and all this meant — Matilda.

Fresh wheel-marks down the avenue showed
that Matilda was out driving ; the boat-house
key lost, told that she had been out boating ;
the hothouse doors left ajar, betrayed that she
had been eating the grapes.

Everywhere was Matilda felt, and to everything
she had a right; and thus intrenched in
comfort, authority, and contentment, sure it
would have been a bold adventurer indeed
who would have thought of storming such a
citadel.

CHAPTER III.

LOTTA.

She speaks, behaves, and acts, just as she ought —
But never, never reached one generous thought. "

—Pope,

AYe must not, however, forget that up to
within a very few months of the time our
story opens, there had been another inmate
of Overton Hall, and indeed an inmate who
had no mean idea of her own importance.
This was the little girl called Lotta, who, with
large round eyes and demure step, accompanied
her mother on Lady Matilda's return
to the Hall. Now it must be confessed that
the one very very slight thorn in the sides of
the three chiefly concerned in this restoration
was connected with the little Charlotte — or

Lotta : they could not, any of them, be quite
as fond of Matilda's child as they could have
wished to be. It would have been natural for
her to have been the centre of attraction to
one and all — for the bereaved parent to have
been absolutely devoted to her darling, and
for the uncles to have found an unfailing
source of interest and amusement in one who
was at the endearing age of six, when childhood
is especially bewitching, and when the
second teeth have not yet begun to come.
The whole household might have been provided
with an object in Lotta. In taking
care of her, watching over her, delighting her
little heart with trifles, admiring the dawning
of her intelligence, and recounting her sayings,
an unflagging source of conversation and study
might have been discovered : and, indeed,
wiseacres shook their heads, and predicted
that a nicely spoilt young lady Miss Charlotte
Wilmot would grow up to be, in such an
atmosphere, and with such surroundings.
They were mistaken. Lotta was not spoilt

after the fashion they thought of, — and this
from no severe exercise of self-restraint on the
part of Lady Matilda and her brothers, but
simply because they Averse not so tempted.
Nothing, indeed, made the widow more indignant
than a hint that such was the case ; hard
and long she strove against the fact, against
nature, against everything that favoured the
distressing conviction, but she was overpowered
at last, and almost allowed it to herself in her
disappointment. She could not, try as she
might, turn Charlotte into an engaging child :
she petted her, played with her, romped with
her; and Charlotte accepted it all without
hesitation, but Without originating either a
caress or a frolic in return. What was wrong 1
No one seemed to know. From infancy the
little girl had been a compound of virtues, and
it was said of her that a less troublesome
charge no nurse had ever possessed. At the
age of eio^ht she cut and stitched dolls' frocks
without assistance, set herself her own tasks
if her governess were unwell or absent, gave

directions as to when tucks were to be let
down or breadths let out in her frocks, and
refrained — on principle — from tasting unknown
puddings at table. What was there
left for mother, or uncles, to do ?

She puts me to shame, I know," cried
Lady Matilda, valiantly ; " she thinks of
things in a way I never could, and quite
wonderful in a child of her age. I don't
know where I should be without Lotta, I am
so forgetful about what has to be done, and
she reminds me of it just at the right time
and in the right place. Do you know, she
always asks nurse for her medicine" — Lotta
being at the time ill with measles. "Nurse
says there is no need for her to think about
it, for as sure as the finger of the clock points
to the hour, Lotta asks for her dose. Is it
not nice, and — and thoughtful of the poor
child ? " And as she spoke thus bravely,
almost fiercely, in defence of her offspring, no
one would venture to differ from a word she
said ; indeed they would hastily and nervously

agree, find more to say, discriminate between
the little phenomenon and others, valorously
finding a verdict in Lotta's favour, and watch
the very tips of every syllable they uttered,
lest anything should escape to rouse suspicion
on the part of the parent, thus herself upon
the watch against herself.

But how came Lotta to be a child of Lady
Matilda — of the gay, careless, jocund Matilda?
How came such a creature of habit and order
to be associated with such a very spirit of
heedlessness and improvidence ? How grew
such a methodical imp in such a casual soil ?
How, in short, came the dull, worthy, excellent,
and most unattractive daughter, to be
born of the brilliant, arch, incorrigible mother ?
A mystery of mysteries it was.

Lady Matilda did not like to have remarks
made upon the subject. She was fond of
Charlotte, maternally, — that is to say, Charlotte
was her child, her only child, the little
one whom she had watched from infancy, and
Who was to be her friend and companion in

after life. She had rejoiced in being young
for Charlotte's sake. Charlotte should have
no sober-minded, middle-aged, far-away parent,
who would smile benignantly on her games
and toys, or listen condescendingly to her
tales of lovers and suitors, having neither part
nor lot in such matters, and looking down in
wisdom from a height above them. Such
mothers were all very well ; but she would be
on a level with her child, hand and glove iu
all that went on, the maiden's chosen companion
and intimate.

And then, behold, Lotta had needed no
such companion ; had felt herself sufficient for
herself from earliest days ; had, if the truth
were told, an idea as she waxed older, that
she was her mother's superior in sense and
sagacity, forethought and prudence. What
was to be done, this being the case 1 A wet
day would come, and Lady Matilda, bored to
death with a long afternoon in the house,
would cheerfully propose — making Lotta the
pretext — a game of battledore and shuttlecock

in the gallery. Oh yes, Lotta would play if
mamma wished it ; but it would surely tire
mamma, and for herself she would prefer going
on with what she was doing. She was quite
happy ; she was preparing her lessons for the
next day ; she did not need any play, thank
you. After such a snub, Matilda and Teddy
would look at the child — Matilda with a perplexed
curious look, Teddy with a grin — and
then they would go off and play with each
other, while not even the sounds of mirth and
the regular monotonous tap-tap of the shuttlecock
would bring; the diligent and virtuous
piece of industry from her self-set task.

'' She mio;ht have been born an old woman,"
Matilda would mutter to herself; but she
would take very good care not to let what
had passed elicit a comment from Teddy.
While Lotta was very young, and before it
became absolutely certain what Lotta would
turn out, he knew that no animadversions on
his niece would be permitted, and that his
sister, sore because of her own disappointment.

would not stand so much as an insinuation
from others. It was when the little girl was
most imposing and didactic, was least endurable,
in other terms, that Lady Matilda's
tongue ran fastest in her favour. What would
her uncles have 1 They need not expect every
child to be like other children, as if they were
a pack of sheep. Lotta was all that any one
could desire in the way of goodness and gentleness
: and as for her little practical head, you
might trust her with a whole list of articles to
buy, and shops to go to, and she would not
only forget nothing, but would bring her little
account afterwards and make it balance to a
farthing. '' Which is more than I ever could
do," the poor lady would add in conclusion.

But as Charlotte grew up there was less
and less in common between her and her
mother.

The latter could not hide from herself, as
years went on, how limited in reality were
her daughter's powers, and how commonplace
her mind. The very governess learned to

VOL. I. D

shrug her shoulders. "Yes, Miss Charlotte
was not what you could call bright, not quick.
She was a very good girl, very industrious,
very diligent, but she had not the — the
ability. No ; she had no decided turn for
anything. For languages, certainly not ; for
history, geography, grammar, pretty well ; but
music, drawing, poetry " — she would shake
her head.

In short, Charlotte was a dullard, who
never opened a book if she could help it,
who neither knew nor cared to know what
was in the heavens above or in the earth
beneath, who seldom put a question, who
never created an idea, and who was far more
satisfied with her ignorance than the wisest
philosopher with his knowledge. At seventeen
Lady Matilda, who had indeed, as we know,
no cause to advocate matrimony, was still
fain to acknowledge to herself that when the
young lady had finished with lessons there
would be nothing for it but to marry
her.

"Provided she gets a poor man she may
do very well," reflected the unworldly mother ;
*' a rich one would leave her far too little to
think about ; and as she has something of her
own, she can never be really at a loss. Grant
her a poor man — a moderately poor man —
and she will find the most delightful occupation
in economising, saving, looking after
every bit and scrap, worrying her servants,
and reducing everything she has in hand to
system. She will do her own marketing, and
turn her own gowns. She will have a bunch
of keys as big as a bottle. Yes, yes ; that
must be it. Lotta must marry, and marry
soon, or — well, there is no use denying it,
she will drive us all out of our senses."

*' Since Miss Grove has deserted us" — for
the wily Miss Grove, oppressed by the staid
solemnity of her one pupil, had flown to a
livelier schoolroom, after having first assured
Lady Matilda, with a mixture of artfulness
and ingenuity, that it was of no use her
staying on, as Miss Wilmot would never

Library

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

learn more than she knew already — '' since
Lotta has been her own mistress, she has
become quite dreadful," owned poor Matilda to
herself. " She proses to Overton like a woman
of fifty, and seems to think that her mission
in life is to keep us all in order. I am sure
I really do not know what will be the end of
it, if some charitable person does not take
pity upon us, and appear to the rescue."

And then, as if by magic, who should
appear before the astonished eyes of the fair
conjuror but the very charitable person she
sought, as though raised by her spells ? It
was too much. She was almost overpowered
by her good luck. Could it be — could it
really be 1 Was it possible, not to say actually
the case, that here was Mr Robert
Hanwell, the unexceptionable, not too rich,
not too clever, not too exacting son and heir
of old John Marvell at the other end of the
county, coming forward as a suitor for the
hand of the youthful and charming and sadly
perplexing Miss Wilmot ?

Miss Wilmot's mamma clapped her hands
when there was no one by to see her.

Then she was vexed with herself, and the
tears came into her eyes as she saw what she
had done. Was that the way to treat an
event so serious ? "Was that the spirit wherein
she should have received the news that her
daughter's happiness was, humanly speaking,
secured for life ? She ought to have known
better. Well did she know whence came this
good thing, and who had taken thought of the
widow and the fatherless, and a softer lioiit
shone in her eye, and the lip quivered a little,
as associations and memory awoke, as they do
awake at such times. Lotta would be happy
in her husband, it appeared. Mr Hanwell
was known to them all by repute, and repute
spoke him a good man, come of a good stock.
He was apparently much enamoured of Lotta ;
he had met her at a country house, whither
Charlotte had been packed off in order to give
the household at Overton a moment's 
after her emancipation, and the

sedate, well - conducted, and fairly comely
young miss had apparently found favour in
the eyes of one person from the very beginning
of their acquaintance. Lotta had been
glad enough to go, glad to leave Overton,
where, although she knew not why, she herself
had felt uncomfortable, and where, just
before, Teddy had succeeded in rousing up
the party, if he had not improved matters,
by sulking for a week on end. Lotta had
gone off in good spirits, well pleased and well
dressed — Lady Matilda had taken care of the
last — and the consequence was, she had been
caught at her best. They had little expected
such a result ; they had merely felt that
Mademoiselle must betake herself elsewhere
for a season, must give them a brief release
from her sense and supervision ; therefore the
delight of all may be imagined, and even
Lady Matilda's childish expression of it pardoned,
when one fine morning who should
appear but Mr Eobert Hanwell, big with
purposes concerning her.

He met with no opposition ; to demur was
not to be thought of. The earl and his sister
had indeed much ado to conceal their indecent
glee at the prospect of getting rid in a manner
at once so unexpected and so delightful of an
incubus whose weight had already begun to
press heavily on their shoulders ; and it was
only by rigidly composing their countenances
that they could restrain an outbreak and overflow
of smiles, and by steadfastly fixing their
eyes upon the ground that they could keep
them from reciprocally congratulating each
other.

With some trepidation Mr Han well made
his osier. He was, he stated, not a wealthy
man, but his father could do something for
him ; he was the eldest son, and the estate
was unencumbered ; his father could give him
seven or eight hundred a-year ; he had no
profession, having — hum — haw — dabbled inlaw
a little, but not been exactly called to the
bar — at least — well, it did not signify, it would
not have suited him, — and all he meant was

that, having thus no tie to any place — no
necessity for being here or there — he would
be able to settle down anywhere ; he should
have no objection — indeed, would be very
glad — to be in the neighbourhood of Overton,
as no doubt Lady Matilda would wish," —
Lady Matilda gravely bent her head, — "he
would do anything, in short, in that way, orin
any way, for he felt very much what a —
that — a — that he was asking a great deal,
that he was seeking to deprive a mother of
her only child," — Lady Matilda bowed again,
" but indeed," concluded the aspirant with
a flourish — " indeed, I would endeavour to do
my best to be worthy of the position I aspire
to." The last sentence with a glance towards
Lord Overton, who was standing harmlessly
by, and who had no idea whatever that the
said position referred in any way to him.

Mr Han well thus got through the whole of
the speech he had previously prepared, without
interruption from either, and probably
also without in the least discovering then or

thereafter that there had been no occasion for
saying anything half so fine.

Overton merely observed that Charlotte was
a good girl, and would make him a good wife.

Lady Matilda endeavoured to go a step further,
and floundered about between truth and
falsehood for several minutes, before she was
able to seek refuge in complimenting alternately
the young man's parents and himself.
She knew," she vowed, " all about the Han-wells,
everybody must know about the Han-wells
if they did no more, and she should be
only too happy to be connected with them, to
have her daughter enter so — so — " for the life
of her she could not think of any other word
than " respectable," and as that would hardly
have done to say, she was fain to do without
an attribute, and finish ofi" rather humbly with
'' such a family as the Handel's."

It was at this juncture that the door flew
open, and Teddy, — who had not been present,
but who had managed nevertheless to learn, ashe
usually did, by means best known to himself,

all that was going on, — Teddy now burst
in with a face like a sunbeam, shook the visitor's
hand for full two minutes, stared him in
the face, and wound up with a laugh which weare
bound to confess Alas suspiciously silly.

All, however, was taken in good part.

Mr Hanwell was satisfied, more than satisfied,
with his reception; and Lady Matilda
devoted herself for the remainder of his stay
towards keeping up the degree of complacency
which had been already excited. In private,
as we know, she clapped her hands. Lotta
married and provided for, settled in a comfortable
home, with a good kind husband of her
own choosing, within easy reach of Overton,
yet not too near — not so near as to necessitate
daily intercourse^oh, with her whole heart of
hearts she blessed Eobert Hanwell.

The wedding took place, and we know what
the next event was.

CHAPTER IV.

Amoret, my lovely' foe,

Tell me where thy strength doth lie,
"Where the power that charms us so,
In thy soul, or in thine eye ? "

—Waller.

All this was very delightful, but it must
be confessed that entirely content as Lady
Matilda was with her son-in-law as her son-in-law,
in no other lio-ht could she have endured
him.

He made Charlotte happy. Very well.
That was all he had eno^as^ed to do, and in
thus fulfilling his part of the marriage-contract
he was an undeniable success. As a husband
he was a pattern, a model, faultless and flawless
; as a creditable connection, even as an

eligible match, he might very well pose for
want of a better ; as a neighbour, he did tolerably
; but as a man, weighed in the balances,
there was no concealing that he was very lightweight
indeed. The first blush of acquaintanceship
had barely worn off, — he had hardly
begun to be at home in the circle, and to
assume a right to the seat by Lotta in the
drawing-room and at the dinner-table, — ere it
was seen and felt that he was eminently fit for
her companionship, and pre-eminently unfit
for that of any other member of the family.
He was not amusing, and he could not be
amused. He was dull, and he liked being
dull. Few things interested him, and nothing
entertained him. In short, Lotta had fallen
on her feet by thus obtaining her own counterpart
in a consequential prig, who thought very
little and talked a great deal, whose ideas
seldom passed beyond the very narrow range
of matters connected with himself or those
belonfifinof to him, who was never at a loss for
material wherewith to enhance his own consequence,

and who could not even, according to
Lady Matilda, say " Good-bye " or '' How d'ye
do ? " like other people.

The thing that was correct and proper to be
done Robert would do ; and yet how delightful
it would often have been could he have
been dissuaded from doing it. One may be
very much in the right, and yet it would be
better to be in the wrong.

For instance, Lady Matilda hated ceremony,
and ceremony was the very marrow of Robert's
bones, the very breath of his nostrils ; aud
what was the upshot ? We will not say that
she grew to hate the formal young man because
of his formality; but it is certain that
sometimes when she associated the two in her
own mind, it was not clear to her which she for
the time least affected. Robert meant well
certainly; and she was ready, upon reflection,
to allow that it was his place to treat her with

a certain amount of deference, but still .

She could not rattle over in the dogcart to
Endhill, but she must accept his arm out to

lier '* carriage " when she left, or, worse still,
endure his escort for all the long four miles
home, did she choose to return on foot. Nothing
that she could do or say would deter him
from a proceeding often really inconvenient to
himself and infinitely distasteful to her, since
he had made up his mind that he understood
the etiquette on such points, and that even in
the teeth of Lady Matilda's threats and entreaties,
he would not fail in his duty. In
vain she predicted rain, wind, snow, anything
and everything that the elements could do, to
save herself the infliction — she would have to
give in and be taken home in state at last.
She could not run in to see Lotta for five minutes,
meaning no stiff call, but merely to fly
out again as soon as her errand or inquiry was
made, — she could not do this, but the long-necked,
long-backed figure of Lotta's husband
would stalk forth from somewhere about, and
be all readiness to proceed by her side presently.
Her direction was his ; her time, his.
She could not struggle with any success against

attentions so becoming and suitable, and there
was not even a window through which she
could escape unseen.

Sometimes she had an unexpected ally,
when Lotta would put in a fond remonstrance.
" Dear Robert, you do not need ; I
am sure mamma would not wish it when you
have a cold already." But the look given in
return was meant to convince the speaker
that dear Eobert knew better what dear
Eobert should do than all the mammas in
Christendom. He had not intruded into the
drawing-room ; he could quite understand
that he might not be wanted there, that
mother and daughter might occasionally prefer
to meet without the presence of the proverbially
unwelcome third, but the rest must
be left to him ; and this was one way in
which the new member of the family could
show himself both dull and dodo-ed.

Again, when the young couple had to be
invited over to the Hall, as was pretty often
felt to be necessary — it was not precisely a

pleasure, though no one said aloud as much —
surely Robert might very well have declined
for both when obliged to excuse one. He
Avrote the answer — he might have done it
easily, had he seen fit. No offence would
have been taken had he, in the roundest
terms, asserted his inclination for his. own
fireside and his dear Charlotte's company,
when Charlotte herself was unable to take
the long drive and sit out the long dinner —
and so he was assured. The truth was, that
on the first occasion of a note being sent
over when the young wife was known to be
ailing, it had been comfortably predicted by
Matilda that no acceptance need be apprehended
from Robert, since he, who was so
very particular on all such matters, would,
were Charlotte to decline, infallibly think it
only decorous to remain behind also.

Unfortunately Robert's decorum took another
turn. He allowed that it was a pity
that it should so have happened, and Lotta
was extremely sorry to have to give up so

"And three sides of a sheet about it!"
cried the ungrateful Matilda, at the close.
She could have better liked a worse man, and
that was the honest truth about Eobert.

Nor was Mr Hanwell in his way more
enamoured of his mother-in-law, on nearer
acquaintance, than Lady Matilda was with him.

In some inexplicable fashion he was aggrieved
by her beauty and intelligence, her
ready wit and roguish eye ; she was too
happy, too merry, too — too — he could not
exactly say what, — but there was a something
incongruous between the lady and her

VOL. I. E

position, which, in the sight of a young man
who, with every fibre of his body and soul
worshipped the god of propriety, was hardly
to be borne with temper. Naturally he could
not think of Matilda as Matilda. She was
the late Mr Wilmot's widow, Lotta's mother,
and his own mother-in-law, — and it must be
said for him, that such a mother-in-law was
undoubtedly rather a queer sort of appendage
to any man, let alone that Robert was himself
thirty-three years of age, and quite willing to
own to it ; that he had settled down into
matrimony with a hearty goodwill ; that he
filled his waistcoat, changed his socks whenever
the roads were wet, preferred a dogcart
to a saddle, and dinners to dances.

On his marriage he had voluntarily surrendered
whatever of youth he might once have
possessed ; he no longer cared to be called or
thought of as a young man ; and pray what
did Lady Matilda mean by looking years
his junior, and disdaining his hand over the
fences ?

Lotta had not half so springy a step as her
mother. It was childish to be always joking,
as Lady Matilda was. And precious little
advice or help had Lotta's parent to give
when it came to talking about sensible things,
he could testify to that. On first taking up
house, of course he had expected that Lady
Matildass opinion would have been all in
all with her daughter, and that she would
have been Lotta's stand-by amidst the inevitable
difficulties and troubles of settling in ;
but he had soon found his mistake. Every
mortal thing had Lotta arranged for herself;
all the furniture she had chosen ; she had
hired her own servants and eno-ao-ed her own
tradespeople, — while Lady Matilda had only
looked in to listen, and wonder, and smile.
He liked Lady Matilda — at least he thought
he did ; but he wished, oh how he wished,
that she stood in any other relation to himself
than the one in which she did.

She was to him a provocation extraordinary.
Almost every time the two came in

contact, she, to use lier own expression, fell
foul of him, and that meant that he longed to
speak for once openly, and conjure her to take
more heed to herself, to take more care of
what she said and did, to be more dignified,
more reticent, more Lotta-like. Having been
much of an authority under his paternal roof,
and having; laid down the law to half-a-dozen
submissive sisters at a time, Robert could ill
brook the thraldom now imposed by circumstances
on his tongue, or refrain from lecturing
the young madam when she did amiss.

Lotta, his dear discreet Lotta, never, or at
least hardly ever, needed an admonishing
word ; but to have straitly rebuked Lotta's
mother, had Lady Matilda been any one else,
would have been a delight for which his very
soul thirsted.

And the wilful creature saw this, and took
pains to make his burden heavier than he
could bear. With the keenest relish she
marked the remonstrance that was struggling
to escape lips which resolutely forced it back ;

with twinkling eye she kept watch upon the
uneasy frown, the restive twitch, the just
uttered and hastily recalled syllable, — and
then with the sweetest naughtiest audacity
that was ever seen, she Avould add such a
touch as would send Robert to the right-about
in a trice, fleeing from a temptation which
might have proved too much for him.

He never did transgress. That is to say,
he never had transgressed up to the time our
story opens ; but whether after events did
not overpower even his resolution remains to
be seen.

As it was, he only found the situation very,
abominably awkward.

It's not her being young and that," he
would aver. "It's not her being only thirty-seven,
by any means. Thirty-seven is a very
good age, a very good age indeed, — if Lady
Matilda would only think so, and would
only show that she thinks so. Thirty-seven;
bless me ! Thirty - seven. Why there are
plenty of ladies are quite ixissee by thirty or

thirty-five ; and the married ones — and slices
Si married one, mind you — well, you don't
think of them as young ladies, not as young
ladies at all. They are getting on, at any
rate ; they are full-grown women ; they think
sensibly, and talk sensibly, about their children,
and servants, and domestic affairs — these
are the things that ought to interest women
of Lady Matilda's time of life. There's Charlotte
now, Charlotte not nineteen yet, — 'pon
my word, if you saw her and her mother
together, — at least I mean " — rather hastily,
''if you heard them together, you would take
Charlotte for the older of the two. You
would indeed. Thirty-seven ! I declare when
I am thirty-seven I shan't want to be running
the risk of breaking my neck over all the
worst fences in the county, or twirling about
by moonlight on the ice, as Lady Matilda did
last winter. Poor Charlotte never got her
skates on, but there was her mother out
every evening, and she and Teddy had all the
people round let into the park, and such goings

The above reflection added yet one more

drop to the fulness of his cup of complacency
when Lotta's boy was born, and when, on the
same afternoon, he stood dangling his watch
and seals on the cottage doorstep awaiting the
expected visitors from the Hall.

He had half hoped that Overton might
come himself; but Overton, as usual, quite
unconscious that anything of the sort was
expected of him, had walked off in another
direction, and had not even sent so much as a
message. There were the other two, however,
large as life ; Lady Matilda gaily waving her
hand as they cantered up the drive —-teddy,
with less alacrity, shaking his riding whip.

There they were, calling out congratulations
ere they reached the doorstep.

"So glad — so pleased — welcome news,"
began the young grandmother

"Hush — hush — hush," cried Eobert, hastily.

"What's the matter? Nothing wrong?"
The speaker's note changed on the instant.
Nothing wrong, Eobert ? "

Nothing; in the least wrongs. Oh dear no,

far from it, — but we must be careful all the

same. The sound of your voice " looking

up at the windows.

Why, Lotta's room is round the corner ;
she can't possibly hear," said Lady Matilda,
rather shortly. "You gave me a fright with
your 'hush — hush — hush.' I was merely
going to wish you joy."

"Many thanks. Allow me," Mr Hanwell
cut short the discussion by assisting her to
alight, resenting in his heart the very light
touch of her fingers as she did so, but nevertheless
preceding with every courtesy his
visitors to the drawing-room. "William,
take the horses round, and go the back way
not under your mistress's window. "Will
you come in, too ? " to Teddy, who was ruefully
following. " I don't know if you can
see baby, but I will inquire."

Oh, I say, don't."

Being in the dressing-room, it may not
be convenient."

Of course not. I'll 2:0 in here."

And wait ? Yes, if you kindly will."
Eobert nodded approbation. " Lady Matilda
can go up-stairs at once — at least, I think she
can. I fancy this is not a debarred hour —
but though the nurse informed me all about
the hours herself, I foolishly forgot to notice
if it was from two to four, or from two to
half-past four."

If what was ^ "

The afternoon sleep ; if the rooms were to
be closed for the afternoon sleep, you know.
Of course you know all about such arrangements,"
Eobert had a touch of malicious
pleasure in the remark, for it was one of his
favourite grievances that Lady Matilda never
did seem to know about such things — never
appeared in any way to have assimilated with
matrimony and motherhood. " The afternoon
sleep was to be for two hours or two hours
and a half, and during that time no visitors
were to be admitted, and of course I undertook
that the rule should be carried out," he
continued, as they ascended the staircase.

"Now, this way please" (as though she had
never been in the house before), "this way,
and take care of the two steps down. This is
the door, Lady Matilda." (Lady Matilda took
him off to the life afterwards.) " This curtain
is my contrivance, and I think you will approve
it. The draught got in under the
door, and the nurse — her name is Mrs Durable
she complained of it, so I set my wits to
work. Now then, allow me " (of all his
phrases, she disliked that "allow me" most)
"allow me, I can let you pass under perfectly."
Tap, tap, at the door. "Nurse,"
said Robert, in his most portentous whisper,
Mrs Burrble. May we come in ? "

Lady Matilda laughed outright. She ought
not to have done it. She might have been

o

caught in the act either by the nurse or the
gentleman, or both, and it would have been no
excuse in their eyes that she really could not
help herself. She ought to have helped herself,
and it was only by the skin of her teeth that
she escaped, since there was scarcely a moment

between the tap at the door and the appearance
of the portly nurse curtseying behind it.
But fate was kind, and Mrs Nurse was intent
upon herself. It was not for some seconds that
she looked at her lady visitor, and then — but
we must tell what she had been doing. She
had heard voices and steps outside the door,
and divining as by instinct who the new-comer
was, had utilised the pause which Mr Hanwell
made to explain his contrivance of the curtain,
to whisk around the infant the shawl
which grand mamma had sent. She now
lifted her eyes as she displayed her charge
with all the satisfaction of having been so
sharp. She lifted her eyes and beheld grand-mamma
herself.

Grandmamma it was and must be. There
was no mistaking the distinct enunciation,
Lady Matilda has come to see the baby,
nurse," but — grand mamma !

Mrs Burrble had heard indeed rumours of
Lady Matilda's youth and beauty, and she
had figured to herself a comely dame, fresh

grand mamma was always a grandmamma,
and though grand mammas in the house,
passing in and out and making no end of
a work," Mrs Burrble did not " hold with," a
grand mamma four miles ofi", who would be
content like a sensible lady to stop away till
she was sent for, and would then come at just
the right and proper hour (by sheer good
hap Lady Matilda had hit upon it) — such a
grand mamma was " a peregrine ; " and inspired

by the above reflection, the worthy-dame
dropped her most respectful curtsey as
the door opened, and raised her modest and
expectant eyes to behold — Lady Matilda.

It was well she was accustomed to babies,
she nearly dropped the one she held in her
amazement. It was well she was not spoken
to, for she could not have answered. So mute
was her bewildered stare, so nervous, so puzzled,
so uncertain and confounded and unlike
itself her manner, that Robert, who interpreted
look, pause, and expression exactly aright,
was annoyed and put out of countenance.
He felt afresh that justice had not been done
him in the matter of his mother-in-law, when
here was this woman even, a stranger, a dependant,
so aghast at the apparition before her
as to be unable to conceal her feelings.

In the dusky light of the October afternoon.
Lady Matilda s lithe figure, graceful in every
motion, scarce showed that it was a trifle more
full and rounded than it had been a dozen
years before, her checks were bright with exercise

and excitement, and her sparkling eyes,
her quick step forward, her eager " Where is
he?" all so unlike what-should have been,
what ought to have been, — gracious heavens,
it was too much for any man's patience ! Oh,
why had he not been blessed with a connection
more to the purpose ? What had that radiant
form, whose very presence seemed to bring ina
glow of life, a breath of the fresh outer air
into the little dark room, what had she to do
with shaded windows, and silence, and — and
baby-clothes ?

Solemn and deferential as was the deportment
of Lady Matilda's son-in-law at all times,
it exceeded on this occasion what it had ever
been before, since in the face of every adverse
circumstance, rising above the perplexity and
incongruity of his position and hers, Robert
resolved to show that whatever mio-ht be
Matilda's shortcomings, however young and
gay and inconsequent she might show herself,
he, at least, knew his place, " My dear Teddy,
he nearly killed me," averred Teddy's sister

afterwards. " I suppose he saw the joke ; and
the more he saw it, the less he liked it. The
poor nurse, I pitied her : she must have had a
severe time of it, rather. There were we two,
Robert hopping about all over the cradle to

get out of my way "

"All over the cradle! How you do

talk ! "

"And I not knowing on which arm to take
the baby ! "

Well, you ought to have known, I suppose."


I suppose I ought, but the fact remains
that I did not, or, at any rate, that I had forgotten
; and so what did I do but commit the
heinous offence of taking it on the wrong arm !
You should have seen Mrs Gamp's face."

Mrs Gamp ? " said Teddy, bewildered.

To be sure, yes. Her name is BurrbJe.
How stupid of me to say Gamp ! Teddy, see
you remember that her name is Burrble, and
never, never call her anything else. Mind
that, Teddy. People are very particular about

"No, that he wont."

Oh yes, he will ; I am nearly sure he will.
I am sure "

You may be as sure as you like, but you
are wrong all the same. As to that baby, I
did t want it, I know ; it's the greatest rot
beincr a o rand-uncle ; but if it was to come, of
course I ought to have been asked to be its
godfather."

And of course you will."

Very well, you know best, of course ; only
I happen to have heard," said Teddy, doggedly
— " I happen to have heard the opposite.
If you would only listen to me, I could tell
you not only who are to be asked, but who
have been asked ; for I saw the letters lying on
the slab, waiting for the post."

'' You don't say so, Teddy. Well 1 "

*' And, to make sure, I asked Robert."

VOL. L F

"Oh, you did '? — oh. You didn't ask Robert
as if you had been looking, Teddy dear V said
Lady Matilda, rather dubiously.

Not a bit of it. I merely pointed to the
letters with my whip, as if they had just
caught my eye. I had been looking at them
all the time he was up-stairs with you. However,
he was not to know that ; so I poked
them carelessly as we passed by, and said,
Godfathers, eh, Robert ? ' in the easiest manner
possible. So then he told me at once that
he had written to them this morning."

Bless the man ! no grass grows under his
feet. Well, Teddy," louder, " well, and who
are they ? "

A Mr Whewell, and a Mr Challenger."
A Mr Whewell, and a Mr Challoner. And
who are they ? What are they ? Did you
not hear anything about them ? "

'' Oh, I heard a lot, but I didn't listen."
Stupid fellow. Why, I want to know.
Why Ted, my dear boy, how unutterably
tiresome you can be when you try ! Mr Wheel,

and ]mr Challoner. Depend upon it, Mr
Wliewell is — stop, I know. He is that very
clever amusing young barrister who came down
in the summer. You remember ? We all
wondered how Robert ever contrived to pickup
such a friend. I am glad it is Mr Wheel.
If Mr Whewell should come down to
Endhill, we must see him again ; he must
come and shoot at Overton and chirp us up a
bit. Those Appleby girls will be glad to come
and make up the party at dinner : we owe
them something, and this will do exactly.
Well, and Mr Challoner? Challoner" — musing
— " Challoner ; that name I never heard
before. Challoner ! I rather like it. Teddy,
can't you tell me something, anything, about
this Mr Challoner '? "

'* No," said Teddy, calmly, " I can't."

Not if he is old or young, rich or poor,
black or white ? "

I don't know."

Is he a school friend, or a college friend, ora
relation friend."

I don't know."

Is lie — lias lie ever been here before ? "

"I don't know."

Is he "

Now, look here," said Teddy, suddenly,
"just you stop that. I don't mind your talking
as much as you please — as much as Eobert
does, if you like, — but I won't have questions.
It's no use questioning me ; I ain't going to
stand it. I have told you already that I don't
know ; and when I have once said * I don't
know,' nothing you can say will make me
know."

CHAPTEE V.

MATILDA Longs TO TASTE THE DOUBTFUL CUP
Again.

I live and lack ; I lack and have ;
I have ; and miss the thing I crave."

Gascoigxe.

Robert Maxwell, like other people, sometimes
hit the mark without knowing it.

In the two notes which he despatched inviting
his two friends severally to stand
sponsors for the newborn son and heir, and
for that purpose to come down shortly to
Endhill for the christening, he held out an
inducement which neither of them could resist.
It cannot be said that either of the
gentlemen thus appealed to was devoted to
Eobert : he and his concerns were as little

known as they were of little interest to them :
his marriage had cost them each a present,
and it appeared that the birth of his son was
likely to do the same, — and that was about
all, — or, at least, would have been all, had
not to each invitation a clause been appended
a mere postscript, an after-thought it was —
Which made the announcement infinitely more
interesting, and the summons more seductive.
The pheasant - shooting at Overton is remarkably
good," wrote Eobert, " and I have
no doubt Lord Overton would be happy to
give you a few days in the covers." He had
folded up Challoner's note before even recollecting
to say this, and indeed it was perhaps
more the satisfaction of being able to answer
for Lord Overton's obligingness than anything
else which induced him to pause, unfold the
sheet, add the Pes., and then say the same
think; to AV he well. Li the matter of shooting,
Lord Overton was good-nature itself, and
could be counted on to grant a request for a
day at any time ; indeed, as it was so easily

obtained, and as nobody either at Overton or
Handbill cared much about it, Mr Hanwell
threw in the brief suggestion, as we have
seen, in the background of his letter, little
imagining the effect it would produce in
changing the aspect of the whole affair in
the eyes of his friends.

Both, as it happened, were good shots, and
neither was possessed of good shooting.

In consequence, they rose like greedy fish
to the bait, and swallowed whole the tempting
morsel, — indeed, while gladly agreeing " to
be present on the interesting occasion," Robert
mio^ht almost have seen in their eao-er assent
a devout wish that it could have been held
earlier. Challoner indeed went so far as to
feel every time he looked at the sky, the
soft grey cloudy October sky, that he was
being defrauded of that day in the Overton
woods ; while Whewell, boxed up in dreary
law courts and dismal chambers, solaced himself
by getting through all the work he possibly
could beforehand, in order to leave himself

free, should the few days specified by his
friend extend themselves to the length of a
week. A week he might be able to spare,
when pheasants were in the question.

And as to the chance of his being invited
on, he had not very much anxiety on that
head, since there were not many things he
could not compass if he had a mind to do
so ; neither were there many people he could
not get round. As for Robert Han well !
Robert Hanwell would most certainly do ashe
was bid.

Two "very happy" accordingly were received
at Endhill, two silver mugs were
promised, and two gentlemen would be forthcoming
when wanted.

I told you they would be pleased," said
Robert, as he read aloud the replies to his
wife. " I felt that they would, and it really
is something to please a man like Whewell,
Lotta. Whewcll is quite one of the most
rising men of the day ; I had my doubts
about asking him — asking him to come down

here at least ; to a man so overwhelmed with
work it almost seemed — but, however, I
thought he could only refuse. You see he
does not refuse ; he accepts in the pleasant-est
manner possible ; and so does Challoner.
To tell the truth, I did not fancy it was much
in Challoner's line either. Challoner is peculiar.
Well, Lotta, we are fortunate in everything,
you and I ; I trust, my dear, I trust,"
added the young man with a sense of saying
something serious — " I trust we always
shall be."

Lotta trusted so too, and agreed with dear
Eobert in everything. There never was so
good a patient, so admirable a mother. She
ate, drank, slept, rested, nursed her infant, did
everything Mrs Burrble told her, and of herself
refrained from doing anything which Mrs
Burrble would have forbidden her ; and the
upshot of it all was, that at the end of three
weeks, the neat little brougham was brought
round from the stables, and into it stepped
Mr and Mrs Robert Hanwell, baby and nurse,

cant off they all drove to Overton to pay a state
visit.

Well, and when are they coming ? " inquired
Lady Matilda, who by this time knew
all about the expected guests, and took the
liveliest interest in their approach. " And
has the day been fixed 1 "

"Yes indeed, mamma — Sunday next; I
thought you knew' replied Mrs Lotta, with
her little air of superiority. ^' I am sure I
told you," added she.

Sunday ? That's not proper. Do you
allow people to arrive on a Sunday 1 "

"My dear mamma, what do you mean?
No people are going to arrive on a Sunday.
I said baby's christening was to be on Sunday."
And in the young matron's tone was
heard plainly enough, " You really are a very
tiresome person, but I have to put up with
you ! " — " Surely it was the christening you
inquired about ? " concluded Lotta, wearily.

Yes, yes — yes, of course ; at least something
of the sort." Poor Lady Matilda

blushed a little, for to be sure it was something
of the sort of which she ought at least

o o

to have been thinking, and not of two young
gallants of whom she knew nothing or next
to nothing, and with whom she need have
nothing whatever to do. It was absurd her
caring whether they came or not ; and yet
visitors — that is to say, visitors of the right
sort — were so very few and far between at
the Hall, that her curiosity might have been
pardoned. Overton had never made a friend,
while Teddy had had, as years went on, to
be gently weaned from his, — and the consequence
was that, as Matilda would now and
then in a freak of ennui declare, no one but
old women and poor relations ever found their
way to the Hall.

And how well you look, dear ! " cried she,
now ; " and what a little darling he is !
Grandmamma's cloak and hood too. Give
him to me, nurse ; I know the proper arm
to take him upon by this time. Look, Over-ton
; Overton, you have not half enough admired

my grandson, and yet I do believe that
it is you whom he is like."

Indeed, my lady, I do declare it is then,"
chimed in the nurse, to whom a lord was a
lord, and who would have sworn a resemblance
to Beelzebub himself could she have
hailed him as a relation. ^' Indeed I saw
it from the very first — from the day his
lordship was over at Endhill, did I not,
ma'am ? " appealing to her own lady.

"He is a little like uncle Overton about
the — hair," said Lotta, doubtfully.

Or lack of it," observed her other uncle.

"A most decided likeness, I think," ]pronounced
Robert, to the surprise of all. But
the truth was the likeness was there, and
somehow they had hit upon it among them.
The ugly little baby was like its ugly little
grand-uncle; and the father, who had been
one of the first to catch the resemblance,
now resolved to avow the same manfully.

What an absurd baby you are ! " cried
Matilda, delighted with the scene, "to go

and choose Overton, of all people. Now if it
had been Teddy or me — ice are the beauties
of the family, aren't we, Teddy ? So if you
had done that, how much more wise and
sensible you would have shown yourself,
little master, eh ? "

Mamma," began Lotta's reminding voice.

Dear Overton, you are not beautiful,"
pursued the heedless Matilda

*' I think we are making: much too

long a visit," interposed Eobert.

"And so the poor little man has to

go because he is like you," concluded the
wicked grandmother.

She begged Overton's pardon with tears
of laughter afterwards : she made both him
and Teddy merry with her representation of
the scene, by turns perking herself up upon
the sofa to mimic Mrs Lotta's prim attitude ;
bustling about to show the politic nurse, deaf
and blind apparently to anything amiss ; or
edging herself towards the door with every
gesture of Robert's — the pompous, annoyed.

tongue-tied Eobert, so visibly, palpably disapproving,
and yet so helpless, — nothing had
been lost upon her. It was not until sometime
afterwards that she recollected that,
after all, no more had been known after
the visit than before it of the brilliant
Whewell, and the unexplored Challoner.

She had indeed interrogated her son-in-law,
though to little purpose.

Whewell he appeared to stand in some awe
of, and to know very little about ; while regarding
Challoner he had but one idea, —
It struck me that he was a suitable person,"
he said.

A suitable person ? " quoth Matilda, in
reply. "A suitable person. Oh, I think,'
drily, " I think, Eobert, I understand ; " forby
this time Robert's predilection for "suitable
people " Alas no secret to her.

So now, Teddy, we shall see what we
shall see," nodded she thereafter — namely, on
the afternoon when the two gentlemen were
due at Endhill, and when the brother and

sister, bearing ostensibly Overton's invitation
to shoot and dine, but in reality gratifying
their own curiosity, hurried over to
inspect. 'ewe shall see what we shall see,"
said Matilda, speaking for both as was her
wont, though the desire to see was perhaps
only her own.

She it was who alone cared for a novelty
at Overton Hall, and it was only now and
then that she did so care. Why she did
at all it is not, however, difficult to imagine,
when it is remembered that she was a woman,
and a woman who, while happy in seclusion,
could nevertheless shine in society. She
liked — could she help it ? — being admired
and applauded. She had felt now and then
the fascination, the thrill of being First with
some one — the loadstar of one pair of eyes,
the magnet for one pair of feet — the ear
for one speaker, the thought of one thinker.
Yes, she knew what it felt like to be that.
It felt nice. Even when nothing came of
it, — and nothing as we know ever had come

of it — since the late Mr Wilmot's courtship
had been conducted on the least romantic
principles, and could not therefore be considered
in the running, — even when nothing
came of it, there still remained a recollection
of something different from the ordinary everyday
comfort of matter-infant life. The glamour
had been cast on her path once and again,
and she had dreamed, and she had suffered.
People had predicted that Lady Matilda
Wilmot would infallibly be caught again
some day, and it had been whispered that
a deadly mischief had been done to the heart
of this one and that one ; that poor Lord
George had left the Hall with a longer face
than the one he brought there, and that
Colonel Jack had chant-ed his regiment and
gone abroad soon after his long wintry visit
at Overton. He had said he could not stand
another English winter, and perhaps that was
why he had never reappeared in the neighbourhood.
Every one blamed the lovely

widow ; but perhaps, after all, mistakes are
made sometimes.

Those days, however, are past and gone,
and if wounds have been made or received,
they are healed by time's blessed hand.
Lord George is wedded, the Colonel toasts
'the ladies" without a tremor, and the lady
in particular, the lady to whom his thoughts
refer, thinks of him with equal ease and
tenderness. He is become a pleasant memory,
and even the painful spot is sunlit in the
past.

Yes, a heart-whole woman lives at the
Hall, a woman with all a woman's hopes
and fears — fain to look forward, yet neither
ashamed nor reluctant to look back, — able
to do without lovers, but not unwilling, not
altogether loath, — oh, Teddy, beware ! Oh,
Teddy, as you gallop along the soft wet sward,
under the dropping leaves, beneath the murky
sky, beware, beware, — by fits and starts Matilda
longs to taste the doubtful cup) again.

VOL. 1. G

THE TWO Godfathers.

By wonder first, and then by passion moved,

They came ; they saw ; they marvelled ; and they loved. "

PmoK.

It was plain by the whole look of End hill
that the expected guests had arrived, when
Lady Matilda and her brother rode in at
the gate.

The gate stood open ; that of itself showed
that Eobert was not about. Fresh wheel-marks
were visible along the muddy lane
without, and the wheels had sunk into the
gravel of the little drive, while an unmistakable
station-fly stood in the stable-yard.

Eobert had not met his friends, for which
omission he was doubtless at the present

moment ladling out excuses and apologies ;
but the friends were there, and that was
everything.

Lady Matilda hopped off her horse like
a bird, full of glee at thus, by her smartness,
depriving her son-in-law of the felicity
of offering his solemn useless assistance ; and
she had run into the house, and opened the
drawing-room door, before any one could
make a ceremony of the matter. Teddy
had followed, as in duty bound, close at
his sister's heels, and there stood the two
• — the happy, naughty, provoking two, — there
they stood, as pleased as possible. Lady Matilda's
hat awry, and a splash of mud on
Teddy's cheek, — just as Robert was turning
round from the window to announce in his
most measured accents, " I think, Lotta, I
hear horses. Is your mother likely to be
over to-day ? "

Sure enough he had heard horses, even
though by common consent the horses' hoofs
had been kept to the softest side of the drive,

and muffled, as it were, more and more as
the house was neared, — he had heard, as he
could not help hearing, when they came
round the last corner, and got into the deep
gravel at the entrance door ; but as the
drawing-room window looked not that way,
and as it was, moreover, shut on account
of the day being damp, he had fancied himself
very quick, and that the riders were
yet a good way off, when, behold ! they
were in the room. How had they got in ?
How had they made good their entrance
without bells ringing, servants flying, bustle
and importance ? He had not heard a sound
of any kind.

"William was in front," explained Lady
Matilda, with bright unconcern, " so he took
our horses, and we just came in."

Now, was not that like her? She 'just
came in," — just did what she fancied on the
spur of the moment, with no regard to anything
or any one ; and here he had had no
time to tell who or what she was, no chance

of making: the most of Overton and the best
of its people, not even for putting more than
that one hasty question ere it was so abruptly
and indecorously answered.

Of course Whewell and Challoner looked
surprised, — well they might. He supposed
that silly feather-headed creature did not
care a straw for that, or, more likely, plumed
herself upon it as a compliment, without a
notion that she had made a mistake, and
that she could never now take the place
he had meant her to take in his friends'
estimation.

Well, it was no use crying over spilt milk ;
the thing was done, and could not be undone ;
and, tiresome as it was, it had this in its
favour — it showed, and that broadly, upon
what easy terms the two families stood. And,
to be sure. Lady Matilda was still Lady Matilda,
and Teddy, mud and all, was still the
Hon. Edward Lessingham ; divest themselves
as they might of every outward circumstance
of rank — trample their dignity under foot and

throw propriety to the four winds of heaven,
as they habitually did — the brother and sister
must still belong to their order, they could not
absolutely unfrock themselves.

With a sense of returning peace to his
soul, but, nevertheless, with a stifled sigh
and inward frown for what might have been
had they, oh, had they only been all he. would
have had them, Mr Han well crossed the room,
and confronted the graceless couple. They
had not even the sense to see, or at any rate
to care — he Was by no means sure that the
lurking light in Matildass eye did not mean
that she did see — how ruthlessly she had
upset his programme.

He had meant to send over a note, (for
in notes he shone,) to the effect that his
friends had arrived, were to spend a few
days at Endhill, as Lord Overton might remember
he had told him they were expected
to do, and that he would esteem it a favour
if they might be granted a day in the covers,
provided Lord Overton had made no other

shooting arrangements, either for the end of
that week or the beginning of the next. Why
he could not have asked before, no mortal
knew ; probably some vague idea that he
might be thrown over by the two mighty
men he had chosen, at the last moment,
had to do with it, — probably he had ere
now thus suffered, since no very strong
counter-attraction would have been needed
to make any one throw over Eobert Han-well
; but at any rate he had thought it best
to be on the safe side, and to have his birds
in his hand before reckoning too securely on
them.

But the note was smitten and ready, and
there it lay on the hall table, waiting to be
despatched by special bearer, as soon as the
anticipated arrival should have actually taken
place, and as soon as William could have seen
the flyman off the premises. For this cause
the dogcart had not gone to meet the train ;
the horse — he had but one — was required for
William ; William was to have ridden to Over-ton,

and so to have timed his arrival there, as
to have caught Lord Overton on his return
from his daily walk, when it might be counted
upon that he would answer at once, and answer
favourably. The answer would arrive while
dinner was going on at Endhill, and it would
be an agreeable diversion to have it brought
in, and be able to read it aloud, and give
round the invitation which was to prove
so welcome.

All of this had not been thought out without
care and pains ; and it must be conceded that
some pity was due to a man who had spent
all his leisure moments that day in concocting
an elaborate strategic epistle, and had wasted
three good sheets of paper over writing it.

The whole arrangement was blasted. He
had known it would work well, had hoped so
much, and thought so much, and, since leave
in general terms had been already granted,
had looked forward so much to seeing the
matter thus properly and decently brought to
a climax, — and now all was undone. By

Teddy's look, important and eager, lie was
too plainly charged with a purpose, and that
purpose the dullest could divine ; Matilda had
obtained the invitation from one brother, and
had passed it on to the other to deliver, and
the whole patronage and eclat of the proceeding
was taken out of Eobert's hands.

He would not, however, allow himself to be
overpowered even by this. " Take the easy-chair.
Lady Matilda ; Lotta has the sofa, you
know ; but I believe you like the chair best.
What a cold day for you to be out ! " (he knew
perfectly well that no cold day ever stopped
her;) " really we had hardly expected to see
any one from Overton to-day ; and the roads
are so bad too. You find the fire too much ?
Lotta, my dear, where is the glass screen ?
I saw it this moment ; oh, behind you ; — not
at all' (to osiers of help,) — " I can manage
it myself perfectly. Don't move, Lady Matilda
— pray don't move. Will you have a
cushion ? A footstool ? " Poor man, he did
his best for her, and she would not give him

any help, not the tiniest atom of help. It was
cruel of Matilda. Cushion '? Footstool ? She
sat a yard off the cushion, and with her little
foot kicked away the footstool, — kicked it
away under his very nose.

'•' What's all this about, Robert '? Get me
some tea — there's a good man. Baby well,
Lotta I "

At least she asked for the baby ; she generally
did that, but as likely as not she would
never ask to see it ; and there she was sitting
on the edge of her chair, pulling off her gloves,
tipping back her hat, as straight as an arrow,
and as bright and pert as a humming-bird —
and this was the baby's grandmother.

He stole a france at his friends. Challoner

o

was still in the window, gazing absently out ;
it would be hard to say whether he had heard
or seen or wondered at anything. Challoner,
he now remembered, always had been noted
for keeping his feelings to himself; and
AVhewell, — Lady Matilda was at the moment
turning up her face to Whewell, who was

standing near, and whom she lead recognised
without any hesitation at once. She was
making a remark about his railway journey
down. *' You must have come through floods,"
she said.

*' Floods 1 Yes. Yes — it was very bad —
very wet. I mean the whole place was underwater,"
replied the young man, at a momentary
loss to remember, when thus called upon,
the real state of the case. At least so it
seemed ; but the truth was this, it was another
lapse of memory that was troublesome, he had
forgotten Lady Matilda herself, or, to be more
exact, he had forgotten, clean forgotten that
she was what he now found her. He had had
no recollection, no impression of any one of
that kind ; he had seen her among a number,
bright, handsome, gay, and well dressed, — but
then, others had been so likewise, and he met
pretty women every day in London. It was
beholding her thus in the little cottage room,
by the side of her homely daughter, it was
meeting her thus suddenly and unexpectedly,

that made him stare and stammer. In another
minute he was himself again.

For AVhewell prided himself above all things
on being a man of the world, and he would
have despised himself had he not been equal
to any occasion, however puzzling. He drew
a breath, drew nearer, held a chair, then sat
down on it, and in the shortest time possible
he and Matilda were in the full flow of chat,
without either apparently feeling it in the
least necessary to include others in their conversation.


Lotta, who, erewhile in all her glory as
hostess, as semi-invalid, or at least convalescent,
and at any rate as chief person on the
interesting; occasion which had brought the
two gentlemen down, had been busy with Mr
Whewell, and who had thought they were all
very snug and comfortable, and that everyone
must feel how much nicer it was to be
within doors on that dreary afternoon, with
a good fire and a prospective tea-tray, than
wandering aimlessly about the garden and

grounds as Eobert had at first proposed, —
Lotta, poor thing, now resented, no less than
her husband did, the disturbing of all their
little elements. She did not care to talk to
uncle Edward — (who, indeed, showed no
symptoms of any desire to talk to her) —
and since mamma had usurped Mr Whewell,
there was no one left. Mr Challoner stuck
to his window like a leech, and Eobert had
returned to him ; so, since the other four were
thus left, and since mamma and uncle Edward
had chosen to come — it was a pity they had
come, but since they had — they ought, at least,
to have helped out the visit by making it a
sociable general affair. She had been getting
on delightfully with Mr Whewell before the
others came, but now he had no chance of
saying a word to her. It was not his fault
of course it was not ; but mamma would
always be first, and she seemed to forget
altogether sometimes that she had a grownup
daughter, and a married daughter to boot.
Mamma really ought to think of this. It was

quite rude to Mr Wliewell taking him up in
this way, when she, Lotta, as hide of the
house and his friend's wife, ought to have
been paying him attention : it looked as if
he had bored her before, and he had not bored
her in the least. She had liked him very
much, and he had talked so nicely, and seemed
so interested in all she said, and had asked so
much about baby, and shown so evidently that
he had been pleased to be godfather, that altogether
she had felt they were going to be great
friends : and then mamma came in, and took
him away, and he was never able to renew the
conversation ; but she was sure he had been
quite vexed at being so interrupted.

A good deal of this was for Eobert's ear
afterwards, and a good deal passed through
Charlotte's mind at the time ; but outwardly,
Mrs Hanwell merely sat up on her socii, in one
of her best dresses, taking care not to ruffle or
soil the frills of her sleeves as she poured out
the tea with rather a grave face, and an air
that betrayed to all that Lotta felt herself out

in the cold, and that this, for a young matron
with a partial spouse, and an excellent opinion
of his judgment as well as her own, was a
novel and not entirely pleasing sensation.

Lady Matilda drank her tea, and sent back
her cup for more.

The grateful beverage sent up a yet warmer
colour into her cheek, and she looked her best
her smiling glowing best, — while poor Lotta,
sullen and forlorn, was bereft of all the very
small share of outward attractiveness she ever
possessed.

It could not pass unnoticed, the contrast.
Whewell saw it, even as he held the cup :
mean man, he stayed several minutes by
Lotta's side, making his peace, as he told
himself, with the tea-maker, and this was
how his thoughts were employed ! — he noted
the curious difference between the two, betwixt
the placid, dull, expressionless mask
now before him, and the brilliant changeful
features to which he was returning. Was it
likely he would stay long ? Can it be wondered

at that all the little bustle over the
suo-ar - basin aud the cream-luo; could not
detain him ?

True, he came and went more than once,
but it was always on the one lady's errands :
he had to bring her bread-and-butter and cake,
as well as to have her cup filled twice ; he
stood about, he fetched and carried, and he
stepped backwards and forwards, but it was
always backwards, backwards, his feet took
him finally ; until at length, the business over,
and the last attention paid, he fairly settled
himself down by Matilda's side, and neither
looked at nor spoke to any one else during
the remainder of her stay. It was enough :
Lady Matilda saw that she was noticed, more
than noticed, and frankly she allowed to herself
that it was for this she had come. She
knew that she was charming, and sometimes
the knowledge was too much for her ; it
needed a vent ; it wanted some one to applaud,
admire, and flatter; and, no disrespect
to Mr Frank AYhewell, she would, in her

then mood, have made eyes at a field scarecrow.


But we must give our readers some idea of
Whewell.

From earliest years he had shown the germ
of such mental powers as succeed best in life.
He had not been a thinking boy ; he had not
puzzled his masters and tutors, nor set his
parents cogitating about his future ; but he
had made the most of every talent he possessed,
and those talents had been not a
few. Concentration, grasp, alertness, tact,
and fluency of language, all pointed out unmistakably
his path in life. He was to go to
the bar, and if he went to the bar, there was
no doubt in any one's mind that he would do
well ; he would succeed, rise, and one day
rule. So far every favourable prognostication
had been fulfilled ; nothing had hindered or
thwarted a career which seemed to be one
continued triumph ; and though higher heights
were still to be climbed, and greater obstacles
yet remained to be overcome, there was no
VOL. I. H

reason why, with ordinary good fortune, he
should not oo on as he had begun : ambition
was his ruling passion, and ambition is an
irresistible spur.

But in the little drawing-room at Endhill
during the hour that Lady Matilda spent
there, Whewell showed himself in another
light to what he usually appeared before the
world. He liked women, and he liked to be
liked by them. Apart from his profession, he
liked nothing so well as to talk with them, to
listen to their soft replies, to their hopeless
arguments, to their sweet laughter. It was a
delicious relief to his tired brain to allow itself
to be at ease as it were in their presence, to
permit himself to ramble over metaphorical
hedges and ditches in his talk, avoiding as
the very plague the straight hard road which
led direct to the point — that very road he
would pursue so relentlessly when wig and
gown were on ; and it gave him an excusable
feeling of satisfaction to perceive that while
the latter course prevailed with men, and

made him what lie was and where he was,
the former won for him the golden opinions
of the other sex.

Now much of his popularity he put down
to his o'ood looks. He valued his handsome
face still more than his versatile ability, and
therefore the face, or at least Whewell's general
appearance, ought to be described. He
was getting on to forty in years, but he had
looked forty ever since he was nineteen, and
would continue to do so until he was ninety.
The boys at school had nicknamed him
** Grandfather," and by-and-by people would
infallibly observe how young he looked, and
the same eyes, hair, and mouth would do
duty for both observations : he had not
changed a feature or gained or lost anything
since going to the university. But he was
undeniably personable. He had a slight, firm,
well-knit figure, raven-black hair, an aquiline
nose, a small well-shaped mouth, a quick turn
of the head, and an eye so keenly apprehensive
and inquisitive that it seemed at once

to take possession of whatever it looked
upon.

And of all these good things no one was
more aware than W he well himself.

He thought they gained him female friends,
and perhaps in this he was right ; but he
went still further, and in this he was undoubtedly
wrong. It was his fixed idea that
no amount of talent would ever make an ugly
face palatable to a woman — whereas the truth
is that women like, ay and love, ay and worship,
ugly faces every day.

Lady Matilda could have told her lively
friend as much ; but very likely if she had,
he would not have believed her. And since
the cleverest of us must sometimes be at
fault, and since such was the opinion of the
sagacious barrister, it will surprise no one
to hear that the opinion was shared by the
sagacious Teddy.

Oh, you thought him very good-looking,
no doubt," said Teddy, when at length the
two took their leave and found themselves

on their way home ; " very good-looking, and
vastly pleasant. I'll be bound you did that.
Talking away to him there the whole time,
and sitting on till it was so dark that we
had to have candles. I was quite ashamed of
staying so long. I thought we were never
going to get away, and there was Lotta
fidgeting and fidgeting, and Eobert looking
round from the window, — what on earth did
you do it for 1 " he broke off suddenly. " I
am sure they didn't want us all that while."
Did they not ? Oh yes, they did ; or, at
least, they ought if they did not," returned
his sister, gaily. " I am sure they were
deeply in our debt ; I am sure they owed tous
the whole success of the afternoon. It
was a success, don't you think '? And imagine
what it might have been ! Failure is
not the word. Think, Teddy, of a whole
afternoon, a wet afternoon, an afternoon hopeless
of interruption or variety or anything,
with only Robert and Lotta ! Picture to
yourself that delightful Mr AYhewell "

Delightful ! nonsense."

'' Wrecked upon Lotta, stranded upon Lotta,
submerged in Lotta," pursued Matilda, merrily.
*' Lotta with her eternal talk about cooks and
babies, and ' our arrangements for this,' and
our ideas about that ' ; Teddy, put yourself
in Mr Whewell's place, and feel for a moment
as he felt. They were in the thick of it when
we came in ; I saw it in the victim's face ;
and even if his face had been hidden, he
would have been betrayed by his hanging
head and dejected mien."

How you do talk ! ' Hanging head and
dejected mien,' what on earth — / saw no hanging
o- head. I am sure he seemed as fit a little
cock-sparrow as I have ever seen, jabbering
away to you by the yard."

So he did, — when he had me to jabber to.
I rescued him out of the Slough of Despond,
and he had the wit to be very tenderly grateful
to his deliverer, moreover ; and the grace
to rate his deliverance at its proper value, or
I am mistaken. Come, Master Ted," cried

Matilda, in her sauciest tones — " come, sir,
don't be sulky. You did your best ; you did
as well as any could have expected, and as
much as in you lay ; but you must own that
to me — me — me, belongs ' la gloire et la victoire.'
There. Understand that, eh 1 I did
it all : I enlivened a dull visit, took compassion
on an unfortunate stranger, and drew him
forth from the very jaws of domesticity. Did
I not do well for him ? I think I did. I
think he was worth it, and that he will feel
now that there is some one, even in this benighted
spot, on whom he is not altogether
thrown away."

Great cheek if he ever thought anything
of the kind." Teddy had had enough of
AVhewell, and had, moreover, been ill used all
through the visit by everybody. " I was
quite astonished to see you make yourself so
cheap to that fellow," he proceeded severely.
*you were so taken up with him, that you
had not a word for the other one, and he
looked by a long way the better of the two."

Glad you thought so. But I left him for
you. You were civil to him, I hope ? "

I ? No. How could I ? I never had the
chance. Eobert monopolised him, as you did
Whewell. I had nobody''

Nobody ! What are you saying, bad boy ?
Do you call your own married niece, in her
own house, and at her own tea-table, nobody
^ "

'' She is nobody, all the same. She is the
stupidest creature — well, you know what I
mean," he broke off and drew in a little, since,
after all, Lotta was Matilda's child, — '' you
know," he added, apologetically, " you think
so yourself."

No — no — no. No, Teddy, I never said
that. Fie, Teddy ! you encroach ; you must
not say such things ; and I would not have
any one but me hear you for the world."

"Is it likely I should say it to any one but
you ? "

'' You m — might. It might slip out. Do be
careful."

*' Of course Til be careful : I always am
careful ; but Lotta is a regular dolt. Except
when she was looking at you, she had about
as much expression as a Chinese mandarin."

And when she was looking at me ? "

I say, she didn't like AVhewell going over
to you, you know."

"Did she not r'

She thought you were poaching on her
lands."

So I was."

Why did you do it ? I should not have
done it had I been you."

You would, had you been me — that is
just it. Ob, I had no particular reason for
doing it,' as you call it ; I just had the inclination
; I wanted to amuse myself. And
then I thought that if I had the one, you
could have the other. I could entertain Mr
Whewell, and you Mr Challoner."

'' Robert and Lotta each other ? " said Teddy,
with a grin.

Oh, they never do anything for anybody

; they are no count. You see I took
Mr Whewell, and if you bad done as much
for Mr Cballoner there would have been nothing
for anybody to compLain of."

By Jove, that is hard ! when there was I
who would have been thankful of any one,
stuck down all by myself in a chair by the
fire, with yards of carpet in front of me ; and
there was Challoner, or whatever his name is,
away at the far end of the room, with his
back to me, mumbling away to Eobert, and
Eobert to him, without stopping once the
whole time ; and now you speak as if I had —
as if it had been my fault ! "

"Don't be incoherent, my dear; how am I
to tell what you mean when you muddle up
your sentences in that way ? And there is
nothing to excite your wrath either. I merely
meant to suggest that probably the luckless
Challoner would have preferred your company
to Robert's ; and after all, that is nothing to
take umbrage at."

'* Humph," — mollified, however.

'' ^yhat was lie like, Ted ? "

Like ? I don't know. I never thought
of it. He was like other people, I suppose''

Like other people ? Oh ! Not in anyway
particular ? "

Wei], not in any way particular. No, I
don't think he was''

'bat you must have seen something f
urored Matilda. " You, who had nothing else
to do, and no one to listen to, and no one to
look at "

'"' I had. I had you to look at."

Me ! " cried she.

I was wondering what you did it for, and
what you could possibly see in that puppy to
make such a work about."

What did I see ? Well, now you ask me
that in a friendly way, brother, and not in an
acrimonious carping backbiting spirit, I will
answer you candidly : I don't think I saw
very much."

And yet you talked to no one else ? "

And yet I talked to no one else."

Come, I am tired of the subject' cried
she, suddenly ; " come, away with it ! " — and
starting her horse to a canter, nothing further
passed of any note between the pair for the
time being.

CHAPTER Iii.

A PRETTY SCRAPE YOU WILL GET INTO.

"It is good discretion not to make too much of any man at the
first, because one cannot hold out that proportion." — Bacon'.

Lady Matilda's sole impression of Challoner
had been that of a tall, broad, listless man,
leaning against the window-pane in the ,
the while he yielded a sort of pensive
half attention to the platitudes of her
son-in-law. Whether these had suited him or
not, no one could tell. He had not seemed to
respond much certainly, but he had listened
presumably, at least, he had listened, — and
undeniably he had not turned away. He had
stood still where he was, and had let the
stream flow over his head, and that in itself

was enough. He had not broken loose, shaken
off his host, crossed the room, and drawn near
to her; and this was Avhat he should have
done to have found any favour in Matilda's
eyes. A man ought not to be tamely broken
on the wheel ; he ought, he surely ought to
make some sort of struo^orle with his fate —
some desperate resistance, even when resistance
is fruitless. But Challoner had shown
no fight, even no inclination to fight : he was
beneath her notice.

She should not waste pity or sympathy upon
one so insensate — would not throw away
gentle amenities on one so indiscriminating ;
while Whewell — AYhewell, who had at once
bent beneath her sway, and wJio had shown
himself so apt, so responsive, and so appreciative
— Whewell should have all her smiles.

Here at least was one who knew how to
value the o-ood fortune which had befallen him
in that most ill - favoured spot, who could
appreciate having a Lady Matilda to talk to
and to look at, who could discern between her

and the inert Lotta and the insufferable
Eobert. Here was one who could claim a.
privilege and make the most of an opportunity
; and the vain creature coloured ominously
in front of her o^lass that evening; as she recalled
glances and speeches, and the whole
little scene at Endhill, — Lotta's prim, prudish
attitude, Teddy's impatience, and Whe well's
exclusive devotion.

He, Whewell, had had neither eyes nor ears
for any one but herself. He had pushed out
into the hall by her side when she went, had
held her foot and put it in the stirrup as she
mounted, and had been the last to go inside
as they rode off, standing bareheaded out in
the chill November air to watch them down
the drive.

She could guess with what reflections he
stood there ; she could picture to herself, or
thought she could, what were his probable
sensations and anticipations at the present
moment, — how gladly he would have exchanged
his quarters had this been possible,

and hoar joyfully he would appear at Overton
next day.

They will not come till dinner-time," she
announced to her brothers. " Eobert had a
dozen unanswerable reasons why they should
not dress here, so we are not to expect anybody
till eight o'clock. When they have done their
worst on our pheasants, they will come and
inflict themselves on us. They are all coming,
every man Jack of them, as Teddy would say.
Eobert has engaged for the party generally.
By the way, I did not say anything about it to
Lotta ; but I do not suppose that will signify.
She will be quite satisfied if dear Eobert has
arranged it ; and dear Eobert has taken it upon
himself, after due references and inquiries, to
answer in the name of everybody. One thing is,
he will see that they all turn up, and that not
one of them is late. They will be here at eight
o'clock to the second, if he die in the attempt.
Happily it is dark so long before then, that
the poor men will not have their sport curtailed
by his anxieties, as those others had

in partridge-time. I did pity them ; I knew
how it must have been exactly. Woe betide
the unfortunate finger that ever steals to the
triororer, once Herr Robert has decreed that
time is up ! He will never forgive that shot,
more especially if it kills. Well, perhaps it
is a good thing for all our sakes that my son-in-law
is no sportsman ; but what would I not
give to make him unpunctual, even ordinarily,
decently unpunctual ? "

What do you call being decently unpunctual
V said Overton.

'' When a man stands with his watch in his
hand, and will have you know the time when
you don't want to know it, it's not decent,"
replied she.

Was that what happened this afternoon ? "
inquired her brother, cracking his walnuts, —
for the three were sitting cosily together over
their dessert, and Matilda was, as usual, doing
most of the conversation.

Xo, Mr Inquisitive, it was not what happened
this afternoon," retorted she. " Oh,

VOL. I. I

Overton," her attention diverted, ''I do wish
I could crack single walnuts in my hand as
you do. I can't think how you do it," stretching
out a white arm, and. screwing up a soft
and shapely hand with desperate energy. " I
have tried assail and again, and I never can —
oh I" — with a final and utterly ineffectual
wrench.

You couldn't crush a spider with that ! "
said Teddy, disdainfully. " AVith that little
bit of a wrist you have not any power. There
is nothing easier than walnuts' performing
the feat again and again. *' But, I say, Mattie,
what made you give the invitation to those
people to-day ? I thought you told me that
/ "

Of course I did, and you saw I left to you
the shooting arrangements ; but I had to do
something myself; my dear Teddy, Eobert's
face must have shown you that I had to do
something to pacify the storm. AYe were in
the wrong box, you and I ; we were dreadful
offenders "

How 1 " said Teddy, opening his eyes.

'' We had come before our time, my friend."

Had we 1 But what did that matter ? We
did it to be civil ; we thought it was a friendly
thing to do. What should they come for,
then ? I'm sure ive didn't want them."

Oh, you dear innocent, you don't half
know Robert yet. It was all very well our
showing attention, hospitality, and so forth ;
but we, you and I, our two selves in the
bodily presence, Ted, cere not wanted. Can
you understand that now ? Overton can. He
thinks he never is wanted, which is a mistake,
on the other hand. If he, now, had found his
august way over to Endhill to-day, he would
have met with a different reception ; but as
it was, it was only poor Teddy and Matilda,"
shaking her head with mock mournfulness,
and they were sadly in the way."

And what good did the invitation do 1 "
said Overton, intercepting an indignant protest
from his brother.

"Oh, it soothed the ruffled feelings in a

wonderful way. You see, dear Robert really
was sadly put out, though Teddy may not
believe it; he had had no time, I fancy, to
get out his say, to swell and strut, and spread
his plumage as he loves to do, and as he never
can do whenever any one of us is present ;
and he and Lotta would fain have had their
visitors to themselves for a while, — imagine
what a fate for any man, let alone a Londoner
and a — Whewell. However, Robert would
have liked this, and he did not get it, and
we — or rather I — was in disgrace. And ''

Why you more than I ? " burst in Teddy,
with a black look.

I am the lady, you know, and the lady
naturally takes the lead. That was all, dear,"
replied Matilda, with one of her swift transitions
from sarcasm to gentleness. " That
was what I meant, don't you see ? " looking
at him to make sure she was saying right.
And besides, you know, Teddy, an invitation
from the lady of the house always counts for
more than one from auy of the gentlemen —

even from you, Overton. Now does it not,
Overton ? " easterly, lier warnings voice adding,
Say it does."

Why, yes. Yes, of course. Every one
knows that," said Overton, responding promptly
to the whip. "Teddy knows that as well
as any one, only he forgot at the moment."

Oh yes, of course — of course. A fellow
can't be expected to remember things like
that," said Teddy, his brow clearing under the
combined influence. " I did not think of it,
that was all. Go on, Matilda."

"Where was I? Oh, I was telling you
how Eobert took my friendly overture. He
never suspected, you know, that it was only
thought of as we were mounting our horses ;
he imagined, no doubt, that the idea had been
manufactured with all the labour and sorrow
and j9r(95 and cons that would have gone to
the making had he had a finger in the pie ;
and actually I did my best to foster this aspect
of things. I quite turned our impromptu
dinner into an important affair. You should

have seen how his grimness relaxed, and how
at last a ray of sunshine stole athwart his sad
cheekbone."

"Because he was asked here'' said Over-ton,
incredulously.

*' Because they were all asked here ; because
he was to bring himself, and his Lotta, and
his dashing Whewell, and his statuesque Challenger,
and to trundle them all along, packed
as tight as herrings in a barrel, over the hill
to Overton. You look scornful, most sapient
brother ! Is not the cause sufficient ? Oh,
you do Eobert injustice— you do indeed ; he
loves of all things to seek your sweet society,
and nothing affords him greater pleasure than
we will not say to dine, but to say that he
has dined here."

*' Here ? Nonsense. There is nothing hereto
make Eobert or any one care to come. Weare
all very wtII by ourselves, but for anybody
else, there can be no attraction."

*' Can there not ? Now, really, can there
not, Overton \ Are we no attraction in ourselves,

you and Teddy and I ? " cried Matilda,
with an odd note in her voice. " You are a
plain man, Overton, and will return a plain
answer to a plain question. Tell me, is there
no conceivable attraction here for — for anyone,
in you, or Teddy, or — or me ? "

*' None in the least, none whatever," replied
Overton promptly, for his thoughts still ran
on Eobert Hanwell, while hers had flown, as
may have been guessed, elsewhere. " Eobert
wished to marry your girl, and so he chose
to come and visit her here, very naturally
I suppose," with a twitch of the lip which
needed no interpretation. " Since Eobert
wished to marry Lotta, it is to be imagined
that he cared to be with her now and then
beforehand, and as she was here he came
here ; but now — now that all that is over,
there is nothing:, nothing; in the world to
bring; him out of his own snuo^ house on a
raw dark November night, when the roads
are about as bad as they can be, and there is
not even a moon to light their way. It is a

cool tiling to ask any man to do, and I must
say, Matilda, I wonder you liked to do it. I
am sure I, for one, should not have ventured."


And I am sure that I, for another, should
not, very certainly, very decidedly should not,
with an eye to some one else's comfort than
good Eobert's," said Matilda, laughing. " No
indeed, that I should not, my brothers twain,
had he and he alone been the proposed recipient
of our hospitality. But, bethink you,
there are others ; and the raw dark November
night, and the bad roads, and the no moon,
may be no obstacle to then. What do you
say, Teddy ? Do you think that Mr Whewell
would leave it ? Do you think he would imperil
his precious legal life in a four-mile drive
through this lonely country after dark, to have
another sight of — either of us 1 "

"Of you ? Oh ! " said Overton, with a
smile.

Of her, of course," added Teddy. " She
is such a creature for getting round people.

that she had that ass Whewell all in a hwzz
before we left. You never saw anything like
the way he went on, shoving through the
doorway in front of me to get after her. And
now she wants him over here "

To complete the damage done. Very good,
Teddy' said Matilda, approvingly. " I never
like to leave a piece of work unfinished, on
principle ; so, as you say that Mr Whewell
has done me the honour to "

"To flirt with you," said Teddy,

bluntly.

''Oh fie, Teddy! do not believe him, Over-ton.
I never flirt. It is a things I would not

o

do upon any account ; and as to flirting with
Mr Whewell — we were only pleasant, pleasant
to each other. And there was no one for my
poor Teddy to be pleasant to, and so he is
cross with his Matilda," patting his shoulder
as if cajoling a fretful child. " Now, was not
that it, Ted ? Don't be vexed, then : it shall
have some one, it shall. Let me see, tomorrow
night : whom could we get over for

tomorrow night 1 No one but the Appleby
girls, I am afraid. Will Juliet Appleby do,
Teddy ? She is fond of you, you know."

"I shall take Marion in," said Teddy, decidedly.


Judy is too young, is she 'i "

A wretched school-girl," with contempt.

*'A tolerably forward school-girl; she has
learned one lesson thoroughly, at all events.
But you are wrong, Teddy, she is emerged,
emancipated ; she is going about everywhere
now, and has been since the sumner."

'' I shall take Marion in," reiterated Teddy.
Juliet had caused him offence last time they
met, and he thus revenged himself.

As you please," said his sister. " It does
not signify, or rather it is better so ; Juliet is
much the prettier of the two."

You don't call those Miss Applebyss pretty,
do you ? " said Lord Overton, who, when quite
alone with his brother and sister, could take
a fair share in the conversation, and make
now and then quite a good remark if not

called upon to do it. " They are so what is
it — unripe '? "

"And budding beauty is what poets sing
about, and lovers rave about."

Budding, perhaps, but these are buds that
weill never blossom. Juliet is pink and white,
but she has not a feature in her face, and
Marion's teeth would spoil the look of any
mouth."

"Well, I'll have Marion all the same," said
Teddy, obstinately. When he had a notion
in his head he stuck to it, as he said himself ;
and he now looked defiantly round, as if
Marion's teeth and Juliet's pink-and-whiteness
had alike been forces used against his determination.
" I mean to have Marion ; so there," —
bringing down his hand on the table.

*' Such being the case, I give way," replied
Matilda, humouring his mood. " I give way,
and Juliet has Mr Challoner ; it will do that
chatterton good to have such a stone wall to
expend her artillery upon ; she will not get
much change out of her companion, I should

say : then Overton takes Lotta, and Robert
must go by himself. He will not mind going
by himself for once, when he sees his dear
Lotta in the place of honour."

That she meant to have Whewell for herself
was thus evident. Challoner might have
the right to give her his arm and seat himself
by her side — probably had the right, since she
had a tolerably distinct recollection of something
having been said about his family and
connections which rendered it unlikely that
Whewell could be in birth his superior, —
but what of that ? Who was stupid enough
to care for that ? Certainly not Matilda
Wilmot. She was not to know, or at least
was not to be supposed to know ; and at any
rate Whewell she wanted, and Whewell she
meant to have.

And a pretty scrape you will get into
with Eobert if you do," Teddy reminded his
sister ; for he too had heard the reference to
Challoner's family, and he saw what Matilda
was up to, after that fashion he had of seeing

things that were not meant for him. " You
had better just look out' he warned her.

But to no purpose. A plague on Eobert !
she must now and then be in scrapes with
him, and as well now as at any other time.
She would have her way, and trust to her
good luck and her ready tongue to make
matters straight with him afterwards, for
Lotta's sake, not his own. She wished, oh,
how devoutly she wished, that they could
have a quarrel — a downright, out-and-out,
give-and-take-no-quarter quarrel — so that they
might be free of each other for evermore ; but
for her child's sake she would keep the peace
with intervals for refreshment ; and as,
happily, she knew his weak points, and could
lay her finger on them to heal as well as to
wound at any moment, he might be put
aside occasionally without much alarm as
to the future. Accordingly she laughed at
Teddy, and went her way unheeding.

The next evening came, and with it the
expected guests. Eobert was in great force.

had been in force the whole day ; and meeting
the returning carriage of the Applebyss as they
drove up to the Hall, was just as it should be.
Lady Matilda had with unwonted thoughtfulness
provided two new girls for his bachelor
friends, and this would be the crowning touch
to a day that had been altogether successful.
The two strangers had shot well and walked

o

well, and had expressed themselves warmly
on the subject : their host had little doubt of
being able to obtain for them another day
on the Monday, and there was nothing to
mar the satisfaction and serenity with which
he alighted. The footmen had on their best
liveries, and his cup was full.

Take care, Lotta. Another step, my dear.
Are you all right ? Fine old hall, Challoner.
The pictures are not much, but they are at
least genuine. Your collar is turned up,
Whewell : allow me." His " allow me " was
the pinnacle of his good-humour.

But it was not destined to last long, as
those ^^'ho are in the wilful Matilda's confidence

are aware ; and only too soon after
the party had assembled before the drawing-room
fire, did his uneasy fears arise. Until
then no doubts had arisen to disturb his
mind, for on this wise he had argued, that
foolish and heedless as the young grandmother
habitually showed herself to be, she could not
go the length of this ; she could not, without
consulting his opinion or making due inquiries,
take upon herself to decide as to which of his
guests — of his guests — should have precedence,
when brought by him to the Hall. He had,
indeed, already hinted his wishes ; but if,
as was, alas ! too possible with such an
auditor, the hint — the very emphatic hint —
had been thrown away, in such a case here he
was himself to be appealed to, and here was
a <xood five minutes in which to make the
appeal. A whisper to him, an aside through
Teddy, a nod of the head, a turn of the eye,
would have done it, would have let the hostess
know which to make the happy man, — and
of course it was Challoner who ought to bethe

man; — and as a Miss Appleby could be
placed upon his other side, so that he need
only have the honour of Lady Matilda, and
could have the pleasure of an unmarried lady's
society at the same time — (Robert was one
who took it for granted that a bachelor must
always prefer a 'miss") — all being so nicely
arran-ed, Cballoner would be well off.

He watched, he waited for the signal that
was to bring him into secret communications
with Lady Matilda; but Lady Matilda, quite
at her ease, made no sign, and he grew restless
: and then, just as he was debating within
himself how matters would really go, if there
would be a scrimmage at the end, or what %
what should he see but Challoner, the
Challoner he thought so much of, and cared
so intensely to show off before, paired off with
an absurd little Juliet Appleby — not even
Marion, but Juliet, the school-girl — while
Whewell, all radiant and triumphant, talking,
bending over as he talked, gallantly escorted
the hostess to the head of the table ?

CHAPTER YIIL

A STRANGE EFFECT.

Uniting charms with edge resistless fall,
And she who means no mischief, does it all."

—Prior.

Never had Matilda looked better.

She was glowing with life and health ; and
having put on her most becoming dress and
ornaments, the plain home-made frocks of
two rather so-so-looking damsels, and Lotta's
high morning silk with the lace fichu, which,
when put on in her little room at Endhill,
had looked quite elegant enough and quite
dressy enough for a quiet dinner at her
uncle's, then became all at once dowdy and
ineffective.

They were all much on a par, Lotta perhaps

VOL. I. K

•

the worst, for Lotta had grown stout of late,
and could not stand ranch. Jichit, besides which,
there was a suspicion of being somewhat too
tightly buckled in for comfort, — but still the
Miss Applebyss could not cast stones at her.
Juliet's muslin was limp, and did not hang
straight, being longer on the one side than on
the other ; and the lace edging on both sisters'
skirts, on the blue as well as the pink, was
cheap, and looked cheap. Little threads hung
out here and there, and the colour had slightly
run in the washing ; while to crown all, the
cut on two rather meagre, scrimp, listless
young figures, was not all that could have
been desired.

Lady Matilda was in black, but it was
brilliant black : it was set off by freshly cut,
snowy chrysanthemums, and quivering maidenhair
ferns ; it was relieved by lustrous opals
at her throat and in her ears ; and it encircled
the roundest, whitest neck and arms in the
world.

Mrs Hanwell thought her mother overdressed.

It was just like mamma, she said;
and she wondered how it was that Matilda
knew no better, and how she, who ordinarily-seemed
to care so little how she looked, or
how old and shabby her clothes were when
walking about the lanes, or even shopping in
the town, would sometimes take it into her
head to flare up into splendour, and throw
every one else into the shade. And it must
be confessed that the young lady who sat thus
in judgment did not like being in the shade,
and felt more discomposed than she would have
allowed to anybody, at finding herself there.

Her own costume was so nice, so very nice :
she had herself tacked in new frilling in the
neck and sleeves — her best frilling too, out of
a not over-abundant supply — and it had gone
to her heart to reflect how it would get crushed
and soiled by her heavy fur cloak in the drive
to and from the Hall ; but she had felt that
the occasion was sufficient. She had meant
to look well, and not to grudge a little trouble,
or even her favourite ruffles ; she had rubbed

•

bright her large gold locket and chain, and
put it on over the lace ; and then there had
been a pair of neat little bronze slippers, and
mittens, and a brown fan, with a brown ribbon
run through the handle to match the slippers.
And a clean handkerchief, fine and soft, but
not her best Honiton one, which would have
been over smart, had been found for the
pocket, and a pretty white scarf had been
remembered for the head, and nothing had
been forgotten, not even the parting directions
to nurse, nor the kiss to baby, before she left
Endhill.

Nobody had ever crossed the threshold therewith
a more complacent step ; no one had
ever entered the entrance-hall at Overton with
a fuller sense of inward assurance.

And in half an hour all was altered, for
in half an hour Lotta had had time to look
about her, to take notes and to adjust her
ideas, and the result was that she felt oppressed
and crestfallen.

Lady Matilda had no fan, no gloves, no

bracelets, probably no handkerchief, — but her
bare white arms, fringed with the glittering
black, would have been insulted by a covering,
and made the very idea of mittens loathsome ;
while the shape of her beautiful head, and the
thickness of her hair, turned Lotta's little
matronly cap into a superfluous and ridiculous
appendage. Lotta, in short, looked' as
though she had not dressed — what ladies call
dressed " — at all.

'* My dear, you might have made more of
yourself," Lady Matilda could not forbear
murmuring aside, as the two sat on a sofa
together before dinner. " You have evening
gowns," continued she, reproachfully. And
then some one had spoken, and there had been
no chance of explaining the why and wherefore
the evening gowns referred to had not
been considered suitable, and altogether it was
hard on Lotta.

But her vexation was slight compared with
Robert's when the move to the dining-room
took place, and he beheld, as we have said, his

much too lovely, much too enchanting mother-in-law
led forward to her seat by Whewell.
He almost hated the agreeable barrister, and
scarcely dared to look how Challoner fared.
As for that wicked Matilda — but she was
irreclaimable.

There she sat, by far the finest and fairest
woman present ; and there was his friend, but
not his chief friend, not the man who should
have been where he was, — there was Whewell,
cocked up on high, equal to anything, delighted
with everything, turning his head this
way and that way, by Matilda's side. And
there was Challoner — even Challoner could
increase the dudgeon of the moment ; for the
injured, ill-treated, degraded Challoner, was
eating his soup with an air of unconcern,
which showed too plainly that whether be
had even understood his ignominy or not was
doubtful.

Further, however, than that his manner
bespoke ease and enjoyment, Whewell gave no
just cause for offence; he did not abuse the

prosperity which had fallen to his lot ; he did
not attempt to keep Matilda's ear and attention
for himself as he had done, and so successfully
done, at Endhill ; he had a word, an
inquiry, or remark for all about him, took part
in divers conversations, told capital stories,
and led the laugh with such success, that no
merrier meal had ever been known at Overton.
Even Eobert and even Lotta resumed their
usual lugubrious serenity as the courses ran
on. " And even Mr Challoner, the stately
Challoner, smiled upon us at last," said Matilda
afterwards. " He needs waking up, does that
poor Challoner. I was quite relieved to see
him look more cheerful and less lackadaisical,
as he and Juliet advanced in intimacy. Juliet,
my dear, that must have been your doing,"
putting her arm round Juliet's waist as she
spoke. " To you must be the credit of thawing
the ice upon the Challonerean brow. And it
is worth thawing, I believe. Do you know,
girls, that he is — what is he, Lotta ? for I protest,"
laughing, *' that I do not know myself."

''He is very nice," said Lotta, warmly,
very nice indeed ; though mamma does not
think so," with a little prick of malice.

Mamma does not think so, indeed ! Bravo,
Lotta ! Now, Madam Wiseacre," cried Matilda,
who would always have an insinuation said
out, whether the speaker liked or not — " now
how, pray, do you know that mamma does
not think so ? "

But on this occasion Lotta was not unwilling
to be explicit. "You have never
taken the slightest notice of him since he
came," she said. " You have never taken the
trouble to speak to him, and you would not
have him in to dinner."

So that is the accusation. Now, hear me.
I did far better than have him in to dinner
myself; I gave him Juliet."

All were silent.

I gave him Juliet," repeated Lady Matilda,
slowly; "and I think that every young man
would allow that he had the best of it in such
an assortment. You are too polite, much too

polite, to say so to me, young ladies ; but you
know as well as I do in your hearts that,
whatever Mr Challoner's proclivities may be, a
young man "

"He is not so young at all," observed
Lotta.

Any man at all then, or at any rate, the
average man of the day, prefers a young and
blushing mademoiselle to an old and unblushing
— grandmother."

Oh, Lady Matilda ! " They all laughed.

"Grandmother! It is really too absurd,"
said the eldest Miss Appleby. "When we
heard about baby, you know, Lotta, the first
thing we all said was, * Think of Lady Matilda
a grandmother ! ' and we laughed so — you can't
think how we laughed."

'' Lotta thinks there was nothing to lauo-h
at," said Lotta's mother, looking at her with a
smile ; " and it was very shocking of you, girls,
to make sport out of me and my grandson.
You might as well have said, * Think of Lotta
a mother ! ' That was quite as funny, I suppose

? " But no one looked as if they had
found it so.

Oh, Lotta seemed quite the right person
to have a nursery full," said Marion, candidly.
Lotta always was sober, you know ; she — oh,
Lady Matilda, you should have heard what
papa said 1 " cried the poor girl, leaving Lotta's
encouraging face to right itself. " Papa said
he is such an admirer of yours — and when
we told him, he said that you were the handsomest
and youngest woman in the county :
youngest — you remember, Juliet, how he defined
it ? that it wasn't years and that sort of
thing that made people old ; and he said that
if Lady Matilda had a score of grandchildren,
it would make not an atom of difference."

"Thank you, my dear. Next time I see
your father, I shall say aloud in his hearing
that he is the dearest and most discerning old
gentleman in the county ; and that if there
were a score of women he admired more than
me, it would make not an atom of difference."

Now, Juliet' pursued she, when all, Lotta

excepted, had done justice to the repartee, — •
now, Juliet, for Mr Challoner once more.
IMr Challoner once more to the front, please.
What is • he like '? What is his line ? What
is there in him 1 "

But this was too much. " I should think,"
said Mrs Lotta, with a toss of her head, cap
and all, — " I should really imagine — at least
any one would imagine — that / might be the
one to know most about Mr Challoner, as he
is now actually staying in our house, and he
is Robert's own friend ; while Juliet has only
spoken to him — has only seen him within the
last half-hour ! "

'' Two hours at least, my dear : don't be
inaccurate because you are cross. And I will
tell you why I don't ask you for information,
simply because I am not likely to get it."

Why not likely ? You have never asked.
I will give it you in a moment."

"You would, my dear, I know; and I know
what the value of it would be, and it would
be " and Lady Matilda made a little snap

of her fingers that was hardly dignified, but was
very charming. " These things are not in your
way, Lotta. You were never any hand with
men," which was unfair, all things considered.

"But then, she never would have been,'\
said Lady Matilda to herself; "she has not
the way with them, and never would have."

"Now, Juliet is like me — she has perception,"
continued she, aloud. "Juliet is a bit
of scamp herself, and so I can depend on her
to tell me whether she has found one in Mr
Challoner or not."

Oh, Lady Matilda ! "

'well, child, I am not blaming you — far
from it ; I appreciate the gift. Come, outwith
it, for good or for evil, for better for
worse. Give us your experience, your valuable
experience ; Mr Challoner is 1 "

*' To tell you the truth, then, Lady Matilda,
I would gladly have exchanged companions
with you."

You would, you monkey '? I believe you ;
from my heart I do. What ! — he was not

responsive, was he not, Juliet 1 Now, Lotta,
be quiet. I see the man is a man of
lead."

*' He is not at all : not in the very least

*' Oh yes, he is : Juliet says it, and Juliet
must know."

'but I did not say it, Lady Matilda'
protested Juliet ; " I only said, and that when
you asked me, and made me say it "

I know, I know : never mind, Lotta, you
goosey ; nobody minds Lotta in this house —
though she reigns supreme at Endhilb no
doubt. But here I am the only person to be
in awe of, d ye see that ? " pinching her ear.
Now get on with your tale. You gave him
up '? Did you give him up ? Did you find
him past endurance ? Lotta, go away ; go
and talk with Marion over there : don't listen
to us, — that's right ! Now, Juliet ? "

I must say he was rather difficult to get
on with. Lady Matilda."

difficult! How difficult '? What shape
and form did the ' difficult ' take ? "

*'He never originated an idea, to begin
with. And then he was so — don't you know ?
absent. He did not seem to take any
notice — I mean he had no interest; all he
cared to talk about was the shooting, and I
know nothing about shooting — how should
I ? " said poor Juliet, plaintively. " I tried
him on all sorts of other things, indeed I did.
I told him all about the neighbourhood, and
the people, and — and everything I could think
of; and then, when I had said all I could
think of, and had racked my brains to make
the most of a thing, he would just answer me,
and let it drop. I had to do it all over again
with something else, you know. It wasn't
encouraging, was it ? "

"Bad, bad, — very bad. Just what I had
expected, however. I must say I object to
have my pet subjects 'let drop,' myself;
and you certainly had a hard time of it,
Judy."

*' The worst of it was, he was always looking
at you." Incautious girl, the words escaped

her ere she knew, and Matilda heard them,
and stopped short, although she had drawn
her breath, and opened her lips to speak
again.

She stopped short in her surprise.

Looking at me I '' she said, at last.

He was, indeed. He was always looking
your way, at least, and listening to what you
and Mr Whewell were saying. I suppose he
must have found your conversation more
amusing than mine, and no doubt it was,"
owned poor Juliet in her mortification. " Mr
Whewell is amusing, is he not V

Oh, very."

And pleasant ? And — and "

** Everything."

Miss Appleby sighed.

** Come, I have a spark of generosity in my
nature," said Lady Matilda, suddenly, "and
my Juliet shall profit by it. You have told
me all that was in your heart, Judy, you have
hidden nothing of your discomfiture and —
disgust. Never mind, never mind " as

Juliet protested. *' It is too late to draw back
now, much too late ; and you have done so
well, it would be a pity to spoil the effect.
I see the scene. I see the dauntless Juliet
plodding on, and the ungrateful Challoner lifting
his eyes to higher spheres. (That's mein
parenthesis.) *' I am the higher sphere, my
love, and it is not to be wondered at if a man
of forty — he looks about forty, I should say —
if he did prefer — I mean, if he would have
preferred my society to that of a little lass of
eighteen. Had he been twenty years younger,
Juliet — oh, Juliet, you have it all before you.
Juliet, Juliet, you need not envy me my poor
autumnal triumph. Every year you will
change your style of admirer, my dear; at
present you have one kind, in another year
you will have another kind — it is so long ago
with me that I forget the exact ages, but
they keep marching on as you march — until
at my years none are left to you but a scattered
remnant, here and there a susceptible

widower, or a man who has lost his first love,
or a foreign diplomatist who wants an English
wife to head his table, or "

Oh, Lady Matilda, how can you say so ?
You know very well "

Very well all that you can say, child,"
with unaffected disdain. " Oh yes, I know all
about it ; trust me. But, Juliet, what I meant
to say was this. You envy me Mr AVhewell,
my dear delightful Mr Whewell, and herewith
I make a present of him to you. Now this is
how the deed of gift shall be drawn out. He
sings ; well, I love music, but I fear I do not
greatly care for musical people, more especially
when the fit is on. Fact is, I hate 'em. So
Mr Whewell shall not have the felicity of
being accompanied by me in ' Darby and
Joan,' or ' In the gloaming', oh, my da-arlinV "
mimicking, " those two abominations which
are no doubt the flower of his repertoire ; he
shall not be permitted to shine in them, but
he shall hum his bass to Juliet's sweetest treble,

VOL. I. L

while I, even I — hearken, Lotta, hearken,
Marion, — I will immolate myself on the altar

of "

The door opened, and she was prevented
saying Challoner's name by the entrance of
Challoner himself.

CHAPTER IX.

ROBERT HAS CAUSE FOR COMPLAINT.

You always do too little, or too much."

COWPER,

There was nothing in the faces of any of the
ladies to indicate that they had been interrupted
in their conversation. Lady Matilda,
even while turning round courteously to include
the new-comers in the conversation,
continued to address the youngest Miss Appleby
— altering her topic but not her tone,
while the elder sister and Mrs Hanwell
resumed the thread of a confidence that had
been suspended for a moment by the last
remark.

You see," said Lotta, earnestly, '' I could
have overlooked it if it had been the first time,

and if I could have put any faith, any real
faith, in the woman's professions. But if once
a servant has been untrustworthy, you don't
know how to believe her again."

"Yes, indeed," replied her companion, endeavouring
to look as attentive as before ;
yes, indeed. I know that is what mamma
always says, and "

I could never have let her out of the

house with any comfort, could I '? And if
there had been a message to be taken — and
we so often have to have messages — at least
errands to be run — down to the village, you
know, to the post, or for things that cook
wants — cooks always want things when there
is no one handy to go for them "

("I hear Lotta and her cooks," murmured
Lady Matilda, aside to Teddy.)

If we had wanted to send anywhere,

it would always have been ' Who was to go 1 ' "
proceeded the unconscious narrator. " Now
Sarah has always seemed willing, and so I
always let her ; and it was only the other day

though I must own I had my suspicions
before — but it was only the day before yesterday,
something was wanted for yesterday's
dinner, something that cook had to make
ready the day before, for we had these gentlemen
coming " (lower), " and so, of course,
cook was anxious to do her best, and she asked
if Sarah might run up the road for her."

Don't you find the fire rather hot,

dear ? "

No, thank you never mind." Lotta's
tongue was not to be stopped in that way.

Well, Marion, I do assure you that the
girl took an hour and a half, and she had not
half a mile to go ! She did indeed ; for I
looked the clock, and it was four o'clock when
she went, and half-past five when she came in.
It was dark, quite dark outside, but I heard
her come in and go up the back-staircase, so
I called out, ' Is that Sarah ? ' and it was."

Oh, that was too bad. But "

'' She had only to run up the road to Farmer
Dunstable's for some cream — at least, to let

them know that extra cream would be wanted
next day; she had not even to wait for it, and
she could not pretend that she had when I
taxed her. The cream was wanted for the
white soup, you know; cook does make such
excellent white soup, and she is so economical
over it ; she never thinks of veal and chicken ;
she makes a bit of the neck of mutton do, with
a rabbit. Of course, I let her get what cream
she likes ; for, after all, a shilling's worth of
cream goes a long way; and Mrs Dunstable's
cream is always good and thick. So when she
asked if some one might be sent to the farm,
I said, ' Send Sarah.' I said it at once, never
thinking, never for a moment imagining, you
know, that she was not to be trusted. Robert
would have sent the groom, but he had hurt
his foot ; and as Sarah has nothing much todo
about four o'clock — she never has — I suggested
her myself. She brought in my cup of
tea first — Robert does not take tea — and I
remember that I thought it rather strange
Sarah's bringing it in so early, for I don't

usually have it till five, or nearly eve, — and
she excused herself by saying that she thought
I looked tired, and would be glad of my tea.
It was that I mio;ht not find out how honos she
stayed, you know."

"Dear!" said Miss Appleby, properly shocked.
Resistance was of no avail ; the grievance, she
saw, must be heard out.

I could hardly believe it, Marion, and, of
course, I have felt it dreadfully. Nurse — I
mean Mrs Burrble, not Hannah — nurse did
give me a sort of hint a week ago, at least she
says now that she meant it for a hint, — by the
way, Mrs Burrble can stay on with us another
week, Marion — is not that nice ? I was so
anxious that Hannah should have her in the
house for a little after Hannah had begun to
take baby in hand ; and Eobert has been so
good, he says under the circumstances I am
quite right, and he does not mind the expense
at all. Of course she is expensive, but she is
such a nice woman, and I can talk to her
about all sorts of things. I told her about

Sarah at once, and then she reminded me that
she had given me that hint. She had said,
Are you keeping on Sarah, ma'am ? ' And
she tells me now that she had meant me to
notice it, and to ask why she inquired. But
it never occurred to me. Now, would it to
you?"

'' Not for a moment."

And I was not to blame, was I ? "

"Not in the least."

"Well, it is a good thing now that it is off
your mind," continued Miss Appleby, in a
summing-up judicial tone ; " and as you have
given her warning "

Oh, but it is not off my mind at all. You
see I did not take in what Mrs Burrble meant,
when she asked, ' Are you keeping on Sarah ? '
What was I to say? Of course I was keeping
on Sarah. So now Sarah says "

Young ladies, young ladies where are your
manners ? " Never had human voice sounded
more musical in the ears of the unfortunate
Marion Appleby than Lady Matilda's did now.

Fie, both of you ! usurping one another in
this way," continued the hostess, with the
most delightful reproach. '^ Fie 1 get up ; split
into two, instantly. I really wondered how
long this was going on," she proceeded, looking
from one to the other as they stood up at her
command, " and at last I saw something must
be done. Look over there."

Over there accordingly the culprits looked,
and indeed what they beheld justified Matilda's
complaint. Lord Overton, Mr Challoner,
Eobert, and Teddy were all silently drinking
coffee, having apparently exhausted every
single thing they had to say to each other
before they left the dining-room. Whewell
was more lucky, but still only relatively lucky :
he had the resource of the china ornaments on
the mantelpiece and Juliet Appleby; but even
he was less lively than before, while there was
no doubt that the other quartet felt themselves,
if not aggrieved, at least unwanted, unneeded,
superfluous.

As soon, however, as it was seen that the

ladies were no longer too deeply engaged for
intrusion, they were approached on all sides, —
the two Overtook, elder and younger, with one
accord addressing the ever-pliant accommodating
Marion Appleby, who was always ready to
listen, and never had much to say; while Mr
Challoner, apparently impelled by a sense of
duty, made an opening observation to Mrs
Hanwell, and Matilda herself was left to her
son-in-law.

Well, she could not help it ; she had meant,
had certainly meant, to take that opportunity
for making amends to Challoner, and she would
undoubtedly have preferred him, even him, to
Eobert ; but he had begun with Lotta, and so
there was an end of it. No one could say it
was her fault. Still it was the hour for sacrifice,
so if balked in one direction she would strike
out in another; she would make the best of
the bad bargain the fates had given her for the
nonce ; and accordingly —

I am having new covers in my boudoir,
Robert."

'' Indeed ? Are the old ones worn out,
then ? "

Worn to rags. But I daresay I should
have had them still, if Teddy had not let fall
a bottle of ink, and it went all over the sofa,
cushions and all, last week. Perhaps on the
whole it was the best thing he could have
done."

You are a philosopher, Lady Matilda."
The effects of a good dinner and a pleasant
after-dinner were not without their effect on
Mr Hanwell ; he found Lady Matilda more
sensible that usual. " And what are the new
covers like ? " he inquired with interest.

Eeally not very unlike the old ones. You
may not discover any difference ; I should not
be surprised if they never catch your eye at
all, unless you remember my having told
you."

*' And why did you get them so much alike ?
For the sake of the rest of the furniture, I
suppose '? It is really an important matter
when you begin to alter furniture," — he was a

great man for furniture, — " and I suppose you
lead to suit your carpet and curtains ? Or have
you new curtains ? "

Well, yes, I have. I did not need them a
bit, and I don't know why I got them, but
there they are."

And where did you go ? "

I had patterns down from several places,
but one little man in Tottenham Court Road
sent by far the best. Two or three of them
would have done. If you and Lotta are in
want of any more things, I advise you to try
there ; I am sure he is cheap, and I have kept
the address. Those girls want it too," looking
at the Miss Appleby s.

Are they furnishing, then ? "

They are talking of doing up their .
Between ourselves, I doubt the
result ; four or five people all suggesting, and
scheming, and plotting, and planning — to say
nothing of quarrelling and sulking over it — is
too much. They will come to grief sooner or
later, you may depend upon it, and already

there are rumours of dissension afloat. I fancy
papa ' does not see any reason for doing it at
all ; papas never do, you know."

"Exactly: they never do. My father was
most unwilling to make any changes at the
old house, I remember," observed Eobert, sitting
slowly and heavily down on a low chair
beside her, (oh, heavens, this was more than
she had bargained for !) " and it was some time
before we could get the old gentleman to acknowledge
that there was anything of the
kind needed. One of the floors was actually
giving way; and when the library carpet was
taken up," continued he, stretching out his
legs comfortably in front — "when the old
green carpet was up that had been down for
thirty years, I believe you could see daylight
through it ! Oh, there were holes in a number
of the carpets."

They were not visible holes, then," replied
Lady Matilda, graciously; "invisible to me, at
any rate. I saw nothing but what was the
picture of comfort and — and " (again that word

respectable ' in lier mind, and again it would
not do) — '' and everything. But with such
good rooms," proceeded the speaker, hastily —
with such first-rate rooms as they have at
your father's, it is easy to make them look
well. I was never in a better planned house
in my life."

Well, really " (he hardly knew what to do
under such amiable treatment), " really, you —
ah — you are very kind to say so. And it is
tolerable in its way; not like this, of course,
not to be compared to Overton ; but it is certainly
a good old-fashioned building, dry and
wholesome. And when are you thinking of
going over again. Lady Matilda ? They Avill be
most happy, you know. We propose taking
baby the end of next week, and stopping over
Sunday — Lotta perhaps longer; certainly they
will try to keep her longer, — she is a great
favourite with them all, and I may leave her
for a week or so if she wishes it. I must come
back myself. We begin our new stables on
Monday week, and I must be on the spot while

it is being: done. Besides the chance of blunders,
I always make a point of being at home
when the workmen are about. You never
know what they may be up to. And then we
have at present no very good place for keeping
our silver. How do you do about your silver
here ? Have you a safe 1 "

"Yes — no. At least I don't know, — 1 suppose
so. I never thought about it'' She was
not quite sure that she knew what a safe was,
but had discretion enough to keep her ignorance
to herself.

Well, I have almost made up my mind to
have one," proceeded Robert, " and I will tell
you where I mean to place it. I have my own
ideas on the subject. There is a little cupboard
that opens out of the hall, pretty far
back, underneath the staircase, just beyond
where the coat-stand is "

"I know — I know." Her tone meant,
Stop that, at any rate," but happily he was
insensible to it.

"You know? Well, that little cupboard

is pretty well hidden, and it goes pretty far
back. A safe could be fitted in at the back,
and made fast either to the wall behind, or
to the floor — either would do. I am not sure
which would be best 1 Which should you
say?"

I should consult the man who comes to
put it up."

Oh, I never do that," — he shook his head
emphatically. " No, no. Lady Matilda, I
know better than to do that. I have my own
ideas about things, and I generally find they
are correct. I do not want to boast, but
really I have hardly ever — I may almost say
never — had to repent when I have taken a
thing into my own hands."

She sighed, but she had to endure : for
fully half an hour did he run thus smoothly
on ; and as every one else either was, or was
obliged to appear to be, equally agreeably
engaged, she had no pretext for rising, and no
hope of deliverance.

At length, however, came a break. One

voice dropped off after another, more than
one eye was directed to her, and she could
with all propriety herself respond to the
general mute appeal for a change of scene.

We were to have some music ? " suggested
Whewell, approaching. " May we hope, Lady
Matilda "

She rose smiling.

Let him sino alone," said Eobert in a low
voice. " He can; and he can play for himself
too." Whewell had gone to open the instrument.
" I think," continued Eobert, with
what was for him a great effort of moderation,
" I think, perhaps, Lady Matilda, you have
not noticed that Challoner — ah — I fancy he
would like if you would speak to him a little.
And I think you would be pleased with him,
I really do. Quite so, — I mean if you have
the opportunity," in reply to a hesitating
glance towards the piano. " I understand : it
will do by-and-by — quite well, by-and-by."

Well, she would, by-and-by. Robert had a
show of reason on his side ; and however dull

VOL. L M

and uninteresting his friend might be, it was
true that, for her own sake, she ought not to be
rude to any one. And then Juliet had said
that Challoner had been looking at her. Certainly
she would do something, if it were ever
so little, for him — by-and-by.

But, alas ! by-and-by was long in coming.
One song succeeded another, and Whewell
found each more charming than the last. He
did not sing with her, having found out, with
his native quickness of perception, that she
Avould prefer going her own way unmolested,
and that the few notes he threw in once or
twice had only resulted in confusion ; he had
put her out, and a thousand apologies could
not put her in again. He promised in future
to abstain ; but to sing with him for an
auditor, for an enthusiastic demonstrative
auditor, was pleasant enough — so pleasant,
indeed, that time drew on, and there was no
appearance of an end to it.

It was not that Challoner was forgotten, —
it was that she could not be troubled with

him. And, after all, why should she be ?
She thought — as soon as the effect of Robert's
leniency had worn off a little — she thought
Mr Challoner did well enough without notice.
It appeared to be all one to him where he was,
or what he was doincr • and iookinsf at him,
as he and Overton sat together at the far end
of the room, with evidently quite a fellow-feeling
of comfort and repose in obscurity, she
vowed it would be a pity, altogether a pity, to
unsettle the minds of either.

Now Whewell was different : Whewell could
not be happy unless he were in the front of
everything : whatever was the order of the
day, he must have a part in it, and could perform
that part well ; and such being the case,
it was a pleasure to ^do anything for him.
But if a man has no discernment, sees no
difference, and would as soon be at the bottom
as at the top — why, leave him at the bottom.

At length, however, Whewell had implored,
and praised, and thanked, and flattered, until
it seemed as though nothing else were left to

be said or looked. It grew late. " I believe
I ought to see after people," said Matilda,
rising. " Juliet, take my place ; and you, who
accompany so much better than I do, play
this for Mr AVhewell."

Thus she was free, and now surely was
Challoner s time come ? But no. Unfortunately
no one but Matilda herself knew what
Matilda meant to do, and two at least of the
party were ill enough pleased with what she
had already done. Neither of these was Lord
Overton — he was happy enough : he thought
the evening had gone off well — better than he
had expected; and that as every one was
doing as he or she liked best, all was right.
Whewell he considered was a noisy fellow, but
noisy fellows were of use sometimes, and it
was lively to hear the piano going. For himself,
he liked Challoner better, infinitely better;
but Challoner could not help things off as
"Whewell did ; and any way the dull dinner-party
would soon be over, and he hoped Matilda
would not soon think it necessary to give

another. Here was Matilda coming ; and had
Matilda come, had she got his length and
accosted him, she would have been received
with his usual smile. But an angry voice
stopped her midway.

"You have come at last," said Teddy, in
her ear. " And time you did, I should say.
You and Juliet have behaved nicely to the
rest of us," — for Juliet had not shown that
sense of desolation which he had expected on
seeing him turned into her sister's cavalier for
the evening. " She is going on with that ape,
AYhewell, with a vengeance. And so were
you. And you treat that other one, as
nice a fellow as ever lived, as if he were
a dos."

"I do nothing of the kind : I don t know
what you mean."

'* He has sat in that chair ever since we
came in from dinner, and nobody has gone
near him but Lotta."

'' Overton is sitting by him now."

What's Overton ? I don't believe he has

said ten words since he came in. And Juliet
too. Tell you what, Eobert sa's "

What do I care for Eobert 1 Let him say
anything."

"He is as savage with you as ever he can
be."

Savage ! How absurd you are ! " cried
Matilda, but still under her breath, though
with a movement of the shoulder which carried
its own emphasis. " Let Robert mind
his own business. It is not for him to dictate
to me ; I can judge for myself, I should hope."
And not a syllable would she speak to Challenger
after that.

The carriage is here," said Lotta at last.
"Good-bye, mamma; we must not stop a
minute, as it is raining. My cloak is downstairs,
thank you. It is in the library." And
the next thing was the cold touch of a limp
and indignant hand, as Eobert, no longer under
the influence of dinner and claret, followed
his wife out into the hall.

CHAPTER X.

THE REAL WOUND AND THE APPARENT ONE.

He smarted most who hides his smart
And sues for no compassion."

Raleigh.

Challoner had been in the background
throno;bout the evenings described in the last
chapter, but he was no longer destined to
remain so ; he was, within a few minutes of
leaving the drawing-room, to be brought as
prominently before the public as would have
satisfied a dozen Wheels.

The ladies were being shawled and hooded
in the library, and Lotta was in the act of
having her last golosh drawn on, when a noise
from without made them all turn their heads,
wondering aimlessly, as females do, what was
the matter.

There had been the sound of a breakage, a
crash and a smash : not a remarkably violent
smash ; probably a lamp knocked over, or
something as bad as that — annoying, but not
more ; and no particular attention might have
been excited, had it not been immediately
followed by more than the usual bustle and
disturbance.

'' I say ! "

By Jove ! "

Are you hurt ? "

Then "handkerchief" and '' bleeding" were

o

indistinctly caught, and finally a whole sentence
reached their ears, in Eobert's voice, butin
a voice raised higher and more hurried than
its wont, — " Sticking-plaster ! I don't believe
she has such a thing in the house."

That was enough ; all flocked out to hear
and see, and Lady Matilda joined the group
from the ante-room. What had happened ?
Who was hurt?

The questions were answered by a blast of
cold air driving in through a broken window

of some size, and further, by the sight of
Challoner standing before Whewell, who was
busily engaged tying a handkerchief above his
wrist, and at the same time bending down so
close over it, as to show he was endeavouring
to discover something, probably the extent
of the damage done.

The two were underneath a circle of lamps,
and blood was dripping from their hands.

If I could only see — if I had anything to
clear the wound. Vater — get some water,"
cried Whewell ; " cold water and a sponge !
Look sharp with it ! " as the servants hung
about uncertainly. " I can't see anything for
this infernal blood."

What do you want to see ? " said a voice
at his elbow.

Oh, Lady Matilda ! Beg pardon, but can't
you get me something ? " replied Whewell,
somewhat taken aback, although appearing to
more advantage in his concern and abruptness
than in any previous phase. " Can't you get
me anything to stop the bleeding ? Friar's

balsam — that's it; that's the thing I want.
Oh, you have not any ? Oh, what have you,
then '? And where is that water '? " impatiently
looking round. I sent them for it an
hour ago. I could at least bandage the cut,
if we could make sure there was no glass
sticking in ; but I can't see anything for

this Oh, it's here ! Here with it, then.

Hold the basin under — right under, can't you ?
See what a devil of a mess you are making !
Excuse me, Lady Matilda," in another tone,
" excuse me, but you are in my light. Now
then, Challoner, off with your coat ! Here,
you, help him I "

No, nonsense ! " cried Challoner, resisting
the footman's touch. " Thanks all the same,
but there is really nothing to make a fuss
about."

*' Never mind that ; off with his coat, I tell
you ! How the deuce do you suppose I am to
get at the place up inside the sleeve ? There,
that's right. 'Jove, how it bleeds ! But we'll
collar it yet," sponging away. " Now, does

it hurt ? Do you feel aiiytbiug sharp 1 Any
pricks ? "

Ah ! " cried Challoner at the moment.

I thought so. Yes : and a nice thing it
would have been to have tied that in," rejoined
Whewell, holding up a narrow strip
of glass half an inch long. " D ye see that ?
Eh ? Why, it's better already. Hold his
arm there, will you 1 Hold it as hard as you
can, just above the elbow-joint ; feel for the
pulse, and dig your fingers in. Don't be
afraid ; dig them in as hard as ever you can.
Can anybody give me a good long handkerchief?
A silk one would be the best."
Teddy was half-way up-stairs ere the words
were well out of the speaker's mouth. " I
say, bring two," shouted Whewell after him.

'you are very good, but — you make too
much of it," said Challoner, with a restive
motion that implied dislike to being thus the
centre of attraction. '' I am sorry I have
broken the pane," looking at the shattered
glass, which nobody had as yet attempted to

clear away ; " and every one will take cold,"
he added.

Yes, to be sure. / am farm enough ;
but it is shivery, rather," said Whewell. *' If
you will go back to the drawing-room for a
few minutes, ladies, we shall soon be ready
for you," subjoined he, concealing, if he felt
it, a natural reluctance to lose his audience.
''I shall manage now; I shall just tie it up
till we get back to Endhill, and then no doubt
Mrs Hanwell will furnish me with plasters
and balsam. You have them 'i Yes ; that's
right. He will do very well till then. It
will not take long now, Challoner. Don't
catch cold, like a good fellow, for I can't let
you move yet. What's this ? Brandy ? Ah,
that's the thing to keep up his fettle ! I
thought he was growing a little white about
the gills."

The patient laughed outright.

*' You may laugh — laugh away," proceeded
the extempore surgeon, with the end of a
handkerchief between his teeth ; " but it's all

very fine. Drink your brandy, my friend,
and be thankful. I should not mind a nip
myself, if you would be so good. Lord Over-ton.
Oh, don't go yourself — pray don't go
yourself. I would not on any account. What
a good fellow he is ! " he added, for the benefit
of those left.

Only Challoner and the footman were left ;
every one else had gladly seized the opportunity
to beat a retreat from the raw night-air,
which continued to pour in through the
broken window, since the brown ^^^^^per, with
which it had been proposed to patch it for
the night, had not yet appeared — even Robert
had retired with the rest into the drawing
room, there to be interrogated and listened to.

*' He was pulling down the window. The
window was open, and we all felt cold. You
kept us waiting so long, Lotta. I do wish,
my dear, you could manage to be a little
quicker sometimes. What had you to do
but put on your cloak "

'' My dear Robert, I was not a minute.

But Janet had put my cloak underneath
Marion's, and at first we could not distinguish
which was which — these fur cloaks
are all so much alike : indeed we could not
see that there were two ; we thought there
was only one."

Oh, never mind — never mind. How your
tongue does run on, Lotta ! " cried Lady
Matilda, who never could prevent herself
from speaking to her daughter as if she
were still at home and unmarried. "Tell
me about the accident, Eobert. How could
he do it ? What was there in closing a
window to break it all to pieces, and cut
Mr Challoner's hand so badly ? "

^' It is unfortunately not the hand, but the
wrist — just in the worst place, where the
large artery is."

But how did he do it \ How did he
do it?"

How did he do it ? I do not know, I
am sure : I cannot imagine. I was going to
draw down the window — at least Lord Over-ton

was going — and I was just going, when
Challoner, who was in front of us both, turned
round and did it."

Did it ? Did what 1 "

Pulled down the frame, and the cord
broke, and it came down ^Yith a run."

Oh ! "

He says the frame had stuck, — swelled
with the rain, no doubt."

'' Oh ! "

^' It was a pity your having no remedies
handy," proceeded Robert, beginning to recollect
himself. " If we had been at End-hill
"

''I have two or three kinds of plaster," cried
Lotta, with a glance at her mother ; " and we
have arnica, and several things."

*' Give him the arnica when you get home,
my dear," observed Lady Matilda, drily. "Pour
in a good supply. You are a very erudite
person, we all know, Lotta. So Mr Challoner
may be safely handed over to your care."

"Arnica is not for an open wound, my

love," explained Eobert, in a somewhat short
aside. 'rit is poison, and should never be
applied when the skin is broken ; but a balsam
for stopping bleeding is really, really a
thing every one ought to have," continued he,
more briskly. " You see this case shows "

He's all right now," announced Teddy,
coming in. " He says it's nothing, and -"

It was a crreat think; Whewell being: with
US," continued Eobert, unwilling to lose the
ear of the house. " Whewell is certainly a
wonderful man. He can do anything he sets
his hand to."

He makes a lot of row about it, though."

Teddy's amendment was not uncalled for :
even as they stood, there could be heard the
dictatorial tones and loud laugh of the now

o

excited and dominant guest ; and grateful
as they were for knowledge and skill so valuable
at such a moment, perhaps no one could
have asserted that a little less assumption
would not have been more becoming.

However, that was neither here nor there.

Whewell had done well, — had manfully rendered
services for which praise and thanks
were due, and these should certainly be accorded
him ; while Challoner — Lady Matilda
in particular was not quite sure how she must
now address Challoner. She must address
him somehow, of course ; but could she now
expect him to care for civility and attention
so much overdue ? Could she suppose that
he was not to see that he had been passed
over and neglected throughout the entire
evening;, or imagine that he would now be
thankful for a crumb from her table, flung to
him so late, and for such a reason ? She
could but hope he would not re-enter the
drawing-room, and that a passing inquiry and
expression of sympathy would be all that she
would need to bestow in the hall. She would
accompany the others out into the hall to give
it, and — but hope was vain : the outsiders
were heard approaching even as she pondered.

In they all came, Challoner first.

By common consent he had been ushered

VOL. I. N

to the front, in virtue of this misfortune ; and
the eagerness, the queries, and condolences
with which he was now assailed, vindicated
the justice of the sentiment.

Everybody now spoke to Challoner, except
the one who should have led the way ; and
even Matilda had, with an effort and a blush,
stepped forward to do her tardy part, when
she caught the anxious stimulative eye of her
son-in-law, and the demon within her rose.
Eobert's look said, *' Yes, go, go : now is
your time ; now you can make up for the
past ; now you can retrieve your error : be
quick, be quick ! " And in answer to that
Be quick, be quick ! " a rebellious voice
within retorted, " I shall do nothing of the
kind."

We have said Matilda was a sweet-tempered
woman : but there are things that
would set up the back of an angel ; and
if there was one person on earth who was
a proficient in saying or looking those things,
it was Eobert Han well.

Perhaps he might not have provoked everybody.
His absurdities, his self-complacency,
and his unconscious arrogance, would not
have caused some good souls more than a
faint annoyance, or they might even have
derived from them a distinct source of
amusement ; but with such he must have
had nothing to do as a relation, and they
must have come but seldom into contact
with him. To Matilda he was as a rouo;h
collar constantly worn : he could not be
shaken off, he could not be thrown aside ;
he was always there, and he was always
making himself felt to be there. Moreover,

it is probable that in the presence of hist


mother-in-law the unfortunate young man

showed to his worst — that he set her on,
out of a spirit of opposition, to do things
which she would not otherwise have done ;
and that he in turn, fretted and irritated
by her levity, made himself yet more ridiculous
by his ill-humour than she would have
made him by her wit.

On the present occasion the ill-humour
was more than ordinarily disastrous. Matilda
was vexed with herself, and was really
anxious to make honourable amends to Challenger
for her former slighting demeanour
towards him. Now a j5ner shade of perception
than Eobert possessed would have
enabled him to see this, and to stand back
and let her now aroused and womanly compunctions
have their full swing : she would,
following the dictates of her own heart, have
said all that was kind and gentle ; she would
have won forgiveness in a moment. But just
as she was about to step forward, or rather
had actually taken a step or two, and was
hesitation for a suitable word to begin with,
a pressing and perturbed countenance must
needs be thrust forward, and all was lost.

Who was he, that she should do his bidding?
"Know your place, sir," was written
in every line of the frown which gathered
on her brow, and she turned on her heel —
to find Whewell at her side.

"We shall be off immediately now, Lady
Matilda. The carriage had been sent round
to the stables, but it will be here in a minute.
Pray forgive Mr Challoner : he would never
have forgiven himself, I assure you, if he
had bled to death in your hall."

It was not so bad as that, I hope." Lady
Matilda responded to the light tone so coldly
that the speaker looked surprised.

You have no doctor near at hand, I am
told '? " rejoined Whewell, leaving banter alone,
as he perceived it to be inappropriate.

"Within two miles — within a mile and a
half, I should say. That is pretty well fora
country place, I think. We have no great
need of doctors in Overton parish. If Mr
Challoner needs a doctor "

Oh, not a bit of him ; not now, at all
events. These bulldog kind of men can

stand anything ; and this was merely

Oh, Mrs Hanwell is going. Good night,
then. Lady Matilda ; we shall see you in
church to - morrow. x\nd pray remember

that you have promised to coach me up in
my new duties ; I look to you to pull me
through. Good night. Where," looking round
" where is my patient ? "

He Alas behind, awaiting his turn ; and
he was unsupported, or rather his parting
Moments were uninjured by Eobert. Eobert
had gone out with the Miss Applebyss, who
had stayed with the rest, no one knew why,
and they were now being escorted to the
door by him and Teddy. Lord Overton was,
as usual, doing nothing, and visible nowhere.
Mr Challoner," said Matilda, very gently, " I
cannot express to you how sorry I am."

She wished she could have said more,
wished she could have thought ^of more to
say; but no civility, no condolence, no repentance
would furnish her with a single
other word at the moment; and before she
could make a second attempt, or conjure up
any further pretext for detaining him, he
was gone. Matilda uneasily followed. What
could she do? Was there anything left for

her to do ? She was cudo-ellinof her brains
as she wandered on with a vague idea of
being friendly in not being left behind, when
anew there seemed to be a stir without, and
it was Eobert's voice which, as before, was
the presage of evil.

Going to walk to the village, Challoner !
To ivcdh! "What for? I thought I understood
"

Then a murmur of undertones ; then Over-ton's
voice — " I can send at once. I should
have done so before."

Why, I'll go." That was Teddy.

Matilda lost not another moment. '' What
is wrong \ What is the matter ? " she cried,
with a sound almost of terror in her tones :
for long years afterwards she remembered that
moment, as she had cause to remember it.

Well, it is hard to say : really I do not
know what to advise," replied Whewell, who,
with 'the others, was standing on the doorstep,
in front of the brougham, in which Mrs
Hanwell was already seated. " Of course, if

Challoner thinks the bleeding is still going
on, he ought to have it seen to at once. I
am very sorry ; I had hoped we had settled
it. But certainly Challoner is right to speak
out ; and as you say we are going away from

a doctor that is actually in an opposite

direction Is there no way round ? " he

broke off suddenly; *' could we not drive,
round 1 "

I shall walk, and be there in no time,"
announced Challoner with gruff decision.
Can you give me a latch-key, Han well 1
That is all I want."

Eight miles at the end of a long day's
shooting ! " cried the master of Endhill.

My dear fellow, eight miles ; what are
eight miles ? " And Eobert found himself
almost pushed into the carriage. " There — it's
all right ; don't keep Mrs Han well waiting."

I can't allow it. Certainly you shall not
go alone."

Suppose I go with him," said AVhewell,
faintly.

There were further subscriptions and assertions,
and at length, " Suppose there are two
fools instead of one, and suppose here's a third
to bear them company, and I'm he," cried
Teddy in the rear. " What a lark ! Just
wait till I get my boots on."

You need not trouble ; George is off by
this time on the bay mare," said the quiet
voice that was always listened to. " And,"
continued Lord Overton, " Mr Challoner must
be good enough to accept a bed here for tonight;
he will be attended to much sooner
here than at Endhill, and it will save the
doctor, and the doctor's nag, a long journey
into the bargain."

When had Overton done it ? How had he
managed it ?

He had not appeared on the scene at all ;
and although as a host he had been polite, and
as a man concerned, he had only so far entered
into the spirit of the thing : now all were surprised,
and though relief was painted on the
faces of Whewell and Han well, the discomfiture

of the other two gentlemen was obvious.
Challoner looked, and could not keep from
looking annoyed, and Teddy refused to stop
equipping himself: now that he was started,
he must do something and go somewhere, and
eagerly burst forth with a dozen plans.

Do whatever you like," said his brother.
*' Take a walk in the rain if it pleases you — -
it will do no one any harm ; but Mr Challenger
remains here," laying a detaining hand
on Challoner's arm. " All right, coachman !
Look you up in the morning, Eobert ; " and
against so Avise and comfortable a conclusion
no one could protest.

Terrible had been the internal qualm which
had been experienced by Whewell as well as
by Eobert when Challoner's first proposal had
been made.

Even the lesser evil of having to drive their

o

patient to the village and back, before again
getting into the road for Endhill — a clear two
miles, if not three miles, extra — had been
appalling ; and yet, but for Lord Overton's

promptitude, this must have Lean the end of
it. They could not be thankful enough.

Uncle Overton is so kind and thoughtful,
once he really understands about things," observed
Lotta. " He does not often bestir himself,
but when he does I am so glad you

had not to take that dreadful walk, either of
you ; I assure you I am."

So were they.

And where would have been the good ? "
proceeded the lady, astutely ; ^* Mr Challoner
must have ozone all the same. It would have
been no use for any one of you to have gone
without Mr Challoner; and if he had to go,

and no one else had to go however, I am

glad he had not to go, either : uncle Overton
settled it in much the best way." And in
every aching joint and weary muscle, the other
two felt that she was answered in the affirmative,
and found no flaw in the argument.

Come and sit down," said Lord Overton,
gently pushing his reluctant guest back into
the deserted drawing-room once more. " Matilda,

don't you sit up unless you like. Shallower,
— wliy, Challengers' with a sudden cry,
why, it's injuring ! Good heaven ! what shall
we do ? "

This," said Matilda.

Her face had paled, but it was not the
pallor of insertion ; in a second she had with
her own hands and Teddy's help torn off Challenger's
coat, and sprung upon his arm, feeling
for the pulse above the elbow-joint, as before
indicated by Whewell, — holding it, when found,
with the grip of a wild cat.

"What are you doing 1 " said Overton, ina
low voice. Poor fellow, he was frightened
now.

She is doing me a service," replied Challenger
for her ; " Lady Matilda is pressing her
fingers into the vein to stop the circulation,
and if she can only hold on— — ■"

^' I can— I shall."

"It is indeed kind ; " but the speaker did
not proceed. It was kind — no one could say
it was not kind ; but it was annoying and

vexatious that he should need such kindness.
It was difficult to know what to say, where
complaints would have been ungracious, but
where too much gratitude would have been
absurd. The situation had been forced upon
his entertainers : nothing had been voluntary
on their part, and this no one could have felt
more keenly than the recipient, the Challoner
who had sat silent and still, left to himself the
whole evening' uncared for and unnoticed. To
be sure, Overton had drawn his chair up a few
yards off, and Overton had been equally at
leisure ; but there the good-fellowship for the
nonce had ended, while neither Teddy nor
Matilda had done for him a thing. To have
Teddy now passionately pacing up and down
the room on his account ! To have Matilda
kneeling by his side !

He bit his lip, and quiet man as he was,
almost cursed the situation in his heart.

However, there the situation was, and nothing
could improve it : and ages indeed it
seemed before the sharp imperative summons

of the door-bell announced the welcome arrival
come, indeed, as soon as any reasonable
mortals could have expected, and as fast as
Dr Hitch in's horse could go ; and all that
weary while Matilda knelt bravely on, never
changing her position, nor relaxing her hold,
but taking no part in the brief dialogues that
from time to title were interchanged among
the other three, and only now and then drawing
unconsciously a long deep breath, and
stealing; a furtive chance at the clock.

CHAPTER XL

Shallower IS Impatient TO BE Gone.

The latent mischief from Ms heart to tear. "

—Prior.

Under the skilful treatment of the village
apothecary, a man of high repute in his own
sphere, and renowned for many a long-winded
diagnosis Challoner's wound soon assumed a
less serious aspect.

But another difficulty now arose. He was
ordered to bed — not to bed for the night, as
was reasonable enough, and agreeable enough
to his inclinations, but to stay in bed until
seen and interviewed the next day ; and this
could only be hearkened to with ridicule and
impatient contempt. But what, then, was the
dismay of the scoffer, and the delight and importance

of our friend Teddy, when the command
that had been thus wantonly maltreated
when it issued from Dr Hitchinin's lips, had to
be obeyed from very stress of adverse circumstances
! The next morning found Challoner
hot and cold, coughing and shivering, and
although still unwilling to own as much, by
no means so obdurate as the night before.
He would at least lie still for an hour or two :
he had — yes, he certainly had taken a little
chill ; and perhaps, as the day was wet, and
nothing could be done out of doors, being Sunday,
he might as well submit to be coddled up,
so as to be all right on Monday.

But Monday came, and he was by no means
all right ; throat and chest were sore, his head
was aching, and he sneezed in the doctor's face
even while making solemn declaration of his
innocence. The truth was, that scarcely any
living man could have escaped scot-free who
had done what Challoner had done : he had
stood — and without his coat, be it remembered
— full in the icy current let in by the

broken window for upwards of twenty minutes,
while Whewell attended to his hand and wrist ;
and he had just come out of a well-warmed
room, a rather over warm room, into which no
draught ever by any chance penetrated, and
he had lost some blood. He could hardly
have been human, and not have caught cold ;
and this was precisely what he had done.

He had caught cold — nothing more ; but
nothing more was needed. The cold had attacked
both throat and chest, and there was no
doubt about it. To get up and take his departure
was not to be thought of ; he must give
in, stop where he was, and play the invalid.

A more reluctant or pugnacious invalid Dr
Hitchinin had never before had to deal with.

What ! stay on at Overton, and on and on
at Overton, and that not for two days or three
days, but " till he was better," — horrible indefinite
term ! — obtrude himself in a manner
so unseemly on strangers, utter strangers, and
demand and wrench from them, as it were,
their sympathy and their hospitality ? Not

VOL. I.

lie. It could not be done. The doctor must
understand, once for all, that he, the patient,
had got to be made well somehow in another
day or so, — well enough, at any rate, to leave
the Hall, and no longer trouble people upon
whom he had no sort of claim, and to whose
house he had merely come to dine by chance.

Bless my life, surely it was a lucky chance
then ! " cried the amazed Hitchinin in his heart.
One would think these were snug enough
quarters for any dainty fellow to be laid up
in : everything he can possibly want ; fine
old place, fine company — a nice amusing idle
young fellow like Teddy, and the Earl is not
half so black as he's painted. Ay, and Lady
Matilda. And — Lady — Matilda," proceeded
the old gentleman slowly. " Ah dear I times
are changed with the young folks nowadays.
What would I not have given twenty years
ago for the chance of being nursed up and
looked after by a Lady Matilda ! A fine
woman, a fine stately beauty of the rare old
type — not the trumpery pretty miss, with a

turned-up nose and freckles, who passes asa
belle in these times. Lady Matilda never
looks amiss ; I have never seen her look amiss,
at any rate, and I meet her out and about
in all sorts of winds, and in all sorts of old
clothes. What would the man have ? AVhat
does it all mean ? I can't enter his room,
but he begins with his * When shall I be up,
doctor ? Can't I go away tomorrow, doctor "? '
plaguing my life out, and running, certainly
running a very decided risk, by thus fretting
and irritating the mucous membrane into the
bargain. What is he up to, that Challoner ? "
suddenly cried the little sage, knitting his wiry
brows ; ''he is either a deep one and has his

own reasons Aha ! Is it Lady Matilda

after all, I wonder? "

But he kept a tight hand on the patient all
the same.

Now we would not for a moment cast a
slur on Hitchinin, and it is not to be supposed
that in the few remarks we feel called upon
to make below, that we infer he was biassed

by certain considerations in his view of the
case — that he made the worst of the accident,
and the most of his opportunity; but it ought
to be borne in mind that, as a medical man
as the medical man of the neighbourhood,
the sole physician, accoucheur, surgeon, and
apothecary of anywhere about short of Sea-burgh
itself — he had been hardly used by
the Overtons. Lady Matilda was never ill,
neither were her brothers. Their rude health
and hardihood braved every kind of weather,
and laughed at every sort of disease ; they
were by circumstances placed above the reach
of almost every form of infection ; they could
not be accused, even by their dearest friends,
of overtasking their brains ; and they did not
know what nerves were. His only chance lay
in an accident ; and so far, accidents had been
few and far between.

*^ Yet," pondered he, " they ride the most
dangerous animals going." But then Dr
Hitchinin's ideas of a dangerous animal differed
from those of Teddy and Matilda.

However, one thing was certain, that
scarcely ever since the good doctor had
established himself in those parts, had he
been called in to attend any one at the Hall ;
and indeed, on the rare occasions when this
privilege had been accorded him, and he and
his Bobby had had the felicity of turning in
at the avenue gate, it had been invariably
on the behoof of a housemaid or kitchenmaid
whose ailment did not even necessitate his
drawing rein at the front door. Even Lotta
had got through her full share of childish
complaints before his day, and nothing had
remained for him but the dregs of the whooping
- cough, which dregs had done him no
credit, and given him considerable trouble.

He had not soon been summoned again ;
and indeed it was now several years since
he had even been within the park, farther
than to skirt along the high slope above the
house, where was a road free to all, and used
as a short cut by any one who chose.

All of this being thus explained, and it

being also understood that Dr Hitchinin knew
tolerably well all the outs and ins of the
family, and had, in common with the rest
of the little world about, studied their ways
and humours for a considerable length of
time, the judicious reader will at once be
able, according to the charity that in him —
or her — lies, to determine how ill Challoner
really was.

Very ill he was not, or he would have been
more meek. And he was not meek — not by
any means. True, he said but little, and
gave utterance to not a syllable of complaint,
but his air was restive and disdainful ; he
received instructions and prescriptions with
a smile that was worse than words ; and
though he did not actually dare to disobey
orders, though he put out his tongue when
told, and even submitted to the indignity of
having a glass tube thrust under it, and
having to sit still with the ridiculous thing
sticking out of his grave mouth for two full
minutes, he did it all with what at least was

no enthusiasm, and received the report of his
stomach, his pulse, and his temperature as if
they had severally belonged to some one else.

Such apathy was almost too much even for
the cheerful little doctor; but there was one
person whom it suited to a nicety — one member
of the household who got on better with
Challoner than he had ever done with any
^ mortal in his life before — and that was Lord
Overton.

Overton had found a man who could hold
his tongue, and yet be happ3\

He had at last by good hap hit upon a
fellow-creature who would sit as still, smoke
as long, and say as little as he did himself;
he had at length met with some one who paid
him no court, gave him no trouble, put forth
no efforts for his amusement, no solicitude for
his comfort, and who expected, in return for
all this forbearance, this priceless moderation,
simply nothing. "When he had said his
'' Good morning," and '' Hope you're better ? "
each day, he could sit down just where he

liked, in the worst clair and the worst part
of the room if he chose, and Challoner would
barely turn his head to see where he was or
what he was doing. He would pull out his
own cigar ; he would hunt up his own match,
and pass it on, no one resenting his rising and
moving to do so ; he would poke the fire —
Eobert Hanwell would have had his hair
standing on end had he witnessed the indifference
with which Challoner permitted his
distinguished companion to handle his own
poker and tongs, once he found that Overton
liked doing so, — he would sit on and on in
peace and comfort, no one thinking it necessary
to trouble with talking beyond a '' Beastly
wet," now and then varied, perchance, with a
Bad for the farmers," — each of which remarks,
if originated by himself, would merely
draw from the other an inarticulate civil
sound, which was perfectly polite and pleasant,
but which most men would have thought
was hardly response sufficient for Lord Over-ton.
Perhaps Challoner would volunteer the

'' Beastly wet," and Overton would nod the
mute assent ; perhaps they would both together
originate the sentiment ; perhaps one
would see that the weather was about to improve,
and the sky to clear, while the other
considered that the rain was setting steadily
in ; perhaps one would narrate a brief, a very
brief experience of country life, farmers shooting,
or proprietary grievances ; perhaps the
other would cap the story with a better, —
but however long they bore each other company,
and whatever they agreed upon or differed
upon, one thing was plain, they were on
the best of terms.

Lady Matilda jested about the strange pair
who, thus thrown at haphazard together, fitted
like a pair of gloves ; and my lord's predilection
for Mr Challoner, and the length of time
my lord passed in the sick-room, made the
invalid's beef-tea several degrees stronger and
more grateful to the palate than it would have
been had Mr Edward only been there to see.

Nobody told Lord Overton a word of Challenger's

impatience to be at liberty — naturally
nobody would ; and indeed the principal person
who could, was the least likely of all to
whisper a hint of the kind, since Dr Hitchinin
knew better than to breed mischief at anytime,
especially such mischief as must have
been detrimental to his own interests.

Greatly was he pleased with the alliance
between the two odd-come-shorts. (It was
Matilda who styled them the odd-come-shorts,
and who stuck to the term in spite of Teddy's
representation that whatever might be said
of Overton, it was rough on Challoner to be
bracketed with him, without being given a
chance of showing: what he was or what he

o

could be.)

Lady Matilda openly smiled in the doctor's
face when he announced that Lord Overton
was excellent company for Mr Challoner. She
was quite willing that he should be, more
than willing — charmed, delighted ; but it
showed her one thing — namely this, that
any one who could be thus enamoured of her

dear excellent elder brother's dumb show of
good-fellowship could be of no earthly good
to her : she must look elsewhere for a kindred
spirit.

At length Dr Hitchinin suffered himself to be
persuaded into a decree that his patient might
be moved into another room, — into the ,
or still better, into the sunny little
boudoir — Lady Matilda s boudoir — which was
on the same floor, and had a southern aspect.

No going up and down stairs at first, no
draughts, no chills. " You just go to Lady
Matilda's room by-and-by, when the windows
are shut, and there is a good fire — that is to
say, if her ladyship will be good enough to
grant permission," with a little bow and wave
of the hand to Teddy, who was supposed to
represent his sister at any time she might be
apart from him. " Ask Lady Matilda '^

Challoner lifted his head, as though about
to speak.

■ " My compliments to Lady Matilda,"

proceeded the good doctor, not noticing this,

and will she be charitable enough — eh ? is
that the phrase, eh '? " smiling jovially, —
"charitable enough to harbour this poor
patient of mine for a few hours in her delightful
haven of refuge, eh, sir ? Hum, eh ?
Haven of refuge, eh ? You will have drifted
into as snug; a haven of restore as ever mariner
did if you get taken in there, Mr Challoner,
I can assure you. Ha ! ha ! ha ! Good
anchorage for any man. I remember the
room well," suddenly resuming a matter-of-fact
tone, as the two unresponsive faces before
him showed no appreciation of his slyness, —
I remember its aspect, and recommending
it for Miss Lotta — Mrs Han well — after her
severe attack of whooping-cough. She could
not throw off the couo^h, and I was obliged
to keep her almost entirely to her mother's
boudoir. It was a charming convalescent
home — convalescent home, I called it then,
to amuse the little girl — and it appears it
must do duty for a convalescent home once
more, Mr Challoner. You will find it most

comfortable : ladies always contrive to make
a home comfortable ; their little odds and
ends, work-baskets, and knick-knacks, are all
additions in their way. Lady Matilda must
find you something to do, my good sir ; you
are tired of being idle, and that is what makes
you fancy yourself so ill "

// I fancy myself ill ! "

Well, yes ; you have felt yourself uncommonly
ill, no doubt," replied the shameless
doctor, coolly ; *' very miserable, and
feverish, and low, and that was the cause
of your restless desire to get away from the
Hall. Oh, I understood it all ; you thought
you were regularly in for it, and as you did
not mean to lie up, you would fain have set
ofi" through fog and rain to travel all over the
country, until you had developed a thoroughpaced
fever. That was what you were up to.
Oh, don't tell me — I know, I know ; and let
me tell yoic, my friend, that you had your
desire as nearly as ever man had. I would
not alarm any one at the time, but it has

been a close shave — a very close shave ; a
little more vv'ould have done it — just as
much more," turning to Teddy, " as Mr Challenger
wanted to do. Ah, young men, young
men ! "

Pooh 1 " said Challoner ; but two things
in the last speech softened his contempt. He
liked — who does not ? — to have it thought he
had been ill ; also he liked being called a
young man.

He was not a very young man — he was just
at the age when a man may be young or not ;
but Dr Hitchinin, who reverenced muscle and
sinew, height and breadth, a deep chest and a
long arm, honestly looked his admiration, and
could not comprehend the gleam of satisfaction
which stole athwart Ciialloner's brow, where
already a dash of grey had mingled with the
thick dark locks on the temple.

Pooh ! " said the poor fellow, but he smiled
for almost the first time that day he smiled ;
something in his own thoughts had pleased
him as Hitchinin spoke.

No disrespect to Lord Overton or Mr Edward
here," proceeded the doctor presently ;
*' but you will be glad to vary your society a
little. Lady Matilda — (what the mischief is
the meaning of this now V internally. "No
sooner do I mention Lady Matilda than my
gentleman looks black as thunder at me.
Her ladyship been snubbing him, eh '? Can
that be it, I wonder ?) And, Mr Edward, get
out a game of chess, or draughts, or something,"
he continued aloud ; " backgammon,
eh? or "

Penny Nap," cried Teddy, joyously.

"Cards? Ah, very good — very good.
Anything to amuse the mind. We used to
play cribbage in my young days."

Matilda likes cribbage. I have to play
with her ; it's awfully slow, for she always
beats me," said Teddy, with more interest
than he had before displayed in the conversation.
" I hate the counting, for she always
manages to bag something from me, with all
those ' fifteen twos ' and rot. How is a fellow

to remember that nine and six make fifteen, as
well as seven and eight ? "

Are you fond of whist V It was a great
moment for Hitchinin. Whist was his strong
point, and to make a fourth in a rubber at the
Hall, or even to play with a dummy — for
Lady Matilda was probably no great hand —
would have been

"No, I hate it," said Teddy, flatly.

CHAPTER Nil
teddy's confidences.

Each man has a measure of his own for everything."

Latter.

For fools will prate ; and though they want the wit
To find close faults, yet open blots they hit."

Dryden.

Hope was over in a moment, killed in the
birth, or rather it might have been almost said
to have been still-born, so few were its 
of existence. No whist-table in the
library at the Hall, no Lord Overton for a partner,
no reminiscences of the same on the morrow's
rounds — it had been but a passing vision,
Q-onQ like a flash, and now there was attain
only the useful Challoner to fall back upon.

There must not be too much talking,
remember," Hitchinin sighed, all doctor again.
VOL. I. p

*the bronchial tubes are still tender, and
must not be excited. Talking irritates "

"You need not be afraid of his talking,"
said Teddy, bluntly; "he must talk in his
sleep if he talks at all. At any rate, he never
favours me ; Overton is the only person who
gets any change out of him, and a little goes a
long way with Overton. He ain't particular."

But the hand that fell on Challoner's shoulder
was so hearty and kindly, and the charge
was so freely and confidingly laid, that no one
could have taken umbrage at it, and no one
did. It was impossible not to like Teddy
Lessingham when Teddy was good ; and when
he was not, why, then Matilda argued it was
only Teddy' only her poor, beautiful, whimsical
— she would not for the world have whispered
" half-witted " — brother. He was, she
would have maintained, perfectly sensible,
perfectly rational, perfectly all that he should
have been, when he was not vexed or sullen ;
it was only when thwarted or distressed, when
he did not understand, and took things amiss.

and was grieved and indignant, that Teddy
was irresponsible : it was other people who
roused the evil spirit in him ; Teddy, let alone,
would not have hurt a fly.

And Teddy now quite looked upon himself
as Challoner's friend. Overton was all very
well, but Overton went for nothing beside two
men of the world such as himself and Challenger
: it was to him that Challoner must look
for everything that could make his enforced
stay at the Hall endurable ; and accordingly,
*' Well, now' cried he, as the doctor left the
room — " now, you see, there you are ! I said
you would be all right in a few days if you
would only hold on ; and so you are all right
right as a trivet ; and it is just a week to-day
since — since last Saturday. This is Saturday
again, you know. I daresay you didn't know,
for there was nothing to tell you, unless it was
the newspaper, and that says Friday, for today's
has not come yet, though the afternoon
post will be here directly. I say, will you goto
Matilda's now, or after a bit ? "

Oh, wait a little' said Challoner, slowly.

'' All right. But I'll tell her that you are
coming, and that she is to have a good fire, and
all the rest of it : I can just run along now''

'' Oh — ah — don't be in a hurry," said Challenger,
with an evident wish to detain the steps
which had already begun to move to the door.

Is there not — any other room ? " he began,
hesitatingly.

Oh, by Jove ! when you heard what
Hitchinin said, and all the dust he raised about
it ! Oh, I say, that's too bad. There's the
billiard-room, of course, but it would be as

much as my place is worth no, no, I never

disobey orders ; if I did, Matilda would give
it me — that she would, I can tell you."

But — we shall disturb her, shan't we ?"

Not a bit. Disturb Matilda ! She is
never disturbed. What has she got to be
disturbed about ? Lotta was the one who
used to complain of being 'disturbed.' I am
sure I don't know why, no one ever wanted
to disturb her; she mio-lit have been let alone

from morning: to nio^ht, for all the o;ood she
was to anybody."

I am such a nuisance." And something
else was added indistinctly.

"Oh, come, I like that," said Teddy. " When
I have told you over and over again what a
perfect godsend you are to us all, and me particularly
! For I never have anybody hardly —
I mean any young fellows like myself. I don't
know how it is, I am sure," with Teddy's
puzzled look, that always made Matilda change
the subject, — " I don't know how I don't have
more fellows about. I had lots of friends once
I mean I have now, any number ; but they
don't come here. We don't ask them here ;
we forget, I suppose. A fellow can't be expected
to remember everything, you know,"
he concluded, with his usual apology.

Ko, of course not," said Challoner, dreamily.
He had been thinking his own thoughts,
and they had been of a nature to make him
say "No" or "Yes" at random to any sudden
calL He had added "of course not" from

mere absence of mind ; and as it appeared to
suit the requirements of the case, he again
relapsed into silence, and his companion again
resumed : " Overton is as fond of you as he
can be ; and we were saying only this morning
what a grand thing it was that Robert had
not carried you off to Endhill, as he had all
but done, and had you ill there. How you
would have hated it ! Oh, you don't know how
you would have hated it ! " cried Teddy from
his heart. " You would have had nobody but
Eobert and Whewell. Whewell would not
have done much for you. He is a selfish
beggar ; I can see he is. I don't like him a
bit. He made me kneel on the cold bit of
pavement, when I had to be godfather — I
mean proxy godfather, or whatever it is — at
the christening, and he had a nice piece of
carpet. It was my carpet by rights, but he
edged on to it, and I had to go on to the
horrid cold stone. It was just like him : I
knew he was that kind of fellow the moment

I set eyes upon him. Then he comes here
danorlinor after Matilda ! "

*' Does he ? " said Challoner, and suddenly
looked as though expecting more.

*' Doesn't he, that's all ! Every day this
week but one, and to-day, — and he'll be over
to-day yet. It's only four now ; he'll be hereabout
five. He has been, let me see — he did
not come one day ; that was Wednesday, and
that was because we went there, so that ought
not to count; and it is as if he had been everyday,
every single day, this week."

"But he has only been twice up to seeme.


*' Very likely — up to see you. The first
two times he would not disturb you — not for
the world, as the doctor said you were to be
quiet, — Hitchinin did say so, you know, though
I don't believe Whewell knew it ; and then
Wednesday — that was the ' bye ' : and then
yesterday and the day before he was up both
times. Well, but just fancy what it would

have been for you to have been ill at Endhill,"
he started off on another tack; "just think
now. We should have come over to inquire
after you, of course, — most likely we should
have come over every day, as we have nothing
else to do at present, — and of course we, at
least I, should have come up and sat up with
you a bit ; but still it would have been different.
And then all the rest of the time you
would have had only Eobert — only Eobert,"
in a voice whose cadence spoke volumes.
"And there you would have been, and we here,
and we who would have been so thankful

you

It is really — you are too good," said

Challoner, with a sudden movement. " Goon,"
he added, in rather a low voice. " What
were you saying ? "

"I am sure I don't know. Oh, how glad
Ave are you are here ! We should have been
fit to hang ourselves these five dripping days
if it hadn't been for you ; for though we get
on as well as most people in the wet — we

don't mind it much, you know — still it is
nasty to get rained through and through everyday,
and never to meet anybody out but ourselves,"
said Teddy, lucidly if ungrammatically.
"Matilda is the worst off; but then, if
she likes Whewell, she is welcome to him.
All the same," he added, after a few minutes'
reflection, "I do think she has had enough
of him by this time. She cut out at the
back door like anything when she caught
sight of him coming up the avenue yesterday;
and that was how you had so much of his
company : by the way, he was hanging on till
she came in, and she never came. It was
rather a joke, that."

He has no business to come over bothering
us," he broke out, presently. " We don't want
him : he is not our friend ; he did not come
on oiu^ invitation "

Neither did I," said Challoner, with

rather a bitter smile.

You ! Oh ! Oh, that's too bad of you ! "
cried poor Teddy, reddening in his anxiety to

retrieve so obvious an error. *' Well, anyway
you are our friend now, — at least if you will
be friends with us," lie added, in his best and
nicest manner. " People don't seem to care
much to be friends with Overton and me,"
oblivious of the numbers he had just before
boasted; "they don't take to us much, I am
afraid. But we are not so bad at all when
you get to know us. At least / am not so
bad," said Teddy, very simply. " Overton,"
with warmth, — " Overton is as good a fellow
as ever lived ; and so is Matilda."

She is— what ? "

Never mind ; don't catch one up, I say.
I only meant to tell you that you need not be
afraid of her. People are afraid of her, you
know ; they say she is spiteful, and that. It
is the greatest lie. There's no spitefulness in
her ; she only lets her tongue run on a bit.
Overton and I are always telling her of it;
but we can't help laughing, she does take
people off so jolly well sometimes. She means
no harm : she is awfully good to you when she

likes you. She can't like everybody ; she is
too clever to like everybody — that's the worst

of her ; and there are people, you know

She says Eobert sets her teeth on edge," he
broke off suddenly.

Challoner laughed.

Ah, but it's true," proceeded the naughty
boy, quite aware that he was telling tales ;
he is such a fool, he never knows when he is
in a hole, and goes on and on till she can't
stand more. Then she lets out on him ; how
can she help it 1 It is his fault ; he ought to
keep out of her way''

But he cannot always keep out of her
way."

"Oh yes, he could. Why not? Nobody
wants him."

'that may be, but still "

Oh, I know what you mean : it is what
she says herself; she has got to put up \vith
him for Lotta's sake. Women are so soft, you
know. You would not think Matilda was soft
like that, but she is. It is queer, but she does

not mind Lotta half so much as Robert. Now
/ think there is six to one and half-a-dozen to
the other. Lotta is as like all the Wilmot as
she can be : the have all those flat faces and
sleepy eyes. You would never dream she was
Matilda's daughter, would you 1 Matilda is
like us," said Teddy, looking very handsome
and conscious.

'^ She is."

'you see it r'

Like you ? Yes."

"But not like Overton?"

Not in the least like Lord Overton."

I wonder what you think of Matilda,"
said Teddy, after a pause, and several wistful
glances. " I am afraid she behaved very
badly to you the other night. I am sure
I don't know — that is to say — you see, it
was all a bit of temper," proceeded he, in the
humour to be chatty and confidential, for the
hour was seductive, the sick-room warm and
bright, the day without dark and dismal, and
moreover, he had just come in from a long

wet ride, had changed his things, and got
comfortable again ; and with his arm-chair
on one side of the fireplace, and Challoner's
on the other, to be cosy and communicative
seemed quite the right thing.

'' It was only Matilda s way of showing
fight because Eobert gave himself airs. Of
course it was not fair ; but then women never
do fight fair, and there's no driving the notion
into their heads. When Matilda wants to
serve Robert out somehow, she don't care a
hang how ; and so, because Eobert looked
daggers at her for not taking more notice of
you before — oh, you know what I mean," a
little uneasy, now that he got so far, and
no helping hand was held out to draw him
to land, as was sure to be the case if Matilda
were by and saw him in difficulties. "You
know well enough my sister was stiff", and
cold, and — and infernally disagreeable to you,
both at Endhill and when you dined here ; at
any rate, here. At Endhill, of course, she had
nothing to do with you ; but then, of course,

she should have had, and she would have had
too, if she had chosen. But it was the night
you all came over, that she was the worst. I
was quite ashamed ; it seemed so inhospitable
altogether. And how were you to know ? It
was not meant for you at all ; it would have
been the same whoever had come — I mean
she would have been the same to any friend
of Robert's — that's to say — well, of course,
there was AVhewell," he murmured, and his
voice fell.

'' I have nothing to complain of, I am
sure," replied Challoner, with the courtesy of
a Grandison, but with something also of the
coldness. " Lady Matilda has surely a right
to choose whom she will honour by her "

'' Oh, fiddlestick! Honour! There

was no honour about it. Wheel] got her
ear, and so she let him talk on ; and if Robert
had taken no notice, she would have been as
sick of him then as she is now, but Eobert's
putting in his oar just did all the mischief.
When Eobert tries to force Matilda to do a

thing — no matter whether she wants to do it
or not — it is just as if she had put out her
two fore-feet like our donkey mare, and she'd
stand still till Christmas before she'd budge
a step."

Your sister " said Challoner, and then

stopped. He had not relaxed a line in his
face, nor made as though he heard the simile
so little flattering and so truly fraternal.

Your sister " he said ; then began again

" I owe Lady Matilda a great debt of gratitude
for her kindness and patience the other
night. Probably she did me a valuable service,
and I am sure it was neither an easy nor
an agreeable one."

"Oh — ah — yes. Yes, of course. I had
forgotten Matilda held your arm. But anyone
could have done that. However, she
meant it for civility, no doubt ; and that just
shows how right I was about it all. Roberto



and Lotta had gone home by that time, you
see. They had taken themselves off before
we went back to the drawing-room ; and so.

when there was no one there to see, and your
hand was bad again, Matilda was glad enough
to be of use. Oh, I know she was : she is
awfully good if people are ill, or hurt, or
anything ; but she wouldn't have touched you
with a hot poker if Eobert had been by — I
can tell you that, Challoner."

AQ:aia Challoner laughed aloud : he beg-an

o o o

to find Teddy Lessingham downright amusing.

CHAPTER XIII.

Wheel Excel ACHES.

They that are rich in words must needs discover
They are but poor in that which makes a lover."

—Raleigh.

Without any suspicion of the base revelations
that were thus being made within a few feet
of her own door, Matilda sat awaiting her
brother's return from the sick-room, whither
she had seen him turn in an hour before, and
from which he seemed in no hurry to emerge.

Matilda was not in her usual spirits.

She was a little uneasy, a little anxious and
remorseful, and in consequence just a little
cross. Whewell had been rather much for
her. She had laid her little hands upon him
had laid them for a moment ; had meant to

VOL. I. Q

trifle away a sunny hour, and no more, — and
he had seized the moment in grim earnest,
and expected the hour to expand into a lifetime.
He had encroached ; he had — yes, he
certainly had shown desire for more than had
ever been intended, more than he would ever
get. If he could only have been content to
have taken the welcome accorded him as he
ought to have taken it — to have enjoyed Lord
Overton's hospitality, shot his pheasants, admired
his sister, and then respectfully made
his bow, and taken himself off, — how much
better it would have been ! But here he was
still, and every day lessened his charms.

He would not remain at Endhill, although
it was to Endhill alone he had been first
invited. Endhill now found no favour in his
eyes : he would appear and reappear at Over-ton
; morning, noon, and night at Overton —
one excuse or other service his turn as it
offered ; but always expecting to be met with
open arms, to be made much of, entertained,
asked, and pressed to stay on, — and never, as

it seemed, for an instant suspecting that it
would have been better to stay away.

Lady Matilda's own sitting-room had not
been safe from his intrusion since she had
imprudently laid its existence bare to him on
the first occasion of his looking in for an
afternoon call. He had not begun to lose
caste then, and she had little dreamed how
soon he would do so, even when he had
vowed, with delighted eyes, that he would
know the way back thither. Too speedily
had he made use of his knowledge : the very
next afternoon had seen him tapping at the
door; and such precipitation had even then
made her vexed with herself, while she had
repented more and more when Monday's and
Tuesday's visits had been followed by Thursday's
and Friday's, and Wednesday had only
been a " bye " because the brother and sister
had been at Endhill.

Now Matilda would not have had any one
know it for the world, but the real reason of
-their going to Endhill — the real object which

had taken them thither — had been to put a
stop to Whewell's notion that he was to be at
Overton every day of the week.

He had been known to be going shooting,
and to be going shooting near the Hall, — quite
close up to the house, in fact ; and as such
an arrangement infallibly meant that he must
be asked, or ought to be asked in, or that he
would come in without asking, Matilda, quick
as thought, had taken occasion when the plans
were being made, and when Whewell himself
was standing at her elbow, to send a message
to her daughter through Eobert, the only other
person present, to the effect that she would
ride over to the cottage in the course of the
afternoon. She had even done more — she had
added, somewhat emphatically, a playful codicil,
announcing that her visit was to her
grandson, and that she therefore hoped the
grandson would be visible, and would be glad
to see his dear grandmother. Alas ! someone
else had been also visible, and very glad
to see the dear grandmother. Whewell had

noted the riders pass, and had left his sport
on the instant to fly at the higher game ;
and this from a sportsman was enough : he
could not more effectually have shown his
hand.

He had meant to show it : it had seemed
to him time to show it ; for the bold barrister
had done more than merely fall in love with
Lady Matilda, enough as that might have
seemed for a four days' acquaintance, — he
had fully made up his mind to become her
suitor — and more, her husband. He had
thought it all over; the birth and the jointure,
as well as the beauty and the wit ; and
this was the result : he felt himself to be a
lucky man — a very lucky man.

It would have been well for him to have
looked into his luck a little more closely; it
would have saved him much disappointment,
a little pain, and a lifelong bitterness, — and
it would have saved Lotta a week's heavy
house-books. For, with so fair a prize to
win, and so much depending on the use he

made of his present opportunity, it was not
to be expected that Whewell should be in a
hurry to go, even though the entreaties of
host and hostess waned in urgency, and though
the courses at dinner were perceptibly curtailed
as the week went by.

What cared he for courses, his head running
on Matilda ? He wanted nothing of Endhill,
nothing but bare house-rooms — and not even
that, would Lord Overton only have been a
little less obtuse. Had he had his will, he
would have been at one place, one all-engrossing
place, from morning till night ; and
indeed, so confident was he that it only needed
a few decisive strokes to carry the day, that
he could scarcely understand how it came
about that no chance of giving these seemed
forthcoming. He thought the Overton brothers
needed a jog on the elbow ; and accordingly
one afternoon, when matters were thus at a
stand-still, he made his way over early, but
not too early — not early enough to be put
off with luncheon by the innocent Teddy, nor

to place in an awkward predicament his sister.
By arriving shortly after four on an ungenial
day, he could spin out the time till a hope
that he would stop dinner should drop out
naturally ; then a messenger could fetch his
portmanteau in a trice, and all would be
happily arranged. If Lord Overton or anyone
else should suggest, " Take a bed here,"
very well ; there Avould be no need for saying
" No." He had been prepared for anything,
would agree to everything, and confidently
hoped the best.

But the visit went on, and there was no
word about sending for the portmanteau, and
at length he was fain to jump up, watch in
hand, and be amazed at the lateness of the
hour, and vow he must fly like the wind to
be in time for Mrs Hanwell's very, unfortunately,
primitive dinner-hour. He declared
he had forgotten dinner altogether. Did Lady
Matilda think he could possibly walk over in
three - quarters of an hour, and would her
daughter be terribly severe were he a little

late *? He was really terrified, he would not
stood a single second longer.

111 see you back in my T-cart," announced
Teddy, with a very fair show of obligingness,
considering that he was inwardly raging against
his sovereign lady, who had bound him over
to do so sorely against his will, and, as he
had told her, against his conscience also, " For
you know the lies I shall have to tell if I do,"
he had said ; and it's too bad of you to make
me tell lies when there's no need for them."
But she had been inexorable : he was to drive
Mr Whewell back, and it was all nonsense
about the lies ; he was simply to do it — there
was no lie in that ; whether he liked doing it
or not, was his own affair.

The argument had not closed when Whewell
himself had appeared on the scene, and he now
interposed eagerly, for he thought he saw daylight
somewhere : " No, really ; I could not
think of your troubling yourself."

"Oh, no trouble; I should enjoy it of all
things," said Teddy, with a look of dreadful

exultation at his sister. " There is nothing
I like more than a drive in the wet." Another
look. "And hark to the rain now! It's
pouring cats and dogs!"

Here Whewell stole a glance at Matilda
also. *' Oh, if you like it," he responded dolefully
; " there is no accounting for tastes. But
I confess I am not a fish or a duck. However,
it is my owt fault for not being off sooner.
I "

"No hurry. I'll tool you over in twenty
minutes or so. The T-cart, Charles," to the
footman. " Tell them to look sharp. I let
them know it would be wanted some little
time ago." Then, m answer to a warning
expression on his sister's brow, " I should
have gone out anyway, Whewell," he concluded,
thus in his own mind serving Matilda
right. She had now made him tell three
lies, if not four, and he had thus shown her
that he was the one who knew best, and
that the thing could not have been done
without.

But even with the ordering of the T-cart,
and the bustle of getting ready for it, had
come no opening to Whewell for a quiet
word with his hostess. Teddy had not been
allowed to leave the room even to put on
his coat and get his gloves and hat, without
showing; the visitor out first : and even in
pressing the lady's hand as his adieux were
being made, he had been unable to convey
any sentiments, since she had chosen the
moment, the very moment, when his fingers
touched hers, to give directions about posting
a letter. Her " Good-bye " to him, and her
Don't forget " to her brother, had been
spoken in a breath.

Then Friday's attempt had been still more
of a failure. Lady Matilda had not only
been out, but had remained out, and he had
not seen her at all ; and although he could
not, of course, be sure that it had been done
on purpose to avoid him, and though he had
refused to feel hurt and annoyed, or to take
the matter as having any serious aspect, yet

he had been unable to forget that he had
distinctly promised he would himself bring
over from Endhill some expected documents
for Challoner, and had named the time at
which he would appear. On Friday night
he had begun to think that he should not
have quite so easy a path to tread as he had
at first anticipated.

Lady Matilda, on her part, hoped that she
had shown the man his place.

She had desired to do it gently. She still
liked Whewell, and liked to be liked by him ;
and would he now go, would he only vanish
from the scene while there was still peace and
goodwill between them, and while no words
had passed which could cause regret or unpleasantness
in the future, he should be at
once reinstated in her good graces, and all
presumption should be condoned and forgotten.
Oh, if he would only go ; if anything
she could say or do would make him understand
; if Eobert would but exert himself to
shake off his friend ; if Overton, of his own

accord and without being prompted, would but
withhold the shooting 1 Oh, if they would but
see, tiresome ignorant stupid that they were !
They had not an eye among them.

All this she said to herself twenty times a-
day, and she had no one else to say it to. No
one helped her, no one comforted her ; and
accordingly it was with a somewhat sombre
brow, and a little droop at the corners of her
mouth, that Lady Matilda sat in her little
room, deserted even by her faithful Teddy,
ruefully wondering what was to happen next
whether she must actually quarrel with
Whewell, — and, to pry still more closely into
the secrets of her foolish heart, it must be
owned that there lurked down in its depths
all a woman's unquenchable desire to stand
well with a lover to the last, — whether she
must throw him off in the end, and say, "Mr
Whewell," in the most awe-administering tones
she could muster, or whether

The door opened, and she started to her feet,
with difficulty suppressing a cry.

It was only Challoner, and the parted lips
melted into a smile.

Only Challoner ! And who and what was
he ? It mattered little what he was : he was
not Whewell, and that was enough.

The relief was such, that the warmest of
welcomes was scarcely warm enough to the
speaker's mind. She could almost have kissed
the rough hand she held, in gratitude for its
owner's being merely himself and no one else.
With him, all at once, she felt she had no
fault to find : he stood before her in his integrity,
and nothing could be laid to his charge ;
no languishing gleam from his eye had ever
had to be avoided — no forward, too forward
movement to be repressed ; with him she was
safe — on him she could still dare to shine. It
was a dangerous rebound.

And undoubtedly it caused surprise in the
minds of the ignorant pair. Teddy, indeed,
had had his own ideas as to the reception his
friend was likely to meet with, and he had
looked deprecatingly into Matilda's face, and

had hidden behind Challoner's broad back as
the door opened ; ^Yhile Challoner himself, if
the truth were told, hung his head like a child,
and slouched like a criminal. By common
consent both had stolen along the passage without
opening their lips, and they had striven
to turn the door-handle noiselessly and advanced
inoffensive, and then — what was this ?
Instead of being met by majesty in arms, an
anofel beamed forgiveness !

It was not an angel that whispered in Jem
Challoner's ear at that moment.

CHAPTER Xii.

TEMPTED BY Opportunity.

Opportunity creates a sinner : at least it calls him into action, and,
like the warming sun, invites the sleeping serpent from his hole." —
Owen Pelham.

We left Teddy Lessingliam and his sick friend
on the threshold of Lady Matilda's own snug
little sitting-room, the recipients of a warm
and unexpected welcome.

The two great big unmannerly fellows stood
agape at the extent of their good fortune, and
it was Matilda herself who pushed round the
arm-chair for Mr Challoner to sit in ; it washer
hands which piled up the wood-fire, and
placed a screen in front of the invalid ; while
at the same time questions, condolences, and
congratulations fell musically upon his ear.

Teddy's spirits rose on the instant. " This
is jolly," he said ; " I do hope we shall have
no one else come in ; Robert or anybody ; I
expect it is too bad for other people. Hitchinin
was right about your not going down-stairs,
Challoner — it is much pleasant er here ; even
when it rains there is always something to
look at from this window ; and I don't know
how it is, but I do like small rooms better
than large ones. Now, Challoner, don't
you?"

An unfair question." It was his sister
who answered. " A shabby, impertinent,
home - thrusting question, and not to be repeated.
Mr Challoner being in my room, and
in my small room, shall not be called upon to
prefer it to any other. I will not have him so
ill treated. He has been wounded in our service,
— oh yes, that was certainly the case, —
wounded, and is now in hospital, or, as seamen
say, in dock for repairs. He is to be repaired
under careful supervision ; he is to be
tenderly dealt with ; Teddy shall not "

Tm as good to him as ever I can be ! "
cried Teddy, staring.

The next point was, did Mr Challoner feel
quite warm ? Did he feel any draught ?

He felt no draught, he felt a delicious sense
of luxury in mind and body, he felt that he
was yielding to a spell which had already
begun to work, and against which he could no
longer struggle ; and he felt that, come what
might, for good or for evil, he would not now
be anywhere else for the world.

He might be a fool ? He would be a fool,
then. He might be worse ? Worse, then : so
be it.

He had not of his own accord come to this
enchanted spot, and stepped within the magic
circle, but he had been brought thither against
his will, by a fate which, so he told himself,
had been too powerful for him, — so now he
would have it out with fate, and see which
was the winner in the game; he would not
again try to escape, but he himself would dare
himself, and dare the worst himself could do.

VOL. I. R

Throughout the past week he had been casting'
about in his mind how to evade this moment.
He had never meant to see Matilda
again, should he once turn his back on the
grim walls of Overton Hall ; he had seen once,
and it had been enough ; ever since the night
on which she had knelt by his side, clasping
her hands upon his arm, with her lovely,
weary, patient face turned from him, and her
ringing; voice silent to him, and no smiles for
him, and no eyes for him, he had never had
her image far from his fancy. He told himself
that he had escaped by the skin of his
teeth. That had he been in Whewell's place
the favoured Whewell's place — he had fallen
a victim far, far more mortally wounded than
"Whewell had been. Whewell ? Pah ! How
could he, or such as he, appreciate a Matilda ?

And Matilda's fair form night and day,
sometimes beautiful and gracious, sometimes
frowning' and scornful, but mingled ever with
that of another, had run through and through,
and twisted subtly in and out of every feverish

vision — Matilda, always Matilda, — and always
Matilda beheld with love, distress, and shame.

If he had only gone while those feelings
prevailed ! If only that miserable doctor had
not been suffered to interfere and bar the door
with his preposterous dictums ! Tempting a
man who was doing what he could to escape
from temptation ; drawing back a man into
the flames who was flying from fire !

Well, it was all over now ; it was at an
end now ; it was of no use looking back and
lamenting over what mio;ht have been. He
would stand aloof no looser : the o-ods were
against it : here he was, fast bound, losing nota
note of the soft voice, a fall of the dark eyelash,
a turn of the graceful head ; here he was,
drinking in with every sense the draught that
should have been to him a deadly poison,
breathing the fumes of the intoxicating cup,
bending over it, clasping it in his arms, —
here he was, and here he would remain ; he
had thrown up the contest for the nonce,
overpowered.

And this was the unobserving, indiscriminating,
passive, stony Challoner : this the discreet
friend ; the uninteresting and uninterested
man ; the over - modest stranger, who
now stood in such excellent contrast to the
over-bold one. No, my lady, you are the very
least bit out in your calculations this time.
Talk away ; it is all very nice and simple,
isn't it ? Mr Whewell may come now if he
chooses, may he not? Whewell is the person
to be thought about ; Whewell has to be cold-shouldered
unfortunately; and Whewell should
have known better, and he is a troublesome
fellow, and must be got rid of : but poor Mr
Challoner, who is so good and so cold, and
who has been so very, very badly used, he
shall see now that Matilda can own herself in
the wrong, and is not ashamed to show it.

And she does show it, and she has never
shown to greater advantage in her life.

If only those Endliills will stop away
now," inwardly comments Teddy, observant
and delighted. '' If only this hurricane will

keep up and blow them all in at their own
door, should they ever attempt to come out of
it 1 Challoner gets on first-rate with Matilda
to-day ; how they are talking ! That chap
can talk, I see, when he chooses. We shall
have them quite good friends directly, and
then he can stay on as long as he likes."

Meantime his sister's thoughts ran thus :
Well, now I see the man, he is not at all disagreeably
ugly. His eyes are grey and soft ;
I rather like them ; they do not look very
clever or penetrating — but then we cannot all
be clever and penetrating. They look nice
good quiet eyes, — not suggestive, perhaps, not
capable of a vast amount of damage, but very
well in their way; C[uite up to the rest of the
face, in fact."

The rest of the face was nothing much to
boast of : skin, dark-red and sunburnt ; nose,
hard and a little crooked ; mouth, large, steady,
and slightly drawn down at the corners ; the
mild and pensive expression of the whole just
dashed by a certain squareness and ruggedness

of the clin, which seemed out of harmony
if one had time to think about it, but which
was usually overlooked by the people who
characterised Mr Challoner as a quiet-looking
man.

He had neither moustache, beard, nor
whiskers, although his hair, which was of no
particular shade of dusky colour, grew so
closely round the temples that it suggested
these would have been easily forthcoming,
and would have been good of their kind.
The head was well shapen, and well set on a
pair of magnificent shoulders.

All of this was for the first time manifest
to Lady Matilda. Until now she had seen
Challoner without seeing him ; she had been
conscious of a lay figure somewhere behind
other people, of a dim outline tall enough
and broad enough to block up half the window
at Endhill, and of a somewhat coarse,
and, as she had then fancied it, stolid visage,
now and then coming into the focus when
she had looked at random up and down the

table on the occasion of her last dinner-party.
Afterwards she had contemplated the face
with a shudder, when her own excited imagination
had run riot over the accident, and
that had been all ; to the real Challoner not a
moment's attention had been given.

Now, however, he was to be treated differently.
" See," said the hostess, pointing to a
piece of needlework on an antique screen in
front of her, — " see, Mr Challoner, I must
tell you the story of this. This is a fine
piece of old tapestry, worked, it is said, by
one of my very greatest of great-grandmothers.
Good lady, she must have had
little time for anything else, if all the work
in this house wherewith she is accredited,
really and truly was done by her. Now, look
at this piece. These are Moors : here sits the
Moorish king among his beauties ; that one is
the favourite, or has been the favourite so far,
but you see he now turns from her and bestows
his royal attention elsewhere, on this
damsel with the musical instrument in her

hand, which he is pointing to as he presses
her to play and sing. She is willing enough,
I should say, smiling and nodding her consent
; but the other, the neglected fair one, is
very much put out indeed, and a fit of the
sulks is to my mind inevitable. What do you
think? Am I right? Is his Moorish majesty
to have a bad time of it ; or will the lady
pocket her affront, and be content to play
when she is asked in her turn, but to play —
second fiddle ? "

An awkward position certainly, Lady
Matilda." Challoner looked calmly in the
speaker's face. " A bad business. The king
should — should have managed better''

Oh, poor man, that is being too severe ! "
How happy could he be with either ! ' you
know ; but that is what a man never does
know, and never will learn. A woman is
different ; she is less exorbitant, less exacting.
One lover, that is to say, one whole lover, one
lover all to herself, suffices her. Of course
she does not like to share him — witness this

scene," nodding to the picture ; " but then
that is only fair. AVho would have an eye
or an ear of a man with two eyes and two
ears 1 "

You think she should have all or nothing."


Precisely ; all or nothing."

'yet, Lady Matilda, half a loaf is better
than no bread."

Better, indeed ! What a base idea, Mr
Challoner ! Half such a loaf as that too,"
indicating the luckless Moor. " No, indeed ;
the fair one is not so simple as to content
herself with a paltry share, and no more
would any true woman."

You would not, I bet," said Teddy, finding;
at last something; to understand in all
this. " I pity the poor beggar who tries it on
with you."

We are not talking of me, dear ; we are
talking about pictures, or rather about this
trumpery imitation of one," yawned his sister,
pushing back the screen. " There, Moor, retire

to oblivion." But Teddy had been cogitating
as she spoke.

"It's all very fine for Matilda to talk,"
observed he now to Challoner ; " she pretends
to be down on other women, but she wouldn't
like it herself. She can't stand anybody interfering
With her ■"

My dear boy, take your elbows out

of my lap," impatiently.

And if a fellow made up to her and to
any one else at the same time," proceeded
Teddy, doggedly bent on a hearing

'' Nonsense ! " cried Matilda, with a

frown.

Oh, it's very well to say ' nonsense,' but
the very devil's in you, — oh, I say, you are
not going ? "

She was, with tears in her eyes ; but they
brought her back, and placed her again between
them, and Teddy knelt at her feet, and
Challoner beo^g^ed for forgiveness as tliouo;h
he too had offended, and the ruffled brow

smoothed again, and the burning cheek cooled
as the afternoon wore on, and seemed only to
wear too fast away. But it was curious that
the trifling episode was destined never altogether
to pass from the minds of two of those
present.

CHAPTER Xy.

HOPING STILL.

There are none so blind as those that will not see."

Wind and rain could not continue for ever, so
that although there was no abatement of the
blast which still howled and moaned among
the ocean cliffs, and whistled over the bare
unprotected downs above, there was on the
following day a decided cessation of the torrents
which had hitherto poured down as it
had seemed from exhaustless fountains.

Towards afternoon, indeed, the clouds ceased
to empty themselves at all, and scurried harmlessly
across the shy, leaving here and there
openings through which gleams of pale sunlight
stole ; and thus it came to pass that,

after repeated trappings of the barometer, and
investigations from the front door, Mr Frank
Whew ell at length found himself in a position
to point out that there was nothing to prevent
any one — any one, at least, with thick boots
and a greatcoat — from indulging in a good
walk. A good walk would do them both
good — the " both " referring to his friend
Hanwell and himself, and the " good walk "
being: of course to Overton Hall.

As the weather had really improved, and as
nothing could be brought forward on the
other hand, host and hostess were graciously
pleased to approve the proposal — Eobert not
unwilling himself to escape from four walls
and Sunday magazines, and Lotta to hear
what was going on at the other house.

Moreover, she alarmed that as nothing had
been heard of Mr Challoner for a whole day,
and as he was still their guest, though detained
by misfortune elsewhere, it would be only
right to look after his welfare. To have gone
the day before, that frightful day, would have

been foolish, — it would have been more, an
unnecessary attention, since Mr Whewell had
called at Overton on the Friday, and had satan
hour in Mr Challoner's room ; but as no
one had gone yesterday, and as no messenger
had come over from the Hall either, she must
own she thought it a good arrangement for
the two gentlemen to walk thither now, inquire
after the invalid, and find out when he
would be able to return to Endhill. Return to
Endhill he certainly must, to complete his visit.
Mr Whewell joyfully undertook to satisfy
her, both as friend and hostess. He had been
in his own mind bitterly indignant with Lotta
all the evening before, considering that to her
more than to Robert he owed it that he had
been prevented going to Lord Overton's as
usual : Lotta had stood out against all his
representations and entreaties, had assured
him she had no anxiety for tidings, and no
desire to send messages ; and he had not been
able even to make her see that her mother and
uncles would expect him.

She had been sure that they would not
expect him, and had, indeed, told her husband
apart that what would be said would be this,
that they were unable to amuse their own
guest for a single day, and that he had been
driven to Overton from sheer dearth of entertainment
at home. This had touched Eobert's
weakest part, and he too had strenuously set
himself against the a'oino:, so that a dull and
sullen evening had been spent, and an equally
uncongenial morning had followed, until the
first lucky break in the clouds had induced
the resolute barrister to make his proposition
afresh. It had been met amiably, and he was
at once restored to good-humour.

He was now anxious to wipe out of everybody's
recollection the fact that he had previously
been annoyed and had shown his annoyance
; and so well did he succeed, and so entirely
was peace restored, that Mrs Hanwell sent
her love twice over, and begged Mr Whewell
to remember to tell her mother that she would
not be at home on Wednesday, and hould beat

home on Thursday, should Lady Matilda
say anything about coming over.

All smooth behind : now forward ; now for
Overton.

"And what did you do with yourselves
yesterday ? How did you pass the time yesterday
? " he began with animation, the first
greetings past. " We had a miserable day of
it," aside to Lady Matilda. " You pitied us,
I hope ? Our only consolation was, that you
were pitying us, as we were you ; we were in
sympathy, at all events. But how wretched it
was ! Hanwell and I had had enough of each
other hours before dinner-time ; and I am sure
Mrs Hanwell wished us both anywhere else.
Had it rested with me," lower still, " had it
been left to me, I need hardly say where I
should have been."

Back in London, of course," rejoined she,
easily; "back in your dear Pall Mall and
Piccadilly. No one blames you," as he looked
denial ; " no one expects anything else. London
people can scarcely be supposed to enter

into the delights of a really wet day in the
country ; I do not mean a half-and-half wet
day, when it rains and clears and rains again,
but a perfectly hopeless, eventless, dead-unburied
wet day, without the chance of a visitor,
or the sound of the door-bell "

"I know — I know. But," said Whewell,
delighted, "your door-bell would have rung
once at least yesterday, if I had had my will
I protested as much as I could ; I did indeed.
And could I have, — I mean, would Mr and
]airs Hanwcll have allowed it, I should have
been in the body where I already was in the
spirit — here."

"Here? Oh no. We never" — Lady Matilda
opened her eyes, and drew herself up
ever so slightly — " never expected any of you.
Had you come here, you would have wished
yourself back again, I assure you. You like
lively doings, and there was nothing going on
here — nothing amusing: to brings you. We did
not even go into the billiard-room; we just
sat round the fire and talked."

VOL. L s

"And yawned in each .other's faces."

Yawned ? Well, no ; I do not think we
did yawn ; I have no recollection of yawning."


'you were not so ill-mannered: you only
wished you could have taken the liberty, instead
of taking it ; you said as we did, ' When,
oh, when, will it be — dinner-time ? ' ''

I doubt if we made the remark," said Matilda,
drily.

Challoner is all right again, I see," continued
her companion, after a momentary
pause. " Is this — I presume this is his first
appearance down-stairs ? "

Down-stairs ; yes. He sat in the boudoir
yesterday ; the doctor thought he ought not
to go down-stairs, the day was so bad."

For fear of a chill, you know. In a large
house like this there are so many passages,"
responded Whewell, conversant with everything;
"where you have so many passages
there must be draughts, and, of course, about
dinner-time all the spring-doors would be

open. I — all — I suppose Challoner only got
up at dinner-time 1 '^

Oh no ; he was up in his room ail day, I
believe, and he came into the boudoir about
four."

And you were all there till eight 1 '^

*' We were; we were all there till eight.
And after eight, too ; we returned there for
the evening."

"Oh!"

Even Overton made one of the party.
You may imagine how we vv ere flattered ; at
least you may not imagine, as you don't know
Overton, but to any one else that would tell
its own tale."

Of Lord Overton's boredom ? "

Oh dear, no ; of our agreeability. Overton
never is bored — I mean by his own company;
and therein lay the compliment. He sought
us out, actually sought us out, of his own
choice and for his own benefit."

You were a merry party then, it seems ? "
He was not to be disconcerted.

Very. We usually are."

It was nob Mr Challoner's doing
tlienr'

Whether she heard or not he could not be
sure ; she was appealed to at the moment, and
responded to the appeal, and let Mr Whewell's
playfulness pass ; and after all, it did not
signify, he considered, since whatever cause
he might have to feel chagrined at the cheery
aspect which Lady Matilda persisted in giving
to reminiscences in which he had had no share,
it would have been absurd to be jealous of Challenger.
She might choose to torment him, but
she would never take any notice of Challoner ;
and as being tormented was many degrees
better than being let alone, he presently
plucked up spirit to try again.

'' We are not in the little room to-day,"
he said.

We are too large a number to-day," replied
the lady.

"Might we not make an adjournment?
Some of us, at least 1 "

And for that, we are again too small
a number."

'rit is unfortunate. We are only two
more than yesterday."

"Two too many." But Lady Matilda
smiled, and it was impossible to tell how
much was meant.

"You are — are terribly exact, I perceive,"
rejoined Whewell, trying to laugh ; " are you
always so '? Would one more, for instance,
have been too many yesterday '? "

Well, you could have had no chair, you
know."

I should have been de trop, evidently."

You could have been accommodated with
a footstool."

'' At your feet ? "

Again she had to affect not to hear ; she
was determined not to quarrel with the man.
He was going on the morrow — she had heard
Robert say he was going on the morrow —
and to hold on only a little longer would
not be hard.

'' AVell, no," said Matilda, pleasantly ; " I
think, after all, I should have yielded you
my chair. I think that if there had been
four gentlemen / should have been the person
de trop ; I should have had to make
my exit, and leave you and the other three
in possession of the field. You must own,
Mr Whewell, that four to one is too many,
altogether too many ; as it was "

Your party was complete ? " He was
scanning her keenly.

No, she would not go as far as that.
"The room was full, quite another thing,"
said Matilda ; "but happily there are more
rooms than one in the house, and no one
need pretend that he was not wanted," with
a charming smile, "because he was lazy and
preferred staying indoors to a tiresome disagreeable
wet walk."

Indeed, indeed," began Whewell, earnestly.


"Oh dear me, there is nothing to 'indeed'
about. Why, Mr Whewell, cannot you see

that I was jesting? Pray do not look so
serious ; you appal me."

He began to feel appalled himself. "I am
sorry to offend you, Lady Matilda."

I grant you my pardon, Mr Whewell."
With her finest mock curtsey she laughed
in his face, and he thought he had never
seen any one more incomprehensible. 'come,"
continued she, throwing off the look the next
instant — " come, let us understand each other.
My son-in-law has, I perceive, been infecting
you with some of his notions as to the
exactions of propriety. He and you have
already been beyond praise in the way you
have done your duty by your sick friend
Robert's sick friend, I mean — and still
your consciences are not satisfied, because
you failed to come over in a deluge yesterday,
when no sensible person would ever
have thought of setting foot outside ; when
none of us did"' (she had forgotten Teddy,
but perhaps Teddy could hardly be reckoned
a sensible person), " and when we should not

have thought very highly of — to be precisely
truthful — of you or Robert if you had. In
short, nothing would have amazed us more
than to see you walk in," added she, happily
oblivious at the moment of another fact —
namely, that she had listened throughout
most of the afternoon, and through a part
of it in what was almost an agony of apprehension,
for his approaching step, and that
she had only dared to give him up when darkness
had fairly set in.

At last she felt that she had disposed of
the question, and had done so without abating
a hair's-breadth of her dignity and sweetness,
and without, she hoped, giving more
pain than was absolutely necessary. That
she had 2:1 even some was a matter of course
he had forced it from her; and his now
saying nothing further showed that he was
suffering.

Are they to be asked to stay dinner ? "
presently whispered Teddy in her ear. " Eh 1
I can't hear. Are they 1 "

"As Overton likes," replied his sister, indifferently.


"Are they, or are they not? What do
you mean "? Who is to know what Overton
likes \ "

"Let him ask them."

Him ? Overton ? "

Yes."

Am I to tell him to ask them ? "

Oh dear, Teddy, yes ; I tell you, yes.
I think he had better. I think it would
be better. Go you and tell him. But pray
do not show that you come straight from
me ; it will make it seem at once as if it
There all my doing, which is just what I
do not want it to be," cried poor Matilda,
under her breath. " Mr Whewell is looking
at us now."

And Mr Whewell Alas ; and it was all as
plain as day to him — or he thought it was
when, a very few minutes afterwards, he
noted Lord Overton drawn aside in Teddy's
most diplomatic fashion, and charged with

an invitation which was fired off on the
instant. His depressed spirits rose on elastic
springs once more, and all Matilda's work had
to be done over again.

END OF THE FIRST Volume

Printed BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD Last) SONS

m

Yields delight for reason too :
Who could doat on thing so common
As mere outward-handsome woman ?

Such half-beauties only win

Fools, to let affection in."

—Wither.

BABY'S GRANDMOTHER

BY

L. B. WALFOKD

AUTHOR OF 'TROUBLESOME DAUGHTERS,' ( MR SMITH: A PART
OF HIS LIFE,' 'PAULINE,' 'COUSINS,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXIV

CONTENTS OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAP.

XVI. MATILDA WOULD HAVE PROVOKED A SAINT,

XVII. MOONLIT WAVES,

XVIII. AND NOW IT WAS ALL OVER ! .

XIX. THE FRIENDS OF HIS FRIENDS, .

XX. THE STRUGGLE,

XXI. ABSENCE,

XXII. CHALLONER PLAYS HIS PART, .

XXIII. HE WOULD BE SOMEWHERE ELSE ON THE

NIGHT OF THE BALL, .
XXIV. TIME PASSES,
i XXV. THE FANCY BALL, .

XXVI. THE MOTH RETURNS TO ITS CANDLE,
XXVII. ALL FORGOTTEN BUT THE PRESENT,
XXVIII. A BAD HYPOCRITE, .
XXIX. HOPE AGAIN,

PAGE

















in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/babysgrandmother02walf

CHAPTEE XVI.

MATILDA WOULD HAVE PROVOKED A Saint.

Must then your faithful swain expire,
And not one look obtain,
Which he, to soothe his fond desire,
Might pleasingly obtain ?

(Phyllis, without frown or smile,
Sat and knotted all the while)"

Sedley.

As to declining, it was not to be thought of.
Without hesitation every objection was disposed
of as it appeared. They had dined,
certainly they had dined, and dined most
plentifully in the middle of the day, and one
o'clock was quite the correct hour for Sunday
in the country no doubt. He wished for no

VOL. II. A

more dinner, assuredly for no more dinner;
but if Lord Overton were good enough to
desire their company, that was another thing.
And then how very glad, how devoutly thankful
Mrs Hanwell would be to be rid of them
for a little longer ; it would be quite a charity,
quite a Sunday deed, to take two such malcontents
off the poor lady's hands. And as
to the dark night 1 It was already dark, it
would be no darker four hours hence ; and ashe
spoke he fixed his bright black penetrating
eyes keenly, and amorously, and exultingly
on Lady Matilda. That look undid him ; she
wondered how she could ever have found Mr
Whewell agreeable, even tolerably agreeable ;
and in the revulsion that had now set in, was
almost ready to hope that she would never
set eyes upon him again.

Never, at least, would she meet his.

On his part, Whewell fancied that his present
alacrity and persistency was setting to rights
whatever had been wrong before, and that,
supposing Lady Matilda had (as was likely

enough, in spite of her making-believe to the
contrary), been piqued DV n i 3 neglect on the
previous day, she should now see that neither
Robert's obstinacy nor anything else should
force him from her side. He would shirk no
discomforts for her sake ; and since she had
even gone out of her way to make her brother
give the invitation instead of doing it herself,
she should lose nothing by her modest
coyness.

He stayed alone. Eobert, true to himself
and Lotta, could not be persuaded, and at
length, rather to his amazement and much to
his discomfiture, found himself trudging back
through mud and mire, companionless, both
his cherished guests left behind, both deserters,
both irreclaimable. His suggestion that Challenger
should now renew his visit to Endhill
had been scouted by Teddy, and even met by
something like warmth on the part of Lord
Overton. " Go \ nonsense ! " the latter had
exclaimed. " We like your friend Challoner,
and he seems to like us, and as we don't see

many people, } T ou Lave clone us a good turn
in bringing him here. He is going to stop on
a bit, and as soon as his hand gets all right
he can shoot. There is nothing to take him
away." And with this his nephew had been
obliged to be content.

He had no reason to complain ; that Challenger
and Whewell had each been in his way
a success was doubtless gratifying : but still
there was something in Challoner's looking so
much at home, so calm and still and imperturbable
and comfortable in the corner of the bio;
sofa by the fire, so entirely as if he were their
man — Matilda's, Overton's, and Teddy's — that,
considering none of them had ever seen him
ten days before, and that it was not to visit
them but him, and to be godfather to his baby,
that Challoner had come, there was something
in all this, in the baby's having fallen so completely
into the background, and in the present
oblivion of all that had been so prominent
before, that seemed to turn the whole affair
topsy-turvy.

From the very beginning; things had worked
oddly, — he would not say even to himself
amiss, but oddly, incongruously. First had
been the hasty and ill-timed appearance of
the brother and sister at Endhill, then Lady
Matilda's absurd preference for Whewell over
Challoner, then Challoner's unfortunate accident,
and finally, "Wheel's protracted stay.
Now here they were both at Overton, both
enthroned at Overton, able to do without him
at Overton, in clover, and clover which he had
not provided, at Overton ; and here was he,
neither sharing; the welcome nor the good
cheer to which he had been the stepping-stone,
suffered to depart hungry and cheerless, and
with the chance of being wet through, on his
weary and solitary homeward way.

It was hard on Eobert, but perhaps Wheel
had not a very much better time of it in
the Overton drawing-room.

He did not know how it was that he did
not get on better : Matilda neither shunned
him nor frowned on him, and yet he seemed

to lose ground with her every hour. With
her brother also : Lord Overton had never
been jovial, but now he passed the wine with
scarcely a remark, while Teddy only seemed
to brighten at all when he again volunteered
the useful T-cart.

Certainly the thing — he knew what he
meant — the thing was not to be done this
time; he should have to come again — to
come as soon as he could, and with the best
face he could ; and with this conviction he
must give all his attention now to concealing
his disappointment and keeping up appearances
to the last. It was no easy task, and
took all his tactics. He said to himself that
Matilda would have provoked a saint, and
that he was no saint, and that she ought to
have known it ; but it did not occur to him
that she did know it, and that the winning
manner, the instantaneous turning to him
when he took a seat near, the hoping that he
would have better sport another time — that
next autumn, if he were down in the neighbourhood,

the birds would be more plentiful,
good heavens ! next autumn, to a man who
wished to come down next week ! — that all of
this, which was just what he did not want,
and could have done without, was a woman's
defensive armour donned on purpose. More
and more gloomy grew his brow, and more
and more sweet and gracious and queenlike
grew her smile.

She saw that she was doing it nicely.

She could not have done it more nicely.
He was biting his lip with vexation at the
last; and yet he feared and hated the parting
hour. It seemed as if, did he let her
go now, he should never get near Matilda
again.

It was a wild night, and scarce a star
was visible in the perturbed and disordered
heavens. " We shall get along famously,"
said Teddy. " The roads will be as soft as
butter after all this rain. I can take you
round by the downs if you like, only we
might find a tree or two down across our way;

perhaps we had better not. Are you ready,
for the mare is a bad one to stand \ "

Whewell was ready. That was to say, he
had said his " Good-bye," and had failed in
saying more ; he had received no future invitation
; he had elicited no regret ; and he
had had to feel a cheerful shake of his hand
when he had meant to impart a doleful pressure.
Matilda's whole aspect throughout the
evening had been cruelly, uncompromisingly
brisk — brisk was the only word for it. She
had not cut him off from any farewell speeches,
she had been pleased to acknowledge his suitable
gratitude with a suitable rejoinder, and
she had walked with him to the door of the
anteroom, to hope this and that and be sorry
for the other, but she had not uttered one
word he had cared to hear ; and his last
vision, as he went his way, was of Challoner
the erewhile luckless despised Challoner —
standing on the hearth rug, as it seemed in full
possession of the hearth rug, with Lord Over-ton
by his side, and with Lord Overton's hand

lying on his shoulder. Do what he could, he
could not shake off that remembrance.

A week went by, and Challoner was still at
Overton ; a fortnight, and Challoner was still
at Overton.

And no word of his going," said Eobert
Hanwell to his wife. "Of course we cannot
have him now : it is out of the question, withall
the workmen about, and this visit to my
father's pending besides. But they will not
hear of his leaving the Hall. Ton my word,
it looks so peculiar, considering the circumstances,
that I — I " He hardly knew

how to take it, in short. He half liked it,
and half not. It was such an odd thins: todo,
as he had said before, — so odd and unconventional
and unlike other people, and like,
oh so like Lotta's people, — that it could not
be quite right, and yet it was not easy to see
wherein it was wrong.

Every time he met Teddy, to his " Challoner
still with you ? " Teddy would be quite surprised.


With them ? Of course he was with them.
What should he go away for \

Lady Matilda, more communicative, would
comment on her brothers' predilection for the
stranger, and on their absolute refusal to let
his stay come to an end.

He will be like the good divine — I forget
who it was — who went to his friends for a
night and remained with them for thirty years,"
she cried. " Thirty years hence will see Mr
Challoner still at Overton, still longing to go.
and still unable to give any reason for going.
That is what goes on now. Teddy will not be
satisfied without the reason, and Mr Challoner
can find none. Now that he has left the army
he has nothing to do, so then Teddy will have
it out, ' Why % ' and as there is no ' why ' forthcoming,
stay he must. Overton says it is the
sharpest thing our Teddy ever did."

And do you like it ? " queried Lotta. She
would not have liked it herself ; but then, as
she reflected, mamma never had taken any part
in the housekeeping, so possibly she did not

mind that shilly-shallying hanging on from
day to day which would have been a great
trouble to most housekeepers. To be sure,
housekeeping at Overton was not the same
as at Endhill. All the same, mamma was not
fond of visitors staying in the house for any
length of time, uncle Edward being so peculiar,
and uncle Overton such a recluse.

Lady Matilda, however, protested that she
did not in this instance object. Mr Challoner
was a good guest, and her brothers liked him,
and then she talked rather quickly of other
things.

By degrees she said less and less of Mr
Challoner. She was not much at the cottage
at this time. She had a cold, a headache, engagements,
one thing and the other to prevent
her ; and in particular, she had taken to walking
instead of riding.

I met Lady Matilda walking with Mr
Challoner along the downs to-day." announced
Robert once.

Lady Matilda had turned out of her way to

stop him, and had called to him gaily, and
greeted him affectionately; inquiries had been
made after her daughter, and kisses sent to her
grandson ; and she had further been careful to
explain how her poor horse had hurt his foot,
and so her poor Teddy had had to ride alone,
and she and Mr Challoner had been forced to
come out for a walk.

Her poor Teddy had had to ride alone for
some days, and Mr Challoner and Matilda had
been out walking on each of these ; but this
did not transpire on the occasion of meeting
Eobert. " It was so dull and disconsolate in
the house," she had added demurely.

She had not looked particularly dull and
disconsolate : the sea wind, or something else,
had brought a ricci warm colour to her cheek,
and her eyes had looked full and soft, and her
warm plaid shawl had been snugly wrapped
round her shoulders, and her dark hat had become
her, and altogether she had had a bright
and rosy and pleasant appearance ; and had
she not taken pains to be pleasant to him,

Eobert might have disapproved all this, and
felt that it was even more to be deprecated
and regretted than usual. But Matilda had
smiled on him that smile that no mortal man
could resist — and he so seldom had it, poor
fellow ! — and she had slipped her hand so confidingly
within his arm, and stepped along so
willingly by his side, and had made him altogether
so entirely one of the party, that he had
quite apologised when he had had to leave
them, and had felt almost rude in letting them
turn to walk back to Overton alone.

But then it had been getting on to five
o'clock, and Lady Matilda having Mr Challenger
to take care of her, with such an escort
could not really have needed any other. He
had not been required — but he had been hushed
and stroked down — and the result was that to
Lotta's " Mamma and Mr Challoner !" he replied
with an explanation that was almost more
than an apology; it amounted to an eulogium.

I must own I was surprised," he said ; "it
was really too kind of Lady Matilda. To betaken

out by Lady Matilda herself is a compliment
Challoner must certainly feel ; and
after the coolness with which, I am bound to
confess, she treated him at the first, he will
appreciate it the more. Challoner is not a man
upon whom any attention is thrown away; and
to do your mother justice, Lotta, — excuse my
speaking frankly, my dear ; but really your
mother is so very peculiar and unreliable —
one never knows what she will do, in short, —
I own I had hardly expected such an open
display of her change of mind."

Oh, mamma flies round like a weathercock,"
replied Lotta, somewhat tartly. " You
need never be surprised at anything mamma
does ; and she will say one thing one minute
and another the next. For instance yesterday,
what do you think she said about cook
yesterday ? I told her that we had begun to
suspect now that cook had had a hand in
Sarah's leaving, and she stopped me at once,
before I had even begun to explain what made
us think so, with ' Well, my dear, dismiss her '

you know that quick way mamma has, —
Well, my dear, dismiss her she said, as if it
were nothing to dismiss a woman like cook.
I would not on any account dismiss her unless
I had good grounds, really good grounds, for
doing so ; so when I tried to explain this to
mamma, — I was trying to show that we had
no direct 'proofs, and could not be absolutely
certain at present, when she cried out, ' Well,
my dear, don't dismiss her,' — all in a minute,
after she had said ' Dismiss her ' two seconds
before ! And she would not let me utter another
word," continued Lotta, whom no one
else than Lady Matilda ever contrived to stop.
She actually put her fingers in her ears and
laughed at me ; then she began playing cup
and ball by herself till Mr Challoner came in."

Oh, Challoner was here at the same time
she was yesterday ? "

Why, of course he was, Eobert — I told
you so ; but he would not sit down. He came
in on his way from the woods ; he had been
shooting, and called here on his way back.

It was scarcely on his way either, but he had
evidently wished to call — and you know he
did owe us a call ; — but then, when he found
mamma here, he was obliged to cut his stay
short, as it was getting late, and mamma could
not walk home at his pace, he said ; otherwise
he would have waited to see you ; for I told
him that you had only gone out to the workmen,
and would be in again directly. However,
he would not let me send, as he was
afraid it would be dark before they got home,
if he did. It was a pity that mamma was
here."

"Certainly — yes. Still, I am glad Lady
Matilda had the opportunity of seeing for herself
the sort of person Challoner is ; probably
she had never before had him alone," (how
little Robert knew!) "and no doubt it was
their meeting here yesterday that induced her
to show him the cliffs to-day. He had never
seen the high cliff before, and your mother had
undertaken to show it him. It was extremely
polite of Lady Matilda ; and she took great

pains to signal to me to join them, I assure
you. She was waving and calling to me for
some time before I discovered who it was. I
saw two figures, but never dreamed of its beings
mother and Challoner ; and they might
have passed me quite well had they wished todo
so, but they were determined to make me
go along with them. They would not let me
off. Eeally I had not been going their way,
but I could not refuse when your mother set
upon me ; and though it may have partly been
that she was tired of Challoner, still I don't
know ; they seemed on excellent terms, and
there was nothing rude to him in what Lady
Matilda said; she walked between us and took
my arm. Well, of course it was natural that
she should have more to say to me than to one
who is not a member of the family ; and I
must say this — I always have said it — that no
one can make herself more agreeable than Lady
Matilda when she chooses — she really could
not have been pleasant than she was this
afternoon."

VOL. II. B

"Oh, mamma can be pleasant enough" —
but before the young lacey could get her tongue
in, he was proceeding in his own ponderous
periods, — " We had a most sociable walk ; and
though Challoner did not take much part in
the conversation — he is a silent fellow at the
best of times — he and Lady Matilda seemed
quite to understand each other : he carried her
shawl, for she had brought a shawl to spread
on the rocks where she sits down"'

Sits down ! What a foolish thing todo!"


Certainly, quite so ; very foolish, no doubt.
I would not sit out on a day like this myself;
but your mother is very strong, and not apt to
take cold, I fancy. I recommended them to
the best place. They would be quite sheltered
in the spot I selected ; and after walking from
the Hall to the high cliff, Lady Matilda would
really require a rest. She owned to being a
little tired, which she seldom does. That was
why they stopped at the cliff, and did not come
on here ; and besides, the roads are in such a

shameful state, as Lady Matilda said — quite
unfit for ladies."

Mamma never minds that."

Quite so ; I thought she never did. I
was glad to hear her allow as much, for Lady
Matilda is far too venturesome as a rule."

She should never have been out to-day."

Oh, indeed it was a far better day than you
have the least idea of, my love. Sitting indoors
listening to the wind gave you no notion
of what a fine soft air it really Alas. A turn
in the garden, with a wrap round your head,
would have done you all the good in the world.
I assure you I quite regretted that I had not
suggested it to you. It really seemed quite
selfish to have all the enjoyment myself, for it
certainly was extremely enjoyable : as Lady
Matilda said, the sea in itself was a sight
worth braving the chance of a ducking for.
Well, I did not altogether agree to that ; but
no doubt when we got up to the furze common,
and saw round the east point where the
rocks jut out, it was very fine, uncommonly

fine. As Lady Matilda said, we have had
nothing as fine this year ; Lady Matilda has
undoubtedly an eye for the picturesque in

nature, and Challoner "

Well, I must say," burst forth Lotta,

finding at length something on which an indefinite
gathering annoyance could wreak itself
"I must say that I do wonder at you,
Robert : you seem to be quite pleased that
mamma and Mr Challoner should be wandering
about the country all alone by themselves.
You who are so very particular about these
things, how would you have liked me to be
seen miles from home, all by myself, with a
young man ? What would you have said if I
had set off with Mr Whewell, or — or any one
else, to visit the high cliff, and walk along
those lonely downs, where you may walk for
hours and never come across a living soul %
I would not have done such a thing for the
world. If I had ever unshed to do it — and I
never should have wished, I am sure — you
would have been the very last person to have

encouraged me ; you would have been quite
shocked. You "

My dear ! " gasped he.

'•'And yet, just because you were taking
part in it yourself "

"My dear Lotta" — but Eobert was for

perhaps the first time in his life fairly at a
loss. It was quite true that it teas because
he had been taking part in it himself — that
because he had been freshened by a pleasant
walk in pleasant company, and had been unwittingly
cajoled into benevolence, he was thus
lenient and amiable ; and could he deny it 1
I— I— really," he exclaimed. " Really," beginning
to recover himself, "you take a very
incorrect, and, I must add, prejudiced view of
the case."

"Prejudiced! Well, I don't see how that
can be," rejoined the young lady, pursuing her
advantage. " Considering that it is only your
own account I have to go by, if I am prejudiced,
it is likely to be on your side," which
had a distinct element of truth in it, and scored

indubitably a point for Charlotte. " Your own
version of what took place is the only one I
have heard ; so if I do not look upon it in the
same light as you do, I cannot see how it is
that I can be prejudiced on the other side.
All I say is, how would you like people to seeme
going about like that ? Should you approve
if I were to do as mamma does ? "

Certainly not," replied Eobert, promptly ;
but, my dear, you mistake the case. Your
mother is — is placed in a peculiar position,
living as she does with your uncles, and they
being — at least your uncle Overton being so

solitary in his habits "

"There is always uncle Edward."

Your uncle Edward was otherwise encased
to-day. Lady Matilda took particular pains
to explain this to me. I fancy she thought I
might feel a passing surprise at meeting her
and Mr Challoner out by themselves, but I did
not at all — not in the slightest. I saw at
once how it was ; Challoner could hardly have
been sent out alone "

Why not ? "

Impossible, my love ; it would have been
most impolite — discourteous, I should say."

Then he could have ridden with uncle
Edward."

You may take my word for it that there
was a sufficient reason for his not doing so. I
forget what it was, but of this I am confident,
that Lady Matilda explained it entirely to my
satisfaction ; and as for there being anything
improper in Lady Matilda's escorting Challenger
herself, if that is what you insinuate, my
dear," — (Richard was now himself, every inch
himself again, and could have felled to the
earth a dozen Lottas with his flats, had they
lifted up their voices against his) — "really,
ahem ! I am amazed that so extremely absurd
and unsuitable an idea should have entered
your head. I confess I should never have anticipated
such an objection. As if any lady
of your mother's age and standing could not
be trusted to walk alone with a gentleman
without remarks being made ! Remember this

my love, that it is not in the thing itself ; it
is in its being a cause for remark that the real
objection lies. I could trust you with anyone,
Lotta, of course ; but it would be highly
indiscreet in either of us to run the risk of
people gossiping ; but," raising his voice, " but
• — I know perfectly what you would say, my
dear — one moment — allow me," with his hand
in the air, "you and your mother are two very
different people : you are eighteen, and Lady
Matilda is thirty-seven. Thirty-seven : ahem !
If that is not answer enough for you, it is forme.
I have my own ideas ; and I must say —
you must permit me to say it, my love — that
I never before had my ideas on the matter of
impropriety called in question."

So saying, he closed the debate, and stalked
from the room master of the field.

CHAPTER XVII.

MOONLIT WAVES.

The twilight is sad and cloudy,

The wind blows wild and free,
And like the wings of sea-birds

Flash. the white caps of the sea."

—Longfellow.

Who is coming; to see the waves to-night ? "
inquired Teddy that evening at dinner. " They
were breaking over the lifeboat-house forty
feet high last night, Spiers tells me, and half
the town was out watching them, I wish
we had been there ; we ought to have been
there ; I felt such a fool not even to have
known anything about it. How did we not
know, Matilda ? Somebody should have told
us."

We did not see anybody to tell us, and we

did not think of it for ourselves," replied she ;

besides " and she glanced at her elder

brother.

"Well, I'm going to-night anyhow," said
Teddy, in his " I've made up my mind " tone ;
I don't care who stays behind. Spiers says
the tide will be full between ten and eleven,
and they say it is going to be splendid. Spiers
says the shopkeepers and people have been
barricading their windows all day, for a lot of
windows got smashed last night, and even
right up the back streets the water poured
into the cellars. Spiers says everybody was
there ; it seemed so stupid for us not to be
there."

"How is the sea so high?" inquired Challenger.
" Though there has been some wind,
it has hardly amounted to anything of a
gale."

It's the time of year for it," said Teddy,
lucidly. " I don't know why, but always
about this time of year the sea goes mad ; and
we ought to have known it," looking reproachfully

at Matilda. " Why didn't the Appleby s
or some one tell us 1 They were there, I'll be
bound."

It is quite a sight then," said Challoner,
and then he too looked at Lady Matilda, and
she knew perfectly what his look as well asher
brother's meant.

If Overton likes," she murmured hesitatingly.


Now why should Matilda have hesitated ;
why did she not, as she would once have done,
respond eagerly and joyously to the implied
desire ? A week ago and she would have been
herself the one to propose just such an expedition
; and yet now — now when the idea sends
a thrill through her veins and a throb through
her heart — she sits with downcast eyes and
scarcely finds words for a response. Can it be
that something has already passed between
her and Challoner on the subject ? Is he,
perchance, not so absolutely ignorant on the
subject as one would suppose ? Teddy, at
least, sees nothing of this, and is impatient

and alarmed ; he lias already been done out of
the sport — been absent when every one else
was present the previous evening — and he is
ready to protest and explode, indeed to defy
authority altogether, if a voice is raised in
opposition now. There is not in reality the
slightest chance of any such voice being raised ;
even Overton himself is rather disposed for the
thing than not — it is a kind of adventure he
can enjoy. Nobody puts him forward, or
makes him of consequence, or worries him, or
pesters him on this sort of occasion ; and
accordingly —

I'll go if you like," he said quite good-humouredly
; " the night is fine enough "

Fine enough ! I should just say so,

rather ; " cried his brother, his excitement rising
to a height, " Now, Matilda, you give in ;
just you say no more, but get your things on
and come along too ; when even Overton is

Oh, of course' assented his sister

very gently; " of course if you are — are all

inclined for it, I — I should like it very much.
It will be a beautiful sight, and there will be
plenty of others to keep us in countenance ;
and with such a moon we shan't come to grief
among the hedges on our way to the town,
and "

That's right ; that's a good girl ; I knew
she would knock under in the long-run " nodded
Teddy, patronisingly. " Now do be quick
over dinner, and let us get off by nine. I'll
order the phaeton at nine. Now, Matilda,
you won't keep us waiting; and, Challoner,
mind it will be cold by the sea, and we may
get a drenching as likely as not, — do take my
topcoat ; now do" very earnestly. " I have
dozens of coats, and "

Not one that Challoner could get into,"
observed his brother, with his slow occasional
smile. " You must have it let out half a yard
or so first, Ted : Challoner has an uncommonly
nice topcoat of his own too. If you get us all
off by nine and don't forget your topcoat for
yourself, my boy," continued he, "that will be

two feats in one night. Have you ordered the
phaeton yet % "

He had already forgotten to ring the bell,
and the bustle attendant on this, and on giving
the order, kept him happily engaged throughout
the remainder of the meal.

Fain would he have had them all go in the
T-cart; but as that was impossible, he could
at least himself drive the phaeton, with Matilda
beside him, and Overton and Challoner behind,
and so he announced that the four were to
be arranged. It was his expedition, and he
was allowed to do with them as he chose ; and
though he fancied that Challoner was stupid
about something, and did not understand how
cleverly they would all fit in when thus disposed
of, he fancied that it was an inclination
on Challoner's part to handle the reins himself
which made him so unresponsive ; and much
as he liked Challoner, this was too much : he
must always drive, whatever nasty things
Matilda misjlit insinuate about the hedges.
As, however, nothing was said, all went welland

luckily his peace of mind was undisturbed
by overhearing an aside in the hall, when his
sister was having her furs fastened.

Are you at all nervous ? " said Challoner,
softly.

"Not to-night; I have told William what
horse to give us, and we shall only have one.
I think there is no fear."

c: You would not like Lord Overton to drive,
or — or me ? "

He would not like it." There was a very
slight emphasis on the " he," but it was caught
and understood. " It would put him out
sadly : don't, please, don't say any thing. "

Nor did he further, but he sat well forward
in the back seat, gazing on ahead with anxious,
careful, protecting eyes, on along the narrow
zigzag lanes, whose treacherous windings might
produce anything at any moment ; and somehow
Matilda, as she sat just before him, was
dimly conscious that there was an arm behind
which would have been thrown around herat
the first approach of danger.

The air was mild, and the vehemence of
its fitful blasts had completely died away ere
the party set out. Now there remained only
a pleasant freshness, a clear bespangled sky
overhead, and such soft wet roads as were
delightful to traverse, when the mud only
splashed the wheels of the phaeton and the
glossy coat of the quiet old gig-horse. The
very road-pools and ditches by the wayside
were bright with moonlight, and reflected the
chaise as it passed. All were comfortably
tucked in, and the cigars of the gentlemen
behind yielded only the faintest of fragrance
to those before — " Just what she likes," Over-ton
answered for his sister, as he passed the
match on to his companion.

Now and then it was of course absolutely
necessary to ask if she did like it, to find out
if she were warm and snug, to ascertain that
she was not missing such and such a point
in the landscape, and to this end Challoner
must occasionally lean forward, and oblige
her to turn her head and listen to his deep

voice sunk to an undertone ; but for the
most part of the way the phaeton rolled on
amidst a cheerful contented silence — just such
a silence as Lord Overton liked — and in little
more than half an hour from the time of
starting they entered the outskirts of Sea-burgh.


Having for the latter portion of the way
been obliged to make a considerable curve,
and strike inland for a mile or so before
approaching the coast again, it was not until
phaeton and horse had been disposed of, and
our party had hurried through some very
shabby and dim back streets — not over-savoury
back streets — streets that were redolent
of tar, nets, stale fish, and all the concomitants
of a small seaport, — it was not
until these had been perforce threaded, that
they began to experience some reward, or at
least some apparent reward — some reward
that could be taken hold of, for the exertions
of the evening.

Just you wait — just you wait," had been

VOL. II. c

a frequent exhortation in the mouth of the
self-constituted leader, as Teddy, with all the
importance of a general, conducted his forces
round corner after corner ; and truly it seemed
worth the waiting for, when the great, rolling,
booming breakers, which had been heard and
felt and known to be near, and yet remained
tantalisingly unseen for so long, at length fell
at their feet.

As the authority Spiers had promised, all
the world of Jedburgh was abroad to see the
sight, some hurrying in one direction, some in
another : and the sea-walk being for the nonce
impassable, the usually unpopular and shabby
short cuts and back entrances were now in
the ascendant. Everybody was glad of a
shelter from the flying spray, which seemed
to search out the deepest hollows so long as
they faced the sea, and nobody could afford
to despise the poorest and narrowest back
alleys which enabled them to reach their destination.


It was from a long dark by-way that our

party at length emerged, to plunge no more
into such, but to join the groups already
assembled wherever an angle of the breakwater
afforded a dry footing, or even one
partially so, whence they could enjoy the
weird and beauteous spectacle. Even these
prudent folks were not, however, destined
altogether to escape the effects of their discreet
temerity : every now and then there
would be a cry and a run from venturesome
boys making the most of the frolic ; while
the more sober-minded, who had no desire for
an encounter, and would not have willingly
run any risk, would provoke risibility in their
neighbours by the early reluctance and the
final haste of their ignominious retreat, — they
would scarce hasten a step to begin with, and
would scud like the wind in the end. The
careful, sedate, reasoning man, in particular,
would be a source of exultation to the
thoughtless : he would calculate to a nicety
the time likely to be taken in making his
way across a dangerous spot, and would so

calculate as to take his time jauntily ; be
would wait until the moment after a heavy
sea had swamped the pebbly road and retreated,
at which happy moment was to be
exhibited to the lookers-on the excellence of
his forethought, by advancing before another
of any size could approach ; and he would
have but gone a step or two when, lo ! he
was bespattered from head to foot, the victim
of a pitiless shower, and all his wisdom would
be seen to have been thrown away. There
was no calculating upon the monsters ; none
could say how or when they would come.

All of this was, of course, fun to be rapturously
appreciated by foolish Teddy Lessing-ham,
who laughed till his sides were sore,
and could not comprehend how it was that
Matilda did not as usual respond to and share
his ecstasies. Matilda hardly seemed to see
what was going on ; she was very quiet —
curiously quiet ; he could not get her to
budge from a place she had chosen, whence
nothing could be seen but the ocean itself —

a little obscure nook, where she and Challoner
stood together, and which even Overton
objected to ; and though with infinite pains
he secured to her, and signed and beckoned
her to come forward and take possession of,
a more favoured standing-place close to the
railing, and almost overhanging the water,
she demurred so long that the opportunity
was lost. The crowds jostled together and
filled up the gap ; he had to retire and give
up what it had cost him so much cunning and
cleverness to obtain, while even then the ungrateful
creature had hardly the grace to say,
Thank you."

No wonder he was indignant ; had it not
been for the best joke in the world coming off
at that moment, in the shape of the whole
front row of spectators getting soused at once
by a slily advancing wave, which, looking as
innocent as a babe, took them all by surprise
before they knew where they were — had it not
been for this, causing him to stamp bis feet
and shout with the glee of the vilest little

urchin present, he would have given Matilda
a piece of his mind. But by the time he got
back to her, he had forgotten everything but
mirth, and as she took his arm kindly and
listened amiably, all was right between them.
He could not, however, long be content to
remain in the stupid place she had selected,
and at length prevailed so far as to make her
allow that there was yet more to be seen, and
that perhaps it would be as well to see it. The
more " referred in especial to a bit of breakwater
a few streets to the right, where the
principal attraction appeared to be, to judge
by the people who flocked towards the point ;
and as Teddy must always go where others
went, and see what they saw, he was soon
restless to follow to the lifeboat-house. It was
against the lifeboat-house that the fullest force
of the waters fell.

Hard to move as Matilda had proved, she had
to own on arriving at this spot that her troublesome
brother had been right : nothing they
had yet seen could equal what they now beheld.

It was indeed a spectacle never to be forgotten.


White in the brilliant moonlight, the raging
sea could be seen to its horizon : high into the
cloudless heavens flew the fountains of foam.
With a sweep and power resistless, yet with a
grace ineffable and ease indescribable, with a
rhythm mysterious yet precision accurate, wave
after wave came on, the first exquisite burst
succeeded by a back-swing and curve, and
then a falling away to gather up once more,
and break, and break, and break again —
hither, thither, this way, that way — across,
athwart, afar, at hand — twining, circling, winding,
wreathing — in and out, up and down,
until drunk into one another at last — no begin



king, no end — none alone, each a part of the
other.

As the tide rose, even the highest point of
the lifeboat-tower was from time to time obscured,
and the little knot of watchers who
had pressed forward to the front had more
than once to change their ground, as the

circling froth covered the space whereon they
had at first stood.

Lord Overton and his party sought the
shadow of a projecting gable, and still watched
in silence ; even admiration and exclamations
died away — none cared to speak. At length,
I never saw anything like this before," said
Challoner's voice behind Matilda — close, close
behind her.

She did not bid him " hush," as she might
have done Whewell ; she did not answer, nor
turn, nor move away ; she stood still, feeling
that he was there, and that he had been there
all the time, — that he had never yielded his
place, and never meant to yield it, and that as
they looked, so they felt — together.

Going home, he asked her to sit behind with
him.

CHAPTER XVIII.

And NOW IT WAS ALL OVER

Alas ! silly fool that I was,"

(Thus, sadly complaining, he cried), —

When first I beheld that fair face,
'Twere better by far I had died."

Rowe.

Two hundred miles did the cruel train bear
Challoner away from Overton at last.

Two hundred miles did that inhuman
monster carry a reluctant wretched man ; and
faster and faster it sped with him away from
love, delight, enchantment, — and nearer and
nearer it hurried him towards despair, deceit,
and misery ; — further from where he would
be, nearer to where he would not be ; — further
from Eden, nearer to the wilderness.

He sat with his face backwards, emblem amicably.

By instinct lie had thrown himself into
a seat which commanded the last view of the
woods and uplands now so familiar, and to all
time so dear, — and upon these he gazed as
long as they remained in sight. They vanished,
and still he looked on ; he had nothing
else, it seemed, to do. Newspapers, magazines,
and the usual accompaniments of a
traveller had been neglected or forgotten. He
had nothing to read, nor did he want anything
; he had the carriage to himself, but he
hardly noticed that it was so ; and there was
a hot-water tin, but he did not put his feet
on it ; and cigars in his pocket, but he did
not smoke them.

Hour after hour went by and found the
solitary man still in the same position, still
dead to all that passed, still with eyes turned
absently, softly, and tenderly towards an unseen
spot, which to memory and love was yet
visible.

Of what really came and went Challoner
beheld nothing.

Now and again an impatient movement, a
frown or a sigh, would burst forth to betray
that the day-dream which proved so overmastering
had its moments of perturbation,
its thorns among the rose-leaves ; now and
again the dreamer would start forward, sit
up, pull himself together with a passing expression
of the lip and motion of the hand
that seemed to betoken a commencement of
something new, of a resolution and decision
that had not been there before, — but ever as
it rose would the momentary impulse fade
away again, its cold unwelcome presence
thrust out by some too powerful, too exquisite
rival, — and Challoner, a willing slave to the
latter, would once more sink back on the
luxurious cushion, lost, revelling in musings
that needed no effort, and that, alas ! were not
to be dispelled by an effort. He was living
the past month over again.

From first to last he had been a month at
Overton. Excuses and arguments for thus
prolonging an accidental stay, a mere detention

for a single night, had been so acceptable
both to himself and his hosts, that the continually
postponed day of departure had almost
seemed as though it never would come,
never could really and actually arrive ; and
when at length it had, it had seen him depart,
wellni^h in silence, and wellnisjh mad with
the wild longing for a reprieve in any shape
and from any quarter.

Yet would he not reprieve himself ; and the
brothers had had to let him go, less concerned
than he it is true, but still grudgingly, reluctantly,
flatteringly, with many an injunction to
"Come again," — and what Lady Matilda had
felt she had kept to herself.

And now it was all over, and he had only
to look back upon it.

Never again must he cross that friendly
threshold and hear that pleasant welcome ; he
had touched for the last time that fair hand,
had met for the last time that dark eye, had
heard a final farewell in that gentle voice.
No sis;n had Matilda made ; in no wise could

lie or any other see that she had been expectant,
or surprised, or grieved, or wounded, —
and yet he felt, he felt he might have won her.
He might at any rate have tried his chance.
He would not have been waved aside, smiled
down, nipped in the bud and laid low in the
dust as Whewell had been, and as he had himself
seen Whewell be. Tush ! he had already
gone farther, dared more and gained more,
than Whewell had ever dreamed of. What of
those wild sea walks over the moaning cliffs,
up the lonely glen, along the unfrequented
woodland paths % Who saw the arm which
held the slender form beneath the cliff on the
brink of the foaming waterfall 1 Whose presence
marred the twilight hour in the dim old
gallery \ For whom alone was the soft strain
of music when the light was gone \ And there
had been a day when her flowers had been
worn by him, and her song had been sung for
him, — when Overton had stopped short in his
speech and held his breath as though struck
all at once by a truth too strange for fancy,

and Teddy had flung himself out of the room,
and had scarce been seen or spoken to for days
after.

It had been Challoner, Challoner himself,
the conscious cause of it all, who had brought
back the penitent to Matilda's side eventually.

He had come on Challoner's arm, looking on
Challoner as his friend, indebted to Challoner
as the peacemaker — and Challoner had lain
awake half the night afterwards. Not even
the angrily affectionate beseeching of this
brother had prevailed to make him stay on at
Overton after this. With a letter which came
in at breakfast in his hand, and with its urgency
as his plea, he broke or tore aside the fetters
which bound him at last, and told himself that
he had broken them for ever.

He had got it over. That at first was Challenger's
principal thought. He had done the
thing properly, and had not made a fool of
himself. They could see that he had been
moved, as he ought to have been moved ; that
he had felt grateful, and nervous, and wretched,

and had devoutly wished himself at the
moment anywhere but where he was. So far,
well. He had wrung Overton's hand, and
muttered a something in Overton's ear of
which it was impossible for any one to make
out a syllable, and he had broken down — yes,
actually and palpably broken down — in accepting
a remembrance from Teddy. But this was
all natural enough under the circumstances,
while the supreme ordeal, the parting with
Matilda, found him outwardly so calm that he
caught himself wondering at himself, and unduly
elated all too soon. The internal convulsion
had come and gone unperceived, and he
saw that he had lost nothing in his lady's eyes.
Up to a certain point she had assuredly understood
him — that is to say, she had seen that
he must fly, though she knew not how good
was the cause he had for doing so. She had
probably taken it that he would not abuse the
extraordinary kindness and confidence wherewith
he had been treated, and that his modesty
had told him he was already doing so in his

heart. He knew that he had pleased Matilda,
as in truth he had pleased every woman he
had ever cared to please. She had wanted no
eager, assiduous, in-season and out-of- season
prating lover. She had turned against the
lively Whewell from the moment that " lover "
appeared written on his brow, and had turned,
as it happened, straight to Ch all oner ; soon she
had ceased to ask herself how or why, but had
hung upon his words, and listened for his
footstep, and fretted when he was absent, and
shone out like a star when he was by. And
of all this he had scarcely been ignorant ; there
had been moments when he had divined it all.

She must have known why he had gone,
and she must have been proud of him forgoing
as he did.

From one long reverie of mingled pain and
pleasure, it seemed to Challoner that he was
at length somewhat harshly aroused by familiar
voices proceeding from familiar lips.
The train had reached its destination — or
rather our traveller's destination, — and he

was slowly and with a heavy heart stepping
out of the carriage, when he became aware
of a group of girls on the platform close to
his elbow, and heard three tongues all together
exclaim in the liveliest accents and almost ina
breath, " What a pity we came ! "

Nonsense ! "

Here he is ! "

Challoner shook hands with all three.

Well, now that you have come, I shan't
say any more," continued the last speaker, a
tall fresh-coloured damsel with a bright handkerchief
protruding from the front of her tight-fitting
Newmarket. " As you are here, I
shan't grudge our wait, though we have been
here for an age or more, and have lost the
best of the afternoon. Mary would have it
we should be late. I knew we should not
be late. Catch us ! We are always before
the time for everything nowadays, between
Mary and Emily. You are late, though,
Jem ; how is that ? "

Are we late \ " said Challoner, absently.

VOL. II. d

The train is due at four, you know. Mary
looked it out."

Oh, trains are never in to their time," said
Mary, " and it is all nonsense about our waiting
: I did not mind waiting."

Oh, of course not : she did not mind waiting
; that is a good one, I must say," laughed
her sister. " Do you hear that, Jem ? That
is for your benefit. Well, thank heaven, I
retain my senses, whatever Mary and Emily
may do. Emily was dying to go to cathedral
this afternoon (we are turned so direfully devout
nowadays, you must know, Jem) ; since
Herbert came after Emily "

"Do hush," said Emily with a nudge ;
how you do run on, Bertha ! and can't you
see that Jem is not attending to you one
little bit % He is wondering where his baggage
is, are you not, Jem ? "What part was it
put in ? Where is the van ? Back, or front ? "

Back, I think."

He had no idea, but he had to say one
or the other.

Well, if it is back, what do you go front
for ? " inquired ]\Iiss Emily, innocently.

She thought it very amusing, as did they
all, to see the solitary portmanteau extracted,
at length, from beneath the very seat whereon
Challoner had been sitting, and to note how
little he either knew or cared about it ; she
insisted on jumping into the carriage herself
to see what else he had left behind, not being*
at all clear, she protested, whether an arm ora
leg might not be found missing presently.
And she searched, and inquired, and made
merry over the subject, till his rueful smile
faded away from sheer impatience, and the
disgust of his soul was almost visible on his
countenance. "What had brought the girls
there ? He had never dreamed of their meeting
him at the station, and at the best of
times would have dispensed with the attention,
while to-day . They stood about

enjoying themselves and the attention they
attracted, and they put their little hands in
their pockets, and stamped their smart little

SWonamcs

feet, and shuddered and shook their shoulders,
and all spoke at once, and rather too eagerly
to their distinguished friend, their six-feet-two
of straw-coloured Harris cloth ; and they were
in the porters' way and the passengers' way,
and jostled by one and another, and remarked
upon by everybody — so that though no harm
w r as done, and there was nothing actually
reprehensible in the scene, it jarred terribly
on a man who had been thinking for the last
six or seven hours, nay, for the last three or
four weeks, of a Lady Matilda. Lady Matilda,
had she seen his present company, would have
passed them by as though she saw them not ;
but she would have thought — too well he knew
what she would have thought : all at once it
seemed to flash upon him as a revelation that
Matilda was the very proudest woman he had
ever known.

He's napping !"

He is not well."

Boh !" cried the third close to his ear.

Behave, Bertha," remonstrated both of

Bertha's sisters, tittering with their fingers
before their mouths ; " behave, can't you, you
bad girl I" continued Mary ; " don't you see
people are looking ? Jem, do tell her."

Oh, if he could : if there had been any
question of telling ; if he could only have
ordered them off the platform, out of sight
and out of hearing ! But no ; where they
went, he must go : and though they might,
and at length did lead the way, the victim had
to follow, and to follow close behind. Had
they been his sisters — but they were not his
sisters ; and as the quartet march out of the
station and up to the town — for it was agreed
to walk rather than drive — we may, without
farther mystery or circumlocution, inform our
readers who and what were these new arrivals
on the scene. They were the daughters of
worthy William Tufnell, the principal banker
of Clinkton, to which place Challoner had now
come, — and one of the three was his betrothed
bride.

Now Challoner had not found any particular

fault with the eldest Miss Tufnell either
in face, figure, or demeanour, when, a few
months previously, it had been suggested by
a careful elder sister that a wife for him might
be found in the family of the wealthy banker.
He had met Mary Tufnell at his sister's house.
She was pretty, well dressed, and sprightly —
perhaps over - sprightly ; but being a grave
man, whom chatter did not repel merely because
it was chatter, he saw in the somewhat
fatiguing flow of spirits which never failed,
only the light-heartedness of extreme youth,
and willing to be amiable, fell in with the
notion of matrimony tolerably soon and tolerably
easily. He was getting on in life, as
Lady Fairleigh said. He would rather like to
show his friends that he could do something
yet, and something with a flavour of thirty
thousand pounds, moreover : since Tufnell was
known to be worth ninety thousand if he were
worth a penny, and the three daughters who
have already been introduced in this chapter,
were his sole children and heirs.

Jem thought so to — with regard to the
hand at least ; as to the heart, he was over
forty years of age, and supposed his 
days were over.

But he had a high opinion of Lady Fairleigh's
judgment, and on this occasion it
jumped with his own too entirely not to
double its value. He would certainly act
upon it, make hay while the sun shone, and
take to his domestic hearth, if fortune favoured,
the cheerful smiling lassie provided for him.

Was he to know that in her, as in himself,
he had been grossly, terribly mistaken ? Was
he to tell that in her own home and among
her own folks the Mary he knew, or thought
he knew, would develop into another Mary,
and a Mary that affrighted his inmost soul \
Was he to suspect that the lively banter, necessarily
kept in check at Lady Fairleigh's table
and in Lady Fairleigh's drawing-room, would
run riot in the unrestraint of home, and would
resolve itself into chaff, chaff, chaff from
morning till night ? It was said of the Miss
Tufnells that they would chaff a man till he
did not know which was his head and which
were his heels ; but alas ! Challoner found
nothing to admire in the gift.

A great mistake had been made — a mistake
which could never be unmade ; and of one
thing he was speedily convinced, that it could
only be away from Clinkton, from her native
place, with its native associations, surroundings,
and dialect, that he could hope to regain
any measure of the complacency with which
he had at first regarded his fiancee. He
stayed at Clinkton a week, and left without
fixing the wedding-day.

But then, as Mary's mother observed, that
was just like his though fulness. He did not
wish to hurry anybody, and he knew what a
piece of work it would be when once it came
to taking away from her and papa their Mary.
And to be sure, Mary was young enough, and
there was time enough, and she could not be
thankful enough, nor think enough of Mr Jem
for his consideration.

Such consideration even won upon the old
banker himself. He had been both gruff and
grumpy at the first demand for his daughter's
hand ; he had eyed Jem Challoner's letter —

for the thing had been done by letter — with
mistrust, and had hummed and hawed, and
not known very well whether to say " Yes "
or " No." But one thing and another, in
particular, Mrs Tufnell's anxiety to get her
daughters married, or, as she phrased it, " off,"
carried the day. A neighbour had got two
daughters " off," each at the age of eighteen,
and this had caused even Tufnell's broad
bosom to share his wife's chagrin after a
fashion. So that what with the timely remembrance,
and the knowing that he was now
sued by a member of one of the oldest of the
county families, and that the match, if agreed
to, would at once lift him and his into the
county set — the set just above his, the step
just beyond him — it was impossible to be
quite as independent and indifferent as he
would have liked to appear.

Moreover, he knew about Jem, and knew
that there were worse men. Supposing his
girl were to set her heart upon a worse man

-upon one of those silly, noisy, vapours

elbowing, ridiculous apes at the barracks,, for
instance ! There were plenty of them about ;
and if he had not snapped his teeth at every
single grinning face that sinned behind its
hairy horns upon his doorsteps, the moustaches
gentlemen would have crept up the
girls' sleeves, and carried them off by hook or
by crook before now. He had had a time of
it, since Mary and Emily grew up, that he
had ; but he had kept the red coats off somehow
: they cut out of his way like greyhounds
if he came across them nowadays.

But James Challoner was different, and in
the end the banker gave Challoner a fairly
cordial reply.

Then the two met, and the good impression
deepened. Hitherto they had only occasionally
seen each other, or a part of each other ;
and Challoner bad known that the burly pair
of shoulders in front of him belonged to Tufnell
the banker, and the banker had been aware
that the hat which towered high above the
other hats in the busy street pertained to old

Mr Challoner's youngest son — and that was all.
Now, face to face, all went well.

All might have gone ill very easily. Had
the suitor shown himself keen, or sharp, or
pressing ; had he, on the other hand, affected
ignorance of Mr Tufnell's affairs, and declined
to be enlightened ; had he, in heroic mood,
raved and protested — had he even talked of his
Mary as " his," he had undone all.

But by no such means had Challoner sought
to strengthen his position. He had been perfectly
moderate and truthful. He liked the
young lady, and thought that they could be
happy together ; he should be glad to find
that a marriage with her was likely to meet
with the approval of both families. In almost
as few words as these, the state of his mind
had been set forth, and such laconic simplicity
and straightforwardness had gone down wonderfully
with an old gentleman who was ever
on the look-out for artifice and exaggeration.
At the end of their first interview, he had risen
and held fast Challoner's hand. " You shall

Lave my daughter, sir ; and you shall have her
fortune. Mr Ch all oner, I shall be proud and
content to give them both into your hands."
Indeed he thought as much of the one as the
other; and perhaps there are other people in
the world besides the worthy Tufnell who
consider thirty thousand pounds a very fair
equivalent to an amiable, ordinary, pretty
daughter.

CHAPTER XIX.

THE FRIENDS OF HIS Friends.

The outward forms the hidden man reveal—
We guess the pulp before we cut the peel."

—Holmes.

Still better pleased had been Challoner's
future father-in-law as time had gone on.
That there had been no word of a speedy
union, no hinting at settlements, and no
urging him to fix a day or even a time, had
been all that was needed to fill up the measure
of the regard in which he held Mary's lover.
There was a man for you ! there was sense
and stamina ! If the girl had set her heart
upon one of those ridiculous apes at the
barracks now, how different it would have
been ! He would have been worried out of

his life about the folly of long engagements,
and the necessity for making arrangements,
and the uncertainty of their movements, —
and certes, they and such as they, who might
have to pack their traps and tramp at any
moment, would have had some reason on
their side for looking sharp and making the
money-bags sure ; but see, here was Mr Challenger,
quite pleased to be as he was, to come
and go, and court Mary like a gentleman, — ■
and he should not lose by it ; he should see
that, when the lawyers were called in. And
a right noisy, jolly, old-fashioned hullabaloo
of a wedding they would have when wedding-time
came, — that was to say, when his busy
season had passed, and he could have time
to think about it, and when the old Dean's
cough was better, and he could tie the knot
himself.

And then Challoner had departed in November,
it being understood that he was to return
for Christmas, but that even then nothing
need definitely be settled about bringing the

engagement to a close, all being of one mind
on the subject. He bad gone, and we know
what had befallen him. His fallins-in-love
days over 1 They had never rightly begun
until he saw and heard Matilda. Alas !
alas !

In the absence of one suitor, however,
another appeared at the banker's house. This
was Mr Mildmay, a minor canon of the cathedral,
who had come to Clinkton in the summer,
and had made a favourable impression on
the Clinkton people in general. He was an
amiable young clergyman, kind-hearted, unassuming,
and indefatigable. Like Challoner,
he was superior to the Tufnells in point of
birth, and, again like him, inferior to them
in the matter of worldly goods ; but whatever
he was, he was not, according to Mr Tufnell,
one of the ridiculous apes at the barracks, and
he was permitted to engage himself to Emily
Tufnell. Hence her sister's playful references
to the devoutness and the cathedral.

Mr Mildmay now fell in with the party on

their way up from the station, and it was
evident that so agreeable an acquisition to
their number was not altogether unexpected
by the young ladies, who, all greeting and
introducing at once, blocked up the narrow
footpath in a way that Challoner would fain
have pointed out, but instead had to find
himself the recipient of a vigorous shake of
the hand, and sympathetic congratulatory
"How are you?" of the warmest description
; to which, I am sorry to say, he replied
by a jerk of his head, and a " How do ? " ina
tone never heard at Overton Hall.

Of this, however, his fair companions, happily
unconscious, took no note ; for all their
attention being diverted by Herbert's appearance
into a fresh channel, Herbert and not
Jem was for the moment everything.
"Well, Herbert?"
What news, Herbert ? "
"Will the room be full, Herbert \ "
Herbert thought the room would be full;
he also thought the night would be fine, and

VOL. II. e

that the sky would be clear ; furthermore, he
proceeded to fear that the lecture, which it
was explained to Challoner he was to deliver
that evening in the Town-hall of Clinkton
on the valleys of Palestine, would bore him
sadly, and kindly hoped that he would not
think it necessary to turn out to hear it. His
friends had let him in for the lecture, but that
was no reason — with a cheerful laugh — why
he should let his friends in for listening toit
: he was afraid he should be dreadfully
prosy.

As he trotted along, off and on the pavement
every moment, answering every question,
responding to every remark, warning
the ladies of the nearness of vehicles, finding
clean crossings in the muddy streets — all
devotion, good temper, and urbanity— he did
wonder a little in his heart at Mr Ckalloner's
manners. Challoner heard as though he heard
not, walked as though he saw not, stalked
through and round obstacles as though they
did not exist, and only replied to observations

when they could not be ignored. What
sort of a fellow could Emily's sister have got
hold of?

The girls, however, started a new idea.
Poor Jem was tired. Poor Jem had been
ill while he was in the south, and the journey
had been too much for him, and he ought
never to have walked up, — and now how
naughty of him not to have said so before !
When the house was reached, good Mrs Tuf-nell
was concerned to the degree of scolding
everybody all round, and could not really
have believed it possible, after their preventing
her sending the carriage as she had
wanted to do, that they could not even have
taken a cab, when there were scores of cabs
at the station, but must needs make that
poor dear walk up all the way, and he quite
knocked up with travelling for seven hours
on end. And the upshot was, that the outraged
and insulted giant had actually to he
down full length upon the sofa, and submit
to having a pillow shaken up under his head,

and tea and muffins brought to him and
placed upon a chair by his side.

Humour was not in Challoners way, but
he did see the irony of this. It did not
make him merry, but it saved him from
being rude. He could have pitched the sofa
out of the window, and the tea and muffins
after it ; but he lay on the one, and swallowed
the others, and he only laughed to
himself rather an ugly laugh as he did so.

The rest of the party were, however, in
excellent spirits. The lecture was as it should
have been, the principal theme for conversation
; and hopes and fears regarding the
weather, speculations as to the audience, and
reckoning up the tickets gone and the tickets
likely to go, filled up the time till the diverging
sounded. " And we dine early because of
the lecture, Mr Jem," explained the elderly lady,
turning to him her flushed and bonneted face,
warm with the warm room and the warm tea,
and the excitement of the evening in prospect.
How like, oh how like Mary she was, or would

be when a few years should have amplified
Mary's form and deepened the red on Mary's
cheek ! he saw her now before him, he saw

We dine at six," continued the speaker,

as the others left the room, — " at six punctually,
as we shall have to be off before
seven. I wish we could have made it
sooner; and indeed I could have done very
well without my dinner at all, for we are
to have a bit of supper when we come back ;
and really, with tea now, and all However,
papa does not like to be put out of his
way — not much, at least. Papa is very kind
when you take him the right side, but half an
hour sooner for dinner he thinks a good deal
of; and so we just took the half-hour, and
asked no more."

I suppose you would like me to go 1 " said
Challoner. To almost any other person he
would have said flatly, " Nothing will induce
me to go ; " but he had never received anything
but kindness from Mary's mother, and
the rebellious speech stuck in his throat.

Even as it was, lie startled her.

My clear, are you really ill ? " she cried.
Oh, I am sure you must be really ill, or you
never would have thought of it. Dear me !
And Mary, who has been so pleased at your
being here in time, she will be so let down ;
but if you are really ill "

He disclaimed the idea.

You think the lecture will be no great
thing % And between ourselves," nodding portentously,
and sinking her voice, " between
ourselves, papa is of your opinion. But then,
you know, poor young man, he'll do his best ;
and as he is to be one of ourselves very soon —
indeed we look upon him, and upon you too,
as quite one of ourselves already — why, we are
bound to make the best of him. So I have
ordered the flowers and flags, and papa pays
for the hall. And to be sure, if it pleases
Emily — and she will take it all for gospel —
and I daresay it will be nice enough, poor
dear ; but don't you mind, Mr Jem," tapping
him kindly on the arm, — " don't you mind,

but just go and sleep if you like ; we can all
say you are tired out, — and I shouldn't wonder
if papa naps too. Bless me ! it would never
do to stay away though."

The night was clear when the party sallied
forth. " Mild as milk," announced the paternal
voice from the front door ; and in consequence
the speaker did not see fit to do more than bolster
himself up in his thick overcoat, and wind
his woollen comforter twice round his neck.

No, no," cried he, as his wife put her hand
within Challoner's arm; "no, no — none of
that, Poll. ' Fair play's a jewel,' and you and
I have had our turn : we must let the voting
folks have theirs now. Zounds, man, Jem !
you didn't think to take the missus, did you ?
That would have been a pretty sight. No,
no ; she must put up with the old man, and
you go with your own girl there. Lead the
way, lassies ; come along — come along."

Now what made Mary Turn ell's lover stumble
upon another " Come along — come along," in
the whirlpool of his recollections at that ill-favoured

moment ? He was trying to keep
Overton out of his head, — to banish Overton,
drown Overton, bury Overton a thousand
leagues deep out of mind and out of memory,
and it seemed as if every single thing that
was done and word that was spoken from
minute to minute, only served to bring into
stronger and more cruel light visions that cut
him to the heart. Now, as with his betrothed
bride under his charge, he followed the rest of
the party up the street, and Mary babbled of
this thing and that, well pleased with herself
and her escort, enjoying the whole to the top
of her bent, and demanding attention and response
every minute, one might have thought
that here at least was no opportunity for torturing
remembrance ; and yet as Challoner
spoke and listened and obeyed orders and
kept up appearances — and he was sufficiently
aroused and on the alert to do all this so as to
excite no remark from a not over-exacting person
— yet even as he did it all, he was living in
another scene.

That clay week he had stood with Matilda
beside the moonlit waves. He felt again the
cold salt air upon his cheek, beheld again the
foaming ocean and the outline of a face between
it and him, — a face that was so near
he durst not watch too closely — a face that
turned at times its mute sympathetic appeal
to his, — lips that were parted to emit soft
sighs of wonder and delight, — eyes that shone,
reflecting in their own depths the beauty they
were gazing upon ; and had there not been a
bold presumptuous whisper ere he and she
had turned to leave the spot, and a silence
that gave its own assent % Had there not
been "

Jem, Jem, what are you thinking about ?
Do take more care. You stepped straight
into the very worst of the puddle."

The hall reached, everything seemed to
promise a great success : the gas flared out
lustily, the flags made a gallant show upon
the wall, the holly - strings looked as like
arches as holly-strings could do ; and Herbert

met them at the door with the news
that scarcely a ticket remained to be disposed
of.

That's the thing, my boy," replied his
future father-in-law slapping him cordially on
the shoulder; " that's the thin to stick to.
Sell the tickets and never mind the rest. Let
the folks come or not ; let 'em stay away if
they've a mind to ; let 'em drop off their chairs
if they can't keep awake, — but make 'em pay
for their tickets. Once they've paid for their
tickets, they may behave themselves as they
choose afterwards."

Our party were then ushered to their seats
front seats, but not the front seats of all,
because a duke and a duchess were coming
; and Lord knows who besides," confided Mr
Tufnell to the uninitiated Challoner ; and
accordingly, close behind the vacant row of
first chairs filed in the next most important
people, showing perhaps a little too plainly
by their demeanour that in this light they
considered themselves.

Emily had of course the post of honour,
and the happy Herbert was only too proud
to explain to her, leaning over the back of
the chairs in front to do so, all his fears,
hopes, and surmises. She was not" to have
him all to herself, however : he had to attend
to Mrs Tufnell's beckoning fan, to assure her
that the draught which had found out her
rheumatic shoulder would disappear once the
room was full and the doors closed, and beg
to be allowed to draw up her fur cloak until
that desirable end was accomplished ; while
even Mary liked to have a word with the
young lecturer, who was the person for the
time, and who did not take it amiss when
she declared that the best flower-pots were
all on Emily's side.

They were early and had some time to wait,
but that did not distress anybody. They had
come to be early, to fill the room, to form a
basis, as it were, upon which the superstructure
was to be built, and their good-humour
and obligingness never flagged, needing only

Herbert's assurances from time to time that
all was going on well, and that he would
begin directly the first row of seats should
be filled. He was in the act of saying this
for the third time, when he had to hop
smartly out of the way, to make room for
the very people expected : and great was
Challoner's relief when these proved to consist
only of a couple of elderly dames, a sulky -
looking schoolboy whose very collar showed
that it had been put on unwillingly, and a
demure little girl, more taken up with her
curls and her mittens than with any hope of
pleasure to be derived from the so-called entertainment
; but neither duke nor duchess
was there, and it was intimated that they
would not be there.

They, at least, would not witness Jem Challenger's
position and company, and he was
spared the having to be recognised by them
and speaking to them, which he had dreaded
in spite of himself, and to which every other
member of his party had secretly looked forward.

Even the head of the family himself —
even honest, independent William Tufnell —
was not so entirely satisfied as he should have
been, on finding that the chairs though vacant
had been duly paid for ; he had not exactly
meant those chairs, when he had professed
indifference as to their occupation or not, —
and though he would not have owned for the
world to disappointment, he had undoubtedly
lost one of the moments in life for which he
was about to pay down his thirty thousand
pounds ! It was hardly playing him fair,
and so he felt it.

The lecture, however, went off famously.
Those who wearied did not yawn aloud, those
who slept did not snore, and those who did
not understand believed they did. The majority
kept an eye of encouragement on Mr
Mildmay, who was, as we have said, a general
favourite ; the rest ticked off their neighbours,
and took patterns of head-dresses, ruffles, and
the like. So that nobody was openly in a
fidget ; and when the whole thing was over,

and the pamphlet closed, and there was no
more fear of another heart-rending " I will only
detain you a very few minutes longer," or " I
hope I do not weary you, but the subject is so
very interesting' when the end had actually
come — was not only coming, but had come, —
when the lecturer, with bows of acknowledgment,
stepped down from his desk, and the
applause was hearty, and portly radiant Mrs
Tufnell burst her glove in clapping, and the
banker thundered on the floor with his big
umbrella, brought on purpose, how charming
it all was — for every one but Jem Challenger
!

Such a delightful lecture, Mrs Tufnell ! "
"Emily, dear, I do congratulate you."
No thins; could have one off better."
What a full house ! Have you looked
round ? "

"So lucky in the night."
I am sure, with such numbers here, we
shall never get a cab ; we shall have to walk
home."

How many do you think we came ? Three
cabs full."

It seemed as if the whole room now pressed
round and encircled the Tufnells, to whom
this was due ; as if from every quarter they
were the centre of attraction, and people whom
Challoner in his ignorance had been looking
upon as — well, as very good townsfolk, he had
now to be presented to as old friends, and great
friends, and neighbours, and near neighbours,
—it was "Mary," "Emily," "Bertha," from
every one ; it was " dear," and " darling," and
love," taps of the fan, pulling of the sleeve,
whisperings in the ear, even kissings on the
cheek all round, and round, and round. It
was terrible ; his ears tingled, his jaw fell.

In that quarter of an hour he learned a good
deal. When he had before stayed with the
Tufnells he had been in mourning, and had
made the most of his mourning in order to
ensure an immunity from morning calls and
solemn dinner-parties. He had guessed what
these might be, though his present experience

went far beyond what imagination had pictured.
Nobody had taken offence. " For
indeed it just shows what a kind heart he
has' cried the excellent mother. " To be sure
there are few young men in these days that
would take on so about an aunt, and an aunt,
too, that left him a little bit of money ; but
that's Jem Challoner all the world over. I do
say to papa I never came across any young
man that cared less about money. Papa does
not think so much of it. "When I told him
that we were not to have our friends while
Jem was with us, — that was when he and
Mary were first engaged, you know, — what do
you think he said ? He just up and says,
That's one of his aristocratic fads,' says he.
Not that he thought any the worse of Jem for
it. Papa is an aristocrat at heart."

So it was only now that the full fruition of
what he had done dawned on the ill-fated
Challoner — only now, now when he could
least bear it, now when he could most appreciate
it. Fresh from Overton, with all its

exquisite simplicity and unconscious harmony,
he had, without even the interval of a few
weeks, or a few days, to encounter his cup of
fate with all its dread ingredients.

He was very miserable ; he had never been
so miserable in his life.

And then, just as he was standing up, bowing
and smiling, — forced by the awful exigency
of the moment to bow and smile, — while
standing there, a spectacle to gods and men,
with a drawn grin upon his withered countenance,
and an angry light in his soft eye, he
caught sight, in the very midst of the motley
assemblage, of a face he knew.

VOL. II.

CHAPTEE XX.

THE STRUGGLE.

Shall I to Honour, or to Love give way?

For, as "bright day, with black approach of night,
Contending makes a doubtful puzzling light.
So does my Honour and my Love together
Puzzle me so, I can decide on neither."

Spenser.

The face belonged to Miss Juliet Appleby,
the Juliet whom at Overton Challoner had
found a bore, a would-be flirt, and an incorrigible
gigffler, but who now in the elegance of
her wrap, and the propriety of her demeanour,
looked provokingly refined and superior. Apparently
Miss Appleby knew how to behave
in public, whatever licence she might give
herself in private ; and Challoner, watching in
order to avoid her, could not help having yet
another drop added to the bitterness of his

reflections, in noting that even this little miss,
this absurd Juliet who had been totally put
out of sight, distanced, eclipsed, and set at
naught when Matilda had been on the scene,
now found a foil for herself in the women of
his own party.

Oddly enough this w r as the first thing to
occur to him, but it was soon swallowed
up in another and more appalling second
thought. Juliet here, on his track, likely,
was sure to meet him and speak to him any
day and any moment — for the first introduction
at Overton had been followed by
others, and there was now quite an easy
acquaintanceship between the two, — what
should he do or say, should he be attacked,
questioned, and called upon to give an account
of himself? Moreover, not only was
such an interview to be anticipated, but once
seen, she would hear from others, must hear
from some one, what had brought him to this
place, and hearing meant telling again. The
very thought of that telling again sent a

shiver through, his veins, since whatever the
future might have in store for him it could
have nothing worse than that Matilda should
know all, and know it through another.

His only hope lay in being unseen, and in
the possibility of Miss Appleby's hosts — for of
course she was on a visit somewhere about, —
of their living so far in the country as to be
ignorant of town gossip. The Tufnells undoubtedly
reigned supreme in Clinkton ; there
they were the great among the small, the lions
among the asses, the best, the very best of
their set. But Clinkton confined itself pretty
much to Clinkton ; the Jews had no dealings
with the Samaritans, as of old ; and even
though the friends of Miss Appleby might be
known to Challoner himself, they might not
have any acquaintance with the banker's
family, and might not refer to the engagement,
having no reason for supposing it could
interest their guest.

Certainly Juliet had never heard him speak
of Clinkton. Certainly, unless she actually saw

him there with her own eyes, she had no clue by
which she could connect him with the place.
Lady Fairleigh was away, the whole Challoner
family were away ; he might escape, he might
even yet escape, — but should she see him, all
was over.

His eye never left the slim figure which in
its spare sharpness of youthful outline had
moved an inward smile and comparison at
Overton, until he saw it pass through the curtained
doorway ; and grateful now for the press
of human beings which had been so distasteful
before, he welcomed every detaining introduction,
and made the most of every stoppage.

The consequence was all that could be desired
; when at length, he emerged from the ,
the coast was clear. It was best, Mrs
Tufnell said, to let the carriage people get away
first, and she hoped Mr Jem had not minded
their remaining a little behind the great crush,
but they had so many friends — he must see
how many friends they had — and everybody
wanted to have a word, and it would have

been uncivil to hurry off, — but now she was
ready, quite ready ; and then followed farewells
and nods, and showing and muffling, followed
by the brisk walk home, and the promised
supper. And a goodly supper it was, in honour
of the occasion, — and every one was joyous
and mirthful, and Herbert changed the plates
and drew the corks as deftly as he had ever
traversed the vales of Palestine ; and it was
well on towards twelve o'clock ere the ladies
retired, and those who were not staying in the
house took their leave.

You and I will have a cigar by ourselves,
Jem," said Mr Tufnell then. " Help yourself,
and pass the bottle. Height ! I am tired. So
are you, I can see. Well, we shall be good
company for one another. I am sick of jabbering."


And in the quiet hour that followed, the
best part of the old man's heart and mind stole
gently into view.

He had bidden his daughters " Good night"
with a hearty " God bless ye, lassies," and had

straitly charged them to sit up no longer and
not to oversleep themselves in the morning as
the result of turning the house upside down at
that hour of the night ; and when they had
gone, and the last rustle of their departing
steps had died away, the smile left his ruddy
cheek also, and a thoughtful gravity took its
place, and out of the depths of his soul, out of
the fulness of an honest, upright, overflowing
heart, he intrusted to his solitary auditor secret
thoughts and feelings that were to Challoner's
excited imagination almost holy as compared
with his own.

He had never felt himself so vile. He got
away at last ; got away to his own room, turned
out the light, threw up the window, and
blessed the midnight airs upon his aching
brow. At last he was alone — free for a brief
interval from that dreadful kindness, that intolerable
unsuspiciousness ; no longer obliged
to force the cold caress and the hypocritical
smile, and wonder how long such coldness and
hypocrisy could escape observation.

He had seen the grey-haired parent's eye
moisten, and heard his voice falter, and he
might have to see and hear the same again, —
but for the moment he had escaped.

He leaned out of the window ; his great
frame relaxed heavily, and his face worked as
it would.

The following morning saw the result of the
inward struggle.

Why — what — what now ? " cried Mr
Tufnell, with his breath wellnigh driven out
of his lips by astonishment. " Why, what is
the meaning of this, James Challoner ? You
want to marry Mary off-hand ? You, that I
thought was content to wait a hundred years
if so be as we thought right ! What — what
what \ Bless me ! I don't understand this
sort of thing, that's what I don't. Marry
Mary off-hand ! Marry her straight away !
But how the devil is a girl to be married
straight away that has never heard a word
about it till this very moment ? And just

before Christmas too ! I never heard of such
a thing. Ton my word, I never did. Why,
we never have anything at Christmas, saving
it's a hop for the youngsters, or a dinner or
two for the old cronies. Christmas 1 Nobody
gets married at Christmas. Christmas is not
the time for private concerns like marrying,
in my opinion. It's — it's almost profanity,
that's what it is, to think of such a thing.
We keep Christmas with our friends, with
our neighbours, with all England, with all

Christendom, with the world " his voice

rising higher and higher, " ay, and perhaps
beyond it, Jem, my lad," dropping down
again. " Yes," after a moment's pause, —
"yes, Christmas is a great public festival, a —
great — public festival," pleased with the
phrase ; " and you and Mary — for I take it she
has had a hand in this ? " inquiringly.

Indeed, no. I have not spoken to Mary
about it."

And that's right ; and don't you speak to
her — no good will come of speaking to her.

Why, man, I am not angry with you ; it's
natural enough, natural enough — but it don't
suit my ideas. Now you see, you and I get
on first-rate ; you have never crossed me, and
I have never crossed you — and I don't want,"
with emphasis, " I don't want to be obliged to
cross you. I'll give in a little, d'ye see ? " relenting
as the young man remained silent, and
it was to be presumed something daunted if
not convinced. " I'll give in a bit. I'll meet
you half-way, so to speak. Let me see, this
is December, mid-December ; well, we'll say
February, if you like ; the end of February.
Eh \ Will that do ? Come, I had not meant
it to be before Easter. I thought Easter
would have done very well ; but as it seems
no, why, there is nothing for it but to give in
with a good grace. We'll jostle up the parsons,
and tell 'em, Lent or no Lent, we must
have their services by the end of February."

Would " said Challoner, and got no

further ; but his hesitating face and tone betrayed
dissatisfaction. Having nerved himself

for the sacrifice, lie felt lie scarcely knew
what — probably afraid to trust his own resolution
for a second effort.

What ! you ain't content yet 1 " exclaimed
Mr Tufnell, half amused and half indignant.
'• Well, I'll be jiggered ! I never thought anyone
would ha' got as much out of me as you
have got — you, Jem Challoner — and still you
look as sour as corked claret. What the deuce
I'm not a swearing man, but I will say it —
what the deuce is the meaning of this 1 "

The meaning," said Challoner, slowly. He
felt he was cutting but a sorry figure, and
could only wonder how he had been fool
enough not to expect and prepare for opposition
before. But the truth was, that so
occupied had he been with his own aspect of
the affair, that no sooner was his resolution
made up, for better for worse, to fulfil his
engagement, and to think no more of beautiful
Matilda Wilmot, than he had, in his
own mind, almost gone through the ceremony,
taken on himself the vows, and looked on the

whole thing as complete, before ever he had
opened the subject. He had never had any
clear idea as to why the marriage had not
taken place earlier ; he knew he had not
cared about it sufficiently to press the point ;
he had been disappointed in Miss Tufnell, and
had been depressed in spirit on his introduction
to her home and its surroundings : but
he had fancied this uneasiness would wear off
in time — that he and Mary would jog along
comfortably enough, as many another couple
did, — and had accordingly been entirely in
the Tufnells' hands. If they had been eager
for the union to take place, well and good ;
as they had not been eager, well and good
also. But he had certainly deemed that only
a slight pressure on his part was needed to
bring it about as soon as he chose. He was
now confused and disconcerted : a lover's
flame he could scarcely pretend to, and no
other plea offered.

Well, I don't know what you are up to —
hang me if I do ! " ejaculated Tufnell, after a

pause, in which he had scanned his companion
narrowly. " The ways of men are as queer as
the ways of women sometimes. You are not
taking offence, are you ? " he broke off sharply.
Of course, if I am giving offence " — and the
old gentleman drew himself up, and the colour
gathered on his cheek.

"Not at all!" said Challoner, earnestly.
And yet, oh what it would have been to
have seized that momentary gleam, fanned it,
poured oil upon the fire, and broken at once
and for altogether with the Tufnell family in
violence and wrath ! Pah ! He hated himself
for the fiend's suggestion. It had been
easy enough — comparatively easy at least —
when two hundred miles lay between him and
his betrothed, to think of his engagement asa
cruel fetter which had been laid upon him
almost by a trick, and almost against his will,
and he had felt less and less bound by it as
Matilda grew more and more dear : even at
the outset the struggle had not been maintained
beyond a certain point, and he had

given way, a long long way afterwards ; but
lie had never, even whilst enduring trouble
and dismay himself, realised, until he reentered
the homely circle the day before, all
that a suspicion of his faithlessness would
bring upon them, these people, so good and
kind and true, — it had come upon him like
a revelation in the dark watches of the nio-ht
before. He could not, no, he could not, be
more base than he had already been ; and he
set his teeth, and crushed down the hope that
sprang up within, and ( reared its wicked head
to look him in the face, when he marked the
blush of cano-er on the father's cheek.

"Not at all!" he said, in accents that
carried immediate conviction.

Mr Tufnell was mollified instantly. " Well,
well, well ! " he cried ; "I did not think it —
not for a moment : but young men are so
peppery, one never knows "

I am not a young man, sir," said Jem
Challoner, quietly.

Not a young man ? What are you, then ?

A Methuselah, I suppose ? Come, come, you
are out of sorts to-day. That business last
night, that supper and nonsense, did not suit
you. No more it did me. I like my meals
regular: arid nothing is worse than eating
at odd times — snacks here and snacks there ;
and a supper at ten o'clock at night plays the
very fury with a man's digestion. Did you
have the lobster ? " suddenly. " That's it !
That's done it ! Depend upon it, lobster will
find you out, and make you pay damages.
I would as soon eat the leather off my boot
as touch a claw of a lobster at bed-time. And
now I must really be off: I — let me see —
where are those papers ? Is it settled for
February, then ? Are you going to be a
reasonable man ? "

"I — I ought to be ashamed to — but —

but " stammered Challoner, with inward

resolution to have it out whatever might bethe
result. " You are very good, exceedingly
good ; but — but "

"But, but," good-humoured mimicked

the banker. " Ay, that's it ; there is always
a ' but, but.' Well, here comes the old lady ;
we'll ask her what she has to say to it. Come,
old lady, and tackle this refractory gentleman ;
he is too much for me ; I haven't a chance
with him. What do you think he wants
now ? — and that the very day after he arrives !
And I that thought him a very model of
patience and everything ! Now he cries out
that he must marry Mary off-hand ! Ay, I
thought I would make you jump. And so
I am just telling him it can't be done."

Why can't it be done ? " said Challoner,
turning to her. " There is no real reason,
I presume, why there should be any delay.
I am not taking your daughter far away ;
London is far away from no place. And as
for preparations "

That's it ; that's the thing, of course — the
preparations. Why, my dear Mr Jem, — but,
to be sure, I don't know how soon you mean,"
said she. "If you mean in six weeks, or
maybe a month "

"Aha! But he don't mean that; that
would not suit his books at all. He means
three weeks, or a fortnight ; I believe it would
have been one week, or tomorrow, with a
word of encouragement. Now ? What do
you tell me now ? " cried the husband, delighted
to inflict his own previous discomfiture
on his partner. " I believe he sees no earthly
reason why he and Mary should not be spliced
before noon tomorrow morning. It's too late
to-day, luckily. Ha ! ha ! ha ! And then he
says Mary has not put him up to it on the
sly," poking with his finger to point the jeer.
"Tell that to the marines, young sir. She
may not have said anything, — there is no
need for saying sometimes ; there are ways
aud means without saying. You and she
understand each other, 111 be bound."

"Ask her," said Challoner, quickly. His
ear had caught a voice outside the door, and
he opened it from within just as his betrothed
was about to do the same from without. "Ask
her. She does not even know my wishes ; and

VOL. II. G

I," he added, with his eyes on the ground —
I do not even know if she shares them."

Wishes ! What about ? " inquired Mary,
briskly. " What is going on here ? La, Jem,
what a face ! I declare you look as if you
were going to a funeral. What is the matter,
you people 1 "

A funeral, indeed ! " cried her father, with
a laugh. " 'Tis not a funeral, but a wedding
that's in the case, my girl. However, if a
man is permitted to look glum when he is
going to a funeral, he may, I suppose, give a
scowl or so when he is not going to a wedding.
That is what is the matter, miss. What have
you to say to that?"

"Oh, indeed! A wedding? What wedding,
papa ? "

It could not be his own, my dear, could
it?"

Indeed he does not look like it, papa."

"Indeed I was saying so, Mary."

Come, come, you two ; come, stop your
nonsense, and give Jem his answer," put in

Mrs Tufnell, good-humouredly. " 'Tis but
papa's way, Jem, you know — lie must always
have his joke ; but ' enough's as good as a
feast say I, and it is not fair to take a joke
on too far. Tell Mary what Jem says, and
then she will understand. And, papa, don't
you bias her, but just let her speak for herself."

But, mind, I don't promise to go by what
she says, whether she speaks for herself or
not," rejoined the father, sturdily. " Howsomever,
Mary — well, the fact is — I suppose
you want to marry Mr Challoner here % "

Papa ! what a question ! " and Miss Tuf-nell
looked roguishly at her lover.

"Well — 'papa,' indeed! I said I supposed
you did. Now the thing is, will you have
him now, or wait till you get him % "

He was irrepressible. He was in reality
by no means displeased by what had occurred,
as must have been already obvious ; he was
more, he was flattered and gratified beyond
what he would have allowed to any one ; only
he meant to have his own way, and to have it

with a blast of trumpets which should proclaim
to all his victory.

He now exploded into a hearty laugh at his
own wit, and Mrs Tufnell had again to tap
and admonish. " Fie, fie ! Now, papa, you
really are too bad. I always do say that
when papa gets into this joky humour, he
really is too bad," apologetically to the silent
stern man at the other end of the table.
Papa is a regular tease ; and now poor Mary
does not know what to think. I see I must
take it in hand myself. It is whether you
would like to have the wedding soon or by-and-by,
Mary, my dear ? "

Soon ? How soon, mamma % "

Why, by the middle or end of next month

in about five weeks — or — or " said Mrs

Tufnell, stealing a suggestive glance across
the table.

In a fortnight, or less," replied Challoner,
in a harsh resonant voice.

They all looked at him as he spoke. His
tone was not like a bridegroom's.

"A fortnight ! Good gracious !" ejaculated

Miss Tufnell, throwing up her hands. " My
dear Jem! Mamma, do you tell him. Papa,
you know you said it could not be," appealing
to each in turn. " Why, I haven't ordered a
thing yet — not a single thing. And now —
oh, you don't know — but now it could never
be, it could not possibly be, not for ever so
long. I have heard such news ; I was rushing
in full cry to tell you all — I nearly ran all
the way home, for I said I would be the first
to get it out," the panting girl exclaimed,
almost choking in her eagerness, as the rapture
and excitement which had been momentarily
suspended on her entrance by the introduction
of another topic, now returned in full
tide. (She did not see Jem raise his eyes,
look at her, and drop them again, while the
lines about his mouth seemed to deepen every
moment. Neither she nor either of the others
saw, all being otherwise engaged.) " Don't
you wonder what it is ? " cried the speaker,
twirling round and round in a pirouette.

Guess, guess, guess, all of you. Try to
guess any way, for you'll never do it. Oh
my, I am in such a state ! the others are
writing off for patterns in the sitting-room
now. Patterns ! Doesn't that tell you ? Patterns
; what do people need patterns for % A
fancy — dress — " looking at each in turn.

"Ball!" cried her mother, solving the conundrum.
" Ball ! You don't say it ! "

"But I do. That's it. There, it's out.
Mrs Dobb is going to give a fancy-dress ball.
And it has only just been arranged ; and it is
fixed for this day fortnight."

That settles the question," said her father,
drily.

"You cannot compete with a fancy ball,
Mr Jem, you see," added his wife. " The
girls have all been just wild to go to one ;
and though, for myself, I am not so fond of
being made a guy, still I'll not deny that for
once and away I don't mind at Christmas
time. 'Tis a pretty sight. And the Dobbs
being our own particular friends "

Oh, ay, you'll want to go, no doubt," put
in Mr Tufnell, affecting a fine shade of fatherly
contempt. " ' The Dobbs being our particular
friends If the Dobbs had been our particular
enemies, it would have been all the same to
you. You must be on the gad-about "

Now, now," began she.

Oh, papa, hold your tongue, and mamma
too." (Again Challoner raised his eyes ; the
tone was not meant to be disrespectful, but it
was, — he could not tell what it was. Never
before had he seen his bride-elect show to less
advantage ; it might have been done of set
purpose to mock him.) "Just you both be
quiet, and I'll tell you about it," proceeded
the young lady. " It has been on their
minds this great while, Mrs Dobb says ; but
they knew it would make such an upset in
the house, that they could never quite bring
themselves to fix a time. But now Willie
Dobb says it is to be; for he is determined
upon it, and you know he can always do anything
he likes with them all, once he is determined.

And so when we met them, they
began about it at once, and said they wanted
us to know before any one else, because we
must be there, — and if there had been anything
to stop us, they would have changed
the day. Mrs Dobb herself said that ; she
did indeed. ' Mary she said, c tell your
mother that if you could not all have come
on our day, we would have changed the day.'
So you see, papa, it was a shame to say it
would have been all one if it had been our

enemies. The Dobbs are always "

Just what I said. And no one knows it
better than papa," subjoined her mother.
"But he never meant nothing, Mary" — her
own. phraseology suffering from excitement
and anticipation. " And Mary," eagerly,
what is Mrs Dobb going to wear herself ?
What is she going to be? Did you hear
that? Did she tell you that? For I do
declare I would not for the world that we
should clash, she and I ; and as we are the
same stout figure, we might as like as not go

and pitch on the very same thing. We must
agree about it."

You must agree to differ, eh \ " said her
husband, jocosely. "Eh, Jem ? that wasn't

bad, eh ? Agree to differ. Hum Eh ?

Your nose is pretty well put out of joint by
this, my friend, I take it. Xo one would give
a thought to the bride, you see, if there were
sham brides, Amazons, gipsies, what not, on
the tapis as well. Mary is not going to lose
the show either. Catch her being married
and done for, and carted out of the way,
when there is any jollification going on. No,
no ; not such a flat."

I really couldn't, Jem," pleaded Mary,
piteously.

I suppose I ought not to ask it," said
Challoner, with a bitter smile.

Well, well ; there's no harm done, — and
don't quarrel over it you two," interposed Mrs
Tufnell, a shade of anxiety showing itself in
her voice as she looked at the last speaker.
Mary means no harm, Mr Jem ; but she is

just a girlie, and likes her play. You will
enjoy the ball yourself. Dear me ! it has put
me all in a flutter. I will tell you what I will
do, Mary," turning briskly to her daughter.
I will just step down to Mrs Dobb after
lunch, before she can get out for the afternoon,
and beg her to take it for granted that
I shan't be in her way whatever she decides
on. That will be doing it handsome : and as
it is Mrs Dobb who gives the ball, it is only
fair that she should have first choice. And
papa," to him, " you will not be stingy to the
girls, you know. It is only once and away ;
we don't get the chance of a fancy ball everyday,
and fancy ball dresses are not to be had
for nothing: Is the day quite fixed, fixed for
certain, Mary \ "

Mrs Dobb was going to get the cards
printed this very afternoon," said Mary.

This very afternoon ! The cards printed !
Lor' ! that does make it real. And she will
be ordering her own dress, the next thing ;

as sure as I say it, she will, — and indeed I
must see to my own, if ever Miss Flaxen is
to send it in time. I'll not wait till the
afternoon, I'll go now. There is plenty of

time, if I go at once " and she was

hurrying away.

(i I am to understand that you — that you
would prefer to wait, then ? " said Challoner
to his betrothed, — and, in spite of every effort,
his voice trembled under the variety of his
emotions. "Is it so ? Have I understood
aright \ "

Why, of course ; how could you have
understood wrong \ " retorted the young
lady, with her usual vivacity. " Pray, Jem,
don't say any more about it," added she,
pettishly. " What is the use \ You see
father doesn't want it ; no more does mother ;
no more do I. And I don't believe," with
returning good temper, — "I don't believe
you, in your heart of hearts, really want it
yourself."

"Bravo ! Mary. Did you hear that, mamma
? " cried her father.

Challoner bowed ; he could not speak.
Once more fate had checkmated him, and
the tiling that he would have done he could
not.

CHAPTER XXL

ABSENCE.

Love reckons hours for months, and days for years,
And every little absence is an age."

Drtdex.

I am ten times undone, while hope, and fear,
And grief, and rage, and love rise up at once,
And with variety of pain distract me. "

—Addison.

Life in a country town is not surcharged
with variety or incident, and can scarcely be
called even soberly amusing, unless one has a
special taste for shopping, dawdling, dropping
in and out of neighbours' houses, and picking
up chit-chat at one tea-table to be retailed at
another.

It must be said for Clinkton that it boasted
some advantages over other places of the kind,
in the possession of a cathedral and of a river;

and the cathedral had produced for the Tuf-tells
Herbert Mildmay, while the river had
been the resource of Jem Challoner. He was
now, however, debarred from even that, since
the season was unpropitious, while the cathedral
did as little for him in its way. He
refused to enter it, and was wondered at,
hinted at, had his reasons demanded, and his
remissness held up to view. Did he object to
week-day services ? If so, he must not say so
before Emily, — but did he % He let them
think he did ; he let them think almost anything
they chose of him, so long as no one
suspected a deeper and tenderer objection.
Had he not but the other day sat by Matilda's
side in the old church at Seaborough, and had
they not listened together to the grave quaint
music, and afterwards knelt side by side, knelt
and prayed, — and he was not a man — God
forgive him — who often prayed, — but he had
felt something like this, — if that woman there,
that pure, good, beautiful woman, to whom
his soul cleaved, if she might only be his, his

to help hint to a better life, his to lead him
onward and upward, he would — and he had
made a vow in his heart, and fancied for the
moment it must have been heard and accepted
in heaven ? To go next with Mary Tufnell ?
With Mary on the one hand, and Emily or
Bertha on the other ? He could not do it.

So Emily, poor thing, had to go alone, since
Bertha gave out distinctly that as it was plain
she had to be gooseberry to somebody, she
must say she preferred it should be to Jem
and Mary ; for though Jem was not a lively
bird by any means, still he had the pull of
Herbert in one way — he was not for ever running
round to walk on Mary's side, and opening
doors for Mary, and buying presents for
Mary, asking Mary if she were tired, and all
the rest of it. Herbert made a regular dolly
of Emily : Bertha never had the umbrella held
over her, though it might be that she wore
her best hat and Emily her everyday one ; she
had no nice boxes of goodies slipped into her
muff ; and she might be on the trudge from

morning till night wherever Emily chose to
go, without once being: asked what she would
like or dislike doing.

But Jem, Bertha averred, was a good old
chap, and drew no such distinctions.

Indeed, whatever the party was, it was the
same to Challoner. He walked and talked
indiscriminately, he never bought anything for
anybody, and he carried Bertha's largest parcel
in addition to Mary's smallest, without any
apparent consciousness as to which was which.

In consequence he was a dear ; and as he
made no parley over whatever he was asked
to do, never had an engagement, never sought
out an excuse — as he submitted to be draped
from house to house with never a remonstrance,
and to be kept waiting at shop or rink with
never a murmur — he was presently the best
of dears.

And I do say the way that poor Jem is
put upon — / shouldn't stand if I was he,"
cried his stanch protectress Mrs Tufnell. " It
is Jem here and Jem there with all of you,

till I declare I am quite ashamed. If it was
only Mary now, there would be sense in that.
But Bertha harries him here, and Emily harries
him there "

Harries ! What to goodness do you mean,
mamma ? "

You know what I mean well enough."

o

There's no such word."

You know what I mean well enough : what
does the word matter ? I say it's a sin and a
shame to keep that poor clear standing about
in all the cold doorways in this weather,
while you girls are amusing yourselves inside
"

He won't come inside ; it is his own fault ;
he will stop in the doorways."

That's nonsense : that's just him all over;
he thinks he'll be in the way. There he was

to-day Oh, I saw you all — I saw you,

though none of you saw me — and there he was
half an hour at Smith's door if he was a minutes
went by when you three walked up, and saw
you — you, Bertha, and Mary go in, and Jem

VOL. II. H

turn back and lean against the wall outside ;
and when I came back — and I had been away
a good half-hour, for I could not have got to
the Greens and back in less — he was there
still. Now, if it had only been for five minutes
or so, shop-windows are well enough for a little

while, but I was saying shop-windows

are diverting enough in their way, Mr Jem'
as Challoner entered, " but I doubt the girls
give you too much of them. I like to flatten
my nose now and again myself, but I never
get a chance nowadays ; there's so much to be
done, and papa likes to keep the horses going.
That's the worst of horses ; I am sure I don't
care to drive, drive, drive every day of my
life ; I'd as soon stop indoors to look after
things sometimes. But papa says the horses
and James are best out ; and the girls are none
of them for the carriage — it's not amusing for
young people ; they can't see their friends,
leastways stop and chat and look about them,
as they can when they are on their feet ; so I
have just got into the way of it, and James

comes round every clay at two o'clock regularly."


Jem had better drive with you, mamma,
if you think it would be more to his taste than
being with us," suggested Jem's fiancee with
ready pertness. " No doubt your society would
divert him much more than ours."

We don't want him if he don't want us,"
added her sister.

"And as to our keeping him at the shop-doors,
it was about his own errand we were in
at Smith's ; he will not take any sort of trouble
about it himself "

About what ? "

"His Turk's dress; his dress for the ball.
He is going as a Turk. We have settled it
for him ; we think he will make a lovely
Turk. Do be quiet, Jem ; I'm not saying it's
you that is lovely. And the ball is coming
on, and yet he has never given the order ! "

"But you have given it?"

Xo, indeed. I only went in to see Smith
on the sly. Jem never knew what I was

about until this moment," looking at him to
see the effect ; " and Smith says he could
manage it perfectly, if Jem would only go
and speak himself."

Well, he must go then — go at once,"
cried her mother, won over to the enemy
directly. 'dear me, Mr Jem! what have
you been about ? Lord ! you may be thrown
out altogether ! Why now, do look about
you, and don't leave it to the last, as you
men always do. I met Willie Dobb just now,
and for all he was the one to set the ball
going, he makes believe now that he is too
great a gentleman to know anything about it.
Says I to him, ' Well, Mr Willie, and what
are you to be % ' ' Oh, Mrs Tufnell,' says he,
as grand as you please, c I haven't made up
my mind yet,' he says. 'I shall just leave it
to my tailor,' says he. Leave it to his tailor !
a likely story ! By-and-by it leaks out that
he has got it all as pat as nine pence. 'I may
have something of this kind,' he says — but I
am sure I forget what kind : and though he

is so fine and so fashionable, I'll be bound
Willie Dobb lias thought of little else but
what he can do to set himself off since ever
the ball was first talked about."

I wish Jem would' said Mary. " He
only laughs, and says if the worst comes to
the worst, he can wear a mask."

(she wears that already," said Challoner,
under his breath.) " Oh, don't you fear, don't
you fear," responded the easy mother; "Jem
is just tantalising you for a bit of mischief.
He and Willie Dobb are a couple. The end
will be that the two of them will turn out the
smartest there."

I met Walter Moss to-day, — what do you
think he is going as?" said Bertha. "You
will never guess. Ei chard Coeur-de-lion, ina
complete suit of chain-armour. He says he
ordered it the very day he got his invitation.
Think of Walter Moss as Richard Cceur-de-
Lion ! "

Think of the cost of it ! said her mother.
Well, I am not one to grudge money — and to

be sure the Mosses are rolling, as one may
say; but that chain-armour — and he would
never think of having it on hire. "Well, well,"
nodding her head. " And what is Charlotte
to be, Bertha \ "

"A haymaker, with a rake and a basket.
And won't she look like one ? "With her red
face "

Come, come, no ill-nature ; we are all

in the same boat," said Mrs Tufnell, comfortably
; "and a red face is what every haymaker
gets with working in the sun. Charlotte is
very sensible not to be above the character.
I was afraid of what Charlotte might do, to
own the truth. Mary Queen of Scots, or suchlike."


Miss Beadel is to be Mary Queen of Scots,
you know. Charlotte could not run in couples
with Miss Beadel."

Miss Beadel, Mary Queen of Scots ! " cried
her mother, upsetting in her amazement her
tea into her saucer, and by a violent lunge
just saving farther mischance. " My word !

Bertha, you are hoaxing. Ain't you, then %
Well, I wouldn't have believed it. Ridiculous
creature ; and at her age too ! As yellow asa
guinea, and as lean as a fiddle-string ! Set
her up with a velvet dress and pearls ! "

It is her old velvet that is to be made todo,"
said Bertha, giggling. " And she says
that is why she has chosen the character. She
is going to cut down the neck "

Humph ! " from her mother.

And put in hanging sleeves of muslin •"

Ay, they are cheap enough."

And work in the pearls herself — old Bo-man
pearls that she has lying by. And she
has got a wire frame to stand up at the back,
and it is to be covered with muslin and pearls
to match ; like the photograph, you know.
She has the photograph in front of her to
work by, and she is really doing it very well."
And what about the head \ The head is
the touch. She is never going to make up
the cap herself \ "

Indeed she is then. And I have promised

to look in and tell her how it does when it is
finished," said Bertha, with all the family good-nature.
" She is not going to have a stitch
put into anything by anybody but herself;
and she reckons the whole thing will only
cost her fifteen shillings, gloves and all."

And me paying more than that in guineas !
But however," said Mrs Tufnell, recovering —
however, I am not Martha Beadel ; and as I
have a husband who stints me for nothing, —
for I will say that for papa, he has been handsome
to us all this time, — well, I'll not disgrace
him. 'Tis all very well for Martha
Beadel to cut and chop her old gowns and
try to make them pass for new ones ; but it
would be a pretty thing if I were to play that
trick. Don't you tell papa, girls, whatever
you do," in alarm ; " clo you hear that, Mary ?
Don't you let out to papa about Miss Beadel
getting nothing new for the ball : we should
never hear the last of it."

Papa is quite as full of his own appearance
as other people," said Mary. " Everybody

is but Jem' with a glance of resentment.
" Every one takes an interest in it ;
and the Dobbs are so beset with requests for
invitations, from people wanting to bring other
people, that Mrs Dobb says it is of no use —
their rooms cannot go on stretching for ever ;
and though they are going to turn every stick
of furniture out of the place, and use all the
down-stairs rooms, they cannot take in another
soul. There is a Miss Juliet Appleby "

An involuntary movement from Challoner.

Oh, you know her, Jem ? "

"I have — have met her; yes. I know a
Miss Appleby at least ; it may not be the
same.' 1

Was her name Juliet ? "

Juliet ? " He looked as though trying to
recollect, and blushed for himself as he did so.

"Well, was she a friend of the Windlasses
those people your sister knows ? "

The people my sister knows. Really,"
said Challoner, affecting to laugh, " really that
is rather a wide surface to work upon. I

know the Windlasses a little myself; but I
did not know they were acquainted with Miss
Appleby, nor that she was here with them,"
which was true enough.

This was his first intimation as to where
Juliet was, since, although he had come across
her once or twice after the lecture, he had not
been obliged to speak. He did not think she
had seen him. Once indeed they had almost
touched each other beneath an archway, and
as by a chance he had been alone, he had
almost made himself known for the purpose
of discovering how much or how little she
had learned about him. But the stake was
too high ; he had hun back, and let her
walk along in front of him — only a few feet
in front of him — for a quarter of a mile,
leaving it to chance whether they should fall
foul of each other or not. Chance had elected
that they should not, that time.

Then, again, he had seen her step out of a
brougham and enter a shop — the next shop to
one in whose doorway he was waiting as usual

and he had thought Juliet could hardly
have avoided seeing and recognising him on

that occasion ; but she had : she had passed
inside, and ere she had emerged again he had
vanished. The third glimpse had been merely
of the top of her bonnet. But he had remembered
the bonnet as having been one which
Matilda had noticed and had not admired.
Teddy had defended poor Juliet's tawdry taste;
but Teddy's defence was never good for much,
and Challoner had joined in the laugh : now
the sight of the sprightly plume in the streets
of Clinkton sent a throb to his heart.

He had almost grown callous as to the
proximity of Juliet herself ; that she had not
her stopping-place anywhere close at hand had
soon been obvious, and he could have heard
with satisfaction that she was with the old-fashioned
out-of-the-way Windlasses, had it
not been for this insufferable fancy ball.

"Well, she wants an invitation now," said
Mary. "The Dobbs and the Windlasses do
not visit. Mrs Dobbs says she does not know

why she is sure, but they never have left cards
on each other, and so, of course, she had
never thought of asking them. But this Miss
Appleby is dying to be there on Friday. So
she has got the Greens to ask for her, and she
is to come with their party."

Provided Mrs Dobb will have her, I suppose."


Oh, Mrs Dobb makes an exception in
her favour, of course," said Mary, laughing.
Mrs Dobb will go on making exceptions fora
good while yet, you may be sure. And she
is as proud as possible of being so run upon ;
she would not turn away a sweep, let alone
Miss Juliet Appleby ! "

"Harry Silly is going as a Chinaman,"
bean Bertha. It was endless. Cold and raw
as the day was, Challoner went out of doors
again ; he really could not stand more at one
time.

CHAPTER XXII.

CHALLONER PLAYS HIS PART.

If, when she appears i' the room,
Thou dost not quake, art not struck dumb, ■
And in striving this to cover
Dost not speak thy words twice over, —
Know this,
Thou lov'st amiss,
And to love true,
Thou must begin again, and love anew."

Sir John Suckling.

Nothing was now heard but of the fancy ball
from morning till night. Everybody professed
curiosity and anxiety as regarded the dresses
and characters chosen by their friends, and
everybody had a very real and unaffected interest
in, and desire to make known, their own.
What are you to wear ? What are you to
be ? " was the inevitable first question, followed
by a careless " Very pretty. Very nice. That

will just suit you. i~ am going as ," entering
into the minutest details. No ashe nor
sex was exempt from the infection ; no one
was too old or too young, or too wise or too
fine (excepting Willie Dobb, and even Mrs
Tufnell saw through him), to care how they
went, and how they looked. Heads of families
— sober, grey-headed men, who would have
to pay the bill afterwards — might indeed put
out their lips and raise their eyebrows, but
they went and got measured all the same,
and did not above half like being told that
the fly-away coat-tails and tight breeches in
the corner were for the young gentlemen, and
that something more suitable would be forthcoming
for them ; whilst their portly spouses
whispered merrily behind fans, spread their
fingers to show the breadth of the lace on
their trains, and threw up their eyes in describing
the height of the plumes that were to nod
upon their powdered curls.

It appeared that there were to be two Harry
the Eighths, three ill-fated Mary of Scotland,

a Joan of Arc, a Cleopatra, a William Perm,
several Puritans, and at least half-a-dozen
Vivandieres. " And what do you think those
barrack gimcracks are going to do ? " cried
Tufnell, in disgust indescribable. " Going in
their uniform ! In their uniform ! The uniform
of the 150th, if you please. And Mrs
Dobb may lay her account to it that everyone
of the hundred and fifty of them will be
there, now that it is not to cost them so much
as a clean shirt. It is a clever get-out, isn't
it, Challoner ? Poor devils ! they haven't a
brass farthing among 'em."

Mary Tufnell had in duty bound consulted
her Jem on the all-important subject. He had
been in luck : he had chanced to remember a
dress that had struck his fancy on a similar
occasion, and by describing it, — a plain black
gown, with white cap, apron, and collar, and
red cross on the left arm — the costume of a
hospital nurse, in short, — he had been saved
further discussion ; for " What do you think
she did \ " cried her delighted mother, afterwards

; " she just went and ordered it straightaway,
and surprised him with it on in the
drawing-room ! I'm bound to say it's neat ;
but ; tis scarce dressy enough, to my taste. If
one is to be dressed up, you know — but, however,
if it pleases Jem. And was it not nice
of Mary ? And Jem has hit off her pretty
back and waist for certain. Herbert, now,
could not think of anything but a Dolly Var-den
for poor Emily. I call that common.
And papa standing treat for the girls, and
ready to pay anything, as it will be the last
time — for two of them any way. They should
have been allowed to get something better
than Dolly Wardens out of papa."

But though the accidental mention of an
effective costume did something for Challoner's
reputation, and just saved him from being said
to take no interest in the event of the day —
and though this suggestion was, we may add,
assiduously circulated in the circle as an apology
for Mary's plainness, and also out of justice to
papa, added Mrs Tufnell — still he might have

been in disgrace again soon enough, had it
not been for what he had just heard regarding
Juliet Appleby. Within twenty - four hours
after learning her intentions, he had given
strict and lavish orders about his own dress.
It was to be made at once, and made in the
best style, and all past remissness was condoned
on the spot.

But lest our readers should be under any
misapprehension on the subject, we may just
inform them aside, that this sudden awakening
meant precisely the reverse of what appeared,
— that as long as Challoner saw no
escape from the dreadful revel — nothing for it
but to be led there a captive at the wheels
of his fair — the doleful vision so oppressed
him, that he was perforce numb and nerveless
beforehand ; but that no sooner did he resolve
not to go to the ball — no sooner did he gather
himself together to revolt and flee — than he
went gaily to the tailor's.

Do not be too hard upon him : he was almost
beside himself.

VOL. II. I

A note had come for him in the morning
from Lord Overton ■ — Lord Overton, who
scarcely ever asked his sister for a stamp.
He had himself written to Challoner, and the
missive had arrived at breakfast-time. There
had been but a few words : —

Dear Challoner, — The frost has come
at last, and we are keeping the home ponds
for you. Come tomorrow, if you can. If not,
next day. Yours truly. — Overton."

Come tomorrow, if you can." If — you —
can % — ay, there was the rub. " To-morrow "
was the day on which he got the invitation ;
and though he had told the writer that such
an invitation would bring him at any time, on
however short a notice, he had paused until
he had heard about Miss Appleby ; then he
had ordered his suit. With Overton's note in
his pocket he had walked to the shop, done
his own errand, and then accompanied the
ladies on theirs. He had never been more
gentle, more compliant. They had ventured
to consult him about the rouge for their

cheeks, and the juice wherewith to stain his
own skin; and he had responded to every
summons, and started up to execute every
desire in a way that quite wrung Mrs Turn
ell's soft withers, who now frankly allowed
that she had never done that poor dear justice
before, — no, that she had not ; for, much as
she had always thought of Mary's Jem, she
had just felt, felt a little lately as if he were
coming it Willie Dobb over them, and bad
thought he might have tried to look a little
more as if he cared about what pleased them
all so much, — and, to be sure, everybody knew
that Willie Dobb did care, in spite of his fal-la
airs ; but the worst of Mr Jem was, she really
had been afraid he did not, — and that was the
honest truth. But, dear, now she felt quite
reproved ; and indeed she had owned as much
to papa, who had said — what do you think he
had said ? Why, that he only thought the
more of Jem for not being carried away by
tomfoolery. " ' Had he been one of those
jackanapes of officers says papa* — for you

know papa never could stand the officers, —
had he been one of them' says papa, ' you
would have seen another story.' Papa is quite
mad with them for going in their red coats,
poor things ; but what else have they got to go
in, say I ? It is all very well for papa, who
has only to put his hand in his pocket, — but
we can't all be like him ; and, for my part, I
think none the worse of the young men for
saving a penny. However, Jem pleases papa
best, and that is as it should be, you know."

I suppose you have heard what they are
going to do with me," said papa himself, presently.
" It has come in just now, the finery,
and there are no fewer than three boxes !
Three boxes ! The half of my dressing-room
is taken up with, them, and a whipper-snapper
of a tailor is coming to-night to see that I
am all right. Ton my word, I shall feel
monstrous queer, I expect. What do you say,
eh 1 How about the Turk ? Will you be at
home in your filigree ? Will you be able to
dance ? "

I am not a dancing man. No, I don't
suppose I shall be dancing tomorrow night,"
replied Challoner, looking down with something
like a smile on his face, as he made an
inward interpretation of the phrase.

You leave it to the boys and girls ? Quite
right too. Much room they will get to flounce
about in, however, if what young Dobb tells
me is true ; over a hundred people, and their
rooms are very little larger than our own.
They have a goodish-sized hall — that will help
them. If we go in time to see the rest arrive,
that will be the best of the fun, to my fancy.
I told Dobb we should be there early ; we are
old friends of the Dobbs, you know " — (how
often had he been told it !) — " their very
oldest friends, I may say. Dobb and I have
known each other these thirty years, and there
has never been a word between us. You can't
say that of all old neighbours. I fancy my
girls knew of this ball before anybody else
did ; the girls and boys have all grown up
together, and how we have had no match

between 'em," with a laugh, " I don't understand.
Saw too much of each other, perhaps.
People will say my daughters set their caps
higher. You, Mr Challoner, and Herbert Mild-may,
are above the Clinkton folks : yes, you
are — I don't mind owning it. I'm no truckler ;
but when a man behaves like a gentleman — as
you have done to me and mine, sir — an honest,
downright, straightforward gentleman, — damn
it, I'm not above saying your birth is higher
than mine. You did not come after my girl's
money, you came after her for herself; so has
Herbert come after Emily for herself : I believe
in you both, from my soul. You shall see that
I do by-and-by — by-and-by," rustling with
both hands in his pockets. " And as for the
Dobbs, why, they are all very well in their
way, — very well as neighbours, very well as
friends ; but between ourselves," wrinkling
up his nose — " between ourselves, Jem Challenger,
I am just as well pleased to have it
stop there. To be sure, there's Bertha," suddenly


What about Bertha?" said Mrs Tuf-nell,

entering.

Only talking over the ball, my clear,"
rejoined he, placidly.

Arranging how we are to go ; are you ?
Ob, we have thought of that, and Bertha has
promised to be dressed and off in time to let
the carriage come back again for the other
two and Mr Jem ; — it is so short a way, the
carriage can go back and forward, — and it will
come for us, for you and me, last."

But we must be in good time," cried Tuf-nell,
" mind you. I have promised that we
shall be in good time ; for I have set my heart
ahem — the Dobbs are particularly anxious
that we should be the first arrivals, and take
up our position among themselves, and see it
all. Dobb told me so himself."

You see papa is quite full of it," nodded
his spouse to Challoner.

Oh, pooh ! I ? I full of it % Nonsense !
I — I only care, as it amuses you. I am glad
to do the civil thing by the Dobbs, my old

friends the Dobbs, as I was telling Jem here
just now. I am always glad to see them, they
are always glad to see me ; but as for their
fancy ball, it is neither here nor there. If
they choose to give a ball, very well ; I have
nothing to say ; let 'em give it. Dobb knows
what the length of his purse is ; and if he likes
to give his young people a hop, and invites us
to join, I, for one, see no harm in it; and
though I am an old man, and my dancing

days are over "

Oh now, now, we shall see what that

means ; oh now, now, don't believe him, Mr
Jem," cried his wife, delightedly. " Don't be
too sure ; I should not be the least bit in the
world surprised if papa was asked to open the
ball with Mrs Dobb. There ! That is what
I have thought all along ; and you may say
what you please, it is in my mind that that is
how it is to be. Papa and Mrs Dobb ! I am
sure I only hope that Mr Dobb will not want
me to stand up with him ; for really with that
great gown — what with the length of it, and

the weight of it — I am sure I could never turn
a figure."

Oh come, old lad', you would curtsey
with the best of 'em' rejoined her husband,
gallantly. " Upon my word I had never
thought of it, but I should not wonder in the
least if Dobb has this in his head. Either you
or one of the girls "

"Ay, one of the girls would be far better,
and so I shall tell him. It would be a compliment
to the Windlasses if he were to take out
Miss Juliet Appleby."

And why should they have the compliment
\ " demanded her husband, somewhat
tartly. " The Windlasses have never done
anything to merit a compliment from any one
of us, so far as I know. It seems to me they
hold themselves above us plain folks ; and if
that's the case, I should show them and their
Miss Juliet Appleby that we can do without
them. Did you not say that they are not
even coming themselves, but are sending this
London miss with other people \ "

"Is she a London miss, Jem?" inquired
his daughter Mary, who had entered a few
minutes previously.

You know her, eh, Jem ? " added the
father, who had not heard this before; "you
know her ? oh ! And you know the Windlasses,
too, of course ? Of course, I forgot.
But you'll take no offence ; I daresay they are
excellent people. I never heard a word against
'em ; but socially, you know, socially, they are
not my style. You see it differently, of course ;
you are of their set ; and no doubt they make
themselves agreeable enough to you, however
high and mighty they may be to us. When
Mary is your w 7 ife, she will stand by the county
folks too, I dare swear," pinching her ear ;
but you see, I am a plain man, and if people
wall take me as I am, I am neighbourly ; but
if they are too fine for anything but a nod,
and a ' How are you % ' as if I w 7 as their grocer
or their baker, and talk of nothing but the
weather when they come to the bank, and
w 7 on't visit me in my own house, nor know my

wife and daughters, why, I don't like it, and I
don't pretend to like it. And as for this
London miss "

But is she a London miss, Jem ? "

said Mary, again.

What she should trouble her head

about our ball for, I cannot imagine," proceeded
Mr Tufnell, without a pause. " Can't
she get balls enough in London without running
after them down here, asking for invitations,
and taking up other girls' partners 1 I suppose
you will have to ask her " — to Challoner
"as she is a lady you know ; you will have
to ask her once, but I should not put myself
out of my way to do it twice. Let her take
her chance ; let her fare as the other girls
do ; why should we trouble ourselves about a
stranger who has nothing to do with any
of us ? The Windlasses not even coming
with her, and Jem here the only friend she
has "

Jem laughed ; he could not help it.

Eh \ " said the banker, amazed.

"My acquaintance with Miss Appleby, sir,
is so slight that it is not worth mentioning. I
met her in the autumn at a house where I was
pheasant - shooting. She is not likely to —
to "

To remember you % "

To care to remember me. She has cut me
dead twice in the street."

CHAPTEE XXIII.

HE WOULD BE SOMEWHERE ELSE OX THE
NIGHT OF THE BALL.

' Drawn e with the pore of an heart-rolling eye,
And wrapt in fetters of a golden tresse."

Spenser.

Six young ladies have been introduced to
the reader in these pages, six ordinary,
average, unremarkable, almost undistinguishable
young ladies, all in the bloom of first
youth, and none as yet giving promise of any
lasting attraction when that bloom should
have passed away. Yet, although all six
might have been culled at random from the
ranks of cheerful rosy faces one meets with
every day, each had her own individual trait,
which, if it could scarcely amount to a "redeeming
vice," still served to mark her out to

the student of character. Thus Lotta Han-well
was an important fool, whom the severest
shock to her vanity would not have awakened
to the fact that she was not of first-rate consequence
in the eyes of the world. Mary
Tufnell was a poor wit, who had long depended
on the laugh of her friends. Emily,
less endowed with animal life, clung to the
romantic and sentimental. Bertha romped ;
while of the remaining two, Marion Appleby
was a benevolent blunderer, who with the
best intentions frequently did and said the
wrong thing: and Juliet — but Juliet is the
only one of the set who deserves more than
this passing attention.

Juliet, to begin with, was not quite what
she appeared to be. There was a little deep
corner in her shallow mind, and in that depth
there lurked a seed of power which none of
her fellows possessed, and which but few
suspected, — and it was the detection of this
ability for mischief, this capacity for undertaking
it and enjoyment of it, which made

the youngest Miss Appleby just worth notice
in the eyes of the proud and penetrating
Matilda.

She had been by times scornfully amused
by Juliet's wiles ; she was not afraid of either
brother being beguiled by them.

And Juliet was useful at the Hall, and she
came with her hair nicely brushed back behind
her ears, and her simple frock tied in
with a ribbon, and a string of coral round
her neck ; and she would hang so lovingly
upon her dear Lady Matilda's arm, and sit at
her feet, and lay her cheek upon her knee, and
be so childish and fond and confiding, that
the only wonder was she had not long before
the period at which she first came under our
notice been turned into the pet she desired to
be. But Matilda wanted no pet, and hardly
knew what to do with so much affection ; she
suffered her young friend, — up to a certain
point she preferred her, which she ought not
to have done, to the blunter and duller and
truer Marion ; but she did not trouble her

head much about the Applebyss, unless it were
to summon them to perform a service or assist
at a ceremony. That done, she would call the
pair good girls, and commend them much as
if they had been her waiting-maids, and presently
she would toss them a favour in her
imperial careless way ; but as for making a
companion of either miss, telling either one
her thoughts, sharing with either her pursuits,
Lady Matilda once owned with the special
and startling candour with which she at
times allowed home truths to Teddy, that
she would as soon seek for a kindred spirit
in her daughter : Lotta was at least on a par
with the Applebyss.

For mediocrity was just what this naughty
Matilda could not tolerate ; and having been
endowed by heaven with beauty and talent
enough to have satisfied a score of women if
shared among them, she must needs jeer at
those whom — who can tell ? — she had perchance
herself robbed.

It was shameful ; and little Miss Appleby —

Juliet, you understand — who was so fond of
dear Lady Matilda to everybody round, and
who could hardly keep away from dear Lady
Matilda four days out of the five if the Hall
were occupied, — Juliet, in spite of her admiration
for everything said and done by her
friend, was sometimes so spleenful and indignant
that she could scarce contain herself,
when time after time it proved that the youthful
grandmother, still in her charms triumphant,
drew to herself, and away from the
pink-ands white daisies, the budding beauties
of the neighbourhood — every man, old or
young, who appeared on the scene. It was
atrocious, it was more than feminine patience
could stand, to see how one and another
would, on pretexts the most trivial, steal into
the magic circle which invariably formed
around Matilda — to mark their efforts to obtain
her notice, their joy beneath a word or
smile of kindness ; and never, perhaps, had
this been more keenly felt by Juliet Appleby
than on that November night when she

VOL. II. K

and her sister had been summoned to meet
Eobert Hanwell's friends, Mr "Whewell and
Mr Challoner, who were hers and Marion's by
right, and upon whom, could she have made
an impression — even a decent impression — she
might have made Teddy Lessingham blink his
eyes and bestir himself to escape from his
sister's dominion and lay hand and heart at
her feet. But Whewell had only paid her a
few stock compliments over the piano, and
that apparently out of the mere superfluity
of his good-humour with an evening so delightfully
and exclusively given up to Matilda ;
while Challoner had as good as turned his
back upon her, his partner, during dinner,
and had never come near her afterwards ; —
and although he could not have been said to
have then and there entered the lists with the
gay barrister, no one knew better than Juliet
Appleby how effectually he had made up for
lost time afterwards.

She had bitten her lip from mortification
more than once subsequently, when, ordered

up to the Hall, she had found herself a mere
lay figure at the entertainment, expected to talk
and eat and behave properly and see nothing,
while Challoner hung over Matilda's chair, and
murmured in her ear, and gazed into her face.
She had been there one afternoon late, when
Matilda had been playing to herself on the
organ in the dim old gallery, and Matilda had
been at no pains to bid her stay ; but she had
stayed in spite of this and almost in spite of
herself, — stayed to see and spy. Challoner
had come in presently. He had come in wet,
tired, torn by thickets, and splashed with mud
and mire, his shabby shooting clothes still on,
hung round with shot and powder belts, — just
as he was, in short, only having left his gun
outside, — and he had taken off' his cap, showing
the disordered hair beneath in dark moist
rings over his brow, and had sat down to
listen, leaning his rough cheek on his hand,
while a soft undisguised emotion stole over
his face ; and as he had sat there in the half
light, his broad shoulders lounging forwards,

a humble, subdued, over-mastered giant, he
had looked a captive whom auy woman might
have been proud to win.

He had looked a captive, every inch a captive,
too. None but a lover durst have sat
where he sat, done as he did, come in as he
had come. He had not spoken much, and
Matilda had played softly on ; but Juliet had
left them thus, and she had left with a sting
at her own heart. She, too, could have liked
Jem Challoner, — and he had hardly seemed
to know that she was there.

Her astonishment on hearing of his engagement
to Mary Tufnell only a few hours before
she saw him in the lecture-room at Clinkton
for of course she saw him, and saw that he
saw her — may be imagined. Astonishment
had at first been everything ; then came
deeper and deeper mortification, lastly malice.
He had been an engaged man, and yet he
had dared to trifle with Lady Matilda Wilmot.
Oh, how deeply must he have been in love to
have so dared !

All else must have gone to the winds while
he gave free play to his unlawful passion, and
now doubtless he was here to break off the
match and then return to Overton, to be
received there with open arms. The horrid
man — it was just like him. She hated the
sight of his great big back as she sat behind
it, pretty close behind it, during Herbert
Mildmay's lecture ; she hated to remember
how often she had seen it pass and repass
along the terraces at Overton Hall. Then
she had had a sight of the wretch's face, and
seen that it was the same stony stick of a face
that had been on view the first night at the
Overtons' dinner-party — not the face that
had subsequently grown under Matilda's hands
and all at once she had resolved not to see
it this time. No, she would not seem to see
him, would not speak to him until she had
given her home thrust, — but she would write
to Lady Matilda that very night.

Prudence, however, intervened. Supposing
that Lady Matilda already knew, no good

would be gained; supposing she did not, she
would certainly not like Juliet Appleby the
better for telling her. Besides, it would be
delightful to lie in wait and see all she could
of Challoner, and hear all that was to be heard
of his doings, and then, then confront him before
Mary Tufnell, and inquire, in a way that
could not be mistaken, after his friend Lady
Matilda Wilmot. The day after the lecture
every one knew about the fancy ball, and it
was at this fancy ball that Miss Appleby
decided to make her great scene. The very
next day to that on which it was to be given,
she purposed returning south, and would then
have the felicity of breaking the news to
Matilda with all the surprise, and veiled
sympathy, and delicate assumption of her
auditor's indifference, that was appropriate
and respectful. She would be able to say that
she had been presented to the future Mrs
Challoner — that she had congratulated him,
and that he had been forced to accept her
congratulation ; and she had seen herself saying

this with a troubled and distressed face,
and had also beheld a troubled distressed face
averted from her as she spoke.

It was worth waiting for, this fancy ball.

Go to it she must — she liked fancy balls ;
and to go with a mysterious purpose, with a
design on the peace of three several persons —
to go with a knife under her glove and a leer
under her mask — gave a zest to the promised
evening, the like of which she had never had
before. Short as the intervening time was,
it seemed even longer to Juliet Appleby than
it did to Jem Challoner.

All of these good people were thus, we see,
playing their own game.

Challoner, whose hand was the worst, was
becoming more and more reckless as time went
on ; and having got over his first fright on
meeting Miss Appleby, and finding that she
did not intend to recognise him under present
circumstances, he made up his mind that all
was yet unknown to her, and that she was
merely revenging herself for previous neglect.

She was now with the better sort of people, he
with the worse ; and it seemed to him that the
ridiculous idea that he would have been glad
now to claim an acquaintance he had previously
despised, had incited her to turn up her
nose and turn away her head from him.

It was charming ; he was delighted with
Juliet : Lord Overton's little note, which lay
snug and safe in his breast-pocket, would assuredly
never have been penned had she sent
the tidings flying south. It was plain, it was
as clear as day, that she had not heard a syllable,
and the reason for such ignorance was
seen in the charge laid by Mr Tufnell to her
hosts the Windlasses ; and — and such being
the case, the devil returned to tempt Challoner.
The night of the ball was near, and Miss Juliet
was to be there. So, — he would be elsewhere.

She should not see him attached to Mary
Tufnell's red cross and black gown that merry
evening.

Up to this hour he had been going drearily
and dutifully on with what he had to do ; he

had been walking in a plain path, and, though
he had been unhappy, he had been able to keep
his unhappiness to himself, and even to take
some sort of comfort in the hope that he was
at least giving no present cause of offence to
an innocent girl or her relations. Even in his
heart he had not given way to an unkind, oran
unjust, or an unmanly thought ; he had not
allowed himself to fret, or to mock, or to
swear ; but he had risen, morning by morning,
wondering languidly what the day would bring
forth — how soon the blow would fall, and his
fate be sealed.

Any post might bring him the cool line
from Overton which should ring; his knell in
its congratulations and good wishes ; and accordingly
every postman's rap sent the blood
faster through his pulses, especially when, as
happened more than once, his eye caught a
glimpse of a coroneted envelope among the
budget brought in by the servant, and he
knew as by instinct for whom it came, long
before Tufnell's slow solemn voice read out,

James Challoner, Esq," and handed the missive
up the table. It would be from Teddy, of
course. When Overton "wrote, he contented
himself with the nearest half-sheet handy ;
even Matilda was not particular, unless she
happened to be in a stately mood ; but Teddy
never used any but the best paper and the
biggest envelopes, and he was always glad to
show off his excellent handwriting, and make
the most of his correspondence. He said he
wrote the best hand in the family, as indeed
he did ; but Matilda appealed to Challoner,
and of course he stood by her. He never saw
his own name now in that bold free telegraphy
without thinking of this. The scrap of paper
whereon the brother and sister had contested,
their beautiful faces and mirthful voices as they
did so, all came before him as often as he
opened a fresh envelope, and he would for the
next few seconds hear nothing of what was
passing in the room — not, indeed, until he
could draw one short breath of relief when
assured that there was nothing, nothing yet.

The letter would be long, friendly, and full
of information — he thought he knew who supplied
the information, — and every topic and
every reference meant this : " We have not
forgotten you. Do not forget us." How dear
such an intimation was, how doubly dear as
contrasted with what might have been, maybe
imagined.

Lord Overton's invitation did the rest.
Every honest resolution, every worthy aspiration
gave way under it ; coming as it did on
the very day when the report about Miss
Appleby's being at the ball was confirmed,
it was too much ; Challoner went straight out
and ordered the dress he did not mean to
wear. One was ready, needing only a few
slight alterations, and it could be sent in the
same evening; and the gentleman professed
himself satisfied, — and was so, after his own
fashion.

Yes, he would give the ball the slip, plausibly.
No one would guess that anything of
the kind could have been his intention when

the gorgeous suit had actually come in, and
when his good hostess would have only seen
afresh what a couple he and Willie Dobb
had been. He would be off before any one
was stirring in the morning, called away by
business, — it seemed he was always being
called away by business now; but on this
occasion his departure would be easy — he
would have nothing to say, and no one to
see him go ; he would merely leave a note
of explanation, and then — then he would be
somewhere else on that frosty night than in
Mrs Dobb's smart vestibule. His hand shook,
and his eye glowed beneath his dark brows
as he told himself where he would be, and
with whom. No news could now reach Over-ton
before he did ; and once there, he might
yet keep Matilda ignorant, might yet free

himself, might yet-oh, he could not think

of what he might not yet do, once he had
broken loose, had awakened from the nightmare
of the past fortnight.

CHAPTER XXIV.

TIME PASSES.

:< The wheel of life no less will stain
a smooth than rigged way."

Cowley.

So much for the man ; now for the woman.

Very quietly, not unhappily, Matilda's days
passed. Memory, on the one hand, supplied
pleasant themes, which Hope, on the other,
whispered would soon return ; she doubted
nothing, and feared nothing. Challoner's
abrupt departure had, truth to tell, charmed
her more with him than anything else could
have done ; and the conviction that it only
remained with herself to summon him back
at any moment, rendered her able to support
her dignity and pass the time of his absence

without much inward, and without any apparent,
weariness.

Her schools, her poor people, her brothers,
even her daughter, had plenty of her company,
and benefited by her cheerfulness. There was
a poor woman who was sick, several miles
away from Overton ; Matilda visited her everyday,
read to her, sang to her, brightened and
cheered her dingy little room, — almost made
her forget her pain. The boys in her Sunday
class were troublesome ; she made no complaint
of them, she won them over by patience and
forbearance. The good rector of the parish
was more devoted to her ladyship than ever.
He had always said the earl was a model of a
gentleman, and his sister an excellent, charitable,
practical Christian, — not what you
could call profoundly pious, not perhaps a
very deeply thinking woman, but one who
was always to be found on the right side,
whose heart was in the right place, and who,
he believed, would grow in grace as she advanced
in life. If we are to be known by our

fruits, the worthy speaker would proceed, he
wished all his parishioners had as good fruits
to show as Lady Matilda Wilmot. Her conduct
to her brother now — he did not refer to
Overton — the way she managed that young
Lessingham, was beyond praise. A wild
young fellow, and scarcely more than half-witted,
he was going to the bad as fast as he
could go when his sister took him in hand.
Lucky for him it was her being a widow, —
and scarcely any other kind of a widow would
have done. Why, she was as good as a young
fellow for Teddy ; she rode with him, walked
with him, played billiards with him, amused
him, and kept him out of mischief from morning
to night She brought him to church,
too, regularly. — brought him twice in the
day ; whereas until she came he had never, or
hardly ever, been inside a place of worship
since he was a boy.

People talked of Lady Matilda's marrying
again. That was all nonsense. Poor thing !
she had had enough of marriage, — given over,

when she was a mere child, to a selfish old cur,
who had made her life miserable. She would
think twice before she burnt her fingers a
second time. There was that Mr Challoner.
To be sure Mr Challoner had been hanging
about for a considerable time ; and he must
own that just for a short space — for a very
short space — he had had his suspicions. Certainly
Mr Challoner had seemed very intimate,
and he was a fine-looking man, not too young ;
but oh, there was nothing in it — nothing in it.
Lady Matilda was a lively woman, who made
herself pleasant without meaning it (he would
not have said she flirted for the world) ; and
here was a proof that it was as he said, in Mr
Challoner's having taken himself off, and all
going on as before at the Hall. Lady Matilda
had been down at the rectory the day before,
and everybody there had remarked that she
was spite in her usual bright spirits, full of
the Christmas charities and Christmas decorations,
and not even inclined to grumble at
the frost, which compelled her to forego

her favourite exercise and go about on
foot.

Very little inclined to grumble, indeed, had
Matilda been ; that frost had another meaning
for her than o-oins^ about on foot : it meant
Overton's despatch, and it was all that was
wanted in the way of an excuse for the same.
After being at the rectory, hearing and entering
into all the arrangements there, and paying
a long and friendly visit, the fair pedestrian
found herself still with half the afternoon on
her hands, Teddy being busy at the skating-ponds,
which were to be cleared, swept, and
tidied, in view of the approaching Christmas
Eve. That Christmas Eve, it must be remarked,
was the evening of the Clinkton
festivity ; and it was also to be signalised at
Overton Hall : Challoner had telegraphed that
he could not come the same day, but would be
with them on that following, — it had been at
once and unanimously decided that the home
ponds should not be skated upon until he
came.

VOL. II. L

I had better go on to Endhill," concluded
Lady Matilda, as she emerged from the rectory;
I may as well see Lotta to-day, as perhaps she
may have to complain of me by-and-by," with
a little smile. " It is really a good thing Lotta
is so near," her thoughts ran on ; " it is pleasant
to be able to see her and the dear baby whenever
I like ; and if she lived further off, I fear
I should go but seldom. Teddy dislikes it so
much : that is another reason for going to-day.
I don't like taking poor Teddy where he does
not wish to go. And he — not Teddy this time
he dislikes it, too. Well, well, they are men,
and must be humoured, I suppose ; we women
always do have to take the disagreeable in
this life on to our own shoulders. Now, of
course, I like going to see Lotta, but then I
hate just as much as they do going to see

Robert " and here she caught sight of

Robert, and had no more time for reflections
the reflections, you will understand, having
twirled and twisted, and run in and out of her
brain as she walked, so that she was still harping

on the one idea, with all its multifarious
variations, when she turned in at the cottage-drive.


Robert was in the garden, busy with some
projected alterations, and his companion, whom
he was consulting and advising, and explaining
to, was Lotta. Lotta loved to consult.

If you ask me, Robert, I should not go
quite so far along the wall. That is the only
thing. All the rest would be perfect. You
are such a good planner "

You see I have thought it out thoroughly,
my dear. You may be right about its being
too far ; but I doubt it. However, I will
consider your opinion."

Oh, my opinion, " she thought it only
second to his — " my opinion is really worth
very little, I am afraid, Eobert. You know ;
of course, / — I only say what I think ; this is
not my department M

To be sure not ; but I am always glad to
hear what you have to say. When one gives
one's whole attention to a thing, however, as I

have done to this Ah, Lady Matilda," as

she walked up, " who would have thought of
seeing you to-day ? You have not ridden, of
course. Uncle Edward with you ? Pray come

in and rest. Lotta, my dear "

And without your hat, Lotta ; do you

want to catch a cold ? " said Lady Matilda,
kissing her daughter. " It is not summer,
thou eh the sun is shining, and "

o

You are often without yours, mamma."
"I am different. I am not a catch-cold
person, and I have a thicker mop of hair,"
said Lady Matilda, frankly. " Besides which,
I don't know that you ever saw me sitting out
of doors in a sharp frost with a bare head."
I had only sat down for a moment."
But your mother is certainly right, my
dear," said Robert ; "I ought to have thought
of that, if you did not. I will get your hat at
once," and he was starting off.

No ; stop ; let me go myself," said Lotta,
rising somewhat heavily, for Lotta had not
grown thinner since we saw her last. "You

are busy, Eobert, and I have nothing to do.
Let me go."

Not at all. Stay where you are. I am
never busy if you need me," rejoined he,
heartily. " I am only sorry that I did not
notice before that you required a hat. Lady
Matilda, the wheelbarrow will dirty your
dress; allow me." He drew it aside, and
passed on to the house. As he did so, he
did not seem nearly so ridiculous as usual :
Matilda felt no inclination to scoff, and looked
after the retreating figure with a sensation that
was almost new.

He was a poor specimen of a man, this
Eobert, but was he not a good husband ?
What would it be like to have even such a
husband — one who would spontaneously avow
after more than a years matrimony that he
was never busy if his wife required an attention
? And she actually found herself taking
note for the future, and with a sense of something
like shame for the past, that there might
be worse things in the world than an overdrawn

politeness, when it was thus carried
into the recesses of home-life.

There he was, that long-backed prig, stalking
solemnly back, stalking along cheerfully
and readily with the precious covering for his
precious Lotta's head ; and there was she affectionately,
if somewhat stolidly, receiving the
attention, the two quite taken up with each other
for the time being. With a softer feeling at
her heart than she could have at all explained,
Lady Matilda watched the little scene, marked
the little pat on Lotta's shoulder which acknowledged
Lotta's thanks, and Lotta's satisfied
tranquil reception of the same, as of one
used to such kindly treatment, — and then
the visitor rather suddenly said she would go
indoors.

She would not hear of taking any one else
in with her. Lotta had let out that Robert
was busy, and her mother could wait till he
and Lotta were at liberty. Lotta must stay
with him, of course ; she was " a help," quite
gravely

Well, I suppose I am," said Lotta. " At
least Eobert thinks so. He says he would
rather go by what I say than an architect.
Of course that is going too far, but I always
feel I understand a little of these things."

"Which I do not. And so, as I can be of
no use "

"My dear Lady Matilda! Of no

rise i

■ " Of no sort of use. I will just go in

by myself, and you shall come when you are
ready. Yes, I will rest, thank you. I have
lots of time to stay. Don't hurry. I will
go and fetch down baby and have a play with
him ; " and with a quick step she tripped off
merrily towards the house.

Half an hour afterwards, which was the
extreme limit Mr Hanwell's decorum would
permit of their remaining behind, he and
Lotta found her in the drawing-room, sitting
on a low seat by the fire, gazing into the
embers, with the babe asleep upon her knee.

They stood in front of the w T window as they

passed, and looked in, and spoke, but no one
answered, and they could not attract attention
by signs.

"Mamma is so absent, she never notices
anything when she is in these moods," said
Lotta. Then, entering, " Ho, mamma ! what
are you thinking about, in here ? You were
quite lost in a day-dream, I should say, just
now. Eobert and I stood and peeped in at
you through the window, — we thought you
would have heard us ; but we did not tap, for
fear of disturbing baby. We thought you would
have seen us, but you never looked round."

The window was shut," said Lady Matilda,
curtly.

We must have darkened the window."

Perhaps you did."

And we had a good look at you. Robert
said you made quite a pretty picture in the
firelight, you and baby. Is he not a clear
boy ? Look at his little fat arm. How
nicely it shows against your dark velvet !
Robert said you ought to be painted holding

him just like this," attaching full value to the
compliment, with a distinct impression that
Robert's comments, whether expressed or otherwise,
were not always so favourable. "Do
you know, mamma, I really do believe," continued
the young matron slowly — " I really
do believe that we shall have to shortcoat
him before the three months are out ; I
really do."

Shortcoat Robert ? "

'•' Mamma ! of course I meant baby ; did I
not say baby ? but you were not attending."

Perhaps not, my dear ; no, I don't know
that I was," said Lady Matilda, calmly.

"But do attend now, for it is really a
serious matter. If any one else had suggested
it — but Mrs Burrble herself said I must."

Well, my dear, do it."

Before the three months are out ! And
in the depth of winter, in weather like this !
Mamma ! "

Well, my dear, don't do it."

Mamma, you are really All I mean

is that he grows so tremendously fast, that I
don't see how we can keep him in his long
clothes any longer : he is bursting out of
them everywhere ; and what to do, I declare
I don't know. It is nonsense making new
bodies, when he really could wear short things
perfectly well ; and yet I do not like — indeed
I could not, and would not on any account,
run the risk of short coating in this weather.
What do you think 1 "

"It is difficult to say," observed Lady
Matilda, thoughtfully.

But her thoughtfulness was, alas ! detected.
I declare, mamma, I don't believe you are
thinking a bit about it," cried Lotta, unfortunately
on the alert. " I believe you never
heard a word I said, and I was going to tell
you how nice he looks in your new pelisse,"
mollified by the recollection ; "it is really a
beautiful pelisse ; and oh, mamma, where can
I get that kind of edging on the frock? Nurse
says it is much the finest and best she has
seen, and it will wash beautifully."

I am very glad of it."

Do you know where it could be got ? And
the flannel — I should like to show you our
flannel ; I do not feel sure that it is fine
enough "

Pray don't, my dear. I — I never did

know about flannel and things. And then it
is so long ago. and somehow I seem to have —
to have lost sight of it all. I love a baby,"
pressing the infant tenderly to her bosom ; " I
love this dear little baby very much — but I
am afraid I do not care as I ought to do about
its clothes," with a smile.
" Oh, but it must be dressed," said Lotta,
sententiously. " You would not have it

without anything to put on "

Oh yes, I would," laughed her

mother.

Well, you are odd, mamma. But you
hold him very nicely," said Lotta, patronisingly.
" Do you remember the day Mr Challenger
was here — the day before he left — when
you would put baby into his arms \ How

frightened he was ! I declare I believe he had
never had a baby in his arms before."

"I declare I believe you may be right,
my clear." Lady Matilda was bending over
the little one, and trying for her own gay
tone.

He was so very awkward."

So very awkward."

Mr Whewell took him as handily as
possible. But," continued Lotta, astutely,
although Mr "Whewell made such a fuss over
baby, and gave him a very handsome mug,
and said all kinds of civil things, I like Mr
Challoner really the best of the two. Mr
Whewell grew to be tiresome. It was very
good of him to come down, I know, and of
course Eobert and I were pleased — but he
stayed too long, quite too long ; and the worst
of it is, Eobert says he is sure he wants to be
asked down again. I should not ask him,
though, should you % "

"Certainly not," said Lady Matilda, promptly.

"Eobert says he believes he will offer. I

think we might almost refuse him if he did
offer."

"should."

Well, I must say I like baby's other godfather
the best," concluded Lotta, comfortably.

"All, but," said Matilda to herself, as she
walked home afterwards, — " but would you
say the same, my dear, if baby's other godfather
were to be turned into baby's grandfather
? "

And the appellation struck her as so delightfully
ludicrous that she laughed aloud all by
herself on the lonely road.

CHAPTER XXV.

THE FANCY BALL.

A freak took an ass in the head, and away he goes into the woods,
masquerading up and down in a lion's skin." — Estrange's Fables.

11 Him he knew well, and guessed that it was she,

But being masked, he was not sure ; "

—Shakespeare.

Good Mrs Dobb, standing in the doorway of
her handsome drawing-room as the clock struck
nine on Christmas Eve — they kept early hours
in Clinkton — standing in the crimsoned of
crimson satins, covered with the laches of
Brussels lace, with all her best ornaments finding
niches somehow or other on the surface of

O

her ample person, with her gloves on and her
fan in hand, — was certainly not the least
happy person at the prospect of her own ball.
Punctually at nine arrived the last detachment

of the Tufnells, claiming the right which
had been so carefully explained to Challoner ;
and though with them, and with their sympathy,
admiration, and expectation, began the
evening's triumph, with them also came the
first disappointment. They had not brought
their man, their great Mr Challoner, who was
to have taken such a prominent part in the
evening's show, — for he was to have sat at Mrs
Dobb's own table at supper, and to have gone
in with the first batch of distinguished guests
as soon as the dining-room door was open.
Alack-a-day ! he was nowhere to be seen, and
the sad truth about him was soon told.

He had to go, Mrs Dobb ; he really had to
go," said Mary. " He had to be off before we
were out of bed in the morning, and goodness
knows where he is by this time ! "

And was it not hard upon the poor dear,"
added her mother, " that it should have happened
to-day of all days in the year ? Business
is a nasty thing, — and so I always tell
papa. If it had been tomorrow now, — but

that is just like poor Jem's luck ; like enough
it would have been tomorrow for any one who
didn't care. And then Jem Challoner is so
conscientious — really one may say too conscientious
; for, as I say to papa, one may be
too conscientious about a thins: of this sort.
But papa, he could not see it ; he took me up
quite short, and says he, ' Business is business.
Jem Challoner is not such a ninny as to let
any tomfoolery — ahem — hem — any pleasure
like this interfere with duty.' Papa is such a
one for duty, you know ; and he thinks all the
world of Jem Challoner."

"Well, to be sure this is all very nice,"
added papa, for himself, — " very nice, indeed,"
benignantly ; "and Mrs Dobb is very kind to
take so much trouble ; but a man of forty like
Challoner "

Do hear papa," muttered Mary Tuf-nell

aside to her sister. " Calling out for everyone
to hear. Man of forty, indeed ! Now it will
be all over the town tomorrow. Cecy looked
at me and laughed — she is laughing now ! "

"What does it matter?" argued Bertha,
cheerfully; " Cecy would take a man of fifty,
and be thankful. Besides, we all know Jem's
age. Hasn't he lived here all his life ? "

They will think he was too old for dancing,
and ran away from the ball."

They will think nothing of the sort. However
Mrs Dobb," said Bertha loudly, " is

it not hard lines upon poor Mary ? And Jem
had got such a lovely dress, a dress he could
dance in "

Say costume," nudged her sister. " Don't
you remember how he laughed at you for
calling it his 'dress?"

All right — his costume, then. It had been
sent in, Mrs Dobb, and was — sweet."

Indeed ! Now really, poor fellow ! well,
I am sorry, but we must all have something,
Mary, my dear," continued the jolly hostess,
recovering from her own share of vexation.
And don't you fret, but just be as merry as
ever you can ; be merry for two, you know,
and that will be the best way of making up

VOL. II. m

for Mr Jem's absence." Other arrivals then
claimed her notice.

There is one excellent thing about a fancy
ball, — conversation never flags ; there is no
need to have recourse to the weather, the heat
of the rooms, the badness or goodness of the
music : even the dullest need hardly be at a
loss for a topic when on every side are motley
figures and extraordinary devices ; and how
charming Mistress Mountebank looks in her
powder ! how quaint Master Scarecrow in his
skins ! what the judge has done with his wig ;
and how much the peasant has given for her
shoe-buckles, will pass from lip to lip without
an effort throughout the evening. Ere the
rooms were half filled at Mrs Dobb's, the din
and uproar was all that the heart of hostess
could desire.

And which is Miss Juliet Appleby, dear?"
inquired Mrs Tufnell when a moment's peace
was accorded from the incessant shaking of
hands and receiving of congratulations. " Mrs
Dobb, dear, where is Miss Juliet Appleby ? I

thought she was to have come with the
Greens?"

So she was. Ay, with the Greens, certainly."


But the Greens came a quarter of an hour
ago."

And was Miss Appleby not with them ?"

Was she, though 1 "

I can't say, I'm sure ; I suppose she was.
To tell the truth, Mrs Tufnell, I have not
known who was who, or which was which, no,
nor heard a word of what has been said to me
this hour back. I just go on shaking hands
with everybody. For, letting alone that it
has been nothing but — l May I bring this one ? '
and ' Have you room for that one % ' for days
past, I should not know my own children
if they appeared bedecked and bedizened as
those people came up the stair just now. That
I should not ; Willie, nor none of them. I
am bamboozled altogether by this time," laughing.
" There may be a dozen Miss Appleby s
here, and I should not know one of 'em."

Mr Tufnell, on his part, was as curious as
his wife. " Well, neighbour George' said he,
facetiously alluding to the royal and gorgeous
George IV. suit affected by his host the worthy
Dobb, — "well, you have a wondrous sight of
folks here to-night — Jews, Turks, infidels, and
heretics, eh % Strikes me your girls and mine
look as well as anybody. I have been poking
about in all the corners while you were at
your post outside, and, upon my word, I see
no one who looks trigger than my Mary, in
spite of Challoner's putting a stopper on the
gewgaws. Look at that creature now, — that,
I presume, is Miss Juliet Appleby, the Windlasses'
fine lady "

That \ No ; that is Polly Cranfield, my
wife's niece, as good a girl as ever lived, and
looks first-rate, 1 think," rejoined Mr Dobb,
somewhat shortly. " If girls are to trick out,
what fault have you to find with her, eh ?
Shows her ankles, eh \ No harm — no harm.
Very good ankle, and knows it, the minx.
You watch her dancing."

To be sure, — to be sure," rejoined his friend,
somewhat taken aback. " I — ah — I ought to
have known it was Polly ; of course I know
Polly ; I must speak to Polly by-and-by "

■ " There's a figure now. I don't like

that, if you choose," proceeded his companion,
softly. " There's a tippets concern. No better
than a ballet-dancer — and nothing to excuse
it. Who is she, I wonder ? Cecy," beckoning
to his daughter, as she went by — " Cecy, who
is that ? What are you laughing at, girl \ "

At poor Mr Grundy in the corner ; oh,
papa, do look at him. He did not want to
come, he hates the whole thing, and fought
against it to the last ; but Mrs Grundy would
not let him off, and as she could not make him
get anything for himself, she borrowed a suit
for him ; and look at it," in an ecstasy — " look
at it. That petticoat of a tunic, inches below
his knees, and the sleeves all over his hands,
and the great crease across the back, — it must
belong to a man three times his size. I must
find out who the man is. And oh, papa, did

you ever see any one so miserable and so
conscious ? See how lie crouches and cowers
in his corner ! nothing will induce him to leave
that corner; he thinks the flower-pots hide
him. It is too much — oh, it is really too much !

We girls have been in perfect fits "

Poor chap ! he ought to put a bolder

face upon it," rejoined her father, complacently.
There's no sense in showing everybody he's
ashamed of himself. One should never do
things by halves, eh, Tufnell ? If one must
be a fool, — for my part I feel as jolly as you
please."

What I say is, we are no worse than the
London grandees going to a levee" said Tuf-nell.
" I have seen them, and 'pon my word,
they looked very like you and me, Dobb, barring
the wigs. Those they left to their coachmen."


Does not papa look well, Mr Tufnell % "
inquired papa's dutiful Cecy.

Oh, oh, very fine, miss : you think so, do
you ? You first coax me into these fine feathers,

and then stroke them down. That's the
way with 'em all, isn't it, Tufnell ? " and the
two elderly gentlemen laughed in unison.
But I say, Cis, I say, who is that ballet-looking
girl yonder?" continued her father,
as the figure which had attracted his attention
before, again came into view. " Eh ?
Who do you say 1 I can't hear."

Hush, papa ! take care. I have not a
notion. Some one somebody brought with
them "

Miss Juliet Appleby, for a wager !"

cried Tufnell.

No, not her." Cecy shook her head.
"Stay, I remember; she came with Mrs
Points — a Yorkshire girl. Mrs Points wrote
about her this morning."

Then where in the name of wonder is this
Miss Juliet \ " demanded Mr Tufnell, almost
with vexation. "Is that her?" indicating
a 'Folly' in bells; " or that ?" pointing to a
'May Queen;' "or that?" turning again to
a Teed Riding-Hood.'

'" Folly' is Miss Smith; and the 'May
Queen ' is Chatty, our cousin Chatty ; and I
don't know ' Eed Riding-Hood's ' name, but she
came with the Greens "

But she can't be Miss Juliet Appleby ? "

"Why not?"

Miss Appleby ! the fine Miss Appleby !
the Windlasses' smart young lady, — a little
round-faced plump chit ! " cried Tufhell, absurdly
disappointed ; for, to tell the truth,
Eed Riding-hood ' would have disarmed a
heart of stone, and he had no mind to be disarmed.
" I think you must be wrong, my
dear Miss Cecy ; I don't think it can be as
you say."

Well, I did not say anything, Mr Tufnell,
that is," said Cecy, good-temperedly, "I
told you that girl," nodding, " came with the
Greens ; but whether she is Miss Appleby or
not, I know no more than you do yourself."

"She can't be; she can never be," muttered
the banker.

"Ask Mrs Green. Here she comes. Mrs

Green," said Miss Dobb, running to her, " Mrs
Green, do tell us who is your sweet little ' Red
Riding Hood ? ' Here is Mr Tufnell dying to
know," archly. "She came with you, and I
am so stupid, I forget her name."

Little Nelly Burney, do you mean ? "
replied Mrs Green. " Oh yes, your good
mamma kindly allowed me to bring Nelly,
as we were disappointed at the last moment
of the other young lady. I thought
it a pity no one should have the treat, and
poor Nelly was so pleased. She had a dress
with her, as it happened, on the chance. Poor
thing, it was a catch for her ; ' it's an ill wind
that blows nobody good.' I wrote about it to
your mamma this morning "

So you did, now I remember ; but I
said she came with you, though I forgot the
rest. "Well, Mr Tufnell, — well, are you satisfied
\ "

Oh dear me ! you make me out very inquisitive,"
said he. " You see, Mrs Green, when
your dancing days are over, you have nothing

to do but gape and stare ; and as I know
mostly all here, when I see a stranger I naturally
want to hear who she is. You were saying
your other young lady had disappointed
you. The other young lady — ahem — was
she, — I think I heard she was to be a Miss
Appleby, or some such name ; not that / know
anything of any Miss Applebyss : we have no
Applebyss about Clinkton, but "

But she doesn't come from Clinkton, Mr
Tufnell — she's not a Clinkton person at all ;
only it happens that she is stopping in the
neighbourhood, and it just came into my head
one clay when we were talking of the ball, it
popped into my head to ask Mrs Dobb if I
might take the liberty of bringing her "

But you haven t brought her" — there was an
actual indignation in his tone, — " you haven't
brought her after all, it appears. She has
shirked, eh \ Thrown you over at the last
moment, I suppose 1 Just like them, these
fast fashionable young ladies ; what do they
care for our poor little attempts at gaiety ?

Not likely any one of them would put themselves
about to "

:l She is put about enough, poor thin

I can tell you," cried Mrs Green, who in vain
had essayed from time to time to be heard.
Laws, Mr Tufnell, that rosette should have
been better sewn on," stooping, as she spoke, topick
up a knot of gay-coloured ribbons which
had fallen to the floor displaced by his vehemence.
" See now, a mere stitch it is," proceeded
the good lady, inspecting, " and a
thread no stronger than a hair. Well, it's
lucky I have a pin," producing one. " I told
the girls pins would be needed ; and though
you are the first, Mr Tufnell, I'll answer for it
you'll not be the last."

Thanked, thanked," said Mr Tufnell, somewhat
disconcerted : " that comes of bedizening
one's self out in such rubbish — but it is safe
enough now, I daresay. And — and what kept
your young lady away, then, if I may make
bold to ask ? What is the reason of her not
being with you after all ? "

Oh dear, such a sad pity it is, Mr Tufnell !
and what poor Mr and Mrs Windlass will do
I'm sure I cannot think, for they are getting
to be old bodies now, and don't like to be put
out of their way. And the poor thing herself,
too, away from all her friends — well, I declare,
there's Mary Philips with a pair of men's
boots on ! Spurs and all ! Mr Tufnell — look,
Mr Tufnell," behind her fan, "did you ever
see the like of that ? Boots and spurs, coat
and collar, and the little hat just over her ear !
Well, it's a wonder she stopped short there ;
she might just as well have had the — ahem —
bless me ! I'm sure I hardly know which way
to look."

Oh, it's all right, ma'am, it's quite within
the limits, I believe," rejoined Mr Tufnell, who
had learned much within the last half hour ;
it took me rather aback, I own, at the first
blush, but — well, well, we must not be too
particular to-night. And to return to Miss
Juliet Appleby "

And not a bit ashamed of herself! " murmured

the lady, still dubiously scanning the
gay vivandiere, "skipping and twirling as
bold as brass."

Eh 1 What ? n cried her companion, pricking
up his ears. " As bold as brass, did you
say % Who's as bold as brass \ "

"That flibbertigibbet, Mary "

Oh," rejoined Mr Tufnell, disappointed, —
"oh, I thought you were speaking of Miss
Appleby." The less he could hear about Miss
Appleby, the more was his curiosity aud suspicion
aroused. " I thought you had meant
that she was ' as bold as brass,' " he continued;
for really, you know, after all, you have not
yet told me what is the matter with her."

And I can't tell you ; but I can tell you
what they say : they say it's chicken-pox. Mrs
Windlass writes this morning that she is allover
in a rash, and sick, and pretty nearly off
her head — at least, I may be mistaken, but
that is what I gather from the note. And
I know that the doctor — Dr Bell it is who
attends the Windlasses ; they think all the

world of Dr Bell, — I know he was to have
been here to-night, was he not, Cecy ? " catching
hold of Miss Cecily Dobb, who again came
near, placing herself at the moment to take
the lead in a sixteen set of Lancers which was
being formed in front of the corner wherein
the elderly pair were having their chat, and
who now turned amiably round.

What is it, Mrs Green ? "

"Was not Dr Bell to be here to-night,
Cecy ? "

Yes, and Mrs Bell ; mamma asked them
both," said Cecy.

"Ay, and Mrs Bell is here, for I saw her
just now, all over spangles and gold lace. But
you see the doctor is not come ; he is at Windlass
Court at this minute, or I'm mistaken.
So, between ourselves, Mr Tufnell — between
ourselves, I doubt if chicken-pox will cover it.
We all know what's meant when there's any
doubt about it's being chicken-pox, don't we?"

Eh ? What ? " said the banker, staring.

Yon know what's being going about 2 . " ina
whisper.

Ah ? " said he, interrogatively.

That's it, then ; that's what I mean. If it
isn't small-pox, it's nothing."

CHAPTER XXVI.

THE MOTH RETURNS TO ITS Candle.

But come what may, I do adore thee so,
That danger shall seem sport, and I will go."

—Twelfth Night.

As the evening wore on, Mary Tufnell began
to enjoy her ball. She was a girl, it must be
owned, who would have enjoyed anything, and
been merry anywhere, provided that she had
people to laugh with, and chaff with, and flirt
in moderation — with. To wear a new dress,
and hear a ball-tune going, was more than
enough to raise her spirits under the severest
toothache or heartache she had ever known.
And so, since there was no help for it, and she
had been perforce deserted at a moment when
such desertion was most inopportune, she soon

bewail to feel that enough sisfhs had been expended,
and that although the evening was
shorn of its chief glory, there yet remained
abundance of attraction.

It was something now to remember that
Jem had never been enthusiastic on the subject;
at the best, every one must have seen
that for himself he did not care twopence
about the great event of the day, but was
going because they were going, — trying to
like what Mary liked, and not to be bored by
what gave her pleasure ; and such being the
case, and with the comfortable certainty that
any annoyance the good kind fellow might
now be feeling would be solely on her account,
the philosophic maid soon picked up her spirits,
and had scarce answered the last inquiry for
an absent Jem, before she was promising this
waltz, and that galop, and all the " extras " to
a present one.

11 But Mary's flirtations are always so very
open and above-boards' said Cecily Dobb, who
had eyes for all that went on. " Mary never

VOL. II. N

does really flirt, you know, at all, — she would
not know how, if she tried ; and that, I suppose,
is the reason she has gone and engaged
herself to that dreadful man Challoner. He
would frighten any ordinary girl out of her
senses, but Mary does not care how he looks at
her. Do hear her rattling on now ! That's
not flirting. None of those Tufnell girls have
the dreamless idea of what flirting is," continued
Miss Dobb, with conscious superiority.

The next minute it was, "Oh fie ! you
naughty creature, you ! Now Mary, I'll tell.
You throw over Captain James this very moment,
and promise to have no more to do with
him. What ! you won't ? Very well ; very
well. Papa is looking on, my dear. You
know what he will say to } t ou. Take care ;
beware, lady fair," laughing herself away.

But this was only Cecy Dobb's idea of being
agreeable to her guests. " Mary likes to have
it thought she is dangerous and mischievous,"
she said to herself ; and as for the whole charge,
it rested on absolute no foundation ; while

even if it had, papa, who certainly might have
objected to the sight of the obnoxious uniform
in conjunction with the nurse's black robe, was
far too much engrossed otherwise to have perceived
it.

This was his hour of relaxation and benisr-

o

city ; and surrounded as he was by mirth and
jollity, by a motley crowd of people, who were
not indeed for the most part strangers, but
worse — old friends with new faces, asses in
lions' skins, pusses in boots — it was too much
to expect that he should have time or attention
for anything but discoveries. Having
satisfied his curiosity on the score of Miss
Juliet Appleby, he now willingly subsided into
the pleased and amused spectator.

Mrs Tufnell also had her hands full. She
was perpetually being addressed by familiar
voices proceeding from unfamiliar lips ; she
heard the delighted laugh at her expense ; she
had to own to her bewilderment, then to excuse
it, then to join in merriment over it, then to
retail it ; she had to eat ices and drink champagne,

to take care that she spilt nothing over
her fine dress, to steal a sly peep at her head
in the glass when a chance offered — to take a
turn now and again round the rooms, to admire
the hangings and wonder at the space, and
consider if she could do anything of the kind
herself, supposing papa could be brought over
to it ; and lastly, she had to make herself
agreeable to the portly uncle of her hostess,
who had come from Manchester on purpose to
grace, by his august presence, the festivity, and
who was elected to the honour of escorting
Mrs Dobb's chief friend to the supper-table.
Thus for the worthy dame. Of the rest of
our party, all that remains to be said is that
Emily quite satisfied Herbert in her " Dolly
Warden," and Bertha admired herself in a
richer costume. No one was able to find any
fault either with their entertainers or entertainment
; and, indeed, when all was said and
done, and danced and eaten, the only shame
was, according to the banker's soft-hearted
wife, that nobody had thought more about

that poor dear who had been done out of
it all.

How the poor dear bore his disappointment,
and what he was about during the gay hours
when the Clinkton fiddlers were fiddling and
the Clinkton exquisite were footing it on the
floor, may now be told.

The light was just beginning to wane when
the train from London, which Challoner had
been able by good luck and punctuality to
catch, drew up at the station for Overton ; but
even before it stopped, his eye caught the
glitter of silver-tipped harness on the back of
a restive horse, and of the light-blue livery of
Lord Overton's groom bending forward from
the doo'cart, soothing and manaoioof.

No one else had come to meet him, but the
man was charged with excuses. Mr Edward
was so extremely busy he could not find the
time, — this was the correct message, — but
something else was added with a twinkle of
the eye, which showed how well William understood
the ways of his betters. "It washer

lad T ship who dissuaded Mr Edward, sir,
the roads being so bad with the frost, and the
mare only roughed this morning. She has not
been out these three days, sir, that's what
makes her cheerful like. Wo-ho, Jenny, then !
Mr Edward do go it when he comes this station-road,
sir ; he likes to come in with a dash ; and

in weather like this, there's no saying "

and he shook his head.

All well V said Mr Challoner, presently.

All quite well, sir. There's skating on the
ponds to-night, sir."

I suppose so. The night looks well, too.
The frost holds firm, I see."

Never saw it holding faster, sir. His lordship
is a rare good skater, Mr Challoner," continued
the man, who was quite at home with
Mr Challoner and full of his subject. " His
lordship is better than Mr Edward, although
Mr Edward flies about all over the place.
Both our gentlemen were out last night, sir."

Was — ah — any one else out % "

"No, sir; I think not, sir. There is no

one else at the Hall just now, sir. I think I
heard her ladyship was going to-night, though ;
Charles thought he heard so, at least. Her
ladyship does go out occasionally, but she has
not been this frost."

"Not at all?"

Not by night, sir."

She is waiting for me," said Challoner to
himself; "she promised that she would, and
she has kept her word. "Well, I have kept
mine : here I am. She has but to send forme,
and I am at her service. She has never
yet found me remiss, — I wonder if she ever
will."

It seemed as though he had been years
away, as one object after another, each bringing
up some remembrance, trifling enough in
itself, but inexpressibly dear to his impassioned
and excited memory, now rose to view. Here
they were at the cross-roads. There was the
broad row of beeches to the left ; there the
little wayside inn. What a brawling the half-frozen
brook made below the bridge ! — that

brook, whose treacherous banks had once given
way when he and Teddy and Matilda were
hunting ferns that grew among the nooks and
cliffs. He had held his fair companion up, and
she had had to cling to him, even while making
light of a possible catastrophe. But she
had worn a tuft of the ferns, which had like
to have cost so dear, as a shoulder-knot that
evening.

Then here was the stile whereon his lady
had so often rested while her escort gave the
dogs their dip, and from which she had once
fallen— yes, absolutely fallen — until her other
brother most luckily caught her in his arms,
so startled was she by his surprising her once
when thus left alone. It was only Overton —
the quiet, peaceable Overton — who had thus
broken in upon his sister's reverie ; but so lost
had she been in musings that she had shrieked
aloud, and Overton's laugh had rung through
the woods. "What had she been thinking off?

He was nearly as fully occupied by inward
reflections himself, when they came to the last

turning of the avenue, and had the first sight
of the Hall.

That, however, brought him back to the
present. In another few minutes he would be
there ; he would be running up the front
steps, be meeting Teddy — always first — be
seeing Overton in the background, and another

figure behind him No ; they were here !

Halloo ! halloo ! " he was hailed as he passed.

Stop, and let me out," said Mr Challoner,
very quietly. " Take on my things, will you ?
I see — Mr Edward — in the garden."

Here you are ! here you are ! " cried
Teddy's joyous voice from the shrubs. " How
are you ? " vaulting over the low gate between
them. " How are you ? Awfully glad you
could come. But I said I knew you would
come if you could. I was too busy to come to
the station. I have only just met Matilda
here. We were looking out for you."

How do you do ? " Lady Matilda had at
last succeeded in opening the gate for herself,
and came forward to do her part. " How do

you do ? " she said in rather a low voice, and
left all further inquiries and welcome to her
brother.

Deadly cold journey you must have
had," said he. " I would not have set foot
in a train to - day for any money. Beastly
things at the best of times ; and on a day like
this, when every time the door opens it lets

in a gale of wind that cuts like a knife

woo — ogh!" with a. shudder.

AVe had better come in and have some
tea," said Matilda.

Why, it's not time for it yet," exclaimed
Teddy. " What do you want tea so soon
for % Oh, for Challoner, of course. I beg
your pardon, Challoner ; what an ass I am !
But I forgot, and it is so early. Come in,
of course. Matilda and I were just taking
a turn round the garden, but we'll come in
now."

Don't come in for me."

Oh, you won't care to stop out."

But I do. I should prefer it."

"You must be cold, or something."

I am perfectly warm — hot ; I don't want
to go in at all."

Not for tea ? "

Not for any amount of tea. If Lady
Matilda " — lie was walking along by her side,
" if Lady Matilda — unless she — provided
she does not — does not mind."

Lady Matilda did not mind at all — had no
wishes — and quite preferred — anything. In
short, was to the full as coherent and sensible
as he.

Should they go up the laurustinus walk 1
The laurustinus was in blossom, and not
affected even by such a frost. It was several
years since there had been such a frost.

Then Teddy broke in afresh. " Won't we
have a night of it ? The ice is as smooth asa
mill-pond, and we have had every leaf and
twig picked off by the boys. We made the
little beggars work; they brooded away like
anything at the last. And we have got such
a fireplace, Challoner, — you should see our

fireplace ; it's all bricked in ; and Matilda is
sending down kettles, and pots, and pans, and
all kinds of things."

"You are going yourself?" inquired Challenger,
looking straight in front of him, but
there was no doubt as to whom the " you "
was meant for.

I— I think so." :

Going % Of course she's going : what is
to hinder her % " cried Teddy. " We have
been polishing up her skates, and oiling her
straps ; and, I say, I have got such a pair of
beauties. I wish," — stopping short — " I say,
I wish you would come in and see them."

"Thanks; presently. Are they like mine,
I wonder \ I must get mine out and give a
look to them before dinner. I have not had
them on yet, but "

Not had them on yet ! Why, we

have had two good days, and I made sure

that you up in the north have you not

been on at all yet ? "

Not at all."

Weren't they a skating lot you were with ? "
They were full of something else."
By Jove ! and skating in the question !
Hang me if I would let anything else get in
my way if there was ice to be had ! Where
did you get your skates ? Are they new
ones ? " He was well off the awkward topic
after his own easy fashion.

I took them out of a shop-window," said
Challoner, carelessly. " They are not much,
probably, but I took a fancy to them, and, as
it happened, they were just my fit. I had no
time to get my own from town, after receiving
your brother's letter."

No, we did not give you much time ; but
then we had to wait to see what the frost was
going to do. It would have made us look
rather small, if, after we had opt you to come,
there had been nothing to come for. Overton
said he would not have you written to till
yesterday. We half expected you yesterday,
but I suppose you did not get Overton's letter
in time ? "

I could not come yesterday," said Challenger,
earnestly, "much as I should have
liked it. Bat I was staying with people. I
could not leave them on quite so short a
notice. As it was, I had to take something
very like French leave, — you got my telegram
all right, I suppose ? " suddenly.

"Got it yesterday afternoon."

Ay, I sent it about three o'clock. Was
it here by four ? "

Was it, Matilda 1 But I forgot, you were
over at Endhill, and I was out too. You see
we did not know when it might come, and we
were half expecting you yourself, so I went to
see that the ponds were all right, and Matilda
to knock off the Endhills. She gets into
scrapes if she "

And you had a good evening's work last
night ? " said Challoner, who interrupted on
purpose, knowing that Matilda would be
grateful.

Good ? Good was not the word. It was
glorious ; I never saw it better ; I wish you

had been with us. There was such a jolly
moon — but it will be still better to-night."

I thought of you. I guessed what you
would be doing. I knew Lady Matilda was
lonirinsf for a frost

&

■"So were we all."

"And I wished I had been here to buckle
on her skates for her."

Well, you can to-night," said Teddy, with
philosophical resignation of the envied post.
This was a privilege he could bear to yield,
he thought. Putting on other people's skates
is not seductive to the fraternal mind.

Still Matilda kept silence. " Did you go ? "
said Challoner, turning at length direct to her.

And then, as he waited for a reply, and
there was no avoidance of it, and Teddy had
run on, and was calling loudly to his dog, in
the silence and shade of the deepest part of
the garden, she had to answer " No."

They did not go in for some time
after that. They sauntered up and down the
crisp paths, and soon the last red streak of

sun died out of the sky over the fir-tops, and
one little star after another came twinkling
into view, — and even then, instead of seeking
shelter within doors, the three wandered off
to the farm, and Challoner was shown the
latest acquisitions there ; and Matilda would
have him to the cow-house to see how much
her little heifer had grown in his three weeks'
absence, and then to the piggeries, to watch
the evening meal — the steaming buckets and
pails emptied into the big troughs, soon beset
by hungry applicants — while all the while
great empty waggons kept rumbling into the
yard, from taking turnips to the frost-bound
sheep in the fields, — and hens roosted, and
geese and ducks clustered closer and closer
together in their snug quarters for the night.

There was a rich unctuous odour pervading
all; there was a warmth and comfort and
plenty and peace about the old farmyard that
went straight home to Challoner's country
heart; and the contrast which the present
congenial company and surroundings presented

to the distasteful, and too often absolutely repugnant
scenes so recently quitted, transformed
him so fully for the time, made him so absolutely
another being, that those who had only
known the unfortunate lover under other auspices
would hardly have recognised the man.
His eyes burned, his cheek glowed, he talked,
laughed, jested, lingered, — and although, ever
since he had originally yielded to the dear
delights of Overton, he had been seen to
advantage there, he had never before, in his
mistress's eyes, seemed so worth the winning,
and so entirely won.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XXVII.

ALL FORGOTTEN BUT THE PRESENT.

' Thy dark eyes threw
Their soft persuasion on my brain,
Charming away its dream of pain."

—Shelley,

And now for the evening, the delightful evening,
which had been bought at so dear a price,
and for which Challoner now prepared in a
tumult of disordered and exultant feeling to
which every trifling incident and association
ministered.

He was here again, actually, incredibly here
aonin ; that was first and last and everything
for the moment. He had never really meant
to come ; no, certainly he had never meant it,
not during this past fortnight at least — not
since he had sat in Mr Tufnell's little room,

and heard him talk of Mary, and realised with
an awful blinding glare of realisation, that lie
had only been playing at freedom and folly
and happiness, and that he was in actual
deed a fettered, doomed captive. That half-hour,
following up the previous half amazement,
had for a while forced him back from
the flowery forbidden path to the hard, straight,
dry road ; but he had found that road too
barren for mortal man — or so he told himself
and the result was, Hurrah for Overton !
beautiful, bewitching Overton ! Every obstacle
had been surmounted, every scruple
and misgiving flung to the winds, and he was
here — here at last.

He looked about him with kindling ecstasy
when at length he was alone, and could draw
a breath and estimate his bliss. They had
given him his own old room, and as he drew
aside the curtain and pulled up the blind,
eater to o-aze once more across the broad
expanse of snowy upland, the moon rising
full and bright, illumined nearly every part

of the old-fashioned chamber, lit up the faded
hangings of the bed, and irradiated the
prints on the wall. How well he knew every
face and form in those prints ! He had had
time enough to study them inch by inch, and
to be sick to death of one and all during those
five days when he had been condemned to lie
in bed fretfully staring at any object which
was in front of him ; he had hated each severally
more than the other, as each in turn
engaged his irritated attention, — but now,
now they came back to him as ancient enemies
turned into beloved friends, chosen welcome
associates. The wall-paper, the bookcases,
the huge cumbrous arm-chairs, the very
brass fender and fire-irons that used to be
such nuisances, always clattering clown and
making his head ache when any one touched
them, and the legs of the writing-table, that
got into one's way at every turn, now seemed
to wonder that he could ever have regarded
them with any but the kindliest eye. The
blotting-book ? But no, it had ever been a

fiend ; no, it remained so ; he drew the line
there — he could not love it yet. But he
would not write to Mary on this visit at all
events : he was only here for such a very
short time. Of course he could not tell precisely
how long, but any way he should not
think about it for the next day or two. Let
the future be gone on this night of nights ; for
the present he was in paradise, and he would
not mar his paradise, no, not even in thought.

And Matilda was alone when he went downstairs
presently, and he walked straight up to
her in the firelight, and perhaps he told her
then — but no matter, they were not talking
at all when the brothers came in, but were
standing mutely together on the hearth-rug,
nor did either pay any special heed to the
remarks of the new-comers, while Matilda
took to busily placing with her own hands
great logs of wood on the fire ; and Challoner,
watching silently, seemed to forget to help
her.

They woke up by-and-by, however, and

were beard lightly laughing as they led the
way into the dining-room ; and the dinner-table
was bedecked for Christmas Eve with
holly and laurustinus, and a sly branch of
roisletoe, which no one saw of course, and
which two people at least could have done
without. But nothing could come much
amiss on such a night. Even a servant's
stupidity must be condoned, — poor simple
soul, he meant it well — and after all, what
was it ? By nine o'clock the moon was at
her height ; and though a few fleecy clouds
were scattered here and there beneath the
brilliant firmament, they scarce stirred in the
still atmosphere, and cast no shadow anywhere.
The ponds on which the ice had been
guarded and tended were about half a mile
from the house, on the edge of a long low
wood, one bank being nearly on a level with
the water, the other sloping swiftly upwards.
Three good-sized pools ran into one another
almost in a direct line; and a couple of islands
near the centre of the largest seemed to cut

it in two, and turn the three into four. It
was on one of these islets that the brick fireplace
had been constructed under Teddy's
auspices ; and as the time for using it arrived,
a fire was lit, and two or three servants were
despatched from the Hall, bearing kettles,
cans, pots, and other necessaries.

It was explained to Challoner, that it was
not entirely on their own account that so
much preparation was made.

"You must know' said Lady Matilda,
u that from time immemorial (that means
since / came back and made them do it)
Overton ponds have been free to all when
the ice bears (they are free, for that matter,
when it does not), only we make this proviso,
like the Cornish clergyman among the
wreckers, that we ' get down, and all start
fair.' We never really kept any one off till
last night ; but — we did last night."

We did," said Teddy. " By Jove ! we
had to keep our eyes open, too. The ice
would have been murdered."

How did you manage it ? "

Oh, we had it given out that there were to
be cakes and ale to-night, and every one who
put in an appearance yesterday was caught by
Charles. I say, look at the kettles. Matilda,
I should hope you have enough kettles, at all
events."

"Mrs Waddle herself bustled up to my
door just now to ask at what hour she should
send the second supplies."

What do the supplies consist of ? " inquired
Chat loner.

"Hot-pot, sausages, plum - pudding, roast
potatoes. Overton skating is very popular,
Mr Challoner."

I have no doubt it is, Lady Matilda."

Challoner's skates were not so perfect in
their mechanism as Teddy's ; but when it was
understood that they were the best he could
get, and that his own were better, but were
uncomfortable on the short notice given, all
were ready to find that they would do what
was wanted, and that too superior skates often

resulted in no skating. For instance, even
Teddy's latest acquisitions, new, glossy, and
spotless, — would they work as well as Over-ton's,
which had seen many a winter ? Teddy
had a business with the joints, to begin
with; and although he was very anxious to
display the working and prove their perfection,
and though every one was willing to
believe and ready to agree, his brother had
perhaps a shade more confidence in his timeworn
couple.

Then the little pair came under notice, and
Challoner took them at once into his keeping,
making fast the buckles across his arm, and
jingling his own, as though he liked to hear
the two in each other's company. He had a
gimlet ; he did not need to have one hunted
out for him.

"Well, you are a fellow," cried Teddy.
You have everything. How on earth did

rou remember to bring, a gimlet ? '

-

I knew we should want them."

Want them ? Of course. But we have lots."

There are never too many. While you
are putting on your skates, I might wish to be
putting on — your sister's."

Not your own, of course. And did you
get the gimlet at Clinkton too ? "

Yes." But he wished they had not known
the name of Clinkton so well. It almost
made him start when now and again Teddy —
for it was always Teddy — would burst outwith
Clinkton something or other ; he could
not help feeling that if — or when the news
should come, the very sound of Clinkton
would bring with it a terrible conviction.
He put on his thick greatcoat again, thoughtfully.


But thoughtfulness wore off, — everything
wore off except joyous anticipation and exhilaration
as the quartet set forth, Challoner
with the lady in front, the brothers' cigars
obliging them to keep a pace behind. "Just
for look's sake, not because Matilda minds,"
explained Teddy. " It does not do for people
to see," he added.

Challoner agreed, and would himself smoke
presently.

The crisp snow crackled beneath their feet
as they left the path and crossed the grass
towards the wood ; and a very short time
enabled the party to come within sight of
their destination.

Lots of people there," cried Teddy. " I
say, are they on \ " sharply. " No ; it is only
the servants crossing back and forwards to the
fire. Oh, I say, look at the fire ! And look
at the black figures round it ! Do you see
them, Challoner % " calling to him. " Do you
see the cannibals dancing round the blaze ?
Eh 7 ? Aren't they like that? Here are some
more coming along behind us," turning his

CD CD ' CD

head. " Who can they be, I wonder ? Three,
four, — four people. Oh, and I see a lot
more down there, along the Seaborongii road."

Don't speak so loud," his brother reminded
him ; " you forget how far the voice is carried
on a night like this."

They are far enough away. Who can they

be ? Matilda," running on to her — " Matilda,
who can those people be \ There are two
ladies. It can't be the Applebyss ? "
Challoner's heart jumped.
The Applebyss ? No ; I hardly think so,"
replied Matilda, all unconscious. " They would
not come without our sending word.' 7
And did you not send word 1 "

Oh, never mind, Teddy, I "

Do you mean to say you did not send

them word ? " he was pressing on by her side.
"Well, I never — I thought, of course, you
would send to them the first thing."

What for \ They are away, — some of them
at least are away. Juliet "

She was to come back to-day : you

know that quite well."

(then how could she be at the Clinkton
ball i " thought Challoner.)

She was not indeed, Teddy : that is to
say, I — I am quite sure she was not."

How can you be sure ? I am not sure,
and I know at least as much about the

Applebyss as you do. It was either to-day or

tomorrow she was to come "

Well, it was tomorrow then."

It was nothing of the sort. Oh, it was
too bad of you not to send. They will be
awfully hurt. They always ask us whenever
they have anything, and we have always
asked them too, before, — always. Why did
you not do it ? "

Matilda did not know — did not think —
did not really feel at all sure that it would T
have been — have been of any use. Marion
had a cold

Last Sunday ! " cried her brother.

Nearly a week ago ! "

It is not likely she would be fit to come
out at night yet."

You might have given her the option."

And Juliet away."

She is not away, I tell you. She is back
to-day, and we must get her somehow. I
wonder what we outfit to do. It is not too
late to send yet."

Oil, it is ; much, much too late."

Charles would be there in twenty minutes."


He would not be there under half an hour ;
certainly not under half an hour, I should say
three-quarters, even by the short cut."

Well, there would still be time."

Oh, Teddy, don't. Do let it be as it is.
Do let us be content with those we have.
There are plenty here," pleaded she ; " why
should we always have the Applebyss 1 "
(" Ay, why indeed ? " thought Challoner.)
The Applebyss are all very well," continued
the speaker ; " but Applebyss year after year,
morning, noon, and night, toujours Applebyss
I am beginning to be tired of it," cried
Lady Matilda, with sudden petulance. "Do,
for mercy's sake, let us have one evening, one
single solitary evening, without the Applebyss."

Well, I call it deuced unkind," muttered
Teddy. But Challoner w r as smiling.

Robert w T as quite concerned at my coming
out to-nio-ht ; " there had been a full minute's

pause, during which the last subject was felt
to be quite done away with, and Lady Matilda
had slipped her hand, by way of making
friends, under her ill-used brother's arm.
There had been a brisk advance for some
paces, ere she resumed, in a fresh tone suited
to a fresh topic, " Eobert was not at all sure
about it, I can tell you. He thought the
whole thing — ah — ' imprudent ' ; had he
spoken the word that was in his heart, he
would have said ' uncivilised.' I was over
there yesterday, and he had heard, as he
always does hear, of our intentions'
u They will not be here to-night, then ? "
They ? Eobert and Lotta ? Eobert turnout
at this unearthly hour, after he has arrayed
himself in his evening clothes, and brushed up
his evening hair, — and Lotta lay aside her
hemming and stitching, her fifteenth tuck that
she is putting into baby's frock ? And how
could they leave the house, you know ? Oh,
you have no idea what an affair of state it is
when the house has got to be left on the occasion

of a dinner-party, or some such festivity
of sufficient importance ! Robert will explain
to you with pleasure, if you ask him, the
nature of the precautions taken : how this door
is barred, and that bolted, and how all the
maids sit up ; and I am not sure if the baby
is not exhibited at each of the windows in
turn, by way of scaring the midnight robber.
But as for entering into all these solemn arrangements
for anything short of a real, actual,
tangible dinner-party, as for doing anything of
the kind for a mere piece of child's-play like
this, — oh, you surely do not suppose my sensible
son-in-law capable of such frivolity."

And I don't believe he can skate a hang,"
added Teddy.

They had now reached the ponds, round
which a considerable number of expectant people
had collected, and all the regret of young
Lessingham for the missing Applebyss instantly
vanished on finding their places so well supplied.
" Mrs Barnes, you here !" he cried, joyously,
to a farmer's rotund dame, who, warmly

wrapped and muffled, had come, nothing loath,
to see the sport ; " and Barnes is getting on
his skates. Holloa ! Johnson, I haven't seen
you since last frost, I believe. You came down
on purpose ? That's right. Fine night, Jem.
The ice is first-rate. Matilda," coming back
to her, " I say, Matilda, there are the Miss
Robinson ; do go and speak to them. They
are huddling together over there, and I daresay
they don't know whether to begin or not.
You had better go before you get on your
skates ; they will take it civil. Challoner,
come along and see the fire. Who is that
Overton has got hold of? Oh, the rector.
Oh, come, let us shake hands with the rector.
Awfully glad to see you, sir ; the ice is splendid
: I shall look you up presently to join in
some things. Now, then, Choler, — oh, here
come the Livingstonss, I'll bet anything" —
staring hard — " I'll bet any money that's the
Livingston girls getting over the fence now.
They are from Seaborough, that lot." Aside :
Matilda will not be over glad to see them;

VOL. II. P

and between you and me, it is rather cheeky.
They are the hotel-keeper's daughters, you
know, — that big hotel at this end of the town.
They had better have gone somewhere nearer
there ; but I hope Matilda won't be bad to
them. The poor girls like the fun, I suppose ;
and they are go-ahead skaters, though Matilda
says they do it vulgarly. They do sprawl
about rather ; and you should have seen how
one of them went on last year. That's the little
girl who was with them then, I do believe,"
watching intently. " Yes, I do believe it is ;
and she could hardly put one foot in front of
another ! Well, I hope she has improved. Oh,
by Jove ! here are the Germans. Oh, now you
will see some fun. Hie ! Mr Muller, this is the
best way," taking off his cap politely ; " let me
help Mrs Muller down the bank. There are
some benches along this way, and we have put
down a piece of carpet. My sister is here herself
to-night. She will be on directly."

"It is so very kind to have such nice place
kept," replied the German, gratefully. " Mrs

Miller and myself we cannot refrain to come.
We have walk all the distance. What a
beautiful night ! "

And you should see that little woman
going it ! n said Teddy, turning back to Challenger.
" They have walked here, walked
over two miles, and she will skate all night,
and walk back again, and think nothing of
it. She skates like anything, — out aud out
the best woman here. I say, we may as well
go on now : there is no need to wait longer :
I can keep a look-out if any more come. Let
us go to that bench."

I am waiting to help your sister."

What is she about ? Where has she
gone {

To the islands. She crossed a few minutes
ago : there she is now, between us and the
fire."

Ay, seeing to things. Perhaps some of
the folks would like a cup of tea or coffee
before they begin. The Millers would, I am
sure. I will tell Matilda "

"J will tell her," said Challoner. "They
are waiting for you to take the lead on the
ice. Look, all those people are ready, but
they don't like to take it on themselves to
start. You fire away, like a good fellow, and
I will look after the coffee."

We may begin now, I think," said Lord
Overton, coming up at the moment. " Where's
the gimlet, Ted % "

Well, I'm using it," said Teddy.

Here is mine," said Challoner. " I am
going to hand round cups for Lady Matilda ; "
and he departed.

Matilda, bright and busy as the rest, made
him useful at once. She was having eatables
and wrinkles handed round for all who
chose, and many non - performers, who had
been standing about for some little time, now
gathered round and received steaming cups
with due appreciation. Into the middle of
this row presently darted Teddy with a fresh
idea.

Have you seen the slide ? It is in that

corner. We have given them up that corner,
or else they would be a perfect nuisance, sliding
about everywhere. Hie ! all of you who
want to slide, there's the place."

I'll start them ! " cried Challoner, and
went down the slide like a schoolboy.

It was not till the sport was in full swing
that Matilda had, to all appearance, time for
more than a passing command for her knight.
She was too intent on hospitality, too desirous
of fulfilling her duties, too industrious ; but
the time came at last.

I will not say that longer was taken than
needed to put on those pretty little skates,
since every one knows that one cannot be
too careful on such a point, and that the
slightest carelessness may give rise to an
accident ; but undoubtedly no one could have
accused Mr Challoner of hurrying over his
task. And since, after all, the great thing
is to take pains and do the thing well, regardless
of time or trouble, why suggest that
he might have been a trifle quicker in his

movements? He was sharp enough about
putting on his own. New as they were to
him, he had them adjusted in a trice, and
was off, and by Matilda's side ere she had
been twice round the ponds ; and, truth to
tell, from that moment they were seldom
apart for the remainder of the evening.

Happily he was not enough of a proficient
to be of value to the brothers, who were performing
feats in company with the rector, and
who had at least the merit of doing what they
did with skill and grace, and of not attempting
more than they could accomplish. Challoner
found Lady Matilda's powers, he vowed, quite
enough for him. Figures she did not attempt ;
but with what marvellous ease and delicacy of
motion she glided hither and thither, — how
quietly, with what elegance !

Why, yes," said Overton, to whom a remark
was hazarded ; " yes, Matilda skates
like a lady. I like it myself; but she cannot
do anything, you know — she cannot even
go backwards. There is little Mrs Miller — I

wish you had been over there just now, she
was making circles most wonderfully, most
beautifully," — the quiet Overton was quite
warm ; "I have never seen anything more
perfect," he ran on enthusiastically. " And
her long backward curve, it is something to
watch. Her husband is the queerest object.
Look, there he goes. Round and round like
a mad creature. Did you ever see such a
swing as he has got on now ? If he came
across anything in the shadow over there, it
would be a bad look-out. Always one foot
high in front of the other : and those turned-up
skates ! There he goes — there he goes.
Have you noticed him ? But he enjoys himself,
and that is everything. As for his wife,
it is a treat to see her."

Is that Mrs Miller you are speaking of ? "
said Teddy, joining them. Matilda had sat
down for a moment. " Mrs Miller is in first-rate
form to-night. I have been going round
with her ; did you see us \ We passed you
and Matilda just now," to Challoner.

"Your sister's skating is perfect, to my
mind' said Challoner. He felt as if lie must
say it.

Matilda \ Oh, she goes neatly enough.
She ought to strike out more though ; she
ought to get on more swing "

She would spoil all if she did. Look

at her now," as the slight dark figure was seen
gliding towards them ; " there is not a movement
perceptible, she seems to float, to steal
along involuntarily ; it is the very poetry of
motion," — he stopped, deeply colouring in the
darkness, and wishing he had held his tongue ;
the words had burned his lips. But whether
or not any one else noticed, he could not tell ;
they both turned to Matilda, and she was herself
the one to speak.

"Do you hear the bells? Listen to the
bells. Had it not been for this calm still
night they would not have been carried sofar
as here. Hark ! how loud and sweet they
sound ! "

"They are from Westward, Lady Matilda,'-'

said the rector, coming up. " There are two
more bells added to the peal, and that is how
you notice them. I don't think I ever remember
hearing the chime before from the
ponds."

"They are in honour of Challoner," said
Teddy, with a laugh. Everything, he vowed,
was in honour of Challoner. On his account
the ice was better, the night was brighter, the
people merrier, the attendance larger, and the
sport kept up later, than it had ever been
before. But for him the evening would never
have been half what it was. If he had not
come, it would have spoilt all.

Yes, indeed, Mr Challoner is very lucky,"
began the rector.

But his young friend laughed again. " It
is we, not he — ive are lucky. We just hit him
off — sent for him at the right moment, and
scored A 1," cried the young man, wheeling
round and round the circle in little flights of
exultation. "Now you see how neat the
whole thing was, and what jolly fun we are

having. Could anything be better? Behave

nothing left to wish for "

"Not even the Applebyss?" from

Matilda.

Bother the Appleby s ! " cried Teddy, quite
heartily.

And how did Challoner feel under such
heartiness, such warmth % It needed all his
recklessness, all his effrontery, and all his passion
to master at moments like this the desperate
sense of shame and self-loathing evoked
by the unwitting tormentor ; it needed all the
fumes of a new intoxication to stifle the baleful
remembrance. He would have to go off
alone with Matilda, to listen and look, and
stun again with such narcotics the throbbing
reawakened nerve ; and he did. And then

he was laughing more gaily, striking

out more boldly, to all appearance enjoying
the scene more thoroughly, than any.

At length the feast and the fray alike drew
near an end. People cannot absolutely skate
on for ever ; and though it might have seemed

as though the charming Mrs Muller would
never have tired making more and more faultless
curves, and as if the Miss Livingstonss
were inexhaustible in their wild excursions
while the timid were growing ever more
venturesome, and the stately had unbent,
and the bystanders had disappeared, and none
remained but the hardy and the indefatigable,
— the time at length did come when
even these proved themselves human.

Challoner, who had been despatched to
attend to some of the departures, returned to
find Matilda quietly resting on a fallen tree
by the side.

"You are tired at last \ " he said, sitting
down beside her.

Tired at last. Yet as long as I was on
the wing, I really could not have supposed it.
It is only when one sits down that one feels ita
little difficult to get up again."

I hope you have not done too much \ "

You shall see. To-morrow I will do it
all over again."

"To-morrow?" said Challoner, dreamily —
To-morrow? "

He did not feel, he knew, that there would
never be such a tomorrow for him. A cold
touch seemed to be laid on his heart — a deadly
chill, a mocking foreboding. No ; whatever
the morrow might bring of good or evil, he
should never again, by Matilda's side, skim
the frozen pools of Overton Hall ; never

again

Did you speak ? " he said, hurriedly.

She had : had inquired the hour, had remarked
upon the gradual lessening of their
number, on several other things ; and he had
heard as though he heard not, but had at
length burst forth into one long, deep, irrepressible
sigh, so spontaneous, so sad, so full
of tender significance, that now, feeling the
moment almost too much for her, and at a
loss how to bear her part in it, she was begging
him to rise and lend his aid in enabling
her to do the same. From the lowness of her
seat she was unable to get up without a helping

hand ; and as she spoke she put out her
own.

Challoner, still half asleep, held it — hung
over it — kissed it. He scarcely knew what
he was doing ; that is all that can be said for
him. He had a dim idea of taking leave of
some fair scene, and of letting it go with a
dull anguish which the presumptuous deed
would soothe. It was not until aroused by
the hasty withdrawal — or would-be withdrawal
— of the little outraged member, and
by the movement, which could be but a movement
— for she could not really stir or turn, so
unfortunately happy had been the moment
chosen, — it was not until then, that he started
to feel how deeply he had plunged. That
sense was all that was needed. Like a spur,
it drove him on. Again he caught the hand ;
how soft and warm it felt — bare, gloveless —
between his ! he held it fast, and lifted his
head with sullen determination.

"I shall not let this go," he said. " I—
can't. See now, I "

Here they are ! here they are ! " cried a
jubilant voice, as Teddy, radiant as ever,
emerged from the darkness. " We thought
you had given us the slip, you two ; and Over-ton
and I were just going off, when I said I
would take one more look round. You had
hid yourselves pretty nicely, I must say — right
in the shadow over here. Well, now, are you
ready to come ? "

Challoner was already raising his companion,
and steadying her on the glassy surface.

I suppose they are all gone % " he said.

Every man Jack of them, Livingstonss and
all. They were the last. They want to come
tomorrow," with a slight air of apprehension.

No response.

I say, Matilda, the Livingstonss want to
come tomorrow."

But still he met with no answer, no objection,
no demur. It seemed as if either Challenger's
dim foreboding of "tomorrow" had
fallen on Matilda also, or that she could not
see, nor think, nor feel beyond to-night. She

was wondering, almost weeping, — and all the
time he was holding her hand.

Thus, under cover of the night, they crossed
the ice together ; and as he knelt before her
ere they quitted the spot, performing again
the service so delightful to a lover's heart, his
lips transgressed again. No one saw ; she
only felt ; they both alone knew.

And this was at the very moment that dear
excellent Mrs Tufnell felt it to be nothing
short of a sin and a shame that they should
have all enjoyed themselves so much when
that poor dear had been done out of it all !

CHAPTER XXVIII.

A BAD HYPOCRITE.

'Tis not my talent to conceal my thoughts,
Or carry smiles and sunshine in my face
When discontent sits heavy at my heart."

—Addison.

What am I think — what am I to think ? "

Lady Matilda had dismissed her maid, and
was musing over her fire ere she went to bed
upon the Christmas Eve whereof so much has
already been narrated.

What am I to think ? " was the refrain of
all her puzzled, happy, foolish thoughts. In
reality she imagined she knew very well what
to think ; but somehow it pleased her to
be perplexed and discomposed, and affectedly
vexed, and secretly more charmed with Challenger
than ever. Bold, heartless, presuming

man — craven caitiff — to dare so much, to stop
so short ; villain — coward — by turns she flouted
him for this, by turns for that : in very truth
she had never thought aught became him better
than those extremes of presumption and
modesty, those alternations betwixt forwardness
and backsliding. She had heard his
breathing short and thick, had caught the
broken whisper, marked the catch in the throat,
and felt the clasp of the hand. She had seen
the revulsion, the struggle, the resolution
growing apace ; and then what the humility
of the man doubtless termed the hold regained
over his runaway passions, but which she, so
superior in her knowledge of all, and contempt
of all, scouted as the unwelcome and unnecessary
and tiresome and provoking voice of an
inward mentor, who ought by this time to
have had his mouth stopped.

Really I can show him no more plainly
than I do," mused she, half sighing, half smiling
; " really, my dear Mr Challoner, it is very
pretty to see you look so lugubrious, and very

VOL. II. Q

touching and pathetic to hear your voice
tremble and shake, and to watch you force
down your throat again the kind words and
accents that will come up when poor Matilda
is by. He is in love — I'd stake every womanly
power I have, the man is in love. He
does all that he can do, he says all that he can
say, short of the thing, the one thing. Opportunities
? He has had hosts of opportunities ;
he has opportunities at every turn ; this whole
evening was one long opportunity. Were we
not together, always together, often alone together
\ He never left me for above a few
minutes at a time, and then only when I sent
him. I seat him for the pleasure of seeing
him return. I could not discover so obscure
a nook to fly to, but what he would track me
instantly and follow ; I could not be tired but
he would rest too. And then he held my
hand, and kissed it twice. Yes, he kissed it
just here, and held the place afterwards.
What right had he to hold it and yet not a
word, not a single word ? Oh," with a burst,

I like his silence — I love his silence. His
silence is more, a thousand times more to me
than any other man's speech. He shall be
silent, silent as the grave, silent for evermore,
if so he pleases, once he has spoken out. Poor
man," mocking, " poor — dear — blind man.
Matilda is too good for you, is she ? Too
beautiful, too rich, too highly born ? Oh
dear, yes, she is all that, we know very well ;
but stop a little, my friend, you will find she
is too clever also. You are not clever, Mr
Challoner — not particularly clever, at least ;
and certainly you are not beautiful, and probably
you are not rich. I wonder what you

are, or why I Pshaw ! you shall speak,

sir ; I say you shall. You have no right now
to hold your tongue, and hang your head, and
put your finger in your mouth like a baby.
Baby % It is I that am the baby to let him
play with me thus. He sees, he knows his
power, and abuses it. He shall not, he shall
not," excitedly. " I — oh, if I can but preserve
this bold heart when I am with him, if I can

I

but keep a merry heart and tongue, and cheat
him with my face. Let me see, — can it be
that I have been too soft and yielding \ Perhaps
I have. Then how remedy the damage ?
Coquet with another ? But there is no one
else to coquet with except Eobert, and one
might as well dance round a tombstone. No,
no ; no coquetting. No ; I must be all in all
to myself and by myself. I will amuse myself,
be good friends with myself, and have no
need of any one but myself. I will send the
gentlemen about their business. It will be fit
for them to go out of doors tomorrow ; but it
shall be too cold, or too wet, or too early, or
too late, or too anything, for me. They will
have to excuse me. Then I will — shall I have
a headache % But a headache of that kind is
missis and vulgar ; headache is unbecoming,
too, and troublesome to manage. So I will be
just myself — myself as I am when this wicked
Jem Challoner is not by; a much better self
in reality than the self that appears for him, —
a silly subdued shadow of the real Matilda.

What can he see in her to fancy, I wonder \
But these mild soft - eyed impostors, these
abominable hypocritical make-believes of men,
one never knows what they do not see. Well,
Mr Challoner, you have done so well that you
deserve to do better still ; and so, to bed,
Matilda, my dear," gaily saluting the mirror
as she passed. " Good night, my poor, little,
ill-used, tormented, tantalised Matilda, — enter
tomorrow morning, Her Ladyship."

And accordingly her ladyship drew up her
long neck like a swan when she received Mr
Challoner's morning greeting, received it gently
and gracefully as usual, including all in her
Christmas greeting and good-wishes ; but the
guest, who was himself rather pale, since even
the cold night air and late exercise had failed
to procure him more than a short portion of
hurried feverish sleep, Challoner noticed that
she did not meet his eager eye, and answered
but lightly his earnest inquiries.

She was almost as much occupied about the
non arrival of the post-boy as he was, and

surely with, not half so good a cause. The
news from the outer world could mean nothing
to her, wrapped as she was and must be in the
one thought ; but for him it was different, —
his was fear, and fear he must. He breathed
again when it was made known that the mails
had been delayed, and no one could say when
they might arrive : a heavy snowstorm had
set in in the north.

Then Teddy proposed the ice again, but
Matilda excused herself on the plea of fatigue ;
and though she resisted, on the same ground,
the allurements of the billiard-room, the insensate
one for whom the whole ridiculous
little pretence was got up, saw nothing amiss ;
it was not to be expected that she should beat
their beck and call (as Teddy seemed to
expect), and he had the whole day before him.
Off he went to the kennels with the brothers
for the morning cigar ; and Lady Matilda,
looking after them, felt that she had done
nothing, that she never could do anything
steadily and resolutely against Challoner. She

laughed at herself, and longed for a chance of
undoing the little she had attempted.

It came after a time : an hour or two later
the billiard-balls were heard going, and the
post came in.

"Oh, Teddy, what do you think?" cried
Matilda, entering the billiard-room with an
open letter in her hand. " The bag has just
come ; there is nothing for you, Mr Challoner,"
in p ar synthesis. " What do you think,
Teddy ? This is from Marion Appleby " (Challenger,
whose stroke it was, lifted his cue, and
took position ; naturally Marion Appleby's
note could not concern him); " she has just
heard from the people Juliet is with; — you
know I told you Juliet was still away, and
you would not believe me "

"Weill" said Teddy, watching his

opponent's deliberate aim, and on this account
only half interested even in his dear Applebyss,
" well ? What about Juliet ? "

Oh, poor Juliet, I am so sorry for her !
they have only just heard, and sent this note

to tell us. Poor Juliet has taken smallpox."


The cue slid along Challoner's finger, and a
brilliant winning hazard was followed by an
almost impossible cannon.

Bravo ! " cried Lady Matilda, looking
round with a smile. " Bravo ! " And then
she whispered to herself that the very sound
of her voice sent the blood to her lover's cheek
and the light to his eye. He did not seek a
fresh position, nor follow up the run ; he left
his place and came towards her, as though
drawn by a magnet : and when she asked
why he did not go on, laughed and had no
answer.

Teddy, however, was full of the Applebyss
again. He wanted to know everything, to
see the note, to hear what was going to be
done, who was going to nurse the sufferer ?
Whereat Challoner turned away again, for he
had not thought of that.

"We must call and inquire' wound up
young Lessingham, profoundly.

I can write, which will be better," corrected
his sister. " I shall send a note of
sympathy at once."

Ay, very well ; send a note if you like.
But we must call and inquire, all the same.
We must call this afternoon."

And inquire — for whom ? "

For Juliet, of course."

"But they can know nothing more yet.
We know as much as they do at present.
There has only been a telegram "

And surely a telegram is enough ? I do
wonder at you, Matilda ; you never think of
things unless I remind you. You would let
poor Juliet be as ill as she could be without
ever calling to inquire, just because the news
came by telegram. I suppose it is all because
you don't want to go."

I do not want to go, certainly ; but," relenting,
"but, my dear Ted, I will go, if you
wish it. We will all go. We can walk over
after luncheon. Will you come, Mr Challoner?
Unless, indeed, you would prefer Of

course, Overton never makes afternoon calls,
so do not feel yourself the least obliged."

Not at all. I do not feel in the least
obliged!'

And you will just please yourself ? "
And I shall — just please myself."
She understood : and the glance he received
was so arch, so sweet, so apprehensive, that
the speaker threw down his cue, with " I am
for Matilda, for Matilda before all the world,"
blazoned unmistakably in his eye and on his
brow. She turned to depart.

Aren't you going on ? " cried poor Teddy,
who saw himself about to be left without an
antagonist.

My dear fellow, your sister wants me,"
drawled his friend over his shoulder. " She
told me to ' please myself and this is how I
please myself,' " aside to her. " We are going
to have some music, aren't we ? Give you
your revenge before dinner, Ted," following
Matilda from the room. " Don't think you
were going to win, my dear boy."

You have the devil's own luck in everything,
I do believe," was the rejoinder, but it
was spoken to empty walls. Teddy was alone,
he was deserted ; for the first time in his life
he felt angry with Challoner, and that anger
was not without fruits in the evil day to
come.

HOPE AGAIN.

Hope, without action, is a barren undoer."

Pelham.

' And all my days are trances,
And all my nightly dreams
Are where thy dark eye glances,
And where thy footstep gleams."

E. A. Poe.

We left poor Teddy Lessingham disconsolately
knocking about the billiard-balls, in full possession
of which he had been left by the desertion
of the faithless Challoner ; and heartily
did he wish, as many another has wished
before him, that the damaging strokes and
brilliant runs which came so easy when no
one was by, and when no game was on, would
sometimes fall to his lot when they could be
of any real value. He never could make head

against an enemy — he could always win by
himself. Just now, when his mind was full of
Challoner and Matilda, and, moreover, of poor
sick Juliet Appleby, he played like one possessed
by the very genius of the game ; he
really wondered at himself; and insensibly
grew colloquial and profound, as Tedcly always
did when under a soothing influence.

Well, now, they will take it ,very civil of
us to go over to the Applebyss' this afternoon
they will think it quite the right thing;
and if only Matilda and I could have gone
alone — but I suppose we could hardly do that.
Anyway, I shall take the flower out of my
button-hole " — he had put in a Christmas rose
" it would not look at all correct to be calling
to inquire after poor Juliet with a flower
in my button-hole. Challoner may keep his
in — I daresay he will. Let him — the Applebyss
are nothing to him; it was all very fine his
looking so concerned and all that just now;
he put it on to please Matilda — and, of course,
he is quite right to please Matilda — but he

can't take me in. Too sharp for that dodge, I
am. AVell, now, I am glad I thought about
calling, anyway; and I must take care that
they know it was I who thought of it. I
wish there was something else I could do. I
must ask Mrs Appleby or Marion if there is
not anything. Marion will put me up to it
if there is. Matilda is no good on an occasion
of this sort : she is flighty — that's why.
There," having succeeded at last in extracting
the rose — " there, Matilda would never have
thought of that. I do believe now that if
Eobert were to die, she would go to inquire
for him with a whole peacock's tail waving
from her hat. Unless I caught her, that is the
very thing she would go and do."

At luncheon lie was full of the same reflections,
and ready to communicate such as he
deemed fit. " I hope the Applebyss will be in,"
he said, taking jelly with his venison.

You are going to the Applebyss' ? " said
Overton. " Oh ! it will snow, you know."

So I have thought all the morning," Challenger

agreed with him. " Lady Matilda thinks
otherwise ; she has made up her mind to have
another night on the ice."

There will be no skating to-night, or I am
mistaken," replied Lord Overton, who was a
student of weather. " I have had my walk ;
I went out early, to make sure ; but if you are
only going as far as the Applebyss', a little
snow will not matter. Are you going to
invite them here, or anything ? "

Invite them here ! Good gracious ! have
you not heard — not heard about poor Juliet ? "
gasped Teddy.

Eh ? About Juliet ? Oh yes, poor

Juliet. I am very sorry," said his brother.
Bread, please," to the footman.

Ton my word, you take it coolly," rejoined
Teddy, now really aggrieved. " How
would you like to have small-pox yourself, I
w r under 1 Small-pox ! just fancy ! It is about
the beastliest thing anybody can have, and I
don't suppose you are even going to inquire,
or — or anything," looking down at his unadorned

coat ; " neither you nor Challoner
care a bit," resentfully.

"Dear Teddy, it will do if we take Over-ton's
card," put in Lady Matilda, a shade of
anxiety in her tone and look, for she knew
how rapidly the horizon might be overcast
were an impending storm not averted at the
outset. "We can take Overton's card; he
never does call anywhere, you know."

Take my card, by all means, if you can
find one," said Overton ; " I wonder where
they are ? I have not seen any since "

My dear man, I have them ; Mr Challoner
will think us dreadful barbarians," cried Matilda,
laughing to their guest ; " we really
have not much manners among us, Mr Challenger
"

What on earth do you mean % " burst

forth Teddy in his angriest voice

I am afraid he is not going to be good,"
said Matilda, following Overton apart presently.
"I am rather afraid of Teddy to-day.
It is the reaction after last night ; you know

how little lie can stand, and anything the
least out of his usual way always tells upon
him. He did too much last nio-ht, and was
over-excited and over-heated; to-day he is
feeling out of sorts in consequence. Poor
dear boy ! I do hope, I do trust," apprehensively
— " Overton, what shall we do if he has
one of his bad turns now ? It would be so
very, so particularly unfortunate."

I think," replied he quietly, " you had
better not take him with you this afternoon."

Not take him to the Applebyss' ! My dear
Overton, it was he who proposed going. It is
his own especial expedition. Nothing would
induce him to stay behind."

Then you had better leave Challoner."

She was silent.

I really mean it," said Overton.

But— I don t understand."

Yes ; I think you do. Now, take my
advice; leave behind one or the other. If
Teddy will not stay, make Challoner."

And suppose he wont be made ? "

VOL. II. R

Then you must stay yourself."

That, however, was not to be borne. The
walk was just what she wanted, and just
what she knew Challoner wanted ; and whatever
Overton might hint about Teddy's jealousy
— she supposed that was what he meant
well, surely she could manage her own
Teddy. She had done so hitherto with consummate
success. Only on one occasion during
Challoner's first visit had any ill feeling
ever broken out in public, though none knew
better than herself how often ft had had to
be charmed away in private, and how many
fond words, attentions, and consolations had
gone to keeping her poor boy in that mind
towards his friend, which made him still
think Matilda's lover the best of fellows and
good companions. That a mood was now
imminent, and that it would require care,
tact, and patience on her part to avert it,
was plain ; but, alas ! Teddy was now no
longer the first. For his sake she knew she
ought to have stayed at home. She ought

not, for any pleasure of her own, to have
run the risk of rousing farther his already
disturbed emotions and suspicions ; but Challenger
wished her to go — and she went.

Overton came to the door to see the party
start. He showed no displeasure at having had
his advice disregarded ; indeed he felt none.
In the depths of his heart he was strangely
touched and moved by this very disobedience
and pertinacity on the part of one who usually
was only too ready to fall in w T with his slightest
suggestion directly anything was wrong with
their common charge : and there was an almost
visible tenderness and wistfulness in his look
and voice, as he stepped forward to his sister's
side and saw how the other side was claimed.
Alas there anything he could do for her \ —
any way in which he could help her ?

Take care of her, Challoner ; take care of
her," he said again and again, and involuntarily
his hand pressed Matilda s arm as he spoke ;
then, as if afraid of having betrayed his inward
thoughts by such earnestness, "I do not like

the look of the day. The clouds are banking
up in the north. There will be a heavy snowstorm
before long, and the snow will lie when
it falls."

Ha ! " cried Challoner, exultation in his
tone. " Snow, do you say ? Three feet of
snow round Overton Hall ! I, for one, wish
for no better luck." He was in spirits so gay,
and monopolised the conversation so entirely,
that the ill-fated third person, to whom neither
query nor response was made, and who would
not laugh at jests with which he had nothing
to do, found fresh fault with his companions
and their society at every step. What an
abominable afternoon it had turned out ! How
infernally dark the sky was ! What a devil
of a state the roads were in ! Well knowing
what such language meant, and why expressions
were thus made use of, which she had
loner a^o forbidden, and which had in consequence
dropped out of Teddy's vocabulary, and
were never heard except as birds of evil omen,
Matilda could but turn a deaf ear and give

herself more and more to Challoner as the
walk went on. It was no time to speak to
Teddy now ; not by the gentlest whisper durst
she risk an outbreak, and she would not, even
to herself, allow that she had been to blame in
bringing about the situation. No, she had not
been to blame ; a brother must sometimes goto
the wall ; she had but few pleasures, and
this — this was more than any mere passing
enjoyment; it meant — who could say what it
might not mean \ Challoner had asked her to
go, and at such a time she could not afford to
refuse his slightest request, nor seem to disregard
anything that was to him a subject for
hope or fear. Was he not already enough
troubled with misgivings ? She read that in
his eye and voice, which made every trifle of
importance ; the anxiety he could not hide, the
agitation, the tremor, the one thought of his
breast, which was at length become too dominant
for any effort to conceal it, all wrought in
her a kindred emotion, and an indifference to
aught beside what passed between them two.

And this indifference was dreadful to poor
Teddy, dimly as he might perceive it. He
felt that something was wrong ; he was, as
Matilda had said, out of sorts, the reaction
from two days' severe exercise and turbulent
jollity ; and what he would now have liked to
have done more than anything would have
been to have taken himself off then and there,
and left the all-engrossed pair to themselves
for the rest of the way. Nothing but the difficulty
of presenting himself at the Applebyss'
door all alone — he who never went anywhere
alone — prevented this : that staggered him ;
no, he could not do that.

Yet how he wished he could. To see
Challoner walking backwards over every inch
of frozen puddle in order to hold both
Matilda's hands and guide her steps — to see
him taking out his pocket-handkerchief to
wipe every stile she had to cross, lest even the
skirts of her dress should be touched by the
powder of frost which lay crisp on the top bar,
it was too ridiculous, — Matilda, who did not

care where she went, nor what a state her
petticoats were in when she was out alone
with him on a wintry scramble like this.
He wished Challoner had only beheld her
when she came home from Uphill, two days
before.

Pooh ! what is all the fuss about ? " he
protested crossly, being indeed driven to his
wits' end, when a slippery ditch being in the
way — a ditch that he knew Matilda could
have cleared like a deer had she chosen — she
must needs be drawn delicately across with
many a little cry of alarm and need of
encouragement and support at every step.
ind he had himself her muff given him to
hold, and must perforce stand by with his
disgusted face, quite unobserved and uncommented
upon, while all this went on !

It's a deuced pity you came' he averred
at length, looking the helpless lady straight in
the face ; and as the colour rose in her cheek,
he knew he had hurt her at last.

That was something, but unhappily it did

not do all that it was intended; it might
silence for the moment, it might cast a passing
shadow, but Challoner with a lover's sympathy
was soon able by a lover's wiles to soften
every blow that had not been of his own
giving, and all went on as before. Poor
Teddy, he was very powerless ; he tried to
make himself disagreeable, and no one found
it out ; he would fain have made himself
scarce, but that would have been cutting his
own throat. As it was, however, he bounced
out of sight whenever and wherever he could;
now running across a field wherein was a
pond whose ice might be superior to their
own ; now taking a turn round by a farm to
have a word with the farmer whom he espied
in the background ; now hailing a labourer
going past with a waggon, — anything and
everything to force himself into notice, and
be, if only in tormenting, of consequence.
What was it to him that Matilda had to wait
on the bleakest point of the common while he
explored a rat-hole, and why should he care

whether she " thought she had lost him " or
not, when he disappeared for so long behind
Luke Hatfield's farm-buildings ? She would
be willing enough to " lose " him ; and if it
were not for the Appleby s — and the poor
fellow's heart swelled within him.

Once within the Applebyss' door, however,
there was an improvement : here he was on
his own ground, here he was always made
much of; and after the privations of the way,
it was something to be still some one anywhere.


He had fallen from his high estate with
Matilda ; was it not only too probable that he
had fallen for evermore ? If it had only been
a temporary thing, a piece of womanish nonsense,
Matilda had now and again been
ridiculous before, but she had always come
quickly and gladly back to her Teddy, laughing
at herself, and making merry at her own
expense ; but now — now, — and he shook his
head angrily and miserably. How easy it had
been to say, " You must marry again," when

no marrying again seemed ever likely to come
to pass ; but how detestable and ominous
sounded his own advice in his own ears now !
His heart was sore, and had been sore for
exactly four hours, — ever since twelve o'clock,
in short, when he and billiards had been
thrown over for love and Matilda ; that had
opened his eyes at last, and the only wonder
was, as every one will perceive, that they had
not been opened long before.

In Mrs Appleby's drawing-room, however,
the young visitor was urbanity itself. " I
can't tell you how sorry we were," he said :
it took us quite by surprise ; I assure you it
did — quite by surprise. We had no idea of
such a thing ; and when Marion's note came
in, Matilda was so astonished — you can't
think how astonished she was. We wondered
what it was about, you know ; and then we
said — / said, we must come and inquire at
once."

"So kind," replied Mrs Appleby, a faded

prototype of what Juliet would certainly become.
" Lady Matilda is always so kind.
Directly the sad news came, we sent to let

her know, because we felt so sure "

"Mr Challoner has just come from

Clinkton," said Lady Matilda, sympathetically;
he only came yesterday."

Indeed ! From Clinkton ? And did you
see my daughter, sir \ " turning to him. " She
was often in the town, I believe, though our
friends, the Windlasses, with whom she is
staying — and where she has been taken ill,
poor child — live four or five miles out in the
country'

I saw Miss Appleby once or twice, but she
did not see me' replied he. " Clinkton is a
large place, and," he drew near to Mrs Appleby,
as Lady Matilda stepped aside with Marion,
we were in different circles. She did not
mention me, I suppose ? "

Not that I remember. Marion," but
Marion did not hear.

What a view you have from this window
! " cried Challoner, " what an extent of
country ! "

"Very pretty; but' said Mrs Appleby,

possessed of but one idea for the time —
but you were speaking of Clinkton. Do
you know Clinkton well ? Do you know
the Windlasses ? Had you heard about the
fancy ball ? "

Had he not ? He had heard of little
else.

"Well, she had been going to that," proceeded
his hostess, reading an affirmative in
his face, "and a very smart ball it was, I
fancy," with the usual habit of making the
most of anything at a distance ; " a very
smart ball, and my poor Juliet would have
much enjoyed it. But only yesterday, — and
the ball was last night, you know "

Did she o;o '] " demanded Challoner,

suddenly.

Dear me ! no, Mr Challoner ; how could

she £0 when she was lying ill of the smallpox
? She was taken ill only a few hours
before, though I daresay we shall hear presently,
when the post conies in, that "

u How very unlucky ! " He was listening
with all ears to Lady Matilda now, and Mrs
Appleby lost him from that moment.

"You will not surely go yourself?" Lady
Matilda was saying.

I shall indeed, — at least I should, if only
mamma would allow me. But she will not.
Neither she nor papa will hear of it."

"And they are quite right, Marion." And
then followed reason and argument, encouragement
and consolation.

And now you wall just stay with a quiet
mind," concluded Matilda, rising. " Promise
that you will, dear."

(" With a quiet mind, or not," said Challenger,
sardonically to himself. " I do not
insist on that adjunct at all, my dear Miss
Appleby. Only be good enough to stay, and

I leave it entirely to you to regulate the
quietude of your mind')

He had learned all he wanted to know, and
nothing had been said that he did not wish to
hear. Now he did not care how soon the visit
came to a close. Juliet powerless, her family
ignorant, Marion prevented going, the Windlasses
prevented telling, — he could scarcely
believe his own ears, as one thing after another
dropped out, as if to strengthen his temptation,
and make him more and more secure on
the edge of his precipice ; for so entirely had
his fears of late centred on the Appleby family,
or, at least, on one member of it, that, thus
unexpectedly relieved, it almost seemed as
if he could be assailed from no other quarter.
Ob, something might, could, should yet be
dared and done ! Hope was again desperately
rearing its unabashed front.

Mr Challoner, you have been standing in
that cold corner for ever so long," said Mrs
Appleby's languid voice from the sofa. " Do

come nearer the fire ; do, Marion, dear, poke
up the fire. Oh, thank you," to Teddy, who
seized the poker. " So good of you all to
come out in such weather."

The most glorious weather, my dear Mrs
Appleby. I wish you had been with us last
night," cried Matilda, coming forward ; and as
she did so, and then seated herself at the invalid's
feet, for the few civilities preparatory
to departure, her brother seized his opportunity.


Marion — I say, Marion, I wish you would
tell me if there is anything I can do," said he,
drawing her aside confidentially. " Can't I
do anything f Are you going to Clinkton ?
Let me go to Clinkton with you ; I'll go anytime
like a shot. Now, mind, you ask me if
you want me. You need not say anything to
any of them, just send word to me," and he
shook her hand a dozen times. (If Challoner
had only heard him ! )

But Challoner's attention was concentrated

on Matilda, and her parting; and having at
length got her safely out of the Louse, he was
now only bent on making the most of his
fresh reprieve.

Good-bye ; I'm off to Seaborough. I have
a telegram to take for Marion," announced
Teddy, triumphantly. " She has intrusted it
to me, and I have promised to go and send, it
off myself," — his tone intimating, " Other
people think much of me, if you do not."

Don't be astonished if I am late," he
added, having invariably found that this was
what Matilda minded more than anything.

Ah ! Matilda hardly noticed it now.

The prophesied snow, though it fell fast and
thick after the light went, did not set in soon
enough to hinder any one from walking as
swiftly as he or she chose before then ; nevertheless,
when Lord Overton overtook his sister
and Challoner within the park, having gone
out again himself as the sky kept up, it was
not soon after they had parted from their

other companion ; an hour or more had
elapsed. They had not hurried ; they had not
come quite straight home. There had been
time for anything, and yet there was nothing
to tell.

This is rather curious," said Overton to
himself.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

VOL. II.

'^ir^'i^»t? i^-*^^. 4'''^^

'"■^\s;^

-l;:

/T^*.';'

^^^
Jem

i,^

■'■■; <-,; . . ■-■ ^" ■■' ^A',\^ V^^:: 'ii*w- ',•'-.-■-v.^- ^' I ' .■■- •.



•J

■^'^tyi

Wither.

BABY'S Grandmother

BY

L. B. Walked

AUTHOR OF 'troublesome DAUGHTERS,' 'MR SMITH: A PART
OF HIS LIFE,' 'PAULINE,' 'COUSINS,' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

WILLIAM BLACKWOOD AND SONS

EDINBURGH AND LONDON

MDCCCLXXXIV

CONTENTS OF THE THIRD VOLUME.

CHAP.

XXX.

XXXI.

XXXII.

XXXIII.

XXXIV.

XXXV.

XXXVI.

XXXVII.

XXXVIII.

XXXIX.

XL.

XLI.

XLII.

XLIII.
XLIV.

MRS Tunnel IN TROUBLE,
NO ONE NOTICES TEDDY, .

ASHES,

TEDDY TELLS,

MATILDA SHOWS A BRAVE FRONT,

OFF HIS GUARD AT LAST,

ALL GONE IN AN HOUR, .

A CONSULTATION OVER THE COUNTER,

A DOUBTFUL INVITATION,

MISS JULIET APPLEBY AND HER VISITOR

CHOOSING THE WORST, .

WORDS don't COME WHEN THEY ARE

WANTED,

"CAN I WISH HIM TO LIFT HIS EYES TO

YOU?"

CHALLONER FOUND,

"IS IT POSSIBLE r'

POSTSCRIPT CHAPTER,

PAGE






























in 2010 within funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/babysgrandmother03walf

CHAPTEE XXX.

MRS Tunnel TN TROUBLE.

'' Slips of the tongue are sometimes found very inconvenient by
those persons who, owing to some unlucky want of correspondence
between their wits and their utterance, say one thing when they mean
another, or bawl out something which the slightest degree of forethought
would have kept unsaid." — Southey.

Everybody at Clinkton was now thinking
about Juliet Appleby. The insignificant Juliet
who, a few days before, had been of less than
no consequence to the world in general, and
who had simply gained a superficial importance
in the eyes of one or two people by jdccu-
liar circumstances, was now a personage to bethought
about and spoken about, and inquired
VOL. in. A

after, — was, in fact, next to the fancy ball, if
not actually before it, in point of interest in
many houses, whose inmates had not until
within the past twenty-four hours known of
the young lady's existence. A little goes a
long way with the gossips of a country town ;
and much as the poor girl's unfortunate illness
might be to her own people, and much also ina
lesser degree to their friends and neighbours
at Overton Hall, it was undoubtedly still more
the topic of the day to those upon the spot, to
the hosts who were to be sympathised with,
and to the circle who could condole, and pity,
and wonder, and have daily and hourly bulletins.
To them, as was natural, the subject
was all-engrossing. Showers of cards were left
daily. People who had not previously been
on visiting terms with the Windlasses seized
the opportunity for driving up to the Court,
while the more modest contented themselves
with gaining intelligence of these bolder spirits,
and retailing it to those who were again indebted
to them for the same. At every meeting

the first question would be — " Do you
know how Miss Appleby is to-day ? Has she
passed a better night '? " or, "I trust we shall
hear an improved account tomorrow. The
Windlasses tell me so-and-so." It was something
to get at the Windlasses anyhow.

'' I wonder how Miss Juliet Appleby is today,"
observed Mary Tufnell one morning. " I
think I shall go round and ask Miss Beadel ;
she is sure to know."

'* It strikes me there is a tremendous to-do
made about this Miss Juliet Appleby," struck
in her father, somewhat gruffly. "It is nothing
but Miss Juliet Appleby from morning
till night from every one now. Because the
girl has got the small-pox "

Sure that is enough, papa."

Enough 1 I did not say it wasn't. Enough
and to spare I daresay, for her and those about
her ; but what is that to us ? What the mischief
have we to do with Miss Juliet Appleby,
small-pox or no small-pox ? She is nothing tous,
and we are nothing to her."

Oh, the poor thing, I am so sorry for her !
I am sure I never was so sorry for any one in
my life," said Mary, with the easy healthy sorrow
that comes natural to a fine girl, and does
not in any wise impair her digestion. " It is
so hard upon her, and "

Well, of course ; and hard upon the

folks she is with too ; and of course I am sorry
myself for that matter, and wish 'em well
through with it, but I don't see how it need
concern us. We are not the Applebyss nor the
Windlasses ; we have nothing to do with them
or their set, any more than we have with Jones
the butcher, or Japhet the turnpike-keeper, —
not so much, for we know those two a deal
better than we know the others, — yet I'll be
hand-ed if I should hear all this fuss made if
poor Mrs Jones or Mrs Japhet was taken
sick."

'' La ! I am sure I should be very vexed to
hear anything was the matter with either,"
said his wife, entering in time to catch the
last remark. 'what put such a thing into

your head, my dear 1 Now was not that papa
all over ? " to her daughter. " Papa thinks we
have no right to take an interest in our neighbours
"

Precious little interest they have ever
taken in us ! "

And the poor thing to lose her ball

too "

*' Her ball ! what do you mean by her ball ?
The ball was not good enough for her friends,
forsooth ; the Windlasses turned up their noses
at it to my certain knowledge ; and yet they
tried to edge in this shrimp of a miss, who
wanted to turn us all into ridicule "

Well, I never ! Now, papa," cried his
wife, " now you really must not say any such
things ; you do not mean them "

^' But I do."

• " No, no ; no, you don't ; not a bit of

you. We all know papa, Mary; but really,"
in some alarm, — " really I would not have anyone
else — Miss Beadel, or the Dobbs, or anyone
— hear him for the world ; for he is so

severe," — her gentle tones might have mollified
an Note.

Tufnell, however, was in a bad humour.
They may hear me for half a groat," he said
obstinately ; " they may hear every word I say,
and I mean every word I say. It is more thana
man can stand, the folly of these gossips of
yours ; in and out all day long, with ' Pray
have you heard how Miss Juliet Appleby is
within the last five minutes V or, * How many
dozen times have you inquired to-day ? ' The
girl is not dying, or there might be some sense
in it. I do not wish her to die "

Papa ! ''

Well, ' Papa I '—I say I don't wish

her to die. But, upon my word, I should not
cry my eyes out if she had a few marks left
upon her face. It would take some of the
conceit out of her, coming down here, and
fancying she was going to turn the heads of
all the young men at our ball — at her ball, as
you choose to call it, ma'am," to his wife ;
*' forcing herself in on purpose to cut out our

daughters — country bumpkins as I daresay she
thinks them; wish she might not be glad to
have some of the country bumpkins' skins and
colour once she comes out of lev small-pox,
that's all ! "

Oh, now you are vindictive, my dear.
You would not surely have the poor girl allover
pock-marks ? Oh Lor' ! I could not have
believed it of you, Tufnell. The very idea
gives me a turn. Mary, my dear — oh, you
are writing. '^

What is it, mamma ? "

*' Just could you step down to the Hales'
before you take off your bonnet, — or maybe
ril go myself," — pondering.

'^ What for ? "

"I daresay I'll go myself. It will do in
the afternoon. I thought I would just like
to hear," speaking aloud her thoughts — "I
would just like to hear how Miss Julie fc
Appleby "

Damn Miss Juliet Appleby ! " roared

her husband, bouncing to bis feet and banging

from the room. "There is no cutting out a

woman's tongue ! I thought I had " The

rest was lost.

Dear me ! papa is in a way," observed
Mrs Tufnell, placidly. " Well, I was a noodle
to slip it out, but I had clean forgot — and who
would have believed it of papa ? Something
has disagreed with his stomach this morning,
I'll be bound. He has been cross ever since
he got up, poor man. Well now, Mary, he
won't like me to go, you see ; so if you don't
mind, just you run down and get the last
news. It is all very well for papa to be so
hard-hearted, but I know I feel just as if she
was one of my own, and "

'rand I too," said Mary, briskly.

I'll go, mamma. I'll go at once. I was
only writing to Jem : I forgot to write both
yesterday and Monday, and the day before
was Sunday, and it was not worth while on
Saturday, being so soon after he left, — so he
has not heard a word about the ball yet."
Never ! " exclaimed her mother, reproachfully.

" You never say so ! I would not take
you away for millions then "

Oh, never mind ; he won't," said Mary,
laughing. " We agreed at the first that we
were not to be bothered with many letters.
I hate writing, and so does Jem ; you see he
has not sent me a line yet, either."

'' Ah, but he has had nothing to write about,
poor thing. It is you who have had all the
pleasure, and of course he will want to hear
about it. I never like any one I care for to
feel about me that ' out of sight is out of
mind'" said Mrs Tufnell, shaking her benevolent
head. '' Poor Jem ! I was kind of
afraid from the first that something would
happen to take off the edge of that ball. It
seemed as if we were all too much taken up
about it. I am sure I for one had it a great
deal more in my mind than I should have
had ; I daresay," with compunction — " I daresay
even Mrs Dobb, who had the whole thing
on her shoulders, did not think more about it
than I did, — but there, even papa was in a

fuss over his pantaloons ; and as for you
girls — but you had your disappointment, poor
Mary "

Oh, as to that, as Jem did not care himself,
no more did I — much," said Mary. *' I
think it will do just as well to send this tomorrow
as to-day, mamma, so I will go to the
Hales' if you like "

'' The Hales ? I have just come up from
the Hales said a new voice in the doorway.
Was Mary going ? Well, you needn't, then ;
they are all out : I caught them just going
out. I thought I would go in to ask after
Miss Juliet Appleby "

'' And how is she ? "

Oh, much the same. No better, anyway.
The Hales are going out to inquire in the
afternoon. I went in after cathedral "

Oh, you have been at cathedral ? "

Oh, I have been at cathedral — very much
at cathedral. Well, somebody had to go,"
said Bertha, in her natural voice ; "we could
not let poor Emmy go always alone, and

these Christmas services are such a point

with Herbert "

Poor dear, I hope she will not have

to go through that always," observed their
mother, somewhat anxiously. '"^ I do think
poor Emmy has rather a hard time of it in
that respect. Herbert, — well, they say a
lover may be as exacting as he pleases ; but

really morning and afternoon too "

• ^'Sh! Take care. I will tell you

what I think," said Bertha, slily. " Herbert
is like the fox with his tail cut off ; having to
go himself, he would like to let us all in for
it too, if he could."

Well, dear me, let us remember what weare
talking about; don't let us be profane,
whatever we are," Mrs Tufnell reminded them ;
but the truth is, I was never brought up to
church-going except on Sundays, and it does
not come natural to me now. I don't say
there is any harm in it ; I would never go the
length of saying that ; but I know this, I get
no good of Emily at all nowadays ; she can

never go with me anywhere of an afternoon
without being all upon thorns as four o'clock
comes on. If I have her for a drive — and she
used to be the only one of you that I could ever
get to set a foot in the carriage — she is looking
at her watch all the time, and I'm kept in a
state myself for fear we should be late ; and
then I have always to come back that way,
round by the Close, you know, — and as sure as
fate, if Emily is with me, it happens that I
would like to come back the other way. Well,
between it all, the hurry and the fidget, and
the feeling that Emily, poor thing, thinks it
not quite kind of me to come on home and let
her go in by herself, I must own I do feel
more put about than I'd like her to know.
Often and often I would rather go alone ; and
really if it is to be morning as well as afternoon
services "

Oh, but it won't ; not after this week

and next," said Bertha, reassuringly ; " and no
doubt, once they are married, wee shall hear no
more of it. Now, do listen to me. I have had

quite an adventure this morning ; I have had
an introduction, and made a new friend. It
was at the Hales'. There was such a lovely
young man at the Hales'. And Mary, I have
the honour to inform you," with a flourish,
that the lovely young man is a friend of your
lovely young man. Mind, Mary, one good turn
deserves another. I have always aided and
abetted you with Jem Challoner, and now I
shall claim return in kind from you. I have
an idea that Jem's friend and I are kindred
spirits. He appeared about as friendly a youth
as I have ever had the luck to meet. And he
was, oh, a very, very long way better-looking
than — no offence, Mary — than either Jem or
Herbert. Jem does not set up to be a beauty.
He has Vair distingue, and that sort of thing
the je ne sais quoi, and all the rest of it.
Herbert is pretty, I own, but my man "

How you do run on, child ! " said her
sister, with a shrug of the shoulder — "your
man ! "

^' Ay, my dear, my man ; surely I may call

him mine until he is claimed hj somebody-else.
My man has a nose — oh, such a nose !
Grecian to a degree, — that's to say if it's not
Woman," in parenthesis. " I'm not altogether
clear about the two in my own mind, but at
any rate it is a nose of the first water — a
nose to put any other nose / have ever seen,
in Clinkton or elsewhere, out of joint forever
and aye ; and he has curly locks and a
moustache, and — and everything. I made
my best bow, and he talked to me the whole
time I was there ; he did, indeed. I do like
making a new acquaintance ; I wish I had

heard his name "

You did not even hear his name !

And you call that making a new acquaintance
! "

He heard mine ; that was enough ; he
heard, and he made good use of his hearing.

O CD

He called me ' Miss Tufnell ' several times,
and inquired whether it was I or my sister,
I heard him distinctly ask Louisa Hale
whether it was I or my sister who was going

to be married to his friend Mr Challoner 1
When Louisa said it was you, he spoke tome
myself about it."
AVhat did he say 1 "

Say ? All sorts of things. Asked when
it was to be ? And how long you had been
engaged ? He was most particular to know
how long you had been engaged ? "
Had he not heard 1 "

Apparently not. It was quite laughable.
He made me repeat it ; and when I said
Since last September he exclaimed after me,
Since last September ! ' as if it were something
quite surprising. He was immensely interested
; he asked all sorts of questions ; and
when I chaffed him about his being; so ignorant
himself, he only looked foolish, and had not a
word to say. Evidently Jem had not taken
him into confidence. Talking dispassionately
of Jem, I should not say he takes many people
into confidence."

You did not hear who this man
was ^ "

Of course they said his name, but I did
not catch it. Louisa does sometimes mumble
so that no one can hear her, and they all
seemed rather stupid and flustered. He was
their brother's friend, you see, not theirs ; and
to tell the truth, I don't fancy they knew much
about him. If only that brother of theirs had
come in ! Tiresome creature ; he would have
been of some good. As it was, I could not
get hold of any one of the girls to inquire, and
I had to leave before any one else did ; however,
I shall go down this afternoon, for I have
left the library books behind me. A piece of
luck, isn t it 1 Nobody can say I go to find
out who my new friend is."

Nor to meet him again ? "

^' Oh, there is no hope of that ; he is ofl
immediately — off for London by the first train
this afternoon : he had only looked in for an
hour, as he happened to be passing through
Clinkton on his way from somewhere or other.
He had slept at the station hotel last night,
so he must have come from a distance; then

he had walked up to call on the Hales, and
his train was to leave about now."

Later on in the day she rushed in with
scarce a breath left.

Mary, Mary ! what do you think ? Oh,
Mary ! what will you say ? He is a prince in
disguise, an earl's son, and will be the earl
himself some day, for his brother is not married,
and he is the heir. The Hales' brother
has told them all about him since I was therein
the morning, and they say he is such a
friend of Jem's, and that he is sure to be Jem's
best man at the wedding. He is the Honourable
Edward Lessingham. Think of me and
the Honourable Edward Lessingham ! "

VOL. in.

CHAPTER Xxxi

NO ONE NOTICES TEDDY.

'Tis an ill cure
For life's worst ills, to have no time to feel them ;
When sorrow's held intrusive and turned out."

Philip Von Arteyelde.

It was indeed our old friend Teddy, who,
alone and unauthorised, but rising to the occasion
from sheer extremity of need and singleness
of purpose, had thus appeared on the
scene in those far-away regions to see and
hear for himself if such things as had been told
him of Jem Challoner were true.

Who had told ? Not the Applebyss. After
all that had been undergone and suffered and
apprehended from them, they had done nothing
; they had been harmless as infants. It
was entirely through another channel, — but

let US go back to twenty-four hours before the
accidental meeting of Bertha Tufnell with the
stranger in the Hales' drawing-room.

For three whole days had Teddy's sulking
fit continued, the mood having begun as we
know on the morning following the moonlight
skating on the ponds, having set in with
severity during the afternoon walk, and having
culminated after an entire evening had elapsed
without an inquiry from any one as to where
he had been, and what he had done after
deserting his sister and Challoner at the
Applebyss' gate.

All had been preoccupied — even Challoner
had let him alone after the first, when he had
made an effort or two, failed, and desisted ;
the truth being that with enough on his mind
already — with Matilda on the one hand to
love but not to woo, and Mary Tufnell on the
other to woo but not to love — it was more
than he cared for to have the burden of
Teddy's ill-humour thrust upon his shoulders
also ; Teddy he must leave to himself. Moreover,

he and Matilda understood each other
tacitly on the subject. It was nothing to be
disturbed about, Challoner assured the devoted
sister — nothing which need discompose her ; a
passing indisposition. It would be better to
take no notice — the mood would right itself.
And with such comforting assurances she was
easily, only too easily, induced to fix all her
attention on the lips that spoke them.

But thus neglected, bad went on to worse
in poor Teddy's breast. Always before, during
such occasional freaks of dumb brutishness —
for thus alone could they be classified — he
had been tenderly watched and timidly approached
: and he had been perfectly aware
that little as was the apparent notice taken
of his goings and comings, all the house was
eagerly awaiting the prodigal's return to a
better state of mind. Such a position he had
thoroughly enjoyed, poor boy ; to attain it had
been his last resource in his present pain and
trouble ; but what was he to do when this,
his one weapon, failed to take effect '? How

retaliate ? How show his spirit 1 It was

reddening, positively maddening, to think

that there was nothing to be done. Li teres


ally, down at that stupid old place — and all
snowed-in too — there was not a single thing
a young fellow would do to make a stir,
and show he had some life in him. Overton
took no notice of anything ; Challoner merely
smiled a smile that drove him wild if ever he
started an idea or made a proposition ; while
Matilda was too deeply in his black books for
anything she could say or do to be right.

At length a notion struck him. He would
give them a start and a fright somehow ; a
start and a fright, if he could do no more. He
would be up and off some fine morning before
any one was stirring ; and it mattered not
where he went, he would not reappear at the
Hall until the people there had had a lesson.

Eun up to town !" exclaimed Matilda, in
undoubted discomfiture and most unflattering
amazement, when she received the message
her brother had left, — it was to the effect that

he found he must run up to town for a few
days on business, and was not sure how long
he might be kept there, and was not to be
expected till he turned up, — quite a lively,
jaunty, independent young-man-of-the-period's
message, in short, which sounded fair enough
in Challoner's ears, but which strangely disconcerted
its recipient. " Gone to town ! What

does he mean '? What in the world '? "

and then she checked herself, and looked, with
trouble in her look, at Overton. Nothing like
this had happened for many a year before between
the three, and two out of the three knew
only too well why it had happened now

Where do you suppose he is gone '? " said
Matilda apart to her elder brother, as soon as
she could find him alone ; " where do you
think he is gone ? I cannot imagine ; he has
no one now, — we have managed to break
with them all. I don't believe he has a
single address."

All the better ; he will come home all
the sooner. I don't really think we need

be alarmed' replied he. "I suspect it is a
mere piece of temper. It has been coming on
for several days, but I thought it best to take
no notice. I thought Challoner's beings here
would keep him straight — I mean, would
keep him from openly showing anything
amiss. Yet I warned you, Matilda."

I know — I know. But what could I do ?"
said Matilda, looking gloomily out. "It is
so difficult to manage sometimes, I "

To be sure. I don't blame you, my dear
girl," said Overton, kindly. *' You have often
a hard time of it, and no one knows as well
as I do how brave you are, and how patient.
Cheer up," as her eyes filled beneath his
sympathy — " cheer up ; don't distress yourself;
don't be anxious "

I am ; I cannot help it. I have

such fears. Overton, if anything happens
to him "

'' Nothing will happen to him ; we shall
have him back here all right and tight by
tomorrow at latest ; by to-night most likely.

You must — alien — pay him a little attention
when he comes ; make much of him ; and
leave Challoner to "

But where will he go in town ? " She
was not willing to talk of Challoner at the
moment. *^ Where will he go '? And what
will he do ? "

Hang about till he gets the next train
back."

And this was precisely what Teddy would
have done, had not chance, for good or ill,
put a sudden recollection into his head. As
Matilda said, he had now no associates : they
had weaned him from all his former comrades ;
and that so effectually, that he had now neither
the means nor the desire to reopen any old
intimacies. He had not been good, and he
had not been happy in his boyhood ; he had
been both — under supervision — since ; and the
poor fellow was dimly conscious that it was
so — and to do him justice, the idea of actually
of his own free-will returning to the mire from
which he had been drawn, never entered his

head. He merely wished to pretend that he
had done so.

But now, what should he do with himself ?
How pass the dreary day 1 As Matilda had
divined, her poor simpleton was sadly at a
loss, and all the gilt was taken off his gingerbread,
all the glitter and dash faded away from
his glorious emancipation, when he found himself
in a London terminus, with nothing: to do,
nowhere to go, and no one to speak to.

Of a sudden he recollected Whewell — Whewell
whom he had disliked and despised ; but
who, for want of a better, might serve his
purpose in this emergency, who at least would
receive him without any troublesome questions
or awkward suggestions, and with whom he
could pass half an hour — half one of the long,
dreadful, appalling hours before him.

With renewed spirits he jumped into a
hansom, and gave the direction — which had
stuck by him for some reason or other — and
which he now produced and described with
a minuteness that was not to be cut short

by any knowledge on the part of the driver.
Yoicks!" cried he to himself, ^'Tm going it!"

Whewell was in, and it would have been
hard to say whether he was more pleased to
bestow a welcome or his guest to receive one.
Probably in his whole life no such enthusiasm
of greeting had ever been bestowed on poor
Teddy before — it must be owned he was generally
looked upon in the light of Lady Matilda's
adjunct; and the response such warmth evoked,
and the change it wrought in the feelings he
had formerly entertained towards the gay barrister,
were such as might have been anticipated
under the circumstances.

"Thought I'd look you up," he began,
cheerily. *' Only here for the day. May I
bring up my bag, as I am on my way somewhere
else, and did not care to leave it at

the station ? " (Whewell flew down-stairs

himself, and with his own hand carried up the
bag ere the speaker had proceeded farther).
'rand so I am awfully glad to find you in,"
continued Teddy, looking round him.

I am sure you cannot be more happy than
I. It is the greatest piece of luck your catching
me in, too. I am up to my ears; but
never mind — tell me about yourselves. How
are you all ? How do you get on in this
atrocious weather 1 Lady Matilda, is she
well ? Is she — ah — in town ^ "

Oh dear, no ! She hates town like poison ;
women do," said Teddy, who knew no better.
No ; she is at home, and snowed-up there.
The most tremendous fall of snow we have
had for years. Awfully hard lines, isn't it 1
Just coming on the top of the frost, you
know. Every one said we were to have weeks
of frost, and the ice was splendid ; you never
saw such ice "

Ah ! you are a skater, I suppose 1 I

never have the time for anything of that sort
at least, of course, I could make time, supposing
'' He paused. What he meant

was, " supposing you were to invite me to
skate at Overton Hall."

But his visitor, too full of his own affairs to

heed either the statement or its amendment,
proceeded volubly —

*' Oh, you should have been with us !^ We
had the best fun out. We had telegraphed
Challoner down, and he said he had never
seen ice like it."

You had Challoner down '? " repeated his
host in some surprise. " I thought he was to
have been married before now. Is that not
come off yet ? "

I said Challoner," explained Teddy, with
the idea that the name had not been caught.
Challoner, you know, — the fellow who smashed
his wrist when he was down with us for the
pheasants. You were there too."

*' Of course ; yes. We went down together
to the Handel's, and then he had to lie up
at your house ; but he is all right by this
time, I suppose ? "

*' Right ? Oh yes, he's right enough," replied
Teddy, with less warmth, as recent grievances
began to reassert their pre-eminence in
his mind. " There never was anything much

wrong with Lin, I should say," continued he
vindictively.

'* And what about his marriage, then ? "
inquired Whewell, carelessly. The carelessness
was not assumed — he really suspected nothing.

Teddy, however, looked round with an expression
of guileless innocence which was by
no means badly done, and which meant this :
If you think to catch me tripping, and get
out of me anything about Challoner and
Matilda, you're in the Avrong box, Mr Wheel.
I ain't going to peach, although they
have been behaving shabbily to me." All he
said, however, was, "His marriage ? " in an interrogatory
tone that greatly pleased his own ear.

"Why, of course, his marriage. You had
forgotten about it, eh ? Oh, he will be a
Benedick directly."

Indeed ? "

Come, you know what I mean ; tell me
the last of it," said Whewell, still unsuspicious
; " you must have heard "

"But indeed I haven't."

"Not, really?"

No' replied Teddy, pursing up Ms lips ;
"no — not a word." (swell, now, Matilda
can't say I didn't tell one good round one for
her, at any rate' thought he.)

But Whewell's black eyes grew suddenly
round and bright. " Did you not know he
was engaged to be married ? " said he, quickly.

"N — no ; can't say I did. Ah — to whom,
may I ask 1 " (" Rather neatly put, I take
it," internally commented the complacent
brother once more.)

'' To a very nice girl, I believe, a banker's
daughter, with a lot of money. Let me seethe
affair must have been concluded shortly
before that time he and I were with you. I
heard all about it the other day, and fancied
the marriage was to have come off by now.
A young Hale, a Clinkton fellow who knows
the family well, told me all about it. Trust,
or Truman, or some such name it was. Odd
that you shouldn't have known ; Hale spoke
as if everybody knew."

Not a word in reply.

"And he was with you three weeks or more,
wasn't he ? In fact until a very short time
ago. And he never mentioned it, not to any
of you ^ "

Teddy shook his head : lie could not speak.
Poor fellow ! the diplomatic smile and unconscious
air had fallen away to nothing by this
time, and now all that remained of it was a
pair of starting eyeballs and a jaw that fell
every moment lower.

I — ah — 'pon my word, I don't know what
you are talking about," at length he found
voice to murmur.

"It is news to you, I see. I must say it is
rather strange that it should be so. You were
so thick with Challoner, what on earth should
possess him to keep this from you ? What
reason had he for keeping it dark at all ? "
(there is something up here'' said Whewell
suddenly to himself; "I have hit the nail
somehow. Friend Teddy looks quite aghast.
Can it be that Challoner, that great loutish

fellow — but no, Lady Matilda took no sort of
notice of Challoner, she ignored him ; stop
though, let me think," — and with disagreeable
clearness came back the last look he had had
of the Overton drawing-room, and of a smile
which had passed between the quondam invalid
and his hostess, a perfectly innocuous
smile, but one all the same which had caused
this departing guest a twinge at the moment,
though he had rid himself of the sensation
afterwards.) '' Challoner has been engaged to
be married ever since September," he stated,
calmly enough, but his pulse beat a little
faster than usual as he marked the effect the
words produced.

'weill"

For the space of one full minute this was
all.

'weller'

Whewell waited in silence.

Good heavens! I — I — do you know
what he has been doing ? — do you know that
he has been paying attention to my sister ? "

burst forth the young man at hist. *' Good
heavens ! " unable to be prudent, — " to my
sister ! To Matilda ! To— to "

Pardon me, my dear fellow, think what
you are saying ; there must be some mistake,"
corrected his companion, in the soothing
tone in which one speaks to a frantic
child ; but Whewell's own blood was now
coursing quickly through his veins : " don't
let yourself be carried away by — I mean,
don't run away on the wrong horse, you
know. Lady Matilda would hardly thank
you for bringing her name into such a discussion
; it is quite impossible that there can
be any cause for connecting her name with
Challoner's; — that Challoner could have ever
thought, ever given any — in short, you are
labouring under a delusion ; you have taken
hold of some false idea "

'' False idea be hanged ! " exclaimed Teddy,
passionately ; " I don't know anything about
ideas ; I never have ideas : this is the truth.
I could tell you " But here he suddenly

VOL. III. c

drew the rein, and checked the revelation on
his lips. " Of course it is nothing to her'
he said, in an altered tone. " Of course Lady
Matilda," with a little air of state — " Lady
Matilda does not concern herself as to — to —
but we have to take care of her — that's to say

confound thefelloiv I I — I — I "

"I had no knowledge of this, of course'
said Whewell, busying himself with some
papers on the floor. '^ Indeed when I first
heard of Challoner's engagement, which I did
immediately on leaving Endhill, I concluded
that this was at the bottom of his — let me
speak plainly — his indifference to the attractions
of Overton, and his desire to get away
from it as quickly as possible. You must
remember that he was always pressing the
doctor — your doctor, the one you got for him

to say how soon he could go, and "

Oh, he did not want to go at alL"
*' You forget, no doubt, your early experience
in a later," proceeded the barrister, who
with his natural acuteness divined the case

exactly. " "When / sav Challoner he was
fretting to the verse of rudeness at having
to remain, and "

And he was with us for nearly a month
afterwards."

Indeed ? "

*' Ay, indeed ; he was : he — well 1 '^

^' I was not going to say anything."

Why did you not tell us about this
before ? "

^' I never thought of telling you ; I supposed
that, of course, you knew. I took it for
granted — he was Hanwell's friend : Hanwell
seemed to know him well ; and when I heard
the news, I said to myself. What a duffer he
must have thought me not to have congratulated
him ! "

He never told a soul," said Teddy, breathing
hard ; " he never said a single word about
it to any one. And here he has been down
with us again — I say, whereabouts does
this girl, this banker's daughter, live ? At
Clinkton 1 "

At Clinkton '? Yes. You know so much ?
Yes, of course ; for this own people come from
that neighbourhood, and his sister, Lady Fairleigh,
made the match. Now I think of it —
at Clinkton, of course ; in Clinkton, most
likely "

Pont House, Archway Terrace ? " cried
Teddy, eagerly.

Ah, I can't give you the address "

'' And you don't know the name ? "

It begins with a T, I feel sure. But, see
here — you remember Hale ? Deuced pleasant
fellow, with a beard. He used to be a chum
of yours, he told me. He lives at Clinkton,
I can tell you where, for I have had some correspondence
with him lately, — you go down
see him, and he will tell you everything."

Go down ? Go to Clinkton 1 I— I don't
know about that."

Oh, it's easy enough — easy enough for a
young fellow like you, with nothing to do,"
said Whewell, rummaging in his desk for the
address. " It will be nothing but a pleasant

trip. And you are not a slave like me, tied
by the leg. Let me see, you could be at
Clinkton this evening, — you are not due anywhere
in particular to-night ? "

"N— no."

Well, you can get there easily ; I'll lookout
your train "

'' Stop ! I don't know," murmured poor
Teddy, trembling all over ; " I really don't
know," shifting one leg over the other, the
very picture of bewilderment and irresolution.

If Challoner has been playing fast and
loose with your sister," said Whewell, suppressing
a desire to seize his companion's shoulder,
and start him by main force on the distasteful
expedition — " if he has had the cursed impudence
1 — I never heard anything to equal

it," he broke off with a half-suppressed oath.

Not that she cares, you understand,"
affirmed poor Matilda's champion with feeble
valour. " Of course it is nothing to her "

Oh, of course, of course "

But it is the cheek of the things.

5J

^'Ay, it is the cheek of the thing. The
presuming hypocritical scoundrel," cried Wheel,
but still ever on the watch to see. how
far he durst go, " to take in Lord Overton, and
you, and — your sister*' He choked a little,
but cleared his throat and proceeded — "And
so cleverly as it was done, too. I had no idea
why, he took no notice of — of any one when

I was there. I thought "

'' Well, hang it all ! I don't know what you
call ' taking no notice ' ; he has never done
anything hut * take notice ' to my mind," rejoined
the innocent brother. " It is Matilda
with him all day long ; he hangs about her
from morning till night, and she " — again
recollecting — '' she can t well shake him off,
you know ; it is not easy to shake off a fellow
of that sort."

And he is down there now ? "
Down there now. I left him there."
"And he came to you — did he come from
Clinkton ? "

Came straight from Clinkton."

Now look here," said Whew ell, laying a
hand — a strong insistent hand — upon the
young man's shoulder — " look here. You
will take this afternoon train to Clinkton ; I
will look it out for you ; I have a railway-guide
here. You can sleep at the Station
Hotel, and call on the Hales first thing tomorrow.
Hale Avill be delighted to see you.
Make out you were passing and looked in, and
get out of him all about the engagement. It
may be off. If it is off, find out when. Mind
you find out when ; for it certainly was not
off when Challoner went first to Overton. I
should say, judging from appearances, that
it is still on — on at this moment, and "

And what am I to say at home ? "

Are they expecting you at home ? "
Of course — that is to say, I must send
word somehow."

Send a telegram. Here," said the ]3i'ompt
barrister — " here is a form ; write there," pointing
with his finger. " No need to mention
where you are going, but say you are ofi" to

see a friend. You can get back either by tomorrow
night or Thursday morning, — probably
Thursday morning. If Hale is not at home
when you first call, go again ; don't leave
without seeing him, if you mean to do any
good. I suppose you really wish to find out
the truth 1 "

Yes," said Teddy, firmly, " I do."

And you are game to go ? "

"Ye — es," less assured. "Yes; game to
go.

All right ; I'll see you ofi' myself. Give
you some lunch first, and then start you. Of
course you will be careful to let out nothing,
while you learn everything. You can trust
yourself to that? Very well. There; that's
Hale's address for you. You have your pocketbook
? That's the place ; put it in there ;
you're safe to catch him somehow, or at any
rate some of them. He has sisters ; go in to
see them, if he is out; it does not matter
whom you see or speak to, only find out the
truth from some one. You'll do that ? "

Teddy nodded. "I'll do that," he said,
with a frown, which was on the whole the
most satisfactory omen of success he had yet
shown.

(not quite such a fool as he looks," reflected
Whewell. " I should say he'll do the
job now, and perhaps as well as a better man
Avould.") " Well, you understand all you have
to do, then'' he said aloud, " and — ah — I shall
see you on Thursday. I shall run down to
Hanw^ell's for the night. I can easily offer
myself for the night, and will meet you
there."

What," said Teddy, stupidly, " what are
you coming for ? "

I should like to hear the end of this, asa
matter of curiosity — purely as a matter of
curiosity," replied Whewell, smiling.

CHAPTER XXXII.

ASHES.

' Ah, dream too "brig-lit to last !
Ah, starry"" hope that didst arise
But to he overcast ! "

E. A. POE.

On first breaking loose from the loathed bonds
at Clinkton, and returning to feed upon the
fair and forbidden fruit at Overton, Challoner
had experienced a vehement and reckless sense
of relief : a sort of devilry of joy had possessed
him which had bidden defiance to every consideration
but that of present bliss, and by
this every nobler feeling of shame or pain had
been for the time stifled. But scarce had he
eaten of the fruit than the flavour of the ashes
began to be felt. It was sweet in the mouth
but bitter to the stomach ; and every enchanting

moment lead had to be paid for by hours
of subsequent torture.

A soft word, a tender blush, on the part of
Matilda, would make his heart beat and his
eye kindle ; and afterwards, in the solemn
conscience - speaking hours of the night, he
woukl recall it with pangs unutterable. Once
she asked him to render her a trifling service
it was but a little thing, he was sure to like
to do it — and she saw, she was sure she saw,
his great nether lip tremble as he turned away
from her thanks. How could she but pity,
with that pity which is love itself, not akin toit
only? His slightest wish became law to
her. He could not ask a thing; she would not
do. Oh, how long, how long could this go on ?

One night — it was on the Wednesday following
Teddy's abrupt departure — Challoner
was more than usually restless and wakeful.
He was up, and pacing his room during the
short hours. The idea of bed was hateful, that
of sleep impossible. He must be thinking,
planning, hoping, wondering, fighting down

his misery and perplexity, battling with the
mesh which he had himself spun, and which
was ever weaving closer and tighter around
him.

He had even been more than usually tender
and lover-like towards Matilda that day. He
had allowed himself to try yet further and
further how far her exquisite compliance and
sweet submission would go ; he had courted
every coy glance and sign, and wooed the
very fall of her eyelids and blushes on her
cheek, testing to its utmost the power which
was so valueless, and which none but a madman
would have dared to tamper with.

By every sign that love could discover, he
had but to ask and this beautiful woman, who
was all that heart of man could desire, and
beyond what hope of man could ever have
pictured, was his own. Never had monarch
had so fair a kingdom set before him. Never
had one been more absolutely prevented entering
into its possession.

Now, easy as it is to condemn the criminal

weakness which had led the infatuated lover
into this strait, which of us, when once in,
would have been able to say for certain in
what manner, or by what means, he could
fairly get out of it ? To such a pass had Challenger
come, that to deal honestly with either
of the two women he had been duping was to
cover both with dishonour. And what could
he do ? Could he at this hour, without cause
or provocation, suddenly trumpet aloud the
truth, the whole naked dreadful truth ? Could
he suddenly stand forth and say, "I am a
traitor," and there let the matter rest ? Supposing
the announcement made, it would be
awkward with nothing to follow. Was he to
suggest marriage or renunciation ? Alas he to
ask Mary Tufnell to take him, or to leave him ?
With Matilda, of course, all would be over forever
— of course, of course, she would not 'pav-don
him ? Certainly not. She would have
nothing more to say to him ? Undoubtedly,
nothing more. They would never meet again 1
Never.

All the time lie knew lie was hoping and
hoping. It would be bad enough, whichever
way it ended, once the truth were out, but —
he could bear a good deal. He would have to
stand a curse or two, — he could do that. He
would have to keep out of Clinkton in future,
he could put up with that. He would have
to learn to forgot poor Mary's name and the
wrong he had done her, and the cruelty he
had inflicted upon her, — that would be more
difficult, but he would try, yes, he would try
ever so much, if only Matilda — and this was
the end and goal of every inward contest, —
^^ if only Matilda " — if only he could rely upon
Matilda ; but — he could not.

The sweat stood upon his throbbing brow ashe
leaned it on his hands, and saw in his
mind's eye the day of doom approach. Self-pity
was so strong within him that the water
in his eyes forced itself from beneath their
burning lids, and wetted the cheek on either
side, and again his coarse lip shook and his
chest heaved. Turn where he would, no light

appeared anywhere in the labyrinth of his
thoughts ; round and round he wandered, lost,
among them — up and down he trod the same
stony track which led to nowhere.

He had that day received a note from Lady
Fairleigh announcing her return to England,
and begging his attendance on her at her hotel
in London on the following day. She wished
to see him, to hear about his marriage, to know
what he would choose as her wedding-gift, with
more of the kind, — to his mind the writing was
like that of the recording: ano^el. Yet he had,
as we have said, tempted himself more than
ever with Matilda that day. It had seemed as
if he could hardly bear to let her out of his
sight ; his eye had followed her every action
and movement, and he had taken note of every
little thing she did and said, as a man may
take a farewell of earth and sky ere he leaves
this world for ever. Many a time thereafter
he heard in the whistle of the wind on a cheerless
eve the trifling sentences she let fall ;
many a time he saw her stand before him

as she stood that day, and wondered that he
had not then and there perjured himself for
the one privilege of a kiss. He knew now in
the grim night that he had been listening as
one who might never hear again, seeing as one
who saw for the last time, — and it was this
conviction that started the tear, the one tear
which no other emotion had induced.

That the end must come sooner or later, he
had, indeed, all along known ; but with Lady
Fairleigh's letter it seemed as though it were
already there — as though a Nemesis no longer
behind, were upon him.

At length he slept where he sat, leaning
across the table, his head resting upon his
arms. He slept, and woke almost immediately,
shivering and affrighted. Good heavens ! what
had he dreamed '? Matilda ! could it have
been Matilda ? Yes, it was even she, she who
had entered by that dim doorway over yonder,
and who had seized upon him and would have
strangled him with her cobweb handkerchief,
holding his throat in the grasp he had once

felt upon his arm, — and as he struggled for his
life, imploring and beseeching, Mary Tufnell
the other one — the girl who called him hers,
and whom — shame upon him ! he had gone
through the farce of embracing as became a
betrothed husband, with whom he had performed
his part, and hated himself and it
alike, — it was she who now flew to his rescue.
Yet, oh, terrible ! it was Mary he turned from
it was Matilda he turned to. It was the
hand that was killing he sought to kiss, it was
the deaf ear into which he poured affection, it
was the unmoved face he gazed upon. She
heard not, pitied not; — with a moan the
sleeper shuddered himself awake, and the
vision fled. Only a few minutes had elapsed.
Again he slept, and again dreamed of Matilda.
Matilda was his wife — his beloved,
adored wife ; and yet between him and her,
the object of his fondest passion, there was
ever an invisible, intangible, insurmountable
barrier, — something ever kept them apart ; he
never felt her hand about his neck, her breath

VOL. III. D

upon his brow. He would speak to her, and
she would not answer — approach her, and she
faded away. Struggling against the grisly
prison-bars, he woke again. Another ten minutes
had barely gone by.

But this was the last of such awakenings.
Out of sheer exhaustion Challoner at length
laid his head on his pillow and slept profoundly
— so profoundly, indeed, as to be
with difficulty aroused long after ten o'clock
by the information that Lord Overton and
Lady Matilda had been at breakfast sometime.


You are going to town, eh ? " said the
former, when the delinquent at length appeared
; ** you are going to town ? Best thing
you can do. See what a thaw I What a state
the roads will be in ! there will not be an inch
fit to tread on. The country is wretched in a
thaw like this."

Challoner explained that it was not the thaw
but Lady Fairleigh's summons which took him
to London.

You will come back, of course ? " said
Overton, easily.

Now was the time ; now, when brother and
sister were alike listening, when both would
understand what an apology and an evasion
must portend, and when — but the mentor's
voice was roughly checked. Bah ! he would
not show the white feather yet ; fate had been
too kind in the matter after all, for him to
play the chicken-hearted coward while yet he
held a card in his hand. Come back '? Certainly
he would come back, and accordingly,

By four o'clock. Yes, thanks," he said.

All the throes of the night had been gone
through in vain.

Have you only to see your sister ? "

*' That's all."

Where do you meet her ? "

Grosvenor Hotel. She is there now. I
shall have an hour with her."

And that wall be enough ? "

Quite enough," said Challoner, with miserable
irony.

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLfNOI?

It was necessary that he should go — absolutely
necessary that his superior, managing,
ferreting, elder sister should have no
notion that there were any dust-corners in his
life which she could not poke her nose into ;
but an hour of her " Have you done this ? "
and " How about that *? " of her sharp sifting
queries and straight eyes, — would be, he considered,
quite enough.

He walked to the station, and as he went,
more than once he cast a glance behind. For
once presentiment was right. The last day
had come.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

TEDDY TELLS.

The dawn is overcast, the morning lours,
And heavily in clouds brings on the day,
The great, th' important day,"

Addison.

OuE readers will bear in mind that Lady
Fairleigh's summons to her brother took him
to town on the very Thursday morning that
Teddy Lessingham returned from his secret
mission to Clinkton — the mission which had
been undertaken at Whewell's instigation, or
rather by his command and beneath his pressure
; and now, while the gallant young
stranger, who had thus appeared and disappeared
as by magic before Bertha Tufnell's
admiring eyes, had left behind him an impression
that was as agreeable as it was stimulative

and curiosity-inspiring, lie with very different
sensations — indeed, with but one thought and
one desire filling his mind — was hurrying
southwards with all the speed he could, only
anxious to disburden his overcharged bosom
of its oppressive and momentous contents.

The two quondam friends passed each other
on the way, for the train which bore Challoner
up from Overton whistled into the London
terminus just as that which bore Teddy down
whistled out ; but little did either think how
near the other was.

Teddy had returned from the north the
night before, too late to proceed home then
and there, as he would fain have done, for
the last stopping train had gone, and it was
imperative that he should go by a stopping
train, as he was careful to explain to all
who would listen ; and accordingly, after the
twentieth assurance that none of the kind
required would leave before morning, he had
made himself snug at a good hotel, had enjoyed
an excellent dinner and night's sleep,

and had so far indeed bent to circumstances,
as to consider that the second morning train
down would do well enough for him. The
first was really too early; they were not early
people at the Hall, and our young friend was
invariably the last to appear at the breakfast-table,
— so that, ardently as he now burned
to get back, to confront the traitor who had
ousted him from Matilda's side, and who now
in his turn was to be justly served by being
himself hurled from that high place, 9.30 was
too much : nobody could be up and dressed,
and breakfasted, and started by half-past nine
o'clock on a winter morning — a dull, foggy,
worst kind of winter morning too, warm as an
oven and oppressive as a feather-bed.

At eight he had been called, and had decided
the point with a promptitude engendered by
habits of ease ; and another excellent hour's
snooze, and the comfort of dressing ^.by daylight
instead of by gaslight, had been his reward.

Once on the alert, however, Teddy was
brisk enough — so brisk indeed, that, long

before it was needful, lie was pacing the railway
platform from which he was to start,
whiling away the time by every means ingenuity
could devise ; restlessly consulting
his watch every few minutes ; investigating
bookstalls, questioning porters, and getting
himself entangled among trucks and luggage
as the hour of departure approached.

Refreshed with his trip, his attention
diverted by new scenes, new faces, and on
the whole new thoughts, he was another man
altogether from what he had been during the
last few days ; and now, literally aglow with
information and indignation — but indignation
of a kind that was endurable compared with
the sullen torments lately undergone, which
none had shared, and none had even seemed
to see — he almost forgot, in the magnitude
of his embassy, the importance it cast upon
himself, aud the ignominy upon his rival,
that his great piece of news, with all its
details and variations, might not be quite so
delightful for Matilda to hear as for him to tell.

So rapidly had his own feelings towards
Challoner changed, with such a sudden crash
had they fallen from the utmost heights of
warmth and ardour to the lowest depths of
dislike and distrust, that, as was usual with
him the latter, the present state of mind,
had entirely swept away all recollection of
the former.

Challoner was now odious to him ; no name
was too bad for such a scoundrel; there was
nothing he would not believe of him, no fate
he would not prophesy for him.

In epithets, muttered denunciations, and
imprecations, his wrath found vent with an
ease and satisfaction that only needed an
auditor to make it complete ; and with his
sister for that auditor, the prospect as he
drew near the old familiar country-side made
him scarce able to tolerate the slightest delay.

Yes, Matilda would listen to him now. He
had something to tell her now that would
make her give him an audience, whether she
would or not.

She would listen and he would unfold all.
How amazed she would be ! How she would
stare when she heard where he had been, and
with whom, and for what purpose !

Yes, I went to the place, and ascertained
the facts, and there can be no doubt on the
subject'' he imagined himself saying. " Wheel
said I was the proper person to go, and
so I was. Brothers are the people to interfere
in affairs of this kind ; and Overton is no good
he is not the sort of fellow at all to know
what to do. Whewell put me up to it (she
thinks a lot of Whewell), and as soon as I saw
my way clear, I was off. You need not be
afraid : I understood what I was about ; I
was as sharp as anything, and managed it all
beautifully, — and now, what do you say tome?
Am I not," &c., &c., &c., when of
course she would caress him and thank him,
and he would be her own Teddy once more.

But that Matilda would mind? That he
was about to stab her to the heart ? That
he must pause and turn the knife aside, and

blunt its edge, and soften its cruel stroke ?
Poor childish creature ! the idea never so
much as occurred to him.

With the utmost eagerness he now made his
way on foot to the Hall by side paths and.
short cuts, which greatly curtailed the distance,
and with complacency he discovered
that it was only a little after half-past two
by the large stable clock as he rounded the
corner, and almost ran up to the front door.
Matilda seldom if ever went out before three
even in the short winter days ; he was sure to
catch her.

A footman was crossing the vestibule as the
traveller stepped inside, and stopped short,
surprised ; but Teddy had forgotten to put
any value on the suddenness of his reappearance,
and indeed the man's pause and exclamation
passed unheeded.

^'Lady Matilda within" He was getting
out of his greatcoat as he spoke, and did not
catch the reply.

*' Eh ? Is she in the dining - room 1 Is

luncheon not over yet ? Oh, it is over !
Don't take it away though, John ; I have not
had any. Just leave anything there is ; I'll
be down directly. I want to see Lady Matilda
for a minute first ; where is Lady Matilda 1
Is any one with her ? Where, did you say,
where f "

He fully expected to hear, " With Mr Challenger
in the boudoir, or in the billiard-room,
or the library," — certainly "With Mr Challenger
" somewhere or other ; in which case he
had in his own mind arranged to send by
John a message to her ladyship — he knew"
exactly how he should phrase it — to the effect
that he had returned by the mid-day train,
and would be obliged if she would see him fora
few minutes in private, as he had important
information to communicate, — (Challoner, of
course, need never know then, nor after, that
it was that which constituted the information).
And so much did the thoughtless brother enjoy
the situation, so full was he of the honour and
glory of the post he held, that it must be

owned the footman's reply assuring him that
her ladyship was alone and at liberty — that
she had the minute before rung her bedroom
bell, announcing herself ready for her afternoon's
ride, and that her horse was just coming
round from the stable — was in its way quite a
disappointment.

Is she just gone up, did you say ? " he
inquired a second time.

"Her ladyship went up a quarter of an
hour ago, sir. She must be ready by this
time, sir. I think I hear the horses coming
round now," listening.

Horses ? Oh, bother ! Yell, I say, tell
them to wait. I must see Lady Matilda first."

Horses '? That meant that Challoner was
also making ready for a gallop over the downs ;
and no doubt it was his horse, his own horse
Trumpeter, whom that infernal puppy

I shall want Trumpeter myself," he said,
sharply.

Very well, sir ; what time, sir ? "

Oh, I don't know : I'll tell you presently.

I was afraid that lie might be — that someone
else might be taking him. What horse
is Mr Challoner having, then ? "

Mr Challoner is gone up to town, sir, —
gone up for the day, to return by the four
o'clock train. Her ladyship is riding alone
this afternoon, sir; Charles, I believe, is to
attend her."

In another minute Teddy was tapping at
his sister's door.

Oh, you are come back, my dear boy ! "
cried Matilda, flying upon him with open
arms; "and come back just in time to go
with me to Endhill. I want you so much.
Now that is nice of you ! I am just off for
Endhill : fly, and tell them to bring round
Trumpeter too ; and Charles need not go with
us, need he ? Think, Ted, it is a whole week,
a week to-day, since I was there ! Robert
will inquire after my health, and hope I have
not suffered from a cold, or a chill, or the
miserable weather, or my exertions during
the skating time ; and Lotta will inform me

that baby has grown out of all his frocks, and
needs new ones, and beg to show me patterns
and Why, what's the matter \ "

It had all come back to her companion
now, — all the old home-feelings, the love of
Matilda, and fear of Matilda, and dependence
on Matilda — Matilda as his one necessity in
life, his daily bread, his dearest, kindest, most
beloved friend and comforter ; and with the
sight of her sweet face and the listening to
her lightsome prattle, with the old blue rid-inhabit,
and the greeting that had in it no
word of reproach, — with the whole there came
over poor Teddy's soft heart such a sense of
guilt and dismay as he had never experienced
before. All his anticipated triumph shrank
and withered into filthy rags.

'' What's the matter, boy?" said Matilda,
pleasantly. "Don't you want to come ? "

"You see," stammered poor Teddy — "you
see, I am just off a journey, — a long journey
two long journeys."

How many more ? "

'' I don't know how many more, I am sure.
I have been travelling ever since I left here,"
his courage rising a little as the dash and
spirit of the thing recurred to him. " I have
never been out of trains "

Gracious me I What did you do

that for 1 "

"I could not help it. It," cried Teddy,
with a gulp — " it is a long way to Clinkton."

''To Clinkton 1 Oho I Oh, oh, oh, oh!
Oh, now I begin to understand ! Oh, you sly
thing ! It is a long way to Clinkton indeed, —
a very long way. Pray — if it is not inquisitive
to ask — pray what took you to Clinkton ? "

What took me '? " said Teddy, gaping at
her as if she already must have divined, or
ought to have divined, his object. 'what?
you may well ask what took me."

Why, she is not worse, is she ? You are
very grave. Dear Ted, I meant no harm ;
but I have heard nothing. I would not jest
about it for the world, if she is really worse."

"She! Who?" He had been so full of

the one aspect of the case, that he had forgotten
there might be any other. She !
Who ? " he demanded.

It was now Matilda's turn to stare.

'' Oh ! you mean Juliet Appleby," said
Teddy, with a surprising effort. ''Oh, I
say ! " — in consternation — " I say, Matilda, I
forgot poor Juliet altogether ! Upon my
word, I declare I never once thought of her ;
and I was on the spot and all ! How very
provoking ! What would they say ? And after

my offering but mind you never let out

that I was there, and perhaps they may never
hear of it. What a stupid I was, to be sure ! "

But," exclaimed his sister, puzzled still
more by this — " but if it was not on Juliet's
account, what, may I ask, were you doing at
Clinkton ? What was the attraction there, of
all places '? Your telegram "

Ay, you got my telegram ? "

The night you left. But it merely said
you had gone to a friend, and did not say
where. Your friend was at Clinkton, then ? "

VOL. in. E

He lives there. I spent a couple of hours
with him there yesterday."

A couple of hours 1 " said Matilda, laughing.
" Pardon me, dear, but I cannot help it.
A couple of hours ! And you travelled all the
way from London, five hours' journey from
London," (she knew exactly how long it took)
to see — a friend. Dear, dear, dear ! Funny
boy," patting him merrily on the shoulder.
*' What will he do next, I wonder 1 "

Well, I wanted to see him," began
Teddy.

"And, to be sure, there was no earthly
reason why you should not," rejoined his
sister ; but even he could see that it was with
difficulty she restrained the amusement his
doings afforded her — " no reason at all ; only
you will allow — but no matter. Away with
you now, you dear simpleton, and tell me all
about it some other time ! It will wait, — and
the horses won't. Away with you ! " pushing
him gently towards the door ; "if that is all
you have to tell me, away with you, and make

yourself ready as fast as you can ! Get you
gone, young sir ! "

But, confound it, you won't let me speak !"
protested poor Teddy, already with his face
close to the door. " Can't you listen to me fora
single moment, instead of talking the whole
time yourself ? I tell you I have something
to say "

Say away, then ; only be quick about

It."

'' I heard something at Clinkton."

*' What did you hear ? "

It was about — about Challoner."

About Mr Challoner 1 " As quick as lightning
there was a change in her face. " About
Mr Challoner? Well?"

A pause.

'^ Go on."

Another pause.

'' What about him ? " demanded Matilda,
all attention — close, concentrated, unswerving
attention now.

Unfortunate Teddy ! that swift interest took

away the last remains of any desire to communicate.


'shallower is eno^ao^ed to be married' lie
said in a thick guttural voice, not at all his
own. " He is engaged to a Clinkton girl. It
is to see her he goes to Clinkton."

I heard it first from Whewell," continued
the narrator, eager to continue, now that he
had begun. " I went to Whewell the day I left
here. That was Tuesday, you know. I went
to call on Whewell. I had no idea of anything
; I merely went to make a friendly callas
young fellows do, and I happened to say
we had Challoner with us, and he said something
about his marriage ; so then I said we
had never heard a syllable about his marriage
for you know we had not."
A smothered movement.
Oh, you may trust me. I took care what
I said," proceeded Teddy, comprehending with
wonderful sagacity what was meant. " I took

precious good care not to let you down "

Never mind that. Go on*'

Well, I could not help showing that we
knew nothing of the marriage, because you
know we did know nothing, and Whewell
seemed to know everything. Challoner has
been engaged since before we ever set eyes
upon him, — engaged for three months and
more, — and the wedding is to be immediately.
Stop ! hear me out," as she had raised a pale
smiling face for denial — "just you hear me
out. I am not going upon Whewell's word —
though Whewell is not a bad fellow, and was
uncommonly civil to me — but I knew you
would never believe a thing he said." She
nodded to this. *' So that was what took me
to Clinkton. Whewell told me where Hale
lived — that is my friend — and I — I really
did not want to see him, you know, — and
Whewell thought it would be a good plan."

^'He sent you?"

Sent me '? No indeed ; I went of my own

accord. But it was he who thought of it

What do you look like that for ? " breaking off
suddenly.

Well, I went to Clinkton," continued
Teddy, meeting with no reply; "I went the
day before yesterday, and found Hale at home
the next morning — that was yesterday morning
; and just as I was coming away, and they
had told me all about it — this marriage, I
mean, — who should I fall in with but the very
girl herself — I mean, her sister."

"Win"

Oh, she told me a heap : I had it all over
again from her. It was exactly as Whewell
had said ; her sister had been engaged to Challenger
ever since last September. He had met
her first at Lady Fairleigh's — you remember
he has often spoken of his sister Lady Fairleigh
— and they are to be married next
month ; early next month, the girl said.
She was a nice smart-looking girl," quoth
Teddy, who was not so particular as Matilda
" an awfully well-got-up girl, and she
jabbered away like anything. She said her
other sister was engaged too, and that they
were going to have a double wedding. She

said she had often heard of us. Jem — that
was Challoner — had spoken of us when he
was there lately. She called Overton ' the
Earl '' said Teddy, with a grin. " She did
not know I was ' the Earl's ' brother though ;
I kept that dark. I merely put it to her in a
casual sort of way, Had she ever heard of
Challoner's friends, the Lessinghams 1 And
I brought in Overton's name when she seemed
not quite sure. As soon as she heard Over-ton's
name, she said, " Yes " at once, and remarked
that they had been very kind to him
when he was laid up at their house not long
ago. I thought it was as well to be perfectly
certain that it really was our man, our Challenger
that everybody meant," continued Teddy,
who, to be sure, had done as well and shown
as much sagacity throughout as though he had
been the wisest of the wise. '^ There may be
dozens of other Challoners in the world, you
know" — which was precisely what Matilda
had twice opened her lips to point out, —
but, of course, there could only be one Challenger

who knew us and was laid up here
lately,'^ proceeded the speaker, " so that settled
the matter. And the Hales spoke as if everybody
knew about it ; and so did the other girl
the sister of the one you know. Her name
is Tufnell. Whewell could not quite get hold
of it, but he was sure that it began with a T ;
and so it did. I said it over to myself lots of
times on the way home, for fear I should forget
it, as Whewell did ; and I knew you would
never believe a word if I forgot the name.
But anyhow, it's true. You may believe me
or not, but Tve got it all for you as clear as
crystal, and it was all exactly as Whewell said :
the whole time Challoner has been here he has
been as good as a married man, and never
whispered a syllable about it ! "

He paused at length, for there was no more
to be said after this.

Dear ! I think he might have told us,"
said Matilda, taking up her riding-whip.

CHAPTEE XXXIV

MATILDA SHOWS A BRAVE FRONT.

Vulgar minds refuse, or crouch beneath their load ; the brave
Bear theirs without repining."

Mallet.

Such admirable carelessness was beyond our
heroine's simple retainer, and it must be confessed
that Teddy's mouth fell 023en as wide
as any ploughboy's when the next minute his
sister stepped past him in the doorway and
tripped lightly out of sight, — and she had run
down-stairs, got upon her horse, and was away
from the door, before he had even time to rub
his eyes and find his voice.

But I was going too ! " he said at last.

It was too late ; my lady was far down the

avenue ere lie reached the front door, and
there was no recalling her.

What on earth of course I was going,"

said he again. "A ride is just what I want,
to get this beastly journey out of my head ;
and now that Challoner is disposed of, she
will be glad enough to take me on again.
Well, I'll get some luncheon, for I'm as
hungry as a hunter, and I can go along
presently ; I'll catch her up at Endhill.
Challoner's settled, that's one comfort ; but
Matilda was not half so mad as I thought
she would have been. I was afraid just at
the first she might have been a little upset,

but she is such a jolly girl Oh, there is

something hot, is there ? " to a servant, who
came up with the announcement. '' In the
library ? Oh ! I'll come. And, I say, tell
them to have round Trumpeter by-and-by —
in half an hour or so."

Now, how about Matilda ? Straight upright
she sat up in her saddle, her hands grasping
the reins with a tension of which she was

wholly unaware, a burning spot on each
cheek. She was going to Endhill mechanically
— going because she had been going before.
Before when ? Before there was that
rushing sound in her ears, that catch in her
breath, that cold numbness at her heart. She
had been going to Endhill, certainly she had
been going to Endhill ; and — and — whatever
had been going to be must still be.

Nothing had happened, — oh dear, no, —
nothing. If — if by any chance Teddy's ridiculous
story should be true, — it was most
unlikely, most improbable — Teddy never did
tell true stories, — but if, if there was the
slightest , most distant chance of his having:
built his absurd charge upon any sort of

foundation, why she would still go to

Endhill. There was nothing to keep her
from going to Endhill — nothing to deter her
from going anywhere, or doing anything, —
and she was at her destination ere she well
knew she had started. She had galloped
nearly the whole way.

'' Who do you think we have got here ? "
cried Lotta, greeting her mother in the doorway,
her voice betraying that the "who" was
within earshot. "Mr AVhewell," — looking
round, — " Mr Whewell, come and show yourself.
Mr Whewell, mamma, has just arrived."
Lady Matilda had rather a strange look on
her face. " We did not know he was coming,
for we never got his note," continued Lotta.
I tell him London letters must be posted by
half-past five in the afternoon if they are to
be delivered here the next morning." (As if
the artful rogue did not know as much, and
had not planned his manoeuvre so as not to
be disconcerted by any unfavourable reply.)
So we shall probably get your note, Mr
Whewell, while we are at tea," continued Mrs
Lotta, running on contentedly, for she had
been flattered into good humour by the wily
barrister, and now that she had all the talking
to herself, turned on the tap graciously. " We
shall see it come in, and you will remember
for another time. It is so fortunate that weare

at home, for we are to be away the whole
of next week ; and indeed, but for this thaw,
here Matilda lost her.

From the moment Matilda saw Whewell,
hope fled. That bare sight of his face — his
triumphant overcharged face, ablaze with information,
athirst for opportunity — one single
impression of it was enough. She believed
every word Teddy had spoken, and believing,
not a note in her voice faltered, not a flicker
of her eyelids nor a change in her colour betrayed
her.

(" I am glad I came," was all she said within
her heart. " Glad — glad — glad I came.
Now then — ) " How d ye do, Robert '? Is
that baby, Lotta '? Ah, my sweet ! " clasping
him to her bosom, — did she for a moment
hide her face in his ? — '^ ah, my bonnie boy 1
how well he looks, how fast he grows ! Never
cries with me, you see, my dears. So you
have come down to inspect your godson, Mr
Whewell," turning to him with graver politeness.
" That is quite right, quite as it should

be. His other godfather has been here too.
He only left us this morning."

Left you ! " exclaimed Whewell, involuntarily.


Yes, left us for London. He and Teddy
must have crossed each other by the way.
Teddy is just come ; did you come down in
the same train with him ? "

Whewell had; but he had hidden himself.
He had not wished to be recognised, since,
above all things, if he were ever to make anyway
with the lady of his affections again, he
must remain in the background now. Now
that he had set his puppets working, and that
the machinery was in full going order, he
must keep aloof, a dispassionate innocent
spectator, until the storm had blown by.

Challoner was about to be checkmated, and
the desire to see and know how the checkmate
was given had proved irresistible. To Endhill
he must come to insert himself into the Han-wells'
confidence, and gather from Eobert's
deportment and Lotta's slips of the tongue

how far the affair bad gone, and in what
aspect it had been viewed by the family in
general ; but he had sufficient penetration and
knowledge of human nature to be aware that
nothing could be more detrimental to his own
interests than to seem to be cognisant of Matilda's
feelings at this juncture, or to pry openly
into what might be her shame and sorrow.

That she had not treated Challoner with
indifference had been only too manifest, in
spite of all poor Teddy's endeavours to conceal
as much ; whether she had given him
her whole heart or not, was another question.
It had been quick work if she had ; and he
had fancied Lady Matilda was not to be
quickly won.

Directly he had begun to press his own suit,
he had been conscious of that invisible intangible
resistance which a woman knows so well
how to present, and which is so impossible
to surmount or cut through. Immediately
Whewell had left behind his open friendly
tone for tender asides and soft inquiries, he

had felt a difference in his reception both in
the boudoir and in the drawing-room; and
from this he had drawn the not unnatural
conclusion that he had been over-hasty,' and
that a beauty who knew her own value, and
who had doubtless been laid siege to over a
score of times, was unlikely to be taken by
storm. He should have expected this; and
he had more than once blamed himself for
his precipitancy, and mused over the wily and
wary path he should pursue in future — " Slow
and sure " must be his motto.

From this it will be seen that the persevering
barrister had by no means given up
hopes ; and strange to say, Challoner's success
— for in his own mind Whewell did not
doubt that success — instead of daunting, afforded
a curious and subtle encouragement.

Challoner, brainless fool that he was, had
found the soft spot in proud Matilda's heart ;
surely what Challoner could do, he could do.
Challoner exposed and defeated, the breach
was made, the way open for another.

Only let him be careful not to offend Matilda
now, only let her imagine him unconscious
— for well he knew that on unconsciousness
her pride would set the highest value —
and he might yet ascend to the throne by her
side. And never had she seemed more queenlike
or more gracious than she did at the
moment when such thoughts and such hopes
were animating the breast of Challoner s
rival.

All of this is a digression, but we wish our
readers to perceive with what intent the busy
and hard-worked Londoner had forced a holiday
upon himself in order to ascertain by the
surest method possible, the precise nature of
the case which was now foremost in his consideration.


Did you come down in the same train
with Teddy 1 " inquired Lady Matilda, easily.

No doubt I did ; but, oddly enough, we
never came across each other," replied Wheel.
" You say he is just arrived ? Then
how did we miss meeting, I wonder ? I

VOL. III. F

mean at this end; of course at the other
side — there was such a crowd, — and I was
late — he had probably got into his carriage
before I arrived. If I had known he was to
be there "

Oh, I thought you did know 1 " She
looked him quietly in the face as she
spoke.

Certainly I knew — knew he was coming
down some time to-day, but there are a number
of trains'' explained Whewell, who had
provided for this ; "he did not tell me yesterday,
when he called at my rooms, what particular
train he meant to catch. I knew he
could not get back from Clinkton last night
in time to come straight on here ; and indeed
I thought it very likely that his friend Hale
might induce him to remain longer — that is
to say, if Hale were at home. Did he find
Hale at home ? "

Yes, but he only saw him — or them, for I
think he saw all the family — for a very short
time. I don't suppose he ever intended to

stay ; he very seldom cares to go anywhere,
and it was just a whim."

I know. Yes, I believe it was I who unwittingly
put it into his head' said Whewell,
who, it will be seen, had carefully thought out
all his part before. " I hope you were not
disappointed by his non-appearance ; but he
sent the telegram, and the poor fellow seemed
dreadfully at a loss for something to do, and
so charmed to escape from being snow-bound
down here. But the snow is all gone to-day.
I never was more surprised than when I got
up this morning ; the air as warm as summer,
and the streets one mass of black slush from
end to end. Ton my word, even the country
is better," — he stopped, annoyed at his awkwardness.


*' Yes even the country is better," repeated
Lady Matilda, with a perfectly amiable smile,
" even this poor dreary country of ours is
better sometimes than your enchanting London
; and it is better than Clinkton too, Teddy
thinks," stroking the baby's soft little head.

(" He is quite good with me, Lotta, I assure
you' in parenthesis.) " Is he not a nice little
fellow, Mr Whewell '? I am only the grandmother,
you know, not the mother, so I nay
put the question. Are you not proud of him,
or of your share in him, whichever it is '? Mr
Challoner's share is a very small one, by the
way, judging from all the claim he lays to it.
He is a wretched godfather. He never once
came over to see baby this last visit, and now
he is gone "

But I never knew he was here ! "

cried Lotta.

"Gone, did you says' repeated Wheel,
in a breath.

'* I — I understood from your brother that
he was at the Hall now," continued he, in the
most natural voice he could muster ; " I was
looking forward to meeting him." But Lady
Matilda was addressing her daughter.

Well, my dear Lotta, it was very rude of
him, I own ; but then, in excuse, I must say
that he only ran down to us for a few days.

just because Overton had set this heart on having
moonlight skating on the home-ponds, and
Mr Challoner had never seen night-skating :
so when the moon and the ice came together,
we got hold of everybody whom we thought
would really enjoy it. We knew you would
not come, and even Eobert "

Oh, mamma, pray don't ask him. I should
be in agonies till I saw Robert safe home again,
if he were to go ; and of course / could not go.
Robert would not hear of it."

*' Precisely. That was what we all felt,"
assented Matilda ; " it was no sort of use asking
you ; but for people who skate "

I am very fond of skating," began Lotta,
^^but "

Mr Challoner, for instance, came down

from the north on purpose," continued Lady
Matilda, in a perfectly distinct voice, and she
looked at Whewell as she spoke.

Indeed ! Lucky fellow ! What would I
have given — but you never thought of asking
me ; and indeed last week it would have been

of no use — I could not have come by any
possibility nor for any attraction," emphatically.
" But Challoner, has he — is he off for
good I ''

He has only gone to town to-day ; he is
to meet his sister, Lady Fairleigh, there, —
take care, baby, don't get my watch-chain into
your eyes, — and they will want to go north
together."

Ah, to Clinkton," said Whewell, significantly.


^' To Clinkton, yes. His fiancee lives at
Clinkton, you know — (baby, baby, you little
mischief ! see, Lotta, he has pulled down my
hair."

What do you mean about his fiancee ? "
demanded Lotta, in blunt amazement. " Is
Mr Challoner eno^ao^ed to be married ? "

Mrs Han well had not heard of it, then ? "
observed "Whewell, whom nothing escaped.
Had you heard, Hanwell '? " wheeling round
his chair as the door opened, for Eobert had
been out making arrangements for the comfort

of his unexpected guest. " Had you heard
about Challoner '? "

What about Challoner ? No, I have not
heard anything about him."

Not about his marriage ? "

His marriage ! No. Is he going to be married
1 I had no idea of it, nor had any of us."

My dear Robert, I have just been telling
Lotta the reason he has been so remiss in not
coming over here. You see, we have been so
shut up, and the roads have been so bad ever
since the snow fell, and Mr Challoner only
came the day before the snow fell," murmured
Lady Matilda, not very coherently; but coherence
was perhaps the last thing to be
desired, all things considered.

'^ Oh, I beg your pardon ; you knew about
it, then 1 " inferred her son-in-law very naturally.
" He has been with you lately ; is he
with you still ? "

"He comes down again this evening; but
I should think he will rejoin his sister either
tomorrow or next day."

And — and you knew of this engagement
? " proceeded Robert, with the stolid
tread of an elephant on the delicate ground ;
and he was not ignorant that the ground was
delicate either, for as he spoke he breathed
slightly, drew up his brows, and looked round
at each in turn before he stole a glance at
Lady Matilda. He had had his own ideas
about Lady Matilda, — ideas which were too
distasteful to be imparted even to his wife, but
which had been forced upon his dull perceptions
in spite of himself, and of every argument
he could think of on the other side. He
had felt that there was something, although
he could scarcely have defined what — but
that there was something, something going
on at Overton Hall ; and that, whatever that
something was, Challoner was at the bottom
of it.

Oh, it is an old story, as stories go," said
Whewell, with an interposition for which he
hoped Matilda would be grateful, — "a three
months' old story, at any rate," getting up and

ostensibly addressing his host, but in reality
talking at and for one person only. '' Three
months is an age in these rapid times. I
knew all about it long ago, and thought that
of course you did too."

No indeed."

Not when you had him down here in November
— I mean last month ? It seems so
long since I was here, I can hardly think it
was only last month. Did he not tell you
then ? "

"No."

Odd that he said nothing. But some men
are extraordinarily shy about these matters,
and Challoner is just that sort of reserved
fellow. It was not from himself that / heard
it — it came to me in quite a roundabout way ;
and then, when I recollected that the subject
had not been mentioned openly among you,
I concluded that he had not cared to be
talked about. But I thought that of course
you knew. The engagement was young
then."

Perhaps he was not engaged then." The
bright thought was Lotta's.

Oh, he was ; he certainly was," said Wheel,
sharply. " Everybody knew it. 'And
no doubt," markedly and exclusively now
addressing Matilda — " no doubt your brother
heard the thing mentioned at Clinkton yesterday.
He did ? Yes, I was sure he would.
He went to the Hales', and the Hales are the
Tufnells' particular friends. Tufnell is the
name, I remember now. I could not recollect
it when your brother asked me : I could only
give him the fact, not the details."

*pray spare them to us also," cried the
lady, with a yawn. " Pray, Mr AVhewell, if
you have any compassion on us poor country-folks,
who never hear a thing, and never see
a human being, tell us the news, on dits, the
scandal of the town, and don't, dont be prosy.
It is delightful of you to have catered for us
this — this charming piece of gossip, and we
only beg you not to spoil it by too much skill
and pains. It would be a pity "

"But I really want to know," broke in
Lotta, who had scarcely yet recovered from
her astonishment. " Do, mamma, just let Mr
Whewell tell us the rest."

'the rest, my child? What does 'the
rest ' consist of ? AVhat can remain ? Is it
not enough when Mr Whewell can furnish
even the name 1 " said Matilda, with a bitterness
she struggled in vain totally to conceal :
he has been so good as to leave nothing to
our imagination ; in another minute you will
be in possession of a complete list of the
wedding guests "

I could get it, I believe," said Wheel,

laughing. "The wedding is to take
place immediately, and if Mrs Han well has
any curiosity "

I want to know who and what she is,"
said Lotta, plainly.

"She is a banker's daughter — a bankers
very pretty daughter, I believe," replied her
informant, with a malicious enjoyment in the
saying it, — "quite young, barely twenty, rich,

and — and all the rest of it. A lucky match
for Ciialloner, no doubt, and one that is not
to be made every day''

I am going up-stairs to have a private
confab with nurse," announced Lady Matilda
almost directly after this. " Stay where you
are, Lotta ; you are not to come, — don't you
understand '? Nurse and I can arrange all
about the new cloak and hood without you ;
the new winter cloak and hood I promised,
you know. It is time the little master had
it, and it is to be a dead secret from everybody
else until it appears. So just stop where
you are, my dear ; I will come down when I
am ready," peeping in at the door after she
had left the room.

That coming down proved to be harder
than anything she had yet had to do. Animation
was beginning to return, she was
coming to herself as out of a dull deadly
stupor, when the time came for again facing
the drawing-room; and the party there had
not separated, as she had half hoped they

might Lave done : they were still herding
together, three against one, as she felt them
to be ; and the poor one, inwardly quivering
in every fibre, had again to assume unconsciousness
and light-heartedness, and endeavour
to cheat, elude, and throw off the scent,
well aware that with one, at least, of those
present no endeavour would avail. That
Whewell knew all, she was now certain.

But she played her part bravely and well
that dismal December day. Without flinching
for a moment, or for a moment relinquishing
that firm hold on herself which it was all
in all with her now to maintain, Lady Matilda
turned to one and another, never ^^^using,
never trusting herself even to consider what
must next come to pass — how she should
enact the same again in the Overton drawing-room
with another three around her — how to
meet, and greet, and part with Challoner forever.


This would require every power she possessed
; but she had none as yet to spare for

the future, until the future should make demands
for its own necessity.

At length escape came, and gaily waving
her hand, and smiling to the last, Matilda
rode off rapidly on the road towards the
sea. Teddy had not appeared — he had been
detained — and she was thus far spared to
solitude and misery.

Are you going by the downs, my lady 1 "
It was the groom who had ridden up — respectful,
suggestive remonstrance audible in the
question.

Yes." He had never heard my lady speak
so haughtily in his life. She motioned him back
like an empress, — but he would try again.

The ground will be very soft, my lady ;
the heavy thaw "

He fell back ; he had been made to fall back
by a gesture which admitted of no further
parley, — where his mistress led, it was for him
to follow, and his business began and ended
there. So Charles understood, and whatever
he might think, he durst no more molest.

What did Matilda care though the ground
were soft and the thaw heavy '? The ground
and the thaw were nothing to her. Soft ?
Heavy ? She wondered what the words meant.
Her heart was heavy — heavy like a stone, and
as hard, — no softness about it, — and she had
lingered so Ions; at Endhill, had been so resolute
in her bravado there, that to go straight
home now, was to meet and confront Challoner
within the hour, and without hope of escape.
No, she could not do that yet, could not face
that traitor yet.

He would hear where she had gone, would
inquire instantly, and be told ; and should she
take the direct road to the Hall, she would
find him in all probability coming to meet
her, or lying in wait at the front door ready
to propose a garden stroll or a musical hour.
Oh, what should she say ? What could she say 1
How answer, how look, and not betray her
secret ? It was but yesterday he had trembled
before her ; it was her turn to tremble now.

She must not meet him alone ; that was the

one thing clear in the tumult of her thoughts :
and to achieve this she must be out late, take
the roundabout route by the downs, only get
in after Overton and Teddy were sure also to
have returned, then hurry to her room, and
a word to each brother before the party
assembled for dinner would be all that was
needed.

They would congratulate the happy man ;
Teddy would inform him of his expedition ;
Challoner would understand, without occasion
for anything being said that could cause a
breath of unpleasantness, — oh, it would be
all smiles and amiability, — and the next day
he would depart, and be to them as though
he had never been.

The wild western wind blew about the
scattered curls which Lotta s baby had dishevelled,
but no wind could cool the burn
on Matilda's scalding; brovv^. The dark sea
rolled in thunder along the cliffs below, but
she only heard that din in her ears, that
rushing in her veins. The gulls flew and

shrieked overhead ; she looked, and there
was a thick blinding mist before her eyes.

Here and there she came to a point on
the cliff where the weight of water, from
the extent and rapidity of the thaw, had
forced down the soft sandstone, and the most
serious of these landslips was scarcely passed,
when the groom, unable longer to keep silence,
again rode up, at the risk of a reprimand, to
warn his mistress of the danger of approaching
near to an edge so treacherous.

The words were scarcely out of his mouthy
she had barely turned her head to listen, when
a loud shout from in front rang through the
gloom, so startling in its vehemence and nearness,
that both horses swerved violently aside,
and Matilda, who had but a negligent seat at the
moment, was thrown with force to the ground.

The next instant the figure of a man appeared
running to the spot.

Good God ! what have I done ? " exclaimed
a voice.

It was Challoner's.

VOL. III. G

CHAPTER XXXV.

OFF HIS Guard AT LAST.

A word unspoken is like the sword in the scabbard, thine ; if vented,
thy sword is in another's hand." — Charles.

Challonek, as Matilda had divined he would,
had started to meet her on her return from
Endhill.

Tolerably Avell content with a visit to town
which had produced no results either good or
evil — for he had seen nothing of his sister, and
had obtained no tidings of her beyond ascertaining
that her rooms had been engaged at
the hotel, but that nothing further had been
heard, and no orders received, — content so far,
and right willing to be left in the dark for as
long as Lady Fairleigh chose, her brother had

hurried back to the one place on earth for him
that day, and arriving to find all the party
out, he had acted precisely as a lover under
happier auspices should have done.

A mile and a half of the high-road having,
however, brought no Lady Matilda into view,
and the gloom of the winter afternoon deepening
every minute, Challoner had hesitated
about proceeding, for it had seemed unlikely
that the riders should not have been met
by that time, unless they had followed some
other route. Could they be returning by the
downs ?

The suggestion had hardly arisen in his
mind ere it had been confirmed by his falling
in with some of the Endhill farm-servants who
had come clattering along at a good pace inn
empty cart, and who had readily shouted
out that they had seen the horses take the
turning towards the sea.

That was enough; he had instantly cut
across a field, and a few minutes more had
brought him to the well-known path over the

downs which he and Matilda had so often
traversed.

She certainly could not have passed, if what
the labourers had stated were correct, and he
had been justly confident of intercepting her,
perhaps of persuading her to send on her horse
with the groom, and walk the rest of the way
home — a short two miles, — it would be a
pleasant change ; he had thought she would
not refuse.

But waiting where he could command the
best view of the path, Challoner had been
struck, as Lady Matilda's attendant had been,
by the numerous landslips along the coast ;
and one crack in particular, more extensive
than the rest, and plainly indicating that the
loosened soil would fall ere long, had fixed his
attention, and distracted it even from Matilda
for a few minutes. He had walked forward
to the brink of the cliff in order to discover
whether or no any had actually given way ; in
the inquiry he had become engrossed for the
moment ; and the approaching horses making

no sound with their hoofs on the soft moist
sod, he had neither heard nor seen them till
they were too near for him to do more than
raise a cry of warning.

The danger was evident; two heavy animals
going at a round pace over the already
insecure spot would certainly imperil themselves
and their riders, and one of the two
bore Matilda ! His shout was almost a
scream, for though himself wellnigh undistinguishable
from the surrounding scrub and
brushwood in the dusky light, he had instantly
recognised her, her outline showing
plainly against a lurid wintry sunset.

She now lay motionless and unconscious
before him.

Matilda ! " cried Challoner, raising her in
his arms — " Matilda ! Oh, fool that I was ! I
have killed her by my own act. No, she is
breathing yet ; she is but stunned by the fall.
There is no stone she can have hit her head
against," looking round. " There is nothing ;
and the hat may have been a protection,

though it is off now. But who can tell how
and where the hurt may be, especially if — oh,
if she would but open her eyes ! This is
dreadful. I have nothing — and there is
nowhere "

There is the coast-guardsman's house up
yonder, sir," said the groom, who had dismounted
in order to recover his lady's horse,
and who now came up on foot, holding the
reins of both. "Is my lady very bad, sir?
The ground is so soft "

"See for yourself," sharply. "Where is
the house you spoke of ? "

"Just by here, sir. We passed it not half
a minute ago. Shall I go on and get someone,
sir 1 "

*' Go on, and say I am bringing your mistress
there. Look sharp. You will have to
go for the doctor next thing."

He raised his helpless burden in his arms.
The house was even nearer than the man had
thought, and they were there immediately.

Brandy ! " cried Challoner, laying Matilda

on the little couch of the room into which he
was ushered. " Brandy ! Quick ! A good

dose "

Oh, sir," remonstrated the female,

who appeared to be host and hostess in one,
but who was all helpless amazement and consternation,
— '^ oh, sir, my husband is the
coast-guardsman, sir "

"Never mind what he is. Do, for

heaven's sake "

Brandy, sir, we never have," reproachfully.



What do you have ? Anything — only be
quick "

At length he got what he little expected, a
spoonful of sal-volatile, with many explanations
as to the medical man's orders about the
same, which, we need hardly say, were spoken
to deaf ears.

*^ Shall your servant fetch the doctor now,
sir, he wishes to know '? " were the first words
conveying any impression to the mind of the
distracted Challoner.

Doctor '? Fetch the doctor 'i Do you
mean to say he has not gone yet 1 " he began,
savagely, — but on a sudden he stopped short.
Something had happened.

*' I believe she is coming round," murmured
the speaker to himself. " Certainly that was
a sigh. And there, she sighs again." " Matilda,"
in a whisper — " Matilda." Then raising
himself and turning round, " Send off the
groom at once. Tell him to fetch the doctor,
and also a carriage from the Hall. Do you understand
'? He is first to get the doctor, and
then the carriage. Tell him to be off at once.
And, I say, just shut the door, will you ? "

Is the lady better, sir?"

Better ? Yes. She must be quiet now,
please," impatiently.

Is there nothing I can do, sir ? ''

Nothing — nothing — nothing, thank you.
She will be all right presently. Kindly leave

us now. I will fetch you if " The words

died away. The sufferer had unclosed her
eyes, but neither she nor Challoner noticed

that the door softly closed, and that they
were alone ; a thousand prying eyes would
scarce have been heeded at that moment.

"Matilda," whispered he — he was still
kneeling by her side, enfolding her in his
arms, — " Matilda, do you know me, my darling
? Oh, my darling, look, look again I
See, it is I. And I thought I had killed
you — I did indeed. Are you hurt, dearest ?
Are you in pain ? " trembling for her answer.
What ? I can't hear. Just whisper. See,
draw a breath. Tell me, does that hurt 1
You shake your head. Oh, thank God ! —
what ! not anywhere — not anywhere Heaven
be thanked 1 I can scarce believe it. I

thought those dear eyes might never "

he could not finish.

*' Oh, my love ! — my own love," he burst
forth again, '* to think that I, I who would
lay down my life for your dear sake — that
I should have been the one to do so cruel a
thing ! How I hate myself 1 But you, you
will not hate me, will you, darling ? Nay,

don't move. I must have you, must hold you
thus, else I shall think, shall feel as if —
stay, dearest," passionately ; " see, you are
in my arms. It is I," his lips pressed' her
cheek.

*' TJiis is I," he breathed in her ear.

A faint sob, a gasping shivering sigh escaped
beneath the touch.

Good heavens, you are hurt ! " exclaimed
Challoner, again alarmed. " Something has
struck you — you are concealing it from me !
Oh, where 1 Tell me how and what you feel,
and — oh, my dearest, tell me "

Again that convulsive shudder.

Is this position painful," inquired he.
'^ Can I ease it in any way? Lean on me,
put your arms round my neck — what ? Oh,
I have been too bold. I know it. I am
beginning to recollect now, but — but — I will
not, 1 cannot care : I will think only of you,
not of myself. What can I do for you now ?
Are you deceiving me ? If I only knew
that " anxiety again arising.

'' No."

She had spoken at last.

It is you, not I," said poor Matilda, struggling
for sense and coherency. '' You are the

one who " she fell back again upon her

pillow.

It was obvious, however, that she had not
relapsed into unconsciousness, and Challoner,
whose fears were allayed anew, contented
himself with fond murmurs and soothing
assurances, while he again and again assured
the passive listener of his presence and of his
love. It seemed as though his tongue, thus
loosened and set free at last, could not stint
itself, could never cease to exclaim and endear
; and as the motionless form of Matilda,
still confused and bewildered, yielded involuntarily
to his embrace, his passion found
vent unchecked for some minutes, and past
and future were swallowed up in the too
exquisite present.

Then all at once he felt a movement different
from any the sufferer had yet made.

Let me get up," she said, faintly. " Let
me sit up. I — I want to speak."

"You are hardly fit to speak yet, dearest,"
replied Challoner, his deep tones full of 'tenderness.
" What ! You really wish to change
your position ? Gently, then ; let me support
you "

No, don't support me, Mr Challoner," said
Matilda, quietly ; " I would rather — you — did
not."

He withdrew his arm, but remained kneeling
before her.

Do you not understand V he said.

I understand ; yes. But we ought to
understand each other, I think. Will you
please get up ^ "

Dear," said Challoner, laying his hand on
hers — " dear, you speak strangely ; you do
not know what you are saying "

A smile woke up upon her face — a

smile so woful, so wintry, that it chilled the
very blood in his veins, for it seemed to him
the smile of one distraught ; and his fears at

once led him to attribute any wandering of
the mind to the recent fall, whose ill effects
had not set been fully ascertained.

"You are — are " he stammered in new

agitation.

I am not mad," replied Matilda ; " I am

not mad. I " putting her hand to her

head, as one awakening to the sharp reaction
which follows on the heels of a narcotic —
"would you mind repeating once again what
you said just now '? "

"What I said just now?"

About me."

About you, my dearest ? "

"Yes, that's it; about me, your 'dearest.'
Well ? "

Lie down again, sweet one," said Challenger,
soothingly ; "lie down here, as you were
before. Nay, don t put me away. I will say

it all — anything you wish, only " again

attempting to draw her towards him.

You will ? " cried Matilda, suddenly springing
up and thrusting him back with a look

of horror. "You will? And you would dare?
What ? " panting out each word as she had
strength for it. " Dare to — touch me ? to insult
me ? to perjure — yourself ? You would ?
Have you — no shame ? no pity ? no — no
oh, God forgive you, Mr Challoner, for I
never can." She covered her face with her
hands, and he heard her sobbing behind them.
It may seem incredible, but until that
moment it had never crossed Challoner's mind
that anything could have occurred since he
had left Overton in the morning, when Matilda
had followed him to the door, and waved to
him from the doorstep. He now understood
it all ; his hands fell by his side ; he stood up,
and his face changed.

^' If you please, is the lady better ? " inquired
a voice without. '' I thought I heard you
calling, sir. Do you feel better, ma'am 1
Deary me I " cried the good woman, beholding
Matilda's averted face and heaving bosom
"' deary me ! she is bad. But that's always

the way with the 'sterics, they say, sir," turning
to the gentleman ; '^ and hysterics after an
accident comes natural ! It will do the poor
thing good to cry a bit."

Without a word, Challoner led the speaker
to the door, for she had advanced to the sofa,
and was standing in contemplation of the
unhappy Matilda, as she thus delivered her
opinion.

'you think she had best not be meddled
with, sir '? And to be sure, I bain t no great
hand at doctoring. Well-swell ! Then you'll
kindly call again if you want anything 1
There's more of the sal-volatile ; " but the
door had closed.

Challoner had closed it. Then he went and
stood by the window, and heard the gusts of
wind pass by. It seemed as if there were
nothing left for him to do now. All was over,
and he found himself dully wondering how it
had ever gone on so long.

"Mr Challoner?"

He turned.

If you have anything — to say," said Lady
Matilda, in a hoarse whisper — " I should like
I should wish — I will hear it before we-part
now, and part for ever. This shameful scene
may end now. Be quick ; I wish to be alone.
Be quick — and — go."

'' Lady Matilda " he stopped.

- Well ? "

I have nothing to say."

Nothing, Mr Challoner ? — nothing f "

He bowed.

'you have nothing to say," she proceeded,
with a slow frown gathering over her brow ;
and yet I was more than ' Lady Matilda ' just
now. I was — was I not ? — all that was most
dear, most beloved ; and you have ' nothing '
to say now ? Say something, sir — you can
surely think of something'' cried she, with
rising anger ; " you were ready enough with
your falsehoods a few minutes ago."

*' They were no falsehoods," murmured
Challoner almost inaudibly.

She stopped to listen, and listened on until
he spoke again.

They were no falsehoods. You know
that. For the rest, I repeat, I have nothing
to say."

"You cannot even defend yourself."

I will not defend myself."

'' By heavens ! " burst forth Matilda in a
passion of irrepressible scorn — '' by heavens !
this is the man who says he loves me, and
swears I am dear to him — who had almost made
me forget myself, and — and — oh, what am I
saying '? I that have been so duped, so deceived
— I that would have " suddenly her

hands came together, and she wrung them in
her agony.

Challoner's lips moved, but no sound
escaped them.

He loves me and weds another," cried
Matilda, beginning again. " He kisses me,
and vows to her. I am only one of two ; and
she, the other, has the prior claim. She, poor
girl, has the right to this man — this hypocrite :

VOL. III. H

she can claim him — thank God it is she, and
not I. Go to her, Mr Challoner," gathering
fresh disdain with every sentence — " go
quickly, lest another come in your way,* and
you are tempted again, and — and — oh, go to
her; she knows nothing as yet. There is
plenty of time. Go, and she will receive you
with open arms ; she suspects nothing. The
marriage is to be immediately, — oh, I know
all about it. She is very confiding ; she does
not ask where Mr Challoner passes his time
when he is not at Clinkton ; she likes him to
enjoy himself, and make the most of his antenuptial
holiday — oh, poor girl, poor girl ! "
cried the speaker, dropping all at once her
accents of bitter mockery — " poor — poor — miserable
— ill-fated girl "

Challoner raised his head, and looked out of
the window.

"Is she, too, your dearest'? Is she also
your love ? " The wretched Matilda was
struggling for a hold on her emotions. " Is
she — is she "

No reply.

Speak ! " shrieked Matilda, and fell back
on the sofa, senseless.

When she came again to herself, all was
as before, and consciousness returning more
speedily than at first, she became almost at
once aware of Challoner's presence at her side,
and his voice close to her ear sent an involuntary
thrill throughout her frame. Challoner
was using restoratives, which he had instantly
procured ; and as soon as he perceived
these to be no longer needed, he retreated
a pace, and assumed the tone of a physician.

You must not again exert yourself. Lady
Matilda, or the consequences may really be
serious. You must be so good as to remain
perfectly quiet now. No one will come in,
and I — I shall not annoy you."

Presently he saw the tears flowing over her
cheeks. " If I have been unjust to you," she
murmured, " say it."

He could not say it.

If you have not deceived two women who

trusted you, and who could have — loved you,
say it."

Again he could not.

Only one thing," implored she, fixing on
him her eye — could he ever in years to come
forget the anguish depicted in that dark,
full, swimming eye '? — " only one thing :
which''

Then she knew by his face which, and hid
her own.

C If I could only leave her now," thought
Challoner, in justice to whom it must be said
that fear of the effect a continuance of such
emotions might have on the unhappy Matilda
in her present state predominated ; " my being
here — but I cannot go till I have seen her in
better hands. I cannot go, unless she herself
sends me. Will that carriage ever come ? " )

Then he heard his name again, and took a
swift resolution.

Lady Matilda," he said, " I— I had better
go. I cannot see you, hear you, be with you
thus, and keep my senses longer. Because I

have played the fool, I need not play the madman,
and — shall I go ? "

He almost thought she would have said
''No." He hardly yet knew Matilda.

'eyes, go," she answered, solemnly — "go to
her whom you have wronged still more cruelly
than you have wronged me. She has not
even your love — such as it is. Go to her,
and on your knees, in the sight of God, tell
her the truth at last. Promise before God to
be false to her no more. She may forgive
you, — some women are forgiving, — I," said
Matilda, and a pale light fell on her face from
without — " I am not one of them."

After a short pause, she held out her hand ;
he knelt, overpowered by his own bitter feelings,
to take it — it may have been but a few
seconds, it may have been longer — " Go, go,"
she whispered faintly, — and deaf and dumb
and blind to all beside, out into the cold wet
dusk he went.

CHAPTER XXXVI.

ALL GONE IN AN HOUR.

Fortune makes quick despatch, and in a day
May strip you bare as beggary itself."

Cumberland.

'' Oh Lord, Mr Challoner, Mr Edward is over
the cliff!"

Over the devil ! What are you talking
about 1 "

Challoner threw off roughly a man who
seized upon him as he emerged from the cottage,
and in whom he scarcely recognised
Lady Matilda's usually silent and attentive
groom Charles, the same whom he had himself
despatched for aid so shortly before, but who
with affrighted countenance and disordered
speech was now full of a new disaster.

Oh Lord, sir, — it's true, sir ! '' cried he.
It's Mr Edward, sir. He was riding along
the downs here just now, and "

*' Mr Edward is not at home, you fool."

He is, sir, — he was, sir, — oh what am I
saying \ He was at home only an hour
ago ; but he'll never be at home anymore,
— oh Lord, and he such a fine gentleman
! "

Speak sense, can't you ? " he was shaken
rudely by the shoulder. " What has happened
? What "

It was to Endhill he went first, sir, — he
went before you came home, Mr Challoner ;
then you went the same way, but you came
down the broad, — but Mr Edward, he rides
straight home again as soon as ever he finds
my lady not there ; and then, when he finds
her not at home neither, and hears you was
ofi" to meet her, he falls a-swearing," — the man
was too much excited to care what he said, —
and nothing would serve him but to be off
after you."

And he has been thrown too ? And all
this time — where is he all this time ? ^'

Oh Lord, sir, it's no use now ! They are
all there — my lord, and all of them " •

Oh," said Challoner, stopping short.

u 'ri

Twas right along here he was coming,
sir, him and Trumpeter — the coast-guard see
them going along like anything — and all ina
minute down they went, not twenty yards
from the place where you ran out upon us,
sir. It was a slip, sure enough, sir ; and
you was right enough, and there they are
both lying now, — oh Lord ! oh Lord ! " and
the poor fellow broke off, blubbering like an
infant.

Stop that, confound you ! " said Challoner,
who had himself had about as much as he
could bear. " Stop that, and — what the deuce
does it all mean ? I don't understand," putting
up his hand to his hot head.

The place is close by, sir," Charles made
an effort and began again, — " a little bit of a
slip that wouldn't ha' hurt a fly if Mr Edward

had been walking, — he'd ha' had a tumble, and
no harm done ; but it was that great brute
of a horse — he never would ride nothing but
Trumpeter — and the men says they went down
like a flash, and Mr Edward's neck's broke,
and Trumpeter, they are going to shoot him —
oh Lord ! " — with a start and a fresh outbreak
as the report of a gun close at hand carried its
own interpretation to the minds of both. " Oh

oh — oh," beo^an the groom

If you don't hold that d d tongue

of yours," said Challoner, in a cold, dangerous
tone, " I'll pitch you down the place after
them, and you may break your neck too, if
you choose. Tell me the rest, and tell it, in
God's name, so that I can understand. Is Mr
Edward killed?"

Never spoke nor moved since they got at
him, sir," sobbed the man — 'never raised so
much as a finger; and his head's all a-hanging
down, and Mr Whewell, he says "

Wheivell!''

Mr Whewell is there, and them all, sir."

'' Whewell ! I must be mad. Go on — goon!
Whewell! Who next?"

My lord is just standing by as if he never
would move or speak again in this world-and
Mr Han well, 'twas he sent me to tell you :
they are afraid of her hearing," looking back
at the cottage, " so I was to get at you quiet
that was how we was so long, sir ; and see
here, sir, here's the very place ; and Mr Wheel
says there ain t no hope whatever, for he
has been dead this half-hour. Oh Lord ! " —
under his breath — " and such a little bit of a
slip too ! "

*' Do you say, do you mean that it was this
very place that I warned you off which gave
way with him ? " said Challoner, a new and
strange vibration in his pulses. " Good
God ! And if I had been five minutes
later "

We'd ha been down as sure as fate, Mr
Challoner. Two of us — and there was only
one of he ! Oh Lord ! the ground must ha'
been just like a piece of rotten cake, it must.

Oh, I told her ladyship twice the ground
warii't fit to go on ; but she'd no more listen

to me than "

And it was here f " continued Challenger,

unheeding, — '' here ? " his tone betraying
the awe and horror in his breast. " And is

that — I can't see " straining his eyeballs

to pierce the gloom, — '' is that them f "

Them it is, sir ! " He was responded to
in a whisper as low as his own, for the group
which had gathered around the dead man was
not a couple of hundred yards off.

Challoner stood still with compressed lips.

Aren't you going on, sir ? "

No reply.

"They are expecting you, sir."

Still no movement.

I was sent to bring you "

*' Tchah ! Be quiet, can't you ? " He

could have struck the fellow for his officious
and intolerable suggestions. '' You go down
to your master and say — I am coming — or,
stop "

My lord sees you ; he is coming towards
us, sir."

Whatever Challoner had intended doing was
thus perforce set aside. The two hands met ;
there was a silence, with averted faces ; then,
without a word, they stumbled forward together
over the loose clods and turf to the
fatal spot.

Here were assembled what seemed to be
quite a large number of men and boys, a spectral
group of figures in the dim light, — for
those who had beheld the accident had, in
terrified haste, made it known far and wide
without loss of an instant — and the result was,
that the first confused impression Challoner's
overstrained faculties received was that he was
confronted by every face he had ever seen or
known at Overton. That so many people had
been so quickly got together in such a lonely
spot was his next foolish wonder.

The truth was, he had no idea how long a
time had elapsed since he had last known or
cared anything about what was going on in

the outer world. For him there had only been
one thought, one agony. Within that little
room he had been living a great death ; and
in the retrospect, all the bitterness of that
bitter dream might have been concentrated
into a single drop. He had destroyed the
sense of time.

In reality, however, a full hour had gone by.

The landslip had taken place within a very
short time of his having seen that it was impending,
having been doubtless precipitated
by the weight and force of a horse and rider ;
and now all that was left of the young life
so ruthlessly cut short were cold inanimate remains,
already growing stiff in death. That
the end had been instantaneous was apparent,
and this was the only sad consolation.

Went down with the slip," whispered
one of the sailors in Challoner's ear, as he
and Lord Overton mutely joined the group.
We, my mates and I, was up there, and
saw him come riding' hard along the bank ;
and as he went by, one of our chaps says,

That's too near,' and we turned to look. I
don't know if we collared to him or not ; the
next thing was, Bill here cried, ' He's down 1 '
and we down with our things and after* him
as hard as we could run. Soon as wee get to
the top, we sees him lying' just where he is
now, and we all come down — for 'tis easy-enough
to get at it, ye see — and as soon as
we come nigh the gentleman, I says to Bill,"
in a still deeper whisper, " says I, ' He's done
for.' Snowed it fra the first, by the way he
was lying'. The horse was over there, thro win'

out his legs "

^' How soon did you get down ? "
"Wasn't two seconds, sir. Less time than
it takes tellin', we was all here ; and we lifted
him up and pulled open his collar, and one of
them fetched water, and we turned him this
way and that way, — no use, no use," shaking
his head mournfully, "not a breath was left
in his body ; and that gentleman there says,
'tis the neck that's broke. He must ha'
pitched right on to it, over the horse's head.

The slip's nothing — bits like that is always
coming' away ; and now, with all the snow
that's been on it, and soaking' into it for days
and days, one would ha' thought any gentleman
about here would ha snowed to keep off
the edge. They say he is the Earl of Over-ton's
brother. Bill says so. I'm new to
these parts, though I've lived along the coast
all my days. It's the same coast all along.
Well, the Lord's will be done, poor lad. And
the horse too ! "

Dumbly Challoner stood. He did not hear
much, he did not feel much — that is to say, he
was not conscious of feeling. Now that the
woful scene before him began solemnly to
assert its right to a place, to the place in his
mind, from very excess and complexity of
emotions he found himself gradually becoming
calm. Bareheaded in the cold rain, and
with the salt air blowing on his brow, he
stood with the rest, tongue-tied and petrified,
gazing on the dead.

Poor, beautiful, unfortunate Teddy ! Hapless

brother, — Matildass brother, — her care,
her charge, the object of her tenderness, the
solace of her loneliness. This was all that
was left to her now. One brief hour' had
robbed her on this side and on that — had
snatched by different ways a brother and a
lover : cruel fate had struck her twice with
deadly aim ere she had had time to draw a
breath between.

At intervals he heard the hoarse whispering
of the men, who were uneasily endeavouring
to recollect or suggest anything appropriate to
the scene ; but even these by degrees died
away, for one and all had already looked,
and touched, and felt the cold limp hands,
and listened at the fallen lips, and had severally
drawn back with a shadow upon their
rough weather-beaten faces. They were now
solemnly still, or only broke the silence to
groan a smothered ejaculation and heave a
sigh.

At length Whewell rose.

He had been kneeling upon the wet turf.

supporting in his arms the lifeless clay, and
in his own active mind, even while thus engaged,
considering what might best be done
for the afflicted family, — how information
should be given to the authorities, the shock
softened to Lady Matilda, Lord Overton
spared more painful effort than was needful
how, in short, everything should be done
that could be done to mitigate the terrors of
the scene.

To explain how he and Eobert Hanwell
came there, we must just inform our readers
that they had been met on the road between
Endhill and Overton, and had been informed
of the disaster even before tidings had been
carried to the Hall. Eobert had undertaken
to be himself the bearer of these, while Wheel
had at once hastened to the fatal spot.
He now arose and addressed Challoner.

"AVe want to get Lord Overton away," he
said in a low aside. " There is really nothing
to be done, poor fellow ; it has been all over
some time — indeed there is not a doubt that

VOL. in. I

the end was instantaneous, for the neck is
broken, and these men say he has never
stirred since. If Lord Overton would go ;
but Hanwell does not like to press him —
could you 'i " — inquiringly.

Yes — what ? " replied Challoner, struggling
to be equally clear-sighted. *' What —
ah — do you want ? "

Get Lord Overton away. Tell him there
is nothing to be done. It is nonsense Han-wells
saying he does not like to intrude ; weare
all getting wet through, and the night is
coming on. It will be difficult enough as it
is. Get him away now, if you can ; and
Lady Matilda "

Challoner looked up sharply.

Where is she ? " continued the speaker,
with a sudden change of tone.

Challoner turned away.

"If we don't take care, some of these fools
will blurt it all out to her as it stands, and
there will be the devil to pay if they do," said
Whewell, shortly. "You know where Lady

Matilda is 1 They say she has been thrown
from her horse too. Is that the case ? "

"Yes."

Hurt 1 "

'' No."

I will take Lord Overton to the cottage
where his sister is," said Challoner, after a
moment's hesitation. " I will show him the
place and leave him there. Then I will goon
to the Hall "

'' Ay, and tell them to have a room

ready — you understand ? Yes, that will do.
Hanwell and I can wait here ; we shan't go

near the Overtons "

Certainly not," said Challoner, with

a scowl.

And you will not either," observed Wheel,
coolly. "They will be best by themselves.
Look sharp, Challoner. I believe I
hear the carriage "

Challoner, without a word, put his hand
through Lord Overton's arm, and led him
unresisting away.

You are not going at once ? "
It is an hour later, and the scene is once
more laid in Overton Hall. Challoner ha's intimated
that he is about to depart — he is no
more needed ; the tramp of feet has died away
along the dim old gallery ; the doors are shut ;
the voices are hushed ; the weeping attendants,
who shroud one silent chamber, move
noiselessly hither and thither as they perform
their last sad services to the dead. Just
across the passage, with only a few feet
between, lies another form almost as white,
almost as cold, scarcely more alive than he.
Below, Eobert Hanwell and his friends sit in
mute and doleful assemblage; and no one
knows where Overton is.

You are not going at once '? " says Eobert,
whom circumstances thus compel to act the
host. "It is seven o'clock, and you have
had nothing — you must indeed oblige yourself
to eat something, Challoner," apologetically ;
"you will be ill."

I couldn't, thanks. I shall catch the evening
train by going now. Don't say anything
to any one. Good-bye."

Good-bye. But I am sure if Lord Overton
knew "

Challoner hears no more. In the outer hall
he encounters Overton, and again they confront
each other point-blank without chance
of escape.

Yes, I understand. I do not ask you to
stay." It is Overton who speaks. " I understand."
He puts his hand to his eyes, turns
away, comes back again, and holds it out.
Challoner takes it, wrings it, wrenches it as
though lie never could let it go. It will, he
says, never be offered to him again. He will
never see that kindly face again. He will
never more cross that threshold. His memory
will be blotted out, his name be unmentioned.
Oh that it had been he, and not the other,
who on that night had been taken !

. . When he arrives at his rooms, he
finds a telegram which he ought to have had

before, and which explains why Lady Fairleigh
had not kept her appointment with him in the
afternoon. He has almost forgotten that she
had not done so. He reads the telegram
stupidly. Keats that his father, who is at
Paris, is dangerously ill, and that his presence
is desired there at once. Heads, and feels
that even this sad intelligence hardly concerns
him at all. Wonders if anything else will
ever concern him in this world again, — and
thinks — not.

No. He thinks not.

CHAPTER Xxxvi.

A CONSULTATION OVER THE COUNTER.

To do anything in this world worth doing, we must not stand back
shivering and shrinking, but jump in and scramble through as well as
we can." — Sydney Smith.

It will be remembered that, on arriving in
London, after taking farewell of the sorrow-stricken
house, where he could no longer stay,
and to which he must never return, Challoner
received a communication which, under other
circumstances, would have concerned bim
deeply.

It was to the effect that his father, to whom,
perhaps, he had never been very warmly attached,
but for whom, nevertheless, he entertained
a certain amount of filial affection and
respect, and with whom certainly he had never

had a word of difference in his life, had been
seized with paralysis ; and although the shock
had not been fatal, and a partial rally had
been already made, he was enjoined to lose no
time in sending on the intelligence to the
other members of the family — the brothers
and sisters who were scattered somewhere or
other up and down England, — and that done,
he was to repair to the spot himself as speedily
as possible.

The telegram was from Lady Fairleigh, and
was sufficient explanation of her non-appearance
in London on the morning of that day.

Of that day ! Could it really be only that
day, that one day which had made so terrible
a havoc ? Could it only have been a few hours
before that he had, fool that he was ! exulting
in his new reprieve, dashed back from the
hotel, caught, as by a miracle, the earlier
train, snapped his fingers at consequences,
and laughed in his heart at his own weird
uncanny success in everything connected with
his dreadful part ^

How one and all seemed resolved to play
into his hands at every turn ! How kindly
he was pressed to pursue his own pleasure !
How he was humoured, and coaxed, and all
made smooth for him to be base ! Mary so
accommodating, Matilda so bewitching, Over-ton
so blind, the Applebyss so innocent; and
now even his own sister, the one being on
earth whose keen eyes he dreaded, and before
whom even his hardy spirit had quailed when
obeying her summons — even she had, it appeared,
yielded to the prevailing influence.

Fate had decreed that he was not to be
disturbed nor interfered with. It was really
too kind of fate.

With such grim humour the infatuated man
had amused himself as he sped back to Over-ton
Hall, and incredible as it now seemed, it
was but a few hours since all had been dispelled,
and the dream for ever shattered ; he
had now to force himself, as best he might, to
remember that he had still a stage to act upon,
and that, however detestable must in future

be the play, and however little was left for
him to gain, he must for very shame hold on.

He did not say to himself, he did not know
that he felt the sad tidings awaiting him to bean
actual relief ; he would have started to be
told that the intelligence which should have
been so gravely urgent was now so little to
him that he could scarcely give it sufficient
attention to comprehend its contents, until a
second, and even a third, perusal had made
them clearer, — but it was so, that even when
clear, the first vague feeling of sorrow was
mingled with another and less suitable emotion
— namely, a hope that the illness and the
doubt which hung over its result, might prove
so engrossing as to leave no room for inquiries
or suspicion on any other subject.

That he would be off for Paris by the night
mail was, however, a matter of course.

He was glad to go — glad to be on the move
anywhere — almost thankful involuntarily for
the good excuse for leaving England, and thus
delaying a meeting with his betrothed bride

and her family for the moment — and he was
now only anxious to start ; and oh, that the
short journey — far, far too short — could have
gone on and on for ever !

Before leaving, however, it was necessary to
inform the rest of the family, who were as yet
in ignorance ; and where to write, or where to
send to, was equally a problem. He had nota
notion where a brother or a sister was to be
found ; they had been nothing to him, he had
been nothing to them during those past weeks
of delirious bliss, or misery, which had filled to
the full every thought. All outside Overton
Hall on the one hand, or the prison walls of
the red brick mansion at Clinkton on the
other, had been to him a blank ; and as to
what Tom, Will, and Emily were doing now,
where they had their present places of abode,
even whether they were at the moment at
home or abroad, he had not even a conjecture
to go by.

He had not written to them, and he had
not heard from them, — stop, though, he had

heard, he supposed ; a dim remembrance of
forwarded, redirected envelopes, in familiar
handwritings, lying about unopened in his
collar-drawer at Overton Hall rose before his
eyes — and no doubt these would come up with
his luggage next day, for he had left on foot,
desirous of troubling no one and had brought
nothing with him ; but next day would be, or
might be, too late — he could not wait on the
chance. And accordingly, contenting himself
with sending to the old family seat a telegram,
which was sure to find out some one in the
long-run, Challoner lost no time in himself
hurrying to his parent's bedside, there to find
all pretty much as it had been when Lady
Fairleigh first despatched her message.

Was there ever anything so unfortunate 1 "
bewailed poor Mary Tufnell, who, now that
her Christmas festivities were over, and that
Clinkton was rather more than ordinarily dull,
it being the season of Lent, when it was quite
the thing to follow the fashion and have
nothing going on, even of the mild order

usually indulged in by the good people of the
town — now that Emily was having it all her
own way, and that Herbert and the cathedral
were in the ascendant, began to miss her own
swain more than she might otherwise have
done, and who was, moreover, willing in her
heart to do still more, as we shall presently
see, — " Was there ever anything so unfortunate
1 " bemoaned she, as week after week
went by, and still there was nothing new to
be said, no change of any kind to be reported.
''I am so sorry for poor Jem ; it really does
seem as if poor Jem were in perpetual ill lucknow.
Just to think of his being at Overton
Hall when that poor Mr Lessingham was killed
and he could only have gone down for a
day or two, for the Hales told Bertha that
Mr Lessingham particularly mentioned that he
was only to be with them for a day or two —
and then to come in for that ! The very day
after Bertha saw Mr Lessingham too ! I don't
know why that made it worse, but it did.
And the same night to hear about his father !

Jem does not mind about things as much as
some people, but I never could see there was
any harm in his letter, though it was a little
queer. He did not want to show that he
cared, I suppose : of course he did care —
everybody cares about their father. And I
mean always to stand by Jem ; for after all, if
I'm content, it's nobody else's business whether
he takes things coolly or not. It was like Miss
Bertha's impertinence to hint at that yesterday.
Coolly? What can the poor man do?
He has got to stay where he is, whether or
no ? Well, now, I do think as poor old Mr
Challoner had lived so long, that he might

have lived just a little longer "

Or, if he would only die a little

quicker, poor old man ! " amended her mother,
for the last words had been spoken aloud, and
Mrs Tufnell had heard them with true sympathy
; " there's where it is, Mary. I am sure
I, for one, don't see the sense of dying on and
on, — and I must say, if it were not Providence,
that six weeks is really overly. If it had been

six days now — your poor grandpa was six
full days dying in his bed, — neither here nor
there, as one may say, — no good to any one on
this side the grave, and only kept back by the
doctors' fussing from a better place.

*' Six days we had of it, all of us gathered
together, expecting and expecting, — and they
were six days such as I hope I may never see
again in this world, Mary, I can tell you.
Not that we wanted him gone, poor thing ;
there wasn't one of us but would have kept
him if we could — kept him, that is, to be welland
hearty ; but that, you know, he never
would have been. It was as clear as day that

he had got to go, sooner or later, and well

we were just worn out, that was the real truth ;
what with the Bibles and Prayer-books, — you
know I mean no harm, Mary — but your poor
grand mamma would have us all sitting up
with our Bibles and Prayer-books for six whole
days on end — and it was just awful, that's
what it was. Your aunt Cecy, she wouldn't
stand it. She locked her door and read

^ Punch ' ; that was what she did. Cecy was
a dreadful girl when she was put upon, and
none of us dared say a word ; and grand-mamma
does not know to this day what that
door was locked for — but the rest of us knew
well enough, for Cecy made no bones about
it ; and I'm sure I for one couldn't blame her,
poor dear. Six weeks ! " after a pause. " Six
weeks to-day ; and goodness knows how much
longer it may go on ! Well, there are troubles
and troubles in this world, but I do say
six weeks — and no sort of end to it ! Don't
you fret though, Mary. It will make your
bonny man all the happier when the good
time comes ; and I am sure I don't know how
we shall ever make enough of him then for all
he has had to put up with beforehand ; that's
what I think whenever I think of Jem Challenger.
Dear heart, I say to myself, what shall
we ever do to comfort him '? "

'* It is hard," said Mary, thoughtfully. " You
see," she continued, twisting a pencil in her
fingers, and scribbling with it on the blank

side of a letter near — there usually was a
blank side to Jem's letters ; write as arose ashe
might, he could never manage to fill more
than half of the third page. " You see' said
his betrothed, ruminating, " Easter falls so very
early this year."

Easter ! " exclaimed her mother. '' What
what in the world have you to do with
Easter, my dear ? If it had been Emily — but
Lent is all in all with Emily now — and sure
you need not trouble your head with all those
services "

It is not that," said Mary, laughing ;

"" I don't care about Easter one way or other.
But as father said Easter " she stopped.

Said what about Easter ? "

That — that we might be married at
Easter."

Ob, now I know what you mean, my girl!"
cried her mother joyously. "To be married
at Easter ! That's it, is it ? To be married at
Easter ! Oho ! Now I know where I am !
For I declare I could not think for a minute

VOL. in. K

what you were driving at, Mary. Since this
unfortunate affair of poor old Mr Challoner,
and expecting him to die every day, and he
never dying, and now as likely as not to-cheat
us all — Lor' sakes ! what am I saying '? But
it had put me so about, that I had no
thoughts of the marriage coming off yet a bit.
However, it's as you and papa settle it, for
I'm agreeable to anything. And now I know
where I am ! " she concluded, nodding her
satisfaction.

"Papa said Easter," responded Mary,
eagerly. '^ And I know Emily wants Easter,
and Herbert can arrange for Easter. I promised
Emily I would speak about it, as she
does not like, because of Jem. Of course we
all know that Jem would be pleased, ashe
even wanted Christmas, you remember, —
but it is old Mr Challoner; — if old Mr
Challoner "

Ay, it is old Mr Challoner who is the
spoke in the wheel," said Mrs Tufnell,
promptly. " Poor old dear, that I should

say so ! But really such a time to take — but
that's nonsense of me, for of course he didn't
pick and choose his own time "

Well, but what can we do \ " interrupted
her practical daughter ; "it is of no use
lamenting. ' Care killed a cat ; ' and I'm not
going to bother and worry about it ; only I do
think we might manage something. There
will be so much to see to once we begin, — but
I don't want to begin and then have to stop.
Besides, I must have my things nice, and
Emily says so too ; that was one reason why
we waited till the spring — that the spring
fashions might have come in," and she sighed
regretfully.

Does Jem say anything, any way, my
dear?"

'' Oh yes ; he says that as soon as ever he
can be spared — but that's nothing, you know,
that tells us nothing, for of course we are not
to know how soon he can be spared, — however,
he says that — let me see," reading the
part aloud, " * as soon as ever I can be spared

I shall at once return to England and hold
myself in readiness to fulfil our contract.'
Fulfil our contract " said Mary, looking up.
It is an odd way of putting it, isn't it? Whoever
heard of an engagement being called a
contract ? "

Oh, 'tis only one of his aristocratic phrases,
my dear. Jem is chock-full of aristocratic
ways and whims, and I tell papa that that is
what he likes about Jem. But don't you go
and take it up, Mary, for papa would never
stand it from you, mind; I know what he
thinks. Many and many a time I have heard
him say, * 'Tis all very well when 'tis bred in
the bone, — what's bred in the bone will come
out in the flesh,' — but he can see through any
make-believe as well as anybody. There's
nothing riles papa more than the airs Willie
Dobb gives himself. That poor Willie ! He
means no harm ; and for my part I am very
fond of Willie, and he may yaw-haw as much
as he likes for me — but papa says it regularly
turns his stomach ; and you know, Mary, how

he would go on if he took up the idea that
you were following in Willie Dobb's steps.
I would not have papa thinking you were
setting up for an aristocrat for the world."

I am as good any day' retorted Mary,
with a toss of her spruce head. " Papa should
not have let me marry into the Challoner
family if he wished me to go about as their
inferior."

Now, now, now ; don't be peppery, Mary.
You know I have to be go-between with you
and papa sometimes, for you are his own
daughter all the world over, and you and he
would fly out at each other every other day if
I didn't take care. Papa thinks all the more
of you for it, that's what he does, honest man ;
he thinks far too much of you, Mary, and "

Much obliged, I'm sure ; I find no

fault with that," smiled her daughter, with
restored complacency. " And now what am I
to say to Jem ? Can I say anything about
Easter 1 It is so difficult to know what to
say. I can't inquire point-blank if his father

will be dead by Easter, and that's what I
really want to know, but "

But you could just ask him if he had any
sort of idea — express it delicately, remember,
anything we could go upon ? Til tell you
what, Mary, — suppose I was just to step down
and speak to Dr Bell — but Dr Bell is attending
Miss Juliet Appleby, and I don't above
half like, and that's the truth ; I kind of
fancy he is infectious still, though he smells
of camphor as strong as my old fur tippet."

Pooh I I'm not afraid," said Mary, stoutly.
"And as for Miss Juliet Appleby, people
are seeing her herself now. It is nearly two
months since she was taken ill."

Nay, it can't be that, surely."

"It is indeed. It was on the morning
before Christmas Day, the morning of the
fancy ball — or rather the night before — for it
came out afterwards that she had been ill all
the night before, — and that will be two months
next Thursday. Why, lots of people at the

Prestonss' yesterday were talking about going
to see her ; the Prestonss themselves offered to

drive me out "

"Don't you go, Mary; not for the

world."

I am not going, I don t know Miss

Appleby, nor the Windlasses — as papa is so
foolish he won't let us call on them, and this
would have been such a good opportunity ;
numbers of people did it, — but I am only
telling you to show that you need not be
afraid of seeing Dr Bell. I think you might
see Dr Bell."

And ask how long it generally takes ? "
said Mrs Tufnell, thoughtfully. " Well I might
though I own I don't half like it. I shall
be well camphor if I do go," more briskly ;
he shan't have all the camphor upon his side.
Or, Mary," with a new idea, " I'll tell you what,
Mary, I'll meet him at the chemist's. I know
he goes to Scilly, so I can drop in at Scilly's
this morning and ask what time he is likely

to be there. It is generally of an afternoon I
have seen him turn in. Then Scilly will let
me sit the wrong side of the counter, and I
can have all the bottles and powders between
me and the doctor. The doctor is a sensible
man ; I can speak to him quite comfortably.
He knows the plight we are in, and he will
understand, being a family man himself, that
one must speak about such things. Of course
it would be more decent to wait patiently,"
half relenting ; *but then," picking up again,
"young folks cant be expected to wait
patiently. And to be sure, there's Emily to bethought
of as well. I shall put it upon Emily
I do declare. And then if Dr Bell says Easter
why, Easter let it be."

Everything favoured her. The obsequious
chemist was only too much flattered by being
allowed to induct one of his best customers
into his own arm-chair behind the counter;
the doctor arrived punctually, and was accommodated
on the other side, and old Mr Challenger's

expected demise was discussed throughout
the length and breadth of every doubt and
chance, and why and wherefore.

On the whole, the conclusion arrived at was
satisfactory. The old gentleman might die, or
he might recover. He would probably do one
or other, and that he should do one or other
was all, Mrs Tufnell protested, she desired.
What she objected to, as she explained to her
companion, was the shilly-shallying that was
going on — of course she did not mean to accuse
any one in particular ; of course he must
not think she meant for a moment to reflect
on old Mr Challoner, or upon his son — the
latter indeed, poor dear, was more to be pitied
than any one, — but she was sure Dr Bell must
see it was a hard case, and excuse her if she
spoke plainly. The truth was, the girls were
getting impatient, and Mr Tufnell had said
something about Easter ; and if Mary could
not be married at Easter, Emily's bridal would
be but a poor affair, for all along they had set

their hearts on having the two in one. And
indeed, so urgently was the worthy gentleman
made to see that there was nothing for it but
that the girls must be gratified, the weddings
must come ofi", old Mr Challoner must, in short,
die, — that he was speedily brought to pronounce,
with all the authority of his order,
that die he would — or recover.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

A DOUBTFUL INVITATION.

So every sweet with sour is tempered still,
That maketh it be coveted the more ;
For easy things that may be got at will
Most sorts of men do set but little store."

—Spenser.

Well, now, I have got it all for you as pat
as you please." Mrs Tufnell entered her own
parlour radiant from the interview recorded in
the last chapter. "I am right-down glad I
went, Mary," she continued, for Mary was
there, awaiting in some anxiety what there
might be to tell ; " it was just the best
thought possible, that of seeing Dr Bell. We
may begin upon the hemming and stitching as
soon as we like, he says ; and, dear me ! we
have not too much time for all there will be to

be done, if we are to be ready by Easter. The
great thing is, however, will old Mr Challoner
be ready by Easter ? Bless me ! I didn't
mean to say that. Never you heed me, Mary;
you know I mean no harm."

'' What did Dr Bell say '? " demanded Mary,
briefly.

Says we may take his word for it that the
poor old gentleman, — you know he is old,
Mary, and we must all die some time, — and
so Dr Bell says he will either be dead and
buried by Easter, or he will be out of all
danger for the present. For the present, he
says ; well, that's all we care about, — ahem, —
I mean, all we have to think about. So that's
settled, and a great comfort it is to have a manlike
Dr Bell to go to. So now, Mary, you
just write straight away to Paris, and say "

'' What am I to say ^ " For the speaker
paused.

Oh, you must put it into your own words,
my dear ; but 'twill be easy to show that you
are thinking about Easter. You might perhaps

mention that Emily was thinking about
Easter. No? Would that not do? Could
you put it on papa ? But papa might find
out, and it would put him in such a temper.
And really so fine an old gentleman as old Mr
Challoner — I would not for all the world seem
to hurry him. But just you get in the word
'Easter Mary, and see what comes of it."

Then Mary had something to say on her
own account. " Such an odd thing, mamma !
what do you think ? You know, this morning
we were talking about Miss Juliet Appleby,
and about my going to see her."

Nay, Mary ; it was about your riot going.
No going to see Miss Juliet Appleby or Miss
Juliet anybody, who is just out of the smallpox,
with my consent I " exclaimed Mrs Tuf-nell,
with unwonted decision. " Now, my
dear, don't you think of it. For, letting alone
the infection, papa would never hear of your
making up to the Windlasses, and paying
them the compliment of going out to the
Court. He declares the Windlasses think

themselves too grand for us Clinkton folks,
and that they must be laughing in their
sleeves at all the fuss we make now that
they are in trouble. If they do, it is 'very
ungrateful of them, I must say'' said the good
woman, with a heightened colour, '' and I told
papa he ought not to think such ill thoughts
of any one ; but still, for all that, I must say
I would not, unasked, go to the Court."
But suppose you were asked ? "
That, I am never likely to be ; and sure,

even if I were "

But / have been," cried her daughter,

triumphantly. " Eeally and truly I am not
joking, — not joking in the least. I have been
asked to the Court, not exactly by the Windlasses,
but, better still, by this very Miss
Juliet Appleby about whom there has been
all the stir!"

Lor ! " exclaimed her mother.

*what do you think of that, mamma?
Miss Appleby wishes to see me ; to make
my acquaintance, as she is a very particular

friend of Jem's. Very particular friend, she
said. She sent me ever so pretty a message ;
she has seen no one yet ; and I am the first
person she wishes to see."

Lor' ! Jem is taking you into high society
already," observed Mrs Tufnell, with maternal
gratification, and for the moment every other
feeling subsided into the background.

So, then, the Prestonss asked me if I could
go to-morrow' proceeded Mary, sensible of
the effect produced, 'rand "

But this was another thing. " Oh, really I
do not know ; I could not say ' Yes ' to that,
Mary, not all at once. We shall have to
think it over," rejoined Mrs Tufnell, untying
her bonnet-strings. " Don't hurry me, child,
and I'll see what can be done. To be sure,
there's Dr Bell — what a comfort that man is !
and I can say you have been invited to go"
(proud to say it) ; *' I can tell him of the
message, and he must decide. But don't you
be too hopeful, Mary — not of tomorrow, at
all events. It would be a pretty thing if

anything were to happen to you next — far
worse than old Mr Challoner, poor man."

"Now don't you begin with any nonsense,
mamma ; nothing is going to happen to me,"
replied her daughter, gaily. " I can take
care of myself. I made no promise to the
Prestonss."

^' That's right ; never make promises."

But if they ask me again, I don't see why
I should not go."

Mrs Tufnell sighed.

*' Papa," she said that evening, " here is our
Mary has had a queer kind of an invitation :
of course it is meant as a compliment ; but all
the same, it is a compliment we could do
without, like an invitation to a funeral, — Miss
Juliet Appleby has sent to ask Mary to go and
see her."

Sent to Mary ! " said he, opening his eyes.

'' Ay, indeed ; sent to Mary."

But what — sent to Mary ! What in the
world does she know about Mary ? "

Jem's friend, you know. She is Jem

Challoner's friend. You remember he said so
when he was here. When the ball "

*^ Oh, ay ! I remember. But I don't

see that being Jem's friend, — however" — for
the thought of Jem was mollifying — "no
doubt 'tis meant civilly. The Windlasses are
coming round, are they '? What is Mary asked
to 1 To dine ? Or to stop ? "

Oh, neither, my dear. Just to drive out
of an afternoon with the Prestonss "

With the Prestonss ? " His face

fell.

"The invitation came through the Pres-tons,"
continued his wife.

It was no invitation at all, then."

Oh, it was well meant, my dear ! And the
poor girl is not able for writing Jet, no doubt.
She is only just well enough to "

To give her small-pox to others. The

devil she is ! "

Fie, fie, papa ! and before the girls too.
But in the main I agree with papa, Mary.
7ou know I told you so ; and though she is

VOL Il L

Jem's friend, she can wait a week or two before
she becomes yours."

Oh, she can't do that, not for a moment ! ''
cried Mr Tufnell, sarcastically. " Mary might
have been Mary Tufnell long enough before
Miss Juliet Appleby, or the Windlasses either,
would have troubled their heads about her;
but if she is to be Mrs Challoner, even though
it is only poor Jem, the youngest of them all,

with ne'er a penny now Mary, my girl,

don't look like that — I like your lad well
enough ; he has been fair and honest with me,
and if he has no money, why, you have enough
for both, and so I told him, — but what I mean
is, these infernal — hem — aristocrats, they hang
on to one another like boys at prisoner's base.
You are worth speaking to now, because you
are to marry into a county family ; but you
mio-ht have trudged about the streets of
Clinkton all your life, and never had a nod
or beck from one of the whole set, if you had
taken a plain Clinkton man like your poor old
father."

I don't see Avliat that has to do with it,"
said Mary. " If Miss Appleby wishes to be
friendly "

Oh, be friendly, be friendly if you

like "

Why should I hold out against her ? "

No reason at all. None that I can see."
Mr Tufnell was still ironical.

Then, may I go to the Court tomorrow ? "
''Ah, but that's another pair of boots. As
long as you are under my roof, I am bound to
see that you don't bring your necks into danger.
When you and Emily have husbands of your
own, it will be their business to look after you ;
and I hope," more good-temperedly, "I hope
they will be able to manage it — I never could.
You have had it your own way, you girls, with
both your mother and me. Well, well, we have
rubbed along pretty comfortably on the whole,
I must say ; and you have not been bad girls
as girls go. I suppose you will lord it over
your husbands next, eh ? Well, well, I shan't
interfere ; that's their lookout ; you will be off

my hands by that time : but, hang it all ! after
bullying your poor old father all his days, don't
go and get the small-pox because you can't say
No ' to Miss Juliet Appleby."

Now Mary Tufnell had very special cause for
finding this injunction hard to bear.

In stating that Miss Appleby had sent to ask
her to Windlass Court, and had given as her
reason for doing so that she was desirous of
becoming acquainted with the fiancee of a
friend, Mary had indeed told the truth, but
she had not told the whole truth. There had
been a secret message accompanying the ostensible
one. It was to the effect that the sender
had a communication to make, which, she believed,
would j justify her in asking that no time
should be lost, and that Miss Tufnell should
repair to the Court without delay. The communication
referred to Mr Challoner.

Now the ambassador to whom this was intrusted
was Miss Fanny Preston, the very
person to do so important and mysterious an
embassy full justice. Miss Preston had been

out at the Court several times after Juliet had
arrived there, and before she was taken ill ;
and the two girls had run up an intimacy
which had seemed much closer than it actually
was when Juliet became for the nonce
the heroine of Clink ton. Then Fanny Preston
felt sure that she had known her very well indeed
; and her many attentions and sympathy
were amply rewarded when one day she was
begged, through the medium of a disinfected
note, to get at Mary Tufnell, and bring her
out to the Court, baiting the hook with the
suggestive message about Jem Challoner.

It took at once. It was romantic ; that
answered with Miss Preston. It promised
fun; that drew Mary Tufnell.

Both young ladies having thus fully made
up their minds to go, " Dear," said Fanny,
putting in an appearance the following morning
— it was a bright, clear, invigorating February
morning — " dear, don't you think that
if your parents knew why, they would take
off their prohibition '? "

Oh, there was no prohibition about it,"
retorted Mary, briskly. " Papa invariably
growls and snaps if anything is proposed out
of the common way ; but he never means
half he says, and no one really minds. We
just let him have it out, and then we do as
we please. And mamma would be all right
if Dr Bell "

'* What ! she goes by Dr Bell, does she ?
Then Til tell you what, Mary come along at
once to Dr Bell's. We'll soon settle the doctor.
He will give us leave, I know ; for he
has said over and over again that she might
see anybody now, and that there has been no
infection this long while past. Miss Appleby
herself says that he has given her permission
to receive visitors."

Has he indeed 1 " said simple Mary.

So you see it's all right. Come, I have
the phaeton here, and I told Juliet I would be
out in the morning : I knew you would be
more likely to go in the morning ; and we
will take Dr Bell by the way, and be at the

Court before any one knows anything about
us," cried the giddy girl heedlessly.

"But the Windlasses?"

*' They are not at home. They left home
last week. There, that shows you that it is
safe enough. They would not have been allowed
to go about, if there had been infection
to be carried with them."

Very little more persuasion was needed.
With a day so fresh and tempting, a phaeton
so smart, and a friend so pressing and animated,
who could have resisted ? Certainly
not Mary Tufnell ; in a very few minutes she
had equipped herself in her prettiest hat and
tippet, and with her gloves in her hand to put
on as they went — thus saving time, (but why
so anxious to save time ?) — the two rattled
down the street at the brisk little pony's swiftest
trot, and they were well away from the
town ere either drew a breath, or ceased to
look eagerly round every corner.

And then, " I declare I have quite forgotten
Dr Bell," cried Fanny, laughing. "Well,

never mind. I know for a positive certainty
that he has said people may go ; and if nobody
begins to go, why nobody will follow. Someone
must be the first. We shall be the "first,
Mary. Neither of us are likely subjects for
disease, and I want so much to see how she
looks, don't you ? I forgot, though, you did
not krjow her before. Well, she has had a
bad time of it, poor thing, and one ought to

be glad one can do anything "

But I wish we had seen Dr Bell' said

Mary.

"Bother Dr Bell! How could I be so
stupid ! We passed quite close to his house,
too ; but I was in such a fright lest we should
be stopped. Have you been to the Windlasses'
? " changing the subject hastily. " 'Tis
a fine place, but not so fine as the Challoners'.
I envy you that, Mary ; you will be quite at
home there. I wonder," abruptly — " I wonder
what it can be Miss Appleby has to say about
—him''

So did her companion also wonder, with a

naive pleasurable certainty of its being something
agreeable to listen to, and charming to
repeat. Everything connected with her marrying
Jem Challoner had hitherto been charming
and agreeable ; and as she had neither fears
nor doubts about her future happiness — as she
was proud of her conquest, and satisfied withall
its accompaniments — it was without a ruffle
on her brow, or a quickening of her pulse, that
she heard the reply given to the young lady's
request for admission — namely, that Miss
Appleby would be glad if Miss Tufnell would
step up-stairs ; but that, as only one visitor
could be allowed on this her first day of seeing
anybody, perhaps Miss Preston would excuse
being asked to wait below.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

MISS JULIET APPLEBY AND HER VISITOR.

Malice scorn'd, puts out
Itself ; but argued, gives a kind of credit
To the accusation."

Massinger.

So good of you to come. Pray don't look
at me. I know I am a fright, whatever they
may say."

The invalid sat up upon her cushions in a
shaded room — Mrs Windlass's own sitting-room,
given up for the occasion — and bent
eagerly forward as the door opened. '* So
good of you. I have wanted so much to
see you, Miss Tufnell, but I hardly liked to
ask "

"Oh dear, I am very glad to come,"

said Mary. ^^ You can't think how sorry we
have all been for you. We have talked of

nothing else "

Nothing else than poor me ! Why,

you cannot mean that. And I that thought
myself quite among strangers, so dreadfully
forlorn, — I thought nobody cared whether I
lived or died," cried Juliet ; " and even my
own sister never came near me, everybody
was so selfish. You cannot think, you cannot
imagine, my dear Miss Tufnell, what it has
been. I must tell you," with a convalescent's
relish for recounting past miseries ; " and all
through my illness," she continued, when the
illness itself had been done ample justice to,
from beginning to end, you haunted me.
You know I was taken ill the day of the
fancy ball — or rather, I daresay you did not
know, for, of course, I was of no consequence
"

Indeed you were. Of the very greatest

consequence," cried Mary, with the good-nature
which accrued to all the family ; " everybody

said so. Everybody was talking about
you at the ball."

"At the ball ? Nonsense. You don't say
so ? Why, how things do fly ! for I was* only
taken ill the horning of the ball. Do tell
me about it," her attention diverted for the
moment. " Was it a success ? Was it much
of an affair ? What was your dress ? "

I was only a hospital nurse, with a black
gown and red cross "

"I know. I know the thing; and I

daresay you looked lovely. You have quite
the figure to carry it off. It is something to
be able to wear black, too ; and you have so
much complexion," with a glance at the cheek,
in which the red lay if anything a trifle too
lavishly. "Oh, you can go a dowdy, if you
like,'^ nodded Miss Appleby, who meant to

please; "but now I, for instance, I should

be nowhere if I had not something gay. I
must show you mine some day," and she
proceeded to describe it at length.

But even fancy-ball dresses could not long

seduce the narrator from the real object she had
in view ; and when the sleeves, and the frills,
and the trimmings, and the twisting had all
been duly recounted, and had drawn forth the
proper amount of admiration and exclamation,
Miss Appleby took breath, and the two
looked at each other, and knew as by instinct
that they were both thinking of Jem
Challoner.

You must know," suddenly began Juliet,
in a new tone, " I must begin by telling you
that I had never heard of your engagement
to my — my friend, Mr Challoner, until I came
here. Naturally, I was much interested, — I
was indeed, very much interested. To be frank,
it took me most completely by surprise."

'' Indeed ^ "

But there was nothing very wonderful in
this. Why should Miss Appleby not have
been surprised ; it was rather jolly to surprise
people, and Mary Tufnell's blue-eyed
face showed she found it so.

*' Indeed?" she said complacently, and her

companion saw at ono,e that she had not sofar
arrested her attention as she had meant
to do.

'' Mr Challoner is not with you now, is he 2 "
she inquired.

No ; he is in Paris. His father "

I know. The poor old gentleman is dying;

but as soon as he is gone you expect that

is, is your marriage to take place at once, may
I ask ? Pray forgive the inquiry from a
stranger, but I have a very particular reason
for asking," ran on Juliet glibly, for the sight
of the smiling, rosy, hearty face of Challoner's
unsuspicious bride somehow galled her anew
to hate the man ; and considering as she did,
that Mary Tufnell really was being shamefully
ill-used, and would be ready to be up in arms
directly she was shown that it was so ; and
moreover, with the hope that she was at last
about to punish the offender by means of
a girl who (commonplace-looking, second-rate
sort of thing, evidently,) would not scruple
to throw him off on the spot, — with all this

in view, there was nothing to hinder her catlike
enjoyment of the scene.

'' We are to be married at Easter," replied
her visitor readily. *' I think you are an old
friend of Jem's/' she added, after a silence
which Juliet ought to have filled, but which
she purposely left void. " Miss Preston told
me so."

Not an old friend, oh dear, no ; that was
Fanny Preston's mistake. I never met Mr
Challoner until the other day," responded
Miss Appleby. " But," continued the speaker,
slowly and pointedly, " since I have met him,
I have seen him nearly every day. No, don't
mistake, my dear Miss Tufnell — I am not the
attraction, not at all ; but when I saw Mr
Challoner, there was an attraction, no doubt.
Do you follow me ? I see you do. He was
staying last November at a house where T am
very intimate, at a neighbour's in Sussex, at —
in short, at Lord Overton's."

"At Lord Overton's?"

'' Yes ; at Overton Hall. Overton Hall is

not above two miles from us : we are their
nearest neighbours : we are there constantly.
Lady Matilda is my very greatest friend, and
Lady Matilda was — Mr Challoner's attraction."

Oh, is that all ? " cried Mary, with a little
laugh. '' When you said attraction, I supposed
you meant a girl — you know what ' attraction'
usually stands for 1 And I could not help
being amused even then ; because, if you really
knew Mr Challoner, he is so — so very unsusceptible;
but Lady Matilda — Lady Matilda
Wilmot, is she not ? — the widow lady who
lives with her brother the earl, and has a
married daughter who is "

Yes, yes ; that is she, no doubt.

That is Lady Matilda as she would be described
in Burke or Debrett, or by people who
had never seen her, never known her; — but
my dear' opening her eyes to express significance,
" all that is nothing ; you forget it,
you laugh at it, it seems ridiculous and preposterous
once you come into contact with
Lady Matilda herself. You don't understand

me, I see. Well, first, did Mr Challoner ever
mention her ? "

Oh dear, yes." (She supposed he had ; of
course he had ; she was sure he had ; at any
rate it did not signify whether he had or not.)
Oh yes. He came here straight from Over-ton
Hall in December, and he had been therefor
ever so long."

'' He had indeed. Did he tell you how
long?"

*' Some weeks. A month, I think."

*' Eight, a month ; a whole month. He was
there all by himself They do not have many
visitors usually at that season, or indeed at any
season ; but when Mr Challoner was there they
had none. They liked having him alone. Do
you see ? "

Yes, Mary saw. She smiled and saw, —
was secretly diverted beyond measure at the
speaker's eager and ominous significance, it
was so ludicrous to see Juliet sitting forward
on the very edge of her chair, with uplifted
fingers and stammering tongue. She really

VOL. III. M

was too odd, too amusing. Mary almost saw
the scene in future travesties, given by herself
for the benefit of an enraptured audience.

Of course you know that nothing but
kindness, nothing but duty impels me to — I
am afraid you will be — may I go on ? " continued
Miss Appleby with the same impetuous
swiftness. " Do you promise not to be angry,
not to think me impertinent ? No, I see you
will not. You look so kind and gentle — and
to be so confiding too " — with a sis^h — " how
can Mr Challoner V

You have something to say about Mr

Challoner?"

Yes," said Juliet, with sudden energy —
yes, I have."

"And me r'

And you, of course ; it is you whom he

is Stop, let me prepare you. First, then,

this Lady Matilda is very handsome."

Is she ? "

And very clever."

Oh I "

AdcI lie does not disdain — oh, she does
not at all disdain to let her bright eyes do a
wayside mischief to any one. She is not above
that, by slbj means. She is young too, — marvellously,
absurdly young of her age. She
does not look much older than you "

Than me ! Why, she is a married

woman, and-unmarried

now, remember."

Well, a widow, which is worse. And she
must be thirty-five at least. Her daughter is
eighteen, and has a baby : Jem is the baby's
godfather "

I know, I know ; that baby is the

jest of the neighbourhood. No one calls it
Lotta's baby ; it is always 'Lady Matilda's
grandson.' We all think first of Lady Matilda
in everything ; and though it is her
daughter who is my age — we were born in
the same month of the same year — yet I do
solemnly assure you it is Lotta's mother who
in reality is my contemporary and your —
rival''

*' Good gracious, Miss Appleby ! " It flashed
through her visitor's mind that she had heard
of the reason being at times affected after
an illness of the kind Juliet had just 'gone
through ; and, far more alarmed by this supposition
than affected by the purport of the
breathless whisper, she hastily endeavoured to
close the subject.

^' I am sure I am very glad," she said, nervously.
'rit is so nice when people are like
that. Thank you so much for telling me.
And now I must not tire you," rising from her
seat.

You do not yet comprehend," exclaimed
Juliet, with a faint impatience. " I thought I
had been tolerably plain, but I can make it
plainer still if you like."

'pray, don't. I really " holding out

her hand.

"No, no' cried Miss Appleby, putting it
aside — " no ; you positively must not go yet."
Then, with a new light — " Have I offended
you ? Have I been too abrupt ? Is that it ? "

Oh dear, no. I am not in the least
offended. There has been nothing to offend
me — nothing at all But your nurse " — looking
round uneasily.

No fears. I told her to leave us' replied
the invalid, mistaking the glance. " If you
are afraid of her listening," — lower — 'not that
I believe she could hear if she tried, — but,
however, sit down here " — clearing away some
trifles from a chair beside her — " here," — patting
it authoritatively, — "here. Dear Miss
Tufnell " — bending towards her — ''I have
wanted so much to tell you this. I knew all
about it. I was there all the time it was
going on "

"It? What'

"Mr Challoner and Lady Matilda. They
behaved exactly as if they were lovers, they
did indeed. Every one expected to hear of
the engagement daily "

''To an old woman with a grown-up

daughter ! "

"Each time I went up to the Hall, —

and I was up most afternoons, for we are so
intimate, — each time I thought I should have
the news to tell on my return. It was evident
that he worshipped her, and that she — she
allowed it. He left everything — shooting,
hunting, everything that she did not join in —
for her sake. Wherever she was, there was
he. Either they were riding, or walking, or
reading poetry in the boudoir, or playing

billiards "

'' Billiards ? How nice ! " Not a word of
the above had Mary heard. Not a syllable of
the impassioned arraignment had taken hold.
She really is more than odd," Miss Tufnell
was considering. " The idea of trying to
make mischief between me and Jem ! As if
anybody could be jealous with poor Jem I
And such a person as Lady Matilda Wilmot
to set up as the one to be jealous of. Of
course he had to be agreeable to a great lady,
and this little meddlesome idiot to put her
own stupid construction on it ! ^'

She hoped Jem would take her herself to

Overton Hall some day. It must be jolly
there, as it had been jolly at Lady Fairleigh's,
where there had been nothing but picnics and
junketing all day and every day, and where
Jem had always been seated next her. Jem
evidently liked those kind of places better
than he did Clinkton ; he had, certainly he
had been more cheerful in those days than
later on ; but why should she take umbrage
at that? Billiards was the first word in all
Miss Appleby's tirade which struck upon her
ear as conveying any meaning.

Jem is a good player, I believe," quoth his
bride-elect, pleasantly.

*' So good," replied Juliet, '' that to see him

playing against Lady Matilda why, I can

give her points and beat her ; and as for Mr
Challoner, it was a perfect farce to see him
lying up for her ball to have an easy pocket,
or putting it in line for a cannon."

"Very polite of Jem," observed Mary,
laughing. " Jem always is polite."

Then, her music. She does not play well,

not really well, — you would never call her
anything much of a performer ; but he listens
as if she were a Handel or a Mozart. He hears
it whenever she strikes a note ; let him be
where he may, as sure as fate, the door opens
and in he comes. And then he will hang over
the piano, — it matters not who is there, he
takes no notice of any one ; he seems quite absorbed,
half in listening, half in looking "

Jem is fond of music."

Is Jem fond of long aimless country walks
in muddy lanes ? Does Jem like high unsheltered
downs in driving rain ? Will Jem
sit for hours in cold caverns by the sea, when
the wind is bellowing through them, and the
waves are splashing into them, for the pleasure
of the thing 1 It seemed to me that Mr
Challoner had changed characters when I saw
him here, so meekly dangling in and out of
the shops of Clinkton. Yes, I saw him several
times. He was rather grave, I thought. Father
grave, and a little, just a very little, depressed.
I think he would have spoken even to poor

me when he was here, — he would have spoken
to any one almost ; butter would scarcely have
melted in his mouth. Oh, but he was more
saucy at Overton Hall, I can tell you. He
had his own way there ; and there was no
good little errand-boy, trotting about with
parcels in the streets of Seaborough ; no dire
and devout anxiety to make friends with everybody;
no hanging head and dejected step "

Eeally, I wonder what all this is about ! "
cried Mary Tufnell all at once, for there was
that in the speaker's tone which even she could
ignore no longer. " Do you mean to blame
us for taking Jem shopping ? I suppose you
think we ought not to have troubled him ; but
I assure you, if we had not got him out of
doors somehow, he would have sat all day
long over the fire "

He never sat over the fire at Overton."

We thought the air would do his headaches
good "

Oh, he had headaches ? He never

had headaches at Overdone

may not suit him, you know.

Mamma said she was sure it did not suit him,
for he used to come down to breakfast looking
tired out, and he never ate anything -'"

Yet his appetite was good at Over-ton."



And so we thought something must

be done for him," continued Mary, resolutely
getting out her say, " and fresh air is always
thought the best thing."

Did you never propose country walks ? "

Oh, I hate country walks."

And you don't ride or drive ? "

I drive sometimes. It is not much fun ;
and besides, I have always lots of things todo.
I like the shops, and the streets, and
meeting people, and hearing what is going on."

And to this Mr Challoner never objected ?"

Never. He never objected to a thing.
He always did whatever I liked, and always
inquired what I liked first of all" — very
emphatically.

And when he was at Overton Hall, I suppose

it was considered that he should always
do as Lady Matilda Wilmot liked 1 " inquired
Miss Appleby, with suggestive emphasis.


Certainly. If she has the peculiar tastes
you speak of, Jem is perfectly right to conform
to them."

One of her peculiar tastes is flirting. Is
he right to conform to that also V

*' Oh yes, with a grandmother," said Mary,
laughing, (for," thought she, '* who can tell
how disagreeable this girl may make herself if
she once thinks she has made an impression
on me '? I will not be angry unless I am
obliged. I will turn it off with a jest as long
as I possibly can). " Eeally, Miss Appleby,"
the young lady continued, accordingly —
really it is too funny ; you can have no idea
how funny it is. I beg your pardon, but you
have misunderstood so completely, and the
idea — when I think of Jem's long face gallivanting
— Jem, who can never so much as
make a pretty speech ''

■'' Ah, can't he though '? I have heard

hiram

what I call a pretty speech. I

have no doubt he pays a solemn compliment
now and again to the beautiful Lady Matilda,
but even that I can hardly bring myself to see
him attempting. What agonies it must occasion
! What an effort it must be ! Pray,
if I may inquire as much, how does he do it ?
What does he say ? What attitude does the
unhappy wight assume ? Is he on his knees ?
Or standing, and bowing with one hand upon
his heart, ' Madam, your charms are not faded,'

' Madam, I am your most obedient '

Ha ! ha ! ha ! Well, you might have given
him a younger lady at all events, if I am to
be so very, very jealous of her," for Juliet had
emitted a groan of impatience and despair,
hopeless of success with an auditor so rooted
in her preconception of the case.

Oh, if I could but make you see ! " she
sighed.

No, pray don't," responded the lively Mary,

with fresh mirth ; " pray don't, or I should
die on the spot. I am quite willing to take it

on credit. The dear old lady "

"Old lady'' fumed Juliet. "Good gracious
I did I not tell you she looks no older
than you or I ? And she is no older — I mean
in what she does, and feels, and thinks. She
may seem old to you, but she is some years

Mr Challoner's junior, at all events, "

Mary laughed no more, this was a sore point,
" and living as she does with her brothers,

and being made a pet of by them oh dear,

how poor Teddy did dote on her, and I can
hardly yet believe he is gone ! He was — was
very fond of me, too. I don't know what
might have happened if poor Teddy had lived,
for I really liked him very much," looking
down. " But," continued Miss Appleby, returning
pertinaciously to the attack, for having
gone so far it was absolutely imperative
she should now go farther, — she must prevent
Challoner's success in matrimony as well as in
love, it being her aim that he should have

neither, and his disappearance from Overton
had told nothing to any one, since his father's
illness had covered it, — "but I must not go
off to this. Dear Miss Tufnell, once more, do,
I implore you, do listen to me. I am to be
depended on : I am only telling you what I
saw with my own eyes."

Your eyes must see better another time.
When next you meet Mr Challoner, I trust it

will be " she hesitated, — " I trust that you

will see him as — — "

As the happy bridegroom," sneered

Miss Appleby.

'' That's it. As the happy bridegroom.
Poor fellow, he ought to be happy then, for he
has had a bad time first, and — and "

He is to be fully rewarded for it all by-and-by."


If I can reward him," said Mary, simply.
I will do my best. He is much too good
for me, but at least I know how to — to "

To value him 1 Yes '? "

"I do know how to value him, Miss

Appleby ; and I think that at any rate —
whatever you may imagine — whatever illusions
you may have had — you ought to remember
that I am now as good as Jem Challoner's

wife, and that I will not listen to "

You are as good as his wife, and you

will not listen to one who tells you — and who
is ready to swear that every word she says is
true — that this man who has deceived you

and "

He has not deceived me."

^ '' Who pretends he loves you "

He does love me."

That he is deeply and openly and shamelessly
in love with another woman."

But this was too much. The blood rushed
to the brow of Challoner's betrothed, and her
eyes likewise caught fire, as she sprang to her
feet with an exclamation : she could no longer
attempt to turn aside the shaft of malice, she
must dash it from the striker's hand.

*' You want me to believe that f " she
cried ; " you think you may say such things

because — because I have tried to be patient,
and not to mind all the rest, and because Mr
Challoner is not here to defend himself "

'^Ah, my dear Miss Tufnell, I- only-wish
he were here to defend himself," said
Juliet, in her turn gentle as a lamb, now that
at length her companion was fairly roused.
'soh, Mary— let me call you 'Mary,' for 1
am so sorry for you — I do pity you from my
heart," attempting to take a hand, which, however,
was not conceded. ''I do not wonder
that you are angry with me," proceeded
Juliet, plaintively ; " indeed, as you do not
believe I am speaking the truth, the wonder
would be if you were not angry ; but if I
can convince you, if I can prove it "

Prove it. But you can't."

Not yet. But if you will trust me, and
do as I tell you, you would soon be able to
prove it without my help."

What do you want me to do ? "

Ask Mr Challoner himself."

If I wished to insult him, I should ask
himself."

Ask her, then ; ask Lady Matilda ; write
to Lady Matilda "

Write to Lady Matilda ! I write to

Lady Matilda ! Lady Matilda would think
me crazy. And how should I do it — I who
never wrote to a Lady Anybody in my life ?
I should not even know the proper address.
No, thank you," cried Mary, with great resentment
; " if you want to let me in for anything
of that kind, you have come to the wrong
person. I hope I know better than to make
such a fool of myself. And as for Jem, I tell
you plainly that I shall never mention the
subject to him either ; it would be a perfect
disgrace to me if I did."

'' And you do not believe what I tell you ? "

'' Not a word."

VOL. Il N

Chapter XL.

CHOOSING THE West.

A soul exasperated in ills, falls out
With everything, — its friends, itself."

—Addison.

Like many people who have a taste for
making fun of their neighbours, Mary Tufnell
had a profound dislike to being made fun of
in her turn.

It seemed to her now that even if Juliet
Appleby during the past interview had been
perfectly serious and sincere, and had not been
off her head when laying such a preposterous
charge at Jem Challoner's door, other people
would find plenty in it to make merry over
should it once get abroad.

Boys and girls in their teens are apt to

think half-a-dozen years ahead a great age,
while a dozen must certainly divest the unwedded
he or she of any sort of possibilities
or romantic interest ; and to this rule the
banker's pretty daughter was no exception.
She allowed, indeed, that from some occult
cause or other, she in her heyday at nineteen
had not been proof against Challoner, who, as
everybody full well knew, was on the wrong
side of nine-and-thirty ; but Jem, she said, was
not like other people, — somehow you never
thought of Jem's being old or young, and
and — she supposed it was all right. She
liked Jem, and everybody knew how devoted
he was to her; and her father and mother
were pleased, and Herbert Mildmay joked her
about turning into a great lady, and the girls
of Clinkton hoped she would not be too fine
to speak to them when she should take her
place among the county families ; and altogether
poor Mary was well enough pleased
with her prospects. But it must be owned
that the one thing she disliked having allusion

made to was the disparity of years betwixt
the pair ; and indeed her interview with Miss
Appleby had been principally disagreeable to
her from its having turned, so to speak, on
this unfortunate theme.

She had felt both herself and her betrothed
turned into ridicule.

The supposition that he, grave, reserved,
and dignified, as he ever showed himself in
her presence and in that of her family, should
be secretly and unlawfully indulging in
another passion, was to her mind not only
wildly improbable, but grossly absurd.

He could not do it if he would — he would
not if he could. On both grounds she felt
herself more than safe.

It would be nothing short of shameful in
her to suspect her acknowledged lover, to
whom her troth had been plighted so openly,
who had urged his suit so manfully, and who
had never caused her a moment's uneasiness
by so much as looking at another girl when
she was by, — it would be perfectly atrocious

in her or in any one of them to spy and pry
when they had not only no grounds for supposing
anything amiss, but when it was all the
other way.

Had he ever shown himself backward ?
Had he ever slighted her, or neglected her, or
given her cause for complaint in any way ?
Never.

Had he ever, little as he cared for raillery
or badinage tried to interfere with her
amusing herself, laughing and jesting with
the younger men, the Clinkton cousins and
friends who were in and out of the banker's
house as if it were their own — it being plainly
understood that intercourse and intimacy ended
there, — had Jem ever gloomed at any of them
on Mary's account, or minded whom she sat
next to, or talked to, or made much of ? Not
once. He had read a book peaceably in the
corner, or gone out for a walk when the room
was at its fullest and noisiest ; but so far from
this having been the result of jealousy or ill-humour,
she had never heard a word of it

afterwards, and he had been as kind as ever in
the evening. He had not so much as inquired
how long the visitors had stayed.

I'm really afraid Mary will have it only
too much her own way," Mary's delighted
mother had observed once on an occasion of
the sort. " To my mind, 'tis not the best
thing for a girl of Mary's age to be allowed
to follow her own whims in everything ; but
that's how 'twill be with a husband like Jem
Challoner. Lor' ! she may carry on as she
pleases, and never a word, nor so much as a
look from him. He makes believe not to see,
that's what he does. He'll go and stand by
the window, or fix his eyes on the fire or
anywhere, not to seem to be a check upon
the young people when they're getting too
frolicky ; and I declare my head's been fit to
split sometimes with Mary's laugh — but Jem,
he never finds fault with anything."

To have this little viper of a Juliet Appleby,
now, making nasty sly insinuations against
Jem himself! To have her setting up to

know more about him than Mary, whose own
possession he was ! And as if to render the
whole still more unpalatable, the silly thing
had chosen as the object of poor Jem's suppressed
ardour an elderly widow lady !

Not even a spinster — not even a miss. Buta
widow with a grown-up daughter, and that
daughter herself a wife and a mother !

(" And quite my age, if not more," muttered
Miss Tufnell angrily to herself, as she stepped
into the pony-carriage, " and there's a baby
into the bargain. I do wonder at that girl's
cheek. She wanted Jem for herself, I suppose.
But to try to make out that he was smitten
with a grandmother ")

'* What do you say, Fanny ? "

I am dying to know what happened,
dear 1 "

Yes ; well, we had a long talk, you know."

Had you any idea how long '? You were
nearly an hour up-stairs. I thought you were
never coming down again ; but I suppose the
precious secret was too engrossing. Ahem, —

am I not to know anything about it ? Justa
little, a very little, won't you tell me ? "

It was at this moment that Miss Preston's
companion formed the resolution for which
so many people in after-life had unwittingly
cause to bless her.

With the speed of lightning there darted
into Mary's mind the swift determination that
not one syllable of what had passed in the
little upper room at Windlass Court that day
should ever transpire to the outer world.

Through her at least nothing should come
out ; and she shrewdly suspected, from the
extreme anxiety shown by Juliet to win her
belief and co-operation, that the whole fabrication
would fall to the ground should she turn
a resolutely cold shoulder upon it.

Fanny Preston accordingly implored in vain.
No ; Mary had really no report to give, no
confidence to retail. Miss Appleby was a
disappointing creature, and she was surprised
that anybody should make an ado about her :
after bringing them both out that long way

and getting them into the scrape they were
sure to be in on their arrival home, there had
been no reward, nothing to go for. Juliet had
maundered on about one thing and another,
and when at last the mysterious communication
had been got at, it had turned out such a
childish piece of nonsense, that Mary vowed
she would be ashamed to repeat it ; and indeed
she had solemnly assured Miss Appleby
that it would not be repeated.

For Fm sure I hope she has had the grace
to be ashamed of it herself by this time,"
concluded the speaker, tucking in the corner
of the scarlet carriage-rug as she spoke.
When people have been ill one must be
charitable, or else Fm sure I should say all
sorts of unmerciful things of Miss Appleby
to-day. You had by far the best of it downstairs
by yourself, Fanny. I suppose you
found a nice book or something ; and what
a delightful old library that was ! '^ and she
wandered away from Juliet and her secret.

I shall get it out of her presently, however'

concluded Fanny Preston, who was not
in the least taken in, but who understood it
would be better to say no more at the time.

And now, how shall we say it ? Poor Mary
Tufnell ! Little did her friend think that the
presently " she so lightly promised herself
was never to come : little did either of the
two imagine that when they parted on the
doorstep of Mary's home, parted laughing and
nodding, reassuring one another as to the
blame which neither greatly feared, promising
each other many such another merry meeting,
little did either dream that their lips and
hands had met for the last time.

Fanny looked back for a moment as she
drove down the street. The grey figure with
its trim fittings was still on the doorstep
awaiting admittance ; the bright sunshine fell
full upon it ; there was a gay gesture of farewell,
and she had looked for the last time on
Mary's face.

She was absent from Clinkton for a few
days, and the first thing she heard on her

return thither was that Mary Tufnell had
taken the small-pox. How, when, and where
taken was but too easily conjectured. Juliet
Appleby could have put her finger on the
moment — almost on the moment — when she
gave the dread infection, — breathed it into
her, hung it over her.

I did forget'' she sobbed in helpless penitence
come too late, '^ when we grew engrossed
with what we were talking about. I lost
sight of everything else, and asked her to
sit close to me, and took her hand, and — and
whispered — oh, I shall never, never forgive
myself, — never, never. Oh, why did I send
for her l Why did she come ? I told the
Prestonss a lie too ; I said I was allowed to
see people, and Dr Bell had never said so ;
and when I heard she was there, I had to
persuade the nurse to show her up. Now I
have killed her ! "

And she had killed her.

It was soon begun, it was soon over. Lamentations
and mourning, tears and agonies

were of no avail ; there was a sickness, a
sinking, a frightful fear, an anguish of discovery,
a chill of despair, and all was at an
end.

She was gone, and had made no sign.

Not a word, no whisper had ever escaped to
taint the name of Challoner, or to show that
what had passed on that fatal day at Windlass
Court had done aught than glance harmlessly
aside ; and so penetrated was even the light
mind of Juliet Appleby by sorrow and remorse,
that never to the latest day of her life
did she either allude to the interview. Her
lips had been sealed in too awful a manner.

And Challoner, how did he feel ? He had
thought that nothing could ever cause him
grief or happiness more.

Perhaps he was right so far. It was not
sorrow, and God forbid it was anything else
with which he heard the terrible intelligence.
A dumb amazement, an awe-stricken self-reproach
overwhelmed him. He almost reeled
beneath the shock.

He was free, but free by an intervention not
to be thought of without a shudder.

He had not stirred hand or foot to free himself.
He had meant, in his own stupid, sad,
heart-broken fashion, to do his best by Mary
Tufnell, to tear out of his remembrance all
that was past, to give to her the future, to —
to — and behold ! the ravelled skein had been
all at once taken out of his hands, and nothing
was left him.

All he had now to do was done. He had
to enter the darkened house, and walk by
the side of the chief mourner, and feel the
old man's trembling fingers within his arm,
and have his cheek wetted by the mother's
tear; and, pale and stern, they thought him
crushed beneath his load, and hung about
him tenderly, and ministered to him affectionately.


Every touch was a stab, every endearment
a torture. He told himself that they, the
kind, the good, the true, had got a very
traitor in their midst ; and for every pang

wherewith they credited Mary's lover, he
suffered ten.

He knew not that he could have so suffered

And dear Jem, what a pity that poor papa
was never himself — never knew about you, and
your sad loss, even at the last ! "

These were the first words that greeted
Challoner on his return to Paris.

^' Poor papa died very quietly the night
before last," proceeded the speaker, Lady
Fairleigh. " He began to grow worse almost
immediately after you had started, and we
saw at once how it was going to be. The
doctors gave us no hope from the first ; but
I would not telegraph, as I knew you had
enough to think about already, and you had
promised to come back to us as soon as you
could. He really suffered no pain ; " and she
gave an account of the last hours.

But why did you think it a pity he never
knew about — about me ? " inquired her brother.

after he had listened to a second repetition of
the above. " I am glad he was spared the
knowledge ; it could have done no good, and
would only have distressed him."

But it would — at least I am afraid it
would — have been the better for you."

What do you mean ? "

"You see, Jem, when poor papa thought
you were going to marry an heiress "

"Oh, he has cut me off with a shilling,
has he?"

Not exactly that; there will be something,
there will certainly be something, but I fear
it will not be very much — not what you would

have had if . You see I happened to be

with him not long ago, at about the time your
marriage was arranged, and he was very full
of it, and of all that it would do for you. He
seemed to think that it would free him — from
providing for you as he should otherwise have
done, and enable him to help Tom a little
more ; and you know poor Tom will need
help with that large place to keep up, and

all those children, and Eliza so expensively
dressed, — I'm sure I often wonder how they
get on as well as they do. So papa said he
meant to get round Mr Tufnell, and tell him
plainly that all the money must be on his side
I mean, with the exception of the allowance
you have now ; that is left you, I believe :
but, of course, it is small enough ; and I am
afraid," continued Lady Fairleigh, reluctantly
"I am afraid that papa actually did do ashe
projected, and altered his will in consequence.
He never exactly told me what
passed ; and indeed I thought it best not to
ask, for I own I did not like his doing it, —
but I gathered that he was immensely pleased
with his interview ; he said more than once
that ' old Tufnell had behaved like a gentleman,'
and I know he went to Turner and
Wilson the very next day.

'that was one reason, I must tell you,"
proceeded the speaker, " why I was so anxious
about your marriage coming off without delay.
I could not understand why there should be

any delay ; and knowing that so much depended
upon it, and the Tufnells behaving

so handsomely but, however," and she

sighed.

Is that all '? " said her brother, as if he
had hardly heard a word.

All ! But, my dear Jem, don't you understand,
there will really be nothing or next to
nothing for you but what you have already?
That, as you know very well, is a wretched
allowance ; but poor papa never could see that
a younger son could have anything to spend
upon. The only thing I can think of now " —
and she hesitated — " is if Tom and Will could
be got to join "

"Nothing of the sort. T wouldn't take it
from them."

*' Well, perhaps it would be better not, but
you will always come to me when you can,
and I'm sure if I had anything of my own

oh, dear me, if poor papa could only have

lived to know, — it is so very sad, so very unfortunate
"

VOL. III.

Pooh ! it does not signify a brass

farthing ! " said her brother, turning away
with a frown.

Perhaps you will think he had his* own
resources ; you may imagine that he contemplated
an attempt at a reconciliation with
Lady Matilda Wilmot ? He did nothing of
the kind. Such an idea never occurred to
him. He knew her now, and he began to
know himself. He was simply reckless. All
that made life dear, and all that made it
dread, alike were gone. He was free to fling
himself away if he chose.

And he thought he would so choose.

CHAPTER XLI.

For words are weak, and ill to seek,
When wanted fifty-fold."

—Philip vox Artevelde,

Challoner loves you, and Challoner is going
to the devil ! ''

The speaker was Lord Overton, the listener
was Matilda, and it was the first time that
Challoner's name had been mentioned between
them since the never-to-be-forgotten day on
which it had seemed to both that they had
seen the last of him for ever.

For weal or for woe, never more would Jem
Challoner voluntarily cross their path : they
had done with him, he had done with them,
and with the bitterness of such a conviction.

with all its accompaniments, had grown up a
blank silence between the two, which had
never until now been broken.

Challoner had been ignored — they would
have said forgotten. They would have told
you it was their brother for whom that void
was kept ; that their lost boy, in his feebleness,
his helplessness, his wilfulness and waywardness,
had made for himself a place in their
hearts which could never be filled by another,
but in truth it could have been filled, more
than filled, by one who had once seemed only
too able and only too ready to take it.

Overton had liked Challoner, Matilda had
loved him : in him could have been a new
bond of union, deeper and tenderer even than
that which had drawn them together in poor
foolish Teddy, — and that link also was broken
and gaping.

Now the two lived on and on — side by
side, and yet asunder ; there was no riding,
no skating, no singing, no cheery notes
floating through the dim old galleries, —

but only a black-robed figure gliding alone
and slowly down the long vistas of the park,
or standing motionless and mute, watching
from windows when there was nothing to
watch for — and once it was the piece of
ancient Moorish tapestry which drew that
fixed and melancholy gaze upon itself; and
it came into the mind of the elder brother
ever and anon, as the months passed and no
change was seen, that there was only one
thing and only one person who had the
power, and who might have yet the chance,
of waking his sister from her mournful
reveries.

He knew all about Challoner. He knew
far more than Matilda did.

When on that night on which their house
had been left desolate, she had thrown herself
into his arms with, " Overton, dear Over-ton,
I have no one but you now, and you
have only me. Love me more than ever
you did before, Overton ; I need it so much
more now : I have no one but you, — no one,

no one but you ! " he understood it all. Teddy
had revealed his mission, — Matilda's sobs confirmed
it.

Neither of them thought of Matilda's child,
that self-satisfied self-absorbed Lotta, who
could never be anything to her mother ; and
in pressing his wretched sister to his heart,
and inwardly vowing to make up to her for
all she had lost, so far as in him lay, the kind
Overton felt in solemn truth that he alone
was left, and that, try as he might, he was inadequate
to the post thus forced upon him.
What will she ever do with only me ? "
pondered he sorrowfully. 'how shall I ever
satisfy a woman like Matilda ? I never was
clever — now I am dull. I have seen nothing
of the world. I have not poor Teddy's spirits.
I have none of his pleasantness, his aptitude
for making the most of trifles, of finding amusement
in everything or anything. Matilda is
unhappy now, too unhappy to care ; but by-and-by
she will begin to pine. And then,
must Lotta after all be the Countess of Over-ton

? Must Eobert Hanwell reio^n here when
I am gone ? "

Now if there was one person on earth for
whom the good earl entertained real contempt,
contempt active and positive, it was his niece's
husband. "What business," he muttered to
himself, — " what business had Eobert to put that
amount of crape upon his hat ? What concern
was it of his whether the stone on poor Teddy
grave was to be broad or high 1 Teddy gone,
and Lotta Matilda's only child, it could not bea
source of lasting grief to Lotta's husband
that Matilda's was Overton's heir."

But Overton himself groaned in spirit.

What a different picture fancy had drawn of
this sweet summer time only eighteen months
ago, when Jem Challoner was coming and
going at the Hall ! Then he had seen as in a
vision Matilda again a wife, again a mother
and the thoughts of a little Jem toddling
about the terrace, and of the long faces of the
Han wells, and of Lotta's jealousy and Teddy's
pride, and of Challoner to walk with and to

shoot with, and of the cheerful dinner-table,
and everybody pleased, and Eobert discomfited,
— all had combined to make up a delicious
medley, a prospect after his own heart.
Alas when it had melted away as fairy cobwebs
beneath the morning sun !

No Challoner, no Teddy any more, and he
fancied a settled exultation in Mr Han well's
demeanour, and an increased importance in his
step from the date of the collapse. His aversion
increased in due proportion, he grew
almost to hate Eobert, and thought of the
guilty Challoner with a tenderness of which
he ought to have been ashamed.

No doubt Challoner had behaved badly, no

doubt dishonourably, treacherously, but .

And then he heard that Challoner was bereft
of his bride, straitened in his means, and at
variance with his family. His soul yearned
over him. It was when the last piece of news
came through Robert Hanwell, and came direct
from headquarters, stamped with Whewell's
authority, and professing to be W he well's experience,

that Overton felt the time to speak
had come.

It was an August evening, and beneath the
summer sun field after field of long-eared wheat
whistled softly from very weight of fulness,
and the poppies flared by the wayside, and the
landrail's note sounded up and down over all
the land.

Matilda, weary and languid as she often was
now, had retired to the cool shades of the great
back drawing-room, a room little sat in at anytime,
and which had never once been used since
Teddy's death, — and there she stood looking
absently from the window as was her wont,
when the door opened, and to her surprise it
was her brother who had followed her.

Now what did this portend ? She had left
the good man to all appearance nodding in his
easy-chair after dinner — what ailed him that
he could not stay there '? He thought she was
lonely, she supposed.

No, my dear Overton," quoth the lady to
herself; "no, I am not lonely, not in the

way you imagine. I — to confess the truth —
I thought I did very well without company
for the present ; my own company is quite
enough for me, almost too much for me on
these days. I am best left to it; I am indeed.
However, not to be ungracious "

Well, sir," addressing the intruder with a
spark of her old playfulness ; " well ? What
has brought you here ? Tired of yourself ?
Or bitten by the midges ? Or what \
Wasps ? "

I came to find you," replied he ; and ashe
spoke, he walked up from behind quite
close to where she stood, and put his two
hands on her shoulders.

To find me 1 " cried Matilda, surprised
both at the tone and action. " Had you any
particular reason for wishing to find me ? I
have been with you all day "

"And I have tried to speak to you all
day. But," said Overton, looking straight
out over her shoulder, — "but words don't
come when they are wanted."

I hope it is nothing disagreeable "? " said
Matilda, lightly.

^' I hope you will not think it so."

Robert ? "

'^No."

Lotta ? "

No. It is about one who was once your
friend and mine' continued Lord Overton,
after a very long silence, during which
Matilda's heart had suddenly begun to beat
against her side, and her breath to come
quick and short. "Dear Matilda, I have
something to say, and I have also something
to ask. You know that I have never
adverted to Challoner, never mentioned his
name since he left us ; I have never inquired
what passed between him and you on that
dreadful day. I knew that poor Teddy had
told you what he told me; and I knew —
for I was at pains to find out — that he
had spoken the truth. It was very sad'' he
paused.

Well'' said Matilda, in a hard dry tone.

But " he stopped again.

I don't know why we need enter upon it,
brother. Mr Challoner will not trouble either
of us any more."

'' I know he was to blame," began Overton,
heavily. " I am not exonerating him "

Good heavens ! I should hope not."

"But consider Matilda, do you know

the circumstances in which he was placed ? "

Oh, I know them ; I know them, of
course. They were not particularly creditable
"

^ *' But are you sure that you do know "

Pshaw I I know this : I know that while
he had asked another woman to be his wife
that while he had plighted his troth to her,
and held hers, he dared to ask for my love —
mine. Ah ! you exclaim. You did not suppose
he had gone so far as that, did you ?
No, and no more he had — happily no more
he had — until after, just after I had learned
the miserable truth. Think what it would
have been if he had tried me sooner. I

loved him — you know I loved him ; and

had he asked me " and she hid her face

in her hands.

My poor girl ! "

He was out of himself, don't you see '? "
said Matilda, presently. "He was aroused
out of his caution by fears that he had killed
me, and he spoke out what he had never
dared, had never dared to say before''

And you told him then that you knew ? "

She bent her head.

And you parted^how did you part '? "

You may tell yourself that," said she, with
a curve of her proud lip.

Did it ever occur to you," said Overton,
after a time, " to suppose that even a man
who behaves ill ? "

Behaves ill ! Dear Overton, do not

drive me frantic with your calmness and
moderation. Behaves ill ! And he was false,
cruel, treacherous "

I don't believe he was one of 'em,"

said Lord Overton, bluntly.

It was the last thing he should have said.
It pricked the bursting heart to the quick,
and the torrent that now poured forth seemed
as though it could never cease, never be
quenched.

"And now is my turn," said he at last.
'snow, my poor little sister, you have had
your say, listen to me. Challoner was sorely
tempted. He was let in for a marriage in
haste, which he repented of at leisure, and I
presume he always hoped it would come to an
end of itself "

You have no right to say that."

I have, for it is the truth. Do you imagine
I would put forth such a statement without
good foundation for it '? Now listen. He
was thus engaged, and thus repenting, when
he fell in with you. He loved you "

'^ Loved me with what sort of love ? "

*' Loved you against his will, against his
honour, and against his conscience. I believe
in such love," said Lord Overton, simply.

Believe in it ? " gasped she.

Believe in it as a reality, as a real and

actual thing ; as a power which might See,

Matilda, try to follow me. Matilda, Challoner
is not a very young man to be caught by a
pretty face ; and, as I understand, it was nota
pretty face that did so catch him. Probably
he wished to have a home of his own, and this
young lady who — who was well endowed, and
who was looked out for him, — my dear, I know
that it was so "

I don't see that it matters."

It does matter, in a way. It was not a
case of caprice, or fickleness, on Challoner's
part : she never had his heart, I am fully convinced
; and then he came here, and saw his
mistake. I may be wrong in this, but my
belief is that he never fully understood what
he had done until " he paused.

'^ Well ? "

^* Until he knew you."

He ought never to have known me. He
ought never to have got to know me. He
ought to have gone away "

And did lie not try to go away ? "

Never— after the first."

''He was caught, then," said Overton, with
a grim smile. " Yes — you, Matilda, you caught
him. Stop — I don't say intentionally ; for we
can all remember" — still smiling — " how badly,
how abominably you treated him on that first
evening they dined here — Whewell and he, —
but I think you contrived to do away with
that ill impression tolerably soon afterwards,
did you not ? "

"Not until he "

Not until he led the way ? Perhaps. And
perhaps the ill impression never existed ; for I
fancied, although I never said so, that the
mischief had begun before any of the rest of
you, before even Challoner himself, suspected
it."

Suppose it had — suppose it had," tapping
the floor with her foot, " there was time
enough, shad given him no thought then,
at any rate."

True. And no doubt he should not have

given a second thought to you. I wonder,"
said Lord Overton, musing — '' I wonder if he
could have helped it."

Overton ! ''

Well ? "

Of course he could have helped it. AVould
you have behaved so V

*' I have never been tried."

'' Would any man of honour 1 "

Oh, lots."

I do not say they would have come back
the second time, Matilda, as Challoner did,"
pursued the speaker, "nor do I say that he
did not very weakly and "

And wickedly "

"And wickedly perhaps, give way to his
feelings ; but I do say that the feeling itself
which he entertained for you was true, pure,
and genuine — also, that it was very strong, and
overmastered him. Any one could see that."

Well, well," rejoined Matilda, impatiently ;
"let it be so. What is it to either of us
now '? The thing is past and done "

VOL. III. p

But now he is free."

Free ? Well, free ; what does that
signify to us, either '? "

I want you to forgive him, dear."

"That I shall never do."

Then there was a long pause and Overton
was the first to break it.

He is very miserable," he said.

No reply.

''I am afraid, from what I hear, he is —
worse."

And yet I am to forgive him ? "

"And yet you are to forgive and to save
him."

"That is nonsense, Overton, if you mean —
I know the sort of thing you mean. Oh, I'll
forgive him — forgive him if you like — but let
it end there. People can't have everything.
Mr Challoner had his choice once, and he
threw away the substance for the shadow, like
the dog in the fable."

Matilda, Matilda, how hard you are ! You
were not so hard once. You were all tenderness

and pity for that poor boy who is gone.
How you bore with him, pleaded for him,
excused him ! You would never see his
vices "

"Don't call them that."

'' I must call them what they were," he
said, sternly. " You, who stand out for truth,
can't give the same thing different names for
different people. Poor Teddy was not altogether
responsible, it is true ; but he had
sense enough to be bad, and bad he would
have been — and was — but for you. You reclaimed
him. You made an entire change in
him. I may say I hope, by God's mercy, you
saved him. Will you never try what you can
do with — another '? "

How can I ^ "

But he thought his words had told.

There is but one way, indeed," he said,
softly. " Forget the past, believe in the
future ; take him as he is, with all his faults,
with all his sins, — take him, and bid him sin
no more. Matilda, I feel a solemn certainty

that lie would obey you. I have a faith in
Challoner that refuses to be shaken. Stay,"
arresting her as she would have spoken ; " stay
I know what you say ; but / say it might, it
could, it ought to be done. You are the person
who must do it, — you alone can rescue
Challoner from the course on which I fear he
has entered. He is not naturally depraved.
He has no bias towards evil. Far from
it, — all his desires and inclinations are on
the side of right, and he has a disposition
to all that is great and noble. You yourself,
Matilda, have observed this ; you thought

him "

"Oh, what did I not think him!"

cried she, bitterly.

And do you not now see," pursued her
brother, " that those very aspirations must
have been against him, must have stood in
his way, when he contrasted you with — God
forgive me if I do her injustice — with that
poor young lady to whom he was bound ? I
have heard from several that she was a lio^ht-

minded frivolous girl, and that it had often
been wondered at how one of her shallow
pretensions could have satisfied a man like
Challoner. Those who made the remark knew
nothing of the circumstances of the engagement
naturally, but the better informed made
no secret of their persuasion that the match
was entirely of Lady Fairleigh's making, and
could never have answered. You look as if
you would ask how I have learned all this ?
It has been a work of time. I have sifted
into the worth of every piece of information I
have received, — and it was really extraordinary
from what unexpected quarters the information
sometimes came, — but I would not
mention it to you till I had made sure that it
was no Will-o'-the-wisp that was leading me
on. It was only yesterday that the last
authentic account of Challoner himself reached
me, — Challoner, as his friends — or so they call

themselves — now assert him to be "

And what do they assert him to be ? "
Miserably poor, obstinately reckless, wild.

mad, lost. Mind this is what they say, not
what hoe need believe. That there is some
truth in it, I fear is but too likely ; but the
charges were not of a nature, — in short, you
may trust me, my dear sister, Challoner is not
irreclaimable ; one pure spot in his heart still
attests to the impression made by you."

What else did you hear ? " she said, very
low.

He persists in refusing to take anything
from the Tufnells, who are anxious to settle
on him some of the portion he would have had
with their daughter. His brothers and sisters
have quarrelled with him, because he will not
be provided for again in the way Lady Fairleigh
approves ; he will court no second heiress.
His friends find him bad company, and go
where it is merrier. He is no credit to anyone.
I could tell you more, and will by-and-by,
— but what I want now is that you

should feel Matilda, now is the time

to hold out a hand to a drowning man. Your
hand "

It is not strong enough."

It is — it is. It is the only hand that is
strong enough. Matilda, you are born to lead,
to attract, to control men, — women too, but
more especially men. They cannot but admire
you, they are impelled to follow you.
Unconsciously you sway them to and fro,
while your mind, naturally strong and self-reliant,
is uninfluenced except when reason
and judgment approve."

She shook her head, but he continued. " I
have known you from infancy, and no one so
well as I knows that this is the truth. Look
at our poor Teddy. It was wonderful the reformation
your patient working wrought in
him. You could do with him whatever you
would — as a rule ; of course there were times
when he passed beyond your reach, but that
was his unhappy infirmity, — in general he was
yours to mould to your will. How he clung
to you, how he loved you, and — how he feared
you ! I am your subject too, my dear — your
very loyal and most submissive subject; and

as for Challoner, he worshipped the very
ground you trod upon."

"And yet he duped, deceived, betrayed
me," cried she, trembling.

'' True, but he loved you. When a manlike
Challoner marries a good woman "

*' Good women should not marry bad men."

Women like you should. You are a
noble, resolute, reasonable creature, not a
newly hatched miss just out of her teens,
weak, yielding, amiable "

"Ha! ha! ha!"

My dear Matilda ! "

She was laughing, but not hysterically, ashe
feared, though it may have been and probably
was because of quivering on the brink
of tears that the laugh came — but all the
same it was spontaneous, it was like herself.

Ha ! ha ! ha ! So I am not amiable ;
weak and yielding, I have never pretended
to be — but amiable '? Oh, my dear Overton,
it will take all your wits to fumble out of
that hole."

It is not a question of wits," said her
brother, quietly. " I have put the case before
you, badly I suppose, but still so that you can
understand it. You know what I mean, and
I think that between us two, it matters very
little how I express myself. Challoner loves
you, and Challoner is going to the devil ! I
ask you now, Will you save him, or not ? "
And without another word, he instantly left
the room.

CHAPTEE XLII.

CAN I WISH HIM TO LIFT HIS EYES TO YOU '? "

Silence in love betrays more woe
Than words, however witty.
A beggar that is dumb, you know,
May challenge double pity."

—Sir W. Raleigh.

It was not for several days after this that
Lord Overton again accosted his sister on the
subject which occupied both their thoughts.
In the interim they studiously brought forward
by turns other topics for discussion, and
were laboriously interested in the weather, the
harvest, their neighbours, or anything that
was going on in the village ; but at length
came an opportunity, and Matilda knew by
her brother's smile that he was going to
make it one.

Well ? " he said. " Well ? "

But she only turned away.

Then he let a week go by, and watched
closely to see if there were any signs of improvement.
He thought there were, — fancied
he detected an increase of animation and
alertness, and too hastily endeavoured to
reap the fruit whereof these were the seeds.

Matilda only shook her head, and bade
him, with a sigh, desist. It was no good ;
she could not see things as he did. She was
sorry, but she could not help herself; she
must go her own way.

But all at once, and that without a breath
of preparation, the scene changed.

His sister had been over at Endhill — that
going over to Endhill had become more of a
duty than ever of late, there was so seldom
anything to make the visit a reward for the
exertion, and as a rule there was nothing to
relate about it afterwards — and it was accordingly
with the utmost surprise that on
the occasion above alluded to he learned that

Endhill had at last come to the front, and
that while he at home was at a loss for any-new
argument or representation wherewith
to assail deaf ears, Endhill had in point of
fact done his work, and done it with success.

An angry brightness sparkled in his sister's
dark eye, the colour went and came in her
cheek, and her voice in vain sought to steady
itself as she laid a hand on his arm — a weak,
imperative, clinging hand. " Overton," she
said — " Overton "

What is it, my dear ? "

Send for him. You may. I give you
leave. I ," and she burst into tears.

'' What is it I " exclaimed he, dum foundered.
" What has happened 1 Don't cry, Matilda.
Here, sit down. There now, tell me
about it. What is the meaning of all
this'

It was they — Robert and Lotta," sobbed
she. ** They began about him. I never thought
they would have done that, when they knew,
oh, they knew enough to have kept them quiet,

knew at least it could not have been very —
very pleasant to — to me to hear his name, and
still less as — as they spoke it. How do you
think they did speak of him ? Of Eobert's
friend, remember, — of the man whom they
themselves brought here and introduced to us,
dear baby's godfather, and — and all, — they
spoke as if he were a dissolute, abandoned
wretch ! They had the — the presumption to
think it fortunate he had left off coming to
see us,' and to be glad that they had broken
with him too. With him — a man they are
not fit to — the wonder was he ever deigned to
enter Robert's house. And now Lotta, Lotta,"
said Lotta's mother dashing away her tears,
and raising her face, — " Lotta, with her most
virtuous air, ' will never think of taking any
notice of Mr Challoner again ! ' Lotta ! Fancy
it, Overton ! — Lotta take notice of him''

Ah," murmured Overton, dreamily,

what a nice fellow he was ! never in the
way ; never said the wrong thing ; never
bothered. If there was a man in the whole

world I would have chosen to spend my life
with, it was Challoner."

"But Robert ' feels it only due to himself
to cut his friend dead in the street should he
meet him now ' ! "

"Ah!"

Eobert is quite concerned that you and I
should have owed such an acquaintance to him.
He hopes that we both understand it is only
of late that Mr Challoner has so deteriorated.
He was quite respectable — at least Eobert
believes he was quite respectable — when he
came first to Endhill, otherwise he should
never have been invited ; but he has heard
such an account of him lately from Mr Wheel
— Whewell, mark you — that it has quite
put any future intimacy between them out of
the question. What do you suppose all this
was for, Overton ? Was it because they were
afraid of me ? Then they shall be afraid of
me. Overton, bring him back, bring him
back. We are not too immaculate to touch
him, are we, Overton ? Thank God, you are

no Pharisee, Overton. Yoa would not castaway
a poor forsaken soul, — oh no, you would
seek him out and take him by the hand, and
open to him your doors, and give him your
all," weeping afresh. " Oh, brother, it was
Christ Himself who spoke through you to me
the other night. I heard His voice — the Good
Shepherd pleading for His lost one — but I
stopped my ears and hardened my heart, for
my foolish pride stormed up in arms at the remembrance
of its wound. I wanted to listen
to you, but it seemed as if I could not. I
loved you for speaking, but something kept
me back ; and whenever I felt as if I wanted
to yield, so surely as I gave way a little, there
came across me some remembrance, some sore
spot smarted anew. I could see his face and
hear his eager cry, and then my own scorn,
which I had vowed should never be recalled.
Overton — I am so tired " And she suddenly
dropped into a seat, for she had risen in
the excitement of the moment.

Tired with the struggle," said he, tenderly.

** Give it up, Matilda. Think no more of the
injury to yourself."

'* Yes ; that is what I have been doing," she
replied, in broken accents. '' And yet how
slight was the wrong to me, compared with
what it was to that poor girl in her grave !
God be thanked, she cannot be injured, or
grieved, or distressed by either of us anymore.
Oh, I may do it now ; I need not fear
to do it now. If I can save him "

"You can," said Overtop, with the authority
of calm conviction. " Do not doubt it.
There never yet was a sacrifice God did not
bless "

But it is no sacrifice," murmured she.

'rit is a noble deed, a righteous, glorious,
holy enterprise. I was wrong to use the word
sacrifice " said her brother ; " had it been
a sacrifice, I should have doubted — indeed
I should never have desired it; it is only
by his possessing your whole, your entire
affection — nay, don't be ashamed of it, my
dear sister — it is to this I look for your happiness

as well as his. You could do nothing

o

unless you loved him as he loves sou. God
bless you, my dear, and give you strength
and courage." He laid his hand on hers,
pressed it, rose from her side, and presently
went away.

Now, how will he set about it ? '^ whispered
she to herself thereafter.

Perhaps with her knowledge of Overton's
tendencies and habits, it was not to be wondered
at that she should experience some

anxiety on this head. Balaam's ass she

stopped to laugh and scold herself for the

shameful allusion; but still Balaam's ass

had undoubtedly spoken words of wisdom,
such as had never before astonished the ears
of any living being at Overton Hall. Had
she not been so overpowered and engrossed,
she must have been struck with the strangeness
of the thing; but, like the prophet, the
purport of the speech had diverted her attention
from the speaker, and it was only on
reflection that she had time to consider

VOL. III. Q

whether her good brother's newly acquired
judgment and discrimination would carry him
on to the end of the chapter.

Few of the quicksands of life had ever come
in Overton's way, and amidst these few he
had invariably had to be taught how to steer.
Now, could he take the helm into his own
hands '? But if not, what was to be done ?
for there was assuredly no one else.

And suppose he had already started on the
wrong track ? Suppose he had taken for
granted, on insufficient grounds, that Challenger
still cared for herself? He had said
not, but was he to be trusted on this point ?
Suppose Challoner had ceased to desire a reconciliation
? Suppose he had even some one
else?

It would be too dreadful if anything were
now to go amiss ; if she were to be shown to
have humiliated herself in vain — met a man
half-way who had no intention of meeting at all.

Nay, why should anything be advanced on
her side ? She was willing to forgive ; but

should lie not at least be sued for forgiveness
? She would suffer herself to be approached
; but some desire to approach ought
surely to be evinced. Disturbed and uneasy
afresh, she longed that Overton should speak
again, and wondered, when several days again
elapsed, and he made no sign.

It was not to be borne longer.

"Are — are you going to do anything?"
she asked.

Certainly, I am. You gave me permission."

But when ? "

*eat once. I have only been making sure
of where he is."

Where is he ? "

In little poky rooms in a back street. He
is too poor now to afford his old lodgings in
the Albany "

That accounts for Eobert and

Lotta-and

think of it, Matilda, in this broiling
August weather. London in August ! and
lodgings in a back street in London ! "

And involuntarily he looked round on the
beautiful flower-beds, the lawns, the grassy-parks,
and great shaded avenues of Overton.
They were together in Matilda's bower, and
even that cool and chosen spot was scarcely
bearable in the fierce sunshine that blazed
overhead.

London must be like the infernal regions,"
said Overton. Then he added slowly —

I am going there tomorrow."

To - morrow ! " exclaimed she, with a
start.

'' To-morrow. Yes, I have settled to go up
tomorrow. There is nothing to keep me now.
I got the correct address this morning. He
has taken his name ofi" all his old clubs. I
daresay he can't pay the subscription ; but
he is to be found at a cheap little place,
newly started and there I shall look in
upon him about luncheon-time. If he is
out, I shall either wait, or go again."

'^ What will you say to him ? "

You must leave that to me my dear."

Dear Overton, you will not-not
what ? "

Not— bungle."

I daresay I shall," said Overton, laughing.
I have very little doubt I shall bungle horribly,
but that cannot be helped. I cannot
well have you prompting at my elbow "

"Oh, don't jest."

*' You may coach me beforehand, if you
like, however. I will try to remember anything
very particular if you din it into me.
But I warn you, I fancy I shall do best let
alone. I know what I have got to do. I
have got to bring him back "

But, dear Overton, be sure, do be

sure, first, that he wants to come. Oh,
don't," cried Matilda, clasping her hands in
an agony of earnestness — ** don't show too
soon ! Just think if it should not be as we
suppose ! If he does not wish to — to "

*' You are not half so loyal to him as

I am, Matilda. I would stake half my estates
that Challoner is true to you."

*' Do you call it being ' true ' to me ? Well,
I will not quarrel for a word. Only if you
are so sure, so very sure, dear Overton, just
keep back your confidence from showing itself
too quickly. Pretend a little for my sake.
See," cried she, with imploring countenance —
'* see that it comes from him, not from you.
Oh, he can speak when he pleases. He is not
so diffident as you think ; he could be bold
enough once "

Do you mean that he is likely to come forward
as a suitor for your hand now now

that he is "

"But you would not osier it to him unless
he does 1 "

Now, Matilda, be reasonable. Is it likely
that I should offer your hand to any man alive 1
Is it probable that I would lower you in the
eyes of one whom I would have look up to
you as to an angel ? But at the same time,
can I expect — can I ever wish that Challoner
should lift his eyes to you at all, unless I show
him that old scores are to be clean wiped out

between us, and that he may be again what
he was before — our friend ? "

Matilda made no remark.

** As a friend — merely as a friend — I shall
ask him here. If he refuses to come — as I expect
he will refuse — it will rest with me to
discover the motive. Trust me for once, my
dear sister' concluded he, " not because I am
the fittest person to act for you, but because
I am the only one. I will not betray you.
If I fail — but cheer up, my heart tells me that
I shall not fail. To-morrow morning I go to
town to fetch Challoner, and tomorrow evening[
sees him here."

CHAPTER Xlii

CHALLONER FOUND.

'' A voice from out the future cries,
On, on — but o'er the past,
(Dim gulf,) my spirit hovering lies,
Mute, motionless, aghast,"

Edgar Allan Poe.

London out of the season, London abandoned
to people who cannot get away, to schools let
loose, to homeless cats, to all that is vagrant,
shabby, and unsightly, is perhaps as little
tempting a spot and as great a contrast to
London in the glory of the early spring and
summer, as can be imagined.

To Jem Challoner it was misery absolute
and unmitigated. All his companions and
associates had gone their several ways, the
long continuance of the hot weather having
driven them one after another earlier than

usual to more favoured haunts; but though
one had his yacht, another his moor — though
all had flitted off" somewhere or other out of
sight, it mattered not where, he had not so far
followed their example.

In truth, he had nowhere to go ; that is to
say, there was nowhere he cared to go.

He had not indeed been exactly forbidden
the homes of his brothers and sisters, as Wheel
had insinuated, but neither had he been
tempted thither by any desire on his own part,
or any inordinate amount of pressing on theirs.
His brothers-in-law and sisters-in-law were not,
as a rule, to his mind : they were formal
people with fixed ideas ; and amongst them
the notion was that Jem was not much of a
family man ; he did not care to linger among
the women of his own set, and he could not
be always among the men, who, indeed, though
some of them were his own kin, were of another
stamp to himself. He had ever been
unlike the rest, — unlike Tom, who was so demure
and prudent; Will, whose selfishness

was so cleverly veiled ; and Neddy, v^ho was
such a boor, — Jem had been unlike them all,
and had looked down upon them all. It was
now their turn to look askance upon him ; and
so the ladies, their good wives, soon let him
discover. For, considered they, it would have
been too tiresome to have had a whole bedroom
stopped up, and a place at the table, and
seat in the carriage always pre-engaged ; moreover,
to have had to arrange for a shooting
man to shoot, and a smoking man to sit up
late, and a dozen other things which must have
been done, once the bachelor brother were given
the run of the house.

The husbands themselves, perhaps, were not
urgent. Jem was a dull companion at this
time, and there was not much change to begot
out of him on any score. His long face at
meals was not conducive to a good digestion ;
and why the deuce could t he play the amiable
and trot about with the girls and children
afterwards, instead of lounging about doing
nothing from morning to night ?

Clialloner was not in a mood for children
and frolicking, — and that was the truth. He
was heavy-hearted, preoccupied, down in his
luck, unable for any exertion, and indisposed
for any amusement. The only prospect that
found any favour in his eyes was that of going
somewhere where he had never been before,
and among people he had never known in
other days. An invitation which promised
both these requisites had been half promised
ere the season broke up ; and on it his hopes
now hung with a concentration and tenacity
which was piteous. A friend, with a breezy
Scottish moor, had " hoped to see him by-and-by,
when he had seen his lodge and its accommodation,
and would write so soon as he
should be making up his party."

But day after day passed, and no letter
came.

He looked over his guns, and polished them ;
he ordered shooting-boots ; he had his 
mended ; and then he walked
and walked about the dreary streets, among

rows and rows of closed and papered windows,
passed beneath the painters' ladders on the
pavements, saw the maids gossiping from
their mistresses' windows, saw" their sweethearts
boldly scale the front doors, and grew
to hate the sultry and fetid place more and
more every day.

At length a glorious morning — glorious even
in London— tempted him to take his dog
earlier than usual for his daily splash in the
Serpentine, — his hour for this, the chief event
of the day, being usually six o'clock or so ;
but the dog was restless, and the day was
utterly vacant ; he thought he would break
through the rule — go in the morning, and return
to lunch at his club, — the poor little
club which Overton had mentioned as the
only one Challoner could now afford to belong
to. In front of it, whom should he now behold
but Lord Overton himself '?

"Overton, I thought it must be you," he
said — for a meeting could not be avoided, and
it must be borne in mind that there had been

no open split between the two, and that
Teddy's fatal accident, and old Mr Challoner's
demise following so shortly upon it, might be
supposed to account fully for their having
drifted apart of late, — " Overton, I — what a
time it is since — come in and have some luncheon.
Were you looking for me ? "

"I had only just come. Yes, thanks, I'll
have some luncheon. They told me you would
be in about now," replied Overton, in the same
ordinary everyday tone. " Hot, isn't it ? You
have been out early ? "

Been to give my dog a dip."

Then they sat down, and luncheon was ordered.
Luncheon was ordered, brought, eaten
and drunk, and no pause was suffered to lift
its awkward head into the conversation ; to all
appearance the pair who sat chatting thus
socially and uninterruptedly, partaking of their
little meal across the little table — neither had
much appetite, but that might have passed, —
to the outward eye the two were pleased to
meet, and found plenty of agreeable topics

wherewith to chase the flying minutes, — and
no one would have guessed that the one was
talking against time, and the other against
memory.

I have not very long to wait," said Lord
Overton, at last. '^ Thanks, no, I won't smoke.

I'll just " rising and looking round. "It

is quiet over there ; if you don't mind, we'll
just go over," moving across the large room to
a distant recess ; " we shall be undisturbed
there, and I want to see you by yourself for a
moment ;" he took out his watch.

Challoner stood mute by his side.

Yes, I see I have more time than I
thought," continued the speaker. " I thought
it had been later."

What is it you want to do '? "

It — well — ahem ! Have you any engagement
for this afternoon V

None whatever."

For tomorrow ? For this week '? '^

'' N — no ; not that I know of. I am expecting
letters; I may be off any day, but —

no, I have nothing fixed. What is it 1 Anything
I can do for you ? "

*' Challoner," said his friend abruptly, "I
want you to go back with me."

It cannot be said that the proposal was altogether
unexpected, for so well had the part of
ignorance and innocence been sustained, that
even although Overton might be presumed to
know more than he chose to reveal, it still
remained dubious to what extent his knowledge
went. Accordingly, in view of a hospitable
offer, Challoner had prepared himself, and
was now capable, without much effort, of putting
forth the regrets and excuses which he
had been able to think of. He was not really
free, he said ; he was awaiting another summons,
had half-agreed, and feared it would
hardly be the thing to draw back and throw
his friends over.

Yes, I understand'' said Overton, quietly.
** These are all very good excuses, quite sufficient
excuses ; but, old fellow, is there any one,
any other, any 7'eal reason f Don't answer

me if you would rather not, you know ; still
I wish you would."

*' I will," said Challoner, his own tone changing
also. "I will, Overton, if you wish it.
There is."

My sister '? "

'' Your sister."

I know something of what passed between
you and her," rejoined Overton, readily; "but
that has passed — it belongs to the past. Can
you let it remain so ? Bury it with the things
that are forgotten, and come and see her and
me as friends, — nothing more, — friends who
will be glad to receive you, and from whom

you need fear no — no in short, we are

ready to forgive and forget Challoner. Come,
we want to be friends with you ; can you and
will you as frankly be friends with us ? "

No," said Challoner, looking out of the
window ; " no — I — cannot."

"Why not r'

Because Why not ? Because I cannot
; that's all."

At least say why."

No, Overton ; no, I can't say why. Don't
ask me."

Is it the past that prevents it ?"

The past 1 Ye— es. Partly."

Only partly ? "

Overton, since you lull have it, the past
is nothing ; it's the future I am afraid of.
You are very good — far, far too good to offer
me your friendship. Don't be hard on me
that I cannot accept it, — at least I will not

do you that wrong. I " he drew in his

under lip with a long dry breath, and bit it.

Go on," said Overton, waiting.

'' How can I go on ? You know what it was —
the old story. And though it may be past — past
with you, past with her, it is not past, it never
will be past with me. It — it would be again, and
again, and again to the end of my life. I could
not trust myself. The very sight of you "

''Oh!"

Challoner had turned away his face, but it
had already betrayed enough.

VOL. III. R

Now' he said, between his teeth — " now
you see why I di re not come."

*^ You are afraid it would begin all over
again 1 "

Begin !'^ ejaculated Challoner, with a short
laugh. " Begin ! Look here, Overton ; there
would never be anything to begin, for it has
never ended, and never will end. I love your
sister as madly now, heaven help me! as I ever
did, — and so I shall love her to the end of
time. I have never ceased to think of her, and I
never shall cease. I am too old," with a bitter
smile. Then a break. Then he began again.
There — say no more. You were always kind.
Give me your hand if you can, and don't, please,
ask me to your house again. Thanks, I understand,"
holding the hand hard down for a moment,
and again turning away his face.

Challoner," said Overton, '' I thought as
much."

You thought as much ? And still "

'' And still I came ; that was why I came.
Do you see now ? But don't mistake, I have

DO right to lead you to suppose — at least, I
have no message, — that is to say, Matilda is
just what she was, what she always was, only
only I can't bear to see her, — and we have
lost Teddy, — and we are very lonely, she and

I, — and — and, so you just come back with

me," he broke off suddenly.

Overdone' said Challoner, after a long
silence, during which he had been choking
down emotions which where almost too much
for him, — '^ Overton, if I were not such a — a

Confound it ! I ought to have something

to say. It's — too — much "

*' And now we understand each other," rejoined
Overton, cheerily, " and we have only
twenty minutes to spare. Shall we have a
hansom ? Or shall I stop here, while you runover
to your rooms ? ^ Don't stop to pack.
Tell them to send your portmanteau down by
a later train. Tell them to send everything,
mind : you won't be back in a hurry. I say,
don't be long. We ought to be at the station
by 3.30."

CHAPTEE XLIV.

?"

IS IT POSSIBLE «

. . . " Thy voice is as the tone
Of my heart's echo ; and I think I hear
That thou yet lov'st me."

—Shelley.

Lady Matilda sat by the sea, beneath an
overhanging cliff, whose face was spread with
ivy, and whose brow was shaded by the thickest
foliage.

It was her favourite seat : she had a rustic
bench constructed there ; and Challoner knew
the way to the place.

Thither she had betaken herself as the time
drew near when her brother might be expected
to return. The cooler air from the water beneath
was grateful to her burning brow ; and

the silence of its placid breath — for not a
ripple broke upon the shore — soothed her
restless, agitated brain.

Now that the step had actually been taken,
that Overton had gone beyond recall, and that
she had every reason to suppose a meeting had
taken place, — for indeed they might be looked
for at any minute — the dogcart had gone to
meet the train half an hour before, — Matilda
was nearly beside herself with suspense,
anxiety, and something very like shame.

Oh, how I wish he had not gone ! " she
now cried, with fretful sighs and groans ; " I
should never have let him go. Some other
plan might have been thought of. It was my
fault — my doing ; I hurried him, I encouraged
him, or else he would have taken a second
thought himself, and waited. Now he will
have seen his mistake. I shall have him
coming back alone, I know I shall ; and it
will be so dreadful — so dreadful for us both.
I am glad I am here ; at least, I am not sitting
up in state in the drawing-room as if I

expected anybody. It will be easier to bear
what be bas to say if be finds me casually
bere : be knows were to look. Hark ! "

Her heart was in ber throat ; ber pulses
seemed to cease beating.

Yes, yes, yes !

Voices, men's voices, and steps approaching
overhead — approaching rapidly, running down
the little stone path, Overton calling out
something as he turned the corner, and
another — another answering.

The blood slowly left Matilda's cheek ; ber
limbs shook beneath her as she rose from her
seat ; a blinding vision seemed to swim before
ber eyes ; and then, " How do you do 'i " said
a gentle voice with sweet composure, to the
one. Then to the other of the two, "You
must have bad a dusty journey. The servants
told you where I was % "

Matilda," said ber brother, taking ber band
in bis, — " Matilda, this is a friend whom I
have brought to see you. / have brought him,
it remains for you to keep him bere." He

took a long look in her face, and put the
hand in that of Challoner.

Before either of them could raise their eyes
from the ground, he was gone.

*^ Was I wrong to come ? " said Challoner at
last. " He tempted me, God bless him ! and I
I was too weak to resist. I have always been
too weak to resist. Wherever and however I
am, a word from you, a chance of seeing you,
must needs bring me. And if I now might
dare to hope that those presumptuous hours

could ever be forgiven Matilda Matilda

1 " Ere he had finished, he held her weeping
in his arms.

And you forgive ? " said he presently, ina
low and almost awe-stricken tone. " You
whom I so cruelly wronged, so shamefully
loved. You, Matilda, so proud, so stainless;
you — you care for me — even for me ?
Listen, I have led a wretched, worthless,
useless life, — and since you cast me off,

rightly cast me off, a miserable one. I am
sick of it, ashamed of it, loathe it. I don't
want to live and die like a dog. You don't
know, you can't think, women like you, what
it is to let go a hold upon everything that
keeps a man from sinking down to the dregs,
down to the bottomless pit. It is months
since I have gone through even the form of a
prayer, or heard the name of God. Respectable
well-doing young fellows keep away from
me ; I am not good company for such as them.
People who liked me well enough once, have
forgotten what I was like then. I am lean
and shabby-looking, I know, but I don't think
my appearance can have altered so very much
in a twelvemonth, do you ? No, it is not that.
They don't choose to know me ; it is convenient
to have forgotten. My own family —
well, I don't trouble them, and they are grateful
to me for that. I go my own way ; I am
alone in the world. You know it ? What 1
You have heard, you had already learned all
this, and still 1 Oh you angel of mercy, you

don't shrink from me ? — Ah, don't weep, — is
it because you love me ? My God ! is it possible
you still so love me ? Matilda, before
heaven, I have told you all. Bad as I am, I
am not utterly foul. I may dare to touch
you. My wife — if indeed you will be my
wife — need not fear that there has ever been
or ever will be more to tell. And should I
take this hand, this dear hand, before the
altar," — a sob stuck in his throat, she could
only catch a word here and there — 'forgiveness
— pardon — my Maker "

I shall never be worthy of you," said
Challoner, again, " but I will strive day by
day to be less unworthy. And you, my
dearest, you," looking at her, — '' you are paler,
thinner. You sadly need taking care of. I
shall take such charge of you "

"Yes," said Matilda, with her own smile,
I want a tyrant."

You miss him, don't you ? " whispered
Challoner, softly.

'miss him? Oh, 'V cried Matilda, raising
her head from his shoulder—" oh that silence,
when every dumb thing seems to speak of my
boy ; when every spot I go to reminds me of
him, when there are all his things about, when
his poor dog follows me from place to place
it would never come to me before," said
Matilda, weeping, "and now it lies outside
his door, keeping watch still for a master
who never comes ! Oh how I miss him ! Oh,
speak of him, speak of him ! I have had no
one, no one all this time ; Overton, dear kind
Overton is so affectionate to me 1 but he
thinks, — he feels, — it is almost a merciful
relief to him at times that poor Teddy is not
here. Teddy did trouble him — he was a care ;
but then I loved him so. I would give
anything to talk and talk, and ease the pain."

My poor darling."

By-and-by it was, — '* Matilda, you can't
think how I long to hear what no one but
you can tell me — the history of that terrible

day. Was it," holding her close to his heart''
was it Teddy who told you 1 "

"Yes."

How had he heard ? "

He had been sent to find out. Yes, he
had been sent," said Matilda, lifting up her
face suddenly flushed. " Who do you think
had sent him? Mr Wheel. That spy."
(No words can express the scorn with which
she said " That spy") " He had had the—
the — he had dared to make use of my poor
boy," — and she gave at full length her version,
her woman's version of the story.

He was right," said Challoner, when he
had heard all ; " he was right. It was the
thing to do."

*' Eio;ht ! " Matilda looked her amazement.

*' Yes," reiterated he, sadly. " He saw you
were being deceived, and he knew it would
not do to open your eyes on mere hearsay,
so he sent your brother to find out the truth
direct. He was right to do it."

'' Eight 1 I will never speak to him again.

And it is he who has been the informant — he
has poisoned the minds of the Handel's —
through him Overton heard about you — he

tried to stir us up against you — he "

Then to him I owe everything," said

Challoner, with a smile.

Poor Matilda 1 she never could get those
two lazy men to share her animosities with
any proper degree of energy. They laughed
at the notion of turning their backs on Wheel
from that time forth ; they were placidly
indifferent to the impertinent amazement and
almost open outcry which Challoner's recall
occasioned at Endhill ; and — but we anticipate.


Let us take one more peep at the little nook
under the cliff on that enchanted evening
when Paradise was regained for two who had
erewhile been so rudely thrust from it. Gradually,
as the time passed on, a great calm
stole over the mind of each ; there was no
longer the sense of passionate emotion vibrating
to every tone and touch — a solemn gladness,

a wondrous peace filled two hearts to
overflowing ; all concealment, all estrangement
was for ever at an end. between them ;
forgiveness meant joy unspeakable, — even
above every earthly joy; for the hand, that
held out the healing balm stanched by the
act its own wound, and. all that that moment
meant for time and for eternity was summed
up in Challoner's concluding words, " You
have saved me." .

The sun was sinking in the west, when at
length the pair, thus for ever reunited, were
seen approaching the house, Matilda, as no
mortal eye had ever before beheld her, leaning
her slender form on the strong arm of another;
Challoner gravely and tenderly bending over
her, both rather subdued and pale, but with a
great joy written on their faces.

Well ? " said Lord Overton, going to meet
them and taking a hand of each with a shy
smile, — " well ? How is it to be 1 Is it to
be peace between you two ? Well, Challoner ?
Well, Matilda ^ "

Yes, peace," said Matilda.

You will be very happy," said her brother,
simply, "and you will make him happy. I
am glad 1 went to-day. And you," — to his
friend, — " you will just hang up your hat on
its old peg, and never take it away any more.
We shall get on first-rate, we three. We will
go over to Endhill tomorrow and tell them
the news. Of course they will be pleased,
and the Applebyss too." He was not without
a sense of humour ; and Teddy gone, he had
himself of late been the object of plaintive attempts
at fascination in that quarter. " Everybody
will be pleased," said Overton, smiling.
It's a nice evening, isn't it '? Of course you
will not take Matilda away from me, old
fellow ? what is mine is hers, you know, and
if I go first, she will have everything out-and-out
some day, now that she is the only one
left, — so you cannot do better than be on the
spot all along. It's a nice old place, too," —
looking around with loving pride, — " a nice
old place on a night like this."

"Oil," said Challoner, gazing, not on the
glowing landscape, not on the gleaming uplands
and spreading beeches, but on Matilda's
lovely face, now all suffused with love and
happiness, — " oh, if you could ever think, if
you could ever know what it is to me on a
night like this ! "

Postscript CHAPTEE.

For time makes all iDut tie love old.
The burning thoughts that then were told,
Eun molten still in memory's mould

And will not cool,

Until the heart itself be cold

In Lethe's pool."

Let us lift the curtain for one moment yet
again.

Another eighteen months are gone by, and
it is another evening — this time an early
spring evening — at the Hall.

Two quiet men sit together smoking contentedly
under the trees outside; here and
there a remark on the unusual mildness of
the month and of the pleasure of being able
thus to enjoy it, a word on family matters, or
on the farm, or the estates — any little thing
that either thinks of at the moment — make up

the amount of all that passes between them.
They understand one another, seldom find
much to say, but are always at ease in each
other's company.

But see ! a voice calls from an upper
window, and the scene changes. A merry,
laughing, frolicsome babe is being held up for
the father and uncle to see — shouts of glee
come through the open casement — the boy
beats his hand on the window — Overton
claps his in return — Challoner cocks his
walking-stick as a make-believe gun to shoot
the rascal.

Gesticulations, repudiation, fist-shaking from
the window. The two outside smile at the
mimic indignation of the infant, and the
enthusiasm of the fair nurse. " Come out,
Matilda : come out," cries Challoner, beckoning.


She cannot come that moment, will join
them presently, and by-and-by she flits forth
through the garden door — baby has gone to
sleep ; he was in his little night-gown when

VOL. III. s

she held him up, did they not see ? — and as
she sits down between the two, Challoner
rises to place her, as though she had been a
queen on her throne, and then he throws himself
on the grass at her feet, and she feels his
hand clasp hers beneath the folds of her
dress.

** How well this marriage has turned out ! ''
comments Overton to himself, as he sits approvingly
by ; they never want him to go
away at these times — he knows he is always
welcome, and somehow he remains in the
family circle more and more ; and it is only
when Matilda goes to her own little boudoir
and Challoner follows her there, that he turns
off into the library as he used to do, and waits
until some social call brings them together
again. *' How well this marriage has turned
out, and what a brave girl Matilda was
to venture upon it ! Not one in a thousand
would have been generous enough to forgive
as she did, and hopeful enough to trust him

as she did." (He takes no credit to himself,
he forgets almost altogether that he had any-hand
in the affair, — but that is Lord Overton's
way.) " And now how happy we all are," he
concludes, " and what a good fellow Jem
Challoner is ! I never knew a better fellow.
What is he saying now ? Matilda's picture ?
Matilda's picture with the young un in her
arms ? Come, that's natural enough. I'll
have that done. It ought to have been
thought of before.

But now she wants his ? Oh, now, that's
another story. I don't know about your ugly
phiz, Jem, my boy. Stop, is it ugly 1 Hang
me ! with that look upon it — he is like a devotee
at a shrine, a worshipper before a saint —
pronouncing critically now upon that fellow's
face, I declare the look that is in it makes the
whole face beautiful."

Jem, Overton is staring at you," cries
Matilda, merrily. '' Is anything wrong with
Jem, Overton ? "

Overton laughs, shakes his head, turns
away his eyes, and goes on with his soliloquy.


Nothing is wrong with him ; everything
is right. He is wrapped up in his wife, well
off in his home, at peace in his own heart.

He has one little son already "

Overton, Overton, am I to obey Jem or
not 1 "

Of course you are to obey Jem."
He says it is growing too cold for me, and
I am as warm as possible."

The wind has changed," says Jem. " I
am going to take her in," and passing his
arm round her waist, he draws her away
without another word.

"And quite right too," observes Overton,
commending the scene. "Jem must not give
way in everything. I shall make a point of
upholding him whenever they appeal to me.

That wilful creature " And he laughs

with pleasure.

For Matilda is Matilda still.

New years new graces still create,"

and to the end of the chapter there will still
remain all the conflicting, puzzling, enchanting
characteristics of

THE BABY'S GRANDMOTHER.

THE END.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM BLACKWOOD Aid SONS.
