.;<r^^^

>^^KI^'/c^^-a^

5^. . ■» 1

■/

\-f^

/W^^^#C.-1

LI E> Mary

OF Thou

N Diversity

or ILLINOIS



W85st

V.3

'\ ^^^

^ r=^^^-^V'5l^-

3i:.^;^

-^:^^^-^"^>>'^

rv

?Z-;vJ;f^'-^V/.„. A

■J ""^

v:^W%

>7'f

rk:

^a

''4,

^^7 ■#

STORY OF CHARLES STRANGE

Ji ^ovci

BY

MRS. HENRY WOOD

AUTHOR OF "EAST Lynn," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

LONDON :
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON

^uhiishtxs in (Oxhimx^ io Der jaajcstfi the (^nttn


[.4^^ Rkjhts Reserved

CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

CHAPTER

I. ON THE WATCH

II. TOM HERIOT =

III. AN EVENING VISITOR

IV. RESTITUTION .

V. CONFESSION .

VI. DANGER

VII. WITH MR. JONES

VIII. AN ACCIDENT

IX. LAST DAYS .

X. LAST WORDS .

XL DOWN AT Marshal

Nil IN THE EAST WING .
Xii CONCLUSION .

PAGE


























in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/storyofcharlesst01wood

STOEY OF Charles STEA^s^GE.

Chapter I.

ON THE WATCH,

K. SERJEANT STILLINGFAR

sat at dinner in his house in
Russell Square one Sunday afternoon.
A great cause, in which he was to
lead, had brought him up from circuit, to
which he would return when the Nisi Prius
trial was over. The cloth was beings removed
when I entered. He received me
with his usual kindly welcome.

Why not have come to dinner, Charles ?
VOL. III. 39

Just had it, you say ? All the more reason
why we might have had it together. Sit
down, and help yourself to wine."

Declining the wine, I drew my chair
near to his, and told him what I had come
about.

A few days had gone on since the last
chapter. With the trouble connected with
Mrs. Brightman, and the trouble connected
with Tom Heriot, I had enough on
my mind at that time, if not ujoon my
shoulders. As regarded Mrs. Brightman,
no one could help me ; but regarding the
other

Was Tom in London, or was he not ?
How was I to find out ? I had again gone
prowling about the book-stall and its environs,
and had seen no trace of him. Had
Leah really seen him, or only some other
man who resembled him ?

Again I questioned Leah. Her opinion
was not to be shaken. She held emphatically
to her assertion. It was Tom that she had
seen, and none other.

You may have seen some other sailor,
sir ; I don't say to the contrary ; but the
sailor I saw was Captain Heriot," she reiterated.
" Suppose I go again to-night,
sir ? I may, perhaps, have the good luck to
see him."

Should you call it good luck, Leah ?"

'^ Ah well, sir, you know what I mean,"
she answered. '' Shall I go to-night ?"

No, Leah ; I am going myself. I cannot
rest in this uncertainty."

Rest ! I felt more like a troubled spirit
or a wandering ghost. Arthur Lake asked
what had efone wrongs with me, and where I
disappeared to of an evening.

Once more I turned out in discarded
clothes to saunter about Lambeth. It was
Saturday night and the thoroughfares were
crowded ; but amidst all who came and went
I saw no trace of Tom.

Worried, disheartened, I determined to
carry the perplexity to my Uncle Stillingfar.
That he was true as steel, full of loving-kindness
to all the world, no matter what

39—2

their errors, and that he would aid me with
his counsel — if any counsel could avail — I
well knew. And thus I found myself at his
house on that Sunday afternoon. Of course
he had heard about the escape of the convicts
; had seen Tom's name in the list ; but
he did not know that he was suspected of
having reached London. I told him of what
Leah had seen, and added the little episode
about '^ Miss Betsy."

^' And now, what can be done, Uncle
Stillingfar ? I have come to ask you."

His kindly blue eyes became thoughtful
whilst he pondered the question. " Indeed,
Charles, I know not," he answered. " Either
you must wait in patience until he turns up
some fine day — as he is sure to do if he is in
London — or you must quietly pursue your
search for him, and smuggle him away when
you have found him."

But if I don't find him ? Do you think
it could be Tom that Leah saw ? Is it possible
that he can be in London ?"

Quite possible. If a homeward vessel,

bound, it may be, for the port of London,
picked them up, what more likely than that
he is here ? Again, who else would call
himself Charles Strange, and pass himself off
for you ? Though I cannot see his motive
for doing it."

^' Did you ever know any man so recklessly
imprudent, uncle ?"

'' I have never known any man so reckless
as Tom Heriot. You must do your best to
find him, Charles."

I don't know how. I thought you might
possibly have suggested some plan. Everyday
increases his danger."

It does : and the chances of his being
recognised."

It seems useless to search further in
Lambeth : he must have changed his quarters.
And to look about London for him will belike
looking for a needle in a bottle of hay.
I suppose," I slowly added, " it would not do
to employ a detective ?"

Not unless you wish to put him into
the lion's mouth," said the Serjeant. " Why,

Charles, it would be his business to retake
him. Rely upon it, the police are now looking
for him if they have the slightest suspicion
that he is here."

At that time one or two private detectives
had started in business on their own account,
having nothing to do with the police : now
they have sprung up in numbers. It was to
these I alluded.

Serjeant Stillingfar shook his head. " I
would not trust one of them, Charles : it
would be too dangerous an experiment.
No ; what you do, you must do yourself.
Once let Government get scent that he is
here, and we shall probably find the walls
placarded with a reward for his apprehension."

One thing I am surprised at," I said as
I rose to leave : ^^ that if he is here, he
should not have let me know it. What can
he be doing for money ? An escaped convict
is not likely to have much of that about
him."

Serjeant Stillingfar shook his head.
There are points about the affair that I

cannot fathom, Charles. Talking of money
you are well-off now, but if more than
you can spare should be needed to get Tom
Heriot away, apply to me."

Thank you, uncle ; but I don't think it
will be needed. Where would you recommend
him to escape to ?"

'find him first," was the Serjeant's answer.

He accompanied me himself to the front
door. As we stood, speaking a last word, a
middle-aged man, with keen eyes and spare
frame, dressed as a workman, came up with
a brisk step. Mr. Serjeant Stillingfar met
the smile on the man's face as he glanced up
in passing.

Arkwright !" he exclaimed. " I hardly
knew you. Some sharp case in hand, I
conclude ?"

Just so, Serjeant ; but I hope to bring
it to earth before the day's over. You
know "

Then the man glanced at me and came to
a pause.

However, I mustn't talk about it noW;

SO good-afternoon, Serjeant." And thus
speaking, he walked briskly onwards.

I wonder what he has in hand ? I
think he would have told me, Charles, but
for your being present," cried my uncle, looking
after him. " A keen man is Arkwright."

Arhwriglit /" I echoed, the name now
impressing itself upon me. " Surely not
Arkwright the famous detective !"

Yes, it is. And he has evidently got
himself up as a workman to further some
case that he has in hand. He knew you,
Charles ; depend upon that ; though you
did not know him."

A fear, perhaps a foolish one, fell upon
me. " Uncle Stillingfar," I breathed, " can
his case be Toms Think you it is he who
is being run to earth ?"

'' No, no. That is not likely," he answered,
after a moment's consideration.
Anyway, you must use every exertion to
find him, for his stay in London is full of
danger."

It will readily be believed that this incident

had not added to my peace of mind.
One more visit I decided to pay to the old
ground in Lambeth, and after that — why,
in truth, whether to turn east, west, north
or south, I knew no more than the dead.

Monday was bright and frosty ; Monday
evening clear, cold and starlight. The gaslights
flared away in the streets and shops ;
the roads were lined with wayfarers.

Sauntering down the narrow pavement on
the opposite side of the way, in the purposeless
manner that a hopeless man favours, I
approached the book-stall. A sailor was
standing before it, his head bent over the
volumes. Every pulse within me went upto
fever heat : for there was that in him
that reminded me of Tom Heriot.

I crossed quietly to the stall, stood side
by side with him, and took up a handful of
penny dreadful. Yes, it was he — Tom Heriot.

'' Tom," I cried softly. " Tom !"

I felt the start he gave. But he did not
move hand or foot ; only his eyes turned toscan
me.

Tom," I whispered again, apparently
intent upon a grand picture of a castle inflames,
and a gentleman miraculously escaping
with a lady from an attic window.
Tom, don't you know me ?"

For goodness' sake don't speak to me,
Charley !" he breathed in answer, the words
barely audible. '^ Go away, for the love of
heaven ! I've been a prisoner here for the
last three minutes. That policeman yonder
would know me, and I dare not turn. His
name's Wren."

Three doors off, a policeman was standing
at the edge of the pavement, facing the
shops, as if waiting to pounce upon someone
he was expecting to pass. Even as Tom
spoke, he wheeled round to the right, and
marched up the street. Tom as quickly
disappeared to the left, leaving a few words
in my ear.

I'll wait for you at the other end,
Charley ; it is darker there than here.
Don't follow me immediately."

So I remained where I was, still bending

an enraptured gaze upon the burning castle
and the gallant knight and damsel escaping
from it at their peril.

*^ Betsy says the account comes to seven
shillings, Mr. Strange."

The address gave me almost as great a
thrill as the sight of Tom had done. It
came from the man Lee, now emerging
from his shop. Involuntarily I pulled my
hat lower upon my brow. He looked up
and down the street.

'' Oh, I beg pardon — thought Mr. Strange
was standing here," he said. And then I
saw my error. He had not spoken to me,
but to Tom Heriot. My gaze was still
fascinated by the flaming picture.

'^ Anything you'd like this evening,
sir ?"

'^ I'll take this sheet — half a dozen of
them," I said, putting down sixpence.

Thank you, sir. A fine night."

Yes, very. Were you speaking to the
sailor who stood here ?" I added carelessly
^^ He went off in that direction, I think,"

pointing to the one opposite to that Tom
had taken.

Yes," answered the man ; '' 'twas Mr.
Strange. He had asked me to look how
much his score was for tobacco. I dare say
he'll be back presently. Captain Strange,
by rights," added Lee chastity.

Oh ! Captain of a vessel ?"

'' Of his own vessel — a yacht. Not but
what he has been about the world in vessels
of all sorts, he tells us ; one voyage before
the mast, the next right up next to the
skipper. But for them ujds and downs whereas
he says, would sailors find their experience
f

Very true. Well, this is all I want
just now. Good-evening."

Good-evening, sir," replied Caleb Lee.

The end of the street to which Tom had
pointed was destitute of shops ; the houses
were small and poor ; consequently, it was
tolerably dark. Tom was sauntering along,
smoking a short pipe.

Is there any place at hand where we

can have a few words together in tolerable
security ?" I asked.

Come along," briefly responded Tom.
You walk on the other side of the street,
old fellow ; keep me in view."

It was good advice, and I took it. He
increased his pace to a brisk walk, and presently
turned down a narrow passage, which
brought him to a sort of small, triangular
green, planted with shrubs and trees. I
followed, and we sat down on one of the
benches.

'' Are you quite mad, Tom ?"

Not mad a bit," laughed Tom. '' I say,
Charley, did you come to that book-stall to
look after me ?"

Ay. And it's about the tenth time I
have been there."

How the dickens did you find me out ?"

Chance one evening took Leah into the
neighbourhood, and she happened to see you.
I had feared you might be in England."

You had heard of the wreck of the
Vengeance, I suppose ; and that a few of us

had escaped. Good old Leah ! Did I give
her a fright ?"

We were sitting side by side. Tom had
put his pipe out, lest the light should catch
the sight of any passing stragglers. We
spoke in whispers. It was, perhaps, as safe
a place as could be found ; nevertheless, I
sat upon thorns.

Not so Tom. By the few signs that
might be gathered — his light voice, his gay
laugh, his careless manner — Tom felt as
happy and secure as if he had been attending
one of her Majesty's levees, in the full
glory of scarlet coat and flashing sword-blade.

Do you know, Tom, you have half
killed me with terror and apprehension ?
How could you be so reckless as to come
back to London ?"

Because the old ship brought me,"
lif>"htlv returned Tom.

I suppose a vessel picked you up — and
the comrades who escaped with you ?"

It picked two of us up. The other
three died."

What, in the boat ?"

He nodded. " In the open boat at sea."

How did you manage to escape ? I
thought convicts were too well looked
after."

*' So they are, under ordinary circumstances.
Shipwrecks form the exception.
I'll give you the history, Charley."

*' Make it brief, then. I am upon thorns."

Tom laughed, and began :

'^ We were started on that blessed voyage,
a cargo of men in irons, and for some time
made a fair passage, and thought we must
be nearing the other side. Such a crew,
that cargo, Charles I Such an awful lot !
Villainous wretches, who wore their guilt on
their faces, and suffered their deserts ; half
demons, most of them. A few amongst
them were no doubt like me, innocent enough:
wrongfully accused and condemned "

But go on with the narrative, Tom."

*^ I swear I was innocent," he cried, with
emotion, heedless of my interruption. " I
was wickedly careless, I admit that, but the

guilt was another's, not mine. When I put
those bills into circulation, Charles, I knew
no more they were forged than you did.
Don't you believe me ?"

"I do believe you. I have believed you
throughout."

And if the trial had not been hurried
on I think it could have been proved. It
was hurried on, Charles, and when it was
on it was hurried over. I am suffering
unjustly."

Yes, Tom. But won't you go on with
your story ?"

'^ Where was I ? Oh, about the voyage
and the shipwreck. After getting out of
the south-east trades, we had a fortnight's
light winds and calms, and then got into a
steady westerly wind, before which we ran
quietly for some days. One dark night, it
was the fifteenth of November, and thick,
drizzling weather, the wind about north-west,
we had turned in and were in our first sleep,
when a tremendous uproar arose on deck ;
the watch shouting and tramping, the

officers' orders and the boatswain's mate's
shrill piping rising above the din. One might
have thought Old Nick had leaped on board
and was giving chase. Next came distinctly
that fearful cry, ' All hands save ship !'
Sails were being clewed up, yards were
being swung round. Before we could realize
what it all meant, the ship had run ashore ;
and there she stuck, bumping as if she would
knock her bottom out."

Get on, Tom," I whispered, for he had
paused, and seemed to be spinning a long
yarn instead of a short one.

Fortunately, the ship soon made a sort
of cradle for herself in the sand, and lay on
her starboard bilge. To attempt to get her
off was hopeless. So they got us all out of
the ship and on shore, and put us under
tents made of the sails. The skipper made
out, or thought he made out, the island to
be that of Tristan d'Acunha : whether it
was or not I can't say positively. At first
we thought it was uninhabited, but it turned
out to have a few natives on it, sixty or

VOL. III. 40

eighty in all. In the course of a few days
every movable thing had been landed. All
the boats were intact, and were moored in a
sort of creek, or small natural harbour, their
gear, sails and oars in them."

Hush !" I breathed, " or you are
lost !"

A policeman's bull's-eye was suddenly
turned upon the grass. By the man's size,
I knew him for Tom's friend, Wren. We
sat motionless. The light just escaped us,
and the man passed on. But we had been
in danger.

If you would only be quicker, Tom. I
don't want to know about boats and their
gear."

He laughed. " How impatient you are,
Charles ! Well, to get on ahead. A cargo
of convicts cannot be kept as securely under
such circumstances as had befallen us as they
could be in a ship's hold, and the surveillance
exercised was surprisingly lax. Two or three
of the prisoners were meditating an escape,
and thought they saw their way to effecting

it by means of one of the boats. I found
this out, and joined the party. But there
were almost insurmountable difficulties in the
way. It was absolutely necessary that we
should put on ordinary clothes — for what
vessel, picking us up, but would have delivered
us up at the first port it touched at,
had we been in convict dress ? We marked
the purser's slop-chest, which was under a
tent, and well filled, and "

Do get on, Tom !"

Here goes, then 1 One calm, but dark
night, when other people were sleeping, we
stole down to the creek, five of us, rigged
ourselves out in the purser's toggery, leaving
the Government uniforms in exchange, unmoored
one of the cutters, and got quietly
away. We had secreted some bread and
salt meat ; water there had been already onboard.
The wind was ofi" the land, and we
let the boat drift before it a bit before attempting
to make sail. By daylight we
were far enough from the island ; no chance
of their seeing us — a sj^eck on the waters.

4 — 2

The wind, hitherto south, had backed to the
westward. We shaped a course by the sun
to the eastward, and sailed along at the rate
of five or six knots. My comrades were
not as rough as they might have been ;
rather decent fellows for convicts. Two of
them were from Essex ; had been sentenced
for poaching only. Now began our lookout
: constantly straining our eyes along the
horizon for a sail, but especially astern for
an outward-bounder, but only saw one or
two in the distance that did not see us.
What I underwent in that boat as day after
day passed, and no sail appeared, I won't
enter upon now, old fellow. The provisions
were exhausted, and so was the water. Oneby
one three of my companions went crazy
and died. The survivor and I had consigned
the last of them to the deep on the twelfth
day, and then I thought my turn had come ;
but Markham was worse than I was. How
many hours went on, I knew not. I lay at
the bottom of the boat, exhausted and half
unconscious, when suddenly I heard voices.

J imagined it to be a dream. But in a few
minutes a boat was alongside the cutter, and
two of its crew had stepped over and were
raising me up. They spoke to me, but I
was too weak to understand or answer ; in
fact, I was delirious. I and Markham were
taken on board and put to bed. After some
days, passed in a sort of dreamy, happy
delirium, well cared for and attended to, I
woke up to the realities of life. Markham
was dead : he had never revived, and died
of exposure and weakness some hours after
the rescue."

What vessel had picked you up ?"
It was the Discovery, a whaler belonging
to Whitby, and homeward bound. The
captain. Van Hoppe, was Dutch by birth,
but had been reared in England and had
always sailed in English ships. A good and
kind fellow, if ever there was one. Of
course, I had to make my tale good and
suppress the truth. The passenger-ship in
which I was sailing to Australia to seek my
fortune had foundered in mid-ocean, and

those who escaped with me had died of their
sufferings. That was true so far. Captain
Van Hoppe took up my misfortunes warmly.
Had he been my own brother — had he been
you, Charley — he could not have treated me
better or cared for me more. The vessel had
a prosperous run home. She was bound for
the port of London ; and when I put my
hand into Van Hoppe's at parting, and tried
to thank him for his goodness, he left a
twenty-pound note in it. ' You'll need it,
Mr. Strange,' he said ; ' you can repay me
when your fortune's made and you are rich.' "

Strange /" I cried.

Tom laughed.

I called myself ' Strange ' on the whaler.
Don't know that it was wise of me. One
day when I was getting better and lay deep
in thought — which just then chanced to be
of you, Charley — the mate suddenly asked
me what my name was. ' Strange,' I
answered, on the spur of the moment. That's
how it was. And that's the brief history of
my escape."

You have had money, then, for your
wants since you landed," I remarked.

I have had the twenty pounds. It's
coming to an end now."

'' You ought not to have come to London.
You should have got the captain to put you
ashore somewhere, and then made your
escape from England."

All very fine to talk, Charley ! I had
not a sixpence in my pocket, or any idea
that he was going to help me. I could only
come on as far as the vessel would bring me."

*^ And suppose he had not given you
money — what then ?"

Then I must have contrived to let you
know that I was home again, and borrowed
from you," he lightly replied.

"Well, your being here is frightfully
dangerous."

Not a bit of it. As long as the police
don't suspect I am in England, they won't
look after me. It's true that a few of them
might know me, but I do not think they
would in this guise and with my altered face."

You were afraid of one to-night."

'' Well, he is especially one who might
know me ; and he stood there so long that I
began to think he might be watching me.
Anyway, I've been on shore these three
weeks, and nothing has come of it yet."

What about that young lady named
Betsy ? Miss Betsy Lee."

Tom threw himself back in a fit of
laughter.

'' I hear the old fellow went down to
Essex Street one night to ascertain whether
I lived there ! The girl asked me one day
where I lived, and I rapped out Essex
Street."

But, Tom, what have you to do with
the girl ?"

Nothing ; nothing. On my honour. I
have often been in the shop, sometimes of
an evening. The father has invited me to
some grog in the parlour behind it, and I
have sat there for an hour chatting with
him and the girl. That's all. She is a well-behaved,
modest little girl ; none better."

Well, Tom, with one imprudence and
another, you stand a fair chance "

There, there ! Don't preach, Charley.
What you call imprudence, I call fun."

What do you think of doing ? To remain
on here for ever in this disguise ?"

'' Couldn't, I expect, if I wanted to. I
must soon see about getting away."

'' You must get away at once."

I am not going yet, Charley ; take my
word for that ; and I am as safe in London,
I reckon, as I should be elsewhere. Don't
say but I may have to clear out of this
particular locality. If that burly policeman
is going to make a permanent beat of it
about here, he might drop upon me some
fine evening."

And you must exchange your sailor's
disguise, as you call it, for a better
one."

Perhaps so. That rough old coat you
have on, Charley, might not come amiss
to me."

You can have it. Why do you fear

that policeman should know you, more than
any other ?"

He was present at the trial last August.
Was staring me in the face most of the day.
His name's Wren."

I sighed.

Well, Tom, it is getting late ; we have
sat here as long as is consistent with safety,"
I said, rising.

He made me sit down again.

'^ The later the safer, perhaps, Charley.
When shall we meet again ?"

Ay ; when, and where ?"

*^ Come tomorrow evening, to this same
spot. It is as good a one as any I know
of I shall remain indoors all day tomorrow.
Of course one does not care to run
needlessly into danger. Shall you find your
way to it ?"

'^ Yes, and will be here ; but I shall go
now. Do be cautious, Tom. Do you want
any money ? I have brought some with
me.

'' Man thanks, old fellow ; I've enough

to go on with for a day or two. How is

Blanche ? Did she nearly die of the disgrace

f

'^ She did not know of it. Does not know

it yet."

No !" he exclaimed in astonishment.
Why, how can it have been kept from
her ? She does not live in a wood."

Level has managed it, somehow. She
was abroad dining the trial, you know.
They have chiefly lived there since, Blanche
seeing no English newspapers ; and, of
course, her acquaintances do not gratuitously
speak to her about it. But I don't think it
can be kept from her much longer."

'' But where does she think I am — all
this time ?"

'' She thinks you are in India with the
regiment."

'' I suppose he was in a fine way about it !"

Level ? Yes — naturally ; and is still.
He would have saved you, Tom, at any
cost."

As you would, and one or two more

good friends ; but, you see, I did not know
what was coming uj^on me in time to ask
them. It fell upon my head like a thunderbolt.
Level is not a bad fellow at bottom."

He is a downright good one — at least,
that's my opinion of him."

We stood hand locked in hand at parting.
" Where are you staying ?" I whispered.

Xot far off. I've a lodging in the neighbourhood
— one room."

Fare you well, then, until tomorrow
evening."

Au re voir, Charley."

TOM HERIOT.

Found my way straight enough
the next night to the Httle green
with its trees and shrubs. Tom
was there, and was humming one of our
boyhood's songs taught us by Leah :

Young Henry was as brave a youth
As ever graced a martial story ;
And Jane was fair as lovely truth :
She sighed for love, and he for glory.

*' To her his faith he meant to plight,
And told her many a gallant story :
But war, their honest joys to blight,
Called him away from love to glory.

Young Henry met the foe with pride ;

Jane followed — fought— ah ! hapless story !
In man's attire, by Henry's side.
She died for love, and he for glory. '

He was still dressed as a sailor, but the
pilot-coat was buttoned up high and tight
about his throat, and the round glazed hat
was worn upon the front of his head instead
of the back of it.

I thought you meant to change these
things, Tom," I said as we sat down.

^' All in good time," he answered ; " don't
quite know yet what costume to adopt.
Could one become a negro-melody man,
think you, Charley — or a Red Indian juggler
with balls and sword-swallowing ?"

How light he seemed ! how supremely
indifferent ! Was it real or only assumed ?
Then he turned suddenly upon me :

'' I say, what are you in black for,
Charley ? For my sins ?"

'' For Mr. Brightman."

Mr. Brightman !" he repeated, his tone
changing to one of concern. " Is he
dead ?"

*' He died the last week in February.
Some weeks ago now. Died quite suddenly."

Well, well, well 1" softly breathed Tom

Heriot. " I am very sorry. I did not
know it. But how am I likely to know
anything of what the past months have
brought forth ?"

It would serve no purpose to relate the
interview of that night in detail. We spent
it partly in quarrelling. That is, in differences
of opinion. It was impossible to convince
Tom of his danger. I told him about
the Sunday incident, when Detective Arkwright
passed the door of Serjeant ,
and my momentary fear that he
might be looking after Tom. He only
laughed. " Good old Uncle Stillingfar !"
cried he ; "give my love to him." And all
his conversation was carried on in the same
light strain.

'^ But you must leave Lambeth," I urged.
You said you would do so."

I said I might. I will, if I see just
cause for doing so. Plenty of time yet. I
am not sure, you know, Charles, that Wren
would know me."

'' The very fact of your leaving called

yourself ' Strange ' ought to take you a^Yay
from here."

Well, I suppose that was a bit of a mistake,"
he acknowledged. '' But look here,
brother mine, your own fears mislead you.
Until it is known that I have made my way
home no one will be likely to look after me.
Behaving me to be at the antipodes, they
won't search London for me."

'^ They may suspect that you are in London,
if they don't actually know it."

'' Xot they. To begin with, it must bea
matter of absolute uncertainty whether
we got picked up at all, after escaping from
the island ; but the natural conclusion will
be that, if we were, it was by a vessel bound
for the colonies : homeward-bound ships do
not take that comes. Everyone at all acquainted
with navigation knows that. I
assure you, our being found by the whaler
was the merest chance in the world. Be at
ease, Charley. I can take care of myself,
and I Avill leave Lambeth if necessary. One
of these fine mornings you may get a note



from me, telling you I have emigrated to
the Isle of Dogs, or some such enticing
quarter, and have become ' Mr. Smith
Meanwhile, we can meet here occasionally."

I don't like this place, Tom. It must
inevitably be attended with more or less
danger. Had I not better come to your
lodgings ?"

^' No," he replied, after a moment's consideration.
'' I am quite sure that we are
safe here, and there it's hot and stifling — a
dozen families living in the same house.
And I shall not tell you where the lodgings
are, Charles : you might be swooping down
upon me to carry me away as Mephistopheles
carried away Dr. Faustus."

After supplying him with money, with a
last handshake, whispering a last injunction
to be cautious, I left the triangle, and left
him within it. The next moment found me
face to face with the burly frame and wary
glance of Mr. Policemen Wren. He was
standing still in the starlight. I walked
past him with as much unconcern as I could

VOL. III. 41

muster. He turned to look after me for a
time, and then continued his beat.

It gave me a scare. What would be the
result if Tom met him unexpectedly as I
had done ? I would have given half I was
worth to hover about and ascertain. But I
had to go on my way.

^' Can you see Lord Level, sir ?"
It was the following Saturday afternoon,
and I was just starting for Hastings. The
week had passed in anxious labour. Business
cares for me, more work than I knew
how to get through, for Lennard was away
ill, and constant mental torment about Tom.
I took out my watch before answering Watts.
Yes, I have five minutes to spare. If
that will be enough for his lordship," I
added, laughing, as we shook hands : for he
had followed Watts into the room.
^' You are off somewhere, Charles ?"
Yes, to Hastings. I shall be back
again tomorrow night. Can I do anything
for you ?"

'' Nothing," replied Lord Level. '' I came
up from Marshdale this morning, and thought
I would come round this afternoon to ask
whether you have any news."

When Lord Level went to Marshdale on
the visit that bore so suspicious an aspect to
his wife, he had remained there only one
night, returning to London the following
day. This week he had been down again,
and stayed rather longer — two days, in fact.
Blanche, as I chanced to know, was rebelling
over it. Secretly rebelling, for she had not
brought herself to accuse him openly.

^' News ?" I repeated.

Of Tom Heriot."

Should I tell Lord Level ? Perhaps there
was no help for it. When he had asked me
before I had known nothing positively ; now
I knew only too much.

Why I should have it, I know not ; buta
conviction lies upon me that he has found
his way back to London," he continued.
*' Charles, you look conscious. Do you
know anything ?"

41—2

*^ You are right. He is here, and I have
seen him."

Good heavens !" exclaimed Lord Level,
throwing himself back in his chair. '' Has
he really been mad enough to come back to
London ?"

Drawing my own chair nearer to him, I
bent forward, and in low tones gave him briefly
the history. I had seen Tom on the Monday
and Tuesday nights, as already related
to the reader. On the Thursday night I
was again at the trysting-place, but Tom did
not meet me. The previous night, Friday, I
had gone again, and again Tom did not
appear.

Is he taken, think you ?" cried Lord
Level.

I don't know : and you see I dare not
make any inquiries. But I think not. Had
he been captured, it would be in the passers."

I am not so sure of that. What an
awful thing ! What suspense for us all !
Can nothing be done ?"

Nothing," I answered, rising, for my

time was up. " We can only wait, and
watch, and be silent."

"If it were not for the disgrace reflected
upon us, and raking it up again to people's
minds, I would say let him be re-taken ! It
would serve him right for his foolhardiness."

How is Blanche ?"

Cross and snappish ; unaccountably so :
and showing her temper to me rather unbearably."


I laughed — willing to treat the matter
lightly. " She does not care that you
should go travelling without her, I take it."

Lord Level, who was passing out before
me, turned and gazed into my face.

"Yes," said he emphatically. "But a
man may have matters to take up his attention,
and his movements also, that he may
deem it inexpedient to talk of to his wife."

He spoke with a touch of haughtiness.
"Very true," I murmured, as we shook
hands and went out together, he walking away
towards Gloucester Place, I jumping into the
cab waiting to take me to the station.

Mrs. Brightman was better ; I knew
that ; and showing herself more self-controlled.
But there was no certainty that the
improvement would be lasting. In truth,
the certainty lay rather the other way.
Her mother's home was no home for Annabel
; and I had formed the resolution to ask
her to come to mine.

The sun had set when I reached Hastings,
and Miss Brightman's house. Miss Bright-man,
who seemed to grow less strong day
by day, which I was grieved to hear, was in
her room lying down. Annabel sat at the
front drawing-room window in the twilight.
She started up at my entrance, full of surprise
and apprehension.

Oh, Charles ! Has anything happened ?
Is mamma worse ?"

No, indeed ; your mamma is very much
better," said I cheerfully. " I have taken a
run down for the pleasure of seeing you,
Annabel."

She still looked uneasy. I remembered the
dreadful tidings I had brought the last time

I came to Hastings. No doubt she was
thinking of it, too, poor girl.

Take a seat, Charles," she said. ^' Aunt
Lucy will soon be down."

I drew a chair opposite to her, and talked
for a little time on indifferent topics. The
twilight shades grew deeper, passers-by more
indistinct, the sea less bright and shimmering.
Silence stole over us — a sweet silence all too
conscious, all too fleeting. Annabel suddenly
rose, stood at the window, and made some
slight remark about a little boat that was
nearing the pier.

'' Annabel," I whispered, as I rose and
stood by her, " you do not know what I
have really come down for."

No," she answered, with hesitation.

When I last saw you at your own home,
you may remember that you were in very
great trouble. I asked you to share it with
me, but you would not do so."

She began to tremble, and became agitated,
and I passed my arm round her waist.

My darling, I now know all."

Her heart beat violently as I held her.
Her hand shook nervously m mine.

'' You cannot know all !" she cried
piteously.

'' I know all ; more than you do. Mrs.
Brightman was worse after you left, and
Hatch sent for me. She and Mr. Close
have told me the whole truth."

Annabel would have shrunk away, in the
full tide of shame that swept over her, and
a low moan broke from her lips.

Nay, my dear, instead of shrinking from
me, you must come nearer to me — for ever.
My home must be yours now."

She did not break away from me, and
stood pale and trembling, her hands clasped,
her emotion strong.

It cannot, must not be, Charles."

Hush, my love. It can be — and shall
be."

'' Charles," she said, her very lips trembling,
^' weigh well what you are saying.
Do not suffer the — affection — I must speak
fully — the implied engagement that was

between us, ere this unhappiness came to
my knowledge and yours — do not suffer it
to bind you now. It is a fearful disgrace
to attach to my poor mother, and it is reflected
upon me."

Were your father living, Annabel, should
you say the disgrace was also reflected U2:)on
him r

^^ Oh no, no. I could not do so. My good
father ! honourable and honoured. Never
upon him."

I laughed a little at her want of logic.

Annabel, my dear, you have yourself
answered the question. As I hold you to
my heart now, so will I, in as short a time
as may be, hold you in my home and at my
hearth. Let what will betide, you shall
have one true friend to shelter and protect
you with his care and love for ever and forever."


Her tears were falling.

Oh please, please, Charles ! I am sure
it ought not to be. Aunt Lucy would tell
you so."

Aunt Lucy came in at that moment, and
proved to be on my side. She would be
going to Madeira at the close of the summer,
and the difficulty as to what was to be done
then with Annabel had begun to trouble her
greatly.

I cannot take her with me, you see,
Charles," she said. " In her mother's precarious
state, the child must not absent herself
from England. Still less can I leave
her to her mother's care. Therefore I think
your proposal exactly meets the dilemma. I
suppose matters have been virtually settled
between you for some little time now."

Oh, Aunt Lucy!" remonstrated Annabel,
blushing furiously.

Well, my dear, and I say it is all for the
best. If you can suggest a better plan I am
willing to hear it.'

Annabel sat silent, her head drooping.

I may tell you this much, child : your
father looked forward to it and approved it.
Not that he would have allowed the marriage
to take place just yet had he lived ; I am

sure of that ; but he is not having, and circumstances
alter cases."

I am sure he liked me, Miss Brightman,"
I ventured to put in, as modestly as I could ;
^' and I believe he would have consented to
our marriage."

^* Yes, he liked you very much ; and so do
I," she added, laughing. " I wish I could
say as much for Mrs. Brightman. The opposition,
I fancy, will come from her."

'^ You think she will oppose it ?" I said —
and, indeed, the doubt had lain in my own
mind.

I am afraid so. Of course there will be
nothing for it but patience. Annabel cannot
marry without her consent."

How a word will turn the scales of our
hopes and fears ! That Mrs. Brightman
would oppose and wither our bright prospects
came to me in that moment with the
certainty of conviction.

Come what come may, we will be true
to each other," I whispered to Annabel the
next afternoon. We were standing at the

end of the pier, looking out upon the calm
sea, flashing in the sunshine, and I imprisoned
her hand momentarily in mine.
^' If we have to exercise all the patience
your Aunt Lucy spoke of, we will still hope
on, and put our trust in Heaven."

Even so, Charles." The evening was
yet early when I reached London, and I
walked home fi^om the station. St. Mary's
was striking half-past seven as I passed it.
At the self-same moment, an arm was inserted
into mine. I turned quickly, wondering
if anyone had designs upon my small
hand-bag.

All right, Charley ! I'm not a burglar."

It was only Lake. " Why, Arthur ! I
thought you had gone to Oxford until
Monday !"

Got news last night that the fellow
could not have me : had to go down somewhere
or other," he answered, as we walked
along arm-in-arm. " I say, I had a bit of a
scare just now."

'' In what way ?"

'' I thought I saw Tom pass. Tom
Heriot," he added in a whisper.

'' Oh, but that's impossible, you know.
Lake," I said, though I felt my pulses
quicken. '^ All your fancy."

It was just under that gas-lamp at the
corner of Wellington Street," Lake went on.
'^ He was sauntering along as if he had
nothing to do, muffled in a coat that looked
a mile too big for him, and a red comforter.
He lifted his face in passing, and stopped
suddenly, as if he had recognised me, and
were going to speak ; then seemed to think
better of it, turned on his heel and walked
back the way he had been coming. Charley,
if it was not Tom Heriot, I never saw such
a likeness as that man bore to him."

My lips felt glued. " It could not have
been Tom Heriot, Lake. You know Tom
is at the antipodes. We will not talk of
him, please. Are you coming home with
me (

^' Yes. I was going on to Barlow's
Chambers, but I'll come with you instead."

AN EVENING VISITOR.

^^^jl^pHE spring flowers were showing
themselves, and the may was
budding in the hero-es. I thought
how charming it all looked, as I turned, this
Monday afternoon, into Mrs. Brightman's
grounds, where laburnums drooped their
graceful blossoms, and lilacs filled the air
with their perfume ; how significantly it all
spoke to the heart of renewed life after
the gloom of winter, the death and decay of
nature.

Mrs. Brightman was herself, enjoying the
spring-tide. She sat, robed in crape, on a
bench amidst the trees, on which the sun

was shining. What a refined, proud, handsome
face was hers ! but pale and somewhat
haggard now. No other trace of her recent
illness was apparent, except a nervous
trembling of the hands.

'^ This is a surprise," she said, holding out
one of those hands to me quite cordially. " I
thought you had been too busy of late to
visit me in the day-time."

^' Generally I am very busy, but I made
time to come to-day. I have something of
importance to say to you, Mrs. Brightman.
Will you hear me ?"

She paused to look at me — a searching,
doubtful look. Did she fear that I was
about to speak to her of her failing ? The
idea occurred to me.

^' Certainly," she coldly replied. '' Business
must, of course, be attended to. Would
you prefer to go indoors or to sit out here ?"

'' I would rather remain here. I am not
often favoured with such a combination of
velvet lawn and sunshine and sweet scents."

She made room for me beside her. And,

with as little circumlocution as possible, I
brought out what I wanted — Annabel.
When the heart is truly engaged, a man at
these moments can only be bashful, especially
when he sees it will be an uphill fight ;
but if the heart has nothing to do with
the matter, he can be as cool and suave as
though he were merely telling an everyday
story.

Mrs. Brightman, hearing me to the end,
rose haughtily.

Surely you do not know what you are
saying !" she exclaimed. " Or is it that I
fail to understand you ? You cannot be
asking for the hand of my daughter ?"

'' Indeed — pardon me — I am. Mrs.
Brightman, we "

Pardon me/^ she interrupted, " but I
must tell you that it is utterly preposterous.
Say no more, Mr. Strange ; not another
word. My daughter cannot marry a professional
man. / did so, you may reply :
yes, and have forfeited my proper place in
the world ever since."

Mr. Brightman would have given Annabel
to me."

Possibly so, though I think not. As
Mr. Brightman is no longer here, we may let
that supposition alone. And you must allow
me to say this much, sir — that it is scarcely
seemly to come to me on any such subject
so soon after his death."

But " I stopped in embarrassment,

unable to give my reason for speaking so
soon. How could I tell Mrs. Brightman
that it was to afford Annabel a home and
a protector : that this, her mother's home,
was not fitting for a refined and sensitive
girl ?

But I pressed the suit. I told her I had
Annabel's consent, and that I had recently
been with her at Hastings. I should like
to have added that I had Miss Brightman's,
only that it might have done more harm
than good. I spoke very slightly of Miss
Brightman's projected departure from England,
when her house would be shut up and
Annabel must leave Hastings. And I added

VOL. III. 42

that I wanted to make a home for her by
that time.

I am sure she caught my implied meaning,
for she grew agitated and her hands
shook as they lay on her crape dress. Her
diamond rings, which she had not discarded,
flashed in the sunlight. But she rallied her
strength. All her pride rose up in rebellion.


'' My daughter has her own home, sir ;
her home with me — what do you mean ?
During my illness, I have allowed her to
remain with her aunt, but she will shortly
return to me."

And when I would have urged further,
and pleaded as for something dearer than
life, she peremptorily stopped me.

^' I will hear no more, Mr. Strange. My
daughter is descended on my side from the
nobles of the land — you must forgive me for
thus alluding to it — and it is impossible that
I can forget that, or allow her to do so.
Never, with my consent, will she marry out
of that grade : a professional man is, in rank,

beneath her. This is my decision, and it is
unalterable. The subject is at an end, and
I beg of you never again to enter upon it."

There was no chance of my pursuing it
then, at any rate. Hatch came from the
house, a folded cloak on her arm, and approached
her mistress.

^^ The carriage is at the gate, ma'am."

Mrs. Brightman rose at once : she was
going for a drive. After what had just
passed, I held out my arm to her with some
hesitation. She put the tips of her fingers
within it, with a stiff '' Thank you," and we
walked to the gate in silence. I handed
her into the open carriage ; Hatch disposed
the cloak upon her knees, assisted by the
footman. With a cold bow, Mrs. Bright-man,
who had already as coldly shaken
hands with me, drove away.

Hatch, always ready for a gossip, stood
within the little iron gate while she spoke
to me.

We be going away for a bit, sir," she
began. " Did you know it ?"

^' No. Mrs. Brightman has not mentioned
the matter to me."

Well, we be, then," continued Hatch ;
missis and me and Perry. Mr. Close
have got her to consent at last. I don't
say that she was well enough to go before ;
Close thought so, but I didn't. He wants
her gone, you see, Mr. Charles, to get that
fancy out of her head about master."

^' But does she still think she sees him ?"

'' Not for the past few days," replied
Hatch. " She has changed her bedroom,
and taken to the best stare one ; and she
has been better in herself. Oh, she'll be all
right now for a bit, if only "

If only what ?" I asked, for Hatch had
paused.

'^ Well, you know, sir. If only she can
control herself. I'm certain she is trying
to," added Hatch. '' There ain't one of us
would be so glad to find it got rid of for
good and all as she'd be. She's put about
frightfully yet at Miss Annabel's knowing
of it."

'' And where is it that you are going to ?"

'' Missis talked of Cheltenham ; it was
early, she thought, for the seaside ; but
this morning she got a Cheltenham newspaper
up, and saw that amid the company
staying there were Captain and Lady Grace
Chantrey. ' I'm not going where my brother
and that wife of his are,' she says to me ina
temper — for, as I dare say you've heard,
Mr. Charles, they don't agree. And now
she talks of Brighton. Whatever place she
fixes on. Perry is to be sent on first to take
lodgings."

Well, Hatch," I said, " the change from
home will do your mistress good. She is
much better. I trust the improvement will
be permanent."

Ah, if she would but take care ! It all
lies in that, sir," concluded Hatch, as I
turned away from the gate, and she went up
the garden.

We must go back for a moment to the
previous evening. Leaving behind us the

church of St. Clement Danes and its lighted
windows, Lake and I turned into Essex
Street, arm-in-arm, went down it and reached
my door. I opened it with my latch-key.
The hall-lamp was not lighted, and I wondered
at Watts's neglect.

Go on up to my room," I said to Lake.
^' I'll follow you in a moment."

He bounded up the stairs, and the next
moment Leah came up from the kitchen
with a lighted candle, her face white and
terrified.

'rit is only myself, Leah. Why is the
lamp not alight ?"

Heaven be good to us, sir !" she cried.
*' I thought I heard somebody go upstairs."

Mr. Lake has gone up."

She dropped her candlestick upon the
slab, and backed against the wall, looking
more white and terrified than ever. I
thought she was about to faint.

Mr. Charles ! I feel as if I could die 1
I ought to have bolted the front door."

But what for ?" I cried, intensely surprised.

" What on earth is the matter,
Leah ?"

He is up there, sir ! Up in your front
sitting-room. I put out the hall-lamp,
thinking the house would be best in darkness."


Who is up there ?" For in the moment's
bewilderment I did not glance at the
truth.

Mr. Tom, sir. Captain Heriot."

'' Mr. Tom ! Up there ?"

Not many minutes ago, soon after Watts
had gone out to church — for he was late
to-night — there came a ring at the doorbell,"
said Leah. '' I came up to answer it,
thinking nothing. A rough-looking man
stood, in a wide-awake hat, close against the
door there. ' Is Mr. Strange at home V
said he, and walked right in. I knew his
voice, and I knew him, and I cried out.
Don't be stupid, Leah ; it's only me,' says
he. ' Is Mr. Charles upstairs ? Nobody
with him, I hope.' ' There's nobody to
come and put his head in the lion's mouth,

as may be said, there at all, sir,' said I ; and
up he went, like a lamplighter. I put the
hall-lamp out. I was terrified out of my
senses, and told him you were at Hastings,
but I expected you in soon. And Mr.
Charles," wound up Leah, '' I think he must
have gone clean daft."

Light the lamp again," I replied. *' It
always is alight, you know. If the house is
in darkness, you might have a policeman
calling to know what was the matter."

Tom was in a fit of laughter when I got
upstairs. He had taken off his rough overcoat
and broad-brimmed hat, and stood in a
worn — very much worn — suit of brown velveteen
breeches and officers. Lake stared
at him over the table, a comical expression
on his face.

'^ Suppose we shake hands, to begin with,"
said Lake. And they clasped hands heartily
across the table.

Did you know me just now, in the
Strand, Lake ?" asked Tom Heriot.

'' I did," replied Lake, and his tone proved

that he meant it. ''I said to Charley, here,
that I had just seen a fellow very like Tom
Heriot ; but I knew who it was, fast enough."

'^ You wouldn't have known me, though,
if I hadn't lifted my face to the lamp-light.
I forget myself at moments, you see," added
Tom, after a pause. " Meeting you unexpectedly,
I was about to speak as in the old
days, and recollected myself only just intime.
I say " — turning himself about in
his velveteen — ^^ should you take me for a
gamekeeper ?"

No, I should not : you don't look the
thing at all," I put in testily, for I was
frightfully vexed with him altogether. " I
thought you must have been taken up by
your especial friend. Wren. Twice have I
been to the try sting-place as agreed, but you
did not appear."

No ; but I think he nearly had me,"
replied Tom.

How was that ?"

I'll tell you," he answered, as we all
three took chairs round the fire, and I stirred

it into a blaze. " On the Wednesday I did
not go out at all ; I told you I should not.
On the Thursday, after dusk, I went out to
meet you, Charley. It was early, and I
strolled in for a smoke with Lee and a chat
with Miss Betsy. The old man began at
once : ' Captain Strange, Policeman Wren
has been here, asking questions about you.'
It seems old Wren is well known in the
neighbourhood "

'' Captain Strange ?" cried Lake. "Who
is Captain Strange ?"

I am — down there," laughed Tom.
Don't interrupt, please. ' What questions
?' I said to Lee. ' Oh, what your
name was, and where you came from, and if
I had known you long, and what your ship
was called,' answered Lee. ' And you told
him ?' I asked. ' Well, I should have told
him, but for Betsy,' he said. ' Betsy spoke
up, saying you were a sailor-gentleman that
came in to buy tobacco and newspapers ; and
that was all he got out of us, not your name,
captain, or anything. As Betsy said to me

afterwards, it was not our place to answer
questions about Captain Strange : if the
policeman wanted to know anything, let
him apply to the captain himself Which I
thought good sense,' concluded Lee. As it
was."

Well, Tom ?"

Well, I thought it about time to go
straight home again," said Tom ; " and that's
why I did not meet you, Charley. And the
next day, Friday, I cleared out of my diggings
in that quarter of the globe, rigged
myself out afresh, and found other lodgings.
I am nearer to you now, Charley : vegetating
in the wilds over Blackfriars Bridge."

How could you be so imprudent as to
come here to-night ? or to be seen in so
conspicuous a spot as the Strand ?"

The fit took me to pay you a visit, old
fellow. As to the Strand — it is a fine
thoroughfare, you know, and I had not set
eyes on it since last summer. I walked up
and down a bit, listening to the church bells,
and looking about me."

You turn everything into ridicule, Tom."

Better that, Charley, than into sighing
and groaning."

How did you know that Leah would
open the door to you ? Watts might have
done so."

I had it all cut-and-dried. ' Is Mrs.
Brown at home V I should have said, in a
voice Watts would never have known.
^ Mrs. Brown don't live here,' old Watts
would have answered ; upon which I should
have politely begged his pardon and walked
ofF."

All very fine, Tom, and you may think
yourself amazingly clever ; but as sure as
you are living, you will run these risks once
too often."

'' Not I. Didn't I give old Leah a scare !
You should have heard her shriek."

Suppose it had been some enemy — some
stickler for law and justice — that I had
brought home with me to-night, instead of
Lake ?"

But it wasn't," laughed Tom. " It was

Lake himself. And I guess he is as safe
as you are."

'' Be sure of that," added Lake. " But
what do you think of doing, Heriot ? You
cannot hide away for ever in the wilds of
Blaekfriars. / would not answer for your
safety there for a day."

Goodness knows!" said Tom. " Perhaps
Charley could put me up here — in one of
his top bedrooms ?"

Whether he spoke in jest or earnest, I
knew not. He might remember that I was
running a risk in concealing him even for an
hour or two. Were it discovered, the law
might make me answer for it.

'^ I should like something to eat, Charley."

Leaving him with Lake, I summoned
Leah, and bade her bring up quickly what
she had. She speedily appeared with the
tray.

^' Good old Leah !" said Tom to her.
That ham looks tempting."

^' Mr. Tom, if you go on like this, loitering
in the open streets and calling at houses,

trouble will overtake you," returned Leah, in
much the same tone she had used to reprimand
him when a child. " I wonder what
your dear, good mother would say to it if
she saw you throwing yourself into peril.
Do you remember, sir, how often she would
beg of you to be good ?"

My mother !" repeated Tom, who was
in one of his lightest moods. ^' Why, you
never saw her. She was dead and buried
and gone to heaven before you knew anything
of us."

Ah well, Master Tom, you know I mean
Mrs. Heriot — afterwards Mrs. Strange. It
wouldn't be you, sir, if you didn't turn
everything into a jest. She was a good
mother to you all."

*^ That she was, Leah. Excused our
lessons for the asking, and fed us on jam."

He was taking his supper rapidly the
while ; for, of course, he had to be away
before church was over and Watts was
home again. The man might have been
true and faithful ; little doubt of it ; but it

would have added one more item to the
danger.

Lake went out and brought a cab ; and
Tom, his wide-awake low on his brow, his
rough coat on, and his red comforter roundabout
his throat, vaulted into it, to be conveyed
over Blackfriars Bridge to any point
that he might choose to indicate.

*^ It is an amazing hazard his going about
like this," cried Lake, as we sat down together
in front of the fire. " He must begot
out of England as quickly as possible."

But he won't go."

Then, mark my words, Charles, bad will
come of it."

RESTITUTION.

'^^^'^^ IME had gone on — weeks and
weeks — though there is little
to tell of passing events. Things
generally remained pretty much as they
had been. The Levels were abroad again.
Mrs. Brightman on the whole was better,
but had occasional relapses ; Annabel spent
most of her time at Hastings ; and Tom
Heriot had not yet been taken.

Tom was now at an obscure fishing village
on the coast of Scotland, passing himself off
as a fisherman, owning a small boat and
pretending to fish. This did not allay our
anxiety, which was almost as great as ever.

Still, it was something to have him away
from London. Out of Great Britain he
refused to move.

Does the reader remember George Coney's
money, that so strangely disappeared the
night of Mr. Brightman's death ? From that
hour to this nothing has been seen or heard
of it : but the time for it was now at hand.
And what I am about to relate may appear
a very common-place ending to a mystery —
though, indeed, it was not yet quite the
ending. In my capacity of story-teller I
could have invented a hundred romantic
incidents, and worked them and the reader
up to a high point of interest ; but I can
only record the incident as it happened,
and its termination was a very matter-of-fact
one.

I was sitting one evening in the front
room : a sitting-room now — I think this has
been said before — smoking my after-dinner
cigar. The window was open to the summer
air, which all day long had been intensely
hot. A letter received in the morning from
VOL. III. 43

Gloucestershire from Mr. Coney, to which
his son had scrawled a postscript : *' Has
that bag turned up yet ?" had set me thinking
of the loss, and from that I fell to thinking
of the loss of the Clavering will, which
had followed close upon it. Edmund Clavering,
by the way, had been with me that day to impart
some news. He was going to be married
to a charming girl, too — and we were discussing
settlements. My Lady Clavering,
he said, was figuring at Baden-baden, and
report ran that she was about to espouse a
French count with a fierce moustache.

Presently I took up the Times, not opened
before that day, and was deep in a police
case, which had convulsed the court in Marlborough
Street with laughter, and was convulsing
me, when a vehicle dashed down
Essex Street. It was the van of the Parcels
Delivery Company.

Mr. Strange live here ?" was the question
I heard from the man who had descended
from the seat beside the driver, when Watts
went out.

All right," said Watts.
'^ Here's a parcel for him. Nothing to
pay."

The driver whipped up his horse, then
turned sharply round, and — overturned the
van. It was not the first accident of a
similar nature, or the last by many, that I
have seen in that particular spot. How it
is I don't know, but drivers, especially cab-men,
have an unconquerable propensity for
pulling their horses round in a perilously
short fashion at the bottom of Essex Street,
and sometimes the result is that they come
to grief I threw down my newspaper and
leaned out at the window watching the fun.
The street was covered with parcels, and the
driver and his friend were throwing off their
consternation in choice language. One hamper
could not be picked up : it had contained
wine loosely packed, and the broken bottles
were lying in a red pool. Where the mob
collected from, that speedily arrived to assist,
was a marvel. The van at length took its
departure up the street, considerably shorn

43 — 2

of the triumph with which it had dashed
down.

This had taken up a considerable space of
time, and it was growing too dark to resume
my newspaper. Turning from the window,
I proceeded to examine the parcel which
Watts had brought up on its arrival and
placed on the table. It was about a foot
square, wrapped in brown paper, sealed and
tied with string ; and, in what Tony Bumpkin
would have called a confounded cramped,
up-and-down hand, where you could not tell
an izzard from an R, was directed '' C.
Strange, Esquire."

I took out my penknife, cut the string,
and removed the paper ; and there was disclosed
a pasteboard-box with green edges,
also sealed. I opened it, and from a mass
of soft paper took out a small canvas bag,
tied round with tape, and containing thirty
golden sovereigns !

From the very depth of my conviction I
believed it to be the bag we had lost. It
was the bag ; for, on turning it round, there

were Mr. Coney's initials, S. C, neatly
marked with blue cotton, as they had been
on the one left by George. It was one of
their sample barley bags. I wondered if they
were the same sovereigns. Where had it
been ? Who had taken it ? And who had
returned it ?

I rang the bell, and then called to Watts,
who was coming up to answer it, to bring
Leah also. It was my duty to tell them,
especially Leah, of the money's restitution,
as they had been inmates of the house when
it was lost.

Watts only stared and ejaculated ; but
Leah, with some colour, for once, in her pale
cheeks, clasped her hands. " Oh, sir, I'm
thankful you have found it again !" she exclaimed.
'' I'm heartily thankful !"

"So am I, Leah, though the mystery attending
the transaction is as great as ever ;
indeed, more so."

It certainly was. They went down again,
and I sat musing over the problem. But
nothing could I make out of it. One moment

I argued that the individual taking it (whomsoever
it might be) must have had temporary
need of funds, and, the difficulty over, had
now restored the money. The next, I
wondered whether anyone could have taken
the bag inadvertently, and had now discovered
it. I locked the bag safely up,
wrote a letter to George Coney, and then
went out to confide the news to Arthur
Lake.

Taking the short cuts and passages that
lead from Essex Street to the Temple, as I
generally did when bound for Lake's chambers,
I was passing onwards, when I found myself
called to — or I thought so. Standing still
in the shade, leaning against the railings of
the Temple Gardens, was a slight man of
middle height : and he seemed to say
Charley."

Glancing in doubt, half stopping as I did
so, yet thinking I must have been mistaken,
I was passing on, when the voice came
ao'ain.

o

'' Charley !"

I stopped then. And I declare that in
the revulsion it brought me you might have
knocked me down with a feather ; for it was
Tom Heriot.

I was almost sure it was you, Charles,"
he said in a low voice ; " but not quite sure."

I had not often had such a scare as this.
My heart, with pain and dismay, beat as if
it meant to burst its bonds.

*^ Can it possibly be you f I cried. " What
brings you here ? Why have you come
again f

^' Reached London this morning. Came
here when dusk set in, thinking I might
have the luck to see you or Lake, Charley."

But why have you left Scotland ? You
were safer there."

Don't know that I was. And I had
grown tired to death of it."

It will end in death, or something like
it, if you persist in staying here."

Tom laughed his gay, ringing laugh. I
looked round to see that no one was about,
or within hearing.

What a croaker you are, old Charley !
I'm sure you ought to kill the fatted calf, to
celebrate my return from banishment."

But, Tom, you hioiv how dangerous it
is, and must be, for you to be here in London."

^' And it was becoming dangerous uj)
there," he quickly rejoined. " Since the
summer season set in, those blessed tourists
are abroad again, with their staves and knapsacks.
No place is safe from them, and the
smaller and more obscure it is, the more
they are sure to find it. The other day I
was in my boat in my fishing toggery, as
usual, when a fellow comes up, addresses meas
' My good man,' and plunges into queries
touching the sea and the fishing-trade. Now
>/ho do you think that was, Charles ?"

I can't say."

It was James Lawless, Q.C — the
leader who prosecuted at my trial."

Good heavens !"

I unfastened the boat, keeping my back
to him and my face down, and shot off like
a whirlwind, calling out that I was behind

time, and must put out. I took good care,
Charles, not to get back before the stars were
bright in the night sky."

Did he recognise you ?"

No — no. For certain, no. But he
would have done so had I stayed to talk.
And it is not always that I could escape as
I did then. You must see that."

I saw it all too plainly.

''So I thought it best to make myself
scarce, Charles, and leave the tourists' haunts.
I sold my boat ; no difficulty in that ; though,
of course, the two men who bought it shaved
me ; and came over to London as fast as a
third-class train would bring me. Dare not
put my nose into a first-class carriage, lest
I should drop upon some one of my old
chums."

Of all places, Tom, you should not have
chosen London."

'' Will you tell me, old fellow, what other
place I could have pitched upon ?"

And I could not tell.

'' Go where I will " he continued, '^ it

seems that the Philistines are likely to find
me out."

We were pacing about now, side by side,
keeping in the shade as much as possible,
and speaking under our breath.

'' You will have to leave the country,
Tom ; you must do it. And go somewhere
over the seas."

To Van Diem en's Land, perhaps," suggested
Tom.

Now, be quiet. The subject is too
serious for jesting. T should think — perhaps
— America. But I must have time to
consider. Where do you mean to stay at
present ? Where are you going to-night ?"

I've been dodging about all day, not
showing ujD much ; but I'm going now to
where I lodged last, down Blackfriars way.
You remember ?"

Yes, I remember : it is not so long-ago."


"It is as safe as any other quarter, for
aught I can tell. Any way, I don't know
of another."

'' Are you well, Tom ?" I asked. He
was looking thin, and seemed to have a
nasty cough upon him.

'' I caught cold some time ago, and it
hangs about me," he replied. '' Oh, I shall be
all right now I'm here," he added carelessly.

You ought to take a good jorum of
something hot when you get to bed tonight
"

Tom laughed. '' I am likely to get anything
of that sort in any lodging I stand a
chance of to-night. Well done, Charley !
I haven't old Leah to coddle me."

And somehow the mocking words made
me realize the discomforts and deprivations
of Tom Heriot's present life. How would
it all end ?

We parted with a hand shake : he stealing
off on his way to his lodging, I going
thoughtfully on mine. It was a calm summer
evening, clear and lovely, the stars
twinkling in the sky, but all its peace had
gone out for me.

It was impossible to foresee what the

ending would or could be. At any moment
Tom might be recognised and captured, so
long as he inhabited London ; and it might
be difficult to induce him to leave it. Still
more difficult to cause him to depart altogether
for other lands and climes.

Not long before, I had consulted with
Mr. Serjeant Stillingfar as to the possibility
of obtaining a pardon for Tom. That he
had not been guilty was indisputable, though
the law had deemed him so. But the Serjeant
had given me no encouragement that
any such movement would be successful.
The very fact, as he pointed out, of Tom
Heriot's having escaped clandestinely, would
tell against him. What, I said then, if Tom
gave himself up ? He smiled, and told me
I had better not ask his opinion upon the
practical points of the case.

So the old trouble was back again in full
force, and I knew not how to cope with it.

The summer sun, glowing with light and
heat, lay full upon Hastings and St.



Leonard's. The broad expanse of sea
sparkled beneath it ; the houses that looked
on the water were burnings and blistering
the fierce rays. Miss Briofhtman,
seated at her drawings-room window, knitting*
in hand, observed that it was one of the most
dazzling days she remembered.

The remark was made to me and to Annabel.
We sat at the table together, looking
over a book of costly engravings that
Miss Brightman had recently bought. " I
shall leave it with you, Charles," she said,
^' when I go away ; you will take care of it.
And if it were not that you are tied to
London, and it would be too far for you to
go up and down daily, I would leave you my
house also — that you might live in it, and
take care of that during my absence."

Mrs. Brightman had come to her senses.
Very much, I confess, to my astonishment,
much also I think to Annabel's, she had put
aside her prejudices and consented to our
marriage. The difficulty of where her
daughter was to be during Miss Brightman's

sojourn in Madeira had in a degree paved
the way for it. Annabel would, of course,
have returned to her mother ; she begged
hard to be allowed to do so : she believed it
her duty to be with her. But Miss Bright-man
would not hear of it, and, had she
yielded, I should have interposed my veto in
Mr. Brightman's name. In Hatch's words,
strong in sense but weak in grammar, " their
home wasn't no home for Miss Annabel."

Mrs. Brightman could only be conscious
of this. During her sojourn at Brighton,
and for some little time after her return
home, she had been very much better ; had
fought resolutely with the insidious foe, and
conquered. But alas ! she fell away again.
Now she was almost as bad as ever ; tolerably
sober by day, very much the opposite
by night.

Miss Brightman, dating forward, seeing,
as she feared, only shoals and pitfalls, and
most anxious for Annabel, had journeyed upto
Clapham to her sister-in-law, and stayed
there with her a couple of days. What

passed between them even Hatch never
knew ; but she did know that her mistress
was brought to a penitent and subdued frame
of mind, and that she promised Lucy Bright-man,
with many tears, to strive to overcome
her fatal habit for the good God's sake.
x\.nd it was during this visit that she withdrew
her opposition to the marriage ; when
Miss Brightman returned home she carried
the consent with her.

And my present visit to Hastings was to
discuss time and place and other matters ;
more particularly the question of where our
home was to be. A large London house we
were not yet rich enough to set up, and I
would not take Annabel to an inferior one ;
but I had seen a charming little cottage at
Richmond that might suit us — if she liked
the locality.

Closing the book of engravings, I turned
to Miss Brightman, and entered upon the
subject. Suddenly her attention wavered.
It seemed to be attracted by something in
the road.

Why, bless my heart, it is /" she cried
in astonishment. '^ If ever I saw Hatch in
my life, that is Hatch — coming up the
street ! Annabel, child, give me the glasses."

The glasses were on the table, and I
handed them to her. Annabel flew to the
window and grew white. She was never
free from fears of what might happen in her
mother's house. Hatch it was, and apparently
in haste.

What can be the matter ?" she gasped.
'^ Oh, Aunt Lucy !"

^^ Hatch is nodding heartily, as if not
much were wrong," remarked Miss Bright-man,
who was watching her through the
glasses. '' Hatch is peculiar in manner, as
you are aware, Mr. Charles, but she means
no disrespect by it."

I smiled. I knew Hatch quite as well
as Miss Brightman knew her.

^' Now what brings you to Hastings ?"
she exclaimed, rising from her chair, when
Hatch was shown in.

My missis brought me, ma'am," returned

Hatch, with composure. ^' Miss Annabel,
you be looking frighted, but there's nothing
wrong. Yesterday morning, all in a flurry
like, your mamma took it into her head
to come down here, and we drove down
with "

^^ Drove down ?"

Yes, ma'am, with four posters to the
carriage. My missis can't bear the rail ; she
says folks stare at her : and here we be at the
Queen s Hotel, she, and me, and Perry."

Would you like to take a chair, Hatch ?"
said Miss Brioiitman.

My legs is used to standing, ma'am,"
replied Hatch, with a nod of thanks, " and
I've not much time to linger. It was late
last night when we got here. This morning,
up gets my missis, and downstairs she comes
to her breakfast in her sitting-room, and me
with her to wait upon her, for sometimes
her hands is shaky, and she prefers me to
Perry or anybody else "

How has your mistress been lately ?"
interposed Miss Brightman.

VOL. III. 44

'^ Better, ma'am. Not always quite the
things, though a deal better on the whole.
But I must get on about this morning,"
added Hatch impressively. " ^ Waiter,' says
my missis when the man brings up the
coffee. ^ Mum ?' says he. ' I am subject
to statical attacks in the chest,' says she,
and should like to have some brandy in
my room : they take me sometimes in the
middle of the night. Put a bottle into it,
the very best French, and a corkscrew. Or
you may as well put two bottles,' she goes
on ; ' I may be here some time.' ' It shall
be done, mum,' says he. I was as vexed as
I could be to hear it," broke off Hatch, " but
what could I do ? I couldn't contradict my
missis and tell the man that no brandy must
be put in her room, or else she'd drink it.
Well, ma'am, I goes down presently to my
own breakfast with Perry, and while we sat
at it a chambermaid comes through the
room : ' I've put two bottles of brandy in
the lady's bedroom, as was ordered,' says she.
With that Perry looks at me all in a fluster

he have no more wits to turn things off
than a born idiot. ^ Very well says I to
her, eating at my egg as if I thought
nothing ; ' I hopes my missis won't have no
call to use 'em, but she's took awful bad in
the chest sometimes, and it's as well for us
to be ready.' ' I'm sure I pities her,' says
the girl, ^ for there ain't nothing worse than
spasms. I has 'em myself occasional ' "

When once Hatch was in the full flow of
a narrative, there was no getting in a word
edgeways, and Miss Brightman had to repeat
her question twice : ^^ Does Perry know
the nature of the illness that affects Mrs.
Brightman ?"

Why, in course he does, ma'am," was
Hatch's rejoinder. " He couldn't be off
guessing it for himself, and the rest I told
him. Why, ma'am, without his helping, we
could never keep it dark from the servants
at home. It was better to make a confidant
of Perry, that I might have his aid in
screening the trouble, than to let it get
round to everybody. He's as safe and sure

44—2

as I be, and when it all first came out to
him, he cried over it, to think of what his
poor master must have suffered in mind
before death took him. Well, ma'am, I
made haste over my breakfast, and I went
upstairs, and there was the bottles and the
corkscrew, so I whips 'em off the table and
puts them out of sight. Mrs. Brightman
comes uj) presently, and looks about and
goes down again. Three separate times she
comes up, and the third time she gives the
bell a whirl, and in runs the chambermaid,
who Alas only outside. ' I gave orders this
morning,' says my lady, ' to have some
brandy placed in the room.' ' Oh, I have
got the brandy,' says I, before the girl could
speak ; ^ I put it in the little cupboard here,
ma'am.' So away goes the girl, looking
from the corners of her eyes at me, as if
suspicious I meant to crib it for my own
use : and my mistress began : ' Draw one of
them corks. Hatch.' ' No, ma'am,' says I,
not yet ; please don't.' ^ Draw 'em both,'
says missis — for there are times," added

Hatch, " when a trifle puts her out so much
that it's hazardous to cross her. I drew the
cork of one, and missis just pointed with her
finger to the tumbler on the wash-hand-stand,
and I brought it forward and the
decanter of water. ' Now you may go,'
says she ; so I took up the corkscrew. ' I
told you to leave that,' says she, in her
temper, and I had to come away without it,
and the minute I was gone she turned the
key upon me. Miss Annabel, I see the
words are grieving of you, but they are the
truth, and I can but tell them."

Is she there now — locked in ?" asked
Miss Brightman.

She's there now," returned Hatch, with
solemn enunciation, to make up for her failings
in grammar, which was never anywhere
in times of excitement ; " she is locked in with
them two bottles and the corkscrew, and
she'll just drink herself mad — and what's to
be done ? I goes at once to Perry and tells
him. ' Let's get in through the winder,'
says Perry — which his brains is only fit fora

oj'ander, as I've said many a time. ^ You
stop outside her door to listen again downright
harm says I, ' that's what you'll do ;
and I'll go for Miss Brightman.' And here
I'm come, ma'am, running all the way."

What can I do ?" wailed Miss Bright-man.


Ma'am," answered Hatch, " I think that
if you'll go back with me, and knock at her
room door, and call out that you be come to
pay her a visit, she'd undo it. She's more
afeared of you than of anybody living. She
can't have done herself much harm yet, and
you might coax her out for a walk or a drive,
and then bring her in to dinner here —
anything to get her away from them two
dangerous bottles. If I be making too free,
ma'am, you'll be good enough to excuse me
it is for the family's sake. At home I
can manage her pretty well, but to have a
scene at the hotel would make it public."

What is to be the ending ?" I exclaimed
involuntarily as Miss Brightman went in
haste for her bonnet.

Why, the ending must be — just what it
will be," observed Hatch philosophically.
'' But, Mr. Charles, I don't despair of her
yet. Begging your pardon, Miss Annabel,
you'd better not come. Your mamma won't
undo her door if she thinks there's many
round it."

Annabel stood at the window as they
departed, her face turned from me, her eyes
blinded with tears. I drew her away, though
I hardly knew how to soothe her. It was a
heavy grief to bear.

My days are passed in dread of what
tidings may be on the way to me," she
began, after a little time given to gathering
composure. '' I ought to be nearer my
mother, Charles ; I tell Aunt Lucy so
almost every day. She might be ill and
dead before I could get to her, up in
London."

And you will be nearer to her shortly,
Annabel. My dear, where shall our home
be ? I was thinking of Richmond "

No, no," she interrupted in sufficient

haste to show me she had thoughts of her
own.

Annabel ! It shall not be there : at
your mother's. An3r\vhere else."

"It is somewhere else that I want to
be."

Then you shall be. Where is it ?"

She lifted her face like a pleading child's,
and spoke in a whisper. " Charles, let me
come to you in Essex Street."

Essex Street /" I echoed in surprise.
'' My dear Annabel, I will certainly not bring
you to Essex Street and its inconveniences.
I cannot do great things for you yet, but I
can do better than that."

They would not be inconveniences to me.
I would turn them into pleasures. We would
take another servant to help Watts and Leah ;
or two if necessary. You would not find me
the least encumbrance ; I would never be in
the way of your professional rooms. And
in the evening, when you had finished for
the day, we would dine, and go down to
mamma's for an hour, and then back again.

Charles, it would be a liap2)y home : let me
come to it."

But I shook my head. I did not see how
it could be arranged ; and said so.

No, because at present the idea is new
to you," returned Annabel. " Think it over,
Charles. Promise me that you will do so."

Yes, my dear ; I can at least promise
you that."

There was less trouble with Mrs. Bright-man
that day than had been anticipated.
She opened her door at once to her sister-in-law,
who brought her back to the Terrace.
Hatch had been wise. In the afternoon we
all went for a drive in a fly, and returned to
dinner. And the following day Mrs. Bright-man,
with her servants, departed for London
in her travelling-carriage, no scandal whatever
having been caused at the Queen's
Hotel. I went up by train early in the
morning.

It is surprising how much thinking upon
a problem simplifies it. I began to see by
degrees that Annabel's coming to Essex

Street could be easily managed ; nay, that
it would be for the best. Miss Brightman
strongly advocated it. At present a large
portion of my income had to be paid over
to Mrs. Brightman in accordance with . her
husband's will, so that I could not do as
I would, and must study economy. Annabel
would be rich in time ; for Mrs. Bright-man's
large income, vested at present in
trustees, must eventually descend to Annabel
; but that time was not yet. And who
knew what expenses Tom Heriot might
bring upon me ?

Changes had to be made in the house. I
determined to confine the business rooms to
the ground floor ; making Miss Method's
parlour, which had not been much used since
her death, my own private consulting-room.
The front room on the first floor would be
our drawing-room, the one behind it the
dining-room.

Leah was in an ecstasy when she heard
the news. The workmen were coming in to
paint and paper, and then I told her.

Of course, Mr. Charles, it — is "

Is what, Leah ?"

Miss Annabel."

*^ It should be no one else, Leah. We
shall want another servant or two, but you
can still be major-domo."

'^ If my poor master had only lived to see
it !" she uttered, with enthusiasm. '^ How
happy he would have been ; how proud to
have her here ! Well, well, what turns things
take !"

CONFESSION.

^^^ October came in ; and we were
married early in the month, the
wedding taking place from Mrs.
Brightman's residence, as was of course only
right and proper. It was so very quiet a
wedding that there is not the least necessity
for describing it — and how can a young man
be expected to give the particulars of his
own ? Mr. Serjeant Stillingfar was present ;
Lord and Lady Level, now staying in London,
drove down for it ; and Captain Chantrey gave
his niece away. For Mrs. Brightman had
chosen to request him to accept her invitation
to do so, and to be accompanied by his

wife, Lady Grace. Miss Brightman was also
present, having travelled up from Hastings
the day before. Three or four days later on,
she would sail for Madeira.

I could not spare more than a fortnight
from work, leaving Lennard as my locum
tenens. Annabel would have been glad to
spare less, for she was haunted by visions of
what might happen to her mother. Though
there was no especial cause for anxiety in
that quarter just now, she could never feel
at ease. And on my part I was more
anxious than ever about Tom Heriot, for
more reasons than one.

The fortnight came to an end, all too
soon : and late on the Saturday evening we
reached home. Watts threw open the door,
and there stood Leah in a silk gown. The
drawing-room, gayer than it used to be, was
bright with a fire and preparations for tea.

'' How homelike it looks !" exclaimed
Annabel. " Charles," she whispered, turning
to me with her earnest eyes, as she had
been wont to do when a child : " I will not

make the least noise when you have cents
with you. You shall not know I am in the
house : I will take care not to drop even a
reel of cotton on the carpet. I do thank
you for letting me come to Essex Street : I
should not have seemed so completely your
wife had you taken me to any but your old
home."

The floors above were also in order,
their chambers refurnished. Leah went upto
them with her new mistress, and I went
down to the clerks' office, telling Annabel I
should not be there five minutes. One of
the clerks, Allen, had waited ; but I had expected
Lennard.

Is Mr. Lennard not here ?" I asked.
'^ Did he not wait ? I wrote to him to do
so."

Mr. Lennard has not been here all day,
sir," was Allen's reply. '' A messenger
came from him this morning, to say he was
ill."

We were deep in letters and other matters,
I and Allen, when the front door

opened next the office door, and there stood
Arthur Lake, laughing, a light coat on his
arm.

Fancy ! I've been down the river for a
blow," cried he. " Just landed at the pier
here. Seeing lights in your windows, I
thought you must have got back, Charley."

We shook hands, and he stayed a minute,
talking. Then, wishing good-night to Allen,
he backed out of the room, making an almost
imperceptible movement to me with his head.
I followed him out, shutting the office door
behind me. Lake touched my arm and drew
me outside.

'^ I suppose you've not heard from Tom
Heriot since you were away," breathed Lake,
in cautious tones, as we stood together on
the outer step.

No ; I did not expect to hear. Why ?"

^' I saw him three days ago," whispered
Lake. " I had a queer-looking letter on
Wednesday morning from one Mr. Dominic
Turk, asking me to call at a certain place in
Southwark. Of course, I guessed it was

Tom, and that he had moved his lodgings
again ; and I found I was right."

Dominic Turk I" I repeated. ^' Does
he call himself that f "

Lake laughed. '' He is passing now fora
retired schoolmaster. Says he's sure nobody
can doubt he is one as long as he sticks
to that name."

How is he ? Has any fresh trouble
turned up ? I'm sure you've something bad
to tell me."

Well, Charley, honestly speaking, it is
a bad look-out, in more ways than one," he
answered. '' He is very ill, to begin with ;
also has an idea that a certain policeman
named Wren has picked up an inkling of his
return, and is trying to unearth him. But,"
added Lake, " we can't very well talk in this
place. I've more to say "

Come upstairs, and take tea with me
and Annabel," I interrupted.

Can't," said he ; " my dinner's waiting.
I'm back two hours later than I expected to
be ; it has been frizzling, I expect, all the

time. Besides, old fellow, I'd rather you
and I were alone. There's fearful peril
looming ahead, unless I'm mistaken. Can
you come round to my chambers tomorrow
afternoon ?"

'' No : we are going to Mrs. Brightman's
after morning service."

'' It must be left until Monday, then ;
but I don't think there's much time to be
lost. Good-night."

Lake hastened up the street, and I returned
to Allen and the letters.

With this interruption, and with all I
found to do, the eve minutes' absence I had
promised my wife lengthened into twenty.
At last the office was closed for the nio-ht,
Allen left, and I ran upstairs, expecting to
have kept Annabel waiting tea. She was
not in the drawing-room, the tea was not
made, and I went up higher and found her
sobbing in the bedroom. It sent me into a
cold chill.

My love, what is this ? Are you disappointed
? Are you not happy ?"

VOL. III. 45

''^ Oh, Charles," she sobbed, singing tome,
'' you 'knoiv I am happy. It is not that.
But I could not help thinking of my father.
Leah got talking about him ; and I remembered
once his sitting in that very chair, holding
me on his knee. I must have been about
seven years old. Miss Methold was ill "

At that moment there came a knock and
a ring at the front door. Not a common
knock and ring, but sharp, loud and prolonged,
resounding through the house as
from some impatient messenger of evil. It
startled us both. Annabel's fears flew to
her mother ; mine to a different quarter, for
Lake's communication was troubling and
tormenting me.

'' Charles ! if "

Hush, dear. Listen."

As we stood outside on the landing, her
heart beating against my encircling hand,
and our senses strained to listen, we heard
Watts open the front door.

Has Mr. Strange come home ?" cried a
voice hurriedly — that of a woman.

'' Yes," said Watts.

'' Can I speak to him ? It is on a matter
of life and death."

Where do you come from ?" asked Watts,
with habitual caution.

'' I come from Mr. Lennard. Oh, pray
do not waste time !"

^' All right, my darling ; it is not from
your mother," I whispered to Annabel, as I
ran down.

A young woman stood at the foot of the
stairs ; I was at a loss to guess her condition
in life. She had the face and manner
of a lady, but her dress was poor and shabby.

I have come from my father, sir — Mr.
Lennard," she said in a low tone, blushing
very much. " He is dangerously ill : we
fear he is dying, and so does he. He bade
me say that he must see you, or he cannot
die in peace. Will you please be at the
trouble of coming ?"

One hasty word despatched to my wife,
and I went out with Miss Lennard, hailing
a cab, which had just set down its freight

45 — 2

some doors higher up. " What is the matter
with your father ?" I questioned, as we
whirled along towards Blackfriars Bridge, in
accordance with her directions.

'' It is an attack of inward inflammation,"
she replied. ^' He was taken ill suddenly
last night after he got home from the office,
and he has been in great agony all day.
This evening he grew better ; the pain almost
subsided ; but the doctor said that might
not prove a favourable symptom. My father
asked for the truth — whether he was dying,
and the answer was that he might be. Then
my father grew terribly uneasy in mind, and
said he must see you if possible before he
died — and sent me to ascertain, sir, whether
you had returned home."

The cab drew up at a house in a side
street, a little beyond Blackfriars Bridge.
We entered, and Miss Lennard left me in
the front sitting-room. The remnants of
faded gentility were strangely mixed with
bareness and poverty. Poor Lennard was a
gentleman born and bred, but had been reduced

by untoward misfortune. Trifling
ornaments stood about ; " antimacassars "
were thrown over the shabby chairs. Miss
Lennard had gone upstairs, but came down
quickly.

"It is the door on the left, sir, on the
second landing," said she, putting a candle
in my hand. '' My father is anxiously expecting
you, but says I am not to go u})."

It was a small landings, nothing in front
of me but a bare white-washed wall, and ttvo
doors to the left. I blundered into the wrong-one.
A night-cap border turned on the bed,
and a girlish face looked up from under it.

What do you want ?" she said.

Pardon me. I am in search of Mr.
Lennard."

Oh, it is the next room. But — sir !
wait a moment. Oh, wait, wait !"

I turned to her in surprise, and she put
up two thin white hands in an imploring
attitude. " Is it anything bad ? Have you
come to take him ?"

To take him ! What do you mean ?"

You are not a sheriff's officer ?"

I smiled at her troubled countenance. " I
am Mr. Strange — come to see how he is."

Down fell her hands peacefully. ^' Sir, I
beg your pardon : thank you for telling me.
I know papa has sometimes been in apprehension,
and I lie here and fear things till I
am stupid. A strange step on the stairs, ora
strange knock at the door, sets me
shaking."

The next room was the right one, and
Lennard was lying in it on a low bed ; his
face looked ghastly, his eyes wildly anxious.

Lennard," I said, " I am sorry to hear of
your illness. What's the matter ?"

Sit down, Mr. Strange ; sit down," he
added, pointing to a chair, which I drew
near. "It is an attack of inflammation :
the pain has ceased now, but the doctor says
it is an uncertain symptom : it may be for
better, or it may be for worse. If the
latter, I have not many hours to live."

What brought it on ?"

'' I don't know : unless it was that I

drank a draught of cold water when I was
hot. I have not been very strong for sometime,
and a little thing sends me into a
violent heat. I had a long walk, four miles,
and I made nearly a run of it half the way,
being pressed for time. When I got in, I
asked Leah for some water, and drank two
glasses of it, one after the other. It seemed
to strike a chill to me at the time."

It was at the office, then. Four miles !
Why did you not ride ?"

It was not your business I was out on,
sir ; it was my own. But whether that was
the cause or not, the illness came on, and it
cannot be remedied now. If I am to die, I
must die ; God is over all : but I cannot go
without making a confession to you. How
the fear of death's approach alters a man's
views and feelings !" he went on, in a different
tone. " Yesterday, had I been told I must
make this confession to you, I should have
said, Let me die, rather ; but it appears tome
now to be an imperative duty, and one
I must nerve myself to perform."

Lennard lay on his pillow, and looked
fixedly at me, and I not less fixedly at him.
What, in the shape of a '' confession," could
he have to make to me ? He had been
managing clerk in Mr. Brightman's office
long before I was in it, a man of severe integrity,
and respected by all.

"The night Mr. Brightman died," he
began under his panting breath, 'the bag
of gold was missing — George Coney's. You
remember it."

^' Well ?"

I took it."

Was Lennard's mind wandering" ? He
was no more likely to take gold than I was.
I sat still, gazing at him.

'' Yes, it was I who took it, sir. Will
you hear the tale ?"

A deep breath, and the drawing of my
chair closer to his bedside, was my only
answer.

"• You are a young man, Mr. Strange. I
have taken an interest in you since you first
came, a lad, into the office, and were under

my authority — Charles, do this ; Charles,
do the other. Not that I have shown any
especial interest, for outwardly I am cold
and undemonstrative ; but I saw what you
were, and liked you in my heart. You area
young man yet, I say ; but, liking you,
hoping for your welfare, I pray Heaven that
it may never be your fate, in after-life, to
be trammelled with misfortunes as I have
been. For me they seem to have had no
end, and the worst of them in later years
has been that brought upon me by an undutiful
and spendthrift son."

In a moment there flashed into my mind
my later trouble in Tom Heriot : I seemed
to be comparing the one with the other.
Have you been trammelled with an undutiful
son ?" I said aloud.

^' I have been, and am," replied Lennard.
It has been my later cross. The first was
that of losing my property and position in
life, for, as you know, Mr. Strange, I was
born and reared a gentleman. The last
cross has been Leonard — that is his name,

Lennard Lennard — and it has been worse
than the first, for it has kept us down, and
in a perpetual ferment for years. It has
kept us poor amongst the poor : my salary,
as you know, is a handsome one, but it has
chiefly to be wasted upon him."

^' What age is he ?"

*' Six-and-twenty yesterday."

'' Then you are not forced to supply his
extravagance, to find money for his faults
and follies. You are not obliged to let him
keep you down."

By law, no," sighed poor Lennard.
'^ But these ill-doing* sons sometimes entwine
themselves around your very heartstrings
; far rather would you suffer and
suffer than not ward off the ill from them.
He has tried his hand at many occupations,
but remains at none ; the result is always
trouble : and yet his education and intellect,
his good looks and perfect, pleasant manners,
would fit him for almost any responsible
position in life. But he is reckless. Get
into what scrape he would, whether of debtor

worse, here he was sure of a refuge and a
welcome ; I received him, his mother and
sisters loved him. One of them is bedridden,"
he added, in an altered tone.

I went first by mistake into the next
room. I probably saw her."

'eyes, that's Maria. It is a weakness
that has settled in her legs ; some chronic
affection, I suppose ; and there she has lain
for ten months. With medical attendance
and sea air she might be restored, they tell
me, but I can provide neither. Leonard's
claims have been too heavy."

'but should you waste means on him
that ought to be applied to her necessities ?"
I involuntarily interrupted.

He half raised himself on his elbow, and
the effort proved how weak he was, and his
eyes and his voice betrayed a strange earnestness.
" When a son, whom you love better
than life itself, has to be saved from the
consequences of his follies, from prison, from
worse disgrace even than that, other interests
are forgotten, let them be what they may.

Silent, patient needs give way to obtrusive
wants that stare you in the face, and that
may bear fear and danger in their train.
Mr. Strange, you can imagine this."

I do. It must ever be so."

^' The pecuniary wants of a young man,
such as my son is, are as the cry of the
horse-leech. Give ! give ! Leonard mixes
sometimes with distant relatives, young
fellows of fashion, who are moving in a
sphere far above our present position,
although I constantly warn him not to doit.
One of these wants, imperative and to
be provided for in some way or other,
occurred the beginning of February in this
year. How I managed to pay it I can
hardly tell, but it stripped me of all the
money I could raise, and left me with some
urgent debts upon me. The rent was owing,
twelve months the previous December, and
some of the tradespeople were becoming
clamorous. The landlord, discerning the
state of affairs, put in a distress, terrifying
poor Maria, whose illness had then not very

long set in, almost to death. That I had
the means to pay the man out you may judge,
when I tell you that we had not the money
to buy a joint of meat or a loaf of bread."

Lennard paused to wipe the dew from his
brow.

*^ Maria was in bed, wanting comforts ;
Charlotte was worn out with apprehension ;
Leonard was away again, and we had
nothing. Of my wife I will not speak :
of delicate frame and delicately reared, the
long-continued troubles have reduced her to
a sort of dumb apathy. No credit anywhere,
and a distress in for rent ! In sheer
despair, I resolved to disclose part of my
difficulty to Mr. Brightman, and ask him to
advance me a portion of my next quarter s
salary. I hated to do it. A reduced gentleman
is, perhaps, over-fastidious. I know I
have been so, and my pride rose against it.
In health, I could not have spoken to you,
Mr. Charles, as I am now doing. I went
on, shilly-shallying for a few days. On the
Saturday morning Charlotte came to me

with a whisper : ' That man in the house
says if the rent is not paid to-night, the
things will be taken out and sold on Monday
: it is the very last day they'll give.' I
went to the office, my mind made up at
length, and thinking what I should say to
Mr. Brightman. Should I tell him part of
the truth, or should I urge some plea, foreign
to it ? It was an unusually busy day : I
dare say you remember it, Mr. Charles, for
it was that of Mr. Brightman's sudden death.
Client after client called, and no opportunity
offered for my speaking to him in private.
I waited for him to come down, on his way
out in the evening, thinking I would speak
to him then. He did not come, and when
the clients left, and I went upstairs, I found
he w^ffe stopping in town to see Sir Edmund
Clavering. I should have spoken to him
then, but you were present. He told me
to look in ao-ain in the course of the evenings,
and I hoped I might find him alone then.
You recollect the subsequent events of the
night, sir ?"

I shall never forget them."

'' When I came in, as he directed me, between
seven and eight o'clock, there occurred
that flurry with Leah — the cause of which
I never knew. She said Mr. Brightman
was alone, and I went up. He was lying in
your room, Mr. Charles ; had fallen close to
his own desk, the deep drawer of which stood
open. I tried to raise him ; I sprinkled
water on his face, but I saw that he was
dead. On the desk lay a small canvas bag.
I took it up and shook it. Why, I do not
know, for I declare that no wrong thought
had then come into my mind. He appeared
to have momentarily put it out of the
drawer, probably in search of something, for
his private cheque-book and the key of the
iron safe, that I knew were always kept in
the drawer, lay near it. I shook the bag,
and its contents sounded like gold. I opened
it, and counted thirty sovereigns. Mr.
Brightman was dead. I could not apply
to him ; and yet money I must have.
The temptation upon me was strong, and I

took it. Don't turn away from me, sir.
There are some temptations too strong to be
resisted by a man in his necessities."

Indeed, I am not turning from you.
The temptation was overwhehiiingly great."

Indeed," continued the sick man, " the
devil was near me then. I put the key
and the cheque-book inside, and I locked the
drawer, and placed the keys in Mr. Bright-man's
pocket, where he kept them, and I
leaped down the stairs with the bag in my
hand. It was all done in a minute or two
of time, though it seems long in relating it.
Where should I put the bag, now I had
it ? Upon my person ? No : it might be
missed directly, and inquired for. I was ina
tumult — scarcely sane, I believe — and I
dashed into the clerks' office, and, taking off
the lid of the coal-box, put it there. Then
I tore off for a surgeon. You know the
rest. When I returned with him you were
there ; and the next visitor, while we were
standing round Mr. Brightman, was George
Coney, after his bag of money. I never

shall forget the feeling when you motioned
me to take Mr. Brightman's keys from his
pocket to get the bag out of the drawer.
Or when — after it was missed — you took
me with you to search for it, in the very
office where it was, and I moved the coal-box
under the desk. Had you only happened
to lift the lid, sir !"

Ah !"

'' When the search was over, and I went
home, I had put the bag in my breast-pocket.
The gold saved me from immediate
trouble, but "

You have sent it back to me, you know
the bag and the thirty pounds."

Yes, I sent it back — tardily. I cotdd
not do it earlier, though the crime coloured
my days with remorse, and I never knew a
happy moment until it was restored. But
Leonard had been back again, and restoration
was not easy."

Miss Lennard opened the door at this
juncture. " Papa, the doctor is here. Can
he come up ? He says he ought to see you.

VOL. III. 46

'' Oh, certainly, he must come up," I interposed.


Yes, yes, Charlotte," said Lennard.

The doctor came in, and stood looking at
his patient, after putting a few questions.
Well," said he, " you are better ; you will
get over it."

Do you really think so ?" I asked joyfully.


Decidedly I do, now. It has been a
sharp twinge, but the danger's over. You
see, when pain suddenly ceases, mortification
sometimes sets in, and I could not be sure.
But you will do this time, Mr. Lennard."

Lennard had little more to say ; and,
soon after the doctor left, I prepared to
follow him.

There's a trifle of salary due to me, Mr.
Strange," he whispered ; " that which has
been going on since Quarter Day. I suppose
you will not keep it from me ?"

Keep it from you ! No. Why should
I ? Do you want it at once ? You can
have it if you do."

Leonard looked up wistfully. " You do
not think of taking me back again ? You
will not do that ?"

Yes, I will. You and I shall understand
each other better than ever now."

The tears welled up to his eyes. He laid
his other hand — I had taken one — across
his face. I bent over him with a whisper.

What has passed to-night need never
be recurred to between us ; and I shall never
speak of it to another. We all have our
trials and troubles, Lennard. A very weighty
one is lying now upon me, though it is not
absolutely my own — brought upon me, you
see, as yours was. And it is worse than
yours."

Worse 1" he exclaimed, looking at me.

More dangerous in its possible consequences.
Now mind," I broke off, shaking
him by the hand, " you are not to attempt
to come to Essex Street until you are quite
strong enough for it. But I shall see you
here again on Monday, for I have two or
three questions to ask you as to some of the

4G— 2

matters that have transpired during my
absence. Good-night, Lennard ; keep up a
good heart ; you will outlive your trials yet."
And when I left him he was fairly sobbing.


DANGER.

■RS. Brighten was certainly
improving. When I reached her
house with Annabel on the following
day, Sunday, between one and two o'clock,
she was bright and cheerful, and came towards
the entrance-gates to meet us. She, moreover,
displayed interest in all we told her
of our honeymoon in the Isle of Wight,
and of the places we had visited. Besides
that, I noticed that she took water with her
dinner.

If she'll only keep to it," said Hatch,
joining me in her unceremonious fashion as I
strolled in the garden later, smoking a cigar.

Yes, Mr. Charles, she's trying hard to put
bad habits away from her, and I hope she'll
be able to do it."

I hope and trust she will !"

Miss Brightman went back to Hastings
the day after the wedding-day," continued
Hatch ; ^' but before she started she had a
long interview with my mistress, they two
shut up in missis's bedroom alone. For pretty
nigh all the rest of the day, my missis was
in tears, and she has not touched nothing
strong since."

Nothing at all !" I cried in surprise,
for it seemed too good to be true. " Why,
that's a fortnight ago ! More than a fortnight."


'well, it is so, Mr. Charles. Not but
that missis has tried as long and as hard
before now — and failed again."

It was Monday evening before I could
find time to go round to Lake's — and he did
not come to me. He was at home, poring
over some difficult law case by lamp-light.

Been in court all day, Charley," he

cried. " Have not had a minute to spare
for you."

^' About Tom ?" I said, as I sat down.
You seemed to say that you had more
unpleasantness to tell me."

Aye, about Tom," he replied, turning
his chair to face me, and propping his right
elbow upon his table. " Well, I fear Tom
is in a bad way."

In health, you mean ?"

''I do. His cough is frightful, and he
is more like a skeleton than a livings behoof.
I should say the illness has laid hold of his
lungs."

Has he had a doctor ?"

'' No. Asks how he is to have one. Says a
doctor might (they were his own words) smell
a rat. Doctors are not called in to the class
of people lodging in that house unless they
are dying : and it would soon be seen by any
educated man that Tom is not of their kind.
My opinion is, that a doctor could not do
him much good now," added Lake.

He looked at me as he spoke ; to see, I

suppose, whether I took in his full meaning.
I did — unhappily.

'' And what do you think he is talking of
now, Charles ?" returned Lake. " Of giving
himself up."

Giving himself up ! What, to justice ?"

Lake nodded. " You know what Tom
Heriot is — not much like other people."

But why should he think of that ? It
would end everything."

'* I was on the point of asking him why,"
said Lake. " Whether I should have had
a satisfactory answer, I cannot say ; I should
think he could not give one ; but we were
interrupted. Miss Betsy Lee came in."

^' Who ? What ?" I cried, starting from
my chair.

The young lady you told me of who
lives in Lambeth — Miss Betsy Lee. Sit
down, Charley. She came over to bring
him a pot of jelly."

Then he has let those people know where
he is Lake 1 Is he mad ?"

Mad as to carelessness," assented Lake.

I tell you Tom Heriot's not like other
people."

He will leave himself no chance."
She seems to be a nice, modest little
woman," said Lake ; " and I'll go bail her
visit was quite honest and proper. She had
made this jelly, she told Tom, and she and
her father hoped it would serve to strengthen
him, and her father sent his respects, and
hopes to hear that Captain Strange was
feeling better."

Well, Lake, the matter will get beyond
me," I said in despair. " Only a word
dropped, innocently, by these people in
some dangerous quarter, and where will
Tom be ?"

That's just it," said Lake. " Policeman
Wren is acquainted with them."
'' Did you leave the girl there ?"
No. Some rough man came into the
room smoking, and sat down, evidently with
the intention of making an evening of it ;
he lives in the same house and has made
acquaintance with Tom, or Tom with him.

So I said good-night, and the girl did the
same, and we went down together. ' Don't
you think Captain Strange looks very ill,
sir V said she as we got into the street.
^ I'm afraid he does,' I answered. ' I'm sure
he does, sir,' she said. ^ It's a woeful pity
that somebody should be coming upon him
for a big back debt just now, obliging him
to keep quiet in a low quarter !' So that is
what Tom has told his Lambeth friends,"
concluded Lake.

Lake gave me the address in Southwark,
and I determined to see Tom the next evening.
In that, however, I was disappointed.
One of our oldest clients, passing through
London from the country on his way to Pau,
summoned me to him on the Tuesday evening.

But I went on Wednesday. The stars
were shining overhead as I traversed the
silent street, making out Tom's lodoinofs. He
had only an attic bedroom, I found, and I
went ujD to it. He was partly lying across
the bed when I entered.

I almost thought even then that I saw

death written in his face. White, wan,
shadowy it looked ; much changed, much
worn from what it was three weeks before.
But it lighted up with a smile, as he got upto
greet me.

Halloa, Charley 1" cried he. '' Best
congratulations ! Made yourself into a respectable
man. All good luck to yourself
and madam. I'm thinking of coming to
Essex Street to pay the wedding visit."

Thank you," said I, " but do be serious.
My coming here is a hazard, as you know,
Tom ; don't let us waste in nonsense the few
minutes I may stay."

'' Nonsense !" cried Tom. " Why, do
you think I should be afraid to venture to
Essex Street ? — what nonsense is there in
that ? Look here, Charley 1"

From some box in a dark corner of the
room, he got out an old big blue cloak lined
with red, and swung it on. The collar, made
of some black curly wool, stood up above his
ears. He walked about the small room, exhibiting
himself

Would the sharpest officer in Scotland
Yard take me for anyone but old Major
Carlenn ?" laughed he. " I'm sure I look
like his double in this elegant cloak. It was
his, once."

His ! What, Major Carlenn's ?"

Just so. He made me a present of it."

'^ You have seen him, then !"

I sent for him," answered Tom, putting
off the old cloak and coughing painfully after
his recent exertion. '' I thought I should
like to see the old fellow ; I was not afraid
he'd betray me ; Carlenn would not do that ;
and I dropped a quiet note to his club,
taking the chance of his being in town."

Taking the chance ! Suppose he had
not been in town, Tom, and the note had
fallen into wrong hands — some inquisitive
waiter, let us say, who chose to open
it?"

Well — what then ? A waiter would
only turn up his nose at Mr. Dominic Turk,
the retired schoolmaster, and close up the
note again for the Major."

And what would Major Carlenn make of
Mr. Dominic Turk ?"

Major Carlenn would know my handwriting,
Charley."

And he came in answer to it ?"

He came : and blew me uj) in a loud
and awful fashion ; seemed to be trying to
blow the ceiling off. First, he threatened
to go out and bring in the police ; next, he
vowed he would go straight to Blanche and
tell her all. Finally, he calmed down and
promised to send me one of his cast-off
cloaks to disguise me, in case I had to go
into the streets. Isn't it a beauty ?"

^' Well, now, Tom, if you can be serious
for once, what is going to become of you,
and what is to be done ? I've come to
know."

Wish I could tell you ; don't know myself,"
said he lightly.

What was it you said to Lake about
giving yourself up ?"

Upon my word of honour, Charley, I
sometimes feel inclined to do it. I couldn't

be much worse off in prison than I am here.
Sick and sad, lad, needing comforts that can't
be had in such a place as this ; no one to see
after me, no one to attend to me. Anyway,
it would end the suspense."

I sat turning things about in my mind.
It all seemed so full of hazard. That he
must be got away from his present quarters
was certain. I told him so.

But you are so recklessly imprudent,
you see, Tom," I observed, ^' and it increases
the risk. You have had Miss Betsy Lee
here."

Tom fluno^ himself back with a lauofh.
'' She has been here twice, the good little
soul. The old man came once."

Don't you think you might as well take
up your standing tomorrow on the top of
the Monument, and proclaim yourself to the
public at large ? You try me greatly,
Tom I"

Try you because I see the Lees ! Come,
Charley, that's good. They are as safe as
you are."

^' In intention perhaps. How came you
to let them know you were to be found
here ?"

How came I ?" he carelessly rejoined.
Let's see ? Oh, I remember. One
evening when I was hipped, fit to die of it
all and of the confinement to this wretched
room, I strolled out. My feet took me to
the old ground — Lambeth — and to Lee's.
He chanced to see me, and invited me in.
Over some whisky and water, I opened out
my woes to them ; not of course the truth,
but as near as might be. Told them of a
curmudgeon creditor of past days that I
feared was coming down upon me, so that I
had to be in close hiding for a bit."

But you need not have told them
where."

Oh, they'll be cautious. Miss Betsy
was so much struck with my cough and my
looks that she said she should make some
jelly for me, of the kind she used to make
for her mother before she died ; and the
good little girl has brought me some over

here twice in a jar. They are all right,
Charley."

It was of no use contending with him.
After sitting a little time longer, I promised
that he should shortly see me again or hear
from me, and took my departure. Full of
doubt and trouble, I wanted to be alone,
to decide, if possible, what was to be
done.

What to do about Tom I knew not. That
he required nursing and nourishment, and
that he ought to be moved where he could
have it, was indisputable. But — the risk !

Three-parts of the night I lay awake,
thinking of different plans. None seemed
feasible. In the morning I was hardly fit
for my day's work, and set to it with unsteady
nerves and a worried brain. If I had only
someone to consult with, some capable man
who would help me ! I did think of Mr.
Serjeant Stillingfar ; but I knew he would
not like it, would probably refuse advice.
One who now and again sat in the position
of judge, sentencing men himself, would

scarcely choose to aid in concealing an
escaped convict.

I was upstairs in the dining-room at one
o'clock, taking luncheon with Annabel, when
the door was thrown back by Watts and
there loomed into the room the old blue
cloak with the red lining. For a moment I
thought it was the one I had seen the past
night in Southwark, and my heart leaped
into my mouth. Watts's quiet announcement
dispelled the alarm.

Major Carlenn, sir."

The Major unclasped his cloak after
shaking hands with us, and flung it across
the sofa, just as Tom had flung his on the
bed. I pointed to the cold beef, and asked
if he would take some.

Don't mind if I do, Charles," said he,
drawing a chair to the table : ^' I'm too
much bothered just now to eat as I ought.
A pretty kettle of fish this is, lad, that you
and I have had brought upon us !"

I gave him a warning look, glancing at
Annabel. The old fellow understood me —

VOL. in. 47

she had not been trusted with the present
trouble. That Tom Heriot had effected his
escape, Annabel knew ; that it was expected
he would make his way home, she knew ;
but that he had long been here, and was now
close at hand, I had never told her. Why
inflict upon her the suspense I had to endure ?

Rather a chilly day for the time of
year," observed the Major, as he coughed
down his previous words. ^' Just a little,
Mrs. Strange ; underdone, please."

Annabel, who carved at luncheon-time,
helped him carefully. " And what kettle
of fish is it that you and Charles are troubled
with. Major ?" she inquired, smiling.

^^ Ah — aw — don't care to say much about
it," answered the Major, more ready at an
excuse than I should have deemed him.
Blanche is up to her ears in anger against
Level ; says she'll get a separation from him,
and all that kind of nonsense. But you and
I may as well not make it our business,
Charles, I expect : better let married folk
fight out their own battles. And have you

heard from your Aunt Lucy yet, Mrs.
Strange ?" -

So the subject was turned off for the
time ; but down below, in my office, the
Major went at it tooth and nail, talking himself
into a fever. All the hard names in
the Major's vocabulary were hurled at Tom.
His original sin was disgraceful enough,
never to be condoned, said the Major ; but
his present imprudent procedure was worse,
and desperately wicked.

'^ Are Blanche and her husband still at
variance ?" I asked, when he had somewhat
cooled down on the other subject.

^^ They just are, and are likely to remain
so," growled the Major. " It's Blanche's
fault. Men have ways of their own, and
she's a little fool for wishing to interfere
with his. Don't let your wife begin that,
Charles ; it's my best advice to you. You
are laughing, young fellow ! Well, perhaps
you and Level don't row in quite the same
boat ; but you can't foresee the shoals you
may pitch into. No one can."

47 — 2

We were interrupted by Lennard, who
had come back on the previous day, pale
and pulled down by his sharp attack of
illness, but the same efficient man of business
as ever. A telegram had been delivered,
which he could not deal with without me.

'^ I'll be off, then," said the Major ; ^' I
suppose I'm only hindering work. And I
wish you well through your difficulties,
Charles," he added significantly. '' I wish
all of us well through them. Good-day,
Mr. Lennard."

The Major was ready enough to wish
that, but he could not suggest any means
by which it might be accomplished. I had
asked him ; and he confessed himself incompetent
to advise. " I should send him
off to sea in a whaling-boat and keep him
there," was all the help he gave.

Lennard stayed beyond time that evening,
and was ready in my private room to go over
certain business with me that had transpired
during my own absence. I could not give
the necessary attention to it, try as earnestly

as I would : Tom and his business kept
dancing in my brain to the exclusion of other
things. Lennard asked me whether I was
ill.

'' No," I answered ; " at least, not in
body." And as I spoke, the thought
crossed me to confide the trouble to Lennard.
He had seen too much trouble himself
not to be safe and cautious, and perhaps
he might suggest something.

^' Let Captain Heriot come to me," he
immediately said. '^ He could not be safer
anywhere. Sometimes we let our drawing-room
floor ; it is vacant now, and he can
have it. My wife and my daughter Charlotte
will attend to his comforts and nurse
him, if that may be, into health. It is the
best thing that can be done with him, Mr.
Charles."

I saw that it was, seeming to discern all
the advantages of the proposal at a grasp,
and accepted it. We consulted as to how
best to effect Tom's removal, which Lennard
himself undertook. I dropped a hasty note

to " Mr. Turk " to prepare him to be in
readiness the following evening, and Lennard
posted it when he went out. He had no
sooner gone, than the door of my private
room slowly opened, and, rather to my surprise,
Leah appeared.

I beg your pardon, sir, for presuming
to disturb you here," she said ; " but I can't
rest. There's some great trouble afloat ;
I've seen it in your looks and ways, sir, ever
since Sunday. Yom* face couldn't deceive
me when you were my little nursling.
Master Charles, and it can't deceive me
now. Is it about Mr. Tom ?"

Well, yes, it is, Leah."

Her face turned white. " He has not
got himself taken, surely !"

'' No ; it's not so bad as that — yet."

'' Thank Heaven for it !" she returned.
1 knew it was him, and I'm aU in a twitter
about him from morning till night. I can't
sleep or eat for dreading the news that any
moment may bring of him. It seems to me,
Mr. Charles, that one must needs be forever

in a twitter in this world ; before one
trouble is mended, another turns up. No
sooner am I a bit relieved about poor Nancy,
that unfortunate daughter of mine, than
there comes Mr. Tom."

The relief that Leah spoke of was this :
some relatives of Leah's former husband,
Nancy's father, had somehow got to hear of
Nancy's misfortunes. Instead of turning
from her, they had taken her and her cause
in hand, and had settled her and her three
children in a general shop in Hampshire
near to themselves, where she was already
beginning to earn enough for a good living.
The man who was the cause of all the mischief
had emigrated, and meant never to
return to Europe.

And Leah had taken my advice in the
matter, and disclosed all to Watts. He was
not in the least jut out by it, as she had
feared he would be ; only told her she was a
simpleton for not having told him before.

WITH MR. JONES.

^^Y DEAR CHARLES,— I parum
1 circularly wish you to come to
ci^^^s^T^-1-,^^ J ^Y^i^t some leo^al advice,

me.

and I would rather you acted for me than
anyone else. Come up this morning, please.
'' Your affectionate sister,

'' Blanche."

The above note, brought from Gloucester
Place on Monday morning by one of Lady
Level's servants, reached me before ten
o'clock. By the dashing character of the
handwriting, I judged that Blanche had
not been in the calmest temper when she
penned it.

Is Lord Level at home ?" I inquired of
the man Sanders.

'* No, sir. His lordship went down to
Marshdale yesterday evening. A telegram
came for him, and I think it was in consequence
of that he went."

I wrote a few words to Blanche, tellings
her I would be with her as soon as I could,
and sent it by Sanders.

But a lawyer's time is not always his
own. One client after another kept coming
in that morning, as if on purpose ; and it
was half-past twelve in the day when I
reached Gloucester Place.

The house in Gloucester Place was, and
had been for some little time now, entirely
rented by Lord Level of Major Carlenn.
The Major, when in London, had rooms in
Seymour Street, but lived chiefly at his club.

'' Her ladyship has gone out, sir," was
Sanders's greeting to me, when he answered
my ring at the door-bell.

'' Gone out r

'^ Just gone," confirmed Major Carlenn,

who was there, it seemed, and came forward
in the wake of Sanders. " Come in, Charles."

He turned into the dining-room, and I
after him. " Blanche ought to have waited
in," I remarked. " I have come up at the
greatest inconvenience."

'' She has gone off in a tantrum," cried
the Major, lowering his voice as he carefully
closed the door and pushed a chair towards
me, just as if the house were still in his
occupancy.

But where has she gone ?" I asked, not
taking the chair, but standing with my elbow
on the mantelpiece.

Who's to know ? To you, in Essex
Street, I shouldn't wonder. She was on the
heights of impatience at your not coming."

Not to Essex Street, I think. Major.
I should have seen her."

Nonsense ! There's fifty turnings and
windings between this and Essex Street,
where you might miss one another ; your
cab taking the straight way and she the
crooked," retorted the Major. " When

Blanche gets her back up, you can't easily
put it down."

'' Something has gone contrary, I expect."

'' Nothing has gone contrary but herself,"
replied the Major, who seemed in a
cross and contrary mood on his own part.
Women are the very deuce for folly."

Well, what is it all about, sir ? I suppose
you can tell me ?"

The Major sat down in Lord Level's easy-chair,
pushed back his cloak, and prepared
to explain.

What it's all about is just nothing,
Charles ; but so far as Madam Blanche's
version goes, it is this," said he. " They
were about to sit down, yesterday evening,
to dinner — which they take on Sundays at
five o'clock (good, pious souls !), and limit
their fare to roast beef and a tart — when a
telegram arrived from Marshdale. My lord
seemed jmt out about it ; my lady was no
doubt the same. ' I must go down at once,
Blanche,' said he, speaking on the spur of
the moment. ' But why ? Where's the

need of it ?' returned she. ' Surely there
can be nothing at Marshdale to call you
away on Sunday and in this haste V ' Yes
said he, ' there is ; there's illness.' And
then, Blanche says, he tried to cough down
the words, as if he had made a slip of the
tongue. ' Who is ill ?' said Blanche. ' Let
me see the telegram.' Level slid the telegram
into his pocket, and told her it was
Mr. Edwards, the old steward. Down he
sat again at the table, swallowed a mouthful
of beef, sent Sanders to put up a few things
in his small portmanteau, and was off in a
cab like the wind. Fact is," added the
Major, '' had he failed to catch that particular
train, he would not have got down
at all, being Sunday ; and Sanders says that
catching it must have been a near shave for
his lordship."

Is that all ?"

No. This morning there was delivered
here a letter for his lordship ; post-mark
Marshdale, handwriting* a certain Italian one
that Blanche has seen before. She has seen

the writer, too, it seems — a fair lady called
Nina. Blanche argues that as the letter
came from Marshdale, the lady must be at
Marshdale, and she means to know without
delay, she says, who and what this damsel
is, and what the tie may be that binds her
to Lord Level and gives her the right to
pursue him, as she does, and the power to
influence his movements, and to be at her
beck and call. The probability is," added
the shrewd Major, " that this person wrote
to him on the Saturday, but, being a
foreigner, was not aware that he would not
receive her letter on Sunday morning.
Finding that he did not arrive at Marsh-dale
on the Sunday, and the day getting on,
she despatched the telegram. That's how I
make it out, Charles ; I don't know if I am
right."

You think, then, that some Italian lady
is at Marshdale ?"

Sure of it," returned the Major. " I've
heard of it before to-day. Expect she lives
there, making journeys to her own land between

whiles, no doubt. The best and the
worst of us get homesick."

You mean that she Ives there in — in —
well, in a manner not quite orthodox, and
that Lord Level connives at it ?"

Connives at it !" echoed the old reprobate.
" Why, he is at the top and bottom
of it. Level's a man of the world, always
was, and does as the world does. And that
little ignorant fool, Blanche, ferrets out some
inkling of this, and goes and sets up a fuss !
Level's as good a husband to her as can
be, and yet she's not content ! Commend
me to foolish women ! They are all
alike !"

In his indignation against women in
general. Major Carlenn rose from his chair
and began striding up and down the room.
I was pondering on what he had said to me.

What right have wives to rake up particulars
of their husbands' private affairs ?"
he demanded fiercely. " If Level does go
off to Marshdale for a few days' sojourn now
and again, is it any business of Blanche's

what he goes for, or what he does there, or
whom he sees ? Suppose he chose to maintain
a whole menagerie of — of — Italian
monkeys there, ought Blanche to interfere
and make bones over it ?"

- But "

He does not offend her ; he does not
allow her to see that anything exists to offend
her : why, then, should she suspect this and
suspect that, and peep and peer after Level
as if she were a detective told off expressly
to watch his movements ?" continued the
angry man. " Only an ignorant girl would
dream of doing it. I am sick of her folly."

Well now. Major Carlenn, will you listen
to me for a moment ?" I said, speaking quietly
and calmly as an antidote to his heat. " I
don't believe this. I think you and Blanche
are both mistaken."

He brought himself to an anchor on the
hearth rug, and stared at me under his thick,
grizzled eyebrows. " What is it that you
don't believe, Charles ?"

'' This that you insinuate about Marsh-dale.

I have faith in Lord Level ; I like
Lord Level ; and I think you are misjudging
him."

Oh, indeed !" responded the Major. " I
suppose you know what a wild blade Level
always was ?"

In his early days he may have been.
But you may depend upon it that when
he married he left his wild ways behind
him."

All right, young Charles. And, upon
my word, you are pretty near as young in
the world's depths as Blanche herself is,"
was the Major's sarcastic remark. '' Do
you wish to tell me there's nothing up at
Marshdale, with all these mysterious telegrams
to Level, and his scampers back in
answer ? Come !"

I admit that there seems to be some
mystery at Marshdale. Something that we
do not understand, and that Lord Level
does not intend us to understand ; but I
must have further proof before I can believe
it is of any such nature as you hint it. Major.

For a long time past, Lord Level has appeared
to me like a man in trouble ; as if he
had some anxiety on his mind."

Well," acquiesced the Major equably,
^' and what can trouble a man's mind more
than the exactions of these foreign syrens ?
Let them be Italian, or Spanish, or French
what you will — they'll worry your life out
of you in the long-run. What does that
Italian girl do at Marshdale ?"

I cannot say. For my own part I do
not know that one is there. But if she be,
if there be a whole menagerie of Italian
ladies there, as you have just expressed it.
Major "

I said a menagerie of monkeys," he
growled.

Monkeys, then. But whether they be
monkeys or whether they be ladies, I feel
convinced that Lord Level is acting no unworthy
part — that he is loyal to his
wife."

You had better tell her so," nodded the
Major ; " perhaps she'll believe you. I told

VOL. III. 48

her the opposite. I told her that when
women marry gay and attractive men, they
must look out for squalls, and learn to shut
their eyes a bit in going through life. I
bade her bottle uj) her fancies, and let
Marshdale and her husband alone, and not
show herself a simpleton before the public."

'^ What did she say to that ?"

Say ? It was that piece of advice which
raised the storm. She burst out of the
room like a maniac, declaring she wouldn't
remain in it to listen to me. The next thing
was, I heard the street-door bang, and saw
my lady go out, putting on her gloves as
she went. You came up two minutes afterwards."


I was buried in thought ao-ain. He stood
staring at me, as if I had no business to
have any thought.

Look here, Major : one thing strikes me
forcibly : the very fact of Lord Level allowing
these telegrams to come to him openly
is enough to prove that matters are not as
you and Blanche suspect. If "

'^ How can a telegram come secretly ?"
interrupted the Major.

He would take care that they did not
come at all — to his house."

Oh, would he ?" cried the old reprobate.
I should like to know how he could hinder
it if any she-fiend chooses to send them."

Rely upon it he would hinder it. Level
is not one to be coerced against his will by
either man or woman. Have you any idea
how long Blanche will remain out ?"

'^ Just as much as you have, Charley.
She may remain away till night, for all I
know."

It was of no use, then, my staying longer ;
and time, that day, was almost as precious tome
as gold. Major Carlenn threw on his
cloak, and we went out together.

I should not wonder if my young lady
has gone to Seymour Street," remarked the
Major. ^' The thought has just occurred tome.


'' To your lodgings, you mean ?" I asked,
thinking it very unlikely.

48 — 2

Yes ; Mrs. Guy is there. The poor
old thing arrived from Jersey on Saturday.
She has come over on her usual errand — to
consult the doctors ; grows more ridiculously
fanciful as she grows older. You might just
look in upon her now, Charles ; it's close by :
and then you'll see whether Blanche is there
or not."

I spared a few minutes for it. Poor Mrs.
Guy looked very poorly indeed ; but she
was meek and mild as ever, and burst into
tears as I greeted her. Her ailments I
promised to go and hear all about another
time. Yes, Blanche was there. When we
went in, she was laughing at something
Mrs. Guy had said, and her indignation
seemed to have subsided.

I could not stay long. Blanche came outwith
me, thinking I should go back with
her to Gloucester Place. But that was
impossible ; I had already wasted more time
than I could well spare. Blanche was
vexed.

My dear, you should not have gone out

when you were expecting me. You know
how very much I am occupied."

Papa vexed me, and drove me to it,"
she answered. '' He said — oh, such wicked
things, that I could not and would not stay
to listen. And all the while I knew it was
not that he believed them, but that he wanted
to make excuses for Lord Level."

I did not contradict her. Let her retain,
an she could, some little veneration for her
step-father.

Charles, I want to have a long conversation
with you, so you must come to meas
soon as you can," she said. " I mean to
have a separation from my husband ; perhaps
a divorce, and I want you to tell me how I
must proceed in it. I did think of applying
to Jennings and Ward, Lord Level's solicitors,
but, perhaps, you will be best."

I laughed. " You don't suppose, do
you, Blanche, that Lord Level's solicitors
would act for you against him."

Now, Charles, you are speaking lightly ;
you are making game of me. Why do you

laugh ? I can tell you it is more serious
than you may think for ! and I am serious.
I have talked of this for a long time, and
now I till act. How shall I begin ?"

Do not begin at all, Blanche," I said,
with earnestness. " Do nothing. Were your
father living — were your mother living, they
would both give you this advice — and this
is not the first time I have enjoined it on
sou. Ah, my dear, you do not know — you
little guess what misery to the wife such a
climax as this which you propose would
involve."

Blanche had turned to the railings round
the interior of Portman Square, and halted
there, apparently looking at the shrubs. Her
eyes were full of tears.

On the other hand, Charles, you do
not know, you cannot guess, what I have
to bear — what a misery it makes of my
life."

^* Are you sure of the facts that make the
misery ?"

'^ Why, of course I am."

I think not, Blanche. I think you are
mistaken."

She turned to me in surprise. '' But I
cant be mistaken," she said. " How can I
be ? If Lord Level does not go to Marsh-dale
to — to — to see people, what does he go

for r

He may go for something quite different.
My dear, I have more confidence in your
husband than you have, and I think you are
Avrongf. I must be off: I've not another
moment ; but these are my last words to
you, Blanche. — Take no action. Be still.
Do nothing J'

By half-past four o'clock, the most
pressing of my work was over for the day,
and then I took a cab to Lincoln's Inn to
see Mr. Serjeant Stillingfar. He had often
said to me, good old uncle that he was:
Come to me always, Charles, when you are
in any legal doubt or difficulty, or deem that
my opinion may be of use to you." I was
in one of those difficulties now. Some remarkably
troublesome business had been laid

before me by a client ; I could not see my
way in it at all, and was taking it to Serjeant
Stillingfar.

The old chambers were just as they used
to be ; as they were on the day which the
reader has heard of, when I saw them for
the first time. Running up the stairs, there
sat a clerk at the desk in the narrow room,
where young Lake, full of impudence, had
sat that day, Mr. Jones's empty place beside
it now, as it was then.

Is the Serjeant in ?" I asked the clerk.

'' No, sir ; he's not out of Court yet. Mr.
Jones is in."

I went on to the inner room. Old Jones,
the Serjeant's own especial clerk, was writing
at his little desk in the corner. Nothing
was changed ; not even old Jones himself
He was not, to appearance, a day older, and
not an ounce bigger. Lake used to tell him
he would make his fortune if he went about
the country in a caravan and called himself
a consumptive lamp-j^ost.

My uncle is not back from Court, Graham

says," I observed to the clerk, after shaking
hands.

Not yet," he answered. " I don't think
he'll be honos. Sit down, Mr. Strano;-e."

I took the chair I had taken that first day
years ago, and waited. Mr. Jones finished
the writings he was about, arranged his
papers, and then came and stood with his
back to the fire, having kept his quill in his
hand. It must be a very hot day indeed
which did not see a fire in that grate.

If the Serjeant is not back speedily, I
think I must open my business to you, and
get your opinion, Mr. Jones," I said. " I
dare say you could give me one as well ashe."


Some complicated case that you can't
quite manage ?" he rejoined.

It's the most complicated, exasperating
case I nearly ever had brought to me," I
answered. ^' I think it is a matter more fora
detective officer to deal with than a
solicitor. If Serjeant Stillingfar says the
same, I shall throw it up."

Curious things, some of those detective
cases," remarked Mr. Jones, gently waving
his pen.

They are. I wouldn't have to deal
with them, as a detective, for the world.
Shall I relate this case to you ?"

He took out his watch and looked at it.
'^ Better wait a bit longer, Mr. Charles. I
expect the Serjeant ever" minute now."

Don't you wonder that my uncle continues
to work ?" I cried presently. " He
is old now. / should retire."

He is sixty-five. If you were not young
yourself, you would not call that old."

Old enough, I should say, for work to
be a labour to him."

A labour that he loves, and that he is
as capable of performing as he was twenty
years ago," returned old Jones. " No, Mr.
Charles, I do not wonder that he should
continue to work."

Did you know that he had been offered
a judgeship ?"

Old Jones laughed a little. I thought it

was as much as to say there was Utile which
concerned the Serjeant that he did not
know.

He has been offered a judgeship more
than once — had it pressed upon him, Mr.
Charles. The last time was when Mr.
Baron Charlton died."

Why ! that is only a month or two
ago !

Just about nine weeks, I fancy."

'' And he declined it ?"

'^ He declines them all."

'' But what can be his motive ? It would
give him more rest than he enjoys now "

I don't altogether know that," interrupted
the clerk. " The judges are very
much over-worked now. It would increase
his responsibility ; and he is one to feel that,
perhaps painfully."

You mean when he had to pass the
dread sentence of death. A new judge must
always feel that at the beginning."

I heard one of our present judges say —
it was in this room, too, Mr. Charles — that

the first time he put on the black cap he
never closed his eyes the whole night after
it. All the Bench are not so sensitive as
that, you know."

A thought suddenly struck me. '^ Surely,"
I cried, ^' you do not mean that that is the
reason for my uncle's refusing a seat on the
Bench !"

Not at all. He'd get over that in time,
as others do. Oh no ! that has nothing todo
with it."

*^ Then I really cannot see what can have
to do with it. It would give him a degree
of rest ; yes, it would ; and it would give
him rank and position."

But it would take from him half his
income. Yes, just about half, I reckon,"
repeated Mr. Jones, attentively regarding
the feather of the pen.

'' What of that ? He must be putting
by heaps and heaps of money — and he has
neither wife nor child to put by for,"

'' Ah !" said the clerk, " that is just how
we all are apt to judge of a neighbour's

business. Would it surprise you very much,
sir, if I told you that the Serjeant is not
putting by ?"

But he must be putting by. Or what
becomes of his money ?"

He spends it, Mr. Charles."

'' Spends it ! Upon what ?"

Upon other people."

]mr. Jones looked at me from across the
hearth rug, and I looked at him. The assertion
puzzled me.

'' It's true," he said with a nod. " You
have not forgotten that great calamity which
happened some ten or twelve years ago, Mr.
Charles ? That bank which went to pieces,
and broke up homes and hearts ? Fo^/?'
money went in it."

As if I could forget that !

The Serjeant's money, all he had then
saved, went in it," continued the clerk.
Mortifying enough, of course, but he was
in the full swing of his prosperity, and could
soon have replaced it. What he could not
so easily replace, Mr. Charles, was the money

he had been the means of placing in the
bank belonging to other people, and which
was lost. He had done it for the best. He
held the bank to be thoroughly sound and
prosperous ; he could not have had more
confidence in his own integrity than he had
in that bank ; and he had counselled friends
and others whom he knew, who were not as
well off as he was, to invest all they could
spare in it, believing he was doing them
a kindness. Instead of that, it ruined
them."

I thought I saw what the clerk was
coming to. After a pause, he want on :

'^ It is these people that he has been
working for, Mr. Charles. Some of them
he has entirely repaid — the money, you
know, which he caused them to lose. He
considered it his duty to recompense them,
so far as he could ; and to keep them, where
they needed to be kept, until he had effected
that. For those who were better off and
did not need present help, he put money by
as he could spare it, investing it in the funds

in their name : I dare say your name is
amongst them. That's what Mr. Serjeant
StiUingfar does with his income, and that's
why he keeps on working."

I had never suspected this.

I believe it is ahiiost accomplished now,"
said the clerk. '^ So nearly that I thought
he might, perhaps, have taken the judgeship
on this last occasion. But he did not.
Just a few months longer in harness, Jones,'

he said to me, ' and then V So I reckon

that we shall yet see him on the Bench, Mr.
Charles."

He must be very good."

^' Good !" echoed old Jones, with emotion ;
*' he is made of goodness. There are few
people like him. He would help the whole
world if he could. I don't believe there's
any man who has ever done a single service
for him of the most trifling nature but he
would wish to place beyond the reach of
poverty. ' I've put a trifle by for you,
Jones,' he said to me the other day, ' in case
you might be at a loss for another such place

as this when my tie's over.' And when I
tried to thank him "

Mr. Jones broke down. Bringing the
quill pen under his eyes, as if he suddenly
caught sight of a flaw thereon, I saw a drop
of water fall on to it.

Yes, Mr. Charles, he said that to me.
It has taken a load from my mind. When
a man is on the downhill of life and is not
sure of his future, he can't help being
anxious. The Serjeant has paid me a liberal
salary, as you may well guess, but he knows
that it has not been in my power to put by
a fraction of it. ' You are too generous
with your money, Serjeant,' I said to him
one day, a good while ago. * Ah no, Jones,
not at all,' he answered. ' God has prospered
me so marvellously in these later years,
what can I do but strive to prosper others ?'
Those were his very words."

And with these last words of Jones's our
conference came to an end. The door was
abruptly thrown open by Graham to admit
the Serjeant. Mr. Jones helped him off with

his wig and gown, and handed him the Httle
flaxen top that he wore when not on duty.
Then Jones, leaving the room for a few
moments, came back with a glass of milk,
which he handed to his master.

'' Would not a glass of wine do you more
good, uncle ?" I asked.

No, lad ; not so much. A glass of milk
after a hard day's work in Court refreshes
me. I never touch wine except at a dinner.
I take a little then ; not much."

Sitting down together when Mr. Jones
had again left us, I opened my business to
the Serjeant as concisely as possible. He
listened attentively, but made no remark
until the end.

Now go over it all again, Charles."

I did so : and this second time I was
repeatedly interrupted by remarks or questions.
After that we discussed the case.

^' I cannot see any reason why you should
not take up the matter," he said, when he
had given it a little silent consideration. '^ I
do not look upon it quite as you do ; I think

VOL. III. 49

you have formed a wrong judgment. It is
intricate at present ; I grant you that ; but
if you proceed in the manner I have suggested,
you will unravel it."

'' Thank you, Uncle Stillingfar. I can
never thank you enough for all your kindness
to mei(

Were you so full of anxiety over this
case ?" he asked, as we were shaking hands,
and I was about to leave. '' You look as
though you had a weight of it on your
brow."

And so I have, uncle ; but not about
this case. Something nearer home."

What is it ?" he returned, looking at
me.

'' It is Perhaps I had better not

tell it you."

I understand," he slowly said. '' Tom
Heriot, I suppose. Why does he not get

nil

away i

'' He is too ill for that at present : confined
to his room and his bed. Of course,
he does not run quite so great a risk as he

did when he persisted in parading the streets,
but danger is always imminent."

'' He ought to end the danger by getting
away. Very ill, is he ?"

So ill that I think danger will soon be
all at an end in another way ; it certainly
will be unless he rallies."

'' What is the matter with him ?"

*' I cannot help fearing that consumption
has set in."

Poor fellow ! Oh, Charles, how that
fine young man has spoilt his life ! Consumption
? — Wait a bit — let me think,"
broke oJ0P the Serjeant. " Why, yes, I
remember now ; it was consumption that
Colonel Heriot's first wife died of — Tom's
mother."

'^ Tom said so the last time I saw him."

^' Ah. He knows it, then. Better not
see him too often, Charles. You are running
a risk yourself, as you must be aware."

Yes ; I know I am. It is altogether a
trial. Good-day, uncle."

I shook hands with Jones as I passed

49 — 2

through his room, and ran do\Yn the stairs,
feeing all the better for my interview with
him and with his patron, Mr. Serjeant
Stillingfar.

AN ACCIDENT.

HE drawing-room floor at Lennard's
made very comfortable quarters for
Tom Heriot, and his removal from
the room in South work had been accomplished
without difficulty. Mrs. Lennard, a patient,
mild, weak woman, who could never have
been strong - minded, made him an excellent
nurse, her more practical and very
capable daughter, Charlotte, aiding her when
necessary.

A safer refuse could not have been found
in London. The Lennards were so often
under a cloud themselves as regarded pecuniary
matters, so beset at times by their

unwelcome creditors — the butcher, baker
and grocer — that the chain of their front
door was kept habitually fastened, and no
one was admitted within its portals without
being first of all subjected to a comprehensive
survey. Had some kind friend
made a rush to the perambulating policeman
of the district, to inform him that the
domicile of those Lennards was again in a
state of siege, he would simply have speculated
upon whether the enemy was this time
the landlord or the Queen's taxes. It chanced
to be neither ; but it was well for the besieged
to favour the impression that it was
one or the other, or both. Policemen do
not wage war with unfortunate debtors, and
Mr. Lennard's house was as safe as a remote
castle.

Mr. Brown " Tom was called there ;
none of the household, with the exception of
its master, having any idea that it was not
his true name. '' One of the gentlemen
clerks in Essex Street, who has no home
in London ; I have undertaken to receive

him while he is ill," Mr. Lennard had carelessly
remarked to his wife and daughters
before introducing Tom. They had unsuspecting
minds, except as regarded their
own creditors, those ladies — ladies always,
though fallen from their former state — and
never thought to question the statement, or
to be at all surprised that Mr. Strange himself
took an interest in his clerk's illness,
and paid an evening visit to him now and
then. The doctor who was called in, a hard-worked
practitioner named Purfleet, did his
best for " Mr. Brown," but had no time to
spare for curiosity about him in any other
way, or to give so much as a thought to his
antecedents.

And just at first, after being settled at
Lennard's, Tom Heriot seemed to be taking
a turn for the better. The warmth of the
comfortable rooms, the care given to him,
the strengthening diet, and perhaps a feeling
that he was in a safer asylum than he had yet
found, all had their effect upon him for good.

Hatch !" called out Mrs. Brightman.

Hatch ran in from the next room. " Yes,
ma'am."

Let Perry go and tell the gardener to
cut some of his best grapes, white and
purple, and do you arrange them in a
basket. I shall go up to Essex Street and
see my daughter this afternoon, and will
take them to her. Order the carriage for
half-past two o'clock."

Miss Annabel will be finely pleased to
see you, ma'am !" remarked Hatch.

Possibly so. But she is no longer Miss
Annabel. Go and see about the grapes."

When Mrs. Brightman's tones were cold
and haughty, and they sounded especially
sho just now, she brooked no dilatoriness in
those who had to obey her behests. Hatch
turned away immediately, and went along
talking to herself

She's getting cross and restless again.
I'm certain of it. In a week's time from
this we shall have her as bad as before. And
for ever so many weeks now she has been as

cautious and sober as a judge ! Hang the
drink, then ! Doctors may well call it a
disease when it comes to this stage with
people. Here — I say, Perry !"

The butler, passing along the hall, heard
Hatch's call, and stopped. She gave her
cap-strings a fling backwards as she advanced
to him.

You are to go and tell Church to cut a
basket of grapes, and to mix 'em, white and
black. The very best and ripest that is in
the greenhouse ; they be for Miss Annabel."

All right, I'll go at once," answered
Perry. " But you need not snap a man's
nose ofi*. Hatch, or look as if you were going
to eat him. What has put you out ?"

Enough has put me out ; and you might
know that, old Perry, if you had any sense,"
retorted Hatch. " When do I snap people's
noses ofl:* — which it's my tone, I take it, that
you mean — except I'm that bothered and
worried I can't speak sweet ?"

Well, what's amiss ?" asked Perry.

They were standing close together, and

Hatch lowered her voice to a whisper.
^' The missis is going off again ; I be certain
sure on't."

No r cried Perry, full of dismay. " But,
look here, Hatch " — suddenly diving into
one of his pockets — '' she can't have done
it ; here's the cellar-key. I can be upon
my word that there's not a drain of anything
out."

'' You always did have the brains of a
turkey, you know, Perry," was Hatch's
gracious rejoinder ; ^' and I'm tired of reminding
you of it. Who said missis had took
anything ? Not me. She haven't — yet.
As you observe, there's nothing up for her
to take. But she'll be ordering you to bring
something up before tomorrow's over ; perhaps
before to-day is."

Dear, dear 1" lamented the faithful servant.
" Don't you think you may be mistaken,
Hatch ? What do you judge by ?"

I judge by herself I've not lived with
my missis all these years without learning
to notice sirens and tokens. Her manner

to-day and her restlessness is just as plain
as the sun in the sky. I know what it
means, and you'll know it too, as soon as
she gives you her orders to unlock the
cellar."

'^ Can nothing be done?" cried the unhappy
Perry. " Could I lose the key of the cellar,
do you think, Hatch ? Would that be of
any good ?"

It would hold good just as long as you'd
be in getting a hammer and poker to break
it open with ; you've not got to deal with
a pack of schoolboys that's under control,"
was Hatch's sarcastic reproof " But I think
there's one thing we might try. Perry, and
that is, run round to Mr. Close and tell him
about it. Perhaps he could give her something
to stop the craving."

I'll go," said Perry. " I'll slip round
when I've told Church about the grapes."

And the carriage is ordered early —
half-past two ; so mind you are in readiness,"
concluded Hatch.

Perry went to the surgeon's, after delivering

his orders to the gardener. But Mr.
Close was not at home, and the man came
away again without leaving any message ;
he did not choose to enter upon the subject
with Mr. Dunn, the assistant. The latter
inquired who was ill, and Perry replied that
nobody was ; he had only come to steak a
private word to Mr. Close, which could wait.
In point of fact, he meant to call later.

But the curiosity of Mr. Dunn, who was
a very inquisitive young man, fonder of
attending to other people's business than of
doing his own, had been aroused by this.
He considered Perry's manner rather mysterious,
as well as the suppression of the
message, and he enlarged upon the account
to Mr. Close when he came in. Mr. Close
made no particular rejoinder ; but in his
own mind he felt little doubt that Mrs.
Brightman was breaking out again, and
determined to go and see her when he had
had his dinner.

Perry returned home, and waited on his
mistress at luncheon, quaking inwardly all

the time, as he subsequently confessed to
Hatch, lest she should ask him for something
that was not upon the table. However,
she did not do so ; but she was very
restless, as Perry observed ; ate little, drank
no water, and told Perry to bring her a cup)
of coffee.

At half-jDast two the carriage stood at the
gate, the silver on the horses' harness glittering
in the sun. Quickly enough appeared
the procession from the house. Mrs. Bright-man,
upright and impassive, walking with
stately step ; Hatch, a shawl or two upon
her arm, holding an umbrella over her mistress
to shade her from the sun ; Perry in the
background, carrying the basket of grapes.
Perry would attend his mistress in her drive,
as usual, but not Hatch.

The servants were placing the shawls and
the grapes in the carriage, and Mrs. Bright-man,
who hated anything to be done after
she had taken her seat, was waiting to enter
it, when Mr. Close, the surgeon, came
bustling \x\).

Going for a drive this fine day !" he
exclaimed, as he shook hands with Mrs.
Brightman. " I'm glad of that. I had
been thinking that perhaps you were not
well."

'' Why should you think so ?" asked she.

'^ Well, Perry was round at my place this
morning, and left a message that he wanted
to see me. I "

Mr. Close suppressed the remainder of
his speech as his gaze suddenly fell on Perry's
startled face. The man had turned from the
carriage, and was looking at him in helpless,
beseeching terror. A faithful retainer was
Perry, an honest butler ; but at a pinch his
brains were no better than what Hatch had
compared them with — those of a turkey.

Mrs. Brightman, her countenance taking
its very haughtiest expression, gazed first
at the doctor, then at Perry, as if demanding
what this might mean ; possibly, poor lady,
she had a suspicion of it. But Hatch, ready
Hatch, was equal to the occasion : she never
lost her presence of mind.

I told Perry he might just as well have
asked young Mr. Dunn for 'em, when he
came back without the drops," said she,
facing the surgeon and speaking carelessly.
Your not being in didn't matter. It was
some cough-drops I sent him for ; the same
as those you've let us have before, Mr.
Close. Our cook's cough is that bad, she
can't sleep at night, nor let anybody else
sleep that's within earshot of her room."

Well, I came round in a hurry, thinking-some
of you might be suffering from this
complaint that's going about," said Mr. Close,
taking up the clue in an easy manner.

'' That there spasmodic cholera," assented
Hatch.

Cholera ! It's not cholera. There's
nothing of that sort about," said the surgeon.
But there's a good bit of influenza ; I have
half a dozen patients suffering from it. A
spell of bright weather such as this, though,
will soon drive it away. And I'll send you
some of the drops when I get back. Hatch."

Mrs. Briof-htman advanced to the carriage :

the surgeon was at hand to assist her in.
Perry stood on the other side his mistress.
Hatch had retreated to the gate and was
looking on.

Suddenly a yell, as of something unearthly,
startled their ears. A fierce-looking
bull, frightened probably by the passers-by
on the road, and the prods given to it by the
formidable stick of its driver, had dashed
behind the carriage on to the foot-path, and
set up that terrible roar. Mr. Close looked
round, Perry did the same ; whilst Mrs.
Brightman, who was in the very act of getting
into her carriage, and whose nerves were
more sensitive than theirs, turned sharply
round also and screamed.

Again Hatch came to the rescue. She
had closed the umbrella and lodged it against
the pillar of the gate, for here they were
under the shade of trees. Seizing the umbrella
now, she opened it with a great dash
and noise, and rushed towards the bull,
pointing it menacingly. The animal, no
doubt more startled than they were, tore

away and gained the highroad again. Then
everyone had leisure to see that Mrs. Bright-man
was lying on the ground partly under
the carriage.

She must have fallen in turning round,
partly from fright, partly from the moving
of the carriage. The horses had also been
somewhat startled by the bull's noise, and
one of them began to prance. The coachman
had his horses well in hand, and soon
quieted them ; but he had not been able to
prevent the movement, which had no doubt
chiefly caused his mistress to fall.

They quickly drew her from under the
carriage and attempted to raise her ; but
she cried out with such tones of agony that
the surgeon feared she was seriously injured.
As soon as possible she was conveyed indoors
on a mattress. Another surgeon joined Mr.
Close, and it was found that her leg was
broken near the ankle.

When it had been set and the commotion
was subsiding. Perry was despatched to
Essex Street with the carriage and the

VOL. III. 50

bad news — the carriage to bring back
Annabel.

^' What was it you really came to my
surgery for, Perry ?" Mr. Close took an
opportunity of asking him before he started.

It was about my mistress, sir," answered
the man. " Hatch felt quite sure, by signs
and tokens, that Mrs. Brightman was going
to — to — be ill again. She sent me to tell
you, sir, and to ask if you couldn't give her
something to stop it."

Ah, I thought as much. But when I
saw you all out there, your mistress looking
well and about to take a drive, T concluded
I had been mistaken," said the surgeon.

I had run upstairs during the afternoon
to ask a question of Annabel, and was
standing beside her at the drawing-room
window, where she sat at work, when a
carriage came swiftly down the street, and
stopped at the door.

Why, it is mamma's !" exclaimed Annabel,
looking out.

But I don't see her in it," I rejoined.

*^ Oh, she must be in it, Charles. Perry
is on the box."

Perry was getting down, but was not
quite so quick in his movements as a shm
young footman would be. He rang the
door-bell, and I was fetched down to him.
In two minutes afterwards I had disclosed
the news to my wife, and brought Perry
upstairs that she might herself question
him. The tears were coursing down her
cheeks.

'^ Don't take on. Miss Annabel," said the
man, feeling quite too much lost in the bad
tidings to remember Annabel's new title.
There's not the least bit of danger, ma'am ;
Mr. Close bade me say it ; all is sure to goon
well."

Did you bring the carriage for me,
Perry ?"

Yes, ma am, I did. And it was my
mistress herself thought of it. When Mr.
Close, or Hatch — one of 'em it was, I don't
know which — told her they were going to

50—2

send me for you, she said, ' Let Perry take
the carriage Oh, ma'am, indeed she is
fully as well as she could be ; it was only at
first that she seemed faintish like."

Annabel went back in the carriage at
once. I promised to follow her as early in
the evening as I could get away. Relying
upon the butler's assurance that Mrs. Bright-man
was not in the slightest danger ; that,
on the contrary, it would be an illness of
weeks, if not of months, there was no necessity
for accompanying Annabel at an inconvenient
moment.

*^ It is, in one sense, the luckiest thing
that could have happened to her," Mr. Close
remarked to me that evening when we were
conversing together.

*' Lucky ! How do you mean ?"

Well, she must be under our control
now," he answered in significant tones, '' and
we were fearing, only to-day, that she was
on the point of breaking out again. A long
spell of enforced abstinence, such as this,
may effect wonders."

Of course, looking at it in that licht, the
accident might be called fortunate. '^ There's
a silver lining to every cloud."

Annabel took up her abode temporarily
at her mother's : Mrs. Brightman requested
it. I went down there of an evening —
though not every evening — returning to
Essex Street in the morning. Tom's increasing
illness kept me in town occasionally,
for I could not help going to see him,
and he was growing weaker day by day.
The closing features of consumption were
gaining upon him rapidly. To add to our
difficulties, Mr. Policeman Wren, who seemed
to follow Tom's changes of domicile in a very
ominous and remarkable manner, had now
transferred his beat from South work, and
might be seen pacing before Lennard's door
ten times a day.

One morning when I had come up from
Clapham and was seated in my own room
opening letters, Lennard entered. He closed
the door with a quiet, cautious movement,
and waited, without speaking.

Anything particular, Lennard ?"

Yes, sir ; I've brought rather bad news,"
he said. " Captain Heriot is worse."

Worse ? In what way ? But he is not
Captain Heriot, Lennard ; he is Mr. Brown.
Be careful."

We cannot be overheard," he answered,
glancing at the closed door. " He appeared
so exceedingly weak last night that I thought
I would sit up with him for an hour or two,
and then lie down on his sofa for the rest of
the night. About five o'clock this morning
he had a violent fit of coughing and broke a
blood-vessel."

What did you do ?"

I know a little of the treatment necessary
in such cases, and we got the doctor to
him as soon as possible. Mr. Purfleet does
not give the slightest hope now. In fact,
he thinks that a very few days more will
bring the ending."

I sat back in my chair. Poor Tom !
Poor Tom !

^'It is the best for him, Mr. Charles,"

spoke Lennard, with some emotion. 'better,
infinitely, than that of which he has been
running the risk. When a man's life is
marred as he has marred his, heaven must
seem like a haven of refuge to him."

'^ Has he any idea of his critical state ?"

Yes ; and, I feel sure, is quite reconciled
to it. He remarked this morning how
much he should like to see Blanche : meaning,
I presume. Lady Level."

Ah, but there are difficulties in the way,
Lennard. I will come to him myself, but
not until evening. There's no immediate
danger, you tell me, and I do not care to be
seen entering your house during the day
while he is in it. The big policeman might
be on the watch, and ask me what I wanted
there."

Lennard left the room and I returned to
my letters. The next I took up was a note
from Blanche. Lord Level was not yet back
from Marshdale, she told me in it ; he kept
writing miserable scraps of notes in which
he put her off with excuses from day to day.

always assuring her he hoped to be up on
the morrow. But she could see she was
being played with ; and the patience which,
in obedience to me and Major Carlenn, she
had been exercising, was very nearly exhausted.
She wrote this, she concluded by
saying, to warn me that it was so.

Truth to say, I did wonder what was
keeping Level at Marshdale. He had been
there more than a week now.

LAST Days.

^^OM HERIOT lay on his sofa in
Jwj ^^ his bedroom, the firelight 
inof on his faded face. This was
Monday, the third day since the attack
spoken of by Lennard, and there had not
been any return of it. His voice was stronger
this evening ; he seemed better altogether,
and was jesting, as he loved to do. Leah
had been to see him during the day, and he
was recounting one or two of their passages-alarms,
with much glee.

Charley, old fellow, you look as solemn
as a judge."

Most likely I did. I sat on the other

side the hearth rug, gazing as I listened to
him ; and I thought I saw in his face the
grayness that frequently precedes death.

Did you know that that giant of the
force, Wren, had his eye upon me, Charley ?"

No ! Why do you say so ?"

*well, I think he has — some suspicion,
at any rate. He parades before the house
like a walking apparition. I look at him
from behind the curtains in the other room.
He paraded in like manner, you know, before
that house in Southwark and the other one
in Lambeth."

It may be only a coincidence, Tom.
The police are moved about a good deal
from beat to beat, I fancy."

Perhaps so," assented Tom carelessly.
If he came in and took me, I don't think
he could do much with me now. He accosted
Purfleet to-day."

*^ Accosted Purfleet!"

Tom nodded. " After his morning visit
to me, he went dashing out of the street-door
in his usual quick way, and dashed

against Wren. One might think a regiment
of soldiers were always waiting to have their
legs and arms cut off, and that Purfleet had
to do it, by the way he rushes about," concluded
Tom.

Well r

' In a hurry this morning, doctor,' says
old Wren, who is uncommonly fond of hearing
himself talk. ' And who is it that's ill
at Mr. Lennard's ?' ' I generally am in a
hurry,' says Purfleet, * and so would you be
if you had as many sick people on your
hands. At Lennard's ? Why, that poor
sufferings daughter of his has had another
attack, and I don't know whether I shall
save her.' And, with that, Purfleet got
away. He related this to me when he came
in at tea-time."

A thought struck me. " But, Tom, does
Purfleet know that you are in concealment
here ? Or why should he have put his
visits to you upon Maria Lennard ?"

Why, how could he be off knowing it ?
Lennard asked him at first, as a matter of

precaution, not to speak of me in the neighbourhood.
Mr. Brown was rather under a
cloud just now, he said. I wouldn't mind
betting a silver sixpence, Charley, that he
knows I am Tom Heriot."

I wondered whether Tom was joking.

Likely enough," went on Tom. '' He
knows that you come to see me, and that
you are Mr. Strange, of Essex Street. And
he has heard, I'll lay, that Mr. Strange had
a wicked sort of half-brother, one Captain
Heriot, who fell into the fetters of the law
and escaped them, and — and may be the
very Mr. Brown who's lying ill here. Pur-fleet
can put two and two together as cleverly
as other people, Charles."

If so, it is frightfully hazardous "

^^Not at all," interrupted Tom with
equanimity. "He'd no more betray me,
Charley, than he'd betray himself Doctors
don't divulge the secrets of their patients ;
they keep them. It is a point of honour in
the medical code : as well as of self-interest.
What family would call in a man who was

known to run about saying the Smiths next
door had veal for dinner to-day, and they
ought to have had mutton ? If no more
harm reaches me than any brought about by
Purfleet, I am safe enough."

It might be as he said. And I saw that
he would be incautious to the end.

At that moment Mrs. Lennard came in
with something in a breakfast-curd. '^ You
are a good lady," said Tom gratefully. ^^ See
how they feed me up, Charley !"

But for the hollow tones, the hectic flush
and the brilliant eyes, it might almost have
been thought he was getting better. The
cough had nearly left him, and the weakness
was not more apparent than it had been fora
week past. But that faint, deep, far-away
sounding voice, which had now come on,
told the truth. The close was near at
hand.

After Mrs. Lennard had left the room
with the empty cup, Tom lay back on the
sofa, put his head on the pillow, and in a
minute or two seemed to be asleep. Presently

I moved gently across the hearth-rug
to fold the warm, light quilt upon his
knees. He opened his eyes.

You need not creep, Charley. I am
not asleep. I had a regular good sleep in
the afternoon, and don't feel inclined for it
now. I was thinking about the funeral."

The funeral !" I echoed, taken back.
Whose funeral ?"

'' Mine. They won't care to lay me by
my mother, will they ? — I mean my own
mother. The world might put its inquisitive
word in, and say that must be Tom
Heriot, the felon. Neither you nor Level
would like that, nor old Carlenn either."

I made no answer, uncertain what to
say.

^' Yet I should like to lie by her," he went
on. '^ There was a large vault made, when
she died, to hold the three of us — herself,
my father and me. They are in it ; I should
like to be placed with them."

Time enough to think of that, Tom,
when — when — the time comes," I stammered.

LAST DAYS. 191

The time's not far off now, Charley."
Two nights ago, when I was here, you
assured me you were getting better."

Well, I thought I might be ; there are
such ups and downs in a man's state. He
will appear sick unto death to-day, and tomorrow
be driving down to a whitebait
dinner at Greenwich. I've changed my
opinion, Charley ; I've had my warning."

^' Had your warning 1 What does that
mean ?

I should like to see Blanche," he
whispered. " Dear little Blanche ! How
I used to tease her in our young days, and
Leah would box my ears for it ; and I teased
you also, Charley. Could you not bring her
here, if Level would let her come ?"

'' Tom, I hardly know. For one thing,
she has not heard anything of the past
trouble, as you are aware. She thinks you
are in India with the regiment, and calls
you a very undutiful brother for not writing
to her. I suppose it might be managed."

Dear little Blanche !" he repeated.

^' Yes, I teased her — and loved her all the
time. Just one visit, Charley. It will bethe
last until we meet upon the eternal
shores. Try and contrive it."

I sat thinking how it might be done — the
revelation to Blanche, bringing her to the
house, and obtaining the consent of Lord
Level ; for I should not care to stir in it
without his consent. Tom appeared to bethinking
also, and a silence ensued. It was
he who broke it.

'^ Charles !"

*' Yes ?"

Do you ever recall events that passed in
our old life at White Littleham Rectory ?
do any of them lie in your memory ?"

I think all of them lie in it," I answered.
'' My memory is, you know, a remarkably
good one."

'' Ay," said Tom. And then he paused
again. " Do you recollect that especial
incident when your father told us of his
dream ?" he continued presently. '' I picture
the scene now ; it has been present to my

mind all day. A frosty winter morning,
icicles on the trees and frosty devices on the
window-panes. You and I and yom father
seated round the breakfast-table ; Leah
pouring out the coffee and cutting bread
and butter for us. He appeared to be in
deep thought, and when I remarked upon it,
and you asked him what he was thinking
of, he said his dream. D'you mind it,
lad ?"

I do. The thing made an impression
on me. The scene and what passed at it
are as plain to me now as though it had
happened yesterday. After saying he was
thinking of his dream, he added, in a dubious
tone, * If it twas a dream.' Mr. Penthorn
came in whilst he was telling it.

'^ He was fast asleep ; had gone to bed in
the best of health, probably concocting
matter for next Sunday's sermon," resumed
Tom, recalling the facts. " Suddenly, he
awoke at the sound of a voice. It was his
late wife's voice ; your mother, Charley.
He was wide awake on the instant, and

VOL. III. 51

knew the voice for hers ; she appeared to
be standing at the bedside."

But he did not see her," I put in.

No ; he never said he saw her," replied
Tom Heriot. " But the impression was
upon him that a figure stood there, and that
after speaking it retreated towards the
window. He got up and struck a light and
found the room empty, no trace of anyone's
having been in it. Nevertheless he could
not get rid of the belief, though not a superstitious
man, that it was his wife who came
to him."

In the spirit."

In the spirit, of course. He knew her
voice perfectly, he said. Mr. Penthorn
rather ridiculed the matter ; saying it was
nothing but a vivid dream. I don't think
it made much impression uj^on your father,
except that it puzzled him."

I don't think it did," I assented, my
thoughts all in the past. " As you observe,
Tom, he was not superstitious ; he had no
particular belief in the supernatural."

No ; it faded from all our minds with
the day — Leah's perhaps excepted. But
what was the result ? On the fourth night
afterwards he died. The dream occurred on
the Friday morning a little before three
o'clock ; your father looked at his watch
when he got out of bed and saw that it wanted
a quarter to three. On Tuesday morning
at a quarter to three he died in his study,
into which he had been carried after his
accident."

All true. The circumstances, to me, were
painful even now.

Well, what do you make of it, Charles ?"

^' Nothing. But I don't quite understand
your question."

Do you think his wife really came to
him ? — That she was permitted to come
back to earth to warn him of his approaching
death ?"

I have always believed that. I can
hardly see how anyone could doubt it."

Well, Charley, I did. I was a graceless,
light-headed young wight, you know, and

51—2

serious things made no impression on me.
If I thought about it at all, it was to put it
down to fancy ; or a dream, as Mr. Penthorn
said ; and I don't believe I've ever had the
thing in my mind from that time to this."

^* And why should it come back to you
now ?" I asked.

*^ Because," answered Tom, " I think I
have had a similar warning."

He spoke very calmly. I looked at him.
He was sitting upright on the sofa now, his
feet stretched out on a warm wool footstool,
the quilt lying across his knees, and
his hands resting upon it.

What can you mean, Tom ?"

'' It was last night," he answered ; " or,
rather, this morning. I was in bed, and
pretty soundly asleep, for me, and I began
to dream. I thought I saw my father come
in through the door, that one opening to
the passage, cross the room and sit down by
the bedside with his face turned to me. I
mean my own father. Colonel Heriot. He
looked just as he used to look ; not a day

older ; his fine figure erect, his bright, wavy
hair brushed off his brow as he always wore
it, his blue eyes smiling and kindly. I was
not in the least surprised to see him ; his
coming in seemed to be quite a matter of
course. ' Well, Thomas,' he began, looking
at me after he had sat down ; ^ we have
been parted for some time, and I have
much to say to you.' ' Say it now, papa,' I
answered, going back in my dream to the
language of childhood's days. ^ There's not
time now,' he replied ; ' we must wait a
little yet ; it won't be long, Thomas.' Then
I saw him rise from the chair, re-cross the
room to the door, turn to look at me with a
smile, and go out, leaving the door open. I
awoke in a moment ; at the very moment, I
am certain ; and for some little time I could
not persuade myself that what had passed
was not reality. The chair in which he had
sat stood at the bedside, and the door was
wide open."

But I suppose the chair had been there
all night, and that someone was sitting up

with you ? Whoever it was must have opened
the door."

^' The chair had been there all night,"
assented Tom. " But the door had not been
opened by human hands, so far as I can
learn. It was old Faith's turn to sit up
last night — that worthy old soul of a servant
who has clung to the Lennards through all
their misfortunes. Finding that I slept
comfortably. Faith had fallen asleep too in
the big chair in that corner behind you.
She declared that the door had been firmly
shut — and I believe she thought it was I
who had got up and opened it."

It was a dream, Tom."

^* Granted. But it was a warning. It
came — nay, who can say it was not he who
came ? — to show me that I shall soon be with
him. We shall have time, and to spare, to
talk then. I have never had so vivid a
dream in my life ; or one that so left behind
it the impression that it had been reality."

^' Well "

Look here," he interrupted. '' Your

father said, if you remember, that the visit
paid to him, whether real or imaginary, by
his wife, and the words she spoke, had revived
within him his recollections of her voice,
which had in a slight degree begun to fade.
Well, Charles, I give you my word that I
had partly forgotten my father's appearance ;
I was only a little fellow when he died ; but
his visit to me in my dream last night has
brought it back most vividly. Come, you
wise old lawyer, what do you say to that ?"

I don't know, Tom. Such things are, I
suppose."

*' If I got well and lived to be a hundred
years old, I should never laugh at them
again."

'' Did you tell Leah this when she was
here to-day ?"

^^ Ay ; and of course she burst out crying.
Take it as it's meant, Master Tom,' said
she, ' and prepare yourself It is your warning.'
Just as she had told your father,
Charles, that that other was his warning.
She was right then ; she is risfht now."

You cannot know it. And you must
not let this trouble you."

'' It does not trouble me," he answered
quickly. " Rather the contrary, for it sets
my mind at rest. I have had little hope of
myself for some time past ; I have had none,
so to say, since that sudden attack a few
nights ago ; nevertheless, I won't say but a
grain of it may have still deluded me now
and again. Rope is the last thing we part
with in this world, you know, lad. But this
dream-visit of my father has shown me the
truth beyond all doubt ; and now I have
only to make my packet, as the French say,
and wait for the signal to start."

We talked together a little longer, but my
time was up. I left him for the night and
apparently in the best of spirits.

Lennard was alone in his parlour when
I got downstairs. I asked him whether
he had heard of this fancy of Tom's about
the dream.

Yes," he answered. '^ He told me about
it this evening, when I was sitting with him

after tea ; but he did not seem at all depressed
by it. I don't think it matters much
either way," added Lennard thoughtfully,
for the end cannot be far off now."

He has an idea that Purfleet guesses
who he really is."

But he has no grounds for saying it,"
returned Lennard. " Purfleet heard when
he was first called in that ' Mr. Brown '
wished to be kept en cachette, if I may so
put it ; but that he should guess him to be
Captain Heriot is quite improbable. Because
Captain Heriot is aware of his own
identity, he assumes that other people must
needs be aware of it."

One might trust Purfleet not to betray
him, I fancy, if he does guess it ?"

'that I am sure of," said Lennard warmly.
He is kind and benevolent. Most medical
men are so from their frequent contact with
the dark shades of life, whether of sickness
or of sorrow. As to Purfleet, he is too hard-worked,
poor man, to have much leisure for
speculating upon the affairs of other people."

Wren is still walking about here."
Yes ; but I think he has been put upon
this beat in the ordinary way of things,
not that he is looking after anyone in particular.
Mr. Strange, if he had any suspicion
of Captain Heriot in Lambeth, he
would have taken him ; he would have taken
him again when in South work ; and he would,
ere this, have taken him here. Wren appears
to be one of those gossiping men who
must talk to everybody ; and I believe that
is all the mystery."

Wishing Lennard good - night, I went
home to Essex Street, and sat down to write
to Lord Level. He would not receive the
letter at Marshdale until the following afternoon,
but it would be in time for him to
answer me by the evening post.

LAST WORDS.

HE next day, Tuesday, I was very
busy, hurrying forward to get
down to ClajDliam in time for
dinner in the evening. Lennard's report in
the morning had been that Captain Heriot
was no worse, and that Mr. Purfleet, who
had paid him an early visit, said there might
be no change for a week or more.

In the afternoon I received a brief note
from Mr. Serjeant StilKngfar, asking me to
be in Russell Square the following morning
by eight o'clock : he wished to see me very
particularly.

Knowing that when he named any special

hour he meant it, and that he expected
everyone who had dealings with him to be
as punctual as himself, I came up to town
on the Wednesday morning, and was at his
house a few minutes before eight o'clock.
The Serjeant was just sitting down to
breakfast.

Will you take some, Charles ?" he
asked.

'' No, thank you, uncle. I have just
come ap from Clapham, and breakfasted
before starting."

^' How is Mrs. Brightman going on ?"

'' Quite well. It will be a long job, the
doctors say, from something unusual connected
with the fracture, but nothing
dangerous."

'' Sit down, Charles," he said. " And tell
me at once. Is Captain Heriot," lowering his
voice, " in a state to be got away ?"

The words did not surprise me. The
whole night it had been in my mind that
the Serjeant's mandate concerned Tom
Heriot.

^' No ; it would be impossible," I answered.
'' He has to be moved gently, from bed to
sofa, and can only walk, if he attempts it at
all, by being helped on both sides. Three
or four days ago, a vessel on the lungs
broke ; any undue exertion would at once
be fatal."

Then, do I understand you that he is
actually dying ?"

'^ Undoubtedly he is, sir. I was with
him on Monday night, and saw in his face
the gray hue which is the precursor of death.
I am sure I was not mistaken "

^^ That peculiar hue can never be mistaken
by those who have learnt from sad experience,"
he interrupted dreamily.

He may linger on a few days, even a
week or so, I believe the doctor thinks, but
death is certainly on its road ; and he must
die where he is, Uncle Stillingfar. He cannot
be again moved."

The Serjeant sat silent for a few moments.
"It is very unfortunate, Charles," he resumed.
" Could he have been got away it

would be better for him, better for you all.
Though, in truth, it is not I who ought to
suggest it, as you well know ; but sometimes
one's private and public duties oppose each
other."

Have you heard anything, uncle ?"

I have heard from a sure source that
the authorities know that Captain Heriot is
in London. They know it positively : but not,
I think, where he is concealed. The search
for him will now commence in earnest."

It is, indeed, unfortunate. I have been
housing he would be left to die in peace.
One thing is certain : if the police find him
they can only let him remain where he is.
They cannot remove him."

Then nothing can be done : things must
take their course," sighed the Serjeant.
You must take precautions yourself,
Charles. Most probably the movements
of those connected with him will now be
watched, in the hope that they may afford
a clue to his hiding-place."

'' I cannot abandon him, Uncle Stillingfar.

I must see him to the end. We have been
as brothers, you kno^Y. He wants to see
Blanche, and I have written about it to
Lord Level."

'' Well, well, I cannot advise ; I wish I
could," he replied. " But I thought it my
duty to let you know this."

A few days will, in any case, see the
ending," I whispered as I bade him goodbye.
" Thank you for all your sympathy,
uncle."

My boy, there is One above," raising
his hand reverently, " who has more-pity
for us than we have for one another. He
can keep him in peace yet. Don't forget
that, Charles."

To my office, then, and the morning letters.
Amidst them lay [Lord Level's answer.
Some of its contents surprised me,

Marshdale House,

Tuesday Evening.

Dear Charles,

If you like to undertake the
arrangement of the visit you propose, do

SO. I have no objection. For some little
time now I have thought that it might
be better that my wife should know the
truth. You see she is, and has been, liable
to hear it at any moment through some
untoward revelation, for which she would
not be prepared ; and the care I have taken
to avoid this has not only been sometimes
inconvenient to myself, but misconstrued by
Blanche. When we were moving about
after our marriage, I kept her in unfrequented
places, as far as I could, to spare
her the chance of this ; men's lips were full
of it just then, as you know. Blanche
resented that bitterly, putting it all down to
some curious purposes of my own. Let her
hear the truth now. I am not on the spot
to impart it to her myself, and shall be glad
if you will do so. Afterwards you can take
her to see the invalid. I am sorry for what
you say of his state. Tell him so : and that
he has my sympathy and best wishes.

'' Blanche has been favouring me lately
with some letters Written in anything but a

complimentary strain. One that I received
this morning coolly informs me that she is
about to * Take immediate stej^s to obtain a
formal separation, if not a divorce.' I am
not able to travel to London and settle
things with her, and have written to her to
tell her to come here to me. The fact is, I
am ill. Strange to say, the same sort of
low fever which attacked me when I was at
Marshdale last autumn has returned upon
me now. It is not as bad as it was then,
but I am confined to bed. Spare the time
to bring Blanche down, there's a good fellow.
I have told her that you will do so. Come
on Thursday if convenient to you, and remain
the night. She shall hear what I have
to say to her ; after that, she can talk of a
separation if she likes. You shall hear it also.
'' Ever truly yours,

Level."

Whilst deliberating ujjon the contents of
this letter, and how I could best carry out
its requests, Lennard came in, as usual on

VOL. in. 52

his arrival for the day, to give me his report
of Tom Heriot. There was not any apparent
change in him, he said, either for the better
or the worse. I informed Lennard of what
I had just heard from the Serjeant.

Then I despatched a clerk to Gloucester
Place with a note for Blanche, telling her I
should be with her early in the evening, and
that she must not fail to be at home, as my
business was important.

Twilight was falling when I arrived.
Blanche sat at one of the windows in the
drawing-room, looking listlessly into the
street in the fading light. Old Mrs. Guy,
who was staying with her, was lying on the
dining-room sofa, Blanche said, having retired
to it and fallen asleep after dinner.

How lovely Blanche looked ; but how
cross ! She wore a pale blue silk, her
favourite colour, with a gold necklace and
open bracelets, from which drooped a heart
set with sapphires and diamonds ; and her
fair, silken hair looked as if she had been
impatiently pushing it about.

''I know what you have come for, Charles,"
she said in fretful tones, as I sat down near
her. " Lord Level prepared me in a letter
I received from him this morning."

Indeed !" I answered lightly. " What
did the preparation consist of?"

I wrote to him," said Blanche. " I
have written to him more than once, telling
him I am about to get a separation. In
answer, my lord commands me down to
Marshdale " — very resentful! v — " and says
you are to take me down."

All quite right, Blanche ; quite true, sofar.
But "

But I don't know that I shall go. I
think I shall not go."

A wife should obey her husband's commands."


'' I do not intend to be his wife any longer.
And you cannot wish me to be, Charles ;
you ought not to wish it. Lord Level's
conduct is simply shameful. What right
has he to stay at Marshdale — amusing himself
down there ?"

52 — 2

'' I fancy he cannot help staying there at
present. Has he told you he is ill ?"

She glanced quickly round at me.

Has he told you that he is so ?"

'^ Yes, Blanche ; he has. He is too ill to
travel."

She paused for a moment, and then tossed
back her pretty hair with a scornful hand.

^' And you believed him ! Anything for
an excuse. He is no more ill than J am,
Charles ; rely upon that."

^' But I am certain "

^' Don't go on," she interrupted, tapping
her dainty black satin slipper on the carpet ;
a petulant movement to which Blanche was
given, even as a child. '' If you have come
for the purpose of whitening my husband tome,
as papa is always doing, I will not listen
to you."

You will not listen to any sort of reasoning
whatever. I see that, my dear."

Reasoning, indeed !" she retorted. " Say
sophistry."

Listen for an instant, Blanche ; consider

this one little item : I believe Lord Level to
be ill, confined to his bed with low fever, ashe
tells me ; you refuse to believe it ; you
say he is well. Now, considering that he
expects us both to be at Marshdale tomorrow,
can you not perceive how entirely, ridiculous
void of purpose it would be for him to say
he is seriously ill if he is not so ?"

^' I don't care," said my young lady. ^^ He
is deeper than any fox."

'' Blanche, my opinion is, and you are
aware of it, that you misjudge your husband.
Upon one or two points I knoiv you do.
But I did not come here to discuss these
unpleasant topics — you are in error there,
you see. I came upon a widely different
matter : to disclose something to you that
will very greatly distress you, and I am
grieved to be obliged to do it."

The words changed her mood. She looked
half frightened.

Oh !" she burst forth, before I had time
to say another word. 'ris it my husband ?
You say he is ill ! He is not dead ?"

My dear, be calm. It is not about your
husband at all. It is about some one else,
though, who is very ill — Tom Heriot."

Grieved she no doubt was ; but the relief
that crept into her face, tone and attitude
proved that the one man was little to
her compared with the other, and that she
loved her husband yet with an impassioned
love.

By degrees, softening the facts as much
as possible, I told the tale. Of Tom's apprehension
about the time of her marriage ; his
trial which followed close upon it ; his conviction,
and departure for a penal settlement ;
his escape ; his return to England ; his concealments
to evade detection ; his illness ;
and his present state. Blanche shivered and
cried as she listened, and finally fell uj^on
her knees, and buried her face in the cushions
of the chair.

And is there no hope for him, Charles ?"
she said, looking up after a while.

My dear, there is no hope. And, under
the circumstances, it is happier for him to

die than to continue to live. But he would
like to see you, Blanche."

Poor Tom ! Poor Tom ! Can we goto
him now — this evening ?"

'' Yes ; it is what I came to propose. It
is the best time. He "

'' Shall I order the carriage ?"

The interruption made me laugh. My
Lord Level's state carriage and powdered
servants at that poor fugitive's door !

My dear, we must go in the quietest
manner. We will take a cab as we walk
along, and get out of it before turning into
the street where he is lying. Change this
blue silk for one of the plainest dresses that
you have, and wear a close bonnet and a
veil."

Oh, of course ; I see. Charles, I am
too thoughtless."

Wait an instant," I said, arresting her
as she was crossing the room. '' I must
return for a moment to our controversy
touching your husband. You complained
bitterly of him last year for secluding you in

dull, remote parts of the Continent, and
especially for keeping you away from
England. You took up the notion, and
proclaimed it to those who would listen to
you, that it was to serve his own purposes.
Do you remember this ?"

^' Well ?" said Blanche timidly, her colour
coming' and Q^oingf as she stood with her
hands on the table. " He did keep me away ;
he did seclude me."

^' It was done out of love for you, Blanche.
Whilst your heart felt nothing but reproach
for him, his was filled with care and consideration
for you ; where to keep you, how
to guard you from hearing of the disgrace
and trouble that had overtaken your brother.
We knew — I and Mr. Brightman — Lord
Level's motive ; and Major Carlenn knew. I
believe Level would have given years of his
life to save you from the knowledge always
and secure you peace. Now, Blanche, my
dear, as you perceive that, at least in that
one respect, you misjudged him then, do sou
not think you may be misjudging him still ?"

She burst into tears. " No, I don't think
so," she said. ^' I wish I could think so.
You know that he maintains some dreadful
secret at Marshdale ; and that — that —
wicked Italians are often staying there —
singers perhaps ; I shouldn't wonder ; or
ballet-dancers — anyway, people who can have
no right and no business to be there. You
know that one of them stabbed him — Oh
yes, she did, and it was a woman with long
hair."

^' I do not know anything of the kind."
^' Charles, you look at me reproachfully,
as if the blame lay with me instead of him.
Can't you see what a misery it all is for me,
and that it is wearing my life away ?" she
cried passionately, the tears falling from her
eyes. " I would rather die than separate
from him, if I were not forced to it by
the goings on at that wretched Marshdale.
What will life be worth to me, parted from
him ? I look forward to it with a sick dread.
Charles, I do indeed ; and now, when I
know — what — is perhaps — coming "

Blanche suddenly crossed her arms upon
the table, hid her face upon them, and sobbed
bitterly.

^^ What is perhaps coming ?"

I'm afraid it is, Charles."

'' But what is ?"

An heir, perhaps."

It was some moments before I took in the
sense of the words. Then I laughed.

'' Oh well, Blanche ! Of course you ought
to talk of separation with that in prospect !
Go and put your things on, you silly child :
the evening is wearing away."

And she left the room.

Side by side on the sofa, Blanche's fair
head pillowed upon his breast, his arm
thrown round her. She had taken off her
bonnet and mantle, and was crying quietly.

'' Be calm, my dear sister. It is all for
the best."

Tom, Tom, how came you to do it ?"

^' I didn't do it, my dear one. That's
where they were mistaken. I should be no

more capable of doing such a thing than you
are.

Then why did they condemn you — and
say you were guilty ?"

They knew no better. The guilty man
escaped, and I suffered."

But why did you not tell the truth ?
Why did you not accuse him to the
judge ?"

I told the judge I was innocent ; but
that is what most prisoners say, and it made
no impression on him," replied Tom. " For
the rest, I did not understand the affair as
well as I did after the trial. All had been so
hurried ; there was no time for anything.
Yes, Blanche, you may at least take this
solitary bit of consolation to your heart —
that I was not guilty."

And that other man, who was ?" she
asked eagerly, lifting her face. '' Where is
he ?"

Flourishing," said Tom. " Driving about
the world four-in-hand, no doubt, and taking
someone else in as he took me."

Blanche turned to me, looking haughty
enough.

^' Charles, cannot anything be done to expose
the man ?" she cried. Tom spoke
again before I could answer.

It will not matter to me then, one way
or the other. But, Charley, I do sometimes
wish, as I lie thinking, that the truth might
be made known and my memory cleared.
I was reckless and foolish enough, heaven
knows, but I never did that for which I was
tried and sentenced."

Now, since we had been convinced of Tom
Heriot's innocence, the question whether it
would be possible to clear him before the
world had often been in my mind. Lake
and I had discussed it more than once. It
would be difficult, no doubt, but it was just
possible that time might place some advantage
in our hands and open up a way to us.
I mentioned this now.

Ay, difficult enough, I dare say," commented
Tom. " With a hundred barriers in
the way — eh, Charley ?"

*' The chief difficulty would lie, I believe, in
the fact you acknowledged just now, Tom —
your own folly. People argue — they argued
at the time — that a young man so reckless
as you were would not stick at a trifle."

Just so," replied Tom with equanimity.
I ought to have pulled up before, and — I
did not. Well ; you know my innocence,
and now Blanche knows it, and Level knows
it, and old Carlenn knows it ; you are about
all that are near to me ; and the public must
be left to chance. There's one good man,
though, I should like to know it, Charles,
and that's Serjeant Stillingfar."

He knows it already, Tom. Be at ease
on that score."

Does he think, I wonder, that my
memory might ever be cleared ?"

He thinks it would be easier to clear
you than it would be to trace the guilt to its
proper quarter ; but the one, you see, rests
upon the other. There are no proofs, that
we know of, to bring forward of that man's
guilt ; and "

'' He took precious good care there should
be none," interrupted Tom. '' Let Anstey
alone for protecting himself."

Just so. But — I was going to say —
the Serjeant thinks you have one chance in
your favour. It is this : The man, Anstey,
being what he is, will probably fall into some
worse crime which cannot be hidden or hushed
up. When conviction overtakes him, he
may be induced to confess that it was he,
and not Captain Heriot, who bore the lion's
share in that past exploit for which you
suffered. Rely upon this, Tom — should any
such chance of clearing your memory present
itself, it will not be neglected. I shall be on
the watch always."

There was silence for a time. Tom was
leaning back, pale and exhausted, his breath
was short, his face gray, wan and wasted.

Has Leah been to see you ?" Blanche
asked him.

Yes, twice ; and she considers herself
very hardly dealt by that she may not come
here to nurse me," he replied.

^' Could she not be here ?"

I shook ray head. " It would not be safe,
Blanche. It would be running another risk.
You see, trouble would fall upon others as
well as Tom, were he discovered now : upon
me, and more especially upon Lennard."

^* They would be brought to trial for concealing
me, just as I was brought to trial fora
different crime," said Tom lightly. " Our
English laws are comprehensive, I assure
you, Blanche. Poor Leah says it is cruel
not to let her see the end. I asked her
what good she'd derive from it."

Blanche gave a sobbing sigh. " How can
you talk so lightly, Tom ?"

'^ Lightly !" he cried, in apparent astonishment.
'' I don't myself see very much that's
light in that. When the end is at hand,
Blanche, why ignore it ?"

She turned her face again to him, burying
it upon his arm, in utmost sorrow.

*^ Don't, Blanche 1" he said, his voice
trembling. " There's nothing to cry for ;
nothing. My darling sister, can't you see

what a life mine has been for months past :
pain of body, distress and apprehension of
mind ! Think what a glorious change it will
be to leave all this for Heaven !"

Are you sure of going there, dear ?" she
whispered. " Have you made your peace ?"

Tom smiled at her. Tears were in his
own eyes.

I think so. Do you remember that
wonderful answer to the petition of the thief
on the cross ? The promise came back to
him at once, on the instant : ' Verily, I say
unto thee, To-day shalt thou be with Me in
Paradise.' He had been as much of a sinner
as I, Blanche."

Blanche was crying softly. Tom held her
to him.

^' Imagine," he said, " how the change
must have broken on that poor man. To
pass from the sorrow and suffering of this
life into the realms of Paradise ! There
was no question as to his fitness, you see, or
whether he had been good or bad ; all the
sin of the past was condoned when he took



his humble appeal to his Redeemer : ' Lord,
remember me when Thou comest into Thy
kingdom !' Blanche, my dear, I know that
He will also remember me."

VOL. III.



DOWN AT Marshal.

T was Thursday morning, the day
on which Blanche Level was to
travel to Marshdale. She sat in
her dining-room at Gloucester Place, her
fingers busy over some delicate fancy-work,
her thoughts divided between the sad interview
she had held with Tom Heriot the
previous night, and the forthcoming interview
with her husband ; whilst her attention
was partially given to old Mrs. Guy, who
sat in an easy-chair by the hire, a thick plaid
shawl on her shoulders and her feet on the
fender, recounting the history of an extraordinary
pain which had attacked her in the

night. But as Mrs. Guy rarely passed a
night without experiencing some extraordinary
pain or other, Blanche listened
absently.

It is the heart, my dear ; I am becoming
sure of that," said the old lady. '^ Last
year, if you remember, the physician put it
down to spleen ; but when I go to him tomorrow
and tell him of this dreadful oppression,
he will change his opinion."

^^ Don't you think you keep yourself too
warm ?" said Blanche, who looked so cool
and fresh in her pretty morning dress.
'' That shawl is heavy, and the fire is warm ;
yet it is still quite summer weather."

Ah, child, you young people call it
summer weather all the year round if the
sun only shines. When you get to be my
age, Blanche, you will know what cold
means. I dare say you'll go flying ofl* to
Marshdale this afternoon in that gossamer
dress you have on, or one as thin and
flowing."

No, I shan't," laughed Blanche ; '' it

53 — 2

would be tumbled and spoilt by the time
I got there. I shall go in that pretty
new gray cashmere, trimmed with silk
brocade."

^' That's a lovely dress, child ; too good
to travel in. And you tell me you will be
back tomorrow. I don't think that very
likely, my dear "

But I intend to be," interrupted Blanche.

You will see," nodded the old lady.
** When your husband gets you there, he
will keep you there. Give my love to him,
Blanche, and say I hope he will be in town
before I go back to Jersey. I should like
to see him."

Blanche was not paying particular attention
to this message. Her attention was
attracted by a telegraph boy, who seemed
to be approaching the door. The next
moment there was a loud knock, which
made Mrs. Guy start. Blanche explained
that it was a telegram.

'' Oh, dear," cried the old lady. '' I don't
like telegrams ; they always give me a turn.

Perhaps it's come from Jersey to say my
house is burned down."

The telegram, however, had come from
Marshdale. It was addressed to Lady
Level, and proved to be from her husband.

Do not come to Marshdale to-day. Put
it off until next tveeJi. I am writing to you.
Wait for letter. Let Charles knoiv."

Now my Lady Level, staring at the
message, and beings in chronic resentment
against her husband, all sorts of unorthodox
suspicions rife within her, put the worst
possible construction upon this mandate.

I kneiv how much he would have me at
Marshdale 1" she exclaimed in anger, as she
tossed the telegram on the table. " ^ Don't
come down till next week ! Wait for letter !'
Yes, and next week there'll come another
message, telling me I am not to go at all, or
that he will be back here. It is a shame 1"

But what is it ?" cried old Mrs. Guy,
who did not understand, and knew nothing

of any misunderstanding between Blanche
and her husband. " Not to go, you say ?
Is his lordship ill ?"

Oh, of course ; very ill, indeed," returned
Blanche, suppressing the scorn she
felt.

Putting the telegram into an envelope,
she addressed it to me, called Sanders, and
bade him take it at once to my office.
He did so. But I had also received one
to the same effect from Lord Level, who, I
suppose, concluded it best to send to me
direct. Telling Sanders I would call on
Lady Level that evening, I thought no
more about the matter, and was glad, rather
than otherwise, that the journey to Marsh-dale
was delayed. This chapter, however,
has to do with Blanche, and not with me.

Now, whether the step that Lady Level
took had its rise in an innocent remark made
by Mrs. Guy, or whether it was the result
of her own indignant feeling, cannot be told.
My dear," said the old lady, " if my husband
were ill, I should ofo to him all the

more." And that was just what Blanche
Level resolved to do.

The previous arrangement had been that
she should drive to my office, to save me
time, pick me up, and so onwards to Victoria
Station, to take the four o'clock train, which
would land us at Marshdale in an hour.

'' My dear, I thought I understood that
you were not going to Marshdale ; that the
telegram stopped you," said Mrs. Guy,
hearing Blanche give orders for the carriage
to be at the door at a quarter past three
to convey her to Victoria, and perceiving
also that she was making preparations fora
journey.

But I intend to go all the same," replied
Blanche. " And look here, dear Mrs. Guy,
Charles has sent me word that he will call
here this evening. When he comes, please
give him this little note. You won't forget
?"

Not I, child. Major Carlenn is always
telling me I am silly ; but I'm not silly
enough to fors-et messao-es."

The barouche waited at the door at the
appointed time, and Lady Level was driven
to Victoria, where she took train for Marsh-dale.
Five o'clock was striking out from
Lower Marshdale Church when she arrived
at Marshdale Station.

Get out here, miss ?" asked the porter,
who saw Lady Level trying to open the
door.

Yes."

'' Any luggage ?"

Only this bag," replied Lady Level.

The man took charge of it, and she
alighted. Traversing the little roadside
station, she looked to where the fly generally
stood ; but no fly was there. The
station-master waited for her ticket.

Is the fly not here ?" she inquired.

Seems not," answered the master indifferently.
But as he spoke he recognised
Lady Level.

I beg your pardon, my lady. The fly
went off with some passengers who alighted
from the last up-train ; it's not back yet."

Will it be long, do you know ?"

Well — I James," he called to the

porter, '' where did the fly go to ?"

Over to Dimsdale," replied the man.

^' Then it won't be back for half an hour
yet, my lady," said the station-master to
Lady Level.

^' Oh, I can't wait all that time," she
returned, rather impatiently. " I will walk.
Will you be good enough to send my bag
after me ?"

I'll send it directly, my lady."

She was stepping from the little platform
when a thought struck her, and she turned
to ask a question of the station-master.
Is it safe to cross the fields now ? I
remember it was said not to be so when I
was here last."

On account of Farmer Piggot's bull,"
replied he. '' The fields are quite safe now,
my lady ; the bull has been taken away."

Lady Level passed in at the little gate,
which stood a few yards down the road, and
was the entrance to the field-way which led

to Marshdale House. It was a warm evening,
calm and sunny ; not a leaf stirred ; all
nature seemed at rest.

*' What will Archibald say to me ?" she
wondered, her thoughts busy. " He will
fly into a passion, perhaps. I can't help it
if he does. I am determined now to find
out why I am kept away from Marshdale
and why he is for ever coming to it. This
underhand work has been o-oinof on too
long."

At this moment, a whistle behind her,
loud and shrill, caused her to turn. She
was then crossing the first field. In the
distance she espied a boy striding towards
her : and soon recognised him for the surly
boy, Sam Doughty. He carried her bag,
and vouchsafed her a short nod as he came
up.

'' How are you, Sam ?" she asked pleasantly.


^' Didn't think about its being you," was
Sam's imperturbable answer, as he walked
on beside her. " When they disturbs me at

my tea and says I must go right off that
there same moment with a passenger's bag
for Marshals House, I took it to be my
lord's at least."

Did they not let you finish your tea ?"
said Lady Level with a smile.

'' Catch 'em' retorted Sam, in a tone of
resentment. " Catch 'em a letting me stop
for a bite or a sup when there's work to do ;
no, not if I was starving for 't. The master,
he's a regular stinger for being down upon a

fellow's work, and t'other's a 1 say,"

broke off Mr. Sam, " did you ever know a
rat ? — one what keeps ferreting his nose into
everything as don't concern him ? Then
you've snowed James Run."

James Runnn is the porter, I suppose ?"
said Lady Level, much amused.

Well, he is, and the biggest sneak as
ever growed. What did he go and do last
week ? We had a lot o' passengers to get
off by the down train to Dover, the people
from the Grange it were, and a sight o'
trunks. I'd been helping to stow the things

in the luo-o-aofe-van, and the footman, as he
was getting into his second-class carriage,
holds out a shilling, ogden handed. I'd got
my fingers upon it, I had, when that there
James Runnn, that rascally porter, clutches
hold of it and says it were meant for him,
not for me. I wish he was gone, I do !"

The bull is gone, I hear," remarked
"Cfady Level.

Oh, he have been 2fone this honos time
from here," replied the boy, shifting the bag
from one shoulder to the other. ^' He took
to run at folks regular, he did ; such fun it
were to hear 'em squawk ! One old woman
in a red shawl he took and tossed. Mr.
Hewett up at the House interfered then,
and told Farmer Pio^sfot the bull must be
moved ; so the farmer put him over yonder
on t'other side his farm into the two-acre
meadow, which haven't got no right o' way
through it. I wish he had tossed that
there James Runnn first and done for him !"
deliberately avowed Sam, again shifting his
burden.

You appear to find that bag heavy,"
remarked Lady Level.

It's not that heavy, so to say," acknowledged
the surly boy ; " it's that I be famishing
for my tea. Oh, that there Runnn's
vicious, he is ! — a sending me off when I'd
hardly took a mouthful !"

Well, I could not carry it myself," she
said laughingly.

He might ha' brought it ; he had swallowed
down his own tea, he had. It's not
so much he does — just rushes up to the
doors o' the trains when they comes in, on
the look out for what may be give to him,
making believe he's letting folks in and out
o' the carriages. I see my lord give him a
shilling t'other day ; that I did."

'^ When my lord arrived here, do you

03)

mean f

No, 't wasn't that day, 't were another.
My lord comes on to the station asking
about a parcel he were expecting of Mr.
Noakes, he were gone to his dinner, and
that there Runnn answered my lord that he

Lady Level laughed. It was impossible
to help it. Sam's tone was so intensely
wrathful.

Do you see much of Lord Level ?" she
asked.

I've not see'd him about for some days.
It's said he's ill."

'' What is the matter with him ?"

'^ Don't know," said Sam. " It were Dr.
Hill's young man, Mitcham, I heard say it.
Mother sent me last night to Dr. Hill's
for her physic, and Mr. Mitcham he said he
had not been told naught about her physic,
but he'd ask the doctor when he came back
from attending upon my Lord Level."

Is your mother ill ?" inquired Sam's
listener.

She be that bad, she be, as to be more
fit to be a-bed nor up," replied the boy : and
his voice really took a softer tone as he

spoke of his mother. '^ It were twins this
last time, you see, and there's such a lot todo
for 'em all, mother can't spare a minute
in the day to lie by : and father's wages
don't go so fur as they did when there was
less mouths at home."

How many brothers and sisters have
you f

Five," said Sam, '' not counting the
twins, which makes seven. I be the eldest,
and I makes eight. And, if ever I does
get a shilling or a sixpence give me, I
takes it right home to mother. I wish
them there two twins had kejDt away,"
continued Sam spitefully ; '' mother had her
hands full without them. Squalling things
they both be."

Thus, listening to the boy's confidences,
Lady Level came to the little green gate
which opened to the side of the garden at
Marshdale House. Sam carried the bag to
the front door. No one was to be seen.
All things, indoors and out, seemed intensely
quiet.

You can put it down here, Sam," said
Lady Level, producing half-a-crown. " Will
you give this to your mother if I give it to
you ?

'' I always gives her everything as is
give to me," returned Sam resentfully. ^' I
felled ye so."

Slipping it into his pocket, the boy set
off again across the fields. Lady Level rang
the bell gently. Somehow she was not feeling
so well satisfied with herself for having
come as she felt when she started. Deborah
opened the door.

^^ Oh, my lady !" she exclaimed in surprise,
but speaking in a whisper.

My bag is outside," said Lady Level,
walking forward to the first sitting-room,
the door of which stood open. Mrs. Edwards
met her.

Dear, dear !" exclaimed the old lady,
lifting: her hands. '' Then Snow never sent
those messages off properly after all ! My
lady, I am sorry you should have come."

^' I thought I was expected, Mrs. Edwards,

and Mr. Strange with me," returned Blanche
coldly.

True, my lady, so you were ; but a
telegram was sent off this morning to stop
you. Two telegrams went, one to your
ladyship and one to Mr. Strange. It was I
gave the order from my lord to Snow, and I
thought I might as well send one also to
Mr. Strange, though his lordship said nothing
about it."

But why was I stopped ?" questioned
Blanche.

On account of Qiy lord's increased illness,"
replied Mrs. Edwards. " He grew
much worse in the night ; and when Mr.
Hill saw how it was with him this morning,
he said your ladyship's visit must be put off.
Mr. Hill is with him now."

Of what nature is his illness ?"

My lady, he has not been very well
since he came down. When he oft here
we remarked that he seemed low-spirited.
In a few days he began to be feverish, and
asked me to get him some lemonade made.

VOL. III. 5-4:

Quarts of it he drank : cook protested
there'd be a failure of lemons in the village.
It is last year's fever back again,' said his
lordship to me, speaking in jest. But,
strange to say, he might as well have
spoken in earnest, for it turns out to be the
same sort of fever precisely."

Is he very ill ?"

'' He is very ill indeed to-day," answered
Mrs. Edwards. '' Until this morning it
was thought to be a light attack, no danger
attending it, nor any symptom of delirium.
But that has all changed, and this afternoon
he is slightly delirious."

'* Is there — danger ?" cried Blanche.

'' Mr. Hill says not, my lady. Not yet,
at all events. But — here he is," broke off
Mrs. Edwards, as the doctor's step was
heard. " He will be able to explain more of
the illness to your ladyship than I can."

She left the room as Mr. Hill entered it.
The same cheerful, hearty man that Blanche
had known last year, with a fine brow and
benevolent countenance. Blanche shook

hands with him, and he sat down near
her.

So you did not get the telegram," he
began, after greeting her.

I did get it," answered Blanche, feeling
rather ashamed to be obliged to confess it.
'' But I — I was ready, and I thought I would
come all the same."

'at is a jDity," said Mr. Hill. 'you
must not let your husband see you. Indeed,
the best thing you can do weill be to go back
again."

But why ?" asked Blanche, turning
obstinate. " What have I done to him that
he may not see me ?"

You don't understand, child," said the
surgeon, speaking in his fatherly way. " His
lordship is in a critical state, the disease
having manifested itself with alarming rapidity.
If he can be kept perfectly calm
and still, its progress may be arrested and
danger averted. If not, it will assuredly
turn to brain-fever and must run its course.
Anything likely to rouse him in the smallest

54—2

degree, no matter whether it be pleasure or
pain, must be absolutely kept from him.
Only the sight of you might bring on an
excitement that might be — well, I was going
to say fatal. That is why I suggested to
his lordship to send off the telegram."

You knew I was coming down, then ?"
said Blanche.

My dear, I did know ; and But,

bless me, I ought to apologize to your ladyship
for my familiarity of speech," broke off
the kindly doctor, with a smile.

Blanche answered by smiling too, and
putting her hand into his.

I lost a daughter when she was about
your age, my dear ; you put me in mind of
her ; I said so to Mrs. Edwards when you
were here last autumn. She was my only
child, and my wife was already gone. Well,
well ! But that's beside the present question,"
he added briskly. '' Will you go back
to town. Lady Level ?"

'' I would rather remain, now I am here,"
she answered. '' At least, for a day or two.

I will take care not to show myself to Lord
Level."

Very well," said the doctor, rising. " Do
not let him either hear you or see you. I
shall be in aofain at nine to-niofht."

Who is nursing him ?" asked Blanche.

Mrs. Edwards. She is the best nurse
in the world. Snow, the head gardener,
helps occasionally ; he will watch by him tonight
; and Deborah fetches and carries."

Lady Level took contrition to herself as
she sat alone. She had been mentally accusing
her husband of all sorts of things,
whilst he was really lying in peril of his life.
Matters and mysteries pertaining to Marsh-dale
were not cleared up ; but — Blanche
could not discern any particular mystery towage
war with just now.

Tea was served to her, and Blanche would
not allow them to think of dinner. Mrs.
Edwards had a room prepared for her in a
different corridor from Lord Level's, so that
he would not be in danger of hearing her
voice or footsteps.

Very lonely felt Blanche when twilight
fell, as she sat at the window. She thought
she had never seen trees look so melancholy
before, and she recalled what Charles Strange
had always said — that the sight of trees in
the gloaming caused him to be curiously depressed.
Presently, wrapping a blue cloud
about her head and shoulders, she strolled
out of doors.

It was nearly dark now, and the overhanging'
trees made it darker. Blanche
strolled to the front gate and looked up and
down the road. Not a soul was about ; nota
sound broke the stillness. The house behind
her was gloomy enough ; no light to be
seen save the faint one that burnt in Lord
Level's chamber, whose windows faced this
way ; or a flash that now and then appeared
in the passages from a lamp carried by someone
moving about.

Blanche walked up and down, now in this
path, noY/ in that, now sitting on a bench
to think, under the dark trees. By-and-by,
she heard the front door open and someone

come down the path, cross to the side path,
unlock the small door that led into the garden
of the East Winof and enter it. By the very
faint light remaining, she thought she recognised
John Snow, the gardener.

She distinctly heard his footsteps pass up
the other garden ; she distinctly heard the
front door of the East Wing open to admit
him, and close again. Prompted by idle
curiosity, Blanche also approached the little
door in the wall, found it shut, but not locked,
opened it, went in, advanced to where she
had full view of the wing, and stood gazing
up at it. Like the other part of the house,
it loomed out dark and gloomy : the upper
windows appeared to have outer bars before
them ; at least, Blanche thought so. Only
in one room was there any light.

It was in a lower room, a sitting-room, no
doubt. The lamp, standing on the centre
table, was bright ; the window was thrown
up. Beside it sat someone at work ; crochet-work,
or knitting, or tatting ; something or
other done with the fingers. Mrs. Snow

amusing herself, thought Blanche at first ;
but in a moment she saw that it was not Mrs.
Snow. The face was dark and handsome,
and the black hair was adorned with black
lace. With a sensation as of some mortal
agony rushing and whirling through her
veins. Lady Level recognised her. It was
Nina, the Italian.

Nina, who had been the object of her
suspicious jealousy ; Nina, who was, beyond
doubt, the attraction that drew her husband
to Marshdale ; and who, as she fully believed,
had been the one to stab him a year ago !

Blanche crept back to her own garden.
Finding instinctively the darkest seat it contained,
she sat down upon it with a faint cry
of despair.

X THE EAST WING.

HAT will not a jealous and angry
woman do ? On the next morning
(Friday) Blanche Level, believing
herself to be more ignominiously
treated than ever wife was yet, despatched a
couple of telegrams to London, both of them
slightly incomprehensible. One of the telegrams
was to Charles Strange, the other to
Arnold Ravensworth ; and both where to the
same effect — they must hasten down to
Marshdale to her " protection " and 'rescue."
And Mr. Ravensworth was requested to
bring his wife.

She will be some little countenance forme

; I'm sm^e I dare not think how I must
be looked upon here," mentally spoke my
Lady Level in her glowing indignation.

Lord Level was better. When Mr. Hill
paid his early visit that Friday morning, he
pronounced him to be very much better ;
and John Snow said his lordship had passed
a quiet night. ''If we can only keep him
tranquil to-days and to-night again, there
will be no further danger from the fever,"
Mr. Hill then observed to Lady Level.

The day went on, the reports from the
sick-room continuing favourable : my lord
was lying tranquil, his mind clear. My
lady, down below, was anything but tranquil
: rather she felt herself in a raging
fever. In the evening, quite late, the two
gentlemen arrived from London, not having
been able to come earlier. Mrs. Ravens-worth
was not with them ; she could not
leave her delicate baby. Lady Level had
given orders for chambers to be prepared.

After they had partaken of refreshments,
which brought the time to ten o'clock,

Lady Level opened upon her grievances —
past and present. Modest and reticent
though her language still was, she contrived
to convey sundry truths to them. From
the early days of her marriage she had unfortunately
had cause to suspect Lord Level
of disloyalty to herself and of barefaced
loyalty to another. Her own eyes had seen
him more than once with the girl called
Nina at Pisa ; had seen him at her house,
sitting side by side with her in her garden
smoking and talking — had heard him address
her by her Christian name. This woman,
as she positively knew, had followed Lord
Level to England ; this woman was harboured
at Marshdale. She was in the house
now, in its East Wing. She, Blanche, had
seen her there the previous evening.

Mr. Ravensworth's severe countenance
took a stern expression as he listened ; he
believed every word. Charles Strange (I
am not speaking just here in my own person)
still thought there might be a mistake somewhere.
He could not readily take up so

bad an opinion of Lord Level, although circumstances
did appear to tell against him.
His incredulity irritated Blanche.

'' I will tell you, then, Charles, what I
have never disclosed to mortal man," she
flashed forth, in a passionate whisper, bending
forward her pretty face, now growing
whiter than death. '' You remember that
attack upon Lord Level last autumn. You
came down at the time, Arnold "

Yes, yes. What about it ?"

'' It was that woman who stabbed him !"

Neither spoke for a moment. '' Nonsense,
Blanche !" said Mr. Strange.

But I tell you that it was. She was in
night-clothes, or something of that kind, and
her black hair was falling about her ; but I
could not mistake her Italian face."

Mr. Ravensworth did not forget Lady
Level's curious behaviour at the time ; he
had thought then she suspected someone
in particular. " Are you sure f" he asked
her now.

I am sure. And you must both seethe

danger I may be in whilst here," she
added, with a shiver. '' That woman may
try to stab me, as she stabbed him. She
must have stabbed him out of jealousy,
because I — her rival — was there."

You had better quit the house the first
thing in the morning. Lady Level, and
return to London," said Mr. Ravensworth.

That I will not do," she promptly answered.
'^ I will not leave Marshdale until
these shameful doings's are investigated ; and
I have sent for you to act on my behalf and
bring them to light. No longer shall the
reproach be perpetually cast upon me by
papa and Charles Strange, that I complain
of my husband without cause. It is my
turn now."

That something must be done, in justice
to Lady Level, or at least attempted, they
both saw. But what, or how to set about
it, neither of them knew. They remained
in consultation together honors after Blanche
had retired to rest.

We will go out at daybreak and have a

look at the windows of this East Wing,"
finally observed Mr. Ravensworth.

Perhaps that was easier said than done.
With the gray light of early morning they
were both out of doors ; but they could not
find any entrance to the East Wing. The
door in the wall of the front garden was
locked ; the entrance gates from the road
were locked also. In the garden at the
back — it was more of a wilderness than a
garden — they discovered a small gate in a
corner. It was completely overgrown with
trees and shrubs, and had evidently not
been used for years and years. But the
wood had become rotten, the fastenings
loose ; and by their united strength they
opened it.

They found themselves in a very large
space of ground indeed. Grass was in the
middle, quite a field of it ; and round it a
broad gravel walk. Encompassing all on
three sides rose a wide bank of shrubs and
overhanging trees. Beyond these again was
a very high wall. On the fourth side stood

the East Wing, high and gloomy. Its windows
were all encased with iron bars, and
the lower windows were whitened.

Taking a survey of all this, one of them
softly whispering in surprise, Mr. Ravens
advanced to peer in at the windows.
Of course, being whitened, he had his trouble
for his pains.

It puts me in mind of a prison," remarked
Charles Strange.

'' It ]puts me in mind of a madhouse," was
the laconic rejoinder of Mr. Ravensworth.

They passed back through the gate again,
Mr. Ravensworth turning to take a last look.
In that minute his eye was attracted to one
of the windows on the ground floor. It
opened down the middle, like a French one,
and was being shaken, apparently with a
view to opening it — and if you are well
acquainted with continental windows, or
windows made after their fashion, you may
remember how long it has taken you to
shake a refractory window before it will
obey. It was at length effected, and in the

opening, gazing with a vacant, silly expression
through the close bars, appeared a face.
It remained in view but a moment ; the
window was immediately closed again, Mr.
Ravensworth thought by another hand.
What was the mystery ?

That some mystery did exist at Marsh-dale,
apart from any Italian ladies who
might have no fair right to be there, was
pretty evident. At breakfast the gentlemen
related this little experience to Blanche.

Madame Blanche tossed her head in incredulity.
'' Don't be taken in," she answered.
Windows whitened and barred, indeed !
It is all done with a view to misleading
people. She was sitting at the oj9en window
at work on Thursday night."

After breakfast, resolved no longer to be
played with, Blanche proceeded upstairs to
Mr. Drewitt's rooms, her friends following
her, all three of them creeping by Lord
Level's chamber-door with noiseless steps.
His lordship was getting better quite
wonderfully, Mrs. Edwards had told them.

The old gentleman, in his quaint costume,
was in his sitting-room, taking his breakfast
alone. Mrs. Edwards took her meals anywhere,
and at any time, during her lord's
illness. Hearing strange footsteps in the
corridor, he rose to see whose they were,
and looked considerably astonished.

Does your ladyship want me ?" he
asked, bowing.

I — yes, I think I do," answered Lady
Level. " Who keeps the key of that door,
Mr. Drewitt ?" pointing to the strong oaken
door at the end of the passage.

I keep it, my lady."

Then will you be kind enough to unlock
it for me ? These gentlemen wish to examine
the East Wing."

The East Wing is private to his lordship,"
was the steward's reply, addressing
them all conjointly. " Without his authority
I cannot open it to anyone."

They stood contending a little Awhile : it
was like a repetition of the scene that had
been enacted there once before ; and, like

VOL. TII. 55

that, was terminated by the same individual
the surgeon.

It is all right, Mr. Drewitt." he said ;
^' you can open the door of the East Wing ;
I bear you my lord's orders. I am going in
there to see a patient," he added to the
rest.

The steward produced a key from his
pocket, and put it into the lock. It was
surprising that so small a key should open
so massive a door.

They passed, wonderingly, through three
rooms en suite : a sitting-room, a bedroom,
and a bath-room. All these rooms looked
to the back of the house. Other rooms
there were on the same floor, which the
visitors did not touch upon. Descending
the staircase, they entered three similar
rooms below. In the smaller one lay some
garden-tools, but of a less size than a grown
man in his strength would use, and by their
side were certain toys : tops, hoops, ninepins,
and the like. The middle room was a
sitting-room ; the larger room beyond had

no furniture, and in that, standing over a
humming-top, which he had just set to spin
on the floor, bent the singular figure of a
youth. He had a dark, vacant face, wild
black eyes, and a mass of thick black hair,
cut short. This figure, a child's whip in his
hand, was whipping the top, and making a
noise with his mouth in imitation of its
hum.

Half madman, half idiot, he stood out, in
all his deep misfortune, raising himself up
and staring about him with a vacant stare.
The expression of Mr. Ravensworth's face
changed to one of pity. " Who are you ?"
he exclaimed in kindly tones. " What is
your name ?"

Arnie !" was the mechanical answer, for
brains and sense seemed to have little to do
with it ; and, catching up his top, he backed
against the wall, and burst into a distressing
laugh. Distressing to a listener ; not distressing
to him, poor fellow.

Who is he ?" asked Mr. Ravensworth
of the doctor.

5 5—2

An imbecile."

'* So I see. But what connection has he
with Lord Level's family ?"

'' He is a connection, or he would not be
here."

^' Can he be — be — a son of Lord Level's ?"

*' A son 1" interposed the steward, " and
my lord but just married ! No, sir, he is
not a son, he is none so near as that ; he is
but a connection of the Level family."

The lad came forward from the wall where
he was standing, and held out his top to his
old friend the doctor. " Do, do," he cried,
spluttering as he spoke.

Nay, Arnie, you can set it up better
than I : my back won't stoop well,
Arnie."

'^ Do, do," was the persistent request, the
top held out still.

Mr. Ravensworth took it and set it up
again, he looking on in greedy eagerness, slobbering
and making a noise with his mouth.
Then his note changed to a hum, and he
whipped away as before.

Why is he not put away in an asylum ?"
asked Mr. Ravens worth.

Put away in an asylum !" retorted the
old steward indignantly. " Where could hebe
put to have the care and kindness that is
bestowed upon him here ? Imbecile though
he is, madman though he may be, he is
dear to me and my sister. We pass our
lives tending him, in conjunction with Snow
and his wife, doing for him, soothing him :
where else could that be done ? You don't
know what you are saying, sir. My lord,
who received the charge from his father,
comes down to see him : my lord orders that
everything should be done for his comfort.
And do you suppose it is fitting that his
condition should be made public ? The fact
of one being so afflicted is slur enough upon
the race of Level, without its being proclaimed
abroad."

It was he who attacked Lord Level last
year {

Yes, it was ; and how he could have
escaped to our part of the house will be a

marvel to me for ever. My sister says I
could not have slipped the bolt of the
passage door as usual, but I know I did bolt
it. Arnie had been restless that day ; he
has restless fits ; and I suppose he could not
sleep, and must have risen from his bed and
come to my sitting-room. On my table there
I had left my pocket-knife, a new knife, the
blades bright and sharp ; and this he must
have picked up and opened, and found his
way with it to my lord's chamber. Why
he should have attacked him, or anyone
else, I know not ; he never had a ferocious
fit before."

Never," assented Mr. Hill, in confirmation.


Mr. Drewitt continued : " He has been
imbecile and harmless as you see him now,
but he has never disturbed us at night ; he
has, as I say, fits of restlessness when he
cannot sleep, but he is sufficiently sensible
to ring a bell communicating with Snow's
chamber if he wants anything. If ever he
has rung, it has been to say he wants meat."

Meat !"

The steward nodded. " But it has never
been given to him. He is cunning as a
fox ; they all are ; and were we to begin
giving him food in the middle of the night
we must continue to do it, or have no peace.
Eating is his one enjoyment in life, and he
devours everything set before him — meat
especially. If we have any particular dainty
upstairs for dinner or supper, I generally
take him in some. Deborah, I believe,
thinks I eat all that comes up, and sets me
down for a cannibal. He has a hot supper
every night. About a year ago we got to
think it might be better for him to have a
lighter one, and we tried it for a week ; but
he moaned and cried all night long for his
hot meat, and we had to give it him again.
The night this happened we had veal cutlets
and bacon, and he had the same. He asked
for more, but I would not give it ; perhaps
that angered him, and he mistook my lord
for me. Mr. Hill thought it might be so.
I shall never be able to account for it."

The doctor nodded assent ; and the speaker
went on :

'' His hair was long then, and he must
have looked just like a maniac when the fit
of fury lay upon him. Little wonder that
my lady was frightened at the sight of him.
After he had done the deed he ran back to
his own room ; I, aroused by the commotion,
found him in his bed. He burst out laughing
when he saw me : ' I got your knife, I
got your knife,' he called out, as if it were a
feat to be proud of. His movements must
have been silent and stealthy, for Snow had
heard nothing."

At this moment there occurred an interruption.
The Italian lady approached
the room with timid, hesitating steps, and
peeped in. '' Ah, how do you do, doctor ?"
she said in a sweet, gentle voice, as she held
out her hand to Mr. Hill. Her countenance
was mild, open, and honest ; and a conviction
rushed on the instant into Blanche's
mind that she had been misjudging that
foreign lady.

** These good gentle people are come to see
our poor patient ?" she added, curtseying to
them with native grace, her accent quite
foreign. " The poor, poor boy," tears filling
her eyes. " And I foretell that this must
be my lord's wife !" addressing Blanche.
Will she permit a poor humble stranger
to shake her by the hand for her lord's
sake — her lord, who has been so good tous?"


This lady is sister to the unfortunate
boy's mother," said the doctor, in low tones
to Blanche. " She is a good woman, and
worthy to shake hands with you, my lady."

But who was his father ?" whispered
Blanche.

'' Mr. Francis Level ; my lord's dead
brother."

Her countenance radiant, Blanche took
the lady's hand and warmly clasped it.
You live here to take care of the poor
lad," she said.

But no, madam. I do but come at
intervals to see him, all the way from Pisa,

in Italy. And also I have had to come to
bring documents and news to my lord, respecting
matters that concern him and the
poor lad. But it is over now' she added.
** The week after the one next to come,
Arnie goes back with me to Italy, his native
country, and my journeys to this country
will be ended. His mother, who is always
ill and not able to travel, wishes now to have
her afflicted son with her."

Back in the other house aofain, after wishing
Nina Sparlati good-day, the astonished
visitors gathered in Mr. Drewitt's room to
listen to the tale which had to be told them.
Mrs. Edwards, Who was awaiting them, and
fonder of talking than her brother, was the
principal narrator. Blanche went away,
whispering to Charles Strange that she
would hear it from him afterwards.

'' We were abroad in Italy," Mrs. Edwards
began : '' it is many years ago. The late
lord, our master then, went for his health,
which was declining, though he was but a
middle-aged man, and I and my brother

were with him, his personal attendants, but
treated more like friends. The present lord,
Mr. Archibald, named after his father, was
with us — he was the second son, not the
heir ; the eldest son, Mr. Level — Francis
was his name — had been abroad for years,
and was then in another part of Italy. He
came to see his father when we first got out
to Florence, but he soon left again. ^ He'll
die before my lord,' I said to Mr. Archibald ;
for if ever I saw consumption on a man's
face, it was on Mr. Level's. And I remember
Mr. Archibald's answer as if it was
but yesterday : ^ That's just one of your
fancies, nurse : Frank tells me he has looked
the last three years as he looks now.' But
I was right, sir ; for shortly after that we
received news of the death of Mr. Level ;
and then Mr. Archibald was the heir. My
lord, who had grown worse instead of better,
was very ill then."

Did the late lord die in Italy ?" questioned
Mr. Ravensworth.

You shall hear, sir. He grew very ill,

I say, and we thought he would be sure to
move homewards, but he still stayed on.
Archibald likes Florence,' he would say,
and it's all the same to me where I am.'
Young Level stops for the beaux yeux of
the Tuscan women,' the world said — but you
know, sir, the world always was censorious ;
and young men will be young men. However,
we were at last on the move ; everything
was packed and prepared for leaving,
when there arrived an ill-favoured young
woman, with some papers and a little child,
two years old. Its face frightened me when
I saw it. It was, as a child, what it is now
as a growing man ; and you have seen it today,"
she added in a whisper. " ' What is
the matter with him ?' I asked, for I could
S23eak a little Italian. ' He's a born natural,
as yet,' she answered, ' but the doctors think
he may outgrow it in part.' ^ But who is
he ? what does he do here ?' I said. ^ He's
the son of Mr. Level,' she replied, ' and I
have brought him to the family, for his
mother, who was my sister, is also dead.'

He the son of Mr. Level !' I uttered, knowing
she must speak of Mr. Francis. ' Well,
you need not bring him here : we English do
not recognise chance children.' ' They were
married three years ago,' she coolly answered,
and I have brought the papers to prove it.
Mr. Level was a gentleman and my sister
not much above a peasant ; but she was
beautiful and good, and he married her, and
this is their child. She has been dying by
inches since her husband died ; she is now
dead, and I am come here to give up the
child to his father's people."

Was it true ?" interrupted Mr. Strange.

'' My lord thought so, sir, and took
kindly to the child. He was brought home
here, and the East Wing was made his
nursery "

Then that — that — poor wretch down
there is the true Lord Level !" interrupted
Mr. Ravensworth.

One day, when my lord was studying the
documents the woman had left," resumed
Mrs. Edwards, passing by the remark with a

glance, " something curious struck him in
the certificate of marriage : he thought it
was forged. He showed it to Mr. Archibald,
and they decided to go back to Italy, leaving
the child here. All the inquiries they made
there tended to prove that, though the child
was indeed Mr. Francis Level's, there had
been no marriage, or semblance of one. All
the same, said my lord, the poor child shall
be kindly reared and treated and provided
for : and Mr. Archibald solemnly promised
his father it should be so. My lord died at
Florence, and Mr. Archibald came back Lord
Level."

^^ And he never forgot his promise to his
father," interposed the steward, " but has
treated the child almost as thouoi-h he were
a true son, consistent with his imbecile state.
That East Wing has been his happy home,
as Mr. Hill can testify : he has toys to
amuse him, the garden to dig in, which is
his favourite pastime ; and Snow draws him
about the paths in his hand-carriage on fine
days. It is a sad misfortune, for him and

for the family ; but my lord has done his
best."

^' It would have been a greater for my
lord had the marriage been a legal one," remarked
Mr. Ravensworth.

I don't know that," sharply spoke up
the doctor. " As an idiot I believe he could
not inherit. However, the marriage was
not a legal one, and my lord is my lord.
The mother is not dead ; that was a fabrication
also ; but she is ill, helpless, and is
pining for her son ; so now he is to be taken
to her ; my lord, in his generosity, securing
him an ample income. It was not the
mother who perpetrated the fraud, but the
avaricious eldest sister. This sister, the one
you have just seen, is the youngest ; she is
good and honourable, and has done her best
to unravel the plot."

That was all the explanation given to Mr.
Ravensworth. But the doctor put his arm
within that of Charles Strange, and took
him into the presence of Lord Level.

'^ Well," said his lordship, who was then

sitting up in bed, and held out his hand,
have you been hearing all about the
mysteries, Charles ?"

'' Yes," smiled Mr. Strange. " I felt sure
that whatever the mystery might be, it was
one you could safely explain away if you
chose."

Ay : though Blanche did take up the
other view and want to cut my head off."

^' She was your own wife, your loving wife,
I am certain : why not have told her ?"

Because I wanted to be quite sure of
certain things first," replied Lord Level.
Listen, Charles : you have my tale to hear
yet. Sit down. Sit down. Hill. How am
I to talk while you stand ?" he asked,
laughing.

'when we were in Paris after our marriage
a year ago, I received two shocks on one
and the same morning," began Lord Level.
The one told me of the trouble Tom Heriot
had fallen into ; the other, contained in a
letter from Pisa, informed me that there
had been a marriage after all between my

brother and that girl, Bianca Sparlati. If
so, of course, that imbecile lad stood between
nie and the title and estate ; though I don't
think he could legally inherit. But I did
not believe the information. I felt sure
that it was another invented artifice of
Annette, the wretched eldest sister, who is
a grasping intricate. I started at once
for Pisa, where they live, to make inquiries
in person : travelling by all sorts of routes,
unfrequented by the English, that my wife
might not hear of her brother's disgrace. At
Pisa I found difficulties : statements met me
that seemed to prove there had been a marriage,
and I did not see my way to disprove
them. Nina, a brave, honest girl, confessed
to me that she doubted them, and I begged
of her, for truth and right's sake, to help meas
far as she could. I cannot enter into
details now. Strange ; I am not strong
enough for it ; enough to say that ever
since, nearly a whole year, have I been
trying to ferret out the truth : and I only
got at it a week ago."

VOL. III. 5 6

And there was no marriage ?"

"Tell him, Hill," said Lord Level,
laughing.

Well, a sort of ceremony did pass
between Francis Level and that young
woman, but both of them knew at the time
it was not legal, or one that could ever stand
good," said the doctor. " Now the real
facts have come to light. It seems that
Bianca had been married when very young
to a sailor named Dromio ; within a month
of the wedding he sailed away again and did
not return. She thought him dead, took
up her own name again and went home to
her family ; and later became acquainted
with Francis Level. Now, the sailor has
turned up again, alive and well "

The first husband !" exclaimed Charles
Strange.

If you like to call him so," said Mr
Hill ; ^' there was never a second. Well,
the sailor has come to the fore again ; and
honest-hearted Nina travelled here from
Pisa with the news, and we sent for his

lordship to come down and hear it. He
was also wanted for another matter. The
boy had had a sort of fit, and I feared he
would die. My lord heard what Nina had
to tell him when he arrived ; he did not
return at once to London, for Arnie was
still in danger, and he waited to see the
issue. Very shortly he was taken ill himself,
and could not get away. It was good
news, though, about that resuscitated sailor !"
laughed the doctor, after a pause. ^' All's
well that ends well, and my Lord Level is
his own man again."

Charles Strange sought an interview with
his sister — as he often called her — and imparted
to her these particulars. He then
left at once for London with Mr. Ravens-worth.
Their mission at Marshdale was over.

Lord Level, up and dressed, lay on a sofa
in his bedroom in the afternoon. Blanche
sat on a footstool beside him. Her face
was hidden upon her husband's knee and she
was crying bitter tears.

5 6—2

Shall you ever forgive me, Archibald ?"

He was smiling quietly. ^' Some husbands
might say no."

You don't know how miserable I have
been."

'^ Don't I ! But how came you to fall
into such notions at first, Blanche ? To
suspect me of ill at all ?"

It was that Mrs. Page Reid who was
with us at Pisa. She said all sorts of
things."

Ah !"

Wont you forgive me, Archibald ?"

^^ Yes, upon condition that you trust me
fully in future. Will you, love ?" he softly
whispered.

She could not speak for emotion.

^^ And the next time you have a private
grievance against me, Blanche, tell it out
plainly," he said, as he held her to him and
gave her kiss for kiss.

My darling, yes. But I shall never
have another."

Conclusion.

CHARLES Strange, took
up this story at its commencement,
and I take it up now
at its close.

It was a lovely day at the end of summer,
in the year following the events recorded in
the last chapter, and we were again at
Marshdale House.

The two individuals who had chiefly
marred the peace of one or another of us
in the past were both gone where disturbance
is not. Poor Tom Heriot was mouldering
in his grave near to that in which his

father and mother lay, not having been discovered
by the police or molested in anyway
; and the afflicted Italian lad had died
soon after he was taken to his native land.
Mr. Hill had warned Nina Sparlati that, in
all probability, he would not live long. Mrs.
Brightman, I may as well say it here,
had recovered permanently ; recovered in all
ways, as we hoped and believed. The long
restraint laid upon her by her illness had
effected the cure that nothing else might
have been able to effect, and re-established
the good habits she had lost. But Miss
Brightman was dead ; she had not lived to
come home from Madeira, and the whole of
her fortune was left to Annabel. " So you
can live where you please now and go
in for grandeur," Arthur Lake said to me
and my wife. " All in good time," laughed
Annabel ; '^ I am not yet tired of Essex
Street."

And now we had come down in the sunny
August weather when the courts were upto
stay at Marshdale.

You might be slow to recognise it, though.
Recalling the picture of Marshdale House
as it was, and looking at it now, many would
have said it could not be the same.

The dreary old structure had been converted
into a light and beautiful mansion.
The whitened windows with their iron bars
were no more. The disfiguring, unnaturally-high
walls were gone, and the tangled shrubs
and weeds, the overgrowth of trees that had
made the surrounding land a wilderness,
were now turned into lovely pleasure-grounds.
The gloomy days had given place
to sunny ones, said Lord Level, and the
gloomy old structure, with its gloomy secrets,
should be remembered no more.

Marshdale was now their chief home, his
and his wife's, with their establishment of
servants. Mr. Drewitt and Mrs. Edwards
had moved into a pretty dwelling hard by ;
but they were welcomed whenever they
liked to go to the house, and were treated
as friends. The steward kept the accounts
still, and Mrs. Edwards was appealed to by

Blanche in all domestic difficulties. She
rarely appeared before her lady but in her
quaint gala attire.

We were taking tea out of doors at the
back of the renovated East Wing. The air
bore that Sabbath stillness which Sunday
seems to bring : distant bells, ringing the
congregation out of church, fell melodiously
on the ear. We had been idle this afternoon
and stayed at home, but all had attended
service in the morning. Mr. Hill had called
in and was sitting with us. Annabel presided
at the rustic tea-table ; Blanche was a
great deal too much occupied with her baby-boy,
whom she had chosen to have brought
out : a lively young gentleman in a blue
sash, whose face greatly resembled his
father's. Next to Lord Level sat my uncle,
who had come down for a week's rest. He
was no longer Serjeant Stillingfar ; but Sir
Charles, and one of her Majesty's judges.

Won't you have some tea, my dear ?"
he said to Blanche, who was parading the
baby.

By the way, they had named him Charles.
Charles Archibald ; to be called by the
former name : Lord Level protested he would
not have people saying Young Archie and
Old Archie.

^^ Yes, Blanche," said he, taking up the
suofofestion of the iudo^e. " Do let that child
go indoors : one might think he was a new
toy. Here, I'll take him."

Archibald need not talk," laughed
Blanche, looking after her husband, who
had taken the child from her and was tossing
it as he went indoors. " He is just as fond
of having the baby as I am. Neither need
you laugh, Mr. Charles," turning upon me ;
^^ your turn will come soon, you know."

Leaving the child in its nursery in the
East Wing, Lord Level came back to his
place ; and we sat on until evening approached.
A peaceful evening, promising a
glorious sunset. An hour after midday,
when we had just got safely in from church,
there had been a storm of thunder and
lightning, and it had cleared the sultry air.

The blue sky above, flecked with gold, was
of a lovely rose colour towards the west.

'' The day has been a type of life : or of
what life ought to be," suddenly remarked
Mr. Hill. " Storm and cloud succeeded by
peace and sunshine."

The end is not always peaceful," said
Lord Level.

It mostly is when we have worked on
for it patiently," said the judge. " My
friends, you may take the word of an old
man for it — that a life of storm and trouble,
through which we have struggled manfully
to do our duty under God, ever bearing on
in reliance upon Him, must of necessity end
in peace. Perhaps not always perfect and
entire peace in this world ; but assuredly
in that which is to come."

THE END.

willing AND SOS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

5. d- H.

*^ m

mm

:^S-^

f^^l

m^\-

fc-fCc- ^

.Si'' , y ■" ^^■

/ ^'

\^^

K A

i: ^ A' ^ '

Wy n' ■■■-

■i n

i^^'^'^iJ^ifK.

-i^r- %

/>j, :^^-^"H-:^

site

WMp.

y f7-t's

?&A

hS 1

tLHs^Ib

W/K ~.^j F5e ^- > '

ll E> Ray

OF THE
UN Diversity
Of ILLINOIS



W85st
v.2

Ji



'."'*'. " ;



^&3§^

-«*;

>*"V?

»

firms





STORY OF CHARLES STRANGE

& l^ottel

BY

MRS. HENRY WOOD

AUTHOR OF " EAST Lynn," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. II.

LONDON

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON

publishers in (DrMitnrjrj to <|jcr Jtt.ijestjj the (Queen



[All Rights Reserved]

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/storyofcharlesst02wood

Discontents

OF VOL. II.

STOEY OF Charles Strange.

CHAPTER I.

SUSPICION.

^™HE church-clock of that small
country place, Upper Marshdale,
was chiming half-past nine on a
dark night, as the local inspector turned out
of the police-station and made his way with
a fleet step across a piece of waste land and
some solitary fields beyond it. His name
was Poole, and he was hastening to Marsh-dale
House, as Lord Level's place was called.
A mysterious occurrence had taken place there
vol. ii. 2

^7

the night before : Lord Level, previously
an invalid, had been stabbed in his bed.

The officer rang a loud peal at the outer
gate, and a policeman, who had been already
sent on, came from the house to answer the
summons. He waited when they were both
within the gate, knowing that he should be
questioned. His superior walked half-way
up the avenue, and placed his back against
a tree.

What have you learnt, Jekyl ? Any
clue to the assassin ?"

The policeman dropped his voice to a
whisper, as though afraid the very trees
might hear. " Speak up," sharply interrupted
the inspector. " The air carries no
tales."

The case seems as clear, sir, as any weever
came across ; a clear case against Lady
Level."

It takes a great deal to astonish a police
inspector, but this announcement certainly
astonished Mr. Inspector Poole. " Against
Lady Level V he repeated.

She's the guilty one, sir, I fear. But
who'd think it, to see her ? Only about
twenty or so, and with beauty enough to
knock you over, and blue eyes that look you
down in their pride. She's dressed out like
those high-born ladies do dress, in light silk
that glistens as she walks, her neck and arms
uncovered. There's a gentleman with her
now, some friend of the family, and he won't
let us go on with our investigation. He
came and stopped it, and said we were acting
against Lord Level's wishes."

But why do you suspect Lady Level ?"
inquired the inspector.

Listen, sir. It appears certain that no
one got in ; the doors and windows were left
safe, and were found so ; hadn't been disturbed
at all ; there has been no robbery, or
anything of that sort, and no suspicion
attaches to any of the servants so far as I
see. Then there are the facts themselves.
The servants were aroused in the middle of
the night by Lord Level's bell ringing
violently, and my lady screaming. When

20 — 2

they got to his room, there he lay, fainted
dead off, stabbed in two places, and she
pretty near fainting too, and dropped down
in a chair in her silk dressing-gown "

I am acquainted with the facts so far,
Jekyl."

Well, sir. Not a sign or symptom was
there of anybody else being about, or of
anybody's having been about. Her ladyship's
version is, that she was woke up by
Lord Level calling to her, and she found
him stabbed and bleeding. That is all she
will confess to."

And he ?"

He says nothing, I hear, except that he
will not have the police called in. He did
not even want to have a doctor. But his
lordship is off his head with fever, and may
not know what he is saying."

How does Lady Level account for the
knife being found in her room ?"

There it is," cried the man. " Whenever
these people, let them be high or low,
do an evil deed, they are certain to commit

some act of folly which allows suspicion to
creep in. They over-do it, or they underdo
it. If anyone else had done it and
carried the weapon to her ladyship's room,
she must have seen who it was, and would
surely have denounced him. And why did
she put it there of all places ? There's a
fatality on them, I say, sir, and they can't
escape it."

But her motive for attacking him ?"

They were on bad terms, it seems. The
servants heard them quarrelling violently
earlier in the evening."

Did the servants tell you this, to confirm
their suspicions against her ?"

They don't suspect her, sir," replied
Jekyl. " I and Cliff have drawn our own
deductions by what they have said, and by
personal observation."

The inspector mused. He was a kindly-disposed
man, possessed his share of commonsense,
and did not feel so sure about the
matter as his subordinate. " It appears
scarcely credible that a younsf woman like

Lady Level, hardly six months married,
should attempt her husband's life, Jekyl.
Where are these servants ?"

In the kitchen, sir. This way. There's
no establishment to speak of. When my
lord was detained here through damage to
his knee, my lady followed him down —
against his will, it's whispered — and brought
only her maid and a man-servant."

I think you have been listening to a
good deal of gossip," remarked Inspector
Poole, as he moved on to the house.

Meanwhile Lady Level, in deep agitation,
stood at the window which she had had
thrown up for air, while she made the confession
to Mr. Ravensworth that she had
been a witness to the attack on her husband.
This she had denied before ; and it might
never have been wrung from her, but that
she overheard the two policemen, already in
the house, whispering their suspicions against
her.

She was shocked, indignant, terrified. She
leaned for support on the window-frame,

panting for breath in the cold night
air.

Arnold, am I to bear this ?"

He stood with folded arms. He felt for
her deeply : were she connected with him
by near ties of blood, he could not have
been more anxious to protect her ; but a
strong doubt that she might be guilty was
working within him. He supposed she
must have received some great provocation
from Lord Level.

How cruel they are to entertain such

a suspicion ! If they — if they Oh,

Arnold, they never will arrest me ! — they
never will publicly accuse me !" she uttered,
as a new possibility occurred to her.

Blanche, listen," he rejoined, talking to
her as he had talked when she was a child.
All that can be done for you, I will do ;
but I cannot work in this uncertainty. Tell
me the truth ; be it good or be it ill, I will
stand by you ; but, if I am to be of service
to you, I must know it. Was it you who
struck Lord Level ?"

No. Have I not just told you so ?"

What you told me I do not understand.
You say you saw it done "

Then I did not see it done," she petulantly
interrupted ; and no more questions
would she answer.

Let me take you back to the fire," said
Mr. Kavensworth, as he shut down the
window. " You are trembling with cold."

Not with cold," was her reply.

Stirring the fire into a blaze, he drew the
easy-chair near it for her. He then stood
by, saying nothing.

Suppose they should openly accuse me ?"
she began, after a silence. " Would they
arrest me ?"

Blanche," he retorted, in sharp, ringing,
imperative accents, " are you guilty ? Tell
me, one way or the other, that I may know
what to be at."

Lady Level rose and confronted him, her
blue eyes wearing their most haughty expression.
" You have known me for many years,
known me well ; how then can you repeat

that question ? I guilty of attacking Lord
Level !"

I would rather believe myself — I could
as soon believe my own wife guilty of such
a thing ; but why have you equivocated
with me ? You have not told me the truth,
as to what passed that night."

My husband charged me not to tell
anyone."

Five minutes ago you told me yourself
that you saw it done ; now you say you did
not see it. What am I to think ?"

In saying I saw it done, I spoke hastily ;
what I ought to have said was, that I saw
who did it. And then, to-day, Lord Level
insisted that I had been dreaming," she
abstractedly continued. " Arnold, do you
believe that we can see visions or dream
dreams that afterwards wear the semblance
of realities ?"

I wish you would not speak in riddles.
The time is going on ; those men of the law
may come in and accuse you, and what
defence am I to make for you ? You know

that you may trust me. What you say
shall never pass my lips."

Lady Level deliberated. " I will trust
you," she said at length : " there seems to
be no help for it. I went to rest last night
angry with Lord Level, for we had spoken
irritating words to each other. I lay awake,
I dare say for an hour, indulging bitter
thoughts, and then I dropped asleep. Suddenly
something woke me ; I cannot tell
you what it was : whether it was any noise,
or whether it was the opening of the door,
which I had closed, between my room and
Lord Level's. All I know is, that door was
wide open, and someone stood in the doorway
with a lighted candle. It was a strange-looking
object, and seemed to be dressed in
flannel — either a long flannel shirt or a
flannel gown. In the confusion of the
moment I believed it must be Lord Level,
and I was struck with amazement, for Lord
Level is not able to get out of bed without
assistance, from the injury to his knee, and
I thought how long his hair was, and how

dark it had grown — that was, you know,
when I was between sleeping and waking.
Then I saw that it had large, flashing black
eyes, so it could not be Lord Level. It
crossed the room "

Blanche," he interrupted, " you speak
just as if you were describing a vision.
It "

"That is what Lord Level now says it
was. Let me go on. It crossed the room
as far as the dressing-table. I started up
in bed then, and the wild eyes turned upon
me, and at the same moment Lord Level
called out from his own bed, apparently in
agitation or pain. The figure dropped something,
turned round, and darted back again
through the open door to the other chamber.
I saw the candle fall from its hand to the
floor, and the place was in darkness, except
for the little light that came from Lord
Level's night-lamp. Terror overwhelmed
me, and I cried out, and then my husband
called to me by name. I ran to his room,
flinging on my warm silk dressing-gown as

I went, and there I found him hurt in someway,
for he was bleeding from the arm and
from the side. Arnold, as I live, as I
breathe, that is the whole truth," she concluded
with emotion.

Did you again see the figure ? Was it
in Lord Level's room?"

It was not there. I saw no trace of it.
I remember I picked up the candlestick, for
it was right in my path, and I screamed
when I saw the blood upon my husband.
He caught me to him by the other arm, as
I have told you, telling me not to be
frightened, that he would protect me ; and I
saw how white he looked, and that his brow
was damp. Presently I asked him who and
what it was ; and the question seemed to
excite him. ' Say nothing of what you have
seen,' he cried ; ' I charge you, nothing J I
don't quite know what I replied ; it was to
the effect that the household must be aroused,
and the figure searched for. ' Blanche, you
are my wife,' he said solemnly ; ' my interests
are yours ; I charge you, by your duty and

obedience to me, that you say nothing.
Bury this in silence, as you value your life
and mine.' Then he fainted and his hold
relaxed, and I screamed out and the servants
came. Had my life depended upon it I could
not have helped screaming. What the figure
had dropped in my room proved to be the
knife."

This is a very strange account !" exclaimed
Mr. Ravensworth.

"It is so strange that I lose myself at
times, wondering whether I was dreaming or
awake. But it was true : it was true ; though
I could not proclaim it in defiance of my
husband."

Do you think the figure, as you call it,
could have been one of the servants in disguise
?"

I am certain it was not. Xot one of
them has that dark Italian face."

Italian face !" echoed Mr. Ravensworth.
Why do you call it an Italian face ?"

Lady Level bent her head. "The thought
somehow struck me," she answered, after a

pause. " Not at the time, but since. I
fancied it not unlike the Italian faces that
one sees in pictures."

Was it a man or a woman ?"

I do not know. At the time I took
it to be a man, quite young. But since,
recalling the appearance — well, it seems tome
that it is impossible to decide which it
was."

And you saw no signs of this mysterious
figure afterwards ?"

None whatever. There were no traces,
I tell you, of its having been there, except
the injury to Lord Level, the knife, and the
fallen candlestick. The candlestick may
have been left in Lord Level's room the
previous night, for it is precisely like
those used in the household, so that the
figure may have lighted it from the night-lamp."


Mr. Ravensworth could not make much
of all this. It puzzled him. " The curious
thing is," he said aloud, " where could the
figure have come from ?"

The curious thing is, that Lord Level

wants to persuade me now that this was only
a dream of the imagination."

•• That his wounds are T

Xot his wounds, of course — or the knife,
but a great deal of what I told him. Ht
ridicules the bare idea of its being a ' strange
fkrure ' ' strangely dressed'" He sav h

-

e

caught a full view of the man who attacked
him ; that he should know him again ; that
he was dressed in a sort of soft light fustian,
and was no more wild-looking than I am,
except such wildness as arose from his state
of inebriation, and he suspects he was a
poacher who must have got in through one
of the windows."

Mr. Ravensworth pondered over the tale :
and he could not help deeming it a most improbable
one. But that traces of som
mysterious presence had been left behind, he
would have regarded it as her husband appeared
partially to regard it — a midnight
freak of Lady Level's imagination. " Yet
the wounds are realities'' said Mr. Ravens-worth,

speaking aloud, in answer to his own
thoughts.

Arnold, it is all a reality," she said impressively.
" There are moments, I say,
when I am almost tempted to question it,
hut in my sober reason I know it to have
been true ; and while I ask myself, ' Was ita
dream ?' I hold a perfect, positive conviction
that it was only too terrible a reality."

You have spoken once or twice of its
wild appearance. Did it look like a madman
i

I never saw a madman, that I know of.
This creature looked wild enough to be mad.
There was one tiling I thought curious in
connection with finding the knife," proceeded
Lady Level. " Timms, who picked it up,
while Sanders had gone down for some hot
water, brought it into Lord Level's room,
calling out that she had found the weapon.
Why, that's Mr. Drewitt's knife !' exclaimed
the housemaid, Deborah, as soon as she saw
it ; and the steward, who had only just
reached the room, asked her how she could

make the assertion. ' It is yours, sir,' said
Deborah ; ' it's your new knife ; I have seen
it on your table, and should know it anywhere.'
' Deborah, if you repeat that again,
I'll have you punished,' sharply called out
the housekeeper, without, you understand,
turning from Lord Level, to whom she was
attending, to ascertain whether it was or was
not the knife. Now, Arnold," added Lady
Level, " ill and terrified as I felt at the
moment, a conviction came across me that it
was Mr. Drewitt's knife, but that he and
Mrs. Edwards were purposely denying it."

It is impossible to suspect them of
attacking, or conniving at the attack on Lord
Level."

They attack Lord Level ! They would
rather attack the whole world combined,
than that a hair of his head should suffer.
They are fondly, devotedly attached to him.
And Deborah, it appears, has been convinced
out of her assertion. Hark ! who is that ?"

Mr. Ravensworth opened the door to reconnoitre.
The inspector was prowling about

vol. 11. 21

the house and passages, exploring the outlets
and inlets, followed by his two men, who
had done the same before him.

I thought you had forbidden the men to
search," cried Lady Level. " Why are they
disobeying you ?"

Their chief is here now, and of course
his orders go before mine. Besides, after
what you have told me, I consider there
ought to be a thorough search," added Mr.
Ravensworth.

In opposition to Lord Level ?"

I think that Lord Level has not taken
a sufficiently serious view of the case. The
only solution I can come to is, that some
escaped madman got into the house before
it was closed for the night, and concealed
himself in it. If so, he may be in it now."

Now ! In it now !" she exclaimed, turning
pale.

Upon my word, I think it may be so.
The doors and windows were all found safely
fastened, you see. Therefore he could not
escape during the night. And since the

doors were opened this morning, the household,
I take it, has been so constantly on the
alert, that it might be an extremely difficult
matter for him to get away unseen. If he,
this madman, did enter yesterday evening,
he must have found some place of concealment
and hidden himself in it for hours, since
it was not until one o'clock that he made the
attack on Lord Level."

Oh, Arnold, that is all too improbable,"
she rejoined doubtingly. "A madman could
not plan and do all that."

Madmen are more cunning than sane
ones, sometimes."

But I — I think it was a woman," said
Lady Level, lowering her voice and her
eyes.

Mr. Ravensworth looked at her. And for
the first time, a feeling flashed into his mind
that Lady Level had some suspicion which
she would not speak of.

Blanche," he said sharply, " do you
know who it was ? Tell me, if you do."

"I do not," she answered emphatically.

21 — 2

I may imagine this and imagine that, but
I do not know anything."

You were speaking, then, from imagination
?"

Y — es. In a case of mystery, such as
this, imagination runs riot, and you can't
prevent its doing so."

Again there was something about Lady
Level that struck Mr. Ravens worth as being
not honestly true. Before more could be
said, steps were heard approaching the room ;
and Lady Level, afraid to meet the police,
made her escape from it.

Running swiftly upstairs, she was passing
Lord Level's door to enter her own, when
she heard his voice, speaking collectedly,
and peeped in. He saw her, and held out
his hand. He appeared now quite rational,
though his fine gray eyes were glistening
and his fair face was flushed. Mrs. Edwards
was standing by the bedside, and it was to
her he had been talking.

Blanche advanced timidly. " Are you
feeling better ?" she softly asked.

Oh, much better ; nearly well : but for
my knee I should be up and about," he
answered, as he drew her towards him.
Mrs. Edwards, will you close the door ? I
wish to speak with my wife."

Mrs. Edwards, with a warning glance at
her lady, which seemed to say, " He is not
fit for it " — at least Blanche so interpreted
it — went out and shut the door. Lord
Level drew her closer to his side. He was
lying propped up by a mound of pillows,
almost sitting up in bed, and kept her standing
there.

Blanche," he began in very quiet tones,
I hear the police are in the house."

Yes," she was obliged to answer, quite
taken aback and feeling very much vexed
that he had been told, as it was likely to
excite him.

Who sent for them ? You ?"

Oh no."

Then it was your friend ; that fellow
Ravensworth. I thought as much."

But indeed it was not," she eagerly

answered, shrinking from her husband's
scornful tones. " When the two policemen
came in — and we do not know who it was
sent them — Mr. Ravensworth went to them
by my desire to stop the search. I told him
that you objected to it."

Objected to it ! I forbade it," haughtily
rejoined Lord Level. " And if — if "

Oh, pray, Archibald, do not excite
yourself ; do not, do not !" she interrupted,
frightened and anxious. " You know you
will become worse again if you do."

Will you go and end it in my name ?
End it, and send them away from the
house."

Yes, if you tell me to do so ; if you
insist upon it," she answered. " But I am
afraid."

Why are you afraid ?"

Lady Level bent her head until it was
on a level with his. "For this, Archibald,"
she whispered : " that they might
question me — and I should be obliged to
answer them."

Lord Level gently drew her cool cheek
nearer, that it might rest against his fevered
one, and remained silent, apparently pondering
the question.

After I told you all that I saw that
night, you bade me be silent," she resumed.
Well, I fear the police might draw it from
me if they questioned me."

But you must not allow them to draw
it from you."

Oh, but perhaps I could not help it,"
she sighed. " You know what the police
are — how they question and cross-question
people."

Blanche, I reminded you last night that
you were my wife, and you owed me implicit
obedience in all great things."

Yes, and I am trying to obey you ; I
am indeed, Archibald," she protested, almost
torn by conflicting emotions ; for, in spite of
her doubts and suspicions, and (as she put it
to herself) her " wrongs," she loved her husband
yet.

Well, my dear, you must be brave for

my sake ; ay, and for your own. Listen,
Blanche : you will tell the police nothing ;
and they must not search the house. I don't
care to see them myself to forbid it : I don't
want to see them. For one thing, I am
hardly strong enough to support the excitement
it would cause me. But "

Will you tell me something, Archibald ?"
she whispered. " Is the — the — person —
that attacked you in the house now ?"

Lord Level looked surprised. " In this
house ? Why, how could it be ? Certainly
not."

Was it — was it a woman ?" she breathed,
her voice low and tremulous.

He turned angry. " How can you be so
silly, Blanche ? A woman ! Oh yes,"
changing to sarcasm, " of course it was a
woman. It was you, perhaps."

That is what they are saying, Archibald."

}Vliat are they saying ?" he returned,
in dangerous excitement — if Blanche had
only noticed the signs. For all this was
agitating him.



Why, that," she answered, bursting into
tears. " The police are saying so. They
are saying that it was I who stabbed you."

Lord Level cried out as a man in agony.
And, with that, delirium came on assail.

NOT LIFTED.

Ijkt^lpY Lady Level sat at the open wine
rr //. (\ 1$ sow °^ ner husband's sitting-room,
asses' J n the dark, her hot face lifted
to the cool night air. Only a moment ago
Lord Level had been calling out in his
delirium, and Mrs. Edwards was putting
cool appliances to his head, and damp, hot
bricks to his feet. And Blanche knew that
it was she who, by her indiscreet remarks and
questioning, had brought on the crisis. She
had not meant to harm or excite him ; but
she had done it ; and she was very contrite.
It was now between ten and eleven o'clock.
She did not intend to go to bed that night ;

and she had already slipped off her evening
dress, and put on a morning one of soft gray
cashmere. With his lordship in a fresh
attack of fever, and the police about, the
household did not think of going to rest.

Blanche Level sat in a miserable reverie,
her lovely face pressed upon her slender
hand, the tears standing in her blue eyes.
She was suspecting her husband of all kinds
of unorthodox things — this has been said
before. Not the least disloyal of them being
that an individual named Nina, who wore
long gold earrings to enhance her charms,
was concealed in that east wing, which might
almost be called a separate house, and which
owned a separate entrance.

And a conviction lay upon Lady Level —
caught up since, not at the time — that it
was this Nina who had attacked Lord Level.
She could not drive away the impression.

Naturally she was bitterly resentful. Not
at the attack, but at all the rest of it. She
had said nothing yet to her husband, and
she did not know whether she ever should

say it ; for even to speak upon such a topic
reflected on herself a shame that stung her.
Of course he forbade the search lest this
visitor should be discovered, reasoned she ;
that is, he told her to forbid it : but ought
she to obey him ? Lady Level, cowering
there in the darkness, would have served asa
perfect exemplification of a small portion
of Collins's " Ode to the Passions."

1 Thy numbers, Jealousy, to naught were fixed,
Sad proof of thy distressful state ;
Of differing themes the veering song was mixed,
And now it courted love, now raving, called on hate.'

Thus was it here. One moment she felt
that she could — and should — put Lord Level
away from her for his falsity, his treachery ;
the next she was conscious that life without
him would be one long and bitter penance,
for she had learned to love him with her
whole heart and soul.

And until that miserable sojourn at Pisa,
she had deemed that he returned her love,
truly and passionately. Fie on the deceitful
wiles of man !

A stir in the passage without. Was there
any change in Lord Level, for better or
for worse ? Despite her resentment, she
was anxious, and she opened the door. Mrs.
Edwards had come out from the opposite
chamber, a basin in hand.

My lady, he is calmer," whispered the
housekeeper, answering the unspoken question
which she read in her eyes. " If he
could only be kept so, if he had nothing to
disturb him, he would soon be well again.
It is a most unlucky thing that these police
should have come here, where they are not
wanted. That of itself must bring excitement
to his lordship."

"It is unlucky that these tales should
have been carried to him," haughtily reproved
the young lady. " I cannot think
who does it, or why."

Nay, my lady, but when his lordship
questions of this and that, he must be answered."


Closing the door of the sick-chamber very
quietly, Mrs. Edwards passed down the

stairs. At the same moment, covert steps
were heard ascending them. Lady Level
caught a glimpse of Mr. Inspector Poole's
head, and stole back out of sight.

Meanwhile Mr. Ravensworth had been
trying to gain a little explanation from that
official. " Do you know," he said to him,
that you are here against Lord Level's
wishes, and in direct opposition to his
orders ?"

No, I do not," replied the inspector.
I did not understand it in that light. I
certainly was told that his lordship had said
he would not have the case officially inquired
into, but I understood that he was lightheaded
when he spoke, not at all conscious
of what he was saying."

From whom, then, did you receive your
instructions, Mr. Poole ?"

From Dr. Macferraty," was the ready
answer. " He called in at the station this
ling."

Ah !" cried Arnold Ravensworth.
It would be a o^rave mistake, he said,

if so monstrous a thing — they were the
doctor's own words — should be left uninvestigated,
because his lordship was off his
head," added the inspector. " May I ask,
sir, if you entertain any suspicion — in any
quarter ?"

Not any," decisively replied Mr. Ravens-worth.
M The whole thing is to me most
mysterious."

The speakers looked at one another. Mr.
Poole was deliberating whether he should
give a hint of what Jekyl had said about
Lady Level. But he was saved the trouble.

I understand, through overhearing a
word or two, that your men have been
wondering whether the culprit could have
been Lady Level," spoke Mr. Ravensworth
in low tones. " The very idea is monstrous :
you have but now used the right word.
Believe me, she is innocent as a child. But
she is most terribly frightened."

"Well, I thought it very unlikely,"
admitted the inspector.

But it seems," slowly continued Mr.

Ravensworth, weighing well his words,
that she caught sight at the time, or
thought she caught sight, of a figure curiously
attired in white flannel, who dropped,
or flung, the knife down in her chamber.
Lord Level says it was not white flannel, but
light fustian, such as a countryman might
wear. According to that, he must also
have seen the individual. The difficulty,
however, is, to know whether his lordship
is speaking in his senses or out of them."

Someone must have got in, then, after
all ; in spite of the doors being found as
they were left."

I think so. I cannot see any other
loophole for suspicion to fall back upon.
Concealed himself in the house probably
beforehand. And, for all we know, maybe
concealed in it still. I gathered an
impression while Lady Level was talking
to me that it might really be some escaped
madman. All the same, Lord Level persists
in forbidding the matter to be investigated."

Keen and practical, the officer revolved

what he heard. The story was a curious one
altogether, and as yet he did not see his
way in it.

I think, sir," he said with deliberation,
that I shall take the affair into my hands,
and act, in the uncertain state of his lordship's
mind, upon my own responsibility.
First of all, we will just go through the
house."

Mr. Ravensworth went with him : they
two together. After a thorough search,
nothing wrong could they find or discover.
The servants and the two policemen remained
below ; Mrs. Edwards was in close
attendance upon his lordship ; and the
steward, who appeared most exceedingly to
resent the presence of these police in the
house, had shut himself into his rooms.

In the course of time, the inspector and
Mr. Ravensworth approached these rooms
Passing Lord Level's chamber with soft footsteps,
they traversed the passages beyond it,
until they found themselves stopped by a
door, which was fastened.

vol. 11. 22

Mr. Poole shook it. " It must lead to
some of the remote rooms," he observed,
and they are uninhabited. Just the spot
for an assassin to conceal himself in — or to
try to do so."

I think these may be the steward's
apartments," spoke Arnold Ravensworth
doubtingly. " I remember Lady Level
said they were only divided from his lordship's
chamber by a passage or two."

Whose ever rooms they were, no one
came to the door in answer to the summons,
and the inspector knocked again.

This time it brought forth Mr. Drewitt.
They heard him draw a chain, and then he
opened the door a few inches, as far as the
chain permitted him.

"Will you let us in, Mr. Drewitt? I
must search these rooms."

Search for what ?" asked the old man.
It's you, is it, Poole ! I cannot have my
rooms searched. This morning, after the
alarm, I went over them, to be quite sure,
and that's sufficient."

Allow me to search for myself," returned
the officer.

No, sir," answered the steward, with
dignity. " Into one shall come in to search
these rooms in opposition to the wish of
my lord. His orders to me were that the
affair should be allowed to drop, and I for
one will not disobey him, or give help to
those who would. His lordship believed
that whoever it might be that attacked
him came in and went out again. The
country might be hunted over, he said, but
not his house."

I must enter here," was all the answer
reiterated by the officer.

It shall be over my body, then," returned
the steward, with emotion. " My lord forbade
a search, and you have no right whatever
to proceed with it."

My good man, I am a police inspector."


You may be inspector-general for all I
care," retorted the old gentleman, " but you
don't come in here. Get my lord's authority

22—2

first, and then you will be welcome. As to
reminding me who you are, Mr. Poole, you
must know that to be superfluous. And I
beg your pardon, sir," he added, addressing
Mr. Ravensworth, "but I would inquire
what authority you hold from my lord, that
you, a stranger, should set at naught his
expressed wishes ?"

The door was shut and bolted in their
faces, and the inspector leaned against the
wall in thought. " Did you notice his agitation
?" he whispered to Mr. Ravensworth.
There's more in this than meets the eye."

It certainly wore that appearance. However,
for the present they were foiled, and
the steward remained master of the position.
To attempt to enter those rooms by force
would create noise and commotion in the
house that might be disastrous to the health
of Lord Level.

There's something in those rooms that
has to be concealed," spoke the astute inspector.
" If it be the man who attacked
Lord Level "

But the steward, devoted as he is to his
master, would not harbour him? impulsively
interrupted Arnold Ravensworth.

True. Unless — unless, mind you, there
exists some cause, which we cannot even
guess at, for his lordship's shielding him,"
said the inspector. " I must say I should
like to get into the rooms."

There is no other way of doing it ; no
other entrance."

I don't know that, sir. Unless I am
mistaken, these rooms communicate direct
with the East Wing. By getting into that,
we might find an unsuspected entrance."

He made his way downstairs in silence,
musing as he went. At the foot of the
staircase he encountered Deborah.

Which are the passages in this lower
part of the house that lead to the East
Wing V he inquired.

Not any of them, sir," answered Deborah
promptly. " At least, not any that are ever
opened. At the end of the stone passage
there's a heavy door, barred and bolted, that

leads to other passages, I believe, and to
other heavy bolted doors, and they lead into
the East Wing. That's what I have heard
say. The only entrance in use is the one
through Mr. Drewitt' s rooms."

Opposition seemed only to strengthen the
will of Mr. Inspector Poole. " Into the
rooms I mean to make my way," he said to
Mr. Ravensworth, as he retraced his steps
up the staircase. " Could you not," he
hastily added, " get Lady Level to bring
her authority to bear upon old Drewitt ?"

It was the appearance of Lady Level that
probably induced the thought. She, looking
pale, haggard and uneasy, was peeping down
at them, and did not escape in time.

Arnold Ravensworth somewhat hesitatingly
acceded. They wished to sj:>eak to
Mr. Drewitt — he put it to her in that way —
but he had bolted himself into his rooms ;
would she use her authority and bid him
admit them ?

She complied at once, unsuspiciously. Of
all parts of the house, that occupied by the

steward must be most free from concealment.
And she went with them to the barred-up
door.

The steward did not presume to dispute
Lady Level's mandate, which she gave somewhat
imperiously. She entered with them.
They found themselves in the old gentleman's
sitting-room, and he placed chairs for them.
We have not come to sit down," said Mr.
Poole ; and he passed into the other rooms
in rapid succession : the two bed-chambers
and the unoccupied room that had nothing
in it but a few trunks. A very cursory inspection
convinced him that no person was
being harboured there.

Why could you not have admitted us
just now, Mr. Drewitt ?" he asked.

Because you brought not the authority
of either my lord or my lady," answered
the faithful old retainer.

The inspector strode to the end of the
passage and stood before the oaken door already
spoken of, examining its heavy fastenings.
The others had followed him.

This must be the door communicating
between the house and the East Wing,"
he remarked. " Will you open it, Mr.
Drewitt ?"

No, sir, I will not."

But we must have it opened," interposed
Arnold Ravensworth. " The fact is, we
have some reason to fear the midnight
assassin may yet be hiding himself on the
premises. He does not appear to be in the
house, so he may be in the East Wing — and
we mean to search it."

Are you an enemy of my lord's ?" returned
the old man, greatly agitated.

Certainly not. I would rather be his
friend. I have been the friend, if I may so
express it, of Lady Level since she was a
child, and I must see that she is protected,
her husband being for the time laid aside."

My lady," called out the old man,
visibly trembling, " I appeal to you, as my
lord's second self, to forbid these gentlemen
from attempting to enter the East
Win?"

Be firm, Blanche," whispered Mr.
Ravens worth, as she came forward. " We
must search the East Wing, and it is for
your sake."

She turned to the steward. " I am sure
that they are acting for the best. Open the
door."

For one moment the old man hesitated,
and then wrung his hands. " That I
should be forced to disobey the wife of my
lord ! My lady, I crave your pardon, but
I will not open these rooms unless I have
the express authority of his lordship to do
so.

But I wish it done, Mr. Drewitt," she
said, blushing hotly.

Police inspectors have generally the means
of carrying out their own will. Mr. Poole,
after critically regarding the fastenings, produced
one or two small instruments from his
pockets and a bunch of keys. As he was
putting one of the keys into the lock for the
purpose of trying whether it would fit it, a
curious revulsion came over Lady Level.

Possibly the piteous, beseeching countenance
of the steward induced it. " He is ray husband,
after all," she whispered to her own
heart.

Stop !" she said aloud, pushing the key
downwards. " I may not have the right
to sanction this in opposition to the wish
of Lord Level. He has forbidden any
search to be made, and I must do the
same."

There was a moment's silence. The inspector
gazed at her.

When his lordship shall be sufficiently
recovered to see you, sir, you can take instructions
from him if he sees well to give them,"
she added to the officer civilly. " Until then,
I must act for him, and I forbid "

Eighty-eight, and what's the matter
here ?" broke in a hearty voice behind them,
at which they all turned in surprise. Making
his way along the passage was a portly, but
rather short man of sixty years, with an intellectual
brow and benevolent countenance,
a red face and a bald head. The change in

Mr. Drewitt's look was remarkable ; its
piteousness had changed to radiance.

The new-comer shook hands with him.
Then he turned and affably shook hands
with the inspector, speaking gaily. " You
look as if you had the business of all the
world on your shoulders, Poole."

Have you seen my lord, Mr. Hill ?"
asked the steward.

I got back home to-night and came on
here at once, hearing of the hubbub you are
in, and I have seen my lord for a few minutes.
And this is my lady — and a very charming
lady I am sure she is," he added, bowing to
Lady Level with an irresistible smile. " Will
she shake hands with the old man who has
been doctor-inordinate to her lord's family
for ages and ages ?"

Blanche put her hand into his. She, as
she was wont sometimes to tell him in days
to come, fell in love with him at once.

What a blessing that you are back
again !" murmured the good old steward.

Ay," assented Mr. Hill, perhaps purposely

misinterpreting the remark : "we will
have Lord Level up and about in no time
now. — Mr. Poole, I want a private word
with you."

The doctor drew him into the steward's
sitting-room, and closed the door. The
conference did not last more than a minute
or two, but it was very effectual. For when
Mr. Inspector Poole came forth, he announced
his decision of withdrawing all
search at present. To be resumed if necessary,
he added, when his lordship should
have recovered sufficiently to give his own
orders.

The only one who did not appear to be
altogether satisfied with this summary check
was Arnold Ravensworth. He did not understand
it. Upon some remark being made as
to Lady Level's safety from any attack by
the midnight villain, Mr. Hill at once told
her he would guarantee that. And though
he spoke with a laugh, as if making light of
the matter, there was an assurance in his eye
and tone that she might implicitly trust to.

Then — as it seems I cannot be of any
further use to you to-night, and as I may
just catch the midnight up train, I will wish
you good-bye, Lady Level," said Mr. Ravens-worth.
" I am easy about you, now Mr.
Hill is here. But be sure to write for me
if you think I can be of service to you or
to Lord Level."

I will, I will," she answered. " Thank
you, Arnold, for coming."

Marshdale House returned to its usual
monotony, and a day or two went on.
Nothing more was seen or heard of the
unknown individual who had so disturbed
its peace ; the very mention of it was
avoided. Nevertheless, Blanche, turning
matters over in her mind, could only look
at it and at that detestable East Wins:
with an increased sense of mystery. " But
for knowing that someone was there who
might not be disclosed to the honest light
of day, why should he have forbidden the
search ?" ran the argument that she was forever

holding with herself; and she steeled
her heart yet more against her husband.

On this, the second afternoon after the
commotion, she was sitting reading a newspaper
in the garden, where the sun was
shining hotly, when Mr. Hill, who had been
up with Lord Level, appeared.

Well," said the doctor cheerily, halting
before her, " he is a great deal better, and
the knee's ever so much stronger. I shall
have him up tomorrow. And in a couple
of days after that he may venture to travel
to town, as he is so anxious to get there."

Your treatment seems to agree with
him better than Dr. Macferraty's did," she
answered.

Ay : I know his constitution, you see.
Good-day, Lady Level. I shall be in again
to-night."

Soon after the doctor went out, there was
heard a shrill whistle at the gate, together
with a kicking about of gravel by a pair of
rough boots. Lady Level looked up, and saw
the boy from the station bringing in a parcel.

Well, Sam," said she, as the lad approached.
" What have you come for ?"

They sent me on with this here parcel
and precious heavy he is for his size," replied
Sam Doughty, as without ceremony he
tumbled the parcel on to the bench by Lady
Level's side. It was addressed to her, and
she knew that it contained some books
which Mr. Ravensworth had promised to
send down. " Come down by the midday
train," curtly added the boy for her
information.

Do you get paid for delivering parcels,
Sam ?"

Me get paid !" returned the youth, with
intense aggravation ; "no such luck. Unless,"
added he, a happy thought striking
him, " anybody likes to give me something
for myself — knowing how weighty they be,
and what a lug it is for one's arms."

This parcel is not at all heavy," said
Lady Level.

I'm sure he is, then, for his size. You
should lift, though, what I have to drag

along sometimes. Why, yesterday that ever
was, I brought a parcel as big as a house
to the next door ; one that come from
Lunnon by the mid-day train just as this n
did ; and Mother Snow she never gave me
nothing but a jam tart, no bigger nor the
round o' your hand. She were taking a tray
on 'em out o' the oven."

Jam tarts for her delectation !" was the
thought that flashed through Lady Level's
mind. " Who was the parcel for, Sam ?"
she asked aloud.

'Twere directed to Mrs. Snow."

Oh. Not to that lady who is staying
there ?"

What lady be that ?" questioned Sam.

The one you told me about. The lady
with the long gold earrings."

Sam's stolid countenance assumed a look
of doubt, as if he did not altogether understand.
His eyes grew wider.

TJiat un ! Her ain't there now, her
ain't. Her didn't stop. Her went right
away again the next day after she come."

Did she ?" exclaimed Lady Level, taken
by surprise. " Are you sure V

Be I sure as that's a newspaper in your
hand ?" retorted Sam. " In course I be
sure. The fly were ordered down here for
her the next morning, and she come on to
the station in it, Mr. Snow a sitting outside."

She went back to London, then !"

She went just t'other way," contradicted
the boy. " Right on by the down-train.
Dover her ticket were took for."

Lady Level fell into a passing reverie.
All the conjectures she had been indulging
in lately — whither had they flown ? At
that moment Mrs. Edwards, having seen
the boy from the house, came out to ask
what he wanted. Sam put on his best
behaviour instantly. The respect he failed
to show to the young lady was in full force
before Mrs. Edwards.

I come to bring this here parcel, please,
ma'am, for Lady Level," said he, touching
his old cap.

Oh, very well," said Mrs. Edwards.
vol. 11. 23

I'll carry it indoors, my lady," she added,
taking it up. " You need not wait,
Sam."

Lady Level slipped a sixpence into his
ready hand, and he went off contented. Mrs.
Edwards carried away the parcel.

Presently Lady Level followed, her mind
busy as she went upstairs. She was taking
some contrition to herself. What if — if it
was all, or a great deal of it, only her imagination
? — that her husband was not the
disloyal man she had deemed him ?

His chamber door was closed ; she passed
it and went into her own. Then she opened
the door separating the rooms and peeped
in. He was lying upon the bed, partly
dressed, and wrapped in a warm dressing-gown
; his face was turned to the pillow,
and he was apparently asleep.

She stole up and stood looking at him.
Not a trace of fever lingered in his face now ;
his fine features looked wan and delicate.
Her love for him was making itself heard
just then. Cautiously she stooped to imprint

a soft, silent kiss upon his cheek ; and
then another.

She would have lifted her face then, and
found she could not do so. His arm was
round her in a trice, holding it there ; his
beautiful gray eyes had opened and were
fixed on hers.

So you care for me a little bit yet,
Blanche," he fondly whispered. " Better
this than calling me hard names."

She burst into tears. " I should care for
you always, Archibald, if — if — I were sure
you cared for me."

You may be very sure of that" he emphatically
answered. " Let there be peace
between us, at any rate, my dear wife. The
clouds will pass away in time."

On the Monday morning following, Lord
and Lady Level departed for London. The
peace, patched up between them, being
honestly genuine and hopeful on his lordship's
part, but doubtful on that of my lady.

Still nothing had been said or done to lift
the mystery which hung: about Marshdale.

2 3 2 UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

ONE NIGHT IN ESSEX STREET.

E go on now to the following year :
and I, Charles Strange, take up
the narrative again.

It has been said that the two rooms on
the ground-floor of our house in Essex Street
were chiefly given over to the clerks. I
had a desk in the front office ; the same
desk that I had occupied as a boy ; and I
frequently sat at it now. Mr. Lennard's
desk stood opposite to mine. On the first
floor the large front room was furnished asa
sitting-room. It was called Mr. Bright-man's
room, and there he received his

clients. The back room was called my
room ; but Mr. Brightman had a desk in it,
and I had another. His desk stood in the
middle of the room before the hearth-rug ;
mine was under the window.

One fine Saturday afternoon in February,
when it was getting near five o'clock, I was
writing busily at my desk in this latter
room, when Mr. Brightman came in.

Rather dark for you, is it not, Charles ?"
he remarked, as he stirred the fire and sat
down in his arm-chair beside it.

Yes, sir ; but I have almost finished."

What are you going to do with yourself
tomorrow ?" he presently asked, when
I was putting up my parchments.

Nothing in .particular, sir." I could not
help sometimes retaining my old way of addressing
him, as from clerk to master. " Last
Sunday I was with my uncle Stillingfar."

Then you may as well come down to
Clapham and dine with me. Mrs. Bright-man
is away for a day or two, and I shall
be alone. Come in time for service."

I promised, and drew a chair to the fire,
ready to talk with Mr. Brightman. He
liked a little chat with me at times when
the day's work was over. It turned now
on Lord Level, from whom I had heard
that morning. We were not his usual
solicitors, but were doing a little matter of
business for him. He and Blanche had
been abroad since the previous November
(when they had come up together from
Marshdale), and had now been in Paris
for about a month.

Do they still get on pretty well ?" asked
Mr. Brightman : for he knew that there had
been differences between them.

Pretty well," I answered, rather hesitatingly.


And, in truth, it was only pretty well,
so far as I was able to form a judgment.
During this sojourn of theirs in Paris I had
spent a few days there with a client, and
saw Blanche two or three times. That she
was living in a state of haughty resentment
against her husband was indisputable.

Why or wherefore, I knew not.
She dropped a mysterious word to me now
and then, of which I could make nothing.

While Mr. Brightman was saying this, a
clerk came in, handed a letter to him and
retired.

What a nuisance !" cried he, as he
read it by fire-light. I looked up at the
exclamation.

Sir Edmund Clavering's coming to town
this evening, and wants me to be here to
see him !" he explained. " I can't go home
to dinner now."

Which train is he coming by ?" I
asked.

One that is due at Euston Square at
six o'clock," replied Mr. Brightman, referring
to the letter. " I wanted to be home early
this evening."

You are not obliged to wait, sir," I said.
I wished to my heart later — oh, how I
wished it ! — that he had not waited !

I suppose I must, Charles. He is a
good client, and easily takes offence. Recollect

that breeze we had with him three or
four months ago."

The clocks struck five as he spoke, and
we heard the clerks leaving as usual. I
have already stated that no difference was
made in the working hours on Saturdays in
those days. Afterwards, Mr. Lennard came
up to ask whether there was anything more
to be done.

Not now," replied Mr. Brightman.
But I tell you what, Lennard," he
added, as a thought seemed to occur to
him, " you may as well look in again tonight,
about half-past seven or eight, if it
won't inconvenience you. Sir Edmund
Clavering is coming up ; I conclude it is
for something special ; and I may have
instructions to give for Monday morning.





Very well," replied Lennard. " I will

come."

He went out as he spoke ; a spare, gentlemanly
man, with a fair complexion and thin,
careworn face. Edgar Lennard was a man

of few words, but attentive and always at
his post, a most efficient superintendent of
the office and of the clerks in general.

He left and Mr. Brightman rose, saying
he would go and get some dinner at the
Rainbow. I suggested that he should share
my modest steak, adding that Leah could as
easily send up enough for two as for one :
but he preferred to go out. I rang the bell
as I heard him close the front-door. Watts
answered it, and lighted the gas.

u Tell your wife to prepare my dinner at
once," I said to him ; " or as soon as possible :
Mr. Brightman is coming back to-night.
You are going out, are you not ?"

Yes, sir, about that business. Mr.
Lennard said I had better go as soon as
I had had my tea."

All right. It will take you two or
three hours to get there and back again.
See to the fire in the next room ; it is to be
kept up. And, Watts, tell Leah not to
trouble about vegetables to-day : I can't
wait for them."

In about twenty minutes Leah and the
steak appeared. I could not help looking
at her as she placed the tray on the table
and settled the dishes. Thin, haggard, untidy,
Leah ]presented a strange contrast to
the trim, well-dressed upper servant I had
known at White Littleham Rectory. It
was Watts who generally waited upon me.
When Leah knew beforehand that she would
have to wait, she put herself straight. Today
she had not known. My proper sitting-room
upstairs was not much used in winter.
This one was warm and comfortable, with
the large fire kept in it all day, so I
generally remained in it. I was not troubled
with clients after office hours.

I wonder you go such a figure, Leah !"
I could not help saying so.

"It is cleaning-day, Mr. Charles. And
I did not know I should have to come up
here. Watts has just gone out."

"It is a strange thing to me that you
cannot get a woman in to help you. I
have said so before."

Ah, sir, nobody knows where the shoe
pinches but he who wears it."

With this remark, unintelligible as apropos
to the question, and a deep sigh, Leah withdrew.
I had finished dinner, and the tray
was taken away before Mr. Brightman
returned.

Now I hope Sir Edmund will be
punctual," he cried, as we sat together,
talking over a glass of sherry. " It is half-past
six : time he was here."

And there he is !" I exclaimed, as a ring
and a knock that shook the house resounded
in our ears. After five o'clock the front door
was always closed.

Watts being out, we heard Leah answer the
door in her charming costume. But clients
pay little attention to the attire of laundresses
in chambers.

Good heavens ! Can Sir Edmund have
taken too much !" uttered Mr. Brightman,
halting as he was about to enter the other
room to receive him. Loud sounds in a
man's voice arose from the passage ; singing,

laughing, joking with Leah. " Open the
door, Charles."

I had already opened it, and saw, not Sir
Edmund Clavering, but the young country
client, George Coney, the son of a substantial
and respectable yeoman in Gloucestershire.
He appeared to be in exalted spirits, and had
a little exceeded, but was very far from being
intoxicated.

What, is Mr. Brightman here ? I only
expected to see you," cried he, shaking hands
with both. " Look here !" holding out a
small canvas bag, and rattling it. " What
does that sound like ?"

It sounds like gold," said Mr. Bright-man.


Right, Mr. Brightman ; thirty golden
sovereigns : and I am as delighted with them
as if they were thirty hundred," said he,
opening the bag and displaying its contents.
Last week I got swindled out of a horse
down at home. Thirty pounds I sold him
for, and he and the purchaser disappeared
and forgot to pay. My father went on at

me, like our old mill clacking ; not so much
for the loss of the thirty pounds, as at my
being done : and all the farmers round about
clacked at me, like so many more mills.
Pleasant, that, for a fellow, was it not ?"

Very," said Mr. Brightman, while I
laughed.

I did not care to stand it," went on
George Coney. " I obtained a bit of a clue,
and the day before yesterday I came up to
London — and I have met with luck. This
afternoon I dropped across the very chap,
where I had waited for him since the morning.
He was going into a public-house, and
another with him, and I pinned them in the
room, with a policeman outside, and he pretty
soon shelled out the thirty pounds, rather
than be taken. That's luck, I hope." He
opened the bag as he spoke, and displayed
the gold.

Remarkable luck, to get the money,"
observed Mr. Brigditman.

I expect they had been in luck themselves,"
continued young Coney, " for they

had more gold with them, and several notes.
They were for paying me in notes, but ' No,
thank ye,' said I, ' I know good gold when I
see it, and I'll take it in that.' "

I am glad you have been so fortunate,"
said Mr. Brightman. " When do you return
home ?"

I did mean to go to-night, and I called
to leave with you this small deed that my
father said I might as well bring up with meas
I was coming " — producing a thin folded
parchment from his capacious pocket-book.
But I began thinking, as I came along,
that I might as well have a bit of a spree
now I am here, and go down by Monday
night's train," added the young man, tying
up the bag again, and slipping it into
his pocket. " I shall go to a theatre tonight."


Not with that bag of gold about you ?"
said Mr. Brightman.

Why not ?"

Why not ? Because you would have no
trace of it left tomorrow morning."

George Coney laughed good-humouredly.
I can take care of myself, sir."

Perhaps so ; but you can't take care of
the gold. Come, hand it over to me. Your
father will thank me for being determined,
and you also, Mr, George, when you have
cooled down from the seductions of London."

I may want to spend some of it," returned
George Coney. " Let's see how much
I have," cried he, turning the loose money
out of his pockets. " Four pounds, seven
shillings, and a few halfpence," he concluded,
counting it up.

A great deal too much to squander or
lose in one night," remarked Mr. Brkfhtman.
Here," added he, unlocking a deep drawer
in his desk, " put your bag in here, and come
for it on Monday."

George Coney drew the bag from his
pocket, but not without a few remonstrative
shakes of the head, and put it in the drawer.
Mr. Brightman locked it, and restored the
bunch of keys to his pocket.

You are worse than my father is," cried

George Coney, half in jest, half vexed at
having yielded. " I wouldn't be as close and
stingy for anything."

In telling this story twenty years hence,
Mr. George, you will say, What a simpleton
I should have made of myself, if that cautious
old lawyer Brightman had not been close and
stingy !"

George Coney winked at me and laughed.
Perhaps he's right, after all."

I know I am," said Mr. Brightman.
Will you take a glass of sherry ?"

Well ; no, I think I had better not. I
have had almost enough already, and I
want to carry clear eyes with me to the
play. What time does it begin ?"

About seven, I think ; but I am not a
theatre-goer myself. Strange can tell you."

Then I shall be off," said he, shaking
hands with us, as only a hearty country
yeoman knows how to.

He had scarcely gone when Sir Edmund
Clavering's knock was heard. Mr. Bright-man
went with him into the front room, and

I sat reading the Times. Leah, by the way,
had made herself presentable, and looked
tidy enough in a clean white cap and apron.
Sir Edmund did not stay long : he left
about seven. I heard Mr. Brightman go back
after showing him out, and rake the fire out
of the grate — he was always timidly cautious
about fire — and then he returned to my room.
No wonder Sir Edmund wanted to seeme,"
cried he. " There's the deuce of a
piece of work down at his place. His cousin
wants to dispute the will and to turn him
out. They have been serving notices on
the tenants not to pay the rent."

What a curious woman she must be !"
Mr. Brightman smiled slightly, but made
no answer.

He did not stay long, sir."
No, he is going out to dinner."
As Mr. Brightman spoke, he turned up
the gas, drew his chair to the desk and sat
down, his back then being towards the fire.
I must look over these letters and copies
of notices which Sir Edmund brought with
vol. 11. 24

him, and has left with me," he remarked. " I
don't care to go home directly."

The next minute he was absorbed in the
papers. I put down the Times, and rose.
You do not want me, I suppose, Mr.
Brightman," I said. " I promised Arthur
Lake to go to his chambers for an hour."

I don't want you, Charles. Mind you
are not late in coming down to me tomorrow
morning."

So I wished him good-night and departed.
Arthur Lake, a full-fledged barrister now of
the Middle Temple, rented a couple of rooms
in one of the courts. His papers were in
one room, his bed in the other. He was a
steady fellow, as he always had been, working
hard and likely to get on. We passed
many of our evenings together over a quiet
chat and a cigar, I going round to him, or
he coming in to me. He had grown up a
little, dandified sort of man, good-humouredly
insolent as ever when the fit took him : but
sterling at heart.

Lake was sitting at the fire waiting forme,

and began to grumble at my being late.
I mentioned what had hindered me.

And I have forgotten my cigar-case !" I
exclaimed as I sat down. " I had filled it,
all ready, and left it on the table."

Never mind," said Lake. " I laid in a
parcel to-day."

But I did mind, for Lake's " parcels "
were never good. He would buy his cigars
so dreadfully strong. Nothing pleased him
but those full-flavoured Lopez, whilst I liked
mild Cabins : so, generally speaking, I
kept to my own. However, I took one,
and we sat, talking and smoking. I smoked
it out, abominable though it was, and took
another ; but I couldn't stand a second.

Lake, I cannot smoke your cigars," I
said, flinging it into the fire. " You know I
never can. I must run and fetch my own.
There goes eight o'clock."

What's the matter with them ?" asked
Lake : his usual question.

Everything ; they are bad all over. I
shall be back in a trice."

24—2

I went the quickest way, through the
passages, which brought me into Essex
Street, and had my latch-key ready to open
the door with as I approached the house.
There were three of these latch-keys. I
had one ; Lennard another, for it sometimes
happened that he had to come in before or
after business hours ; and Leah had possession
of the third. But I had no use for
mine now, for the door was open. A policeman,
standing by the area railings, recognised
me, and wished me good-evening.

Whose carelessness is this V thought I,
advancing to the top of the kitchen stairs
and calling to Leah.

It appeared useless to call : no Leah made
her appearance. I shut the front door and
went upstairs, wondering whether Mr.
Biwhtman had left.

Left ! I started back as I entered ; for
there lay Mr. Brightman on the floor by his
desk, as if he had pushed back his chair and
fallen from it.

What is the matter ?" I exclaimed,

throwing my hat anywhere, and hastening to
raise him. But his head and shoulders were
a dead weight in my arms, and there was an
awful look upon his face, as the gaslight fell
upon it. A look, in short, of death, and
not of an easy death.

My pulses beat quicker, man though I
was, and my heart beat with them. Was I
alone in that large house with the dead ? I
let him fall again and rang the bell violently.
I rushed to the door and shouted over the
banisters for Leah ; and just as I was leaping
down for the policeman I had seen outside,
or any other help that might be at
hand, I heard a latch-key inserted into the
lock, and Lennard came in with Dr. Dickinson.
I knew him well, for he had attended
Miss Methold in the days gone by.

As he hastened to Mr. Brightman,
Lennard turned to me, speaking in a whisper :

Mr. Strange, how did it happen ? Was
he ill ?"

I know nothing about it, Lennard. I
came in a minute ago, and found him lying

here. What do you know ? Had you been
here before ?"

I came, as Mr. Brightman had directed,"
he replied. " It was a little before eight ;
and when I got upstairs he was lying there
as you see. I tried to rouse him, but could
not, and I went off for the doctor."

Did you leave the front door open ?"

I believe I did, in my flurry and haste.
I thought of it as I ran up the street, but
would not lose time in going back to shut it."

He is gone, Mr. Strange," said Dr.
Dickenson, advancing towards me, for I and
Lennard had stood near the door. "It is a
case of sudden death."

I sat down, bewildered. I could not
believe it. How awfully sudden ! " Is it
apoplexy ?" I asked, lifting my head.

No, I should say not."

Then what is it ?"

I cannot tell ; it may be the heart."

Are you sure he is dead ? Beyond all
hope ?"

He is indeed."

A disagreeable doubt rushed over my
mind, and I spoke on the impulse of the
moment. " Has he come by his death
fairly ?"

The surgeon paused before he answered.
I see no reason, as yet, to infer otherwise.
There are no signs of violence about him."

I cannot describe my feelings as we stood
looking down at him. Never had I felt so
before. What was I to do next ? — how
act ? A hazy idea was making itself heard
that some weighty responsibility lay upon me.

Just then a cab dashed up to the door ;
we heard it all too plainly in the hushed
silence ; and someone knocked and rang.
Lennard went down to open it, and I told
him to send in the policeman and fetch another
doctor. Looking over the banisters
I saw George Coney come in.

Such a downfall to my plans, Mr.
Strange," he began, seeing me as he ascended
the stairs. " I went round to my
inn to brush myself up before going to the
play, and there I found a letter from my

father, which they had forgotten to give me
this morning. Our bailiff's been taken ill,
cannot leave his bed, and father writes that
I had better let the horse and the thirty
pounds go for a bad job, and come home,
for he can't have me away longer. So my
spree's done for, this time, and I am on my
way to the station, to catch the nine o'clock
train."

Don't go in until you have heard what
is there," I whispered, as he was entering
the room. " Mr. Brightman, whom you
left well, is lying on the floor, and "

And what ?" asked young Coney, looking
at me.

I fear he is dead."

After a dismayed pause he went gently
into the room, taking off his hat reverently
and treading on tiptoe. " Poor fellow ! poor
gentleman !" he uttered, after looking at
him. " What an awful thing ! How was
he taken ?"

We do not know how. He was alone."

What, alone when he was taken ! no

one to help him !" returned the young man.
That was hard ! What has he died of?"

Probably the heart," interposed Dr.
Dickenson.

Last summer a carter of ours fell down
as he was standing near us ; my father was
giving him directions about a load of hay,
and when we picked him up he was dead,"
spoke the young man. " That was the heart,
they said. But he looked calm and quiet,
not as Mr. Brightman looks. He left seven
children, poor chap!"

At that juncture Mr. Lennard returned
with the policeman. Another doctor, he
said, would be round directly. After some
general conversation, George Coney looked
at his watch.

Mr. Strange, my time's up. Would it
be convenient to give me that money again ?
I should like to take it down with me, you
see, just to have the laugh against the old
folks at home."

I will give it you," I said.

But for the very life of me, I could not

put my hand into the dead man's pocket.
I beckoned to Lennard. " Can you take
out his keys ?"

Let me do it," said Dr. Dickenson, for
Lennard did not seem to relish the task
either. " I am more accustomed to death
than you are. Which pocket are they in ?"

The right-hand pocket of his trousers ;
he always kept them there," was my answer.

Dr. Dickenson found the keys and handed
them to me. I unlocked the drawer, being
obliged to bend over the dead to do so, and
young Coney stepped forward to receive the
bag.

But the bass was not there.

Chapter IV.

LEAH S STORY.

UR dismayed faces might have
formed a study for a painter,
as we stood in my room in Essex
Street : the doctor, George Coney, Lennard
and myself. On the floor, between the
hearth rug and the desk, lay the dead man,
the blaze of the fire and the gaslights playing
on his features. Mr. Brightman was dead.
In my mental pain and emotion I could not
realize the fact ; would not believe that it
was true. He had died thus suddenly, no
one near him ; no one, so far as was yet
known, in the house at the time. And
to me, at least, there seemed to be some
mystery attaching to it.

But, at this particular moment, we were
looking for George Coney's sovereigns, which
Mr. Brightman, not much more than an
hour before, had locked up in the deep
drawer of his desk, returning the keys to
his pocket. After Dr. Dickenson had
handed me the keys I unlocked and opened
the drawer. But the bag was not there.

If the desk itself had disappeared, I could
not have been more surprised. Lying in
the drawer, close to where the bag had been,
was a gold watch belonging to Mrs. Bright-man,
which had been brought up to town
to be cleaned. That was undisturbed.
Coney," I exclaimed, " the money is not
here."

It was put there," replied young Coney.
Next to that watch."

I know it was," I answered. I opened
the drawer on the other side, but that was
full of papers. I looked about on the desk ;
then on my own desk, even unlocking the
drawers, though I had had the key in my
own pocket ; then on the tables and mantelpiece.

Not a trace could I see of the canvas
bag.

What bag is it T inquired Dr. Dickinson,
who. of course, had known nothing of
this. " What was in it f

A small canvas bag containing some
gold that Mr. George Coney had wished
to leave here until Monday," I answered.

'Twas one of our sample barley bags ; I
happened to have it in my pocket when 1
left home." explained the young man. " My
fathers initials were on it : S. C. v

How much was in it V asked Lennard.

Thirty pounds."

I fear you will be obliged to go without
it. after all 1 I said, when I had turned
everything over, "for it is not to be found.
I will remit you thirty pounds on Monday.
AVe send our spare cash to the bank on
Saturday afternoons, so that I have not so
much in the house : and I really do not
know where Mr. Brightman has put the
cheque-book. It is strange that he should
have taken the baof out o\' the drawer again."

Perhaps it may be in one of his
pockets," suggested the doctor. " Shall I
search them ?"

No, no," interposed George Coney. " I
wouldn't have the poor gentleman disturbed
just for that. You'll remit it to me, Mr.
Strange. Not to my father," he added,
with a smile : "to me."

I went down with him, and there sat
Leah at the bottom of the stairs, leaning
her head against the banisters, almost under
the hall lamp. " When did you come in,
Leah ?" I asked.

She rose hastily, and faced me. " I thought
you were out, sir. I have come in only this
instant."

What is the matter ?" I continued,
struck with the white, strange look upon
her face. " Are you ill ?"

No, sir, not ill. Trouble is the lot of
us all."

I shook hands with George Coney as he
got into his cab and departed, and then
returned indoors. Leah was hastening

along the passage to the kitchen stairs. I
called her back again. " Leah," I said,
do you know what has happened to Mr.
Brightman ?"

No, sir," answered she. " What has
happened to him ?"

You must prepare for a shock. He is
dead."

She had a cloth and a plate in her hand,
and laid them down on the slab as she
backed against the wall, staring in horror.
Then her features relaxed into a wan smile.

Ah, Master Charles, you are thinking
to be a boy again to-night, and are playing
a trick upon me, as you used to do in the
old days, sir."

I wish to my heart it was so, Leah.
Mr. Brightman is lying upon the floor in
my room. I fear there can be no doubt
that he is dead."

My poor master !" she slowly ejaculated.

Heaven have mercy upon him ! — and upon

us ! Why, it's not more than three-quarters of

san hour since I took up some water to him."

Did he ask for it ?"

He rang the bell, sir, and asked for a
decanter of water and a tumbler."

How did he look then, Leah ? Where
was he sitting ?"

He was sitting at his table, sir, and he
looked as usual, for all I saw, but his head
was bent over something he was reading.
I put some coals on the fire and came away.
Mr. Charles, who is up there with him ?"

Dr. Dickenson and "

A knock at the door interrupted me. It
proved to be the other doctor I had sent for.

The medical men proceeded to examine
Mr. Brightman more closely. I had sent
for the police, and they also were present.
I then searched his pockets, a policeman
aiding me, and we put their contents carefully
away. But there was no bag containing
gold amongst them. How had it
disappeared ?

A most unhappy circumstance was the fact
that I could not send for Mrs. Brightman, for
I did not know where she was. Mr. Bright-man

had said she was out of town, but did
not say where.

When Watts came home, I despatched
him to the house at Clapham, allowing him
no time to indulge his grief or his curiosity.
Leah had knelt down by Mr. Brightman,
tears silently streaming from her eyes.

The fire in the front room was relighted ;
the fire, the very coals, which he, poor man,
had so recently taken off ; and I, Lennard
and Arthur Lake went in there to talk the
matter over quietly.

Lennard," I said, " I am not satisfied that
he has died a natural death. I hope "

There are no grounds for any other
supposition, Mr. Strange," he interrupted.
None whatever. Are there ?" he added,
looking at me.

I trust there are none — but I don't
quite like the attendant circumstances of the
case. The loss of that bag of money causes all
sorts of unpleasant suspicions to arise. When
you came to the house, Lennard, did you
go straight upstairs ?" I added, after a pause.

vol. ii. 25

No, I went into the front office," replied
Lennard. " I thought Sir Edmund Cla veris*
might still be here."

Was Leah out or in ?"

Leah was standing at the front door,
looking — as it seemed to me — down the
steps leading to the Thames. While I was
lighting my candle by the hall-lamp, she
shut the front door and came to me. She
was extremely agitated, and "

Agitated ?" I interrupted.

Yes," said Lennard ; " I could not be
mistaken. I stared at her, wondering what
could cause it, and why her face was so
white — almost as white as Mr. Brightman's
is now. She asked — as earnestly as if she
were pleading for life — whether I would stop
in the house for a few minutes, as Mr.
Brightman had not gone, while she ran out
upon an errand. I inquired whether Sir
Edmund Clavering was upstairs, and she
said no ; he had left ; Mr. Strange was out,
and Mr. Brightman was alone."

Did she go out V

Immediately," replied Lennard ; " just
as she was, without bonnet or shawl. I
went up to your room, and tapped at the
door. It was not answered, and I went in.
At first I thought the room was empty ;
but in a moment I saw Mr. Brightman
lying on the ground. He was dead even
then ; I am certain of it," added Lennard,
pausing from natural emotion. " I raised
his head, and put a little water to his
temples, but I saw that he was dead."

It is an awful thing !" exclaimed Lake.

I can tell you that I thought so," assented
Lennard. " I knew that the first
thing must be to get in a doctor ; but how
I found my way up the street to Dickenson's
I hardly remember. No wonder I left the
front door open behind me."

I turned all this over in my mind. There
were two points I did not like — Leah's
agitation, and Lennard's carelessness in
leaving the door open. I called in one of
the policemen from the other room, for they
were there still, with the medical men.

2 5 — 2

Williams," I began, " you saw me comedown
the street with my latchkey in my
hand ?"

I did, sir, and wished you good-evening,"
replied Williams. " It wasn't long after
the other gentleman," indicating Lennard,
had run out."

I did not see you," cried Lennard, looking
at him. " I wish I had seen you. I
wanted help, and there was not a soul in the
street."

I was standing in shadow, at the top of
the steps leading to the water," said the
man. " You came out, sir, all in a hurry,
and went rushing up the street, leaving the
door open."

And it is that door's having been left
open that I don't like," I observed. " If
this money does not turn up, I can only
think some rogue got in and took it."

Nobody got in, sir," said the policeman.
I had my eye on the door the whole time
till you came down. To see two folk running
like mad out of a quiet and respectable

house roused my suspicions ; and I went upto
the door and stood near it till you entered."


How did you see two running out of
it ?" I inquired. " There was only Mr.
Lennard."

I had seen somebody before that — a
woman," replied the officer. " She came
out, and went tearing down the steps towards
the river, calling to someone out of
sight. I think it was your servant, Mrs.
Watts, but I was only half-way down the
street then, and she was too quick for me."

Then you are quite sure no one entered
?"

Quite sure, sir. I never moved from
the door."

Setting aside Williams's testimony, there
was scarcely time for anyone to get in and
do mischief," observed Lake. " And no one
could take that gold without first getting
the keys out of Mr. Brightman's pocket," he
rejoined. "For such a purpose, who would
dare rifle the pockets of the dead ?"

And then replace the keys," added
Lennard.

Besides," I said impulsively, " no one
knew the money was there. Mr. Brightman,
myself, and George Coney were alone cognisant
of the fact. The more one thinks of
it, the stranger it seems to grow."

The moments passed. The doctors and
the police had gone away, and nothing remained
but the sad burden in the next room.
Lennard also left me to go home, for there
was nothing more to be done ; and Arthur
Lake, who had gone round to his rooms,
came in again. His conscience was smiting
him, he said, for having deserted me. We
sat down in the front room, as before, and
began to discuss the mystery. I remarked,
to begin with, that there existed not the
slightest loophole of suspicion to guide us.

Except one," said Lake quietly. " And
I may pain you, Charley, if I venture to
suggest it."

Nonsense !" I cried. "How could it pain
me ? Unless you think I took it myself !"

I fancy it was Leah."

Leah ?"

Well, I do. She was the only person
in the house, except Mr. Brightman. And
what did her agitation mean — the agitation
Lennard has referred to ?"

No, no, Arthur ; it could not have been
Leah. Admitting the doubt for a moment,
how could she have done it ?"

Only in this way. I have been arguing
it out with myself in my rooms : and of
course it may be all imagination. Leah
took up some water, she says, that Mr.
Brightman rang for. Now, it may be that
he had the drawer open and she saw the
money. Or it may even be that, for some
purpose or other, he had the bag upon the
table. Was he taken ill whilst she was in
the room ? and did she, overcome by temptation,
steal the money ? I confess that
this possibility presents itself forcibly to me,"
concluded Lake. " Naturally she would
afterwards be in a state of agitation."

I sat revolving what he said, but could

not bring my mind to admit it. Circumstances
— especially her agitation — might
seem to tell against her, but I believed the
woman to be honest as the day.

There is not the slightest doubt that almost
every man born into the world is adapted
for one especial calling over all others ; and
it is an unhappy fact that this peculiar
tendency is very rarely discovered and
followed up. It is the misdirection of talent
which causes so many of the failures in life.
In my own case this mistake had not occurred.
I believe that of all pursuits common to man,
I was by nature most fitted for that of a
solicitor. At the Bar, as a pleader, I should
have failed, and ruined half the clients who
entrusted me with briefs. But for penetration,
for seizing without effort the different
points of a case laid before me, few equalled
me. I mention this only because it is a
fact : not from motives of self-praise and
vanity. Vanity ? I am only thankful that
my talents were directed into their proper
channel. And this judgment, exercised now,

told me that Leah was not guilty. I said
so to Arthur Lake.

The return of Watts interrupted us. He
had brought back with him Mr. Brightens
butler, Perry — a respectable, trustworthy
man, who had been long in the family. I
shall never forget his emotion as he stood
over his dead master, to whom he was much
attached. Mrs. and Miss Brightman had
gone to Hastings for two or three days, he
said, and I determined to go there in the
morning and break the sad tidings to them.

Sad tidings, indeed ; a grievous calamity
for us all. That night I could not sleep,
and in the morning I rose unrefreshed. The
doubt about Leah and the money also
troubled me. Though in one sense convinced
that she could not have done it, the
possibility that she might be guilty kept
presenting itself before me.

She came into the room while I was at
breakfast — earlier than I need have been, sofar
as the train was concerned — and I detained
her for a moment.

Very spruce and neat she looked this
morning.

Leah," I began, " there is an unpleasant
mystery attending this affair."

As to what Mr. Brightman has died of,
sir r

I do not allude to that. But there is
some money missing."

Money !" echoed Leah, in what looked
like genuine surprise.

Last night, after Mr. Brightman came
in from dinner, he put a small canvas bag,
containing thirty pounds in gold, in the deep
drawer of his desk in my room, locked it and
put the keys in his pocket. I had occasion
to look for that gold immediately after he
was found dead, and it was gone."

Bag and all ?" said Leah, after a pause.

Bag and all."

Not stolen, surely ?"

I don't see how else it can have disappeared.
It could not go without hands ;
and the question is, did anyone get into the
house and take it ?"

She looked at me, and I at her : she was
apparently thinking. " But how could anyone
get in, sir ?" she asked in tones of remonstrance.


I do not see how, unless it was when
you went out, Leah. You were out sometime,
you know. You ran out of the house
and down the steps leading to the river, and
you were in great agitation. What did it
mean ?

Leah threw up her hands in distress.
Oh, Mr. Charles !" she gasped. " Please
don't question me, sir. I cannot tell you
anything about that."

I must know it, Leah."

She shook her head. Her tears had begun
to fall.

Indeed you must explain it to me," I
continued, speaking gently. " There is no
help for it. Don't you see that this will
have to be investigated, and "

'* You never suspect me of taking the
money, sir ?" she exclaimed breathlessly.

No, I do not," I replied firmly. " It is

one thing to be sure of honesty, and quite
another thing to wish mysterious circumstances
cleared up, where the necessity for
doing so exists. What was your mystery
last night, Leah ?"

Must I tell you, sir ?"

Indeed you must. I dare say to tell it
will not hurt you, or to hear it hurt me."

I would die rather than Watts should
know of it," she exclaimed, in low, impassioned
tones, glancing towards the door.

Watts is in the kitchen, Leah, and
cannot hear you. Speak out."

I never committed but one grave fault
in my life," she began, " and that was telling
a deliberate lie. The consequences have
clung to me ever since, and if things go on
as they are going on now, they'll just drive
me into the churchyard. When I lived with
your people I was a young widow, as you
may remember, sir ; but perhaps you did not
know that I had a little child. Your mamma
knew it, but I don't think the servants did,
for I was never one to talk of my own affairs.

Just your age, Master Charles, was my ] little
Nancy, and when her father died his sister
took to her ; old Miss Williams — for she was
a deal older than him. She had a bit of a
farm in Dorsetshire, and I'm afraid Nancy
had to work hard at it. But it failed after
a time, and Miss Williams died ; and Nancy,
then about seventeen, had come, I heard, to
London. I was at Dover then, not long
returned from abroad, and was just married
to James Watts ; and I found — I found,"
Leah dropped her voice, " that Nancy had
gone wrong. Someone had turned her brain
with his vows and his promises, and she had
come up to London with him."

Why don't you sit down whilst you
talk, Leah ?"

"I had told Watts I had no children,"
she continued, disregarding my injunction.
And that was the lie, Mr. Charles. More
than once he had said in my hearing that
he would never marry a ready-made family.
For very shame I could not tell him, when
I found how things were with Nancy. After

we came to London, I searched her out and
went to her in secret, begging her to leave
the man, but she would not."

A burst of emotion stopped Leah. She
soon resumed :

She would not leave him. In spite of
all I could say or do, though I went down
on my knees to her, and sobbed and prayed
my heart out, she remained with him. And
she is with him still."

All this time ?"

All this time, sir ; seven years. He
was once superior to her in position, but he
has fallen from it now, is unsteady, and
drinks half his time away. Sometimes he
is in work ; oftener without it ; and the
misery and privation she goes through no
tongue can tell. He beats her, abuses
her "

Why does she not leave him ?"

Ah, sir, why don't we do many things
that we ought ? Partly because she's afraid
he would keep the children. There are
three of them. Many a time she would

have died of hunger but for me. I help
her all I can ; she's my own child. Sir,
you asked me, only yesterday, why I went
shabby ; but, instead of buying clothes for
myself, I scrape and save to keep her poor
body and soul together. I go without food to
take it to her ; many a day I put my dinner
away, telling Watts I don't feel inclined for
it then and will eat it by-and-by. He
thinks I do so. She does not beg of me ;
she has never entered this house ; she has
never told that tyrant of hers that I am her
mother. ' Mother,' she has said to me,
1 never fear. I would rather die than bring
trouble on you.' "

But about last night ?" I interrupted.

I was at work in the kitchen when a
little gravel was thrown against the window.
I guessed who it was, and went up to the
door. If Watts had been at home, I should
have taken no notice, but just have said,
Drat those street boys again !' or something
of that sort. There she was, leaning against
the opposite railings, and she crossed over

when she saw me. She said she was beside
herself with misery and trouble, and I believe
she was. He had been beating her, and she
had not tasted food since the previous day ;
not a crumb. She kept looking towards the
steps leading to the Thames, and I thought
she might have got it in her head, what
with her weak condition of body and her
misery of mind, to put an end to herself.
I tried, sir, to soothe and reason with her ;
what else could I do ? I said I would fetch
her some food, and give her sentence to
buy a loaf to take home to her children."
Where does she live ?" I interposed.
In this parish, St. Clement Danes ; and
there are some parts of this parish, you
know, sir, as bad as any in London. When
I offered to fetch her food, she said, No,
she would not take it ; her life was too
wretched to bear, and she should end it ;
she had come out to do so. It was just
what I feared. I scolded her. I told her
to stay there at the door, and I shut it and
ran down for the food. But when I got

back to the door, I couldn't see her anywhere.
Then I heard a voice from the
steps call out ' Good-bye !' and I knew she
was going to the water. At that moment
Mr. Lennard came up, and I asked him to
remain in the house whilst I went out for a
minute. I was almost frightened out of my

senses."

Did you find her ?"

I found her, sir, looking down at the
river. I reasoned her into a little better
mood, and she ate a little of the food, and I
brought her back up the steps, gave her the
sentence, and led her up the street and
across the Strand, on her way home. And
that's the whole truth, Mr. Charles, of what
took me out last night ; and I declare I
know no more of the missing money than a
babe unborn. I had just come back with
the empty plate and cloth when you saw me
sitting on the stairs."

The whole truth I felt sure it was. Every
word, every look of Leah's proclaimed it.

And that's my sad secret," she added ;

vol. 11. 26

one I have to bear about with me at all
times, in my work and out of my work.
Watts is a good husband to me, but he
prides himself on his respectability, and I
wouldn't have him know that I have deceived
him for the universe. I wouldn't
have him know that she, being what she is,
was my daughter. He said he'd treat me
to Ashley's Circus last winter, and gave me
two shillings, and I pretended to go. But
I gave it to her, poor thing, and walked
about in the cold, looking at the late shops,
till it was time to come home. Watts asked
me what I had seen, and I told him such
marvels that he said he'd go the next night
himself, for he had never heard the like,
and he supposed it must be a benefit
night. You will not tell him my secret,
sir ?"

No, Leah, I will not tell him. It is
safe with me."

With a long-drawn sigh she turned to
leave the room. But I stopped her.

A moment yet, Leah. Can you remember

at what time you took up the water
to Mr. Brightman ?"

It was some time before the stone came
to the window. About ten minutes, maybe,
sir, after you went out. I heard you come
downstairs whistling, and go out."

No one came to the house during my
absence ?"

No one at all, sir."

Did you notice whether Mr. Bright-man
had either of the drawers of his desk
open when you took up the water ?"

Leah shook her head. " I can't say, sir,"
she answered. " I did not notice one way
or the other."

26—2

LADY CLAVERING.

ag o

HE people were coming out of the
various churches when I reached
Hastings. Going straight to the
Queen's Hotel, I asked for Mrs. Brightman.
Perry had said she was staying there. It
was, I believe, the only good hotel in the
place in those days. Hatch, Mrs. Bright-man's
maid, came to me at once. Her mistress
was not yet up, she said, having a bad
headache.

Hatch and I had become quite confidential
friends during these past years. She was
not a whit altered since I first saw her, and
to me did not look a day older. The flaming

ringlets adorned her face as usual, and sky-blue
cap strings flowed behind them this
morning. Hatch was glaringly plain ; Hatch
had a wonderful tongue, and was ever ready
to exercise it, and Hatch's diction and grammar
were unique ; nevertheless, you could
not help liking Hatch.

But to hear that Mrs. Brightman was ill
in bed rather checkmated me. I really did
not know what to do.

My business with your mistress is of
very great importance, Hatch," I observed.
I ought to see her. I have come down
on purpose to see her."

You might see her this afternoon, Mr.
Charles ; not before," spoke Hatch decisively.
These headaches is uncommon bad while
they last. Perhaps Miss Annabel would
do ? She is not here, though ; but is staying
with her aunt Lucy."

I have brought down bad news, Hatch.
I should not like Miss Annabel to be the
first to hear it."

Bad news !" repeated Hatch quickly, as

she stared at fine with her great green eyes.
Our house ain't burnt down, surely ! Is
that the news, sir ?"

Worse than that, Hatch. It concerns
Mr. Brightman."

Hatch's manner changed in a moment.
Her voice became timid. " For goodness'
sake, Mr. Charles ! he is not ill, is he ?"

Worse, Hatch. He is dead," I whispered.


Hatch backed to a chair and dropped into
it : we were in Mrs. Brightman's sitting-room.
" The Lord be good to us !" she exclaimed,
in all reverence. Her red cheeks
turned white, her eloquence for once deserted
her.

I sat down and gave her the details in a
few brief words : she was a confidential,
trusted servant, and had lived with her mistress
many years. It affected her even more
than I had expected. She wrung her hands,
her tears coursed freely.

My poor master — my poor mistress !"
she exclaimed. " What on earth — Mr.

Charles, is it sure he is dead ? quite dead ?"
she broke off to ask.

Nay, Hatch, I have told you."

Presently she got up, and seemed to rally
her courage. " Anyway, Mr. Charles, we
shall have to meet this, and deal with it as
we best may. I mean the family, sir, what's
left of 'em. And missis must be told —
and, pardon me, sir, but I think I'd best bethe
one to tell her. She is so used to me,
you see," added Hatch, looking at me keenly.
She might take it better from me than
from you ; that is, it might seem less
hard."

Indeed, I should be only too glad to be
spared the task," was my answer.

But you must tell Miss Brightman, sir,
and Miss Annabel. Perhaps if you were to
go now, Mr. Charles, while I do the best
I can with my missis, Ave might be ready
for the afternoon train. That, you say, will
be best to travel by "

I said the train would be the best of
the trains to-day, Hatch. It is for Mrs.

Brightman to consider whether she will go
up to-day or tomorrow."

"Well, yes, Mr. Charles, that's what I
mean. My head's almost withered. But
I think she is sure to go up to-day."

Miss Brightman, who was Mr. Bright-man's
only sister, lived in a handsome house
facing the sea. Annabel visited her a good
deal, staying with her sometimes for weeks
together. Mr. Brightman had sanctioned
it, Mrs. Brightman did not object to it.

Upon reaching the house, the footman
said Miss Brightman was not yet in from
church, and ushered me into the drawing-room.
Annabel was there. And really,
like Hatch, she was not much altered,
except in height and years, since the day
I first saw her, when she had chattered tome
so freely and lent me her favourite book,
"The Old English Baron." She was fourteen
then : a graceful, pretty child, with
charming manners ; her dark brown eyes,
sweet and tender and bright like her
father's, her features delicately carved like

her mother's, a rose-blush on her dimpled
cheeks. She was twenty now, and a graceful,
pretty woman. No, not one whit
altered.

She was standing by the fire in her silk
attire, just as she had come in from church,
only her bonnet-strings untied. Bonnets
were really bonnets then, and rendered a
lovely face all the more attractive. Annabel's
bonnet that day was pink, and its
border intermingled, as it seemed, with the
waves of her soft brown hair. She quite
started with surprise.

"Is it you, Charley !" she exclaimed,
coming forward, the sweet rose-blush deepening
and the sweet eyes brightening. " Have
you come to Hastings ? Is papa with you ?"

No, Annabel, he is not with me," I
answered gravely, as I clasped her hand.
I wanted to see Miss Brightman."

She will be here directly. She called
in to see old Mrs. Day, who is ill : a great
friend of Aunt Lucy's. Did papa "

But we were interrupted by the return

of Miss Brightman, a small, fragile woman,
with delicate lung's. Annabel left us together.


How I accomplished my unhappy task I
hardly knew. How Miss Brightman subsequently
imparted it to Annabel I did not
know at all. It must be enough to say
that we went to London by an afternoon
train, bearing our weight of care. All,
except Miss Brightman. Hatch travelled
in the carriage with us.

In appearance, at any rate, the news had
most affected Mrs. Brightman. Her frame
trembled, her pale face and restless hands
twitched with nervousness. Of course, her
headache went for something.

I have them so very badly," she moaned
to me once during the journey. " They
unfit me for everything."

And, indeed, these headaches of Mrs.
Brightman's were nothing new to me. She
had always suffered from them. But of
late, that is to say during the past few
months, when by chance I went to Clapham,

I more often than not found her ill and
invisible from this distressing pain. My
intimacy with Mrs. Brightman had not
made much progress. The same proud,
haughty woman she was when I first saw
her, she had remained. Coldly civil to meas
to others ; and that was all that could be
said.

When about half-way up, whilst waiting
for an express to pass, or something of that
sort, and we were for some minutes at a
standstill, I told Mrs. Brightman about the
missing money belonging to George Coney.

"It is of little consequence if it be lost,"
was her indifferent and no doubt thoughtless
comment. " What is thirty pounds ?"

Little, I knew, to a firm like ours, but
the uncertainty it left us in was a great
deal. " Setting aside the mystery attaching
to the loss," I remarked, " there remains a
suspicion that we may have a thief about
us ; and that is not a pleasant feeling.
Other things may go next."

Upon reaching London we drove to Essex

Street. What a painful visit it was ! Even
now I cannot bear to think of it. Poor
Mrs. Brightman grew nervously excited.
As she looked down upon him, in his death-stillness,
I thought she would have wept her
heart away. Annabel strove to be calm for
her mother's sake.

After some tea, which Leah and Hatch
brought up to us, I saw them safely to
Clapham, and then returned home.

Monday morning rose, and its work with
it : the immediate work connected with our
painful loss, and the future work that was
to fall upon me. The chief weight and
responsibility of the business had hitherto
been his share ; now it must be all mine.
In the course of the clay I sent a cheque to
George Coney.

An inquest had to be held, and took place
early on Tuesday morning. Mr. Bright-man's
death was proved, beyond doubt, to
have occurred from natural causes, though
not from disease of the heart. He had died

by the visitation of God. But for the
disappearance of the money, my thoughts
would never have dwelt on any other issue.

After it was over, Lennard was standing
with me in the front-room, from which the
jury had just gone out, when we fell to
talking about the missing money and its
unaccountable loss. It lay heavily upon
my mind. Fathom it I could not, turn it
about as I would. Edgar Lennard was
above suspicion, and he was the only one,
so far as he and I knew, who had been in
the room after the bag was put there, Leah
excepted. Of her I felt equally certain.
Lennard began saying how heartily he
wished he had not been told to come back
that night ; but I requested him to be at
ease, for he had quite as much reason to
suspect me, as I him.

Not quite," answered he, smiling ; " considering
that you had to make it good."

Well, Lennard, I dare say the mystery
will be solved some time or other. Robberies,
like murders, Generally come out. The

worst is, we cannot feel assured that other
losses may not follow."

Not they," returned Lennard, too confidently.
" This one has been enough for us."

Did it ever strike you, Lennard, that
Mr. Brightman had been in failing health
lately ?"

"Often," emphatically spoke Lennard. "I
think he had something on his mind."

On his mind ? I should say it was on
his health. There were times when he
seemed to have neither energy nor spirits for
anything. You don't know how much business
he has of late left to me that he used
to do himself."

Well," contended Lennard, " it used to
strike me he was not at ease ; that something
or other was troubling him."

"Yes, and now that this fatal termination
has ensued, we see that the trouble may
have been health," I maintained. " Possibly
he knew that something was dangerously
wrong with him."

Possibly so," conceded Lennard.

He was leaving the room for his own,
when a clerk met him and said that Sir
Edmund Clavering was asking for Mr.
Strange. I bade him show up Sir Edmund.

Mr. Brightman had for years been confidential
solicitor to Sir Ralph Clavering, a
physician, whose baronetcy was a new one.
When Sir Ralph gave up practice, and retired
to an estate he bought in the country,
a Mrs. Clavering, a widow, whose husband
had been a distant cousin of Sir Ralph's,
entered it with him as his companion and
housekeeper. It ended in his marrying
her, as these companionship so often end,
especially where the man is old, and the
woman young, attractive and wily. Mrs.
Clavering was poor, and no doubt played
for the stake she won. The heir-presumptive
to Sir Ralph's title was his nephew,
Edmund Clavering, but his fortune he could
leave to whom he would.

Sir Ralph Clavering died — only about
ten days before Mr. Brightman's own death.
The funeral took place on the Tuesday — this

very day week of which I am writing.
After attending it, Mr. Brightman returned
to the office in the evening. The clerks had
left, and he came up to my room.

Take this off my hat, will you, Charles ?"
he said. " I can't go home in it, of course :
and Mrs. Brightman had a superstition against
hat-scarves going into the house."

I undid the black silk and laid it on the
table. " What am I to do with it, sir ?"

Anything. Give it to Leah for a
Sunday apron. My lady treated us to a
specimen of her temper when the will was
read," he added. " She expected to inherit
all, and is not satisfied with the competency
left to her."

Who does inherit ?" I asked : for Mr.
Brightman had never enlightened me, although
I knew that he had made Sir Ralph's
will.

Edmund Clavering. And quite right
that he should do so : the estate ought to go
with the title. Besides, setting aside that
consideration, Sir Edmund is entitled to it

quite as much as my lady. More so, I
think. There's the will, Charles ; you can
read it."

I glanced over the will, which Mr. Bright-man
had brought hack with him. Lady
Clavering had certainly a competency, but
the, bulk of the property was left to Sir
Edmund, the inheritor of the title. I was
very much surprised.

I thought she would have had it all,
Mr. Brightman. Living estranged as Sir
Ralph did from his brother, even refusing to
be reconciled when the latter was dying, the
estrangement extended to the son, Edmund,
I certainly thought Lady Clavering would
have come in for all. You thought so too,
sir.

I did, until I made the will. And atone
time it was Sir Ralph's intention to
leave most of it to her. But for certain
reasons which arose, he altered his plans.
Sufficient reasons," added Mr. Brightman,
in a marked, emphatic manner. " He imparted
them to me when he gave instructor.

11. 27

tions for his will. I should have left her
less."

May I know them ?"

No, Charles. They were told to me in
confidence, and they concern neither you nor
me. Is the gas out in the next room ?"

Yes. Shall I light it ?"

It is not worth while. That hand-lamp
of yours will do. I only want to put up
the will."

I took the lamp, and lighted Mr. Bright -
man into the front room, his own exclusively.
He opened the iron safe, and there deposited
Sir Ralph Clavering's will, to be left there
until it should be proved.

That is sufficient explanation for the
present. Sir Edmund Clavering, shown up
by Lennard himself, came into the room. I
had never acted for him ; Mr. Brightman
had invariably done so.

Can you carry my business through, Mr.
Strange ?" he asked, after expressing his
shock and regret at Mr. Brightman's sudden
fate.

I hope so. Why not, Sir Edmund ?"

You have not Mr. Briolrtman's legal
knowledge and experience."

Not his experience, certainly ; because
he was an old man and I am a young one.
But, as far as practice goes, I have for sometime
had chief control of the business.
Mr. Briofhtman almost confined himself to
seeing clients. You may trust me, Sir
Edmund."

Oh yes, I dare say it will be all right," he
rejoined. " Do you know that Lady Clavering
and her cousin John — my cousin also —
mean to dispute the will ?"

Upon what grounds ?"

Upon Sir Ralph's incompetency to make
one, I suppose — as foul a plea as ever false
woman or man invented. Mr. Brightman can

prove Good heavens ! every moment I

forget that he is dead," broke off Sir Edmund.
How unfortunate that he should have gone
just now !"

But there cannot fail to be ample proof
of Sir Ralph's competency. The servants

about him must know that he was of sane
and healthy mind."

I don't know what her schemes may be,"
rejoined Sir Edmund ; " but I do know that
she will not leave a stone unturned to wrest
my rights from me. I am more bitter than
gall and wormwood to her."

Because you have inherited most of the
money."

Ay, for one thing. But there's another
reason, more galling to her even than
that."

Sir Edmund looked at me with a peculiar
expression. He was about my own age,
and would have been an exceedingly pleasant
man but for his pride. When he could sofar
forget that as to throw it off, he was
warm and cordial.

Her ladyship is a scheming woman,
Mr. Strange. She flung off into a fit of
resentment at first, which Mr. Brightman
witnessed, but very shortly her tactics
changed. Before Sir Ralph had been three
days in his grave, she contrived to intimate

to me that we had better join interests. Do
you understand ?"

I did not know whether to understand or
not. It was inconceivable.

And I feel ashamed to enlighten you,"
said Sir Edmund passionately. " She offered
herself to me ; my willing wife. ' If you will
wed no other woman, I will wed no other

man ' How runs the old ballad ? Not

in so many words, but in terms sufficiently
plain to be deciphered. I answered as plainly,
and declined. Declined to join interests —
declined her — and so made her my mortal
enemy for ever. Do you know her ?"

I never saw her."

Take care of yourself, then, should you
be brought into contact with her," laughed
Sir Edmund. " She is a Jezebel. All the
same, she is one of the most fascinating of
women : irresistibly so, no doubt, to many
people. Had she been any but my uncle's
wife — widow — I don't know how it might
have gone with me. By the way, Mr. Strange,
did Mr. Brightman impart to you Sir Ralph's

reason for devising his property to me ? He
had always said, you know, that he would
not do it. Mr. Brightman would not tell
me the reason for the change."

No, he did not. Sir Ralph intended, I
believe, to bequeath most of it to his wife,
and altered his mind quite suddenly. So
much Mr. Brightman told me."

Found out Jezebel, perhaps, at some
trick or other."

That I thought all too likely ; but did not
say so. Sir Edmund continued to speak a
little longer upon business matters, and then
rose.

The will had better be proved without
delay," he paused to say.

I will see about it the first thing next
week, Sir Edmund. It would have been
done this week but for Mr. Brightman's
unexpected death."

Why do you sink your voice to a
whisper ?" asked Sir Edmund, as we were
quitting the room. " Do you fear eaves-droppers
?"

I was not conscious that I had sunk it,
until recalled to the fact. " Every time I
approach this door," I said, pointing to the
one opening into the other room, " I feel as
if I were in the presence of the dead. He is
still lying there."

What— Mr. Brightman ?"

"It is where he died. He will be removed
to his late residence to-night."

I think I will see him," cried Sir Edmund,
laying his hand on the door.

As you please. I would not advise you."
And he apparently thought better of it, and
went down.

I had to attend the Vice-chancellor's
Court ; law business goes on without respect
to the dead. Upon my return in the afternoon,
I was in the front office, speaking to
Lennard, when a carriage drove down the
street, and stopped at the door. Our blinds
were down, but one of the clerks peeped
out. A gentleman's chariot, painted black,"
he announced : " the servants in deep
mourning."

Allen went out and brought back a card.
The lady wishes to see you, sir."

I cast my eyes on it — " Lady Clavering."
And an involuntary smile crossed my face,
at the remembrance of Sir Edmund's caution,
should I ever be brought into contact with
her. But what could Lady Clavering want
with me ?

She was conducted upstairs, and I followed,
leaving my business with Lennard
until afterwards. She was already seated
in the very chair that, not two hours ago,
had held her opponent, Sir Edmund : a very
handsome woman, dressed as coquettishly asher
widow's weeds allowed. Her face was
beautiful as to form and colouring, but its
free and vain expression spoiled it. Every
glance of her coal-black eye, every movement
of her head and hands, every word
that fell from her lips, was a purposed display
of her charms, a demand for admiration. Sir
Edmund need not have cautioned me to
keep heart-whole. One so vain and foolish
would repel rather than attract me, even

though gifted with beauty rarely accorded to
woman. A Jezebel ? Yes, I agreed with
him — a very Jezebel.

I have the honour of speaking to Mr.
Strange ? Charles Strange, as I have heard
Mr. Brightman call you," she said, with a
smile of fascination.

Yes, I am Charles Strange. What can
I do for you, madam ?"

"Will you promise to do what I have
come to ask you ?"

The more she spoke, the less I liked her.
I am naturally frank in maimer, but I grew
reserved with her. " I cannot make a
promise without knowing its nature, Lady
Clavering."

She picked up her long jet chain, and
twirled it about in her fingers. " What a
frightfully sudden death Mr. Brightman's has
been!" she resumed. " Did he lie ill at all ?"

No. He died suddenly, as he was
sitting at his desk. And to render it still
more painful, no one was with him."

I read the account in this morning's

paper, and came up at once to see you,"
resumed Lady Clavering. " He was my
husband's confidential adviser. Were you
in his confidence also V

I presumed that she meant Mr. Bright-man's,
and answered accordingly. "Partially
so."

You are aware how very unjustly my
poor childish husband strove to will away
his property. Of course the will cannot be
allowed to stand. At the time of Sir
Ralph's funeral, I informed Mr. Brightman
that I should take some steps to assert my
rights, and I wished him to be my solicitor
in the matter. But no ; he refused, and
went over to the enemy, Edmund Clavering."

We were solicitors to Mr. Edmund
Clavering before he came into the title."

Mr. Brightman was ; you never did
anything for him," she hastily interrupted ;
therefore no obligation can lie on you to
act for him now. I want you to act for me,
and I have come all this way to request you
to do so."

I cannot do so, Lady Clavering. I
have seen Sir Edmund since Mr. Bright
man's death, and have undertaken to carry
on his business."

Seen Sir Edmund since Mr. Brightman's
death !"

I have indeed."

She threw herself back in her chair, and
looked at me from under her vain eyelids.
Leave him, Mr. Strange ; you can easily
make an excuse, if you will. Mr. Bright-man
held all my husband's papers, knew all
about his property, and no one is so fitted
to act for me as you, his partner. I will
make it worth your while."

What you suggest is impossible, Lady
Clavering. We are enlisted in the interests
I speak professionally — of the other side,
and have already advised with Sir Edmund
as to the steps to be taken in the suit you
purpose to enter against him. To leave
him for you, after doing so, would be dishonourable
and impossible."

She shot another glance at me from those

mischievous eyes. " I will make it well
worth your while, I repeat, Mr. Strange."

I could look mischievous too, if I pleased ;
perhaps did on occasion ; but she could read
nothing in my gaze then, as it met hers, that
was not sober as old Time.

I can only repeat my answer, Lady
Clavering."

Not a word spoke she ; only made play
with her eyes. Did the woman mean to
subdue me ? Her gaze dropped.

I have heard Mr. Brightman speak of
Charles Strange not only as a thorough
lawyer, but as a gentleman — very fond of
the world's vanities."

Not very fond, Lady Clavering. Joining
in them occasionally, in proper time and
place."

I met you once at a large evening
party. It was at old Judge Tartar's," she
ran on.

Indeed!" I answered, not remembering it.

It was before I married Sir Ralph.
You came in with your relative, Serjeant

Stillingfar. What a charming man he is !
I heard you tell someone you had just comedown
from Oxford. Wont you act for me,
Mr. Strange ?"

Indeed, it does not lie in my power."

Well, I did not think a gentleman " —
with another stress upon the word — " would
have refused to act on my behalf."

Lady Clavering must perceive that I
have no alternative."

Who is Edmund Clavering that he
should be preferred to me?" she demanded
with some vehemence.

Nay, Lady Clavering, circumstances
compel the preference."

A silence ensued, and I glanced at my
watch — the lawyer's hint. She did not
take it.

Can you tell me whether, amidst the
papers Mr. Brightman held belonging to
Sir Ralph, there are any letters of mine ?"

I cannot say."

Some of my letters, to Sir Ralph and
others, are missing, and I think they must

have got amongst the papers by mistake.
Will you look ?"

I will take an early opportunity of
doing so."

Oh, but I mean now. I want them.
Why cannot you search now ?"

I did not tell her why. In the first place,
most of the Clavering papers were in the
room where Mr. Brightman was lying — and
there were other reasons also.

I cannot spare the time, Lady Clavering :
I have an appointment out of doors which I
must keep. I will search for you in a day
or two. But should any letters of yours be
here — of which I assure you I am ignorant
you will pardon my intimating that it
may not be expedient to give them up."

What do you mean ? Why not ?"

Should they bear at all upon the cause
at issue between you and Sir Edmund
Clavering "

But they don't," she interrupted.

Then, if they do not, I shall be happy
to enclose them to you."

It is of the utmost consequence to me
that I should regain possession of them,"
she said, with suppressed agitation.

And, if possible, you shall do so." I
rose as I spoke, and waited for her to rise.
She did so, but advanced to the window and
pulled the blind aside.

"My carriage is not back yet, Mr. Strange.
A friend who came up with me has gone todo
a commission for herself. It will be herein
a few minutes. I suppose I can wait."

I begged her to remain as long as she
pleased, but to excuse me, for I was already
behind time. She drew up the blind a
little and sat down at the window as I left
her.

After giving some directions to Lennard,
I hastened to keep my appointment, which
was at the Temple with a chamber-counsel.

The interview lasted about twenty minutes.
As I turned into Essex Street again, Lady
Clavering's carriage was bowling up it. I
raised my hat, and she bowed to me, leaning
before another lady, who sat with her, but

she looked white and frightened. What
had taken her brilliant colour ? At the
door, when I reached it, stood the clerks,
Lennard amongst them, some with a laugh
on their countenances, some looking as white
and scared as Lady Clavering.

Why, what is this ?" I exclaimed.

They went back to their desks, and Lennard
explained.

You must have seen Lady Clavering's
carriage," he began.

Yes."

Just before it came for her, cries and
shrieks were heard above ; startling shrieks,
terrifying us all. We hastened up with one
accord, and found that Lady Clavering "

Well ?" I impatiently cried, looking at
Lennard.

Had gone into the next room, and seen
Mr. Brightman," he whispered. " It took
three of us to hold her, and it ended with
hysterics. Leah came flying from the kitchen,
took off her bonnet, and brought some
water."

I was sorry to hear it ; sorry that any
woman should have been exposed to so unpleasant
a fright. " But it was her own
fault," I said to Lennard. " How could she
think of entering a room of which the door
was locked ?"

What right had she to attempt to enter
it at all, locked or unlocked, I should say,
Mr. Strange !" returned Lennard severely.
And the best of it was, she laid the blame
upon us, asking what business we had to
put dead people into public rooms."

She is a curious sort of woman, I fancy,
Lennard."

And the more I thought of her, the more
curious I found her. The door between the
two rooms had been locked, and the key was
lying in the corner of the mantelpiece.
Lady Clavering must have searched for the
key before she could open the door and
enter the room.

With what motive had she entered it ?

VOL. 11.

THE MISSING WILL.

R. Brighten was buried on
the Thursday, and Mr. Serjeant
Stillingfar came up from circuit
for the funeral. Three or four other gentlemen
attended, and myself. It was all
done very quietly. After that the will was
read.

He had not left as much money as might
have been expected. I suppose the rate at
which they lived had absorbed it. Nearly
the whole of it was vested in trustees, who
would pay the interest to Mrs. Brightman
until her death, when it would all descend
unconditionally to Annabel. If she married

again, one half the yearly income at once
went to Annabel. To my surprise, I was
left executor. Mr. Brioiitman had never
told me so. Of the two executors originally
appointed — for the will had been made many
years — one had recently died, and Mr.
Brightman had inserted my name in his
place. That all the work would fall upon
my shoulders I knew, for the other executor
had become a confirmed invalid.

With regard to our own articles of partnership,
provided for by a recent codicil,
they were very favourable to me, though
somewhat peculiar. If Mr. Brightman died
before I was thirty years of age, two-thirds
of the net profits of the business were to be
paid to Mrs. Brightman for three years ;
but if I had passed my thirtieth year when
he died, only half the profits would go to
her. After the first three years, one-third
of the profits would be hers for three years
more ; and then all would revert to me
absolutely.

I wanted some years yet of thirty. But

28 — 2

it was an excellent and lucrative practice.
Few men fall into so good a thing when
they are still young.

So there you are, Charles, the head of
one of the best professional houses in London,"
remarked my uncle Stillingfar, as he
took my arm when we were leaving the
house. " Rather different from what your
fate might have been, had you carried out
your wish of going to the Bar. My boy,
you may be thankful that you know nothing
of the struggles I had to go through."

Do you still feel quite well and strong,
uncle ?" I asked, after a bit.

Yes, I do, Charles. I suppose you
think I am growing old. But I believe I
am more capable of work than are many of
my juniors who are now on circuit with me.
With a sound constitution, never played
with, and a temperate way of life, we retain
our energies, by God's blessing, to an older
age than mine."

That was no doubt true. True also that
he must be making heaps of money. I

wondered what he meant to do with it. He
had been very liberal to me as long as I
needed help, but that time was over.

The sad week passed away. On the following
Monday I set to professional business
in earnest : the previous week had been
much given to matters not professional. One
of the first things to be attended to was to
prove the will of Sir Ralph Clavering, and,
in the course of the morning, I unlocked the
iron safe in the front room to get it. Nothing
was ever placed in that safe but wills
and title-deeds, and these were never placed
anywhere else. But where this particular
will was hiding itself, I could not tell, for I
turned over every paper the place contained
without coming to it. " More haste less
speed," cried I to myself, for I had been
doing it in a hurry. " I must have overlooked
it."

So I began again and went through the
papers carefully, paper by paper. I had not
overlooked it, for Sir Ralph's will was
certainly not there.

Now, was I awake or dreaming ? Was
there a fairy in the walls to remove things,
or was the house bewitched ? — or what was
it ? I went and examined the Clavering
papers, which were in Mr. Brightman's desk
in the adjoining room — my room, which had
been cleaned and put straight again. But
the will was not amongst them. I searched
other drawers and desks in vain. Then I
called up Lennard.

Do you know anything of Sir Ralph
Clavering's will ? I cannot find it."

It must be in the safe," he replied.

It is not in the safe. Lennard, this is
very strange : first that bag of money, and
now the will."

Oh, but it cannot be," returned Lennard,
after a pause. " That the gold went, appears
to be too plain, but who would take a will ?
Money might be a temptation, if any stranger
did enter Mr. Brightman's room that night,
but "

It has been proved almost beyond doubt
that no one entered, and yet the money

went. Lennard, there's something not canny
at work in the house, as the Scotch say."

Do not think it, Mr. Strange," he replied
warmly. " The gold appears to have gone
in some mysterious manner, but the will cannot
be gone. Depend upon it, it is in the safe."

I had a great respect for Lennard's judgment,
but I had as great confidence in my
own eyesight. I unlocked the safe again,
and, taking out the parchments, one by one,
handed them to Lennard that he might read
their titles. " There," said I, when we had
reached the last ; "is the will amongst
them ?"

Lennard's face had turned grave. " This
is very extraordinary !" he exclaimed. " Mr.
Brightman would not put it anywhere else."

He never put a will up in any other
place than this since I have been with him,
Lennard ; and I myself saw him put it in ;
held the light for him : it was in the evening:
of last Tuesday week, after he came
back from Sir Ralph's funeral. It has gone
after the gold."

No, no," he cried, almost in agitation ;
it has not, it has not : I will never believe
it."

One very slight hope came to me. Mr.
Brightman might have given it into the
custody of Sir Edmund Clavering. But
then Sir Edmund would surely have said
so when he spoke to me about proving the
will. The loss of the money was nothing
to this, for that had been easily replaced,
and there was an end of the matter ; but
this loss could not be replaced, and there
was no knowing what the end would be. It
might be little short of ruin to Sir Edmund
Clavering, and nothing short of ruin to me :
for who would continue to employ a firm
liable to lose wills ?

I was greatly occupied that day, but the
missing will lay upon me as a nightmare,
and I forced time for a dash up to Sir
Edmund Clavering's hotel in the afternoon,
bribing the cabman to double speed. By
good luck, I found Sir Edmund in, and inquired
if he held possession of the will.

Mr. Bright man holds the will," he replied.
" Held, I should say : I cannot yet
speak of him in the past tense, you see.
He took it home with him after Sir Ralph's
funeral."

"I know he brought it home, Sir Edmund ;
but I thought it possible he might since then
have given it into your possession. I hoped
he had, for I cannot find the will. I have
searched for it everywhere."

Not find the will !" he echoed. " Perhaps
you have looked in every place but the
right one," he added, with a slight laugh. "I
can tell you where it is."

Where ?"

In the iron safe in Mr. Briofhtman's

room."

It was placed there — we never put wills
anywhere else ; never — but it is not there
now. May I ask how you knew it was
there, Sir Edmund ?"

Because on the day but one following
the funeral I came to town and had an interview
with Mr. Briolitman in his room. It

was on the Thursday. Perhaps you remember
that I was with him that day ?"

Quite well."

During our consultation we differed in
opinion as to a certain clause in the will, and
Mr. Brightman took it out of the safe to
convince me. He was right, and I was
wrong ; as, indeed, I might have known,
considering that he had made the will. He
put it back into the safe at once and locked
it up. When are you going to prove the
will ? It ought to be done now."

I was going to set about it this very
day ; but, as I say, I cannot find the will."

It must be easy enough to find a big
parchment like that. If not in the safe,
Mr. Brightman must have put it elsewhere.
Look in all his pigeon-holes and places."

I have looked : I have looked everywhere.
Just as I looked some days before

for the bag of sovereigns," I mentally added.

But Sir Edmund Clavering was determined
to treat the matter lightly : he
evidently attached no importance to it whatever,

believing that Mr. Brightman had only
changed its place.

I went home again, feeling as comforts

' ©

able as I had ever felt in my life. An undefined
idea, a doubt, had flashed into my
mind whilst I had been talking to Lennard.
Imagination is quicker with me, I know,
than with many people ; and the moment a
thing puzzles me, I must dive into its why
and wherefore : its various bearings and
phases, probable and improbable, natural
and unnatural. This doubt — which I had
driven away at the time, had been driving
away during my gallop to Sir Edmund's,
and whilst I was conversing with him — now
grew into suspicion.

Let me explain how I arrived at this suspicion.
When I found the will had disappeared
from the safe — when I searched
and searched in vain — I could only come to
the conclusion that it had been stolen. But
why was it taken ? From what motive ?
Why should that one particular parchment
be abstracted, and the others left ? Obviously,

it could only have been from interested
motives. Now, who had an interest in
getting possession of the will — so that it
might not be proved and acted upon ? Only
one person in the whole world — Lady Clavering.
And Lady Clavering had been alone
in the room where the safe was for nearly
half an hour.

If she had obtained possession of the will,
there was farewell to our ever getting it
again. I saw through her character at that
first interview : she was a woman absolutely
without scruple.

But how could she have got at it ? Even
supposing she knew the will was in the iron
safe, she could not have opened it without
the key ; and how could she have obtained
the key ?

Again — if Ladv Clavering were the
guilty party, what became of my very
natural suspicions that the will and the gold
were both taken by the same hand ? And
with the gold Lady Clavering could have
had nothing to do. Look at it as I would,

perplexities arose ; points difficult, if not impossible,
to reconcile.

Lennard met me in the passage on my
return. " Is it all right ? Has Sir Edmund
got it, sir ?"

No, no ; I told you it was a forlorn hope.
Come upstairs, Lennard. Sir Edmund has
not the will," I continued, as we entered the
front room. " He says that when he was
here last Thursday week, Mr. Brightman
had occasion to refer to the will, took it from
the safe, and put it back again. Therefore
it is since that period that the theft has
taken place."

Can you really look upon it as stolen /"
Lennard uttered, with emphasis. " Who
would steal so valueless a thing as a
will ?"

Not valueless to everyone."

No one in the house would do such a
thing. You have a suspicion ?" he added.

Yes, I have, Lennard."

He began to pace the room. Lennard
was, in truth, completely upset by this

loss. " Of whom ?" he presently jerked out.
Surely not of Leah !"

Of Leah ! Oh no !"

I fancied you suspected her in the
matter of the money. I feel sure she was
innocent."

So do I. Leah no more took the money
than you or T did, Lennard. And what
should she want with the will ? If I made
her a present of all the wills in the safe, she
would only light her fires with them as useless
lumber. Try again."

But he only shook his head. " I cannot
catch your drift, sir."

To all persons, two excepted, the will
would be as useless as to Leah. One of
those two is Sir Edmund ; and he has it
not : the other is Lady Clavering."

But surely you cannot suspect her !"
exclaimed Lennard. " You cannot suspect
Lady Clavering !"

To say that I suspect her would perhaps
be too strong a word, Lennard. If
my doubts rest upon her at all, it is because

she is the only person who could have an
interest in getting possession of the will ;
and she is the only stranger, as far as I can
recollect, who has been alone in this room
sufficiently long to take it from the safe."

Lennard was incredulous. " But she had
not the key of the safe. She could not have
opened it without it."

I know — I see the improbabilities that
encompass my doubts ; but I can think of
nothing else."

Where was the key of the safe ?" asked
Lennard.

In that back room ; and in Mr. Bright-man's
deep drawer — the drawer from which
the gold was taken," was my grave answer.
And she could not have got at it without
without passing him."

Lennard's face grew hot.

And the key of that drawer was herein
my own pocket, on the bunch." I took
out the bunch of keys as I spoke — Mr.
Brightman's bunch until within a few days
and shook it before him.

What mystery has come over the house,
about keys, and locks, and things disappearing
?" Lennard murmured, as a man bewildered.


Lennard, it is the question I am asking
myself."

She could never have gone in there and
passed him ; and stood there while she got
the key. A young and beautiful womanlike
Lady Clavering ! Sir, it would be unnatural."


No more unnatural for beauty than for
ugliness, Lennard. Unnatural for most
women, though, whether pretty or plain."

But how could she have divined that
the key of the safe was in that drawer, orin
that room ?" urged Lennard. "For the
matter of that, how could she have known
that the will was in the safe ?"

Truly the affair presented grave perplexities.
" One curious part of it is that she
should have called you up with her screams,
Lennard," I remarked. " If she had only
that moment opened the door, and seen —

what frightened her, she could not have been
already in the room hunting for the key.
Were the screams assumed ? Was it all a
piece of acting ?"

It would take a subtle actress to counterfeit
her terror," replied Lennard ; " and
the best actress breathing could not have
assumed her ghastly look. Xo, Mr. Strange,
I believe what she said was the fact : that,
weary of waiting for her carriage, she had
walked about the room, then opened the
door, and passed into the other without
any thought except that of distracting her
ennui."

She must have looked about for the
key of the door, mind you, Lennard. "

A man has rarely been placed in a more
disagreeable predicament than I felt to be in
then. It was of no use temporising with
the matter : I could only meet it boldly,
and I sent that evening for Sir Edmund
Clavering, and laid it before him. I told
him of Lady Clavering's visit, and hinted at
the doubt which had forced itself on my

vol. 11. 2 9

mind. Sir Edmund jumped to the conclusion
(and into a passion at the same time)
that she was the culprit, and declared he
would apply for a warrant at Bow Street
on the morrow, to take her into custody.
With extreme difficulty I got him to hear
reason against anything of the sort.

Lennard, who had remained, came round
to Sir Edmund's opinion that it must inevitably
have been Lady Clavering. Failing
her, no shadow of suspicion could attach
itself to anyone, sift and search into the
matter as we would.

But neither was there as to the gold,"
was my rejoinder.

Then after they were gone, and I sat by
the fire in the front room, and went over
the details dispassionately and carefully, and
lay awake the best part of the night, going
over them still, my suspicions of Lady
Clavering lessened, and I arrived at the
conclusion that they were too improbable to
be well founded.

Nevertheless, I intended to pursue the

course I had decided on : and that was to
call upon her. She, like Sir Edmund, was
now staying in London, at an hotel. Not
to accuse her, but to see if I could not, indirectly,
make out something that would
confirm or dissipate my suspicion.

I went up in the course of the morning.
Ladv Clavering was sittings alone, her widow's
cap on the sofa beside her. She hurried it onto
her head, when the waiter announced me.

It is so hot and ugly," she exclaimed,
in tones of excuse. "I sit without it when
I am alone. So you have condescended to
return my visit, Mr. Strange. I thought
you gentlemen of the law took refuge in
your plea of occupation to ignore etiquette."

Indeed it is not out of deference to
etiquette that I have called upon you today,
Lady Clavering, but "

You have thought better of your refusal
: you have come to say you will undertake
my business !" she interrupted, eyes
and looks full of eagerness.

Nor yet that," I was forced to reply,

29 — 2

though, in truth, I should have been glad
to conciliate her. " I am sure you will find
many an advocate quite as efficient as I
should be. The day you were at our house,
did you happen to see "

Mr. Strange, I must beg you, as a gentleman,
not to allude to what I saw," she
interposed, in tones of alarm. " I think it
was inexcusable on your part not to have
informed me what was in the next room."

Pardon me, Lady Clavering ; it would
have been an unnecessary and unpleasant
piece of information to volunteer : for how
could I possibly foresee that you would be
likely to enter that room ?" I might have
added — look for the key, unlock it, and go
into it.

I never saw a dead person in my life,"
she rejoined ; " not even my husband ; and
I shall not easily recover from the shock. I
would give anything rather than have been
exposed to it."

And so would I, and I shall always
regret it," was my warm apology.

Then why do you introduce the subject
f

I did not intend to allude to that ; but
to your having sat in the front room I must
allude ; and I know you will excuse my
asking you the question I am about to put
to you. Did you happen to see a parchment
lying in that front room : on the table,
or the side-tables, or — anywhere, in short ?
We have missed one : and if you chanced to
have noticed it, it would be a great assistance
to us, as a proof that we need not carry
our researches further back than that day."

I don't remember that I saw any parchment,"
she carelessly rejoined. " I saw some
papers, tied round with pink tape, on the
table ; I did not notice them particularly.
I pray you not to make me think about that
afternoon, or you will have me in hysterics
again."

"It is not possible — your ladyship will
pardon me — that it can have caught your
dress in any way, and so have been carried
downstairs and out of the house, and — perhaps

— lost in the street ?" I persisted
slowly, looking at her.

Looking at her : but I could detect no
emotion on her face ; no drooping of the
eye ; no rise or fall of colour, such as one
guilty would have been likely to display.
She appeared to take my question literally,
and to see nothing beyond it.

I cannot tell anything about it, Mr.
Strange. Had my dress been covered with
parchments, I was in too much terror to
notice them. Your clerks would be more
able to answer you than I, for they had to
assist me down to my carriage. But how
should a parchment become attached to a
lady's dress ?" she added, shaking out the
folds of her ample skirts. " The crape is
quite soft, you perceive. Touch it."

Quite so," I assented, advancing for a
half-moment the extreme tip of my forefinger.


You will take a glass of wine ? Now
don't say no. Why can't you be sociable ?"

Not any wine, thank you," I answered

with a laugh. " We lawyers have to keep
our heads clear, Lady Clavering : we should
not do that if we took wine in the daytime."


Sit still, pray. You have scarcely been
here five minutes. I want to speak to you,
too, upon a matter of business."

So I resumed my seat, and waited. She
was looking at me very earnestly.

"It is about those missing letters of mine.
Have you searched for them, Mr. Strange ?"

Partially. I do not think we hold any.
There are none amongst the Clavering
papers."

Why do you say ' partially ' ?" she
questioned.

I have not had time to search amongst
the packets of letters in Mr. Brightened's
cupboards and places. But I think if there
were any of your letters in our possession
they would have been with the Clavering
papers."

Her gaze again sought mine for a moment,
and then faded to vacancy. " I

wonder if he burnt them," she dreamily
uttered.

Who ? Mr. Briffhtman ?"

No ; my husband. You must look
everywhere, Mr. Strange. If those letters
are in existence, I must have them. You
will look ?"

Certainly I will."

I shall remain in town until I hear from
you. You will go, then !"

One more question ere I do go, Lady
Clavering. Have you positively no recollection
of seeing this lost parchment ?"

She looked surprised at my pertinacity.
If I had, I should say so. I do not think
I saw anything of the sort. But if I had
seen it, the subsequent fright would have
taken it clean out of my memory."

So I wished her good-morning and departed.
" It is not Lady Clavering," I
exclaimed to Lennard, when I reached home.

Are you sure of that, Mr. Strange ?"

I think so. I judge by her manner : it
is only consistent with perfect innocence.

In truth, Lennard, I begin to see that I was
foolish to have doubted her at all, the circumstances
surrounding it are so intensely
improbable."

And yet, even while I spoke, something
of the suspicion crept into my mind again.
So prone to inconsistency is the human
heart.

ANNABEL.

OST men have their romance in
life sooner or later. Mine had
come in due course, and she who
made it for me was Annabel Brightman.

After my first meeting with her, when
she was a child of fourteen, and I not much
more than a lad of twenty, I had continued
to see her from time to time, for Mr. Bright-man's
first invitation to me was only the
prelude to others. I watched her grow up
into a good, unaffected woman, lovable and
charming as she was when a child. Childhood
had passed away now, and thought and
gentleness had taken its place ; and to my

eyes and my heart no other girl in the world
could compare with Annabel Brightman.

Her father suspected it. Had he lived
only a little longer, he would have learned
it beyond doubt, for I should have spoken
out more fully upon the matter.

A little less than a year before his death —
it was on a Good Friday — I was spending
the day at his house, and was in the garden
with Annabel. She had taken my arm, and
we were pacing the broad walk to the left
of the lawn, thinking only of ourselves,
when, raising my eyes, I saw Mr. Brightman
looking attentively at us from one of the
French windows. He beckoned to me, and
I went in.

Charles," said he, when I had stepped
inside, " no nonsense. You and Annabel
are too young for anything of that sort."

I felt that his eyes were full upon me as
I stood before him, and my face flushed to
the roots of my hair. But I took courage
to ask a question.

Sir, every year passing over our heads

will lessen that objection. Would there be
any other ?"

Be quiet, Charles. Time enough to talk
of these things when the years shall have
passed. You are too young for them, I say."

I am twenty-five, sir ; and Miss Bright-man
"

Twenty-five ?" he interrupted. " I was
past forty when I thought of marriage. You
must not turn Annabel's head with visions
of what the years may bring forth, for if you
do I will not have you here. Leave that
to the future."

But there was sufficient in Mr. Bright-man's
manner to prove that he had not been
blind to the attachment springing up between
us, and undoubtedly regarded me as the
possible future husband of his daughter. At
any rate he continued to invite me to his
house. During the past year Annabel had
been a great deal at Hastings with Miss
Brightman ; I wondered that her father and
mother would spare her so much.

But Annabel knew nothing of that conversation,

and I had never yet spoken of
love to her. And now Mr. Brightman, who
would, or at least might, have sanctioned it,
was gone ; and Mrs. Brightman, who would
certainly, as I believed, oppose it, remained.

In the days immediately following Mr.
Brightman' s death, I was literally overwhelmed
with business. Apart from the additional
work that naturally fell upon me — his
share as well as mine — no end of clients came
pouring in ; and for no earthly purpose, that
I could see, excepting curiosity. Besides
this, there was the frightful search for Sir
Ralph Clavering's will, and the anxiety its
loss entailed on me.

On the Wednesday afternoon, just as I
had got rid of two clients, Lennard came up
with the news that someone else was there.
I was then in the front room, seated at Mr.
Brightman's desk. Too impatient to hear
Lennard out, I told him I could see no one ;
could not, and would not.

It is Miss Annabel Brightman," rejoined
Lennard quietly.

Miss Annabel Brightman ? Oh, that's
very different ; I will see her."

Annabel came in, throwing back her crape
veil. She had driven up alone in the carriage
to brings me a message from her mother.
Mrs. Brightman had made an appointment
with me for that evening at her house ; she
had now sent to tell me not to keep it, as
she was not well enough to attend to business.


Mamma wishes you to come tomorrow
instead of to-day ; early in the afternoon,"
added Annabel.

That would be impossible, and I said so ;
my engagements would not at present permit
me to give up an afternoon.

Perhaps tomorrow evening will do," I
suggested. " In fact it must do, Annabel.
I don't know when I shall have leisure to
come down to you in the daytime."

I dare say it will do," assented Annabel.
(k At any rate, you can come to us. If
mamma is not able to enter into business
matters, another time can be appointed."

Is your mamma so very ill ?"

Sometimes I think so — but she fluctuates,"
replied Annabel. " She is extremely
weak, and her spirits are depressed. She
will pass whole hours shut up in her room
in solitude. When I ask to go in, Hatch
brings out a message that mamma is notable
to see even me."

Her illness must be on the nerves."

I suppose so. Yesterday she came
down and walked with me in the garden in
the sunshine. She seemed pretty well then,
but not strong. In the evening she shut
herself up again."

I wish you would sit down, Annabel," I
said, offering her a chair for the third time.

I would if I could stay. Mamma
charged me to go straight back after leaving
the message with you. Are you well ?"
she continued with hesitation. " You look
harassed."

I am well, Annabel. But you have
used the right word — I am harassed ;
terribly so."

Poor papa !" she sighed. " It has
brought a world of work and care upon
you, as well as of grief to us."

I should not mind work. But — we
have had another loss, Annabel. A loss as
mysterious as that of the gold ; and far
more important."

What is it ?" she asked. " More
money ?"

No ; I wish it were. A will, deposited
in the safe there, has disappeared. I cannot
even guess at the consequences ; ruin
probably to me and to one of our best
clients. Not only that. If things are to
vanish so unaccountably from our strongholds,
we must have an enemy at work,
and it is impossible to foresee where it may
end."

How very strange ! What was the will
like ? I mean, what did it look like ? I
have a reason for asking you."

It was a folded parchment. You saw
your father's will, Annabel : it looked very
much like that. Why do you ask ?"

Because I remember papa's bringing
home a parchment exactly like the one you
describe. It was an evening or two before
he died : the evening before I and mamma
went to Hastings. We left on Saturday,
so it must have been Friday. Do you
think it could be the missing will ?"

Oh no. I have known Mr. Brightman
though very rarely — take home deeds
which required studying ; but he was not
likely to take home Sir Ralph Clavering's will.
He made it himself, and knew every word it
contained. Annabel, I did not intend to let
out the name, but it will be safe with you."

Perfectly so ; as safe as with yourself.
I will not repeat it, even to mamma."

And what I shall do I cannot tell," I
concluded, as I attended her down to the
carriage. " I would give every shilling I
possess to find it."

More work, and then the afternoon came
to an end, my dinner came up, and I was at
liberty to enjoy a little rest. I had taken
to the front room as my sitting-room, and

vol. ii. 30

should speedily remove the desk and iron
safe into the other, making that exclusively
a business-room, and seeing clients in it.
After dinner, the fire clear, my reading-lamp
lighted, I took up the newspaper.
But for habits of order and self-denying
rules, I should never have attained to the
position I enjoyed. One of those rules was,
never to read the Times or any work of
relaxation until my work was over for the
day. I could then enjoy my paper and my
cigar, and feel that I had earned both.

I took up the Times, and almost the very first
paragraph my eye fell upon was the following :

We hear that the convict ship Vengeance,
after encountering stormy weather and contrary
winds on her passage out, has been
wrecked upon an uninhabited island. It is
said that some of the convicts have escaped."

I started up almost as if I had been shot.
Tom Heriot had gone out in the Vengeance :
was he one of those who had escaped ? If
so, where was he ? and what would be his
ultimate fate ?

The ship had sailed from our shores in
August ; this was February : therefore the
reader may think that the news had been
long enough in reaching England. But it
must be remembered that sailing-vessels
were at the mercy of the winds and waves,
and in those days telegrams and telegrams
had not been invented.

Throwing my cigar into the fire and the
newspaper on the table, I fell into an unpleasant
reverie. My lucky star did not
seem in the ascendant just now. Mr.
Brightman's unhappy death ; this fresh
uncertainty about Tom Heriot ; the certain
loss of the gold, and the disappearance of
the will

A ring at the visitors' bell aroused me.
I listened, as Leah opened the door, curious
to know who could be coming after office
hours, unless it was Sir Edmund Clavering.
Lake was in the country.

"Is Mr. Strange in, Leah?" And th<>,
sound of the sweet voice set my heart
beating.

30—2

Yes, Miss Brightman. Please go up."

A light foot on the stairs, and Annabel
entered, holding up a parchment with its
endorsement towards me. " Will of Sir
Ralph Clavering."

Oh, Annabel ! you are my guardian
angel !"

I seized the deed and her hands together.
She smiled, and drew away the latter.

I still thought the parchment I spoke
of might be the missing one," she explained,
and when I got home I looked in papa's
secretaire. There it was."

And you have come back to bring it
to me !"

Of course I have. It would have been
cruel to let you pass another night of suspense.
I came as soon as I had dined."

Who is with you ?"

No one ; I came in by the omnibus. In
two omnibuses really, for the first one only
brought me as far as Charing Cross."

You came in by omnibus ! And alone ?"

Why not ? Who was to know me, or

what could harm me ? I kept my veil
down. I would not order the carriage out
aofain. It might have disturbed mamma,
and she is in bed with one of her worst
headaches. And now, Charles, I must hasten
back again."

Wait one moment, Annabel, whilst I lock
up this doubly-precious will."

Why ? You are not going to trouble
yourself to accompany me, when you are so
busy ? It is not in the least necessary. I shall
return home just as safely as I came here."

You silly child ! That you have come
here at night and alone, I cannot help ; but
what would Mrs. Brightman say to me if
I suffered you to go back in the same
manner ?"

I suppose it was not quite right," she
returned laughingly ; " but I only thought
of the pleasure of restoring the will."

I locked it up in the safe, and went downstairs
with her. Why Mr. Brightman should
have taken the will home puzzled me considerably
; but the relief to my mind was

inexpressible, and I felt quite a gush of remorse
towards Lady Clavering for having
unjustly suspected her.

The prosy old omnibus, as it sped on its
way to Clapham, was to me as an Elysian
chariot. And we had it to ourselves the
whole way, but never a word passed between
us that might not have been spoken before a
committee of dowagers. In fact, we talked
chiefly of Miss Brightman. I began it by
asking how she was.

Aunt Lucy is very delicate indeed," replied
Annabel. " Papa's death has tried
her greatly : and anything that tries her at
once affects her chest. She says she shall
not be able to risk another winter in England,
even at Hastings."

Where would she go ?"

To Madeira. At least, she thinks so
now. In a letter mamma received from her
yesterday, Aunt Lucy said she should go
there in the autumn."

She will find it very dull and lonely —
all by herself."

Yes," sighed Annabel. " Mamma said
she should send me with her. But of course
I could not go — and leave mamma. I wish
I had a sister ! One of us might then accompany
Aunt Lucy, and the other remain
at home. What do you think that stupid
Hatch said ?" cried Annabel, running on.
We were talking about it at lunch, and
Hatch was in the room. ' It's just the best
thing you can do, Miss Annabel, to go
with your aunt,' she declared, following up
mamma's remark."

Perhaps Mrs. Bright man may take
it into her head to go to Madeira
also ?"

Annabel made a movement of dissent.
No, I don't think she would do that,
Charles. She and Aunt Lucy used to bethe
very best of friends, but lately there
has been some coolness between them. The
reason is not known to me, but I fancy
Hatch knows it."

Hatch seems to be quite a confidential
attendant on your mamma."

Oh yes, she is so. She has lived with
us so long, you see ; and mamma, when she
was Miss Chantry, knew Hatch when she
was quite a child. They both come from
the same place — near Malvern, in Worcestershire.
Aunt Lucy and mamma were intimate
in early days, and it was through that intimacy
that papa first knew Miss Chantry.
Why she and Aunt Lucy should have grown
cool to one another now, I cannot tell ; but
they have done so — and oh, I am sorry for
it. I love Aunt Lucy very, very much,"
added the girl enthusiastically.

And I'm sure I love the name — Lucy,"
I said, laughing. " It was my mother's."

The evening was yet early when we reached
Mrs. Brightman's, for eight o'clock was striking.
Hatch, in her new mourning, came
stealing down the stairs with a quiet footfall,
her black cap strings flying as usual.

Why, Miss Annabel, where have you
been ?" she cried. " I couldn't imagine what
had become of you."

I had to go out, Hatch — to take a deed

to the office that poor papa had brought
home and left here. Why ? Has mamma
wanted me ?"

Not she," returned Hatch. " She has
just dropped off into a doze, and I am trying
to keep the house free from noise. I thought
you had been spirited away, Miss Annabel,
and that's the truth."

Mrs. Brioiitman has one of her bad
headaches ?" I remarked.

Hatch looked at me ; then quickly at
her young mistress : as much as to say :
You've been telling him that, Miss
Annabel."

"It is that bad to-night, Mr. Charles,
that her temples is fit to split," she answered.
Since master's death she have had 'em
almost constant — and no wonder, with all
the worry and the shock it brought her.
Are you going already, sir ?"

Will you not stay for tea ?" asked
Annabel.

Not to-night, thank you," I replied.

I'll let you out quietly," said Hatch,

advancing towards the hall-door. " And
mind, Miss Annabel, you are not to go nigh
your mamma's room to waken her," she
added, looking back dictatorially. " When
one is racked with pain, body and mind,
sleep is more precious than gold."

Hatch had lived there during 1 the whole
of Annabel's life, and could not always lay
aside the authoritative manner she had exercised
towards the child ; possibly did not
try to do so.

Great sway was held by Hatch in the
household, and Mrs. Brightman appeared to
sanction it. Certainly she never in any way
interfered with it. But Hatch, always kindly,
was a favourite with the servants.

With her shrewdness, capability and strong
sense, it seemed a marvel that she should
not have improved in manners and in her
way of speaking. But she remained very
much the same rough, diamond that she had
always been. Strangers were wont to feel
surprise that Mrs. Brightman, herself so
refined a woman, should put up with Hatch

as her personal attendant ; and in her attacks
of illness Hatch would be in her mistress's
room for hours together. At this time I
knew nothing of Hatch's antecedents, very
little of Mrs. Brightman's ; or of matters
relating to the past ; and when circumstances
brought me into Hatch's confidence, she enlightened
me upon some points of the family
history. A few of her communications I
cannot do better than insert here, improving
somewhat upon her parts of speech.

I recall the scene now. It was a lovely
moonlit evening, not long after the time of
which I am writing. I had gone to Clapham
to inquire after Mrs. Brightman, who w T as
then seriously ill, and kept her chamber.
Strolling about the garden in the soft twilight,
wishing Annabel was at home instead
of at Hastings, Hatch came out and joined
me, and at once fell to chatting without ceremony.
I made a remark, quite by chance,
that touched upon the subject of Mrs. Bright-man's
early life ; it was immediately taken
up by Hatch and enlarged upon. I heard

much to which I had hitherto been a
stranger.

Colonel Chantry and his wife, who was
the daughter of Lord Onyx, lived at their
seat, Chantry Hall, a beautiful place not far
from Malvern in Worcestershire. They had
three children — George, Frederic and Emma,
who were reared in all the pride and pomp
of the Chantry family. The property was
strictly entailed. It would descend to George
Chantry at his father's death ; and as Colonel
Chantry had no other property whatever, and
as he lived not only up to his income but beyond
it, the future look-out for the younger son
and the daughter was not a very great one.

Such a dash they kept up," said Hatch,
warming with her subject. " The Colonel
liked show and parade, and Madam, as we
always called her, had been born to it. She
was the Honourable Mrs. Chantry, you see,
sir, and chose to live according. They visited
all the noble families round about, and were
visited back again. The Somers' at Easter
Castle, the Lyons' at Macclesfield, the

Foley at Whitley, the other Foley at Stoke
Edith, the Coventry over at Crone, the
Lechmeres at the Rhydcl, the Households
at Blackmore Park, and the Warrington at
Ombersley — but there'd be no end if I
stopped to tell you the half of 'em. Besides
that, Mrs. Chantry counted a near relative
in one of the cathedral prebendaries at Worcester
— and for pride and exclusiveness some
of those old prebendaries capped the world.
So that "

But, Hatch, why are you telling me
this ?" I interrupted.

To give you a notion of what my mistress
was accustomed to when she was Miss
Emma Chantry," promptly replied Hatch.
Well, Mr. Charles, they grew up, those
three children, and I watched 'em grow ;
not that I was as old as they were ; and I
looked upon 'em as the finest and grandest
young people in the world. The two sons
spent a good deal more than they ought.
Mr. Frederic especially, and the Colonel had
to find a lot o' money, for 'twas wanted on

all sides, and folks wondered how he did it.
The end to it came all on a sudden — death."

Whose death ?"

The Colonel's, sir. Mr. George, who
was then Captain Chantry, and about twenty-seven
years old, took the estate. But it
was frightfully encumbered, and he complained
bitterly to his mother that he should
be a poor man for years and years to come.
Madam resented what he said, and a quarrel
ensued. She would not remain at the Hall,
as he had expected her to do, but took a
cottage at Malvern, and went into it with
her daughter, with a parade of humility.
She did not live very long after that, and
Miss Emma was thrown on the world. Captain
Chantry was married, then, to an earl's
daughter ; but his wife and Miss Emma did
not get on together. Miss Emma refused
to make her home at the Hall with Lady
Grace, and she came to London on a visit
to Miss Lucy Brightman, whose mother
was living there. She and Miss Lucy had
been at a finishing school together years

before, and they had kept up their friendship.
It was there she first saw Mr. Bright-man,
who was a great many years older
than his sister ; and it ended in their being
married."

And you came into their service, I suppose,
Hatch ?"

I did, sir. They had been married near
upon twelve months when young Mrs.
Bright man found occasion to discharge two
or three of her servants : and she wrote to
the late housekeeper at Chantry Hall, asking
her to find her some from our neighbourhood.
London servants were frightful, she
said : fine, lazy, extravagant and insolent.
Mother heard about it, and spoke for me to
go as under-housemaid. Well, I was engaged,
Mr. Charles, and I came up here to
Clapham : and I was called ' Hatch ' from
the beginning, because my Christian name,
Emma, was the same as my lady's. Soon
after this, Miss Annabel was born. It was
my duty to wait upon the nurse and the
sick-room ; and my lady — who was ill and

weakly for a long while — grew to like to
have me there. She would talk about the
old place to me, for you see I knew all the
people in it as well as she did. Next, she
made me upper-housemaid ; and in a very
few years, for she had found out how clever
I was at dressmaking and with the needle
generally, I became her maid."

And you are in her confidence, Hatch ?"
I rejoined. " Deservedly so, I am sure."

"In a measure I am, Mr. Charles. A
lady like my Missis, who never loses her
pride day nor night, cannot descend to be
over-confidential with an inferior. But I
know she values me — and so did my poor
master. I mayn't be polished, Mr. Charles,
but I'd go through fire and water for them
any day."

And I am sure she would have done so.

Well, this was a portion of what Hatch
told me. But I must now go back to the
night whose events were interrupted for the
purpose of recording these details. Not that
there is anything more to relate of the night



in question. Leaving a message that I would
call on Mrs. Brightman in good time the
following evening, wishing Annabel goodnight,
and Hatch also, I returned home.

VOL. 11.



PERRY S REVELATION,

EAR STRANGE,— Have you

seen the news in to-day's paper ?

I have just caught sight of it.
If the Vengeance has foundered, or whatever
the mishap may be, and Tom Heriot should
be one of the escaped prisoners, he will be
sure to make his way home. Rely upon it
he has not grown less reckless than he was,
but probably has become more so. What
trouble may not come of it ? Do try and
get at the particulars officially, as to whether
there's truth in the report, or not ; and let
me know without delay.

Very truly yours,

Level."

Letters from Paris and the Continent
generally were then usually delivered about
mid-day. I was talking with Lennard in
the front office when this one arrived. The
clerks had gone to dinner.

Have you heard the rumour about the
ship Vengeance, Lennard ?" I asked, laying
down Lord Level's letter.

I read it yesterday," he answered.

I wonder how I could learn whether
there's any foundation for it ?"

Before he could answer me, we were interrupted
by Major Carlenn. He was in his
usual state of excitement ; his face lengthened,
his arms thrown about, and his everlasting
blue cloak trailing about him. I slipped the
letter into my desk.

Here's a pretty go, Charles !" he exclaimed.
" Have you heard of it yet ?
That convict ship's gone to the bottom, and
Tom Heriot has escaped."

You should not assert that so positively,
Major Carlenn," I remonstrated. " It is not

31—2

certain that any of the men have escaped, I
suppose. If they have, Tom Heriot may
not be one of them."

But they have escaped," stuttered the
gray old man, plumping himself down on a
stool, around which his cloak fell like so much
drapery. " Five have got off, and Tom is
one of them."

How do you know that ?"

How do I know it ? How could I tell
you if I didn't know it ? Half an hour ago
I met Percival in Downing Street, and he
told me."

What little hope had been left within me
took wings and flew away. Percival was
First Lord of the Admiralty. He would
certainly know the truth.

Government has had official news of it,"
went on the Major gloomily ; " and with ita
list of the fugitives."

And Tom's name is amongst them ?"

Tom's name is amongst them."

There was a pause. Lennard had gone
into the other room. Major Carlenn rose,

saying something about lunch waiting for
him at his club.

Mark you, Charles : if Tom takes it
into that rattle-pate of his to worm his way
back to these shores, there may be the devil
to pay. I hope with all my heart Level
won t hear of this. The disgrace has been
a precious thorn to him from the first."

Blanche knows nothing at all of the
matter as yet. She thinks Tom is with his
regiment in India. The last time I saw her
in Paris, not honos before Mr. Brio^htman's
death, she asked me what could be the reason
Tom did not write to her."

Much better tell her, and get it over,"
spoke the Major. " I should, if I were
Level. He is more careful of her than she
deserves — silly chit !"

Major Carlenn and his cloak swung out
again, the clerks came back, and the day and
its duties went on. I wrote to Lord Level ;
giving him the substance of what the Major
had heard, and telling him that I thought
there could be little fear of Tom Heriot's

venturing back to England. He could never
be so reckless as to risk the danger.

Dinner over, I started for Mrs. Bright-man's,
and was admitted by the butler, who
told me, in answer to my inquiry, that his
mistress had been ill all day and had not
come down. Tea waited on the drawing-room
table, but no one was in the room.
Presently Annabel entered.

I am sorry you should have had the
trouble to come, when perhaps you could
not spare the time," she said. " Mamma is
not well enough to see you."

I was not busy to-night, Annabel.
Perry has just told me your mamma has not
been down to-day. Is her illness anything
more than would be caused by these bad
headaches ? Do you fear anything serious ?"

Yes — no. I — I hope not."

Her voice and manner were excessively
subdued, as if she could scarcely speak from
fear of breaking 1 down. She turned to the
table, evidently to avoid my notice, and
busied herself with the teacups.

What is the matter, Annabel ?"

Nothing," she faintly answered, though
her tears were even then falling. But I
knew that some great trouble must be upon
her.

Is Mrs. Brightman vexed with you for
having come up last night with that deed ?"

No ; oh no ! I told mamma about it
this morning, and she said I had done quite
right to take it up, but that I ought to have
gone in the carriage."

What, then, is causing you this grief?"

You cannot expect me to be in very
good spirits as yet," she replied : which was
a decided evasion. " There are times —
when I feel — the loss "

She fairly broke down, and, sinking into
a chair, cried bitterly and without concealment.
I waited until she had become
calmer.

Annabel, my dear, sorrow for your loss
is not all that disturbs your peace to-night.
What else is there ?"

It is true that I have had something to

vex me," she admitted after a pause. " But
I cannot tell you about it."

It is a momentary trouble, I hope ; one
that will pass away "

It will never pass away," she interrupted,
with another burst of emotion. " It will bea
weight and a grief upon me as long as life
shall last. I almost wish I had died with my
father, rather than have to live and bear it."

I took her hands in mine, and spoke
deliberately. "If it be so serious a trouble
as that, I must know it, Annabel."

And if it were of a nature to be spoken
of, you should know it. But it is not, and
I can tell you nothing."

Could you speak of it to your father,
were he still living ?"

We should be compelled to speak of it,
I fear. But "

Then, my dear, you can speak of it tome.
From henceforth you must look upon
me as in his place ; your protector ; your
best friend : one who will share your cares,
perhaps more closely than he could have

done ; who will strive to soothe them with
a love that could not have been his. In a
short time, Annabel, I shall ask you to give
me the legal right to be and do this."

It can never be," she replied, lifting her
tearful eyes to mine.

I looked at her with an amused smile. I
knew she loved me — and what other obstacle
could exist ? Mrs. Brightman might oppose
it at first, but I did not despair of winning
her over in the end.

Not quite yet, I know," I answered her.
u In a few months' time."

Charles, you misunderstand me. I said
it could never be. Never."

I certainly do not understand that.
Had your father lived, it would have been ;
and I do not say this without reason for the
assertion. I believe that he would have
given you to me, Annabel, heartily, withall
his good will."

Yes, that may be true ; I think you are
right; but "

But what, then ? One word, Annabel :

the objection would not surely come from
your heart ?"

No, it would not," she softly answered,
blushing deeply. " Please do not speak of
these things."

I did not intend to speak of them so
soon. But I wish to remind you that I do
possess a right to share your troubles, of
whatever nature those troubles may be.
Come, my darling, tell me your grief."

Indeed I cannot," she answered, " and
you know I am not one to refuse anything
from caprice. Let me go, Charles ; I must
make the tea."

I did let her go ; but I bent over her
first, without warning, and kissed her fervently.


Oh, Charles !"

"As an earnest of a brother's love and
care for you, Annabel, if you object for the
present to the other," I whispered.

Yes, yes ; be a brother to me," she
returned, with strange yearning. " No
other tie can now be ours."

My love, it shall be."

She rang for the urn, which Perry brought
in, and then sat down to the table. I placed
myself opposite to her and drew the dry
toast towards me. " Mrs. Brightman prefers
this, I believe ; shall I prepare some for
her ?"

Annabel did not answer, and I looked up.
She was struggling with her tears again.
I fear mamma is not well enough to eat,"
she said, in a stifled voice.

Annabel !" I suddenly exclaimed, a light
flashing upon me : " your mother is worse
than you have confessed : it is her illness
which is causing you this pain."

Far greater than any that had gone before
was the storm of emotion that shook her
now. I rose in consternation and approached
her, and she buried her face in her hands.
It was very singular. Annabel Brightman
was calm, sensible, open as the day. She
seemed to-night to have borrowed another
character. Suddenly she rose, and nervously
putting my hand aside, walked once or twice

up and down the room, evidently to obtain
calmness. Then she dried her eyes, and sat
down again to the tea-tray. I confess that
I looked on in amazement.

Will you be kind enough to ring,
Charles ? Twice, please. It is for Hatch."

I did so, and returned to my seat. Hatch
appeared in answer to her signal. Annabel
held the cup of tea she had poured out.

Mamma's tea, Hatch."

She won't take none, miss."

It is impossible to resist the temptation
of now and then giving the grammar and
idioms Hatch had brought from her country
home, and had never since attempted to alter
or improve. But what Hatch lacked inaccuracy
she made up in fluency, for a
greater talker never flourished under the
sun.

If you could get her to drink a cup, it
might do her good," pursued Hatch's young
mistress. " Take it up, and try."

Hatch flirted round, giving me full view
of her black streamers, and brought forward

a small silver waiter. " But Won't be of
no manner of use, Miss Annabel."

And here's some toast, Hatch," cried I.

Toast, sir ! Missis wouldn't look at it.
I might as well offer her a piece of Ingy-
rubbing to eat. Miss Annabel knows "

The tea will be cold, Hatch ; take it at
once," interposed Miss Annabel.

Annabel, who is attending your mamma ?
Mr. Close, I suppose."

Mr. Close. She never will have anyone
else. I fear mamma must have been ill for
some time ; but I have been so much away
with Aunt Lucy that I never noticed it
before."

Ay ; Hastings and your aunt will miss
you. I suppose Mrs. Brightman will not
spare you now as she has hitherto done."

Annabel bent her head over the tea-tray,
and a burning colour dyed her face. What
had my words contained to call up the emotion
? Presently she suddenly rose and left
the room, saying she must see whether the
tea had been taken. She returned with the

empty cup, looking somewhat more cheerful.


See, Charles, mamma has taken it : I
do believe she would take more nourishment,
if Hatch would only press it upon her. She
is so very weak and depressed."

Annabel filled the cup again, and Hatch
came in for it. " Suppose you were to take
up a little toast as well ; mamma might eat
it," suggested Annabel, placing the cup on
the waiter.

Oh, well, not to contrary you, Miss
Annabel," returned Hatch. " I know what
use it will be, though."

She held out the waiter, and I was putting
the small plate of toast upon it, when screams
arose from the floor above. Loud, piercing
screams ; screams of fear or terror ; and I
felt sure that they came from Mrs. Bright-man.
Hatch dropped the waiter on to the
table, upsetting the tea, and dashed out of
the room.

I thought nothing less than that Mrs.
Brightman was on fire, and should have been

upstairs as speedily as Hatch ; but Annabel
darted before me, closed the drawing-room
door, and stood against it to prevent my exit,
her arms clasping mine in the extremity of
agitation, the shrieks above still sounding in
our ears.

Charles, you must not go ! Charles,
stay here ! I ask it of you in my father's
name."

Annabel, are you in your senses ? Your
mother may be on fire ! She must be on
fire : do you not hear her screams ?"

No ; it is nothing of that sort. I know
what it is. You could do no good ; only
harm. I am in my own house — its mistress
just now — and I tell you that you must not
go up."

I looked down at Annabel. Her face
was the hue of death, and though she shook
from head to foot, her voice was painfully
imperative. The screams died away.

A sound of servants was heard in the hall,
and Annabel turned to open the door. " You
will not take advantage of my being obliged

to do so, Charles ?" she hurriedly whispered.
You will not attempt to go up ?"

She glided out and stood before the
servants, arresting their progress as she had
arrested mine. " It is only a similar attack
to the one mamma had last night," she said,
addressing them. " You know that it arises
from nervousness, and your going up would
only increase it. She prefers that Hatch
alone should be with her ; and if Hatch requires
help, she will ring."

They moved away again slowly ; and
Annabel came back to the drawing-room.

Charles," she said, " I am going upstairs.
Pray continue your tea without waiting forme
; I will return as soon as possible."

And all this time she was looking like a
ghost and shaking like an aspen leaf.

I crossed to the fire almost in a dream
and stood with my back to it. My eyes
were on the tea-table, but they were eyes
that saw not. All this seemed very strange.
Something attracted my attention. It was
the tea that Hatch had spilt, slowly filtering

down to the carpet. I rang the bell to have
it attended to.

Perry answered the ring. Seeing what
was wrong, he brought a cloth and knelt
down upon the carpet. I stood where I
was, and looked on, my mind far away.

"Curious thing, sir, this illness of mistress's,"
he remarked.

Is it ?" I dreamily replied.

The worst is, sir, I don't know how we
shall pacify the maids," he continued. " I
and Hatch both told them last night what
stupid they were to take it up so, and that
what missis saw could not affect them. But
now that she has seen it a second time — and
of course there was no mistaking the screams
just now — they are turning rebellious over
it. The cook's the most senseless old thing
in the world ! She vows she won't sleep in
the house to-night ; and if she carries out
her 'threat, sir, and goes away, she'll spread
it all over the neighbourhood."

Was Perry talking Sanscrit ? It was
about as intelligible to me as though he had

vol. 11. 32

been. He was still over the carpet, and in
matter-of-fact tones which shook with his
exertion, for he was a fat man, and was
rubbing vehemently, he continued :

I'm sure I couldn't have believed it. I
wouldn't have believed it, sir, but that I
have been in the house and a witness to it,
as one may say ; at any rate, heard the
screams. For a more quieter, amiable, and
peaceable man never lived than my master,
kind to all about him, and doing no harm to
anybody ; and why he should ' Walk ' is beyond
our comprehension."

Why he should — what ?" I exclaimed.

Walk, sir," repeated Perry " Hatch
says it's no doubt on account of his dying a
sudden death ; that he must have left something
untold, and won't be laid till he has told
it. It's apparent, I take it, that it concerns
Mrs. Brightman, by his appearing to her."

What is it that has appeared to Mrs.
Brightman ?" I asked, doubting my ears.

Perry arrested his occupation, and raised
himself to look at me. " My dead master,

sir," he whispered mysteriously. " Master's
ghost."

Your master's — ghost !" I echoed.

Yes, sir. But I thought my young
lady had told you."

I felt an irreverent inclination to laugh,
in spite of the serious surroundings of the
topic. Ghosts and I had never had any
affinity with each other. I had refused to
believe in them as a child, and most unhesitatingly
did so as a man. When I
returned " The Old English Baron " to Annabel,
some years before, she wished she had
never lent it to me, because I declined to
accept the ghost.

I am sure, sir, I never supposed but
what Miss Annabel must have imparted it
to you," repeated Perry, as if doubting his
own discretion in having done so. " But
somebody ought to know it, if it's only to
advise ; and who so fit as you, sir, master's
friend and partner ? / should send for a
clergyman, and let him try to lay it ; that's
what I should do."

32—2

Perry, my good man," and I looked at
his bald head and rotund form, " you are too
old, and I should have thought too sensible,
to believe in ghosts. How can you possibly
listen for a moment to stories so absurd as
these ?"

Well, sir," argued Perry, " my mistress
did see it or she didn't ; and if she didn't,
why should she scream and say she did ?
You heard her screams just now ; and they
were worse yesterday."

Did you see the ghost ?"

No, sir ; I was not up there. Hatch
thought she saw it as she went into the
room. It was in a corner, and wore its
shroud : but when we got up there it was
gone."

When was all this ?"

Last night, sir. When you left, Miss
Annabel took off her bonnet in the drawing-room
and rang for tea, which I carried in.
Presently Hatch ran in at the front door,
and Miss Annabel told me to call her in.
Has mamma had her tea, Hatch ?' said

my young lady. ' Yes, she has returned
Hatch ; which was a downright falsehood,
for she had not had any. But Hatch is
master and missis too, as far as we servants
go, and nobody dares contradict her. Perhaps
she only said it to keep Mrs. Brightman
undisturbed, for she knows her ailments and
her wants and ways better than Miss Annabel.
So, sir, I went down, and Hatch
went up, but not, it seems, into Mrs. Bright-man's
room, for she thought she was asleep.
In two or three minutes, sir, the most
frightful shrieks echoed through the house ;

© ©

those to-night were nothing half as bad.

© ©

Hatch was first in the chamber, Miss Annabel
next, and we servants last. My mistress
stood at the foot of the bed, which she
must have left "

Was she dressed ?" I interrupted.

No, sir ; she was in her night-gown, ora
dressing-gown it might have been. She
looked like — like — I don't hardly know what
to say she looked like, Mr. Strange, but as
one might suppose anybody would look who

had seen a ghost. She was not a bit like
herself. Her eyes were starting and her
face was red with terror ; almost all alight,
as one may say ; indeed, she looked mad.
As to her precise words, sir, I can't tell you
what they were, for when we gathered that
it was master's ghost which she had seen,
appearing in its shroud in the corner by the
wardrobe, the women servants set up a cry
and ran away. That stupid cook went into
hysterics, and declared she wouldn't stop
another nirfit in the house."

What was done with Mrs. Brio-human ?"
Miss Annabel — she seemed terrified out
of her senses, too, poor young lady — bade
me hasten for Mr. Close ; but Hatch put in
her word and stopped me, and said the first
thing to be done was to get those shrieking
maids downstairs. Before I and John had
well done it — and you'd never have forgot
it, sir, had you seen 'em hanging on to our
coat tails — Hatch followed us down, bringing
her mistress's orders that Mr. Close was
not to be fetched ; and indeed, as Hatch

remarked, of what use could a doctor be ina
ghost affair ? But this morning Miss Annabel
sent for him."

Mrs. Bright-man must have had a dream,
Perry."

Well, sir, I don't know ; it might have
been ; but she is not one given to dreams
and fancies. And she must have had the
same dream again now."

Not unlikely. But there's no ghost,
Perry ; take my word for it."

I hope it will be found so, sir," returned
Perry, shaking his head as he retired ; for
he had done his work and had no further
pretext for lingering.

SOMEONE ELSE SEEN.

standing with my back to the
fire in the drawing-room, waiting
for Annabel's return, the tea
growing cold on the table, I puzzled over
what I had just heard, and could make
nothing of it. That Mr. Brightman's spirit
should appear to his wife seemed to be
utterly incomprehensible ; was, of course,
incredible. That many people believed in
the reappearance of the dead, I well knew ;
but I had not yet made up my mind to
become one of them.

It was inexplicable that a woman in this
enlightened age, moving in Mrs. Bright-man's

station, could yield to so strange a
delusion. But, allowing that she had done
so, did this sufficiently explain Annabel's
deep-seated grief? or the remark that her
grief would end only with her life ? or the
hint that she could never be my wife ?
And why should she refuse to confide these
facts to me ? why, indeed, have prevented
my going upstairs ? I might have reassured
Mrs. Brightman far more effectually than
Hatch ; who, by Perry's account, was one
of the believers in the ghost theory. It
was altogether past comprehension, and I
was trying hard to arrive at a solution when
Hatch came in, her idioms in full play.

My young lady's complement, sir, and
will you excuse her coming down again tonight
? she is not equal to seeing nobody.
And she says truth, poor child," added
Hatch, " for she's quite done over."
How is your mistress now, Hatch ?"
Oh, she's better, she is. Her nerves
have been shook, sir, of late, you know,
through the shock of master's unexpected

death, and in course she starts at shudders.
I won't leave the room again, without the
gas a-burning full on."

What is this tale about Mr. Bright-man
?"

Hatch and her streamers swung round,
and she closed the door before answering.
"Miss Annabel never told you that; did
she, sir ?"

No ; but I have heard a word or two
elsewhere. You fancy you saw a ghost ?"

Missis do."

Oh, I thought you did also."

I just believe it's a delusion of hers,
Mr. Charles, and nothing more," returned
Hatch confidently. " If master had been a
bad sort of character, or had taken his own
life, or anything of that, why, the likelihood
is that he might have walked, dying sudden.
But being what he was, a Christian gentleman
that never missed church, and said his
own prayers at home on his knees regular —
which I see him a doing of once, when I
went bolt into his dressing-room, not be-knowing

he was in it — why, it is not likely,
sir, that he comes again. I closet say as
much to them downstairs ; better let them
be frightened at his ghost than at — at —
anybody else's. I wish it was master's
ghost, and nothing worse," abruptly concluded
Hatch.

Nothing worse ! Some of you would
think that bad enough, were it possible for
it to appear."

Yes, sir, ghosts is bad enough, no doubt.
But realities is worse."

So it was of no use waiting. I finished
my cup of cold tea, and turned to go, telling
Hatch that I would come again the following
evening to see how things were progressing.

Yes, do, Mr. Charles ; you had better,"
assented Hatch, who had a habit, not arising
from want of respect, but from her long and
confidential services, and the plenitude of
her attachment, of identifying herself with
the family in the most unceremonious
manner. " Miss Annabel's life hasn't been
a bed of roses since this ghost appeared,

and I fear it is not likely to be, and if
there's anybody that can say a word to
comfort her, it must be you, sir ; for in
course I've not had my eyes quite blinded.
Eyes is eyes, sir, and has their sight in 'em,
and we can't always shut 'em, if we would."

Hatch was crossing the hall to open the
door for me, and I had taken my great-coat
from the stand, when Annabel flew down
the stairs, her face white, her voice sharp
with terror.

Hatch ! Hatch ! mamma is frightened
again !"

Hatch ran up, two stairs at a time, and I
went after her. Mrs. Brightman had followed
Annabel, and now stood outside her
chamber-door in her white dressing-gown,
trembling violently. " He is watching me
again," she panted : " he stands there in his
grave-clothes !"

Don't you come," cried Hatch, putting
Annabel back unceremoniously. " I shall
get my missis round best alone ; I'm not
afraid of no possesses, not I. Give a look

to her, sir," she added, pointing to Annabel,
as she drew Mrs. Brightman into her
chamber, and fastened the door.

Annabel, her hands clasped on her chest,
shook as she stood. I put my arm round
her waist and took her down to the drawing-room.
I closed the door, and Annabel sat
down on the sofa near the fire.

." My darling, how can I comfort you ?"

A burst of grief prevented her from
replying — grief that I had rarely witnessed.
I let it spend itself; you can do nothing
else with emotion so violent : and when it
was over I sat down beside her.

Annabel, you might have confided this
to me at first. It can be nothing but a
temporary delusion of Mrs. Brightman's,
arising from a relaxed state of the
nervous system. Imaginary spectral appearances
"

Who told you about that ?" she interrupted,
in agitation. " How came you to
hear it ?"

My dear, I heard it from Perry. But

he did not break faith in speaking of it, for
he thought you had already told me. There
can be no reason why I should not know it ;
but I am sorry that it has penetrated to the
servants."

Poor Annabel laid her head on the arm
of the sofa, and moaned.

"I do not like to leave you or Mrs.
Brightman either, in this distress. Shall
I remain in the house to-night ? I can
send a message to Leah "

Oh no, no," she hastily interrupted, as
if the proposal had startled her. And then
she continued slowly, hesitatingly, pausing
between her words : " You do not — of
course — believe that — that papa "

Of course I do not," was my hearty
reply, relieving her from her embarrassing
question. " Nor you either, Annabel :
although, as a child, you devoured every
ghost-story you came near."

She made no confirmatory reply, only
looked down, and kept silence. I gazed at
her wonderingly.

It terrified me so much last night," she
whispered.

What terrified you, Annabel ?"

I was terrified altogether ; at mamma's
screams, at her words, at the nervous state
she was in. Mr. Close has helped to frighten
me, too, for I heard him say this morning to
Hatch that such cases have been known to
end in madness."

Mr. Close is not worth a rush," cried
I, suppressing what I had been about to
utter impulsively. " So he knows of this
fancy ?"

Yes, Hatch told him. Indeed, Charles,
I do not see that there was any help for it."

He will observe discretion, I suppose.
Still, I almost wish you had called in someone
who is a stranger to the neighbourhood."


Mamma will not have a stranger, and
you know we must not act in opposition to
her will. She seemed so much better this
morning ; quite herself again."

Of course. With the return of daylight

these fancies subside. But as it seems there

is nothing I can do for you, Annabel, I must

be going, and will come again tomorrow

evening."

The conclusion seemed to startle her.

Had — you — better come ?" she cried, with

much hesitation.

"Yes, Annabel, I had better come," I

firmly replied. " And I cannot understand
why you should wish me not to do so, as

I can see you do."

Only — if mamma should be ill again —
it is all so uncomfortable. I dare say you
never even finished your tea," glancing at
the table. All trivial excuses, to conceal her
real and inexplicable motive, I felt certain.
Good-night, Charles."

She held out her hand to me. I did not
take it : I took her instead, and held her to
my heart. " You are not yourself to-night,
Annabel, for there is some further mystery
in all this, and you will not tell it me. But
the time will soon come, my clearest, when
our mysteries and our sorrows must be shared

in common." And all the answer I received
was a look of despair.

In passing through the iron gates, I met
Mr. Close. The moon to-night was obscured
by clouds, but the gas-lamps revealed us
plainly to each other. " How is Mrs. Bright-man
?" he asked.

Very ill and very strange," I answered.
Do you apprehend any serious result ?"

Well — no," said he ; " not immediately.
Of course, it will tell upon her in thong-run."

She has had another attack of nervous
terror to-night ; in fact, two attacks."

Ay ; seen the ghost again, I suppose.
I suspected she would, so thought I would
just call in."

Would it not be as well — excuse me,
Mr. Close, but you are aware how intimately
connected I was with Mr. Brightman — to
call in a consultation ? Not that there is
the slightest doubt of your skill and competency,
but it appears to be so singular a
malady ; and in the multitude of counsellors
there is safety, you know."

vol. 11. 33

"It is the commonest malady we have to
deal with," returned he ; and the answer
was so unexpected that I could only stare in
silence.

Have a consultation if you think it more
satisfactory, Mr. Strange. But it will not
produce the slightest benefit ; and the less
this matter is allowed to transpire the better.
I assure you that all the faculty combined
could not do more for Mrs. Brightman than
I am doing. It is a lamentable disease, but
it is one that must run its course."

He went on to the house, and I got outside
an omnibus that was passing the end of
the road, and lighted my cigar, more at sea
than ever. If seeing ghosts was the commonest
malady doctors had to deal with,
where had I lived all my life not to have
learned it?

The next afternoon I was surprised by a
visit from Perry. He brought word from
his mistress that she was very much better,
though not yet able to see me on business
matters ; when she felt equal to it, she would

let me know. Miss Annabel, concluded the
butler, was gone to Hastings.

To Hastings !" I exclaimed.

Well, yes, sir. My mistress decided
upon it this morning, and I have just seen
her off by train, with Sarah in attendance
on her. Fact is, sir," added Perry, dropping
his voice to a confidential key : " Hatch
whispered to me that it was thought best
the poor young lady should be out of the
house while it is so troubled."

Troubled !" I repeated, half in scorn.

Why, yes, sir, you know what it is that's
in it," rejoined Perry simply. " Mr. Close,
too, he said Miss Annabel ought to be away
from it just now."

When every hour of the day is occupied,
time glides on insensibly. A week passed.
I heard no news of or from Mrs. Brightman,
and did not altogether care to intrude upon
her, unbidden. But when the second week
was also quickly passing, I determined to
take an evening to go to Clapham. Dinner

33—2

over, I was going downstairs, and met Leah
coming up.

If anyone calls, I am out for the evening,
Leah," I said to her. " And tell Watts
when he comes in that I have left the Law
Times on the table for Mr. Lake. He must
take it round to him."

Very well, sir."

I was nearing the top of Essex Street
when I met the postman.

Anything for me ?" I inquired, for I
had expected an important letter all day.

I think there is, sir," he replied, looking
over his letters under the gas-lamp.
' Messrs. Brightman and Strange ;' there
it is, sir."

I opened it by the same light. It was
the expected letter, and required an immediate
answer. So I returned, and letting
myself in with my latchkey, went into the
front office to write it.

Leah had not heard me come in. She
was upstairs, deep in one of the two favourite
ballads which now appeared to comprise all

her collection. During office hours Leah
was quiet as a mute ; but in the evening
she would generally croon over one of these
old songs in an undertone, if she thought
that I was out and she had the house to
herself. As she was thinking now, for she
sang out in full key, but in a doleful, monotonous
sort of chant. Her voice was still
very sweet, but had lost much of the power
of its earlier days. One of these two songs
was a Scotch fragment, beginning " Woe's
me, for my heart is breaking ;" the other
was " Barbara Allen." Fragmentary also,
apparently ; for as Leah sang it there appeared
to be neither beginning nor ending
to it.

And as she wandered up and down,
She heard the bells a-ringing,
And as they rang they seemed to say,
Hard-hearted Barbara Allen.'

She turned her body round and round,
She saw his corpse a-coming ;
Oh, put him down by this blade's side,
That I may gaze upon him !'

'• The more she looked, the more she laughed,
The further she went from him ;
Her friends they all cried out, ' For shame,
Hard-hearted Barbara Allen !' "

Whether this is the correct version of the
ballad or not, I do not know ; it was Leah's
version. Many and many a time had I heard
it ; and I was hearing it again this evening,
when there came a quiet ring at the door bell.
My door was pushed to but not closed,
and Leah came bustling down. Barbara
Allen was going on still, but in a more
subdued voice.

Do Mr. Strange live here ?" was asked,
when the door was opened.

Yes, he does," responded Leah. " He
is out."

Oh, I don't want him, ma'am. I only
wanted to know if he lived here. What
sort of a man is he ?"

What sort of a man ?" repeated Leah.
A very nice man."

Yes ; but in looks, I mean."

"Well, he is very good-looking. Blue
eyes, and dark hair, and straight features.
Why do you want to know ?"

Ay, that's him. But I don't know
about the colour of his eyes ; I thought

they was dark. Blue in one light and brown
in another, maybe. A tallish, thinnish man."

He's pretty tall ; not what can be called
a maypole. A little taller than Mr. Bright-man
was."

Brightman and Strange, that's it ?
T'other's an old gent, I suppose ?" was the
next remark ; while I sat, amused at the
colloquy.

He was not old. He is just dead.
Have you any message ?"

No, I don't want to leave a message ;
that's not my business. He told me he
lived here, and I came to make sure of it.
A pleasant, sociable man, ain't he ; no pride
about him, though he is well off and goes
cruising about in his own yacht."

No pride at all with those he knows,
whether it's friends or servants," returned
Leah, forgetting her own pride, or at any
rate her discretion, in singing my praises.
Never was anybody pleasant than he.
But as to a yacht "

Needn't say any more, ma'am ; it's the

same man. Takes a short pipe and a social
dram occasionally, and makes no bones
over it."

What ?" retorted Leah indignantly.
Mr. Strange doesn't take drams or smoke
short pipes. If he just lights a cigar at
night, when business is over, it's as much ashe
does. He's a gentleman."

Ah," returned the visitor, his tones expressing
a patronizing sort of contempt for
Leah's belief in Mr. Strange : " gents that
is gents indoors be not always gents out.
Though I don't see why a man need be
reproached with not being a gent because
he smokes a honest clay pipe, and takes a
drop short ; and Mr. Strange does both, I
can tell ye."

Then I know he does not," repeated
Leah. " And if you knew Mr. Strange,
you wouldn't say it."

"If I knew Mr. Strange ! Perhaps I
know him as well as you do, ma'am. He
don't come courting our Betsy without my
knowing of him."

What do you say he does ?" demanded
Leah, suppressing her wrath.

Why, I say he comes after our Betsy ;
leastways, I'm a 'most sure of it. And that's
why I wanted to know whether this was his
house or not, for I'm not a-going to have
her trifled with. She's my only daughter,
and as good as he is. And now that I've
got my information I'll say good-night,
ma'am."

Leah shut the door, and I opened mine.
Who was that, Leah ?"

My patience, Mr. Charles !" she exclaimed
in astonishment. " I thought you
were out, sir."

I came in again. Who was that man
at the door ?"

Who's to know, sir — and what does it
matter ?" cried Leah. " Some half-tipsy
fellow who must have mistaken the house."

He did not speak as though he were
tipsy at all."

You must have heard what he said, sir."

I heard."

Leah turned away, but came back hesitatingly,
a wistful expression in her eyes. I
believe she looked upon me as a boy still,
and cared for me as she did when I had been
one. " It is not true, Mr. Charles ?"

Of course it is not true, Leah. I neither
take drains short, nor go courting Miss
Betsy."

Why, no, sir, of course not. I believe
I must be getting old and foolish, Mr.
Charles. I should just like to wring that
man's neck for his impudence !" she concluded,
as she went upstairs again.

But what struck me was this : either
that one of my clerks was playing pranks in
my name — passing himself off as Mr. Strange,
to appear great and consequential ; and if so,
I should uncommonly like to know which of
them it was — or else that something was
being enacted by those people who made the
sorrow of Leah's life ; that daughter of hers
and the husband — as we will call him. For
the voice at the door had sounded honest
and the application genuine.

Posting my letter, I made the best of my
way to Clapham. But I had my journey
for nothing, and saw only Perry. His mistress
had been getting much better, he said,
but a day or two ago she had a relapse and
was again confined to her room, unable to
see anyone. Mr. Close had ordered her to
be kept perfectly quiet. Annabel remained
at Hastings.

And what about that fright, Perry, that
you were all so scared with a fortnight ago ?"
I asked, as he strolled by my side back to
the iron rates : for it was useless for me to
go in if I could not see Mrs. Brightman.
Has the house got over it yet ?"

Sir, it is in the house still," he gravely
answered.

Do you mean the scare ?"

I mean the ghost, sir. Poor master's
spirit."

I turned to look at his face, plainly enough
to be discerned in the dimness of the foggy
night. It was no less grave than his words
had been.

The figure does not appear every night,
sir ; only occasionally' he resumed ; " and
always in the same place — in the corner by
the wardrobe in Mrs. Briofhtman's bedroom.
It stands there in its grave-clothes."

What with the dark trees about us, the
weird evening, and Perry's shrinking tones,
I slightly shivered, for all my unbelief.

But, Perry, it is impossible, you know.
There must be delusion somewhere. Mrs.
Brightman's nerves have been unstrung by
her husband's death."

Hatch has seen it twice, Mr. Strange,"
he rejoined. " Nobody can suspect Hatch
of having nerves. The last time was on
Sunday night. It stood in its shroud, gazing
at them — her and the mistress — with a
mournful face. Master's very own face, sir,
Hatch says, just as it used to be in life ;
only white and ghastly."

It was a ghastly subject, and the words
haunted me all the way back to town. Once
or twice I could have declared that I saw
Mr. Brightman's face, pale and wan, gazing

at me through the fog. Certainly Hatch
had neither nerves nor fancies ; no living-woman
within my circle of acquaintance
possessed less. What did it all mean ?
Where could the mystery lie ?

Stirring the fire into a blaze when I got
into my room, I sat before it, and tried to
think out the problem. But the more I tried,
the more effectually it seemed to elude me.

With the whir-r-r that it always made,
the clock on the mantelpiece began to strike
ten. I started. At the same moment, the
door opened slowly and noiselessly, and Leah
glided in. Mysteriously, if I may so express
it : my chamber candlestick carried in one
hand, her shoes in the other. She was
barefooted ; and, unless I strangely mistook,
her face was as ghastly as the one Perry had
been speaking of that night.

Putting the candlestick on a side-table,
slipping her feet into her shoes, and softly
closing the door, she turned to me. Her
lips trembled, her hands worked nervously ;
she seemed unable to speak.

Why, Leah !" I exclaimed, " what is
the matter ?"

Sir," she then said, in the deepest agitation
; "I have seen to-night that which has
almost frightened me to death. I don't
know how to tell you about it. Watts has
dropped asleep in his chair in the kitchen,
and I took the opportunity to steal up here.
I wouldn't let him hear it for the world. He
is growing suspicious, fancying I'm a bit odd
at times. He'd be true in this, I know, but
it may be as well to keep it from him."

But what is it, Leah ?"

When I saw him, I thought I should
have dropped down dead," she went on,
paying no attention to the question. " He
stood there with just the same smile on his
face that it used to wear. It was himself,
sir ; it was, indeed."

May I be forgiven for the folly that
flashed over me. Occupied as my mind
was with the apparition haunting the house
at Clapham, what could I think but that
Leah must have seen the same ?

You mean Mr. Brightman," I whispered.

Good heavens!" she exclaimed, approaching
nearer to me, whilst glancing over her
shoulder as if in dread that the ghost were
following her : " does he come again, Mr.
Charles ? Have you seen him ? Is he in
the house ?"

No, no ; but I thought you meant that,
Leah. Who is it that you have seen V

Mr. Tom, sir. Captain Heriot."

PROWLING ABOUT.

the blow had fallen. What we
were dreading had come to pass.
Tom Heriot was back again.
I sat half-paralyzed with terror. Leah
stood before me on the hearth rug, pouring
out her unwelcome disclosure with eager
w r words now that her first emotion had subsided.
She went on with her tale more
coherently, but in undertones.

After you had gone out this evening,
Mr. Charles, I was in the kitchen, when one
of those small handfuls of gravel I dread to
hear rattled against the window. ' Nancy,'
I groaned, my heart failing me. I could

not go to the door, lest Watts should come
up and see me, for I expected him back
every minute ; and, sure enough, just then I
heard his ring. I gave him the Law Times,
as you bade me, sir, telling him he was to
take it round to Mr. Lake at once. When
he was gone I ran up to the door and looked
about, and saw Nancy in the shadow of the
opposite house, where she mostly stands
when waiting for me. I could not speak to
her then, but told her I would try and come
out presently. Her eldest boy, strolling
away with others at play, had been run over
by a cab somewhere in Lambeth ; he was
thought to be dying ; and Nancy had come
begging and praying me with tears to go
with her to see him."

And you went, I suppose, Leah. Goon.


You know her dreadful life, Mr. Charles,
its sorrows and its misery ; how could I find
it in my heart to deny her ? When Watts
came back from Mr. Lake's, I had my bonnet
and shawl on. * What, going out V said he,

vol. 11. 34

in surprise, and rather crossly — for I had
promised him a game at cribbage. ' Well
I answered, ' I've just remembered that I
have to fetch those curtains home to-night
that went to be dyed ; and I must hasten
or the shop may be shut up. I've put your
supper ready in case they keep me waiting,
but I dare say I shall not be long.' '

To attempt to hurry Leah through her
stories when once she had entered upon
them, was simply waste of words ; so I
listened with all the patience I had at command.


The boy had been carried into a house
down Lambeth way, and the doctor said he
must not be moved ; but the damage was
not as bad, sir, as was at first thought, and
I cheered Nancy up a bit by saying hew
r ould get all right and well. I think he
will. Leaving her w T with the lad, I was
coming back alone, when I missed my way.
The streets are puzzling just there, and I
am not familiar with them. I thought I'd
ask at a book-stall, and w T went towards it. A

sailor was standing outside, fingering the
books and talking to somebody inside that I
couldn't see. Mr. Charles, I had got within
a yard of him, when I saw who it was — and
the fright turned me sick and faint."

You mean the sailor ?"

Yes, sir, the sailor. It was Captain
Heriot, disguised. Oh, sir, what is to be
done ? The boy that I have often nursed
upon my knee — what will become of him if
he should be recognised ?"

The very thought almost turned me sick
and faint also, as Leah expressed it. How
could Tom be so foolhardy ? An escaped
convict, openly walking about the streets of
London !

Did he see you, Leah ?"

No, sir ; I stole away quickly ; and the
next turning brought me into the right road
again."

How did he look ?"

I saw no change in him, sir. He wore
a round glazed hat, and rough blue clothes,
with a large sailor collar, open at the throat.

34 — 2

His face was not hidden at all. It used to
be clean-shaved, you know, except the
whiskers : but now the whiskers are gone.

and he wears a hoard. That's all the difference
T could see in him."

Could this possibly he Tom ■ I scarcely
thought so : scarcely thought that even he
would he as reckless of consequences.

Ah. Mr. Charles, do you suppose I
could he mistaken in him T cried Leah, in
answer to my doubt. " Indeed, sir. it was
Captain Heriot. He and the man inside —
the master of the shop. I suppose — seemed
talking as if they knew one another, so Mr.
Tom may have been there before. Perhaps
he is hiding in the neighbourhood."

Hiding '." I repeated, in pain.

"Well, sir ? '

Leah ! have you gone up to bed T

The words came floating up the staircase
in Watts's deep voice. Leah hurried to the
door.

14 I came up to bring the master's candle,"
she called out, as she went down. " If you

hadn't gone to sleep, you might have heard
him ring for it."

All night I lay awake, tormented on the
score of Tom Heriot. Now looking at the
worst side of things, now trying to see them
at their best, the hours dragged along, one
after the other, until daybreak. In spite of
Leah's statement and her own certainty in
the matter, my mind refused to believe that
the sailor she had seen could be Tom. Tom
was inconceivably daring ; but not daring
enough for this. He would have put on
a more complete disguise. At least, I
thought so.

But if indeed it was Tom — why, then
there was no hope. He would inevitably
be recaptured. And this meant I knew not
what of heavier punishment for himself;
and for the rest of us further exposure,
reflected disgrace, and mental pain.

Resolving to go myself at night and
reconnoitre, I turned to my day's work.
In the course of the morning a somewhat
curious thing happened. The old saying

says that " In looking for one thing you
find another," and it was exemplified in the
present instance. I was searching Mr.
Brightman's small desk for a paper that I
thought might be there, and, as I suppose,
accidentally touched a spring, for the lower
part of the desk suddenly loosened, and I
found it had a false bottom to it. Lifting
the upper portion, I found several small
deeds of importance, letters and other
papers ; and lying on the top of all was
a small packet, inscribed " Lady Clavering,"
in Mr. Brightman's writing.

No doubt the letters she was uneasy
about, and which I had hitherto failed to
find. But now, what was I to do ? Give
them back to her ? Well, no, I thought
not. At any rate, not until I had glanced
over them. Their being" in this secret
division proved the importance attaching
to them.

Untying the narrow pink ribbon that held
them together, there fell out a note of Sir
Ralph Clavering's, addressed to Mr. Bright-man.

It was dated just before his death,
and ran as follows :

I send you the letters I told you I had
discovered. Read them, and keep them
safely. Should trouble arise with her after
my death, confront her with them. Use
your own discretion about showing them or
not to my nephew Edmund. But should
she acquiesce in the just will I have made,
and when all things are settled on a sure
foundation, then destroy the letters, unseen
by any eye save your own ; I do not wish
to expose her needlessly. — R. C."

Lady Clavering had not acquiesced in the
will, and she was still going on with her
threatened and most foolish action. I
examined the letters. Some were written
to her ; not by her husband, though ; some
were written by her : and, take them for all
in all, they were about as damaging a series
as any it was ever my fate to see.

The senseless things these women are I"

thought I. " How on earth came she to
preserve such letters as these ?"

I sent a messenger for Sir Edmund
Clavering. Mr. Brightman was to use his
own discretion : I hardly thought any was
left to me. It was more Sir Edmund's
place to see them than mine. He came at
once.

By George !" he exclaimed, when he
had read two or three of them, his handsome
face flushing, his brow knit in condemnation.
" What a despicable woman !
We have the cause in our own hands now."

Yes ; she cannot attempt to carry it
further."

We consulted a little as to the best means
of making the truth known to Lady Clavering
— an unthankful office that would fall tome
— and Sir Edmund rose to leave.

Keep the letters safely," he said ; almost
in the very words Sir Ralph had written.
Do not bring them within a mile of her
hands : copies, if she pleases, as many as
she likes. And when things are upon a

safe footing, as my uncle says, and there's
no longer anything to fear from her, then
they can be destroyed."

Yes. Of course, Sir Edmund," I continued,
in some hesitation, " she must be
spared to the world. This discovery must
be held sacred between us "

Do you mean that as a caution ?" he
interrupted in sunrise. " Why, Strange,
what do you take me for ?"

He clasped my hand with a half-laugh,
and went out. Yes, Lady Clavering had
contrived to damage herself, but it would
never transpire to her friends or her enemies.

Leah had noticed the name of the street
containing the book-stall, and when night
came I put on a discarded old great-coat
and slouching hat, and set out for it. It
was soon found : a narrow, well-frequented
street, leading out of the main thoroughfare,
full of poor shops, patronized by still poorer
customers.

The book-stall was on the right, about
half-way down the street. Numbers of old

books lay upon a board outside, lighted by
a flaring, smoking tin lamp. Inside the
shop they seemed chiefly to deal in tobacco
and snuff. Every now and then the master
of the shop — whose name, according to the
announcement above the shop, must be Caleb
Lee — came to the door to look about him,
or to answer the questions of some outside
customer touching the books. But as yet I
saw no sign of Tom Heriot.

Opposite the shop, on the other side the
way, was a dark entry ; into that entry I
ensconced myself to watch.

Tired of this at last, I marched to the
end of the street, crossed over, strolled back
on the other side the way, and halted at the
book-stall. There I bean to turn the books
about : anything to while away the time.

Looking for any book in particular,
sir ?"

I turned sharply at the question, which
came from the man Lee. The voice
sounded familiar to my ear. Where had
I heard it ?

You have not an old copy of the ' Vicar
of Wakefield I suppose ?" — the work flashing
into my mind by chance.

No, sir. I had one, but it was bought
last week. There's ' Fatherless Fanny sir ;
that's a very nice book ; it was thought a
deal of some years ago. And there's the
Water Witch,' by Cooper. That's good,
too."

I remembered the voice now. It was
that of Leah's mysterious visitor of the
night before, who had been curiously inquisitive
about me. Recognition came upon me
with a shock, and opened up a new fear.

Taking the " Water Witch " — for which
I paid fourpence — I walked on again.
Could it be possible that Tom He riot was
passing himself off for me ? Why, this would
be the veriest folly of all. But no ; that
was altogether impossible.

Anxious and uneasy, I turned about again
and again. The matter ought to be set at
rest, yet I knew not how to do it.

I entered the shop, which contained two

small counters : the one covered with papers,
the other with smoking gear. Lee stood
behind the former, serving a customer, who
was inquiring for last week's number of the
Fireside Friend. Behind the other counter
sat a young girl, pretty and modest. I
turned to her.

Will you give me a packet of bird's-eye
?"

Yes, sir," she answered in pleasant
tones ; and, opening a drawer, handed me the
tobacco, ready wrapped up. It would do
for Watts. Bird's-eye, I knew, was his
favourite mixture.

Thank you, sir," she said, returning me
the change out of a florin. " Anything else,
sir ?"

Yes ; a box of wax matches."

But the matches were not to be found,
and the girl appealed to her father.

Wax matches," returned the man from
across the shop. " Why, they are on the
shelf behind you, Betsy."

The matches w T ere found, the girl took

the money for there, and thanked me again.
All very properly and modestly. The girl
was evidently as modest and well-behaved asa
girl could be.

So that was Betsy ! But who was it that
was courting her in my name ? One of my
office clerks —-or Captain Thomas Heriot ?

Captain Thomas Heriot did not make his
appearance, and I began to hope that Leah
had been mistaken. It grew late. I was
heartily tired, and turned to make my way
home.

Why I should have looked round I cannot
tell, but I did look round just as I reached
the end of the street. Looming slowly up
in the distance was a sailor, with a sailor's
swaying walk, and he turned into the shod.

I turned back also, all my pulses quickened.
I did not follow him in, for we might have
betrayed ourselves. I stood outside, occupied
with the old books again, and pulled the
collar of my coat well up, and my hat well
down. Not here must there be any mutual
recognition.

How long did he mean to stay there ?
For ever ? He and Lee seemed to be at
the back of the shop, talking together. I
could not hear the voices sufficiently to judge
whether one of them was that of Tom
Heriot.

He was coming now ! Out he came,
puffing at a fresh-lighted pipe, his glazed hat
at the back of his head, his face lifted to the
world.

Tell you we shall, master. Fine tomorrow
? not a bit of it. Rain as sure as a
gun. This dampness in the air is a safe sign
on't. Let a sailor alone for knowing the
weather."

At sea, maybe," retorted Caleb Lee.
But I never yet knew a sailor who wasn't
wrong about the weather on shore. Goodnight,
sir."

Good-night to you, master," responded
the sailor.

He lounged slowly away. It was not
Tom Heriot. About his build and his fair
complexion, but shorter than Tom. A real,

genuine Jack-tar, this, unmistakably. Was
he the man Leah had seen ? This one wore
no beard, but bushy, drooping whiskers.

Looking for another book, sir ?"

In momentary confusion, I caught up the
book nearest to hand. It proved to be
Fatherless Fanny," and I said I'd take it.
While searching for the money, I remarked
that the sailor, just gone away, had said we
should have rain tomorrow.

I don't see that he is obliged to be right,
though he was so positive over it," returned
the man. " I hate a rainy day : spoils our
custom. Thanks, sir. Sixpence this time.
That's right."

Do many sailors frequent this neighbourhood
?"

Not many ; we've a sprinkling of 'em
sometimes. They come over here from the
Kent Road way."

Well, and what else could I ask? Nothing.
And just then a voice came from the shop.

Father," called out Miss Betsy, " is it
not time to shut up ?"

"What do you ask? Getting a little
deaf, sir, in my old age. Coming, Betsy."

He turned into the shop, and I walked
away for the night : hoping, ah ! how
earnestly, that Leah had been mistaken.

Mr. Strange, my lord."

It was the following evening. Restlessly
anxious about Tom Heriot, I betook myself
to Gloucester Place as soon as dinner was
over, to ask Major Carlenn whether he had
learnt anything further. The disreputable
old man was in some way intimate with one
or two members of the Government. To
my surprise, Sanders, Lord Level's servant,
opened the door to me, and showed me to
the dining-room. Lord Level sat there
alone over his after-dinner claret.

You look as if you hardly believed your
eyes, Charles," he laughed as he shook hands.
Sit down. Glasses, Sanders."

And surprised I may well look to see
you here, when I thought you were in Paris,"
was my answer.

We came over to-day ; got here an hour
ago. Blanche was very ill in crossing and
has gone to bed."

Where is Major Carlenn ?"

Oh, he is off to Jersey to see his sister,
Mrs. Guy. At least, that is what he said ;
but he is not famous for veracity, you know,
and it is just as likely that he may be catching
the mail train at London Bridge en route
for Homburg, as the Southampton train
from Waterloo. Had you been half an hour
earlier, you might have had the pleasure of
assisting at his departure. I have taken
this house for a month, and paid him in
advance," added Lord Level, as much as to
say that the Major was not altogether out
of funds.

A short silence ensued. The thoughts of
both of us were no doubt busy. Level, his
head bent, was slowly turning his wine-glass
round by its stem.

Charles," he suddenly said, in a half-whisper,
" what of Tom Heriot ?"

I hardly knew how to take the question.

vol. 11. 35

I know nothing more of him," was my
answer.

Is he in London, think you ? Have you
heard news of him, in any way ?"

Now I could not say that I had heard
news : for Leah's information was not news,
if (as I hoped) she was mistaken. And I
judged it better not to speak of it to Lord
Level until the question was set at rest.
Why torment him needlessly ?

I wrote you word what Major Carlenn
said : that Tom was one of those who escaped.
The ship was wrecked upon an uninhabited
island, believed to be that of Tristan
d'Acunha. After a few days some of the
convicts contrived to steal a boat and make
good their escape. Of course they were in
hope of being picked up by some 
ship, and may already have
reached England."

Look here," said Lord Level, after a
pause : " that island lies, no doubt, in the
track of ships bound to the colonies, but
not in the track of those homeward-bound.

So the probability is, that if the convicts
were sighted and picked up, they would be
carried further from England, not brought
back to it."

I confess that this view had not occurred
to aie ; in fact, I knew very little about
navigation, or the courses taken by ships.
It served to strengthen my impression that
Leah had been in error.

Are you sure of that ?" I asked him.

Sure of what ?" returned Lord Level.

That the island would be out of the
track of homeward-bound vessels."

Quite sure. Homeward-bound vessels
come round Cape Horn. Those bound for
the colonies go by way of the Cape of Good
Hope."

My visit here to-night was to ask Major
Carlenn whether he had heard any further
particulars."

I think he heard a few more to-day,"
said Lord Level. " The Vengeance was
wrecked, it seems, on this island. It is often
sighted by ships going to the colonies, and

35—2

the captain was in hope that his signals
from the island would be seen, and some
ship would bear down to them. In vain.
After the convicts — five of them, I believe
had made their escape, he determined to
send off the long-boat, in charge of the chief
officer, to the nearest Australian coast, for
assistance. On the 10th of December the
boat set sail, and on Christmas Day was
picked up by the Vernon, which reached
Melbourne the last day of the year."

But how do you know all these details ?"
I interrupted in surprise.

They have been furnished to the Government,
and Carlenn was informed of them this
morning," replied Lord Level. " On the
following day, the 1st of January, the ship
Lightning sailed from Melbourne for England ;
she was furnished with a full account of the
wreck of the Vengeance and what succeeded
to it. The Lightning made a good passage
home, and on her arrival laid her reports
before the Government. That's how it is."

And what of the escaped convicts ?"

Nothing is known of them. The probability
is that they were picked up by an
outward-bound ship and landed in one of the
colonies. If not, they must have perished
at sea."

And if they were so picked up and
landed, I suppose they would have reached
England by this time ?"

Certainly — seeing that the Lightning
has arrived. And the convicts had some
days' start of the long-boat. I hope Tom
Heriot will not make his way here !" fervently
spoke Lord Level. " The consequences
would three-parts kill my wife. No
chance of keeping it from her in such a
hullabaloo as would attend his recapture."

I cannot think how you have managed
to keep it from her as it is."

Well, I have been watchful and cautious
and we have not mixed much with the
gossiping English. What ! are you going,
Charles ?"

Yes, I have an engagement," I answered,
as we both rose. " Good-night. Give my

love to Blanche. Tell her that Charley will
see her tomorrow if he can squeeze out a
minute's leisure for it."

Taking up the old coat I had left in the
passage, I went out with it on my arm,
hailed a cab that was crossing Portman
Square and was driven to Lambeth. There
I recommenced my watch upon the book-stall
and the street containing it, not, however,
disclosing myself to Lee that night. But
nothing was to be seen of Tom Heriot.

a

#

:n ^

S&'ifel

CHAPTER XL

MRS. Brighten.

UR this corns hopping soule excuse
blunders been no skilled sur
missis is worse and if soule
com ive got som things to tell you I dart
keep urn any longer your until servant
emma hatch but dont say to peri as i sent."

This remarkable missive was delivered tome
by the late afternoon post. The schoolmaster
must have been abroad when Hatch
received her education.

I had intended to spend the evening
with Blanche; It was the day subsequent
to her arrival from France with Lord Level,

and I had not yet seen her. But this appeared
to be something like an imperative
summons, and I resolved to attend to it.

The more haste, the less speed." The
proverb exemplifies itself very frequently in
real life. Ordering my dinner to be served
half an hour earlier than usual, I had no
sooner eaten it than a gentleman called and
detained me. It was close upon eight
o'clock when I reached Clapham.

Perry, the butler, received me as usual.
Oh, sir, such a house of sickness as it is !"
he exclaimed, leading the way to the .
" My mistress is in bed with
brain-fever. They were afraid of it yesterday,
but it has quite shown itself to-day. And
Miss Annabel is still at Hastings. I say
she ought to be sent for ; Hatch says not,
and tells me to mind my own business :
but "

Hatch herself interrupted the sentence.
She came into the room and ordered Perry
out of it. The servants, even Perry, had
grown into the habit of obeying her. Closing

the door, she advanced to me as I stood
warming my hands at the fire, for it was a
sharp night.

Mr. Strange, sir," she began in a low
tone, " did you get that epistle from me ?"

I nodded.

You've not been down here much lately,
sir. Last night I thought you might come,
the night afore I thought it. The last time
you did come you never stepped inside the
door."

Where is the use of coming, Hatch,
when I am always told that Mrs. Brightman
cannot see me — and that Miss Annabel
remains at Hastings ?"

And a good thing that she do remain
there," returned Hatch. " Perry, the gaby,
says, ' Send for Miss Annabel : why don't
you write for Miss Annabel ?' But that his
brains is no bigger than one o' them she-goose'
on Zealand Common, he'd have
found out why afore now. Sir," continued
Hatch, changing her tone, " I want to know
what I be to do. I'm not a person of

education or book-learning, but my wits is
alive, and they serves me instead. For this
two or three days past, sir, I've been thinking
that I ought to tell out to somebody
responsible what it is that's the matter with
my missis, and I know of nobody nearer the
family than you, sir. There's her brother,
in course, at the Hall, Captain Chantrey, but
my missis has held herself aloof from him
and Lady Grace, and I know she'd be in a
fine way if I spoke to him. Three or four-days
ago I said to myself, ' The first time I
see Mr. Strange, I'll tell him the truth.'
Last night she was worse than she has been
at all, quite raving. I got frightened, which
is a complaint I'm not given to, and resolved
not to let another day pass, and then,
whether she lived or died, the responsibility
would not lie upon my back."

Straightening myself, I stood gazing at
Hatch. She had spoken rapidly. If I had
caught all the words, I did not catch their
meaning.

Yes ?" I said mechanically.

And so, with morning light, sir, I wrote
you that epistle."

Yes, yes ; never mind all that. What
about Mrs. Brightman ?"

Hatch dropped her voice to a lower and
more mysterious whisper. " Sir, my missis
gives way, she do."

Gives way," I repeated, gazing at Hatch,
and still unable to see any meaning in the
words. " What do you say she does ?"

Hatch took a step forward, which brought
her on the hearth rug, close to me. " Yes,
sir ; missis gives way."

Gives way to what ?" I reiterated. " To
her superstitious fancies ?"

No, sir, to stimulants."

To " The meaning, in spite of

Hatch's obscure English, dawned upon me
now. A cold shiver ran through me. Annabel's
mother ! and honoured Henry Bright-man's
wife !

She takes stimulants !" I gasped.

Yes, sir ; stimulants," proceeded Hatch.
Almost anv sort that comes aniorh her.

She likes wine and brandy best ; but failing
them, she'll drink others."

Question upon question rose to my mind.
Had it been known to Mr. Brightman ?
Had it been a prolonged habit ? Was it
deeply indulged in ? But Annabel was her
child, and my lips refused to utter them.

It has been the very plague of my life
and my master's to keep it private these
many months past," continued Hatch.
' Hatch does this in the house, and Hatch
does the other,' the servants cry. Yes ;
but my master knew why I set up my
authority ; and missis knew it too. It was
to screen her."

How could she have fallen into the
habit ?"

It has grown upon her by degrees, sir.
A little at first, and a little, and then a
little more. As long as master was here,
she was kept tolerably in check, but since
his death there has been nobody to restrain
her, except me. Whole days she has been
in her room, shutting out Miss Annabel,

under the excuse of headaches or lowness,
drinking all the time ; and me there to keep
the door. I'm sure the black stories I have
gone and invented, to pacify Miss Annabel
and put her off the right scent, would drive
a parson to his prayers."

Then Miss Annabel does not know it ?"

She do now," returned Hatch. " The
first night there was that disturbance in the
house about missis seeing the ghost, her
room was thrown open in the fright, and all
the house got in. I turned the servants
out : I dared not turn out Miss Annabel,
and she couldn't fail to see that her mother
was the worse for drink. So then I told
her some, and Mr. Close told her more next
morning."

Annabel's strange grief, so mysterious tome,
was accounted for now. Hatch continued
:

You see now, sir, why Miss Annabel
has been kept so much at Hastings. Master
would never have her at home for long
together, afeared her mother miofht betray

herself. He wanted to keep the child in
ignorance of it, as long as it was possible.
Miss Brightman knew it. She found it out
the last time she was visiting here ; and
she begged my missis on her bended knees
to be true to herself and leave it off. Missis
promised — and such a bout of crying they
two had together afore Miss Lucy went
away ! For a time she did get better ; but
it all came back again. And then came
master's death — and the shock and grief of
that has made her give way more than she
ever did. And there it is, sir. The secret's
o't too weighty for me ; I couldn't keep it
to myself any longer."

Perry says Mrs. Brightman is now lying
ill with brain-fever."

We call it brain-fever to the servants,
me and Mr. Close ; it's near enough for
them," was Hatch's cool reply. " The
curious thing is that Perry don't seem to
suspect ; he sees more of his missis than the
rest do, and many a time must have noticed
her shaking. Last night her fit of shaking

was dreadful — and her fever too, for the
matter of that. She is as close as she well
can be upon that disorder that comes of
drink. If it goes on to a climax, nothing
can save the disgrace from coming out downstairs."


Nothing could or would save it, in mv
opinion, downstairs or up, indoors or out.
What a calamity !

But she is a trifle better to-night," continued
Hatch. " The medicines have taken
effect at last, and put her into a deep sleep,
or else I couldn't be talking here."

Did you invent the episode of Mr.
Brightman's ghost, Hatch, by way of accounting
for Mrs. Brightman's state to the
servants ?" I inquired.

/ invent it !" returned Hatch. " I
didn't invent it. My missis did see it. Xot,
I take it, that there was any ghost to see,
in one sense ; but when these poor creatures
is in the shakes, they fancy they see all
kinds of things — monkeys and demons, and
such-like. I can't believe it was master.

I don't see why he should come back, being
a good man ; and good men that die in
peace be pretty sure to rest in their graves.
Still, I'd not be too sure. It may be that
he comes back, as my missis fancies, to
silently reproach her. It's odd that she
always sees him in the same place, and in
his shroud. Several times she has seen him
now, and her description of how he looks
never varies. Nothing will ever persuade
her, sick or well, that it is fancy."

You have seen him also, I hear ?"

Not I," said Hatch. " I have upheld
what my missis says. For which was best,
Mr. Strange, sir — to let the servants think
she is shaking and raving from fear of a
ghost, or to let 'em get to suspect her the
worse for drink ?"

Hatch's policy had no doubt been wise in
this. I told her so.

I have seen the shakes before to-day ;
was used to 'em when a child, as may be
said," resumed Hatch. " I had a step-uncle,
sir, mother's half-brother, who lived

next door to us ; he was give to drink, and
he had 'em now and then. Beer were his
chief weakness ; wine is missis's. If that
step-uncle of mine had been put to stand
head downwards in a beer barrel, Mr.
Charles, he'd not have thought he had
enough. He'd be always seeing things, he
would ; blue and red and green imps that
crawled up his bed-posts, and horrid little
black devils. He used to start out of doors
and run away for fear of 'em. Once he ran
out stark naked, all but his shoes ; he tore
past the cottages all down the village, and
flung himself into the pond opposite the
stocks. All the women watching him from
their doors and windows followed after him.
The men thought it were at least a mad
dog broke loose, seeing the women in pursuit
like that ; whereas it were nothing but my
step-uncle in one of his bouts — stripped.
Mrs. Brightman would never do such a thing
as that, being a lady ; but they be all pretty
much alike for sense when the fit is on

> V)

em.

vol. 11. 36

And Mr. Brightman knew of this, you
say ? Knew that she was given to — to like
stimulants ?"

He couldn't be off knowing of it, sir,
habiting, as he did, the same rooms : and it
has just bettered his life out. She has never
had a downright bad attack, like this one,
therefore we could hide it from the servants
and from Miss Annabel, but it couldn't be
hided from him. He first spoke to me
about it six or seven months ago, when he
was having an iron bedstead put up in the
little room close to hers ; until then he had
made believe to me not to see it. Sometimes
I know he talked to her, all lovingly
and persuasively, and I would see her with
red eyes afterwards. I once heard her say,
I will try, Henry ; indeed I will ;' and I
do believe she did. But she got worse, and
then master spoke to Mr. Close."

Has it been long growing upon her ?" I
asked, in a low voice.

Sir," returned Hatch, looking at me
with her powerful eyes, " it has been growing

for years and years. I think it came
on, first, from idleness "

From idleness !"

I mean what I say, sir. She married
master for a home, as it were, and she didn't
care for him. She cared for somebody else
but things wouldn't work convenient, and
they had to part. Miss Emma Chantrey
was high-born and beautiful, but she had no
money, and the gentleman had no money
either, so it would not do. It was all over
and done with long before she knew Mr.
Brightman. Well, sir, she married and
come home here. But she never liked the
place ; commercial, she said, these neighbourhoods
was, round London, and the
people were beneath her. So she wouldn't
visit, and she wouldn't sew nor read ; she'd
just sit all day long with her hands afore
her, a-doing of nothing. I saw that as soon
as I took service here. ' Wait,' said I to
myself, ' till the baby comes.' Well, it came,
sweet little Miss Annabel, but it didn't make
a pin's difference : missis got a maid for it,

36—2

and then a governess, and turned her over
to them. No more babies followed ; pity
but what a score of 'em had ; they might
have roused her from her apathy."

But surely she did not give way, as you
call it, then ?"

No, not then. She was just ate up
with weariness ; she found no pleasure in
life, and she did no work in it ; when morning
broke she'd wish the day was over ; and
when night came she'd wish it was morning ;
and so the years went by. Then she got
to say — it come on quite imperceptible —
Hatch, get me a glass of wine ; I'm so low
and exhausted.' And I used to get her one,
thinking nothing. She took it then, just
because she wanted something to rouse her,
and didn't know what. That was the beginning
of it, Mr. Charles."

A very unfortunate beginning."

But," continued Hatch, " after a while,
she got to like the wine, and in course
o' time she couldn't do without it ; a glass
now and a glass then between her meals,

besides what she took with them, and it was
a great deal ; pretty nigh a bottle a-day I
fancy, altogether. Master couldn't make
out how it was his wine went, and he spoke
sharp to Perry ; and when missis found that,
she took to have some in on her own account,
unknowing to him. Then it grew to
brandy. Upon the slightest excuse, just a
stitch in her side, or her finger aching, she
would say, ' Hatch, I must have half a glass
of hot brandy-ands water.' Folks don't stop
at the first liquor, sir, when it gets to that
pitch ; my step-uncle would have swallowed
vitriol sooner than have kept to beer."
Hatch, this is a painful tale."
And I've not finished of it," was Hatch's
response. " Missis had an illness a year or
eighteen months back ; I dare say you
remember it, sir. Weak enough she was
when she began to get about ; some people
thought she wouldn't live. ' She must take
stimulants to strengthen her,' says Close.
She don't want stimulants,' says I ; ' she'll
get better without 'em ;' for she was a taking

of 'em then in secret, though he didn't know
it. l Mrs. Brightman must take stimulants,'
says he to master. ' Whatever you thinks
necessary returns master — though if he
hadn't begun to suspect then, it's odd tome.
And my missis was not backward to
take Close's stimulants, and she took her
own as well ; and that I look upon as the
true foundation of it all ; it might never
have grown into a habit but for that ; and
since then matters have been going from
bad to worse. It's a dangerous plan for
doctors to order stimulants to weak people,"
added Hatch reflectively ; " evil comes of it
sometimes."

I had heard that opinion before ; more
than once. I had heard Mr. Brightman
express it to a client, who was recovering
from an illness. Was he thinking of his wife ?

And for the last six months or so my
missis has been getting almost beyond control,"
resumed Hatch ; " one could hardly
keep her within bounds. Me and master
tried everything. We got Miss Annabel

out of the way, not letting her come home
but for two or three days at a time, and
them days — my patience ! if I hadn't to
watch missis like a cat ! She didn't wish
to exceed in the daytime when Miss Annabel
was here, though she would at night ; but
you know, sir, these poor creatures can't
keep their resolves ; and if she once got a
glass early, then all her prudence went to
the winds. I did my best ; master did his
best ; and she'd listen, and be reasonable,
and say she'd touch nothing. But upon the
least temptation she'd give way. My belief
is, she couldn't help it ; when it comes to
this stage it's just a disease. A disease,
Mr. Charles, like the measles or the yellow
jaundice, and they can't put it from 'em if
they would."

True.

On the Thursday night, it was the
Thursday before the master died, there was
a quarrel," Hatch went on. " Mrs. Bright-man
was not fit to appear at the dinner-table,
and her dinner was sent up to her

room, and master came upstairs afterwards,
and they had words. Master said he should
send Miss Annabel to Hastings in the
morning and keep her there, for it would
be impossible to hide matters from her longer
if she stayed at home. Mrs. Brightman,
who was not very bad, resented that, and
called him harsh names : generally speaking,
she was as humble as could be, knowing herself
in the wrong and feeling ashamed of it.
They parted in anger. Master was as good
as his word ; he sent Miss Annabel with
Sarah down to Hastings on the Friday
morning to Miss Brightman. In the evening,
when he came home to dinner, missis
was again the worse for drink. But on the
Saturday morning she was up betimes, afore
the household even, and had ordered the
carriage, and went whirling off with me to
the station to take the first train for
Hastings. ' I shall return on Monday and
bring back Annabel,' she said to master,
when she was stepping into the carriage at
the door, and he ran out to ask where she

was going, for he had not seen nor heard
nothing about it. ' Very well said he in a
whisper ; ' only come back as you ought to
come.' Mr. Charles, I think those were
the only words that passed between them
after the quarrel."

You mean the quarrel on the Thursday
night ?"

Yes, sir ; there was no other quarrel.
We went to the Queen's Hotel. And on
the Sunday, if you remember, you came
down to tell us of the master's sudden death.
Mrs. Brightman was ill that morning, really
ill, I mean, with one of her dreadful headaches
— which she did have at times, and
when she didn't they was uncommon convenient
things for me to fall back upon if I
needed an excuse for her. She had meant
to go to church, but was not able. She had
had too much on the Saturday night, though
she was always more prudent out than at
home, and was worried in mind besides.
But, to be sure, how she did take on about
master's death when alone with me. They

had parted bad friends : leastways had not
made it up after the quarrel ; she knew how
aggravating she had been to him in it, and a
notion got hold of her that he might have
poisoned himself. When she learnt the
rights of it, that he had died peaceful and
natural, she didn't get much happier. She
was perpetually saying to me, as the days
went on, that her conduct had made him
miserable. She drank then to drown care ;
she fancied she saw all sorts of things, and
when it came to master's ghost "

She could not have been sober when
she fancied that."

Nor was she," returned Hatch. " Half-and-half
like ; had enough to betray herself
to Miss Annabel. ' Now don't you go and
contradict about the ghost,' I says to her,
poor child ; ' better let the kitchen think ita
ghost than brandy-ands water.' Frightful
vexed and ashamed missis was, when she
grew sober, to find that Miss Annabel knew
the truth. She told her she must go to her
aunt at Hastings for a time : Mr. Close, he

said the same. Miss Annabel would not go ;
she said it was not right that she should
leave her mother, and there was a scene ;
miss sobbing and crying, mistress angry and
commanding ; but it ended in her going. ' I
don't want no spies upon me,' says missis tome,
' and she shall stop at Hastings for good.'
Since then she has been giving way unbearable,
and the end of it is, she has got the
shakes."

What a life ! What a life it had been
for Mr. Brightman ! Lennard had thought
of late that he appeared as a man who bore
about him some hidden grief ! Once, when
he had seemed low-spirited, I asked whether
anything was amiss. " We all have our
trials, Charles ; some more, some less," was
the answer, in tones that rather shut me up.

Hatch would fain have talked until now :
if wine was her mistress's weakness, talking
was hers ; but she was interrupted by the
arrival of Mr. Close, and had to attend him
upstairs. On his return he came into the
drawing-room.

This is a disagreeable business, Mr.
Strange. Hatch tells me she has informed
you of the true nature of the case."

A disagreeable business ! The light words,
the matter-of-fact tone seemed as a mockery.
The business nearly overwhelmed me.

When you met me the other night, at
the gate, and spoke of Mrs. Brightman's illness,
I was uncertain how to answer you,"
continued Mr. Close. " I thought it probable
you might be behind the curtain, connected
as you are with the family, but I was
not sure."

I never had the faintest suspicion of
such a thing, until Hatch's communication
to me to-night. She says her young mistress,
even, did not know of it."

No ; they have contrived to keep it from
Annabel."

Will Mrs. Brightman recover ?"

From this illness ? oh dear yes ! She
is already in a fair way for it, having dropped
into the needed sleep ; which is all we want.
If you mean will she recover from the habit

why, I cannot answer you. It has obtained
a safe hold upon her."

What is to be done ?"

What can be done ?" returned the
surgeon. " Mrs. Brightman is her own
mistress, subject to no control, and has a
good income at command. She may goon
drinking to the end."

Go on drinking to the end ! What a
fearful thought ! what a fearful life ! Could
nothing be done to prevent it ; to recall her
to herself ; to her responsibility for this
world and the next ?

I have seen much of these cases," continued
Mr. Close ; " few medical men more.
Before I came into this practice I was
assistant-surgeon to one of the debtors' prisons
up in town : no school equal to that in all
Europe for initiating a man into the mysteries
of the disorder."

Ay, so I believe. But can Mrs. Bright-man's
case be like those cases ?"

Why should it differ from them ? The
same habits have induced it. Of course, she

is not yet as bad as some of them are, but
unless she pulls up she will become so. Her
great chance, her one chance, I may say,
would be to place herself under some proper
control. But this would require firm resolution
and self-denial. To begin with, she
would have to leave her home."

This cannot be a desirable home for
Annabel."

No. Were she my child, she should not
return to it."

What is to be done when she recovers
from this attack ?"

In what way ?"

In what way, truly ! My brain was at
work over the difficulties of the future. Was
Mrs. Brightman to live on in this, her home,
amidst her household of curious servants,
amidst the prying neighbours, all of whom
would revel in a tale of scandal ?

When she is sufficiently well she should
have change of air," proceeded the doctor,
and get her nerves braced up. Otherwise
she may be seeing that ghost for six months

to come. A strange fancy that, for her to
take up — and yet, perhaps, not so very
strange, takings all things into consideration.

© ' © ©

She is full of remorse, thinking she might
have done her duty better by her husband,
made him less unhappy, and all that. Mrs.
Brightman is a gentlewoman of proud, elevated
instincts : she would be only too
thankful to leave off this demoralizing habit ;
in a way, I believe she strives to do it, but
it is stronger than she is."

It has become worse, Hatch says, since
Mr. Brightman died."

Undoubtedly," concluded Mr. Close.
She had taken it to drown care."

MY LORD AND MY LADY.

^nT^pHE breakfast-table was laid in
Gloucester Place, waiting for
Lord and Ladv Level. It was
the day following the one recorded in the
last chapter. A clear, bright morning, the
sun shining hotly.

Blanche came in, wearing a dainty white
dress. Her face, though thin, was fair and
lovely as ever ; her eyes were as blue and
brilliant. Ringing for the coffee to be
brought in, she began turning over the
letters on the table : one for herself, which
she saw was from Mrs Guy ; three for her

husband. Of these, one bore the Paris
postmark.

Here is a letter from Paris, Archibald,'
she said to him as he entered. " I think
from Madame Sauvage ; it is like her writing.
I hope it is to say that she has sent off the
box."

That you may regain possession of your
finery," rejoined Lord Level, with a light,
pleasant laugh. " Eh, Blanche ?"

Well, my new lace mantle is in it. So
stupid of Timms to have made the mistake !"

So it was. I dare say the box is on its
road by this time."

Blanche began to pour out the coffee.
Lord Level had gone to the window, and
was looking up and down the street. Ashe
took his seat to begin breakfast, he
pushed the letters away idly without opening
them, and remarked upon the fineness of
the morning.

They were fairly good friends, these two ;
always courteous, save when Blanche was
seized with a fit of jealousy, persuading her-vol.

11. 37

self, rightly or wrongly, that she had cause
for it. Then she would be cross, bitter,
snappish. Once in a way Lord Level retorted
in kind ; though on the whole he was
patient and gentle with her. In the midst
of it all she loved him passionately at heart,
and sometimes let him know it.

As it is so fine a day, Archibald, you
might take me to Kensington, to call on Mrs.
Page Reid, this afternoon. She sent us her
address, you know."

I would rather not, Blanche, unless you
particularly wish it. I don't care to keep
up Mrs. Page Reid's acquaintance. She's
good for nothing but to talk scandal."

"I do not much care for her either,"
acknowledged Blanche. " We are not in the
least obliged to renew her acquaintance."

I will take you somewhere else instead,"
said he, pleased at her acquiescence. " We
will go out after luncheon and make an afternoon
of it — like Darby and Joan."

Presently, when breakfast was nearly
over, Blanche opened her letter from Mrs.

Guy ; reading out scraps of it to her husband.
It told of Major Carlenn's arrival — so that
he had really gone to Jersey. Then she
took up the Times. An unusual thing for
her to do. She did not care for newspapers,
and Lord Level did not have them sent to
him when in Paris : he saw the English

o

journals at the club. No doubt he had his
reasons for so doing.

Meanwhile he was opening his own letters.
The one from Paris came last. Had his wife
been looking at him, she might have seen
a sudden change pass over his face as he
read it, as though startled by some doubt or
perplexity.

Archibald, what can this mean ?" exclaimed
Blanche in breathless tones. " Listen :
The names of the hive convicts said to have
escaped from the ship Vengeance after her
wreck on the island, supposed to be that of
Tristan d'Acunha, are the following : George
Ford, Walter Green, John Addison, Nathaniel
Markham, and Thomas Heriot.' That
is Tom's name."

37—2

Cramming all his letters into his breast-pocket
with a hurried movement, Lord Level
quietly took the paper from his wife's hands.
This was the very contretemps he had so
long striven to guard against.

My dear Blanche, do you suppose there
is only one Thomas Heriot in the world ?"
cried he carelessly. ' Ship Vengeance f
1 Escape of convicts V Oh, it is something
that has happened over at Botany Bay."

Well, the name startled me, at the
moment. I'm sure Tom might as well be a
convict as anything else for all the news he
sends us of himself."

He was always careless, you know, and
detested letter-writing."

Carrying away the paper, Lord Level left
the room and went to the one behind it, of
which he made a sort of study. There he
sat down, spread the letter from Paris before
him on the table, and reversed it.

Confound the woman !" remarked his
lordship. " I shall have to go down there
now I

Breakfast removed, Blanche began at once
to write to Mrs. Guy, whose letter required
an answer. That over, she put on
her bonnet to call on Mrs. Arnold Ravens-worth
in Bingham Place. She had calledon
the previous day, but found Mr. and
Mrs. Ravensworth out of town : they were
expected home that evening. So now Blanche
went again.

Yes, they had arrived ; and had brought
with them Blanche's old friend, Cecilia
Ravensworth, from White Littleham Rectory.


How happy they were together, these
two ! It seemed an age since they had
parted, and yet it was not in reality so very
long ago. Lady Level remained the best
part of the morning, talking of the old days
of her happy, yet uneventful, girlhood.

Strolling leisurely through Cavendish
Square on her way home, Blanche fell to
thinking of the afternoon : speculating where
it might be that her husband meant to take
her. Perhaps to Hampton Court : she had

never seen it, and would like to do so : she
would ask him to take her there. Quickening
her pace, she soon reached her own door,
and saw an empty cab drawn up before it.

Is any visitor here ?" she asked of
Sanders, when admitted.

No, my lady. I have just called the
cab for his lordship."

Lord Level came out of the study at the
sound of her voice, and turned with her into
the front room. She thought he looked
vexed — hurried.

Blanche," he began, " I find I have to
run down to Marshdale. But I shall not
be away more than a night if I can help it.
I shall be back tomorrow if possible ; if
not, you may expect me the next day for
certain."

To Marshdale !" she repeated, in surprise
and vexation. " Then you will not be
able to take me out this afternoon ! I was
hoping it might be to Hampton Court."

You shall go to Hampton Court when
I return."

Take me with you to Marshdale."

I cannot," he replied decisively. " I
am going down on business."

Why did you not tell me of it this
morning ? Why have proposed to "

I did not know of it then," he interrupted.
" How dismayed you look, Blanche !"
he added, half laughing.

I shall be very lonely, Archibald — all
by myself here !"

He said no more, but stooped to kiss
her, and left the room, looking at his
watch.

"I did not think it was quite so late!"
he exclaimed. Turning sharply, for he had
been about to enter the study, he approached
the front door, hesitated, then turned again,
and went into the study.

No, I can't stop," he said, coming to a
final decision, as he once more came forth,
shut the study door after him, and locked it,
but did not take out the key. " Blanche,
don't let anyone come in here ; I have
left all my papers at sixes and sevens. If

I wait to put them up I shall not catch
Jennings."

Are you going to the train now, Archibald
?"

No, no ; I want to see Jennings. I
shall come back before going to the train."

Getting into the cab, Lord Level was
whirled away. Sanders closed the house -
door. And Blanche, ascending the stairs
to her chamber, in the slow manner we are
apt to assume after experiencing some unexpected
check, and untying her bonnet as
she went up, came upon her maid, Timms.
Timms appeared to be in trouble : her face
was gloomy and wet with tears.

What is the matter ?" exclaimed her
mistress.

My lady, I can't understand it. My
belief is she has stole it, and nothing less.
But for that dreadful sea-passage, there and
back, I'd go over myself to-day, if your
ladyship would spare me."

Now, Timms, what are you talking
about ?"

Why, of the box, my lady. I was that
vexed at its being left behind that I scribbled
a few lines to Yictorine from Dover, telling
her to get Sauvage not to delay in sending
it on. And I've got her answer this morning,
denying that any box has been left.
Leastways, saying that she can't see it."

While Timms was speaking, she had
pulled a note out of her pocket, and offered
it to her mistress. It was from their late
chambermaid, and written in curious English
for Timms' benefit, who was no French
scholar, and it certainly denied that the box
inquired for, or any other box, had been
left behind, so far as she, Victorine, could
ascertain.

When departing from Paris three days
before, Timms, counting over the lu^o-ao-e
with Sanders, discovered at the station that
one of the boxes was missing, left behind in
their apartments by her own carelessness.
The train was on the point of starting, and
there was no time to return ; but Lord
Level despatched a message by a commissionaire

to the concierge, Sauvage, to send
it on to London by grande vitesse. The
box contained wearing apparel belonging to
Lady Level, and amidst it a certain dark
silk dress which Timms had Ions: coveted.
Altogether she was in a state of melancholy
self-reproach and had written to Yictorine
from Dover, urging speed. Victorine's answer,
delivered this morning, had completely
upset Timms.

Lady Level laughed gaily. " Cheer up,
Timms," she said ; " the box is on its road.
His lordship has had a letter from Madame
Sauvage this morning." The concierge
himself was no scribe, and his wife always
did the writing for him.

Timms dashed her tears away. " Oh,
my lady, how thankful I am ! What could
Victorine mean, I wonder ? When was
the box sent off? Does your ladyship
know ?"

No — o. I — don't know what the letter
does say," added Lady Level, calling to
mind that she was as yet ignorant of its

contents. " I forgot all about it after Lord
Level opened it."

Timms did not quite comprehend. " But
I beg your pardon, my lady — I suppose
Madame Sauvage does say they have sentit
off?"

I dare say she does. What else should
she write for ?"

The maid's countenance fell considerably.

But, my lady," she remonstrated, wise
in her superior age and experience, " if — if
your ladyship has not read the letter, it
may be just the opposite. To pretend, like
Victorine, that they have not found the box.
Victorine may have spirited it away without
their knowledge. She would uncommonly
like to get some of those dresses for herself."

This view scarcely appeared feasible to
Lady Level. " How silly you are, Timms !"
she cried. " You can only look at the dark
side of the case. As if Lord Level would
not have told me had it been that news ! I
wonder where he put the letter ? I will
look for it."

If you would be so kind, my lady ! so
as to set the doubt at rest."

That she should find the letter on her
husband's table, Blanche no more doubted
than that it was written by Madame Sauvage
to announce the despatch of the box. She
ran down to the study, unlocked the door,
and entered.

The table was covered with quite a confused
mass of papers, heaped one upon
another. It seemed as though Lord Level
must have been looking for some deed
or other. A despatch-box, usually crammed
full of papers, stood on the table, open and
empty. At the opposite corner was his
desk ; but that was locked.

For a moment Blanche thought she would
abandon her search. The confusion looked
too formidable to be meddled with. Well
for her own peace of mind that she had not
done so !

Bending forward, for papers lay on the
carpet as well as the table, she let her eyes
range over the litter, slightly lifting with

her thumb and forefinger a paper here and
there, hoping to discern the required letter.
Quite by a stroke of good fortune she came
upon it. Good fortune or ill — which ?

It lay, together with the two letters which
had come with it, under an open parchment,
close before Lord Level's chair. One of
these letters was from Mr. Jennings, his confidential
solicitor, requesting his lordship to
be with him at twelve o'clock that morning
on a special matter ; but that had nothing
to do with Blanche, or with us either. She
opened the envelope of the one she wished
to see, and took out its letter.

But it was not a letter ; not, at least, as
letters run in general. It was only a piece
of thin paper folded once, which bore a few
lines in a fine, pointed Italian hand, and in
faint-coloured ink, somewhat difficult to decipher.


Now it must be premised that Lady
Level had no more thought of prying into
what concerned her husband, and did not
concern herself, than a child could have had.

She would not have been guilty of such a
thing: for the world. Anv one of those
parchments or papers, lying open before her
eyes, she would have deemed it the height
of dishonour to read a word of. This letter
from the wife of their late concierge, containing
news of her own lost box, was a
different matter.

But though the address to Lord Level
was undoubtedly in the handwriting of
Madame Sauvage, the inside was not.
Blanche strained her eyes over it.

I arrive to-day at Paris, and find you
departed for England with your wife and
servants. I come straight on from Pisa,
without halting, to inform you of a discovery
we have made ; there was no time to write.
As I am so near, it is well to use the opportunity
to pay a short visit to Marshdale to
see the child, and I start this evening for it ;
you can join me there. Pardon the trouble
I give you. — Nina."

With her face naming, with trembling

hands, and shortened breath, Lady Level
gathered in the words and their meaning.
Nina ! It was the Italian girl, the base
woman who had troubled before her peace
of mind, and who must have got Madame
Sauvage to address the letter. Evidently
she did not mean, the shameless siren, to let
Lord Level be at rest. And — and — and
what was the meaning of that allusion about
"the child"?

Leaving the letter precisely as she had
found it, under the sheet of parchment,
Lady Level quitted the room and turned
the key in the door again. Not for very
shame, now that this shameful secret had
been revealed to her, would she let her
husband know that she had entered. Had
she found only what she sought, she would
have said openly to him on his return :
"Archibald, I went in for Madame Sauvage's
note, and I found it. I hope you don't
mind — we were anxious about the box."
But somehow her eyes were now opened to
the fact that she had been guilty of a dishonourable

action, one that could not be
excused or justified. Had he not locked
his door against intruders — herself as well
as others ?

Passing into the front room, where the
table was now being laid for luncheon, which
they took at one o'clock, she drew a chair
near the fire, mechanically watching Sanders
as he placed the dishes on the table, in reality
seeing nothing ; her mind was in a tumult,
very painful and rebellious.

Timms came stealing in. How any lady
could be so indifferent as her lady when a
box of beautiful clothes was at stake, Timms
could not understand : sitting quietly there
over the fire, and never coming back to seta
body's mind at rest with yes or no.

I beg pardon for intruding," began
Timms, with deprecation, " but did your
ladyship find Madame Sauvage's letter ?"

No," curtly replied Lady Level. " I
dare say the box is lost. Not much matter
if it is."

Timms withdrew, lifting her hands in

condemning displeasure when she got outside.
" Not much matter ! if ever I heard
the like of that ! A whole trunk full ! and
some of 'em lovely /"

Will you sit down, now, my lady,
or wait for his lordship ?" inquired
Sanders.

Lady Level answered the question by
taking her place at table. She felt as though
she should never care to wait for his lordship
again, for luncheon or anything else.
In a few minutes a cab dashed up to the
door, bringing him.

That's right, Blanche ; I am glad you
did not wait for me," he began. " Sanders,
is my hand-bag ready ?"

Quite, my lord."

Put it into the cab, then."

He hastened into the study as he spoke,
and began putting things straight there with
a deft and rapid hand. In an incredibly
short time, the papers were all in order,
locked up in their various receptacles, and
the table was cleared.

vol. 11. 38

Good-bye, my love," said he, returning
to the front room.

Do you not take anything to eat ?"
asked Blanche, in short and sullen tones,
which he was in too great a hurry to notice.

No : or I should lose the train."

He caught her to him. Blanche turned
her face away.

You silly child ! you are cross with me
for leaving you. My dear, believe me, /
could not help it. Charley is coming up to
dine with you this evening."

Leaving his kisses on her lips, but getting
none in return, Lord Level went out to the
cab. As it drove away, there came up to
the door a railway luggage van. The lost
box had arrived from Paris. Timms knelt
down with extra fervour that night to offer
up her thanksgivings.

Lord Level had snatched a moment to
look in upon me, and ask me to dine with
Blanche that evening.

She is not pleased at being left alone," he

said ; " but I am obliged to run down to
Marshdale. And, Charley, she saw something
about Tom in the paper this morning
: I had to turn it off in the best way I
could : so be cautious if she mentions it to
you."

I had meant to look again after Tom
Heriot that evening, but could not refuse
this. Blanche was unusually silent throughout
dinner.

Is anything the matter, Blanche ?" I
asked her, when we were in the drawing-room.


A great deal is the matter," she replied
resentfully. " I am not going to put up
with it."

Put up with what ?"

Oh — with Lord Level. With his — his
deceit. But I can't tell you now, Charles :
I shall speak to himself first."

I laughed. " More jealousy cropping up !
What has he done now, Blanche ?"

What has he gone to Marshdale for ?"
retorted Blanche, her cheeks flaming. " And

38—2

what did he go to Pisa for when we were
last in Paris ?" continued she, without any
pause. " He did go. It was in December ;
and he was away ten days."

Well," I suppose some matter or other
called him there," I said. " As to Marsh-dale
— it is his place ; his home. Why
should this annoy you, Blanche ? A man
cannot carry his wife with him everywhere."


/ know," she said, catching up her fan,
and beginning to use it sharply. " I know
more than you do, Charles. More than he
thinks for — a great deal more."

It strikes me, my dear, that you are
doing your best to estrange your husband
from you — if you speak to him as you are
speaking now. That will not enhance your
own happiness, Blanche."

The fault is his," she cried, turning her
hot face defiantly upon me.

It may be. I don't think so."

He does not care for me at all. He
cares for — for — somebody else."

You may be mistaken. I should be
sorry to believe it. But, even should it be
so — listen, Blanche — even should it be so,
you will do well to change your tactics. Try
and twin him back to you. I tell it you for
the sake of your own happiness."

Blanche tossed back her golden curls, and
rose. " How old-fashioned you are, Charles !
it is of no use talking to you. Will you
sing our old duet with me — ' I've wandered
in dreams ' ?"

Ay. But I am out of practice."

She had taken her place on the music-stool,
and was playing the first bars of the
song, when a thought struck her, and she
turned round.

Charley, such a curious thing happened
this morning. I saw in the Times a list of
some escaped convicts, who had been on their
way to Van Diemen's Land, and amongst
them was the name of Thomas Heriot.
For a moment it startled and frightened

me."

Her eyes were upon my face, so was the

light. Having a piece of music in my hand,
I let it fall, and stooped to pick it up.

"Was it not strange, Charles ?"

Not particularly so. There may be a
hundred Tom Heriot in the world."

That's what Archibald said — or something
to the same effect. But, do you know,
I cannot get it out of my head. And Tom's
not writing to us from India has seemed tome
all day more strangely odd than it did
before."

India is a regular lazy place. The heat
makes people indolent and indifferent."

Yes, I know. Besides, as papa said tome
in the few minutes we were talking together
before he went away, Tom may have
written, and the letters not have reached
us. The mail from India is by no means a
safe one, he says ; letters often get lost
by it."

By no means safe : no end of letters
are lost continually," I murmured, seconding
old Carlenn's invention, knowing not what
else to say. " Let us go on, Blanche. It

is I who begin, I think — ' I've wandered in
dreams.' '

Wandered in dreams ! If this misery
connected with Tom Heriot were only a
dream, and not a reality !

END OF VOL. 11.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

S. dc H.

ml

Wmk :mei:

mim

'henry Wood.

Wwm

II E> Mary

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

Of ILLINOIS

823^

waist

v. I

.

■

■



vBS mi

i ,

w-^'

STORY OF CHARLES STRANGE

?Iot)e(

BY

MRS. HENRY WOOD

AUTHOR OF " EAST LTNNE," ETC.

IX THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

LONDON
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON

publishers in (Drbitiari) to %jzx Jttnjcstg the (Qtucn



[AH Rights Reserved]

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/storyofcharlesst03wood

oo

CONTEXTS OF VOL. T.

STORY OF CHARLES STRANGE.

STOEY OF CHARLES STRANGE.

CHAPTER I.

EARLY DAYS.

CHARLES STRANGE, have
called this my own story, and
> shall myself tell a portion of it
to the reader ; not all.

May was quickly passing. The drawing-room
window of White Littleham Rectory
stood open to the sunshine and the summer
air : for the years of warm springs and long
summers had not then left the land. The

vol. i. 1

incumbent of the parish of White Little-ham,
in Hampshire, was the Reverend
Eustace Strange. On a sofa, near the
window, lay his wife, in her white dress
and yellow silk shawl. A young and lovely
lady, with a sweet countenance ; her eyes
the colour of blue-bells, her face growing
more transparent day by day, her cheeks
too often a fatal hectic ; altogether looking
so delicately fragile that the Rector must
surely be blind not to suspect the truth.
She suspected it. Nay, she no longer suspected
; she knew. Perhaps it was that
he would not do so.

Charley !"

I sat at the end of the room in my little
state chair, reading a new book of fairy
tales that papa had given me that morning.
He was as orthodox a divine as ever lived,
but not strait-laced, and he liked children
to read fairy tales. At the moment I was
deep in a tale called " Finest," about a
young princess shut up in a high tower. Tome
it was enchanting.

Yes, mamma."

Come to me, dear."

Leaving the precious book behind me, I
crossed the room to the sofa. My mother
raised herself. Holding me to her with one
hand, she pushed with the other the hair from
my face and gazed into it. That my face was
very much like hers, I knew. It had been
said a hundred times in my hearing that I
had her dark-blue eyes and her soft brown
hair and her well-carved features.

My pretty boy," she said caressingly, " I
am so sorry ! I fear you are disappointed.
I think we miofht have had them. You
were always promised a birthday party, you
know, when you should be seven years old."

There had been some discussion about it.
My mother thought the little boys and girls
might come ; but papa and Leah said, " No
it would fatigue her."

I don't mind a bit, mamma," I answered.
I have my book, and it is so pretty.
They can come next year, you know, when
you are well again."

1—2

She sighed deeply. Getting up from the
sofa, she took up two books that were on
the stand behind her, and sat down again.
Early in the spring some illness had seized
her that I did not understand. She ought
to have been well again by this time, but
was not so. She left her room and came
downstairs, and saw friends when they
called : but instead of growing stronger she
grew weaker.

She was never robust, and it has been
too much for her," I overheard Leah say to
one of the other servants, in allusion to the
illness.

What if I should not be here at your
next birthday, Charley ?" she asked sadly,
holding me to her side as she sat.

But where should you be, mamma ?"

Well, my child, I think — sometimes I
think — that by that time I may be in
heaven."

I felt suddenly seized with a sort of
shivering. I neither spoke nor cried ; at
seven years old many a child only imperfectly

realizes the full meaning of anything
like this. My eyes became misty.

Don't cry, Charley. All that God does
must be for the best, you know : and
heaven is a better world than this."

Oh, mamma, you must get well ; you
must !" I cried, words and tears bursting
forth together. " Won't you come out, and
grow strong in the sunshine ? See how
warm and bright it is ! Look at the
flowers in the grass !"

Ay, dear ; it is all very bright and warm
and beautiful," she said, looking across the
garden to the field beyond it. " The grass
is growing long, and the buttercups and
cowslips and blue-bells are all there. Soon
they will be cut down and the field will be
bare. Next year the grass and the flowers
will spring up again, Charlie : but we, once
we are taken, will spring up no more in this
world : only in heaven."

But don't you think you will get well,
mamma ? Can't you try to ?"

Well, dear — yes, I will try to do so. I

have tried. I am trying every day, Charley,
for I should not like to go away and leave
my little boy."

With a long sigh, that it seemed to me I
often heard from her now, she lay for a
moment with her head on the back of the
sofa and closed her eyes. Then she sat
forward again, and took up one of the
books.

I meant to give you a little book to-day,
Charley, as well as papa. Look, it is called
Intra.' A lady gave it me when I was
twelve years old ; and I have always liked
it. You are too young to understand it yet,
but you will do so later."

Here's some poetry !" I cried, turning
the leaves over. The pleasure of the gift
had chased away my tears. Young minds
are impressionable — and had she not just
said she would try to get well ?

I will repeat it to you, Charley," she
answered. " Listen."

Repeat it ?" I interrupted. " Do you
know it by heart ?— all ?"

Yes, all ; every line of it.

' When death is drawing near,
And thy heart sinks with fear.

And thy limbs fail,
Then raise thy hands and pray
To Him who cheers the way,
Through the dark vale.

' See'st thou the eastern dawn ?
Hear'st thou, in the red morn,

The angels' song 1
Oh ! lift thy drooping head,
Thou who in gloom and dread

Hast lain so long.

' Death comes to set thee'free ;
Oh ! meet him cheerily,

As thy true friend ; I
And all thy fears shall cease,
And in eternal peace

Thy penance end.'

You see, Charley, death comes not as a foe,
but as a friend to those who have learnt
to look for him, for he is sent by God," she
continued in a loving voice as she smoothed
back my hair with her gentle hand. " I want
you to learn this bit of poetry by heart,
and to say it sometimes to yourself in future
years. And — and — should mamma have
gone away, then it will be pleasant to you
to remember that the angels' song came to

cheer her — as I know it will come — when she
was setting out on her journey. Oh ! very
pleasant ! and the same song and the same
angel will cheer your departure, my darling
child, when the appointed hour for it shall
come to you."

Shall we see the angel ?"

Well — yes — with the eye of faith. And
it is said that some good people have really
seen him ; have seen the radiant messenger
who has come to take them to the eternal
shores. You will learn it, Charley, won't
you — and never forget it ?"

I'll learn it all, every verse ; and I will
never forget it, mamma."

I am going to give you this book, also,
Charley," she went on, bringing forward the
other. " You "

Why, that's your Bible, mamma !"

Yes, dear, it is my Bible ; but I should
like it to be yours. And I hope it will be
as good a friend to you as it is now to me.
I shall still use it myself, Charley, for a
little while. You will lend it me, won't

you ? and later, it will be all your

own."

Shall you buy another for yourself,
then T

She did not answer. Her face was turned
to the window ; her yearning eyes were fixed
in thought upon the blue sky ; her hot hands
were holding mine. In a moment, to my
consternation, she bent her face upon mine
and burst into a flood of tears. What I
should have said or done, I know not ; but
at that moment my father came swiftly out
of his study, into the room. He was a
rather tall man with a pale, grave face, very
much older than his wife.

Do you chance to remember, Lucy,
where that catalogue of books was put that
came last week ? I want "

Thus far had he spoken, when he saw the
state of things ; both crying together. He
broke off in vexation.

How can you be so silly, Lucy — so imprudent
! I will not have it. You don't
allow yourself a chance to get well — giving

way to these low spirits ! What is the
matter ?"

It is nothing," she replied, with another
of those long sighs. " I was talking a little
to Charley, and a fit of crying came on.
It has not harmed me, Eustace."

Charley, boy, I saw some fresh sweet
violets down in the dingle this morning.
Go you and pick some for mamma," he said.
Never mind your hat : it is as warm as
midsummer."

I was ready for the dingle, which was
only across the field, and to pick violets at
any time, and I ran out. Leah Williams
was coming in at the garden gate.

Now, Master Charles ! Where are you
off to ? And without your hat !"

I'm going to the dingle, to get some
fresh violets for mamma. Papa said my hat
did not matter."

Oh," said Leah, glancing doubtfully at
the window. I glanced too. He had sat
down on the sofa by mamma then, and was
talking to her earnestly, his head bent. She

had her handkerchief up to her face. Leah
attacked me again.

You've been crying, you naughty boy !
Your eyes are wet still. What was that

for r

I did not say what : though I had much
ado to keep the tears from falling. " Leah,"
I whispered, " do you think mamma will get
well ?"

Bless the child !" she exclaimed, after a
pause, during which she had looked again at
the window and back at me. " Why, what's
to hinder it ? — with all this fine, beautiful
warm weather ! Don't you turn fanciful,
Master Charley, there's a darling ! And
when you've picked the violets, you come tome
; I'll find a slice of cake for you."

Leah had been with us about two years,
as upper servant, attending upon mamma
and me, and doing the sewing. She was
between twenty and thirty then, an upright,
superior young woman, kind in the
main, though with rather a hard face, and
faithful as the day. The other servants

called her Mrs. Williams, for she had been
married and was a widow. Not tall, she yet
looked so, she was so remarkably thin. Her
gray eyes were deep-set, her curls were
black, and she had a high, fresh colour.
Everyone, gentle and simple, wore curls at
that time.

The violets were there in the dingle, sure
enough ; both blue and white. I picked a
handful, ran in with them, and put them on
my mother's lap. The Rector was sitting
by her still, but he got up then.

Oh, Charley, they are very sweet," she
said with a smile — " very sweet and lovely.
Thank you, my precious boy, my darling."

She kissed me a hundred times. She
might have kissed me a hundred more, but
papa drew me away.

Do not tire yourself any more to-day,
Lucy ; it is not good for you. Charley, boy,
you can take your fairy tales and show them
to Leah."

The day of the funeral will never fade

from my memory ; and yet I can only recall
some of its incidents. What impressed me
most was that papa did not stand at the
grave in his surplice reading the service,
as I had seen him do at other funerals.
Another clergyman was in his place, and he
stood by me in silence, holding my hand.
And he told me, after we returned home,
that mamma was not herself in the cold
dark grave, but a happy angel in heaven
looking down upon me.

And so the time went on. Papa was
more grave than of yore, and taught me my
lessons daily. Leah indulged and scolded
me alternately, often sang to me, for she had
a clear voice, and when she was in a good
humour would let me read " Intra " and
the fairy tales to her.

The interest of mamma's money — which
was now mine — brought in three hundred
a year. She had enjoyed it all ; I was to
have (or, rather, my father for me) just as
much of it as the two trustees chose to
allow, for it was strictly tied up in their

hands. When I was twenty-four years of
age — not before — the duties of the trustees
would cease, and the whole sum, six thousand
pounds, would come into my uncontrolled
possession. One of the trustees was my
mother's uncle, Mr. Serjeant Stillingfar ;
the other I did not know. Of course the
reader will understand that I do not explain
these matters from my knowledge at that
time ; but from what I learnt when I was
older.

Nearly a year had gone by, and it was
warm spring weather again. I sat in my
brown-holland dress in the dingle amidst
the wild flowers. A lot of cowslips lay
about me ; I had been picking the flowers
from the stalks to make into a ball. The
sunlight flickered through the trees, still in
their tender green ; the sky was blue and
cloudless. My straw hat, with broad black
ribbons, had fallen off; my white socks and
shoes were stretched out before me. Fashion
is always in extremes. Then it was the

custom to dress a child simply up to quite
an advanced age.

Why it should have been so, I know not ;
but while I sat, there came over me a sudden
remembrance of the day when I had come
to the dingle to pick those violets for mamma,
and a rush of tears came on. Leah took
good care of me, but she was not my mother.
My father was good, and grave, and kind,
but he did not give me the love that she
had given. A mother's love would never be
mine again, and I knew it ; and in that
moment was bitterly feeling it.

One end of the string was held between
my teeth, the other end in my left hand,
and my eyes were wet with tears. I strung
the cowslips as well as I could. But it was
not easy, and I made little progress.

Sail I hold it for 00 ?"

Lifting my eyes in surprise — for I had
thought the movement in the dingle was
only Leah, coming to see after me — there
stood the sweetest fairy of a child before
me. The sleeves of her cotton frock and

white pinafore were tied up with black
ribbons ; her face was delicately fair, her
eyes were blue as the sky, and her light curls
fell low on her pretty neck. My child heart
went out to her with a bound, then and there.

What oo trying for, 'little boy ?"

I was crying for mamma. She's gone
away from me to heaven."

Sail I miss oo ?"

And she put her little arms round my
neck, without waiting for permission, and
gave me a dozen kisses.

Now we make the ball, 'little boy. Sail
oo dive it to me ?"

Yes, I will give it to you. What is your
name {

Baby. What is ours ?"

Charles. Do you "

You little toad of a monkey ! — giving
me this hunt ! How came you to runaway
{

The words were spoken by a tall, handsome
boy, quite old compared with me, who
had come dashing through the dingle. He

caught up the child and began kissing her
fondly. So the words were not meant to
hurt her.

It was 00 ran away, Tom."

But I ordered you to stop where I left
you — and to sit still till I came back again. If
you run away by yourself in the wood, you'll
meet a great bear some day and he'll eat you
up. Mind that, Miss Blanche. The manse
is in a fine way ; thinks you're lost, you silly
little thing."

Dat 'cowslip ball for me, Tom."

Master Tom condescended to turn his
attention upon me and the ball. I guessed
now who they were : a family named Heriot,
who had recently come to live at the pretty
white cottage on the other side the copse.
Tom was looking at me with his fine dark
eyes.

You are the parson's son, I take it,
youngster. I saw you in the parson's pew
on Sunday with an old woman."

She is not an old woman," I said, jealous
for Leah.

VOL. I. 2

A young one, then. What's your name ?"

Charles Strange."

He dot no mamma, he try for her," put
in the child. " Oo come to my mamma,
little boy ; she love oo and miss oo."

When I have made your ball."

Oh, bother the ball !" put in Tom.
"We can't wait for that : the manse's in a
rare way already. You can come home with
us if you like, youngster, and finish your
ball afterwards."

Leaving the cowslips, I caught up my
hat and we started, Tom carrying the child.
I was a timid, sensitive little fellow, but
took courage to ask him a question.

Is your name Tom Heriot ?"

Well, yes, it is Tom Heriot — if it does
you any good to know it. And this is Miss
Blanche Heriot. And I wish you were a
bit bigger and older ; I'd make you my playfellow."


We were through the copse in a minute
or two and in sight of the white cottage,
over the field beyond it. Mrs. Heriot stood

at the garden gate, looking out. She was
a pretty little plump woman, with a soft
voice, and wore a widow's cap. A servant
in a check apron was with her, and knew
me. Mrs. Heriot scolded Blanche for running
away from Tom while she caressed her, and
turned to smile at me.

It is little Master Strange," I heard the
maid say to her. " He lost his mother a
year ago."

Oh, poor little fellow !" sighed Mrs.
Heriot, as she held me before her and kissed
me twice. " What a nice little lad it is ! —
what lovely eyes ! My dear, you can come
here whenever you like, and play with Tom
and Blanche."

Some few years before, this lady had
married Colonel Heriot, a widower with one
little boy — Thomas. After that, Blanche
was born : so that she and Tom were, you
see, only half brother-and sister. When
Blanche was two years old — she was three
now — Colonel Heriot died, and Mrs. Heriot
had come into the country to economize.

2 — 2

She was not at all well off ; had, indeed,
little beyond what was allowed her with the
two children : all their father's fortune had
lapsed to them, and she had no control over
it. Tom had more than Blanche, and was
to be brought up for a soldier.

As we stood in a group outside the gate,
papa came by. Seeing me, he naturally
stopped, took off his hat to Mrs Heriot,
and spoke. That is how the acquaintanceship
began, without formal introduction on
either side. Taking the pretty little girl in
his arms, he began talking to her : for he
was very fond of children. Mrs. Heriot said
something to him in a low, feeling tone about
his wife's death.

Yes," he sighed in answer, as he put
down the child : "I shall never recover her
loss. I live only in the hope of rejoining
her there."

He glanced up at the blue sky : the pure,
calm, peaceful canopy of heaven.

CHANGES.

SHALL never recover her loss.
I live only in the hope of rejoining
her there."
It has been said that the vows of lovers
are ephemeral as characters written on the
sand of the sea-shore. Surely may this also
be said of the regrets mourners give to the
departed ! For time has a habit of soothing
the deepest sorrow ; and the remembrance
which is piercing our hearts so poignantly
to-day in a few short months will have lost
its sting.

My father was quite sincere when speaking
the above words : meant and believed

them to the very letter. Yet before the
spring and summer flowers had given place
to those of autumn, he had taken unto himself
another wife : Mrs. Heriot.

The first intimation of what was in contemplation
came to me from Leah. I had
offended her one day ; done something wrong,
or not done something right ; and she fell
upon me with a stern reproach, especially
accusing me of ingratitude.

After all my care of you, Master Charles
my anxiety and trouble to keep your
clothes nice and make you good ! What
shall you do when I have gone away ?"

But you are not going away, Leah."

I don't know that. We are to have
changes here, it seems, and I'm not sure
that they will suit me."

What changes ?" I asked.

She sat at the nursery window, which
had the same aspect as the drawing-room
below, darning my socks ; I knelt on a chair,
looking out. It was a rainy day, and the
drops pattered thickly against the panes.

Well, there's going to be — some company
in the house," said Leah, taking her
own time to answer me. " A lot of them.
And I think perhaps there'll be no room
for me."

Oh, yes there will. Who is it, Leah ?"

I shouldn't wonder but it's those people
over yonder," pointing her long darning-needle
in the direction of the dingle.

There's nothing there but mosses and
trees, Leah. No people."

There is a little farther off," nodded
Leah. " There's Mrs. Heriot and her two
children."

Oh, do you say they are coming here !
do you mean it ?" I cried in ecstasy.
Are they coming for a long visit, Leah ?
to have breakfast here, and dine and
sleep ? Oh, how glad I am !"

Ah !" groaned Leah ; " perhaps you
may be glad just at first ; you are but a
little shallow-sense boy, Charley : but it
may turn out for better, or it may turn out
for worse."

To my intense astonishment, she dropped
her work, burst into tears, and threw her
hands up to her face. I felt very uncomfortable.


What is it, Leah ?"

Well, it is that I'm a silly," she answered,
looking up and drying her eyes. " I got
thinking of the past, Master Charley, of
your dear mamma, and all that. It is
solitary for you here, and perhaps you'll be
happier with some playfellows."

I went on staring at her.

And look here, Master Charles, don't
repeat what I've said ; not to anybody,
mind ; or perhaps they won't come at
all," concluded Leah, administering a slight
shaking by way of enforcing her command.

There came a day — it was in that same
week — when everything seemed to go
wrong, as far as I was concerned. I had
been at warfare with Leah in the morning,
and was so inattentive (I suppose) at lessons
in the afternoon that papa scolded me, and
gave me an extra Latin exercise to do when

they were over, and shut me up in the study
until it was done. Then Leah refused jam
for tea, which I wanted ; saying that jam
was meant for good boys, not for naughty
ones. Altogether I was in anything but an
enviable mood when I went out later into
the garden. The most cruel item in the
whole was that I could not see I had been
to blame, but thought everyone else was.
The sun had set behind the trees of the
dingle in a red ball of fire as I climbed into
my favourite seat — the fork of the pear-tree.
Papa had gone to attend a vestry
meeting ; the little bell of the church was
tinkling out, giving notice of the meeting to
the parish.

Presently the bell ceased ; solitary silence
ensued both to eye and ear. The brightness
of the atmosphere was giving place
to the shades of approaching evening ; the
trees were putting on their melancholy.
I have always thought — I always shall
think — that nothing can be more depressing
than the indescribable melancholy which

trees in a solitary spot seem to put on after
sunset. All people do not feel this ; but to
those who, like myself, see it, it brings a
sensation of loneliness, nay, of awe, that is
strangely painful.

Ho-ho ! So you are up there again,
young Charley !"

The garden-gate had swung back to admit
Tom Heriot. In hastening down from the
tree — for he had a way of tormenting me
when in it — I somehow lost my balance and
fell on to the grass. Tom shrieked out with
laughter, and made off again.

The fall was nothing — though my ankle
ached ; but at these untoward moments a
little smart causes a great pain. It seemed
to me that I was smarting all over, inside
and out, mentally and bodily ; and I sat
down on the bench near the bed of shrubs,
and burst into tears.

Sweet shrubs were they. Lavender and
rosemary, old-man and sweet-briar, marjoram
and lemon-thyme, musk and verbena ; and
others, no doubt. Mamma had had them

all planted there. She would sit with me
where I was now sitting alone, under the
syringa trees, and revel in the perfume. In
spring-time those sweet syringa blossoms
would surround us ; she loved their scent
better than any other. Bitterly I cried,
thinking of all this, and of her.

Again the gate opened, more gently this
time, and Mrs. Heriot came in looking
round. " Thomas," she called out — and
then she saw me. " Charley, dear, has
Tom been here ? He ran away from me. —
Why, my dear little boy, what is the
matter ?" For she had seen the tears
falling.

They fell faster than ever at the question.
She came up, sat down on the bench, and
drew my face lovingly to her. I thought
then — I think still — that Mrs. Heriot was
one of the kindest, gentlest women that ever
breathed. I don't believe she ever in her
whole life said a sharp word to anyone.

Not liking to tell of my naughtiness —
which I still attributed to others — or of the

ignominious fall from the pear-tree, I sobbed
forth something about mamma.

If she had not gone away and left me
alone," I said, " I should never have been
unhappy, or — or cried. People were not
cross with me when she was here."

My darling, I know how lonely it is for
you. Would you like me to come here
and be your mamma ?" she caressingly
whispered.

You could not be that," I dissented.
Mamma's up there."

Mrs. Heriot glanced up at the evening
sky. "Yes, Charley, she is up there, with
God ; and she looks down, I feel sure, at
you, and at what is being done for you. If
I came home here I should try to take care
of you as she would have done. And oh,
my child, I should love you clearly."

In her place ?" I asked, feeling puzzled.

In her place, Charley. For her"

Tom burst in at the gate again. He

began telling his stepmother of my fall ashe

danced a war-dance on the grass, and



asked me how many of my legs and wings
were broken.

They came to the Rectory : Mrs. Heriot
she was Mrs. Strange then — and Tom
and Baby. After all, Leah did not leave.
She grew reconciled to the new state of
things in no time, and became as fond of
the children as she was of me. As fond,
at least, of Tom. I don't know that she
ever cared heartily for Blanche : the little
lady had a haughty face, and sometimes a
haughty way with her.

We were all as happy as the day was
long. Mrs. Strange indulged us all. Tom
was a dreadful pickle — it was what the
servants called him ; but they all adored
him. He was a handsome, generous, reckless
boy, two years older than myself in
years, twice two in height and advancement.
He teased Leah's life out of her ; but the
more he teased, the better she liked him.
He teased Blanche, he teased me ; though
he would have gone through fire and water

for either of us, ay, and laid down his life
any moment to save ours. He was everlastingly
in mischief indoors or out. He
called papa "sir" to his face, "the parson"
or " his reverence " behind his back. There
was no taming Tom Heriot.

For a short time papa took Tom's lessons
with mine. But he found it would not
answer. Tom's guardians wrote to beg of
the Rector to continue to undertake him fora
year or two, offering a handsome recompense
in return. But my father wrote word
back that the lad needed the discipline of
school and must have it. So to school Tom
was sent. He came home in the holidays,
reckless and random, generous and loving
as ever, and we had fine times together, the
three of us growing uj) like brothers and
sister. Of course, I was not related to them
at all : and they were only half related to
each other.

Rather singularly, Thomas Heriot's fortune
was just as much as mine : six thousand
pounds : and left in very much the same way.

The interest, three hundred a year, was to
maintain and educate him for the army ; and
he would come into the whole when he was
twenty-one. Blanche had less : four thousand
pounds only, and it was secured in the
same way as Tom's was until she should be
twenty-one, or until she married.

And thus about a couple of years went on.

No household was ever less given to
superstition than ours at White Littleham
Rectory. It never as much as entered the
mind of any of its inmates, from its master
downwards. And perhaps it was this complete
indifference to and disbelief in the
supernatural that caused the matter to be
openly spoken of by the Rector. I have
since thought so.

It was Christmas-tide, and Christmas
weather. Frost and snow covered the
ground. Icicles on the branches glittered
in the sunshine like diamonds.

It is the jolliest day !" exclaimed Tom,
dashing into the breakfast-room from an

I hope he was not hurt, Tom," remarked
papa, coming down from his chamber into
the room in time to hear the last sentence.
Good-morning, my boys."

Oh, it was only a Christmas gambol,
sir," said Tom carelessly.

We sat down to breakfast. Leah came
in to see to me and Tom. The Rector
might be — and was — efficient in his parish
and pulpit, but a more hopelessly incapable
man in a domestic point of view the world
never saw. Tom and I should have come
badly off had we relied upon him to help us,
and we might have gobbled up every earthly
thing on the table without his saying yea or
nay. Leah, knowing this, stood to pour out
the coffee. Mrs. Strange had gone away
to London on Wednesday (the day after
Christmas Day) to see an old aunt who was
ill, and had taken Blanche with her. This

was Friday, and they were expected home
again on the morrow.

Presently Tom, who was observant in his
way, remarked that papa was taking nothing.
His coffee stood before him untouched ; some
bacon lay neglected on his plate.

Shall I cut you some thin bread and
butter, sir ?" asked Leah.

Presently," said he, and went on doing
nothing as before.

What are you thinking of, papa ?"

Well, Charley, I — I was thinking of my
dream," he answered. " I suppose it was a
dream," he went on, as if to himself. " But
it was a curious one."

Oh, please tell it us P I cried. " I
dreamt on Christmas night that I had a
splendid plum-cake, and was cutting it up
into slices."

Well — it was towards morning," he said,
still speaking in a dreamy sort of way, his
eyes looking straight out before him as if he
were recalling it, yet evidently seeing nothing.
I awoke suddenly with the sound of a voice

vol. i. 3

in my ear. It was your mamma's voice,
Charley ; your own mothers ; and she
seemed to be standing at my bedside. ' I
am coming for you she said to me — or
seemed to say. I was wide awake in a
moment, and knew her voice perfectly.
Curious, was it not, Leah ?"

Leah, cutting bread and butter for Tom,
had halted, loaf in one hand, knife in the
other.

Yes, sir," she answered, gazing at the
Rector. " Did you see anything, sir ?"

No ; not exactly," he returned. " I was
conscious that whoever spoke to me, stood
close to my bedside ; and I was also conscious
that the figure retreated across the
room towards the window. I cannot say
that I absolutely saw the movement ; it was
more like some unseen presence in the room.
It was very odd. Somehow I can't get it
out of my head Why, here's Mr. Pen-thorn
!" he broke off to say.

Mr. Penthorn had opened the gate, and
was walking briskly up the path. He was

our doctor ; a gray-haired man, active and
lively, and very friendly with us all. He
had looked in, in passing back to the village,
to tell the Rector that a parishioner, to
whom he had been called up in the night,
was in danger.

I'll go and see her," said papa. " You'd
be none the worse for a cup of coffee, Pen-thorn.
It is sharp weather."

Well, perhaps I shouldn't," said he, sitting
down by me, while Tom went off to the
kitchen for a cup and saucer. " Sharp
enough — but seasonable. Is anything amiss
with you, Leah ? Indigestion again ?"

This caused us to look at Leah. She was
whiter than the table-cloth.

No, sir ; I'm all right," answered Leah,
as she took the cup from Tom's hand and
began to fill it with coffee and hot milk.
Something that the master has been
telling us scared me a bit at the moment,
that's all."

And what was that ?" asked the Doctor
lightly.

So the story had to be gone over again,
papa repeating it rather more elaborately.
Mr. Penthorn was sceptical, and said it was
a dream.

I have just called it a dream," assented
my father. " But, in one sense, it was
certainly not a dream. I had not been
dreaming at all, to my knowledge ; have not
the least recollection of doing so. I woke
up fully in a moment, with the voice ringing
in my ears."

The voice must have been pure fancy,"
declared Mr. Penthorn.

That it certainly was not," said the
Rector. " I never heard a voice more
plainly in my life ; every tone, every word
was distinct and clear. No, Penthorn ; that
someone spoke to me is certain ; the puzzle
is — who was it ?"

Someone must have got into your
room, then," said the Doctor, throwing
his eyes suspiciously across the table at
Tom.

Leah turned sharply round to face Tom.

■ i Master Tom, if you played this trick, say
so," she cried, her voice trembling.

I ! that's good !" retorted Tom, as
earnestly as he could speak. " I never
got out of bed from the time I got into it.
Wasn't likely to. I never woke up at all."

It was not Tom," interposed papa.
How could Tom assume my late wife's
voice ? It was her voice, Penthorn. I
had never heard it since she left us ; and
it has brought back all its familiar tones to
my memory."

The Doctor helped himself to some bread
and butter, and gave his head a shake.

Besides," resumed the Rector, " no one
else ever addressed me as she did — ' Eustace.'
I have not been called Eustace since my
mother died, many years ago, except by
her. My present wife has never called me
by it."

That was true. Mrs. Strange had a pet
name for him, and it was " Hubby."

' I am coming for you, Eustace,' said
the voice. It was her voice ; her way of

speaking. I can't account for it at all,
Penthorn. I can't get it out of my head,
though it sounds altogether so ridiculous."

Well, I give it up," said Mr. Penthorn,
finishing his coffee. " If you were awake,
Strange, someone must have been essaying
a little sleight-offhand upon you. Good-morning,
all of you ; I must be off to my
patients. Tom Heriot, don't you get trying
the ponds yet, or maybe I shall have you on
my hands as well as other people."

We gave it up also : and nothing more
was said or thought of it, as far as I know.
We were not, I repeat, a superstitious family.
Papa went about his duties as usual, and
Leah went about hers. The next day,
Saturday, Mrs. Strange and Blanche returned
home ; and the cold grew sharper
and the frozen ponds were lovely.

On Monday afternoon, the last day of the
year, the Rector mounted old Dobbin, to
ride to the next parish. He had to take a
funeral for the incumbent, who was in bed
with gout.

Have his shoes been roughed ?" asked
Tom, standing at the gate with me to watch
the start.

Yes ; and well roughed too, Master
Tom," spoke up James, who had lived
with us longer than I could remember, as
gardener, groom, and general man-of-all-work.
" 'Isn't weather, sir, to send him
out without being rough-shod."

You two boys had better get to your
Latin for an hour, and prepare it for me for
tomorrow ; and afterwards you may go to
the ponds," said my father, as he rode away.
Good-bye, lads. Take care of yourself,
Charley."

Bother Latin !" said Tom. " I'm going
off now. Will you come, youngster ?"

u Not till I've done my Latin."

You senseless young donkey ! Stay,
though ; I must tell the manse something."

He made for the dining-room, where Mrs.
Strange sat with Blanche. " Look here,
manse," said he ; " let us have a bit of a
party to-night."

A party, Tom !" she returned.

"Just the young Penthorns and the
Clints."

Oh, do, mamma !" I cried, for I was
uncommonly fond of parties. And " Do,
mamma !" struck in little Blanche.

My new mother rarely denied us anything
; but she hesitated now.

I think not to-night, dears. You know
we are going to have the school-treat tomorrow
evening, and the servants are busy
with the cakes and things. They shall come
on Wednesday instead, Tom."

Tom laughed. "They must come tonight,
manse. They are coming. I have
asked them."

What — the young Penthorns ?"

And the young Clints," said Tom, clasping
his stepmother, and kissing her. "They'll
be here on the stroke of five. Mind you
treat us to plenty of tarts and cakes, there's
a good manse !"

Tom went off with his skates. I got to
my books. After that, some friends came

to call, and the afternoon seemed to pass in
no time.

"It is hardly worth while your going to
the ponds now, Master Charles," said Leah,
meeting me in the passage, when I was at
last at liberty.

In looking back I think that I must have
had a very obedient nature, for I was ever
willing to listen to orders or suggestions,
however unpalatable they might be. Passing
through the back-door, the nearest way to
the square pond, to which Tom had gone, I
looked out. Twilight was already setting in.
The evening star twinkled in a clear, frosty
sky. The moon shone like a silver shield.

Before you could get to the square
pond, Master Charley, it would be dark,"
said Leah, as she stood beside me.

So it would," I assented. " I think I'll
not go, Leah."

And I'm sure you don't need to tire
yourself for to - night," went on Leah.
There'll be romping enough and to spare
if those boys and girls come."

I went back to the parlour. Leah walked
to the side gate, wondering (as she said afterwards)
what had come to the milkman, for
he was generally much earlier. As she
stood looking down the lane, she saw Tom
stealing up.

He has been in some mischief," decided
Leah. " It's not like him to creep up in
that timorous fashion. Good patience !
Why, the lad must have had a fright ; his
face is white as death."

Leah !" said the boy, shrinking as he
glanced over his shoulder. " Leah f

Well, what on earth is it ?" asked Leah,
feeling a little dread herself. " What have
you been up to at that pond ? You've not
been in it yourself, I suppose !"

Papa — the parson — is lying in the road
by the triangle, all pale and still. He does
not move."

Whenever Master Tom Heriot saw a
chance of scaring the kitchen with a fable,
he plunged into one. Leah peered at him
doubtfully in the fading light.

I think he is dead. I'm sure he is,"
continued Tom, bursting into tears.

This convinced Leah. She uttered a
faint cry.

We took that way back from the square
pond ; I, and Joe and Bertie Penthorn.
They were going home to get ready to come
here. Then we saw something lying near
the triangle, close to that heap of flint-stones.
It was him, Leah. Oh ! what is to be done ?
I can't tell mamma, or poor Charley."

James ran up, all scared, as Tom finished
speaking. He had found Dobbin at the
stable-door, without sign or token of his
master.

Even yet I cannot bear to think of that
dreadful night. We had to be told, you
see ; and Leah lost no time over it. While
Tom came home with the news, Joe Pen-thorn
had run for his father, and Bertie
called to some labourers who were passing
on the other side of the triangle.

He was brought home on a litter, the
men carrying it, Mr. Penthorn walking by

its side. He was not dead, but quite
unconscious. They put a mattress on the
study-table, and laid him on it.

He had been riding home from the funeral.
Whether Dobbin, usually so sure-footed and
steady, had plunged his foot into a rut, just
glazed over by the ice, and so had stumbled ;
or whether something had startled him and
caused him to swerve, we never knew. The
Rector had been thrown violently, his head
striking the stones.

Mr. Penthorn did not leave the study.
Two other surgeons, summoned in haste
from the neighbouring town, joined him.
They could do nothing for papa — nothing.
He never recovered consciousness, and died
during the night — about a quarter before
three o'clock.

I knew he would go just at this time,
sir," whispered Leah to Mr. Penthorn as he
was leaving the house and she opened the
front-door for him. " I felt sure of it when
the doctors said he would not see morning
light. It was just at the same hour that he

had his call, sir, three nights ago. As sure
as that he is now lying there dead, as sure
as that those stars are shining in the heavens
above us, that was his warning."

11 Nonsense, Leah !" reproved Mr. Pen-thorn
sharply.

Chances and changes. The world is full
of them. A short time and White Little-ham
Rectory knew us no more. The
Reverend Eustace Strange was sleeping his
last sleep in the churchyard by his wife's
side, and the Reverend John Ravens worth
was the new Rector.

Tom Heriot went back to school. I was
placed at one chosen for me by my great-uncle,
Mr. Serjeant Stillingfar. Leah
Williams left us to take service in another
family, who were about to settle somewhere
on the Continent. She could not speak for
emotion when she said good-bye to me.

It must be for years, Master Charles,
and it may be for ever," she said, taking, I
fancy, the words from one of the many

favourite ditties, martial or love-lorn, she
treated us to in the nursery. " No, we may
never meet again in this life, Master Charles.
All the same, I hope we shall."

And meet we did, though not for years
and years. And it would no doubt have
called forth indignation from Leah had I
been able to foretell how, when that meeting
came in after-life, she would purposely
withhold her identity from me and pass
herself off as a stranger.

Mrs. Strange went to London, Blanche
with her, to take up for the present her
abode with her old aunt, who had invited
her to do so. She was little, if any, better
off in this second widowhood than she had
been as the widow of Colonel Heriot. What
papa had to leave he left to her ; but it was
not much. I had my own mother's money.
And so we were all separated again ; all
divided : one here, another there, a third
elsewhere. It is the way of the world.
Change and chance ! chance and change !

MR. SERJEANT STILLINGFAR.

Gloucester Place, Portman Square. In
one of its handsome houses — as they are
considered to be by persons of moderate
desires — dwelt its owner, Major Carlenn.
Major Carlenn was a man of the world ; a
man of fashion. When the house had fallen
to him some years before by the will of a
relative, with a substantial sum of money to
keep it up, he professed to despise the house
to his brother-officers and other acquaintances
of the great world. He would have preferred
a house in Belgrade Square, or in
Grosvenor Place, or in Park Lane. Major
Carlenn was accustomed to speak largely ; it
was his way.

Since then, he had retired from the army,
and was master of himself, his time and his
amusements. Major Carlenn was fond of
clubs, fond of card-playing, fond of dinners ;
fond, indeed, of whatever constitutes fast
life. His house in Gloucester Place was
handsomely furnished, replete with comfort,
and possessed every reasonable requisite for
social happiness — even to a wife. And Major
Carlenn's wife was Jessy, once Mrs. Strange,
once Mrs. Heriot.

It is quite a problem why some women
cannot marry at all, try to do so as they may,
whilst others become wives three and four
times over, and without much seeking of
their own. Mrs. Heriot (to give her her
first name) was one of these. In very little
more than a year after her first husband died,
she married her second ; in not any more
than a } T ear after her second husband's death,
she married her third. Major Carlenn must
have been captivated by her pretty face and
purring manner ; whilst she fell prone at the
feet of the man of fashion, and perhaps a

very little at the prospect of being mistress
of the house in Gloucester Place. Anyway,
the why and the wherefore lay between
themselves. Mrs. Strange became Mrs.
Carlenn.

Reading over thus far, it has struck me
that you may reasonably think the story is
to consist chiefly of marrying and dying ; for
there has been an undue proportion of both
events. Not so : as you will find as you goon.
Our ancestors do marry and die, you
know : and these first three chapters are
only a prologue to the story which has to
come.

Christmas has come round again. Not
the Christmas following that which ended so
disastrously for us at White Littleham
Rectory, but one five years later. For the
stream of time flows on its course, and boys
and girls grow insensibly towards men and
women.

It had been a green Christmas this year.
We were now some days past it. The air

vol. 1. 4

was mild, the skies were blue and genial.
Newspapers told of violets and other flowers
growing in nooks, sheltered and unsheltered.
Mrs. Carlenn, seated by a well-spread table,
half dinner, half tea, in the dining-room at
Gloucester Place, declared that the fire
made the room too warm. I was reading.
Blanche, a very fair and pretty girl, now ten
years old, sat on a stool on the hearthrug,
her light curls tied back with blue ribbons,
her hands lying idly on the lap of her short
silk frock. We were awaiting an arrival.

Listen, Charles !" cried mamma — as I
called her still. "I do think a cab is
stopping."

I put down my .book, and Blanche threw
back her head and her blue ribbons in expectation.
But the cab went on.

It is just like Tom !" smiled Mrs. Carlenn.
Nothing ever put him out as it does other
people. He gives us one hour and means
another. He said seven o'clock, so we may
expect him at ten. I do wish he could have
obtained leave for Christmas Day !"

Major Carlenn did not like children, boys
especially : yet Tom Heriot and I had been
allowed to spend our holidays at his house,
summer and winter. Mrs. Carlenn stood
partly in the light of a mother to us both ;
and I expect our guardians paid substantially
for the privilege. Tom was now nearly
eighteen, and had had a commission given
him in a crack regiment ; partly, it was said,
through the interest of Major Carlenn. I
was between fifteen and sixteen.

I'm sure you children must be famishing,"
cried Mrs. Carlenn. "It wants five
minutes to eight. If Tom is not here as the
clock strikes, we will begin tea."

The silvery bell had told its eight strokes
and was dying away, when a cab dashing
the door suddenly pulled up. No mistake
this time. We heard Tom's voice
abusing the driver — or, as he called it,
pitching into him " — for not looking at
the numbers.

What a fine, handsome young fellow he
had grown ! And how joyously he met us

4 2 UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

all ; folding mother, brother and sister in
one eager embrace. Tom Heriot was careless
and thoughtless as it was possible for
anyone to be, but he had a warm and affectionate
heart. When trouble, and something
worse, fell upon him later, and he became a
town's talk, people called him bad-hearted
amongst other reproaches ; but they were
mistaken.

Why, Charley, how you have shot up !"
he cried Qfailv. " You'll soon overtake me."

I shook my head. " While I am growing,
Tom, you will be growing also."

What was it you said in your ]last
letter ?" he went on, as we began tea.
That you were going to leave school ?"

Well, I fancy so, Tom. Uncle Stilling-far
ofave notice at Michaelmas."

Thinks you know enough, eh, lad ?"

I could not say much about that. That
I was unusually well educated for my years
there could be no doubt about, especially in
the classics and French. My father had
laid a good foundation to begin with, and

the school chosen for me was a first-rate one.
The French resident master had taken a
liking to me, and had me much with him.
Once during the midsummer holidays he
had taken me to stay with his people in
France : to Abbeville, with its interesting
old church and market - place, its quaint
costumes and uncomfortable inns. Altogether,
I spoke and wrote French almost
as well as he did.

What are they going to make of you,
Charley ? Is it as old Stillingfar pleases ?"

I think so. I dare say they'll put me
to the law."

Unfortunate martyr ! I'd rather command
a pirate boat on the high seas than
stew my brains over dry law-books and
musty parchments !"

Tastes differ," struck in Miss Blanche.
And you are not going to sea at all,
Tom."

Tastes do differ," smiled Mrs. Carlenn.
I should think it much nicer to harangue
judges and law-courts in a silk gown and

wig, Tom, than to put on a red coat and go
out to be shot at."

Hark at the manse !" cried Tom,
laughing. " Charley, give me some more
tongue. Where's the Major to-night ?"

The Major was dining out. Tom and I
were always best pleased when he did dine
out. A pompous, boasting sort of man, I
did not like him at all. As Tom put it, we
would at any time rather have his room than
his company.

The days I am writing of are not these
days. Boys left school earlier then than
they do now. I suppose education was not
so comprehensive as it is now made : but it
served us. It was quite a usual thing to
place a lad out in the world at fourteen or
fifteen, whether to a profession or a trade.
Therefore little surprise was caused at home
by notice having been given of my removal
from school.

At breakfast, next morning, Tom began
laying out plans for the day. " I'll take you
to this thing, Charley, and I'll take you to

that." Major Carlenn sat in his usual place
at the foot of the table, facing his wife. An
imposing-looking man, tall, thin and angular,
who must formerly have been handsome.
He had a large nose with a curious twist in
it ; white teeth, which he showed very much ;
light gray eyes that stared at you, and hair
and whiskers of so brilliant a black that a
suspicious person might have said they were
dyed.

I thought of taking you boys out myself
this afternoon," spoke the Major. " To see
that horsemanship which is exhibiting. I
hear it's very good. Would you like to go ?"

Oh, and me too I" struck in Blanche.
Take me, papa."

No," answered the Major, after reflection.
" I don't consider it a fit place for
little girls. Would you boys like to go ?"
he asked.

We said we should like it ; said it in a
sort of surprise, for it was almost the first
time he had ever offered to take us anywhere.


Charles cannot go," hastily interrupted
Mrs. Carlenn, who had at length opened a
letter which had been lying beside her plate.
This is from . Mr. Serjeant Stillingfar,
Charley. He asks me to send you to his
chambers this afternoon. You are to be
there at three o'clock."

"Just like old Stillingfar!" cried Tom
resentfully. Considering that he did not
know much of Serjeant Stillingfar and had
very little experience of his ways, the reproach
was gratuitous.

Major Carlenn laughed at it. " We must
put off the horsemanship to another day,"
said he. " It will come to the same thing.
I will take you out somewhere instead,
Blanche."

Taking an omnibus in Oxford Street, when
lunch was over, I went down to Lowborn,
and thence to Lincoln's Inn. The reader
may hardly believe that I had never been to
my uncle's chambers before, though I had
sometimes been to his house. He seemed
to have kept me at a distance. His rooms

were on the first floor. On the outer door
I read " Mr. Serjeant Still ingfar."

Come in," cried out a voice, in answer
my knock. And I entered a narrow
little room.

A pert-looking youth with a quantity of
long, light curly hair and an eye-glass, and
not much older than myself, sat on a stool
at a desk, beside an unoccupied chair. He
eyed me from head to foot. I wore an Eton
jacket and turn-down collar ; he wore a
tail " coat, a stand-up collar, and a stock.

What do you want ?" he demanded.

I want Mr. Serjeant Stillingfar."

Not in ; not to be seen. You can come
another day."

But I am here by appointment."

The young gentleman caught up his eyeglass,
fixed it, and turned it on me. " I
don't think you are expected," said he
coolly.

Now, though he had been gifted with a
stock of native impudence, and a very good
stock it was at his time of life, I had been

gifted with native modesty. I waited in
silence, not knowing what to do. Two or
three chairs stood about. He no doubt
would have tried them all in succession, had
it suited him to do so. I did not like to
take one of them.

Will my uncle be long, do you know ?"
I asked.

Who is your uncle ?"

Mr. Serjeant Stillingfar."

He jut up his glass again, which had
dropped, and stared at me harder than
before. At this juncture an inner door
was opened, and a middle-aged man ina
black coat and white neckcloth came
through it.

Are you Mr. Strange ?" he inquired,
quietly and courteously.

Yes. My uncle, Mr. Serjeant Stilling-far,
wrote to tell me to be here at three
o'clock."

I know. Will you step in here ? The
Serjeant is in Court, but will not be long.
As to you, young Mr. Lake, if you persist

in exercising your impudent tongue upon all
comers, I shall request the Serjeant to put
a stop to your sitting here at all. How
many times have you been told not to take
upon yourself to answer callers, but to refer
them to me when Michael is out ?"

About a hundred and fifty, I suppose,
old Jones. Haven't counted them, though,"
retorted Mr. Lake.

Impertinent young rascal !" ejaculated
Mr. Jones, as he took me into the next
room, and turned to a little desk that stood
in a corner. He was the Serjeant's confidential
clerk, and had been with him for
years. Arthur Lake, beginning to read for
the Bar, was allowed by the Serjeant and
his clerk to sit in their chambers of a day,
to pick up a little experience.

Sit down by the fire, Mr. Strange," said
the clerk. "It is a warm day, though,
for the season. I expected the Serjeant
in before this. He will not be long
now."

Before I had well taken in the bearings

of the room, which was the Serjeant's own,
and larger and better than the other, he
came in, wearing his silk gown and gray wig.
He was a little man, growing elderly now,
with a round, smooth, fair face, out of which
twinkled kindly blue eyes. Mr. Jones got
up from his desk at once to divest him of
wig and gown, producing at the same time a
miniature flaxen wig, which the Serjeant put
upon his head.

So you have come, Charles !" he said,
shaking hands with me as he sat down in a
large elbow-chair. Mr. Jones went out with
his arm full of papers and shut the door
upon us.

Yes, sir," I answered.

You will be sixteen next May, I believe,"
he added. He had the mildest voice and
manner imaginable ; not at all what might
be expected in a serjeant-at-law, who was
supposed to take the Court by storm on occasion.
" And I understand from your late
master that in all your studies you are remarkably
well advanced."

Pretty well, I think, sir," I answered
modestly.

Ay. I am glad to hear you speak of
it in a diffident, proper sort of way. Always
be modest, lad ; true merit ever is so. It
tells, too, in the long-run. Well, Charles, I
think it time that you were placed out in
life."

Yes, sir."

Is there any calling that you especially
fancy ? Any one profession you would prefer
to embrace above another ?"

No, sir ; I don't know that there is. I
have always had an idea that it would be the
law. I think I should like that."

Just so," he answered, the faint pink on
his smooth cheeks growing deeper with
gratification. "It is what I have always
intended you to enter — provided you had no
insuperable objection to it. But I shall not
make a barrister of you, Charles."

No !" I exclaimed. " What then ?"

An attorney-at-law."

I was too much taken by surprise to

answer at once. " Is that — a gentleman's
calling, Uncle Charles ?" I at length took
courage to ask.

Ay, that it is, lad," he impressively rejoined.
" It's true you've no chance of the
Woolsack or of a judgeship, or even of becoming
a pleader, as I am. If you had a
ready-made fortune, Charles, you might eat
your dinners, get called, and risk it. But
you have not ; and I will not be the means
of condemning the best years of your life to
anxious poverty."

I only looked at him, without speaking.
I fancy he must have seen disappointment
in my face.

Look here, Charles," he resumed, bending
forward impressively : "I will tell you
a little of my past experience. My people
thought they were doing a great thing
for me when they put me to the Bar.
I thought the same. I was called in due
course, and donned my stuff gown and wig
in glory — the glory cast by the glamour of
hope. How long my mind maintained that

glamour ; how long it was before it began to
give place to doubt ; how many years it took
to merge doubt into despair, I cannot tell you.
I think something like fifteen or twenty."

Fifteen or twenty years, Uncle Stilling-far
!"

Not less. I was steady, persevering,
sufficiently clever. Yet practice did not
come to me. It is all a lottery. I had no
fortune, lad ; no one to help me. I was not
clever at writing for the newspapers and
magazines, as many of my fellows were.
And for more years than I care to recall I
had a hard struggle for existence. I was
engaged to be married. She was a sweet,
patient girl, and we waited until we were
both bordering upon middle age. Ay,
Charles, I was forty years old before practice
began to flow in upon me. The long lane
had taken a turning at last. It flew in then
with a vengeance — more work than I could
possibly undertake."

And did you marry the young lady,
Uncle Charles ?" I asked in the pause he

came to. I had never heard of his having
a wife.

No, child ; she was dead. I think she
died of waiting."

I drew a long breath, deeply interested.

"There are scores of young fellows starving
upon hope now, as I starved then, Charles.
The market is terribly overstocked. For
ten barristers striving to rush into note in
my days, you may count twenty or thirty in
these. I will not have you swell the lists.
My brother's grandson shall never, with my
consent, waste his best years in fighting with
poverty, waiting for luck that may never
come to him."

I suppose it is a lottery, as you say,
sir.

A lottery where blanks far outweigh the
prizes," he assented. " A lottery into which
you shall not enter. No, Charles ; you shall
be spared that. As a lawyer, I can make
your progress tolerably sure. You may be a
rich man in time if you will, and an honourable
one. I have sounded my old friend,

Henry Bright man, and I think he is willing
to take you."

I am afraid I should not make a good
pleader, sir," I acknowledged, falling in with
his views. " I can't speak a bit. We had
a debating-club at school, and in the middle
of a speech I always lost myself."

He nodded, and rose. " You shall not
try it, my boy. And that's all for to-day,
Charles. All I wanted was to sound your
views before making arrangements with
Briofhtman."

Has he a good practice, sir ?"

He has a very large and honourable
practice, Charles. He is a good man and a
gentleman" concluded the Serjeant emphatically.
" All being well, you may become
his partner sometime."

Am I not to go to Oxford, sir ?" I asked
wistfully.

If you particularly wish to do so and
circumstances permit it, you may perhaps
keep a few terms when you are out of
your articles," he replied, with hesitation.

vol. 1. 5

We shall see, Charles, when that time
comes."

What a shame !" exclaimed Mrs. Carlenn,
when I reached home. " Make you a
lawyer ! That he never shall, Charles. I
shall not allow it. I will go down and remonstrate
with him."

Major Carlenn said it was a shame ; said it
contemptuously. Tom said it was a double-shame,
and threw a host of hard words
upon Mr. Serjeant Stillingfar. Blanche
began to cry. She had been reading that
day about a press-gang, and quite believed
my fate would be worse than that of being
pressed.

After breakfast, next morning, we hastened
to Lincoln's Inn : I and Mrs. Carlenn, for she
kept her word. I should be a barrister or
nothing, she protested. All very fine to say
so ! She had no power over me whatever.
That lay with Mr. Serjeant Stillingfar and
the other trustee, and he never interfered.
If they chose to article me to a chimney-sweep

instead of a lawyer, no one could say
them nay.

Mr. Jones and young Lake sat side by
side at the desk in the first room when we
arrived. Mr. Serjeant Stillingfar was in his
own room. He received us very kindly,
shaking hands with Mrs. Carlenn, whom he
had seen occasionally. Mrs. Carlenn, sitting
opposite to him, entered upon her protest,
and was meekly listened to by the Serjeant.

Better be a successful attorney, madam,
than a briefless barrister," he observed, when
she finished.

All barristers are not briefless," said
Mrs. Carlenn.

A great many of them are," he answered.
Some of them never make their mark at
all ; they live and die struggling men." And,
leaning forward in his chair — as he had leaned
towards me yesterday — he repeated a good
deal that he had then said of his own
history ; his long-continued poverty, and his
despairing struggles. Mrs. Carlenn's heart
melted.

5—2

Yes, I know. It is very sad, dear Mr.
Serjeant, and I am sure your experience is
only that of many others," she sighed.
But, if I understand the matter rightly,
the chief trouble of these young barristers is
their poverty. Had they means to live,
they could wait patiently and comfortably
until success came to them."

Of course," he assented. " It is the
want of private means that makes the uphill
path so hard."

Charles has his three hundred a year."

The faint pink in his cheeks, just the hue
of a sea-shell, turned to crimson. I was
sitting beyond the table, and saw it. He
glanced across at me.

It will take more money to make Charles
a lawyer and to ensure him a footing afterwards
in a good house than it would to get
him called to the Bar," he said with a smile.

Yes — perhaps so. But that is not quite
the argument, Mr. Serjeant," said my stepmother.
" Anv vounor man who has three
hundred a year may manage to live union it."

"It is to be hoped so. I know I should
have thought three hundred a year a perfect
gold-mine."

Then you see Charles need not starve
while waiting for briefs to come in to him.
Do you not see that, Mr. Serjeant ?"

I see it very clearly," he mildly said.
Had Charles his three hundred a year to
fall back upon, he might have gone to the
Bar had he liked, and risked the future."

But he has it," Mrs. Carlenn rejoined,
surprise in her tone.

No, madam, he has it not. Nor two
hundred a year, nor one hundred."

They silently looked at one another for a
full minute. Mrs. Carlenn evidently could
not understand his meaning. I am sure I
did not.

Charles's money, I am sorry to say, is
lost," he continued.

Lost ! Since when ?"

Since the bank-panic that we had nearly
two years ago."

Mrs. Carlenn collapsed. " Oh, dear !" she

Ho shook his head. \ uo. We

neither lost it, uor are we responsible tor
tho loss. Charles's grandfather, tuv brother,
invested tho mono six thousand pounds, in
hank debentures to bring in five per cent,
He settled tho money upon his daughter,
Lucy, and upon hex children after her,
making myself and our old friend, GK
Wiokham, trustees, In tho panic of

- ;o this bank unit ; its shares and its
debentures became all but worthless**

"Is tho money all gone! quite gone
gasped Mrs. Carlenn, M Will it never be
recovered

M Tho debentures are Charles's still, but
tor the present almost worthless
he replied ** Tho bank wont on again, and
it* it can recover itself and regain prosperity,
Charles in the end may not greatly suffer.
He may regain his money, or part of it.
lout it will not bo vet awhile. The unused

portion of the income had beuii sunk, year
by year, in further debentures, in accordance
with the directions of the will. All went."

But — someone must have paid for
Charles all this time — two whole years !"
she reiterated, in vexed surprise.

Yes ! it has been managed," he o-entlv
said.

I think you must have paid for him
yourself," spoke Mrs. Carlenn with impulse.
I think it is you who are intending to pay
the premium to Mr. Brightman, and to provide
for his future expenses ? You are a
good man, Mr. Serjeant Stillingfar !"

His face broke into a smile : the rare
sweet smile which so seldom crossed it. "I
am only lending it to him. Charley will
repay me when he is a rich man. But you
see now, Mrs. Carlenn, why a certainty will
be better for him than an uncertainty."

We saw it all too clearly, and there was
no more remonstrance to be made. Mrs.
Carlenn rose to leave, just as Mr. Jones came
bustling into the room.

Time is up, sir," he said to his master.
The Court will be waiting."

Ah, so : is it ? Good-morning, madam,"
he added, politely dismissing her. " I shall
send for you here again in a day or two,
Charles."

Thank you for what you are doing forme,
Uncle Charles," I whispered. "It is
very kind of you."

He laid his hand upon my shoulder
affectionately, keeping it there for a few
seconds. And as we went out, the last
glimpse I had was of his kind, gentle face,
and Mr. Jones standing ready to assist him
on with his wig and grown.

And we went back to Gloucester Place
aware that my destiny in life was settled.

IN ESSEX STREET.

ENTRY Brighten's offices

rj [lv5] VZ were in Essex Street, Strand,
S^C^g near the Temple. He rented
the whole house : a capital house, towards
the bottom of the street on the left-hand
side as you go down. His father, who had
been head and chief of the firm, had lived
in it. But old Mr. Brightman was dead,
and his son, now sole master, lived over the
water on the Surrey side, in a style his
father would never have dreamt of. It was
a firm of repute and consideration ; and few
legal firms, if any, in London were better
regarded.

It was to this gentleman my uncle, Mr.
Serjeant Stillingfar, articled me : and a
gentleman Henry Brightman was in every
sense of the term. He was a slender man
of middle height, with a bright, pleasant
face, quick, dark eyes, and brown hair.
Very much to my surprise, I found, when
arrangements were being made for me, that
I was to live in the house. Serjeant Stil-linger
had made it a condition that I should
do so. He and the late Mr. Brightman
had been firm friends, and his friendship was
continued to Henry. An old lady, one Miss
Methold, a cousin of the Brightens, resided
in the house, and I was to take up my
abode with her. She was a kind old thing,
though a little stern and reserved, and she
made me very comfortable.

There were several clerks ; and one articled
pupil, who was leaving the house as I entered
it. The head of all was a gentleman named
Lennard, who seemed to take all management
upon himself, under Mr. Brightman. George
Lennard was a tall spare man, with a thin,

fair, aristocratic face and well-formed features.
He looked about thirty-five years old, and
an impression prevailed in the office that he
was was well-born, well-connected, and had
come down in the world through loss of
fortune. A man of few words, attentive,
and always at his post, Lennard was an
excellent superintendent, ruling with a strict
yet kindly hand.

One day, some weeks after I had entered,
as I was at dinner with Miss Methold in
her sitting-room, and the weather was warm
enough for all doors to be open, we heard
horses and carriage-wheels dash up to the
house. The room was at the head of the
stairs, leading from the offices to the kitchen :
a large, pleasant room with a window looking
towards the Temple chambers and the winding
river.

What a commotion !" exclaimed Miss
Methold.

I went to the door, and saw an open
barouche, with a lady and a little girl inside it,
attended by a coachman and footman in livery.

"It is quite a grand carriage, Miss
Metholcl."

Oh," said she, looking over my shoulder :
"it is Mrs. Brightman."

Very proud and high-ands mighty, is she
not ?" I rejoined, for the clerks had talked
about her.

She was born proud. Her mother was
a nobleman's daughter, and she'll be proud
to the end," said the old lady. " Henry
keeps up great show and state for her. Of
course, that is his affair, not mine."

I hear he has a charming place at
Clapham, Miss Methold ?"

"So do I," she answered rather bitterly.
I have never seen it."

Never seen it ?" I echoed in surprise.

Never," she answered. " I have not
even been invited there by her. Never
once, Charles. Mrs. Brightman despises
her husband's profession in her heart ; she
despises me as belonging to it, I suppose,
and as a poor relation. She has never condescended
to get out of her carriage to enter

the office here, and has never asked to seeme,
here or there. Henry has invited me
down there once or twice when she was
away from home, but I have said, No, thank
you."

Mr. Lennard came in. The clerks, one
excepted, had gone out to dinner. " Do
you know whether it will be long before
Mr. Brightman comes in, or where he has
gone to ?" he said to Miss Methold.

Indeed, I do not," she answered rather
shortly. " I only knew he was out by his
not appearing now at luncheon."

Charles, go to the carriage and tell
Mrs. Brightman that we don't know how
long it may be before Mr. Brightman comes
in," said he.

I rather wondered why he could not go
himself as I took out the message to Mrs.
Brightman.

She had a fair proud face, and her air was
cold and haughty as she listened to me.

Let this be given to him as soon as he
comes in," she said, handing me a sealed

note. " Regent Street ; Carbonell's," she
added to the footman.

As the carriage turned and bowled away,
I caught the child's pretty face, a smile on
her rosy lips and in her laughing brown
eyes.

I may as well say here that young Lake
had struck up an acquaintanceship with me.
The reader may remember that I saw him
at the chambers of Mr. Serjeant Stillingfar.
I grew to like him greatly. His faults were
all on the surface ; his heart was in the
right place. Boy though he was, he was
thrown upon himself in the world. I don't
mean as to money, but as to a home ; and
he steered his course unscathed through its
shoals. The few friends he had lived in the
country. He had neither father nor mother.
His lodgings were in Norfolk Street, very
near to us. Miss Methold would sometimes
have him in to spend Sunday with me ; and
now and then, but very rarely, he and I
were invited for that day to dine with Mr.
Serjeant Stillingfar.

The Serjeant lived in Russell Square, in
one of its handsomest houses. But he kept,
so to say, no establishment ; just two or three
servants and a modest little brougham. He
must have been making a great deal of
money at that time, and I suppose he put it

bah

! you don't know, Charley," Lake
said to me one evening when I was in Norfolk
Street, and we began talking of him.
"It is said his money went in that same
precious bank which devoured yours ; and it
is thought that he lives in this quiet manner,
eschewing pomps and vanities, to be able to
help friends who were quite ruined by it.
Old Jones knows a little, and I've heard him
drop a word or two."

"I am sure my uncle is singularly good
and kind. Those simple-minded men generally
are."

Lake nodded. " Few men, i" should say,
come up to Serjeant Stillingfar."

A trouble had come to me in the early
spring. I thought it a great one, and grieved

over it. Major Carlenn gave up his house in
Gloucester Place, letting it furnished for a
long term, and went abroad with his wife.
He might have gone to the end of the world
for ever and a day, but she was like my
second mother, and indeed was so, and I felt
lost without her. They took up their abode
at Brussels. It would be good for Blanche's
education, Mrs. Carlenn wrote to me. Other
people said that the Major had considerably
out-run the constable, and went there to
economise. Tom Heriot was down at Portsmouth
with his regiment.

I think that is all I need say of this part
of my life. I liked my profession very much
indeed, and o;ot on well in it and with Mr.
Brightman and the clerks, and with good
old Miss Methold. And so the years passed
on.

The first change came when I was close
upon twenty years of age : came in the death
of Miss Methold. After that, I left Essex
Street as a residence, for there was no longer
anyone to rule it, and went into Lake's

lodgings in Norfolk Street, sharing his sitting-room
and securing a bedroom. And still
a little more time rolled on.

It was Easter-tide. On Easter Eve, it
happened that I had remained in the office
after the other clerks had left, to finish some
work in hand. In these days Saturday
afternoon has become a general holiday ; in
those days we had to work all the harder.
On Saturdays a holiday was unknown.

Writing steadily, I finished my task, and
was locking up my desk, which stood near
the far window in the front room on the
ground floor, when Mr. Brightman, who had
also remained late, came downstairs from his
private room, and looked in.

Not gone yet, Charley !"

I am going now, sir. I have only just
finished my work."

Some of the clerks are coming on
Monday, I believe," continued Mr. Bright-man.
" Are you one of them ?"

Yes, sir. Mr. Lennard told me I might

vol. i. 6

take holiday, but I did not care about it.
As I have no friends to spend it with, it
would not be much of a holiday to me.
Arthur Lake is out of town."

And Mr. Serjeant Stillingfar on circuit,"
added Mr. Brightman.

He paused and looked at me, as he stood
near the door. I was gathering the pens
together,

Have you no friends to dine with, tomorrow
— Easter Day ?"

No, sir. At least, I have not been asked
anywhere. I think I shall go for a blow up
the river."

A blow up the river !" he repeated
doubtfully. " Don't you go to church ?"

Always. I go to the Temple. I meant
in the afternoon, sir."

Well, if you have no friends to dine with,
you may come and dine with me," said Mr.
Brightman, after a moment's consideration.
Come down when service is over. You
will find an omnibus at Charing Cross."

The invitation pleased me. Some of the

clerks would have given their ears for it. Of
course I mean the gentlemen clerks ; not
one of whom had ever been so favoured. I
had sometimes wondered that he never asked
me, considering his intimacy with my uncle.
But, I suppose, to have invited me to his
house and left out Miss Methold would have
been rather too pointed a slight upon her.

It was a fine day. The Temple service
was beautiful, as usual ; the anthem, " I
know that my Redeemer liveth." Afterwards
I went forth to keep my engagement,
and in due time reached the entrance-gates
of Mr. Brightman's residence.

It was a large, handsome villa, enclosed in
fine pleasure-grounds, near Clapham. They
lived in a good deal of style, kept seven or
eight servants and two carriages ; a large
barouche, and a brougham in which he sometimes
came to town. A well-appointed house,
full of comfort and luxury. Mr. Brightman
was on the lawn when I reached it.

Well, Charles ! I began to think you
were late."

G— 2

I walked down, sir. The first two
omnibuses were full, and I would not wait
for a third."

Rather a long walk," he remarked with
a smile. " But it is what I should have
done at your age. Dinner will be ready
soon. We dine at three o'clock on Sundays.
It allows ourselves and the servants to attend
evening as well as morning service."

He had walked towards the house as he
spoke, and we went in. The drawing-room
and dining-room opened on either side a
large hall. In the former room sat Mrs.
Brightman. I had seen her occasionally at
the office door in her carriage, but had never
spoken to her except that first time. She
was considerably younger than Mr. Bright-man,
who must have been then getting towards
fifty. A proud woman she looked as
she sat there ; her hair light and silky, her
blue eyes disdainful, her dress a rich purple
silk, with fine white lace about it.

Here is Charles Strange at last," Mr.
Brightman said to her, and she replied by a

slight bend of the head. She did not offer
to shake hands with me.

I have heard of you as living in Essex
Street," she condescended to observe, as I
sat down. " Your relatives do not, I presume,
live in London ?"

I have not any near relatives," was my
answer. " My great-uncle lives in London,
but he is away just now."

You were speaking of that great civil
cause, Emma, lately tried in the country ;
and of the ability of the defendants' counsel,
Serjeant Stillingfar," put in Mr. Brightman.
"It is Serjeant Stillingfar, if you remember,
who is Charles's uncle."

Oh, indeed," she said ; and I thought
her manner became rather more gracious.
And ah, what a gracious, charming lady she
could be when she pleased ! — when she was
amongst people whom she considered of her
own rank and degree.

Where is Annabel ?" asked Mr. Bright-man.


She has gone dancing off somewhere,"

was Mrs. Brighten's reply. " I never saw
such a child. She is never five minutes
together in one place."

Presently she danced in. A graceful,
pretty child, apparently about twelve, in a
light-blue silk frock. She wore her soft
brown hair in curls round her head, and they
flew about as she flew, and a bright colour
rose to her cheeks with every word she
spoke, and her eyes were like her father's —
dark, tender, expressive. Not any resemblance
could I trace to her mother, unless it
lay in the same delicately-formed features.

We had a plain dinner ; a quarter of lamb,
pastry and creams. Mr. Brightman did not
exactly apologize for it, but explained that
on Sundays they had as little cooking as
possible. But it was handsomely served,
and there were several sorts of wine. Three
servants waited at table, two in livery and
the butler in plain clothes.

Some little time after it was over, Mr.
Brightman left the room, and Mrs. Bright-man,
without the least ceremony, leaned back

in an easy-chair and closed her eyes. I said
something to the child. She did not answer,
but came to me on tiptoe.

If we talk, mamma will be angry," she
whispered. " She never lets me make a
noise while she goes to sleep. Would you
like to come out on the lawn? We may
talk there."

I nodded, and Annabel silently opened
and passed out at one of the French windows,
holding it back for me. I as silently closed
it.

Take care that it is quite shut," she
said, " or the draught may get to mamma.
Papa has gone to his room to smoke his
cigar," she continued ; " and we shall have
coffee when mamma awakes. We do not
take tea until after church. Shall you goto
church with us ?"

I dare say I shall. Do you go ?"

Of course I do. My governess tells me
never to miss attending church twice on
Sundays, unless there is very good cause
for doing so, and then things will go well

with me in the week. But if I wished to
stay at home, papa would not let me. Once,
do you know, I made an excuse to stay away
from morning service : I said my head ached
badly, though it did not. It was to read a
book that had been lent me, 'The Old English
Baron.' I feared my governess would not
let me read it, if she saw it, because it was
about ghosts, so that I had only the Sunday
to read it in. Well, do you know, that next
week nothing went right with me ; my
lessons were turned back, my drawing was
spoilt, and my French mistress tore my
translation in two. Oh, dear ! it was nothing
but scolding and crossness. So at last, on
the Saturday, I burst into tears and told
Miss Shelley about staying away from church
and the false excuse I had made. But she
was very kind, and would not punish me,
for she said I had already had a whole week
of punishment."

Of all the little chatterboxes ! " Is Miss
Shelley your governess now ?" I asked
her.

Yes. But her mother is an invalid, so
mamma allows her to go home every Saturday
night and come back on Monday morning.
Mamma says it is pleasant to have Sunday
to ourselves. But I like Miss Shelley very
much, and should be dull without her if papa
were not at home. I do love Sundays, because
papa's here. Did you ever read ' The
Old English Baron ' ?"

No."

Shall I lend it you to take home ?" continued
Annabel, her cheeks glowing, her eyes
sparkling with good-nature. " I have it for
my own now. It is a very nice book. Have
your sisters read it ? Perhaps you have no
sisters ?"

I have no real sisters, and my father
and mother are dead. I have "

"Oh dear, how sad!" interrupted Annabel,
clasping her hands. " Not to have a father
and mother ! Was it " — after a pause —
"you who lived with Miss Methold ?"

Yes. Did you know her ?"

I knew her ; and I liked her — oh, very

much. Papa used to take me to see her
sometimes. With whom do you live now ?"

I live in lodgings."

She stood looking at me with her earnest
eyes — thoughtful eyes just then.

Then who sews the buttons on your
shirts ?"

I burst into laughter : the reader may
have done the same. " My landlady professes
to sew them on, Annabel, but the
shirts often go without buttons. Sometimes
I sew one on myself."

If you had one off now, and it was not
Sunday, I would sew it on for you," said
Annabel. " Why do you laugh ?"

At your concern about my domestic
affairs, my clear little girl."

But there's a gentleman who lives in
lodgings and comes here sometimes to dine
with papa — he is older than you — and he
says it is the worst trouble of life to have
no one to sew his buttons on. Who takes
care of you if you are ill ?" she added, after
another pause.

As there is no one to take care of me, I
cannot afford to be ill, Annabel. I am
generally quite well."

I am glad of that. Was your father a
lawyer, like papa V

No. He was a clergyman."

Oh, don't turn," she cried ; " I want to
show you my birds. We have an aviary,
and they are beautiful. Papa lets me call
them mine ; and some of them are mine
in reality, for they were bought for me.
Mamma does not care for birds."

Presently I asked Annabel her age.

Fourteen."

Fourteen !" I exclaimed in surprise.

I was fourteen in January. Mamma
says I ought not to tell people my age, for
they will only think me more childish ; but
papa says I may tell everyone."

She was in truth a child for her years ;
especially as age is now considered. She
ran about, showing me everything, her frock,
her curls, her eyes dancing : from the aviary
to the fowls, from the fowls to the flowers :

all innocent objects of her daily pleasures,
innocent and guileless as she herself.

A smart-looking maid, with red ringlets
flowing about her red cheeks, and wide cap-strings
flowing behind them, came up.

Why, here you are !" she exclaimed.
I've been looking all about for you, Miss
Annabel. Your mamma says you are to
come in."

We are coming, Hatch ; we were turning
at that moment," answered the child. " Is
coffee ready ?"

Yes, Miss Annabel, and waiting."

In the evening we went to church, the
servants following at some distance. Afterwards
we had tea, and then I rose to depart,
Mr. Brightman walked with me across the
lawn, and we had almost reached the iron
gates when there came a sound of swift
steps behind us.

Papa ! papa ! Is he gone ? Is Mr.
Strange gone ?"

"What is the matter now?" asked Mr.
Brightman.

I promised to lend Mr. Strange this : it
is ' The Old English Baron.' He has never
read it."

There, run back," said Mr. Brightman,
as I turned and took the book from her.
You will catch cold, Annabel."

What a charming child she is, sir !" I
could not help exclaiming.

She is that," he replied. " A true child
of nature, knowing no harm and thinking
none. Mrs. Brightman complains that her
ideas and manners are unformed ; no style
about her, she says, no reserve. In my
opinion that ought to constitute a child's
chief charm. All Annabel's parts are good.
Of sense, intellect, talent, she possesses her
full share ; and I am thankful that they are
not prematurely developed. I am thankful,"
he repeated w T with emphasis, " that she is nota
forward child. In my young days, girls
were girls, but now there is not such a thing
to be found. They are all women. I do
not admire the forcing system myself ; forced
vegetables, forced fruit, forced children :

they are good for little. A genuine child,
such as Annabel, is a treasure rarely met
with."

I thought so too.

WATTS S WIFE.

Having the omnibus at Charing
Cross, I was hastening along the
Strand on my way home, when I
ran against a gentleman, dio was swaggering
along in a handsome, capacious cloak as
if all the street belonged to him.

I beg your pardon," I said, in apology.

I " And there I broke off to stare,

for I thought I recognised him in the gaslight.


Why ! It is Major Carlenn !"
Just so. And it is Charles. Hou r are
you, Charles ?"

Have you lately come from Brussels ?"

I asked, as we shook hands. " And how
did you leave mamma and Blanche ?"

They are in Gloucester Place," he answered.
" We all came over last Wednesday."


I wonder they did not let me know it."

Plenty of time, young man. They will
not be going away in a hurry. We are
settling down here again. You can come
up when you like."

That will be tomorrow then. Goodnight,
sir."

But it was not until Monday evening that
I could get away. Mr. Lennard went out
in the afternoon on some private matter of
his own, and desired me to remain in to see
a client, who had sent us word he should
call, although it was Easter Monday. Mr.
Brightman did not come to town that day.

Six o'clock was striking when I reached
Gloucester Place. Blanche ran to meet mein
the passage, and we had a spell of kissing.
I think she was then about fourteen ; perhaps
fifteen. A fair, upright, beautiful girl,

with the haughty blue eyes of her childhood,
and a shower of golden curls.

Oh, Charley, I am so glad ! I thought
you were never, never coming to us."

I did not know you were here until last
night. You should have sent me word."

I told mamma so ; but she was not well.
She is not well yet. The journey tired her,
you see, and the sea was rough. Come upstairs
and see her, Charley. Papa has just
gone out."

Mrs. Carlenn sat over the fire in the 
in an easy-chair, a shawl upon her
shoulders. It was a dull evening, twilight
not far off, and she sat with her back to the
light. It struck me she looked thin and ill.
I had been over once or twice to stay with
them in Brussels ; the last time, eighteen
months ago.

Are you well, mamma ?" I asked as she
kissed me — for I had not left off calling herby
the fond old childhood's name. " You
don't look so."

The journey tired me, Charley," she

VOL. I. 7

answered — just as Blanche had said to me.
I have a little cold, too. Sit down, my
boy."

Have you come back here for good ?" I
asked.

Well, yes, I suppose so," she replied with
hesitation. " For the present, at all events."

Tea was brought in. Blanche made it ;
her mother kept to her chair and her shawl.
The more I looked at her, the greater grew
the conviction that something beyond common
ailed her. Major Carlenn was dining out,
and they had dined in the middle of the day.

Alas ! I soon knew what was wrong.
After tea, contriving to get rid of Blanche
for a few minutes on some plausible excuse,
she told me all. An inward complaint was
manifesting itself, and it was hard to say how
it might terminate. The Belgian doctors
had not been very reassuring upon the point.
On the morrow she was going to consult
James Paget.

Does Blanche know ?" I asked.

Not yet. I must see Mr. Paget before

saying anything to her. If my own fears
are confirmed, I shall tell her. In that case
I shall lose no time in placing her at school."

At school !"

Why, yes, Charley. What else can be
done ? This will be no home for her when
I am out of it. Not at an ordinary school,
though. I shall send her to our old home,
White Littleham Rectory. Mr. and Mrs.
Ravensworth are there still. She takes two
or three pupils to bring up with her own
daughter, and will be glad of Blanche. There
we will put that subject away for the
present, Charley. I want to ask you about
something else, and Blanche will soon be
back again. Do you see much of Tom
Heriot ?"

I see him very rarely indeed. He is not
quartered in London, you know."

Charles, I am afraid — I am very much
afraid that Tom is wild," she went on, after
a pause. " He came into his money last
year : six thousand pounds. We hear that
he has been launching out into all sorts of

7—2

extravagance ever since. That must mean
that he is drawing on his capital."

I had heard a little about Tom's doings
myself. At least, Lake had done so, which
came to the same thing. But I did not say
this.

It distresses me much, Charles. You
know how careless and improvident Tom is,
and yet how generous-hearted. He will
bring himself to ruin if he does not mind, and
what would become of him then ? Major
Calendars Hush! here comes Blanche."

I cannot linger over this part of my story.
Mrs. Carlenn died ; and Blanche was sent to
White Littleham.

And, indeed, of the next few passing years
there is not much to record. I obtained
my certificate, as a matter of course. Then
I managed, by Mr. Brightman's kindness in
sparing me, and by my uncle's liberality, to
keep a few terms at Oxford. I was twenty-three
when I kept the last term, and then
I was sent for some months to Paris, to
make myself acquainted with law as administered

in the French courts. That over,
arrangements were made for my becoming
Mr. Brightman's partner. If he had had
sons, one of them would probably have filled
the position. Having none, he admitted me
on easy terms, for I had my brains about meas
the saying runs, and was excessively useful
to the firm. A certain sum was paid down
by Mr. Serjeant Stillingfar, and the firm became
Briofhtman and Strange. I was to
receive at first only a small portion of the
profits. And let me say here, that all my
expenses of every description, during these
past years, had been provided for by that
good man, Charles Stillingfar, and provided
liberally. So there I was in an excellent
position, settled for life when only twenty-four
years of age.

After coming home from Paris to enter
upon these new arrangements, I found Mr.
Brightman had installed a certain James
Watts in Essex Street as care-taker and
messenger, our former man, Hickory, having
become old and feeble. A good change.

Hickory. in growing old, had grown fretful
and obstinate, and liked his own way and
will better than that of his masters. Watts
was well-mannered and well-spoken; respectable
and trustworthy. His wife's duties
were to keep the rooms clean, in which she
was at liberty to have in a woman to help
once or twice a week if she so minded,
and up to the present time to prepare Mr.
Brightman's daily luncheon. They lived in
the rooms on the bottom floor, one of which
was their bedroom.

I like them both," I said to Mr. Bright-man,
when I had been back a day or two.
Things will be comfortable now."

Yes, Charles ; I hope you will find them
so," he answered.

For it ought to be mentioned that, in
becoming Mr. Brightman's partner, it had
been settled that I should return as an
inmate to the house. He said he should
prefer it. And, indeed, I thought I should
also. So that I had taken up my abode
there at once.

The two rooms on the ground floor were
occupied by the clerks. Mr. Lennard had
his desk in the back one. Miss Methold's
parlour, a few steps lower, was now not
much used, except that a client was sometimes
taken into it. The large front room
on the first floor was Mr. Brightman's
private room ; the back one was mine ; but
he had also a desk in it. These two rooms
opened to one another. The floor above
this was wholly given over to me ; sitting-room,
bedroom, and dressing-room. The top
floor was only used for boxes, and on those
rare occasions when someone wanted to sleep
at the office. Watts and his wife were to
attend to me ; she to see to the meals, he to
wait upon me.

I should let her get in everything without
troubling, and bring up the bills weekly,
were I you, Charles," remarked Mr. Bright-man,
one evening when he had stayed later
than usual, and was in my room, and we fell
to talking of the man and his wife. " Much
better than for her to be coming to you

everlastingly, saying you want this and you
want that. She is honest, I feel sure, and
I had the best of characters with both of
them."

She has an honest face," I answered.
But it looks sad. And what a silent
woman she is. Speaking of her face
though, sir, it puts me in mind of someone's,
and I cannot think whose."

You may have seen her somewhere or
other," remarked Mr. Brightman.

Yes, but I can't remember where. I'll
ask her."

Mrs. Watts was then coming into the
room with some water, which Mr. Bright-man
had rung for. She looked about fortyfive
years old ; a thin, bony woman of middle
height, with a pale, gray, wrinkled face, and
gray hairs banded under a huge cap, tied
under her chin.

There's something about your face that
seems familiar to me, Mrs. Watts," I said,
as she put down the glass and the bottle of
water. " Have I ever seen you before ?"

She was pouring out the water, and did
not look at me. " I can't say, sir," she
answered in a low tone.

Do you remember me ? That's the
better question."

She shook her head. " Watts and I lived
in Ely Place for some years before we came
here, sir," she then said. " It's not impossible
you may have seen me in the street
when I was doing the steps ; but I never
saw you pass by that I know of."

And before that, where did you live ?"

Before that, sir ? At Dover."

Ah ! well," I said, for this did not help
me out with my puzzle ; " I suppose it is
fancy."

Mr. Brightman caught up the last word
as Mrs. Watts withdrew. " Fancy, Charles ;
that's what it must be. And fancy sometimes
plays wonderful tricks with us."

Yes, sir ; I expect it is fancy. For all
that, I feel perplexed. The woman's voice
and manner seem to strike a chord in my
memory as much as her face does."

Captain Heriot, sir."

Sitting one evening in my room at dusk
in the summer weather, the window open to
the opposite wall and to the side view of the
Thames, waiting for Lake to come in, Watts
had thus interrupted me to show in Tom
Heriot. I started up and grasped his hands.
He was a handsome young fellow, with the
open manners that had charmed the world
in the days gone by, and charmed it still.

Charley, boy ! It is good to see you."

Ay, and to see you, Tom. Are you
staying in London ?"

Why, we have been here for days !
What a fellow you are, not to know that
we are now quartered here. Don't you read
the newspapers ? It used to be said, you
remember, that young Charley lived in a
wood."

I laughed. " And how are things with
you, Tom ?"

Rather down ; have been for a longtime
; getting ladder and ladder."

My heart gave a thump. In spite of his

laughing air and bright smile, I feared it
might be too true.

I am going to the deuce, headlong,
Charley."

Don't, Tom !"

Don't what ? Not go or not talk of it ?
It is as sure as death, lad."

Have you made holes in your money ?"

Fairly so. I think I may say so, considering
that the whole of it is spent."

Oh, Tom !"

Every individual stiver. But upon my
honour as a soldier, Charley, other people
have had more of it than I. A lot of it
went at once, when I came into it, paying
off back debts."

What shall you do ? You will never
make your pay suffice."

Sell out, I expect."

And then ?"

Tom shrugged his shoulders in answer.
They were very slender shoulders. His
frame was slight altogether, suggesting
that he might not be strong. He was

about as tall as I — rather above middle
height.

Take a clerkship with you, at twenty
shillings a week, if you'd give it me. Or
go out to the Australian diggings to pick up
gold. How grave you look, Charles !"

It is a grave subject. But I hope you
are saying this in joke, Tom."

Half in joke, half in earnest. I will not
sell out if I can help it ; be sure of that, old
man ; but I think it will have to come to it.
Can you give me something to drink.
Charley ? I am thirsty."

"Will you take some tea ? I am just going
to have mine. Or anything else instead ?"

I was thinking of brandy and soda. But
I don't mind if I do try tea, for once. Ay,
I will. Have it up, Charley."

I rang the bell, and Mrs. Watts brought
it up.

Anything else, sir ?" she stayed to ask.

Not at present. Watts has gone outwith

that letter, I suppose ? Why,

you have forgotten the milk !"

She gave a sharp word at her own stupidity,
and left the room. Tom's eyes had been
fixed upon her, following her to the last. He
began slowly pushing back his bright brown
hair, as he would do in his boyhood when
anything puzzled him.

Oh, I remember," he suddenly exclaimed.
So you have her here, Charley !"

Who here ?"

Leah."

Leah ! What do you mean ?"

That servant of yours."

"That is our messenger's wife : Mrs. Watts."

Mrs. Watts she may be now, for aught
I know ; but she was Leah Williams when
we were youngsters, Charley."

Impossible, Tom. This old woman cannot
be Leah."

I tell you, lad, it is Leah," he persisted.
No mistake about it. At the first moment
I did not recollect her. I have a good eye
for faces, but she is wonderfully altered. Do
you mean to say she has not made herself
known to you ?"

I shook my head. But even as Tom
spoke, little items of remembrance that had
worried my brain began to clear themselves
bit by bit. Mrs. Watts came in with the
milk.

She had put it down on the tray when
Tom walked up to her, holding out his hand,
his countenance all smiles, his hazel eyes
dancing.

How are you, Leah, after all these
years ? Shake hands for auk lang syne. Do
you sing the song still ?"

Leah gave one startled glance and then
threw her white apron up to her face with a
sob.

Come, come," said Tom kindly. " I
didn't want to startle you, Leah."

I didn't think you would know me, sir,"
she said, lifting her woebegone face. " Mr.
Charles here did not."

Not know you ! I should know you
sooner than my best sweetheart," cried Tom
gaily.

Leah," I interposed, gravely turning to

her, " how is it that you did not let me
know who you were ? Why have you kept
it from me ?"

She stood with her back against Mr.
Brightman's desk, hot tears raining down
her worn cheeks.

I couldn't tell you, Master Charles. I'm
sorry you know now. It's like a stab tome.


But why could you not tell me ?"

Pride, I suppose," she shortly said. " I
was upper servant at the Rectory ; your
mamma's own maid, Master Charles : and I
couldn't bear you should know that I had
come down to this. A servant of all work —
scrubbing floors and washing dishes."

Oh, that's nothing," struck in Tom
cheerfully. " Most of us have our ups and
downs, Leah. As far as I can foresee, I
may be scouring out pots and j^ans at the
gold-diggings next year. I have just been
saying so to Mr. Charley. Your second
marriage venture was an unlucky one, I
expect ?"

Leah was crying silently. " No, it is
not that," she answered presently in a low
tone. " Watts is a steady and respectable
man ; very much so ; above me, if anything.
It — it — I have had cares and crosses of my
own, Mr. Tom ; I have them always ; and
they keep me down."

Well, tell me what they are," said Tom.
I may be able to help you. I will if I can."

Leah sighed and moved to the door.
You are just as kind-hearted as ever, Mr.
Tom ; I see that ; and I thank you. Nobody
can help me, sir. And my trouble is
secret to myself : one I cannot speak of to
anyone in the world."

Just as kind-hearted as ever ! Yes, Tom
Heriot was that, and always would be.
Embarrassed as he no doubt was for money,
he slipped a gold piece into Leah's hand as
she left the room, whispering that it was for
old friendship's sake.

And so that was Leah ! Back again
waiting upon me, as she had waited when I
was a child. It was passing strange.

I spoke to her that night, and asked her
to confide her trouble to me. The bare
suggestion seemed to terrify her.

It was a dreadful trouble," she admitted
in answer ; " a nightly and daily torment ;
one that at times went well-nigh to frio-ten
her senses away. But she must keep it
secret, though she died for it."

And as Leah whispered this to me under
her breath, she cast dread glances around
the walls on all sides, as if she feared that
eaves-droppers might be there.

What on earth could the secret be ?

And now, for a time, I retire into the
background, and cease personally to tell the
story.

VOL. i.

BLANCHE HERIOT.

N one of those promising clays
that we now and then see in
February, which seem all the
more warm and lovely in contrast with the
passing winter, the parsonage of White
Littleham put on its gayest appearance
within — perhaps in response to the fair
face of nature without. A group of four
girls had collected in the drawing-room.
One was taking the brown holland covers
from the chairs, sofa, and footstools ; another
was bringing out certain ornaments, elegant
trifles, displayed only on state occasions ;
the other two were filling glasses with evergreens

and hot-house flowers. It was the
same room in which you once saw poor
Mrs. Strange lying on her road to death.
The parsonage received three young ladies
to share in the advantages of foreign governesses,
provided for the education of its only
daughter, Cecilia.

Whilst the girls were thus occupied, a
middle-aged lady entered, the mistress of
the house, and wife of the Reverend John
Ravensworth.

Oh, Mrs. Ravensworth, why did you
come in ? We did not want you to see it
until it was all finished."

Mrs. Ravensworth smiled. " My dears,
it will only look as it has looked many a
time before ; as it did at Christmas "

Mamma, you must excuse my interrupting
you," cried the young girl who was
arranging the ornaments ; " but it will look
very different from then. At Christina we
had wretched weather, and see it to-day.
And at Christmas we had not the visitors
we shall have now."

We had one of the two visitors, at any
rate, Cecilia."

Oh, yes, we had Arnold. But Arnold
is nobody ; we are used to him."

And Major Carlenn is somebody," interposed
the only beautiful girl present, looking
round from the flowers with a laugh.
Thank you, in papa's name, Cecilia."

Very beautiful was she : exceedingly fair,
with somewhat haughty blue eyes, delicate
features, and fine golden hair. Blanche
Heriot (as often as not called Blanche
Carlenn at the Rectory) stood conspicuous
amidst the rest of the girls. They were
pleasing-looking and lady-like, but that was
all. Rather above middle-height, slender,
graceful, she stood as a queen beside her
companions. Under different auspices,
Blanche Heriot might have become vain and
worldly ; but, enshrined as she had been
for the last few years within the precincts
of a humble parsonage, and trained in its
doctrines of practical Christianity, Blanche
had become thoroughly imbued with the

influences around her. Now, in her twentieth
year, she was simple and guileless as a child.

It was so long since she had seen her
father — as she was pleased to call Major
Carlenn — that she had partly forgotten what
he was like. He was expected now on a
two days' visit, and for him the house was
being made to look its best. The other
visitor, coming by accident at the same
time, was Arnold Ravensworth, the Rector's
nephew.

Major Carlenn's promised visit was an
event to the quiet Rector and his wife.
All they knew of him was that he was stepfather
to Blanche, and a man who moved in
the gay circles of the world. The interest
of Blanche Heriot's money had paid for her
education and dress. The Major would have
liked the fingering of it amazingly ; but to
covet is one thing, to obtain is another.
Blanche's money was safe in the hands of
trustees ; but before Mrs. Carlenn died she had
appointed her husband Blanche's personal
guardian, with power to control her residence

when she should have attained her
eighteenth year. That had been passed
some time now, and Major Carlenn had just
awakened to his responsibilities.

The first to arrive was Arnold Ravens-worth,
a distinguished-looking man, with a
countenance cold, it must be confessed, but
full of intellect. And the next to arrive
was not the Major. The day passed on tonight.
The trains came into the neighbouring
station, but they did not bring
Major Carlenn. Blanche cried herself to
sleep. She remembered how kind her papa
used to be to her — indulging her and
taking her about to see sights — and she
had cherished a great affection for him. In
fact, the Major had always indulged little
Blanche.

Neither had he come the next morning.
After breakfast, Blanche went to the end of
the garden and stood looking out across the
field. The shady dingle, where as a little
child she had sat to pick violets and primroses,
was there ; but she was gazing at

something else — the path that would bring
her father. Arnold Ravens worth came
strolling up behind her.

You know the old saying, Blanche : a
watched-for visitor never comes."

Oh dear, why do you depress me,
Arnold ? To watch is something. I shall
cross the field and look up the road."

They started off in the sunshine. Blanche
had a pretty straw hat on. She took the
arm Mr. Ravensworth held out to her. Very
soon, a stranger turned into the field and
came swinging towards them.

Blanche, is this the Major V

It was a tall, large-limbed, angular man
in an old blue cloak lined with scarlet. He
had iron-gray hair and whiskers, gray, hard
eyes, a large twisted nose, and very white
teeth. Blanche laughed merrily.

That papa ! What an idea you must
have of him, Arnold ! Papa was a handsome
man with black hair, and had lost two
of his front teeth. They were knocked out,
fighting with the Cares."

The stranger came on, staring intently at
the good-looking young man and the beautiful
girl on his arm. Mr. Ravensworth spoke
in a low tone.

Are you quite sure, Blanche ? Black
hair turns gray, remember ; and he has a
little travelling portmanteau under that
cloak."

Even as he spoke, something in the
stranger's face struck upon Blanche Heriot's
memory. She disengaged herself and approached
him, too agitated to weigh her
words.

Oh — I beg your pardon — are you not
papa {

Major Carlenn looked at her closely. " Are
you Blanche ?"

Yes, I am Blanche. Oh, papa !"

The Major tucked his stepdaughter under
his own arm ; and Mr. Ravensworth went
on to give notice of the arrival.

Papa, I never saw anyone so much
altered !"

Nor I," interposed the Major. " I was

wondering what deuced handsome girl was
strolling towards me. You are beautiful,
Blanche ; more so than your mother was,
and she was handsome."

Blanche, confused though she felt at the
compliment, could not return it.

Who is that young fellow ?" resumed
the Major.

Arnold Ravens worth ; Mr. Ravens
nephew. He lives in London, and
came down yesterday for a short visit."

Oh. Does he come often ?"

Pretty often. We wish it was oftener.
We like him to be here."

He seems presuming."

Dear papa ! Presuming ! He is not at
all so. And he is very talented and clever.
He took honours at Oxford, and "

I see," interrupted Major Carlenn, displaying
his large and regular teeth — a habit
of his when not pleased. He had rapidly
taken up an idea, and it angered him. "Is
this the parson, Blanche ? He looks very
sanctimonious."

Oh, papa !" she returned, feeling ready
to cry at his contemptuous tone. " He is
the best man that ever lived. Everyone
loves and respects him."

Hope it's merited, my dear," concluded
the Major, as he met the hand of the
Reverend John Ravensworth.

Ere middle-day, the Major had scattered
a small bombshell through the parsonage by
announcing that he had come to take his
daughter away. Blanche felt it bitterly. It
was her home, and a happy one. To exchange
it for the Major's did not look now
an inviting prospect. Though she would
not acknowledge it to her own heart, she
was beginning to regard him with more awe
than love. That the resolution must have
been suddenly formed she knew, for he had
not come down with any intention of removing
her.

Papa, my things can never be ready,"
was her last forlorn argument, when others
had failed.

Things ?" said the Major. " Trunks,

and clothes, and rattle-traps ? They can be
sent after you, Blanche."

I have a bird," cried Blanche, her eyes
filling. " There it is, in the cage."

Leave it as a souvenir to the Rectory.
Blanche, don't be a child. I have pictured
you as one hitherto, but now that I see you
I find my mistake. You must be thinking
of other things, my dear."

And thus Blanche Heriot was hurried
away. All the parsonage escorted her to
the station, the girls in tears, and she almost
heart-broken.

Of late years Major Carlenn had been almost
always in debt and difficulty. His property
was mortgaged. His only certainty was his
half-pay ; but he was lucky at cards, and
often luckier at betting. He retained his
club and his visiting connection, and dined
out three parts of his time. Just now he
was up in the world, having scored a prize
on some winter racecourse, and he was
back in his house in Gloucester Place. It
had been let furnished for three years,

portions of which time the Major had spent
abroad.

It will be very dull for me, papa," sighed
Blanche, as they were whirling along in an
express train. " I dare say you are out all
day long, as you used to be."

Not dull at all," said the Major. " You
must make Mrs. Guy take you out and
about."

Mrs. Guy !" exclaimed Blanche, her
blue eyes opening widely. " Is she in
London ?"

Yes, and a fine old guy she is ; more
ridiculously nervous than ever," replied the
Major. " She arrived unexpectedly from
Jersey one evening last week, and quartered
herself upon Gloucester Place ; for an indefinite
period, no doubt. She did this once
before, if you remember, in your poor
mamma's time."

She will be something in the way of
company for me," said Blanche with another
sigh.

Aye ! She is a stupid goose, but you'll

be safer under her wing and mine than you
would have been realising in the fields and
the parsonage garden with that Arnold
Ravensworth. I have eyes, Miss Blanche."

So had Blanche, especially just then ; and
they were wide open and fixed upon the
Major.

Doing what, papa ?" cried she.

I saw his drift : * Blanche ' this, and
Blanche ' the other, and his arm put out
for you at every turn ! No, no ; I do not
leave you there to be converted into Mrs.
Arnold Ravensworth."

Blanche clasped her hands and broke into
merry laughter. "Oh, papa, what an idea ! —
how could you imagine it ? Why, he is
going to marry Mary Stafford."

Major Carlenn looked blank. Had he
made all this inconvenient haste for nothing ?
Who the deuce is Mary Stafford ?"

She lives in Devonshire. A pale, gentle
girl with nice eyes : I have seen her picture.
Arnold wears it attached to a little chain
inside his waistcoat. They are to be married

in the autumn when the House is up. The
very notion of my marrying Arnold Ravens-worth
!" broke off Blanche with another
laugh. A laugh that was quite sufficient to
prove the fact that she was heart-whole.

The House !" repeated the Major. " Who
is he, then ?"

He is very well off as to fortune, and is
something. It has to do with the House,
not as a Member, though he will be that
soon, I believe. I think he is secretary to
one of the Ministers. His father was the
elder brother, and the Reverend John
Ravensworth the younger. There is a very
great difference in their positions. Arnold
is well-off, and said to be a rising man."

Every word increased Major Carlenn's
vexation. Even had his fear been correct,
it seemed that the young man would not
have been an undesirable match for Blanche,
and he had saddled himself with her at a
most inconvenient moment !

Well, well," thought he ; " she will soon
make her mark, unless I am mistaken, and

there's as good fish in the sea as ever came
out of it."

Mrs. Guy, widow of the late Admiral Guy,
vegetating for years past upon her slight
income in Jersey, was Major Carlenn's younger
sister, and a smaller edition of himself. She
had the same generally fair-featured face,
with the twisted nose and the gray eyes ;
but while his eyes were hard and fierce,
hers were soft and kindly. She was a well-meaning,
but indescribably silly woman ; and
her nervous fears and fancies had so grown
upon her that they were becoming a disease.
Lying before the fire on a sofa in her bedroom,
she received Blanche with a flood of
tears, supplemented by several moans. The
tears were caused by the pleased surprise ;
the moans at her having come home on a
Friday, for that must surely betoken ill-luck.
Blanche was irreverent enough to lausdi.

Major Carlenn still counted a few acquaintances
of consideration in the social world,
and Miss Heriot was introduced to them.

Mrs. Guy was persuaded to temporarily
forget her ailments, and to act as chaperon.
The Major gave his sister a new dress and
bonnet, and a cap or two ; and as she had
not yet quite done with vanity (has a
woman ever done with it ?), she fell before
the bribe.

He had been right in his opinion that
Blanche's beauty would not fail to make its
mark. So charming a girl, so lovely of face
and graceful of form, so innocent of guile,
had not been seen of late. Before the spring
had greatly advanced, a Captain Cross made
proposals for her to the Major. He was
of excellent family, and offered fair settlements.
The Major accepted him, not
deeming it at all necessary to consult his
daughter.

Blanche rebelled. " I don't care for him,
papa," she objected.

The Major gave his nose a twist. He
did not intend to have any trouble with
Blanche, and would not allow her to
begin it.

Not care !" he exclaimed in surprise.
What does that matter ? Captain Cross
is a fine man, stands six feet one, and you'll
care for him in time."

But, before I consent to marry him, I
ought to know whether I shall like him or
not."

Blanche, you are a dunce ! You have
been smothered up in that parsonage till you
know nothing. Do you suppose that in our
class of society it is usual to fall in love, as
the ploughboys and milkmaids do ? People
marry first, and grow accustomed to each
other afterwards. Whatever you do, my
dear, don't betray gaucherie of that kind."

Blanche Heriot doubted. She never supposed
but that he whom she called father
had her true interest at heart, and must be
so acting. Mrs. Guy, too, unconsciously
swayed her. A martyr to poverty herself,
she believed that in marrying one so well-off
as Captain Cross, a girl must enter upon the
seventh heaven of happiness. Altogether,
Blanche yielded ; yielded against her inclina-vol.

1. 9

Meanwhile, Arnold Ravensworth had been
an occasional visitor at Major Carlenn's, the
Major making no sort of objection, now that
circumstances were explained : indeed, he
encouraged him there, and was especially
cordial. Major Carlenn had invariably one
eye on the world and the other on self-interest,
and it occurred to him that a
rising man, as Arnold Ravensworth beyond
doubt was, might prove useful to him in one
way or another.

One evening, when it was yet only the
beginning of April, Mr. Ravensworth called
in Gloucester Place, and found the Major
alone.

Are Mrs. Guy and Blanche out ?" he
asked.

They are upstairs with the dressmaker,"
replied the Major. " We sent to her to-day
to spur on with Blanche's things, and she
has come to-night for fresh orders."

"Is the marriage being hurried on, Major?"

Time is creeping on, sir," was the gruff
answer.

Are they getting ahead with the settlements
? When I saw you last week, you
were in a way at the delay, and said
lawyers had only been invented for one's
torment."

They got on, after that, and the deeds
were ready and waiting for signature. But
I dropped them a note yesterday to say they
might burn them, as so much waste paper,"
returned the Major.

Burn the settlements !" echoed Mr.
Ravensworth.

The Major's eyes, that could look pleasant
on occasion, glinted at his astonishment.
Those settlements are being replaced by
heavier ones," he said. " Blanche does not
marry Captain Cross. It's off. A more
eligible offer has been made her, and Cross
is dismissed."

Mr. Ravensworth doubted whether he
heard aright. Major Carlenn resumed. " And

9 — 2

she was making herself miserable over it.
She cannot endure Cross."

What a disappointment for Cross !
What a mortification ! Will he accept
his dismissal ?"

He will be obliged to accept it," returned
the Major, pulling up his shirt-collar, which
was always high enough for two. " He has
no other choice left to him. A man does
not die of love nowadays ; or rush into an
action for breach of promise, and become a
laughing-stock at his club. Blanche marries
Lord Level."

Lord Level !" Mr. Ravensworth repeated
in a curious accent.

You look as though you doubted the
information."

"I do not relish it, for your daughter's
sake," replied Mr. Ravensworth. " She
never can — can — like Lord Level."

What's the matter with Lord Level ?
He may be approaching forty, but "

Mr. Ravensworth laughed. " Not just
yet, Major Carlenn."

Well, say he's thirty-four ; thirty-three,
if you like. Blanche, at twenty, needs
guiding. And if he is not as rich as some
peers, he is ten times richer than Cross.
He met Blanche out, and came dangling
here after her. I did not give a thought
to it, for I did not look upon Level as a
marrying man : he has been somewhat talked
of in another line "

Yes," emphatically interrupted Mr.
Ravensworth. " Well ?"

Well !" irritably returned the Major :
then there's so much the more credit due
to him for settling down. When he found
that Cross was really expecting to have
Blanche, and that he might lose her altogether,
he spoke up, and said he should
like her himself."

Does Blanche approve of the exchange?"

She was rather inclined to kick at it,"
returned the Major, in his respectable phraseology,
" and we had a few tears. — But if you
ask questions in that sarcastic tone, sir, you
don't deserve to be answered. Not that

Blanche wanted to keep Cross ; she acknowledged
that she was only too thankful to be
rid of him ; but, about behaving dishonourably,
as she called it. 'My dear,' said T,
there's your absurd rusticity coming in
again. You don't know the world. Such
things are done in high life every day.'
She believed me, and was reconciled. You
look black as a thunder-cloud, Ravensworth.
What right have you to do so, pray ?"

None in the world. I beg pardon. I
was thinking of Blanche's happiness."

You had better think of her good,"
retorted the Major. " She likes Level. I
don't say she is yet in love with him : but
she did not like Cross. Level is an attractive
man, remember."

Has been rather too much so," cynically
retorted Mr. Ravensworth.

Here she comes. I am going out ;
so you may offer your congratulations at
leisure."

Major Carlenn went away, and Blanche
entered. She took her seat by the fire,

and as Mr. Ravensworth gazed down upon
her, a feeling of deep regret and pity came
over him. Shame ! thought he, to sacrifice
her to Level. For in truth that nobleman's
name was not in the best odour, and Arnold
Ravensworth was a man of strict notions.

It has been asserted that some natures
possess an affinity the one for the other ; are
irresistibly drawn together in the repose
of full and perfect confidence. It is a
mysterious affinity, not born of love : and it
may be experienced by two men or women
who have outlived even the remembrance of
the passion. Had Blanche Heriot been
offered to Arnold Ravensworth, he would
have declined her, for he loved another, and
she had as much idea of loving the man in .
the moon as of loving him. Nevertheless,
that never-dying, unfathomable part of them,
the spirit, was attracted, like finding like.
Between such, there can be little reserve.

What unexpected changes take place,
Blanche !"

Do not blame me," she replied, with a

rising colour, her tone sinking to a whisper.
My father says it is right, and I obey
him."

I hope you like Lord Level ?"

Better than I liked someone else," washer
answer, as she looked into the fire. " At
first the — the change frightened me. It did
not seem right, and it was so very sudden.
But I am getting over that feeling now.
Papa says he is very good."

Papa says he is very good ! The old
hypocrite of a Major ! thought Mr. Ravens
But it was not his place to tell her
that Lord Level had not been very good.

Oh, Blanche !" he exclaimed, " I hope
you will be happy ! Is it to be soon ?"

Yes, they say so. As soon, I think, as
the settlements can be ready. Papa sent
to-day to hurry on my wedding things.
Lord Level is going abroad immediately,
and wishes to take me with him."

They say so !" was his mental repetition.
This poor child, brought up in the innocence
of her simple country home, more childish,

more tractable and obedient, more inexperienced
than are those of less years who have
lived in the world, is as a puppet in their
hands. But the awakening will come."

You are going ?" said Blanche, as he
rose. " Will you not stay and take tea ?
Mrs. Guy will be down soon."

Not this evening. Hark ! here is the
Major back again."

"I do not think it is papa's step," returned
Blanche, bending her ear to listen.

It was not. As she spoke, the door was
thrown open by the servant. " Lord Level."

Lord Level entered, and took the hand
which Mr. Ravensworth released. Mr.
Ravensworth looked full at the peer as he
passed him : they were not acquainted. A
handsome man, with a somewhat free expression
— a countenance that Mr. Ravensworth
took forthwith a prejudice against, perhaps
unjustly. " Who's that, Blanche ?" he heard
him say as the servant closed the door.

Lord Level was a fine, powerful man, of
good height and figure ; his dark auburn

hair was wavy and worn rather long, in accordance
with the fashion of the day. His
complexion was fair and fresh, and his features
were good. Altogether he was what the
Major had called him, an attractive man.
Blanche Heriot had danced with him and he
had danced with her ; the one implies the
other, you will say ; and a liking for one
another had sprung up. It may not have
been love on either side as yet — but that is
uncertain.

How lovely I" exclaimed Blanche, as he
held out to her a small bouquet of lilies ,
and their sweet perfume caught
her senses.

I brought them for you," whispered
Lord Level ; and he bent his face nearer
and took a silent kiss from her lips. It was
the first time ; and Blanche blushed consciously.


You did not tell me who that was,
Blanche."

Arnold Ravens worth," she replied.
You have heard me speak of him."

An ill-tempered looking man !"

Do you think so ? Well, yes, perhaps
he did look cross to-night. He had been
hearing about —-about us — from papa ; and
I suppose it did not please him."

Archibald Baron Level drew himself upto
his full height ; his face assumed its
haughtiest expression. " What business is
it of his ?" he asked. " Does he wish to
aspire to you himself?"

Oh, no, no ; he is soon to be married.
He is a man of strict honour, and I fear he
thinks that papa — that I —-that we have
not behaved well to Captain Cross."

They were standing side by side on the
hearth-rug, the fire-light playing on them
and on Blanche's shrinking face. How
miserably uncomfortable the subject of Captain
Cross made her she could never tell.

See here, Blanche," spoke Lord Level,
after a pause. " I was given to understand
by Major Carlenn that when Captain Cross
proposed for you, you refused him ; that it
was only by dint of pressure and persuasion

that you consented to the enslavement.
Major Carlenn told me that as the time went
on you became so miserable under it, latino*
Captain Cross with a greater dislike day by
day, that he had resolved before I spoke to
save you by breaking it off. Was this the
case, or not ?"

Yes, it was. It is true that I felt
wretchedly miserable in the prospect of
marrying Captain Cross. And oh, how I
thank papa for having himself resolved to
break it off ! He did not tell me that."

Because I have some honour of my
own ; and I would not take you sneakingly
from Cross, or any other man. You must
come to me above-board in all ways, Blanche,
or not at all."

Blanche felt her heart beating. She
turned to glance at him, fearing what he
might mean.

So that if there is anything behind the
scenes which has been kept from me ; that
is, if it be not of your own good and freewill
that you marry me ; if you gave up

Captain Cross liking him, because — because
well, though I feel ashamed to suggest
such a thing — because my rank may be somewhat
higher than his, or for any other reason :
why then matters had better be at an end
between us. No harm will have been done,
Blanche."

Blanche's face was drawn and white. " Do
you mean that you wish to give me up ?"

Wish it ! It would be the greatest
pain I could ever know in life. My dear,
have you failed to understand me ? I want
you ; I want you to be my wife ; but not at
the sacrifice of my honour. If Captain
Cross "

Blanche broke down. " Oh, don't leave
me to him !" she implored. " Of course, I
could never, never marry him now ; I would
rather die. Indeed, I do not quite know
what you mean. It was all just as you
have been told by papa ; there was nothing
kept behind."

Lord Level pillowed her head upon his
arm. " Blanche, my dear, it was you who

invoked this," he whispered, " by talking of
Mr. Ravensworth's reflection on you in his
strict honour.' Be assured I would not
leave you to Captain Cross unless compelled
to do so, or to any other man."

Her tears were falling. Lord Level
kissed them away.

Shall I buy you, my love ? — bind you
to me with a golden fetter ?" And, taking
a small case from his waistcoat-pocket, he
slipped upon her marriage finger a hoop of
gold, studded with diamonds. His deep-gray
eyes were strained upon her through
their dark lashes — eyes which had done
mischief in their day — and her hand was
lingering in his.

There, Blanche ; you see I have bought
you ; you are my property now — my very
own. And, my dear, the ring must be worn
always as the keeper of the marriage-ring
when you shall be my wife."

It was a most exquisite relief to her.
Blanche liked him far better than she had
liked Captain Cross. And as Lord Level

pressed his last kiss upon her lips — for Mrs.
Guy was heard approaching — Blanche could
never be sure that she did not return it.

A few more interviews such as these,
and the young lady would be in love with
him heart and soul.

And it may as well be mentioned, ere the
chapter quite closes, that Mr. Charles Strange
was out of the way of all this plotting and
planning and love-making. The whole of
that spring he was over in Paris, watching
a case involving English and French interests
of importance, that was on before the French
courts, and of which Brightman and Strange
were the English solicitors.

#1

'mim

TRIED AT THE OLD BAILEY.

H, Mrs. Guy, he is corning, after
all ! He is indeed !"

Blanche Heriot's joyful tones,
as she read the contents of a short letter
brought in by the evening post, aroused old
Mrs. Guy, who was dozing over her knitting
one Tuesday evening in the May twilight.

"Eh? What, my dear? Who do you
say is coming ?"

Tom. He says he must stretch a point
for once. He cannot let anyone else give
me away."

The Major is to give you away,
Blanche."

I know he intended to do so if Tom
failed me. But Tom is my brother."

Well, well, child ; settle it amongst
yourselves. I don't see that it matters
one way or the other. There's a knock at the
door ! Dear me ! It must be Lord Level."

Lord Level cannot be back again before
tomorrow. He is at Marshdale, you know,"
dissented Blanche. " I think it may be
Tom. I hope it is Tom. He says here he
shall be in town as soon as his letter."

Mr. Strange," announced a servant,
throwing wide the drawing-room door.

Charles Strange had only that morning
returned from Paris, having crossed by the
night mail. The legal business on which he
and Mr. Brightman were just now so much
occupied, involving serious matters for a
client who lived in Paris, had kept Charles
over there nearly all the spring. Blanche
ran to his arms. She looked upon him asher
brother, quite as much as she looked
upon Tom.

And so, Blanche, we are to lose you,"

VOL. I. 10

he said, when he had kissed her. " And
within a day or two, I hear."

He knew very little of Blanche Heriot's
approaching marriage, except that the bridegroom
was Archibald, Lord Level. And
that little he had heard from Mr. Bright-man.
Blanche did not write to him about
it. She had written to tell him she was
going to be married to Captain Cross : but
when that marriage was summarily broken
off by Major Carlenn, Blanche felt a little
ashamed, and did not send word to Charles.
The day after tomorrow, at eleven
o'clock in the morning," put in Mrs. Guy,
in response to the last remark.

All his attention given to Blanche, Charles
Strange really had not observed the old lady.
He turned to regard her.

You cannot have forgotten Mrs. Guy,
Charles," said Blanche, noticing his doubtful
look.

I believe I had for the moment," he
answered, in those pleasant, cordial tones
that won him a way with everyone, as he

went up and shook the old lady heartily by
both hands. " I heard you were staying
here, Mrs. Guy, but I had forgotten it."

They sat down — Blanche and Charles
near the open window, Mrs. Guy not moving
from her low easy-chair on the hearth rug —
and began to talk of the wedding.

Tom is really coming up to give me
away," said Blanche, showing him Captain
Heriot's short note. " It is very good of
him, for he must be very busy : but Tom
was always good. You are aware, Charles,
I suppose, that the regiment is embarking
for India ? Major Carlenn saw the announcement
this morning in the Times"

At that moment Charles Strange saw, or
fancied he saw, a warning look telegraphed
to him by Mrs. Guy: and, placing it in
conjunction with Blanche's words, he fancied
he must know its meaning.

Yes, I heard the regiment was ordered
out," he answered shortly ; and turned the
subject. " Will Lord Level be here tonight,
Blanche ? I should like to see him."

10—2

No," she replied. " He went yesterday
to Marshdale House, his place in Surrey,
and will not return until tomorrow. I
think you will like him, Charles."

I hope you do," replied Charles involuntarily.
" That is the chief consideration,
Blanche."

He looked at her meaningly as he spoke,
and it brought a blush to her face. What
a ]lovely face it was — fair and pure, its blue
eyes haughty as of yore, its golden hair
brilliant and abundant ! She wore a simple
evening dress of white muslin, and a blue
sash, an inexpensive necklace of twisted blue
beads on her neck, no bracelets at all on her
arms. She looked what she really was —
an inexperienced school-girl. Lord Level's
engagement ring on her finger, with its
flashing diamonds, was the only ornament
of value she had about her.

In the momentary silence that ensued,
Blanche left her seat and went to stand at
the open window.

Oh," she exclaimed, an instant later, " I

do think this may be Tom ! A cab has
stopped here."

Charles Strange rose. Mrs. Guy lifted
her finger, and he bent down to her. Blanche
was still at the window.

She does not know he has sold out,"
warningly breathed Mrs. Guy. " She knows
nothing of his wild ways, or the fine market
he has brought his eggs to, poor fellow. We
have kept it from her."

Charles nodded ; and the servant opened
the door with another announcement.

Captain Heriot." Blanche flew across
the room and was locked in her brother's
arms.

Poor Tom Heriot had indeed, as Mrs.
Guy expressed it, with more force than
elegance, brought his eggs to a fine market.
It was some few months now since he sold
out of the Army ; and what he was doing
and how he contrived to exist and nourish
without money, his friends did not know.
During the spring he had made his appearance
in Paris to prefer an appeal for help to

Charles, and Charles had answered it to the
extent of his power.

Just as gay, just as light-hearted, just as
debonair as ever was Tom Heriot. To see
him and to hear him as he sat this evening
with them in Gloucester Place, you might
have thought him as free from care as an
Eton boy — as nourishing as a duke-royal.
Little blame to Blanche that she suspected
nothing of the existing state of things.

When Charles rose to say " Good-night,"
Tom Heriot said it also, and they went away
together.

Charley, lad," said the latter, as the
street-door closed behind them, " could you
put me up at your place for two nights —
until after this wedding is over ?"

To be sure I can. Leah will manage it."

All right. I have sent a portmanteau
there."

You did not come up from Southampton
to-day, Tom? Blanche thought you
did."

And I am much obliged to them for

alio wing" her to think it. I would have
staked my last five-pound note, if you'll
believe me, Charley, that old Carlenn had not
as much good feeling in him. I am vegetating
in London ; have been for some time,
Blanche's letter was forwarded to me by a
comrade who lets me use his address."

And what are you doing in London ?"
asked Charles.

Hiding my ' diminished head,' old fellow,"
answered Tom, with a laugh. No matter
how serious the subject, he could not bo
serious over it.

How much longer do you mean to stand
here ?" continued Charles — for the Captain
(people still gave him his title) had not-moved
from the door.

Till an empty cab goes by."
We don't want a cab this fine night,
Tom. Let us walk. Look how bright the
moon is up there."

Ay ; my lady's especially bright tonight.
Rather too much so for people
who prefer the shade. How you stare,

Charley ! Fact is, I feel safer inside a
cab just now than parading the open
streets."

Afraid of being taken for debt ?"
whispered Charles.

Worse than that," said Tom laconically.

Worse than that !" repeated Charles.
Why, what do you mean ?"

Oh, nothing," and Tom Heriot laughed
again. " Except that I am in the deuce's
own mess, and can't easily get out of it.
There's a cab ! Here, driver ! In with you,
Charley."

And on the following Thursday, when his
sister's marriage with Lord Level took place,
who so gay, who so free from care, who so
attractive as Tom Heriot ? — when giving her
away. Lord Level had never before seen
his future brother-in-law (or half brother-in-law,
as the more correct term would be), and
was agreeably taken with him. A random
young fellow, no doubt, given to playing
the mischief with his own prospects, but a

thorough gentleman, and a very prepossessing
one.

And this is my other brother — I have
always called him so," whispered Blanche to
her newly-made husband, as she presented
Charles Strange to him on their return from
church to Gloucester Place. Lord Level
shook hands heartily ; and Charles, who had
been prejudiced against his lordship, of whom
tales were told, took rather a liking to the
tall, fine man of commanding presence, of
handsome face and easy, genial manners.

After the breakfast, to which very few
guests were bidden, and at which Mrs. Guy
presided, as well as her nerves permitted, atone
end of the table and Major Carlenn at
the other, Lord and Lady Level departed
for Dover on their way to the Continent.

And in less than a week after the wedding,
poor Thomas Heriot, who could not do an
unkind action, who never had been anyone's
enemy in the whole world, and never would
be anyone's, except his own, was taken into
custody on a criminal charge.

The blow came upon Charles Strange asa
clap of thunder. That Tom was ina
mess of some kind he knew well ; nay,
in half a dozen messes most likely ; but he
never glanced at anything so terrible as this.
Tom had fenced with his questions during
the day or two he stayed in Essex Street,
and laughed them off. What the precise
charge was, Charles could not learn at the
first moment. Some people said felony,
some whispered forgery. By dint of much
exertion and inquiry, he at last knew that it
was connected with " Bills."

Certain bills had been put into circulation
by Thomas Heriot, and there was something
wrong about them. At least, about one of
them ; since it bore the signature of a man
who had never seen the bill.

I am as innocent of it as a child unborn,"
protested Thomas Heriot to Charles, more
solemnly in earnest than he had ever been
heard to speak. " True, I got the bills discounted
: accommodation bills, you understand,
and the T were to have been provided

for ; but that any good name had been
forged to one of them, I neither knew nor
dreamt of."

Yet you knew the good name was
there ?"

But I thought it had been genuinely
obtained."

This was at the first interview Charles
held with him in prison. " Whence did you
get the bills ?" Charles continued.

They were handed to me by Anstey.
He is the true culprit in all this, Charles,
and he is slinking out of it, and will set off
scot-free. People warned me against the
fellow ; said he was making a cat's-paw of
me ; and by Jove it's true ! I could not see
it then, but my eyes are open now. He
only made use of me for his own purposes.
He had all, or nearly all, the money."

And this was just the truth of the business.
The man Anstey, a gentleman once,
but living by his wits for many years past,
had got hold of light-headed, careless Tom
Heriot, cajoled him of his friendship, and

used him. Anstey escaped completely " scotfree,"
and Tom suffered.

Tom was guilty in the eyes of the law ;
and the law only takes cognizance of its own
hard requirements. After examination, he
was committed for trial. Charles Strange
was nearly wild with distress ; Mr. Bright-man
was much concerned ; Arthur Lake
(who was now called to the Bar) would have
moved heaven and earth in the cause. Away
went Charles to Mr. Serjeant Stillingfar :
and that renowned special pleader and good-hearted
man threw his best energies into the
cause.

All in vain. At the trial, which shortly
came on at the Old Bailey, Mr. Serjeant
Stillingfar exerted his quiet but most telling
eloquence uselessly. He might as well have
wasted it on the empty air. Though indeed
it did effect something, causing the sentence
pronounced upon the unfortunate prisoner to
be more lenient than it otherwise would have
been. Thomas Heriot was sentenced to be
transported for seven years.

Transportation beyond the seas was still
in force then. And Thomas Heriot, with
a cargo of greater or lesser criminals, was
shipped on board the transport Vengeance,
to be conveyed to Botany Bay.

It seemed to have taken up such a little
space of time ! Very little, compared with
the greatness of the trouble. June had
hardly come in when Tom was first taken ;
and the Vengeance sailed the beginning of
August.

If Mrs. Guy had lamented beforehand the
market that poor Tom Heriot had " brought
his eggs to," what did she think of it now ?

One evening in October a nondescript sort
of vehicle, the German makers of which
could alone know the name, arrived at a
small village not far from the banks of the
Rhine, clattering into the yard of the only
inn the place contained. A gentleman and
lady descended from it, and a parley ensued
with the hostess, more protracted than it
might have been, in consequence of the

travellers' imperfect German, and her own
imperfect French. Could madame accommodate
them for the night, was the substance
of their demand.

Well — yes," was madame's not very
assured answer : "if they could put up with
a small bedroom."

How small ?"

She opened the door of it was

certainly not a room, though it might be
slightly larger than a boot-closet ; madame
called it a cabinet-de-toilette. It was on
the ground-floor, looking into the yard, and
contained a bed, into which one person
might have crept, provided he bargained
with himself not to turn ; but two people,
never. Three of her beds were taken up
with a minor and miladi Anglais, and their
attendants.

Mrs. Ravensworth — a young wife — turned
to her husband, and spoke in English.
Arnold, what can we do ? We cannot £o
on in the dark, with such roads as these."

My love, I see only one thing for

it : you must sleep here, and I must sit
up." "

Madame interrupted ; it appeared she
added a small stock of English to her other
acquirements. " Oh, but dat miserable
for monsieur : he steel in legs for morning."

And stiff in arms too," laughed Arnold
Ravensworth. " Do try and find us a larger
bedroom."

Perhaps the malachi Anglaise might give
up one of her rooms for dis one," debated
the hostess, bustling away to ask.

She returned, followed by an unmistakable
Englishwoman, fine both in dress and
speech. Was she the miladi ? She talked
enough for one : vowing she would never
give up her room to promiscuous travellers,
who prowled about with no wang courier,
taking their own chance of rooms and beds ;
and casting, as she spoke, annihilating glance s
at the benighted wanderers.

Is anything the matter, Timms V inquired
a gentle voice in the background.

Mr. Ravensworth turned round quickly,

for its tones struck upon his remembrance.
There stood Blanche, Lady Level ; and their
hands simultaneously met in surprise and
pleasure.

Oh, this is unexpected !" she exclaimed.
I never should have thought of seeing you
in this remote place. Are you alone ?"

He drew his wife to his side. " I need
not say who she is, Lady Level."

Are you married, then ?"

Ask Mary."

It was an unnecessary question, seeing
her there with him, and Lady Level felt it
to be so, and smiled. Timms came forward
with an elaborate apology and a string of
curtseys, and hoped her room would be
found good enough to be honoured by any
friends of my lady's.

Lady Level's delight at seeing them
seemed as unrestrained as a child's. Exiles
from their native land can alone tell that to
meet with home faces in a remote spot is
grateful as the long-denied water to the
traveller in the Eastern desert. And weare

writing of days when to travel abroad
was the exception, rather than the rule.
There is only one private sitting-room in
the whole house, and that is mine, so you
must perforce make it yours as well," cried
Lady Level, as she laughingly led the way
to it. " And oh ! what a charming break
it will be to my loneliness ! Last night I
cried till bedtime."

Is not Lord Level with you ?" inquired
Mr. Ravens worth.

Lord Level is in England. While they
are getting Timms' room ready, will you
come into mine ?" she added to Mrs.
Raven worth.

How long have you been married ?"
was Lady Level's first question as they
entered it.

Only last Tuesday week."

Are you happy ?"

Oh yes."

I knew your husband long before you
did," added Lady Level. " Did he ever
tell you so ? Did he ever tell you what

vol. i. 11

good friends we were ? Closer friends, I
think, than he and his cousin Cecilia. He
used to come to White Littleton Rectory,
and we girls there made much of him."

Yes, he has often told me."

Mrs. Ravensworth was arranging her hair
at the glass, and Lady Level held the light
for her and looked on. The description
given of her by Blanche to her father was
a very good one. A pale, gentle girl, with
nice eyes, dark, inexpressively soft and
attractive. " I shall like you very much,"
suddenly exclaimed Lady Level. " I think
you are very pretty — I mean, you have the
sort of face I like to look at." Praise that
brought a blush to the cheeks of Mrs.
Ravensworth.

The landlady sent them in the best supper
she could command at the hour ; mutton
chops, served German fashion, and soup,
which Lady Level's man-servant, Sanders,
who waited on them, persisted in calling the
potash — and very watery potash it was,
flavoured with cabbage. When the meal

was over, and the cloth removed, they drew
round the fire.

Do you ever see papa ?" Lady Level
inquired of Mr. Bavensworth.

Now and then. Xot often. He has
let his house again in Gloucester Place, and
Mrs. Guy has gone back to the Channel
Islands."

Oh yes, I know all that," replied
Blanche.

The last time I saw Major Carlenn he
spoke of you — said that you and Lord Level
were making a protracted stay abroad."

Protracted !" Blanche returned bitterly ;
yes, it is protracted. I long to be back in
England, with a longing that has now grown
into a disease. You have heard of the mat
du pays that sometimes attacks the Swiss
when they are away from their native land ;
I think that same malady has attacked me."

But why ?" asked Mr. Ravensworth,
looking at her.

I hardly know," she said, with some
hesitation. " I had never been out of

11—2

England before, and everything was strange
to me. We went to Switzerland first, then
on to Italy, then back again. The longer
we stayed away from England, the greater
grew my yearning for it. In Savoy I
was ill ; yes, I was indeed ; we were at
Chamber ; so ill as to require medical
advice. It was on the mind, the doctor
said. He was a nice old man, and told
Lord Level that I was pining for my native
country."

Then, of course, you left for home at
once \

We left soon, but we travelled like
snails ; halting days at one place, and days
at another. Oh, I was so sick of it ! And
the places were all dull and retired, as this
is ; not those usually frequented by the
English. At last we arrived here ; to stay
also, it appeared. When I asked why we
did not go on, he said he was waiting for
letters from home."

As Lady Level spoke she appeared to be
lost in the past — an expression that you

may have observed in old people when they
are telling you tales of their youth. Her
eyes were fixed on vacancy, and it was
evident that she saw nothing of the objects
around her, only the time gone by. She
appeared to be anything but happy.

Something up between my lord and my
lady," thought Mr. Ravens worth. " Had
your husband to wait long for the expected
letters ?" he asked aloud.

"I do not know : several came for him.
One morning he had one that summoned
him to England without the loss of a
moment, and he said there was not time
for me to be ready to accompany him. I
prayed to go with him. I said Timms
could come on afterwards with the luggage.
It was of no use."

Would he not take you ?" exclaimed
Mrs. Ravensworth, her eyes full of the
astonishment her lips would not express.

Blanche shook her head. " No. He
was quite angry with me ; said I did not
understand my position — that noblemen's

wives could not travel in that unceremonious
manner. I was on the point of
telling him that I wished, to my heart, I
had never been a nobleman's wife. Why
did he marry me, unless he could look upon
me as a companion and friend ?" abruptly
continued Lady Level, perhaps forgetting
that she was not alone. " He treats me asa
child."

What answer could be made to this ?
When do you expect him back again ?"
asked Mr. Ravensworth, after a pause.

How do I know ?" flashed Lady Level,
her tone proving how inexpressibly sore was
the subject. " He said he should return
for me in a few days, but nearly three weeks
have gone by, and I am still here. They
have seemed to me like three months. I
shall be ill if it goes on much longer."

Of course you hear from him ?"

Oh yes, I hear from him. A few lines
at a time, saying he will come for me as soon
as he possibly can, and that I must not be
impatient. I wanted to go over alone, and

he returned me such an answer, asking what
I meant by wishing to travel with servants
only at my age. I shall do something
desperate if I am left here another week."

As you once did at White Littleham
when they forbade your going to a concert,
thinking you were too ill !" laughed Mr.
Ravensworth.

Dressed myself up in my best frock,
and surprised them in the room. I had ten
pages of Italian translation for that escapade."


Do you like Italy V he inquired, after
a pause.

No, I hate it !" And the animus in
Lady Level's answer was so intense that
the husband and wife exchanged stolen
glances. Something must be out of gear.

What parts of Italy did you stay in ?"

Chiefly at Pisa — that is not far from
Florence, you know ; and a few days at
Florence. Lord Level took a villa at Pisa
for a month — and why he did so I could
not tell, for it was not the season when the

English frequent it : no one, so to say, was
there. We made the acquaintance of a Mrs.
Page Reid, who had the next villa to ours."

That was pleasant for you — if you liked
her."

But I did not like her," returned Lady
Level, her delicate cheeks flushing. " That
is, I did and I did not. She was a very
pleasant woman, always ready to help us in
any way ; but she told dreadful tales of
people — making one suspect things that otherwise
would never have entered the imagination.
Lord Level liked her at first, and ended
by disliking her."

Got up a flirtation with her," thought
Mr. Ravensworth. But in that he was mistaken.
And so they talked on.

It appeared that the mail passed through
the village at night time ; and the following
morning a letter lay on the breakfast-table
for Lady Level.

My dear Blanche, — I have met with a
slight accident, and must again postpone

coming to you for a few days. I dare say it
will not detain me very long. Rely upon it
I shall be with you as soon as I possibly can
be. — Ever affectionately yours, Level."

Short and sweet f exclaimed Blanche,
in her bitter disappointment, as she read the
note at the window. " Arnold, when you
and your wife leave tomorrow, what will
become of me, alone here ? If "

Suddenly, as Lady Level spoke the last
word, she started, and began to creep away
from the window, as if fearing to be seen.

Arnold ! Arnold ! who do you think is
out there ?" she exclaimed in a timid
whisper.

Why, who ?" in astonishment. " Not
Lord Level ?"

"It is Captain Cross," she said with a
shiver. " I would rather meet the whole
world than him. My behaviour to him was
was not right ; and I have felt ashamed
of myself ever since."

Mr. Ravens worth looked out from the

window. Captain Cross, seated on the bench
in the inn yard, was solacing himself with a
cigar.

I would not meet him for the world ! I
would not let him see me : he might make a
scene. I shall stay in my rooms all day.
Why does my husband leave me to such
chances as these ?"

That Captain Cross had not been well
used was certain ; but the fault lay with
Major Carlenn, not with Blanche. Mr.
Ravensworth spoke.

Take my advice, Lady Level. Do not
place yourself in Captain Cross's way, but do
not run from him. I believe him to be a
gentleman ; and, if so, he will not say or do
anything to annoy you. I will take care he
does not, as long as I remain here."

In the course of the morning Captain
Cross and Arnold Ravensworth met. " I
find Lady Level's here !" the Captain abruptly
exclaimed. " Are you staying with
her ?"

I and my wife arrived here only last

night, and were surprised to meet Lady
Level."

Where's he P" asked Captain Cross.

In England."

He in England and she here, and only
six months married ! Estranged, I suppose.
Well, what else could she expect ? People
mostly reap what they sow."

Arnold Pavensworth laughed good-humoured.
He was not going to give a hint
of the state of affairs that he suspected himself.


You are prejudiced, Cross. Miss Heriot
was not to blame for what happened. She
was a child : and they did with her as they
pleased."

A child ! Old enough to engage herself
to one man, and to marry another," retorted
Captain Cross, in a hurst of angry
feeling. " And Level, of all people !" —
with sarcastic scorn. " Why does he leave
her in Germany whilst he stays gallivanting
in England ? What do you say ? Met
with an accident, and cant come for her ?

That's his tale, I suppose. You may repeat
it to the Marines, old boy ; it won't do forme.
/ know Level ; knew him of old."

Lady Level was as good as her word : she
did not stir out of her rooms all day. On
the following morning when Mr. Ravens-worth
came out of his chamber, he saw,
from the corridor window, a travelling-carriage
in the yard, packed. By the coat-of-arms
he knew it for Lord Level's.
Timms moved towards him in a nutter of
delight.

Oh, if you please, sir, breakfast is on
the table, and my lady is waiting there,
ready dressed. We are going to England,
sir.

Has Lord Level come ?"

No, sir : we are going with you. My
lady gave orders, last night, to pack up for
home. It is the happiest day I've known,
sir, since I set foot in these barbarious
countries."

Lady Level met him at the door of the
breakfast-room ; " ready dressed," as Timms

expressed it, for travelling, even to her
bonnet.

Do you really mean to go with us ?" he
exclaimed.

Yes," was her decisive reply. " That
is, you must go with me. Stay here longer,
I will not. I tell you, Arnold, I am sick
to death of it. If Lord Level is ill and
unable to come for me, I am glad to embrace
the opportunity of travelling under
your protection : he can't grumble at that.
Besides "

Besides what ?" asked Mr. Ravensworth,
for she suddenly stopped.

"I do not choose to remain at an inn in
which Captain Cross has taken up his
abode : neither would my husband wish me
to do so. After you and Mrs. Ravensworth
left me last night, I sat over the wood fire,
thinking these things over, and made my
mind up. If I have not sufficient money
for the journey, and I don't think I have, I
must apply to you, Arnold."

Whether Mr. Ravensworth approved or

disapproved of the decision, he had no power
to alter it. Or, rather, whether Lord Level
would approve of it. After a hasty breakfast,
they went down to the carriage, which
had already its array of five horses harnessed
to it ; Sanders and Tennis perched side-beside
in their seat aloft. The two ladies were
helped in by Mr. Ravensworth. Captain
Cross leaned against the outer wall of the
salle-manger, watching the departure. He
approached Mr. Raven worth.

Am I driving her ladyship off?"
Lady Level is going to England with
us, to join her husband. I told you he had
met with an accident."

A merry meeting to them !" was the
sarcastic rejoinder. And, as the carriage
drove out of the inn-yard, Captain Cross
deliberately lifted his hat to Lady Level :
but lifted it, she thought, in mockery.

THE VINE-COVERED COTTAGE AT PISA.

f^JtnS^HAT Archibald, Lord Level, had
been a gay man, fond of pleasure,
fond of talking nonsense to pretty
women, the world knew well : and perhaps,
world-fashion, admired him none the less for
it. But his wife did not know it. When
Blanche Heriot became Blanche Level she
was little more than an innocent child,
entirely unversed in the world's false ways.
She esteemed her husband ; ay, and loved
him, in a measure, and she was happy for a
time.

It is true that while they were staying in
Switzerland a longing for home came over

her. They had halted in Paris for nearly a
fortnight on their outward route. Some
very nice people whom Lord Level knew
were there ; they were delighted with the
fair young bride, and she was delighted with
them. Blanche was taken about everywhere,
no one being more anxious for her amusement
than Lord Level himself. But one
morning, in the very midst of numerous projected
expeditions, he suddenly told Blanche
that they must continue their journey that
day.

Oh, Archibald !" she had answered in a
sort of dismay. " Why, it is this very afternoon
that we were going to Fontainebleau !"

My dear, you shall see Fontainebleau
the next time we are in Paris," he said.
I have a reason for wishing to go on at
once."

And they went on. Blanche was far too
good and dutiful a wife to oppose her own
will to her husband's, or to grumble. They
went straight on to Switzerland — travelling
in their own carriage — but instead of settling 1

himself in one of those pretty dwellings on
the banks of Geneva's lake, as he had
talked of to Blanche, Lord Level avoided
Geneva altogether, and chose a fearfully
dull little village as their place of abode.
Very lovely as to scenery, it is true ; but
quite unfrequented by travellers. It was
there that Blanche first began to long for
home.

Next, they went on to Italy, posting
straight to Pisa, and there Lord Level took
a pretty villa for a month in the suburbs of
the town. Pisa itself was deserted : it was
hot weather ; and Blanche did not think it
had many attractions. Lord Level, however,
seemed to find pleasure in it. He
knew Pisa well, having stayed at it in days
gone by. He made Blanche familiar with the
neighbourhood ; together they admired and
wondered at the Leaning Tower, in its
green plain, backed by distant mountains ;
but he also went out and about a good deal
alone.

One English dame of fashion was sojourn-vol.
1. 1 2

ing in the place — a widow, Mrs. Page Reid.
She occupied the next villa to theirs, and
called upon them ; and she and Lady Level
grew tolerably intimate. She was a talkative,
gay woman of thirty — and beside her Blanche
seemed like a timid schoolgirl.

One evening, when dinner was over, Lord
Level strolled out — as he often did — leaving
his wife with Mrs. Page Reid, who had
dined with them. The two ladies talked
together, and sang a song or two ; and so
whiled away the time.

Let us go out for a stroll, too !" exclaimed
Mrs. Page Paid, speaking on a momentary
impulse, when she found the time growing
monotonous.

Blanche readily agreed. It was a most
lovely night ; the moon bright and silvery
in the Italian sky. Putting on some fleecy
shawls, the ladies went down the solitary
road, and turned by-and-by into a narrow
lane that looked like a grove of evergreens.
Soon they came to a pretty dwelling-place
on the left, half villa, half cottage. Vines

grew up its trellised walls, flowers and
shrubs crowded around it.

A charming little spot !" cried Mrs.
Page Reid, as they halted to peep through
the hedge of myrtles that clustered on each
side the low entrance-gate. " And two
people are sitting there — lovers, I daresay,"
she added, " telling their vows under
the moonbeams."

In front of the vine-wreathed window, on
a bench overhung by the branches of the
trailing shrubs, the laurels and the myrtles,
sat two young people. The girl was tall,
slender, graceful ; her dark eyes had a flashing
fire even in the moonlight ; her cheeks
wore a rose-red flush.

How pretty she is !" whispered Blanche.
Look at her long gold earrings ! And

he — oh r

What's the matter ?" cried Mrs. Paofe
Reid, the tone of the last word startling
her.

It is my husband."

Nonsense !" began Mrs. Page Reid.

12—2

But after one doubting, disbelieving look,
she saw that it was so. Catching Blanche's
hand, she drew her forcibly away, and when
they had gained the highroad, burst into a
long, low laugh.

Don't think about it, dear," she said to
Blanche. " It's nothing. The best of husbands
like to amuse themselves behind our
backs."

Perhaps he was — was — inquiring the
way — or something," hazarded Blanche,
whose breath was coming rather faster than
usual.

Mrs. Page Reid nearly choked. " Oh,
to be sure !" she cried, when she could
speak.

You don't think so ? You think it
was — something else ?"

You are only a little goose, my dear, in
the ways of the world," rejoined Mrs. Page
Reid. " Where's the man that does not
like to talk with a pretty woman ? Lord
Level, of all others, does."

He does ?"

Well, he used to do so. Of course he
has mended his manners. And the women,
mind you, liked to talk to him. But don't
take up the notion, please, that by saying
that I insinuate any unorthodox talking,"
added Mrs. Page Reid as an after-thought,
when she caught a look at Lady Level's
tell-tale countenance.

I shall ask Lord Level "

"Ask nothing" impressively spoke the
elder lady, cutting short the words. " Say
nothing to your husband. Take my advice,
Lady Level, for it is good. There is no
mortal sin a wife can commit so repugnant
in her husband's eyes as that of spying upon
his actions. It would make him detest her
in the end."

But I was not spying. We saw it by
accident."

"All the same. Let it pass from your
mind as though it had never been."

Blanche was dubious. If there was no
harm, why should she not speak of it ? —
and she could not think there was harm.

And if there was — why, she would not have
breathed it to him for the world. Dismissing
the subject, she and Mrs. Page
Reid sat down to a quiet game at cards.
When Lord Level came in, their visitor
said good-night.

Blanche sat on in silence and torment.
Should she speak, or should she not ? Lord
Level seemed buried in a reverie.

Archibald," she presently began.

Yes," he answered, rousing himself.

I — we — I and Mrs. Page Reid went
out for a little walk in the moonlight.
And "

Well, my dear ?"

We saw you," Blanche was wishing to
say ; but somehow her courage failed her.
Her breath was short, her throat was beating.


And it was very pleasant," she went on.
As warm and light as day."

Just so," said Lord Level. "But the
night air is treacherous, apt to bring fever.
Do not go out again in it, love."

An evening or two further on, when she
was quite alone, Lord Level having again
strolled out, she threw on the same fleecy
shawl and betook herself down the road to
the cottage in the grove — the cottage that
looked like a pretty bower in the evergreens.
And — yes

Well, it was a strange thing — a startling
thing ; startling, anyway, to poor Blanche
Level's heart ; but there, on the self-same
bench, side by side, sat Lord Level and the
Italian girl. Her face looked more beautiful
than before to the young wife's
jealous eyes ; the gold earrings glittered
and sparkled in the moonlight. He and she
were conversing in a low, earnest voice, and
Lord Level was smoking a cigar.

Blanche stood rooted to the spot, shivering
a little as she peered through the myrtle

hedge, but never moving. Presently the
young woman lifted her head, called out
Si," and went indoors, evidently in answer
to a summons.

Nina," sang out Lord Level. " Nina "
raising his voice higher — " I have left
my cigar-case on the table ; bring it to me
when you come out again."

He spoke in English. The next minute
the girl returned, cigar-case in hand. She
took her place by his side, as before, and
they fell to talking again.

Lady Level drew away. She went home
with flagging steps and a bitterly rebellious
heart.

Not to her husband would she speak ;
her haughty lips were sealed to him — and
should be ever, she resolved in her new pain.
But she gave a hint the next day of what
she had again seen to Mrs. Page Bed.

That lady only laughed. To her mind it
was altogether a rich joke. Not only the
affair itself, but Blanche's ideas upon it.

My dear Lady Level," she rejoined, " as

I said before, you are very ignorant of the
ways of the world. I assure you our husbands
like to chatter to others as well as
to us. Nothing wrong, of course, you understand
; the mistake is, if we so misconstrue
it. Lord Level is a very attractive
man, you know, and has had all sorts of
escapades."

I never knew that he had had them."
Well, it is hardly likely he would tell
you of them before you were his wife. He
will tell you fast enough some day."

Won't you tell me some of them now ?"
Blanche was speaking very equably, as if
worldly wisdom had come to her all at once ;
and Mrs. Page Reid began to ransack her
memory for this, that, or the other that she
might have heard of Lord Level. As tales
of scandal never lose by carrying, she probably
converted mole-hills into mountains ;
most assuredly so to Blanche's mind. Anyway,
she had better have held her tongue.

From that time, what with one doubt
and another, Lady Level's regard for her

lord was changed. Her feeling towards him
became most bitter. Resentment ? — india

©

nation ? — neither is an adequate word for it.
At the week's end they left Pisa, for the
month was up, and travelled back by easy
stages to Savoy. Blanche wanted to go
direct to England, but Lord Level objected :
he said she had not yet seen enough of
Switzerland. It was in Savoy that her
illness came on — the mal du pays, as they
called it. When she grew better, they
started towards home ; travelling slowly and
halting at every available spot. That his
wife's manner had changed to him, Lord
Level could only perceive, but he had no
suspicion of its cause. He put it down to
her anger at his keeping her so long away

from England.

©

The morning after they arrived at the inn
in Germany (of which mention has been
made) Lord Level received a letter, which
seemed to disturb him. It was forwarded
to him by a banker in Paris, to whom at
present all his letters were addressed. Telling

Blanche that it contained news of some
matter of business upon which he must start
for London without delay, he departed ; declining
to listen to her prayer that she
might accompany him, but promising to
return for her shortly. It was at that inn
that Arnold Ravensworth and his wife found
Lady Level : and it was with them she
journeyed to England.

And here we must give a few words to
Lord Level himself. He crossed the Channel
by the night mail to Dover, and reached
London soon after daybreak. In the course
of the day he called at his bankers', Messrs.
Courts and Co., to inquire for letters : orders
having now been given by him to Paris to
forward them to London. One only awaited
him, which had only just then come in.

As Lord Level read it, he gave utterance
to a word of vexation. For it told him that
the matter of business upon which he had
hurried over was put off for a week : and he
found that he might just as well have remained
in Germany.

The first thought that crossed his mind
was — should he return to his wife ? But it
was hardly worth while doing so. So he
took rooms in Holies Street, at a comfortable
house where he had lodged before, and
looked up friends and acquaintances at his
club. But he did not let that first day pass
without calling on Charles Strange.

The afternoon was drawing to an end in
Essex Street, and Charles was in his own
private room, all his faculties given to a
deed, when Lord Level was shown in. It
was for Charles he asked, not for Mr.
Brightman.

What an awful business this is !" began
his lordship, when greetings had passed.

Charles lifted his hands in dismay. No
need to ask to whom the remark applied : or
to mention poor Tom Heriot by name.

Could nothing be done, Mr. Strange ?"
demanded the peer in his coldest and
haughtiest tones. "Were there no means that
could have been taken to avert exposure?"

Yes, I think there might have been,

but for Tom's own careless folly : and that's
the most galling part of it," returned Charles.
Had he only made a confidant of me beforehand,
we should have had a try for it.
If I could not have found the money myself,
Mr. Brightman would have done so."

You need only have applied to me," said
Lord Level. " I should not have cared how
much I paid — to prevent exposure."

But in his carelessness, you see, he never
applied to anyone ; he allowed the blow to
fall upon him, and then it was too late "

Was he a fool ?" interjected Lord Level.

There is this excuse for his not speaking
: he did not know that things were so
bad, or that the people would proceed to
extremities."

The peer drew in his haughty lips. " Did
he tell you that pretty fable ?"

Believe this much, Lord Level : what
Tom said, he thought. Anyone more reprehensibly
light and heedless I do not know,
but he is incapable of falsehood. And in
saying that he did not expect so grave a

charge, or believe there were any grounds'
on which it could be made, I am sure he
spoke only the truth. He was drawn in by
one Anstey, and "

I read the reports of the trial," interrupted
Lord Level. " Do not be at the
pain of going over the details again."

Well, the true culprit was Anstey ;
there's no doubt of that. But, like most
cunning rogues, he was able to escape consequences
himself, and throw them upon
Tom. I am sure, Lord Level, that Tom
Heriot no more knew the bill was forged
than I knew it. He knew well enough
there was something shady about it ; about
that and others which had been previously
in circulation, and had been met when they
came to maturity. This one bill was different.
Of course there's all the difference
between shady bills of accommodation, and
a bill that has a responsible man's name toit,
which he never signed himself."

But what on earth possessed Heriot to
allow himself to be drawn into such toils ?"

Ah, there it is. His carelessness. He
has been reprehensibly careless all his life.
And now he has paid for it. All's over."

He is already on his passage out in the
convict ship Vengeance, is he not ?" said
Lord Level, with suppressed rage.

Yes : ever since early in August," shuddered
Charles. " How does Blanche bear it ?"

Blanche does not know it."

Not know it !"

"No. As yet I have managed to keep
it from her. I dread its reaching her, and
that's the truth. It is a fearful disgrace.
She is fond of him, and would feel it keenly."

But I cannot understand how it can
have been kept from her."

Well, it has been. Why, she does not
even know that he sold out ! She thinks
he embarked with the regiment for India
last May ! We had been in Paris about
ten days — after our marriage, you know —
when one morning, happening to take up
the Times, I saw in it the account of his
apprehension and first examination. They

had his name in as large as life — Thomas
Heriot. ' Some gross calumny,' I thought ;
Blanche must not hear of this :' and I gave
orders for continuing our journey that same
day. However, I soon found that it was
not a calumny : other examinations took
place, and he was committed for trial. I
kept my wife away from all places likely to
be frequented by the English, lest a word
should be dropped to her : and as yet, as I
tell you, she knows nothing of it. She is
very angry with me in her heart, I can see,
for taking her to secluded places, and for
keeping her away from England so long,
but this has been my sole motive. I want
the thought of it to die out of people's
minds before I bring her home."

She is not with you, then ?"

She is in Germany. I had to hasten
over here upon a matter of business, and
shall return for her when it is finished. I
have taken my old rooms in Holies Street
for a week. You must look me up there."

I will," said Charles.

Mr. Brightman came in then, and the
trouble was gone over again. Lord Level
felt it keenly ; there could be no doubt of
that. He inquired of the older and more
experienced lawyer whether there was any
chance of bringing Anstey to a reckoning,
so that he might be punished ; and as to
any expense, great or small, that might be
incurred in the process, his lordship added,
he would give carte blanche for that with
greater delight than he had given money for
anything in his whole life.

Charles could not help liking him. Withall
his pride and his imputed faults, few
people could help liking Lord Level.

Meanwhile, as may have been gathered
in the last chapter, Lord Level was detained
in England longer than he had thought for.
Lady Level grew impatient and more impatient
at the delay : and then, taking the
reins into her own hands, she crossed the
Channel with Mr. and Mrs. Arnold Ravens-worth.


vol. 1. 1 3

COMPLICATIONS.

IpgROSSING by the night boat from
Calais, the travellers reached
Dover at a very early hour of the
Lady Level, with her servants,
proceeded at once to London ; but Mrs.
Ravensworth, who had been exceedingly ill
on the passage, required some repose, and
she and her husband waited for a later train.
Make use of our house, Lady Level,"
said Mr. Ravensworth — speaking of his new
abode in Portland Place. " The servants
are expecting me and their mistress, and
will have all things in readiness, and make
you comfortable."

Thank you all the same, Arnold," said
Lady Level ; " but I shall drive straight to
my husband's rooms in Holies Street."

I would not — if I were you," he dissented.
" You are not expected, and may
not find anything ready in lodgings, so early
in the morning. Drive first to my house
and have some breakfast. You can go onto
Holies Street afterwards."

Sensible advice. And Lady Level took
it.

In the evening of that same day, Arnold
Ravensworth and his wife reached Portland
Place from the London terminus. To Mr.
Ravensworth' s surprise, who should be
swinging from the door as the cab stopped
but Major Carlenn in his favourite purple and
scarlet cloak, his gray hair disordered and
his eyes exceeding fierce.

Here's a pretty kettle-of-fish !" cried he,
scarcely giving Arnold time to hand out his
wife, and following him into the hall. " You
have done a nice thing !"

What is amiss ?" asked Mr. 



worth, as he took the Major into a sitting-room.


Amiss !" returned the excited Major.
I would advise you not to fall into Level's
way just now. How the mischief came you
to bring Blanche over ?"

We accompanied Lady Level to England
at her request : I took no part in influencing
her decision. Lady Level is her own mistress."


Is she, though ! She'll find she's not,
if she begins to act in opposition to her
husband. Before she was married, she had
not a wish of her own, let alone a will — and
there's where Level was caught, I fancy,"
added the Major, in a parenthesis, nodding
his head knowingly. " He thought he had
picked up a docile child, who would never be
in his way. What with that and her beauty
anyway, he could not think she would besetting
up a will, and an obstinate one, as
she's doing now, rely upon that."

Major Carlenn was striding from one end
of the room to the other, his cloak catching

in the furniture as he swayed about. Arnold
thought he had been drinking 1 : but he was
a man who could take a great deal, and show
it very little.

The case is this," said he, unfastening
the troublesome cloak, and flinging it on to
a chair. " Level has been in England a
week or two ; amusing himself, I take it.
He didn't want his wife, I suppose ; welland
good : men like a little society, and as
long as they keep their wives in the dark,
there's no reason why they shouldn't have
it "

Major Carlenn !" burst forth Mr. Ravens-worth.
" Lord Level's wife is your daughter.
Have you forgotten it ?"

My step-daughter. What if she is ?
Does that render her different from others ?
Are you going to climb a pole and cry
Morality ? You are a young married man,
Arnold Ravensworth, and must be on your
good behaviour just now ; it's etiquette."

Mr. Ravensworth was not easily excited,
but the red flush of anger darkened his

cheek. He could have thrust the old rascal
from the house.

•• Level leaves his wife in France, and
tells her to remain there. Germany ? Well,
say Germany, then. My lady chooses to
disobey, and comes to England, under your
wing : and I wish old Harry had driven you
to any place rather than the one she was
stopping at. She reaches town to-day, and
drives to Lord Level's rooms in Holies
Street, whence he had dated his letters to
her — and a model of incaution he was for
doing it : why couldn't he have dated from
his club I My lady finds or hears of something
there she does not like. Well, what
could she expect ? They were his rooms ;
taken for himself, not for her ; and if she
had not been a greater simpleton than ever
broke loose from keeping, she would have
come away, then and there. Xot she. She
must persist in putting questions as to this
and that ; so at last she learned the truth, I
suppose, or something near it. Then she
thought it time to leave the house and come

fco mine \ which is wI1.1t she ough to h:i\<-
done at first ! and there she baa been wan
mg until m»\\ to sec me, for I have been out
all day."

ti I 1 hough yoxxt house was Let ?"
11 1 1 was let for the season ; the people
have I'l't ii now. I same home only yesterday
from Jersey, My sister is Lying ill
1 here."

\ikI may I ask, Major Carlenn, bow you
know that Lord Level has been 'amusing
himself if you bave not been bere bo see i"
questioned M 1 . Ravensworth saroastioaUy.

lt I I ow do I know it ? why, commonsense

tells me," stunned 1 be Major, " I
bave not heard a word about Level, except
wh;i 1 I blanche says."

u [s be in Holies Street?"

\«»| now. lie gave up I he rooms a
Week ago, and wen! down l<> Mar.Jidale, his

place in Surrey. 1 1< is laid up I here, baying
managed to jam his knee against a gatepost

; Ins horse swerved going through it.
A man I mel to-day, a friend of Levels,

told me so. To go back to Blanche. She
opened out an indignant tale to me, when I
got home just now and found her there, of
what she had heard in Holies Street. ' Serve
you right, my dear,' I said to her : ' a wife
has no business to be looking at her husband
through a telescope. If a man chose to fill
his rooms with wild tigers, it would not be
his wife's province to complain, provided he
kept her out of reach of their claws.' ' But
what am I to do ?' cried Blanche. ' You
must return to France, or wherever else you
came from,' I answered. ' That I never
will : I shall go down to Marshdale, to Lord
Level,' asserted Blanche, looking as I had
never seen her look before. ' You can't go
there,' I said : ' you must not attempt it.'
I tell you, papa, I will go,' she cried, her
eyes flashing. I never knew she had so
much passion in her, Ravensworth : Level
must have changed her nature. ' I will have
an explanation from Lord Level,' she continued.
' Rather than live on as I am living
now, I will demand a separation.' — Now,

did you put that into her head ?" broke off
the Major, looking at Mr. Ravensworth.

"I do not think you know what you are saying,
Major Carlenn. Should I be likely to advise
Lady Level to separate from her husband ?"

Someone has ; such an idea would never
enter Blanche's head unless put there. ' You
must lend me the means to go down,' she
went on. ' I am quite without money,
through paying the bill at the hotel : Mr.
Ravensworth had partly to supply my travelling
expenses.' ' Then more fool Ravens-worth
for doing it,' said I ; and more fool
you were," repeated the Major.

Anything more, Major ?"

The idea of my lending her money to
take her down to Marshdale ! And she'd
be cunning to get money from me, just now,
for I am out at all pockets. The last supplies
I had came from Level ; I wrote to him
when he was abroad. By Jove ! I would
not cross him now for the universe."

The selfish old sinner !" thought Mr.
Ravensworth — and nearly said so aloud.

Let me finish ; she'll be here in a
minute ; she said she should come and apply
to you. ' Does your husband beat you, or
ill-treat you V I asked her. ' No,' said she,
shaking her head in a proud fury ; ' even I
would not submit to that. Will you lend
me some money, papa ?' she asked again.
i No, I won't,' I said. ' Then I'll borrow it
from Mr. Ravens worth,' she cried, and ran
upstairs to put her bonnet on. So then I
thought it was time to come too, and explain.
Mind you don't supply her with
any, Ravensworth."

What pretext can I have for refusing ?"

Pretext be shot !" irritably returned the
Major. " Tell her you won't, as I do. I
forbid you to lend her any. There she is !
What a passionate knock ! Been blundering
up wrong turnings, I dare say."

Lady Level came in, looking tired, heated,
frightened. Mr. Ravensworth took her
hand.

You have been walking here !" he said.
It is not right that Lady Level should

be abroad in London streets at night, and
alone."

What else am I to do without money ?"
she returned hysterically.

I sent the servants and the luggage to
an hotel this morning, and gave them the
few shillings I had left."

Do sit down and calm yourself. All
this is truly distressing."

Calm herself ! The emotion, so long pent
up, broke forth into sobs. " Yes, it is distressing.
I come to England and I find no
home ; I am driven about from pillar to
post, insulted everywhere ; I have to walk
through the streets, like any poor, helpless
girl. Is it right that it should be so ?"

You have brought it all upon yourself,
my lady," cried Major Carlenn, coining forward
from a dark corner.

She turned with a start. " So you are
here, papa ! Then I hope you have entered
into sufficient explanation to spare it to me."

I have told Ravens worth of your fine
exploit, in going to Lord Level's rooms :

and he agrees with me that no one except
an inexperienced child would have done it."

The truth, if you please, Major Carlenn,"
struck in Mr. Ravensworth.

And that what you heard or met with
though as to what it was I'm sure I'm all
in a fog about — served you right for going,"
continued the unabashed Major.

Lady Level threw back her head, the
haughty crimson dyeing her cheeks. " I
went there expecting to find my husband ;
was that an inexperienced or a childish
action ?"

Yes, it was," roared the Major, completely
losing his temper, and showing his
fierce teeth. " When men are away from
their wives, they fall back into bachelor
habits. If they please to turn their sanctum
into smoking dens, or boxing dens, or
what not, are you to come hunting them upas
I say, with a spyglass that magnifies at
both ends ?"

Good men have no need to keep their
wives away from them."

The Major gave his nose a twist. " Goodmen
? — bad men ? — where's the difference ?
The good have their wives under their
thumb, and the bad haven't, that's all."

For shame, papa !"

Tie Lord Level to your apron-string,
and keep him there as long as you can,"
fired the Major ; " but don't ferret him up
when he is out for a holiday."

Did I want to ferret up Lord Level ?"
she retorted. " I went there because I
thought it was his temporary home and
would be mine. Why did he date his letters
thence ?"

There it all lies," cried the Major,
changing his tone to one of wrath against
the peer. " Better he had dated from the
top of the Monument. It is surprising what
mistakes men make sometimes. But how
was he to think you would come over
against his expressed will ? You say he
had bade you stop there until he could fetch
you."

Lady Level would not reply : the respect

due to Major Carlenn as her step-father was
not in the ascendant just then. Turning to
Mr. Ravensworth, she requested the loan of
sufficient funds to take her down to Marsh-dale.


I tell you, Blanche, you must not go
there," interrupted the Major. " Better
not. Lord Level does not receive strangers
at Marshdale."

Strangers !" emphatically repeated Lady
Level.

Or wives either. They are the same as
strangers in a case such as this. I assure
you Level told me, long before he married
you, that Marshdale was a little secluded
place, no establishment kept up in it, except
an old servant or two ; that he never received
company down there, and should
never take you to it. Remain at the hotel
with your servants, if you will not come to
my house, Blanche — there's only a charwoman
in it at present, as you know. Then
write to Level and let him know that you
are there."

Lady Level had better stay here tonight,
at all events," put in Arnold Ravens-worth.
" My wife is expecting her to do so."

Ay." acquiesced the old Major : " and
write to Marshdale tomorrow, Blanche."

"I go down to Marshdale tomorrow,"
she replied in tones of determination. "It
is too late to go to-night. The old servants
that wait upon Lord Level can wait upon
me : and if there are none, I will wait upon
him myself. Go there I will, and have an
understanding. And, unless Lord Level
can explain away the aspect that things
have taken, I — I — I "

Of all the imbeciles that ever gave
utterance to folly, you are the worst," was
the Major's complimentary retort, when she
broke down. " Madam, do you know that
you are a peeress of the realm ?" he added
pompously.

I do not forget it."

And you would stand in your own light !
You have carriages and finery ; you are to
be presented next season ; you will then

have a house in town : what does the earth
contain more that you can want ?"

Happiness," said Lady Level.

Happiness !" repeated the Major, in
genuine astonishment. " A pity but you
had married a country curate and found it,
then. Arnold Ravensworth, you must not
lend Lady Level the money she desires ;
you shall not speed her on this insane journey."


Mr. Ravensworth approached him, and
spoke in low tones. " Do you know of any
existing reason that may render it inexpedient
for her to go there ?"

I know nothing about it," replied the
Major, too angry to lower his voice ; " absolutely
nothing. The Queen and all the
princesses might pay it a visit, for aught I
know of any reason to the contrary. But it
is not Lady Level's place to follow her husband
about in this clandestine manner. If
he wants her there, he will send for her,
once he knows that she is in London. The
place is not much more than a farm, I

believe, and used to be a hunting-box in the
late Lord Level's time."

Papa, I hope you will forgive me for
running counter to your advice — but I shall
certainly go down into Surrey tomorrow."

I wash my hands of it altogether," said
the angry Major.

And you must lend me the money,
Arnold."

I will not refuse you," was his answer :
and I cannot dictate to you ; but I think
it would be better for you to remain here,
and let Lord Level know that you are
coming."

Lady Level shook her head. " Good
advice, Arnold, no doubt, and I thank you ;
all the same, I shall go down as I have said."

You will be very much to blame, sir, if
you help on this mad scheme by so much asa
sixpence," spoke the Major.

Papa, listen to a word of common sense,"
she interposed. " I could go to a dozen
places tomorrow, and get any amount of
money. I could go to Lord Level's agents,

vol. 1. 14

and say I am Lady Level, and they would
supply me. I could go to Mr. Brightman,
and he would supply me — Charles Strange
is in Paris again. I could go to other
places. But I prefer to have it from Mr.
Ravensworth, and save myself trouble and
annoyance. It is not a pleasant thing for a
peeress of the realm — as you just now put it
to go about borrowing a five-pound note,"
she concluded with a faint smile.

Very well, Blanche. If ill comes of this
wild step of yours, remember you were
warned against it. I can say no more."

Gathering up his cloak as he spoke, Major
Carlenn threw it over his shoulders, and went
forth, muttering, into the night.

Mr. Bavensworth called his wife, and she
took Lady Level upstairs to a hastily-prepared
chamber. Sitting down in a low chair,
and throwing off her bonnet, Lady Level,
worn out with all the excitement she had
gone through, burst into a flood of hysterical
tears.

Tell me all about it," said Mary Ravens-worth

soothingly, drawing the poor wearied
head to rest on her shoulder.

They meant to stop me from going down
to my husband, and I till go," sobbed
Blanche half defiantly. "If he has met
with an accident, and is ill, I ought to be
there."

Of course you ought," said Mary warmly.
But what is all the trouble about ? — And
what was it that you heard, and did not like,
in Holies Street ?"

Oh, never mind that," said Blanche,
colouring furiously. " That is what I am
going to ask my husband to explain."

Upon Lady Level's arrival in London
that morning, she sent her servants and luggage
to an hotel, and drove straight to Portland
Place herself: where Mr. and Mrs.
Bavensworth's servants supplied her with
breakfast. Afterwards, she went to Holies
Street, arriving there about ten o'clock ;
walked into the passage, for the house door
was open, was met by a young person in
green, and inquired for Lord Level.

14 — 2

Lord Level's not here now, ma'am," was
the answer, as she showed Blanche into a
parlour. " He has been gone about a week."

Gone about a week !" repeated Blanche,
completely taken back ; for she had pictured
him as lying at the place disabled.

About that time, ma'am. He and the
lady left together."

Blanche stared, and collected her scattered
senses. " What lady ?" she asked.

The young person in green considered.
"Well, ma'am, I forget the name just now ;
those foreign names are hard to remember.

©

His lordship called her Nina. A very handsome
lady, she was — Italian, I think — with

long gold ear-rings."

© © ©

Lady Level's heart began to beat loudly.
May I ask if you are Mrs. Pratt ?" she
inquired, knowing that to be the name of the
landlady.

Dear me, no, ma'am ; Mrs. Pratt's my
aunt ; I'm up here on a visit to her from the
country. She is gone out to do her marketings.
Lord Level was going down to

his seat in Surrey, we understood, when he
left here."

Was the Italian lady going with him ?"

The country girl — who was no doubt an
inexperienced, simple country maiden, or she
might not have talked so freely — shook her
head. " We don't know anything about
that, ma'am : she might have been. She
was related to my lord — his sister-in-law, I
think he called her to Mrs. Pratt — or some
relation of that sort."

Blanche walked to the window and stood
still for a moment, looking into the street,
getting up her breath. " Did the lady stay
with Lord Level all the time he was here ?"
she questioned, presently.

Oh no, ma'am ; she came only the day
before he went away. Or, stay — the day
but one before, I think it was. Yes ; for I
know they were out together nearly all the
intervening day. Mrs. Pratt thought at his
lordship's solicitor's. It was about six o'clock
in the evening when she first arrived. My
lord had spoken to Mrs. Pratt that day in

his drawing-room, saying he was expecting a
relative from Italy for a day or two, and
could we let her have a bedroom, and any
other accommodation she might need ; and
Mrs. Pratt said she would, for we were not
full. A very nice lady she seemed to be,
ma'am, and spoke English in a very pretty
manner."

Lady Level drew in her contemptuous
lips. " Did Lord Level meet with any accident
while he was here ?"

Accident, ma'am ! Not that we heard
of. He was quite well when he left."

Thank you," said Blanche, turning away
and drawing her mantle up with a shiver.
As Lord Level is not here, I will not intrude
upon you further."

Wishing the young person in green good-morning,
she went away to Gloucester Place,
feeling that she must scream or cry or fight
the air. Blanche knew Major Carlenn was
about due in London, as his house was vacant
again. Yes, the old charwoman said, the
Major had got home the previous day, but

he had just gone out. Would my lady (for
she knew Blanche) like to walk in and wait
until he returned ?

My lady did so, and had to wait until
evening. Then she partly explained to
Major Carlenn, and partly confused him ;
causing that gentleman to take up all kinds
of free and easy ideas, as to the morals and
manners of my Lord Level.

On the following morning Lady Level,
pursuing her own sweet will, took train for
Marshdale, leaving her servants behind her.

THE HOUSE AT Marshal.

>T was a gloomy day, not far off the
gloomy month of November, and
it was growing towards mid-day,
when a train on a small line, branching from
the direct London line, drew up at the somewhat
insignificant station of Upper Marsh-dale.
A young and beautiful lady, without
attendants, descended from a first-class
carriage.

Any luggage, ma'am?" inquired a porter,
stepping up to her.

A small black bag ; nothing else."
The bag was found in the van, and
placed on the platform. A family, who also

appeared to have arrived at their destination,
closed round the van and were tumultuous
over a missing trunk, and the lady drew
back and accosted a stolid-looking lad, dressed
in the railway uniform.

How far is it to Marshdale ?"

Marshdale ! Why, you be at Marsh-dale,"
returned the boy, in sulky tones.

I mean Marshdale House."

Marshdale House ? — That be my Lord
Level's place," said the boy, still more
sulkily. " It be a matter of two mile."

Are there any carriages to be hired ?"

There's one — a fly ; he waits here when
the train comes in."

Where is it to be found ?"

It stands in the road, yonder. But if
ye wants the fly, it's of no use wanting. It
have been booked by them folks squabbling
over their boxes : they write here yesterday
for it to be ready for 'em."

The more civil porter now came up, and
the lady appealed to him. He confirmed
the information that there was only this one

conveyance to be had, and the family had
secured it. Perhaps, he added, the lady
might like to wait until they had done
with it.

The lady shook her head impatiently, and
decided to walk. " Can you come with me
to carry my bag and to show me the way ?"
she asked of the surly boy.

The surly boy, willing or unwilling, had
to acquiesce, and they set off to walk.
Upon emerging from the station, he came
to a standstill.

Now, which way d'you mean to go ?"
began he, facing round upon his companion.
There's the road way, and it's plaguy long ;
two mile, good ; and there's the field way,
and it's a sight nearer."

Is it as good as the road ?"

It's gooder — barring the bull. He runs
at everybody. And he tosses 'em, if he can
catch 'em."

Not caring to encounter so objectionable
an animal, the lady chose the road ; and the
boys strode on before her, bag in hand. It

was downhill all the way. In due time they
reached Marshdale House, which lay in a
hollow. It was a low, straggling, irregular
structure, built of dark red brick, with wings
and gable ends, and must originally have
looked more like a comfortable farm-house
than a nobleman's seat. But it had been
added to at various periods, without any
regard to outward appearance or internal
regularity. It was exceedingly retired, and
a very large garden surrounded the house,
encompassed by high walls and dense trees.

The walls were separated by a pair of
handsome iron gates, and a small doorway
stood beside them. A short, straight
avenue, overhung by trees, led to the front
entrance of the house. The surly boy,
turning himself and his bag round, pushed
backwards against the small door, sent it
flying, and branched off into a side-path.

Is not that the front-door ?" said the
lady, trying to arrest him.

'Taint no manner of use going to it,"
replied the imperturbable boy, marching on.

The old gentleman and lady gets out o' the
way, and the maids in the kitchen be deaf,
I think. Last time I came up here with a
parcel, I rung at it till I was tired, and
nobody heard."

He went up to a side-door, flung it open,
and put down the bag. A neat-looking
young woman, with her sleeves turned up,
came forward, and stared in silence.

Is Lord Level within ?" inquired the
lady.

My lord's ill in bed," replied the servant ;
he cannot be seen or spoken to. What
do you want with him, please ?"

She seemed a good-tempered, ignorant
sort of girl, but nothing more. At that
moment someone called to her from an inner
room, and she turned away.

Are there not any upper servants in the
house, do you know ?" inquired the lady of
the boy.

I doesn't think so. There's the missis."

A tinge came over the lady's face. " The
mistress ! Who is she •?"

She's Mrs. Edwards. An old lady, what
comes to church with buckles in her shoes.
And there's Mr. "

What is it that you want here ?" interrupted
the servant girl, advancing again,
and addressing the visitor in a not very
conciliatory tone.

I am Lady Level," was the reply, in a
ringing, imperious voice. " Call someone to
receive me."

It found its way to the girl's alarm. She
looked scared, doubting, and finally turned
and flew off down a long, dark passage. The
boy heard the announcement without its
ruffling his equanimity in the least degree.

That's all, ain't it ?' asked he, giving
the bag a condescending touch with his
foot.

How much am I to pay you ?" inquired
Lady Level.

The boy paused. " You ain't obliged to
pay nothing."

What is the charge ?" repeated Lady
Level.

The charge ain't nothing. If folks
like to give anything, it's give as a

gift."

She smiled, and, taking out her purse,
gave him half-a-crown. He received it with
remarkable satisfaction, and then, with an
air of great mystery and cunning, slipped it
into his boot.

But, I say, don't you go and tell, over
there, as you give it me," said he, jerking
his head in the direction of the railway
station. " We are not let take nothing, and
there'd be the whole lot of 'em about my
ears. You won't tell ?"

No, I will not tell," replied Lady Level,
laughing, in spite of her cares and annoyances.
And the promising young porter in
embryo, giving vent to a shrill whistle,
which might have been heard at the 
station, tore away as fast as his legs
would carry him.

The girl came back with a quaint old
lady. Her hair was white, her complexion
clear and fresh, and her eyes were black and

piercing as ever they had been in her youth.
She looked in doubt at the visitor, as the
servant had done.

I am told that someone is inquiring for
my lord."

His wife is inquiring for him. I am
Lady Level."

Had any doubt been wavering in the old
lady's mind, the tones dispelled it. She
curtseyed to the ground — the stately, upright,
old-fashioned curtsey of the days gone by. A
look of distress rose to her face.

Oh, my lady ! That I should live to
receive my lord's wife in this unprepared,
unceremonious manner ! He told me you
were in foreign parts, beyond seas."

I returned to England yesterday, and
have left my servants in town. What is the
matter with Lord Level ?"

That your ladyship should come to such
a house as this, all unfurnished and disordered
! and — I beg your pardon, my
lady ! I cannot take you through these
passages," she added, curtseying for Lady

Level to go out again. " Deborah, go
round and open the front-door."

Lady Level, in the midst of much lamentation,
was conducted to the front entrance,
and thence ushered into a long, low, uncarpeted
room on the left of the dark hall.
It was very bare of furniture, chairs and a
large table being all that it contained. " It
is of no consequence," said Lady Level ; "I
have come only to see Lord Level, and may
not remain above an hour or two. I cannot
tell. You are Mrs. Edwards, I think. I
have heard Lord Level mention you."

My name is Edwards, my lady. I was
housekeeper in the late lord's time, and,
when a young woman, I had the honour of
nursing my lord. Since the late lord's death,
I and my brother, Jacob Drewitt, have
mostly lived here. He used to be house
steward at Marshdale."

Lady Level removed her bonnet and
cloak, and threw them on the table. She
looked impatient and restless, as she listened
to the account of her husband's accident.

He had received an injury to his knee, when
out riding, the day after his arrival at Marsh-dale
; fever had set in, deepening at times to
slight delirium.

I should like to see him," said Lady
Level. " Will you take me to his chamber ?"

Mrs. Edwards marshalled her upstairs.
Curious, in-and-out, wide and shallow stairs
they were, with long passages and short
turnings branching from them. She gently
threw open the door of a large, handsome
room. On the bed lay Lord Level, his eyes
closed.

He is dozing again, my .lady," she
whispered. " He is sure to fall to sleep
whenever the fever leaves him."

There is no fire in the room !" exclaimed
Lady Level.

The doctor says there's not to be any,
my lady. In the room opposite to this,
across the passage, you will find a good one.
It is my lord's sitting-room when he is well.
And here," noiselessly opening a door facing
the foot of the bed, " is another chamber,

vol. 1. 15

that can be prepared for your ladyship, if
you remain."

The housekeeper left the room as she
spoke, scarcely knowing whether she stood
on her head or her heels, so completely was
she confounded by this arrival of Lady
Level's — and nothing wherewith to receive
her ! Mrs. Edwards had her head and hands
full just then.

As Lady Level moved forward, her dress
came into contact with a light chair, and
moved it. The invalid started, and raised
himself on his elbow.

« Why !— who— is it ?"

It is I, Lord Level," she said, advancing
to the bed.

He looked strangely amazed and perplexed.
He could not believe his own eyes, and stared
at her as though he would discover whether
she was really before him, or whether he was
in a dream.

Don't you know me ?" she asked gently.

« Is it— Blanche ?"

Yes."

But where have you come from ? — what
brings you here ?" he slowly ejaculated.

I came down by train to-day. I have
come to speak to you."

You were in Germany. I left you in
Germany !"

I thought I had been there long enough :
too long ; and I quitted it. Archibald, I
could not stay there. Had I done so, I
should have been ill as you are. I think I
should have died."

He said nothing for a few moments, and
appeared to be lost in thought. Then he
drew her face down to his, and kissed it.

You ought not to have come over without
my permission, Blanche."

I did not travel alone. Mr. and Mrs.
Arnold Bavensworth chanced to put up at
the inn on their homeward route, and I took
the opportunity to come over with them."

The information evidently did not please
Lord Level. His brow contracted.

You wrote me word that you had had
an accident," she continued. " How could

15 — 2

I be contented to remain away after that ?
So I came over : and I went to your rooms
in Holies Street "

Why on earth did you go there ?" he
sharply interrupted. " When I had left
them."

But I did not know you had left them.
How was I to know you had come to Marsh-dale
if you never told me so ? When I
found you had left Holies Street, I went
straight to Gloucester Place. Papa has just
come home from Jersey."

You ought to have remained in Germany
until I was able to join you," he reiterated
irritably ; and Blanche could not avoid seeing
that he was growing agitated and feverish.
What's to become of you ? Where are
you to be ?"

First of all, I want to have an explanation
with you," said Blanche. " I came
over on purpose to have it ; to tell you many
things. One is, that I will no longer submit
to be treated as a child "

Blanche !" he curtly interrupted.

Well r

You are acting as a child now, and as
nothing else. This nonsense that you are
talking — I am not in a condition to hear it."

It is not nonsense," said Blanche.

"It is what I will not listen to. It was
the height of folly to come here. All you
can do now is to go back to London by the
next train."

Go back where ?" she passionately asked.
I have no home in London."

I dare say Major Carlenn will receive
you for a week. Before that time I hope to
be well enough to come up, and prepare a
home for you. Where are Sanders and
Timms ?"

I did not bring them down with me.
They are at an hotel. Why cannot I stay
here ?"

Because I won't have it. There is
nothing in the place ready for you, or suited
to you."

If it is suited to you, it's suited to me.
I say I will not be treated as a child any

longer. I could be quite happy here.
There is nothing I should like so much as to
explore this old house. I never saw such
an array of ghostly passages anywhere."

Something in the words seemed dangerously
to excite Lord Level. The fever was
visibly increasing.

I forbid you to explore ; I forbid you to
remain here !" he exclaimed in the deepest
agitation. " Do you hear me, Blanche ? —
you must return by the next train."

I will not," she replied, quite as obstinate
as he. "I will not go hence until I have
had an explanation with you. If you are
too ill at present, I will wait for it."

He was, indeed, too ill. " Quiet, above
all things," the doctor had said when he had
paid his early morning visit. But quiet
Lord Level had not had ; his wife had put
an end to that. His talk grew random, his
mind wandering ; a paroxysm of fever ensued.
In terror Lady Level rang the bell.

Mrs. Edwards answered it. Blanche
gazed at her with astonishment, scarcely

recognising her. She had put on her gala
dress of days long gone by : a short, full, red
petticoat, a chintz gown looped above it in
festoons, high-heeled shoes, buckles, snow-white
stockings with worked " clocks," a mob
cap of clear lace, large gold earrings, and
black mittens. All this she had assumed
out of respect to her new lady.

Is he out of his mind ?" gasped Lady
Level, terrified at her lord's words and his
restless motions.

"It is the fever, my lady," said Mrs.
Edwards. " Dear, dear ! And we thought
him so much better to-day !"

Close upon that, Dr. Macferraty, the
medical man, came in. He was of square-built
frame with broad shoulders, very dictatorial
and positive considering his years,
which did not number more than seven-and-twenty.


What mischief has been at work here ?"
he demanded, standing over the bed with
Mrs. Edwards. " Who has been with him ?"

She explained that Lady Level had arrived

and had been talking with his lordship. She
Mrs. Edwards — had begged her ladyship
not to talk to him ; but — well, the young
were heedless and did not think of consequences.


If she has worried horn into brain-fever,
she will have herself to thank for it," harshly
spoke the doctor. And Lady Level, who
was in the adjoining room, overheard the
words.

Something has happened to agitate my
patient !" exclaimed Doctor Macferraty,
when, in leaving the room, he encountered
Lady Level in the passage, and was introduced
to her by Mrs. Edwards.

I am very sorry," she answered. " We
were speaking of family affairs, and Lord
Level grew excited."

Then, madam," said the doctor, " do not
speak of family affairs again, whilst he is in
this weak condition, or of any other affairs
likely to excite him. You must, if you
please, put off all such topics until he is
better."

How long will that be ?" asked Lady
Level.

I cannot say ; it may be a week, or it
may be a month. When once these intermittent
fevers get into the system, it is difficult
to shake them off again."

It will not go on to — to anything
worse ?" questioned Lady Level timidly, recalling
what she had just overheard.

I hope not ; but I cannot answer for it.
Your ladyship must be good enough to bear
in mind that much depends upon his keeping
himself tranquil, and upon those around helping
to keep him so."

The doctor withdrew as he spoke, telling
Mrs. Edwards that he would look in again
at night. Lord Level remained very excited
throughout the rest of the day ; he had a
bad night, the fever continuing, and was no
better in the morning. Mrs. Edwards had
sat up with him.

Lady Level then made up her mind to
remain at Marshdale, consulting neither her
lord nor anyone else. As Major Carle 11 had

remarked, Blanche was developing a will of
her own. Though, indeed, it might not
have been right to leave him in his present
condition. She sent for Sanders and Timms,
the two servants who had attended her from
Germany, and for certain luggage belonging
to herself. Mrs. Edwards did the best she
could with this influx of visitors to a scantily-furnished
house. Lady Level occupied the
chamber that opened from her husband's ; it
also opened on to the corridor.

Madam," said Dr. Macferraty to her,
taking the bull by the horns on one of the
earliest days, " you must allow me to give
you a word of advice. Do not, just at present,
enter Lord Level's chamber ; wait
until he is a little stronger. He has just
asked me whether you had gone back to
town, and I did not say no. It is evident
that your being here troubles him. The
house, as it is at present, is not in a condition
to receive you, or he appears to think
so. Therefore, so long as he is in this
precarious state, do not show yourself to

him. Let him think you have returned to
London."

Is his mind quite right again ?"

By no means. But he has lucid intervals.
I assure your ladyship it is of the
very utmost importance that he should be
kept tranquil. Otherwise, I will not answer
for the consequences."

Lady Level took the advice in all humility.
Bitterly though she was feeling upon some
scores towards her husband, she did not want
him to die ; no, nor to have brain-fever.
So she kept the door closed between her
room and his, and was as quiet as a mouse
at all times. And the days began to pass on.

Blanche found them monotonous. She
explored the house, but the number of passages,
short and long, their angles and their
turnings, confused her. She made the acquaintance
of the steward, Mr. Drewitt, an
elderly gentleman who went about in a plum-coloured
suit and a large cambric frill to his
shirt. One autumn morning when Blanche
had traversed the long corridor, beyond the

rooms which she and Lord Level occupied,
she turned into another at right angles with
it, and came to a door that was partly open.
Passing through it, she found herself in a
narrow passage that she had not before seen.
Deborah, the good-natured housemaid, suddenly
came out of one of the rooms opening
from it, carrying a brush and dustpan.
Deborah was the only servant kept in the
house, so far as Lady Level saw, apart from
the cook, who was fat and experienced.

What a curious old house !" exclaimed
Lady Level. " Nothing but dark passages
that turn and wind about until you don't
know where you are."

It is that, my lady," answered Deborah.
In the late lord's time the servants took to
calling it the maze, it puzzled them so. The
name got abroad, and some people call it the
maze to this day."

I don't think I have been in this passage
before. Does anyone live or sleep
here ?" added Lady Level, looking at the
household articles Deborah carried.

It was a dark, narrow passage, closed in
by a door at each end. The door at the
upper end was of oak ; heavy, and studded
with nails. Four rooms opened from the
passage, two on each side.

All these rooms are occupied by the
master and missis," said Deborah, alluding
to the steward and his sister. " This is Mrs.
Edwards's chamber, my lady," pointing to the
one she had just quitted. " That beyond it is
Mr. Drewitt's ; the opposite room is their
sitting-room, and the one beside it is not used."

Where does that heavy door lead to ?"
continued Lady Level.

It leads into the East Wing, my lady,"
replied Deborah. " I have never entered
that wing all the two years I've lived here,"
continued the gossiping girl. " I am not
allowed to do so. The door is kept locked ;
as well as the door answering to it in the
passage below."

Does no one ever go into it ?"

Why, yes, my lady ; Mr. Drewitt does,
and spends a good part of his time there.

He has a business-room there, in which he
keeps his books and papers relating to the
estate. Mrs. Edwards is in there, too, with
him most days. And my lord goes in when
he is down here."

Then no one really inhabits that wing ?"

Oh yes, my lady, John Snow and his
wife live in it ; he's the head gardener. A
many years he has been in the family ; and
one of the last things the late lord did before
he died was to give him that wing to live in.
An easy life Snow has of it now ; working
or not, just as he pleases. When there's
any unusual work to be done, our gardener
on this side is had in to help with it."

Lady Level did not feel much interested
in the wing, or in Snow the gardener. But
it happened that not half an hour after this
conversation, she chanced to see Mrs. Snow.

Leaning, in her listlessness, out of an
open window that was just above the side
entrance, to which she had been conducted
by the boy on her way from the station, she
was noticing how high the wall was that

separated the garden of the house from the
garden of the East Wing. Lofty trees,
closely planted, also flanked the wall, so
that not the slightest glimpse could be had
on either side of the other garden. The
East Having, with its grounds, was as completely
hidden from view as though it had
no existence. While rather wondering at
this — for the East Wing was, after all, a
part of the house, and not detached from it
Lady Level saw a woman emerge from a
little sheltered doorway in the wall, lock it
after her, and come up the path, key in
hand. This obscure doorway, and another
at the foot of the East Wing garden opening
to the road, were apparently the only means
of entrance to it. To the latter door, always
kept locked, was attached a large bell, which
awoke the surrounding echoes whenever
tradespeople or other applicants rang at it.

Is that you, Hannah Snow ?" cried the
cook, stepping forward to meet the other as
she came up the path. " And how are you
to-day ? Do you want anything ?"

Catching the name, Lady Level looked
out more closely. She saw a tall, strong,
respectable woman of middle age, with a
smiling, happy face, and laughing hazel eyes.
She wore a neat white cap, a clean cotton
gown and gray-checked apron.

Yes, cook," was the answer, given in a
merry voice. " I want you to give me a
handful of candied peel. I am preparing a
batch of cakes for my old man, never supposing
I had not all the ingredients at hand,
and I find I have no peel. I'm sure I
had some ; and I tell John he must have
stolen it."

What a shame !" cried the cook, taking
the words more literally than they were intended.
Mrs. Snow laughed.

Fact is, I suppose I used the last of it
in the bread-and-butter pudding I made last
week," said she.

"You are always making cakes for that mano'
yours, seems to me, Hannah," grumbled
the cook. " We can smell them over here
when they're baking, and that's pretty often."

Seems I am : he's always asking for
them," assented Hannah. " He likes to
eat one now and then between meals, you
see.

Well, he's a rare one for his inside,"
retorted the cook, as she went in for the
candied peel.

They seem to do very much as they
like here," was the only thought that crossed
Lady Level.

On this same day Lord Level, who had
grown so much better as to be out of danger,
dismissed his doctor. Presenting him with
a handsome cheque, he told him that he
required no further attendance. Blanche
received the news from Mrs. Edwards.

But is he so well as that ?" she asked,
in surprise.

Well, my lady, he is very much better,
there's no doubt of that. He will be out of
bed tomorrow or the next day, and, if he
takes care, will have no relapse," was the
housekeeper's answer. " No doubt it might
be safer for the doctor to continue to come

vol. 1. 1G

a little longer, if it were only to enjoin strict
quiet ; but you see my lord does not like
lira."

I fancied he did not."

He is not our own doctor, as perhaps
your ladyship has heard," pursued Mrs.
Edwards. " He is a Mr. Hill : a clever,
pleasant man, of a certain age, who was
very intimate with the late lord. They
were close friends, I may say. When his
lordship met with this accident, it put him
out uncommonly that we had to send for
the young man, Dr. Macferraty, Mr. Hill
being away."

If Lord Level is so well as to do without
a doctor, I might go into his room.
Don't you think so, Mrs. Edwards ?"

Better not for a day or two, my lady ;
better not, indeed. I'm afraid my lord will
be angry at your having stayed here — there
being no fitting establishment or accommodation
for your ladyship ; and "

That is such nonsense !" interrupted
Laclv Level. " With Sanders and Timms

here, I am more attended to than is really
necessary. And even if I had to put up
with discomfort for a short time, I dare say
I should survive it."

And it might cause his lordship excitement,
I was about to say," quickly continued
Mrs. Edwards. " A very little thing would
bring* the fever back again."

Blanche sighed rebelliously, but recognised
the obligation to condemn herself a
little longer to this dreary existence.

16 — 2

THE QUARREL.

HE following day was charmingly

fine : the sun brilliant, the air
warm as summer. In the afternoon
Lady Level went out to take a walk.
Lord Level was not up that day, but would
be, all being well, on the morrow. It was
the injury to the knee more than his general
health that was keeping him in bed now.

Outside the gate Blanche looked about
her, and decided to take the way towards
the railway station. Upper Marshdale lay
close beyond it, and she thought she would
see what the little town was like. If she
felt tired after exploring it, she could engage

the solitary railway fly to bring her home
again.

She went along the deserted road, passing
a peasant's cottage now and then. Very
near to the station she met the surly boy.
He was coming along with a leap and a
whistle, and stopped dead at sight of Lady
Level.

I say," said he, in a low tone, all his
glee and his impudence gone out of him, " be
you going there f"

Yes," answered Lady Level, half smiling,
for the boy amused her. He had pointed to
indicate the station, but so awkwardly that
she thought he pointed to the roofs and
chimneys beyond it. " Yes, I am. Why ?"

His face fell. " Not to tell of me f he
gasped.

To tell of you ! What should I have to
tell of you T

About that there half-crown. You give
him to me, mind ; I never asked. You can't
see the station-master if you try : he's a gone
to his tea."

Oh, I won't tell of that," said Lady
Level. " I am going to the village, not to
the station."

They'd make such a row," said the boy,
somewhat relieved. " The ported be mad
that it wasn't given to him ; he might get
me sent away perhaps fort. It's such a lot,
you see : a whole half-crown : when anything
is given, it's a sixpence. But 'ain't nothing
that's given mostly ; nothing. 1 '

The intense resentment thrown into the
last word made Lady Level laugh.

It's a sight o' time, weeks and weeks,
since I've had anything given me afore,
barring the three penny pieces from Mr.
Snow," went on the grumbling boy. " And
what's three penny pieces ?"

Mr. Snow ?" repeated Lady Level.
Who is he ?"

He is Lord Level's head gardener, he be.
He comes up here to the station one day,
not long afore you come down ; and he
collars the fly for the next down-train. The
next down-train comes in and brings m V lord

and a lady with him. Mr. Snow, he puts
the lady inside, and he puts what luggage
there were outside. 'Wasn't much, and I
helps him, and he dives into his pockets and
brings out three penny pieces. And I'll
swear that for weeks afore nobody had never
given me a single farthing."

Lady Level changed colour. " What's
your name ?" she suddenly asked the boy, to
cover her confusion.

It be Sam Doughty. That there
lady "

Oh, I know the lady," she carelessly
interrupted, hating herself at the same time
for pursuing the subject and the questions.
A lady with black hair and eyes, was it
not, and long gold earrings ?"

Well, it were. I noticed the earrings,
d'ye see, the sun made 'em sparkle so.
Handsome earrings they was ; as handsome
as she were."

And Lord Level took her home with
him in the fly, did he ?"

That he didn't. She went along of herself,

Mr. Snow a-riding on the box. My
lord walked across the fields. The stationmaster
felled him to mind the bull, but my
lord called back that he wasn't afraid."

There was nothing more to ask ; nothing
more that she could ask. But Lady Level
had heard enough to disturb her equanimity,
and she turned without going on to Upper
Marshdale. That the lady with the gold
earrings was either in the house, or in its
East Wing, and that that was why she was
wanted out of it, seemed clearer to her than
the sun at noonday.

That same evening, Lady Level's servants
were at supper in the large kitchen : whereas
no establishment was kept up in the
house, they condescended to take their meals.
Deborah was partly waiting on them, partly
gossiping, and partly dressing veal cutlets
and bacon in the Dutch oven for what she
called the upstairs supper. The cook had
gone to bed early with a violent toothache.


You have enough there, I hope," cried

Timms, as Deborah brought the Dutch oven
to the table to turn the cutlets.

Old Mr. Drewitt has such an appetite ;
leastways at his supper," answered Deborah.

I wonder they don't take their meals
below ; it's a long way to carry them up all
them stairs," remarked Mr. Sanders, when
Deborah was placing her dish of cutlets on
the tray prepared for it.

Oh, I don't mind it ; I'm used to it
now," said the good-humoured girl, as she
went off with a quick step.

Deborah returned with a quieter step than
she had departed. " They are quarrelling
like anything !" she exclaimed in a low,
frightened voice. " She's gone into my lord's
room, and they are having it out over something
or other."

Timms, who was then engaged in eating
some favourite custard pudding, looked up.
What ? Who ? Do you mean my lord
and my lady ? How do you know, Deborah ?"

I heard them wrangling as I went by.
I have to pass their rooms, you know, to

get to Mr. Drewitt's rooms, and I heard
them still louder as I came back. They
are quarrelling just like common people.
Has she a temper ?"

No," said Timms. " He has, though ;
that is, he can be frightfully passionate at
times."

He is not thought so in this house," returned
Deborah. " To hear my master and
mistress talk, my lord is just an angel upon
earth."

Ah I" said Timms, sniffing significantly.

Her supper ended, but not her curiosity,
Timms stole a part of the way upstairs, and
listened. But she only came in for the end
of the dispute, as she related to Mr. Sanderson
her return. Lady Level, after some
final speech of bitter reproach, passed into
her room and shut the door with a force that
shook the walls, and probably shook Lord
Level, who relieved his wrath by a little
delicate language. So much Timms heard ;
but of what the quarrel had been about, she
did not gather the faintest glimmer.

The house went to rest. Silence, probably
sleep, had reigned within it for some
two hours, and the clock had struck one,
when wild calls of alarm, coupled with the
ringing of his bell, issued from Lord Level's
chamber. The servants rose hastily, in terror.
Those cries of fear came not from their lord,
but from Lady Level.

Sanders, partly attired, hastened thither ;
Timms, in a huge shawl, opened her door
and stopped him ; Deborah came flying down
the long corridor. Mrs. Edwards was already
in Lord Level's chamber. Lady Level, in a
blue silk wrapping-gown, her cries of alarm
over, lay panting in a chair, extremely
agitated ; and Lord Level was in a fainting-fit
on his bed, with a stab in his arm, and
another in his side, from which blood was
flowing.

Some hours later, Mr. and Mrs. Arnold
Ravensworth were at breakfast in Portland
Place, when Major Carlenn entered without
ceremony. His purple-and-scaiiet cloak,

without which he rarely stirred out, had
come unfastened and trailed behind him ; his
face looked scared and crestfallen.

I must see you, I must see you !" cried
the Major, throwing up his hands, as if
apologizing for the intrusion. " It's on a
matter of life and death."

We have finished breakfast," said Mrs.
Ravensworth ; and she rose and left them
together.

The Major strode up to Arnold, his teeth
actually chattering. " I told you what it
would be," he muttered. " I warned you of
the consequences, if you helped Blanche to
go down there. She has attempted his life."

Mr. Ravensworth gazed at him inquiringly.

By George she has ! They had a blowup
last night, it seems, and she has stabbed
him. It can be no one else who has done
it. When these delicate girls are put up ;
made jealous, and that sort of thing ; they
are as bad as their more furious sisters.
Witness that character of Scott's — what's her
name ? — Lucy, in the ' Bride of Lam

For pity's sake, Major Carlenn, what are
you saying ?" interrupted Mr. Bavensworth,
scarcely knowing whether the Major was
mad or sane, or had been taking dinner in
place of breakfast. " Don't introduce trashy
romance into the woes of real life ! Has
anything happened at Lord Level's, or has
it not ?"

He is stabbed, I tell you. One of Lord
Level's servants, Sanders, arrived before I
was up, with a note from Blanche. Here,
read it !" But the Major's hand and the
note shook together as he held it out.

Do, dear papa, hasten down ! A shocking
event has happened to Lord Level.
He has been stabbed in bed. I am terrified

out of my senses.

Blanche Level."

Now, she has done it," whispered the
Major again, his stony eyes turned on Mr.
Bavensworth in dread. " As sure as that
her name's Blanche Level, it is she who has
done it !"

Nonsense ! Impossible. Have you learnt
any of the details ?"

A few scraps. As much as the man
knew. He says they were awakened by cries
in the middle of the night, and found Lord
Level had been stabbed ; and her ladyship
was with him, screaming, and fainting on a
chair. ' Who did it, Sanders ?' said I. ' It's
impossible to make out who did it, sir,' said
he ; ' there was no one indoors to do it, and
all the house was in bed.' ' What do the
police say ?' I asked. ' The police are not
called in, sir,' returned he ; ' my lord and
my lady won't have it done.' Now, Ravens-worth,
what can be clearer proof than that ?
I used to think her mother had a tendency
to insanity ; I did, by Jove ! she went once
or twice into such a tantrum with me.
Though she had a soft, sweet temper in
general, mild as milk."

Well, you must go down without delay."

The grim old fellow put up his hands,
which were trembling" visibly. " I wouldn't
go clown if you gave me a hundred pounds

a mile, poor as I am, just now. Look what
a state I'm in, as it is : I had to get Sanders
to hook my cloak for me, and he didn't half
do it. I wouldn't interfere between Blanche
and Level for a gold-mine. You must go
down for me ; I came to ask you todo
so."

"It is impossible for me to go down
to-day. I wish I knew more. How did
you hear there had been any disagreement
between them ?"

Sanders let it out. He said the women-servants
heard Level and his wife hotly
disputing."

Where is Sanders ?"

In your hall. I brought him round with
me.

The man was called in, and was desired
to repeat what he knew of the affair. It
was not much, and it has been already
stated.

Someone must have got in, Sanders,"
observed Mr. Ravens worth, when he had
listened.

Well, sir, I don't know," was the answer.
The curious thing is that there are no
signs of it. All the doors and windows had
been fastened before we went to bed, and
they had not been, so far as we can discover,
in the least disturbed."

Do you suspect anyone in the house ?"

Why — no, sir ; there's no one we like
to suspect," returned Sanders, coughing
dubiously.

The servants "

Oh, none of the servants would do such
a thing," interrupted Sanders, very decidedly:
and Mr. Ravensworth feared they might begetting
upon dangerous ground. He caught
Major Carlenn's significant glance. It said,
as plainly as glance ever yet spoke, " The
man suspects his mistress."

Is Lord Level's bedroom isolated from
the rest of the rooms ?"

Pretty well, sir, for that. No one sleeps
near him but my lady. Her room opens
from his."

Could he have done it himself, Sanders?"

struck in Major Carlenn. " He has been
light-headed from fever."

Just at the first moment the same
question occurred to me, sir ; but we soon
saw that it was not at all likely. The fever
had abated, my lord was quite collected, and
the stab in the arm could not have been
done by himself."

Was any instrument found ?"

Yes, sir : a clasp-knife, with a small,
sharp blade. It was found on the floor of
my lady's room."

An ominous silence ensued.

Are the stabs dangerous ?" inquired Mr.
Ravensworth.

"It is thought they are only slight, sir.
The danger will be if they bring back the
fever. His lordship will not have a doctor
called in "

Not have a doctor called in I"

He forbids it absolutely, sir. When
we reached his room, in answer to my
lady's cries, he had fainted ; but he soon
recovered, and hearing Mrs. Edwards speak

vol. 1. 17

of the doctor, he refused to have him sent
for."

You ought to have sent, all the same,"
imperiously spoke Mr. Ravensworth.

Sanders smiled. " Ah, sir, but my lord's
will is law."

Mr. Ravensworth turned to a side-table.
He wrote a rapid word to Lady Level,
promising to be with her that evening, gave
it to Sanders, and bade him make the best
of his way back to Marshdale. Certain
business of importance was detaining him
in town for the day.

When you get down there, Ravens-worth,
you won't say that I wouldn't go,
you know," said the Major. " Say I
couldn't."

What excuse can I make for you ?"

Any excuse that comes uppermost. Say
I'm in bed with gout. I have charged
Sanders to hold his tongue."

The day had quite passed before Mr.
Ravensworth was able to start on his
journey. It was dark when he reached

Upper Marshdale. There he found Sanders
and the solitary fly.

Is Lord Level better ?" was his first
question.

A little better this evening, sir, I
believe : but he has again been off his
head with fever, and Dr. Macferraty had,
after all, to be called in," replied the man.
My lady is pretty nearly beside herself
too."

Have the police been called in yet ?"

No, sir ; no chance of it ; nry lord and
my lady won't have it done."

It appears to be an old-fashioned place,
Sanders," remarked Mr. Ravens worth, when
they had reached the house.

It's the most awkward turn-about place
inside, sir, you ever saw ; nothing but passages.
But my lord never lives here ; he
only pays it promiscuous visits now and
then, and brings down no servants with
him. He was kept prisoner here, as maybe
said, through jamming his knee in a gateway
; and then my lady came down, and we

17—2

are putting up with all sorts of inconveniences."


Who lives here in general ?"

Two old retainers of the Level family,
sir : both of 'em sights to look upon ; she
especially. She dresses up like an old
picture."

Waiting within the doorway to receive
Mr. Ravensworth was Mrs. Edwards. He
could not take his eyes from her. He had
never seen one like her in real life, and
Sanders's words, " dresses up like an old
picture," recurred to him. He had thought
this style of dress completely gone out of
date, except in pictures ; and here it was
before him, worn by a living woman ! She
dropped him a stately curtsey, that would
have served for the prelude to a Court
minuet in the palmy days of Queen
Charlotte.

Sir, you are the gentleman expected by
my lady ?"

Yes — Mr. Ravensworth."

I'll show you in myself, sir."

Taking up a candle from a marble slab —
there was no other light to be seen — she
conducted him through the passage, and,
turning down another which stood at right
angles with it, halted at the door of a room.
In answer to a question from Mr. Ravens-worth,
she said his lordship was much better
within the last hour — quite himself again.
What would you be pleased to take, sir ?"
she added. " I will order it to be brought into
you."

I require nothing, thank you."

But quite a housekeeper of the old school,
and essentially hospitable, she would not
take a refusal. " I hope you will, sir : tea
or coffee — or supper ?"

A little coffee, then."

She dropped another of her ceremonious
curtseys, and threw open the door. " The
gentleman you expected, my lady."

It was another long, bare room, but not
die one already mentioned. Singularly bare
and empty it looked to-night. A large fire
burned in the grate, half-way down the

room, and in an easy-chair before it reclined
Lady Level — asleep. Two wax - candles
stood on the high carved mantelpiece, and
the large oak table behind Lady Level was
dark with age. Everything about the room
was dreary, excepting the fire, the lights,
and the sleeper.

Should he awaken her ? He looked at
Blanche Level and deliberated. Her feet
rested on a footstool, and her head lay on
the low back of the chair, a cushion under
it. She wore an evening dress of light silk,
trimmed with white lace. Her neck and
arms, only relieved by the lace, looked cold
and bare in the dreary room, for she wore
no ornaments ; nothing of gold or silver was
about her — except her wedding-ring. Was
it possible that she had attempted the life
of him who had put on that ring ? There
was a careworn look on her face as she slept,
which lessened her beauty, and two indented
lines rose in her forehead, not usual to a girl
of twenty ; her mouth, slightly open, showed
her teeth ; and very pretty teeth were Lady

Level's. No, thought Mr. Ravensworth,
guilty of that crime she never had been !

Should he arouse her ? A coal fell on to
the hearth with a rattle, and settled the
question, for Lady Level opened her eyes.
A moment's dreamy unconsciousness, and
then she started up, her face flushing.

Oh, Arnold, I beg your pardon ! I
must have dropped asleep. How good of
you to come !"

With a burst of tears she held out her
hands ; it seemed so glad a relief to have a
friend there.

Arnold, I am so miserable — so frightened
! Why did not papa come down this
morning ?"

"He was " Mr. Ravensworth searched

for an excuse and did not find one easily
Something kept him in town, and he requested
me to come down in his stead, and
see if I could be of any use to you."

Have you heard much about it ?" she
asked, in a whisper.

Sanders told me and your father what

little he knew. But it appeared most extraordinary
to both of us. Sit down, Lady
Level," he continued, drawing a chair nearer
to hers. " You look ill and fatigued."

I am not ill ; unless uncertainty and
anxiety can be called illness. Have you
dined ?"

Yes ; but your housekeeper insists on
hospitality, and will send me up some coffee."

Did you ever see so complete a picture
as she is ? Just like those engravings we
admire in the old frames."

Will you describe to me this — the details
of the business I came down to hear ?"

I am trying to delay it," she said, with
a forced laugh — a laugh that caused Mr.
Ravensworth involuntarily to knit his brow,
for it spoke of insincerity. " I think I will
not tell you anything about it until tomorrow
morning."

I must leave again to-night. The last
up-train passes "

Oh, but you will stay all night," she interrupted
nervously. " I cannot be left

alone. Mrs. Edwards is preparing a room
for you somewhere."

Well, we will discuss that by-and-by.
What is this unpleasant business about Lord
Level ?"

I don't know what it is," she replied.
He has been attacked and stabbed. I
only know that it nearly frightened me to
death."

By whom was it done ?"

I don't know," she repeated. " They
say the doors and windows were all fastened,
and that no one could have got in."

Now, strange as it may appear, and firmly
impressed as Mr. Ravensworth was with the
innocence of Lady Level, there was a tone
in her voice, a look in her countenance, as
she spoke the last few sentences, that he
did not like. Her manner was evasive, and
she did not meet his glance openly.

Were you in his room when it happened
?"

Oh dear no ! Since I came down here
I have occupied a room next to his ; his

dressing-room, I believe, when he stays hereat
ordinary times ; and I was in bed and
asleep at the time."

Asleep ?"

Fast asleep. Until something woke me:
and when I entered Lord Level's room, I
found — I found — what had happened."

Had it just happened ?"

Just. I was terrified. After I had
called the servants, I think I nearly fainted.
Lord Level quite fainted."

But did you not see anyone in the room
who could have attacked him ?"

She shook her head.

Nor hear any noise ?"

I — thought I heard a noise ; I am positive
I thought so. And I heard Lord
Level's voice."

That you naturally would hear. A man
whose life is being attempted would not be
likely to remain silent. But you must try
and give me a better explanation than this.
You say something suddenly awoke you.
What was it ?"

I cannot tell you," repeated Lady Level.

Was it a noise ?"

N — o ; not exactly. I cannot say precisely
what it was."

Mr. Ravensworth deliberated before he
spoke again. " My dear Lady Level, this
will not do. If these questions are painful
to you, if you prefer not to trust me, they
shall cease, and I will return to town as wise
as I came, without having been able to
afford you any assistance or advice. I think
you could tell me more, if you would do so."

Lady Level burst into tears and grew
agitated. A disagreeable doubt — guilty or
not guilty ? — stole over Mr. Ravensworth.
Oh, heaven, that it should be so !" he cried
to himself, recalling how good and gentle
she had been through her innocent girlhood.
I came down, hoping to be to you a true
friend," he resumed in a low tone. " If you
will allow me to be so, if you will confide in
me, Blanche, come what may, I will stand
by you."

There was a honor silence. Mr. Ravens-worth

did not choose to break it. He had
said his say, and the rest remained with
Lady Level.

Lord Level has made me very angry
indeed," she broke out, indignation arresting
her tears. " He has made me — almost —
hate him."

But you are not telling me what occurred."


I have told you," she answered. " I
was suddenly aroused from sleep, and then
I heard Lord Level's voice, calling ' Blanche !
Blanche !' I went into his room, ran up to
him, and he put out his arms and caught me
to him. Then I saw blood upon his nightshirt,
and he told me he had been stabbed.
Oh, how I shuddered ! I cannot think of it
now without feeling sick and ill, without
almost fainting," she added, a shiver running
through her frame.

Mr. Ravensworth's opinion veered round
again. " She do it — nonsense !" Lady Level
continued :

' Don't scream ; don't scream, Blanche,'

he said. 1 1 am not much hurt, and I will
take care of you,' and he held me to him as
though I were in a vice. I thought he did
not want me to alarm the house."

Did he keep you there long ?"

It seemed long to me : I don't suppose
it was more than a couple of minutes. His
hold gradually relaxed, and then I saw that
he had fainted. Oh, the terror of that
moment ! all the more intense that it had
been suppressed. I feared he might bleed
to death. I opened the door, and cried and
screamed, and called for the servants ; I
rushed back to the room and rang the bell ;
and then I fell back in the easy-chair, and
could do no more."

Well, this is a better explanation than
you gave me at first," said Mr. Ravens worth
encouragingly : and she had spoken more
readily, without appearance of disguise.
Then it was Lord Level's calling to you
that first aroused you ?"

No ; oh no ; it was not that. It "

she stopped in confusion. " At least — perhaps

it was. It — I can't say." She had
relapsed into evasion again, and once more Mr.
Ravens worth was plunged in doubt. He
leaned towards her.

I am going to ask you a question, Lady
Level, and you must of course answer it or
not as you please. I can only repeat that
any confidence you repose in me shall never
be betrayed. Did Lord Level inflict this
injury on himself?"

No, that was impossible," she freely answered
; "it must have been done to him."

The weapon, I hear, was found in your
room."

Yes."

But how could it have come there ?"

As if I knew !"

Why do you object to the police being
called in ?"

It was Lord Level who objected. When
he recovered from his faintness, and heard
them speaking of the police, he called Mr.
Drewitt to him — who is master of the house
under Lord Level — and charged him that

nothing of the kind should be done. I
would rather they were here," she added
after a pause. " I should feel safer. This
morning I went to my husband and told
him if he would not have in the police, the
house searched, and the facts investigated,
I should die with terror. He replied, jestingly,
then if I chose to be so foolish, I must
die : the hurt was his, not mine, and if he
saw no occasion for having in the police, and
did not choose to have them in, surely I
need not want them. I was perfectly safe,
and so was he, he continued, and he would
see that I was kept so. He would not even
have the doctor called in at first ; but towards
mid-day, when the fever returned and
he became delirious, Mr. Drewitt sent for
him."

That seems more strange than all — refusing
to have a doctor. He "

The arrival of coffee interrupted them.
Sanders brought it in in a silver coffee-pot
on a silver tray, with biscuits and other light
refreshments ; and Mrs. Edwards attended

to pour it out. Mr. Ravensworth repeated
to her what he had just said about the
doctor.

The fact is, sir, my lord does not like
Dr. Macferraty," she rejoined. " None of
us in this house do like him ; we cannot
endure him. He has not long been in practice,
and we look upon him as an upstart.
It is a great misfortune that Mr. Hill is
away just now."

The usual attendant, I presume, Mrs.
Edwards ?"

Yes, sir ; and a friend besides. He and
the late lord seemed almost like brothers, so
intimate were they. Mr. Hill's mother is
going on for ninety ; she is beginning to
break, and he has gone over to see her.
She lives in the Isle of Man. It is almost
a month since he went away."

The late lord ? Let me see. He was
the present lord's uncle, was he not ?"

Why, no, sir ; he was his father," returned
Mrs. Edwards, surprised at the mistake.
" The late peer, Archibald Lord

Level, had two sons, Mr. Francis the heir,
and Mr. Archibald. Mr. Francis died of
consumption, and lies buried in the family
vault in Marshdale Church ; and Mr. Archibald,
the only son left, succeeded to his
father."

Yes, yes, I had forgotten," said Mr.
Ravensworth. " An idea was floating in my
mind that the present peer had not been
always the heir-apparent."

vol. 1. 18

MYSTERY.

Silence had fallen upon the room.
Coffee had been taken, and the
tray carried away by Mrs. rewards.
It was yet only eight o'clock. Mr.
Ravensworth sat in mental perplexity, believing
he had not come to the bottom of
this dreadful affair ; no, nor half-way to it.

But Lady Level was in still greater perplexity,
her mind buried in miserable reverie.
A conviction that she was being frightfully
wronged in some way, and that she would
not bear it, lay uppermost with her. Since
meeting with the railway boy, Sam Doughty,
the previous afternoon, and hearing the

curious information he had disclosed, her
temper had been gradually rising. It was
temper that had caused her to declare herself
to Lord Level while the servants (as related
in a former chapter) were at supper in the
kitchen, and Mrs. Edwards and the old
steward were shut up in their sitting-room,
waiting for their own supper to be served.
The coast thus clear, in went Blanche to her
lord's chamber. Not to open out the budget
of her wrongs — he might not be sufficiently
well for that — but to announce herself. Tolet
him see that she was still in the house,
that she had disregarded his injunction to
quit it ; and to assure him, in her rebellious
spirit, that she meant to remain in it as long
as she pleased. Not a word of suspected
and unorthodox matters did Lady Level
breathe, and the quarrel that arose between
them was wholly on the score of her disobedience.
Lord Level was passionately
angry, thus to have been set at naught. He
told her that as his wife she owed him
obedience, and must give it to him. She

18—2

retorted that she would not do so. The
dispute went no further than that ; but loud
and angry words passed on both sides. And
the next episode in the drama, some three or
four hours later, was the mysterious attack
upon Lord Level.

Arnold," suddenly spoke her ladyship,
looking up from her chair, " I mean to take
a very decisive step."

In what way ?" he quietly asked, from
his seat on the other side of the fireplace.
To send for the police ?"

No, no, no ; not that. I shall separate
from Lord Level."

Oh," said Mr. Ravensworth, taken by
surprise, and thinking she was jesting.

As soon as he is well again, and able to
discuss matters, I shall demand a separation.
I shall insist upon it. If he will not accord it
to me privately, I shall apply for it publicly."

Blanche, you will do no such thing !" he
exclaimed, rising in excitement. " You do
not know what you are saying."

And you do not know how much cause I

have for saying it," she answered. " Lord
Level has — has — insulted me."

Hush," said Mr. Kavensworth. " I
don't quite know what you mean by insult


And I cannot tell you," she interrupted,
her pretty black satin slipper beating its indignation
on the hearth rug, her cheeks wearing
a delicate rose-flush. " It is a thing I
can speak of only to himself."

But — I was going to say — Lord Level
does not, I feel sure, intrude personal insult
upon you. Anything that may take place
outside your knowledge you had better
neither notice nor inquire into."

Lady Level shook her head defiantly. " I
mean to do it."

I will not hear another word upon this
point," said Mr. Kavensworth sternly.
You are as yet not much more than a child,
young lady ; when you are a little older and
wiser, you will see how foolish such ideas
are. For your own sake, Blanche, put them
away from you."

I wish my dear brother Tom were here !"
she petulantly returned. " It was a shame
his regiment should be sent out to India !"

Mr. Eavensworth drew in his stern lips.
He had suspected that of the dreadful fate
of Tom Heriot she must still be ignorant.
The suspicion was now confirmed.

At that moment the steward, Mr. Drewitt,
appeared ; and Lady Level introduced him
by name. Mr. Eavensworth saw a pale,
venerable man of sixty years, still strong and
upright, looking like a gentleman of the old,
old school, in his plum-coloured suit and
white silk stockings, his silver knee-buckles,
his low shoes, and his voluminous cambric
shirt-frill. He brought a message from his
lord, who wished to see Mr. Eavensworth.

Who told his lordship that Mr. Heavens
was here ?" exclaimed Lady Level
quickly.

Madam, it was I. My lord heard someone
being shown in to your ladyship, and
inquired who had come. I am sorry he has
asked for you, sir," candidly added the

steward, as they left the room together.
"The fever has abated, but the least excitement
will bring it on again."

Lady Level was sorry also. She did not
care that Mr. Ravensworth's presence in the
house should be known upstairs. The fact
was that one day when she and her husband
were on their homeward journey from Savoy,
and Blanche was indulging in odds and ends
of grievances against her lord, as in her ill-feeling
towards him she was then taking todo,
she had spoken a few words in sheer
perverseness of spirit to make him jealous of
Arnold Ravensworth. Lord Level said
nothing, but he took the words to heart. He
had not liked that gentleman before ; he
hated him now. Blanche blushed for herself
as she recalled it.

Of course, it was not the visitor likely to
give most pleasure to Lord Level. As the
steward introduced Mr. Ravensworth and
left them together, Lord Level regarded him
with a cold, stern glance.

So it is you !" he exclaimed. " May I

ask what brings you down here ? Did my
lady send for you ?"

No," answered Mr. Ravensworth, advancing
towards the bed. " Major Carlenn
called at my house this morning and requested
me to come down. I could not
reach Marshdale before to-night."

Major Carlenn ? Oh ! very good. Major
Carlenn dare not interfere between me and
my wife ; and he knows that."

So far as I believe, Major Carlenn his
no intention or wish to interfere. Lacy
Level sent to him in her alarm, and he requested
me to come down in his place."

If Major Carlenn has entered into an
arrangement with you to come to my house
and pry into matters that concern myself
alone "

I beg your lordship's pardon," was ths
curt interruption. "I do not like or respect
Major Carlenn sufficiently well to enter
into any ' arrangement ' with him. I came
down here, certainly in compliance with his
desire, but in a spirit of kindness towards

Lady Level, and to be of assistance to yourself
if it were possible."

How came you to bring Lady Level
over from Germany ?"

She wished to come over."

And I wished and desired her to stay
there until I could join her. Do you call
that interference ?"

It was nothing of the kind. On the
morning of our departure from the inn,
Lady Level told my wife and myself that
she should take the opportunity to travel
with us. She and her servants were even
then dressed for the journey, and her
travelling-carriage stood ready packed in the
yard. If she did this against your wish, I
am in no way responsible for it. It was not
my place to dictate to her ; to say she
should go, or should remain. Be assured,
my lord, I am the last man in the world
unduly to interfere with other people ; and
my coming down now was entirely brought
about by Major Carlenn."

Lord Level was not insensible to reason.

He remained silent for a time, the angry
expression gradually leaving his face. Mr.
Ravensworth spoke :

I hope this injury to your lordship will
not prove a grave one."

"It is a trifle," was the answer ; " nothing
but a trifle. It is my knee that keeps me
prostrate here more than anything else ; and
I have intermittent fever with it."

Can I be of service to you ? If so,
command me."

Much obliged. No, I do not want anyone
to be of service to me, if you allude to
this stabbing business. Some drunken fellow
got in, and "

The servants say the doors were all left
fastened, and were so found."

The servants say so to conceal their carelessness,"
cried Lord Level, as a contortion
of pain crossed his face. " This knee gives
me twinges at times like a red-hot iron."

If anyone had broken in, especially
any »

Mr. Ravensworth," imperatively interrupted

Lord Level, "it is my pleasure that
this affair should not be investigated. I say
that some man got in — a poacher, probably,
who must have been the worse for drink —
and he attacked me, not knowing what he
was doing. To have a commotion made
over it would only excite me in my present
feverish condition. Therefore I shall put up
with the injury, and shall be well all the
sooner for doing so. You will be so obliging,"
he added, some sarcasm in his tone,
as to do the same."

But now, Mr. Ravensworth did not show
himself wise in that moment. He urged,
in all good faith, a different course upon
his lordship. The presumption angered and
excited Lord Level. In no time, as it
seemed, and without sufficient cause, the
fever returned and mounted to the brain.
His face grew crimson, his eye wild ; his
voice rose almost to a scream, and he flung
his uninjured arm about the bed. Mr. Rave 1 1 >-
worth, in self-reproach for what he had done,
looked for the bell and rang it.

Drewitt, are the doors fastened ?" raved
his lordship in delirium, as the steward
hastened in. " Do you hear me, Drewitt ?
Have you looked to the doors ? You must
have left one of them open ! Where are the
keys ? The keys, I say, Drewitt ! — What
brings that man here ?"

You had better go down, sir, out of his
sight," whispered the steward, for it was at
Mr. Ravensworth the invalid was excitedly
pointing. " I knew what it would be if
he beofan talking. And he was so much
better !"

His lordship excites himself for nothing,"
was the deprecating answer.

Why, of course," said Mr. Drewitt. " It
is the nature of fever-patients to do so."

Mrs. Edwards came in with appliances to
cool the heated head, and Mr. Ravensworth
returned to the sittings-room below. Blanche
was not there. Close upon that, Dr. Mac-ferret
called. After he had been with his
patient and dressed the wounds, he came
bustling into the sitting-room. This loud

young man had a nose that turned straight
up, giving an impudent look to the face,
and wide-open, round green eyes. But no
doubt he had his good points, and was a
skilful surgeon.

You are a friend of the family, I hear,
sir," he began. " I hope you intend to
order an investigation into this extraordinary
affair ?"

I have no authority for doing so. And
Lord Level does not wish it done."

A fig for Lord Level ! He does not
know what he's saying," cried Dr. Mac-ferret.
" There never was so monstrous
a thing heard of as that a nobleman should
be stabbed in his own bed and the assassin
be let off scot-free ! We need not look
far for the culprit !"

The last words, significantly spoken, jarred
on Mr. Ravensworth's ears. " Have you a
suspicion ?" he asked.

I can put two and two together, sir,
and find they make four. The windows
were fast ; the doors were fast ; there was

no noise, no disturbance, no robbery : well,
then, what deduction have we to fall back
upon but that the villain, he or she, is an
inmate of the house ?"

Mr. Ravensworth's pulses beat a shade
more quickly. " Do you suspect one of the
servants ?"

Yes, I do."

But the servants are faithful and respectable.
They are not suspected indoors,
I assure you."

Perhaps not ; they are out-of-doors,
though. The whole neighbourhood is in
commotion over it ; and how Drewitt and
the old lady can let these two London
servants be at large is the talk of the
place."

Oh, it is the London servants you suspect,
then, or one of them ?"

Look here," said Dr. Macferraty, dropping
his voice and bending forward in his
chair till his face almost touched Mr. Ravens-worth's
: " that the deed was done by an
inmate of the house is certain. No one got

in, or could have got in ; it is nonsense to
suggest it. The inmates consist of Lady
Level and the servants only. If you take
it from the servants, you must lay it upon
her."

No answer.

Well," went on the doctor, " it is impossible
to suspect her. A delicate, refined
girl, as she is, could not do so evil a thing.
So we must needs look to the servants.
Deborah would not do it ; the stout old
cook could not. She was in bed ill, besides,
and slept through all the noise and confusion.
The two other servants, Sanders and Timms,
are strangers."

I feel sure they m> more did it than I,"
impulsively spoke Mr. Ravensworth.

Then you would fall back upon Lady
Level?"

No. No," flashed Mr. Ravensworth.
The bare suggestion of the idea is an
insult to her."

Dr. Macferraty drew himself back in his
chair. " There's a mystery in the affair,

look at it which way you will, sir," he cried
rasping. " My lord says he did not recognise
the assassin ; but, if he did not, why
should he forbid investigation? Put it as
you do, that the two servants are innocent
why, then, I fairly own I am puzzled.
Another thing puzzles me : the knife was
found in Lady Level's chamber, yet she
protests that she slept through it all — was
only awakened by his lordship calling to her
when it was over."

It may have been flung in."

No ; it was carried in ; for blood had
dripped from it all along the floor."

Has the weapon been recognised ?"

Not that I am aware of. No one owns
to knowing it. Anyway, it is an affair that
ought to be, and that must be, inquired into
officially," concluded the doctor from the
corridor, as he said good-night and went
bustling out.

Mr. Ravensworth, standing at the sitting-room
door, saw him meet the steward, who
must have overheard the words, and now

advanced with cautious steps. Touching
Mr. Ravensworth's arm, he drew him within
the shadow cast by a remote corner.

Sir' he whispered, " my lady told Mrs.
Edwards that you were a firm friend of
hers ; a sure friend ?"

I trust I am, Mr. Drewitt."

Then let it drop, sir ; it is no common
robber who has done this. Let it drop, for
her sake and my lord's."

Mr. Ravensworth felt painfully perplexed.
Those few words, spoken by the faithful old
steward, were more fraught with suspicion
against Lady Level than anything he had
yet heard.

Returning to the sitting-room, pacing it
to and fro in his perplexity for he knew not
how long, he was looking at his watch to
ascertain the time, when Lady Level came
in. She had been in Lord Level's sitting-room
upstairs, she said, the one opposite his
bed-chamber. He was somewhat calmer
now. Mr. Ravensworth thought that he
must now be going.

vol. 1. 19

I have been of no assistance to you,
Lady Level ; I do not see that I can be of
any," he observed. " But should anything
arise in which you think I can help you,
send for me."

What do you expect to arise ?" she
hastily inquired.

Nay, I expect nothing."

Did Lord " Lady Level suddenly

stopped and turned her head. Just within
the room stood two policemen. She rose
with a startled movement, and shrank close
to Mr. Ravensworth, crying out, as for protection.
"Arnold! Arnold!"

Do not agitate yourself," he whispered.
What is it that you want ?" he demanded,
moving towards the men.

We have come about this attack on
Lord Level, sir," replied one of them.

Who sent for you ?"

Don't know anything about that, sir.
Our superior ordered us here, and is coming
on himself. We must examine the fastenings
of this window, sir, by the lady's leave."

They passed up the room, and Lady Level
left it, followed by Mr. Ravensworth. Outside
stood Deborah, aghast.

They have been in the kitchen this ten
minutes, my lady," she whispered, " asking
questions of us all — Mr. Sanders and Mrs.
Timms and me and cook, all separate. And
now they are going round the house to
search it, and see to the fastenings."

The men came out again and moved
away, Deborah following slowly in their
wake : she appeared to regard them with
somewhat of the curiosity we give to a wild
animal : but Mr. Ravensworth recalled her.
Lady Level entered the room again and sat
down by the fire. Mr. Ravensworth again
observed that he must be going : he had
barely time to walk to the station and catch
the train.

Arnold, if you go, and leave me with
these men in the house, I will never forgive
it !" she passionately uttered.

He looked at her in surprise. " I thought
you wished for the presence of the police.

19 — 2

You said you should regard them as a protection."


Did you send for them ?" she breathlessly
exclaimed.

Certainly not."

She sank into a reverie — a deep, unpleasant
reverie that compressed her lips and
contracted her brow. Suddenly she lifted
her head.

He is my husband, after all, Arnold."

To be sure he is."

And therefore — and therefore — there
had better be no investigation."

Why?" asked Mr. Ravensworth, scarcely
above his breath.

Because he does not wish it," she
answered, bending her face downwards.
He forbade me to call in aid, or to suffer
it to be called in ; and, as I say, he is my
husband. Will you stop those men in their
search ? will you send them away ?"

"I do not think I have power to do
so."

You can forbid them in Lord Level's

name. I give you full authority : as he
would do, were he capable of acting. Arnold,
I will have them out of the house. I will."

What is it that you fear from them ?"

I fear — I cannot tell you what I fear.
They might question me."

And if they did ? — you can only repeat
to them what you told me."

Xo, it must not be," she shivered. " I
I — dare not let it be."

Mr. Pavensworth paused. " Blanche,"
he said, in low tones, " have you told me
all r

Perhaps not," she slowly answered.

' Perhaps !' "

There !" she exclaimed, springing up in
wild excitement. " I hear those men upstairs,
and you stand here idly talking !
Order them away in Lord Level's name."

Desperately perplexed, Mr. Ravensworth
flew to the stairs. The steward, pale and
agitated, met him half-way up. " It must
not be looked into by the police," he
whispered. " Sir, it must not. Will you

speak to them ? you may have more weight
with them than I. Say you are a friend of
my lord's. I strongly suspect this is the
work of that meddling Macferraty."

Arnold Ravensworth moved forward as
one in a dream, an under-current of thought
asking what all this mystery meant. The
steward followed. They found the men in
one of the first rooms : not endowed in the
examination of its fastenings or its closets
(and the whole house abounded in closets
and cupboards), but with their heads together,
talking in whispers.

In answer to Mr. Ravensworth' s peremptory
demand, made in Lord Level's name,
that the search should cease and the house
be freed of their presence, they civilly replied
that they must not leave, but would willingly
retire to the kitchen and there await their
superior officer, who was on his road to the
house : and they went down accordingly.
Mr. Ravensworth returned to the sitting-room
to acquaint Lady Level with the fact,
but found she had disappeared. In a moment

she came in, scared, her hands lifted in dismay,
her breath coming in gasps.

Give me air !" she cried, rushing to the
window and motioning to have it opened.
I shall faint ; I shall die."

What ever is the matter ?" questioned
Mr. Ravensworth, as he succeeded in undoing
the bolt of the window, and throwing
up its middle compartment. At that momenta
loud ring came to the outer gate. It increased
her terror, and she broke into a
flood of tears.

My dear young lady, let me be your
friend," he said in his grave concern. " Tell
me the whole truth. I know you have not
done so yet. Let it be what it will, I promise
to — if possible — shield you from harm."

Those men are saying in the kitchen
that it was I who attacked Lord Level ; I
overheard them," she shuddered, the words
coming from her brokenly in her agitation.

Make a friend of me ; you shall never
have a truer," he continued, for really he
knew not what else to urge, and he could

not work in the dark. " Tell me all from

beginning to end."

But she only shivered in silence.

Blanche ! — did — you — do — it ?"

•• No," she answered, with a low burst of

heartrending sobs. " But I saw it done."

END OF VOL. 1.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

S. «fc //.

.,*

€^i£^^

t\

m

iflr



^%&

-1X^

■ '

,J§fc:

.-■

»£$

ggfr*

k

-

1H1

m*^t

nm



m

m

sap H

- — ^

1 ■■■

< i

&

IT"-

JIM ~^-
