story OF A fils

x>

L I E) Mary

OF THE

UN Diversity

Of Ill Noir


Stag

m ■ .^^m^^»^«siPig®w#

THE STORY OF A KISS.

BY THE AUTHOR Of
MY INSECT QUEEN," "A Horrid GIRL," ETC.

A bliss in proof— and proved, a very woe.
Before, a joy proposed— behind, a dream."

Shakespeare.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

Publishers in ©rliinarg to ^zx fHajcstg tfje ©uccit.
1887.

(sall rights reserved.)

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/storyofkiss01wynn

CONTENTS OF YOL. 1,

CHAl-TIJ; I'AGX

I. Wendhoi.m, Past and Present . 1

II. TuE Banker's Daughters . 15

III. At the A^icARAGE . . ;>i

IV. Caterpillars . . 4,*!

Y. Sir William ( 'carruthers, Bart. . 08

VJ. Counter-Irritation . . 88

VII. Georgina . . . 10;'>

VIII. Her First Offer . . 12(3

IX. Georgina is amused . . 13c>

X. A Kiss postponed . . I5(t

XI. A Railway Ride . . U>r»

XII. The Next Stage . . Vx\

XIII. Off the Line . . . 1^04

XIV. Keith forgets riiiiSELi . 21.';

XV. A First Result . . 224

XVI. Jilted again . . 24(>

XVII. Hurstleigh . . . 2^)4

CHAPTER I.

WENDHOLM, PAST AND PRESENT.

Never, surely, was there so world-forgotten
a place as Wendholm, in Dorsetshire.
Wendholm," interrupts some one who
knows it, " is not in Dorsetshire ; it m

in " Just so, my friend — I know, as

well as you do, where Wendholm really
is ; but, by the literary fashion of the day,
it is forbidden to name the English county
iu which the scene of a story is laid. A
literary fashion may be, and often is, a.<
silly and inconvenient as any of those

VOL. I. 1

depicted in the plates of a lady's magazines
but a lowly pen-wiper like me does not
disregard it. So, as I do not choose to
adopt the worn-out inventions of *clays
" Gravelshire," " Mudshire," and
the rest, I borrow the name of a sister
county, in which to disguise — since disguise
is imperative —-the " shire " (for it is one
of the "shires") in which Wendholm is
situated.

There could scarcely exist in England,
though there might be in Wales or Scotland,
a more world-forgotten place than
Wendholm I To begin with, it was seven
miles from a railway station ! Think of
that, ye who. consider that your fellow -
creatures have cut themselves off from all
intercourse with civilization — so far as you
are its representatives — if they betake themselves
to any habitation beyond a short
walk from a first-class railway station on

a main line ! Seven miles of a very rouirli,
hilly, stony road. Nearly two hours' drive
for an ordinary ^' four-wheeler. And when
you had reached Hanley station, it Alas
only on a " loop " line, from which three
or four trains ran daily to the little manufacturing
town of Retford — Retford, which
was not so far from London as you would
have supposed, from the time it took to
arrive there, through a perfect network
of "junctions," with their endless changes
and delays.

There were no shops in Wendholm.
The butcher there killed a sheep and a half
a week ; by which is meant that the meat
consumption was at that rate, not that he
killed half a sheep or half-killed one. No ;
Wendholm might be rural, but it was not
barbarous. If its people were hungrier
than usual, or desired a little variety in its
diet, that butcher would, on receiving

orders, proceed to Eetfovd by train, and
return thence with the requisite portions, or
as nearly as he could contrive it, of lean
(*a]f or superannuated cow. There was
a baker in the village, but he did not keep
a shop, having nothing to put in it. Like
the butcher, he knew, almost to a loaf, wdiat
the daily demand for bread would be. He
kept a boy and a basket to deliver his
goods ; the little cottage window of the
grocer, next door to him, sufficed for the
display and storage of any surplus provision,
with space enough for the glass
bottles of " sweeties," with which the
Wendholm children tried ineffectually to
poison themselves. There where also contingents
to the regular food supply. A
few scattered sheep farms on the hills
furnished a seasonable goose occasionally.
From the pasture-farms in the lowlands
could sometimes be purchased a superfluous

calf, or a more frequent pig ; so that
Wendholm stood in no peril of gross
material famine. But what of its more
complex social needs ? Had it no resident
doctor or lawyer ? If Mrs. Lomax, the
miller's wife, were surprised by one of those
feminine crises, of which the parish had
its due proportion — rather more than its
due proportion, if its (marriage) certificate
matrons were alone reckoned in its maternity
— was John Lomax required to walk
to Retford, to take train for Hanley, t(^
*' wire " for the parish doctor, who lived ten
miles further ? Or if Farmer Southron were
taken suddenly ill, must his friend struggle
with the same difficulties before his lawyer
could be in attendance, with his still unsigned
will ? Not so ; there were horses
and riders at command for such contingencies
; and though despatch was not to
be expected, still the Wendholmites were

noted for longevity, and, whether it were
cause or effect, they were never in a hurry.

There were three houses of pretension
near Wendholm, but the actual street
consisted of the cottages of the agricultural
labourers employed on the few farms around
it, a carpenters worked, a sawmill, the
butcher, baker, and grocer's "stores'' before
spoken of, a small church, a smaller chapel,
and two small public-houses ; and what more
would you have ? Such was the village of
Wendholm sixteen years ago ; and such it
is at the present day.

The Vicarage, pretty and picturesque,
was, at the time of which I write, inhabited
only by an aged and infirm bachelor cleric
and his young unmarried curate, who had
more leisure than was good for him ; his
parishioners being engaged most of their
time in the fields, where their wives also
found occupation, with such of their children

as were old eDOuorh to earn something
by weeding, cattle-tending, or other light
employment. The other two houses of
any distinction in Wendholm added little
to its social charm. Oakland Heights, or
Oaklandss, as it was oftener called, was an
old-fashioned family mansion, surrounded
by noble woods of oak and beech, and acres
■of wild sheep-grazing land, sufficient to
warrant the most scrupulous estate-agent
in describing it as an estate. For many
years it had been shunned by tenants or
purchasers, as lying under the ban of
chancery," and when freed from that
stigma it was bought ^' for an old song " by
a maiden lady, who, from the day she
entered it until the day of her death, twelve
years later, had never been beheld by mortal
eyes but those of her doctor (Dr. Stewart),
her banker (Mr. Maitland), and three or
four old servants who rarely stirred beyond

the grounds. Some said she was mad, some
that she was only a diplomatic ; Mr.
Maitland averred that she was neither.
Then they whispered that she had some
hideous personal deformity. "Nothing of the
kind," said Dr. Stewart. Then some highly
imaginative being suggested that she was
performing penance for some mysterious
crime committed in her youth ; and not
until this charitable theory had been pretty
widely disseminated did Miss Luton's legal
and medical advisers break through their
discreet reserve, and put the scandal-mongers
to utter rout by the simple statement that
the poor lady was deaf and dumb.

The third house, Wendholm Grange, was
more modern than Oaklandss, and more
accessible, as it stood in the valley beneath
it, and not far from the village and church.
It belonged to an orphan heiress, who had
left it at her parent's death and never

revisited it, having been ordered, it was said,
to reside in Italy, on account of her delicate
lungs. It was rumoured that she was
engaged to be married to her cousin, Professor
Farquhar, the distinguished traveller
and naturalist ; and that on his return from
his latest exploration of some remote island
which miorht have been in the moon foro



all that the Wendholmites knew of it — the
marriage would take place, and the bridal
pair settle down at the Grange.

The wedding, in due course, was announced
in the fashionable London papers,
and copied into the local ones ; but the
Grange made no sign. A year later, the
same papers proclaimed the death of the
young bride in child-birth ; but it was four
years before the widower brought his little
daughter to the long deserted home. In
those three years the great wave of change,
that is silently sweeping over the world,

broke with a tiny ripple into Wendholm's
sheltered creek, and Wendholm turned on
her pillows ; for to her

** The river seemed the voice of dreams,
That murmured in her sleep."

The old vicar was dead, and the curate,
Charley Burnes, had been presented to the
living, which had been previously offered
to two other clergymen — not curates — who
had successively declined it. Old Miss
Luton was dead also, and had bequeathed
all her '^ real estate " to her servants, and
the Oaklandss property to Mr. Burnes. She
probably wished by this bequest to prove
her attachment to the church, which she
had never entered, and her respect for the
church's representative, whom she had never
seen. But the conditions of the legacy were
such as to deprive it of its chief value.
The game on the property was to be strictly
preserved for a specified term of years, and

not a gun was to be fired in the woods
during that period — a condition which gave
great delight to the poachers, who did not
at all consider the prohibition as binding
upon them, and who contrived that when
its term had expired, there should be nothing
marketable left to fire a gun at ! Then,
not a tree was to be felled, nor a branch
hopped in the woods ; and the house was
to be kept in as good order as when Miss
Luton herself inhabited it. And this fora
term of nine years I No wonder that
poor Charley Burnes felt himself justified
in declaring, with his habitual carelessness
of diction, that his new heritage was " more
bother than enough." He could not live
in it himself — it was too far from the church
and the schools, too inaccessible to the
parish generally ; he could derive no profit
from sale of the timber ; and no country
gentleman would care for a woodland

paradise where the pheasants and hares were
sacred to the poachers, especially as, being
forbidden to fire a gun in it, he could not
even amuse himself by shooting them.
However, the Vicar consoled himself with
the reflection that when the nine years had
expired (people at Wendholm did not think
nine years a very long period to look forward
to, as most of them reckoned on living
to ninety-seven), that then Oaklandss would
be his own, to do what he liked with. The
trees would be growing all the time ; the
plantations and preserves would be restored
with game ; and he might let or
sell the property at a price which would
more than repay him for the long restriction.
So far these changes had produced no
exterior effect on Wendholm. No one at
Oaklandss, no one yet at the Grange ; but
there was one vast chase at the Vicar ao^e,
for Mr. Burnes had married ! It will need

one more retrospective chapter to explain
liovv this movement came about. But here
Araminta interposes, throwing a dissatisfied
ghmce at my still uncut pages.

You have said nothing yet of the
Upper Ten ' of your neighbourhood ? Were
there no great landed proprietors there ?
no local aristocracy ? no titled families ?
What story can be worth telling which has
not a lord in it ? "

My Araminta, please remember that
sixteen years ago the " new creations " of
political exigency had not yet made titles
as plenty as blackberries ; and — I blush to
record it, but in the peerless rusticity of
our parish there was not " A lord or a squire,
or a knight of the shire," or a lady in her
own right or in anybody else's !

At this humiliating statement Araminta
lets fall my book, and glances yearningly at
the novel in which she has lately been absorbed

— a novel whose pages literally blaze
with more dukes and duchesses than ever
existed " simultaneous " in one country, but
whose portraits are really remarkably lifelike,
considering that the gifted authoress
never saw a duke ; as life-like, almost, as
Madame Tussaud's wax effigies of the late
Royal Family. Take up my poor volume
again, dear Araminta ; once more let me
remind you that this chapter and the next
are purely retrospective, beginning at sixteen
years ago. Since then, Wendholm may
have done better — just a little better — or
how could I presume to speak of her people-and
their fortunes to one who, like
*' James," " can't feel no interest in the
lower borders " l

Chapter IL

THE Bankrupt's DAUGHTERS.

Mrs. Burnes. was the daughter of a wealthy
banker in Ketford, who had been in the
financial confidence of every family in the
county, of income sufficient to warrant them
in keeping a banking account at all. His
wife was considered beneath him, having
been distantly related to a tradesman in the
town, and she was therefore persistently
ignored by her husband's more aristocratic
connections.

Charlotte was for twelve years their only
child and presumptive heiress, when poor,
weakly Mrs. Maitland astonished " society,"
her husband, and herself, by bringing into

the world a second daughter. Perhaps,
being a shy, timid woman, she was unequal
to the effort to face the ridicule, not to say
censure, with which Bedford " society "
received such an act of domestic irrelevancy;
for she faded away, suddenly, like a flower
that has overlooked, and the baby Juliet
was left to the sole care of her sister, who,
from her earliest girlhood, reigned supreme
over Mr. Titian d's old-fashioned, but comfortable
establishment. Charlotte brought
up her charge under the method of education
that had been in vogue among a
generation older than her own, a method
which commended itself to her somewhat
unbending temper and sense of right. So
Juliet grew up, conscientious, pure-hearted,
and docile, but not happy or strong. Her
nature was as sensitive as Charlotte's was
robust (Mr. Burnes emphasized it as
*' robustious "), and, trained beneath a discipline

of constant repression and reproof,
she was painfully shy, and almost slavishly
subservient to her sister, whom she looked
upon as the express image and embodiment
of all human wisdom and authority.

On Mr. Maitland's sudden death, it was
found that his will had been executed before
the death of his wife or the birth of his
second child, and that, with the exception of
a competent annuity for Mrs. Maitland, it
left Charlotte his sole heiress. Probably he
had intended at some future time to alter
this arrangement ; or he might have believed
that Juliet's interests were safer in her
sister's hands than in her own. Anyhow,
the effect was that, at five and thirty
years of age. Miss Maitland found herself in
possession of what was great wealth to one
of her frugal habits and modest social
position ; while her sister, in the bloom of
youth — such bloom as had been granted to

VOL. I. 2

such youth as hers — was dependent on her,
as the homely phrase has it, " for the very
clothes she stood up in " (a phrase, by the
way, which had less significance then than
now, when people find it easier to "stand
up " in their clothes than to " sit down " in
them !).

Miss Maitland showed no intention whatever
to rectify what all Ketford declared to
be a blunder or an injustice on her father's
part That, she said, might or might not
be ; it was not for her to call her father's
conduct in question. It was her duty to
carry out his wishes. He had left his whole
fortune at her disposal, and at her disposal it
should remain.

The Retford world, who hated Chatty
Maitland, called her a stingy, selfish old cat
and their judgment was wrong, as the
world's superficial judgments often are. Miss
]maitland loved power ; and the reins having

been placed in her hands, she was not the
woman to relax her hold on them, or to
dispute the wisdom that had committed
them to her trust. But she never forgot
that it was a trust ; which, according to her
lights, she fulfilled conscientiously.

For a few years the sisters lived quietly
in a pretty villa close to Bedford, to which
they had removed on their father's death.
They knew and were known by everybody
in the county, but visited very rarely.
Even the heiress's wealth brought no suitors
to Simplify Lodge. Few fortune-hunters
would have braved Miss Chatty's cold
scrutiny ; and had any been attracted by the
wan grace of the portionless Juliet, the
dread of Charlotte as a sister-in-law would
have acted as a counterpart.

So Miss Maitland had taken her place
among the old maids of — Dorsetshire, and
Juliet was meekly following, when, lo !

Charley Burnes came to the rescue of one,
and indirectly, as it subsequently happened,
of both.

Whether Mr. Burnes fell in love with the
lady, or the lady with him, matters little,
since the result was the same. Charlotte
Maitland became Mrs. Burnes, having first
taken care to have two-thirds of her fortune
settled on herself, and upon her sister after
her ; and shortly afterwards the curate was
presented to the living of Wendholm, where
his active, energetic wife became the terror of
the parishioners, and the object of special
aversion to all the she-clergy of the diocese.

Naturally there was much adverse criticism
of the new menage. Said the public voice
of Bedford, " She is old enough to be his
mother ! He has married her for her
money, and such worldliness (in a clergyman,
too !) will be sure to meet its punishment.
And so wilful as she is, he will never

be able to call his soul his own." (All the
better for him, I suppose, if his punishment
was to be a spiritual one.) " And that poor,
weak Juliet to live always with them ! It
was well that she is not particularly attractive,
for these old women are so jealous," etc.,
etc. Yet, in spite of these gloomy predictions,
the marriage was a happy one. However
cold and severe to others, Charlotte
Burnes was lover and indulgent to her
young husband ; and he, indolent and easy
tempered, flattered by her pride in him,
and grateful for the help she gave him and
the comforts which she lavished upon him,
readily responded to her attachment, and
repaid it by a sincere and loyal, if calm and
unimpassioned affection. So the Bedford
prophets watched in vain for the thunderbolts
of judgment that should have fallen
on Charley Burnes for his mercenary marriage,
and presently found that the gentle

Juliet was not destined to serve as a conductor
for them.

Scarcely had the new Vicar settled himself
comfortably in the home which had been
so long familiar to him, but had now the
charm of being really his own, with many
other charms with which his wife's wealth
adorned it, though more for his pleasure
than for her own, when Dr. Farquhar
returned to take up his abode at the Grange.
This illustrious traveller was past early manhood,
and was suffering from partial blindness,
brought on by the fatigue and hardships
he had undergone in foreign climates. He
had been ordered by his doctors to retire fora
time into the country for perfect rest and
quiet. Rest he certainly could at Wend-holm,
but there was little hope of quiet fora
man who, unaccustomed to household
trials, with no relations and no companions,
brought into his seclusion only three or four

servants, a middle-aged nurse, and a child
of three years old. Thrown only on the
Vicar's family for society, it was natural
that he should appeal to Mrs. Burnes for
such help in his domestic difficulties as only
a lady can give. Chatty soon discovered
that the blind master was robbed by his
groom; that the nurse got drunk, and the
child was neglected. She interposed, as washer
nature to ; " but the servants rebelled
against a delegated authority. Wars ensued,
and the battle was fierce and furious, and
drove Dr. Farquhar again and again to the
quiet of the library at the Vicarage, where
the pitying Juliet unweariedly read to him
and wrote for him, or, while he conversed
with Mr. Burnes, amused the little Genera,
who would cling to her and follow her
everywhere, like a little dog. Of course the
Retford folk sniffed at these proceedings,
and declared that Chatty was a schemer.

They were wrong again. Mrs. Burnes was so
entirely absorbed in her task of subduing
the hostile forces at the Grange, that she
took no heed of what might be going on in
the Vicarage library, until one morning, on
her return from a more than usually brisk
engagement there, she was met by Juliet,
all blushes and tears, with the intelligence
that Dr. Farquhar had proposed to her, and
she had accepted him.

Poor Juliet's blushes and tears were alike
thrown away. Dr. Farquhar's views on
marriage were strictly utilitarian and
sentiment or passion held no place in them.
He wanted a secretary for himself, a mistress
for the Grange, and a mother for his little
daughter, and neither felt nor pretended to
feel any warmth of attachment for the lady
who perfectly and lovingly fulfilled these
requirements. If Juliet was disappointed
she expressed no disappointment, nor had

she much time to indulge it. Dr. Farquhar
recovered his eyesight a few months after
his marriage, and the traveller's instinct
awoke assail in him. He made a will,
bequeathing all his property to Mrs.
Farquhar during her life, except in the
event of flier remarriage, when it reverted
to his child, on whom her mother's fortune
was settled ; and then he took himself off to
the wilds of Tibet in search of some new
plant or rare insect that he expected to find
there. She received one or two letters from
him after his departure, strictly enjoining
her, should he never return, to make the
Grandee her home as long; as she lived ; to
divide her authority over Genevra with no
one, but to bring her up in the country,
among all the rural scenes and tastes that
had been so dear to himself, and never to
thwart her in a single thing ! And very
soon afterwards came the news of his death.

From that time forti Mrs. Burnes resumed
her sway over her sister in everything but
what related to the little girl. Timid as
Mrs. Farquhar was, her conscientiousness
and loyalty gave her courage to defend the
trust committed to her, even as against the
revered Chatty, who gave way with dignity,
but with something of the mild surprise
that a cat might be supposed to feel if a
mouse turned round and spit at her. But
she, too, was strictly conscientious. When
Juliet urged, " It must be so, sister Chatty.
Genevra has been entrusted to me by her
father on these conditions, and I dare not
disobey his dying wishes," she would reply —

"Well, since it seems to have been his
wish that the child should grow up an undisciplined
savage, I suppose you cannot help
it. Not for all the wealth in the world
would I have accepted such a frightful
responsibility ; and I am not sorry, Juliet,

that you refuse to admit me to any share
in It."

But, after all, Genevra did not grow up
a savage, though in the way of discipline
there might have been something to be
desired. The child's nature was one that
rebelled against coercion, that was not easily
amenable to mere authority of any kind,
but which was yielding and docile to all
appeals to the affections. Mrs. Farquhar's
heart had been chilled by restraint in her
early youth, and disappointed in her uncongenial
marriage, but it went forth with all
the more ardour of passionate love to the
orphan child, who from the first had called
her mother ; and by her gentle influence she
had trained her to something like sympathy
with her own essential womanliness, so
that her unconventionally fearless and impulsive
temperament had never betrayed a
trace of maidenly coarseness in word or

act. She worshipped her stepmother ; she
dearly loved the kind Vicar ; and if she
declined to reckon " Sister Chatty " among
her titular kindred — for she always called
Mr. Burnes "Uncle Charley" — there was
no malice in the playful girlish insolence
with which alone she ever replied to the
cold sarcasms by which Mrs. Burnes expressed
her disapproval of what she called " tomboy
manners."

She had no associates of her own age, as
Mrs. Farquhar shrank from even such limited
social intercourse as she might have found
around Wendholm, and Mrs. Burnes was
unpopular in the neighbourhood, and had
no intimacies. Genevra's childhood was
spent in the summers in the fields and
woods, among the happy woodland creatures,
in Nature's music and sunshine ; by the
fireside in the winter, at her mother's knee,
poring over fairy tales and ballads, which

she had fished up out of some old nursery
stores that had amused the first Mrs. Farquhar
when a child. Her stepmother had
herself undertaken the task of her education,
moved thereto partly by an instinctive
jealousy of any stranger's influence over her
darling, partly from the certainty of " Sister
Chatty's " unexpressed but very active
hostility against any unfortunate governess
whose ideas of scholastic discipline should
be formed on a method some fifty years
more modern than her own.

And so Genevra grew up in the wilds of
Wendholm,

A maid whom there were none to praise,
And very few to love."

No savage, assuredly ; but fresh and sweet
as a hedge-rose, and with some of its thorns
about her too. Healthy, happy, pure, though
knowing but little of the " culture " of the
day, and less of its fashionable conventions,

there was much for Genevra to learn yet,
even when she had attained the mature age
of sixteen, when this sketch of her simple
fortunes commences.

Chapter III.

AT THE VICARAGE.

The Vicar of Wendholm laid down his
newspaper with a yawn (it was two days
old), and walked to the window — an old-fashioned
window, with a window seat, in
which Mrs. Burnes sat, tendency a glove
with the careful accuracy she always bestowed
on the smallest employment. The
Vicar looked on for a moment silently ;
there is no possible opening for comment on
the mending of a glove, so he yawned
again, and Mrs. Burnes glanced up from
her work with a mild remonstrance.

"It is early to yawn so, Charles. You
can't be so sleepy at ten o'clock in the morning

; and you made a good breakfast too.
People yawn for hunger sometimes."

They gape, you mean," corrected
Charley. *' Callow birds do ; but I am
hungry. Chatty."

Again Mrs. Burnes glanced up, and this
time with a faint surprise ; for scarcely had
the breakfast-table been cleared of an empty
coffee-pot and the ruins of a veal pie and
half a small ham, for all of which ruins Mr.
Burnes was to be held responsible. But she
waited to finish her glove before speaking
aerain, and the Vicar resumed.

I am hungry for news, Chatty. That
postman is later every day. He must walk
from Bedford on all fours. Oh, I know
what you are going to say — that if I had
exerted myself as you wished, we should
have had a post office of our own at Wend-holm
before now ; though we should have
been no better off — the same * walking

gentleman ' would have brought the bags.
I could not have affirmed that our Wend-holm
correspondence would have been
sufficient to load a mail-cart or even a hand-barrow."


I was not going to say anything of the
kind, Charles ; I was going to say that the
postman was earlier than usual this morning,
for he passed the garden gate, on his way
back, while you were finishing your last cup
of coffee. '^

And no newspaper for me ? " cried
Charley, an expression of blank despair
overshadowing his naturally serene and jovial
countenance — an expression which might
have softened a heart of stone ; and Mrs.
Burnes heart was not of stone, or it was
stone of a very porous nature, as regarded
her husband, and she hesitated — she, who
prided herself on never hesitating — to suggest
consolation.

VOL. I. 3

"1 dare say he had letters for Juliet, and
your paper may have been put into her bag.
They have done that before now, though
they have no right to do it, and if they doit
again I must insist on your complaining."

But Mr. Burnes only listened to the first
part of his wife's speech.

Of course," he cried eagerly ; '' that's
what it is, no doubt ! I'll run over to the
Grange directly, and ask "

But Mrs. Burnes checked him. "My dear
Charles, there is no time for you to go to
the Grange and back before ten ; it is a
quarter to ten now, and Collis is to meet
you at the school at ten o'clock about
repairing the wainscoting in Miss White's
parlour. Can't you wait a few hours for
the paper ? "

Oh, bother ! 1 suppose I must. You
are so insistent on the point of punctuality,
Chatty."

Mrs. Barnes smiled. People used to
say that her smile was cold and wooden,
and never brightened her face ; but there
was always a ray of wintry sunshine in it
when it shone upon her husband.

"It is worth some insistance, Charles, to
gain for you the character you have of
being the most punctual man in Wendholm.*'
Then, rising from her seat, she added, *' 1
will walk with you as far as the school, and
go on to the Grange for your paper. I shall
be back with it before you have finished
your business with Collis."

'*A11 right," assented Charley joyfully.
Be quick with your toilette-but that you
always are. ' A bonnie bride is soon
dressed.' "

The implied compliment may have
quickened Mrs. Barnes's movements, for
she very soon reappeared in her walking
dress, and the pair set off on their walk.

They were not such an ill-matched pair
after all, notwithstanding the disparity
of their ages. True, the wife was on the
shady side of fifty ; but she was one of
those women who have never looked very
young, and never look much older after
the first bloom, the brief bloom of youth,
has passed. Her step was firm and light,
her figure trim, and always arrayed in
simple but very neatly fitting dresses ; her
hair showed no thread of silver, and her
features only failed of beauty from the
immobility and want of expression, which
at least preserved them from the lines and
wrinkles which tell the march of time and
sensibility in a more animated face. And
even yet, as in earlier days, Mrs. Burnes had
narrowly escaped being handsome. Nature,
in a capricious mood, had neutralized every
persona] advantage she had bestowed on herby
adding a corresponding defect. Her

forehead was too narrow for its height (it
had been made high before low ones had
come into fashion, which had not yet
reverted to the type of the baboon or marmoset).
Her large grey eyes were placed so
near together that they might have formed
one, like a Cyclops, had they not been
separated by the high bridge of an aquiline
nose, which, like the wall of Pyramus and
Thisbe, seemed to part a pair that yearned
for union. That nose, too ! — faultless in
shape, but with a flush on its extreme tip
quite out of keeping with the otherwise
colourless complexion, and which originated
Charley's pet name for his wife — of his " Rosebud."
There could be no greater proof of
Mrs. Burnes' devotion to her lord, than that
she not only permitted this not very delicate
pleasantry, but even received it with complacency.
Few people tolerate such allusions
to little personal blemishes, and all are

sensitive on the subject (I had almost said
the point) of their noses. Then, Chatty's
upper lip was so inordinately long, that her
mouth appeared at first sight to have disappeared
altogether, consumed, it might Le,
])y the fiery nose. But, when discovered, it
was by no means ill-formed ; and even at
her present age her teeth were white and
even, although her rare smile hardly disclosed
them, by reason of that straight and
resolute upper lip. These defects negatived
any claims to beauty Mrs. Burnes's friends
would have ever advanced for her, and certainly
she would never have cared to advance
any for herself. Charley Burnes looked
older than his age. Good-tempered, easygoing
Charley, with his ill-knit figure, much
inclining to obesity, his slouching, shuffling
gait, his thin, grizzled hair, and unduly
developed chin — Charley might have been
forty-seven, instead of thirty-nine ; and

there appeared no reason, in the outward
presentation of things, why Mrs. Burnes
should always treat him with the calm
indulgence rather befitting a mother than a
wife, in spite of his attempt to repel it by a
kind of innocent conjugal gallantry, by
which he tried to assert their real relation ;
for it is an observable fact that when a man
marries a woman older than himself, it is
always the husband who is most sensitive
to the ridicule of the world, while the wife
disregards the fact, except as it may possibly
annoy him.

The pair walked on through the Vicarage
shrubbery in silence, which Mr. Burnes
suddenly broke by exclaiming —
Whom can they be from ? "
*' Whom can what be from, dear ? "
"Why, Juliet's letters. She must have
had a lot this morning for the postman to
have been in such a hurry to get rid of

them that he could not stop to leave my
paper. Poor old fellow ! he is so unused to
heavy loads that a letter more than usual
tries him cruelly''

How absurd you are, Charles ! You
know Juliet has no correspondence beyond
a few trade circulars or such things. The
postman has seldom any letters to deliver
at the Grange, except for the servants."

Chatty," persisted the Vicar solemnly,
"she must have had as many letters this
morning as would outweigh my Times,
supplement and all ; for certainly that postman
would have rid himself of the heaviest
burden first."

Mrs. Burnes did not consider this remark
as worthy of a reply. Presently Charley
broke out again —

Valentines ! late valentines ! Valentines
for the servants ! Valentines for Jenny ! "

Eeally, Charles," remonstrated his companion,

" such a suggestion from any one
but you would be vulgar ! Servants' valentines
are quite beneath your attention ; and
Jenny's ! A child of her age ! Who is there,
besides, to send valentines to her f "

A child ? Why, she is sixteen. I daresay
you thought yourself a woman at her
age, Chatty ? "

"Possibly. But then I had a woman's
duties, a woman's sense of responsibility ;
Genevra has only her amusements."

As for who is to send her valentines,"
continued the irrepressible Charley, disregarding
his wife's grave tone ; " well, unless
one of the ushers in Dr. Bartlett's school,
or the butcher's boy, who belongs, I suppose,

to the kitchen - maid Well, I am

afraid I must discard the valentine theory.
Hullo ! Chatty, you have passed the turning
to the Grange. Hurry back, there's a love,
and get the paper as quick as you can, or

old Collis will bore me to death with his
long-winded suggestions about those repairs."
And, kissing his hand to his spouse as she
turned away, the Vicar went on to keep his
appointment at the school, and justify the
opinion won for him by Mrs. Burnes, of
being "the most punctual man in Wend-holm
" — a character which he entirely owed
to her untiring exertions to keep him in the
path of duty.

Chapter IV.

Caterpillars.

Wexdholm Grange was a pretty country
house, of no great pretension, situated about
half a mile from the church and village, and
at the opposite end from the Vicarage. The
woods of Oakland Heights clothed all the
slopes that intervened, and the woodland
paths that ascended to it could be reached as
soon from the Grange as from the Vicarage,
by striking into them from the high-road.

The Grange was surrounded by well-planted
and well-kept lawns and shrubberies ;
but, beyond a few acres of meadow, there
was nothing to entitle the proprietors to be

called '' landed gentry," any more than the
united fortunes of Dr. Farquhar and his
first bride could have conferred upon their
daughter the distinction of being a great
heiress. The wealth of the first Mrs. Farquhar
had, with the exception of this house,
been settled upon herself and her child, and
did not exceed six or seven hundred a year.
Dr. Farquhar's income had been considerably
less, as his expenditure had been lavish ;
and he had left all to his second wife while
she remained unmarried. But Mrs. Burnes
had considered that her trusteeship of her
sister's right to their father's wealth might
with propriety be transferred to her sister's
husband, and had made a liberal settlement
upon Juliet ; so that the pleasant home was
kept in perfect order, and every domestic
detail was arranged without extravagance
or display, but with comfort, and even a
certain elegance.

Mrs. Burnes, on arriving at the Grange,
took the privilege of a near relative of
entering: the house without rincrins: the bell.
She entered through a verandah that ran
along two sides of the garden and drive,
into a large, low vestibule filled, from
ceiling to floor, with the multifarious spoils
of Dr. Farquhar's scientific and zoological
researches all over the world, which made
it look more like a museum than a hall.
Sister Chatty " always said that, to keep
it in proper order, a curator was needed, in
addition to the housemaid who was " told
off" for that special business ; and she
glanced with some contempt on the wild
beasts' skins that lay about in all directions,
the cases of stuffed birds and animals piled
up to the ceiling, and all the " lumber," as
she called it, of geological specimens and
fossils in one corner, and savage weapons,
household utensils, and all sorts of antiquities,

civilized and barbarous, in another —
all which had been a fairy-land of delight
to Genevra in her childhood, and a wide
field of suggestive dreaming still.

Something of the air of the naturalist's
haunt pervaded even Mrs. Farquhar's 
— a room with large windows
opening on the lawn in front, and another
at the side, into a conservatory filled with
azaleas and heaths, and bright with flowers
on every available stand or bracket. No
one with a soul above cabinet-making would
have noticed that the furniture, although
once fashionable, and still comfortable, was
of twenty years' date, and so not even
fashionable now, far less aesthetic ; and that
all the paintings on the walls were merely
copies from the old masters, executed by
the first Mrs. Farquhar in water colours
during her long residence in Italy, and
therefore valueless from a marketable point

of view. But the tastes of the late master
of the Granule were still traceable in the furs
and rugs and strange foreign ornaments,
much rarer a few years ago in drawing-rooms
than they are now ; and the inherited
proclivities of his youthful heiress could be
guessed by the birds that fluttered gaily
within their quaint Indian cages, and a cat
which took no notice of them, being too
deeply engrossed by the cares of a family of
small kittens, which had evidently never yet
known anything of the world, beyond the
sofa in a corner whereon they lay.

Mrs. Farquhar, a pale, fragile-looking
woman, with straw-coloured hair, streaked
with the silver of which her elder sister's
showed not a thread, with a low voice and
kind grey eyes — who bore not the most
distant family likeness to Mrs. Burnes — was
leaning back in an easy-chair, with her
hands lying idly in her lap ; but on her

sisters entrance she (as the French say)
- ' redressed " herself, and tried to seem, and
to feel, interested in the crochet-work
which was on the table at her side. Miss
Farquhar, on the other hand, was too
profoundly interested in her occupation
even to look round as the door opened
that occupation being the rather difficult
one of keeping within the limits of a shallow
sandal-wood tray a number of the black, long-haired
caterpillars of the tiger-moth that
the country people call " woolly bears ; "
and as they are gifted with a great rapidity
of motion, it required skill to keep them
from escaping on the one side of the tray
as fast as they were pushed back on the
other. But at Mrs. Farquhar's greeting to
her sister, Genevra did look up, and even
rose and went forward to touch Mrs. Barnes's
cheek with her lips, and then rushed back
to arrest the progress of her '* woolly bears,"

that were rapidly scattering over the room
and the window-panes ; unconsciously displaying,
as she did so, a simple grace of
gesture and motion that is rarely met with
except in children. At the first glance,
indeed, Genevra might have been mistaken
for a child — her figure was so mignonne,
and the careless simplicity of her manner so
devoid of self-consciousness or conventional
reserve. But the second glance would have
showed her for what she was — a girl of
sixteen, whose slight form the rounded
curves of early womanhood were softening
into the promise of richer beauty, with the
tiniest hands and feet, and a well-poised
head with a wealth of nut-brown hair ; for
as yet the hair-dressers had not taken their
fashions from the convict prison or thei
orphan homes. .

But Genevra's face, at that time, was still
younger than her figure, and no one woukl

VOL. I. 4

have called it beautiful, although most
people who glanced at her once would have
let their gaze dwell longer on her a second
time. Her complexion was not dazzling
in rose and snow, but it had the clear bloom
of perfect health, with the delicacy that
easily reflects every fleeting shade of
emotion. Her nose was not Grecian, but
neither was it snub. The red lips had a
way of setting themselves a little too firmly,
which, with the rather heavy eyebrows and
deeply fringed lashes, both much darker
than her hair, gave to the whole face the
expression, half musing, half resolute, of a
mutinous child ; and only when the deep
blue eyes sparkled with merriment, which
showed the small white teeth and awoke
a lovely dimple in the cheek, to match the
one that always nestled in the chin, — only
at such moments — and they were rare —
would a casual observer have dreamed of
calling Jenny Farquhar even pretty.

*' You will excuse me for remarking on
your household arrangements, Juliet," said
Mrs. Burnes, in the tone of ceremonious
formality with which she usually attempted
remonstrance, " but is a lady's drawing-room
a proper place to study grubs in ? "

They are not grubs, sister Chatty, '
corrected the young entomologist ; " they
are caterpillars, and very scarce at this early
season, and they have changed their second
skins too ! "

But can you not keep them in, say,
the breakfast room ? "

No, I can't, because mamma does not
care to sit anywhere but in this room, and
she likes to have me with her, caterpillars
and all."

"I very much prefer their being here,"
said Mrs. Farquhar, '' for at first Jenny did
bring them into the breakfast-room, and
I found one in the cream-jug. Good

Leavens ! Chatty, what is the matter ?
Are you ill ? "

For a sudden spasm contracted Mrs.
Burnes's not very mobile features, and
she sat swift" and rigid, looking straight
before her, as at Medusa's head.

Genevra," she said, in a firm but rather
hollow voice, " one of those reptiles is
racing up my boot ! "

Shake him off," answered Jenny, carelessly.


A strong shudder passed over Mrs.
Burnes's frame, and she jerked her foot out
straight before her, and sat fixed in an
attitude which was the last she would have
chosen as graceful or decorous, as she
murmured in hollow tones —

I cannot touch it ; it makes my blood
run cold ! "

Jenny ran to her relief, and captured the
"reptile."

Why, Mrs. Burnes," she cried, '* I never
knew you were so timid ! A ' woolly bear '
does not hurt any one."

I have heard, Genevra," answered
Chatty, " that they curl round on people — ■
that beast is doing so now ! — and that their
hairs have a stinging property, like nettles,
whence they are sometimes called * devil's
rings.' " Then, too conscientiously truthful
to plead this doubtful fact as her excuse,
she added, " But whether that is so or not,
I have an unreasoning horror of caterpillars,
or maggots, or whatever you call them."

Well, then," said Jenny, saucily, " you
can never more scold Martha, as you did
the other day, for screaming so at a spider."

Perhaps not," replied sister Chatty,
reflectively ; then she suddenly added, " unless
I can convince myself that such repulsions
can be mastered. Give me that
creature, Genevra."

Jenny disengaged the insect from her
finger, round which it had formed a " hair
ring," and watched Mrs. Burnes with some
curiosity, as she took it from her into her
own hands, and gazed steadily upon it as
it curled itself up again in her hold — gazed
on it without shrinking, but with a sternness
that might have been copied from a St.
George fighting the Dragon. Sympathizing
with her heroism, the girl relieved her of
it, and put it back on the tray, saying —

'* Henceforth, Mrs. Burnes, you will be
more indulgent to Martha s weakness ? "

On the contrary," answered Mrs Burnes,
I shall insist on her overcoming it, since I
find that it can be done."

Poor Martha 1 " laughed Miss Farquhar,
as she quitted the room with her unappre-
(dated treasures.

How like her dear father ! " sighed Mrs.
Farquhar, as her step-daughter disappeared.

*' Do you not think, sister, that she is growing
very lovely ? "

*' No, I do not," replied Chatty, briefly ;
and, rising, she brushed off some hairs the
caterpillar had left on her dress, with an air
of supreme disgust ; which, however, was
meant for the "woolly bear," not for Genevra.
"I am forgetting Charley's errand," she said.
I was to ask you, did the postman leave his
paper here this morning ? "

Yes, with some stupid circulars for me
from some of the Ketford tradesmen. It is
on the table in the corner. I should have
sent it on to you before lunch if you had
not called."

Mrs. Burnes went to the table and took her
paper, uttering an exclamation as she did so.

Here is a letter that has slipped under
the wrapper," she cried — *'a private letter,
black bordered. Who is your correspondent,
Juliet?"

Who can it be from ? " said Juliet, turning
the letter round and closely examining
it on all sides. " I receive so few letters, I
do not know the handwriting ; and a monogram
! I can never make out those twirl
monogram. Whose can it be ? "

"Possibly the signature may tell you."
answered Charlotte. "If you would but open
it, Juliet, you will ascertain who wrote it."

Mrs. Farquhar acted upon this obvious
suggestion ; then she uttered a faint exclamation
of surprise, of which Mrs. Burnes
took no notice, her attention being fixed upon
one of Genevra's " woolly bears," which had
fallen unobserved upon the carpet, and was
making rapidly for Mrs. Burnes's legs.

Juliet, do take up this beast ! I have
suffered enough from them for one day. It
is quite ridiculous of Martha to make the
fuss she does about spiders ; they are not
half so unpleasant as these things. It is the

hairiness of them that makes them so
repulsive."

But Juliet, absorbed in her letter, made no
reply. So Mrs. Burnes " took her courage
in both hands " and Juliet's large scissors in
one, and, using the scissors as tongs, took
up the caterpillar, which giving a remonstrative
twirl as she lifted it, poor Mrs.
Burnes's fingers contracted spasmodically,
with the disastrous result to the creature that
it fell in two halves on the floor ; and she
dropped the scissors with a shudder just as
Genevra came into the room.

*have you seen "she began; then, following
the direction of Mrs. Burnes's eyes,
Oh, sister Chatty, you have found it and
killed it ! How cruel of you ! "

I did not do it on purpose, Genevra. 1
was taking it up, and it came to pieces in
that unpleasant way. You know I never
wantonly destroy any creature life that may

have its uses, though what can have been
the use of that animal ? "

'' The world will be the less beautiful for
its loss — this summer at least' replied Jenny,
regretfully gathering up the fragments of her
pet, to throw them out of the window.

I dispute that, Jenny," said Mrs. Burnes.
*' The world is not enriched by the beauty of
a black caterpillar."

"But by the beauty of an exquisite tiger-moth,
sister Chatty. The world will be the
poorer for losing that''

Mrs. Farquhar, placidly unmoved by a
catastrophe to which people addicted to pets
soon grow inured, now handed her letter to
her sister ; while Genevra, who seldom cared
to share in the councils of the elder ladies,
once more quitted the room, just as Mr.
Burnes entered it. Mrs. Burnes, in her turn,
glanced at the signature.

From Millicent Carruthers ? " she said.

*' Was not she Dr. Farquhar's young sister,
who threw over the man she was engaged toto
marry his rich uncle for his title ? I remember
he told us of it once, and that he and
his brother in-law had quarrelled about settlements
and become permanently estranged.
Why does she write to you, Juliet ? "

She is a widow now, poor thing ! " said
Juliet. " You told me some months ago that
you saw the advertisement of a Sir William
Carruthers' death in the crimes, but we
took no notice. We did not know him, and
we had received no cards."

'what does she write to you about?"
repeated Mrs. Burnes.

Oh, I can't half make out her scrawl.
Head it aloud to me, Chatty."

Mrs. Burnes took the letter, searched in
her pocket for her glasses, adjusted them
leisurely, and read slowly as follows, with
occasional interruptions of her own : —

'' ' My dear Mrs. Farquhar ' (she does
not call you sister, you see) —

* I do not doubt that you have
felt for me in my great trial, under such
peculiar circumstances too, which you may
have learnt from the newspapers.' (She
does not apologize for not having sent
you a proper notification of it, although I
remember that Charles sent a courteous
letter to Sir William when Dr. Farquhar
died, which was taken no notice of.) ' My
husband's only son and heir — he was a
year or two older than myself — was killed
by a fall from his horse in the Bois de
Bologna, and the shock proved fatal to Sir
William a week later. So long as he lived
I was forbidden to hold any intercourse with
my brother's family ; but I think such
resentments ought not to be handed down
to younger generations, and my dear girls
and my brother's child are without any

nearer relatives on either side, and should
be almost sisters (There is something in
that.) * Will you accept my olive branch,
dear Mrs. Farquhar ? My eldest daughter,
Anne, is to be married in a fortnight to a
young clergyman she lias been engaged to
for some years. Will you allow my niece to
be one of her bridesmaids ? The wedding
will, of course, be strictly private, and a
fortnight later my daughter Georgina and
myself are going on a visit to a friend who
is staying in Paris, and your dear little girl
will have only a month in which to make
the acquaintance of her cousins, which will,
I hope, be the commencement of a life-long
friendship. So pray send her to us as soon
as you possibly can.

' We are all grieved that we cannot
welcome her to our home — no longer ours —
in Cumberland. Only a few months before
he died, Sir William let his beautiful place,

*' Brackensfell," and took this hideous old
house, in a dull, old-fashioned quarter, in
order to be near his favourite doctor (he
was a great invalid latterly), and, as he said,
that we ladies might be near the shops. As
if we wanted to be near shops ! However,
I dare say they will amuse my niece ; and,
under present circumstances, I have little
else in the way of amusement to offer her.
But I trust that brighter times are at hand
for my dear girls, though not for me, and
that my niece may share them. With
kindest love,' etc., etc."

Mrs. Burnes laid down the letter, took off
her glasses, and looked at her sister. After
a brief pause : " Well, Juliet ? Will you let
Genevra go ? "

Ought I ? " answered Mrs. Farquhar.
She is such a home bird, my Jenny, and
so young to be trusted among strangers."

They ought not to be strangers ; they

are her only relatives, and this may be the
last, as well as the first, advance they will
ever make. I do not think you should reject
it, Juliet."

I fear " began Mrs. Farquhar.

But here a new member was added to the
family council in the person of Mr. Burnes,
who, having finished his conference in the
village sooner than he had expected, had come
in search of his wife and his paper, and was
speedily put in possession of the astounding
fact that Genevra's relations had " come
to the fore," and had invited her to visit
them in town.

"Now, I wonder," queried the Vicar,
laying down Lady Carruthers' letter, after
a careful perusal of it — " I wonder what put
it into her head to notice Jenny at all ? "

Family affection, I should hope, Charles,"
said his spouse.

Family fudge ! " was Charles's irreverent

reply. ** Dr. Farquhar had seen very little
of his sister, who was much younger than
he, and had been brought up by some old
lady whom he never visited. Not much
affection there, I fancy. Then he quarrelled
with her husband, and there was no
communication between them till his death.
Sir William never took the least notice of
his widow and daughter, and Lady
(Carruthers has herself waited to apprise
them of her own widowhood till it is eight
months old. Even this invitation is
cautiously limited to a month, at longest.
The whole thing is an afterthought. I
should like to know what put it into her
head ! "

But, my dear Charles," observed Mrs.
Burnes, " that is not the question of immediate
interest to Juliet. She wishes for
advice as to whether she ought to accept
the invitation for her daughter."

'' Of course she ought," was the Vicar's
unhesitating reply. "It is high time that
Jenny should know something of what
is going on in the world beyond this nook
of ours, and have some associates nearer
her own age than we three old folks. Her
only relations too ! "

That was my view," said Mrs. Burnes.
*' We should be blamed, and justly so, if we
isolated her from her own kindred."

My Rosebud," rejoined the Vicar
(using this term of the greatest endearment
to his Chatty), '' she has been isolated
long enough. You are always complaining
that Juliet lets her run wild. I do not
myself see anything amiss with the child,
but if she wants any training, she will get
it best by observation of other girls, and
get a taste, perhaps, for more civilized amusement
than running about the woods after
black beetles."

VOL. I. 5

*every well," said Mrs. Farquhar, resignedly.
" Then it is settled that she shall
go ; but she cannot go alone ? "

If that is all, I will take her up to town
myself," answered good-natured Charley,
when you have settled with her ladyship
when she is to start. By the way. Sir
William's son having died unmarried, who
is the heir to that title and estate ? Is
it the nephew, I wonder, whom Lady
Carruthers jilted to marry the baronet ?
Rather awkward for her now if it is."

Such a long time ago," said sister
Chatty ; " that must be forgotten. Why, it
was before we knew Dr. Farquhar, and years
before Jenny was born. Her cousins must
be older than she is. Besides, there maybe
other nephews. It would be as well not
to allude to that transgression of Lady
Carruthers' in Genevra's presence, Charles."
"But," suggested Mrs. Farquhar, ''if

Jenny does not care to make her aunt's
acquaintance, I cannot force her to . go,
sister Chatty."

"So likely!" rejoined Mr. Burnes,
laughing. " What young girl would not
care for change — for making friends with
other young people, for seeing town and
shops, and, above all things, for being
bridesmaid at a wedding ? Jenny will
dance for joy !"

And Uncle Charley was right.

CHAPTER V.

SIR WILLIAM CARRUTHERS, BART.

A QUARTER of a century is an appreciable
portion of a life, and it was five and twenty
years, and a little over, since Brian Carruthers
was Silly Farquhar s lover.

The nephew of Sir William Carruthers,
and wholly dependent upon his uncle, who
had reared him from a boy, fed, clothed,
and educated him — grudgingly, it is true,
but still in accordance with the social traditions
of his class — he had no prospect of
inheriting title or fortune, as Sir William's
only son was but a year or two older than
himself, strong and healthy, and with
every likelihood of inheriting the longevity

of his race, almost every member of which
had kept his heir waiting for his lawful
succession until but a comparatively short
time remained for him to enjoy it in. And
the heir had never, from any unreasonable
impatience, been missing when the roll-call
summoned him.

Having, therefore, no fortune of his own,
and, as clerk in the Foreign Office, no
prospect of advancement beyond the faint
chances of family interest — very faint in his
case, as Sir William was a languid politician
and lived far remote from political circles —
it was quite in the natural order of events,
first, that the young man should incur
debts ; and, secondly, that he should engage
himself to a girl without a penny. In this
double difficulty he had recourse to his
cousin, Bertram Carruthers, for advice and
assistance. But Bertram had difficulties of
his own to contend with in the money line.

and was not at all accustomed to trouble
himself with the difficulties of other people ;
so he coolly handed him over to the secular
arm, by enclosing his artless confession in
his next letter to Sir William, who calmly,
without apparent anger or malice, wrote to
his nephew, demanding " full particulars ; "
and on receiving them proceeded to devise
such remedial measures as seemed to him
to suit the case. The debts were not
appalling. Brian was careless rather than
extravagant, and the whole amount of his
liabilities for three years did not equal one
column of the schedule which was annually
handed to Bertram's father by Bertram's
creditors, and paid without a murmur. But
that was no precedent ; rather, the more
frequently the baronet was asked to pay
his son's debts, the more unpalatable was
the request to pay his nephew's also. And
he could foresee no end to such appeals.

If Brian's services to an ungrateful Government
were so inadequately rewarded that
his income could not suffice for his personal
expenses, how would it meet the added
burthen of a household ? Noblesse oblige.
Sir William had few relations, and had but
little affection for any of them, except his
son, whom he idolized ; but he had family
pride, and, believing in the "solidarity of
race," would have done his utmost to
maintain any relative of his name on what
he considered the normal level. " A link
which cannot be broken," he used to say,
should be kept from failure or defacement,
which is a blemish to the chain." And
hence his nephew's impecunious marriage
would involve not only a probable claim
upon him for the butcher's and baker's bills
incurred for a thriving nursery, but the
farther and graver necessity of providing
*' careers" for the inmates of that nursery

when they should sally forth into the
world.

Sir William Carruthers, unlike his nephew
and son, was a man of iron resolution and
tenacity of purpose ; but it was a silent,
bull-dog tenacity, that never 'gave tongue."
He mused for some hours on his nephew's
letter, and then, without replying to it,
started off to London, and called upon a
former friend of his, who possessed some
influence in the Foreign Office, and, after
a short conference with him, obtained for
his nephew the appointment of British
Consul at Kio Vedass, a small seaport on
the South American coast^an insignificant
place, rarely visited by merchant vessels on
their way to ship guano from a neighbouring
island. A few Bristol and Liverpool
firms had representatives in the town, and
had recently begged for a consul to protect
their trading interests. And Sir William

returned to his hotel, smiling vengefully, ashe
thought of his refined, fastidious nephew
expiating his financial and amatory transgressions
among merchants' clerks, and
supercargoes, and the *' spicy breezes " of
the guano isles !

A few days sufficed for his further arrangements,
and then the blow was dealt.
Brian was summoned from a regatta in the
Isle of Aright to meet his autocratic relative
in town, and ordered to start for Rio Vedass
in ten days, in a ship bound for a Brazilian
port, in which his passage had been secured.
Resistance would have been vain ; but Sir
William knew his man, and feared no resistance.
Brian, like the rest of his family, had
sufficient tenacity of purpose when once his
purpose was clear to himself ; but he was
dreamy and indolent, and readier to accept
the suggestion of another than to originate
one of his own. He was like a shell-snail,

which can be taken up and set down where
you will, and, after a period of reflection, it
will take steadily, though leisurely, the
path before it, never turning aside, or
seeming to object that it was not the course
it had chosen for itself. Its motto may be
J' arrive'' but it evidently dislikes being
hurried, and in that point also young
Carruthers resembled it. Or, he was like
a ruminating animal receiving the food
offered by any familiar hand, but requiring
a long time to chew the cud of meditation
upon it, before it could become nutritive to
the organs of impulse and activity.

And Sir William took care to give him
no time for remonstrance, nor even for a
last adieu to his beloved ; only so far condescending
as to remind him that his exile
was merely temporary, and would be exchanged
for a better office, when something
better fell in the way ; and as for the

marriage question, that must be postponed
at least until his debts were paid — which
payment was made conditional on his unhesitating
obedience.

But the attitude of Brian's mind was not
hesitation, but a brooding pensiveness. So
his uncle saw all necessary arrangements
completed ; put him on board the Anna
Moore an hour before she sailed, waved a
farewell to him from the shore as she
moved away, and left him to brood at his
leisure during a three months' voyage.

That was Sir William's first move. His
second wt^s to seek out the friends of the
young lady to whom Brian had engaged
himself, and obtain their co-operation in
cancelling such an imprudent agreement.

Millicent Farquhar had few friends. An
orphan, whose only brother was very
seldom in England, she lived in a dull
cathedral city in the North, with an old

lady, her great-aunt, the widow of a Church
dignitary, on whom she was wholly dependent,
and with whom she led a dull life.
She had met Brian at a ball during a visit
to London with Mrs. Elwes in the spring ;
and, as Sir William found to his great satisfaction,
the engagement to a " detrimental "
had received a very reluctant sanction from
the old lady, which she was most eager to
withdraw, on learning that the youth's
uncle disapproved of his marrying at present.
But the girl herself ? Sir William looked
at her and considered. She was very young
and very pretty : the beauty of a Hebe,
plump, fair, fresh, and rosy — the charms
which are often so attractive to elderly
bachelors or widowers. She was a lady in
every sense of the word, and with a character
which her aunt called "quite unformed" —
she might have said it was non-existent ;
and Sir William further considered. It

was his duty to break off an engagement
which could only bring her unhappiness ;
it was his duty to soften the pain of the
blow, and, if possible, console her. A few
tears, easily dried, were followed by smiles,
which showed that he had " done his spiriting
gently," and the duty of consolation he
fulfilled by marrying her himself !

But, alas ! the honey of poor Millicent
Carruthers' honeymoon was spread very
thinly indeed on her bridal cakes. Sir
William, in marrying a portionless girl, had
not an idea of spending any more money on
her than on her food, drink, and clothing.
He had made her '^my lady," and it behoved
her to rest content with that distinction,
which her young lover could not have given
her, and demand no more in the way of
fashionable amusements, dresses, and visiting,
than he could have given her ; and
that would have been very little indeed.

Sir William's resources were heavily taxed
to support the extravagance of his son,
while his clearest wish was to hand down
his estate of Brackensfell to his heir, un-burdened
by charge or liability of any
kind, and to do this a rigid economy was
necessary. So he pinched and saved, with
scarce a murmur, to provide Bertram with
money to be squandered on the racecourse
and the gaming-tables. It was not altogether
Millicent Farquhar's pretty face which
had led Sir William to think of marrying
her. No, it was economy ! If she
married Brian he would have to bear all
the expenses of the young menage. If the
menage were his own, he would be better
able to regulate those expenses, and have
what enjoyment it could afford as well.
The friends of this girl were not in a position
to insist on settlements which would
encumber the estate, so he offered none.

Brackensfell was lonely, and a fair face at
his table would be pleasant to see, and
would not need expensive gewgaws to
make it fairer — quite the reverse if he Averse
called on to pay for them ; and she had
another advantage — she had no relatives
except a brother, much older than she was,
the distinguished traveller and naturalist,
Dr. Farquhar, who, being far from Europe
at the time of her hasty marriage, could not
be consulted about it. He heard of it,
however, in time to write a letter of angry
remonstrance to Mrs. Elwes, that reached
her a few days before the wedding, in which
he reproached her for consenting to the
sacrifice of his young sister, a girl of
eighteen, to a man old enough to be her
father, who was selfish enough to propose
leaving her at his death dependent on the
bounty of his heir, a roue and a spendthrift.
Mrs. Elwes showed this letter to

Sir William, who took no further notice of
it than to inform his wife that from thenceforth
Dr. Farquhar's name was blotted out
from the list of his family connections ; and,
as the brother and sister had never shared
the same home, and had but rarely met,
Lady Carruthers yielded without a sigh.
Indeed, she soon found she wanted all the
sighs of which her lungs were capable for
herself.

Brackensfell was a dreary mansion on
a wild moorland in the North. Such
capabilities of beauty as it had possessed
had been undeveloped, and even when Sir
William brought his young bride there, he
had not expended a shilling in adorning or
improving it. He had only taken up his
residence there a few years after his first
wife's death, and then, as now, it was little
more than a rough bachelor's home. But
the estate itself he sedulously improved and

cultivated, and spent much of his time in
superintending these improvements, in consultations
with his steward, and visits among
his tenants. A few of the surrounding
families called on the bride on her arrival,
but their attentions were so coldly received,
and so scantily acknowledged by the baronet,
that they were seldom repeated.

Lady Carruthers soon found herself caged,
with no hope of freedom even to beat her
wings beyond the precincts of her moorland
home. She did not resist. Her temperament
was essentially lymphatic, and with
her flowers and her novels, and the nightly
game of backgammon with Sir William, and
her occasional confidences with her doctor,
and rides about the country on horseback
with her husband, she contrived to attain a
measure of content, if not happiness ; and
the sighs she breathed for the lover she had
jilted were easily dissipated when she went

VOL. L 6

in to dinner, for a good cook was the one
expensive luxury that Sir William allowed
himself, and, fortunately for her, Millicent
liked good cooking.

But soon the sighs grew deeper and
more frequent. Two daughters were born
in quick succession, just as Bertram Carruthers'
calls on his father's banking book
were becoming more urgent and importunate.
Sir William grew more and more
morose and fretful. He resented the advent
of these new charges on the Brackensfell
property, as if it had been an intentional
annoyance on the part of his lady. Girls,
too ! What is the use of girls, except to
eat up a huge share of what should belong
to their half-brother, and bother him with
improvident marriages, as Brian had nearly
done, and as he, by-and-by, almost wished
he had done ? For the poor Millicent early
lost her bloom and the little vivacity she

ever had. She had not much intelligence,
no culture, no tact. She was docile as a
spaniel, and as timid. She was afraid of
her husband, and her very timidity provoked
him, while he almost hated the
children.

As years passed on, affairs grew worse.
The girls were not likely to feel much
affection for a father who thwarted them
in all their inclinations, denied them every
pleasure, grudged them the very clothes he
was obliged to pay for. He knew they did
not love him, and strongly distrusted his
wife, as having taught them to deceive
him. As age came on, he was crippled by
rheumatic gout ; and though he kept his
wedded slave chained to his sick chamber,
he could not at the same time see that these
girls did not run into mischief.

They were not attractive girls either.
Their education had not been ncL^lcctcd ;

they had had accomplished governesses, and
had even been " finished " for a year or two
in a Parisian pensionnat. Noblesse oblige ;
and Sir William would never have sought
to evade the duty of rearing his offspring
as the females of the Carruthers' line had
been always reared. They were gentlewomen,
and fitted to take rank with gentlewomen.
But Georgina, the eldest, was like
her father, lean and sallow and plain-featured,
with no charm but a pair of
brilliant dark eyes ; and, like her father, she
had a cold heart, a sharp temper, and a
bitter tongue. Anne resembled lier mother,
though not so pretty as Lady Carruthers
had been ; but she was even more insipid.
Sir William never transferred to his daughters
any share of the affection he lavished
on his son. That worthy, dio was twenty-five
years older than Miss Carruthers, had
now reached the mature age of forty three.

He had sown bis wild oats ; and though he
still preferred life in Paris, or Vienna, or
Rome to the sweet domestic charms of
Brackensfell, which he rarely visited, still
he gambled no longer, and even gave signs
of developing the penurious tastes of the
spendthrift grown miser. So far well ; he
would wed an heiress by-and-by, which
would be even better. And Sir William's
careful nursing of the Brackensfell estate
had made it a thriving property. That was
best.

Still, his parsimonious habits rather increased
than diminished ; and he excused
them, when he deigned any excuse, by
pleading the necessity of saving during his
life some provision for his widow and dowry
for his daughters, that they might not be
burdensome to their brother when he came
into his inheritance. So, feeling the infirmities
of his nearly eighty winters increasing

on him, and the charges of his
physician, when telegraphed for from town,
more annoying than any pains — when he
was not actually writhing under them — he
let Brackensfell Manor House to a wealthy
millowner from Bradford, who was building
a palace for himself in his own district, and
wanted a temporary refuge from architects
and builders, and took a quiet, old-fashioned,
and comparatively inexpensive house in
Stratford Place, near his doctor, where he
immured his wife and daughters, who could
not even solace themselves with gay promenades
or shopping, since they were denied
more than two bonnets a year. Georgina
sat in the house and snarled. Anne
utilized her dowdy bonnet by carrying it
into back streets and poor dwellings, and
making of it a trap with which to ensnare a
curate, who likewise visited in that parish ;
but of this affair Sir William knew nothing,

nor ever knew anything. They were
scarcely settled in their new home when
the news arrived that Bertram Carruthers
had been flung; from his horse in the Bois de
Bologna, and killed on the spot. The
shock of this intelligence, unguardedly communicated
to his father, threw the gout to
his heart, and he died within the hour. He
had left a will, bequeathing the trifling
provision he had saved within the last three
or four years to his daughters, but the will
was unsigned. Everything else that he
possessed was tied up in the Brackensfell
estate, which was strictly entailed. And
the exile, Brian Carruthers, was heir to all I

CHAPTER VI.

COUNTER-irritation'.

Meantime, the exiled Brian had pursued his
devious way, "remote, unfriended, solitary,
slow," with a chain of Millicent's hair round
his neck, and a farewell note from her in
his breast-pocket, containing the usual vows
of fidelity and hopes of re-union — hopes
which, on arriving at Eio Vedass, Brian was
compelled to relegate to the distant period,
when *' something better should turn up."
For his new home was not one that he could
offer to an English bride. The climate,
tempered by the sea-breezes, might be
enjoyable enough to those who could sympathize
with salamanders, and the surrounding

scenery, though rather monotonous,
was not lacking in charm to those for
whom Nature has unfailing aspects of
beauty. But " the sweet shady side of Pall
Mall " had more interest for Brian than the
long, low coast, with its fringe of breakers
on the gleaming sands ; and a young lady
brought up amid the strictest proprieties of
the clerical-aristocratic circle of a cathedral
close would scarcely relish the society of
bachelor employed of commercial houses,
whose one aim in life was to make money
as quickly as possible, to earn the promotion
from their principals that would necessitate
their recall home — a society varied, but
little improved, by the occasional admixture
of a few Portuguese or Brazilian families of
the trading classes, and captains of merchant
ships, all living under the laxest rules as
regarded language, manners, and dress, and
attended by throngs of negro slaves, and

pervaded by a mingled fragrance of tobacco,
guano, and African sables.

Clearly Millicent Farquhar could not be
invited to join her lover at Eio Vedass ; so,
with a sigh, he wrote a tender letter to her,
in which he tried to speak hopefully of the
better things that where in store for both,
and an urgent letter to Sir William, pressing
him to keep his friend at the Foreign Office
always on the alert, to watch for the better
things and transfer them, as he had
promised, to the expectant consul.

Neither letter received any reply ; but
Brian was good at waiting. Then, in a
few months, came a line from his uncle's
bankers, informing him that his debts were
fully paid, and that as long as he resided in
Eio Vedass his drafts upon them would be
honoured to a stated amount, which would
be sufficient, with his official emoluments, to
enable him to hold a position befitting the

Government's representative in the town.
This notice brought comfort to the exile ;
for, he reasoned, Sir William's munificence,
limited to a stay in Eio Vedass, surely meant
that it would be for a brief j)enod only,
and that a better appointment, and a self
(and spouse) supporting one, was near at
hand.

And while he was musing thus, came a
letter addressed in Bertram Carruthers'
handwriting — a few lines, calling for sympathy,
and enclosing a newspaper cutting,
in which was announced the marriage of
Sir William Carruthers with Miss Millicent
Farquhar.

The blow fell crushingly on the unhappy
young man. The treachery of his uncle
was not the less odious that there had never
been any warm affection between them.
The falsehood of his betrothed was not the
less bitter that his love had been born of

mere ball-room admiration. The world had

become a desert to him, empty of interest or

sympathy ; for his cousin had been ignorant

of his engagement, and was occupied only

with his own wron<2f, in haviDo^ his inheritor
o

ance diminished by possible settlements on
a mercenary stepmother, who was youthful
enough to threaten heavier charges on it in
the future. He had no friends in the
society around him, having held himself
aloof from his countrymen, less from distaste
for their modes of thought and feelings, than

o o'

from constitutional reserve and self-absorption
; and they, in return, believing any
show of cordiality unwelcome, avoided him
as a haughty, " stuck-up " aristocrat, who
would probably remain but a short time
among them — and. the shorter the better.

And he now withdrew himself further
from all intercourse with them, beyond
what was demanded by his few business

relations, and sunk into a brooding despondency,
which, fed by his isolation and by
the enervating influence of the climate,
would probably soon have fitted him for the
still more uncongenial society of lunatics, to
which class some of his neighbours already
secretly relegated him, but for a circumstance
which occurred, apparently adverse,
but in reality "a blessing in disguise."

We are all familiar (at least in theory)
with a remedy which doctors call "counter-irritation,"
which was once thus illustrated
by a wag : " Cure for a sore throat : Swallow
a kitten, and pull it back by its tail." Now,
Brian's kitten was a shark ; only, instead of
swallowing it, it nearly swallowed him, and
it happened in this way.

One morning, before sunrise, he went
down to the beach, entered a boat manned
by an old negro and a lad, and ordered
them to take him out to sea to bathe. They

took him a certain distance, and then roused
him from his melancholy musings, to assure
him that they had reached the furthest
point from which he could bathe in safety,
as sharks had occasionally frequented the
deeper waters ahead. But to Brian, in his
gloomy abstraction, to be eaten by sharks
seemed but a trivial accident, and the warning
was unheeded or forgotten. He was a
remarkably good swimmer, and when he
found himself in the water, in the enjoyment
of an exercise from which, for very
listlessness, he had for some weeks refrained,
the cool sparkle of the waves flashed new
energy into his weary frame, and he struck
out gallantly, feeling as if, could he only
swim far enough, he should swim out of the
whirlpool of sorrow in which his very being
had been submerged. As he very nearly
did!

Suddenly a warning shout rang over the

water from the negro in the boat, who lead
been sweeping the horizon with Carruthers'
glass, and was now pulling at his oars with
his utmost energy to meet him. And lo !
he descried, fortunately at some distance,
making towards him from an opposite
direction, what he could not doubt to be —
a shark ! A shark in the bloom of early
fish-hood, not yet attained to its fullest size
and vigour, but quite old enough materially
to modify Brian's views as to "trivial
accidents."

There must be something in the theory of
latent energies," for never before or since
did Carruthers exhibit such a frenzy of
mental determination and muscular activity
as he did that morning; in his effort to
regain his boat. It was a hairbreadth
escape. The monster had overtaken him ;
there was a hospitable " come inside " grin
on his countenance as he turned over, after

the manner of sharks, to enforce the invitation,
just as Brian bounded into the boat
like any flying-fish, and fell breathless and
bleeding. Bleeding ? Yes, verily, he was
saved by a supreme efibrt, but the monster,
in transitu, had confiscated his great toe !

Needless to affirm that the amputation
had not been performed with surgical skill,
though with more than surgical celerity ;
and by the time that efficient aid could be
procured, to amend the rough and ready
method of the pristine operator, pain, loss
of blood, and partial exposure to a blazing
sun had brought the wretched victim into
such a condition, that, had the alternative
substitution been possible, he would probably"
have preferred his toe to his sweetheart.

Violent fever and inflammation ensued,
and then a period of utter prostration, prolonged
by the weakness of the nervous
system induced by previous mental suffering.

But there was compensation. English,
Portuguese, and native families vied with
each other in kindly solicitude for the helpless
sufferer, whose social shortcomings were
forgotten and forgiven in his youth and
loneliness. There was no romance of blackened
senoritas bending over his bed and
damping his pillow with salt tears (he had
had enough of salt water), and the " Sisters "
who nursed him were not young and lovely,
but plain-featured and very fat ; but kind
faces watched over him, kind voices soothed
him, cordial sympathy welcomed him back
to health.

Few of them were polished ; all were
brotherly and friendly. Carruthers had
never been made so much of before, and by
the time he had quite recovered, he had
ceased to feel himself an alien and an exile
in Rio Yedas, or to look impatiently for a
promotion which never came. The indolent

VOL. I. 7

far niente life of the sunny land suited
him well. To lounge all day in a verandah,
smoking the best of cigars, looking out
upon the glittering waters (mildly anathematizing
the sharks therein), attended by
obsequious negroes, and smiling at his
friends' efforts to amuse him with the latest
witticisms current in Eio Vedass, or turning
over the books, papers, and other reviews
which he took care should be liberally
supplied to him from a London bookseller —
this he found pleasant enough, after a time,
to silence regret and dim remembrance.

I believe that, even in London, it has
been found possible for a young man to
lead a life of smoking, lounging, and doing
nothing. But it costs more in town !
Brian could enjoy these luxuries in Eio
Vedass without fear of duns or similar inconveniences.
The allowance his uncle made
him was positive wealth there, and even

billiards-playing was not ruinous, as gaming
was a vice from which the young representatives
of the mercantile houses were
guarded by the necessities of their position.

And so weeks and months glided on, and
year succeeded year, until our modern Eip
van Winkle aroused himself one day, with
a smile and a sigh, to the consciousness
that his youth was gone, and that he had
dreamed away twenty-five years in Rio
Vedass. But his early love-dream was gone
too. A man declines to cherish romantic
sentiment for an aunt, and Brian had been
"jilted." That little vulgar word never
ceased to rankle in his mind with a persistence
that was in itself a proof that both
his love and his sorrow had been more
superficial than he knew. It may be that
he had found consolation in lighter attachments
and less holy bonds, for morality
was not up to a high standard among cither

Europeans or Brazilians at Kio Yedas, and
Brian's did not rise above it. That lie had
]iot o-rown coarse in mind or manners during
his long banishment was owing partly to
natural refinement, partly to a temperament
which was slow to receive external impressions,
and, in some degree, to the improved
tone of his society, which had been continually
recruited from the advancing civilization
of the commercial ranks in England,
])y men of higher culture, birth, and breeding
than he had found there on his arrival.

Brian Carruthers, at eight and forty, was
still what young ladies call " an interesting
looking: man." Pie was rather below middle
height, slender, but well proportioned ; and
the slight limp occasioned by that shark's
voracity was so much in keeping with the
natural pensiveness of his manner, that it
took nothing from its grace. His close -
cropped hair and small head and delicate

features gave him a certain youthfulness of
appearance, notwithstanding the long grey
moustache (with no accompaniment of beard
or whiskers) and the bronzed complexion ;
and in the large blue eyes there was a look
that might well be taken for pathetic,
though in reality it was only absent and
introspective. In his solitary life amon^L^
the natives and slaves, who were ignorant
of any language but their own, he had
contracted a habit of murmuring quite
audibly the thought which was passing
through his mind — a practice which afforded
so much amusement to his countrymen,
that they were careful never to warn him
of it, as, when his blue eyes dwelt with
peculiar intensity on the face of some companion,
while he thoughtfully caressed his
drooping moustache, the fixed attention
which was so flattering to the speaker was
likely to be followed by a murmured continent

which had a very different meaning.
The candid circle in Madame de Gentis'
Palace of Truth might have welcomed him
among them as an habitue to their customs.
Such was Brian Carruthers when the
startling communication reached him from
this uncle's lawyers that he had become,
through unforeseen accident, the heir to the
family title and to a prosperous and unencumbered
estate. The "something better"
had turned up at last !

CHAPTER VII.

Georgia.

*' Well, thank Heaven ! that's over, and
will not happen again ! " and Miss Carruthers
threw down the book which had been for
some minutes in her hand, with the pages
still uncut, and laid her head on the chair
cushions with a Ions: sio-h of contentment.
Lady Carruthers looked up from the vase
of half-withered flowers she was arrans^inor
on a table beside her. She was a woman
whose beauty had been of the kind which
consists more of colouring than of form, and
seldom outlasts youth's earliest springtime.
She was worn and sallow now ; her face
wore a half-anxious, half-sullen expression,

and her figure was decidedly overblown and
shapeless.

*' Glad what is over ? " she inquired.

** Well' answered Georgina, "I mean

But do throw away those shabby flowers,
mamma. We need not keep up our penurious
habits now. Brian weill bring you a
fresher bouquet presently."

Glad ivhat is over ? " repeated Lady
Carruthers, persistently.

"Why, this detestable wedding of Anne's,
with its sentimental foolery, and its dulness
and dowdiness ; it might have been a maidservant's
wedding 1 "

o

You are unreasonable, Georgina," remonstrated
her mother. *' In our deep
mourning, such a double mourning too, we
could but have a very private wedding.
And in any case, a great display would
have been absurd, since your sister has only
married a poor country clergyman, and

except for Brian's generosity there could
have been no wedding at all."

Lady Carruthers said truly. It would
have been gall and wormwood to a sensitive
woman to find herself left dependent on
the liberality of the man she had wronged
for any share of the fortune for which she
had sacrificed him. But Lady Carruthers
was not sensitive, and when she found that
there was but the most meagre provision
for her, scarcely sufficient to support herself
and her daughters, certainly not to afibrd
her youngest and favourite child the assistance
without which her marriage must be
indefinitely postponed, she calmly wrote to
her former lover, enclosing Sir William's
unsigned will, and pleading that, in justice,
a mere legal informality ought not to prevent
his heir from carrying out his wishes.

No answer came from Sir Brian ; but
from his lawyers Lady Carruthers received

the satisfactory announcement of '' instructions
" from their client to arrange a settlement
on his uncle's widow and daughters,
considerably more liberal than they would
have been entitled to claim under the will
had it been properly executed. Thereupon
Lady Carruthers wrote a second letter to
her quondam sweetheart — a grateful, aunt-like
letter, in which she told him of Anne's
engagement, and invited him, in the names
of herself and daughters, to come to them
immediately on his arrival in England, and
claim his position as head of the family by
giving away the bride.

An invitation which Sir Brian, after some
hesitation, accepted, though not until he
had lingered at Rio Vedass much longer
than any other man in his position would
have cared to do. He duly presented himself
at the wedding, and gave away his
cousin to her expectant curate, and it was

to this ceremony, now ten days past, that
Genevra Farquhar had been invited to
officiate as bridesmaid.

I know, I know," replied Georgina to
her mother's remark. " Of course it was
all right, but none the less dull, and
Anne's sentimental ^ gush ' over her bumpkin
bridegroom was most ridiculous ; and so,
mamma, both you and I may rejoice that it
is over and done with."

At least, Georgie, your cousins, Sir
Brian and my niece, did not seem to find it
at all ridiculous. They both appeared quite
interested. By the way, talking of my
niece, I hope that her people quite understand
that her visit is strictly limited to a
month ? With all our arrangements in
hand for our visit to Paris, she is rather in
my way as it is. I never could clearly
understand why you insisted on my inviting
her at all"

"Make yourself easy, mamma," answered
Miss Carruthers ; " Miss Farquhar's friends
will not spare her to you for so long as a
month. She is to return home in a fortnight
at latest. I have clearly explained to
you why I wished you to ask her here, but
you were too much engrossed with Anne's
trousseau to pay me any attention."

I can give you my whole attention
now," said Lady Carruthers. " Why did
you make me write to Mrs. Farquhar, and
at such a time too ? "

Just the right time, mamma. It was
an opportunity of renewing your relations
with Jenny and her people, and of offering
her a graceful compliment besides. If you
had not liked her when you saw her, you
had done all that could be expected of
you, and could retire from any further
intimacy without awkwardness."

But why revive the relationship at all I "

"Oh, mamma' rejoined Georgia, unci
willy, "your density is aggravating. Cannot
you see that, immured as we have been
by may loving papa, that we might cost him
as little as possible, and left almost beggars,
we have absolutely no friends — except this
dear old lady we are going to in Paris —
who will trouble themselves to ask us to
their houses ; and we are not likely to
afford to keep one of our own."

Unless you marry well," suggested the
mother.

As 1 mean to do," said Miss Carruthers,
candidly. " But I must have some standpoint
in society first, and I begin with my
relations. My uncle. Dr. Farquhar, was a
distinguished man in his day, and this little
daughter has a position, or ought to have,
in the county society where she lives, sic
will be an heiress, too, in a small way, and
altogether she is worth cultivating ; and the

Grange will be a convenient place for me to
stay at when you are with Anne, and I amon
the wing."

"I do not see much in your policy,"
answered Lady Carruthers, a little wearily.
"You could take a shorter cut to fortune
another way."

"I know," laughed Georgina. "You
mean by captivating my cousin Brian ? No,
thanks ; I have not the courage to face
ridicule, and what would be more ridiculous
than for a girl to marry an old lover of her
mother's ? "

You ought never to have heard that
story, Georgina," remarked Lady Carruthers,
severely.

"Then," replied the daughter, "you
should never have retained your old maid in
your service. Moreover, I never had a
chance of winning Brian. My face is against
that."

Your face ? You are not very plain,"
said Lady Carruthers, doubtfully, '' and
you are one whom the men call a fine
girl."

'* Shall I tell you ? " said Georgina, who
secretly resented her mother's qualified
approval of her personal charms. " Yes, I
think I will. You were not present at my
first interview with my cousin Brian. I
was alone in the drawing-room when he
first arrived, and of course I went forward
to greet him with all the warmth of welcome
one naturally shows to the representative of
the family, who has been so truly generous
as Brian has been to my sister and me.
Well, you know his way ; he held both my
hands in his, abstractedly — I do not believe
he knew what he was holding — and his
large grey eyes dwelt on my face in silence
for so long, that I thought he was preparing
an oration expressive of extra-cousinly

affection, and then he slowly murmured,
She is the masse of her d d father ! ' "

Lady Carruthers was shocked.

** You ought not to repeat such words,"
she said ; " they were not meant for your
ears or for mine. I cannot think where
Brian contracted that horrid habit of speaking"
in stage * asides ; ' he never had it when
I knew him."

Possibly not," answered Georgina drily ;
there is time enough to contract a good
many odd habits between three and twenty
and eight and forty. However, you can
understand now that, my cousin's memory
being" so retentive, he is not likely to cherish
a errand passion for me ; and that fact being
fully recognized, I proceed to suggest another
and more feasible method of utilizing my
relations."

I do not see," began Lady Carruthers.

'* No, mamma ; you never do see, unless

I open your eyes. Moliere is Genevra just
now {

Brian called for her not an hour ago to
take her a drive round the Park, while we
were at Eedmayne's."

"What were Brian and Jenny doing in
the back drawing-room all the morning
yesterday ? "

"He was reading the last new poem to
her. He is very kind in trying to amuse
the child, for I am afraid that we rather
neglect her."

I am not neglecting her — I am utilizing
her." And as Lady Carruthers still looked
puzzled, she continued, "We leave town ina
fortnight. Brian will betake himself to
his new estate ; he will marry some lady
who, whatever may be her predilections, is
not likely to have any for her poor relations,
who thus lose all hold on him. But if he
weds your niece "

VOL. I. 8

*' Georgina 1 " almost screamed her mother.

"If he weds your niece," proceeded the
young lady calmly, " then the family tie is
strongly knit, with all its contingent advantages
; and thus, by doing my utmost
to further such a marriage, I should, if I
succeed, utilize both my relations. Well,"
resumed Miss Carruthers, as her mother
continued silent, " do you approve of this
plan of mine for turning defeat into
victory ? "

I cannot say that I do, Georgina ; the
disparity in age is too great."

Not greater than ? "

Yes, greater by four years ; and if it
were the same, still my married life, as
you know, was not so bright that I should
propose to make it a precedent for Jenny's."

Oh," answered Georgina, in whose character
filial reverence was by no means a
salient feature, " but Brian is not such a

Blue Beard as Sir William was ; he will be
kindness itself to his young wife. "

'' However," continued Lady Carruthers,
there seems to be something selfish and
heartless in encouraging such a marriage,
merely for our own interest. Genevra is a
child, young even for her years. I think
her friends should be consulted, at least."

Georgina perceived that her confidence
had been premature, and hastened to retrace
her steps.

Her friends ? They could but be pleased
with such a brilliant match for a little
country maid like her ; and in any case, if
she is a child, she is a spoiled child, who
will take her own way, whether her friends
approve or not. Interference does no good
in such matters, and would certainly offend
Brian. It may come to nothing."

I think it will come to nothing," said
Lady Carruthers. '' I believe your cousin s

attentions to Jenny are prompted simply by
a wish to amuse the child ; his manner to
her is not in the least lover-like."

And you ought to know," said Georgina,
with the faintest possible sneer.

So," continued her mother, " my advice
to you is not to jut such nonsense into
Genevra's head. If Brian has any thought
of the kind, he will forget all about it when
she leaves us. He never does anything ina
hurry."

And, so saying, Lady Carruthers walked
away to prepare herself for a shopping
expedition, and studiously avoided further
allusion to Georgina's politic views.

They were not without foundation. The
wedding of Miss Anne Carruthers had been,
as her sister had said, a very uninteresting
one. The bridal party had consisted only
of the mother and father of the bride —
represented by Sir Brian as the head of the

family — the bride and bridegroom, and the
bridesmaids, Georgina and Genevra. On
the bride's departure, Lady Carruthers and
her daughter had been too much occupied
with their own preparations for leaving
town to take much trouble to amuse their
youthful guest, and at first Carruthers took
that task on himself from pure good nature,
which presently gave way to more personal
motives. The most pressing duty urged
upon him, on his arrival in England, by
his lawyers, and the few friends who had
welcomed him, was the duty of marrying
and giving an heir to the title, which
would otherwise become extinct with him.
It was not an old title — all the more reason
it should have the chance of becoming older ;
and although Brian cared little for the title,
and not at all for marriage, he accepted the
suggestion, and dwelt on it, in his slow,
persistent fashion, until he almost imagined

that he Lad himself originated it. But his
early experience had made him distrustful,
and he shrank as he pictured to himself the
hungry mothers and scheming daughters of
fashion who would be soon in full pursuit
of him as a prey. And he gradually awoke
to the perception that in the little budding
maiden, whose freshness and naive enjoyment
of the scenes around her had so
amused and interested him, and whose
frank and cordial recognition of his efforts
to please her had so gratified him, there
was the very ideal of a suspicious Celebes —
an innocent country girl, too young to be
fancy-tainted, pretty enough to please, and
brought up in ignorance of worldly cunning
and selfish aims. It did n()t occur to him
that this ignorance might plead against
him, as blinding her to the advantages of a
marriage with a man thrice her age, for he
never thought of himself as old. His silent,

uneventful years had glided by, like the
noiseless lapse of a dull river, which reflects
always the same scene, unbroken by a ripple
or a wave ; and, in his youth, he had been
voluntarily deserted by his love for a man
much older than he was now.

She was pure from any thought or dream
of passion, and it would be his care, by
surrounding her with all ^' sweet observance,"
to keep her so ; for Sir Brian was indisposed
for ardours on either side. He did not fall
in love — he walked into it, and, so far from
feeling impatient with Miss Farquhar's
evident unconsciousness of his attentions, he
was quite contented to " take his time,"
and to admire his blossom with the dew on
it — the frank eyes which met his fixed
gaze with no bashful avoidance ; the dimpling
smiles of welcome ; the playful
familiarity, unchecked by the blushing
reserve which, sooner or later, love would

bring with it ; and Sir Brian was willing
that it should be later, only not too late.

And thus Jenny, who had been received
by her aunt and cousins with kindness, but
with no warmth, had found her first experience
of bridal festivity decidedly disappointing,
and would have found her
London visit equally so but for the baronet's
untiring efforts to amuse her. And as days
went by, and the engagements of her
hostesses left her more and more to her own
resources, she began to watch eagerly for
the daily visit of her new friend, who
always came with the proposal of a drive
or walk on fine mornings to some fresh
exhibition or entertainment, and would sit
with her for hours on inveterately WTt afternoons,
reading some new poem aloud to her,
and answering the questions with which she
plied him about the customs, climate, and
products of the distant land which had been

SO long his home. Especially she was
interested in the dreadful adventure of the
shark, which might have cost him his life,
and had actually cost him a toe ! The
slight limp, which might have seemed a
disadvantage in the eyes of some girls,
became an absolute charm in Jenny's, who
might have looked with comparative indifference
upon Jonah as a prophet, but
would have been wrapt in admiration of
him when he had been swallowed by a
fish ! Once or twice Sir Brian ventured an
attempt to enlist her sympathy with him
on a more romantic subject, by the vaguest,
most distant allusions to his early disappointment,
to the treachery of the woman he had
loved. But it would not have answered his
purpose to dwell too much on an " over true
tale," and he was secretly pleased to see
that it involved but little response from the
as yet unawakened chord of sentiment in

Genevra's by no means sentimental nature.
She pitied his loneliness in exile, but she
liked better to hear about the shark !

Not only did the idea of Sir Brian as a
lover never occur to Jenny, but the idea of
any lover at all had not as yet presented
itself to her imagination except as a very
vague and distant probability. She had
been almost entirely restricted to the society
of two elderly ladies, who would have considered
it a kind of profanity to suggest
such probabilities to a girl of her age, — a girl
who might, Mrs. Farquhar said — who ought
to, Mrs. Burnes declared — have been in the
nursery. The few works of imaginative
literature that fell in her way were a complete
series of Sir Walter Scott's novels,
which had belonged to her own mother ;
and these were eagerly devoured. But the
chief interest of these bewitching tales
depends but little on the love-making, and

no girl could be tempted into the torrid
atmosphere of passion by her sympathy with
Edith Plantagenet or Catherine of Pertly.
Indeed, Jenny's admiration of these heroines
was always greater for the stateliest and
coldest among them. Diana Vernon, Edith
Bellenden, Flora M'Donald, would have
been her models, if she had cared to choose
one; and she was firmly of opinion that
that dear old Constable de Lacy was much
to be preferred to his successful nephew.
Her studies in poetry, of which she was
passionately fond, were not so limited to a
single writer ; but, as yet, the charm of
verse had been the charm of its music only,
and had awakened no deeper chord in
response. Moreover, a greater joy than any
she found in literature existed for her in the
beauty of woodland scenery, in the creature
life in forest and fields. While eagerly
searching for a rare fern or flower, or peering

with rapturous admiration into a nest of
little blind and naked harvest mice, the most
thrilling romance would have fallen flat on
her attention. But, you see, she was only
sixteen, and the most exciting love-stories
are rather wanting in point to ears on
which no living lover has ever breathed
their interpretation.

Sir Brian did not misread her apparent
absorption in his talk of his foreign experience.
He did not for a moment imagine
that Genera was in love with him. He
believed — as men in such circumstances are
prone to do — that her capacity for love was
dormant and undeveloped ; and he was
glad that it should be so. A pure, calm
affection was all that was requisite in a wife
and mother of future heirs. She was too
young for worldly self-interest, too innocent
to dream of any hardships in the watchfulness
with which he would guard her from

worldly perils. If he must marry he had
better not lose any more time. Once in the
vortex of the husband-hunters, he mii^ht

be swept off' his feet and whirled into

Sir Brian glanced at fat Lady Carruthers
and lean, sharp-faced Georgina, and
shuddered.

CHAPTER VIII.

HER FIRST OFFER.

The day arrived which was to be the last
Brian and Genevra would spend together in
town. He was to start for Brackensfell the
next day on business, and in a day or t^^■o
she was to return home. It was a brio-ht,
sunny May morning, with a bitter east wiiul.
Genevra found it charming and so exhilarating
; but poor Sir Brian shivered in his
rugs and furs when he drove up to Stratford
Place as usual to take Jenny out for her
early drive, and he was unhappy when she
said it was a shame to waste the rare town
sunshine under any roof. Would he take
her a walk in the parks or Gardens ? But,

as he ruefully acquiesced, she suddenly
bethought her of the Zoo, which she had
never seen, and he eagerly caught at the
proposal to drive there. There were sheltered
corners there, kept warmed for the foreign
creatures from sunnier climes, and he
promised himself secretly that very little
of the morning should be spent in the open
air.

Little Jenny, a born naturalist, was in her
glory at the Zoo. She was chiefly interested
in the animals which, strange to her, were
familiar to her companion, and she eagerly
questioned him about their haunts and
habits ; but Sir Brian cared nothing about
such doings, and his replies left much to be
desired in the way of scientific accuracy,
though Genevra never suspected that he
was drawing on his imagination for the
facts which he so confidently affirmed. "If
she could only see a shark ! " But sharks

were not amonsf alae agreeable monsters
cherished at the Zoo, and Sir Brian did not
repine at the omission.

'were there camels or elephants at Kio
Vedass '? "

And when Sir Brian shook his head, she
looked disappointed, and glanced wistfully
towards a little wired court they had just
passed, in a very draughty corner, containing
a number of chilly guinea-pigs.

No camels ^ "

No, Jenny ; but there were splendid
birds — humming-birds and parrots, all
colours. Shall we go into the aviary, and
I will show you some like them ? "

And to the aviary they proceeded, where
the wily baronet secured a seat for his young
friend and himself in the well-warmed
house, and watched her, as from time to
time she quitted his side, to flit among the
gay-plumaged birds that fluttered and

screamed round her, not unfrequently addressing
her in a word or two of Spanish
or' Portuguese, learnt of the sailors on their
voyage, at which Sir Brian laughed, but did
not propose to interpret. He slowly pulled
his long moustache, watched Genevra, and
mused. It was warm and pleasant there ;
but oh, the cutting wind they would have
to face when they left the Gardens ! And
his journey tomorrow ; the dull, desolate,
wind-swept mansion among the bleak fells
of Cumberland — the home of his boyhood,
it is true, but a home that had never been
home-like to him, the orphan relative of its
heir ! And a vision arose before his dreamy
fancy of a very different home. Not at
Kio Vedass ; he felt that he could never take
up his life there again ; but in some isle of
the blest, where he could bask evermore in
sunshine, without duties or cares or social
worries, with his books and his cigars, and

VOL. I. 9

since marriage was insisted on as a necessity
of his new position — with an innocent
girl-wife, who would ask for no amusement
but in her pets and her flowers, of which
no winters would bereave her, until the
advent of the required heir condoned in
his neighbours' eyes his evasion of his local
responsibilities as the owner of Brackensfell.

At that point in his meditations Genevra
presented her last piece of biscuit to a blue
macaw, which had for some time been rewarding
her bounty with the most opprobrious
epithets (in Portuguese), and returned
to Sir Brian, who rose to offer her his seaton
the bench, and placed himself again
beside her.

But there are no humming-birds here,
Sir Brian," she said. " You promised to
show me humming-birds."

No, Jenny," he answered ; " you can
only see such fragile creatures as those by
seeking them in their natural homes."

*' Oh, how I wish I could ! How I long
to visit those places, with their delicious
climate and their exquisite scenery, and all
the lovely birds and wild things. If papa
had lived he would have taken me with
him there, and to many other foreign lands,
which 1 shall never see now."

You may see them yet," answered the
baronet, looking reflectively at her. " Some
other friend may take you there."

*' No chance at all," returned Jenny,
despondingly. " Mamma says she could
not live through a sea voyage, and I have
no brothers with whom I could go."

You can go," suggested Carruthers,
slowly, " with — a husband ? "

Genevra's eyes brightened, and she drew
a long breath, as if a delightful vista had
suddenly opened before her, but it ended ina
sigh.

*' That must be such a very long time
hence," was her naive reply.

Sir Brian smiled — he had a very pleasant
smile — and had there been another soul
besides themselves in the aviary, that smile
would have been his sole rejoinder. But
for the moment they were alone with the
evil-tongued cockatoos and macaws, and
the situation was too strong for him. He
leaned tenderly towards her, and took her
hand in his.

'^ Let me be your husband, Genevra, and
we will go and see the humming-birds
together."

Chapter IX.

Georgia IS AMUSED.

]\Iiss Carruthers glanced up with a languid
curiosity as Genevra entered the room, while
Lady Carruthers also looked at her with a
newly awakened interest, and to both of
them it appeared that she looked less bright
than usual.

Alone, Jenny ? " said Georgina. " What
have you done with my cousin ? "

Sir Brian left me at the Zoo," answered
Miss Farquhar. " He said he had a business
engagement at his lawyer's office ; but he
will be with you this evening."

Of course," remarked Georgina, significantly
; but Genevra took no notice.

You look tired, my child," said her
aunt. " I am afraid you have not amused
yourself so much as usual this morning."

"And no wonder," observed Miss Car-ruth
hers. "The idea of any girl wasting a
whole morning in town, in those horrid
Gardens, among a lot of inodorous animals !
Why, Genevra, you might just as well have
stayed in the country, and visited one of
Van Amber's travelling shows ! "

I like looking at wild beasts much
better than shopping," answered Jenny ;
but I am tired of both to-day. The town
is so noisy. Are there no letters for me,
aunt ? "

There is one that came just after you
went out, dear. It is on your dressing-table."


Miss Farquhar immediately left the room;
and Georgina remarked, impressively —

Something has happened ! I have never

heard Jenny complain of being tired before.
Has she refused Brian, do you think ? "

Lady Carruthers' rejoinder was not sympathetic.
'' I do not believe he has been
such a goose as to ask her. It is all a
foolish fancy of your own, Georgina."

If you say that, mamma," replied her
daughter, irreverently, " I shall think you
are jealous, and have forgotten that Brian
is within the prohibited degree now. However,
I will have Miss Farquhar's secret at
once, if she has got one. There is no time
to waste in speculation ; " and she rose
accordingly, and proceeded to her cousin's
room.

Genevra had seated herself at her dress-unstable,
and, without taking off her bonnet,
began to read her mother's letter. It was
the usual kind of letter that she had
daily received from Mrs. Farquhar since she
left home — loving regrets for her absence ;

tender cautions against over-fatigue or taking
cold ; assurances of the well-being of all her
friends, human and animal ; gentle reproaches
for the extreme brevity of her own letters,
and affectionate entreaties to write punctually
in reply.

Jenny glanced over the pages more absently
than she was wont to do, and then
let them fall from her hand to the floor,
where they lay unheeded, while she sat
trying to restore order to her own thoughts,
bewildered by the unexpected occurrence at
the Zoo.

Sir Brian had rightly conjectured that,
as yet, Genevra's maiden fancy had been
stirred by no dream of husband or lover,
and assuredly it had never occurred to her
to connect the idea of Sir Brian Carruthers
with any such dreams, until now that
he had unmistakably proposed to her, and
she was not at all sure that she had not

accepted him ; she was ahiiost sure that he
believed she had ! In the confusion and
bewilderment of her surprise, she had been
struck dumb, and not one syllable would
rise to her lips. Naturally, the lover had
taken her silence for a bashful consent.
People came and went around them — there
was no opportunity for exchange of sentiment
on either side ; but she remembered
something of a tender pressure of the hand
he held in his, some whispered words of
gratitude and devotion, as he led her
through the Gardens, and handed her into
the carriage, standing bareheaded as she was
driven away ; for Sir Brian's foreign notions
of the etiquette in such cases forbade him
from accompanying her home, as he would
otherwise have done, and he respected her
emotion, though he misunderstood its cause.
Could this be," Jenny asked herself in
doubt and perplexity — " could this be a

betrothal ? " What moonlit have been hero



answer to her lover, had she previously-reflected
on the subject, or if she had given
any answer at all, even at the moment, she
did not ask herself. Her position, though
unforeseen and, so to speak, unintended,
was not without its charm. Her heart
fluttered a little, with childish vanity, at
the homage offered her by a man whom
Lady Carruthers and her daughters looked
up to, deferred to, and evidently respected.

And yet — and yet

A light tap at the door, and Georgina
entered. Her quick glance took in the
situation at once — little Genevra, still in
her walking-dress, leaning back in her chair,
abstracted and pale ; the mother's letter
lying, where it had dropped from her careless
hand, at her feet ; and the sudden
crimson that rushed over her face, as her
cousin's significant smile greeted her. Fortunately,

Sir Brian's trick of monologue did
not run in the family, or Miss Carruthers'
first audible utterance would have been —

What an old fool he has made of
himself ! "

Instead of which, she clasped her arms
round the blushing girl, and murmured
caressingly —

*' Tell me all about it, Jenny darling. I
always knew how it would be."

But Jenny was herself again at once.
She was unaccustomed to " promiscuous
gush," and hated it thoroughly. She shook
herself free from her cousin's embrace, and
answered coldly, if not very grammatically —

I have nothing ' would be ' to tell you
about."

But Miss Carruthers was not easily repulsed.
"Will you deny that Brian has
proposed to you this morning ? "

Jenny was silent.

Oh, you happy girl ! And you have
said ' Yes ' ? "

Still no answer.

Now, Jenny, don't be reserved with
your only relatives. I knoiv you have
accepted my cousin. You could not have
the cruelty to refuse him ! "

And, pray, why not ? " inquired Jenny,
beginning to untie her bonnet-strings, and
stooping to pick up her mother's letter.

Georgina cast a sidelong look at her, and
her lips trembled with the effort to suppress
a smile, but she answered demurely —

I overheard — I could not help overhearing
— some words of Brian's conversation
with you in the back drawing-room the
other day, from which I inferred that he
was telling you of the great sorrow of his
life, that had kept him so long away from
England. Now, was he not ? "

"He told me something of a friend who

lead betrayed him, and married the lady he
was engaged to," answered Genevra. *' Did
you know the lady, Georgie ? Did you not
grieve with him ? "

Did 1 ? " exclaimed Georgie. " Why,
it was before " — " I was born," she was
going to say, but checked herself in time,
and substituted for it — "before I knew my
cousin. But I was going to say, Jenny,
that you never could be so cruel as to refuse
Brian, when he looks to you to make him
happy ? "

Jenny lifted her long eyelashes, and
turned solemn eyes on Miss Carruthers' face.
It would be a great trust, would it not ? "
she said.

But one that you have accepted, I am
sure," answered Georgie, who was choking
with laughter, and hardly able to control
herself. So adding, " There, I'll not tease
you any more. Of course, Brian told you

that he dines here to-day ? Lie down and
rest ; Maxwell will come to you in time to
see you dressed for dinner," she gave hera
hasty kiss, and ran downstairs to her
mother, when she threw herself into a chair,
and burst into a peal of laughter.

You have been at some mischief,
Georgina," said Lady Carruthers, looking up
from her work, " for nothing else amuses
you so much."

Who would not laugh, mamma ? Fancy !
that child positively asked me if I had not
grieved with Brian in his first love disappointment
! "

'who told her of it?" asked Lady
Carruthers, looking annoyed.

Brian himself told her — merely, as I
judge, to enlist her sympathies for the
heart sorrows which are only — I 7nust laugh
only a quarter of a century old ! "

"Well, well," said Lady Carruthers, impatiently

; "I suppose Brian does not date
his memories as he does his letters. Probably
Jenny thought his disappointment
more recent. She does not seem to consider
him so venerable as you do, Georgina, to
whom it appears quite ridiculous that he
could ever have been vounof."

Because," answered Georgie, " she is too
young herself to form much idea of age in
her new relations to her first lover. If she
had ever received admiration from young
meu, she would have been quicker in observing
the grey hairs in my cousin's
moustache."

"But, Georgina, is it really gone sofar?"


Yes, mother ; it has gone so far that you
must be prepared to descend to the rank of
Dowager Lady Carruthers. Console yourself
with the reflection that you will be Brian's
aunt a plus beau titre henceforth ; that

your niece will make a good match ; and
your daughter will reign over the young
menage, so as speedily to secure a better one
for herself."

You may find yourself mistaken in that
calculation, my dear," answered her mother.
'' Genevra will not always be a baby, and I
doubt if either Brian or you will find her so
easily ruled."

"As if Brian would ever rule any one ! "
laughed Georgina. "But we will adjourn
further discussion, for here comes Maxwell
to summon me to try on that new dress.
We have not too much time, remember, if
we are to leave for Paris next week, and
send Jenny home on Thursday."

And that reminds me " said Lady

Carruthers.

But the young lady had quitted the room
with her maid ; and, with a sigh, the mother
was fain to follow.

But Genevra did not " lie down," as her
cousin had advised her. That lady's effusive
sympathy had rather irritated than softened
her. After all, there was nothing to call
forth so much sentimentality in the simple
fact that a gentleman, neither young nor
romantic, had proposed to gratify her desire
to travel and see all the wonders of which
she had so often read by becoming her
husband and guide. That was the right
view to take of the matter. Why, Sir Brian
and she had been alone together everyday
for the last fortnight, and never a word
of love had he breathed to her ! If he had,
she would have hated him. She despised
such silly stuff. It was, as Miss Carruthers
said, ''a trust" that he had reposed in her,
and which she had — accepted ? She was
not quite sure ; but if she had, she was
ready to fulfil it with dignity and fidelity.
Had not Mrs. Burnes often said, how

VOL. I. 10

honoured a woman should feel when a man
asks her to preside over his home, to wear
his name ? Hitherto she had always been
treated as a child ; how grateful she should
be to Sir Brian for such a proof of respectful
devotion ! Of course, she must feel very
happy and proud, but Georgie had no right
to assume that everything was settled and
arranged. There was her dear mother's
opinion to be consulted first. Should she
write to her to-night ? No, she thought
not. Jenny disliked letter-writing. Indeed,
she had no correspondents, and Mrs.
Farquhar, since she came to town, had been
her first. She decided that it would be
better to defer her confidence until her
return home ; there were so many things
she had to tell her mother then. She would
talk over this with her, among the rest.
And suddenly a new emotion surged over
the girl's heart and seemed to sweep away

everything else — a passionate yearning to
be in her sweet home again, in the quiet
of the beautiful woodlands. How lovely
they must be looking now, in the fresh
burst of their May verdure ! She was tired
of town, of the hurry and bustle and noise
and gloom, and the crowds of people all
strange to her, and these wearying shops
that Lady Carruthers and her daughter
were so fond of. It had all amused her
with its novelty at first ; but now, oh, how
she longed to be at home again ! As for
Anne's wedding, it had been less interesting
to her than many a rustic bridal of which
she had been an eagerly welcomed and
honoured witness. No one had seemed to
care whether she was there or not ; they
worried her about her dress ; and Anne's
bridegroom was a stupid, plain young man,
and they sat in a corner, with the lover's
arm round his lady's waist, and her head

ou his shoulder. How she would loathe
a lover who behaved like that ! Genevra
was not one who would be lavish of affection
to strangers. Lady Carruthers had shown
no desire to win her niece's love, and Jenny
was entirely indifferent to her. From
Georgina she felt something like repulsion.
The girl's frank nature recoiled from the
worldly insincerity that she rather felt than
saw, from the cold sneering manner, scarcely
veiled by affected playfulness, and alternating
with caresses, which Jenny tolerated,
but never returned. No, she did not care
for her new relatives, nor for their ways.
sir Brian had been invariably nice and kind
to her. But for him she could not have
stayed so long as she had done in Stratford
Face ; and although he was polite to his
cousin and her mother, she did not think
he cared more for them than she did herself.
Jenny's brains were unaccustomed to dwell

on such " social topics " as these ; she felt
quite confused, and longed more than ever
to be in her mother's arms again. Only
two days now I

CHAPTER X.

A KISS POSTPONED.

Punctuality is called " the courtesy of
kings." It should be no less the courtesy
of baronets ; but it was one in which Sir
Brian was notoriously deficient, although he
was never designedly so. He could not
understand how it was that he was always
ready for his appointment G.ye or ten minutes
too soon, and yet always arrived ten or
fifteen minutes too late. The reason simply
was that he passed the intervening period
in " mooning," from which he only aroused
himself to find that the time of grace had
been greatly exceeded, and had to rush

away in a hurry at last. On this occasion
he reached Stratford Place just as dinner
was on the table. Lady Carruthers treated
him without ceremony, and never waited
for him ; while Genevra, who was perfectly
regardless of etiquette when her brains were
preoccupied, had seen him come as she was
descending the stairs, and saw the servant
follow to 'announce dinner, and, with a
sudden shyness, she slipped into the diningroom
first, where Sir Brian, considerably to
his surprise, and a little to his discomfiture,
found her seated at the table, gravely contemplating
the soup tureen. No sentimental
or even significant greeting could take place
in such circumstances ; and with a laugh
from Georgina and a mild reproof from her
aunt, Miss Farquhar's indecorum was passed
over ; and Sir Brian, at the head of the
table, with Lady Carruthers on his right
hand and Georgina on his left, was effectually

deterred from offering any expressive attention
to the young lady beyond.

As was this custom when they dined alone,
he followed his hostess into the drawing-room
after dinner, but his recalcitrant sweetheart
had again slipped away through the door of
the back drawing-room. Georgina watched
him as he glanced round with an air of
perplexity, and broke into a merry laugh.

Stole away, Brian ! " she said. *' It is
really too bad of Jenny. But never mind ;
you shall have her all to yourself presently,
if you will only make a frank confession."


Then Lady Carruthers, plaintively :
*' Surely, Georgina, you are not accusing
your cousin of any wish to withhold his
confidence from us, whom it so nearly
regards ? "

Brian looked from one to the other, and
said nothing.

We have not been quite blind' resumed
Georgina. " Mamma and I were only this
morning congratulations: each other that our
family ties will be more closely knit than
ever, for," she added maliciously, " mamma
will be doubly your aunt now."

"But," interposed Lady Carruthers, impatiently,
" are we to understand that you
have formally proposed to my niece, and
that she has accepted you ? "

Sir Brian hesitated. "Well, yes, I
believe I may say that she has done me the
honour to accept me, subject, I suppose, to
the usual reservation — if her mother approves
; and, until that is settled, I think
it would be best not to discuss the subject
even between ourselves."

You can count upon our discretion,"
answered Lady Carruthers, in a slightly
offended tone ; " but, considering that she
is my own niece, and has been committed

to my care, I do not see the necessity of
this reserve'

My dear aunt ! " remonstrated Sir Brian.

He had never called her " aunt " before,
and she hated him for doing it now. Only
such a feeling of bitterness would have
prompted her to add —

The only drawback to my approval of
your proposal to my niece is the very great
disparity in age ; but I suppose it is the
doom of the Farquharss to marry old men."

Not a hard doom," retorted Sir Brian,
*'if they are old men of title." And then,
ashamed of the taunt, he did not mend it
by adding hastily, 'but Genevra is too
young and too innocent for such calculations."

That she certainly is," said Georgina,
eager to divert the tide of conversation,
which seemed verging on dangerous breakers.
She is as innocent as a baby. You have a
delightful task before you, cousin, in training

her to conventional manners. Mj aunt
Farquhar seems never to have made an
effort in that direction."

What sort of person is Mrs. Farquhar ? "
inquired Sir Brian.

Oh' said Lady Carruthers, " I can tell
you nothing about her. She is my brother's
second wife. I never saw her. You must
judge of Genevra's people for yourself,
Brian."

And unfortunately," he rejoined, " I
cannot do that as soon as I could wish. I
am off tomorrow morning for Brackensfell.
Jephson goes with me, and can spare no
other day. I have business there, which he
insists on my attending to immediately —
lawyers are so peremptory — and I shall
probably not be back for a week."

Oh, poor fellow ! " laughed Georgie, a
little ironically ; " what a delay for an
ardent wooer ! And, mamma, how cruel

we are to keep him from his love on the
eve of parting ! But I know Jenny is in
the little anteroom downstairs, where she
usually writes her letters of an evening.
Go down to her, cousin, and bring her upto
tea. You need not hurry," she said
archly ; and added in a lower voice, as the
door closed behind him, " Festina lente !
Any hurry in you would be a portent indeed,
as a fixed star racing a comet I "

But none being called for on this occasion,
and the long-past outrage of the shark
making itself always remembered when the
sufferer descended stairs, Carruthers limped
leisurely down to the anteroom, where
Jenny stood gazing absently at some black
sparrows on the window-sill, reproaching
herself for her unaccustomed fit of bashfulness,
and trying to summon up enough of
maidenly dignity to grace her return to the
friends she had so abruptly deserted. But

no sooner did Sir Brian enter the room
alone, than (it was a bad sign for him, could
he have read it) all her embarrassment at
once disappeared. In the presence of her
aunt and cousin she had felt awkward and
shy ; but there was nothing to call up
blushes and palpitations in the approach
of a quiet, middle-aged gentleman, who had
placed before her the solemn subject of
matrimony itself in the light of a joint
excursion in search of humming-birds !

Sir Brian, on his part, was rather nervously
in dread of another *' bolt." The
bashfulness which had hurried her to the
dining-table on the first occasion, might
prompt a flight into the kitchen the next,
and he could not well follow her there. So
he cautiously restrained any lover-like advance,
and presently the two were chatting
away as placidly as if the little episode of
the morning laid occurred six mouths ago.

He had explained to her the necessity of his
immediate departure for Brackensfell, and
the possibility that he might be detained
there for a week or two ; and she was
telling him that in two days she was to
return to Wendholm.

But, Jenny dear, you are surely not
going to take that journey alone ? "

Not quite alone," she answered ;
Georgina's maid, Maxwell, is to take me,
and return next day. It is really kind of
my cousin to spare her ; they are so busy
just now with their own travelling preparations,
and, for that matter, I could go quite
well by myself."

It would be kinder in Lady Carruthers
to keep you until some friend can come for
you from your home. Why must they turnout
in such a hurry ? "

Because the agent has let the house for
the season, and the people want to come in,

for one thing ; and my aunt wants to meet
a friend in Paris, for another ; and besides
Oh, I want to be at home

again myself. I am so tired of the
noise and bustle of town, and I want to
see mamma ! "

Poor Genevra I " said Brian, kindly ;
it has been a dull visit for you. Since
Anne's wedding you have been left so much
alone, and this is not a cheerful situation
even. Bat ought I not to write at once to
Mrs. Farquhar, before I start for Brackens -
fell ? Then, with her permission, I can
wait upon her directly my lawyer sets me
free, and without returning to town."

Genevra considered a little; then — "Why
do you wish to write to mamma ? "

Sir Brian drew his chair nearer to her
and took her hand. " My dear love, 1
must ask Mrs. Farquhar s sanction to the
engagement which has made me so proud

and happy. Will she give it readily,
Genevra ? "

But is there any engagement 1 " she
inquired, with such a perplexed look in her
blue eyes that Sir Brian tried, to reassure her.

'^ Well, dear, a promise, we will say, if
you like that word better — a promise," he
added softly, " to brighten my hitherto sad
and lonely life, as no woman can ever do,
has ever done, but you''

He had touched the right chord. The
little maiden looked at him gravely, and
did not withdraw her hand ; but she said,
*' Please don't write to mamma till I have
seen her, Sir Brian— not for a day or two,
at least ; I have so many things to talk to
her about first."

That Sir Brian's proposal should not be
classed among the matters of first interest
with Miss Farquhar was as unexpected as it
was unflattering; but he was becoming

used to these little surprises, and, attributing
them all to pure girlish innocence, was inclined
to dwell with peculiar satisfaction on
that undoubted characteristic of his youthful
Jiancee. So, after some hesitation, he consented
to wait to address Mrs. Farquhar
until Jenny should give him her permission
to do so. "But only a few days, Genevra ;
I cannot promise longer than that."

*^ Perhaps," suggested Jenny, with quite
unconscious irony, " you had better wait
until you have finished all your business at
Brackensfell, and then you can come, if you
like, and see mamma. It would be ever so
much better than writing."

No, dear ; that will not do. I must
have Mrs. Farquhar's permission to call on
her." He paused, fixing his slow gaze on
her, and stroking his moustache, but, for
once, without uttering his stage ** aside."
Well, Genevra, if it must be so, I will

VOL I. 11

give you, say, three days for all these
preliminary chats with your mother. I can
get through the most pressing affairs at
Brackensfell in that time ; then I will run
down for a day or so to London, and shall
expect to find a letter from you at my club,
enclosing Mrs. Farquhar's permission for me
to visit Wendholm before I return to Cumberland.
Will that do ? " and he murmured
to himself, "It is not ' according to Cocker,'
I am afraid."

But Jenny drew a deep breath of relief.
*' Then that is settled," she said. " Let us
go upstairs to tea."

She rose, and would have withdrawn the
hand which her lover still held ; but he
rose too, still retaining it, and would have
drawn her into his arms ; but she snatched
it away, and recoiled from him with such
a gesture of repulsion that he instantly
desisted, and said submissively —

You are right, my Genevra ; it is only
with your mother's sanction that I should
claim the first touch of those pure lips — the
first — will it not be, Genevra ? — they have
ever received from any man."

Jenny drew herself up with a dignity of
which Carruthers, a few moments before,
would have thought her incapable, and
replied coldly —

Is such a question any proof of respect.
Sir Brian ? ''

"Forgive me," he said quite abjectly ; " I
did not mean to suo^o-est what should offend
you. ' The girls of the period ' grant such
favours with a laugh to any young fellow
who is bold enough to presume on a surprise."


Jenny bent her clear eyes upon his face,
with a look in which the dawn of womanly
sensibility shone faintly through a childlike
sensibility.

*' You mean foreign girls' she said.
*' Every English girl is taught to keep her
lips sacred for the one man whom she will
]promise to love."

*' As you have promised me ! " ventured
Carruthers.

*' I have not promised anything," rejoined
Jenny, rebelliously ; but she laughed as she
passed through the door, which her lover
had opened for her, and fled back to the
drawing-room.

CHAPTEK XL

A RAILWAY RIDE.

Had Jenny's own departure from Stratford
Place not been so imminent, she might have
missed Brian's attentions more ; but for the
two days that remained for her stay in
town, Georgina, and Lady Carruthers herself,
exerted themselves more than they lead
previously done to interest and amuse her.
True, the subjects in which they endeavoured
to enlist her sympathies were chiefly' their
approaching visit to Paris, and the brilliant
toilettes d demi deuil which Georgina was
to take with her to Aix-les-Bains. But
Genevra liked to admire pretty dresses as
well as other girls, although she did not

covet them for her own personal adornment,
and she was in the highest spirits at the
prospect of returning to her tender mother
and her rural pursuits. She thought a
great deal oftener, at this time, of her
pons, her kittens, and her doves, than she
did of the newer acquisition of a lover.
She was not reminded of him by any
allusions from her aunt or her cousin, who
had mutually agreed that the affair should
be considered as not settled.

"Very likely it never will be," Lady
Carruthers said hopefully. "Brian cannot
have made up his mind so soon."

"Nor Genevra either," said Georgina,
laughing. "They both seem quite willing
to wait."

One reason for Genevra's anxiety to go
home was the feeling that Mrs. Farquhar
would be able to clear up and settle the
many floating plans which perplexed her

when she thought of Sir Brian's menace as
to that postponed embrace. Had she
really given him the '' claim " which he
asserted ? Some vague theory of the nature
and significance of the kiss masculine is
sure to present itself, " somewhere, somehow,
or some when," to every maiden's thought.
Genevra was extremely undemonstrative in
her affections, and lavished no caresses,
except on her stepmother. Mrs. Burnes
allowed, but never returned them, and not
the liveliest imagination could associate the
idea of kisses proper, kisses special, with a
cold dab on an irresponsive cheek !

When Jenny was a very little girl '* Uncle
Charley" would take her on his knee and
kiss her, but his wife very early checked
the practice.

'' There should be," she said, " no pseudo-relationships
allowed between young girls
and men. You are not really Genevra's

uncle, my dear Charles, nor will she be
always a baby. Do not form a habit which
in a few years would be indecorous. A
young girls lips should be kept sacred to
the man she promises to marry."

Words which are not understood when
spoken, often impress themselves on the
memory of a thoughtful child, as did these
on Jenny's, until she could, and did, repeat
them almost verbatim in later years, and
until, to her mind, a kiss grew to be something
solemn, even sacramental, in its
mysterious significance. But then, you see,
Miss Farquhar was an odd girl.

When the day arrived for her journey
homeward, there was a mischance. Maxwell,
Georgina's maid, who was to have accompanied
her, had been seized with a dreadful
neuralgia in the night (invented for the
occasion, as she had no desire for a tiresome
railway journey into the country). "Her face

was so swelled '' — it was certainly bandaged
'* it was as much as her life was worth to
go out in an east wind." And there were
Jenny's boxes packed and corded. What
was to be done ? Lady Carruthers made a
faint suggestion that she should wait a day
or two ; but Jenny would not hear of it —
Mrs. Farquhar would be so bitterly disappointed.
So the matter was settled by
compromise. The footman was sent forward
to arrange about the luggage, etc., and Lady
Carruthers and her daughter themselves
accompanied the young lady to the station,
gave her in charge of the guard, and saw her
securely fastened into a " ladies' " carriage,
with all her travelling comforts around her,
and then, with a profusion of affectionate
farewells, stood waving their hands to her on
the platform, as the train steamed away ; the
aunt's last audible words being, " We shall
miss you so, dear child," and the cousin's —

when beyond hearing — " Now we have done
our duty by Brian's little rustic, and may
bless Providence that it is over ? "

And Genevra could have echoed the
thanksgiving. The temporary excitement of
her visit had passed off, and now, in the
subsequent reaction, all seemed dreamlike
and shadowy. Sir Brian and his wooing
most of all. She would be at home once
more ! At home, with all who really loved her
her mother, and Uncle Charley, and — yes,
even sister Chatty loved her, she believed,
after a fashion. At home, with the free
range of hill and meadow ; with her birds,
and her dogs, and her pony ; and all the
household, and all the parish, to pet her,
and praise her, and scold her, even ! She
descended from her momentary elevation on
the white heights of womanhood," and
forgot all about Sir Brian and his claims.
She turned from that brief episode of

courtship, as she would have thrown aside a
poem or a romance, to go forth to listen to
the thrushes, or to pluck the first chestnut
blooms. She would take up the book again
by-and-by, where she had turned down
the page !

She looked after Lady Carruthers and her
daughter, as they disappeared from the
platform, and then drew back her head and
glanced at her fellow-travellers in the compartment
— a wan, yellow lady, closely
veiled and respiratory, and a maid, or
companion, bouncing and bonnie, who every
now and then stooped forward, and shouted
some trivial remark to her mistress in a
voice that might have startled the stoker.
Jenny's first emotion was pity for her
companion, but before the train stopped at
the first station, it became pity for herself,
and, being a young lady prompt and
energetic in action, she was ready for the

guard the moment he showed his face, and
demanded a change of carriage. Probably
it was no new experience to that functionary,
that a pretty girl, imprisoned by her
friends in a '' ladies' " carriage, should
desire more general society ; for he made
no objection, but led her to an empty
carriage, beside the open door of which two
young men were engaged in earnest conversation.
He glanced doubtfully at them,
and, apparently deciding that neither of
them could be labelled *' dangerous," he
handed the girl in, placed her packages
beside her, and departed ; while Jenny,
who had rarely known bashfulness, and
would never know how to feign it, leaned
a little forward in her seat, and watched
the youths, scarcely more than boys, with
a meditative doubt whether both or only
one was to be her fellow-traveller ; and if
but one, which would she prefer ? One was

a lad of about twenty, short, clumsily built,
with a suspicion of bow legs, a face strongly
freckled, and a shock head of hair of the
vivid scarlet orange hue of a healthy carrot.
His eyes were small and pale, his mouth was
of Gargantuan dimensions, though ornamented
with a good set of teeth, and, except
this feature, there was nothing to be placed
to the account of his attractions but a frank,
kindly expression of merry good humour
and " ready-to-obligingness." His companion
was a youth some two years older,
considerably above the middle height. It
would have been puzzling to guess his
nationality, for, with the stature and powerful
build that might belong to an Englishman,
a Russian, a Dane, there was a refined
intelligence in his delicate features, in his
large, dreamy, dark eyes, and the tint of
his complexion, that might have spoken of
Spanish or even Indian extraction — in fact,

it was both. As he stood there, listening
with a smile to his friend's eager chatter, a
group of young men passed him, glancing as
they went by at his lofty height, the width
of shoulder and depth of chest that told of
physical strength, with the grace that sometimes
goes with perfect proportion ; and one
Slid to the other, 'moray of Balliol. Handsome
fellow, isn't he ? " while two girls in the
next carriage gazed from the window (like
Jenny) at the dark expressive face, the silky
raven-black hair and moustache, and the
brilliant white teeth that glittered beneath
it, and said to one another, quite audibly,
'' Isn't he perfectly lovely ? "

But before Jenny had quite made her
choice, the guard's whistle sounded and the
taller of the lads sprang into the carriage.

Well, good-bye, old man," sang out his
friend. ** Wire to me if Fair Fury looks like
winning ; and oh, I say. Sir Galliard "

But the saying, whatever it was, did not
overtake the departing train, and Jenny,
remembering Lady Carruthers' awful warning
against conversation with strangers in
railway carriages, folded her pretty lips into
an expression of absolute reserve, and taking
up a Pall Mall, with which her cousin had
gifted her at parting, arranged it skilfully
so that she could gaze on her vis-avis
behind it without much danger of detection.
After all, her aunt must have been right in
calling her " such a baby," or could she have'
diverted herself with observations of an
entire stranger, instead of pondering on the
all-important fact that she had but a few
hours before received her " first offer," and
more, that she had almost, if not finally,
accepted it ?

Unused as Miss Farquhar had been to the
society of young people, and especially of
young men, it was not marvellous that she

should find this specimen of the genus a

very favourable one. Not only was he good

looking, but he was well dressed, and with a

distinguished air, that bespoke him well-born

and well-bred. It was a thoughtful, refined,

sensitive face, and as it bent over nothing

more interesting than the obstinate straps of

a leather knapsack that he was vainly trying

to unfasten, the long black lashes that curled

on his cheek reminded Jenny (with an

alteration) of the Prince's apostrophe to the

Sleeping Beauty (girls' thoughts are such

foolish things !) —

Love, if thy tresses be so dark,
How dark those hidden eyes must be ! "

He lifted them suddenly, and she saw
that they were indeed night-black, large
and calm, but with something of sadness in
them, and something, too, of suppressed fire
in their depths. The silence was broken by
a very prosaic inquiry.

"Would you like to have this window
put up ? "

The words were common enough, but the
voice that spoke them would have made the
cry " Fresh herring!" musical. A voice deep,
rich, and soft as the first low trill of the
nightingale, with its suggestion of infinite
melody, that will presently entrance the
night. So entranced was Jenny, that she
was silent for an instant, as if waiting for a
fuller music ; then recollecting herself, she
blushed a little, and replied confusedly —

"I beg your pardon — yes, please. I was

thinking " A month ago she would have

said unconcernedly, " What a magnificent
voice you have ! " but a few weeks' sojourn
among her more polished relatives had taught
her something of conventional reserve, and
she checked herself, resuming, '' I was
thinking of something ! "

The youth put up the window as desired,

VOL. 1. 12

and returned to his contest with the straps,
his unspoken reflection being, " What an
awful fool she is ! and she does not look
like one either ! "

As for Genevra, she was overwhelmed
with humilation and self-disgust. *' What
an imbecile thing to say ! What an idiot he
must think me ! " (You see, she was right
there.) ** If he would only speak again ! "

But he remained silent, probably as anticipating
no conversational enjoyment, until
Jenny, forgetting her aunt's warning, ventured
to take the initiative.

Please, Sir Galliard, I should like the
other window closed ; the dust blows in on
that side."

The young man looked up once more,
but with such evident amazement and
perplexity, that Jenny was at her ease
directly, and laughed gaily.

You are surprised that I should know

your name ? I heard your friend on the
platform call you ' Sir Galliard.' "

Oh " — with a grave smile — " that is only
a nickname. Most of our men call me ' Sir
Galahad.' "

Then," rejoined Jenny, " he is as inarticulate
as a railway porter. He certainly
pronounced it * Galliard.' But who are
your ' men ' ? "

'' My friends— the men of Balliol."

'' Are you an undergraduate ? "

"Not now. I have taken my degree."

Sister Chatty says," observed Jenny,
sententiously, "that undergraduates are only
big schoolboys who play at being men. Why
did they call you Sir Galahad ? "

They fancied they saw a likeness, I
suppose. Our men "

Boys," corrected Jenny emphatically.

Had a whim of calling each other after
King Arthur's knights, and they chose
me

'' They were foolish boys "

*' Men' corrected the youth, in his turn.

Because you are not a bit like Sir
Galahad, who was fair."

Mislike me not for my complexion, the
shadowed livery of the burnished sun,"
murmured the young man ; and Jenny's
eyes sparkled. " At least, the men "

Boys."

*men," repeated her companion, still
gravely.

And then both burst into merry
laughter — laughter which transformed the
seriousness of Sir Galahad's features into
youthful fun and playfulness, and brought
out Jenny's sweetest dimples and showed
her pearly teeth. After that the barrier of
etiquette quite broke down between the
girl and boy, and Genevra prattled away,
quite regardless of Lady Carruthers' warning,
asking all sorts of indiscreet questions,

making all sorts of indiscreet confidences ;
both happy, both interested in each other,
fresh and free in the innocent eo-oisni of
early youth. But Jenny did not name
Sir Brian, partly from instinctive reserve,
but more because that subject had not, for
the moment, any interest for her ; and her
new friend was far more intent on eliciting
her habits and tastes than on avowing: his
own. But soon this fact dawned upon
Genera, and checked a little the tide of
her garrulity, or at least diverted it into
another channel.

Now," she said, " you know all about
me—"

"Except your name."

So tell me your history."

I will, when it is finished, if you will
ask me then. I am only at the titlepage
as yet."

Tell me the title page, then."

You had read that when you called me
Sir Galliard: "

You are laughing at me," pouted
Jenny, " but it was your friend's fault.
People ought not to use nicknames on a
railway platform " — with a little air of
dignity, which vastly amused the youth, ina
lady so openly defiant of railway proprieties.
'* What is your real name ? "

I am Kit Moray, at your service," he
answered, with a little bow.

Kit ? That stands for Christopher, does
it not ? "

My godfathers and godmother," he
answered, " stood for Keith."

Your real name is very hard to get at.
But luhij did your friends think you like
Sir Galahad?"

And then, as if wrought upon by the
spell of a magician, the lines dropped
slowly from the young man's lips —

** ' I never felt the kiss of love,
Or maiden's hand in mine.' "

*did you not, really'' asked Jenny,
looking with perfect simplicity into Moray's
face.

''No, really. Why should I?" he answered,
returning her gaze more fixedly
than he had yet done.

Oh, I don't know," she said carelessly.
Of course ladies never kiss any one except
their brothers, but somehow I thought men
did not mind."

''I do not think they do," replied Keith,
drily, and still keeping his eyes fixed on
her face. But in the innocent look that
met his, there was such a transparent unconsciousness
of imprudence, that, being a
gentleman to the tips of his fingers, he felt
it would be taking a mean advantage
to encourage her to pursue the subject.
But Jenny dropped it of her own accord.

I don't know much about undergraduates,"
she said loftily, as if undergraduates
were quite beneath her attention ;
I have no brothers, and know almost no
boys. Were you ever picked ? " and, seeing
Keith's look of bewilderment, " I ought
not to ask you that. I congratulated Mrs.
Luttrell once on her nephew being picked.
Picked soldiers, you know, are always distinguished
men, and I thou-lit it was the
same with University — boys. And, poor
thing, she burst into tears. She had been
so proud of her nephew, and boasted so of
him ! '^

I suppose," said Keith, " that you mean
he was ' plucked ' ? "

Plucked ! Oh yes, of course ; I remember
now. Uncle Charley laughed at
me, and corrected me, but I forgot it again.
Well then, have you been plucked ? "

Certainly not ! " returned the youth.

Fancy asking '' Moray of Balliol " if he had
been plucked ! He had, in fact, read for
honours, and had achieved brilliant success.
His little catechise resumed —

'' What are you going to be ? A doctor —
a barrister — a "

Guess," answered Keith, smiling ; '* what
do I look like ? "

And Jenny put her head on one side, with
a pretty, pet-birdlike gesture she sometimes
used, and after contemplating him gravely
for a moment, replied —

I cannot guess. What are you ? "

Not much as yet," said the young man.
I live with a bachelor uncle, who is in
ill health, and I make myself useful to him.
But soon — when he can spare me — I shall
join a scientific expedition into far-distant
lands — China, or Africa — for the advancement
of science and civilization."

A traveller ? " inquired Genevra, much

interested. " My father was a distinguished
traveller and naturalist ; he died, away from
us, from his home, in the deserts of the
Caucasus' She stopped suddenly, and over
her face came the soft shadow which was
its sweetest and rarest charm. But she
was not then thinking of her father. Her
thoughts were not in the Caucasus, butin
the Zoo, where an elderly gentleman
had smiled kindly at her, and suggested a
joint excursion to see humming-birds in their
native lands ! How strange that almost the
next man she met should be, or be going to
be, a real traveller, like her father. Sir
Brian, after all, was no man of science ;
only a dilettante, at the best.

Keith naturally thought that her abrupt
silence and sadness of countenance was
caused by filial regret, and hastened to
change the subject, but could find nothing
better to say ou the spur of the moment

than — "Have you had a gay season in
town ? "

Gay ? " echoed Jenny. " Anything but
gay. My aunt and cousin are in deep mourning,
and could not take me anywhere. I
should have liked to go to a dance or two."

"And I," thought Keith, "would like to
be your partner at one." He little foresaw
what he would have to go through before
reaching that desired consummation !

"I have never," continued Jenny, "been
at any but Christmas and children's balls,
until last autumn, when I coaxed mamma to
take me to the Hunt Ball. Dear old Dr.
Stewart escorted us. Mr. Wyndham, the
Master of the Hounds, is my godfather, and
sent me a card, but sister Chatty told
mamma she must never take me again,
because I danced with scarcely any one but
the farmers' sons."

"How was that?"

Why," said Jenny, laughing, " I believe
I was not a success. For one thing, I was
badly dressed. My dress was made in the
village, and it certainly did look dowdy
among all the brilliant toilettes there''

But," said Keith, a little surprised to
find himself drawn into a discussion on such
a subject, " you are very well dressed now."

And so she was. Her plain tailor-made
serge fitted beautifully on her slender but
ripely rounded form ; the accessories, from
the simple collar and tie to the neatly buttoned
gloves and the tiny boots, were
perfect ; and the hat, perched on her rich
braids of glistening hair, had certainly not
been bought at Wendholm. The young
man's eyes, as they dwelt upon her, took in
all these satisfactory details, and Jenny gave
him a little saucy nod.

I ought to be well dressed," said she.
Georgie took me to Madame — I forget

her name — her own milliner in town, and
made me promise that I would always,
henceforth, wear only what she made for me,
and sent to me and gave her directions
accordingly. Only fancy ! won't the jays in
the Oakland woods applaud me ! " and she
broke into a silvery chime of laughter, so full
of merry self-mockery, blended with playful
girlish exultation, that Keith thought it
the sweetest music he had ever heard. " I
can tell you the dressmaker's name," she
continued ; '^ I have got her card with me
somewhere."

Keith impulsively caught the little hand
as it was straying to her bag in search of the
card, but dropped it instantly, as if it had
been red-hot.

Never mind the card," he smiled. *' I amin
no pressing need of a milliner's address.
But I think I have some right to ask your
name, as 1 have given you mine. May 1 i "

I am Genevra," answered the girl,
simply.

*' Genevra ? that is a lovely name, but
Genevra what ? You are Miss —-miss "

But before Jenny could reply, the train
slackened speed, and the head of a ticket-porter
loomed over the window-sill.
'' Tickets, please." He took Keith's half
return ticket without remark, but, after
glancing at Jenny's, gave it back to her.
Too late to catch the Oulton train, miss ;
an hour and twenty minutes to wait for the
next ; " and he vanished.

What am I to do ? " cried the belated
one.

Will no one meet you," inquired
Keith, '' or have you no friends in town
you can go to, to wait ? "

Jenny carefully put back her ticket in her
purse, and her purse in her pocket, before she
answered, " I do not know a human being:

in the town. The guard promised my aunt
to see me safe across the platform into the
Oulton carriage, and said I should not have
live minutes to wait. What shall I do ?
Mamma will send to Oulton to meet the
2.20 train ; it is five miles farther than the
Ketford station, but there are more convenient
trains there."

Shall I wire for you ? " asked Keith.

Oh no," laughed Jenny. " A telegram
would frighten her to death ; but she will
send to meet the next train."

Here the guard looked in, and Keith
addressed him.

I will take care of the lady," he said ;
'^ do you look after her luggage. Her train



hour and twenty minutes to wait,
sir. The luggage is labelled through to
Oulton ; it will be all right."

*' But what a horrible crowd there is

here!" remarked Jenny, as the youth handed
her out of the carriage.

"It is the first day of the Faces," he
answered.

Oh, and you told me you were coming
to the Races, and 1 shall be left all alone ! "

I don't care for the Races. I shall be
in time to see all I want of them. I will
take care of you, and see you safe into your
train first. Let me take you into the
waiting-room."

And, indeed, that was but common
humanity, for a down train had just discharged
upon the platform a mob of roughs
of all sorts and sexes ; and, as Keith guided
his little companion through them, he felt
her shrink and cling closely to his arm.

"Now," he said, as he placed her in
safety in the waiting-room, " I'll go and
find out all about this Oulton train, and
come back and tell you." .

And Jenny was left alone.

Chapter XII.

THE NEXT STAGE.

When Keith suggested remaining with
Genevra until her train started, he was not
sure that he was not taking an ungenerous
advantage of the girl's inexperience, in proposing
a step which a more worldly-wise
woman might have declined to take ; but
he forgot his scruples when, on returning
to the waiting-room, he found her seated ina
corner, with her eyes anxiously fixed on
the door, and near her a throng of gaily
attired "ladies," among whom she looked
like a reed violet in a bouquet of muslin
daffodil. She sprang forward eagerly
when she descried her fellow-traveller.

VOL. I. 13

You have an hour to wait yet," said he ;
"shall I order some refreshment for you
here ? "

*' I don't want any refreshment ; I have
eaten some biscuits my aunt gave me. I
want to go out of this odious station. We
have a whole hour, you say ? ''

A whole hour to spend together ! How
was it to be passed? At an hotel? But
Keith's instincts of propriety revolted
against such a breach of decorum.

Let us go and see the Races ! " cried the
irrepressible damsel.

Bat Keith shook his head, and felt it
was clearly his "mission" to take charge
of the "wild maid of the woods," who
was as incapable of guarding herself against
worldly perils as a gannet or a penguin
on a island rock. But he did not now
say to himself that she was an " awful
fool." Suddenly a bright idea occurred

to him. " Shall we go and see the
cathedral ? "

Genevra had no profound interest in
cathedrals, having no strong ecclesiastical
or architectural proclivities, but she did not
object ; and the hour passed very pleasantly,
while Keith, who could be very eloquent on
occasion, discoursed in his deep, melodious
voice, like another Coleridge, on art and
architecture, rood and reredos, spires, altars,
and tombs. And Jenny listened with such
rapt attention — rather, it is to be feared, to
the music of the voice than the topics discussed
by it — that the orator, like most
orators, was charmed by the genius that
spoke in her silence, and would not have
inferred in her the possibility of ignorance,
though she had mistaken a cherub for a
gargoyle !

But more than an hour had expired when
they regained the station. Keith darted to

the ticket office, darted back again, and hurried
Genevra into the already steaming train.

*' We part here ? " she said regretfully.

But he sprang into the carriage, and took
a seat opposite to her. " I mean to see you
safe in your friends' charge," he said ; and
Jenny felt so grateful to him !

This time the two were not alone together.
There was an elderly gentleman in
the carriage ; and as Jenny glanced at him
as she entered, she was reminded of Sir
Brian, although, in point of fact, there was
no point of resemblance between them,
except a grey moustache, and she was
scarcely conscious of wondering whether
Sir Brian was really so old as that.

The young pair speedily resumed their
conversation, which had wandered from the
domain of art to that of literature, and of
course, since it was no longer a tete-tete,
it was natural that Keith should make it so,

by lowering his voice a little, and bending
forward, nearer and nearer, to catch her
more subdued replies. So that the elder
man glanced at them with the half-pitying,
half-amused sympathy which ancients give
to youthful lovers, and then returned to
his paper and forgot them. The train was
a slow one, but they had passed several
stations before the shout of the porter
proclaimed " Oulton," and, obeying a signal
from Keith, he threw open the door. The
young man sprang out, and offered his hand
to assist Genevra, who was looking round
her in perplexity.

Did he say " she began.

All right, miss. Look sharp ; all trains
behind time."

And before she knew what she was
doing, she had mechanically obeyed the
impulse of Keith's hand, and found herself
lifted to the platform and drawn

hastily aside from the departing train,
which steamed away, leaving the youth and
the maid alone on the platform, with one
porter lounging by an empty truck, and
another waiting for the tickets beside a
wicket gate.

There is some mistake," said Genevra,
looking wistfully round her, " and I don't
see my luggage."

It will be all right ; it was labelled for
Oulton."

*but "

The ticket porter, tired of waiting,
had now drawn near. He received Keith's
ticket without remark, but on looking
at Jenny's, returned it to her, saying
briefly, " Wrong station, miss."

She turned reproachfully on Moray.
It is your fault ; you hurried me out. I
was sure it was the wrong station. What
shall I do ? " she continued anxiously, for

the unmistakable consternation in the
young man's face alarmed her, she knew
not why.

'' I thought you said Oulton," he answered.
You know I told you it was not much out of
my way. I had meant to stop at Stretford."

Jenny paid no heed to his excuses.
"How far is it to Woolton?" she asked
the porter.

Woolton ? Oh, well, you are on the
wrong line ; you ought to have taken the
train at Stretford for Lytham Junction."

Stupid blockhead that I am ! " cried
Keith ; '* I ought to have looked at your
ticket. Can you ever forgive me ? I shall
never forgive myself I "

His unfeigned distress seemed excessive
to Jenny, who did not understand, as he
did, the gravity of the situation, and she
endeavoured to console him.

Well, never mind ; there is a later train

to Woolton, and they will be sure to meet
every train till I come. We can go back
to Stretford and catch that, I dare say."

But Keith gazed round him at the
lonely third-class station, with its few
thinly scattered houses, and his heart died
within him ; while the porter confirmed his
worst fears.

There's no train from here to Stretford
again to-day, miss. There's a goods train
at 7.40 this evening, and — yes, there's
a cattle train at eight, for Shingle Fair
tomorrow."

"How far to the nearest station, where
we might manage to get on the right line
somehow ? "

"Well, you could drive across country
to Lytham Junction ; the train from Stretford
could pick you up there."

Keith brightened. "How far to
Lytham ? "

Ten miles or so. You could do it under
the two hours, if you went through Buck-holt
Wood."

That will do ! " cried Jenny, joyfully.
"It is three o'clock now ; I should be at home
before seven. There's a fly to be had here,
I suppose ? "

The porter stared helplessly at her.

Bless your heart, there's no call for flys
here — no nearer than Colebrook, five mile
or more."

Even poor Genevra's countenance fell at
this cheerful announcement ; but Keith rose
to the occasion.

'* There must be a horse to be had. I
will ride over and bring back a fly, and
wire to Woolton for you."

There's Joe Simmons of the Plough
yonder," suggested the porter, dreamily ;
"he's got a old horse and trap as could
take you to Lytham. If it's in the stable, he

might let you have it ; but you'd have to
drive yourself, for there's not a man about
the place but himself, and he broke his

arm the other day, falling from "

But, without stopping to hear the tale of
Joe Simmons's misfortune, Keithhad bounded,
like a greyhound from the leash, across the
little meadow which divided the railway
from the hamlet, and Jenny was left in
charge of the railway official, who, expectant
of a coming gratuity, hovered round her
like a hen with a solitary chicken, until,
in less time than might have been anticipated,
though it seemed very long to her, Keith
reappeared at the gates of the crossing
on his triumphal car, the said car being
a decrepit " shandrydan," drawn by a
chestnut pony that had long since attained
to years of discretion, which Moray had
been obliged to harness himself, leaving
a deposit with the landlord of the Plough

which would have covered the full value
of the whole equipage. Then, having
received directions from the porter as to
the way through Buckholt Wood to Lytham
Junction, Keith handed the young lady into
'the trap" (ominous name !j, tipped the
porter to his heart's content, and merrily
the couple bowled away on this, the third
stage of their interminable journey.

CHAPTEK Til

OFF THE LINE.

Interminable indeed ! If they had only
known ! But these inconsiderate young
creatures neither knew nor cared.

*' Alas ! unmindful of their doom,
The little victims play ! "

The temporary difficulty surmounted, all
was forgotten. The May day was bright,
the road was good, the chestnut pony
stepped out gallantly, the fresh sweet air
was very exhilarating after the dust and
smoke of the engines and the close, stuffy
carriages. Jenny ceased to yearn after her
luggage, and readily accepted the hopeful
view suggested by Keith, that it would

come right — it always did when the things
were labelled ; and, besides, when they
reached Lytham they could 'wire" all
necessary inquiries and directions.

Keith forgot all his habitual reserve in
the charm of this rapid intimacy, and
Genevra forgot — Sir Brian Carruthers !

"This is not half a bad horse, after all,"
remarked Keith, " though he has seen his
best days, poor old fellow ! It is just as well
you have not got your luggage ; he could
not step out so if he had much weight to
carry."

Oh, my luggage would not have
oppressed him much," laughed Jenny. " I
dare say you fancy that girls must always
have such heaps of things on a journey ? "

'* They always seem to have," returned
Keith ; " but I do not know many ladies —
not young ones. My uncle is a bachelor,
and has no ladies belonging to him,"

"And I," rejoined Genevra, "never have
known any young men, only old — no, middle-aged
ones." (Sir Brian would not have
unduly exulted at the form in which his
image at length rose to his little lady's
remembrance.) "But, Mr. Moray, are you
quite sure that this is the road through the
wood that the man directed you to ? "

It must be, since there seems no other ; "
and Keith quitted the high-road, to enter
a beautiful miniature forest of beeches, now
in their first delicate spring verdure.

It is a rough road," observed Genevra.

It will be better by-and-by. They have
been carrying timber, and it is rather cut
up just here."

I wish they were forbidden to cut down
trees anywhere; then all woods would be
as lovely as they are at Oaklandss."

And what is Oaklandss ? "

"It is the most delicious wood in the

world," cried Jenny, enthusiastically. " Very
few people ever go through it, except the
gamekeepers, and won't let them kill the
wild things."

Keith stared a little at this assertion, not
having hitherto found gamekeepers so easily
impressed by a young lady's humanitarian
views.

*' And so it is full of woodland creatures
and "

Any game ? " queried the youth.

"Yes, swarms of pheasants, and rabbits,
and hedgehogs, and squirrels, and — oh, dear
little weasels with white breasts."

Quite a happy family," smiled Keith.
You must have immense influence over
your gamekeepers." And looking down sideways
at the flushed and eager face, he ceased
to marvel at those gentlemen's docility.

And," continued Miss Farquhar, " they
are oak woods chiefly, so not Hke this.

I should think," reflectively, " there are not
so many ' Purple Emperors ' here."

This," answered Keith, decisively, *' is
the most perfect scenery I ever saw in my
life."

At which statement a crimson headed
woodpecker, that peeped at them behind the
rugged boles of the beeches, burst into a
shrill], derisive laugh.

See," he continued, raising his eyes,
which had before been fixed on his companion's
face — *' see the satin foliage
with "

But Jenny, not feeling at all sentimental,
interrupted him. " Satin foliage belongs to
artificial flowers."

Still," replied Keith, " we are obliged,
sometimes, in describing nature, to borrow
the terms of art, however inadequate."

But," insisted Jenny, *' satin is not art —
it is manufacture."

'then, admire the shining foliage — will
that do ? — with the lio^ht trickling through it
like emerald-tinted spray. You can almost
fancy that the moss beneath is moistened
by it."

No, I can't," answered Jenny ; then,
relenting a little, 'but it is all very lovely ;
and those knotted stems, with the young
growth springing from them, they look "

Like trees in knickerbockers," said
Keith, demurely ; and then the blended
laughter of the foolish pair rang out so clear
and glad, that the woodpecker was fain to
join in it.

*' Look," said Genevra, presently, *' there
is a much better road, and softer for the
pony's feet ; that must be our way,"
pointing to a broad avenue of velvet swar(.l,
beyond which stretched a far vista of twinkling
verdure.

But Keith demurred. " That is only a

yoL. I. 14

ride and would lead nowhere. The porter
said ' straight through, and the road to the
left.' "

*' That is to the left," persisted Jenny.
I am sure he meant that J'

A brisk and merry dispute ensued. The
youth stood firm for a time, but when his
companion dropped the imperative mood,
and " stooped to conquer " by entreaty, he
yielded to her wish, and left the rugged
road for the smoother path, merely
observing —

It will take us to the high-road, no
doubt, but perhaps farther back than the
other path would have led us. However, we
have plenty of time."

Alas ! the promise of the emerald sward
was as deceptive as the treacherous allurement
of a morass. It grew narrower and
narrower, until there was no space to turn
in. Almost it threatened to dwindle into a

bridle-path ! It wound gradually, almost
imperceptibly, among the low, sweeping
branches, until neither of the travellers
could discern the " bearings " of the road
they tried to reach. Keith's brow once
more wore a cloud of grave anxiety, and
the dimples round Jenny's mouth might
have been stolen by the twinkling beeches.
She was beginning to feel like a sleeper,
wandering endlessly in a dream. Suddenly
she uttered a cry of delight, as far and faint,
but quite distinct, came the sound of a
horse's hoofs trotting along a hard highroad.


^' I knew it would be all right," she cried
exultingly. '' I knew "

Not much more for the moment. The
pony stumbled in the deep ruts. Down
went horse and trap, and poor Jeremy,
having started up in her excitement,
was pitched out, and lay senseless and

motionless on the thymy bank bordering
the pathway, with her head in perilous
proximity to the forefeet of the struggling
horse. In a moment Keith had sprung
to the pony, raised him carefully, and,
having extricated him from the broken
shafts, led him to a safe distance and tied
him by the bridle to a tree. That danger
averted, he returned to the still insensible
girl, and stood gazing down upon her, as
pale as herself. Then, stooping, he lifted
her light form in his arms, and carried her
tenderly to a soft bed of moss and heath, a
few steps removed from the rough pathway.
He looked round for help. Not a being was
visible. He shouted ; he listened. The
woodpecker's startled laugh was the only
answering cry.

CHAPTER XIV.

KEITH FORGETS HIMSELF,

Jenny's hat had fallen off, her hair had
escaped from its braids, and the always
rebellious curls, that now strayed over her
shoulders, the long fringed eyelids, and
parted lips from which the smile had
scarcely faded, gave her the look of a sleeping
child. As Keith stood looking down
on her, his heart ached with an anguish
of grief and pity, while tears, that did not
disgrace his manhood, dropped fast and
warm on the pale upturned face. But no
colour came to the sweet face ; no light
to the closed eyes. Hardly knowing what
he did, the young man bent over her. His

own tears were glittering on her cheek.
He wiped them off, and tenderly, reverently,
as he would have kissed a young dead sister,
he touched her lips with his owen, and — her
lips trembled ! " Ce n'est que le premier
pas que contes'' In a sudden revulsion of
feeling, from horror and despair to hope,
he kissed her again.

In the confused dawn of consciousness,
Genevra fancied herself in her own little bed
once more, awakened by the gentle motherly
caress which was never unreturned. Keith
kissed her, and she returned the hiss !

The young fellow fairly lost his head ;
he knelt down beside her, he folded her
in his arms, breathing in a mingled rapture
of caresses and entreaty that for his sake
she would look up, and live, and love !

Slowly the blue eyes opened, and turned
a doubting, wondering look on his eager
face, and then Oh, Keith ! the gods

have mocked you in granting but half your
prayer. Live she did, but love she didn't.
There was nothing less like love than the
angry flash of the blue eyes, as consciousness
fully returned in them ; nothing less like
love than the energy with which she
struggled to break from the arms that encircled
her ; and as Keith withdrew them,
and rose to his feet, there was, not love,
but utter indignation and disgust in the
glance she shot at him, as he stood,
humiliated, abashed, and self-condemned
before her. Yet he had meant no harm.
No youth was ever purer in life and thought
and will than was Keith Moray. Pure as
the maiden knight himself, not from coldness
of temperament, but from the resolute
self-restraint which is the truest crown of
a noble manhood.

Yet now he cowered beneath the awfid
ferocity of Jenny Farquhar's gaze, feeling

that she thought him, and that he deserved
that she should think him, an unmitigated
blackguard, a creeping, crawling cad. There
was a dead silence, broken only by the
derisive laugh of the jaffingale, which this
time had the joke to itself. Then Jenny
turned away her head, and tried to rise,
but fell back with a low moan, which, but
for her new-born sense of dignity, would
have been a piercing shriek of anguish.
Keith sprang to her side, but was incontinently
repulsed with ignominy.

'* I do not wish for your help ; go and
put the trap to rights, and harness the horse
again."

Keith obeyed without a word, and Jenny
followed his movements with glowering eyes,
which met his with redoubled sternness
when he looked sadly towards her and said,
"The horse is all right, but the trap is
useless ; the shaft is broken."

And, pray, low do you propose to take
me to Lytham ? "

If I had apiece of string," replied Keith,
humbly, " I think I could mend it so as
to get to Lytham, but " feeling helplessly
in his pockets.

But," snapped Jenny, *' you haven't
got any, and how long am I to sit here

while " She broke off, with a stifled

moan, and then resumed : " You were very
stupid to upset the trap. You are the very
worst driver I ever saw in my life ! "

At any other time this cruel and most
unmerited accusation would have driven
Keith Moray to defend himself, but now
he felt a gloomy pleasure in laying himself
beneath her trampling feet. He answered
meekly —

The high-road cannot be fair off ; I will
run and get assistance. You will not mind
heincr left alone for a few minutes ? "

"I shall very much prefer it" — with
crushing emphasis.

And away flew Keith, leaving Jenny
seated where he had placed her, with dim,
unseeing eyes fixed on the broken trap
and the quietly grazing pony. But the
fictitious energy inspired by anger was fast
ebbing away ; her thoughts grew confused,
her head swam, and once more she fell back
insensible. She was aroused by a frightful
pang, and opened her eyes with a low cry.
An elderly man, apparently a doctor, was
examining her injured foot, from which,
already inflamed and swollen, he had cut
ofl" the boot with a penknife. Keith stood
by, looking on, with a world of sorrowful
sympathy in his dark eyes. Jenny only
wished he would leave her with the doctor,
and not stand staring there.

^'She will be all right," said the old
gentlemen, cheerily. " No bones broken ;

just a sprain. Want to get home ? Certainly,
my dear ; you shall be safe in your bed by
sundown. Lytham station ? Yes, yes. On
the way to Lytham myself, to meet a friend,
when your husband stopped me. Don't try
to speak," added the good man innocently,
unobservant of the confusion with which
he had overwhelmed the young couple.
"You are a little faint, and your husband
has told me everything." (scarcely," thought
Keith.) He had turned aside to examine
the broken trap, and now looked up. " It
will be impossible to use this thing ; the
wheel, as well as the shaft, is splintered."

Poor little Jenny broke into a piteous
wail. " I must go home ! Please take me
to the station, doctor ; I won't go with
him " — with a pretty gesture towards Keith.

host confidence in his driving, eh ? "
laughed the doctor. " Well, I don't know
how he got you into such a road as this —

would break any carriage. Now then,
young fellow ; you must carry your good
lady to my trap, and I'll drive her to
Lytham and start her safe homewards. I
can't offer to take you, because I can't spare
my groom. You will have to see after the
damage here ; there's an inn not far from
where you hailed me, where you can get
help. Now, be quick ; we have no time to
lose ; " and away hurried the doctor, without
even offering his assistance in conveying
the sufferer to the road, which he saw that
the stalwart youth before him was quite
capable of doing by himself.

Genevra opened her lips to demur very
strongly to the arrangement, but Keith
clearly perceived that there was, as Dr.
Goodwin had said, " no time to lose " in
prudish hesitation ; so, regardless of the
damsel's hostile attitude, he took her up in
his arms as easily as if she had been a tiger

kitten (" Swooping upon me' said Genevra
to herself later, 'Mike a kite upon a dove,"
though it was a great deal more like a dove
swooping on a kite), and bore her swiftly
and tenderly to the doctor's trap, which
awaited them on the road to Lytham, a
very short distance from the woodland path
in which the upset happened. She was
placed on the seat, as comfortably as possible,
the doctor supporting her and the groom
taking the reins. Keith handed the doctor
his card.

Let me hear from you tomorrow," he
said. " I was not taking the lady further
than Lytham."

"What's this?" said the doctor. ''No,
no, my dear sir, my services are not
professional ; wayfarers must help each
other." But on Keith pressing his fee on
him, he yielded.

The youth turned a vainly appealing look

on the resolutely averted face, now white
and drawn with pain, and stood bareheaded
in the road until the trap vanished round
the corner. He picked up his card, which
in the slight contest with the doctor
had dropped in the road. Then he proceeded
to the inn, to give directions about
the pony and the broken cart, and, having
hired another conveyance, followed the
doctor and his charge to Lytham.

She may miss the train," he said
inwardly, " and I can get back to town tonight
vit Lytham to Stretford."

But the first hope, if it was a hope, was
dissipated by the doctor's reappearance
shortly before he reached the junction.
Keith sprang from his trap, and stood waiting
for him on the road.

** Make yourself quite easy, my good
fellow," said the old gentleman, kindly ; " I
had time enough to bandage her foot

properly in the station room, and put her
into a ladies' carriage, in charge of a
motherly looking woman who was going the
same way. She will be met at her journey's
end, you say ? "

Yes, yes," answered Keith. " But did
she tell you "

*' Poor child, she could tell me nothing —
I could not allow her to speak — but she had

her ticket all riofht from " Here his

horse showed signs of impatience ; and,
repeating "All right," the "good Samaritan '
was whirled away, and Keith resumed his
journey, his last inward utterance being,
She said I was the worst driver she ever

saw; I know she never saw a better, and

Oh, by Jove ! she never told me her
name ! "

Chapter XY.

A FIRST RESULT.

Mrs. Farquhar herself met Genevra at
Woolton, having been alarmed and anxious
at her non arrival by the earlier train. It
was a six miles' drive to the Grange, so that
it was dark before she was undressed and
laid in her own little bed, with racking
pains in her injured foot, and the sound of
a whole factory full of engines whirring and
pulsing through her aching head. To her
mother's anxious questions she had given a
simple answer — the truth, but not the whole
truth. " She had taken the wrong train at
Stretford, and had been obliged to hire a
dog-cart to drive across country to Lytham.

The driver had upset her, and she had
sprained her foot," and so on. The explanation
was perfectly satisfactory to her
friends, " the driver " suggesting merely the
inn-servant, or cabman, and before morn-nor
the increasing fever and inflammation
alarmed both Mrs. Farquhar and her sister
too much to leave any room for curiosity as
to minor details. Dr. Stewart was sent for
with special urgency, and, fearing that there
miofht have been some slight concussion of
the brain, ordered the utmost quiet and
silence to be maintained in the patient's
room, from which even Mrs. Burnes was
excluded.

That woman Carruthers,'^ she said,
'^ ought to be ashamed of herself, sending
a young girl alone on a long railway journey,
without even a maid to take care of her !
If the worst happens, it must be laid at her
door."

VOL. r. 15

"But, my dear," suggested Charley, "a
maid could not have prevented the accident
with the trap'

A maid would have seen that there was
no mistake about the train, when there would
have been no occasion for the drive at all."

True, my love. You are always right."

And if the worst happens, I shall never
cease to reproach Juliet for not having
attended to my advice to send Dinah to
bring Genevra home."

'' A cheerful look-out for Juliet," thought
Mr. Burnes ; but he only said, " Let us
hope, my dear, that this is the worst that
will happen. It is bad enough, I am sure."

"So it is," assented the lady ; " but I do
not believe that her head is injured a bit.
Dr. Stewart is such a croaker ; he delights
in frightening people, but he cannot
frighten me ? "

Brain ? Stuff ! Girls' brains are too fluid

to be injured by a tumble ! Nothing but
fright. Doctors do make such a fuss about
trifles. / could bring her round in a day or
two, with just a cold-water compress and a
dose of salts."

Once more, as Charley triumphantly
affirmed, Mrs. Burnes proved herself to be
always right." In a few days the feverish
symptoms had passed ofi", the local inflammation
had subsided, and, though it misfbt
be two or three weeks before the patient
would be able to move from her chamber,
there was no longer any danger to be
apprehended. Still, there was great weakness
and languor, and Dr. Stewart, who had
known the girl from her infancy, was a little
puzzled to account for it. So comparatively
slight an injury, in a constitution so
thoroughly healthy as Genevra's, ought not
so to have quenched her natural vivacity, or
kept her so long listlessly irresponsive to all

her mothers loving efforts to amuse her,
as she lay for hours on her couch, or with
her eyes riveted on some book whose pages
she never turned.

But at last the mystery was explained,
or Jenny's people imagined that it was.
Lady Carruthers had been written to,
immediately on her niece's return. Mrs.
Burnes had volunteered to announce it to
her, but with such severity of blame for the
neglect which had indirectly caused the
misfortune, that it was not surprising that
her letter was not acknowledged. Ten days
later, came a letter to Mrs. Farquhar from
Sir Brian Carruthers, written in evident
ignorance of the intelligence that had been
communicated to his aunt-inlaw, as he
expressed some surprise at not having
received from Miss Farquhar the permission
she had promised to send him to address
her mother, on her arrival, and requesting

leave to present himself at the Grange, and
receive her assent to the proposals which
he had done himself the honour, etc., etc.,
and which the young lady had done him
the still greater honour of accepting, subject
to Mrs. Farquhar s approval.

Happily for Mrs. Farquhar, both Mr.
and Mrs. Burnes were with her when this
most unexpected communication reached
her, and the shock of surprise and bewilderment
was softened by being shared. For
even the self-possessed sister Chatty was
startled by such a revelation, and read the
letter twice over, before she handed it to
her husband, and took up her parable thus :

Commend me to the girls of the period I
So this is the meaning of Miss Jenny's
languishing reverie, is it ? Has she never
confided the precious secret to you, Juliet ? ''

*' No, indeed. She has never breathed a
word of it to me."

'^ Perhaps she was ashamed of herself.
She well may be — a mere child ! Neither
you nor I, Juliet, ever dreamed of lovers at
her age."

But, Chatty, do you infer from this
gentleman's note that Jenny has already
accepted him ? "

"Accepted him? Of course she has!
Why, if you two were worldly wise, instead
of looking so scared at little Jenny's conquest,
you would be dancing for joy at the
prospect of such a match for her ! "

Here Mr. Burnes, who had been shaking
with suppressed laughter over the letter,
now interposed.

With an old gentleman who might be
her grandfather ! " said sister Chatty.

That is her affair. The Dowager Lady
Carruthers jilted him in her youth for his
old uncle, and Jenny jilts nobody ; while
he has the same advantages that his uncle

had in those days — same title, same fortune,
without the drawbacks for Jenny of a stepson
as old as herself, and a young lover
discarded."

Lady Carruthers I " repeated Mrs.
Burnes, with a sniff in alto. "I do not
think that her marriage was so successful
that we should care to make it a precedent
for Jenny's."

But," said Mrs. Farquhar, '* what am
I to do ? How am I to answer this letter ? "

'' You had better consult your daughter,"
said Charley, still laughing.

I dare not excite her in her present
state by broaching such a subject. I would
much rather wait until she speaks of it
herself, which she is sure to do, as soon as
she is equal to it."

'perhaps," said Charley, "the old gentleman
has mistaken her."

At all events " — from Mrs. Burnes — '' he

could not see her yet, as I suppose he will
wish to do if he comes down. Write and
tell him how ill she is, Juliet, and that you
cannot see him at present. Possibly, when
she gets better, she will give you her full
confidence."

The resolution was adopted nem. con., and
Mrs. Farquhar sat down, and then and
there penned a few courteous lines to the
elderly wooer, informing him of Genevra's
illness (which, in her confusion of mind
and desire to be brief, she called " a railway
accident), which would confine her for
some time to her room, and render unadvisable
any discussion of a nature that could
not fail to agitate and excite her. Consequently,
her mother requested Sir Brian
to defer until her recovery the visit with
which he proposed to honour her.

AVill that do, Chatty ? " she asked, hand-ins:
her letter to her sister.

Well, yes," answered Mrs. Burnes,
rather doubtfully, " that is, if you mean to
allow him to come here at all."

How can I refuse ? He says Jenny has
accepted him. I have no authority over
her in such a matter."

"More's the pity. But this is only a
draft of your reply ; there is more than one
correction in it ? "

I will copy it fair, presently, if you can
suggest no alteration ? "

Mrs. Burnes suggested none ; and when
she and her husband had quitted the
Grange, Mrs. Farquhar took up both letters,
put them into her pocket, and proceeded to
her daughter's room, where, to her dismay,
she was greeted by the direct question —

Whom have you had a letter from,
mamma ? "

No letter for you, my darling," answered
Mrs. Farquhar, evasively, but reddening so

guiltily that Genevra was aware at once of
some concealment — the more suspicious, it
may be, from the consciousness of her own
reserve.

'' Are you hiding some secret from me,
mother?" she said rather irritably. "I
shall worry myself more by trying to
guess it than you could harm me by
telling it."

A less cogent argument than this would
have prevailed to win Mrs. Farquhar to
break silence. She was only too glad to do
so ; and, bending tenderly over her darling,
she said softly, '' Have you withheld no
secret from me, my child ? "

Genevra turned on her with all her old
vivacity. ''He has written to you?" she
cried eagerly. " How dared he ? "

Mrs. Farquhar smiled, and answered a
little mischievously, " Perhaps, Jenny, lovers
are not so timid as you fancy they ought

to be — when they have had Sir Brian's
experience."

Sir Brian ! " repeated Jenny, and fell
back upon her pillows as if she had been
flung there.

Mrs. Farquhar stood still in a dismayed
silence. She was chilled, she knew not
why, at the strange tone in which the
girl had repeated the name " Sir Brian."
It was almost as if she had expected some
other suitor ; but, of course, that was impossible
!

Genevra was the first to speak. *' You
have had a letter from Sir Brian ? Tell me
all about it."

And her mother, as usual, obeyed her
little autocrat's commands not only by reading
to her the lover's letter and her reply,
but adding all the commentary which it
had evoked from herself and from both
the Burnes. It was not until she had

exhausted all lie had to say or to ask, and
obviously " paused for a reply," that Jenny
said —

Forgive me, mother. I always meant
to tell you about Sir Brian, but I thought
there was time enough. I did not care to
talk about — such things yet."

'* Of course, my love, I understand. We
will not talk about them until you are
stronger. I did not mean to say a word,
only you pressed me so."

"Mamma, I wish you to enclose a note
from me in that letter of yours."

"Are you strong enough to write, dear ?
Shall I not give a message for you
instead ? "

No " — very peremptorily.

Mrs. Farquhar stooped down, and, caressingly
smoothing the invalid's hair, whispered,
Do you love Sir Brian Carruthers,
Jenny ? "

Love him ? " was the astounding reply*
I hate him 1 " and down she sank again.

Poor Mrs. Farquhar was utterly bewildered.
" Then he had not your permission
to address me ? "

'^ I don't know," answered the fickle fair
one, pettishly. " Well, yes ; I did tell him
he might come." She added, "I was
wrong to say I hate Sir Brian. I like him
very much ; but I cannot marry him."

My love, we do not wish you to marry
him. You are too young to think of
marriage, and this gentleman is too old for
you.

'smiles too old ! " insisted Jenny emphatically.
In fact, through some unexplained
mental process, the figure of the hapless
baronet appeared to her imagination as if
relegated to the dust of remotest antiquity ;
but she never asked herself how a few days
could have effected such a change in her

estimate of age. " Still," she continued,
*'he is very nice and kind, and a perfect
gentleman, and" — with a sudden fierceness
" he never kissed me ! "

Mrs. Farquhar stared at the speaker
in renewed perplexity, and then said, '* I
think I can understand, my darling. You
had been excited by new scenes and new
society, and could not realize what Sir
Brian asked of you, nor what you promised
him ; but, this being so, had I not better
explain it to Sir Brian, and decline his visit
in your name, and altogether ? "

*' No," said Genevra ; "I will white to
him myself. Come to me in half an hour,
and you shall have my note to put inside
yours, but you must not read it."

Very well," sighed the indulgent mother,
and left the damsel to write her note alone.
She returned to find that, with some efibrt,
she had accomplished her task, and was

looking pale and weary, but more satisfied
than she had hitherto seemed to be.

Now, mamma," she said, " please do not
talk any more about my visit to Aunt
Carruthers. It was all very tiresome, and
I am so glad to be at home with you again."

CHAPTEK Xii.

JILTED AGAIN.

Sir Brian had returned to town, and was
seated alone, as it chanced, in the smoking-room
of his club, enjoying the flavour of a
choice cigar, and not particularly enjoying
the meditations that floated through his
brain, or the anxieties which he could not
expel with the smoke. The truth is, however
reluctantly the very youthful of either
sex may receive it, that, at the first blush,
even an accepted proposal of marriage is,
to a middle-aged lover, not all unqualified
rapture or even all engrossing. He had
been so occupied with business matters

while visiting his new inheritance, that he
had awaited without impatience the promised
permission to address Mrs. Farquhar. The
late baronet had, as has been mentioned
before, let Brackensfell for two years to a
millowner whose own house the builders
(not contractors) had promised should be
completed within that period. But (not
an unusual occurrence) they found themselves
unable to fulfil this engagement, and
Mr. Askew had requested an extension
of his term of tenancy. Sir Brian had
characteristically replied that he must take
a week or two to consider it, feeling that
his young bride and her mother should at
least be consulted as to his plans for her
future home. Hence his apparently lover-like
precipitance in writing to Mrs. Farquhar,
without waiting for Genevra's consent,
as he had agreed to do. And now, as he
mused on the decisive step he had taken,

VOL. I. 16

his reflections would in words have been
thus expressed —

Well, I am in for it now, and no mistake
! It is rather a leap in the dark ; but
so marriage always is, more or less ; and it
is a leap I was bound to take, sooner or
later, and it is best not to wait until old
age. I have escaped the snares of prospective
mothers-in-law, and she is a sweet
little girl, as fresh and pure as a daisy,
innocent of worldly wiles, and will live
happily with me in a pleasant climate,
where there are birds and flowers — and
monkeys. Quite a country girl, says my
quondam sweetheart and present aunt. You
were no country girl, my lady, when you
jilted me for a title. Girls ' in society '
know the value of such things. I don't
believe my little Jenny knows the difference
between a baronet and a knight or a justice
of the peace ! Still, I wish I had gone

down to see her among her people before I
committed myself. What the deuce made
me in such a hurry ? "

And poor Sir Brian felt much as a person
does who, in descending the stairs, misses
the last step, and comes to the floor with
a jar. He had reached this point in his
meditations, when a waiter entered, and
presented him with a letter marked " Immediate."
In taking Mrs. Farquhar's note
from the envelope, he did not observe the
tiny one from Genevra which nestled beneath
it, and read with real concern that
his little lady was suffering.

Kail way accident ? " he repeated. " I
saw no notice of any railway accident at
the time in the paper. It could not have
been serious, or it could not have been
hushed up. Hullo ! here's a note in the
envelope from my little girl herself — I hope
to say there is no cause for alarm."

He opened Genevra's note, and this is
what he read : — •

"Do not think me ungrateful, dear Sir
Brian, for the honour you have done me.
I am not ungrateful. I know I was never
worthy of it, and — it cannot be. You
must forget all about it, for indeed I am
not what you would have me. I am not
worthy.

Genevra."

Certainly Jenny could not be suspected
of having formed this abrupt and incoherent
note on the model of any " elegant epistle,"
and Sir Brian read it over two or three
times before he could gather its full import
; but when he did, he dashed it down
on the table beside him, and muttered vehemently
between his teeth, " Jilted again,
by Jove I "

Presently he took it up once more, and

applied himself to the renewed study of it.
Small blame to him that he could make
nothing of it ! " Not worthy ! " How was
she less worthy than when she accepted his
offer ten days ago ? If she had pleaded
some objection on the part of her friends ;
if she had even hinted at the existence of
some previous attachment, which she had
formerly denied ! But " not worthy " 1
That phrase, from some girls to some men
would have had but one significance, but
Sir Brian only glanced once at it to reject
it decisively. " Not that," he said ; " the
child is as pure as snow. She is ignorant,
from sheer innocence, of the construction
that might be placed on her foolish words,
but she has evidently not written at the
dictation of her mother. No mother would
have suffered such a letter to be sent if she
had read it. Now, what am I to do about
it?"

A " swain of Arcady " (Midlands), on
being asked how he would act if suddenly
confronted by some agricultural dilemma (I
forget what), replied, " I'd take it home and
champ it" anglice, 'chew," think over
it). Sir Brian was an intellectual ruminant,
and " champed " everything, even his love-letters.
So he took Jenny's note, which
was hardly a love-letter, home with him to
his hotel, and "champed it." The result
was a few lines to Mrs. Farquhar, enclosing
fewer still to Genevra. To the mother he
merely expressed the conventional regrets
for the young lady's illness, with an entreaty
to be informed of her progress to
recovery. To Jenny he said that he was
sure that her note was written under the
temporary excitement of nervous irritability,
and would be susceptible of a very
easy explanation when she was well enough
to receive him. Until then, he would not

SO much as remember it, and afterwards
they would both forget it together.

Mrs. Farquhar thought the lover's letter
a little cold ; but then, what might Genevra
not have said to him in hers ? After a
little hesitation, the girl silently handed
her his reply to her enigmatical note.

"It seems, my dear," said the mother,
"that, after all, he does not accept your
dismissal. He thinks, perhaps, that you do
not know your own mind ? "

Genevra vouchsafed no rejoinder to this
very probable suggestion ; but in a subsequent
conversation between Mrs. Farquhar
and her sister, Mrs. Burnes fully concurred
in it. "At least," she said, "the man is
right to insist on clearing up the muddle,
whatever it is, by a vivid voce explanation.
Genevra could not possibly have assigned
any rational excuse for accepting him one
week, and refusing him the next. But

did she show you her letter to him,
Juliet ? "

*she did not," answered the mother,
reluctantly.

"Then, in fact," pursued Mrs. Burnes,
we are just proceeding in the dark. Perhaps
she never accepted him at all. She
may have been too confused to know
exactly what answer she gave to what must
have been a totally unexpected proposal,
and Sir Brian misunderstood her altogether."


It may have been so," assented Mrs.
Farquhar, adding brightly, " and that
would explain her reserve with me. She
was too ill to enter on such a subject,
when there was no immediate necessity for
it. It is more difficult to believe that she
intended me to hear of it first from this
gentleman himself."

But sister Chatty always liked to study

both sides of a question. " Or," she resumed,
" she may not have positively refused
him in the letter she wrote. Perhaps
there was some misunderstanding between
them, which she wished cleared up."

It was too early for misunderstanding'*
objected Mrs. Farquhar.

"Oh, I don't know. Something may
have occurred to her, upon reflection, after
they parted. By the way, Juliet, does
Genevra know that, by her fathers last
wish, she is forbidden to marry till her
eighteenth year "? "

I have never named such a condition
to her, Charlotte. You know we both
agreed that the subject of marriage need
not even be alluded to until she had
arrived at her eighteenth year. How could
we ever dream of a lover presenting himself
to her before that age ? He never
would," added the mother, piteously, " if I

had kept her at home, which is, after all,
the only safe place for a young girl."

But," said Charley, who was present at
this conference, " I should like to know
what Lady Carruthers and her daughter
say about this business. Have you heard
nothing from them, Juliet ? "

"Not a syllable."

Perhaps it is a secret from them
also''

That can hardly be, when they only
met in Lady Carruthers' house."

I don't know," said Charley, laughing.
You see, this Sir Brian was a lover of
the old lady's formerly. He might have
felt a little delicacy — eh, my Rosebud ? "

"Nonsense, Charles," said his wife
sternly. " Whatever they were formerly,
they are aunt and nephew now. Well,
we know nothing about the affair, except
that there seems a ridiculous mystery about

it. The sooner it is cleared up the better,
or best of all, perhaps, cleared away."

"It would be a grand marriage for
Jenny, though," persisted Charley.

"Jenny is in no need of a grand marriage
with an old man," answered Mrs.
Burnes. "She is not a destitute orphan,
Charles ; and, if she were, I hope she would
not consider matrimony as merely a means
of livelihood."

Do you disapprove of it altogether.
Chatty ? " inquired Mrs. Farquhar, timidly.
You know that as regards her marriage,
as everything else, I am expressly forbidden
to thwart my Genevra's inclinations."

If we could only ascertain what her
inclinations are ! " answered Mrs. Burnes ;
but even Sir Brian himself seems rather
at a loss there."

Ought I to write to him again, as he
begs me to do ? " said Juliet.

No, if I were you, I should leave him
alone ; let him come or not, as he likes and
when he likes, or not at all. We none of
us want him here."

I do," said Charley. " I should like to
have a look ate Jenny's first sweetheart ; and
besides, my dear Chatty, since Juliet has no
authority to dismiss him, and Jenny does
not deny that she has given him the permission
to visit her — whether she wishes
to withdraw it or not — Juliet is bound to
treat him with courtesy. I should advise
her to answer his letter, and just say that
her illness is not so severe as to call for
regular bulletins — if he hears no more, he
must infer that she is progressing favourably ;
and leave them to settle their differences
between them, without interference."

The Vicar's counsels prevailed, and the
'' young people," as he called them, were
left to make their own arrangements. For

some little time there was no further advance
on Sir Brian's part, while Genevra maintained
a resolute reserve, and refused to
believe that he would make any further
advance at all. But the leisurely lover was
merely waiting until she should be supposed
to be sufficiently recovered to receive his
visit ; and as, after Mrs. Farquhar's first
brief letter, he was left to determine this
point by conjecture, the crisis did not
appear imminent.

CHAPTER XVII.

Harleigh.

And in the mean time, what has become
of our young Romeo — if a Romeo can be
imagined to an unresponsive Juliet ? At
least, Sir Brian's unconscious rival had forfeited
his claim to be called a Sir Galahad !
Keith Moray had returned to Hurstleigh —
not his native place, but to which it was
confidently believed that he would one day
be heir. It would not, by itself, be a wealthy
inheritance.

Hurstleigh was an estate of some fourteen
hundred acres, most of which, with the
exception of those immediately surrounding
the house, were barren, treeless sheep-farms

on the bleak Sussex downs ; and even the
plantations round the house, although carefully
planted and tended, and sheltered ina
sunny hollow from the wild sea-winds,
repaid but scantly the pains lavished upon
them in profitable herbage or timber. But
the heights above it, and the openings
around it, gave partial glimpses of the sea,
and everywhere the chalk downs were lovely
with the varying beauty of light and shadow
for ever sweeping over them. Hurstleigh
was no ancestral domain, though so dearly
valued by its present owner, James Moray,
whose father, Dunlop Moray, had been one
of the senior partners in a wealthy City firm.
Dunlop Moray had married a still wealthier
City heiress, who died shortly after the birth
of her son, on whom, by settlement, her
whole fortune was to devolve on his father s
death. The boy was his father's idol and
pride ; but when only nine years old, riding

beside him on his little pony, the horse
suddenly shied, and flung him against a
kerb-stone, the result being an injury to
the spine, which, without actually crippling
him, would render him hopelessly an invalid
for life.

During the first years of his marriage,
Mr. Moray had purchased Hurstleigh, then
only a large sheep-farm, and had rebuilt,
enlarged, and embellished it for a countryseat
; and here, by the advice of his
physicians, the boy was taken for the benefit
of the pure sea-breezes, and here he had
lived ever since. Mr. Dunlop Moray married
again, and his wife followed her predecessor
in a few years, leaving, like the first Mrs.
Moray, only one child, a son. But the
parallel ended there. Raymond Moray, the
younger son, grew up a healthy, active
youth, fond of all the pleasures of society,
with no taste whatever for the seclusion in

which his brother entrenched himself, and
with a decided indifference no less to his
person than to his pursuits. They seldom
met, and never corresponded. The father
died when James was thirty-two and
Raymond eleven years younger, and shortly
afterwards the younger brother received a
commission in a regiment ordered to India,
and departed with scarcely a farewell to the
sickly sufferer, who had frequently paid, out
of his own fortune, the debts which Raymond's
extravagance had accumulated, receiving
hardly an acknowledgment in return.
Not until six years after his departure did
any communication from the brilliant overreach
the lonely recluse, and then it was
a startling one ! It came in the shape of a
beautiful black-eyed boy of some five years
old, who was sent down to Plurstleigh in
charge of an Indian ayah, and the following
letter of introduction : —

VOL. I. 17

*dear James,

I was glad to hear from
Symonds that when he left England, you
were as well, or as ill, as usual, in that
dreary old hermitage of yours ; but as I am
sure you must be confoundedly dull, I send
you a nephew to amuse you. I dare say
he'll be a lively companion, though the
little beggar hates the sight of me, and I
return the compliment. Knowing that you
were always strait-laced, I send him with
a copy of madam's 'marriage lines,' from
which you may infer that he is my lawful
son, though it is more than I feel sure
of myself, which may account for the
rather ' overstrained relations ' between us.
The whole business was a blunder. When
I first came out, a mere boy, as you know,
I was fascinated by a very beautiful girl a
few years younger than myself, and in an

inferior social position. She was, besides,
of Indian descent, so that marriage should
have been out of the question, and would
have been, had I been a little older and
wiser. As it was, I was enticed into a
marriage, which I had just sense enough to
insist upon keeping secret until I could take
or send her to England, where her Indian
blood would not have been a disgrace. A
few months later this lad was born, and, my
regiment being ordered up the country, I
had to leave her and the brat for two years.
Before I returned the jade had eloped with
some French trading fellow, leaving the
child a mon adresse, and I never had tale
or tidings of her until a year afterwards,
when I learnt that she and her companion —
d — n them both !— had been drowned in the
ship in which they had sailed for Bordeaux.
She had taken care to leave her marriage
certificate secure in the hands of one of her

friends before she bolted, so I could not
disown my son ; but feeling no paternal
stirrings of heart towards him — little black
]brute ! — I took no notice of him beyond
paying for his provender, until, when
Symonds told me that you were still at
Hurstleigh, and taking no steps to provide
an heir of your own, it occurred to me that
mine might be useful to you, and I forward
him accordingly. If you won't have him,
send him to an orphanage, or to the workhouse,
if you like ; anything but send him
back to me. He shows too much of the
nigger to do any good here, and is too like
his dam to please me, though that should
be saying that the whelp is good looking
too. You may as well send back the ayah ;
she was only hired for the job, and knows
nothing of my little family secret, which
you may as well keep to yourself The
mother being submerged, nothing more need

be said of her. If you are questioned for
further particulars,' inquire of

Yours truly,

'' R M.
"The boy has been named 'Keith.' A
copy of his baptismal register and that of
his birth is enclosed, all in ' regular
form,' as you are such a prig."

It cannot be said that either the tone or
the substance of the epistle was calculated
to increase eames Moray's esteem for his
half-brother ; but to his lonely and saddened
life the child came as a Heaven-sent oft.
The little Keith was a shy, sensitive boy,
who seemed to have been quite unaccustomed
to kindness, and he soon repaid his
uncle's affection with an ardour of grateful
love that poured a flood of sunshine into
the secluded home. In a few weeks iVIr.
]Moray wrote to Raymond, offering to bring

up his son as his own heir, provided that
all the rights and authority of a father were
unconditionally transferred to him. Captain
Moray was but too glad to assent to this
arrangement, and thenceforth took no notice
of either his boy or his brother, and,
being; killed not long afterwards in a
skirmish with a rebel tribe, Keith became
the undisputed possession of his English
relative.

Day by day, year by year, the bond
between the boy and the invalid grew closer
and tenderer, until, when Keith was about
twelve, a circumstance occurred which not
only riveted that bond as nothing else could
have done, but permanently influenced his
character and modes of thought and feeling.

The only fault in him which caused grave
anxiety to Mr. Moray was the ungovernable
fury to which he would occasionally give
way. He was not often or easily provoked,

but when offended lie lost for the time all
power of self-restraint, and was capable in
his frenzy of excesses which, for days afterwards,
he would passionately regret and
deplore. He had been annoyed one day by
the insolence of a young page-boy, whom
Mr. Moray had lately taken into his service,
and who had refused to obey some order
that Keith had given him. Hoping to
arrest the tide of passion that he saw was
rising, the uncle commanded the page to
leave the room ; but as he obeyed, before he
closed the door, he made an insulting:
grimace at his young master, who instantly
darted after him, and a free fight ensued on
the landing. Mr. Moray hurried out to
part the combatants, who were pretty well
matched in size and age, but Keith was
the more energetic of the two. He had
thrown his adversary to the ground, and
might, in his fury, have seriously injured

him, though boys seldom do lasting harm
to each other in their battles ; but he was
more like a tiger-cub at that moment thana
human being. When Mr. Moray went to
rescue his prey from his clutches, he aimed
a furious kick at him. In stepping backwards
to avoid this practical amenity, the
invalid lost his balance, and fell to the
bottom of the stairs, where he lay senseless,
and, as the horrified Keith believed, lifeless.
He recovered consciousness after some hours,
l;)ut chronic ill health is not improved by
the sufferer being kicked downstairs. For
many weeks he lay between life and death,
having received, the doctors said, an internal
injury which would render him for ever
unable to leave his couch for more than a
few hours at most. For some time Keith
was not permitted to enter his room, but
he could not be prevented from watching
outside the door, night and day, like a dog ;

and such was this agony of grief and remorse
that when the doctors pronounced Mr.
Moray out of danger, their anxiety for him
seemed likely to be transferred to his
assailant. But Mr. Moray found a way of
turning all this pain and sorrow into lasting
profit.

Keith, dear boy," he said to him one
day, when he had been passionately bewailing
the injury he had done to his benefactor
and dearest friend — '' Keith, whatever bethe
wrong you accuse yourself of towards
me, you can more than repair it — you can
make of it a joy and a blessing to me, if
you are capable of a great and persistent
etibrt, and willing to make it for my
sake."

I am capable of any effort," answered
the boy, fixing his dark eyes on the speaker,
with all the fire of his nature glowing in
an intensity of resolve. " I would die a

thousand deaths in making it, to lessen your
pain for a day."

I ask you not to die, my Keith," rejoined
his uncle, "but to live worthily, by
learning to practise a resolute self-restraint
in everything, till you have subdued the
brute passion which will otherwise conquer
and degrade the manhood in you, until even
your noblest aspirations become the mere
fitful impulse of the hour. It will be a
hard fight, my son, and possibly a lifelong
one. Will you engage in the struggle for
love of me ? "

The boy did not speak, but he knelt down
beside the sufferer's couch, and laid his brow
against his head ; and when he rose to his
feet again, Mr. Moray knew that a vow was
registered that would never be broken, and
though the battle might sometimes go
against him, he would never yield nor fly.

Nor did he. He was human and young,

and might, under sudden temptation, sometimes
falter, but one glance at the beloved
form lying in patient endurance on its couch
of anguish, or even the memory of it,
would suffice to nerve him to renewed effort
to curb his passion, and to keep unfailing
watch over himself, until he had gained so
resolute a self-mastery that few of his associates
even suspected what it cost him to
maintain it. And as the man grew feebler
and more suffering, the boy stronger, more
beautiful, more manly, the relation between
them was more like that of mother and son
than of uncle and nephew ; and to his need
of tenderness and sympathy, Keith's character
owed much of the almost feminine
softness which tempered its masculine energy
in a home where there was no female influence
to mould it.

Wise with the truest wisdom of ud selfish
love, Mr. Moray felt that the seclusion

which was unavoidable for himself would
be to the last degree injurious to a youth
who would have a place to fill among the
activities of the world. So Keith passed
through the usual curriculum of well-born
and wealthy lads, and passed, too, with
credit and honour from Rugby to Oxford,
always returning from the scenes of his
boyish sports or manlier triumphs to bring
the freshness of joyous healthy youth into
the quiet chamber of the sickly student at
Hurstleigh, who never failed to welcome him
with loving, indulgent sympathy and counsel.
Although he rarely quitted his uncle's home
for more than a few days, he was frequently
surrounded by young men of his own age —
old schoolfellows or college friends — who
were invited, at Mr. Moray's express wish,
to share his open-air amusements, fishing,
hunting, or shooting. But his chief companion
and closest friend was Harry Stan-forth,

the young man whom Genevra had
seen in his company at the railway station.
They had been friends from their earliest
school-days, although Harry was two years
younger than Keith. He was the son of an
officer who had died on his way out to
India, and the second marriage of his
mother had left him for some years practically
an orphan, as his stepfather, while
charging himself with his liberal education
and maintenance, had declined any personal
intercourse, not from unkindness, but because,
as he passed his time in foreign
travels for the benefit of his health, a
young child would at first have been an
"encumbrance" in every sense, and would
later have been injured, rather than advantaged,
by sharing his parent's roving
life.

Possibly it was this shadowy bond of
sympathy that at first attracted Keith Moray

to his young schoolmate, and induced him
to take him back with him to Hurstleigh to
spend his lonely holidays. But from that
time forth the boys grew up like brothers,
although totally unlike in tastes, character,
and disposition. Hurstleigh was Harry
Stanforth's home for years, and seemed
likely to remain so even longer, when the
return of his mother to England, once morea
widow, had renewed their long-suspended
relations, and from a lonely orphan he had
been summoned to take the position of only
son and heir. On the day Jenny saw him
at the station, he had been about to escort
Lady Dalton to a friend's house for a short
visit, which he had not been invited to
share ; and, having left her there, he rejoined
Keith Moray at Hurstleigh about a fortnight
later, as warmly received by the uncle as
the nephew. For although Harry Stanforth
possessed no personal beauty, nor any refinement

of manner and intellect, he was so
full of life and unfailing vivacity, so generous
and warmhearted, so ready with admiration
and sympathy and cordial help whenever
needed, that he was universally beloved
and everywhere gladly welcomed.

END OF VOL. I.

PRINTED BV WILLIAM Closes AND SONS, Limited,

LONDON AND Eccles. C, C. &* Co.

r'^\U

m

'iJ5£^J->

:-:g^^:.

i-.^'

•tS

3'<iSBSa-.<-:>»;l \■^!i^ir.i■',*L^^,

i

&\SSi

'^>S' ■«■.•'

CT

11 R

\ f^:

«?"M'

^^m^>^

i^^s^s

^

BY THE AUTHOR OF

MY INSECT QUEEN," "A Horrid Girl," ETC.

A bliss in proof —and proved, a very woe,
Before, a joy proposed — behind, a dream."

Shakespeare.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. 11.

LONDON:

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

lj3uljlts|)crs in ©rtiinarg to f^cr JHajcstg tfje <^\mx{.

1887.
fall rights reserved.)

CONTENTS OP VOL. II.

I. Interested Advice . . 1

II. Babes in the Wood . . 20

III. In the Vicarage Garden . . 39

lY. Wendholm wakes up . . 52

V. Sir Brian at last . . 69

VI. An Awkward Confidence . 78

VII. " Is it settled ? " . . 107

VIII. "I suppose so" . . 127

IX. "Says the Spider to the Fly" . 138

X. Keith confesses . . 161

XL Harry's Play . . . 180

XII. Tory More . . 198

Xii. Pitiless . . . 218

XIV. Invited to Oaklandss . . 234

XV. Wendholm transformed . . 250

XVI. Four Months Later . . 274

XVII. Studying Ants . . . 297

CHAPTER I.

INTERESTED ADVICE.

Perhaps, if Harry Stanforth had been more
observant, he would have detected some
change in his friend's manner since he
parted with him at the Great Western
Station. He would have found him more
serious, more abstracted, less interested in
his young companion's eager raptures about
his new-found, or rather repossessed mother,
and the joy with which he looked forward
to their future life together. But Harry

VOL. II. 18

never noticed anything but what floated on
the surface stream of existence. As yet
there existed for him no deeper currents.
Besides, the elder Moray had been suffering
more than usual lately, and Keith's anxiety
for him would have accounted for his grave
preoccupation at any time.

They had been out all the morning
inspecting the stables and kennels, which
Mr. Moray insisted on keeping always well
tended and well stocked "for the amusement
of the young people," as he called his
nephew's frequent guests ; and as the stable
clock struck twelve, Keith turned towards
the house, saying —

"You can come in or not, as you like,
Hal, but I must go and have a look at the
governor. He has been very much below
par this long time."

Why, I thought he looked uncommonly
fresh this morning," said Harry. "He

looked rather wan last night, to be sure,
but at breakfast he seemed all right."

You really thought he looked better ? "
asked Keith, pausing to look anxiously at
his friend.

I really did. Kit ; indeed, I saw no
alteration in him. However, we will both
go and amuse him, if you think he cares for
our society."

They went into the study accordingly.
It was not a stately room, but it was a
reposeful room, withdrawn from all noise
or movement in the house, within antechambers
lined from floor to ceiling with
rare and valuable books. The furniture was
not fashionable, but there was use and comfort
in it, and even something of dignified
richness in its simple forms and mellow
colouring. It was lighted by a deep bay
window, heavily draped with crimson velvet
curtains, and still further shaded by the

sweeping branches of a majestic cedar,
which hid the lawn and the view beyond.

The morning was rather chilly ; there
was a brisk lire on the hearth, and on a
sofa beside it lay a man who, though little
past the prime of manhood, was so worn by
long physical suffering that a casual observer
would have supposed him aged. His figure,
very frail and slight, was a little bent by
spinal debility. His hair and eyebrows
were quite white, but he was close shaven,
and in every detail of his dress and personal
appearance the utmost neatness and care
were apparent. His features, though drawn
and wan, where well cut and regular, and
bore a strong family resemblance to the
younger Moray's. His mouth, in moments
of ease, had a peculiar sweetness of expression
; and his large blue eyes, looking larger
for the hollowness of his cheeks, had the wistful,
transparent simplicity of a musing child.

His youthful guests were received
railings, but very speedily ejected, Mr.
Moray declaring that he was not tired of
his own society yet, and did not care to be
disturbed. So the lads betook themselves
to Keith's special sanctum, and set to to
manufacture artificial flies for the beguiling
of unwary trout.

You see, Kit, he doesn't want you,"
said Harry ; " and I am glad of it, for I
want your advice about something."

Whether he wanted me or not," answered
Keith, " it would be all the same, since he
fancies we can amuse ourselves better without
him. You don't know how unselfish
he is."

*' I know he is more than a father to
you," said the other, 'sand quite half a
father to me. I should have been a homeless
beggar for some years of my life if it
had not been for him — and you."

"Well, that is over now. You will be
homeless no longer ; for, of course, now your
mother has come to England, she will settle
in her native country."

That is where I want your advice, Kit.
You see. Sir Peregrine has only been dead
six months, and, though Lady Dalton would
never be wanting in respect for the poor
old fellow, she cannot be supposed to be
broken-hearted for a husband forty years
older than herself, can she now ? "

Perhaps not," replied his friend. " A
second husband, too. But he was a good
stepfather, Hal."

That he was, dear old boy ! " said Stan-forth,
heartily ; adding, " All the same, I
never saw him since I was a baby. Still,
my mother was penniless when he married
her, and he left me in England (very gladly,
no doubt), and paid for my education, and
gave me a handsome allowance, and may

almost be said to have left me his whole
fortune, since he left it unconditionally to
my mother, with reversion at her death
to me."

Something like a stepfather ! " cried
Keith, enthusiastically. " I should say you
do owe respect to the memory of such a
stepfather as that."

'rand Lady Dalton will pay it too!"
said Harry. " And that is where I want
your advice."

*' My advice ? " repeated Keith, opening
his dark eyes in amazement. " My advice
about the respect you should pay to your
stepfather's memory ? Is it the choice of an
inscription, or a tomb ? "

The shout of laughter with which this
inquiry was received was rather incongruous
with the idea of mourning in any shape, as
Harry cried out —

A tomb, you gloomy dog ! No, a house

to live in. Don't look so bewildered, old
man. I'll explain. You see, my mother
"wishes to live quietly until her first mourning
is over, but she does not want to part
from me, or to doom me to a dull existence
in a stupid London hotel all the summer''
I should hope not," from Keith) " while
she is deciding on her final arrangements.
80 she has decided to take a jolly shooting
lodge for me somewhere in the country,
where she can live in decent retirement, and
I can have my friends about me, with lots
of shooting and hunting, and all sorts of
fun."

''I understand," remarked Keith, demurely.
*' That is your idea of ' decent
retirement ' — lots of fun ? AVell, and where
is this shooting-box to be ? "

'that is where I want your advice.
Mother has been so honos out of England
that she is almost a stranger here. She has

few friends and never had many relatives.
She leaves the choice entirely to me."

There are plenty of advertisements of
such places," observed Keith, musingly.

Yes, I know ; but they tell such lies.
One would have to spend all one's time, like
Satan, in going up and down the earth to
see them."

Is Satan so interested in shooting-boxes ?
I was not aware that that fact was recorded
of him?"

*' If he has no interest in shooting-boxes
lie has in the agents who advertise them.
Everybody says they are such a pack of
liars there's no believing a word they say."

But have you been to the agents ? "

'' Oh yes, and got a list of the places
most likely to suit. We will go over it
together. You may know some of them."

Well, come, there's something practical
at last," laughed Keith, as he lit a cigar

and settled down to listen to his friend's
enumeration of " Desirable Mansions," from
a list which Harry produced from his pocketbook.
*' Go ahead ; I'm all attention."

Stanforth began. *' No. 1. Forest Lodge,
South Dunham. Good shooting and hunting,
but such a box ! Mamma says she
must have space ; she won't live in a hole.
This is only fit for a bachelor."

No. 1," repeated Keith, pencil in hand —
I have crossed out that. What next ? "

No. 2. Grey Gates. Rather promising,
but it is only to be had for six months. In
Essex, too. Mother knows nobody in
Essex."

No. 3 ? "

"Seamen."

That is the name for a ship, not a
house."

"It is a house. Good covers, lots of
hunting, a pack of foxhounds within three

miles ; but it is in Derbyshire. Mother
says it would be too cold for her."

"You said that Lady Dalton left the
choice to you, but she has barred three
already on your list."

Oh, well, she has left the choice to me,
on condition that the house is large, the
scenery good, the situation not too far
north, and — oh ay ! — not near the sea,
which she is tired of, otherwise I should
have asked you to find me some place hereabouts."


There is no shooting to be let hereabouts,"
answered Keith, with rather an
abstracted air.

Harry went on. " Belford Abbey, near
Leamington. Good hunting, of course, but
only a few acres to shoot over ; still, if I
hear of nothing better, I may take a look at
that. You are going to sleep, Kit ; you are
not attending to me."

Keith looked up a little guiltily. *' I
was thinking of a place, but I cannot remember
the name. Go on. No. 5 ? "

'^ Oh, that would never do. A barn of a
house, and no land to speak of. Shooting
of sparrows, and hunting of rats ! Confound
the fellow, he's off dreaming again !
Ho ! Sir Galahad ! "

^'Do drop that stupid nickname," said
Keith, pettishly ; "I do not want to
go through life labelled with a boyish
foolery."

Stanforth stared, and Keith came to
himself and laughed, though a little constrainedly.


' I do believe I have been half asleep.
Those catalogues of house agents are so
stupefying, and I have woke up cross ; but —
doit call me Sir Galahad again, there's a
good fellow."

Well, I won't. As you say, we are too

old for nicknames. But there's only one
house left on my list, Moray."

*' At Leamington ? "

Oh no ; we will return to that presently.
This is in Dorsetshire — ' Oakland Heights.' "

Keith threw down his cigar, and started
to his feet.

** The very house, by Jove ! Give here ;"
and without ceremony he snatched the list
from his friend's hand.

** Why, old man, you are quite excited,"
observed that gentleman, phlegmatically.
I should draw my own inferences from
your vivacity, if its object were not an
empty house ! "

*' No excitement at all," replied Keith,
laying down the paper with a sudden preternatural
calmness that would have betrayed
him to any one but the unsuspicious
Harry ; " but it is odd that you should read
out the very name I have been making

such efforts to recollect, for I have heard of
Oakland Heights before."

Well, what sort of place is it ? Will it
do?"

I have never seen it ; but I have l)een
told that it is a fine old house, and swarms
with game ; that it is surrounded with fine
scenery and beautiful gardens ; that two
packs of foxhounds and beagles hunt in the
neighbourhood, and "

Hold hard ! " laughed Harry. " Why,
Keith, are you promised commission by
the owner for finding a tenant for this
paradise? Does it belong to any friend of
yours ? "

'' I never heard who it belongs to, but I
heard of it not long since from a — from someone
I met, and I was thinking just now
that it might be the thing to suit you, only
I could not remember the name."

'' It is the only place on the list likely to

suit, except the Leamington one, and —
you are sure there is good shooting ? "

"I am sure I was told so ; the words
were, ' swarms of pheasants "

Who do you say told you ? "

But to this question Keith was conveniently
deaf, and became much interested
in a daisy rake that was being carried past
the window by one of the gardeners.

After a moment's consideration, Stanforth
broke out suddenly, " I say, Kit, I'll runover
and have a look at this Oakland
Heights. I may meet with something that
will do in Dorsetshire if that fails."

All right," said Kit, and then added, in
as indifferent a tone as he could assume,
If my uncle can spare me for a day, I
don't care if I go with you."

"That's a good fellow," answered Hal,
gratefully. "It will be a help to me. Two
heads are better than one."

But Keith's head was by no means so
steady at that moment as to promise much
help to his unsuspecting friend, and, muttering
some excuse for his abrupt departure, he
hastened to the solitude of Mr. Moray's antechamber,
to indulge his rapture of reverie.

I shall see her ! I don't know her name,
but she will be there. If not, I shall find
out who she is, and I will seek the world
through but I will find her ; and if human
effort can do it, I will win her forgiveness.
If not "

And here he paused, as if even to breathe
aloud that daring aspiration would be an
offence to the maiden dignity he had outraged
in an unguarded moment — a moment
which, he felt, had made him unworthy to
dream of happier issues until penitence and
pardon had absolved him. And yet — and
yet — though he hated himself for the impulsive
action, though he believed that he

would have given years of his young life to
recall it, never, waking or sleeping, by
day, by night, would he have cancelled the
remembrance of the light touch of those
sweet girlish lips, as they innocently met
his own ! A theft it might be, a fraud, a
robbery, but the treasure was his, and
should be his, profaned for ever. But
no shadow of contrition crossed the mind
of that evil young man, that, in his eagerness
once more to behold his very ungracious
lady, he had so abused the trusting confidence
of his friend as to drag him off on
a perhaps fruitless search for an earthly
paradise of fox-hunting and game-preserving,
to a region of which he only certainly knew
that it took a great many "junctions" to
get at, where gamekeepers spared " vermin "
at the entreaty of young ladies, and which
consequently abounded in (among other
things) " dear little weasels with white

VOL. II. 19

breasts." Could he not, having once ascertained
the desired locality of Oakland
Heights, have gone there himself and
hunted out "Miss Genevra," without causing
loss of time, and perhaps consequent disappointment,
to Harry and Lady Dalton ?
Yes, and lose the excuse of accompanying
his friend in his house-hunting ! He could
hardly present himself alone at Oaklandss,
on the very unlikely chance of finding the
young lady in the empty house ; whereas
Harry, as a pond-side tenant, would fearlessly
demand all possible information about
the neighbourhood and the neighbours, and
wander up and down, and to and fro, without
exciting suspicion or comment. Besides,
after all, the place might suit Lady Dalton,

and then But why not entrust his secret

to Hal, who would eagerly receive and inviolably
preserve the confidence, and frankly
aid him in every way he could suggest ?

No ; young men, as a rule, are not as eager
as most girls are for confidants in such
affairs, and, in right of his two years' seniority,
Keith looked on Hal as a boy, with whom
he could lovingly sympathize, but who was
scarcely yet able to sympathize intelligently
with him. And how, as a gentleman, could
he confide to any one the secret of that
incident in the Buckholt Woods ? The old
vulgar proverb denounces a frightful penalty
on whoso '' goes for to kiss and tell," and
although that may refer only to an action
which is on the " voluntary system " on
both sides, still Kit felt that, as he could
never honourably hand over to another mana
secret which was no less the maiden's than
his own, his lips were sealed in every sense,
and he received his friend's grateful thanks
for his promise to accompany him to Oak-lands
without the least feeling of compunction
or remorse.

CHAPTER II.

BABES IN THE WOOD.

Mamma, I should like to go to the
Vicarage, and surprise sister Chatty with
a morning call."

You must take the pony carriage then,
dear," answered Mrs. Farquhar. " You are
not strong enough yet for so long a walk."

Very well. I will take the carriage
through the wood, up the hill, to the first
turning, and walk down to the Vicarage,
and you can come for me at tea-time. 1
am nearly quite strong now, and I do so
long for a walk. I shall be ever so much
the better for it."

Accordingly, Jenny drove into the wood,

and, descending from the carriage at the
spot she had indicated, dismissed her little
charioteer, and prepared to enjoy herself.
It was a balmy spring day, and the beauty
of the woodland scenery struck her with a
sense of newness after her long confinement.
The hedges and trees were now in full leaf,
the birds in full song, the banks starred
with wild-flowers. Woodruff and bluebells
and anemones had passed away, but the
dog-rose hung its budding garlands from
tree to tree, and the stately foxglove lifted
its bells above the freshly uncurled fronds
of the lady fern.

The air was fragrant with the breath of
woodbine and eglantine, and musical with
the exulting twitter of busy finches, flitting
hither and thither on their domestic affairs.
All was life, and love, and beauty ; the
very leaves of the briony seemed to laugh
as they glistened and glittered in the sunshine,

though it must be admitted that
the familiarity of the flies was decidedly
disagreeable.

Genevra seated herself on a deep bed of
moss, broke ofl" an elder bough to keep
away the swarming persecutors, and, drawing
a deep breath of enjoyment, looked
around her with a feeling of exhilaration to
which she had long been a stranger. She
leaned her head against the tree under
which she sat, and was so still that a wood-pigeon
on a hazel bush close by, after peering
curiously at her for some minutes, concluded
that she was of no account, and
resumed his soft, cooing love-song, which
he had hushed at her first appearance. And
Jenny, while she listened to the bird, ought,
I suppose, to have caught the key-note of
his music, " Love, love, love," and, remembering
how the last time she was ina
wood she had heard, from the lips of "n

featherless biped," that note translated into
very definite human language, she should
have felt her young heart throb with yearning
for a non-apparent mate. But, in truth,
she felt nothing of the kind ; she was full
of eagerness for the childish amusements in
which she had not yet lost her interest, and
all her thought was, " He has got a nest
in that bush. I wonder, are there birds or
eggs in it '? "

She rose and softly approached the shrub
whence the cooing proceeded, and both
birds flew hurriedly out of it. She looked
up. Sure enough, there was the flat, untidy,
and by no means odoriferous home of
'* the fond doves." (Pigeons in their nest
are not as savoury as pigeons in a pie.) It
was laid, much as a housemaid lays her
sticks for a fire, on a spreading branch, not
many feet from the ground, though too high
for a taller person than Jenny to reach.

She stood, gazing upward, her head thrown
back, her eyes sparkling with delight. " I
think I can do it," said she. If Sir Brian
could have seen her then, he might have
thought that his experiment in girl-training
would have, as the children say, to " begin
at the bee^inninc^."

I am sure I can do it," she repeated.

In another moment she had swung herself
into the tree, and, with one arm clasping
the bough above her head, and one foot
resting lightly on the branch beneath her,
she was peering into the nest, in rapturous
admiration of Uyo hideous, callow, yellow
squabs," that tried to lift their fat persons
from the sticks on which they lay, and
spitefully snapped their bills at her.

While she was thus engaged, a sound of
voices and laughter came from the path she
had quitted — masculine tones and boyish
laughter. She peeped through the leaves

with an even keener curiosity than she had
felt about the birds' family secrets. For,
indeed, a young man in the Oakland woods
was far more a vara avis than a wood-pigeon
was, and here were two young men !
She could see by their dress and carriage
that they were gentlemen, but, through the
foliage that screened her, she could not
discern their features. They came rapidly
striding up the steep path, the shorter of
the two talking with Teat animation, and
would have passed the bush on which she
was perched without perceiving her, had not
one of the filthy little fowls in the nest, in
edging away from her, overbalanced itself
and fallen to the ground, with a squelch
suggestive of such fatal results that Jenny
uttered an exclamation, at which both the
youths looked round and upwards — and
once more the eyes of Genevra and Keith
Moray met !

To Keith the encounter was scarcely a
surprise, as he had known that the lady of
his love lived somewhere in that neighbourhood,
though he would probably not have
looked for her up a tree. But to Genevra
it was an overwhelming surprise, and a very
embarrassing one. Often — oftener than she
would have liked to acknowledge to herself
- — she had pictured a meeting somewhere,
somewhen, with the audacious stranger
whose insolence she had found it so difficult
to forget — it could not have been much
harder to forgive — but she had always
imagined a meeting under circumstances
favourable to the utmost display of maidenly
pride and dignity, and lo ! there were the
dark eyes riveted on hers, with the light of
suppressed mirth struggling through another
and more earnest feeling. But Jenny fancied
it was all ridicule, and hated him more than,
or at least as much as ever. Without

returning the young man's profound salutation,
she made a sudden spring, to escape
from what she felt to be quite an intolerable
position, and down she came with her
whole weight on her still weak ankle, and
with a scream of pain over she rolled into
the arms — not of Keith this time, but of his
friend Harry Stanforth, who had bounded
forward just in time to catch her ; and,
what with the anguish of pain and humiliation,
the poor child, still hardly recovered
from her recent illness, burst into tears and
sobbed aloud.

The situation was certainly embarrassing
to the whole party. Keith had made an
impulsive gesture, as if to snatch the weeping
damsel from Harry's sustaining clasp,
but instantly checked himself, and drew
back, looking away from her into the depths
of greenery around him ; while Harry, who,
from her childish occupation, her Mignonne

figure, and, not least, her childish tears,
mistook her for a little school-girl, set himself
to console her as if she had been a girl
of thirteen.

There, there ! don't cry. You should
not have jumped until we had come up to
you. Never mind ; we will take care of
you, and see you safe home. Is the pain
very bad ? It will pass off in a minute or
two. I'm awfully sorry. Don't cry, there's
a dear girl ! " and he actually patted heron
the back.

That was a humiliation which Jenny
could not away with, humbled as she was
already. She stopped wailing, and withdrew
herself from Harry's support, saying —

"I am very sorry, but I never could bear
pain ; it hurts so, and — I have been ill, and
I am not very strong yet ; " and she wiped
the tears from her eyes — Keith would have
liked to dry them by a different process —

and endeavoured to assume a maidenly
reserve, which was so far successful that
Harry saw she was not such a mere child
as he had at first supposed, but was nowise
daunted by the discovery.

*' Not strong ? " he rejoined. '' You were
strong enough to climb a tree, though, to be
sure, you fell off it ! But, I say, you can
hardly stand now ; do allow me to offer you
my arm, and tell me which way to go, and
we will see you safe home."

I am afraid I must trouble you, if you
will be so kind," answered Jenny ; " for,
indeed, I don't think I could walk alone,
even so far as the Vicarage. But I shall be
all right when I get there. It is not very far."

We came down from Oakland Heights,
and were going back by this path. You
can show us the way to the Vicarage ; 1
think we passed it." Then, as Genevra
took his arm, he turned to his friend :

Here, Kit ; come on the other side of
the young lady, and we'll lift her along
between us'*

But when Keith eagerly advanced, the
girl repelled him with a look.

*' I do not choose to be 'lifted along"
she said haughtily.

Well, give her your stick, Moray. A
stick is a great support, you know."

Genevra mechanically took the offered
support, a good stout bamboo ; but, as she
was limping away, she suddenly halted.

Oh," she cried, "the bird ! It must be
put back, or it will die ! "

Harry looked puzzled ; but Keith, without
a word, strode back to the hazel-bush,
and presently picked up the wretched little
pigeon, apparently none the worse for its
tumble, although, unlike Jenny, slightly
less aggressive, as it only squeaked feebly.
Still silent, he held it forth to her.

Put it back ! " she said, authoritatively ;
and the young man availed himself of his
lofty stature to draw down the branch that
held the nest, and deposit the youngling
beside its brother, Jenny's eyes following
his every movement the while, with an
interest which she, at least, believed to be
solely in the safety of the bird.

Then the party moved on, Keith modestly
keeping a step or two behind, while Harry
confided to his companion all his impressions
of the exterior of Oakland Heights
which he had been unable to enter, the
caretaker being absent — and his motives for
visiting it, when suddenly the stick fell
from Jenny's hand. Keith stooped to pick
it up and restore it to her ; but, ere he did
so, unobserved by Harry on the other side,
he pressed it, warm as it was from her
band, to his lips, while his glance dwelt
appealingly on her face. Unhappy Keith,

doomed to misconstruction ! The boyish
gesture might have won a pitying smile
from an older woman ; but the wayward
girl perversely interpreted it as an insolent
allusion to his unforgiven and repented
sin, and, turning from him with a freezing
I do not require it again," she devoted her
whole attention to Harry's cheerful prattle,
wholly ignoring his occasional attempts to
include his friend in the conversation —
attempts which were not seconded by Keith
himself, who hung a step or two behind,
like a naughty little boy who has been put
in the corner. Indeed, notwithstanding the
pain of her ankle, and her astonishment at
finding herself in the companionship of the
pair she had last seen together on that
fateful morning on the railway platform,
Jenny could not but be interested in the
frank disclosures that Harry poured volubly
forth. That a tenant should at last present

himself, even in the dimmest possibility, for
the long-deserted Oaklandss — deserted almost
as honor as she could remember — and that
this possible tenant should be that man's
friend, — this was surprising, and not very
agreeable.

Does he live with you ? " she inquired,
indicating Keith by the slightest backward
gesture of her head. " Did he tell you
about Oaklandss ? " and then a sudden tide
of crimson rushed over her face at what she
felt to be a self-betrayal.

But happily, from their position, neither
Keith nor Harry could see that blush, and
she hoped that the former youth had not
overheard her question, to which Harry
replied carelessly —

Oh no, he does not live with me ; it's
quite the other way. / have lived mostly
with him while my stepfather and my

mother lived abroad. But now she is a
VOL. ir. 20

widow again, and I am on the look-out fora
country home for her and myself. He
didn't tell me about Oaklandss ; he knew
no more about it than I did. We looked it
out together on the house-agent's list ; and,
do you know, I think if it's all right inside,
the situation may suit us very well. The
Ketford agent — Eiley, I think his name was
said there was good hunting and shooting
about."

To Jenny's mind arose a vague recollection
of having, in her imprudent chatter in the
railway carriage, mentioned to Keith a good
many details respecting Oakland Heights
and its neighbourhood, and she darkly
doubted whether this visit was really so
impromptu as his friend evidently believed.
Surely it behoved her to be on her guard
against such a scheming hypocrite. That
man was capable of anything. But she
only said, as carelessly as Harry himself —

'^ I don't believe Oaklancls will suit you.
It is horribly dull, the Bedford people say."

Oh," answered Harry, carelessly, " but
my mother is not one of the Bedford people.
No place will be dull when she lives in it.
Why, she is beautiful enough to bring all
the county round her, and charming enough
to wile the birds off the trees ! "

At this unusual burst of filial admiration
Jenny glanced approvingly at the speaker,
while she could not help thinking that, whatever
the mother might do, the son must
trust to other means than personal fascination
to 'wile the birds off the trees."

But," she said, " you want hunting.
There is no good hunting round Wendholm.
There is the Dorsetshire pack of Foxhounds,
but it meets no nearer than Chudleigh, four
miles from Bedford, and Lord Markham's
Harriers, that are farther still. They very
seldom pass through Wendholm, and until

very lately these Oaklandss woods were
forbidden to Hunts. The foxes where safe
here."

■' Bad for the farmer's poultry," laughed
Hal. " But Bile told me the woods were
free to both Hunts now, and there's capital
shooting."

More's the pity," retorted Jenny, though
her ungracious speech was aimed obliquely
at the penitent who followed. " I hope you
won't take Oaklandss. I don't want all the
beautiful wild creatures killed."

Oh, but," pleaded Harry, coaxingly,
*' they kill each other, you know, if they
are left too much alone, and much more
cruelly than we kill them ; and, besides, if
wee come I will promise that none of your
pets shall be hurt. You shall show mo
where to find them."

And," added a grave voice behind her,
"you will promise, Hal, to engage amiable

keepers of Miss — of this young lady's
selection — keepers who will respect weasels
and jays ? "

Could that wretch be laughing at her ?
If Genevra had possessed an arsenal of
destructive weapons in the back of her head
it might have gone ill with Keith Moray.
Perhaps he was growing desperate, and
hoped by this insolent suggestion to win a
glance from her, even though in reproof?
But Jenny condescended not to the slightest
notice of him.

But," she said, addressing Harry, " how
can you take a house when you have not
seen it ? That horrid old Pocock ! I do
believe that he hides himself when any one
goes up to Oaklandss, lest the place should
be let, and he lose his office of caretaker."

We must go back to Ketford," answered
Harry, " and bring Mr. Riley with us tomorrow.
He will get us in somehow."

Genevra hesitated a moment. Ought she
to give any facilities to this youth to become
her near neighbour, and bring that odious
friend of his in his train ? On the other
hand, had she a riofht to lose Uncle Charley
a tenant, or to throw difficulties and inconveniences
in the way of a harmless young
fellow who was very good to her ?

I think," she said, " that Uncle Charley
has a key to the front door at Oaklandss,
and I believe it hangs up in his hall. If he
is at home (he is the Vicar, you know) he
will go with you, I know, and show you the
house — he is the owner of it ; and if not, I
dare say I can find the key. See, here weare
at the Vicarage, and there is Uncle
Charley in the garden."

CHAPTER III.

IN THE VICARAGE Garden.

Mr. Burnes was seated alone on a comfortable
garden lounge beneath a spreading
copper beech that shaded a pretty lawn,
and as Jenny and her escort appeared, he
rose and went to meet them.

*why, Jenny, you have never walked
all the way from the Grange ? How could
Mrs. Farquhar allow it ? And how lame
you are, and how tired you look ! Do
come into the house, and lie down on the
sofa at once. Your aunt has gone to Star-well,
but she will be back in an hour at
latest."

But during this address Charley still kept

one eye fixed inquisitively, like an old jackdaw's,
upon Genevra's companions.

She answered, " I would rather sit out
in the garden, Uncle Charley, until Mrs.
Burnes comes back. I only walked through
the wood. This gentleman " — indicating
Harry, but loftily ignoring Keith — " this
gentleman found me there, too lame to get
on alone, and he kindly assisted me, or I
must have stopped there until I was missed ;
and in return, uncle, will you take him upto
Oaklandss ? He has a card from Eiley to
see over it, but that old Pocock was not
there to let him in."

To this proposal the Vicar joyfully assented,
but paused as he was turning to the
gate. *' Take care of yourself, my pet, until
Chatty comes home. I have an appointment
with Marston at Lowlands, and
shall only have time to take Mr." — glancing
at the card which Harry had offered — " Mr.

Stanforth, and see that the house is open.
Stop ; I had better get the key."

But as he turned into the hall for the
key, he waved his hand towards the open
door of the drawing-room.

"Just fetch out a footstool for my niece,
will you ? You will find a cushion and a
shawl in there, if you will be so kind."

The next moment he had hurried Stan-forth
away, leaving Keith, as he supposed,
to follow. But just then nothing was further
from Mr. Moray's intention. At Mr. Burnes's
signal, he had darted into Chatty's orderly
drawing-room, with as little reverence or
interest as he would have entered a cabinetmaker's
shop. He caught up a footstool, a
sofa cushion, and a light shawl that lay on
a chair near the door, and darted out with
them again as hastily as if he had meant to
steal them.

Jenny had limped to the garden lounge,

and followed him with her eyes as he went
into the house, watching him through a
little chink in her lowered eyelids as he
came back to her ; but she was too tired
just then to make any hostile demonstration,
and she suffered him to place the footstool
under her feet, arrange the pillow behind
her head, and lay the shawl over her — he
dared not fold it round her with the tender
deftness that he had learnt by long attendance
on the beloved invalid at Hurstleigh —
and though she vouchsafed no syllable of
thanks, she still watched him through that
unsuspected chink, and said inwardly, *'He
makes believe to be so nice and kind ; and
how good-looking he is, and what a pity
he should be such a vile hypocrite ! Why
can't he say something? He has never
once opened his mouth to say a single
word!"

He did not speak; but he bent down,

and, taking the little hand that hung down
near him, he touched it lightly and reverently
with his lips. Thrice wretched Keith I
thrice stupid, too ! The hand was angrily
withdrawn, and, with a frigid displeasure
that made her look five years older, she
said —

My uncle and your friend are expecting
you at Oaklandss, I believe."

So curt a dismissal was not to be disregarded.
Keith hesitated, and looked
pleadingly at her, with all his contrite soul
in his eyes ; but Jenny looked as hard and
relentless as the iron seat she sat upon.
So he could but bow and retire without a
word. He might have been possessed by a
dumb devil, but, in truth, he did not know
in what words to express the one thought
which filled his mind — to ask forgiveness !
But he shrank from alluding to the nameless
insult for which he would have prayed

forgiveness. Is it so easy for a young man
to say to a girl, " Forgive me those kisses
I gave you three weeks ago " ? Certainly
he chose an odd way of conveying his
penitence for the offence by repeating it ;
but he was decidedly not a skilful lover, and
his silence provoked Jenny even more than
his outrageous insolence.

He walked off to rejoin Harry at Oak-lands,
but in his abstraction he missed the
path, and finding himself again on the road
to the station, betook himself there, and
waited for his friend, who was too eagerly
interested in Oaklandss and its game preserves
to trouble himself about Miss Farquhar,
or even to ask how long Keith had
stayed with her.

I am glad," he said, " that you were
with me when we looked over the gardens
and outbuildings. After all, the inside of
the house is a lady's affair. I am sure

mamma will like it, and you will see it
often enough by-and-by, my dear fellow,
I hopes

I hope so too' answered Keith, very
truthfully.

But when Mrs. Burnes returned to the
Vicarage with her sister, they found Genevra
in the drawing-room, quietly nursing the
cat, with nothing more remarkable to relate
than that two strangers had "picked her
up " — how literally she did not say — in the
wood, where she was too tired and lame to
get on ; and they had taken her to the
Vicarage, and gone with Mr. Burnes to see
Oaklandss.

Mr. Burnes, on his part, had plenty to
tell his wife of the shameful negligence of
old Pocock, who had gone off and locked
the house door against any proposing tenants.
iVfter climbing such a hill, too ! " But
he was not sanguine as to Stanforth's views,

for all he seemed to care aloout was the
game, and he only glanced over the house.
xVnd Oaklandss is too large for a shooting-box,
you know." As for the other fellow,
who had never addressed him, he had taken
no notice of him. Had Jenny *?

'' Not particularly. I did not hear him
speak either — that is, I did not hear him
say anything worth remembering," added
Jenny, a little confusedly.

Mrs. Burnes looked attentively at her, and
Jenny first blushed, and then turned pale.

"Why, Genevra," said Chatty, "you
look quite feverish ; I am afraid you are
in great pain. You have sadly overtired
yourself. You ought not to have attempted
walking yet. Lie down on the sofa, and
rest a little. Juliet, pour out the tea at
once, and push that table to the sofa. You
shall go home directly you have had your
tea ; and, Juliet, if you will take my advice,

you will put her to bed, and send to Dr.
Stewart to call in the morning. She must
be very unwell indeed to change colour so."
"What, are you going to turn alarmist,
my Eosebud ? " said the Vicar. '' Jenny was
bright enough when those young fellows
brought her here, [only rather tired, and
she has waited too long for her tea. You
and Juliet were late in coming in."

"Do you feel exhausted, my poor darling?"
inquired the anxious mother. " It is all
that horrible railway journey. I shall never
forgive Lady Carruthers for allowing you
to take it alone."

Genevra felt almost guilty for her reserve,
when she saw herself the object of such
tender solicitude. She had fully purposed
relating the whole story of that disastrous
journey to her mother, when she could do
so without emotion or excitement — when
she should be stronger, in fact. But how

could she speak of it now — now that she
had met the criminal hero of the story
again, when it was even possible that he
might reappear among them ? The odious
incident would assume much greater proportions
henceforth. No ; she could never
bring herself to point to a man with whom
her friends' friends might be in frequent
association, and say, "It was he who insulted
your daughter." But if this Mrs. Stanforth,
or whatever her name was, did not take
Oaklandss, then, as she and Keith would
never meet again, she would tell her mother
all. Poor, darling, innocent mother ! for the
first time in her life she had practised
concealment towards her — quite a web of
concealment ; from the day that she had
allowed Sir Brian to tell her what she
should first have heard from her daughter's
lips till now, when she was hiding from her
the fact that neither of the young men she

had met in the wood were wholly strangers
to her. And somehow the facts as regarded
both Sir Brian and her fellow-traveller
seemed to be inextricably involved in one
another, though why or how she could not
quite explain to herself. When she parted
from her elderly lover in Stratford Place,
she had been conscious of no feeling but one
of kindly, even affectionate, regard for the
man who had honoured her with the offer
of his hand ; but ever since then she had
felt more and more surprised and angry at
herself for having, even for an hour, entertained
such a proposal, and almost resentful
of his having made it. Why? She did
not ask herself why. If any one else had
asked her, she would probably have answered
that it deepened the humiliation
Keith had subjected her to, to be forced to
confess it to her lover. The girl's pride and
self-respect had been deeply wounded by

VOL. II. 21

the feeling that she had brought the affront
upon herself by her disregard of conventional
propriety, against which her relatives
in town had warned her. She had obeyed
the dictates of what she believed to be her
duty in releasing Sir Brian and herself
from their brief bond. That was not painful.
It would have been far more painful
it would have been quite intolerable — to
have confessed all the sudden intimacy, the
unguarded familiarity, which had doubtless
encouraged her companion of a few hours
to that final atrocity. Of course, it would
be her duty to be quite unreserved to her
accepted lover ; but she had dismissed him,
and the rest of that wretched secret was her
own, and some time or other she would
share it with her dear mother, but not quite
yet. Genevra's nature was honest as the
day, but, whether from education or inherited
instinct of sex, women, when at

their frankest, are never so impatient of
concealment as honourable men are. There
is always a secretive corner in the feminine
brain, and to this corner Jenny relegated
the story of her previous acquaintance witJi
Keith Moray.

CHAPTER IV.

WENDHOLM WAKES UP.

Oakland Heights was let ! The news
awoke quite a buzz of pleasurable interest
and excitement in every homestead and
village for miles round. In a circle withdrawn
from active social interests, within a
distance of sixteen miles from a main railway
line, it is an event of real importance
that one of the principal houses in the
neighbourhood, after eighteen years of almost
conventual seclusion and isolation, should
be brought within the possibilities of animated
enjoyment and mutual hospitality.

Even Mrs. Burnes showed a faint interest,
and unbent to listen to — though she would

not retail — such scanty items of authentic
information as could be gathered here and
there. But they did not amount to much.
Charley chose to be very reticent on the
subject, even to the wife of his bosom, for
no reason at all but that he was amused at
the general curiosity, and liked to play with
it. Besides, the house having been let
through the agent in town, he really knew
nothing of his future tenant, except that she
was a wealthy widow (with perfectly satisfactory
references to her bankers), the widow
of an admiral, K.C.B., and knight; that
she had lived abroad (he was very much
abroad as to the precise locality — India, or
Russia, or Jersey, or some such place) ; and
that she wished to settle for a time in
Dorsetshire because — well, he supposed because
she thought she should like it. lie
really had not asked why she wished to
come ; he was quite content that she should

have taken the whim, which secured him a
promising tenant for three years. He had
an idea that it was her son who fancied the
]space. Here Genevra started a little and
(banged colour, and Aunt Chatty's cold
eyes were upon her in a moment.

What is the matter, Genevra ? A
wasp ? You are beginning to develop nerves,
am afraid ; " and as Genevra turned to
the window, murmuring something about
*' putting it out" — "but it is not a wrap,
only a bluebottle, and it has been in the
window ever since you came into the room.
Well, Charley : the son ? "

Fancied the shooting, I suppose. I
always told you. Chatty, that when that
ridiculous prohibition should be removed,
the place would let fast enough. Well,
Wendholm will wake up now."

And so Wendholm certainly did. The
house, having been so recently repaired,

was quite in habitable order. A liberal start
of gardeners and workmen was engaged for
the drives, the lawn, and gardens, to set all
in good trim for the immediate arrival of
the family, and Wendholm looked on in
delighted expectation as long trains of
furniture vans, superintended by London
decorators " and upholsterers, and received
by the '' superior " band of servants who
had preceded them, began to wind painfully
up the steep roadway to Oaklandss, and
disappear within the lodge gates, closely
guarded from unauthorized intrusion.

Genevra alone took no share in the
animated gossip around her. Why ? She
had her own private and closer subject
of interest. Mrs. Farquhar had at last
received a second letter from Sir Brian
Carruthers, announcing his intention to visit
Wendholm the following week, and requesting
permission to call on her at the

Grange, excusing his long delay on the plea
of pressing business engagements connected
with his recent succession, and enclosing a
note to Genevra — a brief note, rather kind
than affectionate, in which he assured her
that he had only been detained from her so
long by the desire to be free from all " tiresome
worry " that could interfere with the
happiness to which he looked forward, of
uninterrupted and unreserved communion
with her in whose hands he had placed all
his future.

Genevra brooded over this note, but she
did not show it to her mother. Mrs. Burnes
took no notice, not having yet forgiven
Miss Farquhar her former reserve. She
pretended to be wholly engrossed in discussing
with Charley the prospect of having
in his new tenant and parishioner a liberal
subscriber to schools, clothing club, and
church needs generally, a coadjutor in visiting

the poor, the workhouse, etc. ; though
she did not care much for that, having
an intuitive suspicion that her relations
with a grand lady, who might like to have
her own way, might not always prove harmonious.


Mrs. Farquhar had very different dreams.
Since the Carruthers episode she had regarded
her young daughter with a kind of
fond respect, as no longer a child, but a
woman, with attractiveness which had
already gained her one suitor, doubtless
the precursor of a whole troop of admirers.
She had pity for Sir Brian — pity, and what
consolation might be in her power to offer
him for the renewed repulse he was so
unwisely courting ; while she dreamed for
her darling some happy love-dream, such asher
own girlhood had never known, of
which the hero should be young and charming
— fit mate for such a maid — well-born.

well-bred, well-looking, the flower of the
youths who would assuredly flock to Oakland
Heights, possibly for garden-parties,
picnics, concerts, but certainly in the hunting
and shooting season. She felt no

CD O

perplexity as to whence this swarm of
'eligible" was to come to a remote, rail-abandoned
spot like Oaklandss. Had not
two young men already visited it ? Two
swallows might herald a summer, if one
could not. But she kept these anticipations
to herself, and had not the faintest suspicion
that one at least of the strangers belonged
to the advanced guard of the expected army
of admirers.

But as the day drew near which Sir
Brian had fixed for his arrival, all other
subjects of interest were merged in a general
flutter of expectant curiosity. Jenny
wrapped herself up in impenetrable maiden
reserve, and withdrew from observation into

her arbour and fernery, while the elders
took counsel how to receive the stranger.
Charley, with his "Bradshaw" in hand,
appealed to Mrs. Farquhar.

"Train comes in 3.20: will you send
the brougham to meet him, Juliet ? "

My dear Charley ! " — from his wife.
A brougham in June to meet a gentleman !
As if he were a doctor coming on consultation
! "

"So he is coming for consultation,"
laughed Mr. Burnes. " I thought that,
being old "

Not so old as that," said Mrs. Farquhar,
resenting any disparagement of Jenny's
lover. " I will send the pony carriage."

"And Jenny can drive it ? "

My dear Charles ! "

Well, why not ? She is the only one
who knows him, and his visit is principally
for her."

If she means still to refuse him," said
sister Chatty, " she cannot well put herself
forward in that way."

'tiff repeated Charley, incredulously.
'* Still somebody ought to meet him. Will
you, Juliet ? "

But Juliet declined this most unpalatable
proposal.

Go yourself, Charley," said Mrs. Burnes.
Take your dog-cart. You will be at the
station and back in much less time than
Juliet's fat pony can go in. You are the
male representative of the family, and the
parish clergyman, too."

"What has that to do with it?" asked
Charley. " He won't want to be married
out of hand, will he ? He must bring a
special licence in his pocket if he does."

Don't you think," said Mrs. Farquhar,
timidly, " that the question of marriage had
better be left out of sight for the present ;

at least, until Sir Brian and Jenny have
come to some understanding ? "

And that may take a long time,"
observed her sister, drily. ** Genevra wishes
it to be understood that she has rejected
this gentleman's proposals, but he evidently
understands nothing of the kind."

Sir Brian," resumed Mrs. Farquhar,
says nothing in his letter to me of any
particular motive in the visit he offers. I
should wish to welcome him merely as a
connection of my sister-in-law's, and a near
relative of my husband's nieces."

All right," said the Vicar. " Then I am
to present myself to the honourable baronet
as — what is it ? — the male representative of

his uncle's widow's sister-in-law, and

Oh, bother ! the family archives are too
complicated for me ! But you have nothing
to do with them. Chatty, my rosebud, and
I am nobody's representative but yours. I

will fetch him, since you wish it, and take
him away again, if Gen wishes it. Fancy
little Gen having the chance of becoming
my lady ' ! History repeats itself. The
Dowager Lady Carruthers married an old
gentleman for the title "

And much good she got by it," observed
Mrs. Burnes, severely. " It ought to be a
warning."

Which Genevra does not need," said the
gentle mother ; and Charley walked off,
laughing at them both.

But Mrs. Burnes did not laugh. On this
subject, as on most subjects that concerned
Genevra, she was not in sympathy with
either her husband or her sister. She
would have made short work of Jenny's
first love affair, if she had been entrusted
with the arrangement of it. She would
either have summarily rejected the elderly
suitor's advances, or postponed the consideration

of them to some ten years later, which
even Sir Brian, leisurely as he was in all his
projected movements, would probably have
declined to admit were within the reasonable
limits of his matrimonial horizon. But as
Dr. Farquhar had insisted that his daughter's
will should never be thwarted, imposing
only the condition that she should not be
allowed to marry until her eighteenth year,
Charlotte knew that it would be useless to
protest, and she never attempted protestation
where she knew it would be disregarded.
It was one main secret, possibly, of her
influence over her little circle that she was
well aware of the extent of its range, and
never, by word or look, tried to overstep its
boundary. So she calmly waited, and
looked on, not perhaps altogether insensible
to the feeling of curiosity which Mr. Burnes
so frankly confessed, to see what the wooer
of two generations might be like, and

thence, it might be, to gain some explanation
of Jenny's unaccountable proceeding in
accepting him one day and rejecting him a
week later — a proceeding, however, which
she, in common with Charley and Juliet,
was inclined to attribute to a mere childish
caprice.

It never entered into the heads of anyone
of the three to attach the slightest
importance to so very natural an incident
as that Genevra should have met the two
young men on their way from Oakland
Heights, when she was too tired and too
lame to reach the Vicarage without their
assistance. Charley had scarcely noticed
Keith at all, and, having been obliged to
leave Harry Stanforth in the house when he
had unlocked the doors for him, he had not
known his decision about the tenancy of it,
until he had learnt it of the Loudon house-agent
on Harry's return to town to receive

his mother's approval and confirmation.
Jenny's secret was safe enough for the
present, and she might have entered into
the subject of the Oaklandss tenants with
something: of the eagerness of their landlord,
who was full of all the new plans suggested
to him by their agent, chiefly concerning
alterations in the stables and the erection
of a splendid conservatory leading out of
the drawing-room ; all of which Mr. Stan-forth
had agreed should be made at his own
expense, though, as Mrs. Burnes remarked,
why any one should expend so much
money on a place they had only taken for
three years, it was hard to understand."
So that even the fresh excitement of Sir
Brian Carruthers' offered visit was comparatively
unfelt.

But Jenny alone remained unmoved in
the universal stir of joyous speculation, and
her friends naturally attributed her un-vol.

II. 22

wonted mood of abstracted reverie to the
coming meeting and explanation (whatever
that might be) with her suitor. But,
although she certainly did feel a slight
flutter of emotion and embarrassment when
she thought of what she might have to avow
to Sir Brian, if he insisted upon demanding
a clear explanation of her note to him, her
thoughts dwelt a great deal more upon the
certainty of young Stanforth taking up his
residence at Oaklandss, and the possibility of
his friend's visiting him there.

Very well. She was older and wiser now
(some three or four weeks older, and wiser
by experience, which does not date by time),
and she would know how to vindicate her
outraged dignity by taking vengeance on
the offender when occasion offered. What
occasion, or when, she left "in the vague."

Wendholm itself, in the sudden banquet
of gossip provided for it, might have suffered

from clamorous indigestion, but that the
feast proved less bounteous than was at
first supposed. The army of upholsterers
and decorators had been sent down by one
of the great furnishing houses, and knew
nothing whatever of their customers, except
that they had hired for three years, and
not purchased, the furniture and costly gewgaws
which were about to fill the large,
rambling rooms — an arrangement so utterly
unheard of at Wendholm, that the nutriment
it provided in the way of discussion
a little consoled them for the discovery that
the band of superior servants " consisted
only so far in two female servants and a
man, who were to take care of the house
and wait on young Stanforth (who was
expected down shortly), until the rest of the
establishment should follow, with the lady
of the house herself. These servants had
been engaged in town, and were entire

strangers to the family, so they could not
gratify Wendholm curiosity in any way.
Clearly the village would have to wait, at
least until the expected vanguard arrived
in the form of the *' young heir," as they
shortly called him — the heir to what being
unspecified — with his grooms and horses.

CHAPTER V.

SIR BRIAN AT LAST.

Genevra had not vouchsafed to her friends
any description of her elderly lover's personal
appearance. If she had, would it
have been more useful for any purpose of
identification than such particulars usually
are ? Mr. Burnes only knew that Sir Brian
had been, in past generations, the unsuccessful
rival of the last baronet, who had died
in old age, and had left daughters by the
disputed fair one much older than Miss
Farquhar. He expected, therefore, to see
a white-haired and silver-bearded septuagenarian
— feeble certainly, perhaps gouty
and infirm ; and was not a little surprised

when, in reply to the station-master's
summons, " Sir Brian Carruthers ? Cart
waits for Sir Brian Carruthers," the only
first-class passenger for Wendholm stepped
forward, a little languidly, perhaps — Sir
Brian never went in for activity — but with
as little of infirmity in his gait as there was
in Charley's own — well, say five or ten
years ago, before he had grown so stout.
Indeed, of the two men, between whose
respective ages stretched the period of ten
years, the baronet, with his slight figure,
his faultless attire, and well-kept moustache
lightly sprinkled with grey, would, to a
casual observer, have seemed younger and,
to almost any observer, more personally
attractive than Charley, with his rather
coarsely moulded shape, fast becoming unwieldy
; his clothes made by the village
tailor, and worn with as little distinction as
they were fashioned ; and his hair and

beard, which Mrs. Burnes always insisted
on trimming with her own hands at
irregular intervals, and with very irregular
results. But of the Vicar's exterior Sir Brian
took no heed ; he had too recently returned
from his outre-mer banishment to have
relapsed into the fashionable conventionality
of his youth, and the frank geniality of
the worthy parson delighted him the more
that he had secretly expected some formality
in his reception from Genevra's rustic kinsfolk.


Mr. Burnes obeyed his wife's direction
to assume that the visitor had come only to
claim the acquaintance of his family connections
on his return to England. Scarcely
more than connections by courtesy ; burthens
Dr. Farquhar and he had been friends
in youth ; and Charley checked himself
rather awkwardly, as if he had been guilty
of a solecism in reminding his companion

of a circumstance that so decidedly stamped
him as belonging to a past, or at least
passing, generation.

But Sir Brian's " withers were wrung."
"Ah yes," he answered lightly; "poor
Farquhar and I where close friends, before T
went abroad, but I heard little of him afterwards.
Although he was so much a greater
wanderer than I, yet he ' gave hostages to
fortune ' by his two marriages, which keeps
his memory greener in his native country
than mine is, although / have come back,
for I have found few to welcome me."

^' I dare say a great many will turn up
by-and-by," observed Charley, consolingly.

Of course they will," replied Sir Brian,

quietly ; " but, meantime Ah, that is

a fine place, up there among the trees. Is
that the Grange ? "

For they had come to a turn in the road
from which Oakland Heights was visible

through a clearance that had been recently
made in the woods around it.

'that is Oakland Heights," answered the
Vicar ; " it belongs to me, and a horrid
bother it has been to me these years. But I
am all right now; I have got a tenant for it
at last. By the way " (as a bright inspiration
flashed upon him), " perhaps you may
know her — Lady Dalton, the widow of Sir
Peregrine Dalton ? "

By Jove ! " cried Sir Brian, with an
animation of which, a moment before,
Charley had thought him incapable, " and
I have only just been saying that I was
such a stranger in my own country ! Yes,
I knew Sir Peregrine and Lady Dalton very
well. How long has she been a widow ? '*

Can't say, I'm sure. I know nothing
about her, except that she has taken my
house through the agent in town. If you
can tell us anything about her it will be a

charity to all our women-folk, who are
dying of curiosity."

But Sir Brian had become suddenly
pensive, and made no reply, till Charley
grew alarmed.

Is there anything wrong about her ? "
he asked anxiously ; and his companion
aroused himself from his momentary abstraction
to say —

*' Oh no ; far from that. I knew Sir
Peregrine and Lady Dal ton five or six years
ago. they were on a yachting cruise, and
had come to grief in a storm. The yacht
put into harbour for repairs, and they were
detained some weeks ; I saw a great deal
of them."

A long distance to go on a yachting
cruise, was it not ? "

*' Oh, Sir Peregrine would have sroue all
round the world. He was never happy
except when at sea. Indeed, the doctor, I

believe, ordered him to be constantly on the
water."

'' And did she like that kind of thing ? "

Well, I can't say. She seemed happy
enough. And then the yacht was always
for some time in harbour at all the pleasant
places they passed, and she (the lady, I
mean) was always admired and feted where -
ever she went "

Admired, was she ? " said Charley,
pricking up his ears with a sudden vivacity
which his Rosebud might not have altogether
approved. " Then she is handsome,
this widow of ours ? "

Again Sir Brian paused ; then — '' She was
handsome ; but that is five years ago. She
was not then in her first youth."

Oh, of course not. Why, she has got a
grown-up son."

It was now Sir Brian's turn to express a
vivacious curiosity. *' A son '? By Jove !

I never heard that. A son of Sir peregrine

?

Hardly. His name is — well, I forget the
name, but it was not Dal ton."

The silly artifices of women ! " cried Sir
Brian, with an impatience which seemed a
little uncalled for. " I never even knew
that she had been twice married. How old
is this son ? "

A mere lad, scarcely more than twenty.
But, Sir Brian, there was no mystery, I
hope ? She — she's all right, isn't she ? "

I never heard a word against her,"
answered his companion. " She was as
fond of admiration as all pretty women are ;
perhaps she showed it too clearly ; but I
believe — I may almost say I know — that
she was a true wife. I can't say there was
mystery either ; there were so few English
at Kio, and all strangers to her. Perhaps
Sir Peregrine did not care that she should

prattle much of her first marriage ; and,
besides Ah ! is this the Grange ? "

Yes," said Charley, a little maliciously,
here you are, at the Grange at last."

But although the baronet's eyes wandered
over the windows of the house, as if
in eager search of the maiden whom he had
come to woo, there was hardly the expected
interest in the words he murmured as the
Vicar drew up at the gate.

So she was married twice, and I never
knew it ! " said he.

CHAPTER VI.

AN AWKWARD CONFIDENCE.

Charley duly presented Sir Brian to Mrs.
Farquhar, and left him with her while he
departed to bring back his wife, it having
been arranged between them that the presence
of Mrs. Burnes was indispensable to
"support" her sister and Jenny in an
interview of such importance with a stranger.
Dinner had been ordered early, at Chatty's
suggestion, partly to set Mr. Burnes at
liberty to keep an engagement he had m
the village, but more, as she said, " to give
lime to the young people" to settle their
difference, whatever it was, during a walk
round the garden before dusk.

Poor shy Mrs. Farquhar was dreadfully
nervous when Sir Brian was left alone with
her and Genera, before the girl went
upstairs to dress, which she did much sooner
than was necessary ; but, at first. Sir Brian's
habit of looking fixedly at her while he
stroked his moustache (he always stroked
it when he was contented, and pulled it
when he was angry ; but Mrs. Farquhar did
not know this, any more than she knew
that when his large blue eyes were riveted
on those of his interlocutor, he, in reality,
saw nothing but the secret working of his
own brain) — his fixed gaze added so much
to her embarrassment, that a casual observer
would have supposed that the baronet had
come a-wooinor to her instead of to her
daughter. But, as '' everything comes to
those who know how to wait," so, after a few
moments, came to Carruthers the perception
of his hostess's timidity, and he forthwith

emerged from his reverie and applied himself
to the duty of reassuring her. He was nota
brilliant conversationalist, but he had tact
enough to choose subjects of interest for
those whom he desired to amuse ; and,
having once launched them on one of these,,
he would gradually withdraw from an active
part in the conversation, and take that of
a profoundly interested listener — a tactic
which rarely failed of success. He had to
make two or three false starts before he
could overcome Mrs. Farquhar's reserve, but
it broke down at last, under some allusion
to the far-off days when he had known
Dr. Farquhar, and to the enthusiasm that
had been afterwards aroused by that distinguished
traveller in the scientific world.
The flattery (for it was little more) of her
husband brought animation to the widow's
languid eyes, and, seconded by Genevra, to
whom praise of her lost father was always

a stimulus, the stranger rapidly appeared in
the light of a family friend — " as if," Mrs.
Farquhar afterwards said, " she had known
him all her life."

It had seemed a trying ordeal for Jenny
to meet her lover under the eyes of watchfully
observant relatives, to whom he was
an almost entire stranger ; but bashfulness
was, at least, not one of her infirmities, and
there was nothing in her visitor's manner to
call it forth. He directed his whole attention
to the lady of the house, neither byword
nor glance reminding the daughter
that his visit had any special reference to
her ; so that when the dinner hour had
arrived, and the Vicar and his wife appeared
to " support " her, she did not seem at all
in need of such sustainment.

Sir Brian appeared to be extremely interested
in the society, etc., of the neighbourhood,
and especially in Oakland Heights,

VOL. II. 23

though he skilfully evaded the anxious
inquiries of Mrs. Burnes about the coming
tenant, replying that he had not known her
since her husband's death, and really could
say very little about her, except that she
was a charming woman and a general
favourite. When the ladies left the diningroom,
he opened the door for them, and
following them into the hall, he took down
Jenny's hat from the stand, and, offering it
to her with a smile, said —

You will come and show me your
fernery, will you not ? "

Jenny took the hat without reply. Mrs.
Farquhar passed on to the drawing-room
without turning her head ; but Chatty
paused, when Charley, who was behind
her, with his usual disregard of conventional
proprieties, gave her a push which greatly
accelerated her movements, and when she
turned on him to remonstrate, the audacious
couple had disappeared.

For a while there was silence among the
forsaken group in the drawing-room, a
silence which was broken by the Vicar's
abrupt inquiry —

*' Now, Chatty, what do you think of
this sweetheart of Gen's ? "

You should ask that of Juliet, my dear,"
returned his wife, loftily. " My opinion is
of no weight whatever."

"It is a question of taste, not of opinion,"
said Charley, " and most people would defer
to your taste. Chatty, especially " — with a
laugh — '' if they had the advantage of
knowing me."

Such ill-timed levity from any one but
the Vicar would have called forth a severe
reproof from his lady, but she passed it by
with an indulgent smile, and, turning to her
sister, asked —

What do you think of Sir Brian Carruthers,
Juliet ? "

I think," hesitated Mrs. Farquhar, " that
he is very nice, very gentlemanly "

That is what a maid-servant might
say."

*' Very well-bred, then," corrected Juliet,
and very young looking for his age."

I do not care to hear what you think
of his appearance — we can all judge for
ourselves on that point; but what do you
think of him? Has he explained himself
entirely to your satisfaction? Is everything
settled, anyhow ? "

He was very nice," repeated Mrs. Farquhar,
'' but as for settling anything, how
could I do that ? That is for him to
manage with Genevra."

*' Well, tell us what has passed between
you, Ju, if you don't mind," interposed
Charley; 'put us au courant of the
situation, as we French scholars say."

"We had a little conversation," admitted

Mrs. Farquhar. " Jenny was in her
own room, and he did not ask for her. He
thanked me for allowing his visit, and said
that my daughter had sanctioned it when
they parted, but that there had since
been some slight misunderstanding, which
he was sure could be cleared up presently,
if he might be permitted to see
Genevra alone for a few minutes in the
course of the evening, and — and that was
all."

"All?" said Mrs. Burnes. 'well, it
was not much. Did he not say why he
had been so long in attempting to clear up
this slight misunderstanding ? "

** He said no more ; he took a long time
to say that. Then we talked about things
in general until the dressing-bell rang, and
Jenny had not been down five minutes
when you and Charley arrived. But it
will be all right by-and-by 1 "

What do you mean by all right ? That
Jenny and he will harmonize f Would you
like him for a son-in-law, Juliet ? "

Mrs. Farquhar shook her head. '^ Genevra
is far too young for him," she answered.

You mean," observed Chatty, " that he
is too old for her ? "

Where is the difference ? " inquired
Charley.

There is this difference, Charles : if she
is too young for him, he has only to wait —
she will grow old enough ; if /le is too old
for Ifier^ waiting will not make him younger.
I doubt if he is too old for her. She needs
guidance, authority, which she would not
find in a boy-husband. I am no advocate
for marriage in early youth, but if such a
girl does marry, it should be a man much
older than herself"

"My love," said Charley, with a sly
glance at his sister-in-law, "how well it is

for me that your practice did not accord
with your principle 1 "

'sit accorded perfectly, Charles. What I
said applies equally well to a young man
who marries a woman who has the advantage
of him in years. He gains steadiness,

judgment, balance "

He may gain balance," interrupted the
irrepressible Charley, " if she happens to
have one at her bankers ; but as for the

other gains However, your theory has

worked too well in our case, my Eosebud,
for me to dispute it. May I ring for coffee,
Juliet ? "

Mrs. Farquhar started from a reverie
into which she had fallen.

*' Oh, I beg your pardon, I forgot to
order it. Ring at once, please."

For her thoughts had strayed away. She
was wondering if her bright, wilful girl
would mistake this pale moonlight happiness,

this wintry gleam of Northern
Lights, for the dawn of a summer day ?
For Mrs. Farquhar, like a true mother,
looked forward to the full fruition of her
child's young life to repay her for all she
had foregone in her own.

Almost unconsciously, Genevra led the
way along the wide awarded walk that,
bordered with rare converse, terminated ina
secluded nook ornamented with rock-work
and ferns, and Sir Brian followed, to
*' have it out " with her beyond the ken of
the family party in the drawing-room. But
deep down in Jenny's heart there was disquiet,
which all her resolution could conceal
but could not suppress, and her forced composure
gave way when, arriving at the
fernery and pausing there. Sir Brian took
a step in advance, then suddenly faced
round upon her, and, taking both her hands
in his, exclaimed —

'^ Now, Jenny, tell me all about it ! "
The effect of this bold strategy was as
great (possibly even greater) as the speaker
could desire. The girl stood like a statue,
and her colour changed from deepest crimson
to palest white, while her eyes did not
droop — that would have been a better sign
but looked away from the speaker, almost
as if they appealed for help ; but she remained
perfectly mute. Her lover drew
her to a garden seat close by (first glancing
apprehensively at it lest it should be damp)
and placed her upon it, standing before her.
(He had meant to seat himself beside her,
but it did look rather shiny.)

People's fugitive thoughts have often
much irrelevancy. Genevra s were that the
garden chair was the fellow to the one at the
Vicarage. When last she sat there, somebody,
not Sir Brian, had stood before her.
An involuntary, a quite inconsequent

memory, yet, perhaps, if the baronet could
have read it, it might have damped him
even as he stood. He waited a moment
or two, until Jenny's confusion had subsided,
and then resumed.

Tell me, Genevra, what could have
happened since we parted to suggest such
an absurd notion as that you were ' not
worthy ' to be my wife ? It is horrible to me
to be forced to repeat such words, even while
I know that I shall smile at your explanation
of them."

There was something in Sir Brian's
manner as he said this, of which he was
himself quite unconscious — something more
paternal than lover-like, and quite different
from his manner in London. Jenny's
womanly instinct, growing rapidly keener
of late, at once made her sensible of the
slight alteration, and she regained her
courage.

It was a silly note I sent you," she said.
I was weak and ill at the time, and wrote
hastily, without reflection. Will you forget
it?"

Certainly, my dear, when you have
explained it ; but there must be no reserve
on such a subject between a gentleman and
the lady who had promised "

But did I promise. Sir Brian ? "

The baronet's brow clouded slightly.

We will call it hope, rather than promise,
if you prefer it, Genevra. Still, if you would
withdraw that hope, you must assign a
better reason than your ' un worthiness.'
Come, what is this mysterious crime you
accuse yourself of ? I will absolve you
before confession, and seal the absolution
with a first kiss ; " and he bent down to
her, intending to suit the action to the
word.

But once more the (ml recoiled from him,

and this time with a gesture that expressed
almost horror. A vague dissatisfaction took
the place of careless indulgence of a childish
caprice in Sir Brian's mind, and his tone
was a little severe as he asked —

What does all this mean, Genevra ? "

You said," she faltered, " that you
would expect to find the lifts of your
plighted wife jure from any but a mother's
touch."

*ras yours are," assented Carruthers.

Ah," murmured Genevra, " they are no
longer pure ! "

'* Good God ! " exclaimed her lover ; and
he drew back unfeignedly shocked, and not
knowing what to think.

A silence ; then Jenny looked up wistfully,
deprecatingly, into her companion's face, and
in her limpid blue eyes there was a depth
of simplicity and innocent purity that made
him blush for his momentary misgiving ;

and, seating himself beside her, forgetting
the damp, he took her hand.

You are blaming yourself for some indiscretion
which a ' fast ' girl would only

laugh at — a kiss snatched " But here

he stopped short, resuming, after a moment's
consideration, '* But from the day we parted
to the day you wrote there could have been
no opportunity for such an imprudence.
You were confined to your room from the
effects of your railway accident ? "

'' It was " (she had very nearly said " a
railway accident ") — " it was not an imprudence
; it was an insult."

Who was the offender ? "

"A — a man who travelled with me in
the railway carriage ; " and she stopped,
blushing furiously, but less at the confessed
insult than at her unconfessed reception of it.

Sir Brian remained silent, thoughtfully
stroking his long moustache as he looked at

her. It is not pleasant for any man to
think of his intended bride having been
annoyed in a railway carriage by some cad
of a bateman or horse-dealer, who travel
in first-class carriages because they fancy
they will be taken for gentlemen there — that
such a one should have brushed the dew
from his lily-bud ! Presently he asked,
with a very cold politeness, " Would you
mind telling me the full extent of this
insult ? "

*' The extent ? I have told you the extent.
What more would you have ? "

No more, nor so much," replied Sir
Brian, smiling in spite of himself at the
childish naivete of the question. " But who
was the fellow, Genevra ? Did you know
him by name even ? What was he like ? "

If you knew him," said Jenny in an
awe-struck tone, '* would you fight a duel
with him *? "

Certainly not ; duels are not fought
nowadays. I would thrash him within an
inch of his life."

Jenny glanced at the slight form of the
speaker, with its somewhat languid grace,
and contrasted it mentally with the lofty
stature and stalwart figure of the youthful
undergraduate.

Thrash him ? " she repeated. " But if
you couldn't ? "

Decidedly Miss Farquhar had need of
tact if she was to retain her admirers. To
tell one Englishman that he did not know
how to drive, and another, that he could
not thrash an enemy 1

But Sir Brian only answered quietly, " I
would try. But did the fellow tell you his
name, Jenny ? Would you know him again
if you met him ? "

*' I never saw him before in my life," was
Jenny's evasive reply ; and she added petulantly,

" I will not say another syllable on
the subject ; I never wish to hear it named
again. Cannot you understand that it is
odious and horrible to me, and that I have
only told you because I thought it would
be dishonourable to hide it from you ? "

Sir Brian gazed reflectively at her.

** I can understand that perfectly," he
said. " What I do not understand is, why
Mrs. Farquhar has left it to you to tell me of
it. It was from your mother that I should
have received this confidence, Genevra."

My mother ? " repeated Jenny in accents
of lively alarm. "She does not know a
syllable about it ! If you abuse my confidence,
Sir Brian, I shall never respect you
more ! "

After this outburst the baronet remained
silent so long that Miss Farquhar became
impatient, when he suddenly turned to her
with his pleasant smile.

"And I am not to take you to see the
humming-birds, Jenny ? And what am I
to say to Mrs. Farquhar ? "

Genevra was touched by the unexpected
gentleness of her wronged lover, and she
answered impulsively, " Dear Sir Brian, how
good you are ! — but, indeed, I am too
young, too inexperienced to think of
marriage. I was taken by surprise when
you spoke to me in town ; I was hardly
aware to what my answer pledged me.
I have reflected since, and I feel that I
cannot confirm it now."

But, Genevra," rejoined Sir Brian,
gravely, " you said nothing of all this in
your note to me ; you merely said (forgive
me for repeating your words) that you were
not worthy. Allow me to hold you to that
plea, and insist on a fuller confidence. You
never met this fellow before in your life, you
say?"

VOL. II. 24

'' No, never," replied Jenny, trembling
lest the next question might be, " Have you
ever met him since ? "

Where did he join the train ? Where
was he going to ? "

He was going to the Stretford Eaccs,"
answered Jenny, confusedly. She was not
conscious of wilful equivocation, but she
vaguely remembered there was a great crowd,
bound for the Races, at the Stretford Station,
and hoped, as it were, to lose Keith in it,
and throw Sir Brian off his subsequent track.
And the ruse succeeded.

Oh, I see ! " he said, rather relieved ; '' it
was some half-drunken ruffian, hanger-on,
or betting man of the turf, I suppose, who
mistook you for a lady's-maid. No lady
ought to travel alone. Why did not Lady
Carruthers see you into the women's carriage
\

So she did," confessed Jenny ; *' but

there was such a dreadful old lady in it
that I made the guard let me out."

And this scoundrel was your fellow-traveller
to Stretford only ? "

I got out at Stretford."

And where did you hurt your foot ? "

I will not answer any more questions,
Sir Brian. It is unkind, ungenerous of you,
to press me on such a subject. I have told
you what I thought you had a right to
know. You have no further right to question
me. A girl who is too foolish and
ignorant to be able to protect herself against
insult is not fit to be a wife, and / dont
mean to be one."

To this fresh outburst Sir Brian made no
reply. He quite realized that, charming as
girlish innocence may be, it might be sometimes
inconvenient when it prevented a
young lady from taking care of herself in a
railway carriage. He looked thoughtfully

at Genevra, and pulled his moustache with
his habitual gesture when perplexed, and
then murmured, " They will say she jilted
me." He was a little vexed when Jenny
replied to his monologue, as he had supposed
it to be —

No one should say so, Sir Brian. You
have given me up, that is all."

*' And that," he said, " for the reason
you give, would be to cast a far more grave
reproach on you, my poor child. No, Jenny,
I will not give you up. You have been ill ;
your nerves have been shaken by that
scoundrel's insolence. You will be more
yourself by-and-by. We will refer the
subject to your mother. You have done
very wrong to conceal it from her. You
must give her your entire confidence, and
promise, as I will do, to abide by her
decision as to our future relations. Will
you agree to this ? "

Genevra could not but acknowledge in
her heart that her lover was right, as she
had before owned to herself that she was
wrong in keeping a secret from her indulgent
mother. Nevertheless, she shrank from the
thought of all that was involved in telling
that secret now — all the questions that
Mrs. Farquhar would not fail to ask, not
in suspicion, but from simple curiosity,
bringing to light every detail of that day's
journey, until the discovery of " the
scoundrel's " identity with Keith Moray
would be certainly the ultimate result, a
result which must be averted at any cost.
Why ? If Genevra had asked herself this
question — as she did not — she would have
said, because Mr. Moray's intimacy with
young Stanforth would assuredly bring him
frequently to Oakland Heights, and the
revelation of his misconduct would involve
a social ostracism, at least as far as the

Vicarage and the Grange were concerned
(which meant the whole society of Wend-holm),
which would be very inconvenient
and uncomfortable for everybody, as it
would probably include the new neighbours
as well, who might not choose to give up
their close friendship with the young man
upon the accusation of a stranger. No ;
they would be sure to say that it was all
her fault, and there would be general confusion
and recrimination on both sides.

This, or something like it, was the specious
excuse that Jenny would have pleaded for
her intense desire to shield Keith Moray
from the reprobation his fault deserved ;
but deep in her own breast lay a belief that
he did not in truth deserve the epithet of
scoundrel " that Sir Brian had so freely
lavished on her (to him) unknown assailant.
He had seemed to wish to express humility
and penitence. He had, as it were, laid

himself at her feet. She might spurn or
trample on him, but it would be ungenerous
to surrender him to public contumely. She
was quite able to punish him herself, and
she would reserve the right to do so in her
own hands. In short, though she knew it
not, the submissive attitude of the offender
had awakened in her girlish breast the
woman's sense of power, and joy in exercising
it, and she resented any attempt to
deprive her of it.

But Sir Brian, though very slow at
arriving at a conclusion, was sufficiently
tenacious of it when reached, and steadily
refused to yield to Jenny's entreaties to
allow her, if not to keep her secret from
Mrs. Farquhar, at least to confide it to herat
her own time. So that at last she tried
the feminine strategy, by no means frequently
resorted to by her, and burst into tears.
Carruthers was a kind-hearted man, and

had the usual masculine dislike to witnessing
a woman's tears, while yet he had not
the slightest intention of being drowned out
of his determination to learn all that could
be told him of Jenny's mystery. So, after
vainly endeavouring to soothe the weeping
damsel, he had recourse to a compromise.

"Well, Genevra, I still think that /
should have heard of this — unpleasant incident
from your mother's lips, so she
ought to hear it first from yours. But, since
you have such an unaccountable reluctance
to tell her, / will undertake the duty — a
very awkward one for me — of informing
her what your reason is for disturbing
the relation in which we stood to each
other when you left town ; provided always
that you consent to her arbitration as
final?"

Jenny hesitated, but at length agreed to
this suggestion, on condition that it was to

be clearly understood on all sides that the
subject was never again to be alluded to, in
the most distant manner, by any one ; and
she felt perfectly certain that, secured by
this stipulation from any embarrassing
questions from Mrs. Farquhar, there was no
danger of the mother's '' arbitration " taking
any bent but what she chose to dictate to
her ; while Sir Brian complacently reflected
that he could put many " leading
questions " to the elder lady, which would
be indecorous and ungentlemanly to press
upon the girl. But if he had not been a
very ardent lover before this conversation,
his ardour had assuredly not been increased
by it, though, having for some weeks accustomed
himself to think of Jenny as his
plighted wife, he could not at once take a
different view of the situation. His mind
once settled in a certain groove, it was as
difficult to change it as for a horse to turn

round in a railway box ; and, above all
things, he shrank from the possibility of
Lady Carruthers and Georgina believing,
and affirming, that he had again been
jilted I

CHAPTER VII.

"is it settled ? "

The June twilight was closing in when
Sir Brian re-entered the shaded drawing-room.
The lamp that stood on the corner
table was shaded too, so that the room was
in partial darkness, or would have been
but for the fire, which, to her guest's great
satisfaction, Mrs. Farquhar had considerately
ordered to be lighted for him.
'* People coming from abroad," she said,
*' are always chilly. Dr. Farquhar liked
a fire in the evening all the year round."

Mr. Burnes had gone away into the
shrubberies to smoke a cigar, but Mrs.

Burnes sat near the open window, from
which, as the twilight deepened, she could
watch the flitting spark among the trees
while she busied herself with her knitting,
and, hidden by the folds of the curtains,
Carruthers did not at first perceive her.
Mrs. Farquhar was seated near the fire,
with a small tea-table beside her. Her
fair, pale face wore an expression of anxiety,
as she looked up at Sir Brian's entrance
and saw that he was alone.

What have you done with Jenny ? "
she inquired. " I am waiting for her to
pour out the tea."

He went up to her and replied, " Miss
Farquhar has gone up to her own room.
She desired me to request that she should
not be disturbed there this evening. She
has charged me with a communication

which " His hand was on the chair

he was about to draw to the mother's side,

when lie caught sight of Mrs. Burnes and
stopped short.

Mrs. Farquhar smiled. " Can I guess
what the communication may be, Sir Brian ?
You have settled your temporary difference,
I hope ? "

But Sir Brian's eyes were riveted on
the Vicar's wife, and he made no answer.

Do not mind my sister's presence," resumed
Juliet, observing his look ; "we have
no secrets from one another."

The figure in the window did not move.

If any secret were mine," answered Sir
Brian, " I should be honoured by the permission
to share it with Mrs. Burnes ; but I
am only an ambassador in this instance,
and have no credentials to another court
than yours ; " and, bowing with his half-spanish
courtesy to both ladies, he quietly
walked to the tea-table, and prepared to
assist his hostess with the tea.

Juliet turned a half-imploring, half-reproachful
glance on her sister, who rose,
went to the fireside, and calmly took the
cup which Sir Brian offered her.

'* I dare say," she observed sternly,
that this mysterious * communication ' of
Jenny's can wait until Charley comes in to
take me home. Juliet, you and Sir Brian
will have time enough to yourselves to talk
it over when we are gone, if you still persist
in excluding me from the conference."

But Carruthers, who was never in any
haste, merely bowed again and smiled, and
then, while he sipped his coffee, began an
instructive disquisition on the different
methods of preparing it in various climes.
The tea-service being removed, he rose to
examine some of the curios with which the
room was filled, which he did quite leisurely,
without any sign of restlessness ; and once
more Juliet cast her imploring looks on the

immovable Mrs. Burnes, when Sir Brian
stopped.

This is a magnificent chess-table," he
said. " Cingalese workmanship, I observe ;
very fine indeed. Mrs. Burnes, may I
challenge you to a game of chess ? "

Thank you, I only play a little to
amuse my husband," began Chatty ; then
checking herself, she added, " but 1 will
play a game with you. Sir Brian, if you
will accept so poor an antagonist."

The chess-table was soon arranged, and
the two were apparently as deeply absorbed
in their mimic battle as if there were no
deeper interest on earth, while poor Mrs.
Farquhar looked on, trying to keep down
the tears of impatience and vexation that
kept rising to her eyes. Once or twice she
half rose from her seat to go in search of
Genevra ; but she was afraid lest that might
appear discourteous to her guest if Charley

returned in her absence, and she was still
more afraid lest, in disregarding Jenny's
wish to be left alone, she should incur the
displeasure of that little autocrat, while
she contemplated with a kind of disgust
Sir Brian's absorption in his game, and the
leisurely way he had of pausing between
every move. "They will not finish it
before midnight," thought poor Mrs. Farquhar.
" That cold-blooded man to pretend
to being a lover ! "

But here she wronged Carruthers. He
was a first-rate chess-player, but when mated
With a very inferior one, as Chatty had
truly professed herself to be, he could carry
on the game as mechanically as an automaton
or a sleep-walker, and be all the
time only conscious of his own dreamy
musings. While he gave check to Chatty's
queen, or threatened her knights and
bishops, he was, in fact, deeply engrossed

with the problem of how best to acquit
himself of the very unpleasant duty of telling
Mrs. Farquhar what she ought to have
learnt from her daughter's lips long ago.
Suddenly Mrs. Burnes swept her hand
across the board, and rose.

Pardon me the rudeness, Sir Brian," she
said, " but there is no glory for you in the
defeat of such an antagonist as I am. I
hear the wheels of the pony-carriage coming
up the drive. My husband has been to
fetch it, to drive me home. Juliet, I left
my bonnet and cloak in the breakfast-room ;
there is a light there."

At that moment Charley entered the
room, and, while he was addressing Sir
Brian, his wife signed to her sister to follow
her into the breakfast-room. No sooner
were they alone, than Juliet broke forth —

"Oh, sister Chatty, how could you ? He
must have thought you so ill-bred ! "

VOL. II. 25

Never mind if he did, my dear,"
answered Chatty, calmly fastening her
mantle. *' He will have time to correct
that opinion, and I could have no better
opportunity of forming a judgment on his
character."

You shall tell me that judgment tomorrow,"
said Mrs. Farquhar, who was most
anxious that her sister should depart.

No, I will tell you now," said the inexorable
Chatty. " I think Sir Brian bore
very well the test to which I subjected him.
He has more firmness than I should have
credited him with, and a very even temper.
If Jenny will marry so young — she cannot
marry for two years yet, you know — for
her, with her wilful, impulsive nature, a
husband with firmness and temper ^dll be
perfectly suitable. I am satisfied with the
choice, notwithstanding the disparity in age.
He is very well-bred too, although he has

an odd way of staring silently at one.
Charley is calling. Good-night, Juliet.
Come down to the Vicarage tomorrow,
when your visitor has left you, and tell me
how it is settled."

Sir Brian handed Mrs. Burnes into the
carriage, and watched her driven off by her
attentive husband before he returned to the
drawing-room, where Mrs. Farquhar impatiently
awaited him.

Now, Sir Brian," she cried, before he
had well closed the door, " what is this
message from Jenny that she cannot deliver
herself?"

Carruthers placed a chair for her near the
fire, and sat down opposite to her, where
nothing intercepted his steady gaze into her
face.

"It was not my wish," he said, "to be
commissioned to tell you what you ought
to have learnt from Miss Farquhar herself

some weeks ago, and which / ought to have
heard, not from her, but from you ; but
Genevra insisted on my speaking for her,
and, wilful as she is, I must defer to her
will, you see."

Oh ! " said Mrs. Farquhar, somewhat
relieved. She thought that by this preamble
Sir Brian only meant a formal apology
for having left Jenny to tell her of his proposal,
instead of writing to her himself
before her daughter's return. " It is true,"
she added, *that I was a little hurt by
Genevra's reserve ; but, after all, it was only
a girl's bashfulness, and poor Jenny was so
very ill when she came home, she was
scarcely herself for some days. Her foot
was so painful, too."

'her foot?" repeated Brian. "It has
never been clearly explained to me how that
injury was caused. A railway accident, was
it not ? "

Oh no," answered the mother, innocently,
" nothing to do with the railway.
Jenny had to change at Stretford, and it was
the day of the Faces, and in the confusion
she got on the wrong line, and was carried
quite out of her way before she found it out."

Just so. And then ? "

"Then she was put down at an out-of-the-way
station, where there were no trains
running to take her across country to a
junction. Was it not clever of her to think
of that. Sir Brian, and she so new to travelling?"


"Yes. But her foot?"

Well, the horse stumbled and fell, and
threw her out, and she sprained her ankle,
and Dr. Stewart feared a slight concussion
of the brain. But, thank Heaven, there was
nothing of that kind."

I beg your pardon," interrupted Brian,
but how did she get home ? "

"Oh, the flyman, or cabman, whatever
they called him, fetched a doctor, and between
them they got her to the junction,
and started her safely homewards."

I see," said Sir Brian, pensively ; "all
that took place after that occurrence at
Stretford ? Yes, she said she got out at
Stretford."

Occurrence ? What occurrence ? " demanded
Mrs. Farquhar, alarmed. " Is there
something else hidden from me ? What
happened at Stretford ? I entreat you to
tell me, Sir Brian ! "

Not much," he answered, reassuringly.
It was only this. Lady Carruthers had
the folly to send her niece alone on a railway
journey on a day of Stretford Races,
when, of course, there are always a lot of
scamps about. There was a fellow in
Jenny's compartment who mistook her, perhaps,
for a lady's-maid or a milliner's girl.

seeing no one there to look after her, and —
confound the brute ! — he was rude to her.
Tried to kiss her, I believe."

If Mrs. Farquhar was pale before, she
was scarlet now.

Good heavens ! '*' she cried, " my Jenny,
my sweet innocent child, insulted by a
ruffian I Oh, Sir Brian, what can we
do?"

I do not see that we can do anything,"
replied he, "since we are never likely to
catch the fellow. I should know well enough
what to do in that case ; but Jenny says
she never saw him before in her life, and did
not seem to care to describe him."

Mrs. Farquhar heaved a deep sigh, and
then exclaimed, " Oh, my poor child ! Oh,
what a relief ! "

Sir Brian stared hard at her, and began
slowly to revolve in his own mind whether,
after all, there was not something queer

about these Farquharss ? But Juliet proceeded
to explain.

It is a dreadful shock, but it is a great
relief too. I can now clearly understand
Jenny's reserve, which wounded me so
deeply at the time. Naturally, she was
completely thrown off her balance, and could
not bring herself to speak of an incident so
revolting, so humiliating."

I should have thought she would have
told her mother ? "

You do not know Genevra as I do. She
is, with all her frankness, extremely reticent
as to her feelings, and very proud. An
insult like that would lower her in her own
esteem for a long time, and she would
especially shrink from the sympathy which
would always remind her of it."

She did not show you her note tome
? "

"She did not. She wrote it in my

presence, but she would not allow me to
read it."

Sir Brian drew a small note-case from his
breast-pocket, took out Genevra's letter, and
silently presented it to Mrs. Farquhar, who
read and returned it.

"It is a very childish, impulsive note,"
he said, " and I own I could make nothing
out of it, and so I just ran down to have it
out with Jenny."

"Yes?" said Mrs. Farquhar, interrogatively,
as he paused.

He deliberately put the note into the fire,
and watched it consume before he replied,
She told me just what I have told you — that
a blackguard, a stranger to her, had kissed
her in the railway carriage, and she had got
out of his way at Stretford. She would not
speak another word on the subject ; she
only insisted that she was not worthy to bea
wife, since she could not repel insolence of

that kind, and she wished me to release
her from her promise."

So like Jenny ! " murmured the mother.
'' But how did it end ? "

Why, after a little discussion, I persuaded
her to allow me to refer the subject
to your arbitration. I could not give her
up, you know, on such a plea ; it would bea
disgrace to the girl for ever if it came to
the ears of the scandal-mongers."
But how could it ? "
These things have a way of transpiring,
be as close as you may. My aunt and her
daughter know of Genevra's acceptance of
me ; they would never rest until they had
ferreted out something of the story. Anyway,
it would come to half-light some time
or other."

But that is frightful ! " said poor Mrs.
Farquhar.

Brian continued: " To tell you the truth.

I blame myself in a great measure for the
occurrence. I ought never to have left
Genevra in Lady Carruthers' charge. I
ought to have deferred my business at
Brackensfell, and taken her myself to Wend-holm
; she would have been safe enough
then."

"It would have been better, much better."

And now," resumed Sir Brian, with his
pleasantness smile, " I will end where I ought
to have begun weeks ago : Is Genevra to be
allowed to jilt me, or will you give her tome,
to take better care of her in future ? I
think I can make her happy."

Mrs. Farquhar hesitated. " But what does
Genevra say ? "

She has found out that she is too young
for marriage."

"And so she certainly is."

But she is three weeks older than she
was when she accepted me in town, and

she promises to abide by your decision
now."

I have no authority over Genevra,"
answered Mrs. Farquhar. " By her father's
wish, she is to be left free to follow her own
inclination in everything, with the one restriction
that she is not to marry until she
has entered her eighteenth year."

And she is now ? "

She was sixteen last December."

And what may be the penalty of disobedience
? "

Juliet opened her eyes wide.

Penalty ? No penalty is necessary.
Neither Jenny nor I should ever dream of
thwarting a wish of her dead father's."

I beg your pardon," said Brian, and
there was silence. The new aspect of affairs
took him by surprise, and he felt the need
of some hours' deliberation over it.

Mrs. Farquhar," he said, presently.

*' I think it would be best that Genevra
should sanction with her own lips whatever
arrangement we may enter into on a subject
that so intimately concerns her. Let us
adjourn this debate until tomorrow morning.
We can have half an hour after breakfast,
before I leave you. She will not
refuse to join us, if you assure her that I do
not ask to see her again alone, and that no
reference shall be made, henceforth and forever,
to the painful confidence she has done
me the honour to repose in me. Shall it
be so ? "

And on receiving Juliet's willing: assent,
he rose, lighted her bedroom candle, gallantly
kissed her hand as he gave it her,
held the door open till she passed through,
and then retired to his own chamber, to
smoke a surreptitious cigar on the balcony
of his dressing-room, and " champ " the
dilemma of his suspended relations with

Miss Farquhar. On one thing only was
he firmly resolved — that Lady Carruthers
should never say that her niece also had
jilted him ! That odious Georgie, too, " the
image of her d — d father ! " No ; Jenny
should not jilt him on the plea that some
bagman had kissed her. Sir Brian cursed
that bagman also in two languages, which
should have given the imprecation double
efficacy ; but, for all that, Keith Moray, the
mysterious bagman's representative, was, like
the immortal "jackdaw of Rheims," *' never
a penny the worse."

CHAPTER VIII.

It was evident from the appearance of the
two disjoined lovers when they met again
at Mrs. Farquhar's breakfast-table, that,
whatever their meditations had been during
the preceding night, they had not materially
affected their slumbers. Jenny, in fact,
with a young girl's buoyancy, had " slept
off " her anxieties. She had got rid of " the
perilous stuff " that had weighed upon her
mind so long, or, at least, of as much of it
as weighed upon her conscience, and she
was sure that she would never be questioned
upon the subject again. With all Mrs.

Burnes's self-will, she had a scrupulous
reverence for a promise, whether given by
herself or by another, and had brought up
her sister in the same loyal respect for
loyalty. Genevra was quite safe in the
silence she had exacted from her mother;
and as for Sir Brian — well, if he persisted in
holding her to that foolish " yes " of hers,
he could not compel her to marry him, and
he would tire of waiting before he would
get the second "yes '' that was necessary to
confirm and give effect to the first. And
Jenny laughed mischievously, and came
downstairs as gay as a lark and as fresh asa
daisy.

Sir Brian, on his side, had arrived at the
conclusion that he had " got himself into a
mess " by that one impulsive moment at the
Zoo, but that he had an easy way out of its
immediate annoyance by simply availing
himself of the paternal fiat, which forbade

Miss Farquhar's marriage within eighteen
months. The engagement need not be
broken on either side, but, as it were, ^' held
in solution," and his proposal not rejected,
but just postponed. There was a great deal
to be said in favour of that view of the
case. There would be time to forget that
repulsive incident on the railway, time for
him to get rid of his tenants at Brackensfell,
and make all arrangements about the home
of his future bride. If she would not marry
him at the expiration of the term, neither
could she marry any one else within it ;
and if at the end they mutually " agreed to
differ," there would be no "jilting" on
either side. Certainly Genevra was very
young, very childish, to be Lady Carruthers
of Brackensfell. A year or two hence she
would be fitter for the station. On the
whole, Brian was content that this incipient
love affair of his should be, not rudely
VOL. II. 26

nipped in the bud, but just set in the
shade to root and grow !

So he, too, came down to breakfast, carefully
dressed, with his faultless morning
toilette and his air of distinction, which
rather gained than lost by its touch of old-world
Spanish courtesy. The best-looking,
the most high-bred man Mrs. Farquhar
had ever known ; but as such a statement
on Genevra's part might have suggested
a comparison, she wisely refrained from
making it. He was at his very best, too,
in point of-manner ; he neither betrayed
himself by monologue, nor stared too persistently
at either lady when he addressed
her. To Jenny he was gentle, indulgent,
even playful, not in the least lover-like ;
indeed, there was in his manner to Mrs.
Farquhar a respectful, almost tender gallantry,
that might have led a casual observer
to think that he was paying court to her

rather than to her daughter, as, breakfast
over, the three walked together up and
down the carriage drive, awaiting Mr.
Burnes and his dog-cart.

"Am I to understand. Sir Brian," the
mother was saying, " that you leave Jenny
free, while you still hold yourself bound by
your oflPer to her, and do not recognize her
subsequent refusal ? Is not that rather an
awkward position for both of you ? "

Jenny made a little impatient movement,
but Carruthers answered quietly —

My dear Mrs. Farquhar, I hold Genevra's
first word as far too precious to be resigned
merely on the plea of youth, although, as
you tell me that it was her father s wish
that she should be free from any engagement
until her eighteenth year, both she
and I agree to defer until that time any
further consideration of the subject. She is
free from any claim on my part until then.

when I shall hope to come forward once
more, and receive a confirmation, not withdrawal,
of the promise which she gave me in
town."

"And if the promise should not be renewed
? " began Jenny.

*' Then we are both free. But I hope for
better things," replied Brian ; and he added,
smiling, '' Leave me that hope, Jenny, since
I engage that you shall never be compromised
in the world's eyes by the faintest
importunity on my part."

And if," suggested the mother — " if —
some other lover were to come forward ? "

I trust to Genevra's generosity to allow
no one to trespass on the neutral ground
which Dr. Farquhar has marked out for us.
I claim ' the most favoured nation's clause,'
Jenny. It is not much to ask that you will
dismiss me — if you do finally dismiss me —
with the honours of war at least, and not

exhibit me as a captive at the chariot-wheels
of a more successful suitor."

But before Jenny could reply to this not
very lucid oration, the " chariot-wheels " of
Charley Burnes's trap were heard and seen
approaching. The Vicar's wife was beside
him, Chatty's natural interest in the affairs
at the Grange having proved too much for
even her self-control. She had thus anticipated
her sister's promised visit to her.

Sir Brian handed her out of the carriage,
but before he took her place in it, he addressed
Mrs. Farquhar once more. " You will allow
me the pleasure of repeating my visit when
I come again into this neighbourhood, will
you not ? I can claim an indirect kinship
with both you and your daughter. You
know, your sister-in-law, Lady Carruthers,
and her daughter Georgina, are my aunt
and cousin too."

We shall always be happy to see you,

Sir Brian, for your own sake, and independently
of ' indirect claims,' " answered kind
Mrs. Farquhar.

And so, with mutual expressions of almost
affectionate good will, Sir Brian Carry titers
was borne away in one direction, while his
recalcitrant lady-love marched off in another,
leaving the two elder ladies to return to the
breakfast-room, to give and receive the
'explanation " for which Mrs. Burnes was
thirsting.

I am so glad," sighed Mrs. Farquhar, ina
tone of relief, when she had finished her
narrative, " so glad that it is all settled."

"Is it settled ? " inquired Chatty, in her
driest tones.

Of course it is ! He said that he left
Jenny perfectly free, while he only is
bound."

Bound to what ? Bound to ask the girl
for a reply to his former proposal a year or

two hence, a proposal which she has twice replied
to already ! I do not think that any of
you know what you mean. Here is Genevra
saying ' yes ' on one day, and ' no ' a week
later, and neither she nor her sweetheart
know their own minds."

On the contrary. Chatty," replied her
sister, " Sir Brian shows, by pledging himself
to come forward again, a year or two
hence, that he knows his own mind perfectly."


Knows a fiddlestick ! " returned Chatty.
(That fiddlestick was the sole verbal frivolity
she ever allowed herself, but she was
a very Paganini in her varied application of
it.) "Why should he 'pledge' himself to
any such proceeding ? Who could hinder
him, if he chose to ' come forward again ' with
his osier three times a week ? My impressionis
that he is but half-hearted in the matter,
and is glad to gain time ; though, at his age,

I should have thought he had not so much
time to lose."

"He is not fifty yet," ventured Juliet,
timidly.

I do not suppose he thinks of his age,"
resumed Mrs. Burnes. " From a worldly
point of view it would be a brilliant marriage
for a country lass like Genevra ; he would
have no difficulty in finding a young wife
anywhere ; still it strikes me that he feels
the postponement a relief."

Perhaps he does not care for her people,
now that he has seen us."

Care for a fiddlestick ! " returned Chatty,
scornfully. " We do not want him to marry
us ! I cannot pretend to guess at the
motives of a man we know so little about ;
I only affirm the fact that Sir Brian is in
no hurry about this marriage."

He seems never to be in a hurry about
anything," answered Mrs. Farquhar. " I do

not believe that it will ever come to a
marriage after all ! "

Nor do I. But, for the present, the best
thing for all parties will be to waive all discussion
of the subject. Genevra, you say,
is free ; as for Sir Brian's voluntary bondage,
neither she nor her friends will ever remind
him of it."

Assuredly not," replied Juliet. " But
what if she is fonder of him than we think,
or grows fonder ? — for he does not propose
to suspend all intercourse with us."

Fonder of a fiddlestick ! He will be
demanding another ' explanation ' then !
These ' explanations,' Juliet, remind me of
your nests of Japanese boxes, one within
another, one after another, and nothing at
all in the last ! I wonder what ' explanation
' he is giving now to Charles ? "

But Mrs. Burnes only raised her eyebrows
on learning that that box was empty too !

CHAPTER IX.

'* SAYS THE SPIDER TO THE FLY."

While the gossips for ten miles round
Wendholm and Oaklandss are speculating on
the probable age, manners, appearance, and
general desirability of their future neighbour
we will profit by the writer's gift of clairvoyance
and telephone to look at and
listen to Lady Dalton, as she is seated ina
luxurious apartment in the Bingham
Hotel, specially reserved for the comfort of
lonely ladies who can pay for it — lonely,
that is, in the sense of having no gentleman
to look after them. Harry Stanforth had
gone, as we know, to superintend the
arrangements at Oaklandss, and his mother

was alone with her companion and cousin,
Mrs. Vernej, a widow like herself, and
about the same age — a quiet, ladylike
brunette, who might even yet have insisted
on some claim to beauty, had she not wisely
foregone all such pretension, content with
the modest radiance of a satellite to a
dazzling star. For Stella Dalton was simply
one of the most beautiful women in Europe.
"What !" you exclaim, "a dazzling star? You
must mean a waning star, for was she not
the mother of Harry Stanforth, a grown-up
lad of twenty ? " True ; but if statistics (on
their own affidavits) are to be trusted, there
never yet was a widowed mother of a well-grown
child — a widow, that is, who cared
for her attractions — who had not become a
wife at a very early age. It is on record
that one such lady, when reminded that she
had been the belle of a public ball at an
inconveniently remote period, calmly asserted

that she had been taken there by her
nurse ; while another and bolder dame
affirmed that her husband's first bridal gift
to her had been — a doll ! But Stella Dalton
had no need to resort to such ingenious
fictions to excuse herself for the possession
of a full-grown son. She had really and
truly been a bride at fifteen, having eloped
from school with a boy ensign in a marching
regiment stationed in a remote garrison
town in Ireland, where she lived. Her
portionless beauty did not commend the
improvident union to his friends, and she
was an orphan, without near relatives, so
they endeavoured to free themselves from
the burthen by procuring his exchange into
a regiment going to India, and shipped the
pair ofi" together. Young Stanforth never
reached his destination ; he died on board of
sea-sickness — a very sad death, though nota
sentimental one. Doubtless, under other

circumstances, the beauty of the girlish
widow would have so stirred the hearts of
his comrades, that the whole regiment would
have risen as one man and proposed to
marry her; but that not being feasible at
that juncture, they subscribed a sum of
money for her instead, and transferred her
to a homeward-bound vessel, which bore her
back to her original home, where Harry
first saw the light on his mother's sixteenth
birthday. She was not much more than
twenty when she went on a visit to a friend
at Queenstown, and there, at a regatta, she
was seen by Sir Peregrine Dalton, who
forthwith swooped down upon and bore off
his prize.

Sir Peregrine Dalton, Admiral, K.C.B.,
was sixty years old, a valetudinarian, and a
millionaire, or passing for such, which did
nearly as well. Admirals on the retired list
are not always, nor often, even reputed millionaires,

but Sir Peregrine was related to a
wealthy but infertile City family, and from
time to time had gathered "plums" from an
ancestral tree which bore only such golden
fruit. He had been a widower but a short
time when he first beheld the beautiful Stella.
His wife, who had been an heiress, had languished
for many years under medical care
as a hopeless lunatic, and he had, happily, no
child. He was a handsome old man, kindly
and most generous, and Stella, urged by her
friends and by the pressure of an almost
pinching poverty, acceded without reluctance
to the terms he offered her, and became his
wife. She was to leave her son with his
father's relatives. Sir Peregrine charging
himself with his maintenance, education, and
settlement in life — an engagement which he
faithfully and liberally fulfilled. The next
condition would have been a harder one to
Stella, had she shared her first husband's

liability to sea-sickness, which, happily, she
did not. Sir Peregrine suffered, or fancied
he suffered, from some constitutional infirmity
that only found relief in the air of the
open sea. He owned no landed estate, no
palatial residence " on shore. He lived
aboard a well-manned, well-appointed, luxuriously
furnished steam yacht, in which he
made voyages half round the world, occasionally
spending weeks or months in places
where the society or the climate suited his
inclination or his health.

This kind of life seemed delightful to
Stella, and she accepted this condition joyfully,
merely stipulating on her side that
her cousin Diana Verney should be allowed
to accompany her — Diana Verney, who had
married a profligate who had deserted her,
leaving her neither wife nor widow, steeped
to the lips in poverty, compelled to eat the
bitter bread of dependence, grudgingly given

by relations not much wealthier than herself,
and who, kindly welcomed by Sir
Peregrine and treated as a sister by her
beautiful cousin, returned their kindness by
a love all the warmer and more devoted
that they were almost its sole objects.

Between Stella and Diana there existed
the close attachment which, for a brief
period, is common enough between two young
girls, and which, though rarer, is occasionally
to be met with between older women, when
neither is too entirely absorbed in the claims
of husband or child. Stella leaned wholly
on her cousin for guidance, and Diana held
the reins so lightly that the directing hand
was scarcely felt. No lover could have
exulted more in his mistress's beauty than
Mrs. Verney did in her friend's ; for, among
the glib nonsense that men talk about
women, there is none more false than that
they are inimical or even indifferent to one

another's beauty. Setting aside personal
rivalry, the delight a woman often feels in
contemplating a beautiful face is as intense,
and far more unselfish than a man ever
knows. Stella's loveliness was " a joy forever"
to her friend, and a joy untarnished by
any carping criticism or curiosity as to its
correspondence of external charm with inward
graces.

Here is a copy, a very good copy too, of
one of Raphael's angels. What a heavenly
expression ! What perfect features ! I
wonder how she dresses her back hair ?
Turn the picture from the wall and see.
There is no angel there, and no devil
either ; only a neatly boarded canvas. Turn
it round again. Diana never wished to
look behind her pictured angel. She knew
well enough what was there. She was content
to draw her chair opposite to it, and
gaze in unquestioning admiration. As for

VOL. u. 27

Stella, she was not greedy of admiration. It
was her due, which she was accustomed to,
and received as a matter of course. I wonder,
does a butterfly exult in the dyes of its
gorgeous wings ? — which, however, it cannot
know much about, as there are no looking-glasses
among the flowers.

But Lady Dalton was as sensitive as a child
to the least shadow of coldness or disapproval,
even in strangers* eyes. She was a very
mendicant for praise, and would shrink from
blame as most people would shrink from
blows. Her voice would soften with tender
meaning in suggesting improvements to her
dressmaker ; she would bestow a smile full
of dimples on the showman who offered hera
chair. Although this omnivorous desire
for approval was quite irrespective of age or
sex, and had, in truth, no taint of coquetry,
it might have been misunderstood by natures
less pure than her own, and Mrs. Verney

hall striven to restrain it a little by holding
up before her terrible examples of the
necessity of dignified self-control. " Look,

Stella," she would say ; " there are Mrs .

and Lady . Those are the women who

smiled on everybody and * meant no harm.'
See how the men glance at one another as they
pass them, and how the ladies sneer frigidly,
or look another way. That is what happens
sometimes to women who are too lavish of
their kind smiles, though they mean no
harm." And Stella, terrified by such warnings,
would strive to propitiate Mrs. Grundy
by a hundred little transparent artifices, at
which Diana would laugh, but which the
old lady, who cares only for surface decorum,
would graciously accept, and give the beauty
her password. And now, if you care to
know more of Lady Dalton and her cousin,
you must learn it by clairvoyance and
telephone.

Di' s«nid the widoAv, smooth hog her rich
dress, which fell around her slight and
gracefully moulded figure in such heavy
mourning folds as would have become the
funeral of a nation, instead of only one old
man — " Di, now that this Oaklandss business
is settled, and my dear Harry gone off to
prepare for us, and there is nothing to keep
us in town, I vote that we flit at once to the
Continent, until Harry is ready for us.
London is horribly dull ! "

*dull, Stella?" echoed Mrs. Yerney,
looking up in surprise from her employment,
which was feeding a blue macaw on a stand
with bits of biscuit ; " dull in the height of
the season ? "

'rit is just that which makes it so dull,"
complained Lady Dalton. " People are rushing
about in all directions in search of amusement,
and have no time to make new friendships.
Cards are left on us every day, but

not a soul have we had to speak to since
we came here, except old Admiral Portray,
and he has gone back to Dorsetshire this
morning."

How can you expect to be invited to
share in any gaiety, while you keep such
yards of crape and jet on your pretty figure,
and set flying such a flag of distress from
that widow's cap ? " inquired Mrs. Verney,
unfeelingly. " You are as ' intense' as a
mute at a funeral."

"Is it too much ? " asked her cousin,
doubtfully.

Of course it is. People do not nowadays
express their grief in their clothing.
You always overdo things, Stella. But if
you find town dull, what will you do in this
new country house of yours ? "

Oh, you know, Admiral Portway says
Dorsetshire is a charming place to live in,
so friendly and neighbourly, and Harry is

SO delighted with it, and — and," said Stella,
suddenly changing her animated tone to a
demure plaintiveness, "it was Sir Peregrine's
last wish that I should spend the two first
years of my widowhood in retirement, you
know."

*eyes, he wished you, as nurses say of
babies, ' to feel your feet ' before going out
into the world with only Harry's arm to
lean upon. By the way, Stella, you have
lost nothing of your magnetic attraction.
That boy of yours fell down and worshipped
you at first sight. He is not a
bit ashamed to avow that he adores his
beautiful mother, though he never saw you
but once or twice, for a few days, since he
was a baby."

*' He ia a darling," said Lady Dalton. " I
am quite ready to make any sacrifice for my
Harry, as I have always done."

Have you ? " asked Mrs. Yerney, drily.

'* It was like a Levitical sacrifice then, and
the priestess ate the titbits."

But Stella only laughed sweetly. *' You
are in your cynical humour, my Diogenes,"
she said, " and you snarl at me like the
cross Doggie you are. I thought you liked
the Oaklandss place ? "

So I do. It will serve the turn as well
as any other whim. You are sure Hal has
only agreed for three years ? "

Only three years, and he has hired the
furniture for two."

"That seems a costly arrangement, to
furnish a large house in the fashion, all
that way in the country, on hire. The
charges will be awful."

'^ On the contrary, my dear, it is really
economical. Ebony and Gould assured me
that it was. The rent of Oaklandss is very
low, and to take a furnished house, if we
could find one, would not be satisfactory.

One feels more at home among furniture
of your own choice."

How do you know, since you have never
had a house of your own ? "

*' Oh, I have always heard so. Now, this
furniture which we have selected will all
be arranged in the house before we go there ;
and if, by any chance, we should wish
to leave Oaklandss, why, the upholsterers
will come and take everything away,
without any care or trouble, and we shall
have only an empty house at a low rent on
our hands, which may still serve as a
happy hunting-ground for dear Harry."

Oh, I see," laughed Mrs. Yerney. " You
have more foresight than I gave you credit
for, Stella, and have made all arrangements
for retreat, in case of the occupation
proving but temporary after all. But how
your landlord will like such volatile
tenants "

Stella made no reply, being engaged in
looking' over some cards which had been
left on her the preceding day. She held
one up for her cousin's inspection. " Whose
can this card be ? Sir Brian Carruthers ? I
do not know that name."

Carruthers ? " repeated Mrs. Yerney.
Why, Stella, that was the name of the
English consul at Rio Vedass, that horrible
Brazilian port where we once stayed fora
fortnight, when the Sea Foam was run
in for some repairs."

Stella shook her head.

"You have a short memory for your
friends, Stella, and this Mr. Carruthers
was so devoted to you, and took such pains
to amuse you and Sir Peregrine."

But that was a Mr. Carruthers."

But it was said that he was next but
one heir to a baronetcy. I suppose he has
come into it since."

I remember him," said Stella, " if it is he.
He was my captive, bound hand and foot."

More shame for him ! You were a
married woman at that time."

And duly impressed the fact upon him,
too," laughed Stella. "But, Doggie, you
have no right to resent his susceptibility,
when Sir Peregrine did not. He never
bewailed the moths that singed their wings
in his candle ; he thought it good fun."

And there, Stella, he was wrong. But,
after all, I used to observe that whenever
a moth was too persistent, your husband
always found that his health required the
sea-breezes on board his yacht again."

Before Lady Dalton could reply, a servant
entered and presented a card on the
customary silver salver, which she tossed
over as before to her friend.

'' Shall I see him "? " she asked.

Oh, by all means," laughed Mrs. Yerney ;

and as the servant closed the door behind
him, she added, " ' Will you walk into my
parlour ? said the Spider to the Fly.' " .

Sir Brian might almost have heard her,
he followed the servant into the room so
closely. He was received " with effusion "
by the beautiful widow, and with cordiality
by her friend, and they were for some time
engaged in exchanging notes of the changes
that had befallen both since last they met,
four years agone. But when, after rather
a prolonged visit, the ex consul rose to take
leave. Lady Dalton signed him back to his
seat.

"Oh, do not leave us yet. I am such a
stranger in town ; it is so refreshing to see
an old friend's face, and it may be some
little time before we can meet again ; for
Diana and I are leaving England for a few
weeks, until my son has got Oakland into
order for me."

*' Oaklancls. Ah yes ; it was in that
neighbourhood that I heard you were in
town," said Sir Brian.

You know Oakhinds ? " asked Stella.
*' Tell me all about it. Do you think I shall
like Harry's choice of a home for me ? "

I have only seen it from a distance. I
was only there for a day to visit a friend,"
answered Sir Brian, slowly. " I should
fear that you might find it dull."

That," said Lady Dalton, glancing down
at her sables, "would be rather an attraction
to me, so long as my dear boy amuses
himself; and young men can always gather
their friends about them, when they have
sport to offer them, in the autumn and
winter. Besides, some former acquaintances
of mine live not very far from there —
Admiral Portway and his family ; so I
shall not seem to have popped down from
the skies."

'' As a bird of paradise might well do,"
murmured Carruthers, looking admiringly
at her.

But Stella took no heed of the compliment,
if it was intended for one. " Can you help
my cousin and me in a difficulty ? " she
said. " We do not know where to spend the
next two or three weeks. Is it too early for
the German baths — too cold, I mean ? We
do not wish for gaiety." •

Sir Brian pulled his moustache, and a
faint light came into his eyes, which had
remained fixed on her sweet face almost
from the moment he had entered the room.
My aunt. Lady Carruthers, and my
cousin Georgina are at Aix-les-Bains," he
answered, " if that place would suit you ; I
am sure they would be most happy to do
anything in their power to make it pleasant
to you."

"But — is it very quiet? I cannot enter

into any gaieties, of course, at present, but
I should like to see other people lively about
me."

"Well," replied the baronet, "my aunt
is by way of maintaining a sort of retirement
also ; but I am sure Georgina would
not care to be in a dull place, and they both
seem to enjoy themselves."

*' The chance of knowing them would bethe
greatest inducement to me to visit Aix-

o

les-Bains," said Stella, sweetly. " Is it a
difficult place to get to ? I cannot be long
away from my dear Harry."

No, I suppose not," said Sir Brian ; at
which there came a choking sound, as of a
suppressed titter, from the macaw that
Mrs. Yerney was playing with apart.

I am going tomorrow to join my
friends at Aix," the baronet went on to say,
but time is no object to me, if you would
allow me to escort you. You and Mrs.

Verney would have no trouble, and no
fatigue that I could spare you."

"Oh, that would be delightful!" said
Stella; 'but" — looking towards Diana —
would it be quite the correct thing todo?"


"Why not?" replied the complaisant
Diana. " You can engage a regular courier,
you know, and then you and I and your
maid — there can be but gratitude owing to
Sir Brian for looking after such a helpless
trio."

So be it, then," said Stella. " I long to
be off ; but where shall we inquire for the
courier ? "

I think I can manage that for you, and
everything else that will spare you trouble,"
said Sir Brian, as he rose to take leave.
How soon can you be ready ? "

Diana and I will settle that between us ;
we shall sec you again, and let you know.

So glad you have friends at AVendholm, who
will bring you there when we are at
Oaklandss."

"The most powerful magnet will be at
Oaklandss" (oh, Sir Brian !) ; and as he
turned away, he murmured in monologue,
I ought not to have said that."

Again a suppressed chuckle, which was
reiterated or repeated by the bird, for
Mrs. Verney looked as demure as possible;
but v>^hen they were alone —

*really, Doggie, you will disgrace me
one day with that laugh of yours," said
Stella. " A cynic may sneer, but should not
laugh."

"Oh, no fear, so long as Pierrot here
always takes the blame. Who can help
laughing when your admirer talks to himself
like that ? You have netted your fly,
spider — now, what will you do with him ? "

CHAPTER X.

KEITH CONFESSES.

Miss Farquhar would have been very
considerably disgusted bad sbe been told
that sbe and Keitli Moray shared a secret
together ; for, although sbe half reproached
herself for ber insurmountable disinclination
to confide to ber loving stepmother even
the innocent fact of ber baying met that
atrocious criminal in the company of ibis
friend Harry Stanford, wbicb sbe might
bave done without any allusion to the railway
journey, still sbe looked on the secret
as exclusively ber own, and never reflected
that Keith might consider it as equally ibis,
valuing it accordingly, as a rustic lover
VOL. II. 28

values the broken tester of which the other
half lies in the bosom of his beloved.

Such a comparison would have aroused
Genevra's fiercest wrath. She would have
objected — " He stole the sixpence he broke,
and it was a token, not of love, but of
undying scorn I " All the same, Keith kept
his half, and treasured it as sacred. But,
although honour and delicacy counted for
much in his reserve, he, too, felt almost self-reproachful
in maintaining it with Mr.
Moray, to whom his every thought had
been open from childhood ; and the natural
yearning for sympathy, which he knew
would have been so readily and tenderly
accorded him, cost him many a sigh. In
sighing, as in other things, '' practice makes
perfect," and one day, as he was putting
away the papers on which he had been
employed all the afternoon, he unconsciously
breathed a suspiration of such splendid

depth and volume, that Mr. Moray, who,
reclining as usual on his couch, had for
some moments been following his movements
with a pensive, half-questioning look, could
not restrain a laugh.

Sighing like a furnace," he said — *' that
is one note of a lover. But who is she,
Keith ? "

His nephew blushed guiltily, and turned
his dark eyes wistfully on the speaker, but
made no reply.

And yet," resumed Mr. Moray, still
smiling, " your heart must be physically
sound enough, or you never could heave such
a breath as that ! I wish I could. But then
I had no occasion for one at your age ; I
was as little likely to sigh for any lady
as she was to sigh for me."

And that immunity, if it really existed."
said Keith, *' gives you the vantage ground
from which to laugh at others."

His companion at once dropped his playful
tone. 'sat least, my dear lad, I can
never laugh at what is so serious to you,
though I might, and do, laugh at your futile
attempt to conceal it from me. Come here
and arrange my cushions for me. That's
.right — thank you. Now, sit there, where
I can see you, and let us talk it over.
Again : who is the lady of your love ?"

'' But why should you think " began

Keith, with a faint attempt to keep up his
reserve, though his soul inwardly expanded
to the genial warmth of an offered sympathy.

Mr. Moray interrupted him. " And why
should you think that because I am an
old fellow, who have not, and never had,
any personal interest in ' the dearest
theme ' that, at some time or other,
engrosses every youthful brain — that I am
incapable of reading it in the life of another ?
And when I note a change in the habits

and manner of the lad whose character has
been my study from his childhood, a change

from entire frankness to silent reserve

Nay, Keith, I will spare you the enumeration
of all the signs which I have watched for
weeks past ; enough that they have led
me to the natural conclusion from which
proceeds my reasonable inquiry — Who is
she ? Nay, stop ; I will add another :
Does she love you ? "

Love me ? " repeated Keith, energetically.
" No, she hates me ; and I deserve
it — at least, she may think I deserve it.
But how can I, when I love her so ? "

The last words were uttered dreamily,
and more to himself than to his questioner,
and Mr. Moray, who was at no time given
to hasty speech, remained for a moment
or two silent. Like most persons who are
themselves unendowed with such attraction,
he set an undue value on the gift of personal

l)cauty, and as he gazed meditatively on
the handsome youth before him, the statement
that any girl could hate him was
almost incredible. It was more than incredible
that she should have reason for
doing so. He resumed with a smile —

Name, Keith, name ! "

I do not know her name," was his
iiej^hew's astounding reply. Then, seeing
]mr. Moray's smile give place to a look of
anxiety, he added, *' I will tell you all,
my dear uncle, even if you reproach me for
my reserve hitherto. But you will not ; you
Avill understand and forgive it ;" and, rising
from his seat, he took up the position in
which, from a boy, he had been accustomed
to confess or confide to his dearest relative
all his faults or sorrows — leaning on the
lack of his couch — and proceeded to tell,
with perfect candour and simplicity, the
whole story of his meeting with Gene via.

with only one reserve. He did not tell of
the kiss she had unconsciously given him,
only of those he had lavished on her.

Mr. Moray listened, as was his wont, in
perfect silence — a silence which lasted so
long that Keith grew impatient.

Are you so shocked," he asked, " that
you will not even tell me what you think ?
Oh, uncle, do say something ! "

I was thinking," answered Mr. Moray,
musingly, " how foolishly I have prided
myself on my discernment of character. If
there is one quality more than another with
which I believed you gifted, Keith, it is
the power of self-restraint, and, though I
knew you to be passionate, I never thought
you impulsive."

You know me now to be weak as well
as wicked," said Keith, in a tone of mortification.


Not wicked, my boy — never that. You

forgot yourself, certainly, and the young
lady has some cause to be displeased, but
does your own conscience accuse you of the
coarse outrage which she might justly
resent ? "

No, by God ! " was the youth's reply.
'* I had only the one thought that the
woman I loved, the first and last woman I
could ever love, lay dying — lay dead in my
arms."

Most elderly men would have smiled at
this declaration of unchangeable affection
of a few hours' birth, for a maid whose very
name was unknown to the lover. But Mr.
Moray did not smile, for he knew the lad's
earnest and imaginative nature, and could
understand how the terror and pain of the
situation which Keith had described might
as it were crystallize in his heart a sentiment
which, in ordinary circumstances, would have
passed over it like a mere breath over a

mirror. He did not smile, but the anxiety
deepened in his voice as he inquired —

And now, how can I help you, dear
lad ? Do you mean to search all England
for this nameless lady of yours ? "

I do not need to search so widely,"
answered his nephew, " for I know where
she is ; " and then he proceeded to narrate
his second meeting with Genevra at Oakland
Heights.

That is a great relief to me," said Mr.
Moray, when he had finished ; " for, from
what you tell me of this lady's connection
with the Vicar, it is evident that she is your
equal in family position, and I should have
been very unwilling to see you wooing an
inferior."

As if I could have been attracted by an
inferior ! " said Keith, haughtily.

Well, my dear fellow, neither you nor
I have much experience in the ways of the

girls of the period ; but if report of them
says true, well, there is many a modest,
self-respecting governess or milliner who
has more in her nature of what was once
thought characteristic of a gentlewoman
than many a lady of high position, with her
masculine deportment and slangy talk."

"But," resumed Keith, *shad I been so
attracted, the more inferior the woman's
position, the greater the insult I had offered
her, the greater the need of reparation."

In this case it seems," smiled his uncle,
*' that the vindictive lady rejects your
reparation. Can you force it on her,
Keith ? "

"I know I am at a frightful disadvantage,"
returned Keith, " but — you will
not withhold your sanction to my endeavour
to win her ? "

'' No, Keith, I will trust you. But reflect
; you know so little of this young lady.

Men as strong, as brave, as loyal as you
have often been enslaved by a worthless
woman."

I will never be enslaved, uncle. If she
will but give me the right, I will raise her
to her highest level ; I will make her
worthy."

Mr. Moray smiled rather sadly, but said
no more.

Some days passed before the conversation
was resumed. A period of exhaustion
almost invariably succeeded to any, the
least, excitement in Mr. Moray's too sensitive
frame, and during these periods it was the
habit of the uncle and nephew to avoid any
allusion to the subject that had caused them,
or even to converse much at all. But at
last Keith's patience was rewarded. On
returning from a morning stroll, he found
his uncle up and dressed, and engaged in
looking over his manuscripts.

Now, my boy," lie said brightly, " I am
able for any amount of confidences to-da3\
What news from the seat of war. Kit ?
I saw you had a letter from Stanforth today
; does he tell you anything of your
nameless lady ? "

Nameless no longer," smiled Keith ;
*' here is Hal's letter — not a very long one,
you see."

"Not long to you, I dare say," said Mr.
Moray, glancing at the offered note. " To
you, no doubt, one name sums up all you
dwell upon ; and if the name is short —
Jones or Smith, for instance "

'but it is not," answered Keith, triumphantly
; "it is a name of more distinction
— Genevra Farquhar. Is not that a
good name, uncle ? "

"Very," replied Mr. Moray; "I think
you need not wish to change it. Let me
hear Hal's letter, Kit."

And Keitli read aloud : —

"Dear old Man,

I want you here. I am all
alone, looking after the alterations my
mother has required in the house, and those
/ want in the stables and kennels ; I can't
do without your advice. Lady Dalton and
Cousin Di are at Aix-les-Bains, and won't
come here until everything is in order,
which will take five or six weeks yet,
though I hope to coax them back earlier.
So do come, there's a good fellow, and help
me to welcome them home. A few people
have called, but the ladies, of course, are
waiting till mamma appears, The people at
the Vicarage and the Grange are very kind,
and little Genevra Farquhar — you have seen
her — the little girl we met in the wood,

whom' I patted on the back by mistake "

Here Mr. Moray uttered an exclamation,

but Keith read rapidly on — " I thought her

rather * stuck up ' at first, but she's quite a

jolly little girl when you know her, and weare

great cronies now. I say, old man, did

you try on a sly flirtation when I left you

at the Vicarage that morning ? for when I

asked her, did she remember you ? oh, my

whiskers (when I get them), didn't she blush

scarlet to the very whites of her eyes !

But don't be flattered; she seems given to

blushing like a beetroot for no discernible

reason^constitutional, I suppose, for she's

anything but shy. Now, come at once, and

help me judge of a horse that I am inclined

to buy of a man in the neighbourhood.

They say he is a stunner at fences ; and

there are pretty stiff* ones here, I can tell

you.

Yours,

'' H. S."

Keith had galloped through the latter

part of the epistle, as if the reading of it
had proved more disagreeable than he had
reckoned upon, and Mr. Moray laughed.

'* Is not this damsel of yours," he said,
rather unfortunate in the first impressions
she makes on strangers, when one embraces
her after a few hours' acquaintance, and
another pats her on the back ? "

His nephew flushed angrily. " Hal is a
goose," he answered, " and she — she is very
young."

"In short," rejoined Mr. Moray, still
smiling, " she is something chameleon-like
in aspect — to you, the woman ; to Harry, the
child. However, fortune favours you. You
must be off to Oaklandss at once, and ' good
luck to your wooing,' my dear lad. But,"
he added, after a moment's pause, *' what
was the name you said — Genevra "

Genevra Farquhar," answered Keith.
^' Is it not a good name ? Her father was the

distinguished traveller and naturalist — she
told me so in the railway carriage ; at
least, she did not tell me his name, but she
said he was a distinguished naturalist. Did
you know him, uncle ? "

I did not know Dr. Farquhar," replied
Mr. Moray, *' but I knew his cousin Genevra
Farquhar, whom he afterwards married.
This young lady is an orphan, Keith ? "

She has been brought up by a stepmother
— she told me that, too."

'' She was very frank in her confidences
to a stranger," smiled Mr, Moray. " But do
not hasten to excuse her, Keith ; I certainly
can have no wish to disparage the daughter
of Genevra Farquhar."

'but where did you know her mother,
and when ? " questioned Keith, eagerly.

I met her at Nice, when you were yet a
baby in India. I had been ordered to Nice
by my physicians, where Miss Farquhar

resided with her mother every winter and
spring, also on account of her health."

"And you — loved her V hazarded Keith.

*' No, my boy, love was not then, nor ever
had been, for me; nor, had I not always
recognized that fact, should I have loved
Miss Farquhar, as it was well known that
she had been from her earliest girlhood
engaged to her cousin, and it was even said —
with what truth I know not — that her
delicate health was greatly owing to the
worry and anxiety of her protracted engagement.
But, though I might not love this
first Genevra, I never, before or since, saw
the woman who so perfectly realized my
idea of feminine perfection. It was some
few years later that I heard of her marriage
with her cousin, and shortly afterwards of
her death. And that you should love her
daughter ! Keith, you could have made no
choice which I should more gladly sanction."
VOL. II. 29

"It has not come near that yet," said
Keith, gloomily. " Was Mrs. Farquhar
beautiful, uncle ? "

Perhaps no one would have called her
so who was not interested in her," replied
Mr. Moray. " It was a beauty of expression,
rather than of tint or feature, that gave her
charm."

Just like her daughter, then."

Mr. Moray continued, '' She was very
fragile, very sweet ; she always reminded
me of a lily."

Keith was silent. Not the most enthusiastic
admirer could have likened Jenny to a
lily, unless it were a tiger-lily, as he last saw
her. " I should not," he said presently —
'' I should not think that Miss Farquhar
was fragile ; but," he added reassuringly,
** she is so young, she may become so."

*' Heaven forbid ! " laughed Mr. Moray.
You foolish fellow, never count fragility a

charm in your mistress ; you would find it
inconvenient enough in a wife."

"Well," rejoined Kit, "she looked healthy
enough before that beast of a horse threw
her out of the trap."

'So much the better," answered Mr.
Moray. " Well, you are granted leave of
absence, Kit ; use your opportunity with
the young lady to more advantage than yuu
have hitherto done, or I am afraid that
trick of sighing is like to grow a very
confirmed habit."

[CHAPTER XL

:PAKJIYS PLAY.

Keith was a great deal surprised and a
very little dissatisfied Nvith the state of
affairs as lie found them on his arrival at
Oakland Heights. Harry Stanforth had not
waited for his friend's visit to procure himself
some alleviation of his solitude. Asa
matter of course, the Vicar had hastened
to offer all neighbourly attention to his
young tenant the very morning after he
reached Wenclholm ; but Harry had not
even tarried for that courtesy. He had
rushed off to the Grange the moment he
had finished his breakfast, to present himself
before Mrs. Farquhar's astonished eyes as

an old acquaintance of Genevra's, on whom
he had a claim for sympathy in his orphaned
state. The young lady was a little shy at
first ; but the lad's genial manners, and the
natural charm of youth for youth, soon
thawed her reserve, and within a fortnight
Harry was treated as a son of the house,
running in and out at all hours, and sharing
Jenny's rambles in the woods, while she
guided him to the haunts of the wild creatures,
which even the gamekeepers did not
always know, and commended to his favour
her special woodland pets, which he was
thenceforth to hold sacred from trap or gun.
The indulgent mother looked on without
remonstrance, too glad to see her darling
once more healthy, happy, and gay, and
herself won, as most people were, by the
frank cordiality and simple kindliness of
Stanforth's manner.

But sister Chatty demurred to the sudden

intimacy. ''Do you think it quite ladylike,"
she inquired one day, "for a young
t»-irl to be always tearing about the woods
with a youth who, a fortnight ago, was a
stranger to her ? "

I don't know if it is ladylike," answered
]\lrs. Farquhar, "but I am sure it is very
]natural. Jenny has been too much isolated
from the society of young people of her own
age, and Harry is such a pleasant lad, it is
impossible not to like him."

Harry?" repeated Mrs. Burnes. "Surely
it is very early for such familiarity, even on
o)ir parts. Not only do you and Charles call
him Harry, but they are ' Jenny' and 'Harry '
to one another."

They are mere girl and boy," said Juliet,
and no one can expect them to be ceremonious
to one another."

And what will Lady Dalton say when she
comes ? She may not approve of a childish

intimacy between a lad of twenty and a girl
of sixteen."

My dear Chatty," replied Juliet, archly,
we all settled, in full conclave, that Jenny,
for a year at least, would be too young to
think of courtship or marriage, and since
she has not, and does not wish to have, the
interests of a woman, it would be cruel to
forbid her the amusements of a child. And
then," she added, rather inconsequently,
Harry is such a nice fellow, but he is so
ugly ! "

'' Ugly fiddlestick!" said her sister. '' What
has that to do with the matter ? I do not
see that he is ugly."

But most people would have agreed with
Mrs. Farquhar on this point. A short square
figure, like a sucking prizefighter's — if prizefighter
could ever have been sucklings ! — a
broad face, as yet destitute of beard or
whiskers, but thickly studded with freckles,

from which they might spring some clay,
with a shock head of hair of yivicl red, and
no tolerable feature, except a set of strong
white teeth ; — these attractions might well
excuse a woman of Mrs. Farquhar's inexperience
in the vagaries of passion for
believing that any girl might be safely
trusted not to fall in love with their possessor.
So sister Chatty, who never wasted her
wisdom on regardless ears, drew aside and
waited silently, in the expectation that
when "the family" came to Oaklandss
Stanforth would be too much engaged with
his mother and her guests to give his time
to the new companion, whom he disrespectfully
termed to her face, " little Gen."

As for Keith, though he felt not the
slightest jealousy of Harry, how could he
but be dissatisfied to see him in the careless,
unappreciative enjoyment of an Eden that
was barred to himself ? For learned it was

beyond hope. The first clay he spent at
Oaklancls, little was said of Jenny, but that
little proved how rapid had been the ripening
of familiarity in the intercourse of maid
and youth. The next day was Sunday, and
during service the eyes of the whole parish
congregation, now accustomed to the new
tenant at Oaklandss, where fixed with curiosity
and interest upon his handsome and ;
friend. Even Mrs. Farquhar
glanced at him occasionally ; even
the Vicar's wife looked at him once. But
Genevra was so bent on setting a good
example to her school-class that she never
once lifted her long eyelashes from her
book !

As they quitted the church, Harry
hastened to join the party from the Grange,
and presented Mr. Moray to Mrs. Farquhar,
who replied with her usual gentle cordiality ;
but the almost timid deference with which

Keith saluted her daughter was acknowledged
with a freezing; stateliness that chilled
the very marrow in his bones ! The young
men walked with the ladies to the Grange,
where Harry was now in the habit of lunching
on Sundays, and, after a moment's
hesitation, Keith accepted Mrs. Farquhar
kindly invitation, and entered with the rest,
only to be informed, after half an hour's
eager expectancy, that Genevra, having
suddenly recollected something particular
that she wished to say to Mrs. Burnes, had
turned back as the others were admiring
the conservatory, and would be all the
afternoon at the Vicarage. From that time
forth, Keith registered a solemn vow that
the will of his inexorable lady should bethe
sole law by which any advance on his
part should be governed, and that until she
vouchsafed some faint sign of pardon, he
would not profit by her friends' ignorance

of his transgression to evade its punishment
or deny her right to inflict it.

It misrht or might not have been an
overstrained delicacy, but bolder tactics
would probably have been no more successful,
for Jenny, wilful and resolute, would
have been quite capable of pleading some
excuse for confining herself to her own
chamber for the whole period of his stay at
Oaklandss. As it was, all the severity she
had purposed to exert was met with such
prompt and utter submission that she had
no opportunity of repeating its exercise.
Keith was so assiduous in prompting his
friend to amusements that took them about
the adjacent grounds or the more distant
neighbourhood, that Jenny never saw either
of them, except at church, and then only
Harry — Keith always accompanying him
there, and, to the infinite centralization of
Mrs. Burnes, turning 'way from the door

when, after a brief greeting, the rest of the
party entered. Gradually, finding that she
was safe from intrusion, Miss Farquhar
began to emerge, not only taking her book
as usual into the woods more immediately
surroundings the Grano-e, but even venturing
into her habitual haunts in the Oakland s
coppices themselves ; until, one fatal day,
she carried her venturesomeness too far, and
suffered accordingly.

One evening, shortly before sunset, while
Mrs. Farquhar was engaged in school business
with Mrs. Burnes, Jenny betook herself
to a favourite haunt of hers, under a spreading
beech tree on one of the slopes of the
Oakland Heights, with a volume of ^^Mrs.
Brownings ballads in her hand; and making
herself a luxurious couch of deep moss and
heather, she lay there, alternately glancing
at the sunset and looking upwards into the
branches above her, to watch the gambols

of a pair of squirrels that from time to time
stopped to bark at her, and then, apparently
satisfied that she was to be trusted, continued
their frisking as before, leaping from bough to
bough and peeping at her round the bole of
the tree. Presently they chattered angrily,
and sprang away out of her sight ; and,
fancying that she heard a footstep on the
soft carpet of long-decayed leaves behind
her, she raised herself a little and looked
round. No. All was quiet ; she was alone.
She settled herself comfortably again, resumed
her book, and began to read where
she left off in "The Lay of the Brown
Rosaries." But she did not care much for
reading this evening ; she dropped the book
face downwards, closed her eyes, and mused.
Then from her parted lips fell the murmured
words she had last read —

^' ' I wear 9, lover kiss ou my lips, I could not give
away ' "

"The deuce you do?" cried a laughing
voice behind her; and, turning hastily,
there stood Harry Stanforth, who had stolen
up noiselessly, with the boyish intention
to " give her a jump ; " while — oh, horror ! —
Keith stood further off, but quite near
enough to have overheard her quotation !

She stopped to pick up her book, but in
reality to hide the scarlet that flamed in her
cheeks, but which that detestable Harry had
detected, and which filled his mischievous
soul with glee.

So you won't give it away, Jenny, eh ? "
cried the tormentor, placing himself in front
of her so that she could not escape.

Keith took a step forward, as if to
interfere, then checked himself and stood
still. All the effect of his impulsive movement
was the very last he would have
desired — to bring him face to face with Miss
Farquhar and her blushes.

"Will you exchange it, Jenny ? I'll give
you good value, as the people who advertise
for old clothes say;" and Harry made
a feint of carrying out his proposal.

But Genevra's blazing eyes warned him
to keep his distance. " Let me pass,
Mr. Stanforth," she said in her most
dignified tones, and drawing up her small
figure to the stateliest height it could
stretch to.

"Don't be cross, Jenny," resumed the
unabashed Harry. " I don't know how
long you have worn that kiss on your lips,
of course, but I thought it might be in your
way, and "

You are unendurable vulgar, sir ! " and
she made another dart at her book, chiefly
to avoid the large black eyes which she felt
were fixed distressfully upon her.

But Harry was too quick for her. He
snatched up the book as it lay open at that

unlucky passage, and, holding it far above
lier head, cried —

'look here, Jenny; you have misquoted
your text. 'I wear a troth-kiss on my
lips.' Of course you could give that away!
Tell me who left it there ? Is it still ' to
be called for,' like a railway parcel ? "

The situation had become intolerable.
Keith sternly interposed.

Let Miss Farquhar pass, Hal ; you are
taking unwarrantable liberties."

"Oh, Lord!" cried the mauvais plaisant,
listen to him I One would think that he
had a right to that unclaimed ' troth kiss
and I'm sure you never left it there, old
man 1

Genevra's blush had faded into ashy
paleness, and Keith's suppressed fury burst
forth at last. With a deep-toned utterance
that might almost have been a curse (it is
certain that it was not a blessing), Keith

seized his friend by the collar, swung him
out of Genevra's path, and hurled him away
with such violence that he fell at some
distance, on a boulder of the rocky slates
of the hill, and lay there, stunned and
senseless.

Jenny paused, in act of taking flight, and,
forgetting for the moment the cause of
quarrel, lifted terrified eyes to Keith's face,
as she said in an awe-struck whisper —

Good heavens ! You have killed him ! "

But Keith smiled derisively. " It would
take more than a fling like that to kill
Harry," he answered. " See, he moves."

And, in fact, the sufferer slightly stirred.

*' Is he " began Jenny; but once more

glancing up at Keith, she became aware
that the dark eyes were fixed, not on the
victim, but on her — nay, that they were
gazing deep into her own. Once more the
ever ready blush was kindling, when Harry

VOL. II. 30

sat up ; and, breaking away from the fascination
of that steady gaze the first time she
had ever met or returned it, Jenny left her
book unclaimed like the kiss — and fled.

Keith looked after her, drew a deep
breath, and then calmly, as if nothing
unusual had happened, sauntered up to his
friend, who had now regained his feet.

So you're up at last, old man ? " he
observed. " I was thinking you meant to
spend the day on that boulder ! "

I say, Moray," rejoined Stanford, resentfully,
"you'll be murdering a fellow some
day in one of your rages. You forget how
strong you are. What call had you to
break out like that, I should like to know,
just because I chaffed little Gen a bit ? "

* You were excessively impertinent, and
vulgar too,' as she said," answered Keith,
and you had no business to pen any girl
in a corner when she wanted to be off. I

only wanted to get you out of her way.
I was rougher than I intended to be. I
haven't hurt you, Harry ? " and his voice
and eyes softened as he looked down on
the lad, whom he tenderly loved.

All right, old fellow," replied the placable
Harry, " none the worse this time; but please
don't hit so hard, next rage you go into."
Then, bursting into a peal of laughter —
Oh, didn't I take a jolly rise out of
Gen!"

Keith's face darkened again. " Promise
me that you will not repeat that vulgar
joke to tease J\Jiss Farquhar."

^* Depends on how she behaves herself"

*' That won't do ; I must have your
word "

*what the dickens does it matter to
you ? What a knight-errant you are,
Keith!"

It would matter to any gentleman that

he should spare a woman pain. Promise
me, for our friendship's sake, Harry."

But Harry was not to be induced by
either menace or blandishment to surrender
the enjoyment he promised himself in
worrying little Gen." He could not see,
what there was in this harmless joke to
rile" her so ; but it was good fun to punish
her a little for her saucy ways, and punish
her he would, whenever he had the
opportunity.

If Hal had not been denser than a
fog-bank, he would, after a time, have
observed that it was only when Kit was
within hearing that his scourge had any
effect. At other times she would snatch it
from him, or even turn it merrily against
himself. But he never noticed this, or
attributed it to capriciousness of temper,
and Keith scolded and chafed in vain.
Perhaps, unconsciously to himself, the allusion

was not so unpleasant to the young
man as it seemed to the victim of Harry's
not very delicate pleasantry. Perhaps the
deep blush, the hastily averted glance, were
not without a certain fascination ? No one
else took any notice of Gen or her fitful
flushes. Sir Brian might have done so,
sooner or later (later, probably), but, as it
happened, he and Keith rarely met at
Oaklandss, and so he rarely came in for any
observation of the phenomena.

CHAPTER XII.

Tory o'mORE.

The day after Jenny's encounter with Keith
and Harry, the former was summoned to
Hurstleigh on some business of his uncle's,
and departed, promising to return before
Lady Dal ton should rejoin her son, and
remain with him till then.

As soon as he was left to himself, Harry
resumed his habits of what Mrs. Burnes
censoriously termed " scouring the woods "
with Genevra. He had had the grace to
offer a rough apology to her for the
annoyance he had caused her at their last
meeting, and Jenny had not only graciously
accepted it, but had even been so ungrateful

as to blame Mr. Moray for his violence.
Whereupon his faithful friend had vehemently
defended him, declaring that he was
the best fellow in the world, and would not
intentionally have hurt a hair of his head —
only I don't know why he should have
gone into such a rage at my joking you,
Jenny — do you ? "

To which Jenny could give no satisfactory
answer, so gave none at all. In ten
days Keith came back to Oaklandss, resolving
that he would no longer leave the field so
entirely to Harry, and before long he had
reason to rejoice at his change of strategy.

On the third morning, as he was smoking
a cigar in the garden, Harry came towards
him on the terrace, swinging a mysterious -
looking cord in his hand.

That is the Mexican lasso Rawdon was
showing us the other day. Who are you
going to strangle with it ? "

I say," inquired Harry, without noticing
the disparaging question, " where's Gen ? "

In her own house, I imagine," answered
Keith; "where should she be?" But he
flung away his half-finished cigar as he
spoke.

She promised to join me to-day to see
my practice with this lasso that Rawdon has
lent me."

"Your practice!" laughed Keith, disdainfully.
" You can no more use a lasso
than you can dance on a tight-rope ! "

"Nobody can do anything until they
learn, and they learn by practice," was
Harry's sage reply. " Jenny and I are
going to practise together. But, now I
remember, I was to meet her in Farmer
Hunt's brook pastures. There are some
young colts there that it will be capital
practice to lasso. You may come with us if
you like, old man'*

"But," observed Keith, as they strolled
off together towards the Brook Farm, '' you
do not appear to reflect that Farmer Hunt
may demur to your amateur lasso-practice
on his young stock."

No, he won't. He's such a good fellow,
he never demurs to anything I choose to do ;
and besides, there are some colts of ours
there. I shall only try on them. Hallo!
yonder is Jenny waiting for me at the
pasture gate."

But when they came up with her, Miss
Farquhar began with a remonstrance.

"Harry, I will not let you lasso the
horses ; you might do them some injury."

No danger. Miss Farquhar," said Keith ;
lasso-practice is not so readily learnt."

It might frighten them," she persisted,
addressing Harry, " and I will not have
it."

Let me try Hunt's old white Dobbin,

Gen," pleaded the sportsman ; " nothing will
frighten him."

No, you shall not worry the horses ; and,
besides, there are no horses in the meadow
to-day."

"You might have pleaded that objection
first," smiled Keith.

But Genevra resented the smile as too
great a familiarity, and froze him with a
glance.

Said Harry, " There's a lot of cattle in
the meadow yonder. Gen ; let me go at a
cow."

You may go at a cow," assented
Jenny, blandly ; but her assent was merely
given to emphasize b}^ contrast her severity
to Keith.

The meadow was an extensive one, in
which several scattered groups of cattle
were grazing, and while they were crossing
it, Jenny suddenly caught Stanforth's arm.

"Ob, Hal ! let us turn Lack ; there is
Eory O'O'More ! "

Keith looked about, expecting to see
some very rampant Irishman, but was
informed that Eory O'O'More was a bull
belonging to Farmer Hunt, who was in the
habit of making himself so disagreeable to
strangers that his presence in a field " made
a solitude " around him, as far as passengers
were concerned.

But that is not Tory," added Harry ;
it is only the two-year-old that Hunt is
going to send out to Australia. He's as
gentle as a lamb ; he is lying down too.
Come along, Gen. There are some yearlings
at the other end of the field ; we'll have atone
of them."

Thus reassured, the trio proceeded to
take their stand beneath a large poplar,
close to which a few heifers and yearling
calves were grazing, and, in the exciting

dispute which followed respecting the right
way of adjusting and using the lasso,
Farmer Hunt's Australian emigrant was
forgotten. At last, after much argument
and scuffle, the lasso was taken possession of
by Harry, and flung at an unfortunate
heifer, which had been innocently contemplating
the preliminary arrangements.
It only fell with a resounding " whack "
against her ribs, and away she went, full
speed to the further end of the field,
followed by all her companions, kicking up
their heels, with their tails in the air. Her
young assailants were so engrossed in watching
their ungainly antics and laughing at
Harry's failure, that they were taken by
surprise when a low, hoarse mutter sounded
behind them, and, turning, they beheld Tory
0' More in person, who had come to avenge
the insult offered to his family, and now
stood a few yards from them, rolling his

eyes and pawing the ground with evidently
hostile intentions.

Keith instantly threw himself before the
terrified Genevra, pushing Harry aside, and
crying, without taking his eyes off the
enemy, while he tore off a long switch from
the flexible branches of the poplar —

Stand fast, for your lives ! don't run !
Shelter her behind the tree, Hal."

And Harry dragged Jenny, or was
dragged by her, behind the knotted bole of
the tree, whence, pale as two " possesses,"
they peered cautiously at the bull, as he
glared unutterable things at Keith. But,
apparently quite unmoved, the young man
stepped lightly towards him, and, before he
could lower his enormous head for the fatal
rush, struck him, with his whole force, a
sharp stroke across the nostrils. The brute
backed instantly, shook his head violently
two or three times, and then gallojDcd off to

rejoin the herd at the opposite end of the
meadow.

Now run ! " cried Keith ; and Jenny
and Hal tore away at a pace that would
have won them laurels as champion runners
for All England.

Keith Moray followed leisurely, pausing
from time to time to aim a stone in
the direction of Eory O'O'More. But that
worthy stood among his '' harem," shaking
his head and blowing his nose, but evidently
with no intention to resume the contest.
So Keith retired with all the honours, and
presently stood by his companions' side,
vaulting lightly over the gate, which they
had severally clambered over with more
celerity than grace.

Kit," cried Harry, enthusiastically, " you
are a hero ! You have saved our lives."

Jenny stood silent, and still pale.

Harry continued, '* Where did you pickup
that dodge, old man ? "

I found it in some French story —
George Sand's, T think," answered Keith,
when I was a lad, and I used to practise
it on the Hurstleigh cattle with such effect,
that, at last, the very sight of me would produce
a stampede among them ; but that,"
he added, with an apologetic glance at
Jenny, " was before I came to years of discretion
and humanity."

It's better than the lasso," observed
Harry. " Shall we try it some day, Gen ? "

No, thank you," she replied ; and then,
feeling that she must say something, she
added, " I read in a French story — by
Madame de Gentis, I believe — of some man
defending himself from a wild bull by sticking
a long pin in his neck. Would you
like to try that on Tory O'O'More, Harry ? "

There would be this inconvenience to
the plan," laughed Keith — " that, whatever
an innocent wild bull might do, a tame

one, like Mr. Tory, might object to place his
spine * in position and so, instead of sticking
a pin into Tory, Tory might stick a
horn into Hal. But what has become of
the lasso ? "

I must have dropped it in the meadow,"
answered Harry, looking rather foolish.

Oh, fie, Hal ! to throw away your arms
in your panic ! I will run back and fetch
it."

** Oh no, no ! don't go, Keith ! " cried
Genevra, eagerly, and laid her hand on his
arm to detain him. " Light was the touch,
but it thrilled to the bone." It was instantly
withdrawn ; but for that touch, for that
Keith," so unguardedly uttered, he would
have been content to face a drove of bisons 1
Then, the quick blush that answered the
rare blaze in the dark eyes that dwelt on
hers ! But Harry ruthlessly broke upon
the dream.

*' There's no clanger, Gen ; the whole herd
has crossed the brook into the next field.
You wait here, and Keith and I will run
across for the lasso, and be back to walk
home with you in two twos."

So Keith had to go. He looked back
once ; Jenny was leaning pensively on the
gate, watching him. He looked back again ;
she was moving slowly away. When the
two young men returned to the spot where
they had left her, she had vanished, and
was speeding homewards almost as fleetly
as she had fled from Tory O'O'More.

From what, or from whom, was Genevra
flying ? She could not have answered that
question to herself at first starting. But
when she was quite safe from any chance
of pursuit, she slackened her pace, and
persuaded herself that it was only running
downhill that made her heart beat so
quickly ; that she wanted to escape from

VOL. 11. 31

Harry with this stupid lasso ; and Well,

from Harry her thoughts went, with quite
a natural transition, to his inseparable
companion, Keith Moray, and, having
arrived at that point, they stopped there.
It had become evident that all her severity
had not availed to impress that young man
with a due sense of their proper relations
to one another as criminal and judge.
With all his affected humility, but a
momentary relaxation was needed to reveal
the suppressed wickedness of his nature,
which blazed forth in the insolence of his
look. A look which must have been insolent,
or why had lier eyes fallen beneath it "? She
had sometimes of late felt ready, almost too
ready, to grant forgiveness for his past sin
when he should sue for it. But he never
lead asked forgiveness ! And time his
expression had been so little that of a
penitent, that, but for the presence of Harry

Staiifortli, he might have almost seemed to
meditate a repetition of the offence ! And
at the dreadful suggestion, Jenny reddened
to the tips of her little ears, doubtless with
indignation that all her coldness, all her
sternness, all her stately reserve, had as yet
failed to bring this hardened sinner to a
truly contrite state of mind. He had saved
her life — Harry said so ; was it not right
that she should in return be anxious that he
should not again endanger his ? Yet he
presumed on a glance, on a touch, to turn
on her with such a look as a lover might

o

have given, but which Sir Brian, when he
was her lover, never gave. Plainly the
repressive system must be persevered in, if
she would respect herself or be respectful
by him.

And while Jenny was Icsing herself in
these rather incoherent reasonings, Keitli
was looking right and left in hopes of seeing

her emerge from some thicket or hedgerow,
where she might have sat down to rest and
wait her companions' return, until Harry
grew impatient.

'' Come along, old man ; I want my
lunch, and I have promised to drive you
to Fairbanks this afternoon."

But' objected his friend, " ought we
not to see Miss Farquhar home ? "

See her at home, you mean ; for she's
there by this time. Fancy dancing attendance
on Gen ! Why, Kit, you are never
getting soft upon little Jenny, are you "? "

To which Keith, taken by surprise, could
only retort by a tu quoque.

You are just as likely to be in love
with her yourself ; you are always together,
you know."

Did you ever know me to be in love ? "
asked Harry, gravely.

Never before. But it is early yet."

'' Too early with a baby like Gen."

Wh}^" said the other, '' she is sixteen,
and you are only twenty."

I should not fancy her if she were
sixty."

*^ Possibly," rejoined Keith, drily.

'' I believe," resumed the youthful misogynist,
'' that I shall never care for any
woman, except my mother. Women in
general are a sappy lot. But if I ever do
fall in love, it will not be with such a girl as
Jenny."

*' And what fault can you find with the
girl ? " inquired Moray, prompt to resent
the " slight disparagement " in Harry's tone.

Oh," replied his friend, "no fault at all
in her. She is a jolly, good little girl. I
am very fond of Gen, but I should like her
better if she were a boy ! "

With this view of impossible improvement
in Miss Farquhar, Mr. Moray could

not sympathize, so lie walked on in silence.
Presently Hal l)roke forth again.

I suppose we all have our ideas of the
sort of woman we should choose to love.
Mine is very different from Jenny. She
must be stately and dignified, and — well,
like a queen. Is not that your idea. Kit ? "

The woman I should choose," answered
Keith, "my love would crown her my queen."

Fancy anybody making a queen of
Caen ! " said Harry ; and he suddenly burst
into a shout of laughter, to the orreat exasperation
of his friend. " Don't look so
black at me, Kit," resumed Stanforth,
making an effort to regain this gravity ; "I
can't hel]) laughing when I think of Gen as
T saw her the other day, before you came.
So like a queen ! Ha, ha, ha ! "

Keith sullenly looked the inquiry he
would not deign to speak, and Hal went on —

Did you ever see a hole in the wood, in

the fir copse, under the sandstone cliff, where
the old badger used to live ? No ? Well,
I never knew of it myself, until Gen, as a
great favour, offered to show it me, and she
made me send back the dogs, and away wee
went ; and when we got there, somebody —
one of the gamekeepers, I suspect — had been
before us, trying to dig the old fellow out."

Keith grew interested. 'had he dug
him out 1 "

I can't say, but I fancy not. There was
a hole duo' in the soft sand, bis: enough to
bury you in, but it took a turn, and
tunnelled under the cliff, which had baffled
the thief, whoever he was. The badger maybe
there now, for all I know. But the state
Jenny got into, that her pet should have
been molested ! She wept for vexation 1 "

"If I could get hold of that keeper ! "
growled Keith, savagely.

"And then," continued Hal, "nothing

would do but she must make research, and
down lie went on all fours, and tried to
creep into the hole, to see how far it had
been dug out. Ha, ha, ha ! Fancy a
queen with her hind legs sticking out of
a badger hole ! " -

The brute might have been there and
attacked her ; you ought not to have allowed
her," said Keith, angrily.

To whom Hal : "I tried to stop her from
going too far by catching hold of her boot,
but, by Jove ! she lashed out at me ! I had
to let go, lest her leg should come off ! "

Keith looked, as he felt, unutterably
disgusted, but it was with Harry, not with
Gen. " She should never have run such a
risk" (he meant of the badger s attack, not of
her leg coming off) "if I had been with her,"
he said.

"As if any one could prevent Jenny from
doing what she likes ! She is queenly enough

SO far ; but you'd understand how I couldn't
be spooney on a princess whom I had seen
backing: out of a bad-er hole with "

I wish," interrupted Keith, viciously —
I wish I could thrash something like
refinement or even common decency into
you when you are speaking of a lady. I
would spoil a good crabstick in trying "

"Try it on Eory first," laughed Hal.
Then, suddenly changing his tone — " But I
know what makes you so savage. You
think I'm not to be trusted with Jenny,
because I laugh at her. I can tell you I'm
not such a cad as to take a mean advantage
of a girl because she's a bit of a hoyden.
I mio^ht be alone with her in the Black
Forest, and I'd never so much as steal a
kiss from her. So there, now. Shut your
mouth, old fellow ! "

The old fellow did.

CHAPTER XIII.

PITILESS.

The flush of summer was fading, the
autumn joys of huntsmen and sportsmen
were growing subjects of anticipation to those
gentlemen, and not least to Harry Stanforth.
Signs of active preparation for the arrival
of " the family " were clearly discernible up
at Oaklandss. The day was fixed for Lady
Dalton's long-looked-for appearance, and
Harry had gone off to Aix-les-Bains a fortnight
ago, to escort her and Mrs. Verney to
their new home. All was excitement and
curiosity at Wendholm. The housekeeper
at Oaklandss was a shy, timid woman, who
had never been '' out " before, and, like the

other servants, had never seen her present
mistress, and in her anxiety to prepare everything
as it shoukl be for her reception, she
grew quite nervous and hysterical, and
would have broken down altogether, but for
the counsel and comfort of the ladies at the
Vicarage and the Grange.

Genevra," said Mrs. Farquhar on the
morning of the important day, *you had
better run up to the Heights, and see that
Mrs. Hudson has done everything that sister
Chatty told her yesterday, and that the
gardener has taken in the flowers as we
directed. Just give a look round, and see
that she has not forgotten anything. I never
saw such a feckless creature as she is. Neither
I nor Chatty can go up there until after
lunch, and that will be too late to correct
mistakes, if she makes any. Lady Dalton
will be here before dusk, if she comes by
Wotton."

Away went Jenny, singing merrily as
she sped up the steep woodland paths, as
light-footed as a chamois, full of the
pleasurable excitement of the event, so
important to AVendholm, of the coming of
new neighbours to the house which she had
never remembered other than lonely and
deserted, and full of glee at the looked-for
return of her playfellow and comrade Harry,
whom she had sorely missed the last fortnight
; for, although he had tried to worry
her about that unlucky quotation from
Mrs. Browning's poem, yet, as Keith had
quitted Oaklandss the day following the
adventure with Tory O'O'More, Mr. Stan-forth's
raillery had lost its sting.

On reaching Oaklandss, she found that she
had started too late. Under the pressure of
some new difficulty, Mrs. Hudson had gone
down to the Vicarage to implore Mrs. Burnes's
advice and assistance immediately after

breakfast, and having gone by the drive,
Jenny, coming through the wood, had missed
her. However, she " took a look round," as
Mrs. Farquhar had told her, rearranged the
flowers on the tables, corrected a few trifling
blunders here and there, and then went into
the library to await the housekeeper's return,
threw herself into the cosiest chair she could
find, and was soon deeply interested in a
review that had been left by that morning's
post, and lay uncut on a side table. While
thus engaged, a shadow darkened the window,
and .looking up, she saw, to her amazement,
the tall figure of Keith Moray, with a gun on
his shoulder, peering inquisitively into the
room, as though trying to make out whose
was the studious figure, partly shaded by the
window curtains, bending over her book.
Apparently he did make it out, for he raised
his hat and passed quickly by, towards the
halL She half rose to fly, but she could

not go into the ball without passing him.
Of course he would go on to the gun-room,
and then she would slip away. She had
left the door ajar, and she heard him pause
and say something to a servant who went
forward to meet him. He was handing him
his gun. Surely he would iiever have the
audacity to join her ? Yes, there he was,
actually looking at lier, on the threshold !
She rose to her feet, assuming her coldest,
most repellent air.

'*Mr. Moray ! I certainly never expected
to meet you here," she said. '' When did
you come ? Where is Harry '? "

I only came late last night," he answered.
I met Hal in town, and he beo;ored me to
run up to Oaklandss, that his mother might
not have only strange faces to greet her at
her new home."

He ought not to have counted us as
strangers," said Jenny. " We are all so

anxious to give Lady Dalton a cordial
welcome."

As she spoke, she laid down her book
and made a slight gesture as if to leave the
room, though she did not quite see how she
could manage it with dignity, as long as he
stuck there in the doorway ! But he
suddenly closed the door, and strode hastily
towards her, speaking in a low and eager
tone.

Miss Farquhar, forgive my intrusion ;
we may never again be alone together. Let
me say but one word, this once." It
seemed easier for him to speak than for her,
for her voice would not come. He took a
step nearer. 'only one word. Miss
Farquhar — General forgive ! " Still she
remained silent. " Have I not been punished
enough ? You are cruel, you are pitiless.
Be assured that if you can forgive me, I
shall never forgive myself; and yet it was

but a momentary loss of self-control — my
heart never wronged you."

Certainly Jenny was " cruel" and " pitiless,"
but was it towards him or towards
herself? She replied icily, "There are
offences which can never be forgiven. I
wish to return home, Mr. Moray."

He made an effort to speak as coldly as
she did. " Since I am such an object of
dislike — of disgust — to you" — he paused,
hoping for some disclaimer, but Jenny made
none — " it would be unmanly in me to
compel you any longer to tolerate my
presence. I will leave Oaklandss tomorrow.
I will never return, without your permission.
Is this your wish-miss Farquhar ? "

Jenny tossed her curly head disdainfully,
nowise moved by her vassal's abject self-renunciation.
" I am not mistress of your
movements, Mr. Moray," she said.

He drew a step nearer. " You are

mistress and queen," he answered. " You
have the right, if you will, to exile me from
any spot which is made my Eden by your
presence."

This was a great deal warmer than Keith
had at first intended. It almost frightened
Jenny, to whom Sir Brian's mild courtesies
had been the only love-making she had ever
known. She glanced a little shyly at the
handsome, pleading face above her, and
hesitated ; but she rallied instantly, and grew
all the harder for her momentary shrinking.
How dared he address her in such
words, and pretending to be so humble,
too ! She put on an air of frigid indifference,
and replied —

It would be unjust to punish your
friends here, who may value your society —
Harry or Lady Dalton, for instance — for
any offence you have been guilty of towards
me. I can look on you as their guest, and —

VOL. II. 32

and — bear with you for their sakes ; you
cannot expect me to esteem you."

No, I suppose not," rejoined Keith,
meekly, and still looking fixedly at her ;
*' but," he added, more firmly, *you shall do
so one day, Genevra ! "

Here a slight movement made them both
look round, and, lo ! in the doorway lowered
the baleful shadow of the Vicar's wife,
contemplating the pair with a stony impassiveness
that was more awful than
spoken censure, else why should Genevra
blush so vividly, or Keith start away from
before her — he was standing rather close —
and hasten to greet Mrs. Burnes with such
effusive cordiality ?

"Good morning, Mr, Moray," she said,
extending to him a wooden hand, which
Keith received to lift up and down like
a door-knocker, and then let fall. (No one
ever shook hands in the true sense of the

words with Chatty Burnes.) She turned to
Jenny. " Genevra, Mrs. Hudson has been
with me, and I drove her up here to fetch you
home. I have given her all needful directions,
and I think she can manage without
us now ; so come at once, if you please, my
dear."

I am quite ready, Mrs. Burnes,"
answered Jenny, passing Keith with the
very slightest bow.

He followed her into the hall, handed
Mrs. Burnes into the pony carriage, while
Jenny sprang lightly in on the other
side, and then watched them drive off,
all in deep silence — the younger lady
because she did not choose to speak,
the elder because she had nothing to say ;
nothing, at least, while the pony was trotting
briskly down the steep incline from the
Heights to the lodge gates. But when they
came out on the more level road, and

slackened pace, Mrs. Burnes began, in her
low, clear, incisive tones —

May I ask you, Genevra, how long were
you and young Mr. Moray shut up alone
together and in Lady Dalton's library,
during her absence ? "

How long ? " answered Jenny, carelessly.
'' Eeally I did not look at the clock
when he came in, and I think you should
not say I was ' shut up with him,' for you
know you had free admission, sister Chatty."

Mrs. Burnes never resented Miss Farquhar's
little insolences ; the girl would have liked
her better if she had. She rejoined, in her
calm monotone, and without the slightest
sign of displeasure, " I used that expression,
Genevra, not because I should have myself
chosen it as the most applicable to the
situation, but because it was the one that
would probably have suggested itself to
Lady Dalton and her party if they, and not

I, had interrupted your conversation with
Mr. Moray."

*' Then please use expressions of your
own choice, Mrs. Burnes, and leave Lady
Dalton s to her."

"I do not wish to offend or pain you,
Genevra ; you are very young, and, comparing
you with the young ladies I meet at Bedford,
you are very childish for your years. You
are, like all young people, liable to take
erroneous views of life and duty, and loth
to be guided by the experience of your
older friends. Still, I have always observed
that you hold firmly to duty as you understand
it, and do not swerve from what you
think is right from mere feeling and impulse,
as many girls do."

"Thank you, Mrs. Burnes," said Jenny,
simply.

Charlotte went on : " You may err
from inexperience, from imprudence, but

not, I think, from levity or want of maidenly
self-respect "

** Mercy, sister Chatty' interrupted
Jenny, impatient of this long preamble ;
do come to the point. Are you blaming
me for not rushing out of the room where
I had been sitting quietly reading for half
an hour, because a young man, staying in
the house, happens to come in ? "

'' I am not blaming you, Genevra ; I am
only warning you."

Jenny looked up interrogatively, but said
nothing.

Mrs. Burnes paused a little, as if doubtful
of her next speech ; then she said,
slowly, "Is it just to Sir Brian Carruthers,
Jenny, that you should allow any other
man opportunities of offering you attentions
which he is debarred from pressing on you?"

*' Why, Mrs. Burnes, do you consider that
I am engaged to Sir Brian ? "

Perhaps not exactly ; but I should
consider it indelicate in you to encourage
Mr. Moray, or any one else, until your
relations with Sir Brian are more defined
than they are at present."

Well, I am not likely to encourage
any one's attentions, and Mr. Moray's least
of all."

So you may think now, Genevra ; but
you must not wonder if your friends distrust
the stability of a young lady's
resolutions who receives the addresses of
a gentleman one day, and rejects them without
reason a fortnight after."

But at least I am free ? "

Nominally so, as far as I can understand
your position. Your conduct has been
attributed to a mere childish caprice, and
your first answer remains, as it were, in
abeyance, until your riper judgment has
taught you that such decisions should be

final — the period which your father fixed
for you as your eighteenth year. Until
then, it would be ungenerous and indelicate
to your first lover to insult him by encouraging
any rival. This should be a point
of honour with you, Jenny, if you are not
too childish to understand it."

Jenny burst out passionately : "I never
will marry Sir Brian, if he waits till he is
seventy ; and no one else will ever seek me."

You can settle that first point a year
hence, Genevra, and" — with a small smile —
"the second may be deferred a few years
longer, and no harm done to anybody."

Jenny fell a-musing, and Mrs. Burnes
was too well satisfied with that effect of
her oration to risk spoiling it by insistance.
She did not, in fact, attribute much significance
to the simple fact of finding Keith
shut up " with Miss Farquhar, Mrs.
Hudson having told her of the young man's
arrival as she was driving her back to Oak-lands

; and on the very few occasions on
which she had chanced to see him in
Jenny's society he had been apparently in
attendance on his friend Harry Stanforth,
and there had been no sign whatever of any
but the most formal intercourse between the
girl and him, nothing whatever of the
frank familiarity that had sometimes scandalized
her between Harry and Genevra.
She had merely chosen the incident as a
text from which to deliver her warnings
sermon, for any future contingency ; and
as Miss Farquhar, on arriving at the Arrange,
alighted from the carriage and walked
thoughtfully into the house, Mrs. Burnes
turned her pony's head homewards, with
the feeling that for once her counsel would
be taken to heart, perhaps as regarded
young Stanforth as well as his friend ! Poor
Chatty ! As regarded Moray, it was not
needed ; as regarded Harry, it was utterly
wasted and thrown away.

CHAPTER XIV.

INVITED TO Oakland.

Sir Brian escorted the beautiful Lady
Dalton to Aix-les-Bains, and committed to
Lady Carruthers and Georgina the sacred
charge of amusing her ; but he was considerate
enough not to decline a share in
it, and even the greater share. To Georgina's
pressing inquiries about his engagement to
Miss Farquhar, he opposed a strict reticence.

The lady's friends will not hear of an
engagement at present," he said; *they
think her far too young."

But what are Jenny's views on the
subject, Cousin Brian ? She is so indulged
that everybody will have to give way to

her at last. What is the understanding
between her and you ? "

But Brian declined to explain. " The
engagement being deferred, Georgina, it
would not be delicate to discuss it for the
present. If any friend of mine breaks
through this reserve, I shall understand it
to mean that our friendship is at an end."

He said this so significantly that Georgia,
who could not well afford to offend
him, promised the most discreet silence.

"No word will ever pass my lips to anyone
on the subject, cousin," she said, "and
I am sure I can promise for mamma also."

And Sir Brian was satisfied.

To her mother she observed, " I dare say
Aunt Farquhar objected to the disparity
of age between Genevra and Brian, and lie
does not choose to say so."

"Then your aunt Farquhar was a goose,"
returned Lady Carruthers, snappishly. "She

will not find a better husband in every
respect for her little unformed chit of a girl.
You had better catch the ball on the rebound,
Georgina."

I must first be sure that it is on rebound.
But what of the beautiful Lady
Dalton, whom Brian has brought here,
mamma ? "

*' Oh, that is nothing. She is quite an old
friend, she says, and she lives, or is going to
live, near the Farquharss."

For although Georgina quieted her mother s
rather languid curiosity about Genevra by
affecting to believe that Brian had been
finally dismissed by the young lady's friends,
she was by no means so sure as she had
pretended to be that " all was over " in that
direction. Her suspicions had been excited
ley a nameless something in her cousin's
manner when she had questioned him, that
was not altogether reconcilable either with

the theory of a decided refusal, or with that
of a merely deferred engagement. It was
the manner of a person who wishes to avoid,
even to conceal, some very disagreeable
affair. Miss Carruthers scented a mystery,
and was determined to unravel it. But how?
She foresaw no likelihood at all of beinor
invited to the scene of action. The only
communication that had passed between the
Carruthers' and AVendholm after Jenny's
return had come in the shape of a formal
note from Mrs. Burnes, written in the name
and at the request of her sister, who was
too occupied with Jenny, and too anxious
about her, to write herself. It was as
formal and as cold as Chatty could make it,
which is saying a great deal. It gave a
brief statement of the accident from which
Genevra was suffering, "in consequence of
having mistaken her train," and au equally
brief and ceremonious expression of thanks

for Lady Carruthers' courteous *^ hospitality
to her," more than qualified by a severe
reproof of her negligence in sending so
young a girl on a long journey, unattended
by the maid whom she had promised to
send with her — a neglect to which all hero



present suffering might be attributed. Both
Lady Carruthers and her daughter had
naturally resented the tone of this note,
but Geordie had no intention whatever of
quarrelling with the Grange, so she had
replied by a few conciliatory lines of regret
and sympathy, taking no notice at all of the
more than implied reproach, and pressing
for frequent tidings of '^ poor darling
Jenny." After a fortnight's silence, a few
words came from " darling Jenny " herself,
announcing her convalescence, but making
response whatever to her cousin's effusive
cordiality. Nothing unkind was intended,
but Genevra was unaccustomed to correspondence,

and disliked it, and her relatives
had made so very faint an impression on her
while she was with them, that absence was
not likely to have deepened it. But
Georgina saw at once that there would
be no likelihood of an immediate invitation
to Wendholm, and to Wendholm she was
determined to go. She wished to *' exploits
" her rustic relatives, and she could
only do so by endearing herself to Genevra,
whose indifference she thought she could
soon overcome. She wished to ascertain on
what footing Sir Brian stood at the Grasse.
She could only find that out by personal
observation. She had not, in truth, the
faintest wish or intention to secure that
gentleman's affections for herself She
was too acute not to see that she had not
the slightest chance of doing so, and she
was quite sincere in the disgust she had expressed
to her mother at the idea of an

inherited lover. Moreover, she truly desired
that her cousin " should marry into the
family," and thus provide her, if not with
a permanent home, at least with a pleasant
resort than her sister s house would be, and
one in which she would have far better
opportunities for social advancement for
herself. To Wendholm she would go — if
not to the Grange, then to Oaklandss. The
Grange would follow as a matter of course,
and, in any case, this new acquaintance that
Carruthers had presented to her might prove
a source of pleasure and profit, quite
independently of any deeper plans.

Accordingly, she set herself with the utmost
assiduity to win the beautiful stranger's
regard. It might have been more difficult
to enter into her close intimacy, with that
everlasting Mrs. Yerney always beside her ;
but "Doggie" showed not even as much
jealousy of a rival friend's approach as an

actual lap-dog would have shown. She
rather enjoyed studying the humours of the
somewhat motley throng that Lady Dalton
liked to assemble round her, and allowed
Miss Carruthers all the opportunity she
could wish of making herself agreeable to
the trio, severally, in turn, and altogether.
Even Sir Brian, who did not love Georgina,
for her father's sake, softened a little
towards her when she received his new-old
friend with such prompt good will, showed
no foolish suspicion of him, and no feminine
spite and jealousy of a beauty that she could
never hope to rival ; while Lady Dalton
proved, of course, a very easy conquest. As
yet, she had not former her circle of
intimate female friends, and was glad to
make a beginning with Sir Brian's quite
unexceptionable womankind, and she was
delighted with Georgia assiduous endeavours
to please and amuse her, and responded
VOL. II. 33

to them with her sweetest cordiality. At
length there came for Lady Carruthers the
expected summons to her daughter's new
home.

*' Everything is so settled and comfortable
now," she wrote. "I am dying for my
dearest mother and Georgie to join me and
my Edward. Do come, next Saturday at
latest."

"And cannot you stay at Aix, at least
as long as we do?" inquired Lady Dalton,
when Miss Carruthers had told her of this
message. 'ewe shall be so dull when you
leave us, and Sir Brian, too, returns to England
tomorrow, he says."

I wish I could persuade mother to stay,"
answered Georgie, '^ but she is wild to see
Anne in her new home. It will be frightfully
dull for me there. You, dear Lady
Dalton, have made Aix-les-Bains such a
bright memory for me. I could not have

supposed that in so short a time — only three
or four weeks — a parting could be made so
bitter. But then, it may be a parting forever."


''Oh, I can't allow such a suggestion as
that' cried Stella. " You must come to meat
Oaklandss for a long visit. Cannot you
accompany me there, and leave Lady
Carruthers to your sister for the while ? "

"Three are no company, you know."

But here Mrs. Verney thought fit to interpose.
" My dear Stella, how can you be so
thoughtless ? It would be horribly dull for
Miss Carruthers at Oaklandss while everything
was strange to you, and all your neighbour's
to Stow intimate with. And how could she
leave her mother to travel alone ? '^

You must follow us then," said Stella,
when you have settled Lady Carruthers at

Mrs. What did you tell me is your

sister's name T'

"It would be a very long journey,"
answered Georo;ina. "I do not think mother
would trust me so far alone, and we cannot
afford a maid to go with me."

But Sir Brian could meet you in tow-n,
and bring you down to Oaklandss ? "

"Of course he could, if you include
him in your kind invitation. Indeed, it
would make it quite easy for us both ; for
both he and I have friends in that neighbourhood,
with whom we should be charmed to
renew our acquaintance. Ah ! here he comes
to speak for himself. Cousin Brian, I have
taken the right of a lady over her bachelor
relations to claim a service from you."

"And I," said Stella, smiling sweetly
upon him, " put in a claim, in my son's
name, to — not a service, but a pleasure and
a privilege that Sir Brian will grant as Hal's
mother's ' long-ago ' friend."

Sir Brian bowed to both speakers, and

looked interrogatively at Lady Dalton, who
proceeded to press her invitation upon him
in her most winning, almost caressing way —
an invitation which, it is needless to say,
was courteously accepted.

"You must understand," I^ady Dalton
proceeded to explain, " that I invite you in
my dear boy's name. He is the master of
Oaklandss ; only the ladies of our little
circle will be my guests."

Brian again bowed acquiescence, and Stella
and her companions affected the usual
unconsciousness of his muttered " aside " — •
I cannot see what such pretty women
want with ' dear boys ' at all ! "

*' Indeed," resumed Stella, as soon as she
could stifle her laugh, " I am most anxious
to present my darling Harry to you both.
I am sure you weill like him, he is so
thoroughly hoi jargon. Not handsome,
you know " — to Georgie — " not even very

polished. He tells me his friends call him
Ursa Minor.' "

A constellation and a star ! " said Brian,
whose ideas on astronomical subjects were
rather indefinite. ** How brilliant must bethe
circle at Oaklandss, thus lighted ! "

"Well," said Stella, laughing, ''1 am
certain my ' Ursa Minor ' has no pretensions
to great brilliancy. You will have to bring
your light with you, dear people ; and
George tells me you have friends already,
Sir Brian, at Wendholm ? Not my friends
the Portrays of Greenhayes, are they ? "

'' I can hardly call the Portrays friends,"
answered Carruthers, evasively. " I have
]put a slight acquaintance with the admiral,
and none with the ladies of his family, but
1 shall be happy to improve it under your
auspices. Lady Dalton."

Here Georgina came to his relief by
turning the conversation upon Harry and

his merits, and Brian inwardly congratulated
himself at having escaped any questions
about Genevra or her people. He was very
glad to be invited to Oaklandss. He had no
thought of forfeiting his pledge to Miss
Farquhar, but his soul was disquieted within
him when he reflected, as he very often did,
on that unfortunate confession of hers.
Why had she not told her mother? And
could she really make no guess as to who
that confounded scamp was ? He did not
actually suspect her of deceiving him, he
had no intention of watching her in any
sense of espial, but he thought that, all
things considered, since he might not visit
at the Grange as a lover, it was well that
he should have secured a post of vantage
at Oaklandss, from which he could see a
little more of Jenny's ways, and of her
intimacies also, before he was called upon
finally to commit himself.

Poor Sir Brian ! He hall certainly been
most unlucky in his love affairs, even in
their latest results. Lady Carruthers was
a perpetual disgust to him ; she was old,
she was lean, she was stupid. He rejoiced
to think that she was going to live with
her married daughter, and was not included
in Lady Dalton's invitation. He disliked
Georgina. She was hard featured ; she
was the image of her treacherous father ;
he half suspected that she was treacherous
too ; but there was no present likelihood of
getting rid of her and her cousinly charms,
since she was the excuse, the reason d'etre,
of his purposed visit to Oaklandss. Then
there was Stella Dalton, whose grace and
beauty had effaced the last lingering memory
of Millicent Farquhar in the heart of the
lonely exile of Rio Vedass, dio had admired
her as deeply as he dared to admire another
man's wife. And he finds her free and

still fair, but the widow of two " dear
departed' and with a "dear boy" hanging
(metaphorically) round her neck, like a
locket containing the portrait of one of
them ! And when Brian would turn from
these odious associations to the image of
a sweet, child-like maiden, in her flower-like
freshness and purity, he was confronted by
the abhorrent vision of some red-bearded,
tobacco-scented ruffian, who had kissed her
in a railway carriage, and who, on her very
bridal trip, might meet her and hioio her
again! Whereupon Carruthers swore once
more, in every language he knew, the
polyglot curse he reserved for the unknown
delinquent, and with its customary non-effect
1

CHAPTEK XV.

WENDHOLM TRANSFORMED.

Not Pdp van Winkle himself, on awaking
from his long slumber, could have found his
native village more transformed than the
inhabitants of Wendholm found theirs, a
few weeks after the arrival of the new-tenant
of Oakland Heights.

For a widow in search of a retreat in
which to mourn, a widow with only one
son and a very quiet, middle-aged " companion,"
Lady Dal ton showed a peculiar
gift for surrounding herself with a cheerful
circle of sympathizers, who gave her so little
time to /' weep her woman's tears " that

they had no occasion to weep with her. Asa
matter of course, all " the best people "
for miles round, and many of the second
best, had hastened to call on her ; and,
though receiving them in the rankest
weeds," and alluding, with tender feeling,
to the effort it was to her to suppress her
own sorrow, that she might not sadden the
youthful brightness of her " darling boy,"
she so evidently intended the effort to be
made, and, as far as could be seen, it was
so perfectly successful, that the seclusion
was speedily understood to mean only the
withdrawal for a season or so from the more
public gaieties of the world of fashion, and
admitted as a plea for the informal hospitality
which had much of the freedom and
familiarity of a young bachelor's home.

No ceremonious visiting, of course,"
Lady Dalton would say softly. " But Parry
is master here ; he must have his friends

about him and his owt amusements, and
I, too, must have my special circle. I could
not yet bear to mix with people to whom
I am quite indifferent."

And something in the caressing: tones,
some momentary light in the beautiful eyes,
always flattered the innocent victims she
addressed that they, at least, were included
in the " special circle " for which she pined.
Not that the innocent victims were to be
pitied by any means. Stella Dalton had
that rarest gift in fascinating woman of
charming her own sex almost equally with
the other, and she exercised it quite impartially.
She was ably seconded by Harry,
who won all hearts by his genial frankness,
his eagerness to join in any " fun " that
might be going, his unaffected cordiality
and generosity.

And thus sleepy Wendholm had grown
awake and aware of a sudden stirring: of

vivacious life around and within the long
deserted manor-house, with which the very
autumn leaves in the quiet woodlands
might have seemed to glow in sympathy.
Gay groups flitted through the gardens,
admiring the completed improvements or
suo^gestino^ new ones. There was the
frequent rattle of guns in the stubble fields
or amonor the heather : there was rushing
to and from the station of "traps" driven
by stalwart youths, often with their sisters
beside them ; and the hedgerows rung with
merry laughter, as youths and maidens
swept by on the well-bred and well-groomed
horses which Harry was always ready to
furnish from his stables to his guests who
could ride, or only thought they could.

Verily all the gentle widow's crape and
sables, even her occasional moods — very
brief moods — of pensiveness, were not too
much or too many to persuade or remind her

little world that she dwelt in a sphere of
sorrow, remote from all the brilliance of
transformed Wendholm.

There was one person, however, who
seemed wholly uninfluenced by the spells of
the Calypso of Oaklandss — wholly softened,
at least — and that was Chatty Burnes.

Lady Dalton had found it easy to win
simple Mrs. Farquhar. Not, indeed, to join
the rabble rout" (I beg their pardon) that
surrounded her — Juliet was too shy and
retiring for that — but to confide her stepdaughter
to her without hesitation, permitting
her to run up and down on the
same terms of rapid intimacy that already
existed between her and Stanforth.

Genevra had naturally been attracted to
her new neighbours by the liveliness and
gaiety of heart which her embarrassing
rupture with Sir Brian, resulting from her
too unguarded intercourse with a stranger,

had a little shadowed, but could not altogether
repress.

Mrs. Burnes alone maintained an attitude
of distrust and disapproval of Lady Dalton
and all her works, which seldom revealed
itself in words, but which made her manner
so cold and freezing, that it chilled the
very atmosphere around her whenever she
entered Stella's presence. She had always
had the likeness of an image of stone ;
now she seemed moulded out of an iceberg,
but that she never thawed or melted.
And she was often in Stella's presence. For
Charley immensely enjoyed the life and
animation of Oaklandss, and went there on
every excuse ; so that the festivities there
were seldom unbraced by sister Chatty, who
might have been enacting the part of the
skeleton at an Egyptian banquet, so mute
and rigid was she amid the merriment
around her, or contemplating it rather as

an Egyptian Sphinx in a ruined temple
might look down on the mirth of a party of
Cook's tourists beneath her. But no
Sphinx could have been more severely
reticent of her ideas on the subject. Did
she resent the altered aspect of the society
over which she had once reigned a queen,
and which had now deposed her for a more
brilliant sovereign ? Or did she acknowledge
the Nemesis of women who have wedded
youthful husbands, and brood regretfully
over the memory of days when Charley had
no opportunity of contrasting her faded
charms with those of brighter women —
when he found sufficient recreation after
the parish labours which she more than
shared, in a summer lounge beside her tea-table
on the lawn, or a quiet game of whist
in the evenings with a few friends from
neighbouring parsonages, or a game of chess
with Jenny or Mrs. Farquhar at the

Grange, but always with his " Eosebud " at
his side ?

If such regrets ever tortured poor Chatty's
soul, no Spartan could have more resolutely
hidden his pain. She was not one to yield
to compromise in her views of wifely duty.
Without a word of remonstrance, she would,
at her husband's request, write the acceptance
to Lady Dalton's little notes of invitation
to her frequent fetes. With even a
dim, watery smile, she would lay aside the
work on which she was engaged, whether of
the parish or the household, to accompany
him to an afternoon tea or to lawn tennis
on the Heights ; although not seldom her
volatile spouse, after bringing her home,
would leave her, to go back at a later hour
to escort Genevra through the woods to the
Grange. The patient wife might have been
awaiting him until near midnight — she never
breathed murmur or comment, and Charley.
VOL. II. 34

was not keen enough to detect any effort in
her smile. Her "face like a tragic mask,"
as Mrs. Vernej called it, stood her in good
stead there.

The reappearance of Sir Brian at Wend-holm,
with her cousin Georgina, had been a
surprise to Jenny's friends. Although they
must have thought it possible that he would
make some excuse for revisiting Wendholm,
they were none of them prepared to see him
return in charge of oue lady and as the
guest of another. But the surprise was but
transitory. Sir Brian, who was seldom
embarrassed, seemed to take it as so mucha
matter of course that so old a friend as
Lady Dalton should have included him in
her invitation to his cousin, and still more
so that Georgina should have insisted on his
escorting her.

No lady should travel alone, if it can be
avoided," said Sir Brian ; and Mrs. Burnes

wondered that Jenny should blush at that
innocent observation. And then the wiseacres
privately agreed that, since Carruthers
had disclaimed any intention to compromise
Jenny's freedom by his attentions, he had
taken the best way to bring himself into her
society without exciting remark or gossip.

He seldom called at the Grange — never
unaccompanied by Georgina, and when there
confined his attentions so entirely to Mrs.
Farquhar, that he might have been supposed
to be courting her. To Genevra his manner
was simply kind and courteous, without a
trace of sentiment or gallantry ; and, after
the first shyness of her meeting with him in
Miss Carruthers' presence, finding that no
allusion was made by either of them to the
past or to the future, she grew as fearless
of any advance on his ipiivt as a tame canary
is of a studied cat. Why, then, could she not
forget Mrs. Burnes's impressive warning ;

or, if she had forgotten it, why did she, like
a spring wind, veer back from the northwest
— to which she had been inclining
towards Keith since his rescue of her from
Eory O'O'More — back to the icy, pitiless
north, without warmth or promise ?

Poor Keith's dawning hopes of pardon
and reconciliation were cruelly frost-bitten.
He had quitted Oaklandss a few days after
Lady Dalton's arrival, and returned for
another of his flying visits while Sir Brian
and Georgina and a host of other guests
were surrounding her and occupying Harry's
attention ; and he was received by Miss
Farquhar, or repelled rather than received,
with a haughty indifference to which her
former treatment of him had been cordial
ane affectionate. Her manner to Stanforth
was unchanged ; but as his time was taken
up for the present with new acquaintance,
and as Jenny was oftener accompanied by

Miss Carruthers, who kept close watch and
paid assiduous court to her, Keith had to
make his approaches through that " hard-featured
" duenna, with the result that both
Sir Brian and the lady herself imagined
that it was to her he was devoted. Sir
Brian languidly wondered at his taste, but
Georgina herself did not. Miss Carruthers
remained a fixture at Wendholm, but Sir
Brian only went there occasionally, and, as it
happened, he and Keith were seldom thereat
the same time ; but the younger man
attached no meaning to the circumstance —
which he did not even remark — that when the
baronet was not there, Georgina relaxed her
guard over Genevra, and Genevra relaxed
her severity to him. Mere coincidence !

A lover, however, can nourish his love
upon very little, and Keith ran no risk of
being reduced to actual famine as long as
there was any dancing going on at the

Heights, and that was very often. Mr.
Moray had been careful that his nephew's
attainments should include even the minor
accomplishments that would tend to make
him welcome in society of his own age and
class, and Keith was as perfect a dancer
as natural terrace and a true ear could make

o

him. Therefore he was much sought after
as a partner by the girls of the houses where
he visited. Moreover, he was known to be
rather fastidious in the choice of partners
whose dancing would do him justice, so that
the ladies whom he selected were at once
looked upon as decorated with the gold
medal of excellence in their art, though
they might not flatter themselves that sentiment
had anything to do with the distinction.
As for Genevra, Mr. Burnes, who
had some musical taste, used to say of her,
Jenny has no great ear for music, but she
has plenty of tune in her legs ; " and if her

steps occasionally erred in time, it was very
rarely, and they must indeed have been
hypercritical who would have noticed that,
while they watched the fairy-like lightness
of her motions, and the passion of youthful
enjoyment that seemed to ray from her as
she danced, like the sparkle of a flitting
firefly. But for some time Keith withdrew
from the circle, and contented himself with
watching her, not daring to approach her
and to risk a repulse.

Jenny, on her part, would have given
much for a partner who would, as Miss
Port way said, *' bear her along like a
breeze," and would never, as so many
of her partners did, tread on her toes,
or tear her dress, or bounce her against
another couple ; for poor Jenny, not being
particularly popular, and being considered
almost a child, was left very much to the
attentions of the 'awkward squad." Harry

was her most frequent partner, and Harry's
dancing, it must be admitted, was a thing
to shudder at. And she knew quite well
that a glance, a word, would have brought
Keith to her side in a moment, but — how
about her dignity ? No, it was not to bethought
of. Yet she sighed ; and she would
probably have resolutely persevered in this
noble self-restraint, but that one evening,
while she was jolted in the arms of an
especially clumsy youth, past a couple who
had been for some time observing and
criticising her, she heard the lady say —

Oh, Mr. Moray ? He never dances with
her. She does not dance well enough for
him."

Could female fortitude stand that? Little
Jenny, at least, was no such ancient Roman.
Presently, as she stood alone within a few
paces of Keith, she let fall her bouquet, on
which he instantly pounced, like a crow

on a barley-corn ; only he didn't eat it,
though in stooping for it he made a furtive
gesture as if he meant to do so ; and as he
returned it to her, she said, in a voice that
was almost soft —

'why are you not dancing, Mr. Moray?"

He murmured his reply : " I dare not
risk a repulse. '

Is not that something like mock bashfulness
? " answered Jenny, looking away
from those too earnest eyes. "Who that
loves dancing would refuse the best dancer
in the room ? "

You would," was all that Keith could
find to say.

Jenny hesitated a little, and then, with an
assumed carelessness, but still looking away,
"I will take a turn with you if you like," she
said, almost in a whisper — she was so afraid
of being overheard inviting a partner.

Keith felt as if an angel had stooped

from the sky to ask him to sit beside her on
a rainbow.

After that, it was the usual thing for Miss
Farquhar to " give " one dance at least every
evening to Mr. Moray, to his speechless
rapture, her own marked improvement, and
the " medalled ones' " profound disgust.
But the ungracious little vixen took care
that poor Keith should make no mistake as
to what he owed he owed his happiness to ;
she made him whirl her round till she was,
or feigned to be, too breathless for a word of
conversation. Then, when the music stopped,
she withdrew to the side of Mrs. Burnes or
Mrs. Farquhar, like a shy young maid who
does not stir from the charge of her chaperon,
and dismissed him with the air of a royal
princess ; and Keith dared not linger.

Among the young folks who frequented
Oaklandss, Harry Stanforth was chief favourite,
in spite or, perhaps, because of his being

SO far without the pale of matrimonial
eligibles. No youth thought of him as a
rival, no girl dreamt of monopolizing his
attentions — " He was such a boy;" Awhile his
unflagging good-humour and gaiety made
him eagerly welcome to all. Keith himself
was less popular. He was a little too grave,
a great deal too cold, and suffered himself to
be too much at Miss Carruthers' beck and
call, at whose side he was so often to be
found, though, to be sure, he could not
mean anything, as she was too old for him
and too plain for anybody ; and little Jenny
Farquhar being always one of the group of
three, why, there was nothing particular
between the two, of course ! And he was
so handsome, and would be a very good
match when his uncle should die ; and he
was always courteous and obliging, ready to
join in anything that was going on, and
(quite an Admirable Crichton for doing everything

well. So he was well received by
Lady Dalton's visitors, and invited to all
the "best" houses in the county.

But there was one person who eyed him
with strong, though secret disfavour. Sir
Brian Carruthers entertained the deep prejudice
often felt by those who have lived
long in countries where slavery is still
an institution, against any one in whose
veins may be suspected any taint of 'the
servile races," to the tenth generation of
the half-breeds. To see a "black fellow"
petted by ladies and treated on terms of
perfect equality with the heirs of unblemished
English descent, was to him a
subject of disapproval and disgust, though
he kept the feeling to himself, and only
showed it by as much as possible avoiding
all intercourse with young Moray, which
had hitherto been easy enough, as chance
had decreed that the visits of the two men

to Oaklandss had rarely occurred at the same
time. But this could not always happen,
and one day the smouldering fires in Sir
Brian's breast burst forth into flame. He
was sitting with Mrs. Verney and Lady
Dalton in that lady's boudoir, a retreat to
which none had the privilege of access but
himself, Keith, and Harry — a privilege of
which the two young men rarely availed
themselves — when young Moray came in, to
report the result of a commission to Retford,
with which Lady Dalton had entrusted him.

Here are your rebels, Lady Dalton," he
said, laying a small parcel on the table.
They are the best I could find in three
shops, and the showman assured me I
could find no better match anywhere."

"It is perfect, Keith'* replied Stella, after
examining them. " I never hoped to have
had them matched so well. Thank you so
much."

What reward will you give me ? " asked
Keith, smiling down upon her. He was
very fond of Lady Dalton.

"Your success should be its own reward,"
she answered, " but young men are so
mercenary. Here," and she held out to
him her white and jewelled hand ; " you
may kiss my hand as your reward."

And Keith, still smiling, bent down and
lightly touched the pretty fingers with his
moustache (I will never believe that he
really kissed it), and then, bowing to the
ground, he backed out of the sovereign
presence.

Lady Dalton was sorting her rebels, and
did not look towards Sir Brian ; but Mrs.
Verney did, and she observed his moustache
twitch, as it had a habit of doing when
anything annoyed him, and he did not caress
it into serenity.

Why, what ails Sir Brian ? " she enquired.

*' Look at him, Stella ; he looks
almost sulky'

Perhaps," said Carruthers, replying to
Stella's questioning glance — " perhaps. Lady
Dalton, you will think my prejudices are old
fashioned, but in the countries where I have
spent much of my life, no gentleman could
have borne to stand by and see a lady's
hand polluted by the lips of a base-born
nigger ! "

Jealous ! " thought the beautiful widow ;
but she answered calmly, " Why, Keith
Moray is no more base-born than I am,
Sir Brian, and a high-caste East Indian
is not an African negro. Moreover, Keith
is not even an Indian. Colonel Moray
assured Sir Peregrine, years ago, that
although he had made a foolish marriage,
yet that his wife was of the purest Castilian
blood on the father's side."

That may be," replied the baronet, " on

the fathers side ; but all I can sap is that
Moray is the tenth of a shade darker than
any Spaniard I ever saw ! "

Something in Lady Dalton's face warned
him that he had gone too far. Not precisely
a frown — Stella never frowned — unless a
night flower may be said to frown when
it closes its petals against the sun. He
hastened to add —

"• We need not dispute Mr. Moray's pedigree.
It is enough that Lady Dal ton
honours him with her intimacy." (That
word rather stuck in his throat.) " Our
Queen of Beauty," he said in his courtliest
manner, " has the right of ennobling whom
she will among her squires. All the
same," he added, in one of his unconscious
monologue, " if a black fellow like that did
but touch the tips of the fingers of any wife
of mine " (as if he had a dozen), *' I
would "

The threat was inaudible, but Mrs.
Verney's curiosity made her violate the
etiquette which made Sir Brian's friends
deaf to his " asides." " What would you
do to her, Sir Brian ? " she asked.

He started, and looked slightly confused.
I ? Oh ay ! I would present her with a
box of sixes "

Candles or gloves ? " inquired Stella,
mischievously.

And," pursued Carruthers, half relapsing
into monologue, "I would insist on her
wearing them constantly ! "

Alas for poor Sir Brian, so unsuspicious
of nearer and far graver perils ! How
would you guard from the very remembrance
of such defilement the lips of a
future wife of yours ? Would you present
Genevra with a respirator, and insist on
her wearing it constantly ?

VOL. II. 35

CHAPTER XVI.

FOUR MONTHS LATER.

Four montis later. Mrs. Yerney is seated
with a book on her knee, as well as the
lap-dog, watching her friend, who was
arranging some chrysanthemums in a porcelain
vase, singing softly to herself the
while. Then she asked suddenly —

Stella, are you not growing tired of
the dull life in these leafless woods ? "

No, indeed," answered Lady Dal ton,
brightly. " How can I find it dull ? We
always have the house full of guests. Hal
enjoys himself immensely, and everybody
is so kind to me. Why should I be dull

because woods are leafless in December ?
I am not an hamadryad."

You might be, for the satyrs that
dance round you."

"Why, my Doggie, what is there to
snarl at in them ? I am sure they are
very nice. Let me see " — counting on her
jewelled fingers — " there's old General
Moffat, as harmless an old gentleman as
ever ate mulligatawny ; there's Admiral Sir
James Portway, two or three Church dignitaries,
an M.P., and Well, most of these

bring wives, daughters, or sisters in their
train, all of whom, as the Irish say, 'think
the sun rises and sets upon me.' The lordly
male sapphires are not all my jewels."

I know," said Diana, " that the love of
approbation in your pretty head would
astonish the most practised phrenologist.
You will angle for a minnow as readily as
for a trout. But will not your net break

one day, with so many fishes in it ? I
am quite sure that you would sacrifice anyone
of your admirers, rather than lose your
popularity with the rest ; and, I warn you,
there are tempests brewing in our teapot.
Your team, as Harry would say, is becoming
restive."

My Doggie, I implore you, be less profuse
in your metaphors ; and, oh ! don't
look so solemn ! I like you best as a
laughing philosopher. You know Sir Brian
says you are quite misnamed — that you are
more of an epicurean than a cynic, for that
you laugh, but do not sneer."

Sir Brian ? " repeated Diana. "He is
growing quite an authority with you, my
dear. Do you mean to marry him,
Stella ^ "

He has never asked me."

Not in words ; but if looks and devoted
attentions mean anything "

Stella pouted. "I hate men who can
only woo a woman with looks."

*you could easily make his wooing
more definite if you chose."

But I shall not choose," answered Lady
Dal ton. " Sir Brian is very useful to mein
keeping other suitors at a distance. If
I dismissed him, I should be besieged by
importunate admirers of les beaux yeux de
ma cassette."

"Then you do not mean to marry him,
Stella ? "

Scarcely," answered Lady Dalton, carelessly.
" Three husbands ! Why, I should
be as bad — nearly half as bad — as the
woman of the Sadducees with seven ; and
with her it was a family affair. One must
draw the line somewhere ; I draw it at the
second."

"At least, then, you should respect the
husbands of others, who are never likely to

have your liberty of choice. The click of
Mrs. Burnes's knitting-needles is as the clash
of swords, while she never takes her eyes
from your face, as the fat Vicar draws his
chair so close to you, to play with FoUet
on your knee."

Oh, poor innocent Vicar ! " laughed
Stella ; " could I have the heart to deny
him a moment's oblivion of the presence of
the chain that binds him to that woodenest
of figure-heads ? Why, she has no more
sensibility than the straight, high chair she
always seats herself on ! If she never takes
her eyes ofi" my face, it is only because,
having once fixed themselves there, their
muscles are too rigid to remove them. I
have honestly endeavoured to fascinate her,
no less than her husband, and, for once, I
have failed."

Then there is Miss Carruthers ! "

Georgina ? What cloud can gather

there ? From no want of hospitality, I
am sure. A three months' visit, with the
deduction of a week or two now and then,
at the Grange or up in town, would tax
the indulgence of many a hostess less yielding
than Stella Dalton."

And what if Harry should invite her
to stop here for life ? "

Lady Dalton rang out her pretty chime
of laughter. " Your suspicions fall wide of
the mark, my Doggie ! Harry is, so far,
love-proof, and Kit Moray is Georgie's aim.
Leave her her swarthy Apollo ; he is always
by her side. Lads of his age are flattered
by the preference of women of hers."

"Nay," said Mrs. Verney, "but he is
past that age. I imagine all the advances
are on the lady's side. And how would
Sir Brian receive a cousin of the complexion
he dislikes so much ? "

"He is in no danger of being consulted ;

a flirtation, and nothing more. No, no,
Diana ; my team is well in hand still, and
the atmosphere is without a cloud. Tired
of Oaklandss ? I think it the sweetest spot
on earth."

And yet Diana's comments on the existing
state of things under Lady Dalton s
rather lax regime had hit their mark with
tolerable accuracy. There was just the least
shadow of a cloud menacing the careless
gaiety which Stella was so eager to promote
among her friends and guests ; nay, it was
a cloud that already rested on some brows —
made the smiles of others rarer or more
forced. Yet Mrs. Verney's fears for her
friend's popularity were altogether groundless.
The beautiful widow's nature was
essentially superficial ; she had no depth of
serious feeling, no intellectual power, no
capacity of devotion to, or even affection
for, any object not immediately within the

range of a shallow sympathy. But these
are precisely the natures by which the world
is most attracted, and to whose weakness it
shows the most indulgence. She had the
art — the greater for being unconscious — of
making the smiles which she lavished on all
appear specially directed to each. Even
the women she eclipsed forgave her the
little social successes she seemed to share
with them, by the sweetness, the charm
that, as it were, radiated from her on her
less gifted associates, none of whom did she
ever permit to feel herself neglected or in
the shade. Verily Stella Dalton's inordinate
and indiscriminating greed of praise,
though purely selfish, had a readier return
than many and many a soul's deep devotion
and self-sacrifice ever wins. But then,
paste looks as well as diamonds and costs
less, and the world nowadays wants everything
cheap. Even the whisperings of

calumny were mute for her. Her little
innocent coquetries were guarded from
society's censure by the strictest observance
of its external conventions, as her temperament,
cold and passionless beneath all its
vivacity, never betrayed her into the chance
of misunderstanding, which lies always in
wait for the impulsive.

And yet there were clouds. Charlotte
Burnes's smile, in public at least, had never
been frequent, but it never shone at all in
Lady Dalton's drawing-room, where she was
wont to sit in shadow, as Mrs. Verney had
remarked, with her eyes fixed and immovably
riveted on her hostess's face, her invisible
knitting-needles clicking and flashing,
as if in mute protest, while Charley fluttered
like a rather corpulent moth in the perilous
blaze of the fair widow's fascinations. But
still sister Chatty was not jealous in the
coarser sense of the word. She was too

pure herself to suspect another woman's
purity, however much she might scorn her
frivolity, and too loyal to her husband to
wrong him by believing him capable of
crime ; for Chatty named things by their
names, and would have uncompromisingly
rejected any softer term for wife or husband's
infidelity. Not jealous, then, but deeply
wounded at the loss of influence which had
hitherto kept the Vicar as closely as his
constitutional indolence allowed in the path
of his professional duty ; possibly too — for
Charlotte was at heart a woman, and no
Sphinx — at the loss of wifely charm, which
had hitherto sufficed to content him with
his home pleasures, simple and unvaried as
they were. But, true to her rigid principles
of feminine duty, she never uttered remonstrance,
far less reproach — unless remonstrance
might be implied in her share of
such a dialogue as passed between them

on the very afternoon that we have just
recorded.

Why, Chatty, my girl," cried the husband,
coming in from his study, where he
had been turning over his manuscript sermons
of a year or two ago, in the hope of finding
one that might do for the next Sunday
and spare him his Saturday's labour, " is
it not time for you to think of dressing ?
You know we are to dine at Oaklandss this
evening — or did I forget to tell you ? To
be sure, Harry Stanforth looked in and
gave me his mother's note this morning,
when you were at the schools."

Again, Charley ? I dined there with
you a week since, and you took Genevra
to spend the evening only last Monday."

All right, my Eosebud," rejoined the
husband, with rather an uneasy laugh ; " if
Harry and his mamma are not tired of us,
we are not likely to tire of them, are we ? "

Mrs. Burnes considered this question.
*' But must we go to-night, Charles ? " she
said. "I all but promised Mr. Cotterill
that you would be at home to-night, to
audit these accounts of his that have been
waiting for you so long."

They must wait a little longer then ;
and you must send Martha round to
Cotterill, to tell him we are engaged this
evening. Why. couldn't you audit those
accounts for me. Chatty ? Cotterill's figures
are so bad that it makes my head ache to
pore over them."

Well, dear, I have done so, and you
will have but to glance over them. I have
transcribed them quite legibly " (she did
not say how her head had ached from the
labour), " but they must have your signature."


I'll have Cotterill here tomorrow. One
day will make no difference."

*' And should you not go to-night to
see Widow Bolder's son ? She has been
here three times to beg you to go."

You could have done that for me,
Chatty."

I have visited him almost daily for the
last fortnight, but it is you he wishes to
see ; and really his mother was almost
insolent to-day when you were again
denied to her."

All right. I can run across to her
cottage, and be back again before you've
done dressing. Plenty of time ; it's not six
o'clock yet."

Chatty hesitated a little, then she said,
Can we not put off Lady Dalton this once,
Charley ? We so seldom have an evening
alone together now."

"Nor should we have had this evening
together, my girl, since you would have made
so many appointments for me. Besides,

there's a lot of fun going on to-night at
Oaklandss, Harry told me. I'll give you
your evening alone another time."

But is ' so much fun ' good for a middle-aged
clergyman ? "

"Eeally, Chatty," answered the middle-aged
clergyman, rather more fretfully than
his wont, " I don't think you should raise so
many objections to my spending a pleasant
hour now and then. You have kept my
nose to the grindstone long enough, surely !
And, a propos of noses — where are you going
to ? " — for his wife was turning to leave the
room.

I am going to dress, dear," she replied,
not a note of petulance in her cold voice,
not a shade on her calm features.

Jt propos of noses," resumed her husband,
"can't you rub a little chalk, or
whitewash, or something — just a touch, you
know — on that rosebud of yours, my Chatty ?

Among so many pretty women as there
always are at Oaklandss, one would wish to
see one's wife shine in another sense than as
the red danger signal on a railway line."

Another sickly smile flickered over Mrs.
Burnes's statuesque face — flickered and was
gone.

I cannot consent to paint, Charley, even
to please you," she said firmly. " I am
afraid you must bear with the danger signal,
as you have always done ; " and, bending
towards him, she slightly kissed his forehead
and left the room. Had her kiss left
that frown there ?

Mrs. Verney's cloud, then, admittedly
brooded over the Vicar and his spouse.
Was Sir Brian really under its shadow, too ?
Poor Sir Brian was certainly beginning to
feel himself rather, as Harry would have
elegantly styled it, "in a hole." He had
as good as pledged himself to Genevra's

friends to renew his proposal at the end of
a year, when that young lady might be
presumed to have attained at least sufficient
experience to understand the meaning of
her " yes " and " no ; " and, while he left
her free, he was in honour bound himself.
Sir Brian was the soul of honour in intention,
and yet he had been bewitched by
the fascinations, so seemingly simple, of the
Circe of Oaklandss, drawn nearer and nearer
within the dangerous sphere from which,
in past days, he had scarcely escaped unharmed,
and now found himself the almost
admitted lover of one woman and the
almost betrothed of another 1 And, to
make his position more embarrassing, he
was not, in the secret depths of his rather
misty consciousness, sincerely desirous to
secure either maid or widow as mistress of
Brackensfell. The widow, indeed, was
beautiful, charming, and wealthy, but
VOL. 11. 36

she had been twice wedded and widowed.
The rose had been worn on two breasts
already, and Sir Brian thought a stepson
would undoubtedly prove a bore. Nor was
he at all satisfied of the wisdom of his first
choice. Jenny Farquhar, for all her youthful
bloom, was no great beauty, and looked,
he thought, something of a country rustic
beside Lady Dalton's distinction and grace.
Moreover, the girl " had a temper." Yes,
assuredly, she had a temper. At times she
would be so gentle and winning in her
manner to himself that he would be stung
with remorse for his growing indifference
to her, and then, quite causelessly, she would
be careless or pert. Too affectionate by
half to that rollicking brute, Harry Stan-forth,
and downright insolent to young
Moray, who was a quiet fellow enough, and
very attentive to Georgie, who might do
worse than encourage him, as she would

soon be on the wane, even for lads who are
attracted by oldish girls.

I cannot," reflected the wavering lover
" I cannot marry both these women. I
don't much care to marry either, and probably
both secretly design in the end to
marry me. Why was I in such a devil of
a hurry to choose a wife at all ? ' Give an
heir to the estate,' quoth my lady Carruthers !
Well, that was her business in my uncle's
time ; and since she failed in her duty, why
insist on mine ? Heir ? What good will an
heir do me ? What good can an heir do
anybody who has inherited indirectly himself
when past his first youth, and wants to
enjoy himself quietly and not be bothered
with rearing an heir, for whom he will be
expected to make all sorts of sacrifices in
his old age ? — for I shall have reached old
age before this precious heir is grown up.
By the way, I hope that girl has not been

SO deuced frank with anybody else as she
was with me — that she has not told any one
else about that adventure in the railway
carriage. Confound the fellow ! if he should
turn up one day and grin at my bride
behind my back while he offered me his
cigar-case or his newspaper ! I should have
taken Miss Farquhar at her word when she
wanted to jilt me ; and, after all, she may
do it yet."

Decidedly a cloud hovered over Sir
Brian Carruthers.

As for the young folk, it was not a cloud
scarcely more than a mist ; but it was
dank as a Devonshire mist, and chilled Keith
Moray to the bone. All in vain, during his
frequent visits to Oaklandss, did he strive by
the most delicate devotion, the most unremitting
watchfulness and attention, to soften
the obdurate heart of his unrelenting mistress.
An older man, or one more versed in

feminine ways, or of more worldly experience,
would have been little daunted by
Miss Farquhar's tactics ; but Keith was still
almost a boy, reserved, sensitive, and passionately
in love. Furthermore, he was
oppressed by a deep self-reproach and humiliation
for the insult which Genevra so
savagely resented, and which assumed in his
imagination the most hideous proportions in
the lurid light of the wrath with which she
visited it. This fell secret lay betwixt the
youth and the maid, like the chain that
links two galley-slaves. Oh, assuredly as
odious as any galley-slave's fetter ; and yet
must it be whispered ? — not devoid of a
mysterious charm — naturally for Keith, on
whose guilty lips the soft involuntary touch
of those innocent lips was sealed for ever ;
but perhaps even for Jenny, or else why
though she never addressed the youth, or
acknowledged any courtesy he was ever on

the watch to offer her, except in the frostiest
manner — yet why did her glance covertly
follow him when he mingled with Lady
Dalton's immediate circle, and why was she
so restless whenever he quitted her side ?
Her side ? Georgina Carruthers' side, I should
say. Jenny was not specially attached to
her cousin, but young girls are gregarious.
Georgie chose, for reasons of her own, to
affect a sisterly fondness for Miss Farquhar,
and Miss Farquhar tolerated, if she did not
return, her professions. The girls were
always together, and Keith always beside
Georgina, which was as near as he dared
venture to his very thorny rose.

And there was Georgina biding her time,
waiting till she could quite decide on which
of the young men who were most frequently
to be met in Jenny's company " she," Miss
Carruthers, should bring her artillery to bear
with the best effect — whether on Keith, rich.

handsome, and unsophisticated, or on Harry
Stanforth, rather encumbered as to his prospects
by a mother, on whom they wholly
depended, but likely, from his boyish susceptibility
to flattery, to prove an easier
prey. And — if both barrels hung fire —
there was still the marriage between Jenny
and the baronet to " arrange," with its
vistas of fresh chances in a gay London
season, and a well-appointed home with the
bride. But, alas ! over each of these outlooks
there brooded a deepening cloud. Sofar,
every oeillade directed to Keith Moray
might as well have been addressed to the
hat-stand in the hall ; any advances to
Harry, however cautiously masked by an
adjoining interest in his horse or his dog,
were received with an unsuspecting cordiality
that would have answered similar professions
from his gamekeeper or his groom ;
while Sir Brian steadily repelled all attempts

to discuss his ambiguous relations with the
Farquhar family, and persisted in hovering
round the lady of Oaklandss in a way that
boded no good to Georgina's plan for a
manageable household in the future. Her
relations as guest at Lady Dalton's had been
so far " strained " by her prolonged stay
that she had no hope at all that, in the
event of the widow's acceptance of her
cousin, she would be likely to be warmly
welcomed in the new menage, far less be
considered indispensable to its popularity.

Thus, the sagacity of Stella's " Diogenes
" had not been at fault in foreseeing
possible complications, though, not possessing
the key of the situation, she was, as
Lady Dalton had said, " wide of the mark "
as to their true origin and scope.

Chapter Xiii.

STUDYING ANTS.

All clouds notwithstanding, the winter
passed merrily away — the merriest winter,
all agreed, that had been known in Wend-holm
within the memory of the oldest inhabitant.
But when spring came again —
spring, which was the fairest and should
have been the blithest season at Oaklandss
or in any country home — it brought no gladness
with its beauty. Stella Dalton " caught
a chill," and for the first three weeks in
April she was confined to her room ; and Dr.
Stewart, in his daily visits, had cause to
anathematize the steep road from which

Oaklandss had justly derived its name of
Oakland Heights."

Mrs. Barnes and her sister were prompt
in offering sympathy and companionship to
Mrs. Verney in her attendance on the
invalid ; but Diana, though she had been
willing enough that all the world should
share Stella's brighter hours, reserved
jealously to herself the privilege of soothing
and cheering her in the dark days of
sickness and suffering, and she courteously
but resolutely declined to admit any one
to her cousin's chamber, except her necessary
attendants and Harry Stanforth, whose
loving assiduity and affection amply compensated
for his lack of skilfulness in
nursing. As Lady Dalton grew better and
able to move into her dressing-room, Harry's
terrors for her abated, and his spirits rose,
so that he sometimes became a little too
noisy for the weakened nerves of the

patient, for whom Mr. Stewart had prescribed
perfect quiet, and Mrs. Yerney
banished him from his mother's society
for the greater part of the day. So Harry
had recourse to the Grange once more for
consolation and amusement, and Jenny
gave herself up to the duty of comforting
him, till they ranged the woods and meadows
again together as frankly, if not quite as
joyously, as they had done the preceding
summer, when Genevra was younger and,
it is to be supposed, less wise. Certainly
she had learnt more maidenly reserve and
self-restraint. She did not creep into
badgers' holes, or climb trees for birds-nests.
Her figure had even gained an inch in
height, her features had gained in the
beauty of thoughtful expression and sensibility,
while yet she had lost nothing of
lithe gracefulness and girlish vivacity. But
her increased womanliness only made her

more contemptuous of any attempt at self-assertion
on Harry's part, whom she more
than ever persisted in treating as ''a mere
boy" — not, it must be admitted, without
reason, for Harry's wild spirits were not by
any means sobered by his load of venerable
months. Still they were scarcely boy and
girl now — they might be looked upon as
man and maid ; and it was only the indulgence
of Wendholm for the girl who had
grown up among them, and the lad whose
fun and frolic was the delight of the village,
that preserved the unrestricted and unconventional
pastimes of the pair from hostile
criticism.

Mrs. Farquhar, as usual, pitied Harry
for his need of amusement during Lady
Dalton's illness, and thought nothings could
be wrong that gave pleasure to Genevra.
Mrs. Burnes would assuredly have taken
a different view of the case, but that

her whole attention was given to another
subject. Mr. Burnes, who ought to have
known better at his time of life, had actually
caught measles from some cottager s children.
He had, of course, to get assistance
from Bedford for his Sunday's duties, and,
what with looking after the curate and
looking after her husband, Chatty had for
once no thought and no eyes for Miss
Farquhar's indecorum. Happily, too, they
were not protracted long enough to awaken
slumbering gossip. Lady Dalton was pronounced
fairly convalescent, although still
very weak and requiring great care, and
her first order to Mrs. Verney was to write
and invite Keith Moray to come down fora
week or two to amuse Harry.

"He is like my own son. Doggie," she
said ; "he will not disturb us in the least ;
and, besides, I am getting stronger everyday,
and shall soon be able to receive all

our friends as usual. We will begin with
Keith."

Accordingly, Keith arrived, and found a
very clear field. There were no other guests.
Georgina's offer of assistance to Mrs. Verney
in nursing Stella had been very peremptorily
rejected, and Sir Brian was out of the
question as a companion to Hal. But Kit,
if he had cherished any hopes of more facile
intercourse with Jenny, was doomed to
darkest disappointment, for that young
person, if she did not actually scent danger,
was fully on her guard against it. She was
no coquette, but had been well endowed by
Nature with all the needful appliances of
coquetry, and she contrived to exercise
them with considerable ingenuity for the
torment of the miserable Keith, although
her motives were merely vindictive and
punitive. With a refined cruelty worthy
of the hardest-hearted cat that ever played

with a mouse, she showed no wish to avoid
him, while she managed to impress upon
him the feeling of being repelled, even in
her very presence, by a cold magnetic bar,
which it was impossible for him to break
through, but which, by its intangible impenetrability,
almost maddened him. She
did not so much repulse his attentions as
elude them, while his dread of risking even
the slight privileges which he held on mere
sufferance prevented him from offering any
but the most indirect homage, which was
neither accepted nor refused, but simply let
fall, as a baby drops a toy of which it does
not understand the use.

Lady Dalton was beginning to make
decided progress to recovery, but was still
weak, when, one morning, a party of girls,
with their brother, drove over from their
home, some eleven miles distant, to see her.
A very brief visit sufficed to tire her ; but

the horses required rest, and the young
people could not return home for an hour
or two after lunch, for which it was yet
too early. Genevra had been up to the
Heights with a message from her mother,
and had left only a .few minutes before
the guests arrived, accompanied by " Ursa
Minor ; " but Keith had been so clearly
given to understand that his escort was not
desired that he had not dared to press it.
To him, therefore, was committed the task
of amusing the visitors with the inevitable
lawn tennis, while Lady Dalton sat, wrapt
in shawls and heaped round with pillows,
at the library window to watch them. The
tennis ground was laid out within view of
the library, but there was no danger of its
proving an unseasonable distraction to any
Oaklandss students.

But presently Keith approached the
window. " Mrs. Verney, will you come out

and play ? We want another player. Miss
Moffat says she is tired, and will take your
place by Lady Dalton, if you will allow her."

'eyes, I dare say," answered Diana, sottovoce,
'^ and wear poor Stella to death with
that ceaseless gabble of hers." Then aloud,
I cannot leave my cousin, Keith. I shall
have to take her back to her own room
directly. She has sat long enough by the
open window."

*' Where are Jenny and Harry ? " asked
Lady Dalton. '' They were here a very
short time ago."

They cannot have gone very far," said
Mrs. Verney. " Run after them. Kit, and
brinor them back. You are certain to overtake
them before they reach the Grange.
Stella can rest here for a few minutes while
I entertain Miss Moflfat."

And Keith sped away before young
Moflfat could propose to join him. Indeed,

VOL. IT. 37

it was wonderful to see the promptness
with which he was always ready to execute
any commission or carry any message that
would give him an excuse for addressing
Miss Farquhar. He was a very Mercury
in that respect, and he seemed to have
quite an intuitive knowledge of where to
find her. This time his intuitions guided
him into a lonely path in the thickest part
of the Oakland woods, and there was Miss
Jenny, sure enough, seated near a gigantic
ant-hill, with her dress tucked very tight
around her, watching the proceedings of
the insect commonwealth ; while Harry
Stanforth had improvised a turnpike on one
of its busiest highways, to keep back
travellers, whose affairs would have led
them by a direct route over her petticoats.
To Lady Dalton's message, duly delivered,
the young entomologist opposed a resolute
non possumus.

Tell Lady Dalton I am very busy,
studying ants."

By the light of Lubbock," put in Harry,

She will be disappointed," said Keith.

A wasted remark, for it called for no
reply, so Jenny made none. She was intent
on gratuitously assisting an ant, which had
already three attendants, to drag and push
towards its hill a fat grub much bigger
than itself, while Harry turned back the
wayfarers from his turnpike with cries and
shouts that would have beseemed a cattle-driver,
and poor Keith was trying to look
profoundly interested, but only looked
bored. Presently —

There's a lot of flies among them," said
he.

And Genevra darted at him a swift
glance of crushing scorn. " Flies, Mr.
Moray ! Those are male ants."

*' Male ants must be uncles," said Keith.

But Jenny bent the lower over her grub-carriers,
indignant that he should presume
to joke in her presence, though she had
with difficulty smothered a laugh. After a
moment's silence — " Mr. Moray, please to
move further off. You cast such a shadow
on the hill, the ants don't like it."

And you have such a preposterous
shadow, Kit," put in Stanforth. ^* A fellow
with such a long shadow ought not to
cast ' it upon anything. Fold it up, and
keep it by you."

What wonder that Keith's temper began
to give way under the combined aggravation
of this exasperating couple ? " You might
oblige Lady Danton for an hour, Miss Farquhar,"
he said. " You will find your anthill
here when you come back."

"Oh, will she, though ? " cried Harry.
'' Under-keeper Jack is foraging for ants'
eggs for his pheasants, and those in this

hill are famed for their specially nutritious
qualities."

Under keeper Jack has promised me
not to touch them," asserted Genevra.

Promised you, has he ? Oh ay ; and
when you walked away, I saw him ' wink
the wink he shouldn't have sunk,' which
meant "

But Keith did not stay to learn the
significance of Under-keeper Jack's wink.
He bowed to the crown of Genevra's hat,
which was all that she had presented to
his observation, and went back to Lady
Dalton and her tennis-party.

No sooner had he disappeared than Harry'
moved towards his companion, and said,
patting her on the shoulder — a familiarity
which always provoked that young lady
to fierce resentment — " No go, Gin ; no
go. Drop it, my good girl ; it can't be
done ! "

What can't be done ? What do you
mean ? Your vulgarity is quite insufferable,
you horrid boy ! "

As if you could blind me, your own
me, who know you from your hat-strings
to your boot-buttons ! I'm not so dense as
not to have observed this week past what
your little game is. You are trying to
pique Kit into spooning on you, and I
warn you, from superior information, that
it won't do ! "

'* And why won't it do ? " inquired Jenny,
glancing at him from beneath her long eyelashes,
while she carefully removed a pebble
out of the path of Formica nigra.

Because Kit has a special antipathy to
girls of all sorts and sizes, and an ex-ex.
antipathy to you, and he's not a fellow to
be coaxed or bullied into any change. He's
one of the unchangeable, is Kit. You may
give it up. You might have a chance

with me now, if you were a little handsomer
; but with Kit — never ! "

Genevra rose to her feet, shaking off
some of Keith's "uncles" that had been
trailing their long wings over her back hair,
like ladies with ill-managed trains. '' Who
would have believed that you were so observant,
Hal ? " she said admiringly. '' I
think I'll take your advice and ' drop it ; '
and I think, too, that I will walk up to
the tennis ground."

END OF VOL. II.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM Closes AND SONS, LIMITED,

LONDON AND Eccles. G., C iSr* Co.

naif

v-

■:Cv

• fa ' , ■ :; ,.'■«•'> ■ .-■.■ • . ■- * .

■SM^f

3 0112 042251725

b: • ;^

"^-.r^^:^^

i^h

^^"^'A^

«»fe1

'■'K •'>*

'^'^■M^'

■^S^:

:^ • >*:ts:r^^:^'*si<i>- •^.'^;^M-fi^

iillllilllillililiiiiil

BY THE AUTHOR OF
MY INSECT QUEEN," "A HORRID GIRL," ETC.

A bliss In proof — and proved, a very woe,
Before, a joy proposed — behind, a dream."

Shakespeare,

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. in.

LONDON:
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

putjlisf)Ers in Ortiinarg to fer fHajcstg tfje ©ucen.
1887.

(All rights reserved.)

St 7^

v>3

CONTENTS OF VOL. Ill,

CHAPTER I.

AN EXPEDITION.

Mr. Moray was growing anxious. Kit's
wooing — if wooing it could be called — had
dragged its slow length along " for more
than twelve months, and seemed no nearer
its consummation, or even its extinction,
than it was at first. He appeared to
have neither gained nor lost a single step.
His uncle could not understand. There
was no hurry, to be sure ; the couple were
young enough to wait ; but still it was
time that they should have arrived at some

YOL. IJI. 38

mutual understanding, and not run on, like
two parallel lines, for ever ! Mr. Moray-was
profoundly interested in this love affair,
and desirous, for many reasons, that it
should terminate successfully. He wished
that his nephew should marry young, lest
by too long residence in a home where no
Avoman presided he might contract the
morose or selfish habits of celibacy, and
never marry at all. Then, as it was impossible
that he himself, in his state of chronic
ill-health, could take any steps towards
selecting a wife for him, even if he would
have been allowed a voice in the matter,
he was glad that Kit's choice had fallen on
a girl in whom he took a natural interest,
as being the daughter of the only woman
whom he could himself have loved.

True, it would not be a brilliant marriage
in a worldly sense ; but a brilliant marriage
would probably mean a swarm of gay,

wealthy, or fashionable relations and connections
thronging round the bride ; and,
unselfish as was Mr. Moray's nature, Ik?
could not contemplate, without an invalid's
jealous pang, the certainty of partial, if not
entire, isolation for him involved in such
uncongenial conditions of the new home.

Genevra was Keith's equal in birth, and
not greatly his inferior in position. She
appeared to have been brought up with
simple habits and refined tastes, and, above
all, she was very young, and Mr. Moray
shared what seems to be an ineradicable
prejudice of the masculine mind, that if a
woman is only young enough, her husband
can mould her character to his will. True,
from Keith's own account, Miss Farquhar
had not, so far, shown herself very ductile,
nor could Mr. Moray understand her protracted
resentment of a wrong for which the
criminal had been so anxious to atone.

Nor had Keith's love rhapsodies succeeded
in conveying to the elder man's more dispassionate
mind the impression that Jenny
was all grace, beauty, and sweetness.
During Harry's occasional visits to Hurstleigh,
he had made his former acquaintance
with Jenny's mother the pretext for some
guarded attempts to elicit a more impartial
judgment of this mysterious maid, but he
could make nothing of " Ursa Minor's "
replies.

Jenny ? Oh yes, she's a jolly girl. I

don't know what I should do without Gen

when there are no fellows at Oaklandss.

Bees as good, almost, as any fellow, only

she won't let anybody kill the vermin, if

she can help it."

*' That is a feminine trait, anyhow,"

observed Mr. Moray, complacently. 'then

she's not fast girl ? "

*' Oh no," answered Hal, reassuringly ;

I shouldn't say she was fast. She has
plenty of ^ go ' in her — lots of fun — but she
does not smoke or hunt, and she doesn't

take notice of men, except of me and

No, T don't think she likes Keith."

'how does she amuse herself? Her
mother was very accomplished."

Amuse herself ? Well, she reads and
she rides, and pokes about in the woods
after birds and flowers and things, and she
dances and plays tennis, when mamma
gives her a chance, and — I don't know how
else she amuses herself. She takes grub
sometimes to the poor old people in the
village, and she romps with the children in
the school, and she's the j oldest little girl
I ever saw."

'' Pretty ? "

*' N-o ; I don't call her exactly pretty,
though she has narrowly escaped it. She's
prettier than she was, I think. I know

some fellows who say that she is very pretty.
/ don't think her so ; but she is very nice
and neat. Ask Keith if he thinks her handsome.
But he's sure to say she isn't,
because she is never very pleasant to him."

Mr. Moray derived no very clear notion
of Genevra's perfections from this portraiture
of Hal's, though it confirmed Keith's
assertion of Miss Farquhar's persistent coldness
to him ; and Mr. Moray could not
reconcile that with the mere fitful vivacity
of a spoiled child, or the changeful caprice
of a coquette. He was inclined to fear that
the young lady had a temper. *' And if,"
he sadly mused — " if by mere force of
temper she can rule a man like Keith before
he is fully in her power, God help them
both if they should marry ! "

He began to distrust his own imprudence
in giving so readily an unqualified assent to
the young man's courtship. He saw, or

fancied he saw, that this lounging, desultory
come and go " among the not very intellectual
frequenters of Oaklandss was beginning
to lower his higher standard of
manliness ; that when at home he was more
restless, less energetic in his studies, less
interested in his former pursuits. It might
be — it probably was — only a passing phase
of youth's disease of exaggerated sentiment,
but, like the physical ailments of childhood,
if too long unchecked, its effects might
enfeeble a lifetime. Mr. Moray searched
about for a remedy, and with the following
result : —

The post-bag at Hurstleigh, unlike the
Wendholm correspondence, was usually delivered
at an early hour in the morning,
and before any one was ever admitted into
Mr. Moray's chamber, except his attendant
Judson. It was Keith's custom to take out
the letters and send up his uncle's with his

breakfast-tray, to amuse him in the intervals
of rest from the fatigue of caressing. sometimes
Mr. Moray would send them down
again, with a message that he was too tired
for letter-reading that morning, and wished
his nephew to glance over his correspondence,
and attend to whatever might require
immediate answers. Oftener he would keep
them, and discuss their contents after he had
come down to his study couch ; or, if there
were any that greatly interested him, he
would send for Keith to his bedside or his
dressing-room to relieve or share the excitement.


One morning such a message was brought
to the younger Moray just as he came in
from a visit of inspection to the stables, and
on proceeding to his uncle's apartment, he
found him on his sofa in his dressing-gown,
in an evident state of suppressed excitement,
which would have alarmed the youth, but

for his first eager oTeetino; before he had
even closed the door.

Good news, Kit ! good news for you,
my boy! (Thanks, Judson, that will do.
I will ring for you by-and-by.) See here,
Keith ; " and he tossed a letter towards him.
Here is one wish of your heart — the wish
to travel — about to be gratified. Everything
comes to one who knows how to
wait."

Keith glanced at the letter with less
curiosity than surprise, not even offering to
read it. " From Professor Loudon, I see,"
he said. 'what news can he have forme?"


Your friends are less forgetful of you
than you are of them, lad. Do you not
remember that Professor Loudon promised
that he would think of you if any opening
occurred to further your aims in the pursuit
of scientific inquiry ? Well, there is such

an opening. His brother, Dr. Loudon, has
organized an expedition — geographical, botanical,
and geological — which is to start
immediately for Lapland. He will spend,
three months there, returning to winter in
Sweden, when you can come back to me ;
and he has agreed to take you under his
wing as a * prentice han,' to whom such an
opportunity will be invaluable. Will you
like to go ? "

Keith's eyes answered for him.

You will have to hurry. He gives you
scant time for preparation."

But "sand Keith hesitated—" ought I
to leave you here alone ? "

My good fellow, pray dismiss any idea
that you are to be chained to my couch for
years together as a nurse-tender. Live your
own life, and leave mine to me. Have I
not Judson with me, who has waited on me
hand and foot from — before you were born ? "

'but if you should be taken ill, and I
could not reach you ? "

"You mean that I might die before you
could reach me ? That might happen any
day, when you were only in the next room.
You can take no precautions against that,
Keith, and why should you try ? How
true in every case is Pascal's thought, * We
must each die alone ' ! Besides, I feel no
more like dying than I have felt anytime
within the last ten years. I shall live
to rejoice in your return, and in all the
fresh stores of information and incident
which you will have accumulated for my
amusement when we are asrain together.
Why, you will be bringing me a newer and
fuller life ! It is only a tentative expedition
this time, for a better-arranged and better-equipped
one that will be furnished forth
next year. You will only be absent from
England a few months."

Keith took up Professor Loudon's letter
and read it attentively.

'' He says that I had best write to him at
once, or run over to see his brother, who
is staying with him now, and arrange all
details of the journey with him. They are
to start on the 20th, and we are at the 14th
to-day ! That is very brief notice."

*' Perhaps," answered Mr. Moray, smiling,
the professor wishes to test your promptitude
in decision and action. No man who
is deficient in that quality is worth a straw."

I can write to him this morning, " mused
Keith, " that I will be with him at noon
tomorrow. I can settle everything with
the doctor, and receive all his directions
before night. I should like to give one day
to Stanforth ; it is not very far out of my
way from Oxford. I shall have still three
clear days to make my final preparations,
and say my last farewell to you."

*' Leave out that last item, my boy," said
Mr. Moray, " and we will say our farewell
to-Dight. You will not have much leisure
for returning here before you start. Only
lovers and schoolgirls find any ' luxury '
in the ' woe ' of parting."

He laughed as he spoke, but Keith saw
that he shrank from the pang of saying
*' adieu," and wished to shorten it for them
both. He tried to reply as lightly.

All right, uncle ; then I'll go off and
send my telegram to the professor, and we
will spend the rest of our day together."

He was turning away when Mr. Moray
called him back,

Keith, would you mind telling me if,
during this hurried visit to Wendholm, you
intend to have a clearer understandings
your future relations with Miss Farquhar
before you depart ? "

*' I think not," answered the young man •

and then he added more firmly, "No, certainly
not. I shall not even make a point
of seeing her, though I shall hope to do so
once more. There is not a chance that such
an explanation as you suggest would result
in anything but repulse ; and, in any case,
I would wish that my thoughts should not
be distracted from my new work by any
personal emotion, whether of hope or regret."
He added, in a lower voice, "And I should
like to be able to prove to her that I am
not all unworthy of her."

And if," murmured Mr. Moray, looking
fondly after him as he quitted the room —
if she does not know it already, without
need of further proof, she does but prove
her own ignorance of ' men and manners.' "

Possibly this partial relative may have
been right as regards "men," but, all
things considered, Jenny assuredly had some
justification of her adverse view of Keith
Moray's "manners."

Chapter II.

A Step-ladder AND A FALL.

Dire was the howl Harry set up when his
friend announced that his visits to Oaklandss
were about to be suspended, a howl which
expressed as much envy as regret.

What a lucky fellow you are, Kit !
You always get just what you want. Here
am I, pegged down in this stupid hole, and
condemned to pass the summer in shooting
bunches while you are shooting lions. How
long might I wait, I wonder, before any
geometric or naturalistic swells would invite
me to join their expeditions ? "

"At least as long," smiled Keith, "as
until you had got up some geometric and

naturalistic ' cram.' Lions are not shot in
Lapland."

*' Seals are, then, and they would do
nearly as well. But I wish, old man, you
could have spared us another day or two.
My mamma will be mad. She has been
worrying for you to come and try her new
horses. She won't believe Brown or me
that they are as quiet as lambs ; she says
she will trust no one's opinion but yours on
that point, because you have more natural
sympathy with female cowardice."

"Rather a doubtful compliment," remarked
Keith.

However," continued Hal, " we will have
them out after lunch, and set her mind at
rest, or she will not drive them until you
come home again."

But," objected Keith, " I must go down
to the Grange and leave a card on Mrs.
Farquh.:v."

All right. She is at the school at this
hour ; but I dare say Jenny will be at home,
so come along."

Is it not rather early ?"

Not a bit. We don't observe strict
etiquette, you know, in our Wendholm
Agamemnon. I'll be your warranty. Come
along ! "

Thus urged, Moray suffered his friend to
lead him to the Grange at the very unorthodox
hour (for visiting) of noon. The
hall door stood open. Harry marched in
unannounced, and there was Miss Farquhar,
with a brown-paper cap, like that worn by
painters and whitewashed, perched on her
curls to protect them from dust, and a huge
brown-holland sacque enveloping her from
throat to ankle, seated on the top rung of
a step-ladder, engaged in dusting and rearranging
the curios on a high shelf.
She glanced at the young men as they
VOL. 111. 39

entered, and greeted Stanforth with a nod
that mio'ht or mjo-ht not have included his
companion, her position not being favourable
for the stately bend which was usually his
share in her salutations.

Harry," she called out, " I am too busy
to attend to you, and mamma is out. What
do you mean by calling at such an unearthly
hour ? "

"As if you cared for the hour, Gen ! I
told Kit you would not care. I have
brought him to say good-bye. He is going
off tomorrow to Lapland, to light up
extinct volcanoes."

Is he ? " said Jenny ; and she put her
head on one side, and contemplated, with
a look of rapt admiration, the tooth of a
mastodon, or some other (happily) extinct
vermin, which she was daintily dusting with
a bunch of feathers by way of tooth-brush.

"I say. Gen," entreated Harry, "put

away that trash, there's a dear, and come
with Kit and me to look at the beagle pups
he has had sent down from Hurstleigh.
They only came last night."

I shall do nothing of the kind. Go
away. I hate beagles."

Lord ! Kit, didn't I tell you, the last
time you were here, how she was raving

about some beagles she saw at , and

you "

Shut up ! " was Mr. Moray's rejoinder,
Don't you see that we are disturbing Miss
Farquhar ? Come away, Hal."

"Jenny," said Harry, spitefully, disregarding
his friend's remonstrances, "you
do look hideous in that costume ! "

I like to look hideous," answered Jenny,
colouring a little notwithstanding.

And Kit thinks you look like a glazier's
daughter, and a very ugly one too."

From what depth of your inner consciousness,"

said Keith, " did you evolve
that Enormous lie ? I would not have
credited you with sufficient imagination to
conceive one of the size."

Unfortunately these ill con ducted young
people were accustomed to exchange amenities
of this sort, so Stanforth deigned no
remonstrance.

'" Jenny, if you don't come down this
minute. 111 shake the ladder, and rattle you
down and break your neck, you rascal I "

Hal," exclaimed Keith, " you forget you
are speaking to a lady."

I don't look on Gen as a lady ; she's
only a gurV

Ah," said Genevra, " you would look on
me as a lady, if you found me lying "

No, I shouldn't," interrupted Hal, '' because
ladies are never supposed to lie."

Found me lying senseless at the foot
of the ladder "

Whereas sou are now sitting senseless
at the top ! It gives one a crick of the
neck to converse with a person on an
eminence. Keith will think you have a
special gift for taking up outlandish positions.
The first time you saw her, Kit, she
was up a tree ; now, the last, she is atop
of a ladder ! "

'' Ahsit 07?2en /" smiled Keith; "not the
last, I hope ; but Miss Farquhar is always
above me."

There's a fine speech ! " cried Hal. "If
/ had made it, I should have claimed a
reward."

Jenny came down a step.

Hold out your arms, Kit, and she'll
jump into them."

Jenny went up again.

And you have not a kind word for
Keith, whom you will never see again.
Out in the wilds of the arctic zone — is it

arctic or torrid, I wonder ? — he will freeze
into an icicle, he will be a stalactite from
head to foot, and his survivors will bring
you home chips of his ice."

'' One may freeze in England, as well as
in Lapland," said Keith, hazarding an upward
glance at Jenny.

"Or he may be devoured by bears," continued
Harry — " deceitful bears that hug
people.'

One may meet bears in England," said
Jenny, venturing a downward glance at
Keith.

"Ursa Minor" supposed the taunt to be
levelled at himself, but Kit secretly doubted
whether the description, " deceitful bears that
hugged people," did not rather refer to some
primaeval monster that long ago ranged the
Buckholt Woods. But he did not press the
inquiry, and at that moment an enormous
three-months puppy of the rough St.

Bernard's breed bounced into the hall
through the half-opened door, and flung
himself with ungainly caresses upon Hal.

Talk of bears ! " cried that gentleman,
here's Bruin ; he's followed us all the way.
Down, sir, down ! He'll upset all the gimcracks
! Here, Keith ; you are tall enough
to reach that girl, and I am not. Just
catch hold of her, and fetch her off that
perch, will you, while I turn out this dog 1 "
and exit Harry, dragging with him the
reluctant and resisting Bruin, and Jenny
and Keith were once more alone together.

There is this disadvantage in a step-ladder
as a place of refuge, that, having climbed to
the top, you can go no further. Jenny was
quite secure on hers from little Stanforth's
assaults ; but to Keith, with his six foot
three of stature, the altitude was no more
than it might have been to a giraffe, if Gen
had been a palm-cabbage. Yet there she

sat and glanced at him, with such a saucy
*' do-if-you-dare " gleam in her laughing
eyes, such an arch insolence in her smile (was
ifc meant as a counterfoil to her " hideous "
attire ?), as would have dissolved the hoariest
stalactite " into rain-water or strawberry
cream ! And Keith was no stalactite. Keith
was human ; Keith was young. Between
the combined influences of temptation and
opportunity, even strong saints have been
known to fall. He made one stride forward,
placed a hand on either side the girl's trim
waist (any man is permitted to do that ina
dance), lifted her down, and, in stooping

to set her carefully on the floor • But

no ! We have minutely recorded his first
transgression ; over the second, and far
more inexcusable one, we will draw the veil
of silence. In scarce a moment's space,
Stanforth re-entered the hall, and found
Keith "standing at ease," gazing intently

into the glass eyes of a stuffed wild cat ;
but Jenny was nonapparent.

Why, what's become of Gen ? "

*' Ah," said Mr. Moray, looking round
with a well-assumed air of unconsciousness ;
gone to change her dress, I suppose."

"Oh, I say," cried Harry in disgust ;
I know what that means with girls. We
may be kept kicking our heels here for half
an hour while she's doing that. I'm not
going to wait ; let us be off, old fellow."

And Keith, well aware that there was not
the remotest probability of Jenny's reappearance
within half an hour or half a day
while he waited for her, laid his card on the
hall table and pensively followed his friend.
He was very silent during the walk home ;
and, though he brightened under the excitement
of " trying " Lady Dalton's young
horses, he relapsed into reverie when he
had accomplished that task to the admiration

of all beholders, and when the second
dinner bell rang, he was gazing as thoughtfully
on his dress-coat as if he was thinking
how to make one like it, and only just
recollected himself as he was on the point
of entering the drawing-room with a riding-whip
in his hand. Fortunately for him,
Lady Dalton and her " following " were
greatly absorbed in the discussion of some
piece of local gossip that they had picked
up at Greenhayes, so that Keith's abstraction
was unnoticed ; and, shortly after the
ladies had withdrawn, he betook himself to
the library, where, under pretence of studying
an enormous black-letter folio, of which
he could not decipher one syllable, he gave
himself up unchecked to bitter-sweet rumination.
Bitter-sweet ? What right had
he to find anything " sweet " at all in it ?
Surely there was nothing but bitterness in
the remembrance of his grievous lapse

into long-repented sin ? Doubtless lie was
wrung with contrition and shame at this
flagrant proof of the little progress he had
made in manly self-control.

Wrung with contrition ? Not he. Ashe
bent over that venerable folio (it had
been picked up at some pseudo-literary
auction and added to the varied collection
of books with which, " per contract," Lady
Dalton's library-shelves and tables were
furnished)— as he bent over that solemn
page, it might have been a comic annual,
for he positively laughed. It is said that
the sickening horror a murderer feels of his
first crime becomes almost apathy if he
brings himself to commit a second ; if he
goes on to kill three or four more people,
he grows quite to like it. Had this dreadful
callousness stolen upon Keith Moray?
Not exactly. He had deeply and truly repented
his first offence against Jenny. The

thought of it had not ceased to humiliate
him. It was no " hair-of-the-dog-that-bit-
you " idea that had led him to repeat his
crime ; it was quite different. The first
insult, as Genevra considered it, had been
offered to a young girl unprotected, a
stranger, who had innocently entrusted
herself to his charge, to whom he owed
the most chivalrous respect and honour.
He had forgotten himself. It was no wonder
that she had misconstrued his feeling, and
bitterly resented its unguarded expression.
He did not complain ; he never had complained
of her stern rejection of his every
effort at atonement. He had laid himself
beneath her feet, and she had trampled on
him without mercy, even with a vengeful
enjoyment, and he deserved that she should
trample on him. But the traditional worm
had wriggled. She had no right, while
punishing his fall, to tempt the renewal of

it. Keith thought of her, as she looked
down on him from her lofty perch, with
that mischievous gleam in her blue eyes,
that smile of insolent security on her rosy
lips, the actual aggressiveness that played
in every dimple, and he laughed, positively
laughed, to remember his revenge. And
yet — and yet (I said his reflections were
bitter-sweet) the angry glow on the girl's
cheek as she turned and fled brought back
something of his former self contempt. He
had abused his merely physical power over
her ; he had acted like a brute, after all.
Hang it, no ! " soliloquized the youth.
She is my queen — my queen ; but she
must reign constitutionally. And I, too,
have rights. I love her. A woman may
reject a man's love, but she wrongs her
womanhood in playing with it. / was not
alone in fault here, sweet Genevra. One
day we will exchange forgiveness."

So, after all, it is doubtful if Keith really
did repent this time.

And how did Jenny regard the subject ?
Well, the analogy of the hardened murderer
can scarcely apply to his victim, because
that experience is nevers repeated. Still,
whoever had watched Miss Farquhar when,
having taken refuge in her own chamber,
she stood, well screened by the window-curtains,
gazing after the two young menas
they walked down the carriage drive,
Keith graceful as a young Apollo, and
Harry Stanforth squat and bow-legged as
one of his own grooms — whoever had marked
the dreamy seriousness in her face, on which
the crimson flush had rather deepened than
faded, would have certainly seen nothing
there of the ferocity which Keith's former
outrage had excited. She stood gazing
until the friends had vanished from her
ken ; then she sat down, leaned her head on

her hands, and mused. It was her own
fault, certainly her own fault. This young
man clearly belonged to the criminal classes,
who are not to be trusted at any time. She
had done wrong to allow him to frequent
any society in which she moved, and still
more wrong to relax for a single moment
her dignified severity towards him. And
she had relaxed it. She had smiled at him,
derisively, but still she had smiled at
him, when that impertinent Harry made
that absurd suggestion. And he had forthwith
presumed on that smile, as if it had

been meant to Disgusting I What

was to be done now ? Would she be expected
to confess this renewed outrage to
Sir Brian Carruthers ? Certainly not. He
had no right to such a confidence yet, and
never, never, never would she give him a
right again. It was too late now to banish
Mr. Moray from her presence. He was now

such a recognized habitue of Oaklandss that
his withdrawal would not fail to excite comment
; so would any noticeable change in
her own conduct towards him. What did
Harry say about his being on the point of
going abroad ? Could that be true ? And,
if true, how long would he be away ? she
wondered.

These were very inconsequent musings,
and Jenny must have lost the thread, fur
suddenly a quite different view of the situation
presented itself to her. Those were
real kisses that he had lavished on her in
the Buckholt Woods ; there was no mistaking
them — kisses in volleys, such as a
young mother would shower on her baby, if
any baby would put up with them. But
this last — a mere touch ! He had to stoop
over her in setting her on the floor ; he
could not let her drop from his full height,
as one lets fall a kitten ; and, in stooping,

his moustache just hardly brushed her lips !
He might not have intended it ; he might
not have been aware of it. And Jenny
resolved to believe, and fancied she did
believe, that, after all, it was an accident.

VOL. ni. 40

CHAPTER III.

CHANGE OF AIR.

Diana," inquired Lacey Dal ton of her
friend one morning, a dull rainy morning
in July, "do you not think that thickly
wooded places are very unhealthy iu
summer ? "

I should have thought," replied Mrs.
Verney, 'that the summer was their
healthiest time. Some people say they are
relaxing in the spring ; others, that there is
malaria in the fall of the leaf; and everybody
must admit that they are damp in the
winter. If they are ever healthy, it must
be in the summer."

*but, you see, dear," sighed Stella,

plaintively, '^ there are so many leaves on
them in summer. It must be that that
makes them so oppressive. They keep the
air away."

Keep ivliat air, Stella ? The air of
Scarborough, or Eye, or of Biarritz the
German baths, or Aix-les-Bains ? "

I really do believe," said Lady Dalton,
that in any one of those places the air just
now must be fresher than it is here."

In short, you are tired of Oaklarids
already, and want to wing your flight
elsewhere ? Well, your cage is of your own
choosing, and the door is not fastened, my
sweet."

"I am not one bit tired of Oaklandss. I
think it the dearest place in the world, and
my friends here in the country the kindest
and nicest of people ; but even Oaklandss
would be wearisome if looked upon as a
cage. Is the door unfastened, Di ? "

"Do you mean," said Diana, "that you
really consider yourself bound to stop here
till your lease has expired ? Have you got
a fit of economy coming on ? "

No, no. I mean should I be disregarding
Sir Peregrine's last wishes by leaving
my widowed seclusion before my two years
are over — not for good ; for a few weeks
only ? "

"Oh, I see ! My dear, if you had not
taken up that ridiculous pose of a forlorn
widow, and proclaimed with such a fanfare
that it was in obedience to Sir Peregrine's
commands, you might have pranced about
the world like other rich widows, and feared
no blame. Eeally, Stella, why you, who
are inordinately sensitive to the least breath
of censure, should have voluntarily put your
neck under the yoke of country scandal-mongers
till you are afraid of stirring
beyond your grounds without their gracious

approval, quite passes my comprehension.
You came here at your own will ; go away,
if it is your own will. Who can hinder
you?"

Don't snarl so. Doggie ! You know I
can't help being sensitive to blame. They
will say I am flighty and capricious, and all
sorts of unkind things, if I leave Oaklandss
the first summer I am here, for it was
nearly autumn when we came ; and, dear
Doggie, I do so want a little, only a little
change ! "

'you are a foolish, inconsequent little
pet," returned her friend ; " but I suppose I
must help you. Where do you wish to go ? "

*' I think," said Stella, glancing shyly at
her, '*a few weeks at a foreign seaport
would brace us all up for the winter."

*' Us ? Who do the ' us ' consist of ? "

*' You and me, of course, and Harry."

Does Harry wish to go ? "

He must go if I do. I should insist on
that."

Any one else ? "

"Well, I dare say Sir Brian Carruthers
would join us if we chose Biarritz. Indeed,
he has almost said as much."

Oh, now I understand all the mystery.
Sir Brian has been persuading you that
Oaklandss is dull, and that you need change,
and has suggested Biarritz, as being a long
way out of sight and hearing of the
Wendholm and county gossip. I hardly
credited him with so much influence over
you, my star."

He has no influence over me at all,"
protested the " star." " I myself wanted to
go away, but I was afraid it might not be
proper to stray yet. And then — I was
afraid to name Sir Brian, lest you might
take the absurd idea into your head which
you have taken."

*' My poor little Stella," said Diana, compassionately,
" you had best play cartes sur
table with a good grace, for, whatever idea
/ may get into my head, neither Sir Brian
nor you will ever get half one worth anything
in yours between you. There is really
nothing on earth to prevent you from going to
Biarritz. We will tell Martha to pack up our
boxes, and start on Monday, if you choose."

Lady Dalton brightened up. " And I
shall not be called flighty, you think ? "

Nothing of the kind. I will but have
five words with Dr. Stewart, and he will be
convinced that change is needful for you
for a time ; and he will not only advise, but
peremptorily order you to try foreign travel.
Of course, no one will suppose that Sir
Peregrine wished you to sacrifice your
health for a mere etiquette."

And with you and dear Harry with me,
I suppose Sir Brian "

*' Oh, I cannot take the responsibility of
allowing Sir Brian to join our party. He
can follow if he likes ; nobody can deny
him that right. But really, Stella, if you
object to ' be talked about ' "

But if Georgie goes too ? "

And Mrs. Verney broke into a peal of
exulting laughter.

''So we have come to the bottom of this
deep-laid plot at last! Georgina Carruthers
wants a trip to Biarritz. She persuades Sir
Brian that it would be delightful to escort
you there, and he persuades you that you
positively require a pleasant change, and
then she contrives to intimate that her
presence would be the natural excuse for
his. So she moves all her puppets to dance
to her tune. Brava, Georgie ! "

I don't care about Georgie or her puppets,"
rejoined Stella, ''so long as you are
on my side. But you know, Diana," she

added coaxingly, " that I couldn't do anything
that you thought wrong."

^^ Flatterer ! " smiled Diana. "Of all
deceivers, none are so cunning as those who
are over-sensitive to praise or blame. But
now tell me true, my Stella — do you love
Sir Brian Carruthers ? " She looked keenly
in her cousin's face as she asked this
abrupt question.

But Lady Dalton opened her blue eyes
with the most ingenuous expression of
surprise. " Love Sir Brian ? " she repeated.
Why, you know, Diana, it is impossible
that I should love any man ! "

I think so, too," replied Diana, and she
hummed softly to herself —

But for loving — no, you would not, sweet,
Though we prayed you, paid you, brayed you
In a mortar ; for you could not, sweet.' "

''Idid love Sir Peregrine," pursued Stella ;
*' he was so very good to me and Harry."

*' The love of a spaniel for the master
who caresses it and has it always in sight,"
said Diana.

It contented him, at least," said Lady
Dalton. " He was not exacting, and did
not demand of me the * grand passion '
which some women plague their lovers and
husbands with."

But you told me once that you were
fond of Harry's father."

Did I ? " asked Stella, simply. " I forget
if I did or not ; it is so long ago. I
saw so little of him ; we were only married
a few months, and I was so young. But as
for being in love with Sir Brian — oh dear,
no!"

Then you ought not to encourage his
attentions as you do. You will certainly be
blamed there''

My dear Diana, ' his attentions,' as you
call them, mean nothing but a good-natured

wish to make himself pleasant and useful.
He has never spoken one word of love
to me."

'' Not at Eio Vedass ? "

Stella laughed. *that was years ago.
He forgot himself then, but he repented
and reformed. He never now says a word
that any woman could interpret as even
gallantry. Oh, Doggie, don't try to make
mischief between Sir Brian and me ! He is
so useful and so safe. T am never obliged
to be on my guard with him against
matrimonial designs, as I am with other
men. When will you believe me, cousin,
that I never will make myself ridiculous by
a third marriage, and that Sir Brian has not
the least idea of asking me ? "

Be it so," answered Mrs. Verney ; "but
so far as Sir Brian is concerned, I can't
understand it. If he is not enslaved by
your fascinations, no man ever was."

"Hush!" whispered Stella; "there is
somebody at the door. Come in ; " and
Mrs. Farquhar and Genevra were announced,
and followed the servant into the room.

After the first greetings were exchanged,
My cousin and I," began Lady Dalton,
have been discussing a plan for giving
us all a few weeks' change. She says that
she is sure I need it. Do I look ill, Mrs.
Farquhar ? "

You look very well, Lady Dalton ; but,
perhaps, you are a little flushed. What
does Dr. Stewart say ? "

Please don't allow Lady Dalton to talk
about her health," said Mrs. Yerney ; " it is
a little nervous excitability, nothing more.
She has placed herself entirely in Dr.
Stewart's hands, and will follow his advice
implicitly, whether to go or not, and where
and when to go."

"Some very quiet place," murmured Stella.

*'01i, dear Lady Dalton," said Mrs.
Farquhar, ''if you wish for a very quiet
place, you could not do better than go with
Genevra and me to Criccieth, on the Welsh
coast, next week. How strange that you
and I — both so averse to leaving home,
such regular home-birds — should be going
on one of our rare excursions at exactly the
same time. I cannot ask you to share my
rooms at Criccieth, because I am going on a
short visit to an old friend in that neighbourhood.
It is my sole reason for going
away at all. But it is the quietest place in
the world ; and if you would like Jenny to
find you pleasant apartments "

'thanks, dear Mrs. Farquhar," said Mrs.
Yerney, hardly suppressing a laugh at the
dismay which Lady Dalton's face expressed
at this proposal to betake herself to the
quietest place in the world, " but I am sure
Dr. Stewart will agree with me that the movement

and variety of a French watering-place
will be by far better for Stella's spirits."

There seems to be a general dispersion
going on here," remarked Stella. " Admiral
Portway has let Greenhayes for the season,
and taken his girls to Falmouth ; the
Browne are off to the Lakes ; and even
you, Mrs. Farquhar, are bitten with the
same disease — a frenzy for change."

Certainly Wendholm will be dull enough
for Genevra," said Mrs. Verney, " when so
many of our neighbours go away. Even
one is missed from so limited a circle. Why,
Harry is quite lost since Keith Moray left
us ; but we shall all meet again in the
winter, the fresher for the change."

Change ! change ! " repeated Genevra,
discontentedly; ''I am sick of the word!
Must ' change ' always be for the better ?
For myself it is so, in this case, because I
long: to see the sea. I have never seen it.

But why all the neighbourhood should care
to leave their pleasant homes, and rush to
and fro, like children playing at 
"

Little Jenny is a thorough Conservative,"
smiled Lady Dalton. ''I am afraid
you grudge me the society of your playfellow
Harry, my dear ; but I cannot give
him up to you. Harry must take me to
Biarritz."

'* Oh, must he ? " said that worthy, appearing
at the open window, from which, in
passing, he had overheard his mother's last
words. " Your ladyship must forgive a
rebellious son, but Harry has other views."

''My dear boy," exclaimed Stella, "you
would never allow me to travel to Biarritz
without a gentleman to take care of me ? "

I'm no good," replied Harry. " I'm not
half a gentleman. Kit affirms ; and Jenny
confirms that fact. There's Carruthers,

mamma. Take him ; he's always hovering
about you. You will be like a fish out of
water, even on the sea-shore, without
him."

There was a moment's silence after this
ill-timed remark of Stanforth's. Over Lady
Dalton's fair face flitted the faintest shade
of embarrassment, the faintest cloud of
perplexity rested on Mrs. Farquhar's, while
Mrs. Verney glanced keenly at them both.
Genevra was quite unmoved.

Harry resumed, "Jenny and I have
settled that we are going together to
Criccieth to fish for shrimps and crabs."

But, Harry," remonstrated Mrs. Farquhar,
" my daughter and I are going to
stay with a friend. You cannot go with
us."

We settled nothing of the kind, mamma,"
protested Jenny. You promised " — to Harry
" that you would run over to Criccieth

while I was there, and teach me to steer a
boat ; but of going with us, or of shrimps
and crabs, not a syllable ! You will have
to go with your mother to Biarritz, and fish
for crabs there."

Well," said Harry, resignedly, " I don't
mind taking you there, mamma, and leaving
you to the care of your nine-toed attache
while I go back to Criccieth and Gin. You
can wait here for me, Mrs. Farquhar ; you
will need a gentleman escort as much as
Lady Dal ton does."

"You forget you are only half Si gentleman,
Harry," laughed Genevra.

Ah," moaned Harry, pathetically, " if
Kit were here you would accept me as complete,
but if you have not got him to snarl
at, you turn on me instead. I am writing
to him to-night. I'll beg him to come back
and take his proper share of your site."

To this Miss Farquhar made no reply,

YOL. Ill, 41

and shortly after Mrs. Farquhar took her
leave.

When she had quitted the house, with
Ursa Minor " trotting by Jenny's side like
a tame bear led by a Savoyard, Diana turned
to Lady Dalton.

Do you not think, Stella, that it will
soon be difficult for your Harry to live
away from Genevra Farquhar ? "

It seems difficult now," laughed Stella ;
but when both cease to be children, each
will turn off in some other direction, and
fall under some other yoke."

You do not call Miss Farquhar a child,
surely ? She grows every day more womanly,
and every day prettier."

And so every day less likely to become
seriously attached to my dear Hal — for that
is what you mean. Doggie. But he is boyish
still, and only loves Jenny as a playmate.
And even if it were otherwise, why should

I care? Harry will marry some day, I
suppose, and there is no objection at all to
Genevra as a wife for him. Only fancy ! if
he wanted to marry a barmaid or a milliner's
girl, as some lads do ! But I am quite sure
he is not in the least attracted in that way
to my little favourite or to any other
maiden."

Not to any other, if not to her," replied
Mrs. Alderney. " Well, as you say, there is
no great objection — things may take their
course ; but, however impressible you
may think Harry is, remember that if
Genevra should be less so, and some day
betray herself, he will fall an unresisting
prey."

"Let him," said Stella. "The idea of
Jenny being ' impressed ' by my Harry !
What can have suggested such a thing to

you?"

Only that once or twice I have noticed

Lately that when he has been ' chaffing ' her
before other men — Sir Brian or Keith Moray,
for instance — she has seemed hurt, and

blushed so deeply "

What was he chaffing her about ? "
Well, I hardly know ; it was just his
usual way of teasing her. Let me see. Oh,
something about kissing ! I suppose she
had refused or resented a kiss from him,
and naturally she disliked the allusion, if
she felt more seriously on the point than he
did."

"I do not think there's anything in it,"
rejoined Stella, carelessly. " Jenny has a
trick of blushing at odd times. Her blushes
mean nothing. Very likely she saw you
watching her. That would be quite enough
to make her colour up, if she thought you
were looking for it."

Perhaps so," answered Doggie ; "but if
neither she nor Harry care for one another

except as playmates, blushes are out of
place, though, to be sure, Harry's jokes arc
not always well-timed. And now, my star,
here comes Dr. Stewart. We wall consult
him about Biarritz. It must be Biarritz, I
suppose ? "

Not Criccieth, certainly," laughed Stella.

It would seem that the cordial relations
between Jenny and Harry were a subject of
interest to others besides Diana Verney, for
when Mrs. Farquhar entered the Vicarage*,
drawing-room, she was at once greeted by
sister Chatty with the inquiry —

"What have you done with Jenny? I
saw her and Harry Stanforth with you as
you came up the road from my bedroom
window."

They left me at the gate," replied Juliet.
Harry has gone on with Genevra to the
Grange."

Mrs. Burnes was silent for a moment,

perhaps to give some impetus to her next
speech when delivered. " Those two are
always together, Juliet."

To which truism Mrs. Farquhar returned
the sprightly rejoinder, " Yes, they generally
find each other out. May I turn the cat off
this chair. Chatty ? "

Mrs. Burnes took the cat on her own
knee (it was a pet of Charley's), and smoothed
its fur in silence for a few moments before
she returned to the assault ; then — " Are
you wise, Juliet, in allowing two young-people
such very unrestricted intercourse,
everywhere and at all times ? Is it setting
a good example to the girls of the village ?
Only yesterday I reproved Molly Western
for loitering in your coppice with Tom
Slade, and she said quite pertly, ' Miss
Farquhar and Mr. Stanforth are often there
quite as long together.' "

She was very saucy," said Mrs. Farquhar,

a faint pink flushing her pale cheeks.
There is no analogy. Molly and Tom are
sweeth'earting.' "

"And so Jenny and Harry may be."

Juliet returned precisely the same answer
that Lady Dalton had made to a similar
suggestion from her cousin. 'nonsense,
Chatty. Harry is a mere boy."

Just so ; there is time to warn you.
Were it too late I should not waste remonstrance.
I wish to put you on your guard,
that is all. Harry will not long be a boy ;
and Genevra is not the child she was, even
when he first came to Oaklandss."

'* You acknowledge that '? " said the
mother eagerly, glad to avert the impending
controversy. " You admit that Jenny has
greatly improved with the last year ? "

I said nothing about improvement, but
I will allow that she is not the hoyden I
feared she would groan up. She is more

reserved, more maidenly. Well, I will
admit that she is improved, though I have
observed that she allows young Stanforth
a freedom in addressing her that she would
do better to check. I heard him, the other
day, call her a little beast."

Mrs. Farquhar only laughed. '' Who buta
very boyish boy would use such a term
to a young lady ? Not much sweethearts
there. Chatty. But no fear ; Genevra will
not forget the respect she owes to Sir Brian,
by encouraging any serious advances until
that bond is finally broken or renewed."

"Bond?" said Chatty. "Fiddlestick!
I do not believe you will ever hear anymore
of Sir Brian as a suitor. He only
wished to escape with grace from the very
awkward position in which Genevra's caprice
had placed him. Why, he takes not the
least notice of her ; his whole attentions are
devoted to Lady Dalton, who certainly does

not discourage him or any other admirer,"
added Chatty, bitterly.

You are quite mistaken," said Juliet.
He has no interest in Lady Dalton, except
as a very old friend, whom he knew when
her husband was alive ; and he intends to
come forward as Genevra's lover as soon as
she enters her eighteenth year. Miss Carruthers
told me so."

Miss Carruthers ! Why, Juliet, you
surely have not been confiding this family
secret of ours to Miss Carruthers ? "

'' Why," answered Juliet, a little abashed,
'' she is herself, you know, one of the family
Sir Brian's family, at least — and she
seemed to wish, quite as much as we can,
that it should not be spoken of until finally
settled. She has never alluded to the subject
to any one but me, since Jenny was staying
with her last year. We have spoken very
little together about it. She entirely agrees

with me that the strictest reserve should
be maintained on all sides ; for she says
Jenny would be so severely blamed for her
her caprice in the first instance. What
do you think, Chatty ? "

I think you are all fools together," was
sirs. Burnes's uncompromising reply.

Chapter lY.

MR. MORAY WAKES UP.

Keith was gone away on his travels, and
Mr. Moray, when deprived of his society,
deprived for a time even of his letters, which
were perforce brief and infrequent, amused
himself with meditations on his choice of
a lady-love ; but the more he meditated on
this choice, the more perplexed he felt in
endeavouring to decide, from the portrait
I of the lady sketched by the lover, whether
or not his. own judgment would confirm it.

Mr. Moray, though little skilled in love
lore, was not such a neophyte as to believe
that the most passionate devotion in the
wisest of men necessarily presupposes the

intrinsic worth of its object. "Not the sort
of woman that So-and-so would fancy " is
often just the very woman that he does.
Nor would he affirm, on reflection, that
Keith had himself appeared quite ignorant
of this fact, or that his descriptions of
Genevra had endowed her with any extraordinary
gifts of genius, beauty, or maidenly
charm. The impression left on Mr. Moray's
mind was that she might be rather pretty ;
she might be rather cold ; she had been
reared in a seclusion which had made her
very unconventional ; she seemed often
childish, often pert, but she was so very
young ; she might yet be trained to be all
that he could wish in Mary Farquhar's
daughter and Keith Moray's wife. For no
experience will ever uproot from any masculine
mind that you have only to catch a
crow or a sparrow-hawk young enough, and
you may tame and train it into a dove

or a nightingale ! But, of course, the
original nature of the bird must make the
process of transformation more or less difficult,
and Mr. Moray felt an ever-increasing,
devouring anxiety to judge for himself what
sort of a bird it was that Keith was so eager
to capture. And how could he, a bachelor
totally destitute of womenkind, an invalid
chained on a sick bed, a stranger living ina
distant county — how could he ever hope
to look on the face of this girl, or have
the remotest chance of even criticising,
much less influencing her ? One wild
plan after another presented itself to his
imagination, only to be dismissed with a
sigh. Wendholm was only ten miles from
Pakenham, where he faintly recollected
having heard in his youth there were
mineral springs, famed for their health -
restoring waters. Could he persuade his
physician to order him to go there — he, who

had not stirred for many years from this own
garden and grounds, and then only in an
invalid chair ? And when he had reached
Pakenham, what would be his chances of
meeting Miss Farquhar, unless Harry Stan-forth
Ah, to be sure, there was Oak-lands.
Lady Dal ton would gladly welcome
him to her house, and Harry would cherish
him as a father. But the nervous recluse*
shrank from claiming the hospitality of a
lady whom he had never seen, and he shrank
still more from Harry's kindly meant, but
very noisy courtesies. What if he wrote
to Genevra herself, and, pleading his inability
to go to her and his friendship in past years
for her dead mother, invited her to Hurstleigh,
with Mrs. Farquhar, if necessary, as
his guest ? No ; les instances equally forbad
the visit of the widowed stepmother
to an unwomanly bachelor's home, or that
of the young girl without her. So he lay

back oa his cushions with a sigh, and had
resigned himself to the absolute impossibility
of any fulfilment of his desire, when fortune
unexpectedly came to his aid.

Before Keith went away he had extorted
a promise from Harry Stanforth to write
regularly to him, if it was only a line, to
tell him all that was going on at Oaklandss
*' especially about the horses," said the
artful petitioner ; and these letters were to
be sent to him through his uncle, that no
source of interest or amusement might be
closed to Mr. Moray during his absence,
and it was too much to expect from Harry
that he would write to both.

Accordingly, one day, about three weeks
after Keith's departure, a letter came from
Harry, in which, after as much information
about his own and his neighbours' stables as
would have filled seven or eiofht columns in
The Tiirf^ there occurred a few lines which

made Mr. Moray rise up from his couch
with an animation that he had not displayed
since his nephew quitted Hurstleigh, and
ring the bell so sharply that Judson rushed
into the room pale with alarm, fearing that
his master had been taken with a fit, or
broken a blood-vessel somewhere. On Mr.
Moray's first words he concluded that the
damage, whatever it was, must be to the
brain.

'* Judson, am I able to travel ? "
Judson was an experienced nurse-tender,
and never thwarted his patients, so, 
his consternation, he evaded the
question by asking another.

Do you feel like travelling, Mr. Moray ? "
'* I don't know about that," replied his
master, " but if I could manage it, I am
sure I should be the better for it. The
days and nights are very long without my
nephew, Judson. I think if I could get to

the seaside, now, it would amuse me to
watch the ships."

Had you not better ask the doctor, Mr.
Moray ? To be sure, it is not very far to
Brighton or Hastings, where you could have
every comfort, and an invalid carriage as
easy as your own bed almost."

Hastings and Brighton ? No, no ; too
hot and too noisy. I want a quiet little retreat
on the Welsh coast. Beautiful scenery
there ! Why, Judson, how many years is
it since I saw a mountain '? "

Well, sir," said his attendant, in the
soothing tone people u^^e to sick children or
hysterical patients, " a mountain is a pretty
thing, and if Dr. Laing thinks it will not be

too much for you But we must not

fly in the doctor's face, you know. We'll
see what he says. I'll send for him at once,
sir."

The doctor, much to Judson's surprise,

VOL. Ill, 42

offered do strenuous opposition to his
patient's unexpected proposal to leave the
home to which he had confined himself for
eleven years, and undertake a journey to a
remote seaside spot in " wild Wales," which,
in his condition, it would be impossible for
him to accomplish under three days. He
even agreed to accompany him to his
destination and see him safely settled there,
and gave Judson various directions respecting[
the arrangements to be seen to for the
invalid's comfort on the way. Mr. Moray
immediately became quite calm and cheerful,
but his anxious attendant followed Dr.
Laing out of the room and into the library,
into which he turned, before crossing the
hall.

'' Now, Judson," he inquired, " how long
is it since this fit of restlessness came on ?
I saw your master a week ago, and he said
not a word then about his wish to travel."

Nor be didn't to one, doctor ; never a
word till this morning, when he got his
letters."

Did his letters agitate him ? "

They did not appear to. He was quiet
enough, like thinking over something, while
I was dressing him, and I hadn't left him
ten minutes when he ranof for me with a
violence. Oh, doctor, it's fretting after Mr.
Keith has done it."

Nonsense," replied the doctor, decisively ;
he is not fretting about anything. But
of course he misses Mr. Keith, and that has
produced this sudden desire for change."

But such a change, doctor ! If it had
been to Hastings or Brighton, now ! But a
three days' journey, and he so weak ! It
will kill him. And you to give him leave
to go ! "

My good fellow," answered the doctor,
serenely ignoring the implied reproach,

'' your experience in nervous disease is
limited to one sufferer ; mine extends to
thirty. You do not know tLe reserve of
strength that is often latent in these apparently
feeble organizations, ready on the
demand of an energized will. My object is
rather to draw forth this strength than too



suppress it. See that everything is attended
to on your part, and 1 will be responsible
for mine. Good morning."

One would think," muttered Mr. Judson,
as he reascended the staircase, " that Ije
means to say that Mr. Moray's illness is all
fancy. Ugh I "

Great was the consternation of the Hurstleigh
servants when the butler assembled
them to hear the news. J\Iaster was going
to travel half over England next week.

Oh, the poor gentleman ! " said the
Scotch cook. "He is * fey,' and Dr. Laing
knows it is no manner of use crossing a

body that's ' fey.' He will dree his
doom. "

"Maybe," suggested a young kitchen-maid,
" that he'll be drum to the seaside,
like them pigs in the Bible, and fall over a
steep place into the sea."

Hould your tongue, Lizzie," reproved
the Irish housemaid. *' Sure, and where 's
yer manners, to liken the master to them
devilled pigs ? "

*' He can't bear the place since Mr. Keith
went away," said the butler. '' Doctor can't
keep him quiet now. Mr. Keith ought
never to have left him."

But this speech aroused Atwood, the
gamekeeper, who had brought in a couple
of rabbits, and was lingering to take part in
the debate.

Lord bless you ! " cried he, " Mr. Keith
and doctor know what they're about. Mr.
Moray only wants waking up a bit."

It's a wake he'll be wanting, and not a
waking ," siohecl Nora, the housemaid.

'' Look at Ponto there," pursued the
gamekeeper; " he'll ^be took that bad with
cramps in his stomach sometimes, he'll be
down quite stiff and howling, and say he
can't stir a leg for the life of him ; but a
kick or two wakes him up always, and he
runs off as sharp as a black beetle."

*' Bah ! " objected the kitchen maid. "Nobody's
going to kick Mr. Moray ; and Ponto
don't lay on his stomach for eleven long
years."

He might," answered the keeper,
thoughtfully, " if he were let alone."

But the other servants showed no interest
in this parable of Ponto.

It'll be awful slow when the governor
has left Hurstleigh," mused the butler.
"I'd give notice at once, only "

Only ? " inquired the housekeeper.

*' Only he'll have to be brought back, you
know, and I wouldn't for all the world miss
the funeral. There's the bell, Thomas."

At the summons of the bell (the doorbell,
not the church bell) the group dispersed,
the women with their aprons to
their eyes at the melancholy suggestion of
their master's approaching obsequies. The
gamekeeper, a rather dense young fellow,
but given to speculative inquiry, walked
slowly away, revolving the dreadful possibility
that Ponto might lie howling, but
motionless, for eleven years if he were let
alone, until it occurred to him that the latter
contingency, even for half an hour, and
under any conditions, was so much more
improbable than the first that he might as
well cease to muse upon it, recurring to the
subject, only less interesting, of Mr. Moray's
predicted demise and consequent funeral.

CHAPTER V.

A HUNT FOR A FAIRY.

And thus it happened that ]mr. Moray the
elder heard of Genevra's purposed visit to
Criccieth, and, with the spice of youthful
romance that still lurked in his character,
kept alive by the dreamy influences of his
secluded life, he determined to follow her
there, and, availing himself of the opportunities
often afforded by the casual intercourse
of visitors to seaside places, to seek
Miss Farquhar's acquaintance, and form his
own opinion of the wisdom of his nephew's
choice and the chances of his success. The
journey, in spite of every precaution against
over-fatigue and every appliance for comfort,

proved so exhausting that Dr. Laing's heart
misgave him more than once before it ended,
and he avoided meeting the melancholy
triumph in Judson s eyes, who had from the
first condemned the adventure. But affairs
took a brighter aspect on their arrival at
Criccieth. No thought or expense had been
spared by Mr. Moray's experienced servants
to make the apartments they had selected
for him comfortable, even luxurious. In a
few days the invalid was able to sit up in
his bed for an hour or two at a time, and
enjoy from the open window the beauty of
sea and mountain, to which he had been so
long a stranger. The amendment progressed
gradually but surely ; and ten days later
his doctor left him able to bear the exhila-
r at in Of breezes, and watch all the cheerful
movement on the beach from a low invalid
carriage, drawn by a tiny Welsh pony, hardly
bigger than a goat, led by a careful veteran

under the guidance of the ever-faithful
Judson, who, though compelled to endorse
Dr. Laing's affirmation that it had done
this master no harm to bring him here, was
yet considerably exercised in his mind as
to how they would ever get him back
again.

But now, with Mr. Moray's reviving health
and courage, arose an unforeseen difficulty.
How was he to find his friends in Criccieth ^
He had taken for granted that in an obscure
Welsh village the names and habitat of
every passing stranger could be readily
ascertained. Possibly it had not yet arrived
at the pitch of civilization indicated by a
visitors list or even a public promenade,
but Keith's description of Mrs. and Miss
Farquhar was too firmly impressed on his
memory to leave it doubtful that he would
recognize them at once, wherever he met
them. There could not be many ladies in

the lodging-houses on the beach or in the
one solitary hotel who would even seem to
answer to that description, and he was too
well informed of Mrs. Farquhar s shy habits
to think of looking for her in a boardinghouse,
had there been one in Criccieth,
which there was not. But vain was all
search or inquiry. He could neither see
nor hear of any ladies whom he could
identify with the pair he sought.

The cause of his failure was simple enough.
They where not staying at Criccieth proper
at all, but in the house of a friend who
lived in a little hamlet among the hills, two
miles distant, and had hitherto chiefly confined
their excursions to the shore immediately
below it. Their names were unknown
to the dwellers in Criccieth, whose interest
in strangers was almost wholly confined to
such as fixed their attention on the cards of
Apartments to Let," suspended from doorway

or window. Vainly did Mr. Moray,
reclining patiently on his pillows, scrutinize
the groups of idlers who defiled slowly past
him, or gambolled on the rocks about him ;
vainly did he urge his charioteer to the
pursuit of some distant figure that loomed
hopefully afar. Once he gave chase to a
seeming fairy, in a wide hat and a crimson
sunshade, that might be Keith's mignonne
love. Alas ! his eyes, unused to the
atmosphere of the coast line, had mistaken
its perspective, and the fairy, when he
came up with her, proved to be a stalwart
dame of about five feet eight. Afterwards
he descried a real fairy flitting about on the
rocks, eagerly hunting for " common objects."
But she was invariably followed by two
small pseudo-middies, as starlings follow a
crow, and for much the same reason. But
Mr. Moray concluded that she was their
elder sister or nursery governess, and looked

despondingly away. And yet it was Jenny,
after all.

But Fate had not doomed the sufferer to
final disappointment. Genevra, from her
airy station on the rocks, marked the little
carriage with its slow-pacing pony, the
languid form lying back among its cushions,
and the attentive servant walking by his
side. She had even descended to the shore
once or twice to gain a closer view of the
pathetic cortege, although, with the reverence
for age and infirmity which is sometimes,
but should be always, the gracious attribute
of youth, she had refrained from pressing
too near lest her interest should be mistaken
for curiosity. And often, a little withdrawn
behind a seaweed-dripping boulder, she had
gazed with pitying admiration on the
delicately featured face, wan with suffering
more than years, with its gentle, pensive
look and its silvered hair, and the wasted

form, with its drooping languid grace, and
a something — she could not tell what — that
haunted her like a dim remembrance. But
how could she associate that vague fascination
of a family likeness with the remotest
idea of Keith, with his dark beauty and the
manly vigour of his youth ?

But one morning, after Mr. Moray had
passed her by without seeing her, she saw a
book lying on the sands, which had fallen
unobserved from the carriage. Genevra
picked it up and proceeded to examine it.
It was Browning's " Dramatis Persons " — a
favourite study, as she well knew, of Keith's.
But when she turned to the fly-leaf no
name was inscribed upon it. She hesitated
a moment, and then ran after the pony
chair, which was already some distance off.
Judson stopped it when, on looking back,
he saw her signal ; and she came up to Mr.
Moray's side flushed and panting, and offered

the book without a word. She was looking
her very best — her slight girlish figure set
off to the fullest advantage by her simple,
tight-fitting marine toilette (I do not mean
a bathing-dress, madam) ; the bloom of
health on her cheek, and its lustre in her
eyes ; and with a shyness in her look
and gesture that gave a softness to her
whole expression, which was its rarest
charm.

Mr. Moray looked at her as he took the
book from her hand, lifting his hat with a
smile, and then a sudden intuition flashed
upon his mind that his long-sought-for
maiden was here.

This book is very precious to me, young
lady," he said, in a voice which, though low
and faint, had yet in its music a haunting
echo of another voice, different yet the
same (whose could it be ?), *' because it
belongs to a dear absent friend. Let me

write your name in it, in remembrance of
your kindness in restoring it to me."

''I am Jenny Farquhar," answered the
girl, simply.

"The daughter of Genevra and Dr.
Farquhar? My dear, I knew both your
parents, and I loved your mother truly."

I never knew my real mother," answered
Jenny, fixing her blue eyes inquiringly on
Mr. Moray's face, " but I have a stepmother
who does quite as well. And you
are ?"

'' I am Moray of Hurstleigh. Have you
never heard of me ? I have heard of you
often through " — he was about to say " my
nephew," but checked himself — " through
Harry Stanforth, your neighbour at Oak-lands."


And so this was Keith's invalid uncle, of
whom he and Harry had often spoken in
her presence, though but seldom to her.

How strange that he should be here ! How
languid he was ; how pale and weak ; and
what an interesting face ! What a charming
manner ! And Jenny's heart yearned towards
him, with a tenderness which, if Keith could
have known of it, would have made all the
joys of science, for the time at least, appear
tasteless and tame.

Mr. Moray had taken her hand in his
when he spoke of her parents. She did
not withdraw it, and walked slowly by
the side of the carriage when it moved on
towards the village at Judson's direction,
who fell back to a respectful distance
while his master conversed with his new
friend.

You live in the hamlet upon the hills ? "
said Mr. Moray. "That is too steep and
too rough a road for me to call on Mrs.
Farquhar. Do you think she would forego
ceremonial to visit a cripple who is de-vol.

III. 43

pendent on such friendly charity for what
social enjoyment he can share ? "

Jenny promised readily in her mother's
name, and the new friends parted at Mr,
Moray's door — he in such a state of pleasurable
excitement as Judson had not seen
him in since Keith took his double first at
Balliol, and Genevra speeding over the
hills like a lapwing, to astonish Mrs. Farquhar
with her story of an acquisition more
valuable and more strange than the rarest
sea-anemone or shell.

The gentle lady lost no time in responding
to the invalid's appeal, and all
the half-hour she remained with him was
sympathetically spent in inquiries about
Keith, and praises of him as such a universal
favourite at Wendholm. "Though,
indeed," added kind Mrs. Farquhar, *' we
see nothings or little of him at the Granite.
He and young Stanforth seem to have so

many engagements together when he is at
Oaklandss, but Genevra often meets him
there. Indeed' she concluded, with a
smile, ^' on the principle of ' Love me, love
my dog,' your nephew and Jenny should be
closer friends than they are, for they both
are so fond of Harry."

During the whole time of Mrs. Farquhar's
Mr. Moray's eyes dwelt furtively on Jenny ;
but she neither looked round nor spoke, and
kept her face turned towards the window,
absorbed in watching the landlady of the
adjoining house bargaining with a fishmonger
; yet the observer fancied, when
she rose to depart, that she was neither
quite so bright nor quite so soft as he had
seen her look on the preceding day, and he
made an inward resolution never to allude
to Keith at any time in conversation with
her — a resolution to which he strictly
adhered.

CHAPTER VI.

BIRD-TAMING.

For some little after that first meeting Mr.
Moray's efforts at "taming" Keith's wild
bird seemed to progress satisfactorily. For
great part of every day Genevra was constantly
at his side. In fine weather she
would walk beside his carriage, or sit on a
boulder on the edge of the shore, where it
was drawn up ; and when he was too
languid to go out, or the weather was too
wild or cold for him, she would spend an
hour or two with him in his apartments,
sometimes chatting gaily to him of her own
pursuits, tastes, and fancies, but oftener
reading to him out of his favourite books,

and listening, with intelligent sympathy, to
his conversation on the graver topics in
which he sought to interest her. Mr. Moray
had never wished or intended to mediate
between his nephew and his little sweetheart.
A man, he would have said, who
cannot plead his own cause with the girl he
loves, is not worth her listening to ; and
he was too thoroughly imbued with the
instincts of a gentleman to think of trying
to surprise the secret of a maiden's heart,
of which one man only should possess the
key. He had hitherto seen nothing in
Genevra that could repel the most timid
wooer, and he wondered that Keith was so
slow to win that key. But he had seen
only the gentlest aspect of her many-sided
nature. He found her intellect uncultivated,
but not without the natural grace of
appreciative feeling and taste. Her manners
were certainly unconventional and a little

brusque ; but they were softened, in ibis
society, by her reverence for his superior
wisdom and refinement, and by the tender
pity which was always inspired in her by
any form of weakness or suffering. He
detected no trace of sister Chatty's " ''
nor of the hoyden, which some allusions
in Stanforth's letters, and even some unguarded
remarks of Keith's, had almost
prepared him to fear. She was kind, she
was gentle, and, though certainly undemonstrative,
he believed her to be loving ; and
the invalid loved her well, was happy when
she was with him, and listless and depressed
when she left him. Her society almost
consoled him for Keith's absence, and lie
would spend hours in weaving pleasant
dreams of a time when, dear as a daughter,
he would have all but a father's claims on
her tender devotion. She was pretty, too,
so graceful and maiden like. When she sat

by his couch, hearkening to the low, pathetic
voice, in which was never a murmur of
complaint or repining, such a soft shadow
would pass over the sensitive mouth and
the serious eyes, that it is no wonder that
Mr. Moray thought her almost — as Keith,
if he had been there, would have pronounced
her more than — beautiful. But these halcyon
days were drawing to a close. "What if,
from the dove's egg in this philosophical
fowler's incubator, should issue a fiery flying
serpent ?

Mr. Moray's driver had guided the docile
pony to a sheltered nook on the beach, well
protected from wind hj a fragment of rock
the same from behind which Genevra had
formerly watched him. He had the very
book that had been the means of introduction
to her in his hand, while he read from
it some passage from "A Death in a Desert."
Her eyes were riveted on his face with a

thoughtful, almost solemn expression, which
gave to her mobile features a more womanly
air than usually belonged to them, and
which struck Mr. Moray, as he laid down
down the book and turned to speak to her ;
but before the words had risen to his lips,
a swift change seemed to sweep away every
trace of thought. She dropped the sunshade
she had been holding over her companion's
head, without even stopping to close it —
to the profound disgust of the startled pony,
as it clattered down under his nose — and
with a joyful cry of " Harry ! Harry ! " flew
like the wind along the shingly beach, to
meet a figure which, but for her exclamation,
would have been yet too distant for Mr.
Moray's weaker sight to recognise.

The exulting cry, the impulsive gesture,
struck Mr. Moray with a surprise in which
mingled something like a pang of jealousy.
Had Keith, after all, a rival in his friend ?

Was this the secret of Jenny's coldness to
him ? To think of Harry Stanforth as a
successful rival to Keith, or, for that matter,
to any personable man, might have appeared
almost grotesque ; but it is on record that
Once a lady loved a pig' and Harry was
not that.

Mr. Moray watched the meeting of the
pair with intense curiosity. Young Stan-forth
came along at a quite leisurely pace,
waving his hat, from which streamed as
many ribbons as might have decked a
recruiting sergeant's, or the electioneering
"tout" of a former generation; but his
greeting to Miss Farquhar was not sentimental.
He merely snatched off her hat,
and flung it in the path of the advancing
tide ; and while Jenny, laughing merrily, as
Mr. Moray had never yet heard her laugh,
sprang almost into the water to rescue it,
Harry advanced with outstretched hands to

the invalid's side, making the nearest
approach to embracing him that circumstances
permitted.

"Why, governor," cried he, "so I've
caught you, after all! The idea of you
being here, ' by the sad sea waves,' with
a pony and a parasol ! "

For Judson, in his astonishment at beholding
Harry, having picked up Jenny's
sunshade, was now abstractedly holding it
over the pony's head.

"How did you find me out, Hal'*
inquired Mr. Moray.

Well, I left my mamma at Biarritz, with
a lot of friends, old and new, around her.
I came by way of Calais and Dover, and
turned aside to Hurstleigh, to keep my
promise to Keith to look after you."

"That was kind of you, Hal; and of
course the servants told you where to look
for me 1 "

The J told me, with tears in their eyes,
that you had gone off to the seaside to
drown yourself for grief at Kit's absence ;
but you need not have gone quite so far,
governor, when fresh water would have done
as well. Who'd have thought of you turning
skittish, and giving your friends so much
trouble to catch you ? "

So far Jenny had stood looking smilingly
on, her tumbled curls blowing over her eyes,
while she shook the water from her dripping
hat. She now interposed with a pout on
her rosy lips, which Mr. Moray felt disposed
to resent, in remembrance of the kiss that
had once been pressed on them.

Then it is not me whom you came in
search of V she said.

"You? No, indeed. Why shoukl I
search after you ? You never wrote to meas
you promised, nor even sent your address,
you little beast ! "

'order, order, Harry," cried Mr. Moray.
'' Remember, you are speaking to a lady."

"But, I say, governor, I've got a pile of
letters for you — from Kit some of the fattest
are. They had only come that morning, so
I took charge of them for you, as I thought
I should be here, in this old-world corner,
as soon as the post''

Mr. Moray eagerly held out his hands for
the packet, but Harry flung it into the
carriage, and, turning to Jenny, said —

'now, he'll be so occupied with those
studies that you and I, Gin, may make ourselves
scarce. Let's go and look for crabs."

No ; you must come with me and see
mamma. You and I can scour over the hills
in twenty minutes, and you will be back
again with Mr. Moray before he has read
his letters over twice."

And away they went, bounding over the
rocks, splashing through the pools, chasing

one another over the heath, with such exuberance
of youthful glee, that, had not Mr.
Moray become absorbed in his correspondence,
he might have doubted a little if he
had really read General character so
thoroughly as he had begun to believe.

And from that time Mr. Moray's tame
bird returned to the ways of her woodland
life, and no longer came at his call. Not
that he was neglected. Jenny's daily visit
was still duly paid ; but " Ursa Minor " was
always beside her, and there could be little
chance of grave talk, or graver studies, when
*bursa Minor" was to the fore. They came in,
laden with marine treasures, and sometimes
dripping with the sea-water through which
they had paddled to obtain them, bringing
with them the fresh sea-air and the music
of their merry sportiveness ; but their eager
demands on his attention and admiration
were sometimes just a little more than the

weary invalid could readily respond to, and
then Jenny would say penitently that they
were too noisy, and had tired him, and off
they would go again, on some boating trip
or a search for sea-monsters rarer than they
yet possessed. Often, when Mr. Moray
drove along the beach, he would hear their
peals of laughter ringing over the water or
from among the rocks ; and once, in a longer
drive than usual, he came upon the pair in a
lonely nook, Harry engaged in digging for
crabs, while Jenny — oh, horror ! — tried, with
bare white feet, the depth of a pool, at the
bottom of which glittered some shining
crystals. It was not that her feeling for
Mr. moray had changed, or that she had
lost her interest in his graver studies and
serious thought, but what chance had an
old man's wisdom against the charm of
youthful affinities with a girl of seventeen,
healthy, happy, and gay ? The invalid

began to think that there was a want of
variety in the Criccieth scenery ; the autumn
days were beginning to close in, and the
winds were cold. Moreover, Keith would
soon be home again, and his uncle should
be at Hurstleigh to welcome him. Judson
should write to Dr. Laing, to ask him to
name a convenient time to come and take
his patient back.

He was musing, one evening, on the
possibility of making the return journey
a day shorter than it had been to Wales.
He was certainly much stronger than he
was then, and he was growing anxious
to find himself once more in his own
comfortable house. He was alone, Judson
having; walked off to a distant farmhouse,
at his express desire, to ask if they
had some honey which he had suddenly
fancied, and he had been much longer away
than his master had expected. Was he

growing fretful ? There was a sound of
hurrying footsteps on the stairs, of gay-voices
and laughter, and Harry burst unceremoniously
into the room, carrying a
blue handkerchief full of slimy medusae
and livid starfish, and followed, more
leisurely, by Genevra, tenderly bearing an
old tin pot filled with sea-water, in which
some rare sea-anemones sullenly veiled
their glories. Something listless in Mr.
Moray's attitude at once struck her as she
looked at him, and she set down her
treasures and went up to his couch.

You are sad," she said ; " you are depressed.
You have been left too long alone.
We met Judson on the hill on his way to
Khydmawr, and when he told us you were
all by yourself, we made a short cut down
to the beach, and hastened, as quick as we
could, to come to you."

*' It was very good of you, dear children,"

answered Mr. Moray, gratefully. "I am a
little peevish this evening, because I expected
Judson would have been back sooner."

"He wont be long now," said Harry,
carefully depositing his jelly-fish in an easy-chair,
where, a moment later, Genevra, unawares,
sat down upon them. " He was
not far from Rhyd when we met him, and
he might almost have overtaken us, as Gin
loitered on the beach to stare after the
sandpipers."

Gin did nothing of the sort," retorted
that damsel. " It was Harry who loitered,
Mr. Moray, to pick up those nasty jelly-fish.
But I know you want your tea, and have
been waiting till Judson comes in to have
it. I shall give it you. King the bell,
Harry."

Mr. Moray brightened considerably when
his young attendants had given him his tea,
and even laughed heartily at Genevra's

VOL. III. 44

disgust when she discovered her disaster
with the jelly-fish — all the greater as she
could not, in Mr. Moray's drawing-room,
utilize them, as she frequently did, as
missiles against the offender. But still
Judson did not appear, having, as subsequently
transpired, lost his way on the
mountains and taken a circuit of two miles
round.

The autumn twilight began to deepen
and the sea-fog to thicken, and Jenny rose
to take leave.

I must go now," she said, " or it will be
dusk before I get back, and mamma will be
uneasy ; but you will soon have Judson
here, Mr. Moray, and meantime you have
Hal and his messes to amuse you."

But, my dear girl," objected her friend,
*' Harry must see you home ; you cannot
cross those mountain paths alone."

*' Oh, can't she ? " said Harry, glancing

yearningly at a fresh plate of hot muffins
that the little Welsh waitress had just
brought in. " Jenny is used to scour the
woods without escort. She can take care
of herself. I'm too tired to crawl. She
will fly home like a lapwing. I should only
delay her."

** Yes, indeed, Mr. Moray ; I can always
and everywhere take care of myself."

What evil spirit of mischief prompted
Mr. Moray's rejoinder ?

*' Even in a railway carriage, Jenny ? " he
said, with a laugh.

The words had hardly passed his lips
when he would have given a week's health
to recall them. The girl's hand was on the
door-handle, and she was looking smilingly
towards him. " It goes without saying "
that she flushed scarlet — never had Mr.
Moray seen a woman redden so before — but
the smile faded suddenly from her lips and

eyes, and the glance she gave him was as
cold and hard as the flash of a steel blade.
Then she was gone. But Harry only saw
his muffins in a rapidly decreasing pile.

Mr. Moray was very silent all the rest of
the evening, and, when Judson came in,
retired at once to his chamber. That glance
of Genevra's had been a revelation to him.

If she looks at Keith like that," he

thought, " the lad may well be afraid of

her. I deserve all I get for my want of

tact, my want of delicacy. What could

have possessed me, I wonder, to make such

an allusion ? Poor Keith ! I may have ruined

his cause for ever. It is time for me to

clear out of this. It was Judson's delay

that must have made me so unlike myself.

But I fear she is vindictive, and, so far,

unfeminine."

And he was confirmed in this view of his
late favourite's character when three days

passed and she came not near him, though
she knew, from a message he sent her by
Stanforth, that Dr. Laing was to arrive on
the fourth evening, to take him back to
Hurstleigh on the following day. She
relented so far as to present herself at the
last moment to bid him farewell ; but then
Mrs. Farquhar accompanied her, and the
doctor was present, and her manner was
simply indifferent and cold as ice.

She is certainly vindictive," concluded
Mr. Moray. " But, then, my dear boy is
scarcely conscious of the vehemence of his
own temperament when once he relaxes his
self-control. That must have been a terrible,
a most immoderate kiss ! "

CHAPTER VII.

"home, sweet home."

There's no place like home," murmured
Harry, ecstatically ; but the utterance was
prompted more by the contrast of past
restraint with present licence than by any
purely domestic proclivities.

Lady Dalton had just returned to Oak-lands
from a visit to a new acquaintance
whom she had picked up on her travels, and
who lived in a distant county, and she had
compelled her son to accompany her there.
The Rowley were nouveaux riches and millionaires.
Mrs. Rowley's splendid drawing-rooms
had been newly decorated in the most
approved and expensive "aesthetic" style.

She naturally objected to have the artistic
arrangement of her furniture deranged by
the gambols of her visitors' canine dependents,
or the already dim hues of her rugs
and carpets '^ toned " down by their irreverent
paws. Therefore Harry's terriers and
dachshunds were relegated to the stables,
and even Lady Dalton's little Maltese was
strictly confined to her dressing-room, where
it not unfrequently bewailed its solitude in
such prolonged and high-pitched solos, that
the maid had to be summoned from the
servants' hall at its most festive hour, to
keep Lulu company and amuse him," which
she did with affected caresses and surreptitious
slaps.

There's no place like home ! "

Harry was lying full length on the

hearth rug, while his two heavy dachshunds

and a large wolf-hound puppy — his latest

importation — rolled and scrambled over him,

evidently flattered by their master's condescension
in bringing himself so near their
level ; Lady Dalton was leaning back in a
low chair, playing with some silken intricacy
which she chose to call work ; and Mrs.
Verney, with her feet on the fender-stool —
an arrangement rather difficult to maintain
while the dogs were continually threatening
to upset it — was smiling at the efforts of
Lulu to repel, with dignified reserve, the
uncouth familiarity of '' Wolf," the puppy.
She looked up when Harry repeated his not
very novel sentiment.

Do you call this place like home, Harry ? "
she said. " It is not a bit like your mother's
home, for there is nobody in it."

At present," answered Harry, " I admit
that Oaklandss is * a world too wide for
our shrunk shanks' (no allusion to those
pretty ankles of yours. Cousin Di, of which
you are just now unnecessarily liberal).

Down, Wolf ! You are deranging the lady's
draperies. But you might content yourselves
for one day without a crowd, dear
madams. Mamma and I only returned
last night from Holy cave, and you only
came to our open arms to-day. It would
not be civil of us to call each other
nobody'"

"Stella," said Mrs. Verney, "I am so
accustomed to see you surrounded by a
throng of worshippers, irrespective of age
or sex, that to look at you there, by a solitary
fireside, has the effect of a diamond
fallen from its setting, or a rare orchid on
a green grocers stall."

I," said Harry, " am supposed to represent
the green grocer, perhaps ? But be comforted.
Cousin Di. To-morrow the fellows
are coming to let fly at the pheasants, and
mamma has invited a whole swarm of girls
from Holycave and all outlying districts, to

hold a good council about this festal project
of hers."

Your cousin has heard nothing of that
yet," said Lady Dalton. " You know it
was only settled at Holy cave just before you
left."

And," continued Harry, " Sir Brian and
Georgie are to join us on Wednesday week,
and Keith may run over any day. By the
way, cousin, I was so disappointed in Keith
when I went to town to meet him on his
return to England."

Disappointed ? Why disappointed ? "
asked Mrs. Verney.

"Well, Diana, I expected to see an imposing
figure, like that French travelling
chap we saw at Biarritz, with his hair allover
his shoulders, and a black beard a yard
long. His hair was just a little curly, to be
sure, but the very next morning he had it
cut as close as any Bond Street swell ; and

his moustache was not much bigger than
one of your camel's-hair paint-brushes, and
very like it too."

"Why, you silly boy," laughed Lady
Dalton, " did you think Keith could have
grown a beard a yard long in five months ?
And his moustache is hardly three years old
yet I I am glad he is not disfigured with
any affectations in dress or AazV-dress. Weare
quite content with him as he is."

But what about this fresh project of
yours, Stella ? Tell me about that ! " cried
Mrs. Verney, who took no special interest in
Keith Moray or his moustache.

It is quite a new kind of entertainment,"
replied her friend, " that we invented at
Holycave ; and I am sure that, by the way
it has been already received, it will be the
rage. Guess what it is. Doggie ! ' Je vous
le donne en deux, je vous le donne en trois,'
as Madame de Seine says."

I am sure I cannot pretend to guess it,
if it is one of Mrs. Rowley's aesthetic
dreams. I have no experience in nightmares."


No, no ; Mrs. Rowley had nothing to do
with it. Do guess, Di."

Amateur theatricals ? "

No, indeed. A mob of scene-shifters and
carpenters, and professionals to coach one I
So essentially vulgar ! "

Why, mamma," cried Harry, " how can
it be vulgar. Theatricals are all the rage
among the grandees ! "

*' Vulgarity is not confined to the lower
orders," said Mrs. Verney, with so close an
imitation of sister Chatty's didactics that
her companions burst out laughing ; upon
which Lulu leaped down from her lap, to
perform a rapid circular dance with his own
tail, resuming his former position with an
expression which said as plainly as a dog's

face could, " That was a concession to human
levity, but quite foreign to the dignity of
canine nature."

Guess again, Di I "

Tableaux vivants ? "

Stella shook her head.

A fancy ball ? "

'not exactly, but near enough. Something
more artistic than a fancy ball. What
do you say to a Tennysonian ball ? "

A what ? " cried Mrs. Yerney, with
such an air of stupefaction that Harry
laughed again ; but Lulu would not even
smile.

Lady Dalton proceeded to explain. " A
Tennysonian ball is one in which all the
ladies, and as many of the gentlemen as
can be persuaded, are to assume the appropriate
costume of the different heroines, or
characters, in Tennyson's poems. No one
is to suffer her choice of a character to

transpire, and all are to wear a mask — justa
little half-mask, you know."

Mrs. Verney shrugged her shoulders.
The gardener's daughter in a mask will
look funny," she remarked.

Don't be hypercritical, Doggie," said
Stella ; " it will be a medley, you know."

So I should imagine. Well, go on ? "

And these masks are to be retained in
every case, until some one of the gentlemen
addresses the wearer in a line or two of
the poem she represents, and leads her out
to dance. Then, and then only, she will
be free to dance with any one else she
pleases."

'^ And if he mistakes, and addresses the
wrong lines to her, or forgets to repeat any
lines at all "? "

Then she must wait until she is wooed
by some one better read in his Tennyson.
Don't you see how instructive it is, Diana —

how superior to the aimless frivolity of our
usual dances ?

I think," answered Diana, "it is rather
hard upon the ladies, who are to be doomed
to fade as wall-flowers because their
admirers forget their quotations, or do not
recognize their dress."

"Oh, no fear but they will find a way
of evading that difficulty. Some kindly
prompter ' will come to their assistance,
if nothing else will do ; and, once the spell
is broken, the floor is free to every
dancer, and even the uninitiated may join
in."

But why Tennyson, Stella ? Why not
Shakespeare ? "

Well, you see, Shakespeare is so hackneyed
among the professionals, and then
he is bulky, and is to be found in the
library mostly ; whereas Tennyson lies on
every drawing-room table, and every dunce

can quote him, and verify his quotation
without much trouble."

There is something in that, certainly,"
said Diana, gravely.

Besides," continued Stella, " this is only
the rough sketch of our plan. We are all
to meet together next week to agree to fill
up the details, and, if necessary, modify our
plan."

And when is it to come off ? "

Not yet. But that is no matter. The
girls will enjoy the discussion and arrangement
of the dresses, etc., nearly as much as
the festa itself, and it will while away the
dark days to talk it over and plan it — our
Round Table masque,' as Mrs. Rowley calls
it. You see, we are nearly in December
already ; at Christmas I am due at Colonel
Fanshawe's to stay over Twelfth Night —
juvenile dances, Christmas trees, and a
madrigal concert ; then the choice of

dresses, of decorations, all sorts of minor
arrangements — and we shall have to order
almost everything in town ; — I don't think
we can name an earlier time than the third
week in January."

Well, I suppose you cannot," assented
Diana ; " but such protracted engagements
are rather rash. Why, our little society
may have formed, and dissolved, and reformed,
like the patterns in a kaleidoscope,
twenty times before then 1 "

No danger," laughed Harry. " Dorset-shire
society is more conservative than that.
The county people have all come home from
their ' outings,' and won't move again for
six months to come. Many of them will behaving
visitors at Christmas — new recruits
for mamma, besides the new friends she has
made at Biarritz, to close up our ranks if
any fall out ; and there is the inevitable
Sir Brian, with his unavoidable cousin. Our

VOL. III. 45

kaleidoscope pattern is fixed colour, Di, I
promise you, and I, for one, mean to have
lots of fun."

"If you expect so many guests," objected
Doggie, *' I think that the range of characters
will be rather limited, if restricted to
Tennyson's 'Idylls Would it not be better
to include the heroines of other poets in
your portrait gallery, if only to give a little
variety to the quotations that are to unmask
the ladies ? Toujours perdrix might prove
monotonous to the Laureate's most ardent
admirers. Besides, all the girls will want
to be Elaine or Guineveres."

"Whom else can we have?" questioned
Stella, meditatively. "There are the two
Brownings, and the Arnold, and the two
Morris, and Longfellow, and "

Why, mamma ! " cried Harry, admiringly,
" what a bag you have made I But,
I say, if we are to go beyond Tennyson,

whom everybody knows, we shall want a
^ coach ' to put us up to the ^ tags.

"Georgina will coach you," said Mrs.
Verney. "She is rather proud of her literary
attainments. A little goes a great way at
Oaklandss."

'' And there's Sir Brian," said Lady
Dalton ; '^ he has all the modern poets at
his fingers-ends. He and Jenny and Keith
Moray could coach every ignoramus among
you ; but Sir Brian is the only available one
of the three, because he does not dance."

"Ah," murmured Doggie, with a sly
glance at Stella, " I thought we should find
Sir Brian indispensable. What a gift you
have, Stella, for drawing out the capabilities
of your friends ! "

CHAPTER VII I.

AMONG THE POETS.

Perhaps it was not one of the least of Lady
Dalton's claims to popularity among the
younger guests of either sex who flocked
around her, that she did not scruple to set
at defiance any rule of local or even fashionable
ceremonial that would at any time
have interfered with their enjoyment. Fais
ce que voudras was as frankly the motto
of Oakland Heights, as it was of the Abbey
of Helena ; and she had potent spells
whereby to silence the murmurs of the elder
folks. Admiral Portway might snarl a little
at having to drive nine miles to a dinner
served an hour earlier than was considered

canonical hours at Greenhayes, that a longer
evening might be ensured to those who
dropped in " for the dance or the music.
But, then, his favourite dishes, his favourite
wines, were never forgotten, and there was
always a pleasant old quidnunc like himself
left to chat with when the repast — too brief,
he would have said, for comfortable digestion
— was over, and the queen of the feast,
with her gayer satellites, had swept away
to the drawing-room to meet the band of
pleasure-seekers, who had walked or driven
from their dwellings at more convenient
distances. Old Mrs. Robson might feel, and
say, that old folk — and young ones, too, for
that matter — had better be in their beds,
than sitting up for hours after the main
business of the dinner had been despatched.
She liked a dinner to be a dinner, a dance
or a concert to be one or the other ; but not
that the first should be cut short to prolong

the evening until midnight. But she was
apt to forget this objectionable distribution
of time when engaged in a game of bezique
or ecarte with Sir Brian (whom Stella found
invaluable as an aide-de-camp on such
occasions), while the pretty grand-nieces
were coquetting with more admirers than
they would have chanced upon in two years'
visiting anywhere but at Oaklandss ; for
although Mrs. Burnes once, in a moment of
bitterness, had said that Lady Dalton was
a man-trap," she was more like a limed
twig, which detains, but does not appropriate
the prey. And while Lady Dalton liked
parasites and admirers of all sorts and sizes
and sex, she cared little for lovers, whose
too exacting homage would have " fluttered
the dove-cote" too seriously. It was for
this — at least, Mrs. Verney thought so — that
she allowed Sir Brian's persistent attentions.
She kept him at her side to keep at bay two

or three other would-be suitors to her beaux
yeux, or those of her cassette; and, attributing
to timidity his backwardness to compromise
himself by an open declaration, she
had no fear that he would " strain in the
least," or *' give tongue," when a sign from
her would enjoin silence.

There was a special gathering one evening
at Oaklandss, shortly after Lady Dalton's
return home, to discuss the details of the
projected festa. In her attitude of irreconcilable.
Chatty Burnes was seated a
little apart from the group which had
gathered round Lady Dalton at the tea-table,
where she always presided. Mrs.
Verney was lounging on a cushioned ottoman,
sipping her tea, which Charley had
just brought her ; while he appropriated a
luxurious fauteuil by her side, which Sir
Brian had ventured to move a little nearer
to the fair hostess. A group of young

people, among whom towered the tall form
of Keith Moray, who had arrived the night
before, was gathered round a table, at which
Georgina Carruthers was seated, turning
over a huge portfolio of " fancy " costumes,
from which were to be selected appropriate
dresses for the various heroes and heroines
of " the Poets' ball." But the selection was
rendered rather difficult by the circumstance
that the costumier, having had but the
vaguest notion of any such representations,
had confined himself to no literary or artistic
design, and it followed that the intending
performers, in choosing their toilettes, would
have to draw a little on their imaginations
to avoid any startling incongruity.

There's a lot of illustrated poems in the
library," said Harry ; "let us fetch them,
and each of us pick out what will suit him
or her best."

Let us first decide on our choice," said

Georgina ; " the list can be enlarged later,
for not two-thirds of those who will join us
are here to-night. Suppose we begin by
drawing out a list "

' First come, first served,' " cried Harry.
I mean to be little Dagobert, and ' dance
like a withered leaf among you all. See
here ; " and he jumped up and began to
twirl about with a vivacity that excited
such peals of merriment as would have disgusted
Lady Clara Vere de Vere.

*^ Let us pair a few characters," suggested
Georgina.

"But not all from the 'Idylls'" said
Lady Dalton. " We must have more variety
in costume than they will afford."

Do name a pair, somebody," said Mrs.
Verney. " Not even from the same poem —
that will give more variety still."

"Well, then," said Sir Brian, "Longfellow's
Evangeline, and "

"The Devil in 'Paradise Lost'" said
Harry.

The Peri in Moore's ' Paradise Regained
" suggested Captain Finekin, whose
poetical memories were rather " mixed."

Byron's Medora," proposed Mary Maynard,
whose one attraction was a splendid
head of real golden hair, and who knew
that the corsair's bride had been gifted
with "all the wildness of dishevelled
charms."

Followed a confused medley, like the bidding
at an auction — " Don Juan for Me-dora
; " " The Veiled Prophet for the Peri ; "
Browning's Duchess, Lucia and Xarifa ; "
Atlanta and the Last Minstrel." Then
came a hail of Austin Dobson's delicate
miniatures ; then a meteoric shower of Swinburne's
glowing portraits from the gentlemen,
emphatically rejected by the ladies ;
and then Harry once more —

Jenny, you'll look nice as the mermaid,
with your long hair let loose ; and Keith
will be a grand black merman — that fellow
who kissed a mermaid under the sea, and
kissed her again till she kissed he.' "

Jenny glanced involuntarily at Keith.
His eyes were fixed on her with an indefinable
expression. Was it defiance 1 Was
it triumph ? It was not certainly deprecation
; and Genevra's eyes fell beneath them,
while the ready blush crimsoned face and
throat. But Sir Brian was looking at her
too. He did not catch her glance at Keith,
but he saw the blush, and not unnaturally
attributed it to an association of ideas
awakened by his look, recalling to her
mind that unfortunate railway episode.
Little did he think that the chief actor in
that most objectionable drama was standing
beside him at that moment, secretly rehearsing
his part therein. It seemed ages

to Jenny (it was not half a minute) before
Keith spoke.

"And pray, Hal, where did you learn
that a merman must be black ? "

"Well," was the reply, "I know mermaids
are always fair, so the mermen ought
to be black, for contrast."

My good fellow, you are altogether
wrong. Mermen probably, mermaids certainly,
are sea-green. Perhaps ces demoiselles"
— smiling at the girls — " may object
to assume that unfashionable tint, even at a
Tennysonian ball ? "

Oh, by George ! " cried Harry.
Mamma, have you got any green paint
in your dressing-case ? "

No, you saucy boy, nor any other paint,"
laughed Lady Dalton, who, with her still
delicate complexion, could afford to ridicule
such an imputation.

"Nitrate of silver," mused Mrs. Verney.

Yes, a course of nitrate of silver would doit,
but the tint would be permanent, or
nearly so."

Then," suggested Stanforth, " the green
merman would have to stop ' under the sea,'
kissing the green mermaid, till the dye
came off. No, the friskiest merman wouldn't
be equal to that prolonged exertion."

You have got kisses on the brain," said
Jenny, disdainfully.

That," rejoined her tormentor, " would
be ' matter in the wrong place ' with a vengeance
! The green mermaid would be
very green if she offered to kiss a fellow on
the brain ! Try it on, Kit, when you two
take the parts of the mer-people. Kit has
had recent experience in the kissing exercise.
I came upon him in the Oakland woods the
other day, with the prettiest girl in Wend-holm
in his arms, and wasn't he just kissing
her ! "

At this unexpected indiscretion there was
general " sensation." The old gentlemen
sickened, the young men laughed. The
girls tittered, and some of them tried to
blush, but, from long disuse, that grace
failed to come at call. Charley Burnes was
choking with suppressed laughter ; his
wife glared at Keith, and clutched her
knitting-needles like daggers; while Lady
Dalton looked round in perplexity, half
doubtful whether to smile or frown.

Now, Harry ! " she said, " it is too bad
of you. You are injuring a good girl. The
prettiest girl in Wendholm is Ruby Bello,
beyond dispute, and she is one of Mrs.
Burnes's pattern maidens. No gentleman
would dare to kiss her in the wood ! "

"I named no names," answered Hal,
"but I did catch Kit kissing somebody's
daughter in the wood, and he can't deny
it!"

There was one peculiarity in Keith Moray
and Miss Farquhar. She very seldom
deigned to look full at him, and yet, whatever
he was doing or saying she was as
keenly conscious of, as if she had been
watching him. He scarcely seemed to
notice her among the groups surrounding
Lady Dalton, yet from time to time a rapid
glance from his dark eyes took in every
shade of emotion that crossed her face,
every least movement or gesture. No one
took note of the swift glance he darted at
her now, as she stood, a little withdrawn
from the rest of the party, turning over the
engravings on a stand ; but the lamp-light
fell full on her face, and Keith saw that she
turned very pale. Was it the paleness of
anger, of disgust, or — and the youth's
pulses bounded with a rapture of surprise —
could she care whom he kissed ?

The gaze of the assembly was turned on

him, as if it was expected that he would
resent Harry's accusation, or at least offer
some defence. He took a step forward, and
looked round, and there was a flash of
exultation in his eyes, a ring as of triumph
in his voice, very much at variance with his
words, as he said —

Peccavi ! I confess it. I have erred,
but, dear ladies and friends, I can plead
extenuating circumstances."

This was too much for Mrs. Burnes ; she
threw a severely admonitory look at her
husband and rose. 'you will excuse me,
Lady Dalton," she said ; " I know I am not
in the fashion of the day, but I cannot stay
to hear subjects treated with levity which
should not even be broached in the presence
of young people. I take a deep interest in
Ruby Bello, and cannot laugh at a wrong
done to her good name."

But Harry Stanforth, no wise daunted,

threw himself before her, and compelled her
to resume her seat. '' Fair play, Mrs.
Burnes, fair play! We must hear Kit's plea
of extenuating circumstances."

And all the party, awed for a moment by
sister Chatty's solemnity, echoed his cry —
Plead, Kit, plead ! "

I am sure," began Keith, " that Harry
named no young lady ; he only spoke of
somebody's daughter.' "

His hearers assented.

I confess that' I was in Oakland Woods,
when ' somebody's daughter ' came down
the path, carrying a bowl of new milk. It
was too full and too heavy for her ; she
spilled it. She slipped in it, and down
she came, and the howls she set up were
awful. Could I, as a gentleman, do less
than offer to console her ? So, as she
truly was the prettiest girl of her years
in Wendholm, I gave her a kiss and a
VOL. III. 46

sixpence, and carried her home in my
arms ! "

Here the Vicar's long-suppressed hilarity
found vent in a roar of laughter. " My
word, Moray!" he cried, "you have justified
Ruby, at all events. No athlete could
carry bouncing Ruby Bello home a mile
through Oakland Woods in his arms."

'but," said Harry, 'somebody's daughter'
was more portable. She was Keeper Joe's
little four-year-old Annie."

There was a general laugh at this explanation.
Keith made a low bow to the audience,
who clapped their hands in applause. Even
Mrs. Burnes's stern features relaxed a little,
though she still looked grave ; then, rising
from her seat, she paced solemnly, like the
statue in " Don Giovanni," towards the
group at the tea-table, and paused behind
her husband's chair.

*' We must be going home, Charles."

Impossible, Mrs. Burnes," remonstrated
Lady Dalton. " Why, it is hardly nine
o'clock yet. We have all the business of
the evening to get through."

"We have business to get through at
home," replied Charlotte. " Dr. Stewart's
assistant was to be at the Vicarage at nine
o'clock, to let us know if anything would be
wanted for a patient at Wendholm Moss,
whom he was to visit this evening."

He can tell the cook," said the Vicar.
Chatty, you are as bad as Mrs. Norris,
who goes every evening to fetch her husband
from the public-house."

And this," laughed Stella, indicating
the dainty china and silver tea-service, " is
to represent the bar, I suppose ? Your
comparison is most flattering, Mr. Burnes."
Chatty pursued, relentlessly and without
a smile — " Charles, Mr. Halbin will be
waiting for us ; he will be tired and cold,

and need refreshment, and you have the
key of the cigarette ! "

Thus urged, the Vicar reluctantly withdrew
from the merry circle, who, it must
be admitted, seemed in no degree saddened
by his withdrawal, or that of his severe
spouse, but resumed their discussion with
still greater animation.

I say, Miss Carruthers," cried Harry,
'how are all these buffers to be costumed ? "

"Out of the illustrated editions of their
authors, of course," said Stella.

"And when there are none ? "

Well, from the illustrated editions of
somebody else."

So easy a solution of the difficult" met
with general approval from a circle which
included no very artistic enthusiasts, and
there was an immediate run upon Lady
Dalton's portfolios of engravings, and even
old editions of illustrated classics.

I saw a Milton somewhere' said Georgia,
" with the Lady in ' Conies very
gracefully draped. Fetch it from the library,
please, Mr. Moray," she added, turning to
Keith with the little air of authority which,
somehow, always irritated Genevra.

The Lady in ' Comus,' Georgina ! " said
she. '^ Why, she is enchanted, and cannot
rise from her chair ! Who could dance with
a lady with a chair on her back ? "

'' I am sure ! " observed Sir Brian, '' that
we shall all be enchanted to vote Miss Carruthers
in the chair ; " adding an aside,
especially if she can never get out of it."

Here's a knight in armour!" cried young
Finekin ; "just the thing for Lancelot of the
Lake ! "

"Why, Captain Finekin," cried Mrs.
Verney, " that is Don Quixote, the knight
of La Marcia ! "

"And a very good knight, too," murmured

Keith, " but not an exemplar in the way of
attire ; " and, laying down a large folio copy
of an illustrated Milton — " Here are some
becoming robes for you young ladies ! "

But, as ill-luck would have it, the huge
tome swung open on a portrait of Eve in
Eden before the Fall. However fashionable,
even for ladies, may be the " artistic " study
of the " nude," it has not yet — not quite
(perhaps out of consideration for the dressmakers)
— been prescribed for imitation in
society." Harry, who stood nearest his
friend, burst into a shout of laughter. Keith
shut the volume with a clap, thereby redoubling
Hal's mirth, and was bearing it off
to the library again, when he was met at the
door by a footman, who presented to him,
on a silver salver, a yellow envelope from
the telegraph office, hateful to gods and
men. With a hurried bow of apology to
Lady Dalton, Keith tore it open, and Jenny,

who was looking towards him, saw him turn
deadly pale.

A telegram at this hour of the night ? "
cried Stella. " How is that, Thomas ? "

'* The messenger lost his way, my lady,
and went round to Colbrook. He should
have been here at seven."

'' No bad news, I hope, Mr. Moray ? "

Governor taken ill ? " queried Harry,
anxiously.

Keith handed him the telegram, which
Stanforth read aloud —

' From Judson, Hurstleigh. Come at
once. Let nothing delay you.' — You will
want to be off very early, old man ? "

I must be off at once, this moment,"
answered Moray. '' Lady Dalton will pardon
a hasty farewell."

'but," objected Stella, "the last Wend-holm
train is gone."

I can catch the mail train at Ketford by

starting at once. You will lend me ' Flying
Fish Stanforth? He has not once been
out to-day."

All right. The moon is just rising ; once
you get down the hill, he will take you
along at a pace. I'll have him round at the
door before you have changed your dress.
Leave him at the Dragon, and your traps
shall be sent after you."

Nay," said Lady Dalton ; " this may be
only a passing illness of Mr. Moray's. I hope
our young friend will be back with us soon,
Harry, and need his ' traps ' again here."

To this polite speech Keith only replied
by a bow, and the two young men quitted
the room together.

An unpleasant interruption to our
gaiety," said Doggie.

Oh, he'll be back again, never fear," said
Carruthers. '' Why, Stanforth says that old
Moray has been dying these ten years, and

the young fellow is his heir. He'll come
back with a heavier purse and a lighter
heart, you'll see."

Don't be unfeeling, Sir Brian," remonstrated
Stella. " Hal says there is a devoted
attachment between the uncle and nephew.
You are going, admiral ? Our party breaks
up suddenly to-night ; we will re-form it
under happier auspices before long. Come,
young people, you must disperse to your
rooms. Diana and I are off to bed, and
Harry will be in no humour for entertaining
you. He is affectionately attached to old
Mr. Moray, to whom he owes much kindness.
Jenny, my love, you are to sleep in
Georgina's dressing-room to-night. Would
you mind taking these smaller volumes and
putting them back on the shelves ? Harry
makes such confusion, that it takes a longtime
to find any book that is wanted when
he has been rummao^ino^ amono- them."

Genevra complied with this request, and
began to collect the scattered volumes, and
arrange them in little piles for removal.
Sir Brian would have assisted her, but was
peremptorily ordered to the smoking-room
by the lady of the house ; and presently
Stella and Mrs. Verney were alone together,
standing by the fireside and conversing ina
low voice, while Miss Farquhar, in a
preoccupied manner, took up some of the
books, and proceeded with them into the
library. The door was ajar, the lamps
burning low, but there was a clear fire on
the hearth, and Keith was standing in the
embrasure of the window, in his riding-dress,
looking eagerly out into the darkness.

Genevra hesitated a moment. Then she
went forward, deposited her books on the
table, and paused again. Her light step
was noiseless on the soft Persian carpet,
and Keith did not move. He was absorbed

in the causeless, but natural, remorse
for having, in pursuit of his own pleasure,
allowed his dearest friend on earth to send
him from his sick, perhaps dying, chamber,
where he might now be vainly yearning for
him. And Genevra stood, looking pityingly
upon him. She had watched him covertly
when the telegram was in his hand ; she
had seen the expression of alarm and agony
that had flitted over his features as he read
it, and she almost hated Sir Brian for his
heartless speech. No one, except poor
clumsy Harry and herself, felt one bit for
poor Mr. Moray's suffering or Keith's
sorrow — a sorrow which even she could but
dimly understand ; but she thought one
gentle word of hers would help much to
comfort him, and she would grant him that
healing word. She went softly up to him,
and, as he still maintained his expectant
attitude, she lightly touched his arm.

Then Keith looked round, saw her, and
removed his cap. But in his eyes there
was a dreamy, absent look, as if he was
gazing at something beyond her — as indeed
he was ; for his thoughts were far away,
among memories in which she had no share.
He did not speak, so Genevra had to address
him first.

I am so sorry for you, Mr. Moray. I
wish I could help you. I am afraid you are
very unhappy ? "

The words had scarcely passed her lips
than she could have stamped with vexation
at their ridiculous inadequacy, but it is
doubtful if Keith even heard them.

'' Thanks," he answered vaguely. " Lady
Dalton is very kind." (He imagined that
she had delivered some message from Stella.)
Are you not sitting up too late ? I heard
the fellows trooping to the smoking-room
as I came downstairs. Good Heaven ! will

that horse never be ready ? I shall be too
late — too late ! "

He turned impatiently from his very inefficient
consoler, and looked again out of
the window on the moonlit avenue. The
tramp of a horse's hoofs was approaching
from the stables, and then Harry's voice
calling —

Kit ! Kit ! where are you ? "

'* I am here," was the rejoinder. " What
a time you have been ! " and the youth
darted from the room without even a parting
glance at Genevra, whose presence he
had entirely forgotten.

For some days after that, Miss Farquhar
went about with quite a subdued air, and
a greatly diminished sense of her own importance.


CHAPTEK IX.

A FLY IN AMBER.

Not that the thing is either rich or rare,
We wonder how the devil it came there ! "

Meantime Mr. and Mrs. Burnes pursued
their way in silence down the steep path
through the Oakland woods. Charley was
a little sullen at having been dragged off
from the laughing group in Lady Dalton's
warm and brilliant drawing-room, into the
frosty starlight, to hold a conference with
the parish doctor about an old man who
had been ill for a fortnight, and was likely
to be ill for six months longer. But
Charley, to do him justice, rarely sulked
for long, and presently he spoke.

Chatty, that projected ball of Lady
Dalton's will be rare fun, I think. It is —
let me see — more than twenty years since I
was at a fancy ball. I was quite young
then, but how I did enjoy it ! I'll be off
the chain at Oaklandss, and frisk it with
the best of them."

Surely you don't mean to go to this
ball, Charles ? " asked the wife, anxiously.

Oh, but I do, and in character, too. I
settled it with Lady Dalton. I will go as
Cranmer."

The horror in Mrs. Burnes's placid countenance
at this most preposterous suggestion
would have shrivelled Charley up, if the
dim light had allowed him to see it ; and
there was horror, too, in her voice as she
replied — " Cranmer ? But Cranmer lived
and died a martyr ! It is profanation,
Charles. Only fictitious personages may be
burlesqued in such festivities."

Well, then, Cardinal Wolsey. He's nota
fictitious character, but he often figures
on stages. To be sure, he was not a
martyr ! "

"■ My dear Charles, you are not seriously
thinking of taking part in such childish
levities ? If you choose to go as a spectator,
well and good — though, indeed, I hardly
think it will be either ; but for the Vicar of
the parish to take an active part in such
buffoonery — it must not be."

When Mrs. Burnes spoke in that tone,
her husband knew that no resistance was
possible. Always indulgent to his least
whim in which no loss of dignity was
involved, in matters of principle (seldom as
such questions arose between them) she was
immovable as the church tower. So he
yielded at once.

I dare say you are right, Charlotte ; you
usually are. We will just go as lookers-on.

then. You don't object to that, you
say?"

We will go if you particularly wish it,
dear."

You need not assent so coldly, Chatty.
I wish you were more — more "

I wish I were whatever would make me
more attractive to you, my love," answered
Chatty, gently.

'' Well," resumed the softened husband,
I wish you were more sympathetic. You
are very unlike Lady Dalton in that
respect."

I believe I am unlike her," replied Mrs.
Burnes, but without an inflection of bitterness
in her voice. She had too much strong
good sense to commit the common blunder
of a jealous woman, of disparaging her rival.

A sympathetic nature," resumed Charley,
who, with a man's obtuseness, having
unwarily plunged a knife in the heart of

VOL. III. 47

the wife who adored him, now proceeded
to turn it in the wound — ^' a sympathetic
nature is a great charm in woman. It is
Lady Dal ton's greatest charm, even more
than her beauty."
Chatty was silent.

I thought," continued Mr. Burnes,
that it was very well expressed by Professor
Floyd in that lecture I went to
hear at Bedford, ' On the Influence of Sex
on Music' "

"He is a Dissenter," observed Chatty,
irrelevantly.

What does that matter ? " said liberal
Charley. " Let me see ; what was it ? — ■
The morning stars sang together, and all
the sons of God shouted with joy.' "
That is Scripture, Charles."
I am aware of that, my dear. I think
you might trust my memory to that extent,
Charlotte."

I beg your pardon, dear," rejoined the
wife, meekly.

The Vicar continued, " He chose that
Scripture to illustrate his views of the male
and female hierarchies of heaven''

There is no male and female in heaven,"
objected Mrs. Burnes.

Not now, of course, but he was speaking
of the primordial heaven — ^ in the
beginning,' you know. He made them male
and female."

Very far-fetched," said Chatty.

Mr. Burnes disregarded this hostile criticism.
^' He said — very finely, I thought —
that man was the ten-stringed instrument
of David's psaltery, which needs a strong,
perhaps even a rough touch, to bring out
all the harmony of its chords ; while woman
was a "

Fiddlestick ! " said Chatty.

That ejaculation of Mrs. Burnes 's had

always a repressive effect on the Vicar, and
he relapsed into silence, racking his memory
for the professor's comparison, which had
escaped it — until the pair reached the Vicarage
door, where both paused a moment
and glanced upwards simultaneously at the
frosty glitter of the starlit sky.

'' I have it ! " cried the Vicar, suddenly.
That woman was an soliman harp, touched
into melody by the faintest waft of every
passing breeze. So like Lady Dalton, is it
not ? Stella," he repeated, still gazing at
the stars — " her very name is sympathetic!"

But Chatty, also looking at the stars,
shrank suddenly, as if their light had
wounded her. " Come in, dear," she said ;
the doctor may be waiting for us."

But the doctor had waited nearly an
hour, and had been obliged to leave, to visit
another patient on his way home.

Mrs. Burnes only sighed — a very small

sigh. " Bring in the tray, Mary," she said,
your master has had a cold walk through
the wood."

Not for me. Chatty. I can't wait for
it. Now I have seen you safe home, I shall
run up to Oaklandss again, and finish the
evening."

At this hour, Charles ? "

"Why, it is not much past ten o'clock.
I can get there in twenty minutes when
your short steps do not hinder me. I am
sure they will not break up till long after
midnight to-night. I shall get supper there,
so do not sit up for me. Chatty."

He left the house hurriedly, without waiting
for a reply, and had passed through the
garden gate, when he missed his walking-stick
— not a slight cane, such as the youths
Keith and Harry sometimes sported, nor
even the more substantial, but still unpretentious,
rattan on which Sir Brian was wont

to lean ; but a thick, strong oaken staff, on
which he could fearlessly support himself in
climbing up the precipitous path to Oak-lands.
He turned back to fetch it, and
went round the house to the window of the
room in which he had left his wife, intending
to signal to her for his stick from without.


The blinds were not down, the doctor
having drawn them up to look out while
expecting his host that should have been.
The Vicar s step made no sound on the crisp
grass, and he looked in, himself unseen in
the shadow cast by the evergreen bushes
that grew round the window. The room
looked very bright and pleasant — his armchair
drawn up beside the fire, his warm
slippers on the rug, and the supper tray on
the table, with its napery as snowy, its
china and silver as faultlessly glittering, as
Lady Dalton's could be, — with preparations

for his own special "brew," and the savoury
game-pie which his soul loved. It all
looked so nice. There was a long, cold
walk between him and Lady Dalton's more
elaborate banquet, and then the same cold
walk back. Charley hesitated, and looked
again. Something unusual in his wife's
attitude drew his attention from the game-pie.
She was standing, almost droopingly,
on the hearth rug, with her back to the
window. There was a listlessness in her
attitude, very unlike her usually firm and
alert carriage, and when she turned her
head slightly, the lamplight showed her
face in profile, and something glittered on
her eyelashes and fell slowly down her
cheeks. The Vicar gazed in perfect consternation.
A tear ! The first, the very
first tear he had ever seen his Chatty shed !
The bursting of a torrent would have appalled
him less. She lifted her hand and

quietly wiped it away, then as quietly
moved to the window to draw down the
blinds ; and Charley, feeling like a criminal,
slunk away into the deepest shadow of the
laurels. Never — never before had there been
a deeper shadow within his home ! Then,
keeping on the turf, he passed noiselessly to
the garden gate again, but he did not open
it. He stood for a long time leaning
thoughtfully upon it, and — he did not lookup
to the stars ! Presently he returned to
the house. The hall door was still unfastened
— a common practice in primitive
Wendholm ; but Mrs. Burnes heard the familiar
step in the vestibule, the familiar
clatter of the hat-stand, and looked up with
a smile when her husband entered. Quite
a calm smile it was ; there was no vestige
of tears on her face, unless it might be justa
little heightened flush — on the tip of her
nose!

You have come back for your stick,
dear ? " she said. " You left it here in the
corner. I thought you might have taken
another from the umbrella-stand as you went
out."

Why, no," said the Vicar, a little hesitatingly,
perhaps a little awkwardly ; "I
have changed my mind. I don't think I
care to go back to Oaklandss to-night."
Then, putting his arm caressingly round his
wife, he added, " You are right. Chatty, as
you always are. I have laid too much of
my work upon you lately. No, no ! " — as
she seemed about to protest — " you never
complain, I know ; but an old chap like me
has no business to play the fool amongst
the youngsters ; and, after all, my Eosebud,
there is nothing so pleasant up there as a
bright little home like my own ! "

Mrs. Burnes tried to answer — tried to
smile ; but the surprise, the reaction, quite

overcame her, and, dropping her head on
her husband's shoulder, she burst into tears.
Chatty Burnes weeping like a child ! The
rarity of the phenomenon (mark that point,
ye pluvious wives !) gave it the significance
of a portent to the startled Vicar ; but the
emotion, so long repressed, would have its
way, and it was some moments before his
caresses and soothing words took effect and
Mrs. Burnes ceased sobbing, and, smiling
faintly, even blushing a little, at this utter
breakdown of her habitual self-control, took
her place at the supper-table, and resumed
her duties of ministering to a famished
husband's needs. And then, " when the pie
was opened, the birds began to sing."

But, from that time forth, the Burgesses
were oftener seen together about their parish
work than in any of the Oaklandss playgrounds
(where, to say truth, they were
neither missed nor regretted), and perhaps

there was thenceforth an almost imperceptible
softening of sister Chatty's censure of
the weaklings who were wanting in self-control.


And thus, one of Mrs. Vernej s " clouds'
in breaking, vanished for ever from the calm
atmosphere of the Vicar's innocent home.

CHAPTER X.

Comfort AND COUNSEL.

Travelling with what speed he could '' by
road and rail," Keith's journey was a slow
one. For some unexplained reason — a private
preoccupation of his own, perhaps — " Flying
Fish " was not "up to his work," as
usual, and consequently his rider had the
ineffable annoyance of seeing the mail train
speeding merrily on its way just as he came
in sight of the Bedford terminus. There
was nothing for it but to keep miserable
vigil in an indifferent hotel until the earliest
morning up-train ; and, what with changes
and delays at junctions, it was nearly noon
before he reached Hurstleigh, having been

met at his last stage by his own groom (to
whom he had telegraphed from town) with
his dog-cart. To his eager inquiries for his
uncle, the man replied that the doctor had
left him just before Mr. Keith's telegram
come, and had said he was out of danger.
But, the groom added, Mr. Judson (Mr.
Moray's confidential attendant) had been ina
mighty bad way about his master yesterday
morning, and so were they all.

Believed to hear that the danger, whatever
it was, had passed, at least for the
present, Keith drove on in silence until he
reached Hurstleigh ; and throwing the reins
to the servant, sprang up the stone steps,
and darted into the hall, where Judson, who
had heard the wheels approaching, came
downstairs to receive him.

It's all right, Mr. Keith," he cried out,
in a subdued voice ; '' he is going on nicely,
Dr. Laing says. But you must not see him

yet, for we did not tell him we had sent for
you. He did so insist that we were not to
send for you. Walk into the study, please,
Mr. Keith ; lunch is laid for you there. You
look as if you want something. My word, you
look almost as bad as the master himself ! "

"I am dead beat, Judson," answered
Keith, as he flung himself into an easy-chair
by a blazing fire, " chilled to the bone, and
famished. I have eaten nothing since I left
Oaklandss. I ordered breakfast at Ketford,
but couldn't eat it ; it would have choked
me."

That was wrong, very wrong, Mr.
Keith. It isn't what any one should do
who is going to wait on an invalid. Shakes
the nervous system, it does. There, that's
right ; drink it off, and eat some of this
corned beef You oughtn't to have come,
looking so haggard, to attend on an
invalid."

^' It was very wrong," answered Keith,
penitently ; " but then, oh, Judson, I hardly
dared hope that I was summoned to the
bedside of an invalid only. He has never
yet had so serious an attack as this, has
he?"

There, there, don't excite yourself," said
Judson, soothingly, " or I shan't allow you
to see him to-day. Take some of this cutlet
and some champagne. Mr. Moray was ina
nice sleep when I came down, and the
trained nurse is with him. As soon as he
knows you are here he'll want to see you,
doctor or no doctor; so I shan't let him know
you are in the house until you are fed and
rested, and washed and dressed " — he might
have been talking to a baby — '' and quite
yourself again. He must be kept quiet ;
Dr. Laing says so, and so did Sir James
Eiley."

Sir James Eiley ? " repeated Keith, surprised.

" Why was he sent for ? It is not a
surgical case ? "

It was a surgical case, sure enough, and
Sir James was sent for to perform the operation.
Oh, don't looked so shocked, Mr.
Keith ; " for Keith had turned deadly pale.
"It is all over — well over, now. The
operation was successful."

Tell me at once — tell me everything,"
said Keith, imperiously.

"I forgot for the moment, sir, that you
knew nothing about it. I did not mean you
to hear any particulars until you had rested
an hour or two. It's bad for the digestion,
Mr. Keith ; and just as you have finished
that rabbit-pie — your liver won't stand it,
sir."

Pish ! " answered Keith, angrily ; " my
liver would stand a rabbit with the fur on.
Speak out at once, or I'll go to my uncle
this moment ! "

This threat was successful, as the young
man knew it would be ; and Judson's narrative
was immediately forthcoming, braving
the peril of undigested rabbit-pie.

Keith learnt for the first time that, for
some weeks, both Mr. Moray and his medical
adviser had been aware that an internal
disease had been the cause of his lately
increased weakness and suffering — a disease
incurable, except by a difficult and painful
surgical operation. But, with the mistaken
tenderness so often shown by sufferers to
those who love them, a tenderness which
may inflict a lifelong regret, Mr. Moray concealed
his true condition from his nephew,
and persistently urged his visit to Oaklandss,
that he might be spared the suspense of expecting,
the anguish of witnessing, tortures
which he could not alleviate.

And if I sink under them," said the
patient, " there will doubtless be time enough
VOL. m. 48

for Keith to hurry to me ; and, if not, he
is young — he will sorrow deeply, but the
sorrow will not be so indelibly impressed
on his memory by anything told him
as by anything he had himself taken part
in."

He was wrong," said Keith. *' Did he
suffer much ? "

"I think not, sir. He was under ether,
and all was going on well, until yesterday
morning, when he seemed to have caught a
chill, and to be sinking so rapidly that we
were all alarmed, and I wired for you at
once. However, Dr. Laing and Sir James
Averse here almost as my message was sent
off to you, and Mr. Moray rallied and has
been improving steadily. Dr. Laing assures
us that we have no cause for serious
uneasiness; there is only weakness to combat

now."

Only weakness ! " repeated Keith,

and he so feeble at his best ! " Still,
he could take a more cheerful view of
things now than when he first arrived.
Youth at three and twenty can be more
sanguine after a good breakfast (with none
of the disastrous results predicted by Judson)
than when weary, chilled, and famished
; and when, two or three hours later,
he was admitted to his uncle's room, there
was no ''haggardness " about him to alarm
or pain the beloved invalid, to whom he
could not forbear a gentle reproach for
having banished him from his side at such
a time of peril.

Mr. Moray's eyes dwelt fondly on the
young man's face as he whispered, " Forgive
me my selfishness, dear lad, but the
knowledge of your suffering in witnessing
it would have more than doubled
mine."

And Keith said no more.

Mr. Moray continued to improve rapidly,
and, a month after his nephew's arrival, he
was able to walk from his bedroom to the
couch in his dressing-room, with the hope
of coming down to his study again a few
days later. He was brighter and more
cheerful, too, than Keith had seen him for
many months past, having been greatly
encouraged by the assurance of his doctor
that, his strength regained, he might hope
hereafter for a harsher measure of health
than, perhaps, he had ever enjoyed before.
Reading or writing was as yet out of the
question, but he would listen with much
interest to the sketches of Wendholm life
with which Keith endeavoured to amuse
him, or to letters from Harry, which,
though still brief, were more frequent than
they would otherwise have been, at his
friend's request, and with the same kind
object. Was Keith's desire for the social

I

gossip of Wendholm altogether disinterested ?
If it was not, at least Harry's compliance
with it was.

"The Wendholm and Bedford girls are
all alive still, with preparations for our
livery (sic) fete," he wrote. " My mother
has sent out invitations to all the neighbours
within twenty miles, and we shall
muster strong. But not more than a third
will wear a fancy dress, after all. Only the
younger ones go in for that muck, and
many of the girls' mas won't have it,
because costume dresses are dear ; and some
of the fellows hang back, because they don't
care for poetry, and are afraid of being out
in their ta2:s, though Geordie and Dop-gie
are capital coaches. I think the blunders
will be the best fun. But we've had to
give in about the pairing from the same
poem ; they couldn't manage that, somehow.
It'll be a regular medley."

'* An irregular medley, I suppose he
means," smiled Mr. Moray.

The girls pretend to keep it a close
secret from what poet or poem each chooses
her part, but it leaks out here and therefor
all that. I wish you could join us, old
man ; I don't think it'll be half the fun
without you to look on. You'd be a jolly
Sir Lancelot. Finekin thought hed be Sir
Lancelot, but he's a head too short — only
five foot seven ! so he has taken Browning's
King Charles instead, as he found out, by a
tip to the maid, that Add Portway would

be Queen Polly (Can't spell her name,

and haven't the book about.) Jenny " — here
Keith's voice " dropped into silence," and
he read what followed to himself — "Jenny
wished to be Etarre" — Keitli paused and
mused a moment — " but her aunt and Mrs.
Farquhar objected, and chose Enid for her.
She told me this in confidence, but as you

are not to be with us, I do no harm by telling
you. I said to her that she'd be a
wall-flower, for the fellows wouldn't guess
her, and what do you think she said ? That
it didn't matter ; she only cared for dancing
with men who could dance ivell, and that we
had lost our best dancer in Mr. Moray. There
was no one else much better than a dancing
bear ! Saucy little minx ! she only said it
to spite me. She'd have said quite t'other
thing if you had been here, to spite yoii^

Mr. Moray, who was watching his
nephew's face, saw his eyes sparkle and his
cheek glow. He did not ask him to read
the rest of the letter aloud, and Keith laid
it aside without remark. Presently the
invalid spoke.

"When is the masque to come off, my
boy ? "

On the 16th, tomorrow fortnight,"
answered Keith, with an involuntary sigh.

^' A fortnight hence ! Why, what does
Harry mean by assuming that you will not
be there ? You must be there, if only to
make me a sharer in the fun."

My dear uncle, can you imagine that
I would leave you in your present condition,
to take part in these tomfooleries ? "

My present condition will be, I trust,
a very much improved condition a fortnight
hence, Keith. I can very well spare you,
and I have set my heart on your going."

Sorry for it," smiled Keith, 'because I
have set my heart on staying away."

You need not be absent more than two
or three days."

And be wired for as soon as I am
there ; " and Keith shuddered.

You are a cheerful prophet, I must say,"
rejoined Mr. Moray. '' One would think
you had been wired for every time you had
been away, and it never chanced but once,

and then needlessly. I never wish to tie
you to my couch-head, Keith ; and Judson,
who has been my faithful attendant since
you were a schoolboy, would not like it
either. He is getting a little jealous of
you already."

But vain were all Mr. Moray's entreaties
and expostulations to move the youth one
inch, and vain they would have been, but
for the sudden death of a distant relative of
Lady Dalton's, two days before that fixed
for her ball, which compelled her to postpone
it for another fortnight. Even then, Keith
demurred, and was with difficulty brought
to accept the compromise his uncle proposed.
It was finally settled that he should make
no engagement with the Oaklandss people,
but that if Mr. Moray's health continued to
improve as it had hitherto done, he should
"run over" at the very last minute, and,
putting up at the Wendholm hostelry, " lookin

" upon the gay assembly, and return
to Hurstleigh the second or third day at
latest. And as he went as merely a looker-on,
he would assume no '* character " dress.
His mood was too serious, just now, for
that; it was yet more serious after a conversation
that took place in the Hurstleigh
study a day or two before he was to start
again for Wendholm.

"Keith," said Mr. Moray, '^ I do not
wish to force your confidence, but I
should much like to know what is the
understanding between Miss Farquhar and
you ? "

Misunderstanding, and nothing else,"
answered Keith, grimly smiling.

Do you mean to say that you are still
unforgiven ? "

And always shall be, I begin to think."

She knows, at least, that you desire
forgiveness ? "

She would be most uncommonly dense
if site did not," growled the lover.

Mr. Moray looked puzzled. " But you
have declared your affection — your repentance,
if you will ? "

My repentance ? " answered Keith.
I am tired of repentance. What heinous
sin did I commit, after all ? I know
fellows who think lightly of kissing girls
they care not a straw for, and the girls
themselves neither resent nor remember it
for a day."

I should be sorry to believe," said Mr.
Moray, gravely, 'that you were one of
those fellows, or that the woman you would
make your wife was one of such girls. Do
you wish it yourself, Keith ? "

A thousand times no ! " was the reply.
But I almost lose heart sometimes. For
sixteen months I have been coming and
going at Oaklandss, where we are constantly

thrown together; and though she is on
friendly, even intimate, terms with Harry
Stanforth and others, whom she has known
no longer than she has me, she never gives
me a smile or a kind word ; or if she does,
she takes it back with a snap."

And it is only to you that she is so
repellent ? "

Only to me. Why, Uncle James, you
saw a good deal of her at Criccieth. Did
you not say yourself that she was always
sweet and gracious to you ? "

Well, yes, generally," replied Mr. Moray,
feeling very guilty as he remembered the
indiscretion on his part which had provoked
the alteration in Genevra's manner
to him. " Yes," he added, " she was very
friendly with Stanforth too. Has she been
colder to you since your return from Lapland,
Kit, or otherwise ? "

'^ I have not met her frequently since my

return," answered Keith, " but No, if

anything, I think she has thawed the least
bit since my return."

I am charmed to hear it' rejoined Mr.
Moray ; and so he was. It was an intense
relief to him to find that Miss Farquhar had
not revenged herself on his nephew for that
most indiscreet allusion of his. '^ Perhaps,"
thought he, '' she supposed, on reflection,
that it had really no meaning." In which
he was right, Jenny having determined in
her own mind that it Twas as unintentional
on his part as that other " accident " of
Keith's with the step-ladder.

And you love her still ? " he inquired.

With every throb of my heart, with
every pulse of my being," answered the
young fellow, passionately.

Then why the deuce don't you tell her
so ? Why, Keith, I am losing all patience
with you."

I have had no opportunity. I have
never been alone with her. She seems to
avoid that."

It appears to me, my dear lad, that
you may have only yourself to blame for
the young lady's coldness. It is a timid
suitor indeed who cannot make an opportunity
for saying what possibly she is
willing to hear."

'' If she would give me one word, one
look of encouragement ! "

You have waited too long for that. It
is as much as you could expect inter the
circumstances, that she allows your attentions
at all. Take an old fellow's advice,
Kit, and end this unsatisfactory state of
things at once. No womanly woman will
reject with un kindness the love of an
honourable man."

She will refuse me," said Keith, "and she
does not count me among honourable men."

Stuff and nonsense ! You will have
atoned for that venial fault by placing
your life's happiness in her hands. If she
accepts the trust, well. " Why, Keith,"
added Mr. Moray, smiling, '' you can prove
your remorse, if you like, by engaging
never, under any circumstances, to repeat
the offence ! If she rejects you, even on
such conditions, you will know the worst,
and you must bear it with courage, as other
men do bear such disappointments. Go to
the ball, and dare your fate."

'eat a ball!" objected Keith. 'but,
uncle, if once I speak, I cannot trust my
self-control, and to lose it among a crowd
of skipping, grinning jackanapes, and to a
girl in a fantastic fancy dress ! "

Mere excuses. Kit. What does the
girl's dress matter ? It will not be her
bridal dress, I presume ? I have often
heard that such affairs are commonly arranged

in ball-rooms ; but I did not mean
more than that you should go back to Oak-lands,
and put your fate to the touch.
You will lose more than you risk, if your
lady should suspect you of trifling with
her."

And so Keith, with a trembling but resolute
heart, once more turned his steps
toW' arts Wendholm.

CHAPTER XI.

A DAMPER.

Owing to various arrangements, depending

partly on his own engagements and partly

on those of the different and sometimes

unfriendly railway companies which ruled

the "junctions," Keith found that it would

be impossible for him to arrive at Oaklandss

until a rather late hour, and, even then, that

he must go by way of the Woolton station,

instead of by Retford and the Wendholm

train. Having reached Woolton at nine

o'clock, he succeeded, after a short delay, in

engaging a fly to take him to Oaklandss, a

distance of about seven miles. But alas !

the horse was tired and lame, and although

VOL. III. 49

the driver took him unmurmuringly into
Wendholm, on understanding that he was
expected to ascend the frightful " height,"
neither bribes nor prayers would move him
to go one inch further than the poor little
hostelry of the Oakland Arms, where he
deposited his fare, to find his way as best
lie could, in a pouring rain and in evening
dress, to the scene of festivity '' up the
hill." Not a fly was to be had at the
Oakland Arms, and although he wasted
half an hour in the hope of catching one on
its return from leaving guests at the Heights,
he waited in vain. Of those who had gone
there, the drivers were too well entertained,
and had endured enough in going, to dream
of descending to make the ascent again,
when they had to take back their fares.
There was nothing for it but to walk there.
But it rained in torrents ; the coach road
was inches deep in mud, the woodland paths

were watercourses, interspersed here and
there with miniature cascades. To his
horror he discovered that he had sent back
his mackintosh in the Woolton fly. He had
not even a hand-bag with him, having
trusted to Lady Dalton's hospitable provision,
the last time he was at Oaklandss,
that he should leave his " traps " there until
his next visit, for all toilette necessaries.

The requisition made on the host of the
little inn produced nothing but a huge, old-fashioned
cloak with capes, used by him in
driving home from Retford Market on winter
nights. This Keith flung hastily round him,
and, putting his shoes in his pockets, preserved
his " continuations " the best he could
by wrapping his legs in brown paper, and
then drawing over them an enormous pair of
fishing-boots, into which he appeared to
dive. They might have been seven-leagued
boots, so rapidly did he speed and splash

along iu them, notwithstanding his cumbrous
attire. But he paused, when he came insight
of the brilliantly lighted facade, and
the servants passing to and fro in the
crowded hall, out of which the ball-room
opened. How could he bear to be delayed
by the untimely greetings of his friends,
perhaps to stand suddenly in the midst of
a glittering throng, of which she might be
one, in that fearful cloak, in those still more
fearful wishing-boots, with his legs folded in
brown paper, crackling inside of them ?
What a presentation for an expectant lover !
A happy thought came to his relief. The
conservatory at Oaklandss opened out of the
ball-room. It had originally been a large
one, and had been still further enlarged by
Lady Dalton, who had filled it with orange
and lemon trees, palms, and oleanders. A
small door at one end opened into the
garden, and another and still smaller door

gave access, as Keith remembered, to a
little rustic shed, which the gardeners used
for the various requisites for their work in
this crystal palace. He stole round the
house, unnoticed in the darkness, and found
the door unlocked, from which he peeped
cautiously into the orangery. It was
empty, both dancers and " neutrals " being
massed in the bail-room, whence issued the
music of the newest mazurka. He at once
disencumbered himself of his boots, slipped
on his shoes, and, stealing into the conservatory,
dropped his cloak on the floor, gave
himself a rough shake, like a water-dog, and,
taking up his position just within the folds
of the portiere, stood gazing eagerly into
the room, in search of his very un Enid-like
Enid.

Surely, with all England's poets to choose
their " costumes " from. Lady Dalton's
young friends need not have narrowed their

field of selection almost entirely to the two
or three best known, or, at least, best quoted,
writers of the day ; or did this last fact
contain the key of the situation ? There
were but few among the " fellows " who
cared to exchange the ordinary evening
dress of English gentlemen for that of
knights-errant, or even Persian princes.
Those who did so were for the most part
either bad dancers, or they did not dance
at all. So the pairing arrangement had been
given up, and what Harry called "the menin
mufti " were allowed to woo the masked
belles, but on the stringent condition that
they addressed them only in some lines from
the poem from which the portrait was
supposed to have been copied. None of
the ladies wished to be wall-flowers, hence
their choice of types from the most popular
poets, whom every ignoramus can remember
and quote. Possibly, too, they were guided

by the artless desire to figure in some
toilette supposed to be peculiarly becoming
to their respective " styles." Else why
should the rich and rather purse-proud
Mrs. Tallow, the wealthy brewer's wife,
appear as a buxom Enid, " dressed beautifully
" in the sheen of silks and diamonds ?
Why should Mary Duke choose Atlanta
in Corydon, if not to exhibit the perfection
of a lovely arm, and as much as she dared,
and a great deal more than she ought, of
a busied leg to match ? Miss Leigh, as
the Gipsy Duchess, was, as always, the
smallest woman in the room — pity that her
mushroom stature was crowned, like a
mushroom, by so large a head ! While Lucy
Wilmot, as Helen of Troy, was divinely tall,
but not by any means " divinely fair." And
so on, and so on.

But, with all this quotation made easy,
there would have been many a sad fiasco

on the part of the more unlettered courtiers
had not Georgina Carruthers, arrayed as the
Princess, Lady Dalton, as Percival Nun,
in deference to her widowhood, and Mrs.
Verney, as a benevolent Madam Placid,
acted as Mistresses of the Ceremonies, by
flittiuof from one embarrassed swain to
another, to give the cue wherewith to
address some forlorn damsel ; while Harry,
as little Dagobert, capered about "like a
withered leaf," whirling off first one and
then another whose riddle was yet unread,
dropping each after a skip or two — for every
maid was free to unmask when she had
*' trod one measure."

The gaiety was in full swing when Keith
arrived upon the scene. Among the unmasked
dancers he sought, and sought in
vain, for his charmer ; and, thanks to Harry
and his supporters, there were but two or
three unclaimed heroines. One of these

was about Jenny's stature, and wore a dress
of the (supposed) Arthurian era ; she might
as likely have been Enid as Vivian. Keith
took a step forward and stopped. A couple
of dancers, in whirling past her, had trodden
on her skirt, and in drawing it back she
displayed a foot of which "the print"
might well " have frightened Robinson
Crusoe," and Miss Farquhar at least resembled
Enid in being "from foot to forehead
exquisitely shaped." If Keith did not
know Genevra's foot and ankle, it was not
from having neglected his occasional opportunities
for observing them ! Where could
Genevra be ?

She was standing not many yards from
him all the while, though partly hidden
behind a stand of tall ferns, against which
she was leaning dejectedly. For Jenny, in
one of her mischievous moods,' had, by a
pretended confidence, misled Harry Stan-forth

as to the character she intended to
represent, and Harry, having discovered the
cheat, was taking a fell revenge. He had
not scrupled to implore the " prompters "
to give to no one the shibboleth which
would set her free to join the dance, but to
'leave her to him." And, with a truly
diabolical malice, he would prance round
her, and hover over her, as the hawk-moth
hovers over a blossom's unrifled sweets, only
to dart away again to a gayer bloom ; while
Jenny, who so passionately loved dancing,
stood toying with the silken mask which
she was too proud to remove, and beating
time impatiently with her slender foot, as
one after another of her accustomed partners
whirled, glided, or wobbled past her, each
with some lady who, perhaps at the last
moment, Dagobert had unmasked by the
long-unguessed spell. Poor little Gin's pride
was on the point of yielding. Harry only

waited for her submission, and as he skipped
past her for the seventh time with one of
the liberated damsels, she moved forward,
crying piteously —

Oh, Harry, I repent ! "

He neither saw nor heard her; but Keith

did, and instantly he was at her side. She

wore a pretty ball-dress, like nothing that

could by any possibility have been seen at

Camelot ; but Keith never noticed that, as

in his deep, rich voice, made deeper and

richer by intense feeling, he murmured —

Enid, the pilot star of my lone life ;
Enid, my early and my only love,"

and received the unexpected interruption —
*' Oh, but I'm not Enid ; I'm Porphyria ! "
A silence, and then broke in the mocking

accents of that little fiendish Dagobert —
Sold ag-ain ! He's not got the ta£^ ! "
Certainly Keith had not " the tag' He

knew " Porphyria " well enough, but he did

not know what lines he could quote from it
appositely.

But Genevra, made furious by this
latest aggravation of her enemy's, came
to his help. " Never mind their stupid
rules, Mr. Moray," she cried : "I am stifled
by this horrid mask;" and, tearing it ofi", she
flung it from her, with a glance of defiance
at Harry's already retreating figure. Then,
holding out her hands with that pretty
grace of spontaneous impulse which had so
charmed Keith when first he met her, she
added, "We'll finish what is left of this dance,
anyhow ; and he canst spoil the others for us,
can he 1 "

Keith gave her no time to retract her invitation
; and, forgetting or suspending all
her quarrel with him in this fresh quarrel
with that malicious Harry, she was swept
away, happy and triumphant, in the arms of
the best dancer and the handsomest cavalier

among all the motley throng — a privilege
which, at least for the moment, she fully
appreciated and enjoyed.

And Keith, to whom this unexpected
felicity was as a draught of new wine,
developed in his elation a readiness of
resource that would have astonished the
elder Moray. The dance was, as Genevra
said, "half finished" when they joined —
there was only time for two turns round the
room ; but at the second turn they reached
the conservatory, and, pretending to avoid
collision with a passing couple, Keith suddenly
swung round, and lifted his fairy
charge over the threshold into the still
orangery, where, as the last music strain
stopped, they stood alone — where they must
have stood had the music continued, for not
even though bitten by the tarantula could
any one dance down a lane of large flower -
vases,

It is to be presumed that Keith considered
himself safe by the unwritten laws of youthful
etiquette, that forbid any intrusion on a
pair who have taken sanctuary in a modern
Eden of exotics. But Genevra at once perceived
the stratagem, and, withdrawing herself
from his encircling arm, she stepped back,
tripped against a myrtle tub behind her, and
threw up her hands to save herself from
falling. The conservatory was lighted only
by wax candles placed in silver girandoles
in niches here and there, from which
creeping plants had been removed ; Lady
Dalton having objected to lamps, as she said
the fumes of mineral oil would injure her
flowers. In Jenny's hasty movement, one
of the gauzy trimmings of her sleeve came
in contact with the flame of the candle, and
in a moment was in a blaze ! Before she could
utter a cry, Keith had caught up the heavy
cloak he had dropped on the floor on his first

arrival, windings it round her with an enero-v
and completeness that might have almost
extinguished Mount Vesuvius, and drawn
her out of the orangery into the garden —
perhaps with the view of utilizing the wet
weather in lack of the fire brigade, or as if
his obdurate love had been made of as
soluble material as Lot's wife and might be
expected to ^inelt in a rain-pour. Luckily it
had ceased raining ; for, as he stood beneath
the leafless branches of a dripping lime
tree, with his mummy-cased treasure
clasped closely in his arms, all consciousness
of time or place was whelmed in the joy of
that possession. The need of an umbrella
would have been the last thing to occur to
him ! It was not until the strong: beatings
his own heart had partly subsided that he
awoke, with a pang of shame, to the fact that
he knew not for how long — his Porphyria
had been lying quite still and unresisting on

his breast. Good heavens ! had he acted

the part of her lover too truly, and

strangled her ? He thereupon proceeded to

carry it on, by drawing aside a corner of

the damp mantle in which he had enveloped

her from head to heel —

warily,
Like a shut flower that holds a bee."

But this bee was alive, and ready to sting
again.

Take me in," murmured a half smothered
voice. " I shall catch my death of cold,
and my dress must be ruined I Go, and
send Georgina to me this minute."

And Keith, amid all his excitement,
quailed before the fretful, imperious tone,
as Van Hake's lions cower before the
painted red-hot bar. Silently he carried
rather than led her into the conservatory,
and hurried off in search of Georgina ; while
she slowly struggled out of the heavy folds

in which he had unscathed her, looking,
in her crushed curls and tumbled finery,
like a crumpled Psyche half emerging
from a gigantic chrysalis, to the infinite
amusement of her cousin, who, at Keith's
whispered summons, had hastened to her
assistance.

VOL. III. 50

CHAPTER XII.

AN Ill-timed RECOGNITION.

Keith, on returning to the ball-room, had
found it deserted. The musicians were
enjoying their well-earned refreshment, and
the guests had flocked or were flocking
to the supper-rooms, where they expected
theirs. The supper in chief would not befor
two or three hours yet, and was spread
in the larger dining-room, which was as
yet sealed against invaders. Mr. Moray
found Miss Carruthers in the act of accepting
a glass of iced champagne, which, on receiving
his message, she heroically set down untasted,
and, taking his offered arm, allowed huit

escort her half-way across the ball-room,
when she dismissed him.

"You had better go back, Mr. Moray.
Jenny's toilette will need some restoration,
and these mysteries are not for masculine
eyes. Besides " — looking more narrowly
at him — " your own dress will be improved
by some similar process. You look quite
damp and limp, and your hair is as wet as
if you had dipped it into a tub of water.
You look like a half-drowned rat ! "

Recalled by this blunt criticism to a sense
of his disordered condition, and blushing
deeply to think that others, beside Georgina,
might have observed it, Keith fled upstairs
to Harry's dressing-room, bidding one of
the footmen, as he passed through the hall,
send his friend's valet to him ; and, with his
aid and an unscrupulous appropriation of
all Stanforth's available resources, he speedily
repaired the damage worked in his appearance

by his long walk through the rain,
and his pause beneath the dripping lime
tree, hatless, cloudless, and with that
precious, but very moist, bundle pressed
to his bosom. He glanced at himself in
the glass, and, satisfied that no trace of all
that "demoralization" remained in the
graceful figure it reflected, he was leaving
the room, when a maid-servant, bearing a
tray, came along the corridor, and he drew
back to let her pass. She entered the
apartment opposite, leaving the door open,
as is the habit of maid-servants ; and Keith
paused involuntarily as the accents of a
sweet girlish voice, sweeter, alas ! than it
often was when addressing him, floated to
his ear.

I want to go down, Georgie ; I do not
want to eat anything here. That nasty
Harry has lost me ever so many dances
already."

"But," answered Georgie, "you must
take something, or you will feel the effects
of that chill. It will not delay you ; you
can't go down till Powell has finished with
your dress."

How long will you be, Powell ? "
*' Not ten minutes, Miss Farquhar, and — "
Here the waiting-maid came out, shutting
the door behind her ; and Keith ran lightly
downstairs, feeling all the more the necessity
for averting the effects of a chill that he
was assured he had a good half-hour to wait
until his one star could again arise for him,
and determined that in the dances to which
she looked forward, she should have no
partner but himself. Might he but clasp
her once again, neither fire nor water

should part him from her, until

The music had recommenced ; the crowd
had reassembled in the ball-room ; they
surged in and pressed past Keith, who now

stood just within the doorway, so placed
that he could command a view of the hall,
which Genevra must cross on her way from
the room on the first floor, and ready, at
the first shimmer of her gauzes, to dart
forward and secure his prize, while he kept
himself well within the shelter of a giant
palm tree, in deadly fear lest Lady Dalton
or Mrs. Verney should descry him, and
order him out to the aid of some partnerless
damsel in their charge. At last, far — very
far ofi" — from the foot of the staircase at
the further end of the hall, rang, like the
chime of silver bells, a light laugh. Only a
lover s ear, keenly watchful, could have distinguished
the musical sound. Keith made

a step forward, and then A large hand

was laid on his shoulder, and a jovial voice
cried in his ear —

I thought I could not be mistaken !
My young friend of the Buckholt Woods !

And how is jour good lady ? Is she
here?"

And Keith turned, to find himself in the
merciless gripe of the doctor who had driven
Jenny to the Buckholt station, when he
found her, injured and helpless, after the
accident on that fatal day.

All the possible consequences of this
meeting at this moment flashed across the
youth's tortured brain. That in Genevra
the revived memory of his fault might
arouse renewed resentment, just as he was
beginning to hope that she might forget it —
this was bad enough ; but there was much
worse than this. He had had many opportunities,
during his frequent visits to Wend-holm,
of ascertaining beyond a doubt that
not one of Genevra' s friends or relatives had
the slightest suspicion that she had ever
seen him before they met there ; and, more,
he believed that even Mrs. Farquhar attributed

her daughter's accident to some
mischance on the railway platform, and
knew nothing whatever of the cross-country
drive.

And here was a vulgar, garrulous fellow
on the point of proclaiming, at a gathering
of all the gossips and scandal-mongers of the
county, that he had surprised the pair of
them together, alone, in a remote district
which was not known hereabouts, and in
its remotest, loneliest seclusion ! Good
heavens ! what had he done ? It was his
mad folly that had caused Genevra's reserve
a reserve which might be interpreted as
the concealment of a guilty secret. He
had endangered even the reputation of the
innocent girl he adored ! The fellow must
be silenced somehow, or, at least, kept out of
Miss Farquhar's way. He did not know her
name : if only he could be got rid of before
he saw her ! Oh, if he could but get

him away before she came in ; then poison
him, drown him, strangle him — make him
so drunk that he could be carried off in a
wheel-barrow, like the pig he was !

These reflections darted in less than a
second through Keith's mind. There was
not a moment to be lost. Genevra and
Georgina had made but a step across the
hall, when they were surrounded by a group
of friends, among whom Sir Brian Carruthers
and Lady Dalton were foremost, with eager
inquiries as to the cause of the girl's disappearance
for so long. There was a halt —
it would be a brief one — and then the whole
party would sweep on to the very spot
where so dreadful a shock awaited them !

Even Dr. Goodwin himself felt slightly
surprised at the effusion with which he was
greeted.

My dear doctor ! " and Keith passed his
arm through his, and drew him hurriedly

out of the ball-room into the refreshment-room
he had himself lately quitted, taking
care to interpose his tall figure between him
and the group at the foot of the staircase (a
long way off), and talking rapidly all the
way — **my dear doctor, this is an unexpected
meeting. When did you come ? We must
not stand here ; we shall be in the way of
the dancers. Let us have a glass of wine ;
that ball-room is so confoundedly hot.
We can breathe here. Tell me, when did
you come ? Where did you come from ?
Here, Philip, bring that champagne to
Dr.— ? "

'* Goodwin," said the doctor, accepting
the wine, but suspecting, as he glanced at
his flushed and excited features, that his
young companion had had too much already.
'* My name is Goodwin. You forgot to ask
it when we met in the Buckholt Woods.
Too anxious about your young lady, eh ? —

or your wife, was she ? Is she quite well ?
I have not seen her here yet."

But how long have you been here, and
where did you come from ? " repeated Keith ;
while his heart kept beating a miserable
refrain to everything he said — " she is
dancing now — dancing, and not with me ! "

I have only been here an hour,"
answered the doctor. " I came down for a
couple of days' holiday to see my daughter,
Mrs. Jump, of the Eastwards Farm. She and
her husband took it three months ago. I've
never been in this part of the country
before "

"And will never be again, I hope,"
thought Keith.

"And Lady Dalton had kindly invited
them to look in on the spectacle."

Keith groaned.

And they would have me come too.
But you have not told me how the pretty

girl is, whom you upset in the wood.
Your wife, or your sweetheart, was she ? "

Oughtn't she as well be my sister or
my cousin?" answered Keith, briefly. ''I
am not married yet. Have some claret ?
No ? nothing more ? All right ; I'll see you
home."

Dr. Goodwin laughed and rose. '^ It's a
good six miles to the farm," he said.
"We did not walk here, and I've not
seen half the fun yet ; we'll go and look
at the dancing."

Horror ! Lady Dalton, Sir Brian, Miss
Carruthers, were with Genevra, and would
be all hearers of this abominable doctor's
indiscreet revelations. True, he might not
recognize her, in her blooming health and
in an evening dress. He did not know her
name. Yes, there was another possibility
of escape for her. With Keith away, surely
Genevra could be trusted to turn aside any

allusion to a companionship of nearly
two years ago, if this doctor persisted in
making it ? No one would think of linking
their names together, when this dreadful
witness could not point him out. At any
sacrifice that humiliation should be spared
her !

When the doctor, having re-entered the
ball-room, turned to speak to his young
friend, he had disappeared. With firm
resolve, yet with an aching heart, he had
hailed one of the flys which were drawn up
near the portico, and driven back to the
Haldane Arms. He dared not infer in the
neighbourhood of his foe, who at any
moment might pounce upon and identify
him, and it was too late to catch the mail
train from Bedford, but there was a very
early one from Wendholm. He sat down
and wrote the following note to Harry
Stanforth : —

Dear Harry,

I'm bound to be off at once.
Find out when a Dr. Goodwin, staying at
Eastland s Farm, leaves the place, and wire
to me the minute he does. Secret.

"K. M."

Having written this note, he laid it on
his dressing-table, ready for despatch the
first thing next morning ; then, resuming
his travelling dress, and desiring the boots
to have breakfast and a fly ready for him
in time for the first train, he flung himself,
dressed as he was, on his bed, and forgot
his griefs in youth's inalienable slumbers.
Before any of the Oaklandss revellers were
awake or astir, he was speeding back to
Hurstleigh, wrapt in melancholy musings
as to whether the cup of happiness that he
had put aside as it so nearly touched his
lips, might ever again be offered to him by
offended Fate.

Perhaps our unhappy Tantalus might
have received some faint consolation, if
he could have seen how often Jenny's
eyes wandered round the room after his
disappearance, and how something like
a shadow fell on her face, and muffled
up her dimples, each time those eyes returned
from their ineffectual search. Nay,
she went so far as to refuse a partner for the
first dance after her return, saying, hesitatingly,
that she was engaged and waiting
for her cavalier. But her heroism went no
further, and she was presently sealing her
reconciliation to Harry Stanforth, by guiding
his not too accurate steps through the
mazes of the waltzers, who, warned by
experience, usually gave him as wide a field
as they could. He had just " brought up,"
after having blundered against two couples
and all but upset one, and was laughingly
parrying Genevra's reproaches, when that
young lady's eyes, wandering for the

twentieth time to the doorway, were suddenly
arrested by the fixed gaze which,
if prolonged, never fails to arrest the eyes
on which it dwells — a gaze which had
certainly no other fascination ; for it was
that of an elderly gentleman, stout, rosy,
and decidedly common looking — perhaps
a small farmer or tradesman. There were
several such, with their wives and daughters,
good naturedly invited by Harry and his
mother to witness, rather than to participate
in the novel diversion of a masked costume
ball.

Now, Genevra, as you may have been
told, was decidedly short-sighted, and to
this defect she added that of incapacity of
distinguishing features with which she was
little familiar. So when, on meeting her
eyes, the old doctor broke into a genial
smile, and emphasized it by a succession
of friendly nods, she merely imagined the

greeting to be intended for some one behind
or beside her, and looked another way. She
had never seen Dr. Goodwin but once, more
than a year ago, when, even had she been
more naturally observant of physiognomy,
the preoccupation of her mind and the
agony under which she was suffering would
have left the impression of any portraiture
indistinct and blurred. But when, o^lancino*
again in the same direction in the expectation,
if not the hope, of seeing a very
different figure, she saw the same broad
smile and nid-nodding salutation, a feeling
of irritation arose in her, and addressing
angrily — -

Who is that grinning idiot by the door,
Hal ? Is he nodding to you ?

Never saw him before," answered Harry.
Came with the Eastwards folks, I believe.
All strangers here ; takes you for somebody
else. Come on ; another turn, Jenny."

VOL. III. 51

Another turn involved another stumble
on Harry's part, just as the pair were within
a few paces of "the grinning idiot," and
Genera had scarcely recovered herself,
when two hands, almost two arms, were
extended towards her, and the jovial voice
exclaimed —

*' Caught you at last, my dear little girl !
I have been watching you this half-hour. I
am so glad "

But the effusive greeting died on the
smiling lips, half uttered. Miss Farquhar
drew herself haughtily to her full height
(nearly to the big doctor's elbow), stared
steadily at him, and coldly replying,
'' You are making some mistake, sir,"
turned from him, with a significant pinch
on Harry's arm, which, acting as a spur on
a not unwilling horse, soon placed her
beyond the immediate range of the doctor's
vision.

He looked after her swiftly vanishing
form, and then said, audibly, " Well, there
goes a little, insolent, ungrateful hussy ! "

'' My good sir," remonstrated a quiet
voice behind him, '' you cannot be allowed
to utter such a heresy without protest
here ! "

And turning, Dr. Goodwin faced Sir Brian
Carruthers, who had been silently watching
the little scene between Miss Farquhar and
him.

"You are the young lady's papa, perhaps
? " he asked.

I have not the happiness of so close a
relationship," answered Sir Brian, smiling,
though inwardly disgusted. " I am but
one of the very many friends the young
lady has here, not one of whom would leave
your opinion of her unchallenged."

I spoke far more harshly than I felt,"
said Dr. Goodwin, good naturedly ; " ]put

it hurts a man, you know, to receive the cut
direct from a little lady who has been under
some obligation — no, I won't say obligation,
but who has received some kindness from
him, little more than a year ago."

*' You have mistaken her for some one
else," said Sir Brian. " She evidently thought
so, and would have spoken more kindly,
I am sure, if she had not been a little
put out — by her partner's bad dancing,
perhaps."

The doctor shook his head.

I never mistake a face, or forget one."
he replied. " Perhaps if 1 had passed herby
that spring, she might never have danced
again. Such a sprain as hers, when neglected,
has sometimes lamed a woman for
life, I can tell you, and the young fellow
who had caused the accident was no surgeon
to repair it."

Sir Brian looked curiously at the doctor,

then his eyes suddenly brightened. " Ah,
I see. You were on the railway platform
when Miss Farquhar stumbled and
injured her ankle last year ; you assisted
her then ? But if she has forgotten your
features, doctor, you must not accuse her
of ingratitude. In the confusion of a railway
crowd "

Had she a second accident ? From
weakness in the ankle after the first, perhaps ?
Poor girl ! But I was not referring to that,
but to the day her brother, or cousin, or
whoever he was, upset the trap in the Buck-holt
Woods, and fetched me to her assistance.
He did not forget my face, at any rate, and
looking round — " he will perhaps stir up
the lady's memory directly."

Sir Brian made no rejoinder ; his eyes
dwelt musingly on the doctor, and, with his
habitual gesture when perplexed, he slowly
drew his grey moustache to its length. Then

he said, in his gentlest manner, ''I am
something of a latter, doctor, and this
standing for such a time has tired me.
Let us find a seat somewhere, and I daresay
I can ]3ut matters right as to Miss
Farquhar and you ? "

"Is it gout ? " inquired Dr. Goodwin with
professional interest, referring, of course, to
the first part of Sir Brian's speech. " No ?
Well, I shall be happy to carry on our chat
in some quiet corner, and to have my little
quarrel over with your young friend, and
make it up before I go."

While he spoke, he followed in the wake
of the baronet, who pioneered him through
the throng until he had reached the conservatory,
the scene of Keith's recent, but too
fugitive, triumph.

A pair of lovers — happier, it is to be
hoped, than the last — were " philandering "
among the azaleas, and as Sir Brian entered

and guided his companion to a cushioned
seat in a recess, the only accommodation the
place afforded, the gentleman cast a look
askance at him, and, offering his arm to the
lady, retired from this solitude a quatre.

Then Sir Brian began, in his soft semi-drawl
— " A fellow feeling makes us wondrous
kind ; this confounded limp of mine makes
me ready to sympathize the more with poor
Jenny's sprained foot, and being not in
these parts at the time, I heard little about
it until it was all over. I had an impression
that it was done by a stumble on
the railway metals, or something of the
kind. And, but for your timely help, she
would have been lamed for life '? Her friends
are most deeply indebted to you."

Not at all, not at all," answered the
doctor. " I was glad to see the young
lady again so evidently, from her dancing,
quite free from any ill effects of her sprain.

A smile and a kind word would have repaid
me."

And shall yet," promised Sir Brian,
cordially. " Genevra is quite incapable of
ingratitude, but she is so short-si f]^h ted

and Were you with her long enough

for her to recognize you easily, doctor ? "

Long enough ? " repeated the doctor,
innocently. " When the young fellow took
me into the wood where she lay, she had
fainted, poor child, and so did not notice
me, of course. But from the time he
carried her into my chaise, until I left her
in the carriage — a through carriage at
Lytham Junction — we were together half
an hour. Long enough to know me again,
I should say ; but if, as you say, she is so
short-sighted, that would account for much."

"And Harry Stanforth was driving her
when they came to grief, you say ? " inquired
artful Sir Brian.

'' Harry Stanforth ? " — interrogatively.

The lad who was with her when you
spoke to her. But he did not recognize you
either, doctor ? "

'^ He never saw me before, that I know of.
No, it was "

And here some suppressed eagerness in
Sir Brian s look suddenly awoke even the
dense old doctor to the idea that perhaps he
had been making mischief by his indiscreet
babbling. The youth's hurried manner,
and his proposal to " walk home with him,"
perhaps only to hasten his departure, and
the girl's refusal to recognize him — there
was something odd in the matter. A
clandestine love affair it might be. Well, he
was not the man to betray the poor young
things ; he wished he had not been so
garrulous.

Sir Brian noted his hesitation, and did
not like it. Genevra's plea for breaking

off her brief engagement to him had
never quite satisfied him, nor had he
relished — what betrothed suitor would ? —
the thought that his promised wife had
been so unguarded in her manner that any
travelling cad could have mistaken it for
encouragement to insult her. But this was
a thousand times worse. Her assailant was
no stranger, since he was here, among Lady
Dalton's guests — some fellow whom she must
have known before she knew him, or how
did she happen to be driving about with him
alone, possibly by previous assignation ?
And yet Sir Brian did not, in his most
secret heart, charge Jenny with grave error.
He had so often watched her, during the
last eight months, mingling in the gay and
rather free society which frequented Oakland
Heights, and never had the slightest taint of
boldness or coquetry betrayed itself in her
most playful moods of childish unreserve.

No one could ever have suspected Jenny of
trying to attract admirers ; nor, indeed, did
any of the young men seem particularly
attracted by her. And yet this doctor
spoke of having seen her former companion
just now, here, in this very room. He must
find out who the fellow was, at any cost.
So he resumed his inquiry on different lines.

You did not take great interest in your
pretty patient, doctor," he said, smiling, " or
it would not have been such a surprise to
you to meet her here. Miss Farquhar's
home is only a mile from Oaklandss, when
you are at the foot of the hill."

'well" — and the doctor laughed and
forgot his caution — '' we were an anonymous
party altogether, you see. Miss
Farquhar's friend did give me his card, and
took mine ; but in the anxiety of seeing her
comfortably settled, first in my trap, and
afterwards in the railway carriage, I never

looked at it, and I lost it on the road. She,
poor child, was in too great pain to give me
her address, and I thought all that would
be settled by her friend when she reached
home. But I never heard another word of
either of them ; and, indeed, I soon forgot
all about them in the press of professional
business and family affairs just then."

Suppose we repair that loss of yours —
for it is a loss, I can tell you. I am quite
certain that Miss Farquhar will be delighted
to thank you for your kindness to her, and
shocked at her seeming ingratitude. Come,
I will present you to her."

He rose, took the doctor's offered arm,
and was limping slowly across the ball-room
to where Jenny sat beside Mrs. Verney,
talking rather listlessly to young Howard
Portway, whom she had known a boy at
school — a weak-looking, fair lad, scarcely
older than herself. Sir Brian stopped and

directed his companion's attention to the
pair.

That is the unlucky Jehu, is it not ? "

^' Lord, no 1 " answered Dr. Goodwin, unguardedly,
" not a bit like him. I don't see
him anywhere. A tall young fellow, six foot
two if he's an inch, and a devilish handsome
lad too, only rather a touch of the Spaniard
or gipsy about him. Greek, perhaps ? "

Keith Moray, by Gad ! " exclaimed Sir
Brian. So astonished was he at the discovery,
that all his presence of mind seemed
knocked out of him by the blow. He
dropped Dr. Goodwin's arm, and, after standing
for a moment as if rooted to the spot,
moved away towards the entrance door,
without again even glancing towards Miss
Farquhar. The doctor looked after him in
dismay.

I've gone and put my foot in it somehow,"
thought he. 'there's a storm

brewing for the youngsters ; I'll keep out
of sight as well as I can ; " and he made
the best of his way to a corner of the room,
where his daughter and her husband were
rather forlornly standing.

And then came a general movement, as
the great doors of the supper-room were
thrown open, and the assembly surged
forward unanimously to the banquet. Not
quite unanimously. Jenny took advantage
of the movement to whisper to Mrs. Verney —

I think I must have got a chill ; my
head aches terribly. Do help me to slip away,
dear Mrs. Verney ; I want to go to bed."

You do look very pale, child," answered
Doggie, compassionately. " Mr. Moray and
his damp cloak have literally put a wet
blanket on your enjoyment. I'll see you
to bed quietly, and bring you your supper
there. Where has Mr. Moray got to, I
wonder ? "

And SO Jenny escaped. And when Sir
Brian recovered himself, and sought out the
doctor to present him to her, lo ! for all the
trace there was left of them, both Genevra
and Keith might have eloped together, like
young Lochinvar and his bride.

CHAPTER Xril.

SIR BRIAN REFLECTS.

Having thus discovered, very greatly to his
surprise, first, that young Moray had been
the cause of Genevra's abrupt withdrawal
of her half acceptance of himself, and,
further, that the incident which she had
with such seeming frankness confessed had
occurred under circumstances which had not
been what he had supposed them to be,
he remained for some moments undecided
what to do next. Indecision, however,
being a neutral attitude to which Carruthers
was well accustomed, he felt it
rather comfortable than otherwise that
the situation, just now, precluded any

immediate action. He stood still, by the
side of his new acquaintance, watching
Genevra in his dreamy way, but making no
further proposal to present the doctor to her
notice. Doubtless, thought he, she had
intentionally ignored him, and to force him
on her attention, thus convicting her of her
concealment, if not dissimulation, would be
too melodramatic a pose for Sir Brian's
taste. So, after a brief pause, he left his
companion to his own devices, and slipped
quietly away into a remote corner, where
he could observe Jenny's movements, himself
unnoticed, and wait in expectation of
seeing Keith rejoin her.

When Dr. Goodwin found himself deserted,
and saw Miss Farquhar's eyes dwell on him
without the slightest recognition, he reverted
to his former idea that there was some
secret between the young people, which they
were afraid his presence might betray ; and,

VOL. III. 62

good naturedly hoping that he had made
no mischief in what he had said to the old
gentleman, he rejoined his daughter and her
party, and, shortly after, withdrew from the
house with them.

Sir Brian, as we know, waited vainly
for Keith's reappearance, and at last moved
off in search of him. His object in
wishing to see him at Genevra's side was
merely that he might observe the manner
of the pair towards each other, in the
new light that had been thrown on their
possible relations. He had no intention
whatever of making " a scene " in a thronged
ball-room, though, if he could have found
Keith alone, he would probably have
demanded an opportunity for explanation.

But there was no Keith I He ranged
from room to room. No Keith. He asked
two or three of his friends in passing. They
had not seen Mr. Moray, not having been

in the way during Keith's brief transit
through the ball-room. He went into the
hall and inquired of the footmen. They
were quite certain Mr. Moray had never
arrived in the entrance-hall, although one
of them fancied he saw him go upstairs to
Mr. Stanforth's room ; but he was not sure.
He had almost concluded that he had been
mistaken — that it was not Keith whom the
doctor had recognized — though the mystery,
so far as Jenny was concerned, was still to
be solved, when Harry's valet came by and
overheard his inquiries.

Mr. Moray, Sir Brian ? He is not here.
I saw him drive off in a fly half an hour
ago or more. He had only been here a
short time. He got wet in coming, and had
to change his dress. Dear me ! I suppose
he must have been ill or something, he was
in such a hurry to get away."

Sir Brian turned on his heel without

remark, but he said to himself, 'the
cowardly young sneak ! he was afraid of
Dr. Goodwin's betraying him. If it were

not for exposing Jenny But I'll see

that he is never allowed any intimacy at
Oaklandss again, if he ventures back while /
am here ! "

With this prospective vengeance the
baronet was forced to rest content for the
time. The assembly broke up, and the
friends whom he had accompanied, and who
lived at some miles' distance from Oaklandss,
summoned him to make his adieux and
drive away with them, which he did,
without again addressing Miss Farquhar.

For some days after, his engagements
with his host's family prevented him from
visiting Wendholm, but he was pledged to
be there on a certain day to meet his cousin
Georgina, and escort her back to town,
where her mother would meet her ; and in

the interval Sir Brian brooded long and
deeply. The questions that first stirred
his interest were, from whence dated
Genevra's earliest acquaintance with Keith
Moray ? and why had she concealed it,
having confessed what she did ? and how
far was her horror of his offence compatible
with her long toleration of, if not intimacy
with, the offender ?

That Genevra Farquhar was pure as the
light, no man who had associated with her so
familiarly as Sir Brian had done could doubt
for an instant. There was not a spark
of coquetry about her, and her manner to
Keith had been invariably cold, sometimes
almost insolent. And yet she had assured
Sir Brian that her assailant " in the railway
carriage," as he understood her, had been a
man " whom she never saw before in her
life." How came she to be driving about
the country with him ? But she need not

have told Carruthers anything at all ; she
could have repudiated her brief engagement
without that. After much cogitation he
arrived at some dim perception of the truth
that she had, in girlish levity, allowed her
railway fellow-traveller a familiarity which
he had misunderstood and abused. How
the drive came about he could not understand
; but it evidently ended in an upset,
which had brought the pair to their senses,
and the injury to the girl must have sobered
the young fellow, and given her time for
reflection and repentance, which her subsequent
confession evidenced. Perhaps their
meeting at Oaklandss was a mere coincidence,
and it might be natural that Jenny should
be unwilling to recur to the subject, and
that she should prefer punishing Keith
after her own fashion to landing him over
to the " secular arm " of her betrothed.
And here Sir Brian brought himself up

with a shudder. Was he in any sense
betrothed to this girl ? Did she consider
him so ? Did her friends consider him
so ? Hitherto the bond — if it was a bond
by which she held him — had been so slackly
held that he had all but forgotten it. She
was free, while he was bound. But by no
sign, no word, no look, on either her side
or her friends, had he ever been reminded of
a bondage which was not even suspected by
the outer circle in which they moved. And
the season of probation was fast drawing to
a close, when he was pledged to come forward
again and demand his final acceptance
or release ! With characteristic nonchalance
he had been prepared to redeem his
pledge when the moment should arrive,
careless, if conscious of the fact, that his
passion for Genevra, never very ardent,
had merged into something very like indifference
in the presence of another feeling,

which he had not cared to analyze, for
another woman. But this revelation of Dr.
Goodwin's was fast changing indifference
into what was almost repulsion, and he
cursed the folly which, to avoid a temporary
mortification, had plunged him into such a
bog as this. (Sir Brian was discourteous
enough to apply that epithet to his present
situation.)

" Why," murmured he (he was fortunately
alone) — " why did I think of proposing to
the girl at all ? Innocent ! Yes, too innocent
to guard herself against the insolence
of the first good-looking young fellow she
meets in a railway carriage. Such an
innocent ' wife as that would have to be
tied up to her dressing-table whenever she
was left alone ! Too ' innocent ' to keep the
scamp from hovering round her for the last
sixteen months, and " — here Sir Brian
almost gnashed his teeth — "making a

laughing-stock of me, if I had not luckily
found him out in time ! But it is in time,
my lady — my lady that shall not be !
What you've touched you may take, Mr.
Keith Moray ; though I don't know why he
has not taken it, if he wanted it. But how
to get clear of this entanglement honourably,
and without injury to the girl, I don't
clearly see ; " and Sir Brian lapsed into
silence and pondered.

"Psha!" he resumed at length, "no one
knows of this fantastic tie ; no one can ask
for explanation, except Jenny herself, who
has waived her right, and her stepmother,

who will not exercise it. If Stella "

Another pause. " That would solve the
difficulty. Nobody would expect me to marry
two women, and I am not sure that she has
not more claim on me, after all. I have
drifted perilously near to an avowal to her,
and she, at least, can take care of herself,

and of me too. If I must marry, that
charming woman, not a little rustic like
Jenny, is the fitting wife for me."

In which conclusion Sir Brian was perhaps
right ; but there is occasionally a
difficulty in reducing the wisest theory into
practice !

And the difficulty in this case lay chiefly
in the unsuspected fact that Miss Georgina
Carruthers had made up her mind that, if
her cousin did not wed Genevra, he should
not wed the widow either. Ever since she
had extorted the secret of this one-sided
betrothal from simple Mrs. Farquhar, she
had narrowly watched Carruthers and Stella,
and was quite of Brian's opinion that he
had often come " perilously near " to proving
false to his voluntary pledge. She was not
at all desirous of seeing her nominee to the
family title supplanted by the beautiful
widow, in whose home she, Georgina, would

be but a casual, perhaps a rare Visitor, andover
whom she would never have the
slightest influence ; and yet she did not see
how she could prevent it, except by violating
Sir Brian's express injunctions, and thereby
incurring his displeasure, which might show
itself in permanent alienation, which would
be, in many ways, highly inconvenient.
So she glowered silently at the pair, comforting
herself with the reflection that
Jenny's eighteenth birthday was now so
near at hand that Sir Brian must come
forward soon, and end this unsatisfactory
suspense, as far as she was concerned. It
was not likely that Stella gave him any
serious encouragement. If she had contracted
a pernicious habit of marrying, and
could not break herself of it, she could make
a better third choice than Sir Brian, who
was not nearly so wealthy as herself, nor
specially attractive in any way ; and she

did not believe that Genevra would prove
cruel in the end to so faithful (if he was
faithful) a swain. It would be a good
marriage for her, and she had certainly
accepted him, and was probably only waiting
until her friends should permit her
engagement, which would now be a brief
one. Meantime, during her not infrequent
visits to Oaklandss, she not only covertly
watched Sir Brian and his platonic, but
she also mounted guard, as it were, over
Jenny, keeping as much in her society as
the young lady's wild, woodland habits would
permit. For Georgina loved not the haunts
of the forest birds and ^^beastesses," nor was
she herself greatly beloved by Harry
Stanforth, Genevra's inseparable companion
in these solitudes, who, if Miss Carruthers
ever attempted to join them, always took
care that the path should lead among the
most adder-infested gorse-bushes, knowing

that Georgina by no means shared Jenny's
fearless interest in all crawling creatures.

But in the civilization of the drawing-room
or the garden-party, Georgie was
usually at Jenny's side, and so Keith Moray
was as often at hers; but she no more
suspected, than did the rest of the Wendholm
world, that she was not herself the magnet
that attracted him, and treated him with
a half scornful, half playful imperiousness,
that secretly enraged Genevra (I don't see
why it should, do you ?), but to which Keith
submitted with as much docility as if — she
had been his grandmother !

But this veil of preoccupation — the
thickest veil that can be drawn over otherwise
observant eyes — was suddenly lifted on
the night of Lady Dalton's ball. On that
night Georgina saw, or thought she saw,
that Sir Brian's devotion to the beautiful
widow was even more marked than usual.

and that in Stella's manner there was a
*' receptiveness," so to speak, that she had
never yet displayed towards him. The line of
demarcation between them as friends and
lovers was getting dangerously attenuated.
What was to be done ?

'While she pondered over this peril, she
was suddenly roused from her meditations
by Keith Moray's abrupt appeal to her to goto
Jenny's assistance in the conservatory,
followed by (as it seemed to her) his
immediate e banishment into space. The
inference she drew from these mysterious
complications was that Keith had been
wooing Jenny all along, under the screen
of his attention to her, and that Jenny,
true to her first lover, had rejected him.

Here was a weapon wherewith to defeat
the wiles of Stella, and rivet Sir Brian's
fetters, too lightly worn hitherto.

And Miss Carruthers proceeded to action
accordingly.

CHAPTER XIV.

DOGGIE ADVISES.

'' Are you so very weary of life, poor
Stella ? " — two or three days after the
Oaklandss masque.

'* I ? " answered Lady Dalton. " Why do
you ask, Doggie ? "

Because," said her friend, " you have,
within the last five minutes, perpetrated no
fewer than three unbecoming yawns — unbecoming
even to you, my star. No face can
stand that ! You will have ghastly wrinkles
ploughed soon by such an extension of the
muscles."

Lady Dalton rose and gravely contemplated
her beautiful face in a mirror near

her ; then she reseated herself. " Nonsense,
Diana ! Why, child, you frighten me so !
There are no wrinkles at all ; but I am
growing a little weary of life — at Oaklandss."

What ! after the brilliant success of your
recent gala ? That pleasurable excitement
can hardly be exhausted yet ? "

I am sick of the same faces for ever ; I
want ' fresh fields and pastures new.' I mean
to leave Oaklandss, Doggie."

Sighing for new worlds to conquer ? "
laughed Mrs. Verney. 'with all my heart,
dear, so that you take me with you."

My conquests have been quite inglorious
triumphs," pursued Stella — " one or two ,
not a single being of the
slightest distinction."

I was not thinking of matrimonial conquests,
but of what you care for as much,
your general popularity. Is Sir Brian one
of the fortune-hunters, Stella ? I thought

the other evening that matters had come
to a crisis with him."

^' You are altogether wrong, Di ; all your
predictions have been falsified. You are a
social Cassandra ! "

But Cassandra's predictions never were
falsified ; she could only never convince her
hearers of their truth. You are ' mixed ' in
your classics, my love. But when have my
predictions failed ? "

Well, I won't say predictions, but your
keen insight, on which you pride yourself
so. You look so deep below the surface that
you are blind to everything that skims upon
it before your eyes. I have a good mind
not to tell you that Sir Brian "

Oh," rejoined Diana, laughing, '' I had
no need to pore beneath the surface as
regards Sir Brian 1 You are so solemn this
morning that I think you must have refused
him, and regret your refusal."

VOL. III. 53

Sir Brian has been engaged these sixteen
months — to little Jenny Farquhar."

Mrs. Verney was struck speechless with
astonishment, but she looked keenly in her
friend's face and recovered herself ''I do
not believe a word of it. Who told you ?
and when ? "

Georgina Farquhar told me, this morning."


"Oh, that was the confidence she was
making to you, when she was closeted with
you so long ? I looked in, but would not
interrupt you. How is it that she has never
told you till now ? "

It was to be a close secret for a time
which has now nearly expired. Genera's
friends considered her too young to be
engaged when Sir Brian first proposed to
her, and that," added Stella, quite bitterly
for her, "was just before we came to settle
at Oaklandss. You are dumb, Diana? All

your perspicacity, you see, failed to detect
Sir Brian's tactics in making a stalking
horse of me, to conceal his attentions to
Genevra."

^' Attentions ? He has never paid her the
least attention. It is a mere invention of
Georgia to annoy you."

Why should she wish to annoy me ? "
"From jealousy, perhaps. Sir Brian's
devotion to you has been most marked. If
he is engaged to Jenny, his heart is assuredly
not in the bond. But it cannot be true ; and
if it were true, my Stella, why should you
mind ? You do not care for the man, do
you ? Why should it make you so fractious
that he should make a fool of himself fora
chit young enough to be his daughter ? "

*' But," pouted Stella, " he has made a
fool of me, by making every one believe
that Oh, I have no patience with him ! "

But you never meant to accept him ? "

Certainly not. You know I never dream
of marrying again. Why, I should be like
the woman in Tobit ! " and Lady Dalton
laughed, her brief sullenness already passed
off.

I don't believe there is a word of truth
in Georgina's story," persisted Mrs. Verney,
''or if there is, it is Miss Farquhar and her
friends who have the right to complain of
Sir Brian's conduct, not you. For his admiration
of you has been unmistakable, and it
is only your tact that has restrained him, on
many occasions, from declaring himself your
lover."

''I thought so," murmured Stella, pensively
; " but the restraint, after all, you see,
was not on my side."

You can put that to the proof," answered
the unscrupulous Diana. " He is to be here
this afternoon, to meet Miss Carruthers and
take her up to town. He will have a farewell

interview with you; and if, as I believe,
he is wholly devoted to you, you have only
to ' give him his head,' as Harry says of his
horses — just the very slightest encouragement,
and you will see him at your feet."

"But, Diana, if he is really engaged to
Jenny?"

Make him throw her over," answered
Mrs. Verney, coolly. " Once you have
asserted your power over him, why, you can
give him back to her — with a nay, and no
harm done."

It would be a just punishment of his
inconstancy," answered Lady Dalton, laughing.
"But if I failed?"

Then you could tell him you know his
secret, and reproach him prettily with his
reserve. You need not tell him how long you
have known it. But you will not fail. See,
Stella ; there he comes, driving up the
avenue in Mr. Heathcote's dog-cart. Now

I will be off, and leave him to your tender
mercies. Poor Sir Brian ! he has languished
long enough. Put him out of his pain, my
star !" and Lady Dalton's unprincipled adviser
glided from the room, just a minute or two
before Carruthers was ushered into it by an
opposite door.

There was just the least touch of languor
added to the quiet grace of Stella s usual
manner, as she rose smilingly to welcome
her visitor — a languor which Sir Brian attributed
to her recent fatigues; and, as heled
her back to her seat and placed himself
beside her, she suffered him to retain her
delicate hand a moment, then hastily withdrew
it, as if recollecting herself, and
dropped her beautiful eyes, with so charming
an assumption of bashfulness, that a powerful
imagination might almost have believed
in the blush which would not come at will.
But Sir Brian did not especially value

blushes. He had seen, as most people bad
seen, the bright colour rise, deepen, and fade
on Jenny's cheek on every least occasion,
or on none at all, and it had no more
significance for him than had, for Charley
Burnes, the permanent rose tint on the point
of Chatty's nose.

He had not come to Oaklandss with the
intention of offering himself to the fascinating
widow. That step had, indeed, commended
itself to him, in the first heat of his
anger against Genevra and Keith, as the
best method of, as he expressed it, cutting
the " Gordian knot" of his " demi-semi" engagement
; but his dreamy, vacillating nature
speedily reasserted itself He would shake
ofi" that tie before finally committing himself
to a new one. He would " have it out "
with Jenny first, and reclaim his freedom ;
and then — w^ell,then Sir Brian would consider.
But he was quite unprepared for the new

softness in Stella's greeting, and his pulses
quickened in response to it. He glanced
yearningly at the pretty hand that lay just
beyond his reach. Jenny's was a pretty hand,
too ; but it was just a trifle freckled, as a
girl's hand will be who attends to her pets
and her flowers and forgets her gloves, while
Lady Dalton's hand was white and soft as
the plumage of an eider-duck. Stella noticed
the glance, and, feeling that her self-appointed
task would prove easier than she had anticipated,
she resumed the simple cordiality to
which Sir Brian had been accustomed, and
for a time the conversation turned chiefly
on the ordinary topics of the day. But he
was more absent than usual.

And this is a farewell, Georgina tells
me ? " she said. " You are come to take
her away; and as the witches in 'Macbeth'
say, ' When shall we three meet again ? ' "

I cannot answer for my cousin," replied

the baronet, '^ but we two shall meet again
very soon, I hope. You do not forbid my
return, Lady Dal ton ? "

Your return may be to an empty nest.
The birds are taking flight. Did you not
know it, Sir Brian ? "

'taking flight? From Oakland s ? Tt is
a very sudden resolve, is it not ? "

Well, yes ; my resolves generally are
sudden. I am such a creature of impulse;
any project of mine must be done at once,
or, by dwelling upon it, it loses its charm."

Sir Brian remained silent ; he was taken
by surprise, as Stella had meant him to be ;
and she continued —

The fact is, 'Harry begins to tire of
these woodlands. He has been offered a
well-appointed yacht that a friend of his
was about to sail for Norway, but has been
stopped by a violent illness, and cannot
leave his room. Harry is quite wild for

Norway now, and I and Diana shall be
charmed to accompany him."

"But you will return here in the
autumn ? "

I think not. There is a good opportunity
of getting Oaklandss off our hands for the
remainder of our term. A friend of Mr.
Reasons, the banker, is looking out for just
such a place, and would take it as it stands.
You see, it has no associations that could
endear it to either of us."

'' It will have always very dear associations
for me, Stella, but you hold such
memories lightly."

No, indeed," and the little white hand
crept quite involuntarily within more convenient
reach of her companion's ; " but my
memories go further back than yours. Those
dear old yachting days, Sir Brian ! Our
friendship dates from them, you know.
Born of the sea,' you said then, ' but not

changeful like the sea.' Yet it is you, not
I, who have forgotten them."

Sir Brian mused and wavered. She was
so charming and so sweet ; if he let her go
now, who could tell what hands might not
be outstretched to seize the prize ? Then, he
was glad that she should leave Oaklandss ; it
would be so easy a solution of his little
embarrassment with respect to Jenny. That
foolish episode would be ended. And when
had he ever dreamt in Genevra's saucy eyes
the tenderness that shone in Stella's ? He
took her hand in his, and leaned towards her.
In those days, Stella, it was not of friendship
that I spoke to you ; and, though you
repulsed me then, it was not friendship that
brought me again to your feet. May I not
now dare, at last, to speak of — love ? "

Stella withdrew her hand with a little
air of severity, which had, however, nothing-very
alarming in it. " You should not

remind me of a fault that I forgave at the
time, Sir Brian, on the condition that it
should never be repeated."

But the conditions are altered, Stella.
You are free now."

Free for what ? " inquired the widow,
with an air of perfect simplicity, and an
archness in her glance which overcame her
suitor, and overthrew him, horse and foot.

'free," he answered, " to accept the heart
which has always been your own ; free to
become my adored and honoured wife."

'* My dear old friend," exclaimed Lady
Dalton, and, caressing as was her voice, the
unhappy baronet recoiled from the term —
"my dear old friend, you are forgetting
yourself and me. No man living would
ever tempt me to contract another marriage.
And — what of your engagement to Jenny
Farquhar ? "

Sir Brian looked at her in silence, and

then murmured an " aside," " What snakes
they all are ! "

Lady Dalton with difficulty suppressed
her laughter, but, as it was a convention
among Sir Brian's friends always to appear
unconscious of his soliloquies, she waited till
he addressed her.

Who has said that I was engaged to
Miss Farquhar, Lady Dalton ? "

"As if you could have kept such a secret
from me 1 I have taken it very unkind of
you that you have tried to do so. I heard
of it from Georgina."

Damn Georgina ! " muttered Sir Brian ;
then, a little louder — " There is no formal
engagement between Jenny and me. Lady
Dalton ; there might have been, but — it was
before the renewal of my — my friendship
with you made any such arrangement
impossible. Can this imaginary tie have
been a bar between us, Stella ? "

Lacey Dalton hesitated. She was satisfied
with the revenge she had taken on her fickle
admirer, and wished now to soothe his
wounded vanity, while she desired to put an
end to attentions of which she had grown
weary. After a slight pause, she answered,
'for myself, dear friend, my heart is too
wholly given to my interests as a mother to
have a thought of becoming again a wife. But
you must not speak of your bond to Genevra
as being an * imaginary' one. Georgina
assures me that the girl's friends consider ita
very real one, as her affections are wholly
yours."

Her affections ? " repeated Sir Brian,
astonished. " I have reason to believe
that Genevra is attached to — to another
man."

Oh," laughed Stella, sweetly. " So it
is jealousy that has made you inconstant ?
Dear Sir Brian, you have wronged poor

Jenny sadly. There never was a girl who
showed less wish to attract admiration, and
there are only two men whom you could
possibly be jealous of. Is it my Harry ?
He loves Jenny as a sister, as a playfellow ;
he cares for no woman in any other way.
He would hardly, if he had a wife, hold her
better than his dog,' or ' dearer than his
horse.' "

''I am not jealous of any one, certainly
not of Stanforth," replied Carruthers.

Of Keith Moray, then ? He is the only
other young man who is ever seen much at
Jenny's side, or rather Georgie's, who is
always between them. Well, I have reason
to believe," — and here Lady Dalton lowered
her voice significantly — "that Keith proposed
to Genevra the other night, and was
refused, for your sake, ingrate that you
are ! You look surprised ? Then it was
Keith you were jealous of, a man to

whom Jenny has always been so persistently
cold and unfriendly, that any one
might have seen that she did not wish for
his attentions. No, no ; go back to your
little sweetheart. Sir Brian, and be truer to
her henceforth."

She rose from her seat, as if to intimate
that the conference was at an end, and Sir
Brian also rose, but absently.

Stay a minute," cried Stella ; "I had
forgotten something of importance. Georgina
cannot keep her appointment with you, as
she went off to Moughbrook this morning
with the Eiffham girls, and will not return
until tomorrow ; but she left word that
she will be ready to accompany you then,
by the evening train, and has wired to Lady
Carruthers not to expect you either. So
here you are, my poor friend, stranded on
these dreary Heights, and my Harry's guest
per force. You will find him in the stables

or the keepers' lodge at this hour, but he
will be in to lunch in half an hour, if
you prefer waiting for him."

But Sir Brian declared that he would go
in search of him, and departed accordingly,
passing Mrs. Verney with an absent greeting,
as she came down the stairs and gilded
into Stella's morning room.

The baronet stood for a little while in
the hall, then suddenly changed his mind
and recrossed the hall to the library ; but ashe
passed the room in which he had left
Lady Dalton, his ears caught the soft babble
of her voice, as if in narration, followed by
a dual peal of ringing laughter, low and
sweet, but which pierced to his very soul
with an undoubted suggestion of mockery,
and of him !

He went into the library, and wrote a
brief note.

VOL. III. 54

"Dear Mrs. Farquhar,

I shall call very early at the
Grange tomorrow, at half-past eleven.
Will you kindly arrange for me to have a
little conversation with Genevra, alone f
Faithfully yours,

"Brian Carruthers."

He went out, gave the note to a page
boy to deliver, and then departed in search
of Harry, who lead never before found Sir
Brian so interested in his society, or so
resolute in remaining in it. But, as Lady
Dalton had said, there was no escape for
him ; he was bound to wait for that detestable
Georgina, and could not very well
return to Heathcotes, to reappear next day
at Oaklandss, like a demented Will-o'-the-wisp.
So he put the best face he could on
the matter, and only secretly resented the
superhuman gravity of the two wretches

whom he had overheard laughing at his
discomfiture, while he counted the hours
that must elapse before he should be freed
for ever from the last bond that tied him to
this hateful Wendholm — from Wendholm,
and Oaklandss, and Stella, and Jenny, or,
as Hal would have summarized it, "the
whole lot of them."

After all, Eio Yedas was better than this.
Even sharks were not so bad, when you got
used to them.

CHAPTER XV.

BACK AGAIN.

Patient and long-suffering as Mr. Moray
had shown himself with the slow course of
his nephew's protracted love-suit, he could
not refrain from expressing his disgust when
the dilatory lover returned so unexpectedly
from his little excursion to Oaklandss, apparently
no more advanced in his wooing
than before. Even Keith's explanation of
his hurried flight failed to conciliate him.

You should never have left her, Kithe
said. " Could you not have taken that
doctor at least into your partial confidence,
and kept him silent for a time, if no
longer ? "

*' Take a vulgar fellow like that into mj
confidence on such a subject' said Keith,
indignantly, " to have the story cropping
up some day, with all sorts of scandalous
embellishments ! No ! I dare say I might
have acted more judiciously, if time soar
reflection had been given me ; but I had
to make a sudden resolve, and I took the
only step which occurred to me at the
moment, and for which promptitude was
indispensable."

But it is precisely your want of
promptitude that I blame. You ought to
have been at Oaklandss now as her accepted
lover. You have been hanging about her
nearly two years, and seem never to have
said a decisive word to her. No doubt
she thinks you are trifling with her, and
no wonder she is fretful."

You know," answered the young man,
** that I was determined never to abuse her

enforced toleration of my presence by intruding
my affection on her, unless she gave
me decided encouragement to do so."

Nonsense ! " replied his uncle. " Do you
expect her to prove her forgiveness of your
too forward action on a previous occasion
by proposing to you herself ? "

Certainly not ; but her every word
and look prove that she has never forgiven
me."

Why, you stupid fellow, was she unforgiving
when she broke the rules of her
party in order to dance with you ? "

She likes dancing more than she scorns
me."

Then her scorn is not very deep-rooted,"
smiled the elder Moray. " But you admitted
that she did not struggle to free herself
when you held her in your arms in the
conservatory ? "

'." Because she could not," rejoined Keith ;

but, at that sweet remembrance, a light
glowed in his eyes.

'' That was your opportunity, lad, and
you let it go by."

"But she complained of being cold,"
answered Kit, simply.

She more likely meant that you were
cold," said Mr. Moray, laughing. '' You
should have spoken then, Kit."

I should have done so that evening,"
asserted Keith, "if it had not been for that
brute of a doctor. Hallo ! here comes a
telegram from Harry already."

He snatched it from the servant's hand,
tore it open, and when the man quitted the
room, he read it aloud —

' All right. Dr. G. was wired for by a
patient this morning, and had to cut away
home. Won't be back in this neighbourhood
again these twelve months, his daughter
says.' There ! " cried Keith, flinging down

the telegram in a rare, " if I had been less
prompt ' in taking the only way that
seemed open to me, entirely for Miss
Farquhar's sake, I should not have had this
tedious journey back again."

Why, Keith, you are a lukewarm lover,
after all, if you grumble at having to passa
few more hours in a railway carriage."

But hours that might have been spent
near her ? " sighed the youth.

Well, fly back to her, my lad, and redeem
the wasted time ; and, remember, this next
interview is to be final. But, Keith, one
word ; " and Mr. Moray paused, looking wistfully
into his nephew's face.

"Any word," said Keith, smiling — "any
word now but ' stop.' "

Mr. Moray resumed slowly — " Have
you not met with men who have fearlessly
staked the promise of their lives on the
favour of women, who in all eyes but

their own have been utterly unworthy of
the trust ? How if you, too, should be so
blinded by a first passion, as to worship an
idol of your own imagination only ? "

What do you fear ? " answered the
young man. " Believe me, I do not think
Genevra is a ' faultless monster.' She
would have little attraction for me if she
were. But, whatever her faults, I should
find it easy to bear with them, or correct
them, if she loved me well enough to give
me love's influence over her."

''If she loved," repeated Mr. Moray;
*' but what if she is incapable of love ?
Would you care to wed a thoroughly coldhearted
woman, Kit ? You shiver at the
thought."

You have seen Genevra," replied his
nephew, in an aggrieved tone ; " you know
her. I thought you liked her. You never
before said that she was cold-hearted."

'but, then," answered Mr. Moray, ''I
never made any large demands on her
affection. She never supposed that I
wanted her to marry me I My fear is that
this young girl may be, either from defective
sympathy or natural temperament, incapable
of responding to a love like yours."

How," inquired Keith, " can a girl be
cold-hearted who is all enthusiasm and
vivacity, energetic and impulsive, as Genevra
is?"

There are women," answered Mr. Moray,
whose nervous excitability, especially in
early youth, springs from mere physical
constitution, and from no warmth of heart.
Such women will make of a man's truest
devotion the plaything of an hour, only to
weary of it in the end. It would pain me
deeply, my dear fellow, to see you the
willing slave of a heartless woman's caprice."

*' You will never see that. Uncle James,"

replied Keith, gravely, as he turned away.
I could never reverence a cold-hearted
woman, and where I cease to reverence I
cease to love."

Mr. Moray's parting words made little
impression upon Keith. That he should
cease to reverence the maiden of his choice
was a contingency so all but " unthinkable,"
that the warning against loving her in such
a case was altogether uncalled for. " He
might as well have told me to cease to
admire her if her head should turn the
wrong way on her shoulders ; " and Keith
laughed to himself. But his uncle's reproach
of his " promptitude " was a
different thing, and he felt inclined to blame
himself for having fled so abruptly from
that terrific doctor, though he had seen no
other way of saving Jenny at the time. " 1
might have hidden myself in the inn for
the night," he pondered ; " the fellow would

not have appeared again at Oaklandss, and
my sudden reappearance will look strange.
But what do I care about that, if Genevra
understands ? And if she rejects me, what
do I want at Oaklandss at all ? "

Thereupon, having settled himself in his
railway carriage, he fell to rearranging his
plans. He would not go to Oaklandss at all.
He would get out at Woolton station, and
walk over to Wendholm through the
meadows that led into the woods below
Oaklandss, and thence into a by-road a
short distance from the Grange. Having
started by the earliest train, he would arrive
about noon, when he would be in little danger
of meeting any of his friends, and then

But here he was interrupted. There
were two rather pretty girls in the same
compartment with him, who had for sometime
been closely observing him. They
where entire strangers to him, and, had he

but shown some consciousness of their
presence, they would no doubt have maintained
the due reserve of young ladies to
their fellow-travellers. But what female
self-love can endure that a handsome young
man should be for more than an hour in the
close contiguity of two pretty young women,
apparently without distinguishing them
from a package of sunshades ? A telegraphic
signal was exchanged between the
two, and poor Keith's persecution began.

Will you put down this window,
please ? " says Miss Annie.

And the youth arose automatically, put
down the window, and resumed his seat,
without glancing at the speaker.

Then Miss Loueyy — '' I can't bear a
thorough draught. Please put your window
up."

Keith gravely obeyed, and went back to
his meditations.

By-and-by, Miss Annie makes ineffectual
efforts to reach down a basket from the
wire over her head. Mr. Moray mechanically
rises to assist her, without a smile.

The train stops. Loueyy holds forth a
coin and indicates the news-boy at the
window. ^^ Morning Post, if you will be
so kind," says she.

Once more the much-enduring Keith
complies, hands her the paper, lifts his hat,
and — changes his carriage.

The girls break into laughter as he disappears.


He must have just parted from his lady-loves"'
said Annie.

He must be going to his wedding,"
said Loueyy.

While Keith, settling himself back to his
meditations in an empty smoking-carriage,
and lighting a cigar to protect himself from
conversational intrusion, muttered sourly,

Little forward minxes ! Girls are horrid
who pester a fellow they are travelling in
the same carriage with."

** ' Circumstances alter Cases " said a voice
at his window, reading the title of a volume
the news-vendor was offering ; and Keith
started a little, blushed guiltily, and smiled.

Onward sped the iron horse, at its usual
rate of speed, but to the lover it seemed
to stop too often and too long. What a
pity that excited railway passengers cannot
relieve their irritability by spurring the
engine, or even whipping the stoker ! However,
it was only twelve o'clock when Keith
found himself at Woolton, and was presently
striding rapidly across the meadows which
led him to the Wendholm woods. At his
ordinary walking pace, it would have taken
him about an hour to reach the wood where
it skirted the Oaklandss estate, but in his
eager impatience he accomplished the distance

in three-quarters of an hour ; and, ashe
climbed the ascent of a hill which dipped
down on the other side to Wendholm, and
which commanded a view of the Grange
and the road leading from it to the village,
he paused, leaning against a tree for a
moment's rest, while his eyes followed his
heart, and dwelt on the home which held
his treasure.

He had better have taken his time in
walking. A quarter of an hour would have
made all the difference. More haste, worse
speed. Unlucky Keith ! doomed always to
be too hasty or too slow ! While he stood
gazing towards the road, a distant clatter of
horses' hoofs struck his ear, and presently
a little cavalcade — a gentleman and two
ladies, followed by a groom — rode rapidly
past the Grange, and turned into the by-path
which led into the wood. They were
evidently making for Oaklandss, and would

soon pass the spot on which he stood. Who
could they be — so early ? The branches of
the trees had intercepted his view, so that
he could not with certainty distinguish their
figures. They might be nobody he knew,
but, in any case, it was too late to fly.
Whether he went forward or back, they must
pass him or he them, unless he hid himself
in the withered bracken like a rabbit. So
he drew himself a little behind the tree
against which he leaned, and waited. On
they came. Young Eiffham of Moughbrook,
with his sister, with whom Keith had but a
slight acquaintance, and — oh, horror ! — that
satirical, inquisitive Georgina Carruthers !
The Eiff'hams passed him with a bow, but
Miss Carruthers reined up her horse at once.

*' Mr. Moray I " she cried. '^ Why, in the
name of wonder, how came you here ?
There was quite a hue and cry the other
night at your mysterious disappearance,

VOL. III. 55

and here I come upon you, * flourishing like a
green bay tree,' in the Wendholm woods !
Where have you been ? "

Do you expect me to answer that
question," smiled Keith, " after applying tome
such an unflattering metaphor ? Your
horse is restless, Miss Carruthers ; " and,
raising his hat, he would have passed on,
but Georgie barred the path.

'^ At least, man of mystery, tell me
whither you are bound ? " she said.

No mystery at all," answered Keith,
boldly. '^ I am going to call at the Grange."

Oh I" said Georgina, looking curiously
at him ; and there was such significance in
her " Oh ! " that the young man coloured
with vexation, and Georgie looked at him
harder still. "Well," she resumed, "if I
were you, I would not go to the Grange this
morning. I saw Sir Brian go in there, just
as we rode in sight."

I presume he has not gone there to
stop ? " replied Keith, though something
in the young lady's manner gave him an
undefined feeling of annoyance.

"Oh, you don't know?" said his tormentor.
*' Well, it is no secret now. My cousin's
visits to the Grange are special privileges
henceforth, since his engagement to Genevra
is to be openly acknowledged. But I can't
stop to talk about it ; the Riffhams are
waiting for me. Au revoir ! " and, with
a smiling nod, she cantered after her friends,
leaving the wretched Keith stunned and
speechless in the sudden collapse of his
dawning hopes ; while Georgina whispered to
herself, as she smiled maliciously, "There,
Mr. Keith Moray 1 I have repaid you
for your insolence in making a screen of
me in your advances to that pert baby !
If she refuses Brian finally, as I do not
suppose she will, I have cleared my way ass

far as regards Lady Dal ton, and can make a
new departure in some other direction. But
she is sure to accept him, and, at any rate
T am revenged on you, Mr. Keith ! "

CHAPTER XVI.

A STORMY INTERVIEW.

Mrs. Farquhar guessed at once, from Sir
Brian's note, that the long-expected crisis of
affairs between Jenny and him had arrived,
and her motherly heart palpitated with
interest and anxiety. She had kept her
promise to Genevra with the simple loyalty
of her nature, and had refrained from the
most distant allusion to either the past or
the future of her daughter's brief engagement.
Latterly, indeed, she had almost
given in to Mrs. Burnes's opinion, expressed
with her customary incisiveness.

A one-sided bond is no bond, Juliet.
Sir Brian has made that discovery for himself,

and you will hear no more of him. Why,
his attentions to Lady Dalton prove that."

But that may be a blind, Chatty. He
said he would not be any obstacle to Jenny's
entire freedom."

Jenny can take care of her own freedom.
It is more than a blind — it is an extinguisher.
Moreover, Genevra does not care
for him more than he cares for her now."

"Do you think she cares for any one else —
for Harry Stanforth, perhaps ? "

'' My dear Juliet," answered Chatty,
reprovingly, "why will you persist in fancying
that everybody is in love with everybody
else ? "

But I do not," replied her sister ; and,
indeed, such a fancy, so expressed, would
have been a somewhat bewildering one.

Mrs. Burnes continued, " I do not know
much of the ways of love-sick girls, certainly,
but I see no sign of Genevra being

one. She is less childish than she was ; she
has lost, I am glad to see, her hoydenish
ways ; she is more serious and thoughtful."

But that she always was, at times," interposed
Mrs. Farquhar.

Exactly ; and she was not always in
love at times, nor is she now. My opinion
is " — and Chatty gave this utterance with
the slow weight of a final decision from
which there could be no appeal — "my opinion
is that Genevra's illness gave her time for
reflection, and she was startled at her
thoughtlessness in accepting the first offer
she had received from a man whom she
really did not care for, and it may be years
before she again thinks of marrying any one."

So, by degrees, Mrs. Farquhar was
coming round to her oracle's view of the
matter, and it was with mixed feelings of
fear and triumph that she read Sir Brian's
note, from which she could only infer that

he was going to give Jenny one more
chance.

Jenny was deeply preoccupied that morning,
as indeed she had been ever since the
night of the ball, otherwise she could not but
have noticed the little flutter of excitement
in her stepmother's manner when she came
into the room where Jenny was attending
to her birds, shortly after breakfast, in her
walking dress, and said, a little hurriedly — •

"Jenny, my pet, T am going to the
Vicarage for an hour or two. I wish particularly
to see sister Chatty. Will you stay in
the house till I come back ? I shall — I mean
you will — hear something — that Chatty will
say. You will stop, dear, won't you ? "

Miss Farquhar assented absently, merely
supposing that her mother's mystery related
to one of Mrs. Burnes's maid-servants, or one
of the pupil teachers at the school. She resumed
her employment, and went back to

her meditations, which revolved round the
one subject of Keith Moray's abrupt disappearance
from the ball at Oakland
Heights. Having totally failed to recognize
Dr. Goodwin, she had no clue to the secret.
She only knew that he had, as it were,
dropped from the skies into the gay crowd,
and had seemed to single her — her only —
from among them. She had received him —
she felt she had — with a frank welcome she
had never before accorded to him. She had
suffered him to withdraw her into the conservatory
(so it appeared to her, though, in
point of fact, she could not have helped
herself), and then — her cheek reddened, her
heart throbbed at the remembrance — she had
not struggled in his arms, she had laid passively
on his breast. True, she had made him
release her ; she had repelled him. But she
was too honest to deceive herself; in her
secret consciousness she felt that she had

not wished him to go ! He had always
been easily repulsed, but in this instance
lie had given him decided encouragement,
with the surprising effect that he
had been got rid of, altogether and finally.

She lifted her eyes when she had
reached this astonishing climax, and, lo !
there was Sir Brian Carruthers slowly
limping up the avenue to the house. Sir
Brian's visits to the Grange, when staying
in the neighbourhood, had been limited to
formal calls, always in company with Lady
Dalton or her son, or ostensibly to his
cousin Georgina, whenever she was Mrs.
Farquhar's guest. His appearance at such
an canonical hour at once threw a light
on that lady's unusual selection of such a
time for going out, and especially on her
request that Genevra would remain at home.
Jenny felt herself trapped, and was as angry
with Mrs. Farquhar for her reserve, as if she

had herself always been open with her. She
set lip her mental prickles like a little
hedgehog, and received Sir Brian with a
frigidity that she had hitherto kept for
Keith's special benefit.

Her attitude disconcerted her visitor.
He had come determined to show her that
her crafty ways had been discovered,
and that he was going to award her
their just punishment. But he would
do it gently, kindly. She was a silly girl,
and her friends were more foolish than
herself in leavings her so unguarded. It
was right that she should know that her
conduct had rendered her unfit for the
honourable station to which he had intended
to raise her, and that his withdrawal of his
proposal implied some degree of reproach
and humiliation. But he would soften it
as far as possible. He had no wish to hurt,
and still less to injure her. He must

reclaim his freedom ; but, if she were truly
abashed and penitent, they would remain, in
the eyes of the world, as good friends as
ever.

He took her hand on entering, and
looked into her eyes, expecting to read
there at least a flutter of maiden consciousness,
which would make it easier for him to
begin his oration. But Genevra contrived
to make her pretty blue eyes as devoid of
all expression as any oyster's ! What could
the kindest of friends and pseudo-lovers
do with a hand that lay in his as irresponsive
as a paper parcel, and dropped from his grasp
like a dead fish ? Cold ? Her manner was
more than cold — it was clammy ! The wan
spark of generosity which Sir Brian had
been trying to kindle into a glow died down
like a candle with a damp wick to it, and
the utterance which should have been dignified,
calm, and impassive, sounded, even in

his own ears, like the hoarse chirp of a sick
canary.

He began by reminding Miss Farquhar
that the term of silence imposed on him by
her relatives had expired. She bent on
him a look of inquiry which had not in
it a gleam of interest, but remained perfectly
silent, and Sir Brian's wrath began to
rise.

I have observed the conditions imposed
on me honourably, so far as leaving you
free from any claim that I might have
asserted, and from which," he was going to
add, " I now wish to release you finally."

But Jenny mistook the unuttered words
as about to convey an exactly opposite meaning,
and burst forth with all her customary
vivacity, " Oh, please don't. Sir Brian ; it
can never be. I had hoped that you had
seen it long ago."

Seen what, Genevra ? " asked Carruthers,

a dim idea crossing his mind that she might
be referring to her relations with Keith
Moray. " And what can never be ? "

"Seen your mistake," answered the young
lady, "and the false position in which we
were both placed by your refusal to release

me long ago from Oh, Sir Brian, you

must see that I am ages too young for you I"

For a moment the baronet was struck
dumb with astonishment and disgust, with
his eyes fixed on her flushed and eager
face. Then he answered slowly, " I do see,
Miss Farquhar. You are just two years
older than when you first did me the
honour to accept me, and when your drive
in the Buckholt Woods with Mr. Keith
Moray, and a day spent with him in a
railway excursion, opened your eyes to the
extreme disparity in our ages, which I, for
my part, see as clearly as yourself. A lady
who has not vet attained to a sense of what

is due to herself and her friends is certainly
too young for me."

Where could he have learnt anything
about Keith ? " thought Jenny ; but she only
said, *' It is ungenerous in you, Sir Brian,
to taunt me with the very confidence I
reposed in you, and which, at the time, you
did not resent."

Unfortunately, your confidence was a
very partial one, Miss Farquhar. You
took care to guard yourself against any
possible interference of mine with the most
objectionable intimacy you had formed."
And here the speaker suddenly lapsed
into monologue — '* Though where she first
met the fellow, or why the devil she told
me anything about it, passes my comprehension
! "

I was perfectly frank with you," said
Jenny. " I told you what I believed it
would be a meanness to conceal from you,

and a great deal more than it was pleasant
for me to tell you, or I now think, necessary
for you to hear. I do not see that you have
any cause to blame me."

Pardon me, you led me to think that
the ruffian who insulted you was an entire
stranger to you."
So he was."

That your meeting was quite casual, and
unlikely ever to occur again."

It was no fault of mine that it was not.
But I repeat. Sir Brian, you could hardly,
while professing to leave me free, assert
a rio'ht to regulate the degree of intercourse
I might choose to hold with my friends'
friends."

Mr. Moray has regulated it for you, as
far as he is concerned," sneered Sir Brian.
I should be glad to believe that that first
insolence of his was also the last."

It certainly was," began Jenny, impetuously,

and then she checked herself — What
about that accident ? — but resumed, *' Let
me ask sou, Sir Brian, in justice to myself,
have you ever seen anything in my manner
to Mr. Moray, or in his to me, of which you
would have disapproved if — if I had not
made that unfortunate admission to you ? "

"I never did," answered Carruthers; 'but
that proves nothing. My complaint against
you, Genevra, is that by your disengenu-
business you have so long subjected yourself
to the covert impertinence of a young
cad, whom I would have worshipped and
kicked out of the house which you, or, for
that matter, any decent girl frequented."

"If you could," rejoined Jenny, and
laughed.

The idea was so comic that Sir Brian
should talk of horsewhipping Keith Moray
or kicking anybody ! But that laugh was
the brimming drop in the baronet s cup of

VOL. 111. 56

bitterness. It seemed an echo of the light
lauojh with which the beautiful widow had
bidden him " go back to his little love, and
be truer to her." Was he for ever to be
tossed like a shuttlecock from one woman
to another, each throwing him from her
with a laugh ? This saucy little vixen had
actually accomplished a feat which most of
his acquaintances would have believed impossible
— she had put Sir Brian into a rage !
However, he managed to restrain any outward
expression of his ire, and said, with
a lurid calmness —

"Am I then to infer, Genevra, that this
fellow has forced his society on you for
nearly two years, without encouragement
from you, or even against your wishes,
screening himself behind your silence from
the just chastisement your friends would
have inflicted on him ? "

"You have no right to infer anything

at all," answered Jenny, angrily. *you
have no more riofht to dictate the choice of
my friends to me than / have to dictate to
Lady Dal ton whom she should invite to
Oaklandss."

"You might at least have stayed away
yourself while such a guest was there ; you
might easily have avoided all association
with him."

Jenny was silent.

"And allow me to remind you, Genevra,
that I am your nearest family connection in
the male line, as you have no male relatives,
and that I may consequently assert some
right, not to dictate your choice of friends,
perhaps, but certainly to protect you from
the humiliation which a mistaken choice has
brought upon you."

Jenny opened her lips to speak, and
closed them again.

Sir Brian tried sarcasm. 'since when,

I wonder," he said, "has it been the fashion
for a lady, well-born and well-bred, to select
her favourite companion from among the
descendants of Africans ? "

Since the times of Othello and Desde-
mona' answered Miss Farquhar, demurely.
That is an unfortunate precedent,"
rejoined Sir Brian, who began to wish that
she had been a negress, that he might have
felt himself at liberty to whip her. "Othello
first kissed Desdemona, and then strangled
her."

The idea of gentle Keith Moray strangling
any one ! Jenny laughed again.

Sir Brian boiled over, and rose. " But,
probably, by this allusion you mean me
to understand that I have no right to
interfere — that Mr. Moray has offered you
all the reparation he owed you, and I
may congratulate you and him on your
contemplated union ? "

"Nothing of the kind," cried Jenny,
hastily. " Mr. Moray is no more to me than
any other friend of Harry Stanforth's."

'' Ah ! I see, I wronged you, Genevra.
You have refused the fellow ? "

"No, I have not refused him. He has
never given me the opportunity, and," she
added, in sheer diablerie, " I am not sure I
would refuse him if he did ! "

She said this purely to annoy Sir Brian,
and punish him for his abominable insolence
to Keith. No more a " fellow " or an
African " than he was himself ! But she
had cause to repent her sauciness. Sir
Brian's eyes were not capable of sparkling,
but they emitted a pale, phosphoric gleam
at this admission of hers, as if he had said,
I have caught her at last," and Jenny
quailed when he replied —

Then, Miss Farquhar, my duty is clear.
1 will allow no man to trifle with the affections

of a lady who is connected, however
remotely, with my family. I will force Mr.
Keith Moray to explain himself, or he shall
be expelled from the society he disgraces."

Genevra sprang to her feet, her eyes
flashing, her cheeks aflame. " If you dare ! "
she cried.

Her tormentor smiled grimly. "Do not
excite yourself, Miss Farquhar," said he. "I
cannot promise you that you will have the
chance of refusing or accepting Mr. Moray,
but he has long been persecuting you with
his aimless attentions ; I think I have found
a way to deliver you from them and him ; "
and, bowing courteously, but without offering
his hand. Sir Brian limped out of the
room, leaving Genevra [in such a state of
dismay as amply revenged his wrongs.

CHAPTER XVII.

A RAINBOW IN THE CLOUDS.

But if Sir Brian had wounded his adversary,
he was not unscarred himself.

Jilted again, by Jove ! " he muttered, ashe
went off, foaming and raging, and at a
pace quite unlike his habitual leisurely
saunter, until, at a sudden turn in the path
leading through the Wendholm wood to
Oaklandss, he nearly stumbled against Keith
Moray, leaning his back against a tree and
absently engaged in peeling a hazel rod.
He let it fall from his hand as Carruthers
approached him, and would have moved
past him with a mute salutation ; but the
baronet stopped short, and glared at him

with ao unmistakable expression of hostility
that arrested him at once. Sir Brian had
lost his breath in climbing the ascent, and
he needed a full inspiration to give vigour
to propel the courteous utterance which
found way at last.

*' Keith Moray, you are a cowardly cad ! "

The young man took a step towards him,
then paused, and stood perfectly still, growing
white to the lips, with the pallor that
on a dark face looks so ghastly.

If I had known sooner of your ruffianly
behaviour," pursued his enemy, " I would
have thrashed you like the hound you are
before you should have had one hour's
opportunity of pressing your insolent attentions
on the girl to whom your very presence
is an insult."

But Keith was himself again, and, disregarding
Carruthers* menaces as Harry's
mastiff would have disregarded the yelping

of Lady Dalton s pug, he quietly asked, " If
you had known sooner ? And, pray, what
and how do you know now ? "

There is no need to repeat details. The
lady herself told me "

Then," interrupted Keith, still calmly,
if she told you so much, she might have
told you more — how I have sued for months
for her forgiveness of a moment's fault.
But towards you, Sir Brian, I acknowledge
no wrong."

I will teach you by horsewhipping you
out of the society you are unfit for," raged
Carruthers, making furiously at him with
his uplifted cane.

But ere it fell, it was wrested from his
hand, and sent spinning twenty yards away,
where it caught in the lower boughs of a
tall fir tree, and hung there, swaying to and
fro, as in mocking menace. But Keith's
grasp was on Sir Brian's throat, and his

black eyes blazed into his with such tiger
fury that the baronet, a mere baby in the
hands of this young Hercules, gasped on
the verge of suffocation, and thought that
his last hour had come. One moment only ;
then Keith suddenly relaxed his gripe, the
ferocity faded out of his face, and he drew
back. For another moment the two men
confronted each other in silence. Keith was
struggling for self-possession ; Carruthers
was gasping for breath. But he was the
first to speak.

I am no match for you," he panted.
An elderly man and a cripple " — glancing
yearningly at the suspended stick, hanging
far above and beyond his reach — " I have
no chance against you in a mere physical
struggle ; but if English gentlemen are what
they used to be, I will make them hunt you
from among them yet."

No, you won't," answered Keith, quietly.

He had quite regained his usual composure.
I, too, was wrong in allowing myself to be
provoked by the violence of a man old
enough to be my father" (confound the
puppy," muttered Sir Brian) ; " but you
know," he added, with a laugh, " I could
not allow you to horsewhip me."

Sir Brian glowered at him, but said
nothing. He was considering how he could
get away from this young brute, who laughed
actually laughed at him, like the rest !
Here he was in a steep wood, tired, half
strangled, and with his crutch in a tree,
where it might stop till it grew there before
he could take it down.

But Keith humanely extricated him from
this last difficulty. With one light bound
he reached the tree, then sprang at the
branch above him, and caught the stick,
which, returning, he presented to its owner,
who had watched his agile and graceful

movements with a self-admiring envy, and
now received his restored property sullenly,
without even a 'thanks."

And since you have your weapon again,"
resumed the youth, with a smile, " hear my
defence against your bitter charge, and if
you still think it can be fitly answered by
blows— "

'ego to the devil ! " muttered Carruthers.

A deprecating gesture was all Keith's
reply to this pleasant suggestion, and he
continued, " Since the young lady you
accuse me of insulting was herself your
informant, I infer that you have her warrant
for avenging her. I believe that you have
greatly exceeded that warrant. It would
be too like treachery" — there was a touch
of wounded feeling here — "if, after montis
spent in frequent, if never very cordial intercourse,
she could have turned upon even the
worst offender with such a coarse revenge."

She told me of your insolence at the
time," answered Sir Brian, sullenly ; " but
it was from Dr. Goodwin I learnt that you
were her assailant." He added, ^' I claim
the right to resent an affront offered to Miss
Farquhar, as at that time my betrothed
wife."

Keith winced a little, but replied resolutely,
" I deny the right. You are nowhere
at all in the matter, which is entirely
between her and me. But as between
man and man, I will give you what explanation
is in my power, that you may at least
acquit me of deliberately insulting the
woman I — loved as my own soul."

And as Sir Brian offered no objection, he
proceeded, in a few brief and simple words,
to relate the story of his first meeting with
Genevra. He told all the incidents of that
fateful journey, with its manifold changes
and complications, until he came to the

scene of the overturn in the wood, and
described the shock of seeing the girl lifeless
before him, and then he paused.

Sir Brian had listened throughout, with
growing tolerance, if not indulgence, but
when the narrator stopped he broke out
indignantly, " And then, when she was
helpless, you kissed her — her, who was
pledged to another man ! Say what you
will, it was a ruffianly thing to do."

How was I to know that she was
pledged to another man ? " demanded Keith.
*' I did not know what I was donner. I was
mad with grief and horror ; for — it may
seem folly to a man of your age. Sir Brian,
but it is God's truth that, although I had
known her but a few hours, I loved her with
a love that will outlast life."

Carruthers pulled his long grey moustache,
and looked thoughtfully at him, but said
nothing.

Keith resumed, " Then, and at any
moment since then, I would have repaid her
with a life's devotion, could she have forgiven
me an instant's loss of self-control."

o

You would have married her ? " said
his listener. " Then why the deuce did you
not ask her ? "

She gave me no opportunity. She has
repelled me with a coldness that looked like
aversion. She avoided every occasion of
being alone with me."

"Perhaps she was afraid you'd kiss her
again ? " suggested Carruthers, but with
almost a smile in his eyes.

Pshaw ! " said Keith, impatiently. *^ I
trusted to time and patience to win her
pardon ; and only to-day I had resolved to
offer her a love which could be no insult to
any true woman, when I learnt that she was
not free to accept it. It is all over now.
Sir Brian, have I pleaded some justification

of my fault ? Will you withdraw the abuse
you heaped on me so lavishly just now, and
allow me to trust to your generosity to convince
her at some future time that I have
not deserved it ? "

Sir Brian evaded this promise. "So it
is all over' he said; "and I suppose,
like many another young fool who has
been disappointed, you fancy that your life
holds nothing worth living for, and you
will gamble or drink it away, or, better fargo
hang yourself on the nearest tree ? "

Not exactly," answered Keith. " I hope
1 have more moral muscle than that. A
man has his life's work to do, in sunshine
or in shadow, and " —very reverently — " God
helping, God directing, I shall not shirk
mine."

He lifted his hat slightly, and moved
away. The baronet half held out his hand,
but it was unnoticed. Even a philosopher

at three and twenty can feel no great cordiality
towards a man who has recently
called him a hound, and attempted to thrash
him.

During the whole of this conversation,
Sir Brian's eyes had been riveted on Moray's
face, and they still followed his retreating
form. His heart, in its long-contracted
sphere of activity, had shrivelled to the size
of a pea, but it was yet sound at the core.
He was touched by his young rival's boyish
candour, and stirred by his manly fortitude
to something like a vague shame of the
dwarfed aspirations, the purposeless idling,
of his own wasted youth. " That's a fine
young fellow," he muttered. " I don't know
why 1 should not Hi, Moray, hi ! "

Keith looked round, saw the beckoning
hand, and paused. " The old beggar has
broken his crutch, perhaps, and wants an
arm to help him home ; " and he slowly

VOL. III. 67

retraced his steps. "You called me back,
Sir Brian ? "

Well, yes." The baronet hesitated, and
pulled his moustache with such energy that
he almost seemed to hang by it. Then he
added, with an effort, "I am an old fellow,
perhaps, but not so old that I forget what
the love of a lad for a young girl is like.
I will not play dog in the manger. Miss
Farquhar's engagement to me lasted just a
week, and when she told me of that occurrence,
she wished to withdraw her pledge,
and did so."

Keith started and flushed crimson.

'' I, like a fool, only released her on
condition that I might come forward ina
year or two, when she would be better
able to judge of her own feelings and wishes.
She has now deliberately and finally dismissed
me."

Keith was silent.

CaiTU tilers began again. '' I leave this
detestable hole this evening, and shall probably
never revisit it. You are free to woo
and to win this eccentric young lady. I
believe she has preferred you from the first.
I shall be glad to hear of your success,
although," he added reflectively, " I think
you are too good for her."

But before Keith could protest, Harry
Stanforth's cheery voice rang out from above
them. " Hallo, Moray ! there you are !
Georgie told me I should find you here.
Why, where the dickens has the fellow gone
racing off to ? Sir Brian, these steep paths
have tired you ; they tire me sometimes "
(a polite fiction of Harry's). " Here, take
my arm, and we'll pull up together."

CHAPTER Xviii.

*' UNWOMANLY ! "

Angry as Carruthers was, and as he had,
perhaps, some cause to be, be bad scarcely
intended to implant in the girl's heart quite
so venomous a sting. Genevra literally
writhed beneath it. All this long time she
had been avenging herself, as she had
fancied, with so much maidenly dignity, and
with some occasional effort, on Mr. Moray
for his previous misconduct by checking
every attempt on his part at further advances,
and it was suggested that any
reluctance to these advances was more on
his side than on hers ! It could not be.
Sir Brian was just spiteful and vindictive ;

and yet she remembered that on two occasions
she had relaxed her severity — once,
when she would have offered Keith sympathy
in his anxiety about his uncle's illness, and
again, when she had suffered him to hold
her two full minutes to his breast without
a struo^o^le. And on the first occasion he
had simply ignored her kindness — put her
aside, as it were ; on the second, he had
literally fled and vanished into space. And
the baronet now actually threatened to seek
out this recalcitrant swain, and drive him
to her feet, to offer what he chose to call
reparation. He could not do it, of course.
Jenny greatly doubted Sir Brian's power to
make Keith take any step which he was not
inclined himself to take, unless by the
susfixestion of wrong: or dishonour. But
whether he complied or refused, the humiliation
to her was 'intolerable, and not to bo
borne." In the anguish of her spirit lie

paced up and down the room like a caged
panther ; and at last, finding the confinement
unendurable, and panting for the
fresh, free air, she went into the hall,
snatched her garden hat from the stand, and
fled out into the garden.

It was a bright, balmy April day, but
there might have been snow or tempest for
all she would have known or cared. She
hurriedly crossed the lawn, and threaded
the shrubbery that bordered it, until she
reached her favourite retreat on a mossy
knoll in a little coppice of larch and hazel,
where she flung herself down on the bank,
and buried her face in her hands. Since
she had last visited that spot, about ten
days ago, it had invested itself in early
spring's fresh, tender beauty ; the heavy
showers of the preceding week had freshened
the green moss and springing grasses, among
which the primrose's frankly leaves and

smiling blossoms looked upwards to the
delicate fringes of the larch and the silvery
catkins of the gallows, changing now from
silver to grey and green. And the blue of
the speedwell and dog-violet almost rivalled
the coming splendour of the hyacinths that
soon would be.

But for once Genevra was heedless of
their charm. A little red squirrel, who was
well acquainted with her, stopped his
gambols to peer inquisitively at her round
the bole of a chestnut tree, as if he wondered
she should be so torpid in such warm sunshine,
when all liberating creatures were
awake and aware ; and a brisk chaffinch,
who was examining the quality of the lichens
and mosses with a view to selecting materials
for domestic architecture, set up a *' cheep,
cheep," of angry remonstrance at her approaching
too near the site of his intended
operations. But Jenny had no glance or

smile for either beast or bird or flower.
Presently, however, a faint consolation
dawned on her. Keith was gone right
away ; he would not j^i'obably return to
Oaklandss for some time at least. And Sir
Brian was going immediately, and in quite
a different direction. They could not, therefore,
meet accidentally, and the baronet was
not likely to seek out Mr. Moray in his
own home to carry out his atrocious threat.
It was an empty threat, just to vex her.
How foolish of her to have allowed it to do
so ! She might never even see young Moray
again. If Lady Dalton quitted Oaklandss,
as she sometimes spoke of doing, she certainly
never should. But this reflection did
not bring her unmixed gladness. Here
something very close to her stirred. She
looked up. Keith Moray, in substantial
bodily presence, stood before her, his dark
eyes fixed on her, with such a fire in them

as had never been suffered to shine out on
her before.

To rise from a recumbent position on a
level grass plat is an action rather difficult
to perform with grace. But Jenny was well
practised in such movements, and she leaped
to her feet, as if her legs had been gutta-percha,
before Keith could attempt to assist
her. And her first thought was a joy. He
lead come back — come back of his own
accord ! Not scared away by her unexpected
lenity at the ball ; not driven to her side
by the compulsion of Sir Brian's indelicate
interference. Here, too, in her own grounds,
where he had never yet ventured, and,
above all, with nothing of the timid deprecation
in his manner which (unawares to
herself) had hitherto rather incensed than
attracted her. In fact, Keith did not feel
at all timid. How could he, with his little
mistress standing there before him, alternately

flushing and paling with an emotion
that might be surprise, but was certainly
not displeasure — looking lovely, as she had
never, even in his eyes, looked before ;
the sweet lips trembling, the blue eyes
drooping beneath his gaze ? Eager, ardent,
excited, he was ; but timid — no !

Genevra," said the ardent voice, low
and deep with suppressed feeling, but firm
with steady resolve, " I am here to claim
forgiveness. You have punished me too
long. You must forgive me now."

Miss Farquhar, at seventeen, was nothing
if not dignified. She felt that a]] her
maidenly self-possession was unaccountably
melting from her control ; and, making an
efibrt to regain it, she replied, with a forced
lightness that somehow rather disappointed
her lover —

"For a penitent, Mr. Moray, your mood
is rather imperative, is it not ? You ' claim *

forgiveness — what claim is mine to withhold
it ? "

Your claim," answered Keith — " oh, if
you will but accept it ! — is to the entire
devotion of my heart, my soul, my life ! "

But already that unfortunate word "claim,"
although she had been the first to use it,
had awakened the dissonant chord in Jenny's
wayward thoughts, and she returned Keith's
tender avowal with the seemingly irrelevant
question, " Why did you leave Oaklandss so
abruptly ? "

The youth hesitated, and then replied,
Do not ask me that now, dear ; I will tell
you later, but not now."

But where have you been since ? " persisted
his catechise.

In outer darkness," answered Keith,

where, but for Sir Brian " He

stopped short, appalled at the change
that passed over Jenny's countenance. Such

a change as might have altered the primroses
at her feet, if a storm of hail had swept
over them.

When did you last see Sir Brian ? " she
asked, in a voice from which all possibility
of softness had departed.

I met him in the wood half an hour
ngo," replied Moray, innocently. "But
what have I said to offend you, Genevra ?
What have I done ? "

Miss Farquhar was silent. One hideous
thought had turned her into stone. He
was here at Sir Brian's bidding I He was
offering her, not love, but "reparation"!
She stood with her head turned away from
her lover, who vainly tried to meet her eyes.
She held in her hand a spray she had broken
from the larch bough beside her, and was
pulling in pieces its little crimson tufts. A
ladybird, that had sheltered among them,
fell to the ground in its hurry to escape,

and she set her small foot upon it and
ground it to fragments. The action jarred
on Keith's feelings ; but, in truth, it had not
the significance he saw in it. Jenny, who
loved every sentient creature, especially if
it had many legs, simply did not see the
insect for the mist of unshed tears that she
was trying to crush back from overflowing
by downright muscular pressure, to which
the ladybird fell a victim. But, as Keith
watched her, his uncle's words came back
to his mind — " the victim of a heartless
woman's caprice;" and with the remembrance
came a chill.

*' Genevra," he repeated, '' at least let me
know my fault ? Surely it can be no wrong
to tell you that I love you ? "

He stepped forward as if to take her
hand ; but she shrank from him, still keeping
her head resolutely turned away, and she
spoke in a cold, hard voice.

I think Sir Brian "with a bitter
emphasis on that name — '' would have done
better to shield me from your importunity,
than to encourage you to persevere in it."

This pretty speech was followed by a
dead silence. And a pang of remorse
avenged it. It was an abominable thins
to say ! He had not deserved it. If she
could but retract those evil words !

Had she abjured her little affectations,
and yielded to her child-like impulse to
throw herself into her lover's arms, and sob
out her penitence and entreaty for pardon,
would not Keith have shut her safe into his
heart for ever ? But it might not be ; and
she stood clenching her hands in an agony
of nervous irritation and convulsive effort
to hide her fast-rising tears. If he would
but speak ! If he would but say something
!

And after a pause, which seemed to her

an eternity, he did speak. Only one word
(to be sure it had four syllables) — one word,
hurled at her like an assegai, and burying
itself in heart and brain with such force,
that the wound of Sir Brian's puny sarcasm
became a mere superficial scratch —

Unwomanly ! "

She stood motionless when that word had
struck her, until the last rustle of his footstep
died away, as it brushed the withered
leaves and ferns ; then she flung herself
down again upon the moss, and burst into
a passion of tears and sobs, like the naughty
but repentant child she was. Poor little
Jenny ! It was her first sorrow, none the
less bitter that she had brought it on herself
; and, although world-hardened people
are apt to smile at a maiden's tears over
the loss of a lover, they are often among the
saddest that she will ever shed for any grief
unmingled with self-reproach for wrong or

sin. Moreover, self-reproach had a large
share in Genevra's present woe. She felt
that she had revenged upon Keith the
humiliation Sir Brian had inflicted on her ;
and by what right had she done so ?
Whatever the impulse that had brought
him there to offer her his hand, she might
have refused him ; but she ought not to
have insulted him, even if he had been
there at Sir Brian's bidding. But he was
not ; he could not have been. The baronet
had no wizard's wand wherewith to conjure
him up from the further side of England at
a word. He must have been on this way to
the Grange, and very near it too, while she
and Carruthers were still engaged in single
combat. But she had been only occupied
with the care of her wounded self-respect —
her dignity, forsooth ! And both had been
swept aside by a breath, by a tone, by that
one word — '' Unwomanly ! "

Whereupon Genevra vindicated at least
the weakness of her womanhood by a fresh
burst of tears. But not even to herself
would she have admitted that she wept at
losing Keith, though she knew well that she
had irretrievably lost him ! Not at all.
She was weeping for her ungenerous treatment
of him ; for Sir Brian's odious behaviour
to her ; for the inconvenience of
men in general !

VOL. m. 58

cc

CHAPTER XIX.

THIS, TOO, WILL PASS.

The confidence that always subsisted between
Mr. Moray and his nephew was far too close
and tender to leave room for impatience of
any temporary reserve, and so, when Keith
returned to Hurstleigh, after so brief an
absence, a little graver and more silent than
before, and met his uncle's inquiring look
with only a slight shake of the head, volunteering
no further discussion of the subject
which had been so deeply interesting to them
both, Mr. Moray was content to wait any
length of time for the particulars of the
visit to Wendholm, feeling sure that, to

whatever cause the youth owed his failure,
still a failure it had been ; and while
sympathizing with his present suffering, he
did not altogether regret that the chance
was over of a union with that uncomfortable
girl. He was therefore greatly surprised
when, only three weeks after his nephew's
return home, he quietly announced that he
was going back for a week or two to Oakland
Heights.

Again, my dear fellow ? Why, this is
the fourth time you have been there within
three months ! Is there any — any change
that takes you there so soon ? "

No change such as you are thinking of,"
answered Keith ; " but Harry writes me
that the house is in such confusion with the
preparations for Lady Dalton's departure
that there can be no visiting, and he is so
dull he implores me to go and keep him
company until he starts himself. I assure

you his letter is quite pathetic. But if you
would rather not spare me, uncle "

"I can spare you well enough, lad, for
more than a week or two, but I am not sure
that I would not rather you were going
anywhere than to Wendholm. When does
Harry sail for Norway ? "

'' In about three weeks," answered Keith ;
but," he added, carelessly, " I shall not

stay with him so long, unless " and he

paused.

Unless what ? " inquired Mr. Moray.

Unless I accompany him in his voyage,
as he wishes me to do ; but "

The very thing I would have proposed,"
cried the uncle, eagerly. " You ought to
travel, Keith ; at your age you ought not
to be tied to a sick man's pillow. You
will be benefiting both Stanforth and yourself."


"I should like it, but for being beyond

your summons if you should require me for
any reason."

Eeally, Keith, it is not very reassuring
to an invalid to be reminded that his friends
are in constant apprehension of his being in
articiilo mortis. I might die, and, for that
matter, so might you, too. Either of us might
die within an hour s journey of one another.
An hour ? Nay, a few minutes, and yet be
beyond a conscious farewell. I should very
much like you to sail with Harry for two
or three months, wherever he chooses to go."

All right," replied Keith. '' Then I will
run down to Oakland s and make arrangements
with him, and come back here to
rejoin him later in town."

"But, Keith "sand Mr. Moray looked
wistfully into the young man's face — " is
there no farewell to Wendholm that you
wish to make ? Or can you revisit it without
a pang ? "

My last farewell has already been spoken
there'' answered Keith, calmly (he did not
say what an uncivil farewell it had been),
and the last pang has been undergone ; but
this, too, will pass.' "

"And, my dear fellow," resumed Mr.
Moray, " do you remember that you are
almost pledged to join Dr. Villain's
expedition to Australasia in the autumn ?
It will be at least a more suitable climate
for an Anglo-Indian than Lapland, which
you glanced at last summer."

I am pledged to nothing of the kind,"
answered Keith. '' I have declined Dr.
Villain's proposal. For the present, I
flatter myself, I can be of more use to you
here than in leaving you, perhaps for years,
in the care of strangers. Why, you nearly
got into mischief during the short time I
was away. You are not to be trusted.
Uncle James."

A bachelor establishment is a helpless
sort of thing," said Mr. Moray. " If you
will marry, Keith, and give me a daughter
to brighten Hurstleigh "

I will marry some day," answered
Keith; "and then I can leave your new
daughter to take care of you, while I go
a-roaming with Harry and his friends."

"The lady herself might object to that,"
said Mr. Moray. " I cannot deny that I
would gladly keep you with me, but "

And you have so few pleasures, poor
friend ! " said Keith, tenderly.

"Well, perhaps," rejoined Mr. Moray,
as you young folks count pleasures. But,
Kit, my life is still full of interests, and
pleasures are but the world's bastard substitutes
for interests which are born of duty."

"Fine children those bastards are sometimes,"
said Keith, smiling.

But they never live to grow up,"

retorted Mr. Moray ; and Kit laughed and
went his way.

A week later, Charlotte Burnes entered
the breakfast-room at the Grange a little
earlier than her usual time for visiting her
sister, and found Mrs. Farquhar sitting, as
the more industrious parsons phrased it,
with her hands in her lap," watching
Genevra at her customary occupation after
breakfast, arranging fresh flowers in the
vases. She nodded and smiled as the
visitor entered, but did not desist from her
employment ; while Mrs. Farquhar, with
rather a guilty air, caught up some knitting
which lay upon a table near her, and pretended
to be interested in it, while she
inquired —

What brings you out so early, Sister
Chatty ? "

Mrs. Burnes exhibited a gold bracelet,
lightly folded in silver paper. " I found

this bracelet last night," she said, " in
Charley's study table drawer. Lady Dal ton
dropped it in the churchyard last Sunday,
and I picked it up, and gave it to him to
take back to her, and the careless fellow
forgot all about it. I thought Jenny might
be going to take her usual morning walk,
and would leave it at Oaklandss for me."

Jenny seldom goes to Oaklandss now,"
replied Mrs. Farquhar ; 'lady Dalton and
Mrs. Verney are always so engrossed in
superintending the packing of their fal-lals.
Why don't you take it yourself. Chatty ? "

My dear Juliet, I have better use for
my feet, and for my boots too, than to wear
them out in needless climbing up those
painful Heights."

Cannot Charley take it ? "

Charles is very much engaged just now
in preparing his classes for confirmation."

True," said Mrs. Farquhar, admiringly.

You are making quite a model parson of
Charley. But I will send up the bracelet
by Joliffe."

I will take it for you, Mrs. Burnes,"
volunteered Genevra, who had not yet
spoken. " I have not been up to Oaklandss
for so long that Lady Dalton may think me
neglectful. I will go at once ; " and she
left the room to put on her hat and gloves.

Mrs. Farquhar looked after her for a
moment, and then turned to her sister. " I
have been wishing to speak to you about
that dear girl, Chatty. I am not quite
happy about her. Do you not think she is
changed lately ? "

"I see nothing amiss with her," replied
Mrs. Burnes. " Is she fretful ? "

Fretful ? Oh no ! She is sweeter than
ever to me ; indeed, her very sweetness
makes me anxious."

Mrs. Burnes smiled a stony smile. " She

is too good to live, in fact ? Well, Juliet,
you must excuse my saying that, as yet, I
cannot see that Jenny makes any rapid
progress to that dangerous perfection."

I mean," rejoined Mrs. Farquhar, " that
she does not seem to take enough interest in
things to care to vex about them. Ever
since Sir Brian left Wendholm "

Oh, Sir Brian again ! " cried Chatty,
impatiently. " Did you not assure me that
she had finally broken with that man ?
Surely you do not mean that she is repenting
now ? What a little weathercock you
must think her ! "

She may reproach herself with having
treated him ill."

"So she did."

I am sure she reproaches herself for
something ; and what else can it be ? "

A great many things, if her conscience
is very sensitive, I should say," answered

Chatty. " But, indeed, Juliet, you are too
fanciful. The girl has been allowed too
much excitement during Lady Dalton's
residence at Oaklandss ; and now there is a
cessation of the gaieties there, she feels a
reaction, and cannot at once return to her
former quiet life."

I do not think that Oaklandss is
altogether to blame for the change in her,"
said the mother. " She has never been the
same since she paid that unfortunate visit
to Lady Carruthers."

Mrs. Burnes was about to answer, when
Jenny re-entered the room in her walking
dress.

'now, Genevra," she said, "take the
bracelet, and mind that in one of your
musing fits you do not lose it among the
bracken and bilberry bushes in the wood,
where it would not be so easily found as in
the churchyard path."

Jenny laughed. " I will put it on my
arm, Mrs. Burnes ; and then, if I lose it,
Lady Dalton cannot reproach me, as she
lost it herself while wearing it. "

"And, Genevra," said her mother, ''if
you see Harry, tell him that he has not
been near us for a week, and I think it
unkind of him to neglect us, when he is
going away so soon."

''He has probably been busy with his
arrangements for his journey with his friend,
young Moray," observed Mrs. Burnes. " Mr.
Moray has been at Oaklandss for some days,
I heard this morning, and he is going to
sail with young Stanforth. Jenny, take
care ! You will break the clasp of that
bracelet, if you snap it with such force."

But, though the morning sun was streaming
into the room, Jenny found it necessary
to turn away to the window to examine the
bracelet intently.

Have you broken it ? " pursued Chatty.
*' No ? Say so, then. Don't shake your
head in reply to a question, as if you had
not the gift of speech. There ! kiss your
mother, and go at once, before Lady Dalton
slips away for her morning drive."

Genevra obeyed in silence ; and Mrs.
Farquhar watched her wistfully, as she
passed out of sight into the shrubbery
leading into the road.

I am sure," she sighed, " she has some
reserve from me. If she would but tell me
all that is on her mind ! "

"Few girls will do that to the fondest
mother," remarked Mrs. Burnes. " Indeed,"
she added musingly, "few of us will so
trust ourselves to our dearest."

No," murmured her sister. " Not even
the tenderest heart, and next our own,
knows half the reasons why we smile or
sigh."

Especially when one has such a habit of
sighing as you have, Juliet," said the unpoetical
Chatty. " I should say you don't
know half your reasons for doing it yourself."


But Mrs. Farquhar little guessed how
soon, how fully, and under what circumstances
the confidence for which she yearned
would be given to her !

CHAPTER XX.

HOW THE STORY ENDED.

But Mrs. Farquhar could scarcely yearn
for lier daughters confidence more than
Genevra herself longed to give it to her.
Her girlish pride and self-sufficiency had
been utterly humiliated and broken down
by the abrupt and total withdrawal of
Keith's homage, and the bitter scorn of his
parting words. And this new-born humility
brought with it such a feelings of isolation
that she would have given worlds to reply
to the mute solicitation of the tender eyes
that followed her, by the freest, frankest
avowal of all her sins and sorrows. But it
was too late now. A concealment so long

persisted in seemed to be akin to a lie, and,

like a lie, to grow more and more difficult

to confess or to repair. Besides, to speak

of it would be to revive the memory of the

whole wretched story, and it were best in

its grave of silence. So, with a weary sigh,

Genevra proceeded on Mrs. Burnes's errand.

Had she known, when she undertook it,

that Keith was at Oaklandss, she might not

have offered to do so ; but she had no plea

to urge for declining it at the last moment,

and, besides, the advantage of living on the

top of a hill is that you have full view of

all approaching visitors, and Keith could

keep out of her way if he chose — as, of

course, he would choose. But she avoided

the path through the woods, where she

might have come suddenly upon him, and

went by the road to the avenue to the

house, which was more than a mile longer

round.

VOL. III. 59

She found Lady Dalton on the sofa in
her dressing-room, complaining of overfatigue,
and awaiting Dr. Stewart, who was
always summoned to prescribe for her
slightest ailment, more for the pleasure of a
chat with him than for any other reason.
She received Miss Farquhar as affectionately
as ever, and, to the young lady's great
relief, never so much as named either Sir
Brian or Keith Moray, while she prattled
away about her plans for the future, and
spoke of the "loving remembrance she
would always cherish of dear Oaklandss,
where she had been so happy."

Genevra listened rather apathetically — or
did she listen at all to her chatter, and not
rather for a step — Harry's, perhaps — on the
staircase or in the corridor ? And presently
a man's step did approach the door and
pause there, making Jenny's heart bound
and then stop beating. But it was only

Dr. Stewart who came in, and Genevra rose
to take leave, just as Mrs. Verney entered.

'excuse me one moment, Dr. Stewart,
Genevra," she said ; " urgent private affairs.
Janet wants your keys, my lady; the
morocco case that was to be sent this
morning to Miss Percroft is packed up by
mistake in one of the travelling boxes."

'' My keys ? I gave them to Harry to
take to you, more than an hour ago."

He never brought them to me. He
went straight from your room, with young
Moray, to his pistol-practice on the hill."

And forgot all about them, I suppose,"
laughed the mother.

Oh, but, Stella, there is nothing to laugh
at. We are quite at a standstill without
the keys, and he may lose them."

Lady Dalton turned to Genevra, who
was waiting to bid farewell. " Jenny,
my dear, would you mind going through

the gardens to the hill on your way
home ? — it is not more than ten minutes or
so out of your road — and you will find
Harry at his ' butts as he calls them, and
beg him to come to me at once, and bring
the keys — at once, mind. If I send one of
the servants for him he will not hurry as he
will for you ; nor will the message reach
him so soon."

This second errand was more embarrassing
to Jenny than the first, but it was even
more difficult to decline with grace. So she
accepted it without demur, and departed in
search of Harry and his friend.

Harry's " butts " were erected on a piece
of ground on the brow of a hill that sloped
down through the Oaklandss orchards, from
which it was divided by a low evergreen
hedge, with a wicket gate in it ; and rough
stone walls enclosed it on the other three
sides, to protect the wayfarers or the sheep.

who were more frequent there, from danger
from unskilful marksmen. And as Genevra
passed through the gardens and climbed the
orchard path, she murmured inwardly —

He can see me coming if he is there ; he
can shun me if he likes."

Keith was there ; he could plainly descry
her approaching; but he seemed quite indifferent
to the fact, and made no attempt
to shun her. A pistol rack was placed near
the hedge at the entrance to the ground,
and he was inspecting the weapons ranged
upon it, while Harry Stanforth, at the
opposite end, by the target, was searching
diligently for a stray bullet, which had
evidently not gone the way it had been
meant to go.

As Jenny paused at the wicket, Keith
moved forward to open it for her, lifting
his hat as in duty bound ; but as Jenny
passed him, she raised her eyes to his with

an unconsciously deprecating, almost imploring
glance, that received no more
response than if it had been a sheep's.

Hallo, Gin ! " shouted Harry. " Come
here and find this ball for me, there's a dear.
I can't think where the deuce it's gone to.
It ought to be in this whin berry bush, for
I'm sure it almost struck the target."

Keith laughed. '* Of course. Miss Farquhar,"
he said, " you know that you must
search for any bullet of Harry's in quite an
opposite direction from his aim."

Jenny did not answer. That careless
laugh struck to her heart more keenly than
Harry's bullet could have done, and she
went to help him in his search, having quite
forgotten Lady Dalton's message. The
bullet was presently descried, flattened
against a stone in a crevice of the wall,
much higher, as Keith intimated, than the
target against which Harry was supposed to

have taken aim ; and while he was trying
to extract it, Jenny walked back to the
gate, and, taking up a small pistol which
Keith had just laid down, pretended to
examine it, while she searched in her mind
for some pretext to address him, that he
might at least see that the evil spirit he had
so severely rebuked when they last parted
no longer held sway over her.

But Mr. Moray gave her no opening. He
stood looking, perhaps feeling, a little bored
by her intrusion, and as if he thought she
had no business there. But suddenly he
uttered an exclamation — " Take care, Miss
Farquhar ; that is a hair trigger, and the
pistol is loaded."

He drew aside as he spoke, and Jenny
replied, with a touch of the old bitterness,
Are you afraid for yourself? "

A little for myself," said Keith, smiling,
and a little more for you. Allow me ; "

and he went up to her and would have
taken the pistol from her hand.

But Genevra resisted. How it happened
she never knew ; there was a flash, a crack,
and Keith Moray dropped bleeding at her
feet!

Harry Stanforth had looked up at the
report, and in three bounds had sprung to
his friend's assistance.

Good God ! Jenny, you have killed
him ! Fly for help ! fly to the house "

But the girl did not stir. She stood
motionless and mute, looking down upon
the victim, whose blood was fast crimsoning
the turf on which he lay, and with the
smoking pistol still in her hand. With an
angry imprecation on the uselessness of
girls in general, and that girl in particular,
Harry leaped over the wicket gate, and tore
away towards the house as fleetly as a deer,
uttering shouts for help as he ran. And

when his voice had died away in the
distance, Genevra let fall the pistol, and
flung herself on her knees beside the wounded
man, wailing forth —

'soh, Keith, I have killed you, I have
killed you, and I loved you so ! "

The dark eyes opened, and rested, with
a look of incredulity, on hers ; but they
softened as he said, slow and painfully, '* This
is pity, not love ; but I thank you even for
that, dear."

Oh no, no 1 " sobbed the penitent.
'' Indeed, indeed, Keith, I have loved you
always ! " and she put her arms round
him, and tried to draw his head upon her
breast.

The pale lips parted in a faint smile, and
he murmured, "If it is truly so, Genevra,

give me back " A sudden gush of

blood stopped the utterance ; he sank away
from the arms too weak to sustain him,

upon the crimsoned sod. And Genevra
bent over him, and solemnly, as in a holy
sacrament, pressed her lips to his 1

*****
And so he died ? What a shame ! "
Nothing of the sort ; he is alive to this
day and in robust health. He is accustomed
to assure Genevra that that long-delayed
kiss of hers saved his life ; but it should
be allowed that Harry's prompt action in
bringing Dr. Stewart to his assistance
counted for something in the fortunate
result. The bullet had passed through his
side without injuring the vital organs, but
it had lacerated one of the large blood-vessels,
and as kisses are no styptics, but
for the doctor's arrival he might have bled
to death.

For some days Lady Dalton's proposed
flight from Oaklandss was necessarily delayed
by the impossibility of removing the sufferer,

and by Harry Stanford's unwillingness to
leave him ; but in the excitement of the
affair certain matters transpired, certain
confidences were exchanged, which induced
Mrs. Farquhar to put in her plea for the
privilege, almost the right, to the care of
the wounded man, who was, as speedily as
might be, transferred to the Grange, and
left there by Lady Dalton, and even by
Ursa Minor," without remorse or anxiety.
And there he was joined by the elder
Moray, who, in his intense preoccupation
by his nephew's sufferings, had lapsed into
a most beneficial oblivion of his own, and
who, before he had been Mrs. Farquhar's
guest for a month, would have stoutly
denied to all and sundry that he had ever
doubted for a moment that Genevra was
the girl he would have chosen out of all
the world for a daughter for himself or a
bride for his idolized Keith.

As for Harry Stanforth, Lady Dalton,
after all her protestations, shamelessly presented
him with a second stepfather, in the
person of Sir Brian Carruthers, whom she
had easily lured back to her feet ; and then
(so she said) she was ashamed to repulse
him — "the poor fellow had been so much
jilted ! "

Harry accepted the situation with his
usual nonchalance. "You see," he wrote
to Keith, "mamma would feel lonely in
the hunting season, when I should be so
often away from her ; and Carruthers has
been so ' hobbled ' by that shark, that he
will always be at her side. And he has
promised to cut off the entail of Brackens-fell,
which he can easily manage, as his
next of kin is a bachelor cousin nearly as
old as himself, and in great want of hard
cash. Then he will leave all he can to me.
I have been most fortunate in stepfathers.

He is a jolly good fellow, and Fll try to
make him a hind heir''

During Kit's convalescence Jenny was
apt to reproach him with having taken a
mean advantage of her, to exact payment of
a very old debt ; and Keith would laugh,
and assure her that it was only the interest
of it that he had demanded, and that he
would allow her a lifetime (spent with him)
to repay the principal by instalments.
Which agreement was shortly afterwards
duly sealed, signed, and witnessed in the
parish church of Wendholm ; nor has either
party since shown any inclination to repudiate
or evade it.

Mrs. Farquhar was made happy by her
daughter's fullest confidence ; but to this day
sister Chatty is ignorant and unsuspicious
of this Story of a Kiss.

THE END.

LONDON AND Eccles. G., C. &' Co.

^^^^i^
