Chapter I.

THE LITTLEBROOK HARRIERS.

Of all the " holiday resorts " within the easy
reach of jaded Londoners, who, while possessed
with a keen appreciation of the delights of a
somewhat wilder scenery than is to be found
in the immediate neighbourhood of their
native metropolis, are nevertheless prevented
by various circumstances from wandering
further a-field, it would be difficult to fix
upon any district more nearly approaching to
real wildness than the long range of downs
that stretches away westwards from Beachy
Head to within a few miles of Winchester.

There is certainly a great charm about the
Southdowns  that peculiar charm which al-vol.

I. A

ways seems to associate itself with a pastoral
district,  especially in a hill country such as
this, where a thinly scattered population,
living in and about the old farmhouses, in
many cases occupied by the same families for
generations back, pass a placid, sleepy existence,
which in these feverish and go-ahead
times would seem strangely out of place elsewhere.
They have a quiet, peaceful character
of their own, these grey old hills ; and whether
seen on a lovely spring morning, with the
delicate tints of sunrise stealing over the sea
and gradually lighting up each undulating
mound and copse-dotted valley ;  in the glistening
haze of a summer noon, when the
golden corn shimmers on the lowlands, and
the glare of the chalk cuttings is only partially
relieved by the sober green of the downs ;  or
on a darkening winter's afternoon, when the
snow lies deep in the combes, and beats fiercely
in the face of the belated wayfarer as he
essays to make a line across the open, and can
hardly tell one white-shrouded hill from another
;  there is always something fresh and
ever-changing about them, suggestive of the
thought that man is here alone with nature.

Some such reflections may possibly have
passed through the minds of two individuals
who, towards the close of an early spring
afternoon, were seated on an overhanging
ledge of a steep hill-side, and watching the
expiring efforts of a pack of harriers to
puzzle out a rapidly deteriorating scent over
a flinty fallow beneath.

The youngest of the two  to whom, as about
to become the principal character in our story,
we Avill give precedence in the way of introduction
 was a young man of about six-and-twenty,
tall, fair-haired, and rather good-looking
than otherwise. He was slightly
made, and rather too much of the " hop-pole "
build to have a really good figure ; but at the
same time was evidently active and vigorous,
and possessed of the full use of his limbs.
The chief fault to be found, both in figure and
face, was a want* of solidity in the one and of
decision in the other ; and this was a very fair
index to his general character.

His companion was about six or seven years
older, also tall, but with a figure which, if
it had not been spoiled by a slight stoop,
would have been a very fine one ; and as it

was, the square shoulders and well-knit limbs
showed signs of great bodily strength. His
hair and complexion were dark, and a thick
moustache, in which there were already one
or two silvery threads to be seen, concealed
the expression of a mouth about which there
were unmistakable lines of care and sorrow.
A face, in fact, which, although still young,
would be apt to strike a keen observer as
that of a man " with a history." At the
present moment, however, there was no more
to be seen of it than was permitted by the
peak of a " fore-and-aft " deer-stalking cap,
well slouched over his nose, while the expression
of his mouth was further modified by
the appendage of a short pipe. Both individuals
wore rough shooting - suits, with
wooUenstockings and boots to correspond, and
presented all the appearance of a couple of
gentleman-like tramps.

"Well," at last observed the younger of
the two, after contemplating the proceedings
below in silence for some moments, " they
won't make much more of that now ; and the
best thing that old boy in green can do is to
blow his horn and take his hounds home."

His companion, who was evidently less interested
in the matter, slowly raised himself
from the half-recumbent attitude in which he
had been indulging, and calmly surveyed the
situation.

"Ah, well," he said, in a lazy and contented
sort of voice, " I daresay you're right.
There must be precious little scent on those
flints, I should think. Anyhow, the old
fellow seems to be of your opinion, for he's
blowing away like blazes now. I'm sure it
can't be good for him to go on like that at
his time of life."

"Yes, they've turned it up now," saide
other. " One or two of those farmers' horses
look fairly decent sort of beasts. But here's
the animal I want to look at," as an elderly
gentleman in black, with drab cords and
"butcher" boots, accompanied by a young
lady in a dark-brown hat and habit, separated
themselves from the now rapidly dispersing
field, and turned their horses' heads up a
narrow farm road, leading up the combe
exactly under where our friends were sitting.
The gentleman was mounted on a " confidential
" weight-carrying grey cob, while the lady

rode a well-bred-looking chestnut mare, which
showed no signs of having by any means had
enough of it, and was evidently still rather a
*' handful " to manage.

"Ah, yes," observed the elder of our
friends, "that grey looks just the sort of
animal that would carry you or me nicely.
Or both of us together," he added, surveying
the cob's long broad back.

"No, no," responded his companion, "it's
the chestnut I mean, of course. Grey's all
well enough, but he don't show much quality.
But that chestnut's a well-bred 'un, I'll be
bound. Gallop and jump too. Irish, I'm
pretty sure."

Which, the girl or the horse ? " lazily
inquired his friend, who had again pulled his
cap over his eyes, and relapsed into quiet
enjoyment of his pipe.

Why, the horse, of course, you old idiot ;
you were half asleep, and I suppose you
didn't see them come into that last field.
There was a bank and ditch there that most
of those sportsmen shirked, but that girl came
over beautifully, and the mare kicked back on
the bank as only an Irish-bred horse would do."

'' All, she looks as if she could kick back
with a vengeance," rejoined the other, " and I
shouldn't particularly care about being behind
her at the time. However, here they
come, so put on your most fascinating grin,
my Jerry."

Yes, what fools we must look, sitting
here," muttered his companion. " Smut, you
little brute, keep quiet," addressing a " varmint
"-looking little fox terrier, with a black
patch over one eye, who showed every disposition
to resent the approach of strangers
by suppressed growling, culminating in a
short bark, which, although immediately suppressed
by his master, was quite enough to
make the chestnut mare prick up her ears,
and go through the form of being frightened,
involving a dance across the road with her
head in the air, and in short behaving in
such a manner as to demonstrate that her
rider had both good hands and a firm seat.
Looking up to the quarter whence the alarm
seemed to proceed, the young lady caught
sight of our two friends, and blushed slightly
as she bent over the chestnut's neck, as if
remonstrating with her on such unseemly

behaviour. They passed close under the
hill, and it needed vigorous action on the part
of Smut's master to restrain him from further
hostile demonstrations. But the old gentleman
on the grey was evidently not inclined
to loiter; and pressing forward at a trot,
closely followed by his fair companion, both
chestnut mare and brown habit were quickly
lost to sight round a turn of the road.

Well, I must say they make rather a neat
pair, Jerry, my boy," observed the elder of our
two wayfarers, as he rose to a sitting posture,
and knocked the ashes out of his pipe. " Now
the right thing for you to do would be to
follow that young woman up and find out all
about her. I've no doubt she's no end of an
heiress, and you might make an impression,
and drop in for a real good thing, you know."

"Rubbish," replied Jerry impatiently, but
not without a tinge of self-consciousness in his
voice ; " what the deuce have I got to do with
her ? Now then, it's time we were getting on,
if we mean to get to Middlehaven to-night, for
it's a good five miles further, I fancy, and it
will soon be dark now."

"My dear fellow, I was only waiting for

you," rejoined the other, rising to his feet,
and yawning placidly. " It would never have
done for you to miss seeing that girl, you
know. Now then, I suppose we must strike
across these old downs again. I wouldn't care
to lose my way here on a dark night."

So the two friends, who were on a three
days' pedestrian expedition in the South-downs,
and proposed to stop for the night
at the little seaport town of Middlehaven,
resumed their journey, much to the satisfaction
of Smut, over the range of undulating
hills which still lay between them ,and their
destination. For some distance their road
lay across an open expanse of short springy
turf, dotted here and there with patches of
thick furze, from which the rabbits were
already beginning to emerge for their evening
nibble. Gradually the day began to close in ;
and not a sound was to be heard except the
occasional tinkle of a sheep bell, or the cry of
a peewit flitting along the ground in search of
a resting-place for the night. Now and then
a hare would dart across the track, occasioning
an energetic but futile pursuit on the part
of Smut, who would return in a few minutes

breathless and panting, but still by no means
convinced as to his inability to enact the part
of a greyhound, and quite prepared to repeat
the performance on the very next opportunity.
After a time the track began to descend towards
the valley, and the sweet cool scents of
a spring evening came stealing up from the
water-meadows below. It was a lovely walk ;
and tired as our two pedestrians were after a
five-and-twenty-mile tramp, they were quite
sorry when the lights of Middlehaven began
to twinkle in the distance, and they had to
leave the. wildness of the downs for the
commonplace level of the turnpike road.

THE COURTENAY FAMILY.

The Earldom of Weatherbyby was created, according
to that most veracious of chroniclers,
Sir Bernard Burke, in the year 1705. We
learn that the Honourable Loftus Courtenay,
having adopted the legal profession, and
attained considerable celebrity at the Bar,
was appointed Solicitor-General on the 20th
of March 1695. He represented the borough
of Middleton in the Convention Parliament,
and was subsequently raised to the peerage
by the title of Baron of Wigglesthorpe on the
20th of July 1701. But it is clear that there
must have been a strong feeling that his
claims had been by no means as yet fully
recognised ; for we find that shortly after the
accession of George I. he was created Earl of
Weatherbyby, being moreover in the same year
sworn of the Privy Council. It is to be
regretted that the subsequent Earls do not

appear to have distinguished themselves to
the extent that might have been expected
from the descendants of such a legal luminary,
for we look in vain for any special record of
their achievements. They seem to have been
contented with figuring as Lords Lieutenant
of counties, High Sheriffs and Custodes
Rotulorum, Chairmen of Quarter Sessions,
&c., and to have kept aloof to a great
extent from public life. Among the younger
branches of the family we occasionally find
mention of some Courtenay who succeeded in
attaining a respectable position as a soldier,
sailor, or diplomatist ; but we fail to discover
any record of exceptionally distinguished services
; and the Courteney seem, as a rule,
to have lived and died after the most uneventful
and humdrum fashion, possibly considering
that they were fulfilling their destiny
just as well by taking things easily as by
attempting to make a noise in the world.

The representative of the family honours at
the time of our story was Allures de Capet
John, eighth Earl, who having unexpectedly
succeeded to the title by the drowning of his
elder brother while on a boating excursion,

found himself at six and twenty the possessor
of a highly respectable title and rent-roll,
tolerably free from encumbrances, of about
30,000 a year, with a house in London and
a fine old place in Warwickshire.

The fact of being heir-presumptive to his
brother had not in any way lessened his
opportunities of extending the circle of his
acquaintance while still a subaltern in the
Guards ; and a cheery, sociable disposition,
added to a strong turn for flirtation and for
making himself generally agreeable, had made
him very popular in London drawing-rooms.
His sudden accession to the title had the
effect, therefore, of raising a flutter in more
than one fair bosom, and the interest already
taken in him by the mothers of Mayfair and
Belgravia might be said to rather increase than
diminish. Being, as has been observed, of a
good-natured and easy-going disposition, the
idea of matrimony did not present itself to
him in a particularly objectionable form, and
he was quite prepared to look upon it as a
matter of course. It was barely a year,
therefore, after his succession to the family
honours that he discovered that his existence

would no longer be endurable unless he could
persuade the charming Lady Constance Bellingham,
second daughter of the Earl of
Carnforth, to share it with him. No special
objection to the proposed arrangement having
been raised, either by the lady herself, who
had already formed the highest opinion of him
from a dancing point of view, or by her noble
parents, with whom the cheery young guardsman
had always been a great favourite, the
preliminary negotiations were settled as
smoothly as they ought to be where love,
rank, and fortune combine to make things
pleasant ; and it was not long before as
handsome a couple as could have been found
in a long summer's day were united at St.
George's, Hanover Square, in the presence
of an unusually select assemblage, including
a contingent of stalwart non - commissioned
officers from the bridegroom's regiment,
whose devotion to their officer was testified
by a valedictory discharge of rice that would
have sufficed to keep a fair sized family in
puddings for at least a fortnight.

Lord Weatherbyby remained in the Guards
for two years after his marriage ; but finding.

about that time, that the duties which had
lately devolved upon him of master of hounds
were* not altogether compatible with the satisfactory
performance of his military avocations,
he reluctantly resigned his commission, and
proceeded to devote himself almost entirely to
country pursuits, and to the society of his
charming wife ; who, although as fond of
dancing as ever, when circumstances did not
intervene to render such strong exercise undesirable,
was just as happy in the country asher
husband, and took a great deal more
interest in the performance of his hounds
than in the gossip of London drawing-rooiaas.
The house in Hi Street was therefore only
tenanted for a short three months in the
summer, or on those occasions when it was
considered desirable that Lady Weatherbyby
should be under the personal supervision
of that eminent practitioner. Dr. Mckenzie
of Curzon Street. For little feet were already
beginning to toddle about the spacious
old corridors at Warrington ; and at the time
of our story, when Lord and Lady Weatherbyby
had now been married about ten years, they
were seriously deliberating whether it might

not be advisable to dispose of the London
house, or at any rate to let it until it should
be time for a second Lady Constance to bloom
upon London society.

Lord Weatherbyby's immediate family circle
was not a large one, being reduced, after his
brother's death, to himself and two elder
sisters, both of whom had been some time
married, and with whom, as in no way connected
with our story, it is unnecessary to
further trouble our readers. The collateral
branches of the Courtenay family were by this
time scattered about the country, and, as
usual in such cases, had established ties and
associations of their own. They had all, as a
rule, succeeded in doing pretty well for themselves,
either by comfortable marriages, or by
a moderate amount of success in the various
professions they had adopted ; and had in
fact earned the reputation of being a highly
respectable family, who, without being in the
least likely to distinguish themselves, would
in all probability do fair credit to any position
in which it might please Providence to
place them.

Among other brothers and sisters of the

sixth Lord Weatherbyby, the grandfather of
the present lord, was Admiral the Hon.
Thomas Courtenay, who, having served his
country with more or less zeal and fidelity
for about twenty years, had eventually been
appointed to a small office about the Court.
This gallant seaman, who had married early
in life, and had been left a widower while still
a young man, had had five children, of whom,
however, the eldest alone was now living.
The name of this individual was Charles John
Courtenay, Esq., and as he is the father of our
hero, we may perhaps be allowed to devote a
few lines to his description. 

Mr Charles John Courtenay was one of
those persons about whom it is somewhat
difficult to pronounce any positive opinion.
At the time we are speaking of, he was about
sixty-five years of age, tall, slender, and white-haired,
with an unmistakable air of good-breeding,
and that appearance of dignity which,
in these degenerate days, is always associated
with a man who adheres to the good old
fashion of voluminous neckcloths and swale
coats. He was of an extremely shy
and reserved disposition, and having mixed

VOL. I. B

but little in society for the last twenty years,
was apt to be a little narrow-minded in ibis
views of things in general. He had been
originally intended for the diplomatic service,
and had, in fact, been actually appointed to an
unpaid attache-ship at Stockholm. But two
or three years in the legation did not develop
in him any special aptitude for the duties of
his profession ; and his chief, who was an old
friend of his father s, found it necessary to
intimate to him pretty plainly that his son
was not likely to attain to any great eminence
in the diplomatic circles of Europe. On his
return to England, therefore, it became a
question of some anxiety to the gallant
Admiral how to dispose of his first-born,
who seemed in a fair way to be thrown upon
his hands without any particular disposition
or aptitude for taking care of himself. Fortunately,
however, an unexpected opening
occurred at this moment through the appointment
of Lord Weatherbyby, a painstaking and
conscientious statesman of the third order, to
the office of Lord Privy Seal. Anxious to
help his brother, who had perhaps not thought
it necessary to enter too closely into the precise

reasons for his son's retirement from the
diplomatic service, he consented to take him
as his private secretary ; and the duties
attaching to this office not being of a particularly
arduous or responsible nature, Mr
Charles Courtenay continued to discharge
them, with much satisfaction to himself and
without any great detriment to the public
service, for a period of six years. During this
time, he had of course, as Lord Weatherbyby's
nephew and private secretary, the entree to
the best London society ; and although in no
sense a parti, he was approved of and favourably
noticed by a fair proportion of mothers
and daughters as a well-connected, good-looking,
and well-behaved young man, who might
possibly be pushed by the influence of his
family into an appointment which would
eventually make him worth considering from
a matrimonial point of view. With men he
was not so popular, his reserved and formal
manner causing him to be looked upon as
somewhat of a prig. At the same time he
considered it necessary to fall in love, like
other people ; and having succeeded in rendering
himself acceptable to the Countess of

Warlingham and lier seventh daughter, Lady
Theodosia Button, a young lady of no special
attractions, but of irreproachable character
and tractable disposition, whose matrimonial
prospects were beginning to cause her mother
some anxiety, they were married, despite the
subdued grumbling of Lord Warlingham,
who had not formed a particularly exalted
opinion of his son-in-law, when the latter
was about two-and-thirty, and shortly before
the Ministry of which Lord Weatherbyby was a
member went out of office.

But whatever expectations might have been
formed as to Mr Charles Courtenay's success
in an official career, they were not altogether
justified by results. For either no suitable
opening presented itself at the supreme
moment when the outgoing Government were
setting their house in order and filling up
every available vacancy by the appointment
of their own supporters, or else the quondam
private secretary's performances had not been
such as to justify even an uncle in forcing
him upon the public as an assistant commissioner
or under-secretary ; for the utmost
that Lord Leathery was able or willing to do

for his nephew was to procure for him a
sub-inspectorship of collieries, with the modest
salary of 300 a year. But even a 
was, of course, better than
nothing; and with the help of a liberal
allowance from his father, and by means of
living on their relations to the utmost extent
that could be tolerated, the Courteney contrived
to eke out a tolerably comfortable
though somewhat desultory existence for the
next four or five years, when, by the death of
his father, Charles Courtenay came into a small
independence of about 1200 a year and a
small house in Park Street, Grosvenor Square.
This accession of wealth furnished him with
an excuse for finally relinquishing the public
service, and, after some consideration, he came
to the conclusion that his dignity would be
best supported and his means rendered most
available by a residence in the country. In
this view Lady Theodosia, who was blessed
with an implicit belief in her husband, and
who neither cared for nor was in any way
adapted to London society, entirely concurred ;
and after some looking about, they settled
upon a large roomy house, with a few acres of

land about it, in the north of Somersetshire,
where, at the time of our story, they had lived
for about twenty-five years.

Their family by this time consisted of two
sons and a daughter. The eldest, Charles,
was in the Rifle Brigade, and at present with
his battalion in India. Gerard and his sister
Katharine were twins, and about four years
younger than their brother. A great attachment
had always existed between them ; and it
was with anything but satisfaction that Gerard
had a few years previously seen his sister borne
away from the family circle by a rich young
banker, Mr Tobias Thornton, of Leadenhall
Street and Westwood Hall, Hertfordshire, thus
leaving him the only one regularly at home.

The question of Gerard's profession had
always been one of some difficulty. He had
not shown any predilection for one line of life
more than another, and had, in fact, no very
fixed ideas on the subject. The army had
never even been suggested to him, as it was a
sort of understood thing that one soldier in
the family was quite enough. He had never
passed through the usual boyish phase of
wishing to be a sailor ; and his destiny was

evidently, therefore, in the civil walks of life.
Even here, however, he could not be got to
express any decided opinion ; and when nearly
nineteen, and in his last quarter at Harrow,
was still as undecided as ever. There had,
indeed, been some idea of his going to Oxford,
with a view to the somewhat vague course of
study known as reading for the Bar ; but it
had lately been a serious question with his
father whether it was worth while to incur
the expense of an university education which
might rebuilt in nothing after all. At this
moment, however, another idea presented
itself to the paternal mind, which was eagerly
caught at as a possible solution to this extremely
difficult question.

Although Mr Charles Courtenay's official
career could hardly have been described as a
brilliant success, he was, nevertheless, far from
being disposed to undervalue the services
which he had rendered to his country, and
was, in fact, convinced that, if only circumstances
had been somewhat more favourable,
he would have risen to great eminence in the
official world. In referring to his diplomatic
experience, he always spoke with an air of

studied caution and reserve, calculated to convey
the idea that if he chose he could divulge
secrets which might even then seriously affect
the peace of Europe ; and as regards his
private secretaryship, it would have been
impossible for any unprejudiced listener to
doubt that, although excluded by the traditions
of red tape from the actual deliberations
of the Cabinet, he had nevertheless been in
some degree a party to their most important
actions. He was, moreover, inclined to attach
great importance to "office" of any kind, and
had a general idea that a young man of good
birth and connections was bound, apart from
any vulgar considerations, to be selected fora
fair share of whatever " plums " the public
service might have to offer. The idea, therefore,
of Diis son's entering some Government
office had always rather commended itself to
him, though up to the present time it had
assumed no very definite shape. But happening,
during one of his somewhat rare visits to
London, to fall in with his old acquaintance,
Mr Gregory Sutton, formerly secretary to the
General Enquiry Office, it was suggested to
him by that eminent ex-public servant, that, if

he really contemplated anything of the sort
for his son, he might do worse than enter him
for his own old office. The suggestion was
eagerly accepted, and Mr Courtenay at once
proceeded to give the question his serious
attention. As for Gerard himself, the notion
was far from unpleasing. His ideas on the
subject of Government offices were certainly
somewhat vague, and he was under a general
impression that an attendance of a few hours
a day, with unlimited leave and ample opportunities
for playing cricket, would constitute
the main features of an official career. He
was, therefore, by no means indisposed to fell
in with the paternal views, and was quite
prepared to take whatever preliminary steps
might be considered necessary. Beyond a
moderate proficiency in Latin verses and the
slightest possible acquaintance with ancient
history, his six years at Harrow had not produced
any striking educational results ; and
although the examination for the General
Enquiry Office was by no means of a severe
description, not having as yet been included
in the open-competition scheme, it was found
absolutely necessary that he should undergo a

certain amount of tuition with a "crammer"
before attempting to pass the ordeal.

The patronage of the office was, for some
occult reason, vested in the President of the
Council, who in other respects had absolutely
nothing to do with it. It required but little
exertion on Mr Courtenay's part to get his
son's name placed on this nobleman's list of
candidates, with a half-promise that he would
be considered at the next vacancy, which
might be expected before long. Gerard for
once set to work with a will ; his instructor
reported most favourably of his progress ;
and when the expected nomination arrived,
and the date of the final examination was
announced, it was found that two out of the
four nominees had failed to pass the modest
preliminary tests, and that the third had at
the last moment abandoned the idea of the
civil service, and was about to go up for the
army. So our friend had a " walk over ; "
and, within six months from the time when
the idea was first started, the " Civil Service
Gazette" announced that Gerard Courtenay,
Esq., had been appointed to a junior clerkship
in the General Enquiry Office.

THE GENERAL ENQUIRY OFFICE.

No one who is acquainted with the situation
of the General Enquiry Office could possibly
deny that it is such as to suggest the idea
of intense respectability. While not actually
within the sacred precincts of Downing Street,
it is nevertheless so nearly adjacent to it that
the messengers attached to the great International
and other offices that constitute
the fountain-head of official existence, will
occasionally condescend to carry important
missives over the intervening distance, instead
of relegating them to the more commonplace
means of conveyance afforded by the postoffice
bag. And, standing back as it does
from the noise and turmoil of Whitehall, with
an entrance which it has been the cherished
aim of successive Administrations to keep
secret from the public, it is completely removed
from that undesirable contact with the

outside world which must be so difficult to
avoid in the case of a public department with
its entrance in a public thoroughfare, and
which must necessarily tend to detract from
the dignity and repose of those offices which
are not so fortunately situated. The fact,
moreover, of being constructed out of two
or three old private houses gives a look of
old-world snugness to the General Enquiry
Office that is incompatible with the more
modern structures over the way, where outward
splendour is not always accompanied by
internal comfort. The old brick walls are
black and dingy; the passages are tortuous
and cramped ; and what were once well-proportioned
rooms are subdivided and partitioned
in order to meet the requirements of
a staff of secretaries and clerks. But the
remains of a still beautiful marble staircase,
and here and there a rare piece of carving oran
exquisitely painted ceiling, recall memories
of the past and afford a pleasant contrast to
the commonplace surroundings of a modern
public office.

The general features of this great public
institution are, in short, as we have already

observed, calculated to convey the idea of
intense respectability ; and the same remark
may be applied with equal correctness to its
inmates. They are not, as a rule, equal in
social standing to the highly ornamental staff
of the International Office ; they do not succeed
in getting appointed to such lucrative places as
the gentlemen of the Treasury, and they are
not eligible for the well-paid opportunities for
committing gentlemanlike suicide that are
open to those employed of the Aboriginal
Office who may be prompted by domestic or
other disappointments to take service on the
West Coast of Africa. They are not seen
much in fashionable society, and may be
looked for in vain at Buckingham in June, at
Cowes in August, or in select country-houses
in autumn. But they manage to enjoy life
very much in their own way, and though
their domestic surroundings may savour more
of Bayswater and the suburbs than Mayfair
and Belgravia, they are perhaps none
the less happy on that account. They take
a pride in their work, and the General Enquiry
Office enjoys a just reputation for efficiency.
For the work in question, though of

a somewhat peculiar nature, is of a character
that demands a high standard of intelligence,
and the General Enquirers may be called
upon at any moment to participate indirectly
in some of the most important questions of the
day. And here it may not be out of place to
say a word respecting the origin and history
of the office.

Many generations of statesmen will come
and go before the name of that good and
gifted public servant, Sir Hercules Pigeonhole,
now gone to his rest, will cease to be a household
word in the traditions of the International
Office, over whose destinies he held
a despotic but kindly sway for a period altogether
unsurpassed in point of duration in
the annals of official life. Many an ambassador
and diplomatist still living will be able
to recall the time when, as smooth-faced
attaches, they were summoned for their first
interview with the great permanent secretary,
the absolute arbiter of their destinies, and
how, although by no means, as a rule, inclined
to think much worse of themselves
than of other people, they trembled and
shrank into nothing as they found themselves

for the first time in the great man's presence.
And many an old International Office man will
remember, not without a tinge of regret, those
golden days of his youth, when the paternal
jurisdiction of Sir Hercules enveloped him as
with a mantle, and he knew that, if he only
did his duty and acted strictly according to
orders, he was certain to be looked after and
brought to the front in his turn. For never
was there a more loyal chief than Sir Hercules
; and though some of his would-be
detractors might complain that his devotion
to the interests of his office was such as to
render him sometimes a little blind to the
general interests of the British taxpayer, it
could never be said of him that he neglected
those over whom he ruled, and for whose welfare
he considered himself in a great measure
responsible.

It was about the zenith, then, of Sir Hercules'
reign, and at a period when international
affairs were attracting a more than
usual amount of public attention, that a question
of great importance happened to arise,
which, apart from the ' weighty interests involved
in its more immediate surroundings,

necessitated a minute and tedious investigation
of the records of the office for about
twenty or thirty years back. The entire
resources of the establishment were, in fact,
strained to the utmost, as every available
functionary was detached for this special service,
and the ordinary work of the various departments
was for the time being completely
thrown out of gear. This, of course, involved
a certain amount of delay in other matters of
less urgency; and some question of minor
importance having been left undisposed of for
rather more than the usual period allowed by
the unwritten law of the office, the then Secretary
of State, whose attention had been called
to the case by an outside friend, ventured to
suggest to the permanent secretary that the
matter might have been looked to a little
earlier. This, however, was more than Sir
Hercules could stand ; for although no one
was more capable of administering a rebuke
when called for, the prerogative of so doing
was one that he specially reserved to himself ;
and to have a mere transitory Secretary of
State poking his nose into questions of official
economy, of which it was impossible that he

could be expected to know anything whatever,
was a reflection upon Sir Hercules and
his young men that could not be tolerated fora
moment. It was in a minute, therefore, of
withering sarcasm that he condescended to explain
to his temporary chief, that although the
staff" of his department was, thanks to his own
admirable organisation, quite unequalled in
the discharge of its duties, emergencies might
occur with which even their energy and resources
might be unable to cope ; and he, in
short, hinted pretty plainly to the Secretary
of State that he would have done better tolet
the matter alone. It is hardly necessary
to add that the amiable and easy-going nobleman
who at the time occupied this position
was only too ready to acknowledge his error,
and to make a handsome apology, in which he
placed on record his deliberate opinion that
the staff* of the office was as near perfection
as human nature could hope to arrive. The
insult, however, continued to rankle in Sir
Hercules' bosom, and to exercise his mind ina
manner that might have surprised those who
were unaware of the jealous solicitude with
which he watched over every detail of his

VOL. I. /J- r c

beloved office. But the incident turned out
to be productive of important results. One
day when, in the intervals of work, Sir
Hercules was still brooding over what had
occurred, a bright idea occurred to him. Why-should
he not place the recurrence of such
a misunderstanding beyond all possibility ?
Why should his boys, as he used to call them,
be subjected to the chance of being taken
away from their vitally important work of
copying his minutes and dispatches to rout
about among mouldy old records ? Why not
establish a repository for such documents, with
a special staff of officials to take charge of
and look into them ? Promotion was apt to
be slack in the office, and there was at the
moment a highly deserving official of the
second class for whom it would be convenient
to provide. The idea was a truly grand one,
and Sir Hercules could not refrain from complimenting
himself on his ingenuity. It
wanted but a few days' reflection to bring
the rough idea into shape, and to embody his
views in a masterly memorandum addressed
to the Secretary of State, who, on his part,
was only too glad of an opportunity of

making an amende honorable, and in some
manner compensating Sir Hercules for the
annoyance which he felt he must have caused
him by his own ill-timed officiousness. It was
not long, therefore, before an official letter was
addressed from the International Office to the
Lords Commissioners of the Treasury, stating
that in consequence of the great increase in
the work, and the calls that were being made
on the time of every available member of
the department, it was found impossible any
longer to keep up that constant care and
supervision of the official records that was of
such vital importance both to the office and
to the public. It was suggested, therefore,
for their Lordships' consideration, that the
time had arrived when the custody of certain
records of the International Office might properly
be handed over to a sort of sub-department,
whose sole duty should be to arrange
and keep in order such of the documents as
were not required in the International Office
for current work, but which might at any
moment be required for reference. The members
of the new sub-department were also to
discharge the functions of precis-wntQis, so

that, in the event of a question arising which
required reference to the previous correspondence,
the whole case could be got at and
resuscitated in a very short time, instead of
involving, as at present, a laborious search and
the detaching of the regular staff of officials
from their more immediate work. Other
points, with which it is unnecessary to trouble
the reader, were entered into in detail, and
nothing, in short, was omitted to make the
scheme perfect. With the official letter to
My Lords " was sent a private note to the
Prime Minister from the Secretary of State,
urging upon him the importance of the
scheme, and adding, by way of rendering its
adoption beyond doubt, " Pigeonhole insists
upon it." It may be a question whether this
last consideration did not carry even more
weight with the Premier than the actual
merits, great as they undoubtedly were, of
the scheme put before him. Be this as it
may, no great difficulties were raised. In
those days the House of Commons had not
learned to make itself disagreeable in the way
of asking inconvenient questions or challenging
votes that it did not understand ; and a

quiet little item was accordingly placed on the
next year's estimates for what was at first
entitled the Record Department of the International
Office. A few words in explanation
of the vote were graciously accorded to the
House by the Secretary to the Treasury and
the Under-Secretary for International Affairs ;
and though among the murmurs of applause
which greeted the announcement there might
have been detected a few sounds that could
hardly have been taken for expressions of
unqualified approval, it was felt that any
objection to such an admirable scheme could
only arise from ignorance or prejudice, d
that those who were unable to recognise and
appreciate the obvious advantages that must
thereby accrue to the public interest were
more to be pitied than blamed.

The new department, or sub-department,
was at first established in an empty Government
house in New Street, Spring Gardens,
and consisted of the functionary from the International
Office previously referred to, who
was dignified with the name of Controller of
Records, and assigned a salary equivalent to
that of a principal clerk. There were also some

half-dozen subordinates, two or three of whom
had been attached to the librarian's department
of the International Office, and the
remainder were young gentlemen who had
passed examinations for various offices in
which there were no immediate vacancies, and
who were only too glad to be employed anywhere
in a temporary capacity.

Sir Hercules' little scheme was, therefore, a
complete success. So manifest, indeed, were
the advantages offered by the new arrangements,
that it was not long before it occurred
to the authorities of other offices that participation
in them would be of great benefit to
themselves. First, it was found that there
were many questions of constant recurrence at
the Aboriginal Office that were so mixed up
with international matters, that it would be a
great convenience to have the whole correspondence
tabulated and arranged in one series,
and under the charge of the same official. So
a couple more clerks were drafted from the
Aboriginal Office, one of whom was to be
chief clerk to the new department, and a few
hundredweight more of papers were transferred
from Whitehall to New Street. Then

it occurred to some brilliant genius at the
Admiralty that it would be a great thing if
the staff of that department could be relieved
from the Slave Trade and Maltese Orange correspondence,
which was increasing in volume
and importance every year ; and shortly afterwards
the permanent secretary of the Board
of Trade found it necessary to inform his chief,
that unless some arrangements could be made
for transferring the work connected with the
inspection of railway refreshment-rooms to
some other department, he feared it might be
necessary to revise the whole staff of the office.
So by degrees the new department grew and
expanded, till, after many changes in name and
many additions to and reorganization of its
staff, it finally emerged into the full-blown
dignity of a distinct Government office, with a
vice-president and permanent secretary, and
has for some time, as every one is aware, been
well known as the General Enquiry Office, the
duties of which may be roughly described as
the custody of certain branches of correspondence
from the public offices generally,
which, although essentially connected with
past events, have not yet reached such a stage

of antiquity as to be unlikely to be brought
up again. This stage, however, is, in one case
or another, being constantly arrived at ; for
once a year a select court of inquiry is held
upon every department of the office, and such
questions as have been in its custody for a
certain number of years, or have been found
to be practically obsolete, are relegated to the
musty archives of the State Paper Office, where
they are interred with every mark of respect,
and are succeeded by a new series.

It will readily be understood from the foregoing
remarks that the work of the General
Enquiry Office is of no ordinary character. It
is, in fact, a sort of multum in pavo, an
essence, as it were, of the various offices affiliated
to it. Thus at one moment the General
Enquirers may be called upon to look up and
furnish a history of the circumstances that led
to the rupture of diplomatic relations with
the Honolulu Islanders twenty years ago ; at
another, to refer to the correspondence between
a former First Lord of the Admiralty and the
Admiral of the Mediterranean squadron as to
the number of clean shirts that a navigating
sub-lieutenant should be expected to take to

sea with him ; while, in the midst of their
researches into these important questions, may
come an urgent appeal from the Aboriginal
Office to be informed, as a matter of precedent,
how many wives were allowed to the ex-king
of the Lumbagees while in honourable captivity
at the Tum-Tum Islands in the year
1838.

Such, then, was the office where Gerard
Courtenay was destined to commence his
career, and where one April morning, about
a week after the notification to him of his
appointment, he presented himself, with that
indescribable mixture of uncertainty, curiosity,
and hope that so many have experienced on
taking the first plunge into the stormy waters
of life. On the whole, his sensations were far
from being unpleasant ; for it was something
to think that he had already made a start,
and was in the proud position of a salaried
Government official, while many of his contemporaries
were either working with army
crammers, beginning to read for the law, or
still in a state of comparative pupilage at
Oxford or Cambridge. Whatever favourable
views he had been disposed to take of his

prospects were encouraged to the utmost by
his father, who, as has been already indicated,
had quite succeeded in persuading himself
that his own official career had been a most
momentous and successful one, and was convinced
that any son of his must start with an
enormous advantage in having the prestige of
his father's reputation. It was, moreover, a
great thing to get his second son off his hands
so early in life in this very inexpensive
manner. Although Mr Courtenay was really
fond of his children, and would have grudged
them nothing that he thought absolutely
necessary for their welfare, he was equally
fond of his own personal comforts, and had
contemplated, not without some feelings of
dismay, the prospect of having to " fork out "
some 300 a year for a university education
for a son who had evinced no special inclination
for any of the ordinary vocations of life.

Having succeeded, by the help of a friendly
policeman, a commissionaire, and a stout lady
who sold oranges, in arriving at the sequestered
portals of his future official abode,
Gerard found himself, on pushing open a
swing-door, in a hall occupied by a couple

of portly, well-to-do, gentlemen-out-of-livery
looking functionaries, one of whom was sitting
in an old-fashioned porter's chair reading a
newspaper, and the other balancing himself
on his heels in front of a large fireless grate,
and apparently absorbed in his own reflections.
He had been told to inquire for Mr
Mills, the permanent secretary, and accordingly
imparted his wishes, not without a certain
amount of deference, to the stoutest of
the two gentlemen before him.

"Mr Mills! Oh, yes, sir. Mr Mills is
engaged just now. Will you walk this way,
sir ? " piloting Gerard as he spoke along a
passage to a gloomy little apartment which
had the unmistakable appearance of a waiting-room.
" What name shall I give to Mr Mills,
sir ? Mr Courtenay ! Oh, yes. Certainly, sir.
Our new young gentleman, I think, sir ? Mr
Mills is sure to be disengaged soon, and I will
let him know you are waiting. Paper, sir, if
you have not seen it." And having thus done
his best to put Gerard at his ease, the well-trained
ex-butler left him to himself, and proceeded
to impart to his friend in the hall his
opinion of the latest addition to the office.

Gerard had hardly time to glance in an
uninterested manner at the newspaper, and
take in the general appearance of the room,
which was not calculated to inspire any special
sense of hilarity, before the opening of an
adjacent door and the sound of feet along the
passage suggested to him that his turn might
be approaching ; and in another moment his
stout friend reappeared and conducted him
back through the hall to a door in the farther
side, through which he followed his name
into a large library-like room, and found himself
in the presence of the permanent secretary.


Mr Mills was a smart, fussy little man, with
a large head, grizzly hair inclined to baldness,
and keen twinkling little eyes, the natural
effulgence of which was increased by the
addition of large horn spectacles, with which
he beamed upon his visitor after the manner
of a lively little owl. He had been educated
in the school of the lamented Sir Hercules,
having been in his youth attached in some
capacity to the International Office, and had
very wisely set this great man before himself
as a model to be carefully studied and followed

in every relation of official life. Whether or
not he had succeeded in embodying in himself
a reproduction of his illustrious prototype
was, perhaps, a matter of opinion. But
he was undoubtedly a clever, pushing little
man, who, by a great deal of talk, a certain
amount of family interest, and a good deal of
real hard work, had succeeded in raising himself
step by step to the by no means unimportant
position he at present held, the duties of
which he had now discharged for some years.
He had established a reputation for great
smartness in the administration of his office,
and always contrived, whether really busy or
not, to present the appearance of being upto
his eyes in work. When Gerard entered,
he was engaged in signing his name at an
upright desk to a basket-full of papers which
lay by his side, while other documents of
every description covered a large table in the
middle of the room, and were scattered about
on smaller tables, chairs, and every conceive-able
spot that offered a convenient resting-place.


Ah ! Courtenay," he exclaimed, taking off
his spectacles and coming forward with his

pen in his hand. " How are you ? Glad to
see you. Sit down  that is to say, if you
can find a place. We are very busy just now,
tremendously pressed, in fact, and shall be very
glad of your services. Let's see ! You are
Harrow, aren't you ? Old Harrow man myself,
though I am afraid to think how long ago
now. Well, we will soon set you to work.
You are to be in the Aboriginal Department,
under Mr Chapman  every interesting work,
and plenty of it. By Jove ! those fellows at
the Aboriginal Office give us no peace now ! "
And so he rattled on, in an abrupt but not
unkindly fashion.

Gerard of course expressed his readiness
to enter upon his new duties whenever required
; and at the end of a little more conversation,
which, after the first, displayed an increasing
tendency to become desultory, it was
arranged that he should return the next day
and be formally initiated into his work.

By the way, though," added Mr Mills as
Gerard was about to take his leave, *' you
must make acquaintance with your chief," and
he rang the bell. " Collins," as Gerard's friend
of the hall entered, " take Mr Courtenay up to

Mr. Chapman's room. Good-bye, Courtenay,
good-bye. Hope to see more of you soon."
And before the door had closed on Gerard,
the horn spectacles were once more on the
great man's nose, and he was deep in his
papers again.

Following the portly Mr Collins, Gerard
was marshalled up a spacious marble staircase,
where one or two handsomely carved doors
indicated what had once been reception-rooms.
Passing by one of these, which Mr Collins
indicated by a jerk of his thumb and a
reverential whisper as the abode of the vice-president,
a swing-door admitted Gerard d
his guide to another passage, and to what had
evidently once been the backstairs. Arrived
at the top, Gerard at once found himself in a
different atmosphere, as it were, and it was
easy to see that he had reached the real working
part of the establishment. Instead of the
quiet and gentleman-like repose that appeared
to reign downstairs, all up here was bustle
and noise. Long uncarpeted passages, obstructed
here and there by queer-looking
glass boxes, or gaunt book-shelves filled with
the most uninviting looking literature, led to

dark doorways unrelieved by carving or other
embellishments, or ended in more narrow
staircases of a decidedly forbidding aspect.
Careworn officials went in and out of green
baize doors, and messengers of small stature
hurried about everywhere with papers. Gerard
could not, indeed, help being struck by the
remarkable contrast which the appearance of
these functionaries upstairs offered to that
of the plump gentlemen down below, and
wondered whether, if advanced to the same
position of dignity, there would be any chance
of their ever attaining the same proportions,
or whether they were a distinct genus, destined
to run about for ever at the bidding of
irresponsible clerks, and shut out from the
dignity of attendance on the vice-president or
the permanent secretary.

Before, however, he had time to turn this
question thoroughly over in his mind, his
conductor stopped at a door of rather less
shabby appearance than those around, and
intimated that they had reached Mr Chapman's
room. Once more Gerard's name was
announced, and he found himself in a fairly
comfortable room, with a pleasant look-out

over the river, and a chimney-piece which,
although utterly disfigured by a coating of
white paint, was evidently a really fine piece
of carving.

It was a mild April day, but notwithstanding
this a fire was burning in the grate, and
Mr Chapman was sitting almost into it. Like
the permanent secretary, he also was a little
man, but with a bushy head of dark hair, and
a complexion so dark as to be almost copper-coloured.
He had been all his life in the
office, and although much younger - looking,
was senior both in age and service to Mr
Mills. It was therefore an unpardonable
grievance with him that Mr Mills should
have been put over his head, and that he
should be still only chief clerk while one who
had been once his junior was now permanent
secretary, and entitled to all the privileges,
both official and otherwise, attendant on such
an exalted position. He consequently lost no
opportunity of asserting whatever rights he
considered he possessed, and of showing his
real superiority to Mr Mills by differing from
him on every possible occasion. Mr Mills, it
must be confessed, took the chief clerk's ill-vol.

I. D

humour very well ; and being by no means
ill-natured, and perhaps feeling that " poor
old Chapman's" irritation at having been
passed over was not altogether unreasonable,
he never pressed a point unless absolutely
necessary, and consequently enabled the chief
clerk to enjoy not unfrequently the satisfaction
of triumphantly demonstrating, to his
friends and the office in general, how he had
got the better of the permanent secretary.
On the occasion of Gerard's arrival he happened
to be in an unusually good temper,
having just gained his point in a long paper
argument about a fossil case which had been
referred from the Aboriginal Office respecting
certain rights of sovereignty over an uninhabited
and uninhabitable island off the
West Coast of Africa. He was therefore quite
disposed to be gracious to his new subaltern,
and received him in a friendly though perhaps
not a very encouraging manner. He asked
Gerard about his examination, spoke of the
office and the many changes he himself had
seen in it, and lamented that the young men
of the present day did not appear to take the
same interest in their work as in his owen

early days. He inquired whether Gerard had
seen Mr Mills, and could not resist a slight
sneer at his expense.

I suppose you found Mr Mills very busy ? "
he inquired. " Mr Mills gets through a great
deal of work, or thinks he does," he added,
in a sneering tone and with a bitter little
laugh.

Gerard was not quite sure whether he
ought to laugh also, though it seemed to him
that jesting on such topics was rather above
him ; but seeing a cloud gather on his future
chief's face, he ventured on a spasmodic smile,
and felt particularly uncomfortable. He mastery
glad, therefore, when the interview came
to an end, and he parted with Mr. Chapman
on very fair terms, and with an understanding
that he was to present himself at eleven
o'clock on the following day. And having
thus launched our hero on the official world,
we will now leave him alone for the present.

U8RARY

From NEWMARKET TO WHITEHALL.

We must ask our readers to imagine a period
of five years to have elapsed since the events
recorded in the last chapter, and to transport
themselves in imagination to the interior of
a first-class carriage on the Great Eastern
Railway between Newmarket and London.
The second spring meeting at that time-honoured
resort of all true lovers of the turf
was just over, and a comparatively select company
of racing men were dispersing, to meet
again before long on the less exclusive slopes
of Epsom. The train was crowded with sporting
men, and the particular carriage referred
to was as full as it could hold.

"Well, Tommy," exclaimed a full-blown,
jovial-looking party, in a rather loud racing
costume, when, after the incidents of the day's
racing had been thoroughly discussed, a lull
in the flow of conversation had set in, " this

is a go, and no mistake ! Fancy you being
a Minister ! Lord, I should as soon have
thought of their making one out of old
Ephraim the trainer I General Enquiry Office
though. That sounds like business. Ought
to be able to give us no end of tips, eh ? "

By Jove, yes," chimed in another " noble
sportsman." " I say, Tommy, old chap, you'll
be wanting a private secretary. Don't you
think I would do nicely now ? Won't swear
to my spelling, but otherwise I could get
over the ground a bit if I got hold of a good
pen. Besides, it would be a devilish good
thing for you to have a respectable-looking
chap like me to interview all the coves."

Ha, ha ! " laughed a third ; " only fancy
the old Cadger a private secretary ! Why,
the very look of him would ruin the whole
concern. They would think they had got
into a betting office by mistake, and go away.
By Jove, though, that wouldn't be a bad
idea. Save you a lot of trouble. Tommy, old
boy, eh?"

It's all very well," growled a quiet and
somewhat grumpy-looking old gentleman ina
corner, who had taken but little part in the

general conversation, " but you'll see if Tommy
won't make as good a Minister as any of them.
He's quite the statesman, he is, and has got a
precious sight more in him than any of you
fellows. Ill take short odds about his being
in the Cabinet some of these days, if he sticks
to it and don't make a fool of himself ; " and
having thus delivered himself, the speaker
relapsed into a study of his newspaper.

The individual addressed as Tommy was a
handsome, well-bred-looking man of about
two-and-forty, who was perhaps better known
to the outside world as Viscount Eavendale,
eldest son of the veteran Earl of AUonby,
M.P. for Administer, and proprietor of a
small but highly successful racing stable,
which, although not as yet including a Derby
winner, had carried off many of the lesser
prizes of the turf, and was considered as likely
to produce a favourite for the great national
event as any establishment in the country.
He had been in Parliament for some years,
having entered when very young ; and having
shown considerable ability, and some disposition
to turn his attention to politics, had
already been talked of for a subordinate

appointment in a previous Administration.
But, during a long spell of Opposition, lie had
rather abandoned the arena of parliamentary
life for the more congenial pursuits of field-sports
in general and racing in particular;
and although a regular attendant at divisions,
and always to be relied upon in a party
emergency, there were few who would not
have been far more disposed to associate him
with Newmarket than Downing Street. But
he had not been lost sight of by a particularly
observant Premier ; and during the two or three
years that had elapsed since the return of his
party to power, there had not been wanting
indications that the eye of his chief was upon
him. Although, therefore, a matter of considerable
astonishment and some amusement
to a large proportion of the outside world,
there were a few knowing ones who were by
no means surprised when it was announced
that, owing to the resignation of Lord Maldon
and the transfer of Sir Antony Flint to the
Home Office, the vacant position of Vice-president
of the General Enquiry Office had
been offered to and accepted by Lord Heavens
The letter from the Prime Minister

containing the offer of the appointment had
reached him a day or two previously  in fact,
just as he was about to start for Newmarket.
It was perhaps less of a surprise to himself
than to others, and it did not take him long
to make up his mind and to write a short
note of acceptance. At the same time, he
was unable to see any reason why the fact
of his having thus committed himself should
debar him from another day or two of freedom
and indulgence in his favourite pursuit ;
so he went off to Newmarket without saying
anything about it, leaving his friends to find
out what had happened through the medium
of the newspapers or by any other means they
liked.

The new Vice-president took the chaff of
his friends very good-naturedly, but at the
same time let it be seen that he was in noway
ashamed of his new position, and quite
prepared to accept its responsibilities. " Well,
Cadger, my boy," he said, in a tone of mock
seriousness, addressing himself to the gentleman
who had been designated by that name,
an Irish peer of old family and of hereditary
sporting tastes, "I'll see what I can do for

you. I'll certainly make a note of your application,
old fellow ; but of course you'll understand
that there may be other chaps wanting
the same thing, so I can't well make any
promise as yet. But I won't forget you,
though. Of course, with some people your
looks might be against you, you know ; but I
know you're a decent fellow, and I'll just see
what I can do."

This retort had the effect of turning the
laugh against the " Cadger," who had no
other repartee ready at the moment beyond
a playful dig in the ribs with his umbrella.
The conversation then took another tu*n,
till the evening gradually came on, and the
Cadger, who had lunched copiously before
starting, began to snore heavily. The others
composed themselves either to sleep or. reflection
in their respective corners, and silence
reigned in the compartment, until a gradual
slackening, the twinkling of many lights, and
a tiresome succession of tunnels, announced
that they were nearing St. Pancreas.

'' Hollo ! " exclaimed Sir Henry Wilmot,
the quiet gentleman who had expressed such
a favourable opinion of his friend Tommy,

waking up and rubbing bis eyes. " Here weare.
Which way are we all going? I can
give anybody a lift in my brougham who's
going Berkeley Square way."

"All right, old fellow," exclaimed Lord
Eavendale, " you run me down to the corner
of Brook Street, and I'll tell my servant to
come on with my things." So the " Cadger "
having by much shaking and punching been
woke up, and with some difficulty got to
understand that they had arrived in London,
the party speedily dispersed, and Lord Heavens
and Sir Henry Wilmot drove off together.

"Well, my dear fellow," began Sir Henry,
in a tone of real affection, as soon as they had
got away from the noise of the station, " I
am uncommonly pleased about this business
of yours. You know, fond as I am of racing
and air that, it is not quite the thing for a
fellow in your position to be doing nothing
else ; and this is just the very thing for you.
I am sure I wish you success with all my
heart."

Thanks very much, my dear Sir Henry,"
replied Lord Eavendale. " I was sure you
would think I had done the right thing in

accepting, and you understand these things
as well as most people. Between ourselves,
you know, I don't much mind the idea. Of
course it will be a bit of a tie, and nothing
would have induced me to ask for anything of
the kind. But as it came in the way, it seemed
to me that one could not do oneself much harm
over it ; and then, too, I know my dear old
father will be as pleased as Punch about it. Of
course it will be rather a change for me to go
in for ofiSce work and all that sort of thing."

Well," replied Sir Henry, " as far as that
goes, I don't expect you'll find your health
suffer much from overwork ; for, without
any disparagement to the importance of your
office, I don't suppose the Vice-president need
do a stroke of work more than he likes. I
take it Mills does the whole business, or will
if you allow him to. I know when I was
under-secretary at the Home Office, and poor
old Cathcart was in your place, he never did
a single thing beyond signing his name every
now and then. But that is fifteen years ago,
and of course things may be changed since
then. Anyhow, I expect you'll find Mills a
first-rate man to deal with."

Oh, I daresay," replied Lord Eavendale.
You know I am a queer sort of fellow in
that way. Of course I don't pretend to be a
glutton for work, or anything of that sort,
but I do like to know what I am about ; and
if there is one thing I hate more than another,
it is not knowing where you are. So if these
fellows try their hands at keeping me in the
dark, I shouldn't wonder if there were a bit
of a row. But from what you say, I expect
this fellow Mills is the sort of chap one could
pretty well trust to, and I daresay it will be
all right."

Oh, you'll get on right enough, never
fear," rejoined Sir Henry. " But here we are
in Brook Street. Well, good-night, and good-luck
to you. See you at the Carlton in a day
or two, and hear all about the office."

So Sir Henry drove off, while Lord Raven-dale
started at a brisk pace to walk up Brook
Street to the family mansion in Grosvenor
Square, where a room or two were always
kept for his accommodation.

Arrived at the paternal abode, his lordship
found that even an absence of three nights
had been sufficient to accumulate a tolerable

pile of letters, some of which were of unmistakably
official type, and bore the stamp of
the General Enquiry Office. Putting these
aside for the present, he selected half a dozen
of those that appeared most interesting, and
walked into the library, opening them as he
went. The second epistle arrived at, which
he tore open with the utmost indifference
to the pretty monogram, surmounted by an
earl's coronet, which adorned the envelope,
was worded as follows :

i8 Park Lane, Friday.

"Dear Lord Eavendale,  You will probably
by this time be quite tired of receiving
congratulations on your new appointment, but
I must just write a line to say how pleased
I was to hear of it. I am sure you will make
an excellent vice-president, and I wish you
every possible success. And now I hope you
will not think me a dreadful bore, as I have
a little favour to ask you. My cousin, Gerard
Courtenay, is in the General Enquiry Office,
and is very anxious to obtain the post of
your private secretary. Of course you will
have plenty of other applications, and I should

not like to press you in the matter ; but if
you should be able to do anything for him,
I should be so much obliged. He is a nice,
gentleman-like fellow, and, I should think,
would make a good secretary ; but of course
I cannot pretend to know anything about
that. He is rather quiet and shy, and I fancy
does not know very many people, so you
have probably never heard of him. His own
people, too, have lived out of the world for
so many years that they must be almost forgotten.
But his mother is my aunt Theodosian,
my father's sister, so you see he is
my first-cousin. Please do not think me a
great bore, and believe me yours very

sincerely,

Alice Mount-eaton.

Fas.  We are so glad to have such good
accounts of your father. How pleased he will
be!"

Hang the women ! " was Lord Eavendale's
first exclamation, as he threw the note on one
side and proceeded to open the next ; " they
are always at one about something or other.
I suppose I shall have a heap of fellows

bothering me for the same thing. What a
nuisance it all is ! "

His lordship was not far wrong, for by
the time he had skimmed through his correspondence,
he found three similar applications :
one from a would-be racing man, who had just
succeeded in coming to hopeless grief on the
turf ; another from a neighbour of his father,
on behalf of a ne'er-do-well son ; and a third,
in a sort of copperplate writing, from a
gentleman he had never heard of before, and
who based his claims to consideration on the
grounds of his family having supported the
Conservative cause for many generations, mid
his own skill in penmanship and the keeping
of accounts, which he evidently considered to
be the principal qualifications required for the
post of an official private secretary.

"Well," reflected the new Vice-president,
as he went to his room to dress for dinner,
I suppose I shall have to get a private secretary
somehow or other, and I dare say this
cousin of Lady Mount-eaton wouldn't be
much more useless than the rest. But I'll be
hanged if I bind myself to take any one of
them." So he propped up Lady Mount-eaton's

note on the dressing-table while he
completed his toilet ; and being a man of
action in answering letters, he proceeded to
indite the following reply before leaving the
house : 

"16 Grosvenor Square, April 21, 18  .

"Dear Lady Mo Untie ASTON,  Many thanks
for your note and kind congratulations. This
Government-office business is certainly a new
experiment, but I hope it will all be for
the best ; and in these days we must all
put our shoulders to the wheel for the good
cause.

As regards your cousin, I will be sure to
bear your wishes in mind, though of course
you will understand that it is impossible forme
to make any sort of promise, as I have not
been near the office yet, and do not even
know what I may have to dispose of in the
way of a private secretaryship, or what the
regulations of the office may be on the subject.
In great haste.  Yours sincerely,

"Eavendale."

'* There, that will do for her," observed
Lord Eavendale to himself, "and the others

can wait till tomorrow." So, giving the note
to his servant to be left in Park Lane that
night, he got into a hansom that was waiting
for him, and rattled off to dinner at the
Carlton. And having introduced Lady Mount-eaton
into our story, we should be wanting
in courtesy if we were to proceed farther without
introducing her formally to the reader.

COUSINS.

The Countess of Mount-eaton was the only
daughter of the late Earl of Walsingham,
brother to Lady Theodosia Courtenay, and
consequently, as she had pointed out to Lord
Eavendale, Gerard Courtenay's first-cousin.
She was the eldest of her family, which
consisted of two brothers, the present Lord
Warlingham and the Hon. John Dutton,
captain and lieu t-colonel in the Grenadier
Guards. Her mother having died when Lady
Alice was but ten years of age, and the two
others respectively five and three, she had,
while still quite a child, succeeded in a
measure to the charge of her little brothers,
which she had undertaken with that devotion
which is so often seen in similar circumstances.
It is not improbable that the cares and duties
of an elder sister, which she had so willingly
and earnestly assumed, had had some effect informing

a character which was in itself something
very much out of the common. But
be this as it may, it would have been difficult
to find a girl with a sweeter and more unselfish
disposition, or more universally loved
by all with whom she came in contact, than
Iady Alice Dutton. Add to this a tall,
graceful figure, a beautifully-shaped and well-seton
head, and a face that, though perhaps
not absolutely perfect in point of features,
possessed that winning loveliness of expression
which is apt to be so much more overpowering
than the most perfect combination of colouring
and outline, and it is not surprising that,
when she came out in London under the
auspices of her father, she attracted a very
considerable amount of attention. Before the
end of her first season she had had three
osiers of marriage, any one of which would
have been most suitable from a worldly point
of view; and by the time she had been out
two years, she had half the eldest sons and
a good many of the actual representatives of
the aristocracy at her feet. But for some
reason or other she turned a deaf ear to all.
Though endowed with a keen sense of enjoyment

and a disposition to make the most of
everything that came in her way, she seemed
just as happy in her somewhat hum-drum
occupation of presiding over her father's house
in the country and looking after her brothers,
as in the whirl and excitement of London life.
So by degrees it came to be said that Lady
Alice was not going to marry; and though
wherever she showed herself she continued to
make havoc in the hearts of the gilded youth
of Great Britain, her perfect indifference to
admiration and her apparent preference of her
own family circle to any other attractions that
might be offered her, were apt to be productive
of despair rather than interest. It was a
matter, therefore, of no little astonishment
when, after she had been five years before the
public, a marriage was one day announced,
which was not contradicted, between the Earl
of Mount-eaton and Lady Alice Button.

Upon the considerations which had induced
Lady Alice to yield at last it is not necessary
for us to enter. But those who knew her
best had always said that when she did marry
she would make a wise choice ; and there
seemed every probability of this prediction

being justified by the event. In point of
wealth and position there was nothing left
to be desired. Lord Mount Easton was the
eldest son of the Marquis of St. Ives, the
representative of a long line of north-country
chieftains, who having, like most Border
families of distinction, originally come to the
front by the exhibition of exceptional qualifications
in the cattle-lifting and moss-trooping
line, had by degrees settled down into peaceful
stock-farmers, and in the course of years had
developed into titled supporters of Church
and State. Nor was there any disparity in
point of years, for Lord Mount-Easipn was
only about six years older than his bride, and
was as active and energetic in his habits as
became the hope of his race. He had been
in the Life Guards till within about a year of
his marriage, and shortly after that event had
been returned to Parliament for a northern
borough. But after representing his constituents
with great fidelity for twelve years,
he had been defeated at a general election by
a radical weaver, and had since that time
devoted himself principally to country pursuits
and the supervision of his father's property.

For the Marquis was now an old man, and
though possessed of a vigorous constitution,
which still enabled him to hunt two days a
week with his justly-celebrated pack of hounds,
he found that the personal attention he had
been in the habit of giving to every detail
of the management of his large estates was
beginning to be a great tax on his strength ;
and it was a great comfort to him, therefore,
to be able to hand over the reins of government
to a son who showed every promise of
being a worthy successor to his father.

At the time of our story the Mount Reasons
had been married nearly seventeen years. But
those who had known Lady Alice as a girl,
and who had watched her life with the loving
jealousy that is only too quick to see the
slightest indication of anything unsatisfactory,
were forced to admit that, if external appearances
went for anything, Lord Mount-eaton
must have proved a good husband. For
although the soft girlish contour of face had
given place to 'more marked outlines, and the
elastic springiness of early youth had been
succeeded by a more dignified and matronly
bearing, there still remained the same graceful

figure, scarcely altered by the vicissitudes
of married life, the same beautifully-shaped
and queen-like head, and the same sweet
expression that was a true index of the mind
within ; and at thirty nine, and with a son
in the Eton eleven, the Countess of Mount-eaton
was justly considered by a pretty
numerous circle of admirers to be still a very
lovely and quite the most charming woman
in England.

It is not surprising that among the number
of these admirers should have been included
our friend Gerard, who, although of course
some years her junior, was possessed of the
most sincere and honest devotion to his
cousin ; and although their paths in life lay asa
rule widely apart, there had for some time
existed a strong friendship between them,
which their only occasional meetings had
rendered none the less cordial.

Lady Mount-eaton had naturally taken
some interest in Gerard's life at the General
Enquiry Office ; and when a change was
announced in the vice-presidency of this
important branch of the British constitution,
it was to her that he had confided his hopes

and wishes as to obtaining the much-coveted
prize of a private secretaryship. It appeared
to him, indeed, as if everything depended
upon his success. For we are sorry to be
obliged to confess that during the five years
which he had now passed in the Government
service, our hero's views of life had very much
altered, and the bright hopes and aspirations
with which he had joyously entered upon his
new career had given place to feelings of
disappointment and almost despair. As has
been already stated, he was of an easy-going
and confiding nature, with a disposition too
much inclined to trust to what might turn up.
Without ever taking the trouble to inquire
very closely into what he was about to do, he
had conceived a general idea that life in a
Government office would be a sort of dignified
continuation of Harrow, with pleasant companions,
plenty of holidays, and a moderate
amount of work, and that after a year or two
he would be pretty certain to receive something
in the nature of a staff appointment,
which would open the way to a career that
would eventually land him in the ranks of
statesmen, and, for all he knew, might end in

his becoming a Cabinet Minister. In this
pleasing delusion be was to a great extent
encouraged by his father, who, in his happy
self-complacency, had been as satisfied with
his own somewhat limited official career as he
was convinced that its prestige must encompass
and secure the success of his son. To do
him justice, he was thoroughly honest in his
delusion, and firmly believed that, in accepting
the first chance of a Government appointment
that came in his way, he was launching
his son into life in the most satisfactory
manner possible.

For the first year or so, indeed, all scented
pleasant enough. The official hours were by
no means severe, the work was interesting in
its way, and Gerard could not complain of any
want of reasonable indulgence on the part of
his superiors. But when the first novelty had
worn ofi", an uncomfortable suspicion began to
dawn upon him that the Civil Service might
not be altogether the brilliant and dignified
profession that he had at first imagined. Not
that he actually dished the work, or found it
particularly irksome, for he had sufficient good
sense to see that as far as this went he had not

much to complain of; but somehow or other,
he began to fear that the service in which he
had been placed was not only by no means
certain to lead to the distinctions which had
been held before his eyes, but that, in the
meantime, it was not a profession with which
he could desire to identify himself, or in which
he could ever feel any real pride and interest.
At first he had been quite disposed to make
the most of it, and had, in fact, indulged in a
little pardonable " swagger " in virtue of his
official position. But he soon found out that
the position of a Government clerk was not
considered by his friends as anything at all
exceptional, and he was often rather disturbed
by questions as to his future prospects, which
suggested ideas that were by no means reassuring.
He found, moreover, considerable
difficulty in keeping up any connection with
those school friends who had started in life
at the same moment as himself. During the
first summer he managed to get a day's cricket
now and then, which enabled him to meet one
or two of his old associates. But even here
he was at a disadvantage, or seemed to be ;
for the ties of his office prevented him from

making any positive engagements, and he
thus gradually dropped out of this very
pleasant form of social intercourse. During
the autumn and winter he was able to obtain
a fair amount of leave, and to pay some visits
at the country houses of his relatives. But
here, again, he was pursued by embarrassing
questions respecting his office, and as to his
reasons for preferring it to other professions ;
and the impression began to intrude itself
upon him, painful to any one, but indescribably
so to a very young man, that he was
rather " out of it." What wonder, then, that
he should at jSrst grow restless and impatient,
then despairing, and at last settle down into a
sort of hopeless indifference, which augured
ill for his future success ? His first idea was
to throw up his appointment and go into the
army ; but he knew the objections to this
that would be raised at home, and he felt,
moreover, a certain reluctance to admit that
he had so entirely mistaken his vocation.
Then he would take a brighter view of his
prospects, and for a time work on contentedly,
and try to believe that he was really on the
road to official eminence ; and then again some

chance question or incident would cause him
to relapse into despondency.

This state of mind was about as unsatisfactory
for a young man entering life as could
well be imagined, and might doubtless in
many cases have led either to hopeless apathy
or to reckless plunging into dissipation, if
only as an escape from self. Both these forms
of temptation, especially the latter, were present
to Gerard Courtenay. Without, however,
being in any way a model character, he had,
happily, too much self-respect to become
utterly desperate, and was thus preserved
from temptations to which many others might
have at once succumbed. But what was
perhaps most effectual in keeping him straight
in his troubles was a strongly-developed taste
for active sports. He had been a fair cricketer
at Harrow, and pretty near the eleven. He
had shown indications of being a good shot,
and though he was by no means a first-class
horseman, his keenness for the chase was
not diminished by his shortcomings in this
respect ; and whenever treated, as was not
unfrequently the case, to a mount with his
relative Lord Weatherbyby's hounds, he generally

managed to scramble about with a fair
amount of satisfaction to himself, if not to
the unqualified admiration of the field. He
entered keenly, moreover, into such athletic
or out-door pursuits as were compatible with
the occupations of a Government clerk in
London ; played vigorously at football in
winter as well as at cricket in summer ; and,
in short, indulged in every kind of active
exercise that came in his way. So one way
or another, five years had slipped over
Gerard's head with startling rapidity; and
though far from being satisfied with his lot,
he had become to a great extent accustomed
to it, and was forced to admit that there were
extenuating circumstances that made it less
unbearable than he had sometimes, in his
moments of despair, thought it to be. And
although no opportunity had yet presented
itself for rising from the hum-drum level of
a mere clerk to the smart dignity of a private
secretary, there now seemed a possibility of
the wished-for promotion being within his
reach. The Conservative party had now been
in office two years, and if Gerard had been
fortunate, or had specially distinguished himself

for official preferment, which we are sorry
to say was not the case, he might have had
a chance before now. But Sir Antony Flint,
"vvho was the first Vice-president under the
new Administration, was pledged to a relative
of his own ; and Gerard's application, which
was not put forward with much confidence,
or in a manner calculated to ensure success,
being merely in the form of a letter from his
father to Lord Weatherbyby, which was enclosed
in a note from that nobleman to Sir Antony,
without any particular reason being given in
support of the request, was, of course, politely
declined, with an explanation of Sir Antony's
regret that the appointment was already disposed
of. The experience of another two
years, however, had given Gerard some further
ideas as to how these things where generally
managed ; so that, when Sir Antony's apotheosis
was announced, he went straight to
his cousin Lady Mount-eaton, and enlisted
her sympathies in the matter, with the result
which has already been seen.

THE Vice-president.

It is a popular saying, when any sudden or
unexpected event takes place in a man's life,
that lie wakes and finds himself  famous,
ruined, a beggar, a millionaire, or in whatever
other position fortune's freaks may have placed
him. Although Lord Eavendale had awoke in
the ordinary course during the last three days
at Newmarket, on any one of which occasions
he might, if so disposed, have congratulated
himself on being a vice-president, it was not
till the morning after his arrival in London
that he allowed himself to fully realise the important
fact. But being a man of considerable
determination and of an evenly-balanced mind,
he at once proceeded to " pull himself together,"
and dismissing for the present Newmarket,
racing, and other extraneous matters from his
mind, to apply his undivided attention to the
cares and responsibilities of his new office.

He was not, indeed, allowed to wait long
before being made sensible that he had ceased
to be a free man ; for while at breakfast, a
servant entered with a portentous - looking
official box, and announced, with an air of
some importance, that a messenger from the
General Enquiry Office was waiting in the
hall, and would be glad if his lordship could
see him for a moment. His lordship's first
idea was to consign box, messenger, and all to
perdition. Then a hope of momentary reprieve
flashed across him ; for without an official
key it would be impossible for him, no matter
how zealous, to open the red-morocco covered
royal-arms-stamped piece of Government furniture
which lay before him. This hope, however,
was but illusory, for on the messenger
being shown in, he produced, with every
expression of respect, a note from Mr Mills,
the permanent secretary, enclosing an official
key, and explaining the purport of the contents
of the box. So there was nothing for it
but to desire the messenger to wait, and tackle
the various papers forwarded for his perusal.
As these consisted mostly of letters to be
signed, and a few unimportant cases that

obviously required nothing more than the
Vice-president's initials, it was not long before
he had disposed of everything, and ringing
the bell, desired that the box might be given
to the messenger to be returned to the office.
He then proceeded to look through his other
correspondence, trusting that, having so far
done his duty by the State, it would not be
necessary for him to put in an appearance at
the office till later in the day.

Having fortified himself by luncheon at the
Carlton, where further congratulations were
awaiting him, and where he found himself
already in danger of being buttonholed by
applicants for official preferment, his lordship
proceeded to walk leisurely down to Whitehall,
and to cast about for his official abode. Its
whereabouts having been accurately described
to him by his predecessor. Sir Antony Flint,
he had no great difficulty in finding his way,
and arrived at the General Enquiry Office
without having occasion to enlist the services
of either policeman or orange-woman
as a guide. His coming had evidently been
watched for by Messrs Collins & Co., for
as he approached the office doors, they were

VOL. I. F

thrown wide open, and Mr Collins himself,
supported by the whole available strength of
the staff of messengers, appeared, bowing
respectfully, in the foreground. Recognising,
in the gentleman who opened the door, the
familiar features of an ex valet and occasional
waiter, who had often stood behind his chair
at the Speaker's dinner, or ministered to his
wants at the supper-tables of many a London
ball, and who had probably supplied the information
necessary for his identification, his
lordship passed through the hall, and piloted
by the deferential Mr Collins, proceeded to
ascend the stairs, and enter the spacious and
still handsome apartment assigned to the Vice-president.
Here he found everything prepared
for his accommodation : the roomiest of
writing-tables, provided with every description
of superior stationery ; the most comfortably
elevated of standing desks ; the most luxurious
of arm-chairs ; an enormous globe ; and everything,
in short, that could give an air of
comfort to a business room. Nor was Mr
Collins behindhand in doing the honours of
the occasion.

Your lordship's letters. Hope your lordship

will find everything your lordship wants.
Your lordship's private secretary's room is
through that door. This bell is for your
lordship's private secretary. The other rings
downstairs. Any one been to see your lordship
? Oh yes ; there were several gentlemen
called this morning, but I told them that I
thought your lordship would hardly be here
till this afternoon. These are their cards, my
lord. These papers are for your lordship's
signature. Mr Mills wished me to let your
lordship know that he was ready to wait upon
your lordship whenever you wished to see
him." And so on, fussing about the room
meanwhile in a state of importance befitting
the occasion.

Having dismissed his attendant, with an
intimation that he would ring when he wanted
him again, Lord Ravendale proceeded to establish
himself on the hearth-rug with his back
to the fire, in the orthodox British attitude,
and to take a general view of his new position.

Deuced comfortable room," he thought ;
"must have been somebody's drawing-room,
I suppose. Wonder if I shall have much
bother at this place. Wonder what sort of a

fellow Mills is. Hang it ! I suppose I must
send for him, or go and see him. Then
there's that infernal private secretary to be
appointed. Suppose I shall have to ask old
Mills about young What's-his-name. Probably
he has half-a-dozen fellows much better.
However, I had better tackle it at once and
get it over." So after a few moments' reflection,
his lordship rang the bell, and desired
Mr Collins to inform Mr Mills that he should
be glad to see him whenever convenient.

Of the more confidential portion of the first
interview between the permanent secretary
and his new chief it would be unbecoming
to speak. As, however, the more important
topics to be discussed became exhausted, the
conversation began to embrace matters of
general detail.

By the way, my lord," asked Mr Mills, '' I
don't know whether you have decided anything
yet about your private secretary, and
whether you propose to take a man out of the
office, or to bring in some one from outside."

Oh ! ah ! " replied his lordship, glad that
the question had been raised for him, " I
suppose I shall have to think about that. Of

course, you know, I should not like to pledge
myself to any one at present ; but supposing I
were to take a man out of the office, is there
any one in particular you would wish to recommend
? "

"Well," answered Mr Mills, delighted at
having, as he thought, the question referred
to him for decision, "of course you'll take
any one you like, and I don't know whether
you may have had any one recommended to
.you already; but if not, I don't think you
could do much better than keep on Sir
Antony's secretary, Mr Blackett. You would
find him very useful, I am sure. He is
thoroughly well up in the work, very regular
and attentive, and a sharp fellow too ; in fact,
it would be difficult to find as good a man in
the whole office, so far as I am acquainted
with it."

Ah," observed his lordship, " that sounds
well. Of course I ought to have some one
who is well up in the work, and won't make a
fool of himself and me too. By the way,
though, talking of others, I had the name of
a Mr Courtenay mentioned to me. I know
nothing about him, and have no particular

reason for thinking of him ; but supposing I
did, now, what would you say about him ?

"Oh, well," rejoined Mr Mills, his face
rather falling ; for Blackett was his pet man,
and he had reasons for wishing to see him
continue as private secretary, " I have nothing
to say against young Courtenay  nice gentlemanlike
young fellow, and I have no doubt
will make a good official some day; but of
course he is hardly equal to Blackett, who
really is a first-class man. At the same time,
your lordship must judge for yourself; for
the choice of a private secretary is really a
personal matter, and I should not like to
appear to press any one upon you."

"Thanks very much, my dear Mr Mills,"
replied Lord Eavendale. " I must just think
it over. I suppose there is nothing in the
regulations of the office which affects one
more than the other ? "

Oh, dear, no," responded Mr Mills. " If
your lordship will look at this," opening an
Imperial Calendar," you'll see how they stand.
You see the office is divided into three classes
principal clerks, and first and second class
clerks. It is not usual for the Vice-president

to take a secretary from the two first classes,
in fact, it might rather interfere with the
working of the office,  but, at the same time,
if there was any one in the first class whom you
particularly fancied, I have no doubt we could
manage to make some arrangement."

Oh no," exclaimed his lordship ; " I'm all
against interfering with old-established customs.
There is a great deal too much of that
sort of thing now as it is. Let's see now,"
looking over the list. " I see Blackett is at
the head of the second class. Now I suppose
he will soon get promotion into the first class ;
won the?"

Well," said Mr Mills, " that depends on
those above him. I should think one or two
principals would go soon ; in fact, we have
been putting a little pressure on one of them
to go at once. But sometimes it is rather
difficult to clear the way in such a case. Of
course, however, he will get his step sooner or
later, and I am sure no one deserves it better."

Oh," observed Lord Eavendale, still
looking over the names, "now I see four
or eye other fellows besides Blackett and
Courtenay ; what about them ? "

Well my lord, I hardly know what to
say. The two next above Courtenay are very
good clerks, and do their work very well
indeed ; but I am not quite sure that you
would find either of them the stamp of man
for a private secretary. The rest are quite
new to the office, and have really no claim ;
in fact, I hardly know enough of them yet to
be able to say anything about them. I should
think, therefore, unless you have some one
else in view, your choice would lie between
Blackett and Courtenay. And now, if your
lordship has nothing more to say to me at
present, I think I will go back to my work,
as we are rather pressed just now."

"Then good-bye for the present, my dear
Mr Mills," said Lord Eavendale. " I am sure
I am very much obliged to you, and I have no
doubt I shall have to trouble you again about
something or other before very long."

Well," he reflected, when the permanent
secretary had taken his departure, "I shall
have to settle this business somehow, I suppose.
Perhaps I had better see both of these
beggars. I'll wait a bit though first."

So his lordship proceeded to make a closer

investigation of his room  opening doors,
peeping into cupboards, and performing other
acts of self-induction. Having completed the
tour of the room by giving the great globe a
spin which set it revolving at a most alarming
rate, he returned to his letters and the other
business papers which had been put before
him by Mr Mills. Finding that about an
hour's work was sufficient to dispose of these,
he decided to tackle the question of his private
secretary at once, and ringing the bell,
requested to see Mr Blackett.

Sir Antony Flint's late private secretary
was a young gentleman of about two or three
and thirty, who, whether owing to premature
baldness or to a precise and formal manner,
might have been taken for ten years older.
All that had been said in his favour by the
permanent secretary was perfectly true. He
was a most plodding and indefatigable official;
was thoroughly well up in his work, and was
gifted with an accuracy of detail that was
perfectly alarming. He might, perhaps, have
been considered by some as wanting in originality,
and as being rather too much saturated
with red tape to be likely to rise above the

level of an average Government clerk. This,
however, had been no disqualification in the
eyes of Sir Antony, himself one of the driest
and most unoriginal of men, who preferred that
those under him should be mere machines
than that they should develop anything in
the way of original instincts. But with his
more genial successor, who was quite prepared
to look upon his future private secretary in
the light of a companion, it was quite another
thing ; and the clerkly self-complacency of the
gentleman who now stood before him, serene
in the consciousness of his own merits and
of Sir Antony's recommendations, was not
quite so attractive as Mr Blackett himself
imagined.

By Jove," thought Lord Eavendale, " I'm
not so, sure about this fellow. He may be a
deuced good man, but he looks as great a prig
as old Flint himself. Hang it ! I must put
him off somehow for the present."

So while addressing Mr Blackett with great
kindness and courtesy, he took care to let him
understand that he had by no means made up
his mind.

I wished to see you, Mr Blackett," he

began, "because you have been very well
recommended to me both by Sir Antony Flint
and Mr Mills, who speak very highly of
you ; but I think it only right to tell you
that I have had other names mentioned tome
; and so, although I am very glad to have
the pleasure of making your acquaintance, I
can't promise anything at present, and it is
quite possible that I may find myself unable
to meet your wishes."

And with a few more well-chosen words,
for Lord Eavendale knew as well .as most
people how to say the right thing in the right
place, he dismissed the somewhat astonished
Mr Blackett, who had never for a moment
supposed it possible that any one could even
have been thought of in competition to himself,
and resumed his position in front of the
fire.

"Hang it all ! " was the tenor of his reflections,
" this fellow will never do. Couldn't
stand him for a day. He's a deal too clever,
that's what he is, and knows it too. No ! I
must just see the other ; and if he is anything
like the same sort of fellow, I shall have to
fret some one from outside. What a nuisance

it all is ! Don't quite like sending for him
just now, though ; it might look too marked.
By Jove ! I'll get him to come to see me at
the club."

So having ascertained Gerard's private
address from Mr Collins, he wrote a little
note to say that if convenient he would be
glad to see him at the Carlton at eleven
o'clock on the following Monday. And
having by this time got through what
he considered a fair afternoon's work for
his first day at the office, his lordship put
on his hat ; and it being a Saturday, and
no House sitting, betook himself to Grosvenor
Square, with the object of shaking
off the cares of official life by a ride in
the Park while it was still daylight.

THE PRIVATE SECRETARY.

It is hardly necessary to say that when, on
returning to his lodgings in the evening,
Gerard found a missive from the General
Enquiry Office, with the word 'private" at
the top of it, and a large " Ravendale " in
the left-hand corner, his emotions were of no
ordinary description, and that he opened the
letter in a state of trembling excitement. He
was at first just a little disappointed ; for he
had, not unnaturally, jumped at the conclusion
that it was a formal offer of Lord Raven-dale's
private secretaryship ; and he felt that,
till the matter was absolutely settled, the
much' coveted prize might at the last moment
slip from his grasp. On further reflection,
however, he consoled himself with the thought
that Lord Ravendale would hardly send for
him to tell him that he was unable to give
him the place, and that the chances were sofar

decidedly on this side. It was very trying,
however, to have to wait for another day and
two whole nights before knowing his fate ;
and it is not to be wondered at, therefore,
that his sleep that Saturday night was somewhat
broken by alternate visions of success
and disappointment.

His first thought next morning was to see
Lady Mount-eaton, in case she might be
able to throw some light on the subject. So
after having duly attended morning church, a
habit of his boyhood which he had stuck to
very regularly, he made his way to Park Lane,
where he knew that at lunch-time on Sundays
he would not be considered an intruder.

Lady Mount-eaton had, however, nothing
further to tell him ; for her acquaintance with
Lord Eavendale, though sufficient to justify
her in recommending her cousin to his good
offices, was not of an unusually intimate character;
and having, probably, no wish to see
her till the question of his private-secretaryship
was settled one way or another, he had
not thrown himself in her way. But on hearing
of Lord Kavendale's letter, she was quite
disposed to take the most favourable view of

Gerard's prospects, and probably felt pretty
certain in her own mind that lier recommendation
had not been thrown away. So
she gave Gerard every encouragement, and
sent him away very happy.

Ah, Lily ! " he said, having outstayed for a
moment an elderly but devoted nobleman and
a couple of Guardsmen, who had also availed
themselves of Lady Mount-reasons hospitality,
" if I get this place, it will be all owing
to you."

Lily was a pet name which had clung to
Lady Mount-eaton ever since her childhood,
and which, though considered hardly dignified
enough to be habitually applied to the future
Marchioness of St. Ives, was still in occasional
use among her own family, many of whom, indeed,
had never known her by any other name.

Dear Jerry ! " she replied, " I shall be so
pleased if you get it, and I think, you know,
you really ought to. You have been fie
years now in your office  have you not ?  and
it would be a pity if you were not to get
something of the sort soon. I think you'll
find it will be all right."

So she dismissed him with a sweet smile

and a warm slake of the hand, which sent
Gerard away more in love with his charming
cousin than ever.

It was with a beating heart that at eleven
o'clock the next morning Gerard presented
himself at the Carlton Club and inquired for
Lord Kavendale. As it happened, that nobleman
was in the hall at the moment, in earnest
colloquy with two other well-known statesmen
; though whether their conversation was
of affairs of State or the prospects of the Two
Thousand might have been a matter of speculation.
Hearing his name. Lord Kavendale
turned round, and guessing at once who it
was, came forward and made himself known
to Gerard.

"Ah, Courtenay," he said, with a friendly
smile, "glad to see you. I daresay you
won t mind waiting two or three minutes ; "
so desiring a boy in buttons to show Mr
Courtenay into the waiting-room, he resumed
the thread of his conversation, and Gerard
was conducted to a small but comfortably-furnished
room at. the end of a long passage,
and left to himself and the Times. He had
not long to wait, however; for in less than

five minutes the door was opened and Lord
Eavendale appeared. He had been rather
favourably impressed with Gerard at first
sight, and felt more and more decided that
Blackett would never do.

By Jove, this looks rather more like
business," he thought, as he came down the
passage to where Gerard was waiting. " The
fellow is a gentleman anyhow, and that's
half the battle. But he may be a fool for all
that ; I must mind what I'm about."

A few minutes' conversation, however, convinced
his lordship that, although Gerard
might not possess the same official experience
or the same knowledge of details as Mr
Blackett, he was, nevertheless, no fool. He
soon made up his mind, in fact, that if the
great Mr Mills was not prepared to offer any
serious objection, he would give him a trial.
He confined himself, however, at present to
telling Gerard that he had heard about him
from Lady Mount-eaton, but that he had
not yet quite made up his mind; and that,
as Gerard probably knew, there were others
whose names had also been well recommended
to him. But Gerard felt somehow or other

VOL. I. G

that the result of the interview had not been
unfavourable ; and it was with a light step
and a feeling of hope that he wended his
way across St James's Park and entered his
accustomed room at the General Enquiry
Office, to await the course of events.

He was not kept very long in suspense,
for at about three o'clock the great Mr
Collins in person, who did not as a rule condescend
to show himself in the upper and
less dignified regions of the office, entered
his room with the announcement that Lord
Kavendale would be glad to speak to him.
Gerard felt that the wished-for moment
had arrived, and following the official Mercury
downstairs, found himself in the presence
of the Vice-president and Mr Mills, and
divined at a glance that the thing was done,

Tien I'll leave you just now, my lord,
as you may wish to speak to Courtenay,"
observed Mr Mills as Gerard entered; and
forthwith departed, leaving them alone together.


Gerard hardly knew whether he stood on
his head or his heels, and felt, as he afterwards
described it, much as he had done when sent

for by the head of the football eleven at
Harrow to be told that he might "get his
shirt."

Well, Courtenay," began Lord Ravendale,
in the most friendly tone, " I have been talking
to Mr Mills about you, and I am glad to
say he gives you a very good character ; so if
you are willing, I shall be very glad to take
you as my private secretary."

Gerard, although to some extent prepared
for this realisation of his hopes, was only
able to stammer out a few words of gratitude,
and of hopes, which he felt were very badly
expressed, that Lord Eavendale would find
him satisfactory.

'' Oh, well," said his lordship, who hated
everything in the way of expression of feeling,
and dreaded nothing so much as being thanked,
"it is all right then, and I have no doubt we
shall get on first rate. We shall have some
things to talk about, I suppose, and I dare say
you'll be able to tell me all about the office.
In the meantime, if it is convenient to you
to begin at once, there are some letters here
I should be glad to have answered. I have
written what I want said on the backs of

them, and you might just try your hand on
one, and show it to me before going on with
the others." For although Lord Eavendale
might appear to some to be indifferent and
careless on certain matters, he was particular
to a degree about his personal correspondence,
and had no notion of being subjected to any
stereotyped ideas of red tape or official
routine.

So Gerard took possession of the letters,
and with the sensation of treading on air,
established himself in the adjoining room,
which he had often before entered in the
course of business, and which it had been one
of his fondest dreams to inhabit as a recognised
and legitimate occupant. Having selected
from the bundle what appeared to him a
representative type of communication, namely,
an application from one of Lord Eavendale's
constituents for a " Government appointment,"
a piece of preferment which, without any
particular branch of the public service being
indicated, it is popularly supposed by a good
many people that a Minister can at any time
confer by a stroke of his pen, he proceeded
to answer the applicant in the sense indicated

by Lord Eavendale's pencil notes on the
envelope, clothed in his own very best official
language, and then took it in for his lordship's
inspection.

With a few trifling alterations, which, however,
were quite sufficient to indicate to Gerard
the style in which the new Vice-president
wished his correspondence to be conducted,
the letter was approved, and Gerard set to
work to dispose of the others in a similar
fashion.

It is unnecessary to follow our hero through
the whole of his first afternoon's work as a
private secretary. There was, of course, much
to be done in the way of explaining official
papers, interviewing office-seekers, and making
arrangements for the general conduct of the
work ; and Gerard had little time for contemplating
himself in his new position. When,
however, Lord Kavendale had gone down to the
House and left him alone to finish up his afternoon's
work, he began to realise the fact that
he had actually arrived at the 
dignity of a private secretary, and for the
moment it appeared to him as if the world had
nothing better to osier. His official life up to

the present had not, on the whole, been a happy-one
; for though he had by degrees become
accustomed to it, and was to some extent
reconciled to his position, there were times
when the old feeling of despair and hopelessness
would return upon him, and he would
feel as if he had made an irreparable mistake.
It is true that the emoluments attached to
his new office were not such as would at first
sight impress the uninitiated with any particular
sense of vastness, being limited to
the modest sum of 200 per annum. But
Gerard's ideas were by no means of an extravagant
order, and his tastes being simple and
inexpensive, he had hitherto contrived to exist
very comfortably on what might have
appeared to others to be decidedly limited
means. The pay of the General Enquiry
Office was so far superior to that of many
other offices in that the commencing salary
for the lowest class of clerks was 250, instead
of 150, or in some cases a bare 100 a year.
Gerard's salary had now risen to 350, so that
with the additional 200 as private secretary
and an allowance from his father of 50, he
was now in the enjoyment of the by no means

despicable income of 600 a year. Out of
this he paid 70 a year for a modest lodging
in the neighbourhood of Portman Square, and
of course had to keep himself. But by strict
economy he had hitherto found himself able,
after making due allowance for lodging, subsistence,
club expenses, and other necessary
items, to devote the best part of 150 a year
to his own uses ; and being, as has already
been observed, of a quiet and rather retiring
disposition, with a strongly-developed turn for
field-sports, his inclinations led him rather to a
study of how best to utilise his modest means
in this direction than to spend his money
in " knocking about " in general society, after
the manner of most young men of his age and
social standing. With this laudable object in
view, he had concentrated his energies upon
doing as much in the way of hunting as his
leave and the state of his pocket would admit
of; and having, by the help of an occasional
mount from his cousin Lord Weatherbyby and a
little occasional hiring, got through one or two
winters with great satisfaction to himself, he
had about a year before the commencement of
our story become, for the first time, the proprietor

of a piece of liorse-flesli of his own.
The noble animal in question had been one
of Lord Weatherbyby's hunting stud, and was
a well-bred and thoroughly safe and steady
hunter. But having been a good deal
knocked about at one time and another, and
being just the least bit touched in the wind,
he had lately been hardly up to the amount
of work required for a huntsman's horse, and
when spring came round it was proposed
that his name should be included in the
annual list of horses to be sold at Tattersall's.
Gerard had happened to be staying at Warrington
at the time, and having been once or
twice mounted on the quadruped in question,
had fairly earned Lord Weatherbyby's approbation
by the way in which he had ridden him.
So being kindly disposed towards his cousin,
and knowing that the horse was not likely
to fetch much at auction, Lord Weatherbyby
offered to make Gerard a present of him, an
offer which was most gratefully accepted. It
is true that at the moment our friend had no
very definite ideas as to how or where he was
to keep a horse, but this was a matter of
detail. His first thought on returning to

London was to look about for suitable accommodation
for his stud, and for a functionary
to act in the capacity of groom. As regards
the former, he received unexpected assistance
in the shape of a stall gratis ; for, having
confided his position to the Dowager Lady
Narborough, a sort of relative by marriage,
to whom he had gone to pay his respects one
Sunday afternoon, that kind-hearted old lady,
always ready to do young men a good turn,
had suggested to him that as her own pair of
fat carriage-horses only occupied two out of
the four stalls of her stables in Eaton Square,
he might, if he chose, make arrangements
with her coachman for the accommodation of
his own animal on such terms as might be
agreed upon. This offer was too good to be
refused, and it was not long before Gerard had
interviewed the functionary in question, with
the result that by the time the horse was sent
up to London a stall was ready for his reception,
and a helper, to be subsidised by Gerard,
but under the supervision of her ladyship's
coachman, was in readiness to perform the
duties of groom.

Gerard was now, therefore, the master of a

moderately sound and thoroughly " confidential"
hunter, on terms which involved very
little outlay on his own account ; and it would
be difficult to exaggerate the satisfaction
which his new acquisition gave him. Great
was the care taken of the noble animal during
the summer, which was none the less enjoyable
to Gerard for his having a horse of
his own to disport himself upon in Rotten
Now ; and solemn were the consultations with
Lady Narborough's coachman as to the best
means of getting him into condition for the
next hunting season. So what between an
occasional day with a pack of harriers within
reach of London, and periodical expeditions
to certain packs of foxhounds farther a-field,
Gerard continued to get through the next
winter with a considerable amount of enjoyment
; and by taking great care of his horse,
found that he was quite up to about one day a
week with the foxhounds and a day now and
then with the harriers. He began, in short,
to tread pretty regularly in the steps of the
immortal Mr Jorrocks, for which hero of the
chase he had the most profound regard and
admiration. Of course, however, his hunting

ardour was considerably limited by the smallness
of bis stud ; and his first thought in
regard to his increased official income was
that he might now be able to keep another
horse.

But apart from any consideration of sport
or amusement, there was much involved in
his new position for which Gerard felt very
thankful. Five years in a subordinate position
at a Government office is not calculated
to excite any deep feeling of enthusiasm for
the service ; and Gerard, although he had
done his best to get up an interest in his
work, had of late felt thoroughly sick and
weary of it. Now everything was to be
changed: he was about to abandon a life of
routine and drudgery for the dignified bustle
and pleasant mystery enveloping the life of
a private secretary to a Minister, and the
whole world of statesmanship seemed to lie
open before him. It was an additional gratification
to him, moreover, to think that he
was to be associated with a chief whose
general tastes seemed to lie in much the
same direction as his own, and that there
was every prospect of his being brought in

contact with others of the same standing,
from whose society his position as a mere
clerk in a Government office had to some
extent debarred him.

It was, therefore, with a light heart that
he finished up his first day's work as a private
secretary, and then went upstairs before leaving,
to make arrangements for the transfer
of certain office properties from the room
which he had occupied for so long, and where
he had passed through so many alternations
of hope and despondency. It was now late,
and most of the members of the office had
left ; so that silence reigned in the usually
busy rooms and passages. As Gerard glanced
round the familiar apartment and its mixture
of matter-of-fact official surroundings and some
small attempts at personal comfort, he could
not help indulging in a lingering feeling of
affection towards the old room, which he was at
the same time about to leave with such hearty
goodwill ; and perhaps experienced something
 of that regard which is said to be not
uncommon in the case of prisoners who, when
at last released from a long confinement, look
round for the last time upon their prison

walls with a sensation almost approaching to
tenderness. But above all, in Gerard's heart
was a feeling of great thankfulness, and a sincere
resolution to do his best in the new
line of life which had been opened to him ; and
in this happy state of mind we will leave him
for the present.

LADY Marlborough's CARRIAGE 1 "

The London season was drawing to a close.
The days of the session were numbered,
although it was dying hard ; and it was only
with the greatest difficulty that the whips
on either side were able to keep a sufficient
number of worn-out and grumbling legislators
in their places. The State balls and concerts
were all over, and the Lord Chamberlain was
able, for the first time for months, to enjoy
an immunity from applications in every form,
and on every conceivable ground, for the
much-coveted honour of an invitation to
Buckingham Palace. The crowd of riders in
Rotten Row was diminishing daily ; it was
becoming possible to drive from the Marble
Arch to Hyde Park Corner without any material
check ; and the last Monday's Morning Post
had for the first time made its appearance
without the usual list of fashionable arrangements.

Not, however, that the season was
going to expire without a parting kick ; and
there were still two or three little dances and
other entertainments-to come off, which were
perhaps none the less appreciated for being
the last events before the fall of the curtain.

It was at daybreak then, on a lovely
morning during the last week of July, that
one of these valedictory entertainments at an
old-fashioned house in Berkeley Square was
beginning to break up. The regular alternations
of dances had long been abandoned, and
the band had settled down into a continuous
waltz, which, judging from the pertinacity
with which it was being kept up by the few
couples left in the room, showed no signs of
being brought to a speedy conclusion. Nota
"wallflower" was to be seen, and only an
occasional chaperon, for no one would care to
remain so late in the ball-room except for real
hard work. But downstairs there was still
a crowd; there was not a seat to be had in
the supper-room, and a good deal of quiet
business " was being done in the cloak-room
and in the hall.

Well, Master Jerry," observed a sprightly

young person, of whose face an ample " cloud "
left nothing to be seen except a pair of mischievous
dark eyes and a set of handsome but
rather irregular features, " When shall you and
I meet again ? I suppose this is about your
last appearance in public too ; is it not ? "

Yes," replied Gerard, " I expect to get
away on Thursday, and I am going down
home for some cricket, which is more in my
line than this sort of thing, you know. I
must say, though, this has been a very jolly
ball ; and now it's the end of the season, I
can't help wishing I had done a little more in
this way. But then they are not all as
pleasant as this, you know ; now if one always
felt sure of meeting you, for instance "

Oh, yes ; we know all about that," interrupted
his fair companion, in the most flippant
manner. " However, you always were a
perfect idiot. What are you going to do all
the autumn ? "

Oh, well," replied Gerard, " I don't exactly
know. You see it depends a good deal on my
chief. I shall get a bit of a holiday now,
but I fancy he has some idea of being about
London during September and October, so I

shall have to be here too. But he is such
an awfully good fellow that I could always
manage to get away for a bit every now and
then, I am sure. But I have not got any real
engagement till November, and then I am
going down to Sydmonton for some cover-shooting.
That's a long time to come yet,
though, and a great many things may happen
between this and then. What are you going
to do ? I suppose you'll go down to Scotland
first."

Oh, yes," replied the lady ; " the usual
thing, I suppose  visit about till November,
and then go and vegetate at home. Perhaps
mamma will ask you to come and see us, if
you behave yourself. Here she is at last," asa
stately dame appeared in the doorway of the
supper-room, escorted by an elderly admirer,
who showed no signs of having found the task
of providing for the requirements of a hungry
chaperon by any means an unpleasant one.
For the Dowager Lady Narborough had been
a beauty in her day ; and though in the now
portly and well developed frame there were
but distant traces of the figure that, thirty
years ago, had been considered one of the

VOL. I. H

finest in London, there still remained the same
brightness of disposition and kindness of heart
that had through life endeared her to all with
whom she came in contact. Her daughter,
Lady Adelaide Middleton, could hardly be
considered as bearing a striking likeness to
her mother ; for although by no means a bad-looking
girl, with the exception of fine eyes
and hair she had no particular claims to downright
beauty. Neither had she her mother's
charm of temper and disposition ; and although
she could be most gracious and pleasing at
times, she was apt to be a little uncertain in
this respect, and was rather too fond of saying
sharp things to be universally popular. She
had, however, inherited her mother's fine
figure, or a very fair share of it, and when she
was really disposed to make herself pleasant,
there were few more attractive girls in London.
On the present occasion she had enjoyed her
ball, and was in a particularly good temper ;
and she was therefore quite inclined to make
herself agreeable to her cousin, or so-called
cousin, Gerard Courtenay, for whom she had a
certain liking, which, without in any way partaking
of real sentiment, she had no objection

to allowing to drift into a mild form of flirtation
when nothing better presented itself.

Oh, there you are, Adelaide ! " exclaimed
Lady Narborough. " Why, I thought you
were still dancing. Now, Gerard, you had
better go and call the carriage. Thank you,
Sir Thomas, so much," to the gallant old warrior
who was now enshrouding her ample and
still well shaped shoulders in a large fur cloak.
"Dear me, Adelaide, you naughty child, it is
quite light ; you ought to have been in bed
long ago. Now, Gerard, have they answered? "

"Why, mamma," laughed Lady Adelaide,
the carriage has been up twice already, said
here it is again," as a stentorian voice from
the hall door announced, in tones of slight
remonstrance, that Lady Narborough's carriage
stopped " the whole of the way," implying
thereby a degree of obstructiveness on the
part of that highly respectable vehicle, which,
if persisted in, would seem likely to interfere
with the departure of the other guests.

Coming out ! " was now the word, as her
ladyship, with many smiles and nods to her
acquaintances in the waiting crowd, worked
her way through the hall on the arm of the

bold Sir Thomas, leaving Lady Adelaide to
follow with Gerard, to where the linkman, a
scarlet-waistcoated gentleman of easy manners
and a profound knowledge of the world, was
awaiting her exit with his now superfluous
lantern.

Step here, my lady. Hope your ladyship
enjoyed the ball. Had a very hard time tonight,
my lady. Got no voice left at all,"
intruding his hat at the carriage window.
Drive on, coachman " (seeing no chance of a
shilling). " Who's next ? " again in the most
stentorian of tones.

"Good-night, Gerard," called out Lady
Narborough, as the carriage began to move
ofi*; "no use offering you a lift, I know."
And off they drove.

Gerard stood for a moment looking after
them with a pleasing sensation of regret. He
had enjoyed the ball very much, and had
danced a good deal with Lady Adelaide,
who had certainly made herself unusually
charming, and had given him a little squeeze
of the hand as she got into the carriage, that
was still thrilling very pleasantly through his
pulses. Not that he was in love with her ;

for lie knew her well enough, and had sufficient
sense to be aware that such a proceeding on his
part, although it might possibly amuse her very
much, would, as far as he was concerned, belittle
short of madness. But without being
unusually susceptible in such matters, he was
not insensible to the fascinations of his soidisant
cousin, and none the less perhaps
because it was not very often that she condescended
to exercise them upon him. She
was fond of him, however, in a certain way,
and found considerable occupation and amusement
in alternately teasing and making much
of him. Their relationship was not really a
very close one, being merely derived from the
circumstance that her brother, the present
Lord Narborough, had married a second cousin
of Gerard's. Lady Adelaide and he were
therefore only cousins by the merest courtesy.
But the Weatherbyby and Narborough families
had always been more or less intimate ; and
the Dowager Lady Narborough had, as has
been seen, taken rather a liking to Gerard, so
that when Lord Narborough's marriage took
place, it was found much the simplest way to
consider Gerard as included in the arrangement

; and, as may be inferred from the scraps
of conversation we have just recorded, they
were upon terms of considerable intimacy.

So Gerard looked after the rapidly vanishing
carriage with a feeling that was approaching
to tenderness ; till, recognising the fact
that such weakness could not exhibit him to
advantage in the eyes of that profound philosopher
and personal acquaintance of his own,
the before-mentioned linkman, he turned
into the house again ; and, not caring to
spoil the pleasant termination of his night's
amusement by mingling further with the
rapidly-departing crowd, he proceeded to get
his coat and hat, and lighting a cigarette at
the lantern of his friend outside, started to
walk quietly home.

Gerard's lodgings were in Seymour Street,
Portman Square, and therefore in a diametrically
opposite direction to Lady Narborough's
house in Eaton Square. It was, as we have
said, a lovely morning ; and, as he walked up
Hill Street in the direction of Park Lane, the
freshness of early dawn was most enjoyable.
Not a sound was to be heard except the
distant rumbling of the streams of market-carts

that for some hours past had been converging
towards Covent Garden along the
great arteries of Piccadilly and Oxford Street ;
the atmosphere was as yet unpolluted by
smoke ; and even the hard, uncompromising
outlines of the dingy old Mayfair houses
looked almost picturesque in the crisp morning
air. Gerard walked leisurely on, in calm
enjoyment of his cigarette, till, as he turned
into Park Lane, he came upon a gentlemanlike
himself, in evening costume, though with
a pipe instead of a cigarette in his mouth,
who was leaning against a lamp-post and
apparently in amicable conversation with a
policeman. As Gerard approached, he turned
round, and disclosed the features of the identical
individual whom, in company with our
hero, we had the pleasure of introducing to
our readers in the first chapter of this veracious
history.

Hollo ! Why, George, what on earth are
you doing here ? " was Gerard's first exclamation.


Doing, my dear fellow ? " was the reply ;
"why, I'm just having a pipe, and a chat
with 92 A, who'd be smoking too, if he dared,

poor clap. Hang it all! why should you
children of pleasure have the monopoly of
the best part of the morning ? Why, I got
up on purpose to see the sunrise."

Oh, yes," replied Gerard, laughing, " so
likely, and in your evening clothes too. But
I say, bar sell, old fellow, where have you
been dissipating all night ? Come, 111 walk
down as far as Piccadilly with you, or you
can walk up to the Marble Arch with me."

No," returned the other, " I've just come
from up there, and I'll be hanged if I go back
again. Well," as they linked arms and walked
down Park Lane together, after a friendly
parting with 92 A, " what sort of a night
have you had in the gay world ? "

Oh, I've had a very jolly ball," answered
Gerard. " But I say, what have you really
been doing ? You're about the last fellow I
should have expected to meet out here on the
loose this time in the morning."

Well," replied his companion, " the fact is,
I've been dining with an old fellow in Cumberland
Place, who's desperate keen about chess;
and after every one had gone, we got talking
about it, and ended by beginning to play

about twelve o'clock, and only left off half an
hour ago. Devilish good game chess. I don't
know anything one gets more engrossed in."

And how did you get on with the old
boy ? " inquired Gerard, airily. He was ina
light-hearted frame of mind that morning,
and quite inclined to take a cheerful view of
things in general.

Oh, well," returned his friend, " we
weren't such a bad match. I'm rather keen
about it too, you know, and can play a bit
sometimes. But he got the best of it on the
whole. I say, though, we must go to bed ;
why, it's past four, and I've got to be* up
earlyish too. So farewell, old fellow, and
thanks for the benefit of your company so far.
Daresay I'll come and look you up at that
office of yours in a day or two. I shall be
going off soon now, and mayn't see much
more of you at present."

All right, old man," said Gerard, now
beginning to yawn a little ; " you'll find me
there all day now, as we're hard at work finishing
up." And with a parting nod to his
friend he turned back up Park Lane, and
walked briskly home.

From what we have already said of Gerard
Courtenay, it will not perhaps be considered
remarkable that, among his numerous faults
or deficiencies there should be a certain
difficulty or backwardness, owing, in a great
measure, to constitutional shyness and reserve,
in making friends ; and that although he had
now been some years about London, and had
a fairly extensive circle of acquaintances, the
number of his intimate associates should still
be very small. Being, however, by no means
unconscious of or insensible to his own shortcomings
in this respect, he was disposed to
cling all the more closely to those whom he
felt that he could really call his friends ; and
of these, George Morton was perhaps the one
whose companionship was more agreeable to
him than that of any other.

George Morton was one of those persons
who, without appearing to fill any particular
position in life, are generally accepted on all
sides as perfectly natural institutions. He
was the only son of a clergyman of old family,
though limited means, in East Kent ; and
having as a boy shown a considerable turn for
mechanics, it had been intended that he should

be a civil engineer. With this object in view,
he had, on leaving Winchester, been regularly
entered as an apprentice at the locomotive
shops of one of the northern railways, where
he had worked for about two years, during
which time he had become acquainted with
the rudiments of the profession, and might
probably in time have developed into a good
practical engineer. But being of a somewhat
restless turn of mind, he had, after the first
novelty of the thing had worn off, become
tired of the necessary drudgery involved in
the thorough mastery of the details of an
engineer's profession ; and having, by the recent
death of his father, succeeded to a small sum
of ready money, amounting to about 3000,
he turned a deaf ear to the entreaties of
his relations and the remonstrances of his
employers, who had recognised his undoubted
talents and were sorry to part with him, and
embarking the greater part of his small
capital in a South-american cattle venture,
sailed for the Argentine Republic, in company
with two other equally restless and adventurous
spirits.

There he remained for five years, during

which time he learned a good deal about
cattle, became an excellent horseman, and in
the course of three prosperous seasons earned
his share of a very respectable "pile." But
at the moment when everything seemed most
prosperous, and the adventurous trio were
congratulating themselves on the prospect of
being in a fair way to make their fortune,
their luck suddenly turned. A raid of Indians
swept off nearly every head of their cattle,
the "ranch" was burned over their heads,
and they barely escaped with their lives.
And, to crown their misfortune, on repairing
to Buenos Ayres to seek advice from the
authorities as to what was the best thing todo,
they found that the bank in which they
had invested their earnings had stopped payment,
and that they were ruined and almost
penniless in a foreign and barely civilised
country. The partnership thus broke up perforce,
one of the friends returning to England,
and another obtaining employment as a headman
and overlooker in a similar establishment
to that in which he had himself been lately a
partner. Morton, who had had about enough
of cattle-driving for the present, determined

to see whether his engineering education
could not be utilised in some way or other,
and had in fact secured an engagement as a
fireman on a new line of railway, when a letter
arrived from England to inform him that by
the death of an uncle he had come into a
small independence of about 600 a year.
This sudden and somewhat unexpected change
in his fortune not unnaturally decided him
upon altering his plans. He had now been
five years absent from home, and had had a
good deal of knocking about ; and although
he had no very special ties or associations in
England, he could not resist a certain longing
to get back to civilised life again. So without
waiting for remittances, he contrived, by
the sale of a horse, a rifle, and a few articles
saved from the wreck of the once prosperous
cattle-farm, to raise enough money to pay his
outstanding expenses and defray the cost of a
passage to England.

Such, at least, was George Morton's account
of his career in South America. But respecting
the three or four years that followed his
return to England he was very reticent ; and
all that his few intimate friends were able to

say as to this period of his existence was that,
after living in London for about six months,
he had suddenly gone abroad again, and had
only reappeared at rare intervals, when he
seemed to shun the society of his fellow-men
more than ever. For George Morton was,
like Gerard Courtenay, although not altogether
for the same reason, a man of few friends ;
and the rough, self-reliant life he had led in
South America had imparted a certain hardness
to his character which did not render
him a very attractive companion to most
young men of his age. But about this he
cared, or seemed to care, little; and he was
the last man in the world to seek a friendship
where it was not voluntarily offered. As one
of the Mortons of Needham, one of the oldest
families in Kent, he would have had no
difficulty in obtaining access to at least a very
respectable section of London society, especially
as he was a well-built, handsome fellow,
and was known to have "something of his
own." But he preferred to go his own way ;
and though he might occasionally be seen at
a quiet dinner-party, or, on very rare occasions,
for half an hour at a ball, he was completely

out of the regular circle of pleasure-seekers,
and in a very short time began to beset
down by the ladies of his acquaintance
as " rather a strange young man ; very nice,
certainly, but seems odd, and evidently some
mystery about him."

He and Gerard had met at one of the old-fashioned
taverns that are still to be found
here and there in the neighbourhood of Fleet
Street, where the latter had found himself one
evening when, feeling more than usually despondent
about his position and prospects at
the General Enquiry Office, he had taken a
solitary walk up the Strand and into the City
without knowing exactly where he was going,
but feeling a desire to get away and be by
himself. They had sat at the same table, and
had got into conversation over a newspaper ;
and having somewhat outstayed the other
habitues of the place, had walked back together
along the Strand. Morton, who was a member
of a literary and theatrical club in the
neighbourhood of Covent Garden, had asked
Gerard in ; an invitation to dinner followed,
and was accepted ; and in a very short time
the two became fast friends. Something

about Gerard had attracted Morton from the
first, and lie had exerted himself more than
was his wont to draw him out and cultivate
his acquaintance. And Gerard, who, although
shy and reserved with most people, was of
an affectionate and by no means unsociable
disposition, was only too glad to welcome a
friend who was evidently a thorough gentleman,
and whose mental superiority and wider
experience of the world he was quite willing
to acknowledge. So their intimacy grew and
prospered, and at the period of our story
there were no two firmer friends in London.

Edmonton PLACE.

The old-fashioned type of country-house,
with its old-fashioned ideas of hospitality, is
rapidly becoming a thing of the past. The
increased facilities for locomotion, the spread
of "society" periodicals, and the universal
desire to outshine their neighbours and appear
to be something better than they really sure,
have within a comparatively recent ]period
done a great deal to change the tone and character
of country gentlemen of every grade.
London manners and London ideas are imported
into the most remote country districts ;
and the Londoner who is not particularly well
up in the current gossip of Mayfair and St
James's Street, but who flatters himself that
the mere fact of hailing from the metropolis
will constitute him a social authority in the
particular rural district which he may be
honouring by a visit, will probably find to

VOL. I. I

his surprise and disgust that he is a good deal
more " out of it " than the simple country-people
he has come down to impress ; who are,
in fact, able to enlighten and correct him on
many points where he had fondly hoped to
shine forth as a social authority. Country
society has, in fact, undergone a great revolution,
and the patriarchal yet dignified simplicity
of the Hall or the Grange is being
rapidly metamorphosed into a rechauffe of the
least attractive characteristics of London 
and London clubs.

Here and there, however, a relic of the past
is still to be found. In some cases the consciousness
of an unassailable social position
has had the effect of engendering an indifference
to the caprices of fashion ; and in others
there has been sufficient good sense to see the
folly of striving after what is only likely to
end in disappointment. And where this
happy state of things is still to be found, the
effect on the unprejudiced observer is likely
to be as pleasing as the contrast between the
world worn graces of a " professional beauty "
and the fresh and unspoilt charms of an unsophisticated
country girl.

Among such landmarks of a bygone age
it would have been difficult, at the period of
our story, to find a more characteristic specimen
than Sydmonton Place, Wealdshire, the
residence from time immemorial of the ancient
family of Sydmonton. So ancient, indeed,
are the family traditions that the name,
which was originally spelt Edmonton, is
to be found among the records of persons
of distinction in the south-eastern districts
of England at the time of the Norman Conquest
; and one John Edmonton, a baron
of Kent, is chronicled as having valiantly
defended his native town against William
of Normandy. Without, however, troubling
the reader further with the pedigree of this
stupendously respectable family, it may be
sufficient to state that towards the close of
the seventeenth century its then representative
had been raised to the peerage under the title
of Baron Sydmonton, and that the present
peer was the fourth Viscount.

Lord Sydmonton, who was now an elderly
man, had for many years led a somewhat
retired life ; and although a potentate of more
than usual distinction in his own part of the

country, was but little known in either social
or political circles in London. He had in
early life been for a short time in the diplomatic
service, and had subsequently, as Mr.
Sydmonton, represented the now disfranchised
borough of Middlehaven in Parliament. But
he had never had any real taste for political
life, and had very soon become tired of the
House of Commons ; so that when two years
afterwards he succeeded to the title, he was
only too ready to take advantage of the
excuse offered by the cares and obligations of
a large estate for absenting himself almost
entirely from London, and withdrawing to
the seclusion of his ancestral domains. Here
for several years he lived in comparative
retirement, shutting up the stately reception-rooms
and living in bachelor simplicity in
two or three rooms at the extreme end of the
house. Being the only very large proprietor
in that part of the country, he had absolutely
no neighbours of his own rank, and but few
others with whom he cared to associate ; for
his lordship was at that time of a shy and
retiring disposition, and duly impressed,
moreover, with the danger to be apprehended

from designing mammas and fascinating
daughters. Having, however, succeeded in
escaping whatever perils of this description
had beset his path in London, he found it a
comparatively easy matter to shelter himself
behind the entrenchments of Sydmonton
Place ; and had long ago been set down by
the neighbourhood as a confirmed old bachelor.
But he was only too happy to be let
alone, and left to the free and unrestricted
development of his own tastes and ideas, of
which it would have been difficult to say
whether a passion for ancient classics or a
devotion to modern field-sports was the frost
absorbing. He was a profound Greek scholar,
and in addition to having spent more than one
winter between the plains of Marathon and
the supposed site of Troy, was known to bethe
author of a more than usually erudite
treatise on the Grecian drama, and was suspected
of having translated the Alcestis of
Euripides into fairly readable English verse.
He was, moreover, a great collector of antiquities,
both literary and otherwise, and the
Sydmonton collection of black-letter books is
still justly celebrated throughout Europe. At

the same time, lie was passionately fond of
field-sports, and although the great preponderance
of woodland prevents that part of
Wealdshire from being a hunting country, the
natural facilities for game-preserving are very
great, and of these Lord Sydmonton availed
himself to the utmost. Not that he was by
any means a devotee of that particular form of
poultry slaughter known as battue-shooting,
which indeed, in common with many other
modern innovations, he held in supreme contempt.
And although he maintained a large
staff of keepers and watchers, their duties,
when not employed in attending on their
master, were principally confined to keeping
the woods quiet, and restraining the juvenile
population from bird-nesting during the hatching
season. For although devoted to shooting,
his lordship was not unmindful of the interests
of his poorer neighbours and dependants,
by whom he was universally beloved ; and as
every labourer on the place knew that he was
certain at the proper time to get his due share
of the rabbits that he saw playing about the
sunny banks which sheltered his own well-built
cottage from the prevailing south-west wind.

it was not surprising that lie should himself
come to take a pride and interest in the game
that was his landlord's delight, and that poaching
should, therefore, be almost unknown. On
the last occasion, indeed, when a gang of professionals
from the nearest town had attempted
to do a little business on an outlying portion
of the property, the story went that the whole
of the inhabitants had risen like one man
against the would-be depredators, who, having
been somewhat roughly handled and half-drowned
in the muddiest of Wealdshire ponds,
were hunted out of the district with an intimation
that, if they attached any special value
to their lives or limbs, they would do well to
select some other estate than Sydmonton as
the scene of any future operations.

So Lord Sydmonton was enabled to pursue
his favourite sport with the hearty co-operation
of both tenantry and labourers ; and he
might, indeed, be said to have brought the art
of honest old-fashioned shooting to perfection.
For although, as we have said, he religiously
set his face against battue - shooting in the
ordinary acceptance of the term, there was
hardly a day during the season when shooting

of some sort was not going on over some part
of his extensive property ; and there were
many special beats where as good a day's sport
could be met with as would satisfy any but the
most insatiable glutton.

Year after year rolled by, and Lord Edmonton
continued to lead a peaceful and
uneventful life, happy in his own pursuits,
and desiring nothing better than to be left to
himself and the society of a few chosen friends,
of literary or sporting tastes corresponding
with his own, whom he would invite down to
Sydmonton for the shooting season, and whose
regular and protracted visits caused them to
be looked upon by the establishment almost
as members of the family. This state of things
might indeed have gone on till both his lordship
and his friends had grown grey together.
But his day and his fate came at last ; and a
thunderbolt burst upon the neighbourhood
one morning in the shape of a rumour, which
was not long in receiving substantial confirmation,
that Lord Sydmonton was going to be
married. Nor was the interest of the good
people of that part of Wealdshire by any means
lessened when it became known that the

future Viscountess was of a Wealdsliire family,
and might, in fact, be considered as one of
themselves.

Among his lordship's oldest and dearest
friends was the Eev. Samuel Tudway, canon of
Westminster and rector of LuUingston, a good-sized
village nestling at the foot of the downs,
about fifteen miles from Sydmonton Place.
This estimable divine had been Lord Edmonton'
s tutor at Cambridge, and had been the
principal means of developing and maturing
his taste for classical literature. They had
continued firm friends ever since, and it was
through Lord Sydmonton's interest, perhaps
none the less efficacious for being so rarely
exerted, that the ex-tutor had been appointed
to a canonry of Westminster Cathedral. Without
in any way approaching the character of
the typical sporting parson, the Eev. Samuel
dearly loved an occasional relaxation from the
duties of a large and straggling parish, which
he discharged with a zeal and conscientiousness
that endeared him to rich and poor alike, in the
shape of a little honest sport ; and no better
or keener shot was to be found among the
friendly circle who would assemble at Edmonton

during the shooting season, where his
genial presence was welcomed equally by his
noble entertainer and by the old keeper and
his myrmidons, who one and all looked upon
"Parson" as the personification of clerical
dignity, and who, if they had been called
upon to define their ideas of Church and State,
would have unhesitatingly expressed their
opinion in favour of "Parson" as the one,
and " my lord " as the other.

It will readily be understood, then, that
when, one cold winter's night, the " Paa' son's "
outdoor factotum and man-of-all-work arrived
at Sydmonton on his master's horse, with a
scared and sorrowful face, and a note from the
old housekeeper (for the old rector had long
been a widower,) to the effect that he had been
taken seriously ill, and that in his occasional
intervals of consciousness he could talk of
nothing but his lordship, the distress that was
felt throughout the household, from Lord
Sydmonton down to the steward's-room boy,
was both deep and genuine. His lordship,
indeed, made no attempt to conceal his emotion
; and though he had had a long and tiring
day, lost no time in ordering out his carriage.

a light, old-fashioned sort of curricle, with
various obsolete leather contrivances for keeping
out wind and rain, and hurried" over to
Wellington as fast as a pair of well-bred and
fast-trotting cobs could take him. It was a
melancholy satisfaction to find, on his arrival,
that his old friend and preceptor was still conscious,
though evidently fast sinking. There
was no appearance of physical pain, though
something evidently weighed heavily on the
dying man's mind. But Lord Sydmonton's
arrival was evidently a great relief to him,
and a ray of pleasure shot across. his face, as,
raising himself in the arm-chair where he "had
been seized with his attack, and whence he
had not been moved, he signed to those about
him to leave them alone together. What
passed between them was never divulged, but
that it was satisfactory to the dying man there
could be no doubt. For when the old housekeeper
and Matthew, the faithful servitor
who had carried the sad news to Sydmonton,
peeped through the open door, unable to
restrain their anxiety, all traces of care had
disappeared from their beloved master's face,
and he was leaning back quietly in his chair,

with his hands clasped in that of his old pupil.
He lingered through the greater part of the
night, and passed away peacefully just before
dawn.

The anxiety that had oppressed the rector's
mind was not unnatural. As has been said,
he had been a widower some years, having
married early in life, and had been left with
an only child, a girl who was now about nineteen.
But this young lady had been but little
under the paternal roof for the last three or
four years ; for her father, feeling that he was
unequal to superintend the education of a
young girl who was beginning to advance
rapidly towards womanhood, had accepted the
offer of a sister, who had married a consular
official at Munich, to take charge of his
daughter, and give her all the educational
advantages to be derived from a residence in
that highly respectable if not very lively city.
So Miss Evening had lived almost entirely
abroad for the last three years, with occasional
visits to the old Wealdshire rectory, which
were looked forward to with the greatest delight
on both sides. By the next spring her
education was to be considered complete, and

lie was to return home for good, to be the
joy of her father's house, and, as he fondly
pictured to himself, the pride of the countryside.
But these golden dreams were not
destined to be realised, and her next journey
home was for the purpose of attending her
father's funeral.

But, dearly as he loved his daughter, the
Rector, although in everyday life a practical
and business-like man enough, had never set
himself seriously to the consideration of what
was to happen to her in the event of his own
decease. Not that she was altogether unprovided
for, as he had a small independence of
his owu, which he had secured upon her some
years before. But nothing had been done
beyond this ; and whatever ideas may have
passed through his mind as to the nomination
of a guardian or trustee, they had assumed no
definite shape ; so that, as frequently happens,
the hand of death came suddenly upon him,
and found him unprepared as regards any
definite arrangements for the future of his
nearest and dearest. This was what had so
distracted his mind in the intervals of consciousness
that were allowed to him when

seized with what he felt to be a mortal illness.
He had no near relations living, except the
sister residing at Munich ; and of all those
few old friends who were left to him there was
none whom he could call to mind whom he so
thoroughly loved and trusted as his old pupil
and patron, Lord Sydmonton. So when it
became manifest to him that the shadow of
death was approaching, and the vision of his
orphan child rose up vividly before him, it
was not unnatural that his thoughts should
turn eagerly to Lord Sydmonton, as the one
person to idiom he would most readily
intrust her, and that his anxiety to see him
before he died should have been very great.
Whether or not Lord Sydmonton hesitated
before undertaking such an unwonted charge
it is not necessary to inquire ; but it was evident
that he had not refused it, for although
he returned to Sydmonton the next morning,
it was only for the purpose of interviewing
certain heads of his establishment and giving
certain necessary orders. His lordship's valet
was despatched to LuUingston the same afternoon
with the requisite appliances for several
days' absence from home ; and his lordship

himself was back there in the evenings, and
took up his quarters at the little village inn,
within a hundred yards of the Rectory gate.

It will readily be imagined that such an
unprecedented event created no little excitement
in the quiet little village ; and the
respectable old couple who kept the " French
Horn " were so overcome by the 
honour of entertaining a real live lord
viscount, that if it had not been for the
exertions and adjurations of Mr. Thornton, his
lordship's valet, that nobleman, although by
no means difficult to please, might have fared
somewhat indifferently. There, however,  he
remained ; and when, on the third day after the
Rector's death, a fly from the nearest station
turned in at the Rectory gate, and a young
lady in deep mourning, accompanied by a
foreign-looking servant, alighted from the
dingy vehicle. Lord Sydmonton was at the
door to receive her.

It is not necessary to enter at length into
the growth of the acquaintance between Lord
Sydmonton and his fair charge, which, beginning
in this unlooked-for fashion and under
such melancholy circumstances, speedily developed

into a deep interest on the one side,
and a clinoinoj, child-like affection on the
other. Suffice it to say, that within three
months of the Rector's death, and when the
little world of LuUingston had become accustomed
to the frequent visits of Lord Edmonton,
presumably on business matters, the
whole neighbourhood was one morning electrified
by a rumour which, starting from
Sydmonton, flew through the countryside like
wildfire, that his lordship and '' Miss Levy "
were going to be married.

The excitement that such a piece of intelligence
was calculated to create will readily be
imagined. Speculation and gossip were of
course busy as to the causes which had led to
such an unexpected step on Lord Sydmonton's
part. Some shook their heads, and wished
that no Jiarm might come of such an unequal
match. Others, some of whom might perhaps
at one time have had designs upon his lordship
themselves, "had always thought him
very odd," and would not have been surprised
at anything  were, in fact, rather inclined to
be " sorry for her, poor girl ! " while there
were not wanting others who maintained that

his lordship had been the victim of a deep-laid
plot between the rector, now slumbering
peacefully in LuUingston Churchyard, and his
designing daughter. But the majority were
content with an expression of their opinion
that she was a very lucky girl, and piously
hoped that the sudden elevation might not
turn her head.

Lord Sydmonton, however, was not a man
to be much affected by the gossip and tattle
of his neighbours, even if, which is extremely
improbable, it ever reached his ears. That he
was in earnest about it there could be no
doubt ; and about three months later,  or
within half a year of that bleak winter's day
when the whole parish had turned out with
one accord to follow the remains of their
beloved " parson " to the grave, a quiet wedding
took place in the grey, weather-stained
old church under the downs, and Evening
Tudway became Viscountess Sydmonton.
Although the known desire of both bride and
bridegroom that there should be no outward
display on the occasion was loyally respected,
it was not in human nature that the feelings
of the Lullingstonians should be altogether

VOL. I. K

repressed ; and as Ijord and Lady Sydmonton
passed out of the cliurcli into the bright sunshine,
with the jackdaws wheeling about the
old belfry, and the long cloud-shadows stealing
over the downs, a cheer broke forth from the
crowd of rustics that had quietly assembled
during the service, which showed that they
were not indifferent either to the happiness of
their old rector's daughter or to the reflected
lustre that must shine upon LuUingston from
such a noble alliance. And as the carriage
with the Sydmonton liveries, which for the
last half-hour had been a source of pleasurable
awe to the LuUingston juveniles, drove
rapidly through the village, there was hardly
a cottage door or a garden gate that was not
occupied by some stout matron or weatherbeaten
old man, anxious to give a God-speed
to the bride whom they had known as a child,
and who was now being carried off from them
in a whirl of splendour that would be the talk
of the village for many a long day to come.

Having thus got Lord Sydmonton married,
we will not follow up the subject further than
to record the fact that, although contracted
under somewhat peculiar circumstances, there

never was a happier union. The noble
Viscount was at this time about forty-eight,
and his bride in her twentieth year. But
although there were of course plenty of people
who indulged in the usual friendly observations
about his being old enough to be her
father,  poor child, not knowing her own mind
dazzled by a coronet  and all the rest of it,
the disparity of years did not appear to
occasion much disquietude to either of the
principal persons concerned. It would never
indeed have occurred to a casual observer that
there was any very great disparity to talk
about. For although Lord Sydmonton was
unquestionably well past the morning of life,
he looked at least ten years younger than he
really was. His naturally vigorous constitution
had not been impaired by late hours
and dissipation ; a healthy out-door life had
developed and strengthened an unusually
powerful frame ; and there were few active
pursuits in which, if he chose, he could not
hold his own with most men of thirty.

There were some who said that after living
a secluded bachelor life for so long, Lord
Sydmonton would soon begin to find the ties

and obligations of matrimony rather irksome ;
but there were certainly no outward indications
of anything of this sort. There was, of course,
a certain awakening and brushing up at Edmonton
Place. The long-disused reception-rooms
were opened, and put into the hands
of a troupe of London upholsterers ; the old
family pictures emerged from their dusty
coverings ; satin, damask, and gilding usurped
the place of brown holland and tissue paper ;
and a sunny room, looking to the south, and
opening into the prettiest rose-garden imaginable,
grew bright with chintz, old china,
water-colour drawings, and other decorations
suitable for my lady's boudoir. But in other
respects things went on much as usual. Lord
Sydmonton was not a man to give up his old
friends, and her ladyship showed no disposition
to wean him from his bachelor habits.
Sydmonton House, a grand but gloomy old
mansion in Cavendish Square, had been let
to the Spanish Legation for a term of years,
of which several were still unexpired ; and
although it was necessary that Lady Edmonton
should be presented at court, and
appear at a state ball and concert, and a few

other select entertainments, a month or so at
Coleridge's Hotel was found sufficient for such
concessions to the requirements of society, and
both my lord and my lady were only too delighted
to get back to their beautiful country
home. And although the circle of autumn
guests was now somewhat enlarged, and new
and younger faces might be seen in some of
the bachelor rooms, while the rustle of ladies'
dresses and the appearance of smart ladies' -
maids in the long-deserted corridors upstairs
showed that the visitors to Sydmonton were
no longer exclusively of the sterner sex, the
same old habitues were still to be found* in
the library and at the covert-side, and were
perhaps treated with even more consideration
than before.

We have in the preceding chapter gone at
such length into the previous history of the
noble owner of Sydmonton, which, considering
that after all he does not fill any very prominent
position in our story, is perhaps a somewhat
uncalled-for divergence, that we have
as yet omitted any description either of that
classic domain itself, or  a still more culpable
piece of neglect  of its fair mistress.

Sydmonton Place, then, was one of those
houses that depend more upon their outward
surroundings and their internal comforts than
upon any intrinsic merits in the way of architectural
beauty. It was, in fact, though in
some parts very old, of no particular order
of architecture, and Tudor stonework, Elizabethan
mullions, and Queen Anne red-brick
were jumbled together in a manner calculated
to outrage the feelings of an aesthetic

student of Masons or Pugin. But it was a
thoroughly comfortable and liable house ;
and although, from having been so long 'sin
commission," the principal, apartments presented
rather a bare and formal aspect, it
needed but the magic touch of a lady's hand,
a little judicious " making hay " here and
there, backed by carte blanche in the matter
of minor decorations, to render the old house
a happy combination of old-fashioned comfort
and modern elegance.

But it is out of doors that the peculiar attractions
of Sydmonton Place must be sought.
Approaching by the principal entrance, the
visitor passes through an unpretending iron
gateway, flanked by a pretty little lodge, into
what appears to be an immense forest, along a
sandy carriage-drive, where the clack of horses'
hoofs and the rumble of carriage-wheels are
alike deadened, and where not a sound is to
be heard but the gentle sighing of the wind
through the tree-tops, the occasional scream
of a jay, or the rustle through the fern of a
startled hare or rabbit. On one side a bank
of noble Scotch firs rises up, so as to completely
intercept any further view, while on

the other a steep declivity reveals an undulating
mass of copse wood, principally birch and
hazel, intermingled with hollies and rhododendrons,
and here and there a clump' of stately
beeches, or dark spruces, rising against the
sky line, and forming a prominent landmark
in the sea of variegated autumn colouring.
For the fall of the year is the time to see
Sydmonton in all its beauty ; and it would
then be difficult to find a lovelier spot throughout
the south of England. After about a mile
and a half of this beautiful woodland scenery,
the road is barred by another gate and
lodge, opening into a wide spreading deer-park,
broken up by heathery knolls and groups of
Scotch firs. And now an unbroken view presents
itself, both of the park and the surrounding
country. On one side the heather
and bracken of the deer-park slope down to a
hollow where the glistening of water indicates
one of those little trout-streams that are to be
found in almost every valley in this part of
Wealdshire, beyond which an irregular mass
of wood stretches away into the open country.
On the other side the road winds along the
higher ground towards a battlemented archly

LADY. 153

way in the distance ; while far away the quiet
landscape of copse and hop-garden gradually
melts away into the undulating slope of the
Southdowns, and, beyond all, the bold outline
of Ramsey Head descends abruptly into the
blue waters of the English Channel. Following
the line indicated by the little stream in
the hollow, the eye catches the first glimpse
of the house, which, lying perhaps rather too
low, is as yet only partially discernible through
a screen of stately timber and luxurious masses
of evergreens.

But pleasing as the prospect is at all times,
it was none the less so, on a certain late
autumn or rather early winter afternoon at
the time of which we are speaking, for the
addition of an animated foreground in the
shape of a pretty George IV. phaeton, with a
pair of smart cobs, which had just pulled upon
the rising ground about half-way through
the deer-park. The only occupant of the
carriage, with the exception of a dapper little
groom who had just run to the ponies' heads,
was a lady, whom a casual passer-by might
have put down at from five-and-twenty to
thirty, and to whom a close observer might

possibly have accorded another four or five
years. But few would have guessed that
Lady Sydmonton had now been married for
nearly twenty years, which, knowing as we
do that at the time of her marriage she was
in her twentieth year, would have brought
her very close upon forty. Tall and graceful,
with glossy chestnut hair and a complexion that,
from having once been of a dazzling clearness,
had been deepened by fearless exposure to
all weathers to a rich olive tint, she looked
the embodiment of health and vigour; and
as she leaned forward in the carriage, with
an animated expression, to speak to a white-haired
but sturdy-looking old man who, hat in
hand and with a pair of spaniels at his heels,
was hastening across the grass to meet her, a
prettier picture of English country life could
hardly have been imagined.

Well, Stephen," she exclaimed, as the old
man drew near, " what have you done with
his lordship ? I was to meet him at Speed
Gate at three o'clock, and it's now nearly four,
and I have been driving backwards and forwards
till the ponies have got so excited I can
hardly hold them. Come, put your hat on.

or you'll catch cold. Where is his lordship
now ? "

Well, my lady," replied the old man, in
his slip-shod Wealdshire dialect, as he lifted
his eyes to her face with a glow of pleasure on
his weather-beaten features, " my lord be at
Coppice Pool by dis time, he be. Us worked
through Bishop's Wood and Hog Shaw, and
den dere were a lot o' birds went right away
over to Coppice. ISo my lord he say he and
Muster Smith dey go up to d' Pool, and d'
beaters dey come round by Clover Hatch,
and bring d' whole right up to he. And my
lord he says to me, ' You go across to Speed
Gate,' says he, ' an' tell my lady not to wait,
as I shall be an hour later now,' says he, * an'
I'll walk home'"

*' Oh, that's it, is it ?" said her ladyship, gently
smoothing down the silky coat of the pony on
the off-side with the crop of her whip, " then
I think I'd better go home too, when I've given
these ponies a good turn. Wel, Stephen, how
are the pheasants ? You know there are some
gentlemen coming to shoot in a day or two, and
I think his lordship means to shoot Ten-acre
Gyl], and some of those woods at Bathurst."

"Well, my lady," rejoined the old keeper,
there be a tidy lot o' birds in Ten acre Gill,
and dey should be coming well into Fox Earth
and dey woods up at Bathurst. And dey be
uncommon well growed too, dey be ; some o'
dey young cocks my lord killed dis morning'
you couldn't hardly tell from d' old ones. But
d' covers be terr able thick this year, and we'll
have a rare job to get dey birds up. Daresay
we shan't see half on 'em, my lady."

Any ducks or teal in the petty ?" ''' inquired
her ladyship, disregarding the old gentleman's
slight tendency to croak.

Should be a few now, my lady. Hadn't
seen none this last week or so ; but young
Tom Billettt he come up by Middle Pet night
afore last, and he see two lots of teal going
over d' wood. 'Bout time dey was in now,
some of 'em."

By the way, how's Adam Billettt now ? "
asked her ladyship ; " I've heard nothing of
him for the last few days. Is his arm all
right again ? "

Adam Billettt was the head forester at

A WealdsHre term for a pool or pit of water surrounded
by trees or bushes.

Sydmonton, who, either through carelessness
or over-confidence, had injured his arm while
cutting down a tree a short time before.

Oh, Adam be nicely, thanky'e, my lady,"
replied Stephen, with a touch of his hat. " He
were up at Woodcock Hill yesterday, with his
arm in a sling, and doctor he say he'll be all
right again in a few days. Adam he be terrible
glad to get about again ; he don't like stopping
at home nohow."

Come, I'm very glad to hear that," said
Lady Sydmonton, " I was afraid it might be a
longer affair. Your grandson's getting quite
a big lad, Stephen. I saw him down at the
house this morning, and he's quite grown out
of his clothes. Is he still minding the pigs,
Stephen, or has Mr. Smith found him something
else to do 1 "

No, my lady, he be still along o' dey pigs,
and dey do take to he uncommon like. Muster
Smith he say dey never done so well afore."

Well," replied her ladyship, gathering up
her reins, and smiling at the idea of the good
understanding said to prevail between the
youth in question and the pigs, " if he's doing
well with the pigs, I suppose he had better

stop there for the present. Now I must be
off, or his lordship will be home before I am.
Good-bye, Stephen. All right, Sam." And
off she drove, leaving the old keeper looking
after her with every expression of approval.

Ah ! she's a right good sort ; God bless
her," he murmured to himself. " Come back,
Kate, what are ye up to now ? " to one of the
spaniels, who showed an inclination to frolic
after the carriage. And lighting his pipe, he
wended his way leisurely to his cottage on the
other side of the deer-park.

Few persons well acquainted with Lady
Sydmonton would have hesitated to heartily
endorse the encomium passed upon her by the
old keeper, who had passed his whole life in
the service of the Sydmonton family, and
who, although at first inclined, with the
jealousy, of an old retainer, to look with
disfavour upon his master's marriage, had ina
very short time been completely won over
by a charm of manner that was quite irresistible,
and a sweetness of disposition which,
coupled with an unmistakable devotion to her
husband, soon found its way to the hearts of
every one about the place. From the great

Mr. Smith, his lordship's agent  great in
every sense of the word, for he stood a good
sixteen stone in his long Wealdshire gaiters 
down to the young gentleman lately referred
to as the successful custodian of the pigs at
the home farm, there was not a man or boy
on the estate who, if asked for an opinion on
the subject, would not have unhesitatingly
pronounced her to be his ideal of feminine perfection.
Not that he would have expressed
himself in these identical words, for Weald-shire
is not as a rule given to flowery or
sentimental language ; but he would have
hitched up his gaiters with a determination
that words would utterly fail to express, and
would have grinned his approval in a manner
more convincing than any amount of mere
verbal eloquence. And there was indeed
some justification for the good opinion in
which Lady Sydmonton was held; for she
had from the first set herself to become
thoroughly acquainted, not only with every
detail of her husband's property in which she
could be of the slightest use to him, but with
the personal history and interests of every
cottager on the estate. She set about it, too,

in such a quiet and unpretentious yet at the
same time thoroughly business-like manner,
that the Sydmonton rustics soon began to see
that she was really in earnest, and that she
meant to throw herself heart and soul into
everything connected with the place. But
what perhaps won their hearts and excited
their admiration more than anything else, washer
evident devotion to her husband. She
rode with him, drove with him, walked with
him out shooting, and entered into his varied
out-door pursuits with almost as much keenness
as himself; while indoors she acted as
his secretary and amanuensis, and astonished
Mr. Smith by her acquaintance with the
business details of the property. And while
a different atmosphere pervaded the old house,
and the presence of a lady was easily discernible,
she took the greatest care that he
should not be called upon to give up any of
his bachelor habits ; and although some of the
old habitues of Sydmonton had at first shaken
their heads, and prophesied that the freedom
and independence of the good old bachelor
times had gone for ever, there was not one of
them who, within a year of Lady Sydmonton's

marriage, was not ready to swear that there
never was such a woman as her ladyship, and
that, after all, things were very much the same
sunder the new regime as they had been
before.

On the whole, therefore, it would have been
difficult to find a more devoted or better-assorted
couple than Viscount and Viscountess
Sydmonton ; and there was but one element
wanting in their cup of happiness to make
it full to overflowing. No children had ever
blessed their union ; and although there were
roomy nurseries in a secluded wing of the
house that could easily have accommodated a
whole infant school, there was no patter of
little feet along the oaken floors, and no echo
of childish laughter rang through the spacious
corridors. The want of an heir had at first
been a source of bitter disappointment both
to Lord and Lady Sydmonton ; and there
were times when this feeling would return
upon them very strongly. But they had by
degrees become so wrapt up in and so used to
each other's society that this void in their
lives was perhaps less keenly felt by them
than their friends imagined.

VOL. I. L

But our regard for Sydmonton and its
inmates has already caused us to devote an
altogether disproportionate amount of space
to their introduction to the reader; and we
hasten, therefore, to resume the thread of our
narrative.

HOLIDAY TIME.

Independence is a pleasant thing at all times ;
and there can be no doubt that the man is
much to be envied who, being endowed by
nature with a healthy taste for out door sports,
is in a position that enables him to thoroughly
enjoy and make the most of  those long
winter months which to so many are suggestive
only of dreariness and discomfort, and to
some simply mean either a species of liberation
indoors, or an enforced exile from their
native country. But to none does the close
of the year bring keener enjoyment, in a small
way, than to the sportsman who is tied down
for the greater part of the year by some fixed
occupation, but who contrives to obtain an
occasional holiday during the autumn and
winter for indulgence in his favourite pastime.
With what care and circumspection he makes
all his preliminary arrangements ! Guns are

minutely overhauled, cartridges are carefully
loaded, and cartridge-bags re-fitted or re-sewn ;
while there is even an interest in examining
his shooting-boots, and speculating whether
those old ones will hold together for the whole
of his trip, or whether he ought not to afford
himself a new pair. And how anxiously he
watches the weather, and studies every variation
of the barometer and every Transatlantic
prophecy ! Should he be so fortunate as to
be able to look forward to a fortnight or
three weeks' hunting, his pleasurable anticipations
are tempered by even graver anxieties.
Fancy if it were to freeze hard the whole
time ! or if that young horse, respecting
whose performances he has indulged in such
agreeable dreams during the summer, should
turn out a failure after all ! But even allowing
for any little incidental and unavoidable
misgivings, an expedition to the country,
with the prospect of a week's good shooting,
offers about as pleasant a change for a Londoner
of sporting proclivities, but tied more
or less by circumstances to a sedentary
occupation, as it is possible to imagine. And
as Gerard Courtenay hailed a hansom one

dull afternoon early in November, and gave
the word for Victoria Station, lie felt as if he
had got the whole world before him. He
had had a good deal of work lately; for
although the business of the General Enquiry
Office was not usually of such pressing importance
as to require the regular attendance of
the Vice-president after the session was over,
a practice had grown up, on this very account,
of turning that functionary into a species of
man-of-all-work, and of intrusting him with
any odd jobs that could not strictly be said to
be connected with any one department more
than another. And certain delicate questions
having arisen in connection with some commercial
treaties, which involved some research
among the records of the General Enquiry
Office, the occasion was eagerly seized upon by
those members of the Government who were
perhaps more directly responsible for the conduct
of the negotiations, but who happened to
have urgent private affairs that called them
away to the country, to suggest that it would bea
good opportunity for Lord Eavendale, especially
as he would be at Newmarket during
September and October, and consequently

within easy reach of London, to make himself
acquainted with this important question,
and at the same time give the Government
and the nation the benefit of his valuable
opinion on the subject. And as Lord Heavens
although, as we have hinted, not a
man who was disposed to seek out or invent
work for its own sake, was by no means disinclined
to tackle a question when it came
in his way, he readily consented to have his
headquarters in London during the intervals
of the Newmarket autumn meetings, and to
exercise a general superintendence over the
weighty matters in question. Gerard, as in
duty bound, remained in attendance on his
chief; so that, although he had occasionally
been able to get away for a few days at a
time, and had had no reason to complain of
real over-work, he had not as yet had any
regular holiday, and was prepared therefore
to enjoy a week's covert-shooting at Edmonton
with the comfortable satisfaction of having
honestly earned it. His acquaintance with the
Edmonton was of some standing, his father
and Lord Sydmonton having been friends
when in the diplomatic, service. Gerard had

been at Sydmonton with his father when quite
a child, and had been kindly noticed by Lord
Sydmonton, who had asked him down to
shoot more than once since he had arrived atman's
estate. So he well knew what a pleasant
week was likely to be in store for him,
and started in the highest spirits.

On such occasions, a railway journey, if not
too long, loses a good deal of its usual tediousness,
and constitutes, in fact, a not unpleasant
item in one's holiday programme. Gerard
was quite in a disposition to make the best
of everything, and having encumbered himself
with a shillings worth of newspapers sid
periodicals, proceeded to establish himself with
great complacency in a smoking carriage, along
with a couple of elderly gentlemen, armed with
a neatly-skewered little fish-basket apiece, who
presented all the appearance of well-to-do
citizens on the way to rejoin their families at
the sea-side or in the country.

Having settled himself comfortably in a
corner, Gerard proceeded to unfold his newspapers
and apply himself with much deliberation
to a study of their contents. But the
already waning light was not favourable to his

well-intentioned endeavours in this direction,
and he soon took to looking out of the
window. For a time he amused himself by
scanning the fences as they met him in rapid
succession, and thinking where he would like
to " have " them. Then his thoughts diverged
into the shooting line, as he watched the hares
and pheasants moving about outside the woods,
and wondered who there would be at Edmonton,
and what coverts were going to be
shot. Wondered also whether he would be
able to shoot straight, and inwardly hoped
that some rather doubtful cartridges he had
kept over from last year would be all right,
and not miss fire. By degrees the grey sky
became darker, till it merged into a dull red
line on the horizon, and the landscape resolved
itself into a blurred mass of light and shade.
His two companions, having concluded a
learned discussion on the aspects of the indigo
trade, were slumbering peacefully beneath the
shadow of their respective fish-baskets in the
netting above them, and Gerard himself began
to feel a pleasant sensation of drowsiness stealing
over him, which he had no particular
inclination to resist. Just, however, as he

was beginning to dream of Sydmonton, and
was in fancy struggling through a thick cover
with pheasants coming back over his head in
clouds, while his gun had to his horror turned
into something resembling a fire-shovel, and
utterly refused to go off, a prolonged scream
from the engine and a gradual slackening
of pace awoke him to consciousness, and
announced that they were approaching a
station of some importance ; and looking first
at his watch, and then out of the window,
Gerard realised the fact that they were nearing
Cobham, where the express part of his journey
ended, and whence the remainder was to Discontinued
on a little branch line for about
fifteen miles further. Here, too, his fellow-travellers
began to wake up and collect their
impedimenta, with the obvious intention of
disembarking, and in another moment the
train drew up at the station.

Cobham ! Cobham ! change for Crowhurst
and Lichfield ! " now resounded along the
platform. Having, however, ascertained that
his carriage was a "through" one, and would
be shunted on to the branch line, Gerard was
able to take matters coolly, and having got

rid of his fellow-passengers, proceeded to lean
his arms upon the window-sill, and contemplate
the mixed assemblage of waiting travellers
 farmers, smock-frocked labourers and
their womankind, and miscellaneous "loafers"
that is always to be seen at any important
junction in a rural district, especially if it
happens to be market-day there or somewhere
else along the line. Just as the scrimmage
and confusion were at their height, a luggage-laden
barrow, followed by a personage whose
importance had evidently made a certain impression
upon the railway officials, forced its
way through the crowd, and a voice was heard
insisting in peremptory tones that its owner
should be forthwith directed to the train for
Penhurst, the station to which Gerard was
himself bound. Attracted by the mention of
the name, Gerard directed his attention to the
speaker, in whom he was not long in recognising
our old friend the " Cadger," or rather,
to give him his full style and titles, Augustus,
fourth Earl of Ballybrack, in the peerage of
Ireland. The nobleman in question, who had
apparently met with some difficulties in the
prosecution of his journey, was evidently in a

great fuss, and expressed his opinion of the
railway company, its officials, and general
arrangements, in the most emphatic manner.

Where's that fool of a porter ? Oh, there
you are ! Now then, where the devil is this
infernal train ? I've been waiting this last
three-quarters of an hour. Not up yet ? Then
what on earth did you bring me out here for,
you infernal idiot ? Through carriage from
London ? Then why the devil didn't you say
so before ? "

So, with a running commentary of anathemas,
his lordship was brought up to Gerard's
carriage door, and there deposited, together
with an infinity of rugs, dressing-cases, hand-bags,
and other paraphernalia essential to the
dignity of a nobleman of his degree, which
were handed in after him by an active domestic,
whose imperturbable face and manner
showed that he was well used to these little
ebullitions on his master's part. Having comfortably
established himself, and been nicely
tucked up by his servant, he turned his attention
to Gerard, now the only other occupant
of the carriage. Gerard and he had met at
the General Enquiry Office, where he was in

the habit of paying an occasional visit, for the
purpose, as he was wont to explain, of " getting
a straight tip out of old Tommy, you know;"
and when that statesman, who was, perhaps,
not always as anxious for an interview as his
visitor, was otherwise engaged, would make
himself at home in the private secretary's
room, and give Gerard the benefit of his
opinion on things in general.

Hallo, Courtenay ! so it is. By Jove, I'm
very glad to see you. Where are you going ?
Sydmonton ? Dash it, so am I, we'll go
together, eh ? Good chap, old Sydmonton ;
got a devilish good cook ; and I'll tell you
what," in a confidential whisper, " Lady
Sydmonton' s a devilish handsome woman.
Nice little shoot, too  not very many pheasants,
but all devilish well done, and generally
some woodcocks. Oh, Sydmonton ain't half
a bad place, I tell you. Thank goodness, we're

off at last ! I've been at this d d station

nearly an hour. Came across from Ration ;
been staying with the Secours ; devilish
nice party there too, and lots of shooting ;
but, somehow or other, I assure you, my dear
fellow, I couldn't hit a d d thing. Expect

we sat up too late at night, too much ' nap '
in the smoking-room, and all that sort of
thing. None of that at Syclmonton, eh ?
Early hours there ; old boy won't stand any
nonsense, and quite right too. Hang it! I feel
as if I hadn't slept for a week." And, rattling
on in this style, his lordship, who, to do him
justice, certainly presented a somewhat feverish
and dissipated appearance, proceeded to stretch
out his legs, and leaning back in his corner,
was soon doing his best to make up for that
cruel deprivation of his slumbers from which
he had represented himself as lately suffering.
But his rest, though apparently sound, was
not destined to last long ; for another half
hour brought them to the little roadside
station of Penhurst, where, however, it required
all the eloquence of the stationmaster
and the confirmatory evidence of his lordship's
servant to make him believe that he had
arrived at his destination, and that it had
become necessary for him to alight. The
Sydmonton omnibus was waiting, and in
another hour or so our travellers were sitting
down to dinner with a cheery party in the old
panelled dining-room of Sydmonton Place.

A Country-house Breakfast.

There are few pleasant sensations than that
of awaking on a fine morning with the consciousness
that something agreeable is going
to happen, which for the moment our partially
awakened faculties are unable to altogether
realise, but which by degrees resolves itself
into a definite shape, until the link is complete
with our last thoughts overnight. Gerard
Courtenay, awakened out of a sound sleep, on
the morning after his arrival at Sydmonton,
by the opening of his bedroom shutters and
the bustling about of the footman told off to
attend upon him, had for a few seconds,
although conscious of a pleasant sort of
holiday sensation, some difficulty in making
out exactly where he was, until, catching
sight of his shooting things being laid out on
a chair, he suddenly realised the fact that he
was at Sydmonton, with every prospect of a

good week's shooting before him. His first
impulse, when his attendant had left the
room, having: informed him that it was eight
o'clock, that prayers were at a quarter-past
nine, and breakfast at half-past, was to spring
out of bed and look out of the window. It
was a still, grey morning ; the mist was rising
from the lake in a hollow about a quarter of a
mile from the house ; the deer were slowly
moving across the open ; a vast army of rooks
were cawing melodiously on their way from
the hill behind the house to their feeding
in distant fields; and everything, in
fact, betokened a fine winter's day. Feeling,
however, a little chilly about the legs, Gerard
somewhat ignominiously retired to bed again,
to contemplate the situation in the most
thoroughly luxurious manner. While he was
reckoning up the number of guns, and wondering
whether he would get a good place in the
Forge Wood, which rumour had indicated on
the previous evening as one of the probable
beats for the day, his meditations, which were
rapidly drifting into a doze, where disturbed
by another knock at his door, and the appearance
of no less a person than the great Mr

Thornton, who has been referred to before as
Lord Sydmonton's valet, but who had now
been advanced to the dignity of house-steward.
He was a most excellent and faithful servant ;
but having been now some five-and-thirty
years in his lordship's service, he considered
himself as quite one of the family ; and while
never in the smallest degree wanting in respect
or disposed to forget his place, he was wont to
exercise a sort of benign patronage over any
new visitors to Sydmonton, particularly the
younger ones, whom he thought might bethe
better for the weight of his experience
and knowledge of the world. For some reason
or other he had taken a special fancy to
Gerard, whom he thought a well-behaved and
promising young gentleman  quite the sort
of visitor, in fact, whom he liked to see at
Sydmonton ; so  he kept a paternal eye upon
him, and was careful to see that he was well
looked afteiL

"Hollo! Thornton, is that you?" exclaimed
Gerard, sitting up in bed; " I say, I haven't
gone and overslept myself, have I ? What
o'clock is it ? "

"Oh no, sir," replied the great man, looking

at his watch, " you've got plenty of time, sir ;
but as I was passing this way, I thought I'd
just look in and see if you had got all you
wanted, sir. I hope Robert is attending you
properly, sir ; he is a new footman, and I
don't know whether he has had much experience
in valeting yet."

Oh, many thanks, Thornton," replied
Gerard ; " I've no doubt I shall be aU right ;
he seems to have put everything out for me ;
and anyhow, I can ring if I want anything
more. By the way, Thornton, do you know
where we're going to-day ? I thought I heard
something about Forge Wood last night, but
I didn't quite like to ask his lordship pointblank,
you know."

Yes, sir," returned Mr Thornton, who
considered himself a profound authority on
sporting matters, and was always in the confidence
of the head keeper on these subjects,
if not invariably in his master's, " his lordship
proposes to shoot Forge Wood after luncheon ;
but there wil be a good deal to do before
that, sir. You will begin at Potter's Corner,
and come round by Alehouse and Fox Earth,
which I think you know, sir ; and then, if

VOL. I. M

there is time, I think his lordship will very
likely take the whole of Forge Wood down to
Speed Gate."

By Jove, Thornton ! " exclaimed Gerard,
we ought to have a rare day, then ; and if
the wind's right, and we get those rockets
coming over from Fox Earth, we shall have
capital fun. How about the pheasants, Thornton
? I suppose old Stephen 's got a good lot
up there ? "

Oh, yes, sir," rejoined the major-domo,
with the confident air of a man who was
thoroughly behind the scenes, " you will find
plenty of birds. I've been round there myself
two or three times, and the wild pheasants
have done remarkably well this year. Of
course there are not so many tame birds in
those woods as in some of those nearer the
house ;-but you will have a good day's sport,
sir, you may depend upon it. The beaters
have just started, sir, as they have three miles
to walk to Potter's Corner. You will see them
going across the park directly."

By Jove ! I must be getting up, Thornton,"
exclaimed Gerard. "Why, it's just nine! I
suppose we shall drive, shan't we ? "

"Oh, yes, sir," replied Mr Thornton, now
preparing to depart, " the waggonette is ordered
at a quarter-past ten, sir." And with
a stately bow the great man took himself off,
leaving Gerard to the completion of his toilet.

There are few social institutions respecting
which there is a greater divergence of opinion
than that of breakfast, not only as regards its
component parts, but as regards the hour and
place of the meal, and the conditions under
which it should be eaten. Some persons are
disposed to look upon it as the most important
gastronomic event of the day, being blessed
with appetites, which as a rule they are pleased
to attribute to good consciences, that can only
be satisfied by the consumption of large quantities
of solid food, from the very thought of
which many would turn away in horror, being
themselves quite satisfied with a cup of tea or
coffee and a slice or two of diy toast. Some,
again, look with favour on the Continental
system, and, after their early tea or coffee on
rising, will keep their appetites in check till
the middle of the day. Then as to the locality
and status of the repast. There are many who
hold that it should be eaten in solitude, and

maintain that the interruptions of conversation
are incompatible with digestion and the state
of mind and nerves necessary for grappling
with the morning's letters. But, on the whole,
we suspect that the balance of opinion inclines
towards making it a social meal ; and there
can be no doubt that, putting aside the case of
an invalid or a hypochondriac, there is much
to be said for it from this point of view.
And a country-house breakfast, especially when
there is any sport going on, is usually a cheery
affair enough. The visitors are greeted with
inquiries as to how they have slept ; the old
gentlemen, generally the first in the field, pay
pretty compliments to the young ladies on
their appearance, and, as a reward, get well
taken care of in the matter of tea, coffee, and
creature comforts generally ; the younger ones
saunter in last of all, and get chained about
sitting up too late and spoiling their complexions
; the plans for the day are discussed,
and everything progresses merrily.

Breakfast at Sydmonton was decidedly a
repast of the social order; and when Gerard
came down rather late, and consequently rather
ashamed of himself, he found a cheerful party

already assembled. At the head of the table
sat Lady Sydmonton, brightest and freshest
of all, presiding gracefully over an assemblage
of tea-cups ; for, unlike many hostesses, who
are content to leave their guests to the tender
mercies of the servants, she made a point of
looking after their comfort herself, at breakfast
as well as on other occasions. On her ladyship's
right sat that well-preserved courtier
and diplomatist, the Marquis de CamisoUes, got
up for the " chasse " with the utmost precision,
from a many-buttoned and many pocketed
Norfolk jacket down to a pair of long and
highly varnished boots, who, in the intervals
of a most substantial breakfast, was devoting
himself with the utmost gallantry and many
well-turned compliments to his fair hostess.
Scattered up and down the table were a party
of some twelve or fourteen, and the cheerful
hum of conversation, blended with the ring
of merry laughter, pervaded the whole room.
A couple of fresh-looking elderly gentlemen,
evidently habitues of the house, were making
themselves very agreeable to two handsome
sisters, who, attired alike in dark, well-fitting
serge dresses, relieved here and there by a

knot of bright-coloured ribbon, looked as fresh
and charming as only Englishwomen can look
at such an early hour in the morning. On the
opposite side of the table, a studious-looking
party in spectacles, to whom the celebrated
library of Sydmonton Place might be suspected
of offering greater attractions than its resources
in the way of field-sports, was apparently imparting
some profound scientific information
to a fair-haired lady, perhaps not quite in her
first youth, but who might well be pronounced
"dangerous" by, her own sex; and further
down sat the stately and well-developed Lady
Chetwynd, mother of the two young ladies
opposite, whose healthy appetite was being
ministered to by a smart young guardsman,
who was evidently in her ladyship's good
graces, and towards whom an occasional and
not unfriendly glance was directed by his" fair
neighbours opposite. At the foot of the table
sat Lord Sydmonton himself, as fine a specimen
of a somewhat old-fashioned English gentleman
as it would be possible to find. His
lordship was now getting on for seventy, but
few would have credited him with being within
fifteen years of that age. His dark, closely-cropped

hair showed but few silvery lines here
and there, and though advancing years had
whitened the edges of a pointed Vandyke
beard and moustache, and traced deepening
lines on the massive brow, there was little else
to denote that he had long passed that mysterious
and undefinable period usually known
as middle age. The tall, powerful frame
seemed as upright and vigorous as ever ; there
were no signs of decrepitude about the firm,
muscular tread, and though perhaps not so
energetic after the partridges in the long days
of September as in former years, he could still
hold his own with most men in a rough
winter's walk through brier and stubble, while
at a pocketing pheasant or rapidly-darting
woodcock he was, if anything, even more
deadly than before. On the present occasion
it was evident that the cares of the coming
"chasse" were rather weighing on his mind,
and although doing the honours to Lady
Chetwynd with a courtly, old-fashioned grace
peculiarly his own, his frequent glances at his
watch and at the one or two places still remaining
vacant at the breakfast-table, showed
that he was not altogether sanguine as to the

certainty of his party being mustered in time
for a punctual start.

Gerard entered the room rather sheepishly,
conscious that he had no business to be down
so late, and not feeling quite equal to meeting
the reproachful eye of his host, made his
way straight to Lady Sydmonton, with many
apologies for his lateness. Her ladyship, however,
was most reassuring. " Oh, indeed, Mr
Courtenay, you're not by any means the last.
There's still Lord Ballybrack to come, and
some one else too, I think, isn't there ? There's
plenty of time, I assure you ; only you had
better set to work at once and not talk. Tea
or coffee ? You will find coffee on the sideboard,
and there are some hot things down by
the fire." So Gerard slipped quietly into a
vacant place by the side of one of the Miss
Chetwynds, who smilingly made room for him,
and proceeded to apply himself with diligence
to his breakfast.

But the clock on the mantelpiece is chiming
ten, and his lordship, unable to restrain himself
any longer, draws his cord breeches from
underneath the table, and inquires of the
Marquis whether he can be ready in a quarter

of an hour. At this sufficiently broad hint
Lady Sydmonton looks round on the other
ladies, who have for some time been playing
with their knives or looking at their letters,
and amidst a general uprising and rustling of
dresses, mingled with wishes for good sport and
anxious speculations respecting the " Cadger,"
who has not yet put in an appearance, marshals
her following out of the room, and
leaves the gentlemen to her lord and master.
Greatly to that nobleman's relief, a servant at
this moment enters and informs him that Lord
Ballybrack has been having his breakfast in
his own room, and will be ready to start
whenever his lordship wishes. "Oh, come
then, we shall do," ejaculates his lordship
thankfully. " Marquis, I see you have finished
your breakfast. Courtenay, you can have five
minutes more, but you must look sharp about
it. Then, gentlemen, we will meet in the west
entrance at the quarter past, or say in twenty
minutes from now ; and please be punctual, if
possible, for we have three miles to drive, and
a good day's work before us."

Thus adjured, the Marquis and the other
sportsmen, who have finished their breakfast,

disperse in various directions, and Gerard, now
left the sole occupant of the dining-room,
applies himself with the utmost energy to
make the most of the ve minutes allowed
him, so that the stable clock has scarcely
chimed a quarter-past ten before hob-nailed
boots are heard converging along the stone
floors in the direction of the west entrance,
and Lord Sydmonton, emerging from the green
baize door leading to his private apartments,
is gratified to find that the whole of his
party are assembled, not even excepting the
Cadger," who, attended to the last by his
faithful body-servant, and deeply absorbed in
the adjustment in his button-hole of a particularly
neat little bouquet, is quite indifferent to
the chaff showered upon him in reference to
his non-appearance at breakfast.

Now, Marquis, will you sit by me, or will
you get inside ? Now, gentlemen, we've got
no time to lose. The guns are all gone on,
and we've only got ourselves to look after.
Thornton, be sure that the luncheon is at
Mitchell's house at half-past one, and let her
ladyship know before the cart starts, in case
she has any message."

And everything being now ready for a
start, his lordship takes hold of his reins,
and mounts to the box, where the Marquis
has already installed himself behind a large
cigar. " All right, Thomas ! " and away they
bowl down the smooth gravel of the approach.

Much has been said and written against
the modern practice of battue-shooting ; and
a good deal of angry controversy has been
excited on the subject during the last few
years. But, as is frequently the case, those
persons who are loudest and most violent in
their denunciations of a system are not
invariably the most qualified, either by their
own experience or by any searching inquiries
into the matter, to express an unprejudiced
opinion thereon. It would probably be found,
by any one who took the trouble to inquire,
that nine-tenths of these gentlemen had never
had the slightest personal experience of the
demoralising practice against which they so
eloquently inveigh, and in many cases had
never gone the length of having a gun in their
hands. The case against the lovers and promoters
of battue-shooting is therefore not
quite so strong as might at first be imagined.

At the same time, there can be no doubt that
the practice has been grossly abused, and that
what should and may be a manly and invigorating
sport has in many cases degenerated
into an effeminate and senseless slaughter.
But because one man is not happy unless by
the aids of artificial rearing and an army of
keepers, watchers, and beaters he can enable
his friends to kill a thousand pheasants on
two or three days during the shooting season,
it does not necessarily follow that another man
is a butcher and wanting in all the qualifications
of a sportsman because he employs
exactly the same means, on a smaller scale, to
kill a tenth or twentieth part of the number.
Yet, if the denounces of battue-shooting in
the abstract were really consistent, and really
understood what they were talking about,
they would feel bound to include the two
classes of sportsmen in the same category ; for
the term " battue " may be used in the case
of a bag of fifteen or twenty head of game
with as much correctness as in the case of one
of fifteen hundred or two thousand.

We have no intention, however, of writing
a treatise on the vexed question of battue-shooting,

which has nothing whatever to do
with our story ; and will lose no time, therefore,
in following our party of sportsmen to
Potter's Corner, where the beaters are already
assembled to meet them, and where we may
hope to see the beginning of a good sporting
day, unmarked by any of that butchery which
has invoked the ire of the well-intentioned
but imperfectly-informed gentlemen to whom
we have ventured to allude.

potter's corner.

Not the least among the many quiet charms
of Wealdsliire scenery are the extent and
variety of its woodlands. OvAung probably to
the poor character of the soil, agriculture has
never been prosecuted with any very great
success ; and high farming, except on some of
the sunny slopes towards the sea, is almost
unknown. In many parts, indeed, the original
forest remains much as it must have been
in the days of the Saxons, only broken up
here and there by clearings in the form of
irregularly shaped fields and hop-gardens
surrounding the little homesteads whose high
red-tiled roofs nestle snugly in the sheltered
hollows. But although from a practical point
of view this primitive state of things may be
altogether wrong, and quite unsuited to the
present age, the general effect is decidedly

pleasing to the eye, and affords a delightful
contrast to the monotony of those highly-cultivated
districts where science has superseded
nature, and every square inch of soil is
utilised to the very utmost.

Potter's Corner was a little level green or
haugh," as it would be called in Scotland, ina
hollow between two wooded glens, divided
by a lane, across which ran a little stream,
fordable for horses and carriages, and with a
narrow plank bridge for foot-passengers. The
remains of an old water-mill were still to be
seen, though the mill-dam was now overgrown
and almost dry. It was a quiet,
secluded spot enough in general, but on the
present occasion it presented unusual signs of
life in the shape of some half-dozen velveteen-clad
keepers and watchers, each with a retriever
at his heels, and an array of canvas-frocked
leather-regained beaters in the background.
As the waggonette was espied coming down
the lane, a bustle of expectancy pervaded the
group. Pipes were pocketed, thick hedging
gloves pulled on, and all came to " attention,"
while one or two of the younger and more
volatile dogs broke away from their masters.

and danced up the hill to meet the carriage ina
state of the wildest excitement.

Good morning, Jonas ! " cried his lordship,
throwing the reins on the horses' backs, and
addressing the head keeper, a fine, weatherbeaten
man with a dark, gipsy-like complexion.
Well, it looks like a fine day, doesn't it ?
Morning, Ralph ; morning, Mitchell," looking
pleasantly round, and responding to the respectful
salutations on all sides.

Yes, my lord," replied the keeper with a
pleased expression on his handsome face, " I
think the day's well enough. I suppose your
lordship will begin here ? I've got a stop up
at Hog Shaw, but I don't think there's much
in it, and it will take some time."

Oh no, never mind about Hog Shaw,"
replied his lordship ; "we shall have as much
as we .can get through without that. Now,
Jonas, will you send on guns at once to the
end, or should they go to the pond first *? "

Oh, the end, I think, my lord. The birds
are most likely to go forward. We've put a
covey o' partridges in from that ' rattan,' '"' and
they'll likely get up at once. But there'll

Wealdshire for stubble.

be a few birds break away at the pond, no
doubt."

*' Very well, then," replied Lord Sydmonton.
Here, Stephen, you take the Marquis on to
the end at once, and put Mr Bickersteth,"
indicating one of the old Sydmonton habitues,
"at the pond. You know where to stand,
Bickersteth, and you'll very likely get some of
those partridges over you. Ballybrack," turning
to that nobleman, "you come with me
along the bottom, and you two young fellows,"
nodding to Gerard and the guardsman,
get inside, and go along with the beaters.
You'll get some rabbits in there, and there will
be sure to be some pheasants come back over
your heads ; so you must look out sharp. Now,
Jonas, are we all ready ? "

Yes, my lord," responded Jonas with
alacrity, " we're all right now, I think. Now,
men, get into line ! " And the well-drilled
beaters proceed to deploy to the right and left,
some making for the top of the bank, and the
others dividing themselves along the bottom,
while the Marquis and Mr Bickersteth, having
got their guns and cartridges, strike off across
the open, under the pilotage of old Stephen,

VOL. I. N

to take up their respective positions, followed
at a little distance by Lord Sydmonton and
the " Cadger," the other two guns remaining
with the line of beaters.

We must give the guns five minutes to get
on, sir," said Jonas to Gerard, with a touch
of his hat. Gerard was rather a favourite with
Mr Jonas, who liked his keenness, and knew
that he could not only be depended upon as a
fair shot, but would go cheerfully wherever he
was told. He was always glad, therefore, to
see him at Sydmonton, and to show him all
the sport in his power.

"All right, Jonas," replied Gerard, "we
won't hurry 'em. How have you been getting
on since I last saw you, Jonas ? I suppose
you've had a good breeding season this
year, with all this fine weather ? "

Oh, well, sir, we've not done so badly,"
admitted the keeper ; " there's a tidy lot of
birds about, and pretty well grown too, most
of 'em. There should be some on this bank
this morning, sir ; we generally find them
here this time .o' day, when the sun's on it as
it is now. Ah, I see his lordship at the
corner. I think we can move on slowly

now, sir. Perhaps you'd better keep along
the bottom, sir, and the other gentleman,"
touching his hat to the guardsman, "might
go a bit higher up the bank. That'll do, sir.
Now, beaters, forward steadily ! "

And the whole line gets into motion, the
great Mr Jonas in the centre, one or two subordinate
officers at intervals on the right and
left, and two steady old fellows on the flanks,
who know every inch of the woods, and have
occupied the same position for years past.

For the first few minutes the advance is
made in silence, and nothing is heard but the
tap-tap of the beaters' sticks and the crackling
of dry leaves and branches as they force
their way through the underwood. But they
have not gone far before the keen eye of one
of them detects a rabbit in a tuft of dried
grass ; and a poke of his stick sends him flying
up the bank. " Rabbit up ; mark rabbit ! "
is the cry, and in another moment master
bunny, neatly rolled over by the guardsman,
tumbles head over heels down the bank, and
the sport has begun. At the report of the
gun up gets a splendid cock pheasant, rather
too far for a shot, but at which Gerard in his

excitement promptly lets drive, without any
palpable result beyond considerable destruction
of twigs in the line of fire. " Mark
over ! " now resounds from the line ; and the
magnificent bird, the sunlight gleaming on
his glossy plumage, rises high above the trees,
and with a crow of defiance wings his way
across the open, as if making for the far end
of the wood. But his flight is not of long
duration ; for as he sails over the corner
guarded by the veteran Mr Bickersteth, a puff"
of smoke and an echoing report rise from the
hollow, and a crumpled mass of feathers in
mid-air continues on its course for a moment,
carried on by the impetus of its rapid flight,
and then topples headlong down. "Ah,
there's Muster Bickersteth," grins Jonas
approvingly, "he can pull 'em down pretty
straight, he can. Easy on the right there ;
come round the left. Now then, all together;"
and on they go again. Gerard and the guardsman
have some good fun with the rabbits,
which are lying out well ; and every likely-looking
tuft of grass or heap of brushwood is
explored by the busy sticks of the beaters,
resulting in a lively popping being kept up

inside the covert. The pheasants, however,
have mostly run on to the end of the wood,
where the undergrowth is thicker; and with
the exception of one or two stray birds that
have broken away on the flanks, the guns
outside have not as yet had much to do.

Look out here, sir," says Jonas to Gerard,
as they approach an open space among the
trees, "they partridges should be somewhere
hereabout ; " and, before the words are well
out of his mouth, there is a splutter and commotion
as if a firework had exploded in the
middle of the wood. Up get the birds in
all directions, screaming and chattering like
so many parrots. Some fly straight in the
beaters' faces, causing much ducking of heads
and flourishing of sticks. Two or three break
away to the right, affording a nice double shot
to the guardsman, and the remainder rise
straight up in the air, and go away over
the trees to the left. Bang ! bang I go the
"Cadger's" two barrels without any apparent
result ; but a brace that have been turned
slightly out of their line by the shots pass
high over Lord Sydmonton's head, and are
pulled down handsomely right and left, while

in another moment one of the "Cadgers"
birds is seen to tower and fall headlong in the
middle of a field about two hundred yards
away from the wood.

Come, there's five birds out of that lot,"
says Jonas, " that's not so bad." So the birds
in the wood are picked up, an under-keeper
with a retriever goes after the towered bird,
and the line again advances.

But we are approaching the corner where
that veteran sportsman, Mr Bickersteth, has
been posted, and the old gentleman may be
discerned in an expectant attitude by a pollard
willow on the far side of the pond. Now, too,
the end of the covert comes in view, and
although we cannot as yet catch sight of the
Marquis, an occasional shot indicates his whereabouts,
while the tap - tap from the sticks
of various little smock-frocked boys comes
pleasantly up the hollow. Here the line is
halted, and a redistribution of the forces takes
place. " You two gentlemen stop here, while
I go down and speak to his lordship," says
Jonas, addressing the guardsman and Gerard.
A short council of war ensues, resulting in the
word being passed for Captain Aylmer. Down

comes the guardsman, and joins the party
outside.

Aylmer," says Lord Sydmonton, " you stop
here by the pond, please, and Ballybrack and
I will divide the S23ace between you and the
end. It's impossible to say which way the
birds will break here, but they are just as
likely to go back as forward, and I think you
are certain to get some shooting here. Courtenay,"
to Gerard, who has edged down to
hear what is going on, "you'd better stop
back in the wood, as some are sure to go back
that way, and you must look well after the
rabbits too. Now, Ballybrack, you come with
me, and I'll post you."

But let it not be supposed that after all
these preliminaries we are about to inflict
upon our readers a description of a " hot
corner," according to the general acceptation
of the words ; for this is not at all the fashion
at Sydmonton. The traditions of the place
were aU against such modern innovations, and
Lord Sydmonton was the last man to allow his
own ideas of good old-fashioned sport to be
influenced by the dictates of fashion. No
clouds of over-fed pheasants struggling up, to

be shot almost *at the muzzles of the guns ; no
rows of loaders behind each sportsman, cramming
cartridges into guns so hot with firing
as to make their handling a somewhat delicate
task. His lordship was, in fact, by no
means in favour of second guns, and though
the practice was not absolutely forbidden, he
never gave it any encouragement. "Bring
out your second gun, by all means, if you
like," he would say, "if you are sure your
man will not blow your head off with it ; but
I cannot promise that you will find work for
it, and I certainly cannot detach a keeper to
load for you." So it came to be understood
that a second gun was not quite the thing at
Sydmonton ; although it must be confessed
that, notwithstanding his lordship's modest
estimate of the resources of his coverts, there
were times when ample employment might
have been found for half-a-dozen sportsmen
with two guns apiece. But somehow or other
every one seemed to fall in with the idea, and
although a few fashionable shooters might at
first grumble at their host's antiquated prejudices,
and declare that they could not possibly
shoot with only one gun, it never appeared

that Lord Sydmonton's shooting was any the
less popular. On the present occasion, the
Cadger," who was looked upon as rather a
privileged individual, and the Marquis were
the only two with second guns, the remainder
being content to follow the custom of the
country, and do the best they could with one.
But the guns have now been quietly
posted, Mr Jonas has resumed command
of the beaters, and whatever pheasants have
run forward will soon have to show themselves.
" Mark over ! " again resounds from
the top of the bank, and an old hen pheasant,
so big and dark-coloured as, but for a certain
deficiency about the tail, to be scarcely discernible
from a cock, rises straight up in the
air, and, apparently uncertain whether to go
forward or back, adopts a middle course, and
skims down the wind towards the corner now
occupied by the guardsman. " Over you,
Aylmer ! " calls out Lord Sydmonton ; and in
another moment the ancient bird crumples up,
and falls with a tremendous splash into the
pond, to the intense delight of a small boy
who, relieved from his duties as " stop,"
is now standing behind the gallant captain.

whose performance he is evidently prepared to
regard with a thoroughly critical eye. " Well
done," murmurs his lordship, and at that
moment a cock pheasant gets up out of the
hedge in front of him, and flies straight back
over the beaters' heads, affording an easy shot
to Gerard, who has just rolled over a rabbit
with his first barrel. " Mark that bird," calls
out Jonas, and a boy runs back for it.
Steady, beaters ; keep your sticks going.
Another rabbit back, sir ! " But the rabbit is
equal to the occasion, and making straight for
the boy who has gone back after the pheasant,
in spite of that young gentleman's vociferations
and frantic flourishing of his stick he
deprives Gerard of the chance of a shot, and
disappears into a thicket unhurt.

"Mark over! mark over!" again shout the
beaters,' as two cock pheasants and a hen rise
together and sail over to the guns outside.
The "Cadger" this time gets a good right
and left at a cock and hen, while Lord Edmonton
disposes of the other cock. "Woodcock
! " sells a beater in his excitement, as a
small dusky bird flops out of some sedges at
his feet. " Woodcock be hanged ! " growls an

Tinder-keeper reprovingly ; " it's only a water-hen
! " and amidst the suppressed chuckling
of his fellows the too-impulsive beater retires
into himself. But the mistake is soon forgotten,
for the pheasants are now getting up
in all directions, and for a few minutes all the
guns have plenty to do. One after another
the birds rise up over the trees, and come
high over the guns outside. No blowing to
pieces here, but good "tall" rockets, that
take plenty of shooting.

"D it," exclaims the "Cadger," working
hard at a cartridge that is inclined to stick,
these birds are worth a sovereign apiece ! "
and, throwing up his gun, he misses a splendid
old cock, thereby giving Mr Bickersteth a
chance of "wiping his eye," which feat he
accomplishes most successfully. The shooting
has, in fact, become general all round, and
for the moment the " Cadger " and the Marquis
find their second guns very useful. The
last-named nobleman, an enormous cigar in
his mouth, his hat very much on one side,
and his legs very far apart, is making a very
fair performance at the extreme end of the
covert, as is testified by various inanimate

masses of fur and feather lying in picturesque
confusion about him. Gerard, too, standing
back in the wood, has his fair share of sport,
and holds his own with his gun, happily not
converted into a fire-shovel, as in his dream in
the train. He has got into an open space behind
a couple of tall fir-trees, the tops of which
just give him a capital line ; and has polished
off four or eve satisfactory rockets coming
back, besides some half-dozen rabbits, and a
stray partridge that gets up from no one knows
where, and gives him perhaps the most sporting
shot of all.

But the fire now slackens ; the beaters are
at the end of the wood, and jt is evident that
there is nothing more left to come out. One
more rabbit pops up at the last moment, and
runs the gauntlet of the beaters' sticks, which,
however,' he successfully evades, and gets to
ground triumphantly before any one can get a
safe shot at him. Out come the beaters, and
the guns get together, and discuss their performances,
while the under keepers and retrieve
set to work to collect the slain.

"Well, Marquis," says Lord Sydmonton, as
that distinguished sportsman approaches with

the air of a victorious general, " I hope you
have had some shooting at the end there ? "

Mon Dieu ! c est magnifique," replies the
Marquis ; " I 'ave kill twenty, five-and twenty
pheasant, and some 'ares. Mais regardez
done!" and with a triumphant expression he
pulls out of his pocket a woodcock, which he
holds up for general inspection.

Well done ! " says old Mr. Bickersteth,
that's the first woodcock I've seen this year.
Where did he get up, Marquis ? None of us
saw him."

Aha ! " chuckles the Marquis, " he get up
vere none of you see him, by the brook there,
and he come straight along to me, and just as
I put up my gun, down he go again. ' Ah !
mon ami,' says I, ' but I will 'ave you yet,' and
just as the features come round the corner
there, up he get again, and fly right over the
bank, and I bang ! bang ! and knock him over
with my seconde barrel."

Well," says Lord Sydmonton, " I hardly
expected to see a woodcock here ; but I hope
now we shall see some in the next beat, where
there's better cover for them. Now then,
let's see what we've killed here."

By this time the game has been brought in,
and hid in rows on a grassy bank. First the
cock pheasants, resplendent in their gorgeous
plumage ; then the hens, in their more sober
feathering: of russet brown : and then  the
plump partridges, with the Marquis' woodcock,
which he gives up, not without some reluctance,
in a post of honour by itself Below
come a line of rabbits and some half-dozen
hares. The beaters stand around and mop
their heated brows, or exchange observations
in an undertone. The warm mid-day sun
gleams on the glossy backs of the pheasants,
and lights up the soft fur of the ground game.
Altogether a pretty picture of English rural
sport.

Lord Sydmonton takes a stick from the
nearest beater, and proceeds to count the
game. " Two, four, six, eight, seventeen cock
pheasants. . Twenty-eight,  no, twenty-nine
hens,  that's forty-six pheasants. Six partridges
and a woodcock. How many rabbits,
Jonas ? Twenty-four,  ah ! and seven hares.
Hollo ! there's that dog of yours bringing
another cock ; that makes forty-seven pheasants.
Well, that's very fair for this beat.

Do you think all your birds have been picked
up, Marquis ? " This rather slyly, for the
gallant Frenchman is perhaps just a little given
to romancing, and his twenty or five-and-twenty
pheasants resolve themselves, when
collected, into fifteen, exclusive of one that he
and Mr Bickersteth have shot at together, andover
which they are now holding a courteous
but energetic discussion.

Oh, yes, they all pick up," replies the
Marquis confidently, " they vos all kill dead ;
n'est-ce pas, Tom," appealing to his English
servant, who has been carrying his second
gun.

Yes, my lord," replies that domestic, with
much gravity, touching his hat to Lord Edmonton,
"the Marquis's birds are all picked
up, except two that have fallen in that wood
yonder, my lord."

Ah, well, we shall very likely find them,
then," says Lord Sydmonton, with a quiet
smile, "as we're going that way. Now,
gentlemen, we ought to be moving on. I
can't promise you so many pheasants in the
next beat, and it will be rather rough walking
; but I think we ought to get some woodcocks.

Now, Jonas, you had better get your
men on."

But pleasant as a good day's shooting is
to those concerned, the mere record of how
a pheasant got up here, or a rabbit was missed
there, is apt to become somewhat monotonous.
We will not, therefore, weary our readers with
any farther account of the day's sport, beyond
mentioning that when the bag was counted
up on the little grass plot in front of the
watchers' house at Speed Gate, it was found
to comprise a hundred and seventy pheasants,
a hundred and fifteen rabbits, thirty-two
hares, fourteen partridges, eleven woodcocks,
and three teal. Altogether a total of three
hundred and forty-five head ; to say nothing
of a jay and an owl, the latter having been
shot by the Marquis in mistake for a woodcock.


'' Not much of a bag, after all this fuss ! "
we think we can hear some fashionable sportsman
observe, as he turns up his nose at, to
him, such a humble day's sport. Perhaps
not, from the poulterer's view of the case.
But as Lord Sydmonton and his friends give
up their guns, and start to walk home across

the park, over the old trees of which the moon
is now beginning to rise, they feel as if they
had had a fair share of walking as well as
some very enjoyable shooting, and could look
forward to a well-earned dinner. And we
doubt whether the performers at nine out often
of the "big shoots" of the present day
would be able to say as much.

VOL. I.

THE Sheffield BALL.

You are prepared for a ball tomorrow night,
I hope, Marquis ? " said Lady Sydmonton to
her neighbour at dinner that evening.

"Mais oui, certainement," replied the Marquis,
" I shall go to the ball, and you shall
show me the beauties of the voisinage, n'est-ce
pas ? But I think," with a gallant bow, "Lady
Sydmonton shall always be the queen of them
all."

"Thank you. Marquis," rejoined her ladyship,
with a graceful little inclination of her
head; "that's very pretty, indeed. But you
mustn't talk like that to our quiet country
girls down here, or you will turn all their
heads and break all their hearts. And you
mustn't expect anything very grand. Marquis.
It is what we call a county ball, you know ;
and all sorts of people come to it. You will

see some very funny people, and some very
funny dresses. I daresay, however, you will
see a few people you know, and sometimes it
is rather amusing. You won t mind dining a
little earlier than usual, I hope, as we have
nine miles to drive, and we are supposed to be
there pretty early. Mr Bickersteth, I really
think we must make you come this time. You
haven't been to a Shawfield ball for ever so
long, and aU the young ladies miss you dreadfully,
I hear."

'' No, no. Lady Sydmonton," replied Mr
Bickersteth with a smile, " I'm too old for that
sort of thing. I think a quiet evening with
his lordship is more in my line ; and perhaps
we'll have a little fun of our own while you're
away, for all you know ! '

Ah, yes," put in the " Cadger ; " " I'm not
at all sure that I'd trust those two alone, Lady
Sydmonton. Don't you think, now, it would
be as well if I were to stay and look after
them, just to see that they don't get into
mischief, you know ? "

Certainly not. Lord Ballybrack," replied
Lady Sydmonton, with an affectation of severity
; "I wouldn't leave you at home on

any consideration. There's no saying what
oughtn't happen. Besides, you don't suppose
I am going to let off one of my dancing young
men ! The Shawfield young ladies would
never forgive me."

What time shall you want to dine, then,"
inquired Lord Sydmonton from the other end
of the table ; " you'll give them time to get
home after shooting, I hope ? "

Oh, Sydmonton, of course ! " exclaimed her
ladyship. " Why, we needn't start till nine, I
suppose ; so if we have dinner at seven, that
will give us plenty of time. You can't shoot
after five, surely, and that will give you two
hours."

Well, as you like," returned his lordship,
but we've got a longish day, as we're going
to Quarrington Forest, so we must make an
early start. What will the ladies say to breakfasting
at eight, or shall we have breakfast by
ourselves V

Oh, we can settle that by-and-by," said
Lady Sydmonton; "but if you are going to
the Forest, you had better have a separate
breakfast. You really can't expect us to be
down at eight, you know." And the conversation

taking another turn, the subject was for
the moment dropped.

The Shawiield county ball was a great institution
in the south of Wealdshire, and was
generally well attended ; for although on the
Sydmonton side of the county there were comparatively
few large houses, and the resident
gentry were scattered about at long distances
from the county town, on the other, or eastern
side, there was a much thicker population ;
and there were plenty of houses, large and
small, most of them able to contribute a fair
proportion of ball-goers, apart from the visitors
invited for the occasion. And as the beauty
of the Wealdshire ladies was proverbial, and
the dancing arrangements were generally welland
vigorously carried out, there was always a
considerable influx of strangers on these occasions,
and the usually sleepy old town woke
up for one night to an unwonted semblance of
life and gaiety. The ball was held in the
old Assembly Rooms attached to the White
Horse Hotel, a celebrated posting-house in
the old coaching days, and still boasting a
considerable extent of tumble-down stabling,
which on ball nights was in great requisition.

The hotel itself was accordingly available for
extra accommodation in the way of cloak-rooms
and other adjuncts, so that on the whole there
was a greater degree of comfort than is often
met with on similar occasions, where some
miserable little den has to do duty for a ladies'
cloak-room, and the gentlemen have to deposit
their hats and coats in the passage.

Then you sportsmen will breakfast at
eight," said Lady Sydmonton as the party
separated for the night, "so we shan't meet
again till you come home. Mind you don't
over-tire yourself Lord Ballybrack, or you
won't be able to dance, and that would be
very sad. Good-night, Marquis ; good-night,
everybody." And after the usual hand-shaking
and candle-lighting, a performance, by the
way, which may be made to comprehend a
good deal of quiet "business" where there
is any predisposition to flirtation, the ladies
rustled up the wide staircase, and the gentlemen
wended their way to the smoking-room.

Quarrington Forest was one of Lord Edmonton'
s out-lying beats, detached from the
rest of the property, and about seven miles
from the house. It was a large tract of rough

ground, partly real oak forest, where there
were ancient trees that might have witnessed
the Norman invasion, and partly heather and
scrub, intermingled with the picturesque
clumps of fir-trees which are such common
landmarks in that part of the country. It
was a capital breeding-ground for pheasants,
all wild birds, moreover, and well able to take
good care of themselves ; and there were
many spots that were hardly ever without a
woodcock or two during the winter months.
There were plenty of rabbits too, and the low
scrub was a favourite resort of partridges ; so
that for a real sporting day's shooting it would
have been difficult to beat. But although
there was plenty of game, it required hardwork
to bring to bag ; and a sure foot as well
as a quick eye was essential to success in
Quarrington Forest.

When, therefore, our sportsmen found themselves
back at Sydmonton at about half-past
six in the evening, after a long though very
enjoyable day's sport, there was not one of
them who felt particularly keen about the ball
that night ; and those who were bound to go
were rather inclined to envy Lord Sydmonton

and Mr Bickerstetli, who were able to look forward
to a quiet evening at home. The tea in
the library was cold and uncared for ; and the
ladies had disappeared, either to dress, or to
enjoy a nap in preparation for the fatigues of
the evening. So our friends dispersed to their
rooms, to make the most of the short time
left them before dinner, the " Cadger" asseverating,
as he despatched his servant for some
brandy and seltzer, that he was dead-beat,
and that he would be hanged if he didn't
think he would shirk the ball after all. But
when the party reassembled at dinner, a
more cheerful tone was observable, encouraged
perhaps by the somewhat " scratch " and
informal character of the repast. Lady Chet-
wynd, it is true, was in full dress, and presented
a most imposing appearance ; but the
other ladies were still in demi-toilette, Lady
Sydmonton and Mrs Fortescue, the fair-haired
lady we noticed at the breakfast-table,
in cunningly-devised "tea-gowns," and the
two Miss Chetwynds still in their morning-dresses.
It must be confessed that one of
the last-named young ladies had confided to
Gerard that she had had her hair done ; and

a close observer might possibly have noticed
a more than usually ornate appearance about
the other fair heads round the table. Otherwise
there was nothing indicative of the
approaching festivity, and nobody would have
supposed that such a sedately-attired party
were about to pass the night in the dissipation
of a county ball.

Now then," said Lady Sydmonton, as she
rose from the table, "mind you are all intime.
There's half an hour before we start,
so you have plenty of time to adorn yourselves.
We shall go in two carriages, but we
shall all start together, so we can settle that
by-and-by."

By Jove, Sydmonton ! " exclaimed the
Cadger " as the door closed on the departing
ladies, and he stretched himself
luxuriously before the fire, "what fools weare
to go to this ball, eh ? Hanged if I
wouldn't much rather stop and have a quiet
evening with you. I say, we've had a ripping
day. That was a nice shot of yours.
Marquis, that last old cock that came over
the fir-trees just before we finished."

"Yes, he tumble down," replied the Marquis,

sententiously, as lie helped himself to a
glass of claret. " Mais, que diable ! Edmonton,
mon cher, that forest of yours shall be
trs dangereux. I come a devil of a crop-pair
on some rocks, and was near to lose
myself in a marais  a bog, n'est-ce pas?
when, malheureusement I up get a woodcock,
and I stick in the mud, and he flyaway
before I have time to shoot him."

"Ah, there are some queer places there,"
smiled Lord Sydmonton, " and one has to be
careful how one goes. But I'm very glad
you didn't hurt yourself. Marquis, or you
might have been prevented from going to the
ball, and that would never have done."

"Mais non," replied the Marquis, with a
shrubs of his shoulders, *sand it will soon be
time for us to get ready, par exemple ; eh.
Bally, 'mon vieux ? " to the " Cadger,"
who had now fallen asleep with his empty
glass in his hand, and was beginning to
snore peacefully after the fatigues of the
day.

Hollo ! " exclaimed that nobleman, waking
up with a start; "oh, d it, it isn't

time to go yet ?"

'well, I'm sure I don't want to hurry
you," said Lord Sydmonton, with the comfortable
air of a man who had no intention
of turning out at that time of night after a
hard day's shooting ; '' but if you're going,
you had better soon be thinking of it, as
it won't do to keep the ladies waiting, you
know."

Come along, then," exclaimed the '* Cadger,"
pulling himself together, and pouring
out a parting glass of claret ; " let's be off.
Come along, you fellows. Bet you I'm ready
before you, Marquis." And the dancing men
took themselves off, leaving their host and
Mr Bickersteth to continue their "crack" over
the comfortable fire.

'' Now then," said Lady Sydmonton, as she
sailed into the drawing-room in the most
charming of ball-dresses a minute or two
after the clock had struck nine, " are we all
ready ? Let's see ; we are five ladies and four
gentlemen, so we must divide ourselves somehow.
Lady Chetwynd, suppose you and I go
in the landau, and perhaps Mrs Fortescue will
chaperone your girls in the omnibus. Marquis,
will you come with us ? and that will

leave six for the omnibus. But where's Lord
Ballybrack ? I do hope he hasn't gone to
sleep! Oh! there he is," as the "Cadger"
entered, resplendent in the most faultless of
white waistcoats, and with a large gardenia in
his button-hole, which his faithful servant
had that afternoon imported from London.

Well, you are smart," said Lady Edmonton,
with a pretty little curtsy, *' and
with that lovely gardenia I'm afraid you
won't look at my poor little bouquets," pointing
to a row of dainty little " buttonholes "
with which the others were adorning themselves.
" But come along, for we ought to be
off." And with much bustling on the part of
men-servants, and subdued sounds of whispering
from the maids in the gallery above, who
had assembled to survey and criticise their
mistresses' toilettes, the party proceeded to
get under weigh ; and in a few moments the
ticking of the clocks and the fall of the ashes
in the grate were all the sounds to be heard
in the deserted rooms.

The roads were in good order, and the nine
miles to Shawfield were quickly got over.
The omnibus party was efficiently chaperoned

by jlrs Fortescue, who discharged her duties
in the most conscientious manner by entirely
appropriating the guardsman, who was both
good-looking and a '' parti," to herself, thus
preventing the possibility of a flirtation with
either of the young ladies, who were forced to
console themselves with the " Cadger," who
had long been regarded as hopeless from a
matrimonial point of view, and with Gerard,
who was an obvious " detrimental."

"By Jove, here we are!" exclaimed the.
Cadger" as the level surface of the macadamised
road was suddenly exchanged for the
jarring of the cobble stones which announced
the entrance to Shawfield ; " now you two
fellows, wake up ! " His lordship having
during the last quarter of an hour himself
displayed an unmistakable tendency to relapse
into the slumber to which the labours of the
day had fairly entitled him, this adjuration
on his part was received by Gerard and the
guardsman with a certain amount of derision.
All, however, began to prepare for disembarkation
; and amid a general buttoning of gloves,
searching for dropped fans, and adjustment
of bouquets, the two carriages jolted over

the ill-paved side streets, till, turning into
the open square in the centre of the town,
they got into quite a small string of vehicles
that were " setting down " at the door of the
White Horse Hotel.

Having successfully accomplished the descent
from their carriages, and passed through
the gaping crowd at the doors, our party
found themselves in the somewhat cramped
entrance-hall of the hotel, from whence, however,
they were speedily piloted by the obsequious
landlord, who appeared to combine for
the occasion the functions of a host with those
of a groom of the chambers, to the ladies'
cloak-room, a comfortable apartment on the
first" floor, the gentlemen being accommodated
in a smaller room close by. The passage was
full of fathers, husbands, brothers, and miscellaneous
cavaliers, awaiting the reappearance
of their respective ladies, while the distant
tuning of fiddles indicated the whereabouts of
the ball-room.

The Sydmonton party presented a highly
respectable appearance as they entered the
room, the Marquis with her ladyship, the
Cadger " with Lady Chetwynd, and the

three other ladies escorted on either side by
the guardsman and Gerard. The room was
already fairly well filled ; but dancing had not
yet commenced, and the floor was occupied by
promenading groups, engrossed in mutual
salutations and criticisms of each other's
dresses. The entrance of Lady Sydmonton
and her party was the signal for a general
stir; and divers rosette-adorned gentlemen
started forward to welcome her ladyship, and
conduct her to the upper end of the room,
where a bevy of other notabilities had already
established themselves. The band, which had
begun to manifest signs of impatience, struck
up a few preliminary bars ; partners were
claimed for the first quadrille, and the ball
began.

*snow, Mr Courtenay," said Lady Edmonton
to Gerard, as at the conclusion of the
dance she was re-conducted by the Marquis
to her place, " if you want partners, you had
better come to me ; for I know a good many of
the people here, and you must do your duty,
you know."

"Thanks, very much, Lady Sydmonton,"
replied Gerard. " I'm engaged to Miss Chet-

wynd for the first round dance ; but after that
I shall be most grateful for some introductions.
I don't see any one I know as yet,"
looking round the room, 'so I'm perfectly
free at present."

Very well, then," said Lady Sydmonton.
Look here, I'll introduce you to the Towards
of Darlington, close by here ; " and in another
moment Gerard found himself enunciating the
usual platitudes to two nice-looking country
girls, who had all the appearance of having
come to the ball to dance and thoroughly
enjoy themselves. One introduction led to
another, and Gerard, as well as the rest of the
Sydmonton party, soon found their cards as
full as they cared to have them.

By the way," said Lady Sydmonton to
Gerard, as they met at the other end of the
room in the interval between two dances,
' there is one other young lady I should like
to introduce you to if you don't mind. She
hasn't been out much yet, I fancy, and I daresay
doesn't know many of the people here ;
but she's a nice girl, I believe, and I should
like to get her some partners."

Delighted, I'm sure," replied Gerard, as in

duty bound. " Where is she, Lady Edmonton
? "

"Well, I don't see her at this moment,"
returned her ladyship, looking round, "but
she is here somewhere. Oh, there she is,"
indicating a slight, graceful-looking girl in
white, who was standing with an old gentleman
rather apart from the through of dancers.
Will you excuse me one moment. Sir Henry?"
to the good-looking but painfully shy young
county dignitary on whose arm she was leaning
; and in another moment Gerard found
himself confronted with the young lady in
white, who was introduced to him by Lady
Sydmonton as Miss Graham.

Somehow or other, it seemed to Gerard as
if he had seen the girl before, though when or
where he was quite unable to call to mind.
As, however, the band was already tuning up
for the next dance, for which he was engaged
to one of the Miss Towards, he had only time
to engage her for a valse about four dances
further on, and then went off in quest of his
partner.

Meanwhile the ball progressed merrily.
There were plenty of dancing men, of all

VOL. I. p

ages and sizes ; for at the Shawfielcl county
ball it was not considered the thing to be
idle, and heavy fathers of families and staid
old bachelors might be seen "taking the
floor" with apparently as much energy as
the younger men. Of the Sydmonton party,
the Marquis and the "Cadger" were in great
request ; the former, with his parti-coloured
ribbon and star of some august order, being
an object of much interest and speculation,
and evincing his appreciation of the Weald-shire
ladies by dancing with all the prettiest
girls in the room. The ' Cadger," too, was inforce,
and had entered into the spirit of the
thing with an impressment which had set
more than one fair damsel thinking whether
it would not be rather nice to be Lady Bally-back.
It must be confessed that there were
two of' our party who could hardly be said
to have conscientiously discharged their duty
to society ; for Mrs Fortescue, who never did
things by halves, had so completely monopolised
the gallant Captain Aylmer, that, after
the first two or three dances, that warrior was
not to be found anywhere ; and chance promenaders
in search of air were more than

once disconcerted by coming suddenly upon
a deeply en crossed couple in a secluded corner
of one of the ante-rooms, whence they would
occasionally emerge for a turn or two during
some particularly seductive valse, and return
immediately to their former privacy. 

So the evening wore on ; and Gerard, consulting
his card, found that he was engaged
for the next valse to Miss Graham. He had
thought very little, if at all, about her since
his introduction ; but now he began to wonder
what she was like, whether she could dance,
and what he was to talk to her about. He
had hitherto enjoyed himself very much ; quid
the second of the two Miss Chetwynds had,
failing perhaps any one better, shown a certain
disposition to treat him kindly, and had
in fact caused him to think that being in her
company was rather a pleasant thing. So
he sought out his new partner, not feeling
particularly keen about it, and in fact rather
hoping either that she might be gone, or that
some want of accord between their respective
cards might intervene to release him from his
engagement.

No such luck, however, was in store for

him ; and on Lis casting up, not a moment
too soon, at the point where he recollected
to have first seen her, he found her still
standing by the side of the old gentleman,
who was apparently acting as her chaperon,
and who was engaged in an animated discussion
with another antiquated individual of a
scientific aspect, whose general appearance
was more suggestive of a learned meeting
than a ball-room. Under these circumstances,
it was not surprising that Miss Graham should
exhibit an appearance of being just a trifle
bored ; and as Gerard appeared she was looking
wistfully round, as if fearing that she was
going to lose her dance after all. But as he
approached, her eyes brightened, and it was
evident, not only that there was no mistake
about the engagement, but that she was looking
forward to it a good deal more than her
partner.

By Jove," thought Gerard to himself as
she placed her arm on his after the usual
formula of *' our dance, I think ?" and a somewhat
unsuccessful attempt on the gentleman's
part to appear as if the moment had arrived
to which he had been looking forward the

whole evening, " she's not a bad-looking girl.
Wonder what sort of a mover she is ! "

At this moment the band struck up the
' Journalists " valse, and whatever doubts
Gerard might have entertained as to his
partner's dancing powers were speedily dispelled.
As he subsequently described his experiences
to his friend George Morton, " she
was as light on your arm as a feather, and
seemed to fly over the floor. By Jove ! you
couldn't help going ; she'd have made an
elephant dance ! "

The room was at this moment pretty clear,
and they had a good long turn before stopping.
" How beautifully you dance ! " Gerard
could not help saying to his partner, as they
fell back for a moment out of the ring ; " I
am sure you must be very fond of it."

"Oh, yes, I'm so fond of it," replied the
girl, with sparkling eyes and a blush that
made Gerard think she was almost pretty ;
"but I hardly ever get any dancing. We
live very quietly at home, and this is only the
second time I have ever been to a ball."

Gerard could not at this moment think of
anything particularly brilliant in the way of a

compliment ; and seeing that his partner was
evidently eager to go oii, he thought the best
thing he could do was to propose another
turn, and they were speedily in the thick of it
again. The dance seemed very short to both
of them, and at its conclusion Gerard was
forced to confess to himself that he had not
had a pleasant valse that evening.

"Won't you come and have some tea, or
supper, or something ? " he asked his partner.
The next dance was a quadrille, for which he
had purposely avoided engaging himself, having,
to tell the truth, had some idea of asking
the second Miss Chetwynd to 'sit it outwith
him. But he felt now as if he owed
Miss Graham some reparation for the mental
injustice he had done her, and magnanimously
resolved to sacrifice himself.

*' Ye, I think I should like a cup of tea,"
she replied ; " but I don't know where it is."

"Oh, I know all about it," said Gerard,
who had been on several similar expeditions
during the evening, and off they went.

The tea-room was by this time pretty well deserted,
in favour of the more solid attractions
of supper. Gerard established his partner comfortably

on a sofa, and proceeded to minister to
her requirements. And as lie returned to her
with a cup of tea in one hand and a plate
of rather sawdust-looking sponge biscuits in
the other, it suddenly struck him as odd that
he had not taken more notice of her before.
There was nothing about her that would
single her out for observation in a well-dressed
crowd ; but as she sat alone there, her rather
pale face still lighted up by the excitement of
dancing, it would have been a fastidious critic
that would not have been inclined to pronounce
her a very nice-looking, lady-like girl.
There was nothing calling for admiration
in the way of classical outline of feature
or brilliancy of colouring. The features were,
if anything, rather too small; and the soft
brown hair was cut short over a forehead
which many would have pronounced too
high for beauty. But there was a peculiar
sweetness about the lines of the mouth, and a
certain wistful look about the dark hazel eyes,
that in a measure made up for the absence of
more decided attractions. It was, in fact, a
very lovable face, and one that would have a
tendency to grow upon any one. She was

rather above middle height, with a graceful,
lissom figure, which the simplest of square-cut
white dresses scarcely showed to advantage
; and wore no ornaments but two little
black velvet bands on her wrists, and a
quaint, old-fashioned cross on a thin gold
chain looped up to another black velvet
band round her throat.

Taking in these points as he sat down
beside her, Gerard began to think that his
companion might really be rather interesting.
But, now that the momentary excitement of
dancing was over, she did not evince any
great aptitude for conversation, and he was
rather at a loss what to talk to her about.
Having tried the conversational topics of the
ball, the floor, and the music, with but indifferent
success, he was beginning to rack his
brains for something else, when his eye rested
on the curious-looking cross that she wore
round her neck, and it struck him that here
might be a possible opening.

'' "What a pretty cross that is ! " he said,
feeling, we are bound to say, not the very
slightest interest in the matter.

But he had struck a sympathetic cord, and

the girl's face brightened up immediately
Oh, yes," she exclaimed, eagerly, " isn't it
pretty 1 It was given to me by my dear Mr
Montenello, and he says it once belonged to
Mary Queen of Scots."

"And who is Mr Montenello?" asked
Gerard, amused with her little confidence ; " I
never heard of any one of that name before."

Oh, I forgot," she replied ; " how stupid
of me ! Of course you couldn't know anything
about him. But he's a great friend of
Mr Baldwin's  where I live, you know  and
he has been so kind to me. He lives in
Venezuela, though, which is a long way off,"
she added, rather regretfully, " and he doesn't
often come to England. But he wants me to
go out there and see him some day, and I
should so like to go ! "

'' Ah, Venezuela," rejoined Gerard, who, weare
afraid, was a little hazy as to the exact
whereabouts of that interesting country ; "oh,
yes, of course, that's a long way off. But it
isn't much of a place to live in, I expect, is
it ? and you would find it very hot and uncomfortable.
Yellow fever, and all that sort of
thing, I fancy ? "

Oh, no," she replied, rather indignantly, as
if bound to stand up for the character of her
friend's country, " it isn't at all like that. Mr
Montenello says that where he lives there are
beautiful plains and downs, something like
these about here, and you ride about all day,
and that would be so nice ! "

"Ah, yes, that would be very jolly, of
course'' said Gerard, catching at what he
hoped might afford another topic of conversation
; " you are very fond of riding, I daresay?"

Oh, there's nothing I'm so fond of," she
replied, eagerly. " I should like to be riding
all day long. You know we have beautiful
downs to ride over here, and sometimes I go
out with the harriers, and that is such fun.
But some day I'm going to try and get Mr
Baldwin to let me go out with the foxhounds,
and I So hope he will."

A light suddenly broke in upon Gerard.
Harriers ! downs ! Of course ! this was the
very girl on the chestnut whom he had seen
when walking about the Southdowns with
George Morton in the spring. He sat up on the
sofa, and looked at her with increasing interest.

I thought I had seen you somewhere

before," he said, " but I couldn't quite remember
where it was. Haven't you got a chestnut
mare that you ride sometimes with the
harriers ?"

"Yes, but how ever did you know that?"
she replied, opening her eyes wide with astonishment.
"You haven't been hunting down
here, have you ? "

No," replied Gerard, laughing ; " but I
may have seen you hunting for all that. The
fact is, I was taking a walk last spring with a
friend of mine over the downs near Middle-haven,
and we came upon a pack of harriers,
and you were there with an old gentleness,
who I suppose is the same you are here with
to-night, only I couldn't be quite certain about
him. But I am sure about you," he added,
looking into her pretty eyes, " and it was very
stupid of me not to have remembered yon
before."

Oh, now I recollect you, of course ! "
exclaimed Miss Graham, with a childish
delight ; " you were sitting on the top of a
bank as we came away, and you had a dear
little dog with you, that barked at us, and
Kathleen pretended to be frightened. But

that was all nonsense; only she is so silly
sometimes. How curious that we should have
met again here ! "

eyes, isn't it?" replied Gerard, beginning
to think that he was very glad they had met.
** Poor little Smut ! I've lost him, I'm sorry to
say. I think I should know your mare too,
if I saw her again. How nicely she jumps !
Fm sure she's Irish ; isn't she ? "

"Yes," returned Miss Graham, "she came
from somewhere near Limerick, I believe.
But how did you know she could jump ? Oh,
I remember now ; there was a bank and ditch
she jumped over just before we left off. Yes,
she jumps beautifully, doesn't she ? Oh, I'm
so fond of her, and she'll follow me all about
the place, just like a dog."

''No wonder, I'm sure," thought Gerard,
for the. moment rather inclined to envy the
chestnut mare. " Do you live far from here ? "
he continued, thinking he would like to know
something more about Miss Graham, her chestnut
mare, and her belongings generally.

"About six miles by the road," she replied,
but you can ride it in four over the downs.
It's just at the edge of the downs, and we've

got a beautiful view of the sea too, through
what they call a Dean,  a sort of glen, you
know, between two hills."

Gerard would have liked to put a few more
questions to his companion as to the exact
locality of her residence, her relationship to
Mr Baldwin, whom he correctly assumed to
be the old gentleman present with her at the
ball, and various other matters. But at this
moment the sound of the music in the ballroom
ceased, and Miss Graham beoinnins to
look round rather uneasily, as if fearful of
staying away too long from her chaperon,
Gerard felt that their little tete-astute must
be brought to an end.

I suppose I ought to be taking you back
to the ball-room," he said, 'but you will give
me another dance, won't you ? "

'' Oh, yes, I shall be delighted," she replied.
Tve enjoyed this one so much. Which shall
it be ? "

"Let's see," said Gerard, looking at his
card; *'oh, dear, Fm engaged for the next
two round dances. Will you give me the
third, Miss Graham, that will be number
thirteen on the card?"

''Vm afraid we shall be gone before that,"
sbe replied ; " but if we are still here, I shall
be delighted."

Oh, surely Mr Baldwin will stay," exclaimed
Gerard, feeling as if he would be very
much inclined to pick a quarrel with the old
gentleman if he did not. 'why, it's only
a quarter to one now ! ''

'' Oh, he would stay if I asked him," replied
the girl, "but it isn't good for him to
be up very late, he is so apt to catch cold ;
and I couldn't bear to think of his doing
that on my account. But we shall see when
the time comes. Will you write your name
down ? " giving him her poor little card, on
which only two other names besides his own
were as yet inscribed, "and then there will
be no mistake."

Int afraid you have had very little dancing
to-night," said Gerard, looking at her
meagre list of engagements, and feeling quite
indignant that a girl who could dance so well
should either be so little known or so little
appreciated.

Oh, I know so few people," she replied,
a little sadly perhaps. "You see, we live

very quietly, and I hardly ever see any one
at home. But I have enjoyed to-night very
much, though. I mean," with a blush, and
thinking that she had perhaps said too much,
not only the dancing, you know. It's such
fun going to a ball ! "

Well, I do hope you will get Mr Baldwin to
stay, and that we shall have another dance," said
Gerard, as he escorted her back to the ball-room,

Oh, I should like it so much," she replied,
"but you mustn't mind if we are gone, because
of Mr Baldwin, you know. Oh, there
he is. Thank you so much." And Gerard,
feeling that he had no further excuse for
remaining with her, and being, moreover, engaged
for the next dance, was compelled to
take his departure, and seek out his partner
in a somewhat discontented frame of mind.

Somehow or other the ball seemed to him
after this to have suddenly become flat and
unprofitable ; and not even the fascinations
of Miss Chetwynd could arouse him to any
further sense of enjoyment. He kept looking
out anxiously for Miss Graham, and saw her
dancing again with some one else, for whom
he instantly conceived an altogether undeserved

and unreasonable feeling of hostility.
But when, on his return from the supper-room
with a damsel whose insipid prattle had
bored him to distraction, he saw the placard
announcing the thirteenth dance hoisted in
front of the orchestra, he found to his dismay
that she had disappeared from her place. He
went hurriedly round the room, but there was
no trace either of her or her chaperon, and
it was evident that they had gone. Inwardly
objurgating the infirmities of Mr Baldwin,
he proceeded to try the supper-room, cloak-room,
and other adjacent apartments, but without
success ; and at length had the satisfaction
of being informed, on inquiring among the miscellaneous
crowd of domestics in the entrance
hall, that Mr Baldwin and Miss Graham had
been gone for the last twenty minutes.

Feeling just a little ashamed of his impetuosity,
Gerard returned to the ball-room, with
the honest intention of doing his duty for the
rest of the evening. But the ball was over for
him, and it was a relief when, an hour later,
he found himself one of a sleepy party in the
omnibus on the way back to Sydmonton.

THE OLD STORY.

The day after a country ball is generally
attended by a certain feeling of demoralisation,
and Sydmonton Place constituted no
exception to the general rule. It had been
announced before the party separated, between
three and four in the morning, that breakfast
would be at half-past ten, but that nobody
need be very particular as to punctuality,* as
it would be kept going all the morning. The
latitude thus allowed was taken advantage
of by more than one of the party ; and at a
quarter to eleven the only representatives of
the ball-going contingent were Lady Edmonton
and Lady Chetwynd. The two .young
ladies, we are bound to say, put in an appearance
shortly afterwards, looking none the
worse for their over-night dissipation ; but on
inquiries being made respecting Mrs Fortescue,
it was ascertained that she had ordered her

VOL. I. Q

breakfast upstairs. The same course, it subsequently
transpired, had been adopted by
the Marquis and the " Cadger." The gallant
Captain Aylmer appeared as the clock struck
eleven ; and Gerard, we are sorry to say, was
a good last, having only managed to reach the
dining-room just as the ladies were preparing
to withdraw.

Lord Sydmonton was far too good a sportsman
to run the risk of having his pheasants
''tailored" by gentlemen who had been up
all night, and whose nerves and hands could
hardly be expected to be quite as steady as
usual. No regular shooting, therefore, had
been arranged for the day after the ball,
though it was ordained that for any one who
wished for a walk, combined with a little sport,
there, was to be some rabbit-shooting at the
far end of the deer-park, with the probability
of some shots at ducks in the afternoon on
some pools higher up the stream. So, after
some discussion, it was decided that Gerard
and Captain-Aylmer should start at twelve
o'clock and shoot rabbits till two, when the
ladies would join them with the Marquis and
the " Cadger," in the event of those worthies

being by that time sufficiently up to the
mark ; and as it was a fine sunny day, they
would all have luncheon together in some
sheltered spot in the deer-park, after which
the sportsmen could go on after the ducks
or come home with the ladies, as they felt
inclined. Lord Sydmonton, it should be
observed, who as a rule was opposed on
principle to the presence of ladies out shooting,
had started early with Mr Bickersteth on
a visit of inspection to some outlying farms,
and would not be home till late.

It was a soft, warm morning ; and the
rabbits lying out well in the bracken on the
sunny slopes of the deer-park, the two sportsmen
had plenty of occupation. Gerard was
glad of the distraction ; for, somehow or
other, he had caught himself thinking a good
deal about Miss Graham, and wishing he
could have had another dance with her. He
was angry with himself too ; for, as he very
sagaciously endeavoured to argue, what on
earth had he got to do with her?  a girl
whom he would probably never see again, and
about whom there was really nothing very
remarkable ? She danced beautifully, certainly

; and no doubt she could ride too.
But so could plenty of other girls, and after
all, what business was it of his ? She certainly
had looked very well on that chestnut,
.now he thought of it, and he wondered that
he had not noticed her more at the time.
But, hang it all ! what was the use of bothering
about it now ? So he blazed away at
the rabbits, and was glad to find, by
luncheon-time, that he had in some measure
succeeded in dismissing Miss Graham from
his thoughts.

'The luncheon-party in the deer-park that
fine November day would have made a pretty
study for an artist. A warm, sheltered spot
had been selected in a hollow facing the south,
and the dry bracken, covered with rugs and
game-bags, supplied the softest and most
luxurious of seats. At their feet lay a still,
deep pool, from one end of which a steep rockrose
up perpendicularly for about twenty feet,
crowned by a cluster of overhanging birches,
whose still golden foliage was sharply mirrored
in the clear water beneath. A tiny
streamlet trickled out of the other end of the
pool, and meandered down a rushy track,

which gradually lost itself in the long grass
and fern beyond. An occasional gleam of
bright colouring in a lady's dress afforded a
pretty contrast to the russet hues of the
bracken and the surrounding foliage, and
keepers, beaters, and dogs were grouped in
picturesque confusion in a snug corner lower
down.

They were a merry party too, and the
sound of light laughter echoed pleasantly
through the ferny hollow. Much sympathy
was expressed for the " Cadger," who professed
himself utterly knocked up with his overnight
exertions, and who had come out armed
with nothing more formidable than a walking
protesting that it would have been useless
for him to take a gun, as in the existing
state of his nerves it would be impossible for
him to hit a haystack. The Marquis, on the
other hand, was comparatively fresh and jaunty,
faultlessly got up au chasseur, and declared
that he would have started with the others had
it not been for some arrears of correspondence
which required to be cleared off. The ball
was of course the chief topic of conversation,
and a considerable amount of chaff was bandied

about on all sides, not unmixed with
some quiet though forcible hits on the part
of the other ladies at Mrs Fortescue, whose
behaviour with the gallant guardsman had
evoked the motherly indignation of Lady
Chetwynd, who had expressed her opinion
that the lady in question would have been
better employed in looking after her husband
in India, or the Colonies, or wherever he
was, and had even provoked a few remarks
from Lady Sydmonton, than whom, as a rule,
no one was inclined to look more leniently
upon any reasonable flirtation, but whose
spirit of justice and fair-play resented such
wholesale appropriation of the most eligible
young man of the party. So Mrs Fortescue
had not a particularly good time of
it just then, and may possibly have thought
that her amusement of the previous evening
had been somewhat dearly purchased. But
there is a good deal of the ancient Spartan
or modern Ked Indian about most women,
especially when on trial in the presence
of their own sex, and we are bound to
confess that, fortified perhaps by the consciousness
of a very becoming dress, and a

pair of Thomas's masterpieces in the way of
walking boots, for the display of which the
situation offered ample opportunities, Mrs Fortescue
took her punishment very well.

It was rather a relief to Gerard to find that
his tete-tete with Miss Graham had apparently
not attracted notice, and that among
the criticisms that were freely passed upon
the general company at the ball, her name
was not even mentioned. For during luncheon,
and now that the excitement of shooting
was over for the time, his thoughts would
persist in reverting to her in a most unaccountable
manner ; and he felt that any chaff on
the subject would have been distasteful to
him. At the same time, he felt a growing
desire to know something more about her, and
resolved that, if he got an opportunity of
doing so without displaying an undue amount
of interest, he would sound Lady Sydmonton
on the subject.

*swell," observed her ladyship at length,
as the conversation began to slacken, *' I suppose
you sportsmen will want to be going on.
What o'clock is it. Marquis ? Just three ?
Good gracious ! I had no idea we had been so

long. Why, if you want to get any ducks
you ought to be off at once."

Oh, hang the ducks ! " broke in the
"Cadger," who, reclining luxuriously on a
plaid shawl, with a cigarette in his mouth,
and his hat well over his eyes, evinced not the
smallest disposition to move ; ' what's the use
of bothering about them ? It's much jollier
sitting here in the sun ; isn't it, Lady Chet-
wynd ? " appealing feelingly to that exemplary
matron, who had herself displayed a certain
tendency to fall asleep.

*i'm afraid you're dreadfully lazy, Lord
Ballybrack," replied Lady Chetwynd, laughing.
"Besides, I'm sure the Marquis wants
to kill some ducks," looking towards that
undaunted sportsman, who was beginning to
fumble with his cartridges, handle his couteau
de chasse, and display other signs of his
readiness to take the field.

Mais oui' replied the Marquis, " but why
should not the ladies come too ? Qe serait
charmant, and we will shoot the cards
sauvages ensemble ? "

"swell," said Lady Sydmonton, "I'm not
quite sure about that. But we might perhaps

come part of the way with you. I don't quite
know where you are going, and we must ask
the keepers. Jonas ! " her ladyship called outstanding
up, and looking towards the group
of keepers and beaters beneath.

"Yes, my lady," was the reply, and up
hurried Mr Jonas, hat in hand, to receive her
ladyship's commands.

"Where are you going to take the gentlemen
to, Jonas ? " continued Lady Sydmonton. " I
suppose it will be some of the petty up towards
Penhurst ? "

Yes, my lady," replied Jonas. " My lord
said as we'd better try  Breeches Pet first,
my lady"  with a deprecatory cough and
touch of his forehead, as if apologising for
the mention of a name which could suggest
to her ladyship's ears such an unmentionable
article of clothing  "and then go on to
'Baccopipe and the petty round by Fox
Earth."

"Oh, yes, I understand," said Lady Edmonton
with a smile. " You see, dear Lady
Chetwynd," turning to that somewhat puzzled
matron, " we are very plain, matter-of-fact
people down here, and because the shape

of one of these ponds is supposed to be like a
pair of  yes, exactly  we name it accordingly ;
the same with Tobacconist, and so on. Well,
Jonas, we might perhaps walk with the gentlemen
as far as  ahem ! the first pet, and then
we could go home by Cribs' farm and the old
bridge?"

Yes, my lady," responded Mr Jonas with
alacrity. " If your ladyship thinks of going
we ought to be moving, my lady, or we shall
hardly get there in time."

"Well, Lady Chetwynd, what do you say
to a walk ? " inquired Lady Sydmonton. " It
is about a mile further, and there is a path
nearly all the way ; but if you don't feel
inclined, we will go straight home, and take
Lord Ballybrack with us, for he mustn't overture
himself, you know ! "

But Lady Chetwynd professed herself quite
ready for a walk ; and the continued chafe' of
the ladies, together with various friendly offers
of assistance in pulling him up, having at last
roused the " Cadger " to the extent of getting
on his legs, and adjusting the somewhat
faded gardenia in his buttonhole, the party
started to walk across the park, followed at

a respectful distance by Mr Jonas and his
satellites.

The path led for some way through a wood,
and Lady Sydmonton announcing that she
would go first and show the way, nothing
was more natural than that Gerard should
spring forward to open a gate for her, and
then continue by her side. Here was a good
opportunity, he thought, and he determined
to take advantage of it.

By the way, Lady Sydmonton," he began,
in the most unconcerned manner, " I never
thanked you for introducing me to a first-rate
partner last night. Miss Graham, I
mean, a young lady in white, who was therewith
an old gentleman."

Oh, yes," exclaimed her ladyship, " I
quite forgot that I had introduced you to
her. I am so glad you found her a good
partner. She is a nice girl, I believe, but I
really don't know much about her. She lives
with Mr Baldwin, that old gentleman you
saw, at a place called Netherdean, about six
miles from Shawfield."

Oh, really," said Gerard, with the utmost
duplicity, as if the intelligence had been

imparted to him for the first time. "Then
is she any relation of his, or what ? "

I really don't know," replied Lady Edmonton,
with a side glance at Gerard, her
womanly instinct suggesting to her that his
inquiries seemed of a rather more interested
nature than was justified by a casual ballroom
introduction. *' No, I don't think she is
any relation, but I have a sort of idea she is
an orphan, and the daughter of an old friend
of his. Anyhow, she has lived with him ever
since she was quite a child, and he seems
to look upon her more as a daughter than
anything else. He is rather a funny old
man, I believe ; and some people say he has
money, Mr Courtenay," with an arch little
look at Gerard ; "so perhaps Miss Graham
may turn out to be an heiress, you know.
Really,, I think you had better go and call
upon her ! "

"Oh, well," replied Gerard, with a laugh,
feeling perhaps rather relieved by Lady Edmonton's
light treatment of the subject, " I
don't think it has quite come to that. Lady
Sydmonton. But she really danced so welland
seemed so keen about it, that I felt quite

grateful to you for introducing me to such a
pleasant partner."

Well, it's a pity she lives so far from here,
or you might have seen something more of
her," said her ladyship. " But we are getting
near the first pet now  the one with the
peculiar name, you know,  and I suppose we
ladies ought not to come much further, or
Jonas will declare we are frightening the
ducks." So a halt was called ; and amid various
protestations of regret from the sportsmen,
the ladies, escorted by the " Cadger,"
branched off in another direction, and turned
their faces homewards.

It is unnecessary, for the purposes of onr
story, to chronicle the exact number of ducks
that were killed or missed on this particular
occasion, or to inflict upon our readers a
detailed account of the next two days' shooting.
Suffice it to say, that after an extremely
pleasant week at Sydmonton, by the expiration
of which Mrs Fortescue had succeeded in
making an enemy for life of Lady Chetwynd,
and the united verdict of the other ladies had
pronounced Captain Aylmer to be nothing
more than a flirt, Gerard found himself once

more back in London in attendance on his
chief, who had come up for a fortnight, for
the joint purpose of clearing off any arrears
of work that might have accumulated at the
General Enquiry Office, and of vindicating
his character as a Minister of the Crown by
attending one or two Conservative meetings
in and about the Metropolis.

But although Gerard had plenty of occupation,
and entered keenly into his work after
his week's holiday, he nevertheless found himself,
to his surprise and annoyance, both ill
at ease, and inclined to think about Miss
Graham in a way that it seemed to him he
had never indulged in regarding any girl
before. He at first endeavoured to put himself
to the test in this respect, and running
over in his mind all the young ladies with
whom he had from time to time fancied himself
in love, he tried to remember whether
he had ever experienced the same sensation
before. For although our friend was not by
any means peculiarly susceptible, and had
been preserved, partly by temperament and
partly by a wholesome devotion to active pursuits,
from what is generally known as " making

a fool of oneself," it was hardly to be supposed
that he could have 'knocked about"
London, even in the quietest manner, for five
or six years, without falling in love, or, at
any rate, persuading himself that he had done
so. But when he came to compare his present
feelings with those which he had experienced
on previous occasions, he either found
that his memory failed him to a remarkable
extent, or that there were circumstances
which rendered a comparison altogether inapplicable.
So finding that very little advantage
was to be gained by retrospection, he was
obliged to make the best of his present position
; and the natural result was a feeling f
restlessness and discomfort that was very far
from satisfactory. He took himself severely
to task, and assured himself a dozen times a
day that he was not in love with Miss Graham.
But, reason as he would, a vision of a slight,
girlish figure and a pair of soft wistful eyes
would persist in intruding itself upon his
thoughts in a manner that threatened to
interfere very seriously with his peace of
mind. First he would think of her in her
simple white dress, with the quaint little

cross round her neck. Then he would call
to mind how beautifully she danced, and the
dreamy strains of the " Journal listen" valse
would seem to ring in his ears. And then
he would fancy her in her brown habit and
hat, careering over the downs on the chestnut
mare, or handling her over a fence
with the harriers. Ah ! she had good
hands, there could be no doubt ; and he
was quite angry with himself for not being
able to recollect exactly how she looked on
horseback.

So altogether Gerard was at this period in
anything but a comfortable frame of mind ;
and being the dead time of year, there were
few of his friends in London, and nothing much
in the way of social amusement to divert him
from the one thought that was beginning to
be uppermost. He began to feel as if he
would be the better of some one to confide
in  a dangerous symptom in itself,  and his
thoughts gravitated towards Lady Mount-eaton.
But she was of course away, entertaining,
according to the Morning Post, a
select circle " of visitors at her father-in-law's
place in the north of England. Under

any other circumstances, his next idea would
have been to seek out his friend George
Morton, and tell him all about it. But, somehow
or other, on the present occasion he rather
shrank from taking him into his confidence.
In the first place, he felt sure that George
would laugh at him, and turn the whole thing
into ridicule ; and although he did not exactly
want to be seriously encouraged in the matter,
he was not at all in the humour for being
laughed at. Moreover, he had reason to believe
that George was also out of London, and
there was no one else of whom he was inclined
to make a confidant. So he was compelled
perforce to keep his secret to himself, and
under these circumstances it was not surprising
that he should find himself growing
more and more restless every day.

But after about ten days of this very uncomfortable
existence, by which time Gerard
had almost given up attempting to persuade
himself that he was not in love with Miss
Graham, he could stand it no longer, and,
thinking it odd that he had heard nothing
lately from George Morton, he resolved that
he would, at any rate, look him up, and

VOL. I. R

ascertain when he was likely to be back in
London. With this object in view, he left
home earlier than usual one morning, and
repaired to his friend's lodgings in Hatfield
Street, Strand.

HATFIELD STREET.

Hatfield Street, Strand, is not generally
included among the resorts specially affected
by the fashionable world. It will be looked
for in vain in the " Court Guide," and other
fashionable handbooks to London ; and reference
will have to be made to the Post Office
Directory, with which, as opposed to the
Peerage, that great sporting celebrity, !Mr
Jorrocks, was so wont to identify himself,
before any authentic record of its inhabitants
will be found. Yet, when one comes to compare
it with other more favoured localities, it
is difficult to understand why it should thus
be left out in the cold, and why it has not
attracted more notice and patronage from
bachelors and others in search of an abode
combining perfect quiet with air that, in comparison
with that of many other districts, may
fairly be described as fresh, and a position

that can hardly be called otherwise than
central. The definition of this latter term
is, of course, somewhat arbitrary, and must
depend very much on the habits and associations
of the person concerned ; for what may
appear to one man the very ideal of a central
situation, may to another present the aspect
of being completely without the pale of
society. If, however, the fact of being
within ten minutes' walk of the Pall Mall
Clubs, the Houses of Parliament, the principal
Government offices, and other notable institutions
in the neighbourhood of Charing Cross,
to say nothing of being almost within a
stone's throw of some of the most popular
theatres, can be admitted as any evidence of a
central position, the claims of Hatfield Street
can hardly in justice be passed over. And
once reached, the superiority of the accommodation
to that of the majority of the refuges
for bachelors in the more sought after neighbourhood
of St. James's Street and Pall Mall
cannot fail to be recognised ; for the houses,
though old-fashioned, are solid and well built,
and present the appearance of having been
constructed with more idea to comfort than is

generally the case in more modern houses of
the same type. Good, roomy staircases, with
carved balustrades, lofty mantelpieces, and
handsome oaken wainscoting, are constantly to
be met with ; and a humble bachelor, paying
a modest weekly rent for a couple of rooms,
may find himself accommodated with an apartment
that would not be out of place in an old-fashioned
country house. And as regards air
and quiet, it would be difficult to find a locality
more effectually combining these two great
desiderata to all dwellers in London. Being a
cul-de-sac, there is no traffic in the street itself,
and although an offshoot of the noisy Strand,
the narrow, bottle-necked entrance has the
effect of shutting it out from the roar of wheels
which, except in the case of those houses that
are quite at the top of the street, merely takes
the form of a subdued rumble, to which the
ear soon gets accustomed, and the effect of
which after a time is rather soothing than
otherwise. And if there is such a thing as
fresh air in London, Hatfield Street ought to
get a fair share of it, for the lower and wider
end is open to the river, from which it is only
separated by the Thames Embankment, so

that any air that may be hanging about the
water is almost certain to find its way into
the street ; while on a fine autumn day, when
the tide is running up with an easterly breeze,
an imaginative spectator, leaning over the
railed terrace, might almost fancy himself on
some seaside esplanade.

In this sequestered retreat George Morton
had been established for the last three or four
years, and, as he said, it suited him " down
to the ground." " Hang St. James's Street ! "
he would say to those who expressed surprise
that he had not chosen an abode in
the neighbourhood of that more fashionable
thoroughfare, " what good would that do me ?
I want a place where I can be quiet, and do
as I like ; and if people want me, they must
come after me. Besides, I've got much more
comfortable diggings here than I could get
anywhere about there for the same money,
and I'm close to the ' Cauliflower ' and all the
theatres. No; Hatfield Street for me!" And
it must be confessed that, from his own point
of view, there was much to be said in favour
of his choice. He occupied the second floor of
a roomy old house about three doors from the

river end of the street. From the windows of
his sitting-room he had a view up a bend of
the river as far as Westminster Bridge ; and
although the prospect from his bedroom was
certainly not extensive, there was sufficient
open space behind to insure an adequate supply
of fresh air. The rooms, though rather
low pitched, were of a very fair size, and bore
traces of old-fashioned taste in their decoration.
Morton was the owner of a quantity of
more or less valuable books, bequeathed to
him by a relative, which were ranged round
the sitting-room in low book-shelves ; the walls
were enlivened by a few water-colour sketches ;
and various miscellaneous objects, such* as
foils, boxing-gloves, and a fair proportion of
the odds and ends that are almost invariably
picked up by any one who has resided abroad,
filled up the vacant spaces.

Here Gerard betook himself one morning
about a fortnight after his return to London,
not by any means expecting to find his friend
at home, but calculating on hearing from his
landlady something as to his present address
and probable future arrangements. To his
surprise, however, he was informed by the

servant who opened the door, that Mr Morton
had been back in London for the last week
or more, and was at that moment upstairs.
Upstairs, therefore, Gerard proceeded,
and an unceremonious knock at the door
was answered by the well-known voice of his
friend.

Why, George, old man," exclaimed Gerard
as he entered, " I'd no idea you were up in
London. Why didn't you look me up, or drop
me a line, or something ? I only looked into
ask where you were, and never expected to
find you here."

*well, for the matter of that," replied
Morton, turning round from the fire, before
which he was sitting, with a pipe in his mouth
and the poker in his hand, a favourite position
with him when not otherwise occupied, " I
never supposed you were in London either. I
took it for granted you were larking about
somewhere in the provinces, or I might perhaps
have come and looked you up at your
office. However, I'm very glad to see you,
old fellow. Have anything to drink, or
smoke ? No ? Well, sit down, then, and
let's hear what you've been doing."

Had not Gerard's mind been very much
occupied with his own particular affairs, he
might have observed a more than usually
worn and anxious look about his friend's face,
and might have been struck by a tone of
sadness and depression about his voice that
was not habitually there. But love  for
that Gerard had now arrived at this stage he
no longer cared to question  is proverbially
selfish, and he took little notice of Morton's
manner or appearance. So, after a few
mutual inquiries and interchanges of their
recent general experience, he came out with
the subject that was uppermost in his
thoughts.

"I say, George, old man," he began, with
an affectation of unconcern that could have
deceived few, and certainly did not impose
upon his listener, *' do you recollect that day
last March when we were walking over the
Southdowns, and came on some harriers
in the afternoon somewhere near Middle-haven
? "

Morton, who was at that moment engaged
in lighting his pipe at the fire with the aid
of the tongs and a small fragment of glowing

cinder, signified by a nod of his head that his
memory so far served him as to carry him
back to the period in question.

"Well then' continued Gerard, feeling as
if he were about to make a confession of
some flagrant misdemeanour, and conscious
of appearing to the greatest possible disadvantage,
" do you recollect an old chap on a
grey, with a girl on a chestnut, who rode
close past us when it was all over,  and
Smut barked at them, you know, and the
chestnut was all over the place ? "

Morton, who had now got his pipe well
under weigh, and was feeling the fire gently
here and there with the poker, nodded a lazy
assent, but made no remark.

"swell," proceeded Gerard, feeling every
moment more and more uncomfortable, and
half inclined to be angry with Morton for not
manifesting a greater degree of interest in
his story, " it's a very rum thing, but I met
that girl at a ball the other day down at
Shawfield. I was staying at Sydmonton,
you know, and we went over a party from
there."

I don't see anything particularly rum in

your meeting her," observed Morton, somewhat
dryly, ' if you choose to go to a ball in
what I suppose is her own country. Did you
meet the old boy too ? "

Oh yes, he was there, right enough,"
replied Gerard impatiently ; " but that's nothing
to do with it. I say, George, did
you notice her at all that day  I mean,
do you recollect at all what she was like ? "

"No," replied Morton, with the utmost
tranquillity, and apparently in intense enjoyment
of his pipe ; " I'll be hanged if I do !
Couldn't tell you what she was like if you
gave me a hundred pounds. Let's think,
though. Blue habit, hadn't she ? and * a
green veil  no, that was a girl I saw somewhere
else. Ked habit, eh ?  no, of course
not, I mean red hair "

Hang it all, George ! " broke in Gerard,
indignant at this flippant treatment of a subject
which was beginning to be of the utmost
importance to him ; '* what's the use of talking
such rot ? No, bar sell, old fellow, I
really wanted to talk to you about it  about
her, I mean."

Well, drive on," replied Morton resignedly ;

I'll listen as long as ever you like, provided
you don't want me to talk about her too."

sewell then, as I was saying," continued
Gerard, " I came across her at this ball "

* And you got spooning her, I suppose,"
quietly remarked Morton, poising the poker
dexterously on one finger.

"Well, George, old man," replied Gerard,
feeling a certain sense of relief at having
brought the conversation to a crisis, " I don't
say that exactly, because I didn't ; but I
don't mind telling you, old fellow, that I
have been thinking about her most awfully
ever since ; and it seems to me that I'm
inclined to make a perfect fool of myself
about her. You'll think me an awful ass,
I know, but I can't help it ; and it seems
to me that I never thought about any girl
in the same way before."

There was a silence of some moments,
during which Morton puffed reflectively at
his pipe, and Gerard sat staring at the
fire.

Well, George," at last remarked the latter,
peevishly, "haven't you got anything to say
to a fellow ? Hang it ! I thought anyhow

you'd be able to tell me what you thought
about it either one way or the other, instead
of sitting there half asleep over that beastly
old pipe. Of course you think me a fool,
but why the deuce can t you say so at once,
and have done with it ? "

Morton took the pipe from his mouth,
and turning round in his chair, placed his
hand gently, almost tenderly, on Gerard's
shoulder.

'jerry, my boy," he said, with a strange
expression of softness in his voice, ** why
should I think you a fool ? I don't know
that a fellow is necessarily a fool because
he falls in love with a girl; and I take "it
that's about what you've been doing, old
boy, isn't itV

"Well, George, old fellow," replied Gerard,
touched and pleased by his friend's manner,
'*I suppose that really is about the truth
of it, though it seems deuced odd. I didn't
the least intend to, I'll take my oath," he
continued, in an apologetic sort of way ; " in
fact, it was about the last thing I thought
of doing. But it came all of a sudden, and
it seems to me there's something about her

I never saw in any other girl before. Of
course, you know, I've now and then been
just a bit spooney on some girl or other, but
I never felt anything like this, and I can
tell you it's deuced uncomfortable."

Well, Jerry, old boy," returned Morton,
* it's all very well for you to talk as if it
were something extraordinary; but, hang it
all! I only wonder you haven't tumbled into
something of this sort before. I've always
thought you were just the chap to fall in
love with some one. No, I don't mean any
reflection on your wisdom," seeing Gerard
was inclined to be hufiy again, " but I mean
to say, a young fellow like you, with a fair
amount of good looks, and well enough
bred, you know, and decently behaved on
the whole, and all that sort of thing  why,
it's the most natural thing in the world.
I've no doubt she's charming, old chap, and
I wish to goodness I could remember what
she's like; but, as I said before, I couldn't
do it to save my life."

You're a good fellow, George," said
Gerard, feeling somewhat relieved by his
confession, ** and I'm glad I've told you.

But, you know, the whole thing's deuced odd.
Here's a girl I never set eyes on before,
except just that once, and then never
thought about her any more than you did;
and yet, I run up against her at a ball, and

well, there's no use beating about the

bush, but I suppose I really have fallen in
love with her, for I don't see what else it
can be."

** Well, I suppose you're the best judge
of that," replied his friend, not without a
touch of his habitual cynicism, "and certainly
you show every sign of it, I'm bound
to say. But, if one might make so bold as
to ask, what's going to happen next ?  I
suppose you're not going to rush back to
Shawfield, and propose off-hand, are you ?
By the way, you've never told me her
name, old chap ; one would like to know
that, as it would make it all the more interesting,
you know."

"Well, you see," rejoined Gerard, " all I
know at present is that she is a Miss
Graham ; but I don't know her Christian
name, worse luck. I couldn't well ask her
straight off, you know, and, in fact, I never

thou-lit about it till afterwards, and then
there was no one to ask."

"Well, there's one advantage in that'
observed Morton, sententiously. '' You can
think of her by any name you're particularly
sweet upon. Let's see, now, begin
at the beginning. A  Arabella, Araminta,
Anna Maria "

Oh, no, George, that won't do ! " responded
Gerard, shaking his head ruefully.
"No; I must just wait till I see her
again, I suppose, though I don't quite see
how that's to happen."

"Well," replied Morton, knocking the
ashes out of his pipe, "I'm afraid I can't
help you there. But I suppose either
you must go to her, or she must come
to you. Perhaps she'll come up to London,
and you'll meet her at a ball next season,
by which time you'll probably have forgotten
all about her."

"No, George," returned Gerard thoughtfully.
"I don't mind your chaff; but I
don't feel like forgetting her, I can tell
you. No ; she won't come up to London,
I'm sure. I've just found out enough about

her to know that she lives in a very quiet
way somewhere among the Southclowns with
that old cove, who's her guardian, or adopted
uncle, or something of the sort. No ; if
I'm to see her again, I shall have to go
down there ; but I couldn't very well do
that, could I ? "

"Well, that's according as you feel inclined,"
replied Morton. " This is a free country,
so they tell me ; and I don't suppose there's
anything to prevent your going and fooling
round there as well as anywhere else,
if you like to do so. We might take
another walk round that way next spring,
and drop in on the old gentleman in a
quiet way. But I suppose you couldn't
wait so long as that, eh 1 I'll tell you what
it is, though, old fellow, I must be off, if
you don't mind. I've got to meet a man
at the ' Cauliflower ' at twelve, and it's now
five minutes to''

All right, old man," said Gerard, rising,
I'll come with you as far as the ' Cauliflower.'
I needn't be at my shop till one
to-day." So the two set out together,
and crossing the Strand, proceeded to make

VOL. I. s

their way through the dingy and somewhat
unsavoury streets in the neighbourhood of
Covent Garden, till they arrived at the
comfortable though unpretentious - looking
building which has for so long been known
to its pretty numerous frequenters by the
name of the Cauliflower Club.

Morton had not spoken since they left
Hatfield Street, and Gerard, being pretty well
occupied with his own reflections, had not
evinced any desire for further conversation.
But as they stopped at the door of the club,
and Morton turned to him to say good-bye,
he observed, for the first time, a peculiar
appearance of sadness and trouble about his
friend's face. The momentary animation produced
by Gerard's recital had passed away,
and an anxious, weary look had taken its
place,  which, even in his companion's preoccupied
state, could hardly have passed unnoticed.


"why, George, old fellow!" he exclaimed,
"what's the matter? You don't look at all
the thing. Hang it all, what a brute I am !
I've been thinking so much about myself that
I never noticed it before. Nothing gone

wrong, old boy, I hope ? " lie continued, looking
anxiously into the handsome face, which,
though still young-looking, showed unmistakable
traces of recent care and sorrow.
By Jove ! if I'd thought there was anything
amiss, I wouldn't have come bothering you
about my own affairs in this way."

Morton smiled  a melancholy, hopeless sort
of smile  and placed his hand on the other's
shoulder. " Jerry, my boy," he said, " we've
all got our troubles, and of course I'm not
without mine ; but we won't talk about that
now. Good-bye, old fellow ; you won't come
in here now, I know. God bless you, and
don't be in too great a hurry about Miss
Graham, or anybody else. Perhaps you're
better off as you are." And with these parting
words, which certainly seemed somewhat
inconsistent with the sentiments he had expressed
but a few minutes before in Hatfield
Street, he disappeared through the swing-door
of the club, leaving Gerard to pursue his
walk towards Whitehall with somewhat mixed
feelings. There was something wrong with
Morton, evidently ; but what could it be ?
Curious fellow, George ; always seemed a

sort of mystery about him ; but what a good
fellow, though ! just the chap one wants to
go and tell this sort of thing to. Poor old
George ! how I must have bored him, though,
and how good he was about it ! I wish I'd
noticed before how bad he was looking.
Shouldn't wonder if there was a woman at
the bottom of it with him too. But he's a
close fellow, George, and hates being asked
about anything, so I'd better leave him
alone."

And then his ideas reverted to his own
particular concerns, and to the sweet girlish
face that had begun to be the constant companion
of his sleeping and waking thoughts.
Somehow he felt much happier for having
unbosomed himself to Morton, and it seemed
to him as if the thing were now a reality, and
he had as it were, acquired a license to indulge
freely in his romance. And as he passed along
the busy Strand that morning, a new and undefinable
feeling of hope arose within him,
and he felt as if the world were somehow
brighter than usual. So that he arrived at
the General Enquiry Office in a more than
usually happy frame of mind, greatly to the

relief of Lord Eavendale, who had noticed a
certain amount of abstraction and pre-occupation
about his private secretary for the last
few days, and had been wondering what could
be the matter.

AN IDEA.

We feel certain that our readers must be
anxious to hear something more of that
worthy old gentleman, Mr Charles Courtenay,
whom, together with his swallow-tailed coat,
his urbane manners, and his general intense
respectability, we had the privilege of introducing
to them at an earlier stage of this
story. It can hardly be supposed that an old
public man of Mr Courtenay's standing could
have been indifferent to his son's career in
the public service. On the contrary, he had
watched Gerard's progress with great interest,
and had been much gratified at his selection
by Lord Kavendale to fill the post of his private
secretary. He had, moreover, taken to
himself the entire credit of the transaction,
and had hinted pretty plainly to his friends
and acquaintances that his son's success was
mainly due to his own personal influence and

public reputation. " Ah, yes," he would say,
"my son is Lord Eavendale's secretary, and I
am very pleased that it should have come
about. Lord Allonby is one of my oldest
friends, and I was very glad when his son was
made Vice-president. Yes ; it would have
been strange if, under such circumstances, a
son of mine had not been considered," The
real fact being that the good old gentleman
had never seen or spoken to Lord Ravendale
in his life ; and that, although it was so far
correct that he had been introduced to Lord
Allonby when that nobleman was Undersecretary
for International Affairs and he
himself was an unpaid attache at Stockholm,
the acquaintance had never proceeded much
further. And it is probable that if Lord
Allonby had been questioned concerning Mr
Charles Courtenay, he would have had some
difficulty in recalling him to mind. Be this
as it may, however, Mr Courtenay was perfectly
satisfied that he had been mainly instrumental
in obtaining for his son the appointment
of private secretary to Lord Ravendale ;
and as this belief pleased him and did nobody
any harm, it would perhaps have been difficult

to advance any substantial reason for objecting
to it.

Mr Courtenay, as we have before stated,
had, on retiring into the country, selected a
locality in a remote corner of Somersetshire as
being suited alike to his means and position.
He occupied a comfortable, roomy house, with
a good garden and a few acres of land, about
half a mile from the little market-town of
Clapstock, and was thus enabled to combine
the dignity of a country gentleman with the
advantages to be derived from a regular service
of trains, a telegraph station, a few fairly good
shops, and a perpetual flow of small local
gossip. He, in fact, constituted a sort of con
netting link between the county aristocracy
and the local society of Clapstock ; and being
fully recognised and accepted by the one, was
in consequence a great man in the eyes of the
other.

This somewhat ambiguous position, although
it might not have accorded with some men's
ideas of what was altogether satisfactory,
was entirely suited to Mr Courtenay ; and he
was never happier than when, after a dinner-party
at Lord Bubbleton's, the great local

magnate who resided at Cleere Park, alDout
six miles from Clapstock, or a day's shooting
with Sir Thomas Bkxckacre, the Conservative
member for the county, he would be driven
into Clapstock in Lady Theodosius pony-carriage
about three o'clock in the afternoon,
when the entire able-bodied population of that
absurd little human bee-hive would be out
on the qui vive, and either promenading the
High Street or blocking up the counters of
the enterprising tradesmen who, if one-half of
their allegations were to be believed, had succeeded
in transplanting the contents of Bond
Street to Clapstock, to be retailed at something
considerably below cost price, and at
any rate for about half what they could be
obtained for in London. On these occasions
Mr Courtenay would have the pony-carriage
halted conspicuously in the market-place, and
landing majestically on the pavement in front
of Tower the stationers shop  which was
also the postal telegraph office and the headquarters
of a somewhat obsolete though still
struggling circulating library,  would enter
the shop, and create a feeling of respectful
curiosity among the circle of customers by

inquiring whether Lady Blackacre's carriage
had been seen in Clapstock that afternoon ; or
whether Lord Bubbleton, with whom he had
an appointment at the chief constable's office,
had left any message for him ; or he would
engage affably in conversation with Mr. Mug-bridge
the attorney, or Mr. Bales the brewer,
one or other of whom would probably be
hanging about the market-place, and refer incidentally
to the good day's shooting he had
had the day before with Lord Bubbleton, and
his surprise that he had not kept his appointment.
So that, one way or another, he
was sure to attract attention, and be pointed
out to strangers as a man of position and
mark.

Having launched both his sons upon the
world, and got his only daughter well married,
Mr Courtenay was by this time to a great
extent freed from domestic cares, and was ina
position to enjoy the opium cum dignitary to
which, as a veteran public servant and a fairly
successful parent, he might justly consider
himself entitled. It must be confessed, however,
that the narrowing of his domestic circle,
while it had brought with it an almost entire

freedom from care, had not increased its liveliness
; and it would, in fact, have been difficult
to imagine a more hum-drum and uneventful
existence than was led by Lady Theodosia and
himself. For the neighbourhood, though respectable
to the last degree, was not by any
means lively ; and when you had rung the
changes on old Lord Bubbleton, Sir Thomas
and Lady Blackacre, and the two or three other
county families who resided within a radius often
or twelve miles, but whose great object
appeared to be to pass as little as possible of
their time at their ancestral homes, the social
resources of the district would be pretty well
exhausted. And although a person in flie
unassailable position of Mr Courtenay might
occasionally so far descend from the pedestal
of county exclusiveness as to invite the
brewer, who was of a cheerful and genial disposition,
with a turn for comic singing, to
dine with him at Bayford House, or even to
drop in for an occasional rubber at the attorney's,
such departures from the unwritten
code of county etiquette could not be relied
upon as affording anything but a very occasional
relief to the deadly-liveliness that was

the normal condition of the social atmosphere
of Clapstock and its neighbourhood.

It will readily be understood, therefore,
that although Gerard was by no means an
undutiful son, the attractions of the paternal
abode were not such as to offer any great
inducement to him to pass more time there
than was consistent with a proper degree of
attention to his father and mother. The
distance from London, moreover, and the
expense of the journey, were sufficient excuses
for a young man whose means were
somewhat limited ; so that his visits during
recent years had been confined to a week or
so in the summer, when there was generally
a little cricket going on, and perhaps a fortnight
at Christmas, when some sign of life
would be visible in the usually deserted mansions,
and a mild interchange of festivities
would take place between Hall and Park. At
this time, too, the hospitality of the county
magnates would blossom forth in the shape
of formal and solemn shooting-parties, where
one keeper would vie with another as to who
should produce the greatest show of tame
pheasants, and stout old gentlemen and

smart young guardsmen would stand, with
their legs very wide apart, at the end of
trim plantations, and blaze away till the
very ground on which they stood reeked
with smoke, and the empty cartridge-cases
would be counted by the score. Gerard,
being, as our readers have already had an
opportunity of observing, a fairly good and
steady shot, had been favourably noted as
likely to be of use on such occasions, and
although not, as a rule, included in Sir Thomas'
best day, would be pretty certain to be asked
to some of the minor events or *' second
times over;" while old Lord Bubbleton's
keeper, who had almost the entire management
of his master s shooting, would make
a point of securing him whenever there were
outside beats to be shot and pheasants stopped
from getting away to neighbouring coverts,
or when he knew that his lordship's party was
not so constituted as to be likely to do him
credit as regards the numbers of the slain.
So whenever Gerard's visits home fitted in
with the shooting fixtures of the neighbourhood,
he was pretty sure of a certain amount
of sport. But beyond the bare shooting,

there certainly was not very much to attract.
Somehow or other, things seemed to hang
fire in the Clapstock country in the way of
social intercourse. There were, of course, a
certain number of solid dinner-parties, where
the same people met each other over andover
again, and where small local topics were
hammered out with a persistence worthy of
a better cause. In former days, too, there
had usually been a county ball at Christmas ;
but of late years this had come to an end
from sheer inanition ; and at the period weare
speaking of no such entertainment had
taken place for some time. Now and then
some more than usually enterprising hostess
would attempt a garden party, followed by a
dance, and a momentary excitement would
make itself felt in the neighbourhood. But
such attempts, however praiseworthy, were
not, as a rule, so successful as to invite repetition
; and the young ladies of the district
were wont to complain, not without some
show of reason, that dancing was to them
an exercise almost unknown.

It would have been difficult to indicate
the precise reasons for this melancholy state

of things. Some said it was the want
of eligible young men in the county, and
certainly the leading families were somewhat
deficient in this respect. Lord Bubbleton
was a bachelor, and his heir a middle-aged
man with a family, who resided in another
part of the country ; while Sir Thomas Black-acre's
eldest and at present only eligible son
had a fancy for being almost entirely abroad,
and was rarely seen in his paternal halls ;
and out of the few remaining county families
who composed the aristocracy of the Clap-stock
district, there appeared to be no available
young man who displayed any particular
qualification for taking the lead in social
affairs. Others attributed it to the circumstance
that none of Lady Blackacre's numerous
daughters were yet ' out," and prophesied that
things would be different when a few more
years should have launched one or two Miss
Blackmore upon the fashionable world. But
whatever may have been the cause, the effect
was very apparent, and it would have been
impossible to deny that society in the Clap-stock
county was somewhat dull. It required
great inducement to attract any one

from outside ; and the smart guardsmen who
would occasionally be enticed by the good
shooting offered them by Lord Bubbleton or
Sir Thomas, could rarely be got to stay
longer than was necessary for the purposes
of their sport, and would often find that the
calls of duty required them to go back to
London by the mail train on the night of
the last day's shooting.

It was not wonderful, then, that Gerard,
who by this time had had opportunities of
becoming acquainted with one or two really
cheerful and sociable country-house circles
in other parts of the kingdom, was not
disposed to bestow more of his leave upon
Bayford House than was called for by his
sense of filial duty. But although the duration
of his visits might be short, they were
of pretty regular occurrence ; and finding,
about a week after the conversation with
George Morton, recorded in the last chapter,
that his chief contemplated being absent
from London for the greater part of the
next month, and that his services therefore
were not likely to be much in requisition
during that period, he resolved to go

home at once ; and having telegraphed one
morning to announce his arrival, found
himself the same evening seated at dinner
with his father and mother, who were only
too delighted to see him. For the first few
days the change undoubtedly did him good,
and had the effect of distracting him from
the one subject that had of late completely
engaged his thoughts. Lord Bubbleton's
big shoot," lasting over three days, was just
coming off, and two of his guns had failed
him at the eleventh hour. There was no
time to procure suitable substitutes of the
usual calibre of his lordship's shooting
guests ; and the great Mr Spruce, his lordship's
keeper, was in despair, when by a
lucky chance he happened to hear through
Mr Courtenay's coachman, who had gone
in to Clapstock with Lady Theodosia's
pony-carriage, and had mentioned the circumstance
to one of the Cleere grooms
who was hanging about the " Need Lion,"
that Gerard was coming home that evening.
Mr Spruce, who was a man of action,
went straight to his lordship, and imparted
to him his opinion that the only chance

VOL. I. T

of saving the forthcoming " chasse " from
being a failure was to secure Gerard at
once. So that a note arrived at Bayford
House just as dinner was over, expressing
Lord Bubbleton's hope that Gerard would
come over and shoot each day at Cleere,
or, if more convenient to him, would come
and stop in the house.

For the next three days, therefore, Gerard
had plenty of occupation, and while engaged
in "pulling down" Lord Bubbleton's pheasants,
or imbibing his lordship's justly celebrated
Lafitte, his thoughts were either entirely
diverted from Miss Graham, or she
would only come before his mind's eye in the
form of a pleasing vision that made his present
enjoyment all the keener. But there soon
came a reaction. When once Lord Bubbleton's
"shoot,' was over, there appeared no immediate
prospect of any further sport, though
he found himself invited to one or two minor
"chasses" that were to come off later. For
the next week or so, therefore, it seemed likely
that he would be thrown upon his own resources.
There was absolutely no hunting in
the Clapstock country, the nearest pack of

hounds, and that a very indifferent one, being
barely accessible to even the keenest of sportsmen,
or Gerard might have brought down his
horse, or rather horses, for he was now the
proud possessor of two hunters. So, after two
or three days at home with nothing particular
to do, he found himself relapsing into the
same restless and unsatisfactory state of mind
as before. He felt unable to settle down to
anything, and his one absorbing thought was
an overpowering desire to see Miss Graham
again. And after all, why should he not
see her ? There she undoubtedly was, and
Morton's chance remark, that there was nothing
to prevent him from "fooling round"
in that direction, as he had irreverently expressed
it, recurred forcibly to his mind. But
he could not possibly wait till the following
spring; that was altogether out of the question.
No, he must see her at once ; but how
and where, and on what possible pretext ?
He could not propose another visit to Edmonton
so soon ; and moreover. Lady Edmonton
would guess his intention in a
moment, which would never do. He knew
no one else in that country, and he must have

some sort of headquarters, and some ostensible
reason for being there. Suddenly a brilliant
idea struck him. There was hunting down

o

there ; not only the harriers, but the well-known
Underdown foxhounds, a most respectable
and sporting pack, and one that, although
hardly calculated to attract a sportsman from
Leicestershire, was nevertheless well worth the
attention of an unattached London gentleman
of humble means and with a limited stud.
Gerard seized on the idea eagerly. It was
the very thing. He would go down like Mr
Sawyer when he went to the shires, or Mr
Bunting, of "Plain or Ringlets" notoriety,
and he would be quite certain to fall in with
Miss Graham somehow or other. Already he
saw himself in fancy giving her a lead over a
fence, or fishing her out of a brook, or rendering
her, some other service which could not
fail to advance him in her good graces. But
where should he establish himself and his
valuable stud ? It would be a case of going
to a country inn somewhere, and the question
was, which would be the nearest point to the
abode of his lady-love where he could take
up his quarters on a reasonable pretext of

hunting ? Netherdean, Lady Sydmonton had
told him, was the name of the place, and Miss
Graham herself had said it was six miles from
Shawfield. Well, Shawiield ought to do well
enough. It must be in the Underdown
country, and anyhow it would be possible to
get to the meets from there. There was the
hotel where the ball had been ; there was sure
to be some decent stabling there, and it would
be nice to think that she had actually been in
the house. It was rather a public sort of place,
to be sure, and if the Edmonton were to
hear of his being there, wouldn't they think
it rather odd ? And then, too, the charges
would be sure to be ruinous. However-he
would try it anyhow at first, and might perhaps
find some quieter place afterwards. The
great thing was to get on the spot as quickly
as possible.

All this, and a good deal more, passed
through Gerard's brain as he sat up alone one
night smoking a pipe in the kitchen at Bayford
House, and becoming every moment more
and more excited with the picture which his
imagination had conjured up. He had before
him, as we have said, the prospect of two or

three weeks' leave, respecting wliicli he had as
yet made no definite plans. He had now got
two horses, and would naturally be looking
out for some hunting. He was not generally
invited to Warrington till after Christmas ;
and at this time of year what could be more
natural than that he should run down to the
Underdown country for a fortnight ? Everything,
in fact, seemed to point to his doing
so ; and he almost succeeded in persuading
himself that there was a special providence in
the matter. He certainly felt a little remorseful
when he thought of his father and mother,
and the necessity that would arise for cutting
short his visit to them. But he bad not comedown
for any specified time, and they were
accustomed to his being summoned up to
London at short notice for attendance on ibis
chief. It was true that he could not plead
this as a valid excuse at that moment ; but
there was always work of some kind or other
going on which must pass through his hands,
and be must find a reason somehow. And he
endeavoured to quiet bis slight twinges of
conscience in this respect by resolving to comedown
again to Bay ford House at Christmas,

or perhaps earlier. In the meantime he would
write at once to Martin , and tell him to be
ready to start with the horses in two or three
days. But the mention of Martin requires a
word or two of explanation, which we will
reserve for another chapter.

CHAPTER XVIII.

FLORENCE ! "

c, We have already referred incidentally to the
stable department of Gerard's establishment,
and to the circumstance that, owing to the
kindness of the Dowager Lady Narborough,
he had been enabled to keep a horse in
London at a much lower cost than' he
could otherwise have done. He was now,
indeed, keeping two horses in her ladyship's
stables, the second of which had only been
in his possession a few weeks. One of his
first thoughts on obtaining the appointment
of private secretary, and consequently a certain
increase of his official income, was that
he might now be able to keep another horse;

VOL. II. A

and he had given all the powers of his
mind to the consideration of this important
question. It was of course impossible fora
gentleman with the modest income of
600 a year or thereabouts to think of
going into the open market and bidding
against others for high-priced hunters ; and
he knew that his only chance lay in picking
up something on speculation on an off-day
at Tattersall's  an uncertain and risky proceeding
at the best of times,  or in hearing
of something from a friend that was likely,
for some reason or other, to be sold cheap.
In this matter he had been much assisted by
his chief, who, having an extensive acquaintance
with horses and horse-owners generally,
and having gathered from him in the course
of conversation that he had a small sum at
his disposal for the purpose, had put him upto
the fact that in the draft of horses which
had been advertised as about to be sold
from the stables of that fine old sportsman
Mr Hill, of Highlands, there were one or
two animals which it would be worth his
while to look after, but which were not
likely to attract much notice from the

general public. So it came about that, after
an anxious afternoon at Tattersall's, and
many misgivings and palpitations of heart
as he found himself responding to the
glances of the keen-eyed functionary in the
rostrum, Gerard emerged from the crowd
the possessor of a good-looking, iron-grey
mare, which had been knocked down to
him for thirty-seven guineas, and which,
had it not been for a slight string-halt,
would probably have fetched a good deal
more. Thanks, however, to the good offices
of his chief, he had learned that the mare,
in spite of this infirmity, had the reputation
of being a safe fencer, and though
slow, in other respects by no means to be
despised.

So he had gone boldly in for a bid, fortified,
moreover, by the opinion of his friend Lady
Narborough's coachman, in whose company
he had inspected the mare on the previous
day, and who had been pleased to express
himself as on the whole in favour of the
proposed investment, and had cited his own
unbounded experience to the effect that a
string-halt, though unquestionably a blemish.

was not necessarily a bar to the usefulness
or trustworthiness of a horse.

It was with great pride of ownership
that Gerard contemplated his two steeds
as they stood side by side in Lady Marlborough's
stables. It is true that he was not
without certain misgivings as to the cost of
the venture in proportion to his limited
means ; but he had gone carefully into
the matter on paper, and had satisfied
himself that with strict economy he was
now able to afford it. So he looked forward
joyfully to an extension of his hunting
performances during the coming winter, and
felt as if he were equal to making a good
appearance anywhere.

The immediate attendant upon Gerard's
stud, whom we have previously mentioned asa
helper under Lady Narborough's coachman,
but who was now destined to enact the part
of stud-groom on his own account, was an
individual whose personal appearance would
certainly not have recommended him to a
casual observer as specially qualified for the
charge of horses. He was a long, lank, sallow-faced
man, of uncertain age, a melancholy

demeanour, aud a general out-at-elbows look
that was not at all consistent with the generally
accepted ideal of a young gentleman's
groom. When in his working clothes, and engaged
in his stable avocations, he was a most
woe-begone and dilapidated object ; and even
when at his best, and arrayed in somewhat
more respectable garments, his appearance
was suggestive of an undertaker's man very
much run to seed. At the same time, and withall
these external drawbacks, he was not without
his good qualities. He was honest and
hardworking, and decidedly handy with
horses ; and although at times stupid and
obstinate, had never been known to be altogether
overcome by liquor. He was a man, in
fact, who, had it not been for his slovenly
appearance, might have had a much better
place than what he actually held. Gerard
knew very little, however, about his antecedents
; for a helper's character is not usually
very closely gone into ; and he had been
simply picked up for him by Lady Marlborough's
coachman on the recommendation
of a friend in the adjoining mews. But
Gerard had taken rather a fancy to him.

partly, it must be confessed, because there
was something about him that reminded him
of James Pigg, the renowned Mr Jorrocks's
equally renowned huntsman ; and finding that
he really knew something about horses, he
had during the previous winter been in the
habit of taking him in the capacity of groom
in some of his hunting expeditions from
London. On such occasions he had, in spite
of his rough and ungainly exterior, acquitted
himself very creditably, and had proved
thoroughly reliable both in the matter of
money and sobriety. Gerard had therefore
come to the wise conclusion that he might do
much worse, and that his retainer's external
deficiencies were more than counterbalanced
by his intrinsic good qualities. So when the
second horse made its appearance, he resolved
to raise Martin's wages, and to endeavour to
smarten him up a little. This, however, was
by no means easy; for although Mr Martin
had no objection whatever to having his
wages raised, it was almost a hopeless task to
attempt to instil into him any ideas of personal
neatness ; and the most that Gerard had
hitherto succeeded in accomplishing was to

give his stud-groom the appearance of a
fairly well-to-do scarecrow. But, smart or
not, he was the sole auxiliary upon whom
Gerard had to rely in his approaching expedition,
and, as such, he determined to make
the best of him.

It was a fine morning then, in the first
week of December, that Gerard, who, by
making use of the colourable fiction which
we left him contemplating in our last chapter,
had escaped from the paternal roof and made
his way up to London the evening before,
was engaged in finishing his breakfast and
awaiting the appearance of Mr Martin. And
just as he had come to the end of his second
cup of tea, a ring at the door-bell, followed,
after a due interval, by a knock at the door
of his second-floor sitting-room, announced
the arrival of that faithful domestic.

Oh, good morning, Martin, how are you ? "
exclaimed Gerard, as the door opened.
'' Come in ; Fve just done breakfast. Well,
how are the horses ? You got my letter, of
course, and I suppose you're all ready for a
start? By Jove," he thought to himself,
eyeing the unkempt-looking creature that

stood before him,  a threadbare black coat
buttoned up tight over his stable dress, a
ragged scarf hitched up under one ear, without
a vestige of shirt collar, and a tall, once-black
hat that an old clothesman might have
hesitated about picking out of a gutter, 
*she's a rum-looking fellow to have about
one. However, he understands his work,
that's one comfort, and I can't afford to be
too particular about appearances ! "

*' Oh, horses be well enough, thanked sir,"
replied Martin, with a snatch at his lank hair.
Mare feeds right enough now, and has put
on a bit of flesh ; old horse uncommon fresh
too. Had 'em out this morning ; both on 'em
fit to do a bit o' work now. Where might
you be going?" he added in a somewhat
searching tone ; for he was of a stay-at-home
and unenterprising disposition, and preferred
the solid comforts of London, with an occasional
day's outing that would bring him back
to the metropolis in the evening, to adventures
farther afield and the attractions of county
society.

Oh, well," replied Gerard, " I was thinking
of taking a run down into Wealdshire and

the Underdown country. I have some friends
down there," he added, not without a certain
feeling of guiltiness and an instinctive consciousness
that Martin would soon find out his
real object in going ; ' and I hear it's a nice
sort of country, and the distances not very
great, so that one might do pretty well therewith
a couple of horses for a fortnight or so."

"Ah, Underdown," returned Martin, with a
peculiar sniff that was habitual with him when
expressing a decided opinion. " Yes, they be
good hounds, and a good enough country.
Harriers, too, Littlebrook ; go as fast as the
fox-hounds on them hills. Old horse do well
enough there; don't know about the mare,
though."

Why, what do you know about them ? "
asked Gerard in astonishment, having quite
expected some opposition on Martin's part,
and much surprised to find, not only that he
did not disapprove of the undertaking, but that
he was already acquainted with the county.

Why, Lord bless you," replied Martin, '* I
lived there two year or more, down at Nether-dean,
old Mr Baldwin's, away by the sea
there."

Gerard started as if he had been shot.
Netherdean ! Old Mr. Baldwin I Could it
be possible that this ungainly creature had
actually been living in the same house, in the
same atmosphere, with his  his  alas! he
could not yet give a name to her  and had
perhaps been in her company every day ! He
could hardly believe his ears, and stared at
Martin in a manner which caused that somewhat
unimpressionable individual to wonder
what on earth was the matter.

Why, Martin," he at length exclaimed,
recovering himself with an effort, and feeling
that it would not do to exhibit too great
emotion on the subject, *you never told me
you had been in the Underdown country.
You told me you had been with Mr. Jones
in Bedfordshire, and somewhere in Essex,
but you never said anything about Mr
Baldwin!"

Ah, that were some time ago," responded
Martin ; " it were afore I went to Mr Jones,
like. Let's see; it'll be a matter o' seven or
eight year ago now, and Mr Thompson o'
Stratton he were master o' the 'pounds then ;
nice gentleman he were, too ; but I hear he's

dead and gone now." And Martin heaved a
sigh, and assumed an expression of melancholy
that would have led the casual observer to
suppose that, if not a near relation of the
lamented Mr Thompson, he must have at
any rate been one of his most intimate
acquaintances.

But about Mr Baldwin," continued Gerard,
beginning to regard Martin with a new and
increasing interest. " I know Mr Baldwin a
little ; that is to say, 1 think I've met him.
Let's see ; he's an old gentleman who wears
spectacles, isn't he ? and he lives alone at
Netherdean, didn't you say? And there's a
young lady, isn't there, a niece of his, who
lives with him  Miss Graham, or some name
like that?"

''Ah, that'll be Miss Florence," replied
Martin ; " nice young lady, too, she were, and
learning' to ride must-rate. But Mr Baldwin,
he didn't care much about horses,  fond o'
beetles and butterflies, and such like. Where
was you going' to put up ?" he continued,
evidently not particularly disposed to dwell
upon the subject of Mr Baldwin and his
domestic arrangements.

But Gerard could not answer for the
moment. So lie had found out her name !
Florence  Florence  what a sweet name it
was ! and it seemed like her, too. Now he
could think of her as his Florence, his darling ;
and she already seemed nearer to him. Oh, if

only But he was recalled from his dreams

by the reiterated inquiry of Mr Martin, this
time propounded in somewhat peremptory
tones, as to where he proposed to locate
himself

Oh, well, I thought of going to Shaw-field,
Martin," he said ; "it seems pretty
handy for the Underdo wn country, and I
suppose there's fair accommodation there. I
daresay you know it. Where do you suppose
is the best place to put up ?"

** Swan at Shawfield," returned Martin with
decision ; " ain't a better hotel in the county.
Good stabling, too ; good accommodation for
man and beast. Mr Clarke, as lived with Sir
Thomas Wharton, he kep' it when I was
there ; but in course I can t say whether he's
there now."

Oh, the Swan," observed Gerard ; *' why
not the White Horse ? I've been to a ball

there, and it seemed a good sort of place. Do
you suppose the Swan is any better 1 "

Well, you can go to the White Horse, in
course, if you like," replied Martin, with a
sniff ; ' but I know where I'd go myself.
Howsomever, that's for you to settle. What
time will you be starting, sir ? " he continued,
with another dash at his head by way of a
concession to appearances.

Well, I'm not quite sure about that yet,"
returned Gerard, "but you'd better have the
horses ready to start in the morning ; and
if you look in here this evening about nine
o'clock, I'll let you know, and give you your
orders." And having dismissed his attendant,
Gerard prepared to indulge unreservedly in
the luxury of his own reflections.

Well," he thought, as he proceeded to light
a pipe, and ensconce himself in a well-worn
arm-chair in front of the fire, " this is a most
extraordinary thing. Fancy old Martin having
actually lived there, and my never knowing
it till now. He must know all about her
too, and of course she will remember him. I
must get him to tell me something more
about her. She can't be any relation of the

old boy's, or she wouldn't have spoken of
him as Mr Baldwin. She must be his ward,
or some one he has adopted. And fancy my
having first heard her name from old Martin
too ! I suppose I should have found it out
somehow or other down there, but it's nice
to know it beforehand. I mustn't talk to the
old beggar too much about her, though, or
he'll smell a rat ; he's as sharp as a needle,
though he does look such a rum 'un. Anyhow,
it's the most extraordinary thing that he
should have lived there." And so Gerard sat
and smoked, and thought himself into a pleasant
reverie, in which visions of Miss Graham, or
Florence, as he was now able to think of her,
mingled with pleasurable anticipations of
sport, and speculations as to how his horses
would get over the Underdown country.
For although Gerard was most decidedly in
love, as he had for some time been obliged
to admit, he was not so far gone as to be
indifferent to the fascinating influences of
his favourite sport ; and his spirits rose ashe
thought of the prospect before him :  a
country of good repute, a couple of very fair
horses, and such an attraction, too, in the

background ! Any lingering doubts, moreover,
which he might have had as to the
wisdom of his proposed expedition, were dissipated
by this extraordinary coincidence about
Martin ; and he had very little difficulty in
persuading himself that there was a special
providence in it, and that he was only fulfilling
his destiny. Ah, Florence, Florence !
and he repeated the name over and over
till he got quite ashamed of himself, and,
jumping up and looking at his watch, found
that it was past eleven, and that he had a
good day's work before him. So, banishing
for the moment the thought of his lady-love,
he knocked the ashes out of his pipe, and
started ofi* to put things straight at the
General Enquiry Office, and make other
necessary preparations for his departure.

BEDDINGTON CROSS ROADS.

*' Then I suppose, Peter, you ought to leave
here about a quarter-past ten *? "

"Better say ten, sir. It's over five miles
to Beddington village by the downs, and the
cross roads are a good mile beyond."

'' Oh, do let's start in good time, padre
dear," broke in a third voice ; ' I don't care
how early I get up, and it would be dreadful
to be late. They say Mr Egerton is so
punctual, he won't wait a moment for anyone."


Well, start when you like, my dear,"
replied the first speaker, a grave-looking
elderly gentleman, who has already been introduced
to our readers as Mr Baldwin of
Netherdean ; "as I haven't got to go, it's all
the same to me. Well then, Peter, say ten ;
and if Miss Graham is not ready, it will be
her own fault if she is late."

Oil, I shall be ready enough, you maybe
sure," laughed the girl; 'rand Peter," she
continued, "you'll be sure and put the new
front on Kathleen, won't you ? I want her
to look very smart."

Yes, miss, I'll see to it," replied the
old coachman, with a smile ; and, with a
respectful salute to his master, he withdrew.


The following day was to witness a great
event in Miss Graham's life ; for she was to
have her first day with the foxhounds, under
the protection of old Peter, who had lived
at Netherdean in the capacity of Mr Baldwin's
coachman for many years. As we know,
she had been in the habit of riding about with
the harriers for some little time past ; but her
great ambition was to be allowed to participate
in the real thing, and to be introduced
to the glories of counting. So, partly by
coaxing and partly by teasing, she had at
the beginning of the present hunting season
succeeded in inducing Mr Baldwin, who, as
we have already seen, stood to her in loco
parentis to promise that, under the strict
charge of old Peter, she should ride out and

VOL. IL B

'shave a look at" the hounds some day when
they met near Netherdean.

Beddington Cross Roads, as those who are
familiar with the Underdown country will
doubtless recollect, is at the junction of the
hill country with the vale ; and a run in that
district is apt to present a very fair sample of
the leading features of both. If a fox is found
in one of the many sheltered deans that run
up between the hills, or in one of the gorse
coverts scattered about on their sunny slopes,
he will very likely, in the first instance, take
a line across the wide-stretching stubble or
ploughed lands at the foot of the downs,
thereby enabling his followers to make acquaintance
with some nice little banks and
ditches ; but if there should happen to be no
particularly inviting woodland to which he
can make his point, he will in all probability
turn his head to the hills again, and seek the
friendly shelter of some wooded ravine, where
he knows the chances will be very much in his
favour. A meet at the cross roads, therefore,
affords a favourable opportunity for seeing the
country, and perhaps a nice little run, without
the necessity for much hard riding ; and is a

lis

very different thing from some of the fixtures
in the regular vale country, where a heavy soil
and stiff fences will often present a pretty
severe test for both horse and rider.

For these reasons the meet at the crossroads
had been selected by Mr Baldwin,
subject to the advice of old Peter, as a suitable
occasion for a young lady to make her dhut
with the hounds. The old gentleman himself,
it must be confessed, had not much to say on
the subject ; for although, as we have seen,
equestrian exercise was not unknown to him,
and he would occasionally accompany Miss
Graham in her expeditions with the harriers,
it was more in the light of a spectator than an
active participator in the sport ; and he was
as a rule quite content to sit at his ease
on a hill, while his equally unambitious steed
quietly cropped the short grass around him,
and survey the operations of the busy pack
from a distance, till an opportunity should
offer itself of rejoining his fair and more adventurous
charge in a safe and easy manner.
But fox-hunting was altogether beyond him ;
and he had even resisted Miss Graham's
entreaties to accompany her to the meet at

the cross roads. 'peter will look after you
much better than I can, my dear," he said ;
*' and I'm too old and not enough of a sportsman
to mix with a crowd of strangers at a
covert-side. No, you will do much better
without me." But sportsman or not, the old
man had seen enough of the girl's riding to
feel that she was not likely to come to much
harm, and he had the most implicit confidence
in the trusty Peter. So he let her go without
much uneasiness, and prepared for a quiet
morning with his books.

There are few things in life pleasant thana
leisurely ride to covert on a fine December
morning, when you have not very far to go,
and feel that you are in plenty of time. The
afresh air, the elastic motion of the good horse
under you, and the quiet landscape around,
lit up into momentary brightness by the
gleams of a winter sun, all combine to lend a
peculiar charm to the occasion, and to bring
about a feeling of contentment and general
philanthropy. And apart from the pleasant
anticipations of the coming day's sport, there
is a certain indescribable beauty about a still
winter's day in the country that is not to be

found at any other time of year. The luxuriant
foliage of summer has long departed ; and
the glorious colouring of autumn, though still
lingering here and there, is rapidly giving
place to the soberer tints of winter. But even
a dull winter's day has a quiet loveliness of
its own that is often apt to appeal more
keenly to the senses than the more pronounced
attractions of other seasons ; and as
the light breeze steals through the woodlands,
and the shrivelled leaves accept their inevitable
fate, and gently flutter down to their
last resting-place, it must be a somewhat unimpressionable
mind that does not recognise
and appreciate the quiet if somewhat melancholy
sweetness of the passing year.

But we have not come out to Beddington
Cross Roads this morning for the purpose
of moralising, and Gerard Courtenay, as he
wends his way along the road from Shawfield,
although by no means insensible to the beauties
of nature, is, we fear, more engrossed by
anticipations of the day before him than by
the charms of the surrounding scenery. He
had arrived at Shawfield two days before,
horses, Martin, and all ; and having wisely

concluded that his own interests would be best
served by humouring that faithful domestic as
far as was consistent with the due preservation
of his authority, he had resolved in the first
place to examine the capabilities of the Swan,
keeping the more consequential White Horse
in reserve, in the event, which he considered
extremely probable, of the former being unsuited
to his requirements. He found, however,
that Mr Martin had not been far wrong
in his recommendation of the less pretentious
hostelry. It was a quiet, old-fashioned, redbrick
house, rather in the outskirts of the
town, and standing back from the straggling
street, with a fine old elm-tree overshadowing
the horse-trough in front, while a corpulent
aquatic bird in a sort of Italian landscape
swung and creaked from a rusty iron bracket
over the door. At the back was a roomy, old-fashioned
garden, well stocked with vegetables,
and with a row of bee-hives at the far end.
The internal accommodation was not elaborate,
but clean and comfortable as far as it went.
Gerard found that he could have a fair-sized
bedroom, and the use of a comfortable parlour,
adorned with some quaint old prints, an

ancient and decrepit piano, and a stuffed
cock-pheasant in a glass case, for a very moderate
weekly charge ; while a couple of very
fair loose-boxes were available for his horses ;
and the landlord, who was no other than the
identical Mr Clarke spoken of by Martin, now
developed, together with his genial spouse,
into a rotundity that was decidedly calculated
to inspire confidence and suggest ideas of
good living and general comfort, undertook
to forage the noble animals at a moderate
advance on the market rates. Altogether,
Gerard was very well satisfied with his quarters,
and felt that he might easily have gone
farther and fared worse.

His first experiences, however, had not
been altogether encouraging. He had been
out the day before with the harriers, having
ascertained that they met at a spot on the
downs, which he calculated could not be very
far from Netherdean, and had fondly hoped
that he might meet Miss Graham. In fact,
he had made so sure of her being there that
he had been grievously disappointed when on
arriving at the meet 'he had seen no sign of
a habit among the little knot of soberly-clad

sportsmen, who eyed him inquiringly ashe
rode up. She might, however, not care to
come out early, he thought, and would very
likely join them in the afternoon; and his
eyes were continually strained in the direction
of Netherdean, the whereabouts of which he
had ascertained in the course of conversation
from a jolly-looking old farmer, who, with the
usual well-intentioned compassion of a rustic
for a Londoner, which he had by some
process of reasoning divined Gerard to be,
had taken him under his protection, and
shown him the general " lay " of the country.
It was constantly on his lips to ask the old
gentleman whether he knew anything of
Miss Graham, and whether she was likely
sto be out ; but he somehow shrank from
mentioning her name, feeling as if after all
he had come down on false pretences, and
had really no business there at all ; and as
no hint on his part would induce his friend
to volunteer a word about her, he was
compelled to stifle his anxiety as best he
could. But the day wore on ; and though
his heart had once risen to his mouth by the
sudden appearance of a well-mounted female

equestrian over the ridge of a hill, a closer
inspection revealed a dashing-looking, dark-haired
lady of the Amazon type, and in
fact about as unlike Miss Graham as it was
possible to be. Then he began to wonder
whether she could be away, or ill ; and he
had half a mind to ride boldly up to the
castle that contained his lady-love, and
satisfy his mind about her there and then.
So that day with the harriers was not particularly
enjoyable for our friend ; and, to
make matters worse, he was not quite
happy about the grey mare, which he had
ridden with hounds for the first time, and
which had got her head up in the air,
and behaved generally in a fractious and
uncomfortable manner, to say nothing of
having flatly refused at a small bank and
ditch, thereby very nearly discharging her
rider  who, as we have said, had no pretensions
to be a finished horseman  over
her head. He consoled himself, however,
as best he could by the reflection, which
was indeed perfectly correct, that it was
probably his own bad handling of the mare
that had done the mischief, and resolved

to try her next time with a snaffle bridle.
Having at length given up all hope of
seeing Miss Graham, he left the field just
as the afternoon was closing in and a
drizzling rain beginning to fall, and retraced
his steps somewhat dolefully to the Swan,
where he passed a solitary and not very
cheerful evening.

On the following morning, however, he
awoke after a sound sleep, and felt his
hopes reviving. It was a beautiful morning
; he was going to ride his old horse,
with which he was perfectly at home, and
whatever happened, he felt that he had at
least a prospect of a day's sport. So he ate
his breakfast with much zest, and by the
time the trusty Martin had got everything
in readiness, he felt quite himself again, and
eager for adventure.

Cross roads be two mile murder by d' road.
You go through d' ba'arway, and along by
dey gates, and you'll save half a mile, sir."
So saying, in reply to Gerard's inquiries, a
smock-frocked shepherd obligingly pulls down
the top bar of a sort of gateway, or " barnabas
they are called in Wealdshire, and Gerard,

hopping over the remaining obstacle, finds
himself in a field track leading through a line
of gates in the direction of the undulating
downs which stretch out on either side before
him.

About half a mile further he emerges into a
deep lane between high banks, with here and
there an ancient yew-tree slanting across the
road. Here he falls in with two black-coated
sportsmen and one in pink, and at the next
turn of the road he can see the caps of the
huntsmen and whips bobbing up and down
through the occasional gaps in the bank,
while every now and then the crack of
a whip, or an admonishing rate to a straggling
hound, is borne back on the morning
breeze.

And now the plot begins to thicken. A
dog-cart drives past, with two muffled-up
sportsmen, who exchange cheery greetings
with the two in front of Gerard. Two more
pinks appear round the corner of a copse
skirting the lane ; and by the time the cavalcade
have reached the little grassy knoll,
crowned by a cluster of stunted Scotch firs,
that indicates the position of Beddington

Cross Roads, the field numbers some eighteen
or twenty horsemen.

The huntsmen and whips dismount, and
look to their girths, while the hounds indulge
in a roll on the chalky greensward. Cigars
are lighted, mutual salutations and inquiries
pass from one to another, and the usual
coffeehouse " preliminary to the business
of the day sets in vigorously. Gerard keeps
modestly in the background, conscious of
being the object of various curious glances
and muttered inquiries, but feeling at the
same time that whatever they may think of
him, they are not likely to find much fault
with the appearance of his mount. For the
well-shaped old horse looks fit and well, and
does credit to Mr Martin's grooming ; and ashe
steps gaily out, and bends his neck lightly
to the rein, he looks worth a good deal more
than he really is. Gerard, we need hardly
say, is got up in his best, in a well-fitting
black coat, and boots and breeches to which
not even the most fastidious could take exception.
Both horse and rider, in fact, look neat
and business-like, and public opinion is on the
whole decidedly in their favour.

Meanwhile the field keeps increasing, and
Gerard again looks out anxiously for the
chestnut mare and her fair rider. Two ladies
ride up, in one of whom he recognises his
dashing-looking friend of the previous day.
A third female figure is seen advancing in the
distance, but of such ample proportions as
require no second glance to convince him that
it is not that of Miss Graham. And now the
master has given the word for moving off, the
hounds are eagerly clustering round the heels
of the huntsman's horse, and Gerard begins to
feel his heart sinking within him, when the
click of a bridlegate behind him causes him
to look round, and he sees an elderly and
confidential-looking groom holding it open fora
young lady on a chestnut. Can it be ? 
no  yes, it is ! and for a moment everything
seems to swim before Gerard's eyes. She
passes close to him  so close that he can hear
her speaking reprovingly to " Kathleen," that
exemplary animal exhibiting some display of
excitement on catching sight of the hounds, 
but she does not notice him, and presses
eagerly forward, closely attended by the
trusty Peter, to join the crowd in front.

If Gerard had thought her rather nice-looking
before, how much more did he admire her
now, as his eye took in the graceful outlines
of her slight, lissome figure, set off by the
neatest of riding-habits, and swaying easily to
every motion of her horse. The keen morning
air and the excitement of the moment had
brought a lovely colour to her cheek, and a
gleam of sunshine shed a golden Hight over
her soft brown hair. It was a fair picture to
look upon, and more than one glance of admiration
was cast upon her as she passed by.

Gerard felt a strange, indescribable exhilaration
taking possession of him. He had found
her again, his love, his darling, and he didn't
care what happened now. He had "thrown
this hat into the ring," and, come what might,
he would do his best to win her. So he felt
the old horse gently with his heel, and followed
quietly in the wake of the hounds, content
to bide his time till a fitting opportunity
should occur of recalling himself to Miss
Graham's recollection. It must be confessed
that he was not without an uncomfortable
pang of jealousy as he observed the marked
attention paid her by various members of the

field ; but he was partially consoled by observing
that, with the exception of one or two
grey whiskered fathers of the hunt, who evidently
looked upon her with a sort of feeling
of proprietorship, she took very little notice
of her admirers, and was apparently entirely
engrossed by the all-important business of the
day.

And now the first covert has been reached,
a long triangular stretch of gorse, lying snugly
in a hollow of the downs ; no road within a
quarter of a mile, and apparently the very
place of all others that a fox on the look-out
for  comfortable quarters would choose for a
temporary resting-place. And so it is, and
many a fox has been viewed away from
Parson's Gorse, by which name it is known
to the many followers and friends of the
Underdown Hunt. But, as is so often the
case in hunting as well as in other matters,
it is necessary to look a little below the surface,
and beyond the immediate surroundings ;
and the eye of the practised sportsman, casting
round for the points that a fox would be
likely to make for, is speedily arrested by the
now sober-tinted outline of Blackmore High

Wood, looming ominously in barely middle
distance, and in fact little more than three-quarters
of a mile away. If, as is highly probable,
the fox at once makes up his mind that
he will have a better chance there than in any
of his other resorts among the wooded combes
and hollows of the downs, the utmost that
can be expected is a short gallop over a few
fields, with the probability of spending the
rest of the day in the deep and holding rides
of Blackmore Wood. But if, on the other
hand, he happen to be an animal of really
sporting tendencies, and feels equal to pitting
his own instinct and resources against those
of the clamorous and unreasoning pack of curs
that will persist in routing him out from his
snug retreat, it is quite likely that, despising
the friendly shelter of the neighbouring wood,
he will strike boldly off in the opposite direction,
and make his point for a more distant
lair among the hills. Many a good run has
in this way been obtained from Parson's
Gorse ; but it is at best a great lottery, and
many a keen sportsman, returning home after
an unsatisfactory day, has inwardly vowed
that he will never go near the place again.

Somehow or other, however, he always turns
up again, in the hope that this time he
really will be in for a good thing ; and so the
gorse keeps up its name, and continues to be
generally popular.

On the present occasion we regret to say
that, although the hounds had not been more
than two or three minutes in the gorse before
a slight whimper from old Rummage, which
was speedily endorsed by the rest of the pack,
denoted that the "little red rover" was at
home, we should be unable, even if gifted
with the pen of a Whyte Melville or a Turtles,
to place before our readers an account of a
brilliant run. For from the moment when
he was viewed stealing along the ditch at the
south-east corner of the gorse, it was evident
to all the knowing ones that his tendencies
were on the side of prudence rather than of
daring, and that his point was Blackmore
Wood. Many indeed were the exclamations
of "Told you so!" "Always the same thing!"
"Much better grub up the gorse and have
done with it ! " and so on, that reached
Gerard's ears, and that to an uninitiated
stranger who had viewed the fox away,

VOL. II. c

and naturally assumed that it was all right,
might have appeared somewhat unaccountable.


Gerard, it must be confessed, has not taken
Blackmore Wood into his calculations, and
in spite of the lamentations of the local
sportsmen, is quite prepared to believe that
he is in for a run. The fox has got away so
quickly that he has not had time to come up
With Miss Graham, who is now on the far
side of the gorse, closely attended by one
of the grey-whiskered old gentlemen already
alluded to, and a stout, elaborately got-up
young man, whom Gerard eyes with feelings
of the most intense disgust. He has had time,
however, to note that along the whole of the
lower side of the gorse runs a widest ditch,
with a fair-sized bank beyond, and with no
aids to crossing but a gateway about a hundred
and fifty yards up on one side, and a sort of
bridge or causeway about double that distance
away on the other ; and while he is wondering
whether there is anything on the far side, the
fox is viewed away. There is no time for
further reflection ; the hounds are already
over the bank and into the adjoining field,

and the moment for decisive action has arrived.
A glance to the other side of the gorse shows
him Miss Graham and the old gentleman
topping the bank together ; and even at this
moment of intense excitement his satisfaction
is unbounded at seeing the stout young man
scampering off vigorously for the gateway.
Now the huntsman shoots past him, and rides
straight at the bank and ditch, over which he
scrambles with a narrow escape from a fall,
demonstrating too plainly to any one who is
inclined to follow him that there is another
ditch beyond. But Gerard's blood is up, and
he knows what his horse can do ; so disdaining
to follow some half-dozen of the field who are
making for the bridge, he gets him by the
head, and rides quietly at the place. The old
horse takes it "on and off" as steadily and
easily as possible ; and in another moment
Gerard finds himself in the same field with the
hounds, and with the huntsman, Miss Graham,
and her elderly cavalier, as his only companions.
The majority of the field are congregated
towards the upper side of the gorse, in the
evident hope that the fox will break in that
direction, and take the only line that is pretty

certain to afford a run, and are consequently
for the moment '' out of it."

By Jove ! " thinks Gerard to himself, who,
it must be confessed, was not used to getting
such a good start, " this is luck ; I wonder if
I'll ever keep my place ! " There he is, however,
for the moment at any rate ; so he scuttles
away up the rushy, undrained pasture in
which he now finds himself, and is soon in
the immediate rear of the huntsman. Miss
Graham and her gallant old companion are
still well to the front, and, in fact, perhaps
rather nearer the tail-hounds than a strict
master or huntsman would approve of. By
this time, too, the gate-and-bridge contingent
have come up, and form a highly respectable
.ruck about a hundred yards behind; while in
the rear are the main body of the field, for the
most part a disappointed and objurgatory body
of sportsmen, loudly abusing Parson's Gorse
and everything connected with it.

The fence out of the field is a thin, quickset
hedge stuck in the ground, which Miss
Graham and the old gentleman fly abreast,
closely followed by the huntsman and Gerard.
This lands them in another roomy pasture,

over which the hounds are now streaming in
full cry. The grass is sound and firm ; the
pace is tremendous ; and for the moment Gerard
experiences that indescribable feeling of exultation
and perfect happiness that few things in
this world can so adequately supply as a good
start with hounds. But alas ! his happiness is
short-lived. A few muttered expressions of
disgust from the huntsman, alongside of whom
he is now galloping at best pace, cause him
to cast about for the reason of this discontent
; and even now the outskirts of Blackmore
High Wood are showing conspicuously on
their left front. The fence now in front of
them, too, is a black, impenetrable hedge of
thorns, to all appearance hopeless of negotiation,
and with evident signs of a deep haue
beyond. The only visible outlet is a 'bar-
way " at the far corner, and to this they with
one consent direct their horses' heads.

The hounds have apparently divided in the
lane, about half of them diverging along it
towards the wood, while the remainder have
flashed across and are scattered over the field
beyond. The huntsman forces his horse up
the opposite bank and through a gap in the

hedge, closely followed by Gerard, who is determined
to keep his place as long as possible.
It's no use, sir," observed that functionary,
turning round to Gerard with a touch of his
cap ; *' he's into the wood ; I know the way
of him well enough. But if you would turn
them hounds to me, sir, I'd be much obliged."
So, with a blast of his horn, he trots on in the
direction of the wood and parallel with the
lane, while Gerard, delighted at being appealed
to by such an important personage as the
huntsman himself, lets down the thong of his
whip, and getting the old horse by the head,
proceeds to enact the part of a whipper-in to
the very best of his ability. He is, however
soon superseded by one of the regular officials,
who comes blundering into the field on a pulling,
star-gazing brute that drags half the fence
down with him, and by this time the lane is
full of horsemen.

Gerard rides on with the huntsman, feeling
an access of importance from his temporary
association with that distinguished official.
The fence out of the field they are now in is
an up-bank, with a small ditch on the taking-off
side, and the ground rising beyond, so that

all a horse has to do is make a spring and
plant his feet well on the top, with nothing beyond
to embarrass him. One of those places, in
fact, that from a distance look as if they required
some jumping, but are in reality extremely easy.
Gerard rides boldly at it, feeling that the eyes
of the sportsmen in the lane below are upon
him, and with his arm well over his face to protect
him from the interlacing twines overhead,
gets over very comfortably. The next field is
a rough, hilly enclosure, beyond which any
farther view is impossible ; and an open gate
into the lane on the left appears the natural
and obvious exit. Gerard feels that for the
time being he has done his duty, and rejoins
the field with the pleasant consciousness that
he must have been noted as one of the only
three, besides the huntsman, who got away
with the hounds. The lane is now blocked
up with a noisy crowd, chattering and arguing
as to the line of the fox. Gerard has for the
moment forgotten all about Miss Graham, but
now looks about anxiously for the chestnut
mare. There are, however, no signs of her at
present, but he consoles himself by the reflection
that, as they all came into the lane together

at first, she must be somewhere on
ahead.

A turn in the lane now reveals Blackmore
High Wood in all its winter beauty, or, from
another point of view, in all the hideousness
of a hopelessly secure retreat for a fox that
prefers discretion to valour. Deep, clayey
sides intersect each other in every direction,
and the grey and weather-beaten old oaks, of
which it is principally composed, give shelter
to the thickest and most impenetrable underwood.
Something must be done, however,
and the huntsman gets together his now
reunited pack, and dives into the uninviting
recesses of the wood. He is followed by
a section of the field, some actuated by the
desire to be doing something, and others glad
of the chance afforded by the sticky, holding
rides of taking the fiery edge off their horses.
The majority, however, remain outside, and
discuss the chances of further sport, or explain
to their friends how it was that they
did not get away from the gorse with the
hounds.

Gerard rides slowly on, feeling rather a
stranger among the crowd. His thoughts

have now entirely reverted to Miss Graham,
and he wonders whether she has gone into
the wood, or round the outside ; and if so,
whether he should go after her or hang about
with the rest of the field. So he moves
on by the side of the wood in an undecided
sort of way, the old horse every now and
then stopping and looking round, as if doubtful
whether they are going in the right direction
for sport. Gerard is just about to turn
back and rejoin the field, when, coming to
a sharp corner of the wood, his horse pricks
up his ears, and he finds himself face to face
with Miss Graham.

DEEPER AND DEEPER STILL.

She was bending forward rather disconsolately,
with one hand resting on the chestnut's
neck ; and in spite of the attempts
at encouragement of the cheery old gentleman
by her side, her face bore marks of disappointment,
which even its natural sweetness
of expression could not conceaL *show
very unlucky ! " Gerard heard her say, as he
approached ; " and my first day too ! However,
it can't be helped, and that little gallop
was so nice." At this moment Gerard appeared
round the corner, and she instinctively
drew herself up, though without appearing to
notice him. *

Gerard felt a little awkward. He had
evidently interrupted a tete-astute, and the old
gentleman was looking at him in a manner
which suggested that on the whole his room
would be preferable to his company. He felt.

however, that he must not throw away such a
chance ; and instead of passing on, as was the
evident desire both of Miss Graham and her
companion, he advanced boldly towards them.
Ladies are as a rule better hands at recognition
than men. It at once flashed across Miss
Graham that it was some one she had seen
before, and as Gerard approached and took off
his hat, with an attempt at a smile on his
lips, and a heart beating violently beneath
his corduroy waistcoat, she was not long
in recognising her partner of the Shawfield
ball.

** Oh ! Mr Courtenay," she exclaimed, " is
that you? I didn't know you at first in
your hunting - clothes. Fancy seeing you
down here ! I had no idea you ever hunted
in these parts."

Gerard had anticipated a question of this
sort, and had prepared in his mind what he
had intended to be a satisfactory explanation.
Bit the sight of the face that had
haunted him by day and night for the last
month, and the sound of that gentle voice
once more thrilling in his ears, had the
effect of completely upsetting his diplomatic

calculations ; and he could only stammer
out something about " Sydmonton 
Underdown country  easy to get at from
London"  and a few other utterly incoherent
remarks.

Oh, you are staying at Sydmonton,
then ? " inquired Miss Graham, catching at
the name. " But that's a long way from
here, isn't it ? You must have bad fifteen
miles to ride, I should think. But I suppose
you don't mind that, if you are fond
of hunting''

Gerard would have liked to reply that fifty
miles more or less would have seemed as
nothing to him, with the prospect of meeting
Miss Graham at the end of it. He was, however,
obliged to content himself with explaining,
in a lame sort of a way, that he \7as
not then staying at Sydmonton, and had
only come from Shawfield, where he had
come for a fortnight's hunting, having often
heard of the Underdown hounds, and thinking
he should like to see something of the
country.

At any other time, Miss Graham might
very probably have been struck by the evident

confusion of Gerard's manner, and his
somewhat laboured explanation of his presence
in the Underdown country. But her
thoughts being for the moment almost entirely
occupied in various speculations as to
the prospect of further sport, his embarrassment
passed unnoticed. In fact, although
Gerard was glad to escape the necessity for
entering into further particulars, he could
not help a slight feeling of disappointment,
however unreasonable, at being received by
Miss Graham with such an entire absence of
emotion. And as he looked at her fair lace
and graceful figure, and thought what a
charming creature she was, and how she
ought to be admired, his heart rather sank
within him. There must surely be heaps of
fellows desperately in love with her; that
fat lout, for instance, who shirked the first
fence, but who was probably a great swell
in those parts, and very likely rolling in
money, what chance could he have against a
fellow like that ? And no doubt there were
dozens of others ; and yet, somehow or
other, she didn't seem to know many people
at the Shawfield ball, and seemed glad to have

him as a partner. And who was she ? and
what was her position as regards old Baldwin?
He must find this out somehow, and
by some means or other manage to get
to know her more intimately, though how
to set about it he was so far quite at a
loss. Possibly he might manage to make some
use of Martin in the matter, though this
would have to be very carefully done. Anyhow,
Martin, if sounded, could probably tell
him something more about her, and he
would certainly try this.

All this time the huntsman and hounds had
been patiently working through the intricacies
of Blackmore High Wood, assisted or impeded
by a few of the field, who were anxious to
share in the almost hopeless task of inducing
the fox to break cover and betake himself
once more to the open. There was a cold,
intermittent scent, although a whimper every
now and then proclaimed that it was not
altogether lost. But matters were certainly
not looking lively, and a drizzling rain which
had begun to fall added to the general sense
of depression and discomfort.

Suddenly, however, the deep note of a

hound is heard in the middle of the wood,
and in a moment a burst of melody announces
that the game is not up yet. ' They're running
! " exclaims the old gentleman, turning
his horse sharp round. " Come along, Miss
Graham." And the words are hardly out of
his mouth before a brown shadow steals across
the ride a couple of hundred yards before
them. " Hold hard ! There he goes ! " he
continues, reining up sharp and holding up
his hand ; " we may have a run yet." A
few moments of suspense, and the hounds
stream across the ride in full cry, followed
closely by the huntsman, who crashes through
the stiff underwood as if it were so much
paper. '* Now come along, my dear ; " and
away goes Miss Graham up the ride after her
ancient pilot, closely followed by Gerard. A
turn to the left brings them into a broader
ride, which runs out into a corner of the
wood, already occupied by a whip, who sits
motionless on his horse, prepared for immediate
action in the event of the fox breaking
on that side. And just as our friends are
within fifty yards of the cover, a piercing
view-halloo announces the much-desired event.

The wood is bordered by a rough, overgrown
hedge, with a drop into the field beyond. Miss
Graham and her conductor diverge to the left,
and scramble down a sort of track. Gerard,
however, burning to distinguish himself before
his charmer, and tired of doing nothing, rams
his horse at the fence in a somewhat careless
manner, trusting to providence to get safely
over. But the thick straggling growth has
concealed the inequalities of the ground below,
and though the old horse clears the hedoe well
enough, he lands on a greasy sloping bank,
and catching his feet in a network of growers,"
comes heavily on his head. Gerard described
a complete somersault, but with the exception
of a hat neatly flattened over his eyes,
and a general plastering of mud, was none
the worse. On scrambling up, however, and
getting to his horse, he to his dismay perceived
blood trickling freely from a cut on the
off forefoot, evidently the result of an " overreach
" in his struggles to extricate himself.

"What a d d fool I was!" thought

Gerard, looking back at the nasty place he
had come over. " Poor old boy ! " he continued,
patting the trembling animal and examining

the injured foot. " It was my fault,
and not yours. It doesn't seem very much of a
cut ; but I can't go on riding him with his foot
bleeding like this. Now they'll have a run,
of course, and I'm out of it, and serve me quite
right. I must get out of this beastly place, and
find my way back to Shawfield." And gathering
up the reins, he was preparing to mount and
retrace his steps, Ashen the tramp of horses
caught his ear, and looking up he perceived
Miss Graham and her companion riding slowly
towards him, and presenting no appearance of
participating in a run.

Hallo ! " exclaimed the old gentleman as
they drew near, " been down ? That's a nasty
place to come over ; you should have followed
us down the 'rack'"

Yes," replied Gerard, feeling rather foolish ;
"it was my own fault. I didn't look where I
was going, and my horse came right on his
head."

I hope you're not hurt, Mr Courtenay ? "
inquired Miss Graham, with a semblance of
anxiety ; " you must have had a bad fall, I'm
afraid."

*' Oh, I'm not a bit hurt, thanks," returned

VOL. II. D

Gerard, scarcely daring to look up in the
sweet face that was bending down towards
him with, as he endeavoured to persuade himself,
a certain expression of interest. "My
horse has cut his foot, but I don't think it
is anything much, though it bleeds a good
deal."

Oh, dear, I'm so sorry," she exclaimed ;
'* what will you do with him ? Mr Percival,"
addressing her elderly friend, " do look at it ;
you are so clever about these things. By the
way, Mr Courtenay, let me introduce you to
Mr Percival. Mr Courtenay and I," she explained,
with a slight blush and a hesitation
that to Gerard seemed perfectly charming,
'met at the Shawfield ball."

'' Here, catch hold," said Mr Percival with
a grunt, dismounting and throwing his reins
to Gerard. '' Now then," lifting up the
injured foot, 'let's have a look. Ah, I see;
only a flesh cut ; won't do him much harm ;
very likely be all right in a week. Lucky
for you it's not a couple of inches higher;
would have struck the tendons then, and laid
him up for a month. You ride him home
quietly, and he'll do well enough. You might

as well get the place washed out, though.
Where are you staying ? "

Gerard explained, not without some embarrassment,
that he was at that moment
domesticated at the Swan at Shawfield.

Shawfield," observed Mr Percival ; *' well,
that's eight miles from here. Let's see ; your
best way now would be over the downs, if you
knew the way, and past Netherdean. I daresay
now," looking at Miss Graham, " Mr
Baldwin wouldn't mind the horse being
brought in for a minute, and Peter could
give the place a wash with some warm
water."

*' Oh yes, of course," exclaimed Miss
Graham, eagerly. '' Here is Peter," as that
functionary, who had never altogether lost
sight of his young mistress, now appeared
round the corner. " We can all go together,
that's to say," addressing Mr Percival with
a tinge of melancholy in her voice, " if
you really think it's no use stopping any
longer."

Well," replied Mr Percival, " you can
stop if you like, but you won't see much
more here, I expect. They will go on to

University OF %ViW

Eaton after this, I suppose, but that's five
miles from here, and right away from
Netherdean ; and if you've got to be home
early "

Yes, I promised Mr Baldwin I wouldn't
stop out late," she replied. " Perhaps I'd better
go home."

But the fox ?" inquired Gerard. "I thought
he was viewed away  what happened to him ?
Has he got back to the wood again ? "

Got back ! " grumbled Mr Percival ; " I
should think so  sneaked alone the hedgerow
there, and was back in that corner almost
before the hounds were out of the wood.
They'll do nothing with him now, but I
suppose they'll go on after him for another
half-hour or so before they give it up." 

By Jove, I'm in luck," thought Gerard.
He had not missed a run, after all, and he
was actually going to be taken to Nether-dean
 to the place where she lived  the
centre of the world to him, in fact. It all
seemed like a dream, or some special interposition
of Providence, and he could only
mutter out something about his thanks, 
afraid of giving trouble, &c.

Well, we had better be getting on,"
observed Mr Percival, who had now remounted,
" or your horse will be getting
stiff. I'll see you as far as Selling," addressing
Miss Graham, *' and then I must be going
home myself, as I have got a friend coming
down by the afternoon train ; but if you like
to take your friend on to Netherdean  I
daresay Peter will have a look at that foot
again."

So the three rode slowly off, followed at a
respectful distance by the trusty Peter, wjio
had not as yet delivered himself of an opinion
as to Gerard's fall, or as to the state of affairs
in general, but who had possibly none the
less taken in the bearings of the case and
formed his own conclusions on the subject.

I am so sorry you have not had a run,"
observed Gerard to his fair companion, as
they emerged from the wood into a muddy
lane where there was not room for three to
ride abreast, and where, consequently, Mr
Percival, as the leader of the party, forged
ahead. " That wood seems an awful place,
and I suppose the next covert would be too
far for you on a wet day like this."

*' Oh ! it wouldn't be the least too far,"
she replied, "but I promised Mr Baldwin I
would be back early to-day. You see it's my
first day with the fox-hounds, and he thought
I should be tired if I stopped out too long.
But I shouldn't have been the least tired,"
she went on ; '' only he is so kind and
thoughtful about me I couldn't bear not
to do as he wishes. But I am so sorry about
your fall, and your poor horse, as you could
have gone on, of course, and they will probably
have a run from Caxton."

Gerard would have been ready enough for a
run from Eaton on any ordinary occasion,
but in the present instance he could not help
thinking that a ride home with Miss Graham
the first day of meeting her was cheaply purchased
by the loss of a possible run. However,
it was necessary to say something about
'* his own fault,  better luck another time,"
and so on. But, somehow or other, the conversation
flagged, and Gerard did not succeed
in taking that advantage of the four miles
road-riding between Blackmore High Wood
and Netherdean, which, under the circumstances,
might fairly have been expected.

Netherdean was an old-fashioned house of
the type so common in that part of Weald-shire
 something which, having begun as a
farmhouse, had in the course of years expanded
by gradual enlargements and additions
into a sort of manor-house or '' place."
It was built principally of red brick, which,
by long exposure to the weather, had become
mellowed down into a sort of French grey,
here and there almost white, and only retaining
its original colour in certain sheltered
corners. There was nothing whatever of
architectural beauty or design about it, and its
component parts were incongruous to a degree.
Some of the windows retained their old
casement fittings, while others were of more
modern and light-admitting fashion. On one
side was an evidently modern wing, the redbrick
colouring of which had not yet been
sufficiently subdued to harmonise with the
older parts of the building, while the stables
and offices, which were attached to the house,
had been rebuilt or enlarged with a mixture
of flint and rough-cast. The whole was surmounted
by a low, red-tiled roof, with a row
of dormer windows peeping over the stone

coping, and various irregularly-shaped chime
scattered about at intervals. The
house stood back about a hundred yards from
the road, from which it was separated by a
low brick wall overhung with evergreens, and
with a handsome iron gate in the centre, giving
access to a circular carriage-drive, leading
up to the front door. A modest, unpreten-
pious-looking place altogether, but presenting
the appearance of being thoroughly snug and
comfortable.

Gerard, however, was not at this moment particularly
disposed either to criticise or admire
the points of Netherdean. He was now alone
with Miss Graham, always excepting the
presence ia the background of the faithful
Peter, Mr Percival having left them at a little
village about a mile back. And as they
approached the house, and he felt that he was
actually at her home, and was about to be
admitted as it were, for however brief a period,
to her life and daily surroundings, he experienced
an overpowering feeling of shyness
and nervousness, and was in fact quite unequal
to the occasion. Luckily for him, however.
Miss Graham exhibited no such uneasiness.

She appeared, in fact, to look upon him rather
in the light of a chance wayfarer who stood
in need of assistance, and showed no signs of
being in the least anxious to receive him as a
visitor. She led the way up a side entrance
into the stable-yard, and was off her horse
before Gerard could dismount and assist her.
And here a slight awkwardness arose. Here
was Gerard, a comparative stranger, with a
slightly damaged horse, and to a certain extent
in a position to claim hospitality. And yet,
having got him there naturally enough, Miss
Graham seemed all of a sudden to be in
doubt as to what to do with him, and stood
for a moment irresolute.

She was relieved, however, by the interposition
of Peter, who now came forward, and
touching his hat, intimated to Gerard his
readiness to examine the injured foot, while
a helper emerged from the stable and took
charge of her horse. " Then I will say goodbye,
Mr Courtenay," she said, with a slight
blush, *' unless"  with a little hesitation 
'sunless you would like to come into the
house while Peter looks after the horse."

It is needless to observe that Mr Courtenay

would have liked nothing better ; but the
invitation was not given in such a manner as
to render its acceptance a matter of course,
and he did not feel quite equal to taking
advantage of it. So he stammered out his
thanks, and his fears that he ought to begetting
back to Shawfield, and so on, although
all the time he would have given the world to
leave his horse to Providence and Peter, and
enter the charmed abode of his lady-love.

"Good-bye, then," she continued; "lam
so glad to have met you again. Perhaps I
may see you out hunting again when your
horse gets well  or I daresay you have got
another ? " And with a sweet little smile,
that went straight to Gerard's heart, she
turned away and tripped into the house.

A few hours later, Gerard was sitting in
his solitary room at the Swan, and ruminating
over a pipe and the events of the
day. He had accomplished his purpose
so far, certainly. He had seen and conversed
with Miss Graham, and had actually
escorted her home. This was not bad for a
first day's work. But, somehow, he was not
altogether satisfied. He felt as if he had

not made the most of his opportunity, and
reproached himself for not having been a
little more marked in his demeanour towards
the fair object of his affections. And
then, too, she seemed so utterly unconcerned
; and although evidently pleased to
see him, seemed to look upon him merely
in the light of an ordinary acquaintance.
Though, after all, how could he expect anything
else ? Well, he must hope for better
luck next time ; and she certainly did speak
as if she would like to see him assail. Oh,
how lovely she looked as she said good-bye
to him ! And he tried hard to fancy that
she had guessed his secret, and was not
disposed to think the worse of him. So he
mused and pondered, in a troubled and uncertain
frame of mind, till he found himself
overcome by sleep, and very nearly dropping
into the fire, when he wisely concluded that
it was time to go to bed.

m THE .

The adventures of a young gentleman in love,
although interesting to the last degree to himself,
and possibly to the one other person most
immediately concerned, are apt, after a tippet
pall upon even his most intimate friends,
and to become a positive nuisance to the
world in general. We shall not, therefore,
try the patience of our readers by following
Gerard step by step through the various incidents
of his stay at Shawfield. The day
after his meeting with Miss Graham was
peculiarly tedious. There was no hunting,
and all he could do was to go and look at his
horses in the stable, and wonder when the old
horse's foot would be sufficiently recovered for
him to go out again. A country town of the
Shawfield type is at its best sufficiently dreary ;
but to Gerard, in his restless state of mind, its
dreariness soon became almost insupportable.

He contemplated the possibility of going upto
London for the day, and coming down
again in the evening ; but found that it was
too late for the morning express, and that he
would simply have to pass the day in the train.
He then began to consider whether he could
with any appearance of reason or propriety
ride over to Netherdean and call upon Miss
Graham. But he could hardly summon up
courage enough to venture on this : and the
idea of the mysterious Mr Baldwin in the
background was somewhat repelling. A
ride, however, would be better than doing
nothing ; so, having hung about the town
during the morning, he mounted the grey
mare about two o'clock, and rode over the
downs in the direction of Netherdean, feeling
that, if he could not actually go and
call at the house, it would be something to
be near her, and indulging in a sort of
vague hope that he might come across her
either riding, walking, or otherwise disporting
herself in the vicinity. But although he
hovered about for some time, and went as
near the house as he considered justifiable,
he could see no sign of the form that was

now dearer to him than anything in the
world, and was compelled to return home
disappointed. Still the ride itself did him
good, and enabled him to get on better terms
with his new purchase ; and he found himself
able to enjoy his mutton-chop dinner at
the Swan, and even to take some mild interest
in an ancient and dog's-eared novel
which he found, among other literary curiosities,
on a shelf in the corner of the
room.

By the time, however, that Gerard had
been at Shawfield ten days or thereabouts,
the aspect of affairs had materially changed ;
and although he hardly dared to allow himself
to hope that the course of his love was
beginning to run smoothly, he certainly could
not complain of being debarred from the
society of the object of his affections. He
had met her out with the harriers, and twice
again with the fox-hounds, on the latter of
which occasions he had enjoyed the rapturous
felicity of a fairish run in her company over
a nice, practicable country, the grey mare,
with whom he had now arrived at a very
comfortable understanding, having carried

him to his entire satisfaction. More than
this, he had actually met her in Shawfield,
whither she had driven with Mr Baldwin
one afternoon ; and had been allowed to take
charge of her, and stand at her elbow in
various shops while that estimable old gentleman
was transacting business with his solicitor.
And each time he saw her, he became more
aud more hopelessly in love.

And now he was to have a still better
opportunity of enjoying her society than even
the hunting-field could afford. He had been
invited to dine with Mr Percival, the old
gentleman who had acted as Miss Graham's
escort and pilot the first day he had met her
out. Both Mr Baldwin and Miss Graham
were to be there ; and there were rumours,
which had received no positive contradiction,
of a small dance afterwards. This seemed to
Gerard to open up a prospect of an evening's
unbounded happiness. He would be able to
dance with her again  several times, perhaps
and if only he could manage to sit next herat
dinner ! He had received a verbal invitation
from Mr Percival out hunting, who had
at the same time casually informed him of

whom he was going to meet ; and during the
day he had alluded to the subject in conversation
with Miss Graham, and had expressed his
delight at the prospect of another dance with
her. For in those few days their acquaintance
had certainly ripened into something almost
approaching to intimacy ; and Gerard would,
to his surprise, find himself talking to her as
if he had known her all his life. He could
not help feeling that this was in a great
measure due to the entire absence of restraint
or embarrassment on her part ; and could
have wished, perhaps, that she did not talk
to him in the same unconcerned manner as
she appeared to talk to others. But there
had been moments when a look or a word
from her had set all his pulses throbbing, and
had made him fancy that she guessed and
sympathised with the secret of his heart. On
that last day with the hounds, indeed, when
they parted at the foot of the downs, just as a
deeper glow was creeping up into the clear
afternoon sky, and a slight feeling of frost
began to pervade the air, she had given him a
look and a gentle pressure of the hand that
had sent him home in a state of almost

delirious happiness, causing his estimable landlady
at the Swan to think what a pleasant
and good-tempered young gentleman they had
got for a lodger.

There is nothing new in the " old, old
story." And yet, who is there of us who
does not feel that his or her own particular
story has something about it with which the
experiences of others can only be flat and
commonplace ? Love's memories, as in other
relations of life, are often made up of little
things ; and a word, a look, a pressure of the
hand on some particular occasion, especially
if during that sweet though maddening period
when we begin tremblingly to hope that our
love is returned, will remain engraved on
the tablets of the mind and set the pulse
throbbing long after other recollections are
dead within us, and our hearts have become
hardened and indifferent to what we once
looked upon as the prospect of heaven upon
earth.

A dance in the country is at any time a
most welcome form of entertainment, and
all the more so when it comes about in an
impromptu and unexpected manner. Much

VOL. II. E

excitement had therefore been created in more
than one fair breast in the neighbourhood
by the report of the contemplated dance at
Crowhurst Park. The rumour, indeed, soon
developed into a certainty, various notes
having been received by those interested
apologising for the shortness of the invitation,
and explaining that the whole thing had only
been got up on the spur of the moment, principally
at the instigation of a sailor nephew
of Mr Percival's, who was staying there on
a short leave of absence, and who would be
compelled to rejoin his ship in a few days.
It must be confessed that there were some
lamentations over the want of time in which
to prepare for the festivity, and the impossibility
of appearing, on such short notice, in
anything " fit to wear ; " but somehow or other
everything seemed to come right by the evening
of the dance, and at any rate nobody
would have thought of passing an unfavourable
criticism on the general appearance of
the bevy of Wealdshire beauties who assembled
under Mr Percival hospitable roof that December
nioht.

There arc few private houses whose resources

are such as to admit of a dinner and a dance
being given on the same night without the
former being in some way or other made to
give way to the latter. And although the
entertainment at Crowhurst was originally and
ostensibly a dinner-party, including among
the guests a proportion of the heavy fathers of
the countryside and their equally substantial
better halves, who as a rule would decidedly
object to their dinner being cut short, or their
symposium over the fire in any way interfered
with, it was wonderful with what good
humour they submitted to the arrangements
rendered necessary by the crowning event of
the evenings.

It is not, however, necessary to the due
development of our story that we should
chronicle at length the progress of the Crow-hurst
Park dance. Let us rather content
ourselves with an extract, as it were, of the
night's proceedings, and take a glance at two
persons who, towards the close of the entertainment,
and when one or two early-retiring
chaperones have already taken flight with
their charges, are " sitting out " a dance in a
remote corner of the library. To tell the

truth, indeed, they have been there during
the last two dances ; and yet they display no
immediate intention of abandoning their position,
which, shielded as it is by a heavy
screen both from the fire and the rest of
the room, offers advantages not to be despised
by any two individuals who may be
desirous of a little private conversation.

And yet, retired as is the situation, and
comfortable the sofa on which the pair are
seated, their demeanour does not on the whole
suggest the idea of perfect happiness. The
face of the lady bears an anxious, troubled
expression, that contrasts somewhat sadly
with the fair young brow and slight, girlish
figure. Her companion is quiet and earnest,
but also presents an expression of intense
anxiety. Their actual conversation at the
moment, however, would not strike the
listener as of vital importance, or of a
nature calculated to arouse feelings of anxiety
or distress.

How curious," she says in a half-interested,
half-abstracted voice, "how curious
that you should have got a man who had
lived with us. Oh yes, I remember him

perfectly. He was called John then, and
I had almost forgotten what his other name
was till you told me, but I remembered it as
soon as you mentioned it."

"Yes, isn't it curious?" was the rejoinder.
I can't tell you how astonished I was when
he told me that he had once lived at Nether-dean.
It seemed so strange to think that he
must have seen and known you long before I
did."

A blush was the only answer, accompanied
by a downcast look, and a nervous manipulation
of her fan. It was evident that
the conversation was of a more interesting
nature than might at first have been supposed.


He was getting nervous too. " Yes," he
went on, " I told him one day that I thought
of coming down to Shawfield to hunt, and
I never was more "astonished in my life than
when he proceeded to tell me all about the
place."

But  but what made you think of coming
to Shawfield ? " she timidly and hesitatingly
asked. " There's much better hunting in
other places, isn't there ? "

Oil yes, of course, there are better countries,"
lie replied. " But then, you know,
the Underdo wn country is very good  don't
you think so yourself? And it is so easy
to get at from London, you know. In fact 
in fact," he continued with some embarrassment,
*' I think it is a most delightful country,
and I only wish I could stay a little
longer."

Why, you are not going away ? " she said,
raising her eyes for a moment to his, with a
look that sent the blood coursing wildly
through his veins ; " you have only been hereabout
a fortnight, have you ? "

Yes ; I am afraid I shall have to go in a
day or two," he replied. " You see I am not
my  own master, and I have got work in
London. I wonder when I shall see you
again ? "

No answer. But the small, fair head was
slightly averted, and the look of distress had
returned. It was evident that matters were
becoming interesting.

*' It seems quite a long time since I first
saw you," he continued, hardly daring to look
at her, but playing nervously with the tassel

of lier fan, which she had half let fall, '' and
now I don't know when I shall see you
adam."

She seemed to endeavour to speak, but the
words refused to come.

Shall I tell you," he said, in a voice that
seemed to him hoarse and unnatural ; " shall
I tell you why I came to Shawfield ? " and,
as he spoke, the hand which held the fan
came, he knew not how, in contact with hers,
and he felt that he could no longer restrain
himself.

Miss Graham  Florence," he murmured,
I can't bear it any longer. I must tell you
how I love you. I have thought of nothing
else ever since I first saw you, and this was
the only way I could think of to see you
again. Florence, Florence," he went on,
wildly, having now got entire possession of
her hand, though she still kept her face away
from him, " won't you look at me, and tell
me if I have any hope ? "

She turned her face slowly towards him ;
but oh, what a sad, sorrowful look there
was in those soft, gentle eyes! a look of
distress and anguish that absolutely frightened

Gerard, and made him drop the little
hand he was still holding in his own.
"0 Florence!" he exclaimed, "what have I
done?"

*stop," she half whispered, wildly, "for
Heaven's sake, stop. You must not talk tome

like that. You don't know Oh, let

me go, let me go ! " And she rose hurriedly
from her seat, and made a step forward, as if
to leave him.

"Florence, Florence!" exclaimed Gerard,
seizing her hand again, '' you must not
leave me like this. Tell me what it is, for
God's sake, and forgive me if I have done
anything wrong."

"Oh, no, no," she hurriedly replied, *but I
can't tell you, and you cannot understand.
Let me go, please, please," in a tone of
passionate entreaty. And gently but firmly
disengaging her hand from his grasp, she tore
herself from him and disappeared from the
room.

Gerard stood for a few moments dazed and
stupefied. He felt as if he were in a dream,
and that if he waited a little he would awake
and it would all come right. He came out

from the corner behind the screen, and stood
before the fire, looking mechanically at the
clock on the mantelpiece, and wondering
what he should do next. A strain of music
came through the half-open door, and he
found himself listening attentively to catch
the air. It was the old '' Journalists " valse
the one he had danced with her that first
night at Shawfield. Then he slowly came to
himself, and a feeling of unutterable misery
began to steal over him. He turned to the
sofa where they had been sitting, and, throwing
himself upon it, buried his face in his
hands, and strove to collect his thoughts.
Then he remembered that others might becoming
in, and that it would not do for him
to be discovered there ; and he rose and
moved towards the door. There was something
white on the floor, and he stooped
and picked it up. It was a little lace handkerchief
she had dropped in her flight  yes,
there was the " F '' embroidered in the corner,
and the faintest possible fragrance of some
delicate scent clinging to it, which he had
already begun to associate with her. He
kissed it passionately, and placed it in his

breast. " I'll keep this till I die," lie muttered
to himself, and slowly passed out of
the room.

How Gerard got back to Shawfield that
night he hardly knew. He had an indistinct
vision of passing through the hall which
separated the library from the ball-room, and
finding himself in the portico outside, with
the stars looking down coldly and pitilessly
on his wretchedness. Then he remembered
that he had left his coat behind, and returned
to the cloak-room to look for it. On the way
he met a chance acquaintance, who addressed
some casual remark to him, which he must
have answered rather wildly, as the speaker
stared hard at his pale face, and then turned
abruptly on his heel. Luckily, he found his
coat at once, and again crest out into the
open air. Carriages were beginning to take
up, and hooded and cloaked damsels where
being escorted pitt by their attendant cavaliers.
Laughter and cheery good-nights were going
on all round, and more than one glance of
surprise and curiosity were directed at Gerard,
as, looking neither to the right nor left, he
made his way out at the door, and disappeared

in the darkness. As luck would
have it, he stumbled almost into the arms
of the flyman whom he had engaged from
Shawfield for the night, and who had by no
means calculated on getting his fare away
from the ball so early ; and in a few minutes
more he was jolting along the road to Shaw-field.


Gerard sat back in a corner of the fly
in a sort of stupor. It seemed to him as
if his life had come suddenly to an end, and
as if he were in another state of existence.
The events of the evening seemed to have
passed away from him, and to have happened
long, long ago. And there he was, looking
out into the starlight, and able to think
what a beautiful night it was, and to wonder
whether the frost would stop hunting the
next day. His chief sensation was one of
intense weariness, and longing for rest. The
drive to Shawfield seemed, somehow, very
short, and he found himself standing at the
door of the Swan, and talking quite calmly
to the driver, while a sleepy boots was being
roused up to open the door. In a few

minutes more lie was in his bedroom, and
calmly preparing to go to bed. And,
strangest of all, within two hours of his
parting with Florence Graham, he was fast
asleep.

ANODYNES.

There is no truer saying than the old adage
that " Heaven tempers the wind to the shorn
lamb ; " and this is especially true in the case
of those troubles and disappointments which
come to us while life is still young. There
must be few who, when recalling some great,
and at the same time crushing sorrow, cannot
also, if they honestly examine themselves,
recall some little incident or episode, some
merciful dispensation, which has somewhat
softened the blow, and enabled them to bear
a burden that otherwise would have seemed
too great for human nature to endure. A
time may come, alas ! when, the elasticity and
recuperative power of youth gone for ever,
and nothing left to look forward to but a
dark and hopeless vista of years, we begin to
realise that life is for us over, and that we
have been crushed down by a weight which

no power but the angel of death can remove.
But while there is anything left of youth and
hope, it must be indeed some very terrible
and unusual sorrow that does not bear with it
in its train some ray of mercy and some gleam
of light that will suffice to preserve the soul
from utter despair.

It was, perhaps, the best thing that could
have happened to our disappointed suitor
that next morning, when he was yet scarcely
awake, and only just beginning to realise
what had taken place, a letter from Lord
Eavendale, marked "immediate," was brought
to him in his bedroom, requesting his prompt
return to London, provided  for his chief
was always most considerate in these matters
thg,t he had nothing special on hand
that day, in which case another day's
delay would not signify. The letter went
on to state that in consequence of the
sudden illness of the Secretary of State
for the Aboriginal Department, Lord Heavens
had undertaken to superintend the preparation
of an important measure to be
brought before Parliament in the comines
which would give him a fortnight or

three weeks' hard work, and would necessitate
the attendance of his private secretary, not
only for whatever assistance he might be able
to render in getting up details and particulars
connected with the forthcoming effort of legislation,
but also as a medium of communication
with other heads of departments on certain
points which were likely to require careful
consultation.

This summons, which under other circumstances
might perhaps have been rather unwelcome,
was hailed by Gerard with a feeling
of intense thankfulness. He had already
begun, in those waking moments, to feel a
sensation of despair and hopelessness stealing
over him,  a longing to hide his head
somewhere, and be at rest,  while, at the
same time, he hardly dared think of what
he was to do next. And now it was all
settled for him, and he had simply to obey
orders. He roused himself, therefore, with a
great effort, and sending for Martin, informed
him that he himself was obliged to return to
London by the first train, and that he and
the horses might follow at their leisure. Weare
bound to say that, under ordinary circumstances,

Gerard might have felt some
diffidence in communicating such sudden and
peremptory orders to his faithful domestic,
who had made himself extremely comfortable
at the Swan, and was by no means
inclined to approve of such an untimely
departure. But, for the moment, he was
regardless of everything but his own immediate
concerns ; and having packed his
things and eaten his breakfast with something
of the feeling of a man in a dream,
he took leave of his genial host and hostess,
who expressed the most unfeigned regret at
his sudden departure, and just managed to
catch the 10.30 train to London.

On arriving at the office, Gerard was
warmly welcomed by bis chief, and at once
set to work. He had a long day, and
scarcely a moment for indulging in his own
thoughts ; nor was he even left alone in the
evening, which he could not help looking
forward to with dread; for Lord Eavendale
pressed him to come and dine with him in
Grosvenor Square, and by the time he got to bed
he was thoroughly tired out, and, to his great
surprise, found himself quite disposed for sleep.

It is true that on the following morning
there was a reaction, and that as he opened
his eyes in his accustomed lodgings, and the
recollection of the last few days rushed back
to his mind, a feeling of desolation and
misery began to take possession of him, and
the whole world seemed hopelessly dark and
dreary. The reappearance, too, of Martin
with the horses did not tend to raise his
spirits, especially when that worthy announced,
not without a feeling of secret
satisfaction, as it seemed to Gerard, that
the grey mare had got a cold, and didn't
seem at all the thing that morning. But
he was due at the office early ; so, " pulling
himself together" with a painful effort,
he sallied forth, and was soon at work
again.

A week passed in this manner, by the
end of which, however, Gerard had had very
little leisure for indulging in solitary reflection.
The full weight of his sorrow had
therefore been somewhat broken, and instead
of brooding over and giving way to it, he
had only had time to think of it at intervals.
And although on these occasions he would feel

VOL. II. F

very crushed and sick at heart, the pain he
experienced had lost some of the sharpness
that it would otherwise have possessed, and
had subsided into a sort of dull and undefined
sensation of something wrong. Sometimes he
could hardly bring himself to believe that the
whole thing was not a dream, and that there
was such a person as Miss Graham in existence.
And then he would have recourse to
the little relic of which he had possessed
himself, and the whole scene would come back
to him with a vividness that was only too
real. At these times he would go over all
that had passed between them on that eventful
night, and would rack his brains with
thinking what could have been the meaning
of her strange behaviour. There seemed some
mystery about her  something which made
her different from any one else. And yet,
too, she had been so sweet and kind to him
with it all. He couldn't with truth tell himself
that she had actually encouraged him, but
she seemed to take a pleasure in his company ;
and oh, how exquisitely happy those few days
with her had been ! What could it mean ?
Had he merely been too precipitate, and

frightened her by his sudden declaration ?
No ; there was something more than that,
and nothing could have been more decided or
more apparently hopeless than his rejection.
But give her up he would not, as long as
there remained the faintest ray of hope for
him to cling to ; and he passionately kissed
the little embroidered handkerchief, which he
now treasured as the most precious thing in
his possession.

What considerably added to Gerard's discomfort
at this moment was the circumstance
of his having absolutely no one to confide
in or ask advice from. He had repaired to
Hatfield Street on the day after his arrival,
with the intention of unburdening himself
to George Morton, whom he now looked upon
as connected in a sort of way with the story
of his love. But he found to his disappointment
that not only had his friend been absent
from his lodgings for the last fortnight, but
that he had left no address, and had intimated
that it was highly probable that he might not
return for some time. No cross-questioning
of the landlady could elicit any information on
the subject, except that, a day or two before,

a person dressed like a superior mechanic had
called with a note from Mr Morton requesting
her to give his letters to the bearer, but giving
no address. There were a good many letters,
and she had handed them over accordingly.
The man either could not or would not answer
any of her questions as to Mr Morton's whereabouts,
and she had not an idea as to their
destination. In fact, she would not have
given them up, but that she knew Mr Morton's
writing so well, and knew, moreover, that he
would not be at all pleased if his injunctions
were not obeyed. " For you see, sir," she concluded,
" Mr Morton, he is rather a strange
gentleman, though we are all very fond of
him ; and he has strange fancies about things
sometimes, and can't bear to be contradicted."
There was nothing for Gerard, therefore, but
to bear his sorrow in secret ; and to do him
justice, he set to work to face it manfully, and
to make the best of any distractions that might
fall in his way. As we have already observed,
his official work Alas the greatest possible
relief to him, and took him out of himself
in a manner which at the time he was
hardly able to sufficiently appreciate. A man,

moreover, who is the owner of two tolerable
hunters, and is by nature a sportsman, must
be very far gone in despair if he is quite
unable to make any use of them ; and when
the first pressure of business connected with
the preparation of the new Aborigines Consolidation
Bill had subsided, Gerard found
that, as usual, he had a day or two to spare
every now and then, which  with some little
effort at first  he devoted pretty regularly
to hunting from London.

Somehow or other, therefore, the time
slipped away, till Gerard found to his
astonishment one morning that it was six
weeks since that memorable night at Crow-hurst
Park. He had passed his Christmas
quietly and sadly enough in London, having
been glad of the excuse afforded by the pressure
of his official work for not going down
to his own people. And although he could
not yet bring himself to think calmly of what
had passed, and was still inclined to take a
gloomy view of life in general, it had unquestionably
been to a certain extent softened
down. On hunting days, indeed, he would
feel almost himself, and for a time forest his

troubles altogether ; and he was now looking
forward with a sort of melancholy pleasure
to an approaching visit to the Mount-reasons
at Bellmoor, one of Lord St Ives' numerous
places, which was for the time occupied by
his eldest son and his family, and where there
was to be a small party to finish up the
shooting. It would be a relief, he thought,
to see and have a talk to Lady Mount-eaton;
and perhaps he might venture to confide his
love affairs to her, and come in for a little
sympathy and good advice.

And so it fell out that late one afternoon
towards the end of January, Gerard found
himself landed on the platform at a junction
on the North-Western Railway, somewhere
on the borders of Westmoreland and Yorkshire,
and waiting for a cross-country train
that was to take him on to his destination.
It was a chilly, wild evening, and after some
seven hours' confinement in a railway carriage,
and with the prospect of another hour and a
half before him, he was glad of the opportunity
of stretching his legs ; and having
superintended the changing of his luggage,
and ascertained that his train would not

start for another half-hour, owing to the
lateness of the south express for which it was
timed to wait, he set to work to walk briskly
up and down the platform.

There is a good deal more poetry and romance
about railway travelling than is generally
supposed. We will not go so far as to
say that there is anything particularly suggestive
of either in the general appearance
and surroundings of a station on the underground
railway, a London terminus on a
foggy winter morning, or an average railway
refreshment-room. These, however, are mere
details ; and if the idea of poetry may be
associated with that of power, the stupendous
force of steam may surely be considered
as affording a fit subject for the poet as well
as for the scientific man. Nor is the poetry
of steam locomotion to be confined to the
mere vastness of the invention ; for, if only
we take the trouble to look for them, it is
difficult to avoid being struck by the many
points of interest which present themselves to
the eye in the course of almost any railway
journey of a few hours' duration. It is but
rarely that a railway scene has been selected as a

subject for the artist; and yet in these days,
when almost every possible incident of everyday
life has been represented in every conceivable
form, until it would seem impossible
to find a subject that had not already been
worn threadbare, it seems strange that such a
field as is offered by the many and various
incidents connected with railway travelling
should not have been more utilised. It may
perhaps be thought almost profane to suggest
that the picturesqueness of a landscape could be
improved by such a commonplace object as a
line of railway ; but if there is anything in
the force of contrast, as we are generally
taught to believe, it would be difficult to find
anything more effective than the combination,
under; certain conditions, of the triumphs of
human skill with the quiet majesty of nature.
It is not our business, however, to write a
treatise on railways in connection with art,
either pictorial or poetical ; and it will be
sufficient for our purpose to observe that as
Gerard waited for his train on this particular
occasion, he could not help being struck by
the picturesque appearance which the approach
of evening had begun to impart to

the surroundings of what is recorded prosaically
enough in Bradshaw as Long Seaton
Junction. It had been a wild, stormy day,
and there was still a good deal of wind ; but
the rain had passed off, and the moon was
rising in a clear sky, only occasionally obscured
by a rapidly drifting cloud. Gerard
went out to the extreme end of the platform
and looked about him. The station was
situated just at the edge of a wild moorland
district, which stretched away on one
side towards the now dim and indistinct
hills in the far distance, while on the other
the mist was beginning to rise from the
low-lying fields in the valley up which the
line had wound for some miles. The station
buildings, which the approach of night had
relieved of their natural stiffness and angularity,
formed a dark, shadowy mass in
the foreground, and the converging lines of
rails, now glistening in the moonlight,
stretched away into the distance until lost
sight of round a curve where a tall signal
post stood up sharply against the sky, with
a red light twinkling from its summit. Other
lights, white, red, and green, began to spring

up all round in a mysterious manner, and to
reflect themselves in a dark reservoir constructed
for the supply of water to the engines,
which by daylight might have looked
artificial and commonplace enough, but which,
in the shadows of night, and out there on the
moorland, might with a very slight stretch of
imagination have passed for a natural tarn.
The bustle of the station had subsided with
the departure of the last train; and scarcely
a sound was to be heard but the ceaseless
music of the wind among the telegraph wires,
and a mysterious rumbling from the hollows
of the distant hills, where some heavy goods
train was slowly labouring up a steep incline.


Gerard stood for a few moments enjoying
the fresh evening air, and thinking how delicious
it would be if by any possibility he
were going to meet Miss Graham at Bellmoor ;
and then, beginning to feel rather chilly, retraced
his steps along the platform. The train
by which he was to continue his journey
was drawn up in a siding, and all ready to
start. The engine was already attached, and
there was a great bubbling of water going on

in the tender, with occasional puffs of steam,
and other mysterious noises indicative of a
desire to be off. The driver and fireman were
leaning over the side-rail together, smoking
and staring out into the darkness, occasionally
exchanging a monosyllabic remark, but otherwise
to all appearance half asleep. Gerard
had completed two or three turns of the platform
without bestowing more than a casual
glance upon the engine ; but as he passed by
for the fourth time, he observed that one of
the men appeared to be looking intently at
him. He thought nothing of this, however,
and passed on ; but as he turned at the
other end of the deserted platform, he noticed
that the man had got off the engine, and
was advancing slowly towards him. They
passed each other within a couple of yards,
and somehow or other there seemed to be
something familiar to Gerard in the man's
appearance. He was tall and broad-shouldered,
with a slight stoop ; but as he had
a fur cap drawn over his eyes, and the lower
part of his face was concealed by the turned-up
collar of a heavy pilot-coat, there was
scarcely enough of his features visible in

the dim light for purposes of identification.
They passed and re-passed twice ; but at
the third meeting the stranger seemed to
have satisfied his mind on the subject, for
instead of passing Gerard again, he stopped
short in front of him, and pushing his cap
back from his forehead, emitted a grunt of
recognition.

Gerard started back in amazement. It
was George Morton !

MOSSHOPE FELL.

When two friends meet suddenly and unexpectedly,
their greetings to each other
for the first few moments are apt to be
somewhat incoherent. Gerard was so completely
taken aback by coming across Morton
in this most unforeseen manner that he could
only stare at him, and make use of one
or two broken expressions of astonishment.
George ! By Jove ! is it possible ? '' he
exclaimed at length. *' Why, what the devil
are you doing here ? "

Doing ? " replied Morton, who was more
collected; 'swell, if you particularly want to
know, I'm engine-driving  going to work
this train to Starlington as soon as the South
express comes in."

But, my dear fellow," returned Gerard,
in the greatest amazement, " what on earth
made you take to this sort of thing ? I have

been wondering what the deuce had become
of you  thought you must have gone back to
South America or somewhere ; but this beats
everything."

Well, Jerry, old boy," replied the other,
there are some things that take a deal of
telling, and this is hardly the time and place
for a long story. Perhaps I may tell you
some day, but in the meantime, you understand,
I'm here on the quiet, and I don't
particularly care about my whereabouts being
known. I had some doubts about speaking
to you, but, somehow, I couldn't help it."

George, old man," replied Gerard, with
warmth, " you know you can trust me, and
I'll keep it dark, no fear. But only fancy you
being an engine-driver I "What on earth put
that into your head ? "

Well, my dear fellow, after all there's
nothing so very remarkable in it. You see,
I was brought up for this business once, and
why shouldn't I take to it again for a bit ?
But never mind me, Jerry, just now, and tell
me about yourself How are you getting on, and

how's the young woman down at Ah, let's

see, I've forgotten the name of the place now."

"George, old man' replied Gerard hurriedly,
'' I'm so glad I've met you, for it's the very
thing I wanted to talk to you about." And
he proceeded to impart to his friend as briefly
as possible what had happened, and how his
expedition to Shawfield had ended in sorrow
and disappointment. " But, George, old
fellow," he went on, " I don't mean to give
her up, I can tell you ; though sometimes I
feel very hopeless and miserable. I'm awfully-glad
I've met you, as I was longing to have a
talk to some one about it, and there's no one
else I should much care to tell it to."

'well, Jerry, old boy," returned Morton,
with a friendly pressure of his arm, 'you
know you can trust me, and I'm glad you
should like to tell me all about the business.
But cheer up, old fellow, and perhaps it will
all come right some day. That South train's
very late to-night ; I'll just go into the office
and see where she is."

"I say, George," exclaimed Gerard, "I'm
going by this train, you know, as far as Bell-moor.
Can't I come with you on the engine ?
it would be great fun."

"Well, I don't know about that," replied

Morton, doubtfully ; * it's against all the rules,
you know, and some fellow might make himself
nasty about it. However, I'll see the
stationmaster, who's a good sort of fellow, and
knows I wouldn't be likely to play the fool,
and perhaps we may manage it on the quiet.
You wait here till I come back," and he went
off to the stationmaster's office.

* Well," he said, on rejoining Gerard, ' I've
squared it, though he doesn't half like it ; but
the train won't be full, and being dark, let's
hope no one will notice it. Look here ; show
me where your things are, and I'll say a word
to the guard, so that he will know what todo
with them."

By Jove, what a lark ! " exclaimed Gerard,
in delight. '' My small things are in one of
these carriages,  oh, here they are,  and my
luggage is all right in the van, for I saw it
put in."

'' All right," said Morton. '' Now then, the
South train is only about three miles off, and
will be here directly. As soon as she comes
in sight round that curve, you just slip quietly
down by the end of the platform there, and
come round on the off side of my engine. I'll

give you the word to get up just before we
start, and then no one will see you. Oh !
here's the guard ; I'll just say a word to him,
and if you like to give him half-a-crown afterwards,
it will make it all right. I must go
and see after the engine now."

Gerard obeyed his instructions implicitly.
In a minute or two the whistle of the South
express was heard, still some distance away
on the 'moorland. The station began to wake
up ; porters appeared from various corners ;
the few passengers who were going by the
branch train, and who had not already taken
their seats, emerged from the waiting-room,
and began to bustle about as if they had nota
moment to spare. Gerard walked to the
end of the platform, and as the head-lights of
the approaching train came into view round
the curve, stepped down on to the rails, and
slipping round to the far side of the engine of
the waiting train, took up his position under
the friendly shadow of an empty goods truck.
The South train came gliding on, the huge
express engine seeming to tower above him ashe
stood on the ground, and drew up at the
platform. There was a ringing of bells, a

VOL. II. G

shouting of porters, and rumbling of luggage-trucks
; and then a momentary lull, a cry of
"Any more going on ? " a sharp whistle, and
the train was off again.

The whole remaining interest of Long
Heaton Junction was now concentrated on
Gerard's train, already kept waiting some
twenty minutes over its time. As Gerard
stood in his concealment, he could hear the
stationmaster and guard adjuring the passengers
who had changed from the South
train to make haste, as the Starlington train
was very late, and there was not a moment to
spare. He kept his eyes fixed on the engine,
in expectation of Morton's signal ; and in a
another minute a figure came to the side,
and , beckoned to him with a low whistle.
Gerard hurried up, and, aided by the friendly
hand of the fireman, climbed up the ladder-like
iron steps of the engine, and found himself on
the footpath. Morton was leaning over the
other side, looking out intently for the signal
to start. He looked round, and nodded to
Gerard ; but in another moment the guard's
whistle was heard, and, with an acknowledging
wave of the hand, he seized the regulator,

gave a sharp jerk to the steam whistle, and
they were off.

The sensation of being on a railway engine
was quite new to our friend Gerard, and he
had some doubts as to where he ought to
stand, and how to behave generally. Morton
was peering out fixedly into the half darkness,
and apparently completely absorbed in his
duties ; but his friend the fireman now came
to his assistance, and indicated a corner where
he would be out of the way, while he himself
opened the furnace door and began to stoke
vigorously, the flood of light that burst forth
producing a most picturesque and Rembrandt
effect on the shining machinery, the dark
figures of the driver and fireman, and the
black mass of the train behind. There was
something, too, about the motion of the now
rapidly-gliding engine that was peculiarly
exhilarating ; and as they rushed through the
fresh night air Gerard felt his spirits rising,
and beojau to think that life on an engine
must be rather a pleasant thing.

A rattle and jolting of points, a flash of
red and white signals, and they were past
the junction, and gliding smoothly along the

diverging line across the moor. This point
of charger past, Morton relaxed his vigilance
for a moment, and beckoned to Gerard to
cross over to his side of the engine. 'all
right now, old fellow' he said ; '' you stand
behind me, and then you'll be out of the
way. Glad to see you've got your ulster on ;
you'll find it cold before you've done with
it."

" George, old boy, I think it's capital fun,"
replied Gerard. '* I must say, you're quite
the engine-driver, and no mistake. Why,
one would think you had been at it all your
life."

"Ah," rejoined Morton, with a sad smile,
"well, I must say that if you want to get
taken out of yourself, I know nothing better.
"Won't do to think of anything else when
you're running through a station at forty
miles an hour, and have got to look out for
signals. There's one now," he continued,
as a twinkling white light appeared some
distance in front of them ; "that's the Canoe
distance signal, and we're sometimes
stopped there ; but it's all right to-night, so
we shall run right through."

This is a quick train, isn't it ? " inquired
Gerard ; " we seem to be going no end of a
pace now."

Yes, we run hard to Corby Bridge, twenty-three
miles, without stopping ; and then there
are only two stoppages between that and Bell-moor,
where you get off."

"I say, George," suddenly exclaimed Gerard,
in alarm, " where's the other fellow ?  he's
gone : why, he must have tumbled off I "

Oh, he's right enough," replied Morton,
smiling, "he's only gone forward to see to
the head-light, or something. Here he* is
again," as a figure suddenly appeared on the
other side of the engine, and joined them on
the footpath. " Kum old fellow," he muttered
to Gerard; " Ezekiel is his name  Ezekiel
Jones ; they run a good deal on Scripture
names down here. Don't talk much, but a
good old chap, and been on this road ever so
long."

So they rushed on through the darkness,
Morton occasionally exchanging a few words
with Gerard, but all the time never relaxing
his look-out ahead, except now and then to
alter the position of the regulator, or turn

certain other mysterious - looking handles.
The prophetically-named fireman, a wooden-faced,
impassive-looking individual, who might
have been any age between forty and sixty,
had now relighted his pipe by the process of
inserting a long iron rod into the furnace
until it became red-hot, and leaning against
the brake-handle with his arms folded, kept
the same watch on his own side. They flew
past station after station, sometimes with a
touch of the steam whistle by the driver, at
others with no sign but the wave of a lamp
from a solitary stationmaster or porter on a
lonely platform. At length a twinkling of
many lights began to manifest itself some
distance ahead. Morton suddenly pushed
back his regulator as far as it would go, and
began to look anxiously round the corner of
the weather-board, while the fireman applied
himself diligently to the wheel of the brake,
and the speed of the train began to perceptibly
slacken. Two or three short, sharp
whistles from the engine were responded toby
a grinding and scraping from the brakes
on the carriages behind, and in a few moments
the train was almost at a standstill.

"Signals against us," muttered Morton to
Gerard, " something shunting at the station,
probably. All ! it's all right now ; " and with
a sharp touch of the whistle, and a whirling
round of the brake, they shot on again, and
pulled up at the platform of Corby Bridge.

The moment the train stopped, Morton was
off the engine, with a long-spouted oil-can in
his hand, and Gerard, looking over the side,
could see him poking about among the
machinery, inserting the spout here and there,
and examining certain confidential localities
with the greatest care. Having thus made a
circuit of the engine, he reascended on the
off-side, and resumed his conversation with
Gerard. 'ewe shall be here five minutes or
so," he said ; " we wait for .a short train from
Tarnforth, and she's not in yet. Hallo !
there's the up-train coming in. There's a
queer old fellow drives it, I should like you
to see him ; been on this road over thirty
years ; he's a scriptural cove too, Elijah Wilson
they call him. Zeke," turning to the fireman,
those are Elijah's lights, eh ? "

The fireman, thus apostrophised, looked over
the side of the engine at the lights of an

advancing train, and with a nod of his head
and an elongation of a mouth the dimensions
of which had certainly not been contracted bv
nature, intimated his opinion that the lights
in question were no other than Elijah's. On
came the train, and drew up at the opposite
platform, the two engines being almost abreast.
The driver of the newly-arrived train swung
himself off, and proceeded to go through the
same evolutions with an oil-can that Morton
had already performed on his own account ;
and having seen that all was rio;ht, and regained
his foot-plate, looked across and greeted
Morton and his fireman.

"Good evening, Mr Wilson," observed
Morton, in return to the other's salutation ;
how's the bank to-night ? "

"Ah, lad, it's just fine," was the answer;
ye'll no' need the pilot up Mosshope Banlv
the night. But ye're late ; ye should be atop
o' Summit by this time."

The speaker was a tall, powerful-looking,
elderly man, with grizzled hair and beard, a
weather-beaten face, and a keen piercing eye,
that seemed always looking into space. His
upper lip was shaved, showing deeply indented

lines about a mouth the expression of which
denoted energy and decision. The sort of face,
in fact, that one would be glad to see on one's
side in a life-and-death struggle, or on any
occasion where courage and presence of mind
are called into play. And where is this more
likely to be the case than in the daily life
of an engine-driver  a man who carries in his
hand not only his own life, but the lives of
thousands of others ? Yet he is one of a class
of men little known, still less understood, and
rarely given a thought to, except perhaps when
a column or two of the daily papers are taken
up with the report of some ghastly railway
accident, and we read how a driver or fireman,
after doing everything in his power to avert a
collision or save a train that had gone off the
rails, had been found buried in the ruins of his
engine, to which he had stuck to the last with
a dogged and self-sacrificing obstinacy, knowing
all the time that he was rushing into the
jaws of death.

Yes," returned Morton ; "had to wait half
an hour at Long Heaton for the South train,
and now I shall have to wait another five
minutes for the Tarnforth, I suppose. Ah !

here she is," as a short train appeared round
the curve of a little branch line, and ran into
the other side of the station.

A few moments more, and, with a parting
jerk of the band from each driver, both trains
were off almost simultaneously, there being but
two passengers from Tarnforth for Morton's
train, and none for the other.

What was that you were asking him about
a bank?" inquired Gerard, as soon as they
were well under weigh again.

Oh, it's a heavy incline up Mosshope Fell,
about six miles from here," replied Morton.
We call inclines banks, and there's always a
pilot or bank engine waiting to give a shove
up to any train that wants it. But the old
gentleman says it's all right, and we've got a
light train, so we shall run up alone. Sometimes,
when the rails are slippery, and with a
heavy train, it's an awful business. Mind
yourself, Zeke's going to fire up again."

On they sped again through the wild moorland.
The moon had quite risen by this time,
and the view, as they got into a still wilder
and more rugged country, was picturesque in
the extreme. The air, too, became keener and

keener, and Gerard turned up his coat collar,
and was glad to get as much shelter as was
afforded by the weather-board. They stopped
at a small station a few miles farther on, and
after this all signs of human life or habitation
seemed to disappear altogether.

'' There's the bank-engine waiting," observed
Morton, as they started again, and passed an
engine with steam up, waiting in a siding.
*'A11 right to-night, Peter," he called out to
the driver, a burly individual with a huge red
beard, who was standing on the ground near*
his engine, but stepped across the rails and
mounted on to Morton's as the train slowly
moved off; *' shan't want you to-night; old
Elijah says the bank travels well, and my
train's very light."

*say, ay," rejoined Peter, "ye'll get up
fine ; but there'll be the goods behind ye will
need me, I'm thinking. Eh ! but it's just a
bonny night, and ye'll see the whole country
fra' the top o' Summit ; " and, watching his
opportunity, he swung himself off on to the
ground with a wave of his hand, and was soon
left behind.

Another mile or two, and they were beginning

the ascent of Mossliope Bank, a steep
incline of about three miles on one side, with
a gradual descent of some six or seven on
the other. More steam was applied, and the
engine puffed away vigorously, but the speed
of the train began to be considerably reduced,
and Gerard could feel that the work was now
"against the collar." Still, the rails were
pretty dry and the train light, so they jogged
steadily up at a very serviceable sort of pace ;
and the reduced speed enabled Gerard to have
a little more connected conversation with the
driver.

I say, George, old boy," he began, " you
know this game of yours beats me altogether.
It's the queerest thing I ever heard of ; and I
can't make it out even now. How do you
manacle with the other drivers and fellows,
for instance ? I should have thought they
wouldn't have cared about a chap like you
coming in among them in this sort of way."

*' Oh, there's not much bother about that,"
replied the other. '' They know I'm only on
a temporary job, and that sort of thing is
often done. There are fellows who want to
qualify for something  railway berths in the

colonies, and that sort of thing  and they come
on as firemen or drivers for a bit, just to learn
the practical part of the business. Of course
one must be a regular engineer, though, and
have been through the shops and all that sort
of thing ; they won't have any humbug about
it. But, you see, I did all that some time
ago ; and these fellows think I'm just qualifying
too. Of course I had to begin as a fireman,
so as to learn the road, and the signals,
and all the rest of it. I fired with old Elijah
Wilson for nearly two months, and have only
been driving this last week ; in fact, I ought
by rights to be still firing now."

*' Well, it's a rum go, anyway," remarked
Gerard. " I say though, George, it's beastly
selfish of me to be always thinking about
myself. There's something wrong with you
too, or you wouldn't be at this business.
Anything I can do for you, old chap 1 I
wish you'd tell me."

'' Never mind me, Jerry, my boy," replied
Morton, lighting his pipe. " I'm a queer sort
of fellow, you know ; and I won t say that I
haven't got my troubles, like most other
people. Perhaps I'll tell you some day ;

but just now rm all for being let alone,
you understand ; and you know me too well
to mind that. Perhaps I may turn up again
in London before long ; but, anyhow, if you
want to write to me, a letter will always reach
me in course of time, if you write to the old
place. I'm living at Starlington just now ;
but, you see, I've got another name when
I'm driving. If ever you really wanted to
find me quick, you must write to George
Adams, 7 Railway Buildings, Starlington,
where I stop when Tm off the road. But I'd
just as soon keep quiet there, you understand,
and the other place would find me right
enough."

All right, old boy," returned Gerard ; '' I
quite understand ; but I do hope it will come
all right some day  all right for both of us," he
added, with a sigh, " though I can't say I feel
very hopeful about myself. But I'm awfully
glad to have seen you, anyhow, old man ; and
it's an immense relief to me to have been able
to tell you all about it."

Ah, Jerry," replied Morton, " if only my
business could be as easily settled as I expect
yours will be, I shouldn't think much about

it. I'll just tell you one thing, though, old
fellow. Don't have any nonsense about it,
and be sure you know your own mind, or by
G  d," he added, in a voice that startled
Gerard by its stern tone of warning, " you'll
be sorry for it some day. Now hold on hard,
as we're over Summit, and shall go down the
other side like blazes."

They had now reached the top of the incline,
or " summit," according to railway
phraseology, indicated by a lonely little signal-box,
a siding, and a rough water apparatus
rising on piles out of a deep pool by the sMe
of the rails, and looking like a gigantic beacon
in a ridiculously small sea. The driver of the
bank engine had not gone beyond the truth
when he spoke of the view to be obtained
from this eminence. A wide expanse of hill
country stretched far away on all sides ; here
a sharp edge standing out clear in the moonlight,
there a glen or valley shrouded in deep
mysterious shadows which gave a fantastic
and unreal appearance to everything around.
The hills were not as a rule steep or precipitous
; but there was a peculiar grandeur and
dignity in the rolling sea of moorland and fell

that stretched away in an apparently boundless
succession of wave-like ridges, which in
the uncertain moonlight had the appearance
of beirjg far more mountainous than they
really were.

*' By Jove, what a lovely night ! " exclaimed
Gerard, steadying himself against the weather-board
; for they had begun the descent of the
incline, and although all steam had been shut
off, they were gliding down at what seemed a
terrific pace. "It's worth anything to have
seen this," he continued ; "hang it! I wish I
was an engine-driver ! "

**Ah, it's all very well on a fine night like
this," rejoined Morton, slightly altering the
position of a lever, " but it's quite another
things in rough weather. Some of these poor
chaps have a real bad time of it now and
then, I can tell you. But I'm glad it's so
fine to-night, as you're here, and this is an
uncommon pretty run, to be sure."

So they skimmed along, almost noiselessly,
with a mysterious, unaccountable sort of
motion that was very fascinating, now rounding
a corner of some dark hill, now skirting
the edge of a shadowy valley, and now rumbling

over some little mountain stream \ but
all the time evidently getting towards lower
ground. They flashed past one or two
desolate little stations, and then evident
preparations were made for a stoppage.
Morton made a quick sign to the fireman, who
commenced to work the brake vigorously,
and himself looked over the side and towards
the rear of the train, as if to take an observation.


*' Stop at Mosshopefoot," he said to Gerard,
and have to begin to pull up three miles off,
it's such an incline. We've come these Iffst
fi\Q miles without any steam at all, you see.
Haven't got the continuous brakes on this part
of the line yet, but we want them uncommonly
here."

After leaving Mosshopefoot, the aspect of
the country became quite different, the line
now running through a wide valley or strath
alongside of a fair sized stream ; and in another
ten minutes they had begun to slacken
speed for Bellmoor, the station whither Gerard
was bound.

"Well, Jerry, my boy," said Morton, as
they ran into the station, . "we must part

VOL. IL H

company here. I'm awfully glad to have
seen you and had a chat about things. Perhaps
I'll see you again soon, perhaps not ;
anyhow, you know where to write if you
really want anything. Good-bye now, and
God bless you." And as if anxious to avoid
any further farewell, he grasped his oil-can,
and swinging himself over the side, almost
before the engine had stopped, began to
busy himself among the machinery. And
in five minutes more Gerard and his traps
were in the dog - cart that had been sent
to meet him, and on the road to Bellmoor
Lodge.

RETROSPECTIVE.

It has often been remarked  and by some,
moreover, wbo may be considered as fairly
qualified to express an opinion on the subject
that there is no direct advantage in telling
a lie when the object desired maybe as readily
attained by speaking the truth. Similarly,
we hold that the cordial relations which ought
to exist between author and reader are not
likely to be in any way enhanced by the
keeping up of a mystery when there is no
necessity for so doing. And as the main
thread of our narrative is in no way affected
by the previous history of George Morton, we
think that it may be just as well to take our
readers into our confidence at once, and enlighten
them as to the motives, without some
explanation of which that gentleman's conduct,
as described in the preceding chapter and elsewhere,
might appear somewhat unaccountable.

AVe will, then, crave indulgence for a
moment's delay in the course of our story,
and take a retrospective glance at a little
episode in George Morton s life which occurred
some five or six years before his first introduction
to them in connection with Gerard
Courtenay.

The scene is an old-fashioned rectory garden
in one of the south-western counties. A
trim lawn slopes down to a pretty trout-stream,
which a hundred yards higher up
ripples lazily over gravelly shallows, where in
the heat of the day the cattle may be heard
splashing about up to their knees in the cool
water, but is here confined in a narrower and
deeper channel between moss-grown old brick
wall, and flows on in a steady, business-like
current under the dark shadow of a grey old
wooden bridge, towards the mill-dam on the
left, where, behind a luxuriant cluster of evergreens,
the white-washed gables and red-tiled
roof of the mill stand up against the clear
blue sky. On the right is a shrubbery reaching
down to the water, backed by a cluster of
elms, where a colony of rooks are holding a
noisy conclave. Behind is the rectory house,

a low, two-storied stone building, the sober
colouring of which is relieved by a bright
band of flower-beds stretching along the
entire front ; while above all rises the grey
church tower, round which the jackdaws are
doing their best to emulate the clamour of
the rooks in the adjoining elms.

It is a lovely morning in June ; and even
at this early hour  for the clock in the old
church tower has only just struck seven  both
house and garden are bathed in a flood of
brilliant sunshine. There is as yet little sign
of life indoors, and the blinds are still down
in most of the windows. Early as is the
hour, however, it does not appear to bethought
unseasonable by two persons who
are strolling along the little gravel walk by
the stream, and apparently engrossed in a
most interesting conversation. As the clock
strikes, one of them, a tall, good-looking
young man of about five-and-twenty, utters
an exclamation of impatience and regret, and
pulls out his watch as if to dispute the time
with the church. They are now at the end
of the wall by the little bridge, and screened
from observation by a mass of evergreens. He

turns about abruptly, and stands face to face
with, his companion.

It is not, indeed, wonderful that he should
be loth to quit the society in which he finds
himself; for a fairer specimen of an English
girl than Constance Molyneux it would at
that time have been difficult to find. She
was considerably above the middle height, and
had a way of holding her head that made her
appear still taller. But, tall as she was, it
would have been a fastidious critic who could
have found fault with the lines of her graceful
undulating figure, while the well-shaped,
queenly little head and full, rounded throat
would have afforded a model for a sculptor.
The mouth was perhaps a trifle too large for
strict beauty, but it was easy to overlook such
a trifling defect, if indeed it could be called
such, when combined with the loveliest violet
eyes imaginable, and with a freshness and
delicacy of colouring that it would have been
difficult to surpass. As she stands there, this
June morning, in a simple white muslin dress,
just relieved by a crimson rose-bud, and an
old straw hat stuck carelessly on a mass of
dark-brown hair, one or two little rebellious

locks of which have straggled down on to her
fair forehead, she is a bright and sunny picture
such a picture indeed of youth and freshness,
as yet unsullied by the sorrows and disappointments
of the world, as it does one good
to look upon.

"I must be off, I suppose," says her companion,
with a sigh ; '' one must allow three-quarters
of an hour to catch the train, and
that old fly-horse doesn't look as if he would
care much about being hurried''

"Yes, I suppose you ought to be going,"
she replies, with just the slightest possible
change of colour; "I hope you will have a
pleasant journey, and you must let us hear of
you again some day."

Ah, Constance," he exclaims, '' will you
care to hear about me, I wonder?" and he
seizes her hand in both of his.

Well, perhaps I may," she replies, with a
lovely blush, but drawing her hand gently
away. " Now, you must really be off. What
will papa say when he hears I got up to see
you off like this ? "

'' Won't you give me that rose," he pleads,
regardless of papa's problematical displeasure.

"just as a remembrance of this morning ? not
that I require anything to remind me of you,
you know, but still "

She takes the rose-bud slowly from her
breast, but hesitates a moment before giving
it him. "There, take it, and be off," she at
length says, hurriedly. One more pressure of
the hand, and in another moment he has disappeared
behind the evergreens.

All very pretty and romantic, no doubt, we
fancy we hear the reader say. Young man
staying at rectory  falls in love with rector's
pretty daughter  love marriage and all the
rest of it.

Such, unquestionably, would be the natural
and orthodox sequel to this little summer
idol. As, however, things in this world do
not invariably turn out exactly as we consider
that we have a right to expect, we must ask
our readers to imagine that a period of eighteen
months has elapsed, and once again take a
glance at the rectory garden.

It is a chill afternoon in December. The
old house looks damp and cheerless, and a
bleak wintry wind is moaning through the
bare branches of the elms, and whisking the

dead leaves across the sodden lawn. Heavy
rains have swollen and discoloured the little
stream, which has here and there overflowed
its boundaries and formed standing pools on
the gravel walk. An occasional shuddering
gust of wind sweeps across the dull, leaden
water, now almost up to the floor of the
wooden bridge ; and a water-rat, essaying to
cross to a hole on the other side, finds it as
much as he can do to make headway against
the current. Everything, in fact, looks gloomy
and depressing, and suggestive of the rapidly
waning year. 

At the corner by the bridge two persons
are standing, whom it is not difficult to recognise
as the same from whom we parted
at the same spot that lovely morning in
June. But eighteen months have wrought
a sad change in one of them. The brilliant
colouring has departed ; the face looks pale
and thin ; and there are dark circles round
those violet eyes that speak unmistakably
of care and sorrow. Nothing could ever
make Constance Molyneux appear otherwise
than graceful and highbred ; but even that
slim, lissome figure has now a drooping look

about it ; and as she draws her waterproof
cloak more closely round her to protect her
dress from a shower of moisture that a gust
of wind has driven off the evergreens, it is
painfully evident that she is not the same
bright creature who stood there in the June
sunshine only a short eighteen months ago.

The lapse of time does not appear to have
much affected her companion. He is young
and comely as ever ; and there are no traces
of care or anxiety about his handsome face.
But there is a look upon it that it is not
altogether pleasant to see  a look of shame
contending with selfishness, in a struggle
where selfishness has obtained the mastery.
His head is bent down, and he is boring little
holes with his stick in the damp gravel. His
general demeanour is, iji fact, very different
from what it was that bright morning in June,
and the contrast is hardly to his advantage.

The last time we saw them here, they had
plenty to say to each other. Now, however,
the conversation seems to flag, and they are
both apparently oppressed by a feeling of
restraint and uneasiness. At last, however,
she speaks.

I suppose we shall not see anything more
of you at present ? " she says, in a voice that
is intended to be unconcerned, but in which
it is possible to detect a slight tremor.

"No; Fm afraid not," he replies. "I
don't know exactly how long I shall be away ;
but I don't expect to be home again much
before this time next year."

His voice, too, is somewhat constrained and
unnatural, though he affects an appearance of
indifference. The situation is, in fact, very
far from being comfortable, and it is evident
that the relations of the parties towards e!ich
other have become just a little strained.

There is another uncomfortable pause,
which, however, is interrupted by the striking
of the old church clock. Miss Molyneux
draws her waterproof round her with a slight
shiver, and looks her companion steadily in
the face.

You are going by the four o'clock train,
are you not?" she says; "you must not let
me keep you here."

He, too, looks up in her face for a moment,
but, somehow or other, is unable to meet the
glance of those sweet violet eyes, that seem to

look through and through him. " Yes, I must
be off," he replies in a sort of half-defiant, half-desperate
tone ; and then, as if still inclined
to linger, *' I'm so sorry not to have seen your
father. I do hope he will get all right again
soon."

Thanks," she answers coldly ; * I am afraid
he won't be about again for a long time yet.
But you mustn't lose your train ; don't you
think you ought to be going ? " and she holds
out her hand, as if to wish him good-bye.

He takes it in his, but still lingers on,
though he dares not look in her face again.
Good-bye," at length he says, in a hoarse
whisper, and, with one last pressure of her
hand, he is gone, and she is once more standing
there alone.

Well," the reader will very likely say,
'there is nothing very remarkable in all this.
They have had a quarrel perhaps, and will of
course make it up again ; but surely there is
nothing to make a fuss about."

No ; it is nothing to make a fuss about,
perhaps, and it represents a by no means
unusual occurrence in everyday life. It can
hardly be described as a quarrel, however. It

is simply this, that the gentleman has changed
his mind, while the lady, curiously enough,
remains the same.

So George Morton went on his way, and,
Constance Molyneux remained at the old
rectory, to think over the past and nurse her
father, who had been in failing health for some
months past. He was an old man, and had
held the living of Under Newton for nearly
forty years ; but until lately had been hale
and vigorous as any man of his age in the
parish. He had caught a chill, however,
during the preceding summer, which, through
being neglected, had resulted in congestion of
the lungs ; and though he had in a certain
measure recovered, he had never regained his
strength, and there were threatening of other
complications of a still more serious nature.
In the mean time he was entirely confined to
his room, and the affairs of the parish were
left in the hands of his curate. It had been
a sad time, therefore, for Constance, his only
child, who had long had the cares of their
small household upon her, and who was now
burdened with the additional charge of a sick
father.

Miss Molyneux had led a quiet and uneventful
life at the old rectory till within the last
two years. Her mother had died when she
was quite a child, and it had never occurred to
her father, a man of a stay-at-home and indolent
disposition, that it was either necessary
or desirable for his daughter to see more of
the world than was to be found in the neighbourhood
of Under Newton. And a quieter
corner of England it would have been difficult
to imagine. It was a thinly populated district,
with few resident gentry, and the nearest
town of any importance a good fifteen miles
away ; and though of late years a branch
railway had been opened which had brought
Under Newton within five miles of a little
roadside station, no great impetus appeared
to have been thereby given either to social
or commercial interests. Society, in fact,
according to modern ideas, there was none,
and most persons who should be called upon
to pass their days at Under Newton would
have considered themselves as to all intents
and purposes shut out from the world. But
even in this out-of-the-way corner of the kingdom
there were one or two houses here and

there whose owners, when at home, endeavoured
manfully to do their duty to society as far as
in them lay; and it was at a lawn-tennis
party at one of these, where George Morton
happened to be staying, that he first met
Constance Molyneux. It was not wonderful,
perhaps, that he should have been attracted by
her ; and it was not long before he was introduced
to her father, and obtained a footing
in her home. People in these out-of-the-way
parts of the country are generally somewhat
unsophisticated, and given to hospitality in
regard to chance visitors. George MorCou
soon found out that there was good trout-fishing
to be had near Under Newton ; and
although he took up his quarters in the
most innocent manner at the village inn,
it was only natural that after a few days
they should be transferred to the rectory.
And after this, the result was only what
might have been expected.

And yet there had been no positive engagement,
no plighted vows  nothing, in fact,
that in a lower grade of life could have been
worked up into a case for breach of promise.
But every one knew that Constance Molyneux

had been jilted, and she herself knew only too
well that she had given away her heart, and
had got nothing in return.

Misfortunes seldom, if ever, come alone.
The old rector, whose strength had been
gradually declining, became rapidly worse,
and before the new year he was lying in the
churchyard. George Morton was by this time
far away from England, and remained in ignorance
of the old man's death. The next intelligence
he received of Constance Molyneux
was the announcement, which he happened to
see in an English paper at San Francisco some
six months later, of her marriage to Augustus
Caledon, Esq., of H.B.M. Consular Service.

Morton's first, and not very unnatural reflection,
was that the lady had not lost much
time in consoling herself. It was not the first
time he had heard of Mr Caledon, who, like
himself, had been staying in that part of the
country, and whom the same attraction had
drawn to the rectory. It had been evident
to every one that he, too, had admired Miss
Molyneux ; but George Morton, in the pride
of five-and-twenty, had never looked upon a
man of fifty or thereabouts as a serious rival,

and had not even contemplated the possibility
of his being accepted as a suitor. The news
was therefore something of a shock to him,
especially as during the last month or so his
thoughts had in the most unaccountable manner
again reverted to the love which he had
taught himself to look upon as an idle fancy,
and of which he had long since thought himself
entirely cured. Human nature is, however,
proverbially inconsistent ; and it was
not, perhaps, to be wondered at that George
Morton, who had certainly for the moment
been very much in love with Constance Molyneux,
more, perhaps, than he had any idea of,
should have experienced a kind of reaction
when he found that she had altogether
passed away from him, and that the old feeling
should have returned upon him with tenfold
power. He tried to persuade himself
that it was all for the best, and that her proceedings
could no longer be a matter of any
possible interest to him. But, somehow or
other, he could not get her out of his head,
and he began to detest Augustus Caledon,
Esq., of H.B.M. Consular Service, with all
his heart.

VOL. II. I

Without going further into the history of
George Morton's resuscitated affection, it will
be sufficient to say that, within a month of
his seeinfi the announcement of Constance's
marriage, he was more in love with her than
ever, and, alas ! with that hopeless, desperate
passion that, when once it has entered into a
man's heart, leaves little room for anything
else. He was travelling with a friend at the
time, and had some thoughts of turning his
face towards England, but, after this intelligence,
the idea of coming home seemed hateful
to him, and he was easily persuaded to
accompany his friend on a further expedition
likely to last some months longer. He
returned home at last, cured, as he thought,
and with the determination to dismiss Constance
for ever from his thoughts. But it was
not long before some trifling incident brought
everything back to him, and within two
months of his return he was in a worse state
than ever.

So things went on with Morton for about
a year, during which time he was subject to
alternations of the deepest depression and self-reproach,
and of a sort of listlessness that, while

to all appearance it did not prevent his going
on much as usual, seemed to take all the brightness
out of his life, and to render him indifferent
to almost everything that went on around
him. He had heard nothing whatever of
Constance, and had not even attempted to
learn any news of her. But he was roused
one day from this state of apathy by another
newspaper announcement of a nature that he
had little anticipated. Once more his eye was
caught by a name that was now painfully
familiar to him, and with dizzy brain and a
scarcely beating heart he read of the sudden
death of Augustus Caledon, Esq., H.B.M. Consul
at Augsburg, aged fifty-three.

His first impulse was to rush off to Augsburg
at once, and throw himself at her feet.
Then he reflected that such a proceeding on
his part would seem to her utterly unreasonable
and inconsistent, and that if, as he had
every reason to suppose, she had got over any
feelings of affection she might once have had
for him, it would hardly be the way most
calculated to win them back. No, he must
allow a certain time to elapse, and then
approach her by degrees. But the mere fact

of lier behoof once more free, in a manner too
that he never dared to think of or hope for,
seemed to give him new life, and he set himself
to wait as patiently as he could till such
time as he felt lie could with ordinary decency
venture to bring himself once more to her
notice.

It would not seem a very difficult task, at
the present day, to follow or trace out the
movements of a person who has occupied a
tolerably prominent position in a minor Continental
town. Morton never had the smallest
doubt of being able to find out Mrs Caledon
whenever the proper moment should arrive,
by the simple process of making inquiries at
Augsburg, whence, supposing she had left
the place after her husband's death, it
would be easy to trace her to wherever she
might have retired. In this theory he was
supported by a friend at the International
Office, who assured him that there would be
no trouble whatever about it, and undertook
to make confidential inquiries through the
acting consul. It was with some surprise,
therefore, not to say perturbation, that Morton
was informed by his friend, some ten

days later, that Mrs Caledon had left Augsburg
the day after her husband's funeral, accompanied
only by her own maid, and leaving
behind her neither address nor indeed any
trace whatever. The other servants had been
paid off and dismissed ; and no one in Augsburg
had the slightest idea what had become
of her, beyond the bare fact that she had left
by a certain train going in the direction of
Frankfort.

This intelligence was by no means encouraging
; but Morton endeavoured to console himself
by the reflection that it was impossible
that she should have left absolutely no trace
behind her, and that it only required the
presence of some one really in earnest to hit
off the scent. He was beginning to get restless
and  impatient beyond endurance ; so
without more ado he put himself into the
train, and went straight to Augsburg, determined
to investigate matters thoroughly for
himself. But he soon found to his dismay
that his diplomatic friend had been perfectly
right, and that Mrs Caledon had vanished
without leaving the very slightest trace behind
her. So well concealed, indeed, had

been her movements, that it seemed evident
that an intentional secrecy had been observed.
He succeeded in ascertaining that a lady-answering
to her description had taken tickets
for Paris ; but this was in itself too slender a
thread of evidence to constitute a clue of any
importance ; and after three or four days
spent in fruitless inquiries, he returned to
England no wiser than when he started.

It would be too tedious to follow George
Morton through all his experiences in search
of his lost love. But at the end of six months,
during which time he had, as he thought,
exhausted every conceivable means of getting
on her track, he was as ignorant of her whereabouts
as ever. It is true that he had not
much to go upon ; for the only other place
besides Augsburg where he could reasonably
hope for a clue was her old home at Under
Newton. But here his researches resulted in
an absolute blank. It appeared that Miss
Molyneux had left almost directly after her
father's death ; his successor was entirely unacquainted
with her ; and the most that could
be gathered from the natives of the village
was that she had written to one or two old

people with whom she had been particularly
intimate, to announce her marriage and the
fact that she was about to go abroad. Since
then, nothing had been heard about her ; and
there was absolutely nothing therefore upon
which to found an inquiry.

It is extremely probable that if Morton had
placed the affair in the hands of a private
detective, it would not have been long before
some clue had been obtained of Mrs Caledon's
whereabouts. But he could not quite bring
himself to resort to such an expedient. Conscious,
all too late, of having behaved very
badly to her, he shrank instinctively from
taking a step that, if discovered, she might
justly resent as an unwarrantable impertinence
; and determined, though with a despairing
heart, that, if she was to be found, it
must be by his own individual exertions.
Once or twice, indeed, he fancied that he had
come upon her truck ; but his hopes were on
each occasion doomed to disappointment, and
after each failure he became more despondent
than ever. It was on one of these occasions
that, sick and weary of his desultory existence,
he suddenly resolved to endeavour to

escape from himself and the bitter contemplation
of the past by embarking in some occupation
that would demand hard and continuous
labour, both mental and physical. His
engineering education here stood him in good
stead. He obtained through a friend an
introduction to a director of one of the leading
northern lines ; was passed on by him
to the locomotive superintendent, and having
proved satisfactorily that he possessed a
competent knowledge of the most important
details of engine-work, was taken on as a
fireman, from which humble position he was
soon raised to that of an extra driver. And
this is how Gerard Courtenay ran up against
him at Long Heaton Junction.

"THERE WAS NO DOUBT ABOUT IT?"

Lord Ballybrack, will you take Lady
Adelaide ? Colonel Scott, will you take Miss
Sartoris ? I'm so sorry I've no young lady
for you, Gerard ; but come and sit by me,
and tell me all about yourself." And having
thus spoken, the Countess of Mount Easfon
oave her arm to the Earl of Narborouoh, and
rustled after her guests into the dining-room.

Bellmoor Lodge was not a large house, and
incapable therefore of accommodating any
great number of visitors, especially if all the
younger members of the family happened to
be at home. There was nominally room for
three married couples, and when the boys
were at school, for four or eve bachelor
guests, one of whom might possibly be called
upon to sleep in a bathroom, which had been
fitted up to do duty as a bedroom at a pinch.
The house had originally, as its name implied,

been only a shooting-lodge, but had by degrees
been added and added to until it had
attained its present dimensions. The fine air
and general healthiness of the locality had
caused it to be selected from among the
numerous residences of the Marquis of St.
Ives as the abode of the Mount Reasons and
their youthful family ; and there was a talk
every year of adding a new wing, or otherwise
enlarging the house. But somehow or other
the projected operations never came off, and
it remained an ugly, inconvenient, and yet
thoroughly homelike and lovable old house, to
which all members of the family were much
attached.

At the present moment the house was as
full as it could hold, even down to the bathroom,
which had been assigned to Gerard, and
which was in reality far more comfortable
than its designation implied, having been converted
by fresh chintz, a luxurious arm-chair,
and other minor appliances, into what was in
fact an ordinary bedroom, with the addition
of a huge fixed bath. The fire-place was
certainly somewhat peculiar, having been
originally a closed stove, and designed more

for utility than ornament ; but it gave out
plenty of heat, which was the great point
after all ; and a wearied sportsman, returning
after a long tramp over the hills or a day's
covert-shooting along the steep wooded banks
of the Bell or Bell Water, is not as a rule
disposed to criticise the design of the fireplace
in his bedroom, as long as the fire itself is
bright and cheerful.

The party consisted of Lord and Lady
Narborough, and Lady Adelaide, Lord Narborough's
sister, whom we have met before ;
our old friend the " Cadger ; " Colonel Scott
of Lowlands Castle, about fifteen miles distant
; Miss Sartoris, a connection of the
family ; a guardsman cousin of Lady Mount
Easton's ; a sailor brother of his lordship's ;
and our hero.

The Earl of Narborough was a stout, estimable
young man of about five-and-thirty,
though in appearance and manner he might
have passed for some years older. He was
one of those persons respecting whom, though
blameless to the last degree in the position to
which they have been called, it is impossible
not to wonder how it is that Providence has

not assigned them some other walk in life.
He would have made a fair curate or a tolerable
missionary, and had destiny and his
own inclinations so willed it, he was by no
means destitute of such talents as, combined
with a tractable disposition and regular habits,
might have enabled him to attain a respectable
position in the Civil Service. But a casual
observer, meeting him in mixed society, would
never for a moment have supposed that he
was the head of a noble and ancient family,
and the tenant for life of one of the finest
properties in the south of England. His
outward appearance was certainly not in his
favour, for he was somewhat below middle
height, with a decided tendency to corpulence,
and although his features were good and his
expression not unpleasant, his movements
were awkward and ungainly, and it was
seldom that he really appeared at his ease.
Add to this a self-conscious, nervous, and
rather peevish manner, with a tendency to
stammer, and it will readily be understood
that the tenth Earl of Narborough did not
altogether come up to the generally accepted
definition of a popular man. And yet it must

be confessed, that whatever faults he had were
chiefly external and superficial, for a more
well-intentioned and conscientious creature
never existed.

But however small an opinion the world
might have of the social qualities of the noble
earl, there was but one opinion as to the lady
whom he had been so fortunate as to secure
as his wife. Sensible, good-natured, gifted
with a keen sense of humour, and at the same
time an inexhaustible fund of patience and a
happy disposition that never seemed ruffled by
her husband's little caprices and weaknesses,
she managed him as probably very few others
could have done ; and those who had known
him before his marriage were compelled to
admit that he had very much improved since.
It had in fact been a matter of some speculation
whether his lordship would ever marry,
for from the time of his coming of age he had
been deeply impressed with the idea that he
was the one central object of attraction to the
mothers of England, and that every young lady
he met had matrimonial designs upon him.
It is quite probable that his apprehensions
on this subject were in many cases far from

groundless ; but at the same time, and although
unquestionably a first-class parti, he was not,
as he appeared to think, the only rich young
heir to a peerage in the matrimonial market ;
and after three or four seasons, during which
the attractions of various eligible young ladies
had been in vain paraded before him, it began
to be said that he was not likely to marry ;
and one or two mammas had even been heard
tx) declare that nothing should induce them to
allow their darlings to risk their happiness
with such a man. It is within the limits of
possibility that these good ladies might have
already tried their hands on his lordship without
success ; but be this as it may, he began
to be looked upon as of little account; and his
own tastes not leading him much into society,
the danger into which he imagined himself
to be perpetually exposed became less and less
every year. At the same time, his apprehensions
on this score were not in any way diminished,
and nothing in the world would have induced
him to remain alone in a room for five minutes
with any young person who by any stretch of
imagination could have been considered as a
possible candidate for the honour of a matrimonial

alliance. So time rolled on, till one
day some astonishment was created in fashionable
circles by the announcement of his engagement
to Miss Brabazon, the eldest daughter of
a west-country baronet, with a limited rent-roll
and a large family, who had scarcely ever
been seen in London, and whose name had never
been connected with his lordship's in any way.
This intelligence may have caused certain
mothers to regret that they had not followed
up the pursuit of the noble earl a little closer ;
and much speculation was for the moment
excited as to the nature of the circumstances
which could have induced him to make up
his mind to propose. Public interest in the
matter, however, soon died out ; and Lord
Easthampton, as he then was, and his wife
very soon settled down into a respectable and
domestic country couple, only appearing in
London on rare occasions, and of very little
account in the fashionable world. They had
now been married about five years, in the
course of which time his lordship had succeeded
to the family honours, and having
been presented with two girls, his mind,
which had hitherto been much exercised on

the subject, lead at length been relieved by the
appearance of a son and heir.

The shooting at Bellmoor, though not affording
the opportunities for slaughter which are
considered by many modern sportsmen a sine
qua non, was very good of its kind, and especially
enjoyable by reason of the nature of
the ground and the lovely scenery ; and as
Gerard settled himself comfortably before the
fire after his first day's sport, and prepared for
half an hour's doze before dressing for dinner,
he felt as if the world were not such a very
bad place after all. He had had a very
pleasant day, and was just comfortably tired ;
the change of air and exercise had already
done him good ; and he always felt more or
less happy when in the company of Lady
Mount Easton. Then there was his other
cousin, too, or reputed cousin, Adelaide Middleton,
who was always very nice, and whom
he was glad to see again ; and that Miss
Sartoris seemed a good sort of girl too. altogether,
our friend Gerard felt somehow that
as far as present and external circumstances
went he had not much to complain of; and
although the thought of his far-away love

and of the uncertainty and hopelessness that
seemed to surround his prospects was ever
present to him, and would at times absorb
everything else, the elasticity of youth, and
a naturally buoyant and happy disposition,
enabled him to cast his cares to a great extent
on one side, and to forget for the time all
thought of the future in the enjoyment of the
present.

Kum fellow Narborough," observed the
'* Cadger," as he seated himself in an armchair
in the smoking-room that evening. It
is hardly necessary to observe that the nobleman
thus referred to was not present, one of
his little peculiarities being a rooted aversion

to tobacco in any shape or form. " D d

dangerous shot too," he continued ; " shot at
a rabbit right between us, and the shot came
all round me. Ain't sure he didn't hit me, by
Gad," feeling tenderly down one leg, *'or else
it's a d d big thorn."

** By Jove, you don't say so ! " exclaimed
Lord Mount EastoD, lighting a cigar at the
fire. " I say, let's undress the old Cadger,
and see if he's really been hit. We'll soon
pick it out, old chap ; here's a knife with a

VOL. II. K

pair of tweezers in it; or if that won't do, we'll
try a corkscrew."

This proposal was received with acclamation
by all except the individual immediately
concerned, who showed no signs of a desire to
be operated upon in the manner suggested ;
and after the pretence of a scuffle with Lord
Mount Easton, who approached with a knife
in one hand and a corkscrew in the other, the
party settled down comfortably in various
attitudes of repose, and smoking soon became
general.

** Hang it all, though," observed Mount
Easton, more seriously, " I'm afraid he is
rather dangerous. He don't seem particular
where he points his gun, and I'll take my
oath, he let it off once by accident. He pretended
he* was shooting at a rabbit in some
thick stuff, but I was near him, and I'll swear
he never got his gun up to his shoulder.
However, we'll put him well on the left tomorrow,
and keep him there ; and if he shoots
you again, Cadger, old boy, why, just you let-him
have it back, you know."

Oh, yes, that's all devilish fine," responded
the "Cadger," gloomily. ''I wish he'd stay

at home, though. What the deuce can he
want to go out shooting for ? He can't hit
a haystack, and he don't seem much of a
hand at walking either. He's a rum beggar
altogether; can't say I care much about
him."

'' Oh, he's not half a bad chap, really, when
you get to know him," said Mount Easton.
He always was a muff, you know, and never
could do anything like any one else ; but
he's a good-hearted sort of fellow, and he
isn't half such a fool as he looks, I can tell
you."

Well, that's devilish lucky," broke in the
guardsman, "for he's one of the stupidest
fellows to look at I ever saw. But isn't there
something odd in the family ? Father was a
rum un too, wasn't he ? "

**No, no, my dear Bill," said Mount Easton;
why, his father was a dear old boy,  best
fellow in the world, though a bit pig-headed.
Used to pitch into this chap like anything
for being such a muff. Awful pity he's dead;
and he wasn't really an old man, either. No ;
you're thinking of his uncle, whom his father
succeeded ; he was rather off his head, I

believe, and came to an end in some extraordinary
way."

Ah, well," interposed the veteran Colonel
Scott, who had not as yet taken any part in
the conversation, '' Fm not so sure about
that either. Of course it was long before the
time of any of you ; but I remember him very
well, and he was just as fine a young fellow
as ever lived. It was a most extraordinary
case, but I don't believe that there was really
anything wrong with him. He had simply
got it into his head that he would improve
himself and all that sort of thing by seeing
the world as a working man, and I've no
doubt whatever," knocking the ashes off his
cigar, " that if only he had lived, poor fellow,
he would have had something to show for it.
Your father was a great friend of his, I recollect,"
turning to Gerard, " and I've no doubt
you have heard him speak of him."

What happened to him, then *? " inquired
the " Cadger," sleepily. *' Oh, ah, by the way,
I remember now. Blown up in one of those

d d river steamers in America, wasn't

he?"

**No," replied Colonel Scott; "he wasn't

exactly blown up, but he got scalded by an
escape of steam or something, and died two
or three days afterwards. He was working
as a common sailor, or boatman, or something
of that kind, at the time, and you can
imagine the excitement over there when they
found out who he was."

I suppose there was no doubt about it, was
there?" inquired Mount Easton. "I mean,
that it really was him who was killed. I
fancy I've heard people say that the evidence
was supposed to be a bit doubtful, and that
there was some danger of a claimant turning
up, or something of the kind."

*' Oh, no," replied the Colonel, " I fancy it
was all clear enough. There was only one of
the law lords, or whoever they were, who had
to decide, who had any doubt about it, and that
was only old Brentford, who never would agree
with anybody. Besides, it's over forty years
ago now, and if there had been a claimant to
come forward, we should have heard about it
long ago."

*'Ah, well," observed Mount Easton, "I
wish this chap's father had lived. Why, he
wasn't much over sixty when he died, though

he looked older. It was that fall that did
it; he was always fooling about with young
horses, and thought he could break them himself,
and one day he got rolled over and
regularly smashed up'

Well, this sportsman won't kill himself
that way, anyhow," remarked the guardsman ;
*'he never gets outside a horse by any chance,
does he ? "

"No, I fancy not," replied Mount Easton,
helping himself to some whisky and potash-water.
* Well, you fellows, I'm going to bed ;
and mind, breakfast at eight sharp tomorrow.
Cadger, you'd better go to bed too, or you
won't be up in time." So his lordship disappeared,
and the party shortly afterwards
broke up, and retired to their well-earned
repose.

'' WHERE DID YOU GET THAT BROOCH ? "

The next day's shooting was near the house,
and the sportsmen, on their return, found
themselves with a couple of hours to spare
before dinner. There was accordingly a
general gathering in the library, and a considerable
run upon the tea-table and "its
accompaniments. There is no time, by the
way, when male society is, to all appearances,
more welcome to the fair sex than the hour of
afternoon tea. Perhaps it is that the ladies
have by this time had enough of each other's
society, and the usual feminine topics of discussion
have been completely exhausted. Or
possibly our fair enslavers may be thoroughly
aware of the fact that there is no moment
when they appear more charming in the eyes
of their admirers than when the latter have
just returned, wet and tired, from the pursuit
of some out-door sport. The sudden transition

from a cold, stormy night out-of-doors to the
warmth and luxury of a lady's boudoir certainly
affords about as great a contrast as could
well be imagined ; and the ministering angel
who offers you a cup of tea, appears, under
such circumstances, to be very few degrees
removed from a houri of paradise.

Be this as it may, however, there was
a very cheery party in the library at Bell-moor
that evening, and a good deal of pleasant
chaff and repartee was flying about.
The " Cadger," although undoubtedly a
"parti" as far as his position and title
went, whatever doubts might have been entertained
as to the resources of the Ballybrack
property, was not generally looked upon asa
marrying man, and had in fact begun to
be regarded in many quarters as an incurable
bachelor. But he was always popular
with women, whether actuated by matrimonial
designs upon him or not, and his
good-natured and easy-going disposition made
up for other little shortcomings. On the
present occasion he was in great force, being,
as he himself expressed it, a ' nailer " at
tea and bread-and-butter, with which refreshments

lie was being assiduously supplied by
Lady Adelaide and Miss Sartoris, to both of
whom he was pretending to make desperate
love, without, however, conveying any very
strong impression of the sincerity of his professions.
That excellent young nobleman, the
Earl of Narborough, was holding forth at
length to Lady Mount Easton, a cup of tea
in one hand and a piece of cake in the other,
upon the merits of a certain specific for indigestion,
for the discovery or at least the adaptation
of which he took credit to himself. The
subject was doubtless most interesting; but* it
required a certain amount of self-control on
the part of his charming hostess to keep up
the appearance of interest and gravity with
which his lordship evidently considered that
the question ought to be discussed ; and sundry
side glances at Lady Adelaide might
have suggested to any one else that she was
becoming a little bored. The rest of the
party were scattered about in the vicinity
of the tea-table ; and an air of extreme snugness
and sociability pervaded everything.

By degrees, however, the party began to
break up. Lord Narborough, having eaten

considerably more cake that was good for him,
informed Lady Mount Easton, with an air
that was intended to be impressive, that he
had some rather important letters to write
before dinner, and feared therefore that he
must withdraw ; an announcement which,
we regret to state, did not appear to produce
any great effect either upon his hostess or the
company in general. The other men gradually
sneaked off, with the idea of a quiet
cigar before dressing; the ladies began to
wonder what o'clock it was, and show signs
of moving ; and Gerard, who, having a rough
turn for drawing, had been for the last quarter
of an hour busily engaged upon a work of
art designed for the amusement of Lady
Mount Easton's little girl, suddenly found
himself, on looking up, alone with Lady
Adelaide, who was apparently too much
engrossed in some elaborate bead work to
move just yet.

Hollo, why, they're all gone ! " exclaimed
Gerard ; *' it isn't time to dress yet, surely 'i "

All, indeed ! " echoed Lady Adelaide,
without looking up from her work; "you're
a nice young man to talk like that while I'm

still here. Bother these beads ! I wish I was
a man, and could swear at them ; it would
do me such a lot of good."

"Well, don't mind me," said Gerard,
swear away as much as you like, Adelaide ;
you may be sure I won't tell any one. Can't
I help your and he shut up his drawing,
and came over to the sofa where she was
sitting, her head bent gracefully over a
little table whereon lay the offending beads
in question.

We have already intimated that Gerard
and his soi-disant cousin were on very friendly
terms, and that, when nothing more eligible
presented itself. Lady Adelaide, who, it must
be confessed, was rather more addicted to
flirtation than some of her friends altogether
approved of, had no objection to keeping her
hand in by a little harmless practice with our
hero. It had in fact come to be almost an
understood thing that he should always be
very devoted to her, though it was equally
well understood on both sides that his devotion
should never go beyond a certain point.
And we are bound to admit that our friend
Gerard had by no means shown himself backward

in taking advantage of whatever latitude
his fair relative might be disposed to
allow him, and that divers little cousinly-familiarities
had occasionally passed between
them, especially when they were both some
years younger.

*' No, you can't," she replied, 'you're much
too clumsy. Your fingers are all thumbs, I
know; men's always are: besides, I don't think
I've got enough of these beastly beads to goon
with, so I shall give it up for to-night."

Well, you're looking awfully nice, anyhow,"
was Gerard's somewhat inconsequent
rejoinder. " I say, Adelaide, old Bally back's
awfully spooney on you. How should you
like to be Lady Bally back ? It's rather a
nice, place, isn't it? anyhow, there's lots of
hunting, as it's in the middle of the Eathmore
country, and you could ask me to come and
stay with you, you know."

'rubbish!" was the young lady's reply;
*' I'd just as soon marry you. Do you suppose
I'd go and bury myself in a place like
that in order to be Mrs Cadger ? No, hardly
good enough, I think. Now, get out of the
way, I'm going up to dress."

' Oh, don't go away," pleaded Gerard,
lazily. " There's three quarters of an hour
yet, and this sofa's so jolly comfortable."

Well, that's more than your arm is, I can
tell you. Take it away at once, sir ; I won't
have any nonsense. There now, you've gone
and scratched yourself, you stupid boy, and
serve you quite right, too. Well, what are
you staring at now ? "

"1 was looking at that brooch of yours,
Adelaide," replied Gerard, in a somewhat
altered voice. ''I hadn't noticed it before;
where did you get it ? "

"Get it'* she replied; "why, it's been in
the family for ages. It belonged to Mary
Queen of Scots, and there was a cross just like
it, which I ought to have too ; but it disappeared
some time ago, mamma says, and I
suppose it was stolen."

Well, it's very odd'' said Gerard, with a
sigh, his thoughts wandering away from Lady
Adelaide to an entirely different person ; *' it's
very odd, but I could have sworn I had seen
that cross you speak of, and that's what made
me ask you. It's such a curious pattern,"
he continued, looking hard at the brooch.

which held together a lace arrangement of
some sort round Lady Adelaide's pretty neck,
*' and the cross I saw belonged to Queen Mary
too, at least so they said  I mean I was told
so. It was a girl I met at a ball in Weald-shire,
down near Sydmonton, you know,"
endeavouring to harden his voice and speak
unconcernedly, but failing signally in the
attempt, '' and she had a cross just exactly
like that."

'' Oh, yes, I understand," interrupted Lady
Adelaide, seeing through him in a moment,
and perhaps not particularly well pleased ;
*' well, you may tell your friend, with my
compliments, next time you see her, that it's
my opinion she stole it. Goodness ! there's
the gong, and I've got a new dress to put on.
"What a fool I've been to waste all this time
here with you ! " And her ladyship was
decidedly ' short" with Gerard for the rest
of that evening.

As for our hero himself, the little episode of
the brooch had set him thinking, sadly enough,
of his far-away love, and of his apparently
hopeless position as regarded her. It was
very curious, too, about that cross, which he

remembered only too well. Of course it could
not possibly be the same that Lady Adelaide
had spoken of as having been in the Marlborough
family ; but it certainly was odd that
there should be two crosses of that peculiar
workmanship, both of which were said to have
originally belonged to the same person. However,
this was only a detail, and not worth
thinking about ; but it all recalled vividly to his
mind the events of those ten days at Shawfield,
which seemed to stand out as a landmark in
his life, and it seemed to him somehow as if
even his chronic and harmless flirtation with
Lady Adelaide, which had gone on ever since
he could remember, were a breach of faith
towards her whom he felt that he loved above
every one and everything in the world. And
yet, alas ! what grounds had he for supposing
that she cared two straws about his flirting
Lady Adelaide or any one else ? It was
all very wretched and unsatisfactory, he knew
that ; and he went to dress with rather a heavy
heart.

A good dinner, however, following on a good
day's sport, is not without its soothing effects,
even in the case of a gentleman in love ; and

the social atmosphere at Bellmoor was too
cheerful to allow of any great depression
of spirits. Before going to bed, therefore,
Gerard felt better again, and inclined to take
a more philosophical view of his prospects.
He felt as if it would do him good to confide
his troubles to Lady Mount Easton ; but the
opportunity did not present itself until the
day before his departure, when, being a
Sunday afternoon, and most of the other
guests having departed the previous day, he
had accompanied her in a walk to the house of
an old retainer about a couple of miles away.

Women are very quick to find out when a
man is in love, and Lady Mount Easton had
not failed to notice that there was something
amiss with Gerard, which she was not slow in
attributing to its true cause ; and being
really fond of and interested in him, she felt
some desire to know more about it, and had,
in fact, determined to invite his confidence.
So, having accomplished her visit, and proposed
a slight detour on the road home, she
approached the subject with a tact and delicacy
which few knew better how to exercise.

' So glad to have had you here, Jerry," she

began, " and that you've had a little shooting.
It's so fortunate, too, that you've had such
fine weather ; that makes such a difference in
this wild country."

Oh, Lily," he replied, '* I've enjoyed it
immensely. We've really had capital sport,
especially considering that it's the end of the
season. But you know I always enjoy being
here, apart from the shooting or anything of
that sort."

"Yes, I think it seems to have done you
good," she said, with a side glance at his face ;
I didn't think you were looking very vrll
when you came, but you're looking much
better now. I fancied you looked as if you had
been working too hard, or perhaps," she added,
in the most innocent manner possible, "as if
you had had something to bother you."

This was an invitation to confidence which,
coming from such a quarter, it would have
required some strength of mind to resist, and
which our friend was certainly not proof
against. He was silent for a moment, then
stammered out a few incoherent remarks as to
there being nothing particular, and then came
out with it all.

VOL. II. L

'* Well, Lily," he said, " as you've asked me,
I don't mind telling you that I have been
rather bothered about something, and if it
won't bore you, I'll tell you all about it."
And he told her the whole story : how he had
first seen Miss Graham on the Southron s,
but had thought no more about her till he
met her again at the Shawfield ball ; and how
he had eventually been unable to restrain himself
from proposing to her. " You'll think me a
great fool, Lily, I'm sure," he continued, '' but
I couldn't help it, and I'm in earnest about it,
I can tell you, if only I knew what to do."

Dear Jerry," was the reply, " it's most
interesting to me, I assure you ; and Fm so
glad you've told me. Do you know, I fancied
there was something of this sort, for you
seemed so unlike yourself. I am sure she
must be nice, Jerry, from what you say. But
it seems to me, you know, that  well, that you
have been just a little precipitate. You say
she lives with this Mr Baldwin ; is she any
relation, or is he her guardian, or what ? "

Well, that's just the odd part of it,"
replied Gerard, with a sigh. " It's a most extraordinary
thing ; but no one seemed to know

anything about her  I mean to say, who she
was ; though every one seemed to think it quite
natural that she should be living there. Lady
Sydmonton told me that she fancied she was
the daughter of an old friend of his who was
dead, and that he had adopted her as his
daughter, or something of that sort. I asked
two or three other people, and they said much
the same thing ; but no one seemed to know
for certain, and I didn't like to ask too many
questions about her."

No ; of course not," replied her ladyship,
various ideas as to the relationship of the
young lady to Mr Baldwin passing through
her mind. " But it does seem odd, certainly,
that no one should have known anything about
her. Don't you think, Jerry, that perhaps it
would be as well to make quite sure about her
before you do anything more  I mean, exactly
who she is, you know, and who her own people
are ? I should think Lady Sydmonton could
do that for you, couldn't she ? "

Ah, very likely," returned Gerard ; " but
then, you know, I should have to tell her all
about it, and I can't talk to her as I can to
you, Lily."

Well then, Jerry, I almost think I should
wait a little, if I were you, before doing anything
further. Let me see : I wonder whether
I could find out anything about her for you.
She can't be one of the Castleton Grahams, or
I should have heard of her ; but it's a common
enough name. I know Lady Sydmonton a
little, and I daresay I shall see her in London ;
and I might ask her myself, but'' laughing,
I am afraid she might perhaps guess my
reason for asking, and I suppose you wouldn't
care about that ? "

'* Oh, Lily, it's awfully good of you, I'm
sure," replied Gerard, '' but you must not
trouble yourself about it unless it comes in
your way. The worst of it is, that when I 
when I spoke to her, you know, she seemed
so strange about it, as if there really was
some strong reason against it. And yet she
didn't seem angry either ; and I can't help
fancying, Lily, that she rather liked me."

Well, Jerry, I think that's quite possible,
you know. But now, if you'll take my advice,
you won't do anything in a hurry. It does
seem to have been a little sudden, doesn't it 1
I don't mean to suggest that you are not

thoroughly in earnest ; but, you know, marriage
is a serious affair, after all, and you are
still very young for that sort of thing. Besides,
Jerry, to speak seriously, for you know
I really do take an interest in you, what sort
of prospects would you have if you were to
marry this young lady? You seem to live
very comfortably by yourself, and I know
you have got on pretty well ; but I suppose
your official income is not very great yet, is
it ? Perhaps your father would allow you
something ? By the way, Jerry, have you
said anything to him about it yet ? "

These were home - thrusts, and Gerard
winced under them. " Well, Lily," he said,
after a moment's hesitation, " to tell you the
truth, I haven't told my father ; indeed, I
haven't said a word about it to any one except
yourself and George Morton  you know who
I mean, he's a very great friend of mine. I
suppose I ought to have told my father ; but
somehow I didn't want to. Of course, if it
had been all right, I must have told him ; but,
you know, he's rather odd about some things,
and as it is, I thought I had better say
nothing about it."

"But about the money, Jerry; you know-one
must think of that. What do you suppose
you would have if you were to marry
Miss Graham?"

Well, Lily," he replied, " I must confess I
did it rather without thinking ; and, of course,
when one comes to look at it seriously, it certainly
does seem as if I had no business to
think of such a thing. I get altogether 600
from my office, including the private secretaryship
; and I fancy my father could allow me
about 300 a year if he chose. He never
actually told me so, but my mother has often
talked to me about marrying, and she always
speaks as if they would allow me something of
this sort."

"Well then, Jerry, say you could produce
900 a year altogether. That's not so very
bad after all, and I suppose you will get more
from your office some day. Of course you
don't know what Miss Graham would be
likely to have ? She is not an heiress, I
suppose, or you would have heard of it
somehow ? "

''No, I don't expect she's an heiress,"
replied Gerard, reflectively ; ** she didn't at

all give me the idea of that. But she might
have something, Lily, you know; though,
after all, I suppose I've no business to think
about it."

Wei], Jerry, it seems to me that you
might just have enough to begin on, perhaps ;
and then of course this Mr Baldwin misht be
able to do something. If he has no children,
perhaps he may leave her his money, and she
might turn out an heiress after all. Still, I
really think you should wait a little, and not
be in a hurry. It's a very serious thing,
Jerry, as I said before ; and you know you
are still very young, and you might very
likely do better  I mean, as regards money
and all that."

'' Ah, Lily," interrupted Gerard, '* I only
wish you could see her ; I'm sure you
wouldn't think I could do better in one
way, at any rate."

No, dear Jerry, I daresay not," she replied
; " but still, one must think of the other
too. Do you know, Jerry," with a pretty
little blush, " I had rather hoped you might
have taken a fancy to Helen Sartoris. She
is not exactly pretty, certainly ; but she's a

charming girl, and she will have 2000 a
year at least. Not that even this is so very
much now-a-days, but still there it is, and I'm
sure she would make a most charming wife for
any one."

Dear Lily, how good of you to think about
it ! " exclaimed Gerard ; *' I feel as if it was
quite ungrateful of me not to be in love with
Miss Sartoris ; but it never occurred to me,
you know."

Well, one could hardly expect that under
the circumstances, Jerry, and I shouldn't like
to be considered a matchmaker. However,
I am sure you had better take my advice and
not be in a hurry."

I'll try," replied Gerard, rather mournfully,
"but I can't help thinking about her,
you know. But it's awfully kind of you, dear
Lily, to take such an interest in me, and I
feel ever *so much better for having told you
all about it." And he took her hand, and kissed
it affectionately.

THE SAME OLD GAME.

It was the last week in March. For three
weeks past a bitter east wind had desolated
the face of nature, and town and* country were
alike unbearable. The season was unusually
backward, and a sort of interregnum appeared
to have set in, that was neither winter Aor
spring, but contrived, notwithstanding, to
combine the most objectionable characteristics
of both. The soft grey tints of winter
had disappeared, and had given place to a
monotonous drab. Here and there, in some
sheltered nook, a few primroses and daffodils
had ventured to show their heads, and to
struggle against the inclemency of an English
spring. But everything else was parched and
shrivelled up. Hounds could not run over
the dusty plough, the ridges of which were as
hard and cutting as razors ; even on the grass
there was little or no scent ; and one blank

day after another was beginning to convince
even the most persevering of masters that
hunting was pretty well over for that season.
In London the black dust lay thick on the
pavements, to be caught up every few minutes
by a gust of wind and whirled in the faces
and down the throats of the passers-by. Old
and delicate people took to their beds ; and
even the young and vigorous were numbed
and petrified* by the icy blast.

Easter, however, happened to fall unusually
early this year, which made it all the more
unreasonable that the spring should be so
backward. The House of Commons had, in
fact, reassembled after the Easter holidays,
which had been cut unusually short, with the
promise, however, that if members behaved
well and got through their work properly,
they should be allowed a longer holiday at
Whitsuntide. London was pronounced by
some to be very full, and by others to be very
empty ; and the same difference of opinion
was expressed as to the social aspect of affairs.
Some declared that there was " nothing going
on," and that it was going to be the dullest
season on record ; while others described

themselves as already embarrassed with the
number of their invitations, and prophesied
a lively time for themselves and their particular
friends. But whether destined to be
dull or lively, the London season had once
more commenced ; there was already quite a
respectable muster of equestrians in Rotten
Eow ; Bond Street was full of carriages ; and,
surest sign of all, the various local boards and
vestries, who had * been carefully watching
their opportunity, had begun to pull up half
the streets in the West End of London, so
that locomotion was already becoming a wt)rk
of the utmost difficulty and danger.

Among other persons of more or less distinction
who had just arrived in the metropolis
were the Dowager Lady Narborough
and her daughter, who had been what the
fashionable intelligence described as '* sojourning"
in the south of France for the last six
weeks. It was Lady Adelaide's fifth season in
London, and although her mother was very
much attached to her, and was not haunted
by any overwhelming desire to get her off her
hands, she could not help feeling that it was
about time that her daughter bean to think

of making: a suitable marriage. Not that
Lady Adelaide was by any means devoid of
admirers ; but, as we have already hinted,
she had a way of treating them which was not
always calculated to attract, and sometimes
indeed had even been known to repel. A keen
sense of humour is sometimes a dangerous gift,
especially in the case of a young lady with no
great tendency to self-restraint ; and Lady
Adelaide had more than once got into trouble
on this account, and had, in fact, in the eyes
of her more prudent elders, seriously damaged
her own prospects. For was it not perfectly
well known that the wealthy and estimable,
if slightly eccentric, Earl of Barleywater had
admired her very much during her second
season, and had, in fact, made up his mind to
propose ? And was it not equally notorious
that she had inflicted an irremediable shock
upon the feelings of that excellent young
nobleman, besides destroying her own very
good chance of becoming Countess of Barley-water,
by imitating him to his face one day,
when he had come to luncheon with her and
her mamma, in a manner that even his not very
rapid powers of perception could not fail to

detect ? Add to this' a fondness for saying
sharp things, without always considering too
carefully the feelings of others, and it will
readily be understood that many who might
otherwise have been irresistibly attracted by
Lady Adelaide were rather shy of overstepping
the boundary-line of mere friendship.
And yet there was nothing really ill-natured
about her. It was a wayward yet lovable
nature, impatient of restraint, but capable, in
proper hands, of being moulded into something
very charming. Those who knew her
best always said that if only she came across
the right man, she would make an excellent
wife. To all appearance, however, the right
man had not yet turned up; and in the meantime
her ladyship showed no signs of any
anxiety to sacrifice her freedom.

'' Well, Adelaide, what are we going to do
to-night ? " inquired Lady Narborough of her
daughter, as they sat together at luncheon in
Eaton Square one drizzly, chilly day, about a
fortnight after their arrival in London. *' I
suppose you won't want to drive this afternoon,
and we may as well give the orders for
to-night at once."

To a casual observer, Lady Adelaide would
hardly have appeared to take the amount of
interest in the subject of the evening's amusement
that might have been expected from a
popular and fashionable young lady moving
in the best set in London. She sat looking
before her somewhat listlessly, and there was
an air of weariness and as of something wanting
about her expressive features that did not
seem to indicate a mind altogether at peace
with itself. Her mother's question, indeed,
had to be repeated before she took any notice
of it, and it appeared to be with an effort that
she roused herself from her abstraction."

Oh, I beg your pardon, mamma," she
exclaimed, " I was thinking of something else.
Let's see, there's Mrs Boston Smith's dance ;
we must go there,  that's all, I think. There's
Lady Rosemary's squash, but I don't the least
want to go there, unless you think we ought
to ; and then you can lie down and get a good
rest after dinner, before going to Mrs Boston
Smith's."

No, my dear, I'm sure I don't want to goto
Lady Rosemary's," was the reply ; " and I
think one thing to-night will be quite as much

as is good for you. You look rather tired
yourself, and I think you had better get a
good rest this afternoon too."

Oh, I'm all right, mamma, thanks," returned
Lady Adelaide, carelessly. " It's only
this horrid weather ; it's enough to make anyone
look out of sorts. If it gets fine by and
by, I'll take Crisp and walk over to Alice
Mount Easton's to tea, and that will do me
good''

"Very well, dear, only don't go and overture
yourself."

It may possibly have been the weather tint
had affected Lady Adelaide's spirits, but as
she sat before her looking-glass that evening,
with the faithful Crisp operating upon her hair
in preparation for Mrs Boston Smith's ball, it
reflected an expression of pre-occupation, not
to say melancholy, that would have very much
astonished any of her ladyship's friends who
were in the habit of seeing her only as she
appeared in general society, and that could
hardly have been satisfactorily accounted forby
the caprices of the elements. Was it that
after four years of London it had suddenly
begun to dawn upon her that after all there

was a good deal of vanity about the whole
thing? Or had the right man appeared at
last on the horizon of her life, and commenced
to exercise a softening influence upon a heart
that was generally supposed to be peculiarly
unsusceptible to anything in the nature of a
tender impression ? It is possible that some
speculations of this nature may have passed
through the mind of Mrs Crisp as she manipulated
the silky tresses into a becoming coiffure,
with an occasional glance at the reflection
of her mistress's face in the glass before her,
and that, whether right or wrong, she took the
liberty of forming her own conclusions on the
subject. But it is not for us to pry further
into the seclusion of a young lady's bedroom,
and we will content ourselves with taking a
glance at Lady Adelaide as she appears an
hour later at Mrs Boston Smith's dance.

Mrs Boston Smith was a rich and fashionable
widow, who occupied one of the largest
and roomiest houses in Grosvenor Square,
and whose entertainments were much sought
after. The antecedents of the late lamented
Mr Boston Smith had always been wrapped in
obscurity, and little indeed was known as to

the early history of his widow. Some said she
had been a governess, and others a bar-maid ;
while there were not wanting those who maintained
that she had been well known in certain
art circles, and had in fact obtained her
living as a model. Be this as it may, however,
she was a clever, fascinating woman,
with the remains of great beauty ; and the
late Boston Smith's wealth having been undisputed,
whatever his means of acquiring it
might have been, she had long since been
taken up and pronounced the fashion by the
highest authorities in London. So that' a
dance at the well-known corner house in the
Square was pretty certain to be well patronised
by the elite of society ; and many eligible
partis and men of distinction, social or otherwise,
for whom other hostesses might angle
unsuccessfully, would be found attending very
regularly at Mrs Boston Smith's.

It was about half-past twelve, and the ball
was in full swing. That is to say, the room
set apart " for dancing, in the language of
the fashionable intelligence, was about as full
as it could hold, and it might have been inferred
from the character of the music that a

VOL. II. M

quadrille was being performed. But except
iu a comparatively clear space at one end of
the room, where royalty was taking part in
the proceedings, the dancing was for the most
part limited to a few spasmodic advancing
and retiring, with no apparent object in
view, on the part of a few of the younger and
more energetic of the company, the majority
having evidently arrived at the conclusion
that there was too great a crowd to attempt
to go through the figures, and that it was
much more satisfactory to stand still.

In the royal set, however, the figures were
being got through with a fair amount of precision
; and there was room enough for the
fresh toilettes and pretty bouquets of the performers
to be seen to some advantage. It
was, in fact, a very pretty sight ; and as the
dancers glided backwards and forwards to the
enlivening strains of "La fille de Madame
Ingot," there was enough life and animation
to make up for the listless and somewhat
depressing character of the proceedings
throughout the rest of the room.

In this comparatively animated circle, or,
more strictly speaking, square, might have

been observed Lady Adelaide and our old
friend the " Cadger," the latter of whom had
just arrived, and who, although not much
addicted to dancing as a general rule, had at
once solicited the honour of her ladyship's
hand for this quadrille. The fact was that the
Cadger " had for some time past been very
much taken with Lady Adelaide, and was as
near being in love with her as was possible
for a gentleman of his somewhat peculiar
temperament and inclinations. " My dear
fellow*' he would say to a friend, taking him
confidentially into a corner, " she's a d  d

nice girl, I tell you ; no d d nonsense

about her, and devilish clever into the bargain.
I ain't a marrying man, and one has to be
devilish careful, you know ; but damme, if
ever 1 were to think of that sort of thing,
she's just the sort of girl that would suit
me down to the ground." And so his lordship
would prattle on, alternately amusing
and boring his friends with his amatory confidences,
but steadily increasing in devotion
to Lady Adelaide, and becoming more and
more convinced of her superiority to all other
ladies of his acquaintance.

It was hardly to be supposed that a young
lady possessed of the abilities attributed to
Lady Adelaide by her admirer should not
have been to some extent conscious of the
sentiments she had inspired in his manly
bosom ; though we are with regret compelled
to state that as a rule she scarcely treated
his lordship's demonstrations of affection with
the consideration they deserved, and would at
times, in fact, receive them with the most unbecoming
levity. On the present occasion,
however, she appeared less inclined to chaff him
than usual, and there was an unwonted softness
in her manner which was certainly very becoming
to her, and which to the enamoured
soul of the Earl of Bally back rendered her
perfectly irresistible.

I say, Lady Adelaide'* observed his lordship,
in the intervals of a figure, " that's an
awfully nice dress you've got on. I don't
understand much about ladies' dresses, you
know ; but it seems to me there's something
uncommon smart about yours."

Glad you approve. Lord Ballybrack," replied
her ladyship, with a pretty little curtsy.
I shall tell my maid, who makes all my

tidings, that it has been admired by a great
judge of ladies' dresses, and she will be quite
pleased. Do you approve of the way she has
done my hair, now, or can you suggest something
different ? '*

Oh, come now ; you're chaffing, Lady
Adelaide," replied the " Cadger." " But I say,
do you mean to tell me your maid makes all
your dresses ? By Jove, I wish I'd got a man
who could make all my coats and trousers ;
what a lot of trouble it would save one !
Hollo! it's my turn now." And his lordship
proceeded to advance and retire with as mich
grace and dignity as the highly-polished floor
would admit of.

"No end of a crowd here to-night," he
observed, by way of an original remark, on
his return to his partner, "and there'll be
some more fellows up from the House soon.
I saw Ravendale and some other chaps at
the Carlton before dinner, and they said
they meant to look in here if they could.
Ah ! there's Ravendale in the doorway now.
Thanks, Lady Adelaide," as the music abruptly
stopped, " will you come and have some tea ?
it's awfully hot in here."

Thanks very much, Lord Ballybrack, but
I think I'll stop here with mamma. There
she is in the corner, by the window. Another
dance ? oh, I really can't say now ; you must
come back by and by."

It might possibly have occurred to a very
close observer that Lady Adelaide's manner,
which up to the present moment had had the
effect of putting the " Cadger " very much at
his ease, and had rendered her even more than
usually charming in that enamoured nobleman's
eyes, had suddenly undergone a change,
and that, from having been affable in the
extreme, and apparently quite disposed to encourage
his lordship's not very intellectual conversation,
she now manifested a somewhat unaccountable
anxiety to get rid of him. Whether
the " Cadger's " reference to Lord Kavendale,
and the almost simultaneous appearance of that
statesman, could have had anything to do with
the matter it would be out of place to inquire ;
but there was no doubt that, as he caught her
eye, and made his way through the crowd to
where she was standing, a slight though very
becoming blush might have been observed to
steal over her ladyship's face, and that her

expression lighted up in a manner that it certainly
had not done during her conversation
with the " Cadger." And yet, whether owing
to the proverbial inconsistency of the female
mind, or to some other cause beyond our
divination, her reception of the Vice-president
was not marked by any unusual demonstration
of cordiality, and it would have required
a very penetrating and experienced observer
to construct any matrimonial hypothesis out
of their meeting.

How d'ye do. Lady Adelaide ? " said his
lordship, as he reached her corner ; "howre
you getting on ? I've only just come up from
the House, but there seem to be lots of people
here."

Yes, it's rather too much of a crowd just
now, isn't it ? but it will get better by and
by. What have you been doing at the
House, Lord Ravendale ? Usual old story, I
suppose ? "

Oh yes," replied his lordship, " I've been
hanging about there, doing nothing whatever
really. We thought we should get into Supply,
and I'd got some votes to look after, but
there's no chance of it to-night now, so I came

away for a look in here, which seems much
more amusing; Are you going to dance this
valse, Lady Adelaide ? " as the music again
struck up ; " if not, come and have some supper.
The supper-room is open, for I looked in as I
came upstairs."

'' Very well," replied Lady Adelaide, " I've
a sort of idea that Pm engaged for this dance,
but I don't mind chancing it ; only we must
go at once," she added, with a laugh, " or my
young man will be after me." And placing
her pretty hand on Lord Eavendale's arm, they
slipped out by a side door, and joined the string
of supper-seekers on the stairs.

How well Lady Adelaide looks to-night ! "
observed that consummate judge of beauty,
little Billy Tread croft of the Blues, as he stood
with a knot of non-dancing men about the
entrance to a temporary structure off the ballroom,
lighted with Chinese lanterns of various
patterns, and carefully arranged with a view
to the comfort of those who might desire
seclusion. "Look at her there, on the sofa
with Ravendale. By Jove ! I wonder whether
he means business ! "

"Lord bless you, no!" responded another

of the group. " Eavendale ain't a marrying
man. Yes, she does look devilish well tonight,
but, mind you, I ain't sure that she
wouldn't be a rum 'un to marry. However,
that don't matter to you or me, Billy, my boy.
Come along and have some supper."

"Well, she must have enjoyed her ball,"
thought the worthy though sleepy Mrs Crisp,
as she brushed out her mistress's silky hair that
night, or rather in the small hours of the morning,
" for she looks ever so much better than
before she started. I wish she'd marry now,
and have done with it ; she'd be ever so milch
happier, and perhaps I shouldn't have to sit
up so much at night waiting for her. There's
three o'clock striking ! Good-night, my lady."

Uncertainty.

Those who are familiar with the network of
small streets that occupies the space between
Pall Mall and Piccadilly, will probably have
noticed, at some period of their lives, a somewhat
peculiar building at the corner of a certain
quiet little street not above a couple of
hundred yards away from St. James's Square.
The edifice in question has certainly no pretensions
to architectural beauty, the exterior,
as seen from the street, being suggestive of
something between a riding-school and a railway
station. The occupants appear to be
unfamiliar with the use of windows, and the
only means of ingress, consisting of a swing-door
at the top of a little flight of steps,
adorned with the legend "Private," presents
the commonplace and prosaic appearance of
the entrance to a warehouse or office. The
amount of business, however, transacted on

the premises would not appear to be very
great, for, up till four or five o'clock in
the afternoon, not a living creature will be
observed to go in or out. But about five
o'clock some sisfns of life will begin to manifest
themselves. First, one or two elderly
but smart-looking gentlemen will be observed
to ascend the steps and pass through the
swing-door ; then three or four more, younger
men perhaps, in quick succession ; and so on,
till by half-past six, from fifteen to twenty-five
individuals of all aoes from eighteen to
sixty, including probably one or two guardsmen
in uniform, will have entered the building.
At about seven o'clock there will be a rapid
exodus, the out comers presenting the comfortable
and self-satisfied appearance that may be
observed on the countenances of gentlemen
who have just emerged from a Turkish bath,
or who have been engaged in some strong
exercise for which they feel all the better ;
and by half-past seven the building will be
once more silent and deserted.

Without indulging in any further mystery,
we may as well inform those of our readers to
whom the above description does not convey

any particular significance, that the edifice
in question is the home of the London School
of Arms, an institution much patronised by a
select circle of guardsmen, Government officials,
and gentlemen at large, who are devotees of
the ancient and, fascinating science of fencing,
or Who delight themselves in gymnastics
and feats of strength and agility. Should a
stranger be passing by at the moment when
any one is going in or out, he will hear through
the door strange sounds of stamping, bumping,
and words of command in a foreign tongue.
And should his curiosity lead him to mount
the steps, and, regardless of the warning as to
privacy, peep in through the door, he would
find himself in a spacious and lofty apartment,
some seventy feet long by thirty wide, lighted
from the roof by a long skylight, the walls hung
round with rows of foils, masks, broadswords,
etc., and the open space in the centre occupied
by couples engaged in fencing. Found the
room may be seen parallel bars, trajezes, and
gymnastic appliances of every description ;
and a staircase at either end leads to a gallery
of dressing-rooms supplied with baths and
other comforts of a private club.

It would be difficult to over-estimate the
benefits offered by an institution of this kind
to any person, of naturally active habits, who
is compelled by circumstances to lead a comparatively
sedentary life. An hour's exercise
under a gymnastic instructor or with the foils
has a wonderful effect in counteracting the
depressing and weakening influence of a day
passed in office work ; or, as was expressed
by George Morton, himself an old member of
the club, in forcible, if homely language,
when introducing his friend Gerard, " You
can be all day at that rotten old shop b
yours, come here and get a real good sweat,
and then have a bath, and go out to dinner,
feeling almost as fit as if you had had a day's
hunting."

Our friend Gerard had been by no means
slow to recognise the advantages thus graphically
pointed out to him ; and, at the period
of our story, had not only been for some time
a pretty constant habitue of the place, but had
become a fair adept in the art of fencing, to
say nothing of boxing, single-stick, and other
miscellaneous exercises. It was a special resource
to him during the parliamentary season,

when he was kept close at his work, and
could seldom get away for a day's cricket or
other outdoor amusement; and having passed
the whole day in the not very invigorating
atmosphere of the General Enquiry Office, lie
would drop in at the School of Arms for an
hour on his way home, and emerge, as correctly
put by his friend Morton, feeling very
much the better for it, and quite ready to
enjoy his dinner. And since he had arrived
at the position of a man in love, he had
resorted to the institution more than ever,
finding in it the means not only of healthy
exercise, but of escaping for the time from the
burden of his own thoughts. There are few
things that require a more entire concentration).
of the faculties, both mental and physical,
than the practice either of fencing or boxing ;
and it would indeed be difficult to think of
anything else when you have once crossed
blades with your adversary, and are watching
every movement of eye and hand for an opening
lunge, or when you are engaged in manoeuvring
to plant a successful hit upon your
opponent's nose, and at the same time protect
your own from a like assault.

One evening, then, about the beginning of
May, Gerard, who had been working hard at
his office all day, passed through the swing-door
of the London School of Arms about half-past
six, with the view of getting half an hour's
exercise before dining with the Mount Reasons,
from whom he had received an invitation an
hour or two before, his presence being desired
to fill up a sudden gap in the party. He was
late, and was making the best of his way
upstairs to change his clothes, when he was
stopped by M. Pierre, the principal maitre-diaries
of the establishment, who, foil* in
hand, called after him with the air of a
person who had some communication to
make.

Ah, Monsieur Courtenay, vous arrivez
trop tard," he observed, " voila M. Morton
qui vient de vous demander."

M. Morton ! " exclaimed Gerard, pausing
on the stairs, " c'est impossible ; il est parti 
il est a la campagne. By Jove," he thought,
half reproaching himself for not having
thought much about his friend lately, " surely
he can't be back again, or he would have let
me know."

Non, non, c etait Lien M. Morton," repeated
M. Pierre, " voila plus de six mois que
je Tai vu, mais il est venu ce soir, et il vous
demandait. Un autre monsieur est venu avec
lui  un vieillard, et par exemple il h, laisse
son parapluie," pointing to an umbrella in a
corner. " Mais depechez-vous, mettez votre
veste, et venez prendre votre leon."

Well, he must have been here," thought
Gerard, as he went upstairs, " but I wonder
he didn't tell me. I must go and look him
up. Poor old George, I wonder how he's
getting on ! There's something precious odd
about the whole business."

Although, as we have already mentioned,
there was a plentiful supply of private 
for the use of the members of
the London School of Arms, it was found in
practice that the majority preferred sociability
to privacy, and were wont to avail themselves
of a large public room, where they
could indulge freely in conversation while
dressing or undressing, and could in cold
weather enjoy the advantage of a good fire.
This apartment was presided over by the
principal custodian of the club, an official of

long standing and profound respectability,
who, had it not been for an imperturbably
courteous and obliging manner, and the gift
of being everywhere at once, might at times,
when the room was crowded, have found his
position rather a trying one ; for being summoned
or appealed to every moment, it was
about as much as he could do to respond to
the many demands upon his attention. 'towel
please, Jones ! " "I say, Jones, there's no
hot water to-night ! " " Jones, just ask Lord
Lollypop not to sit on my hat." " Hollo,
Jones ! sorry to see your name in the police
court again this morning ! " *' Look here,
Jones ; here's Captain Overalls taken my umbrella,
and left that beastly old sword of his
instead ! " Amid all which badinage Mr Jones,
preserving, according to his wont, a perfectly
unruffled demeanour, glided hither and thither
in the active discharge of his duties, detecting'
no one, and attending to each individual requirement
with a precision that was truly marvellous.
Meanwhile, from the hall or salle
diaries below an incessant Babel of sounds
ascended to the upper region. " Fondez-vous
! " " Carte, contre-carte et riposte ! "

VOL. II. N

from the French professors. "One, two,
straighten the arms ; slowly down to the
sides ! " from the gymnastic instructor ;
mingled with the clash of foils, the bumping
of dumb-bells, and the various other noises
incidental to the pursuits to which the establishment
was consecrated.

Gerard lost no time in changing his clothes ;
and in another eve minutes had descended to
the lower floor, clad in flannels and fencing-jacket.
Just at this moment he caught sight
of M. Pierre in conversation with some one at
the door, for whom he was holding it open.
But before Gerard had got half across the
room, the door was shut, and the stranger,
whoever he was, had disappeared.

Ah, mais voila monsieur qui revient ! "
exclaimed Pierre, as he caught sight of
Gerard. " II est rented chercher son parapluie,
mais il tait bien presse, et il ne pouvait
rester. C'est bien dommage que vous n'etiez
pas ici ; peut-etre vous aurait-il donne des
nouvelles de M. Morton."

Oh, c'est legal," replied Gerard, unconcernedly,
"M. Morton reviendra sans doute
dans quelques jours." But he felt annoyed,

all the same, at having missed the chance of
hearing something of George, especially as he
was unable to avoid a twinge or two of conscience
for having of late been so absorbed in
his own affairs as to have almost forgotten his
friend. For, during the last fortnight or so,
Gerard's peace of mind had been greatly-disturbed.
It would be doing him an injustice
to say that he had at any time forgotten
his lady-love ; but, at the same time,
the distraction of his official work and the
bustle of London life had served to divert his
thoughts in a great measure from the One
all-absorbing topic that had for some time
occupied' them. All of a sudden, however, an
event had occurred which had thrown him
back into much the same state of mind that
he had been in four or five months before. In
other words, he had seen Florence in London.
Not indeed, to speak to, which would have
altogether finished him, but he had caught a
glimpse of her in a brougham in Piccadilly,
in company with an elderly lady of, as
it appeared to him, a somewhat stern and
forbidding aspect, whom he at once set down
as ill-disposed towards himself and likely to

injure whatever prospects he might have with
Florence. And she had seen him too ; and he
hardly knew whether he had been made more
happy or more miserable by the look that
came into her face as she half involuntarily
bent forward and her eyes met his. He stood
looking after the carriage as if in a dream, till
it had disappeared out of sight, and then
began almost unconsciously to walk rapidly in
the direction it had taken. A few moments,
however, brought him to his senses, and convinced
him of the hopelessness of such a
pursuit ; and then he began to blame himself
for not having followed the carriage at once.
Was it possible that he had actually seen her
again ! And that look in her eyes ; surely
she must care for him after all, or she could
never have looked like that ; and yet, perhaps
after all it was only his fancy. Then he tried
to remember how she was dressed, and was
furious with himself for having only noticed
that she wore a light-coloured dress, while he
could not remember whether she had on a hat
or a bonnet, though his impression rather
inclined to the former. Occupied with such
reflections, he turned mechanically down Duke

Street, and wandered on in a vague, aimless
sort of way, till be found himself at the steps
leading down from the Duke of York's monument
into St. James's Park. It was about
three o'clock in the afternoon ; his chief, who
had been down at Newmarket, was not expected
till four, and he had nothing particular
to do for the next half-hour. He went into
the park, and sat down on a chair near the
water. It was a lovely spring day. All
around, the tender foliage, as yet unsullied by
London smoke, was bursting into life. The
flower-beds were bright with tulips ; a blackbird
was singing merrily from an adjoining
thicket, and the air was fresh with the scent of
new-mown grass. The wild-fowl were quacking
and diving merrily in midstream, or
congregated round certain spots where bands
of juveniles were engaged in casting on the
waters the accumulations of the nursery bread-basket.
Everything wore a look of life and
brightness, and even the dingy and soot-encumbered
buildings in the background
were warmed up into a not unpleasing mass
of colour by the genial rays of the sun. But
to Gerard everything for the moment seemed

blank and dreary. He had seen this love
again, and though he felt that he loved her
more passionately than ever, it seemed to
him as if the gulf between them were deeper
and deeper. There she was in London, probably
within a mile of him at that very
moment, and yet he was as effectually separated
from her as if the Atlantic rolled between
them. Somehow or other, the possibility
of meeting her again under existing
circumstances had never occurred to him. It
seemed to him as if that never-to-be-forgotten
parting in the library at Crowhurst had placed
an insurmountable barrier between them,
insurmountable at least until the mystery
which seemed to hang about her should be
cleared up. For a mystery there was beyond
doubt ; otherwise, how could he account for
the tone of distress, almost of misery, in which
she had spoken of herself? And yet, what
could he do ? for he had no possible means of
unravelling her history, and he instinctively
shrank from anything that might appear like
intruding himself upon her. For, to do him
justice, he was by no means blind to the fact
that, from a worldly and practical point of

view, his prospects as regarded Miss Graham,
even supposing other influences to be favourable,
could not be considered as otherwise
than extremely problematical. He was obliged
to confess to himself that he had made a
proposal of marriage without any ostensible
means of entering upon that highly honourable
state, and that if he were called upon to
explain how he proposed to maintain Miss
Graham in the position to which she had
previously been accustomed, he might appear
rather at a disadvantage. He felt, in fact,
that his proposal had been most rash and
ill-considered, and that he had no right whatever,
under existing circumstances, to press
his suit any further.

It will readily be understood, therefore, that
Gerard's reflections that bright May afternoon
were far from being in keeping with the surroundings
; and during the rest of that day,
and the next two or three days, he had very
nearly reverted to his original state of hopelessness
and despondency. Here again, however,
the precious solace and distraction of
hard work came to his aid ; and it being the

h eight of the session, and business at the
General Enquiry Office in consequence pretty
lively, he had happily but little leisure for
indulging in the contemplation of his own
affairs.

WHO IS SHE ? "

Had Gerard by any means succeeded in following
up the carriage which held all that for the
time being was dearest to him in the world,
he would have found himself at the door of
what would be described in an auctioneer's or
house-agent's advertisement as a substantial
family mansion in Portland Place  not one of
the very largest houses in that highly respectable
locality, but presenting at the same time
every appearance of comfort if not of affluence.
The door was opened, before the footman had
time to descend and ring the bell, by a
grey-headed old gentleman out of livery,
whose appearance was quite in keeping with
the exterior of the house, and who bustled
out to assist the occupants of the carriage to
alight. The first to appear was the elderly
lady whom Gerard had noticed, and who, to
any disinterested observer, would have seemed

the embodiment of all that was harmless
and inoffensive. She was followed by Miss
Graham, who, in her pretty morning-dress
of some light summer material, would certainly
have appeared none the less attractive
to Gerard than in her riding-habit, in which
costume he had been more accustomed to see
her during that brief period of happiness which
seemed to him to have passed away for ever.

*Gregson, I shall not want the carriage
again till a quarter to eight, and I shall beat
home to any one who calls after five.
Florence dear, you look tired ; you had better
go and rest yourself till tea-time, and I will
send Edwards to you with some sal-volatile."

"Thanks, so much, dear Mrs Ashton," was
the reply ; ** I think I will go and rest for a
little if you don't mind, as I've got rather a
headache. I think jDcrhaps it is the sudden
heat, but I shall be all right by and by."

Yes, dear, go and lie down, that will
be the best thing for you. Gregson, send
Edwards to my room, and then come to the
drawing-room ; I have got a note to send.
Never mind me, Florence dear, you go and
lie down at once."

As we have no desire to indulge in unnecessary
mystery, we may as well inform our
readers at once that the estimable lady whom
we have just introduced to them, and under
whose hospitable roof Florence was for the
time domiciled, was Mr Baldwin's only sister,
who had been for some years a widow, and
who, being of a kind-hearted and benevolent
disposition, and having no children of her
own, had for some time past adopted Florence
as a sort of niece, and was always glad to
have her as an inmate of the roomy and
comfortable house in Portland Place. And
though Florence infinitely preferred Nether-dean
to London, and was more at home
on the Southdowns than in Hyde Park or
Bond Street, she was much attached to the
old lady, who had taken a great fancy to
her, and done her many little kindnesses ;
and the result was that she was generally
to be found two or three times a year on a
visit to Mrs Ashton.

As is usually the case in such establishments,
Mrs Ashton was tyrannised over by a
select circle of old family servants, who had all
waxed fat and sleek in her service, and whose

great object seemed to be to combine the
maximum of good living with the minimum of
work. At the same time, they were all more
or less attached to her, and would gladly have
done anything to serve her that did not
materially interfere with their own comfort
and convenience. A fair share of this good
feeling was extended to Florence, especially
on the part of Mr Gregson the butler, who,
having been pleased to propound the theory
that she was delicate and required " keeping
up," was much given to pressing upon herat
luncheon-time some rare old sherry of
his mistress', with the restorative qualities of
which it was generally supposed that he himself
was practically acquainted ; and he had
recently even gone so far as to express to Mrs
Ashton his opinion that Miss Florence was
not looking strong, and that a couple of glasses
of wine at luncheon and the same allowance
at dinner would be a more effective form of
tonic than any amount of doctors' prescriptions.
The general verdict, in fact, both of housekeeper's
room and servants' hall, was that
Miss Florence was a nice young lady who
gave no trouble, and to whom therefore they

had no objection as an occasional inmate of
their establishment.

'well, Edwards," inquired Mrs Ashton,
awaking from a nap as that confidential
domestic softly entered her room to inform
her that tea was ready in the drawing-room,
how is Miss Florence ? did you give her
some sal volatile ? "

Yes, mam, I took it up to Miss Florence's
room, but she said she wouldn't have it just
then, and asked me to leave it. She didn't
seem very well, though, ma'am, and she looked
to me as if  as if she'd been a-crying."

'' Crying ! nonsense, Edwards," returned
Mrs Ashton, indignantly. 'why, what
should she be crying about ? "

"I don't know, I'm sure, ma'am; but she
turned her head away when I went in, and
her voice didn't seem quite natural, somehow."

"Ah, she had a headache, poor child, and
wasn't feeling well," replied Mrs Ashton ;
she certainly doesn't seem very strong just
now. She's a nice child, Florence," she went
on, half to herself; "what a sad thing it
is " And then she suddenly stopped, recollecting
that Edwards was present, and that

it might not be altogether desirable to take her
too much into her confidence.

It is hardly necessary to observe that Miss
Graham's position in Mr Baldwin's household
had for some time been a subject of much
speculation and gossip, not only among the
other members of his establishment, but also
among those of his sister's, the two families
being on intimate terms, and the affairs of
their respective master and mistress forming
a common topic for discussion. It was agreed
on all sides that there was something very
mysterious about the whole affair. All that
was known of her advent into the family was
that, some years before, Mr Baldwin had left
home rather suddenly, had been absent, no
one knew where, for about a fortnight, and
had returned home one fine September evening,
accompanied by a girl of about thirteen, and
a ladylike person who appeared to be in the
position of a governess. No announcement
had been made of this addition to the family,
beyond a letter received that morning from
Mr Baldwin by Mrs-styles, the housekeeper,
requesting that two specified rooms, opening
into each other, might be got ready for immediate

occupation. Mr Baldwin, although a
man of simple tastes and habits, and accustomed
to be a good deal tyrannised over by
his household in minor matters, was nevertheless
not a man to be disobeyed or slighted
with impunity when he had once given an
order; and although Mrs Styles' curiosity was
excited to a very high pitch by the intimation
she had received, she at once set to work to
carry out her master s directions.

By half-past six in the evening, the time
when Mr Baldwin and his visitors might be expected,
the excitement of the household had been
wound up to fever heat ; and when, after much
waiting and listening, the long-expected wheels
of the Shawfield fly were heard grinding up the
road and turning into the approach, there was
scarcely a window or other coign of vantage
commanding a view of the front door that was
not occupied by an eager spectator, watching
anxiously for a glimpse of the new arrivals.
Out got Mr Baldwin in his usual deliberate
way, and calmly proceeded to hand out first a
lady dressed in black, with a thick veil over
her face, and then a slight, graceful girl in a
short frock, who gazed about her with a half-frightened,

half-curious look in her soft brown,
eyes. Leading the way into the house, he presented
the new comer to the curtsying and
officious Mrs Styles, with an intimation that
they had had a long journey, and would be
glad to go to their rooms. They did not
appear again that evening, some supper being
taken up to them by Mr Baldwin's desire ; and
all that the expectant household were able to
glean from Mrs Styles, whose natural self-importance
was materially increased by having been
to a certain extent taken into confidence in
the matter, was that the elder lady's name was
Mrs Caledon, and that of the younger Miss
Florence Graham.

Without going into further details, it will
be sufficient to state that from this evening
Mrs' Caledon and Miss Graham became permanent
members of Mr Baldwin's establishment,
and that as the household became
accustomed to their presence, the interest
which their sudden advent had created
gradually died away. It soon appeared that
Mrs Caledon was in charge of Mrs Graham's
education, and a set of rooms were assigned
to their special use. It was understood, not

exactly on Mr Baldwin's authority, but without
direct contradiction on his part, that Miss
Graham was the orphan child of an old friend
of his who had died abroad, and that it was
his intention to adopt and bring her up as his
own. This alone had a pleasant flavour of
mystery about it, and many and various were
the speculations regarding the deceased friend
who had left such an interesting charge to Mr
Baldwin. We regret, indeed, to be obliged to
confess that the character of that estimable
gentleman did not pass altogether scatheless
at the hands of the gossips of Netherdean ad
the neighbourhood. Not only did his lady-friends
ask each other, in the most innocent
manner, whether Miss Graham was at all like
him, and whether he seemed much attached
to her or not, but frequent and more meaning
remarks were indulged in respecting the lady
who had accompanied her. " Who is this
Mrs Caledon ? " ' Ts she a lady, or only a
governess ? " " Is it really true that she sits
at the head of the table, and does the honours
for Mr Baldwin ? " '' Really, my dear, I
think one ought to know something more
about it. Mr Baldwin is very eccentric, of

VOL. II. o

course, and not exactly in our society, you
know; but still, one doesn't like to have
this sort of thing going on under one's
very eyes, as it were' And so on, in the
usual charitable strain so common among a
certain class of women, who, kind as they
may be, and very likely are at heart, are
seldom able to resist the temptation of a
sly hit at the reputation of one of their
own sex.

But neither Mr Baldwin, Mrs Caledon, nor
little Florence were much affected by the
suspicions or innuendoes of their neighbours.
The former gentleman pursued his studies as
usual, and took his walks or rides about
Netherdean with the most serene indifference
to and apparent unconsciousness of what
might be whispered abroad as to his domestic
arrangements. Mrs Caledon, on her part, had
been but a very short time an inmate of
Netherdean before it became apparent to the
establishment in general, and in fact to everyone
who had anything to do with her, that
she was not a person to be treated with anything
but the most profound respect. It is
true that having, at Mr Baldwin's request,

assumed the head of the table when they were
alone, she did not vacate that position on the
rare occasions when any one else was present;
but in other respects it would have required
an imaginative genius or a peculiarly slanderous
tongue to have set on foot or maintained
anything in the nature of a scandal. Not that
the elementary materials for the construction
of a malicious story were altogether wanting,
if the fact of a handsome young woman having
come, under somewhat peculiar circumstances,
to reside in the house of an elderly bachelor,
himself a man whose life had always been
surrounded by a certain degree of mystery,
could be held to afford such. For handsome
Mrs Caledon undeniably was, and apparently
quite young enough to have excited the
curiosity, if not the jealousy, of the fair sex
in the neighbourhood of Netherdean. But, sofar
from being desirous to attract attention,
her great object appeared to be to discourage
it ; and more than one enterprising gentleman,
who were curious to see " what old Baldwin
had got hold of," and had on various pretexts
effected an entrance to Netherdean in the confident
expectation of making an impression on

the handsome governess, were compelled to
retire ignominiously under the chilling reception
accorded them, and to confess that " by
Jove, you know, she won't stand any nonsense.
Something about her makes you feel
precious awkward. Not business, eh ? must
be a man somewhere in the background, 
can't possibly be old Baldwin." Such, at least,
were the covertly expressed sentiments of
those adventurous youths who had in vain
tried their fascinations upon her, and had
come to the mortifying conclusion that all
efforts in that direction were unavailing.

As for little Florence, her childish life was
altogether undisturbed by the speculations
and comments to which her appearance at
Netherdean had given rise. Of a shy and
timid disposition, it had been some time
before she had become accustomed to her
new home and the strange faces around her.
But by degrees the new life became more
and more attractive, and by the end of a
year she seemed a different creature. The
pure, sweet air of the Southdowns seemed
to agree with her wonderfully, and under
the gentle and affectionate discipline of Mrs

Caledon her life was certainly far from being
an unhappy one. The pretty, graceful child
soon became a favourite with every one about
the place ; though it must be confessed that,
next to Mrs Caledon, her affections were
principally centred upon Peter, the old coachman
who has already been introduced to our
readers, and to whom was intrusted the congenial
task of teaching her to ride. And an
apt pupil she proved, as the old man would
tell the neighbours with pride ; and it was
not long before she was promoted from her
first mount, a sedate old pony that had been
about the place for years, to an animal of
improved paces and more lively temperament.
It was a pretty sight to see the pair careering
over the downs together on a fine summer's
morning,  old Peter on a big brown horse,
that had been a good hunter in his day, in
his dark-grey cut-away coat and neat drab
breeches and gaiters, his weather-beaten face
lit up with a proud smile as he kept a watchful
eye on the sweet girlish figure by his side,
swaying easily to every motion of her spirited
little pony, sitting well back, hands well down,
and her soft brown hair streaming in the

wind. The girl, in fact, took as naturally to
riding as a duck to water ; and by the time
she was seventeen it would have been difficult
to find any one of her own years and
experience who had either a better seat or
better hands on a horse than Florence Graham.
It was, perhaps, the happiest moment of her
life when, about this period, she became the
possessor of " Kathleen," and, to her unspeakable
delight, was allowed to go out occasionally
with the harriers. With her first day's
fox-hunting and its results the reader is
already familiar.

Florence's life at Netherdean, then, though
perhaps somewhat lonely, had been by no
means an unhappy one. It was some little
tip before she became accustomed to Mr
Baldwin, whose dry formal manner and precise
old bachelor habits were not, perhaps,
best calculated to win the sections of a young
girl. But no one could be long in his company
without finding out that beneath a somewhat
unprepossessing exterior there lurked a
gentleness of disposition and a kindliness of
heart that it would have been impossible not
to appreciate. Florence had not been a year

at Netherdean before she and Mr Baldwin
were firm friends ; and by the time she had
reached sixteen, that charming borderland
between childhood and womanhood which, in
some respects, is more fascinating than any
other age, she could twist her " padre," as he
had been playfully styled one day by his friend
Mr Montenello, from a supposed resemblance
to some South American ecclesiastic, round
her little finger. Mrs Caledon, it should be
observed, had relinquished her charge soon
after her sixteenth birthday, and though
Florence felt the loss of her friend and governess
very keenly, she had no particular fancy
for another domestic j)receptress, and had by
this time sufficient influence over Mr Baldwin
to persuade him that it would be quite sufficient
for the completion of her education  far
better for her, in fact, in every respect  if she
were to take advantage of Mrs Ashton's kindness,
and have some finishing lessons from
various masters during her regular and generally
somewhat protracted visits to Portland
Place.

At sixteen, therefore, Florence found herself,

to all intents and purposes, in the position of
mistress of Netherclean. Not that this position
had been in any way sought by her, or that
it would ever have occurred to her to take
advantage of it. Mr Baldwin, as we have
already observed, although mild and tractable
to the last degree, was a man who liked to be
master in his own house, and would, in his
own quiet way, have speedily suppressed anything
in the shape of an usurpation of his
authority. But he had learned to love and
cherish the graceful girl who had now for
some years been the brightness of his formerly
lonely and solitary home, and he would miss
her sadly when the time came round for one of
her periodical visits to his sister. On her part,
Florence had become almost as much attached
to the old man as he was to her ; and though,
with the waywardness of her sex, she would
occasionally take a mischievous delight in a
little teasing, her fits of "contrariness" never
lasted long ; and on the whole, no father and
daughter could have been more united than
this outwardly incongruous pair. There was
one subject, indeed, which was to Florence a

perpetual and increasing sorrow, and which
was the only cloud over her otherwise happy
life. And this, by the way, brings us back to
the point whence we started at the commencement
of this chapter.

EASTHAMPTON Park.

Autumn once more  that sweetly melancholy
period of the year, when we suddenly begin to
realise that there are but three or four months
left before the time when another Christmas will
be upon us, and another year will have been
added to the past ; a period closely allied in
many respects to the autumn of life, to that
vague state when one man will be described
as middle-aged and another as elderly, but
where, in any case, it has become evident that
the summer of life is irrevocably gone, and
that, although the autumn may be very beautiful
and very enjoyable, the next stage must
surely be winter, and after that there can
be no great change until the very last.

But while it lasts, there can be no doubt
that autumn is very pleasant, and is to many
persons the most enjoyable and most eagerly
anticipated season of the year. For not only is

it synonymous with the opening of the shooting
and hunting season, and with the commencement
of the pleasantness period of count
life, but to hundreds and thousands
of busy workers, whose position debars them
from a participation in the sports of the field,
or whose inclinations lead them in other directions,
the approach of autumn implies a short
relaxation from the drudgery of daily life, and
the exchange of the used-up atmosphere of
London for the invigorating breezes of the
country or sea-side. Autumn brings with it,
in fact, a sense of rest and placid enjoyment
that belongs to no other season of the year ;
and its peculiar attributes have many a
counterpart in the corresponding period of
human life. It has been truly said by one of
the most observant and sympathetic of modern
novelists that a really beautiful woman is
never so attractive as when her loveliness
is slightly on the wane ; and as for the
pleasures and advantages of male fogeydom,
there are not wanting those who maintain
that they may be favourably compared with
the feverish aspirations of early youth.

But whichever way we look at it, the year

will pass away, and however long the golden
brightness of the summer may linger with us,
it will surely be succeeded by the sober calm
of autumn. And once more the autumn had
arrived for Gerard Courtenay, who, looking
back to the corresponding period of the previous
year, could hardly believe that it was
nearly twelve months since that memorable
night of the Shawfield ball, which had so
changed the whole aspect of his life. The
summer had slipped by with him very quickly ;
and with the exception of that single glimpse of
Florence in the street, there had been nothing
remarkable to disturb the quiet tenor of his
life. Work, that blessed distraction of a
troubled spirit, had kept him from thinking
too eunuch about himself. The session had
been an unusually heavy one, and the multifarious
duties of the Vice-president of the
General Enquiry Office had seldom called for
closer attention. Gerard had indeed for the
first time begun to take a real interest in his
work and a strong personal attachment to
his chief, who on his part had settled down to
the routine life of a Minister in a manner that
was a source of unceasing astonishment to

most of this old friends and acquaintances 
had had the effect of making him throw himself
into it heart and soul. And the more he
devoted himself to his work, the less he seemed
to care for the old business of the London
season, the ceaseless repetition of balls and
parties, and the usual " knocking about."
Everything seemed changed in this respect
to him since last year ; he now experienced
a sort of shyness in going into a ball-room,
and a feeling as if every one knew that he
had proposed to a girl, and had been rejected;
and although this uncomfortable sensation
would generally wear off after a time, and he
would sometimes enjoy a ball almost as much
as ever, it was not quite the same thing.
And so he gradually began to drop out of the
ruck of ball-going young men ; and although
a certain number of cards continued to be left
at his lodgings or at the office, it was seldom
that he would take advantage of them, and
was more often to be found under the gallery
of the House of Commons, to which, as private
secretary to a Minister, he had by courtesy
the entree, than in the " gilded saloons "
of the fashionable world. In short, our

friend seemed in a very fair way to become a
highly respectable and hard-working member
of society.

It must not be supposed, however, that
the blighted state of Lis affections had altogether
deprived him of the power of enjoying
life. He had gone in more than ever for such
out-door sports and exercises as were open to
him, and was beginning to be noticed by the
veteran swordsmen of the London School of
Arms as one of the most promising of the
younger division. He was still, moreover,
the possessor of the two noble animals which
had carried him through the previous hunting
season, and was beginning to look forward to
another with a keenness which surprised himself.
He had not unnaturally begun to
connect his lady-love with his happiest recollections
of the hunting-field ; and without
actually going so far as to contemplate
another visit to the Underdown country, he
had a sort of vague idea that another hunting
season might in some way or other bring them
together again. So far, he had stuck steadfastly
to his resolution not to attempt to see
her again for the present, in which act of self-abnegation

lie had been encouraged to the
utmost by Lady Mount Easton, who, having
originally made him promise to take no
further action in the matter for six months,
had subsequently urged him to leave it alone
till the end of the year. "If by that time,
Jerry," she said, " you feel really and truly
the same about her, why then I won't say
anything more, and, depend upon it, you
won't lose anything by waiting. If she
really cares about you at all, it's not likely
she will have married any one else by that
time ; and perhaps your own prospects may
have improved; for you know, dear Jerry,"
she added, "you won't mind my saying so,
but unless she turns out to be an heiress, you
really won't have much to marry upon." And
such was Gerard's devotion to and belief in
his charming cousin, that although he himself
had no doubt whatever as to the streno-th
of his attachment, and it was a hard struggle
to give up all idea of even seeing Florence
until another winter should come round, by
which time all sorts of complications and
difficulties might have arisen, he* adopted her
advice with the most exemplary fortitude,

and endeavoured, though with indifferent
success, to think as little about Netherdean
and its fair occupant as possible.

As the months rolled on, however, he began
to feel that the time was approaching when
he could bear his state of uncertainty and
suspense no longer, and that, come what
might, be must see Florence once more. In
the meantime he had a week or two at his
disposal, and having been detained in or about
London during the greater part of September,
he was now, at the end of the first week of
October, looking forward to some rough occasional
shooting at Easthampton Park, the
ancestral seat of his quasi-relative, the Earl of
Marlborough.

It will be apparent to our readers, from
what we Lave already said of this nobleman's
character or proclivities, that he was not
violently addicted to field - sports of any
description. But, being the possessor of a
property which contained in itself what an
auctioneer or estate agent would describe
as exceptional natural advantages for the
rearing and preservation of game, he felt
constrained to keep up a certain amount of

shooting, and although, despite the entreaties
and representations of bis keeper, he did next
to nothing in the way of rearing pheasants,
the warm, sheltered dells and copses with
which the higher ground about the park was
intersected, were always tenanted by a fair
show of wild birds; while the low-lying ground
towards the estuary which skirted one side of
the property for several miles afforded very respectable
partridge-shooting. So that, on the
whole, there was better sport to be obtained
on his lordship's comparatively unpreserved
property than on many others less favoured
by nature, where large sums were annually
expended on the artificial production of game.
Easthampton Park was situated at the
south-western extremity of Wealdshire ; but
although in the same county as Sydmonton
and other localities we have already described,
it was in a different sort of country altogether.
The downs here take a bend inland, and the
high ground gradually slopes down to a flat,
low-lying seaboard, intersected by sluggish
streams. The wild uncultivated character of
the downs has disappeared, and rolling hills
have given place to tame rectangular fields and

VOL. II. p

trim hedgerows. The Easthampton property-lay
about half-way between the downs and
the sea, and stretched away for some miles
along the banks of the muddy river Ending.
The park itself was on a gentle eminence, well
wooded without being picturesque, and commanding
here and there pleasant peeps of the
sea on one hand and the line of downs on the
other. The house was a roomy, substantial
edifice of the Georgian period, boasting no
architectural beauties whatever, but solid and
comfortable throughout.

The shooting-parties at Easthampton were
not, as a rule, very lively affairs. In these
days, when field-sports are conducted on a
scale of luxury that would have made the
hair of our simple-minded forefathers stand
on end with amazement, not to say contempt,
it requires a variety of solid inducements to
prevail upon our " gilded youth " to honour
a country house with their sublime presence.
Not only must there be good shooting, but
the cuisine and the cellar must be of the first
order ; and in addition to a lively party, including
a fair proportion of frisky matrons,
fast unmarried girls, and "smart people"

generally, there must be an entire absence of
restraint or discipline, and the motto of the
house must be " fay ce que contra." Smoking
must be allowed the moment the ladies
have left the dining-room, if indeed it has not
already been initiated by some of the fair
visitors themselves ; and a hostess who should
even object to the smell of a cigarette in her
bedrooms would probably be voted rather unreasonable.
In short, the house must combine
the selfish luxury of a club with the
refinements of a private establishment, or the
verdict will be *' not good enough," and the
gilded youth will betake themselves and their
fascinations elsewhere. There are, it is true,
a few old-fashioned houses still remaining 
such, for instance, as we have endeavoured to
depict in our representation of Sydmonton
Place  where the well-known sporting character
of the host, or the peculiar charms of the
hostess, will continue to attract without the
usual modern devices which have to be resorted
to for the purpose of securing the modern
guest. But such exceptional establishments
are few and far between ; and the result is
that the old-fashioned healthy tone of English

country-house life, which used to be at once
the admiration and the envy of foreign visitors
to this country, is gradually being supplanted
by an unwholesome reproduction of modern
fashionable life in London.

All this, however, has nothing to do with
Easthampton Park, the noble owner of which
would have been simply aghast if it had been
proposed to him to smoke in his dining-room,
and who had only lately, on the strong representations
of his wife, consented to the appropriation
of an exceedingly uncomfortable and
cheerless apartment in the vicinity of the
house-steward's room for the use of those who
could not exist without their tobacco. Easthampton
was, in fact, a very quiet, and, it
must be confessed, a somewhat dull place
to stay at. The shooting was of course only
moderate, according to modern ideas ; gambling
of any description, even down to penny
points at whist, was strictly tabooed ; and
although no exception could be taken to the
eating and drinking, the society was of a
somewhat heavy order, and the evenings, despite
Lady Narborough's praiseworthy efforts
to the contrary, were apt to be rather tedious.

But for those visitors whose principal objects
were change, country air, and quiet, the place
was not without its attractions. " Bear-fighting
" is all very well in its way, and with a
well-assorted party of congenial spirits may be
carried on without any very serious results. But
there are persons who cannot be got to see that
there is anything amusing in having "hay"
made in their bedroom during their absence,
or being "drawn" by a lively party of ladies
and gentlemen just as they are dropping off
into their first sleep. It is needless to say
that this form of diversion was unknown at
Easthampton Park ; and although the propriety
of "doing something to wake up old
Narborough" had more than once been discussed
by certain restless spirits who found
themselves there for the first and only time,
and one sprightly dame in particular had
volunteered to lead a forlorn hope to the
nocturnal storming of his private apartments,
with the avowed object of assisting the noble
earl into his bath at a time when such an immersion
would probably have been extremely
distasteful to him, these unhallowed designs
never came to anything, and his lordship was

left in peace. On the whole, therefore, Easthampton
Park had not a high general reputation
in the fashionable world as a place
to stay at, and the occasional parties who
assembled there during the autumn and
winter months were certainly more respectable
than lively.

To Gerard, however, who was scarcely ina
position to pick and choose to any great
extent, and who had not therefore been spoilt
by being made too much of, Easthampton was
a pleasant enough place to spend a few days
at. There was quite enough shooting to
satisfy his modest desires ; the Marlborough
were always very kind to him, and made him
thoroughly at home ; and having known Lord
Narborough all his life, more or less, he had
become used to his little peculiarities, and
less disposed to notice or be annoyed by them
than an ordinary casual visitor. Moreover,
at this time of year anything in the way of
a change from London was bound to be more
or less agreeable. So he had been looking
forward cheerfully to this visit, and arrived
at Easthampton, one fine October evening,
thoroughly prepared to enjoy himself, and for

the time, at least, to cast all thoughts of his
other troubles behind him. From which we
fear it will be argued that our hero was not
so desperately in love as he would perhaps
have wished it to be supposed.

THE MAN AT THE COVERT SIDE.

It was a lovely October afternoon. The sky
was blue and cloudless ; the woods had
scarcely begun to put on their autumn
colouring, and were dense and leafy as in
June. Here and there a gleam of golden or
russet foliage showed that some deciduous
tree had succumbed to the mellowing influences
of the advancing year ; and on the
uplands the cleared stubble and an occasional
plough already at work made it evident that
harvest was over. But in other respects it
might have been a golden afternoon in midsummer,
and a glorious day for cricket.

A party of four guns from the Park had
been engaged during the early part of the day
in shooting partridges on the lower ground
towards the river, and were now about to beat
one or two small coverts on their way home.
It was early for covert-shooting, particularly

in such an unusually fine autumn ; but some
pheasants were required for the house, and
the keeper was anxious to secure certain hares
whom he suspected of wandering proclivities,
before they should stray away from the covert
and fall a prey to his natural enemies, the
neighbouring small farmers. As, moreover,
the gentlemen who were sent out shooting at
Easthampton were not invariably the most
deadly of shots, and were not unfrequently,
in fact, apt to be almost more dangerous to
their companions than to the game, he was
anxious to take advantage of having one or
two good guns out to make something of a
bag. For on the present occasion the party
included not only our friend Gerard, whom
we have already seen to be a fair performer,
but an old General, a cousin of Lady Marlborough's,
who, when the walking was not
too difficult, was a very deadly marksman ;
and the Eev. Thomas Wilmington, the rector of
an adjoining parish, who was decidedly above
the average. The fourth was an old college
friend of Lord Narborough's, a most estimable
character in every other relation of life, but
who, although manifesting a laudable anxiety

to distinguish himself with his gun, was
perhaps hardly the sort of man whom an
experienced sportsman woukl select as a companion
in the field, and whose performances
were regarded by the keeper with ill-disguised
contempt.

It was now about half-past three, and the
beaters were about to enter a thick belt of
oak copse which skirted the north side of the
park for about three hundred yards, and then,
taking a turn to the right, ran out almost to a
point along the banks of a little rivulet. A
rough tangle of briars surrounded the whole,
and within, a dense undergrowth of hazel and
Spanish chestnut seemed to present an almost
impenetrable mass of greenery, where pheasants
might lurk with impunity, and laugh at
the attempts of the beaters to get them up.
These gentlemen now hung about outside,
mopping their brows, picking nuts from the
hazel boughs, and showing no particular inclination
to plunge into the depths of the
thicket before them. But Mr Underwood
the keeper was inexorable, and proceeded to
unfold his plan of operations.

*now if you two gentlemen," he began.

touching his hat to the General and Gerard,
"will go on pretty near to the end, well just
bring it up to you, and the other two guns
will keep ahead of the beaters, one on each
side. There should be a few pheasants here,
but it'll be terrible work to get 'em up, and
they'll likely run on into the gill yonder.
We'll get some of 'em up at the end, though,
and there'll very likely be some hares here
too. You go along to the corner on the topside,
Mr Courtenay, and you sir," addressing
the General, '* keep along the bottom ; you'll
find it easier walking. Now men, set' in ;
we've no time to lose."

Away went Gerard along the top of the
wood, until he arrived at the corner indicated
to him, where he proceeded to take up a commanding
position. The ground on this side
of the wood was high, and commanded a
pretty view across the park, with the calm
sea shimmering in the distance on one side,
and the hazy outline of the downs on the
other. It was hotter than ever. Gerard had
had a good deal of walking after the partridges,
and felt rather lazy and sleepy. There
was not a soul near him ; the wood was perfectly

still ; lie could just hear the beaters
beginning to struggle slowly along at the far
end, but it would be a long time before they
got near him, and he felt convinced in his
own mind that no pheasant would be such a
fool as to break from such a covert unless
very hard pressed. And as for the hares, they
might take their chance. So he established
himself comfortably on a stile, with his gun
across his knees, and began to think about
Florence.

He had been staring vaguely before him for
some minutes, in a comfortable state of drowsiness,
and was very nearly falling asleep,
when  whish  a splendid old cock pheasant
skimmed out of the Avoid just over his head
and shot away over the park. Tumbling ofi*
the stile, Gerard fired both barrels hurriedly
after the bird, now a good distance off, but
although he had evidently hit him, he had the
mortification of seeing him continue his course
with apparently undiminished strength, and
make for the bottom of the park. " Hang it
all ! what a fool I Alas," he muttered, as he
reloaded ; " lovely shot that would have been,
and I've tailored him too, I'm afraid," and

relinquishing his seat on the stile, he was
preparing to keep a better look-out when his
ear caught a movement behind, and looking
round he perceived that he was no longer
alone.

The new-comer was a tall, powerful-looking
man of apparently about sixty years of age.
He might have been a good deal more or
he might have been a good deal less ; for
although his hair was almost white, a short
Vandyke beard and moustache were only here
and there streaked with grey, and still for the
most part a deep black. And although-the
weather-beaten and sun browned face was
seamed and wrinkled, the figure was erect
and vigorous, and might have belonged to
a man not very much over fifty. He was
dressed in a slouched wide-awake hat and
a dark suit of clothes of a somewhat nautical
cut, and was smoking a very long cigar. He
might, to all appearance, have been the captain
of a foreign merchant vessel, or an
American mining agent, or possibly an insurrectionist
leader biding his time in England
until a fresh opportunity for mischief should
arise in his own country. He had, in fact,

the general appearance of a foreigner in
somewhat reduced circumstances ; but at
the same time there was a certain look of
dignity and breeding about him which convinced
Gerard at a glance that the man was
a gentleman.

''Ah," observed the stranger, taking his
cigar from his lips, and speaking with the
purest English accent, "you were just a little
late for that cock, eh ? But you've hit him
though," he continued, shading his eyes, and
following the bird's course over the corner of
thee park. " Yes, he's down, and I think he's
a dead bird too. You'll find him somewhere
near the little bridge at the head of the pond
by the forester's house."

'' Who the devil are you ? " thought Gerard ;
you seem to know all about the place, anyhow
Yes," he replied, aloud, *'I think he's
down, but I bungled him frightfully. I ought
to have killed him dead, but I wasn't looking
out. They've only just begun to beat,
and I didn't expect anything to get up so
soon."

**Ah, just so," responded the stranger,
showing by a nod that he appreciated

the situation. " Rather early for covert-shooting,
isn't it ? You'll want some leaves
off before you do anything much in that
way."

Yes," replied Gerard, " but they wanted
some pheasants killed, so we're just having
a turn through some of these small coverts
outside."

"I see," said the stranger, looking about
him with an appearance of interest. *' I suppose
you'll work along the gill there afterwards,
and finish up near the gate into the
road?"

 Yes, I fancy that's what we're going todo,"
replied Gerard, keeping his eyes fixed
on the wood, and determined not to miss
another chance. " Wonder who the deuce he
is," he thought to himself ; "one of these queer
friends of Narborough's, I suppose, who's just
arrived. You know this place pretty well,
I daresay?" he continued, without looking
up, but feeling it incumbent upon himself
to say something civil.

*eyes," returned the other, slowly, with a
peculiar smile, which, if Gerard had seen it,
could hardly have failed to attract his attention

; " yes," he continued, " I have been
here before."

There was something in the tone of his
voice, as he said this, that caused Gerard to
look up. But the peculiar expression had
now passed away, and he was smoking imperturbably,
absorbed apparently in his own
reflections. And now a shot or two were
heard from the other side of the wood, and
the appearance of the Rev. Mr Wilmington
round a corner about a hundred yards off
showed that the beaters were beginning to
draw near. A hare broke away in front of
Gerard, and was promptly rolled over, and an
old hen pheasant went back over the beaters'
heads, successfully running the gauntlet of four
barrels from the two guns on the flanks.

Ah, there are the guns coming up," observed
Gerard's friend ; " I must be off now.
Good-day ! and don't forget that pheasant
down by the pond." And getting over the
stile upon which Gerard had been sitting, he
disappeared in a moment.

'' Who's your friend ? " inquired Mr Wilmington
, as he sauntered up a few minutes
later, having first compared notes with Gerard

as to what had been seen, killed, or missed
during the beating of the wood.

Haven't an idea," replied Gerard. " He's
rather a rum 'un to look at ; but he's a gentleman,
I could see that plain enough. He
must be some one who's arrived to-day, and
come out for a walk alone. We shall meet
him at dinner, possibly."

Now then, gentlemen," said Mr Underwood,
as he emerged with his red-hot beaters
from the covert, " we'll just take the whole of
the gill there up before us. It's a good long
beat, but there's sure to be some pheasants \ip
at the end, and I've sent old Joe Diadems
round to stop, so they won't run out. Two
guns on each side, please, gentlemen ; better
not get too far forward at first, as they'll very
likely come back. You come along of us this
time, Mr Courtenay ; you'll very likely get
a rabbit or two, if you can see 'em."

The gentleman who rejoiced in the somewhat
peculiar name of Diadems was one of
those nondescript characters who are generally
found hanging on in some undefined capacity
to the out-door department of a large establishment.
He was not exactly an under-vol.

II. Q

keeper, although he received pay as such, and
although no shooting-party at Easthampton
would have been considered complete without
his presence. He had been in his younger
days a notorious poacher, and more than
suspected of being in league with the gangs
of smugglers who at that time carried on
extensive operations along the greater part
of the southern coast. But as he grew older,
and as his old associates either disappeared or
paid the legal penalty of their delinquencies,
he became, if not a more respectable, at least
a less outwardly reprehensible character, and
had now for many years been attached to
Easthampton Park in the capacity of trapper,
ferret, and general *' odd man" in connection
with the keeper's department. Nobody
knew exactly how old he was, but he had
been about the Park for the last thirty years,
and had been well known in the district for
some ten or fifteen years previously; so it
was generally assumed that he was between
sixty and seventy. But he was a wiry, hard-bitten
old man, who looked as if he had got a
good deal of vitality in him yet, and his
intimate acquaintance with every nook and

corner, not only of Eastliampton woods, but
of the whole country for miles round, made
him, although a somewhat independent, yet
an exceedingly useful auxiliary to the head-keeper
at the Park. He was a queer,
unaccountable old fellow, and would sometimes
in the summer disappear for weeks and
months together, turning up, however, when
the shooting season began, just as if nothing
had happened, and always contriving to betaken
on the staff again. He was anything
but a favourite with his lordship, who looked
upon him as a disreputable, not to say immoral
old man, and who had repeatedly threatened
to have nothing more to do with him. But
his extensive local knowledge and varied
accomplishments had made him so useful to
the regular keepers that they seemed unable
to do without him ; and so, somehow or other,
year after year beheld Diadems just as much
to the front as ever.

So the party proceeded up Norman's Gill,
as the long winding ravine was called ; and it
soon became evident that Mr Underwood was
right, and that there were some pheasants
here at any rate. Three or four had already

got up in front, and fallen to the forward guns,
and one or two more lead come back over the
beaters' heads. But just as they had got
about half way up the beat, where the wood
took a sharp turn round to the left, it became
evident to Gerard, who was outside, and who
from his position was able to command a view
of the far corner, up to which they were beating,
that things were not going altogether
rioht in that direction.

I say. Underwood," he called out to the
keeper inside, "there's something wrong up
at the end ; I can see the pheasants running
out like anything. There's half-a-dozen gone
right across the field already, and there's
another just going out now. I don't believe
there's any one stopping there, you know."

"What the deuce is the old fellow about ? "
growled the keeper, as he emerged from the
wood to survey the situation. " Darn the old
devil ! " he exclaimed, " he's never got thereat
all. Here, you beaters, stand steady a bit.
Bill," addressing an under-keeper, " you come
along o' me, and let's see what's up. You'd
better come too, Mr Courtenay, in case anymore
get up. To think that old Joe should

play us such a trick, now. However, I'll be
even with the old 'un, see if I ain't."

A minute's run across the open brought
them to the far corner of the wood, one or two
more pheasants stealing out and fluttering
away as they approached. It was perfectly
clear that there was nothing to prevent them
from doing so, and it was impossible to say
how many might not have already escaped.

Who'd have thought it now ! " indignantly
exclaimed Mr Underwood; "there'd ha' been
just a nice lot of birds at this here corner,
and now just as likely as not they've all run
out. Howsomever, we must finish it out now.
You'd better stop where you are, Mr Courtenay.
Come along. Bill ; I'll give old Joe a
talking-to when I catches him, you see if I
don't."

He was just turning to rejoin his beaters,
when his eye caught sight of a figure sitting
crouched in a ditch about twenty yards from
the end of the wood. He stopped short, as
if shot. "Why, darn me if there aunt Joe
Diadems after all ! Joe, you old devil, what
the blazes ha ye been up to now ? "

The delinquent Diadems was sitting low

down in the ditch, with his hands on his
knees, and staring straight before him. The
healthy, bronzed hue that usually overspread
his weather-beaten features had departed, and
his face was ashy pale. Large drops of
perspiration coursed down his forehead, which
he kept mopping in an aimless sort of way
with a red pocket-handkerchief, and his eyes
seemed starting out of his head. He still,
however, retained his consciousness and voice,
occasionally ejaculating, 0 Lord, Lord!"
in a scared and horror-struck manner. Altogether
he presented the appearance of a man
who had received a sudden and violent shock
to his nervous system, which it would take
him some time to get over.

Why, Joe, what on earth's the matter ? "
exclaimed Bill the under-keeper, less immediately
concerned than his chief in the escape
of the pheasants. " Ain't you well, eh ? "

Well ! " roared Mr Underwood, furiously ;
he's drunk, that's what he is. Get away
home, you old rascal, and I'll take care you
don't come out again along of us no more."

No, he ain't drunk," said Bill, regarding
him attentively ; " leastways he parent had

northern' to drink since lunch-time, 'cos he's
been alongside o' me the whole way. He
looks regular skeart like ; seems to me more
like some sort of a fit, maybe. Can't yer
speak, Joe, and tell us what's the matter,
man ? " shaking him gently by the shoulders.
Why, you look as if you'd seen a ghost."

Ghost be hanged ! " growled Mr Underwood
; "it's drink, that's what it is. Why,
he was well enough an hour ago. Shouldn't
wonder if he's been and met some o' them
poaching mates o' his, who've given him 'ars
a bottle o' gin, likely. Why, Joe," he continued,
though in a somewhat milder voice,
you've been and let away all them blessed
pheasants, and spoilt the whole beat."

At these words the unfortunate Diadems
appeared to be partially roused to a sense of
his shortcomings. "Pheasants, ah, pheasants,"
he repeated, in a dazed sort of way, and
stretching out his hand for his stick, which
lay in the ditch beside him, he stood up, and
began to tap against a tree in a vague sort of
way, as if half conscious that this was what
he ought to have been doing all the time.

Ah, it's all very well to tap now," growled

Mr Underwood, " but they're all gone. Well,
if he ain't drunk, he's precious like it, that's
all I can say. Heine, Bill, take the old beggar
into the road, and send him home. Best go
with him a bit, and see if he gets better.
You stop here, Mr Courtenay, and I'll go
back and get this finished, though it's precious
little use now." And he hurried back
to the beaters and the impatient guns in
the rear, who were wondering what on earth
was the cause of all this delay.

DIDDUMS.

Sore to hear there was a little contretemps
about the shooting to-day, Gerard," observed
Lady Narborough to our hero, who found
himself sitting next to her at dinner that
evening.

Oh, well," replied Gerard, anxious, to
make the best of the affair, "it didn't much
matter, you know. It was just at the end,
and we had had a very nice day already ; and
after all, there the pheasants are, all the same,
and there will be all the more to shoot next
time."

"It was old Diadems' fault, wasn't it?"
queried her ladyship. "I haven't heard all
about it, but Narborough," glancing at her
husband, "seemed very angry with him. I
am afraid he must be rather a disreputable
old man ; but one doesn't quite like to send
him away after being all his life about the

place. Do you think yourself he was really
drunk, or was he ill, or what was it ? "

Well, Tm sure I don't know," returned
Gerard. "He didn't look to me the least
as if hie was drunk, and I don't exactly see
how lie could have managed it in so short
a time. But then, again, he didn't look like
a man in a fit, you know ; no foaming at the
mouth, or anything of that sort. No, what
Bill the under-keeper said seemed nearest the
mark, that he looked just like a man who
had seen a ghost. The Gill isn't haunted, by
any chance, is it ? "

*' Not that I ever heard of," she replied,
laughing, " and old Diadems doesn't look like a
man who would be likely to see ghosts, does he?
I'm sorry it has happened, though, for I am
afraid Narborough is rather put out about it."

It certainly did appear as if his lordship
was hardly in the best of tempers. He sat
gloomily at his end of the table, evidently
turning over the unhappy Diadems' long roll
of delinquencies in his mind, and thinking
how he could best get rid of him. He cared
very little about the shooting ; but that this
wicked old man, with whose enormities he

had put up for so many years, should have
presumed to get drunk while on duty, as he
felt convinced had been the case, and so
bring discredit on his establishment, was not
to be borne. He would dismiss him incontinently
next day, and give orders that he
should not be allowed about the place again.
In the meantime he sat silent and grumpy,
and made every one near him feel very
uncomfortable.

"By the way," resumed Gerard, looking
round the table, and anxious to change the
conversation from the inconvenient topic of
Diadems, " I expected to see a new arrival at
dinner to-night. There was a man came and
talked to me to-day, who seemed to take an
interest in the shooting, and to know all about
the place ; and I thought he must be some one
who had just arrived, you know, and came
over for a walk."

No, there's nobody come to-day," replied
Lady Narborough. " Who could it be ? What
sort of a looking man was he, Gerard ? "

Well," returned Gerard, " he was rather a
queer-looking fellow. Oldish man ; tall, grey
hair, short grizzly beard, and got up something

like a sailor, I should say. But he
talked quite like a gentleman, and seemed
quite at home here. A pheasant of mine fell
some way off, and he told me exactly whereto
look for it,  down by a bridge, he said, at
the end of the pond near the forester's house."

"Bridge," grunted his lordship, who had
been listening to the conversation from the
other end of the table, 'there's no b  b 
bridge there ; what on earth did he mean by
talking about a b  b  bridge ? "

"Well, to tell you the truth," said Gerard,
I didn't seem to remember any bridge there
myself, and I've been down there several times.
But he seemed to know all about it, and it
wasn't worth while contradicting him."

*' Oh, but you know, Narborough," chimed
in Lady Julia, his lordship's maiden aunt,
there was a bridge there once, though it
must be thirty or forty years ago, before you
were born almost. I remember it quite well
when we were children, your poor father, and
your uncle, and all of us. We used to call it
the Duck's Bridge, because the forester's ducks
used to come and sit on it with their heads
under their wines, and we used to drive them

into the pond. It was a little wooden bridge,
you know, and it gradually rotted away and
fell into the water. Oh ! it must be forty
years since then, quite. Dear me ! I wonder
who your friend could have been, Gerard. It
must have been some one who remembered
the place in the old days."

But Lady Julia's reminiscences did not
awaken any sentimental feeling in the heart
of the present owner of Easthampton Park ;
on the contrary, the mere fact of an unknown
stranger having presumed to display an acquaintance,
and that apparently of long standing,
with his ancestral domains, was enough
to rouse his serious displeasure. " Some
b  b  blackguard smuggling friend of Did-duns',
I'll be bound," he stammered out. ** It
was he who made him d  d  drunk, no
doubt. What business has he hanging about
here, I sh  sh  should like to know ? I'll
have the p  p  policeman up here tomorrow,
and have him warned off the p  p  place,
and D  D  Diadems too," he muttered,
gradually working himself up into a passion,
and getting red in the face with suppressed
indignation.

Yell, I must say," put in Gerard, who,
having introduced the topic of the mysterious
stranger, and being, moreover, the only one of
the party who had seen him, felt bound to
stand up for him to a certain extent, " he '
didn't look the least like a blackguard ; and if
he ever was a smuggler, he must have been a
highly respectable one. He was dressed in a
rough, outlandish sort of way, but Tm perfectly
certain he was a gentleman, and I don't
think you need be the least uneasy about
him."

But Lord Narborough was not to be convinced.
He had got into his head that the
stranger was in some way or other connected
with Diadems ; and when an idea had once
taken root in his massive intellect, it required
no ordinary agency to dislodge it. So he
grunted, and choked, and muttered vengeance
against Diadems and everything connected
with him, and, in short, made himself generally
unpleasant to every one at the dinner-table.


Dear me ! " resumed Lady Julia, in an
undertone, towards the end of dinner, by
which time the conversation had happily been

diverted from the unlucky Diadems, " how
strange it was that that man should have
spoken about that old bridge ! I haven't
heard it spoken of for thirty years at least,
and I had quite forgotten all about it. Oh
dear I it makes one feel very old. Can't you
remember what he was like, Gerard ? I am
trying to think of any one who it could
possibly have been."

* Well, there was nothing very wonderful
about him," replied Gerard. " He looked
like a foreigner, and he looked something
like a sailor too. But then he spoke English
perfectly, and he had a way of speaking which
sounded more like a soldier than a sailor. I
mean, he spoke in rather a commanding sort
of way, as if he was a bit of a swell when he
was at home, you know. You see lots of men
like him hanging about in London, but he
wasn't the sort of man you'd expect to meet
at the corner of a wood down here. But I
think the less we say about him the better ;
don't you ? " with a glance at his lordship.
I expect old Diadems will catch it tomorrow."


By the end of the evening, however, it

appeared that his lordship had to a certain
extent recovered his temper. '' I think it will
be all right, Gerard," whispered Lady Marlborough
to our hero, as he lighted her candle
for her. " Narborough has sent for Diadems
to be here early tomorrow morning, before
breakfast ; but I think he only means to
give him a good talking-to, and won't send
him away this time."

But next morning, when Gerard came down
to breakfast, being, as usual, rather late, things
seemed worse than ever. Lady Narborough's
face wore an anxious and troubled expression,
as if she had been having " rather a time of
it " with her lord, who sat sulkily at his end of
the table, munching steadily at his breakfast,
but scarcely deigning to address a remark
to any one. A general feeling of discomfort
and uneasiness appeared to pervade the whole
party, and it was perfectly clear that something
had gone very wrong.

"What on earth's up now ? " thought Gerard,
as he took a vacant place besides Lady Julia.
"Diadems again, I suppose. What's the row?"
he whispered to his neighbour ; '* his lordship
looks as black as thunder."

Oh, haven't you heard ? " she replied, in
the same tone. '' Diadems never came this
morning, and now it seems he has disappeared
altogether, and Narborough's so angry about
it."

'' Oh, is that all?" returned Gerard. " Why,
he's always disappearing and turning up again,
isn't he ? I thought he must have committed
a murder at least."

Oh, but it's such an odd thing for him
to go away just now, you know, Gerard; and
then Narborouoh thinks that strange man
you saw has had something to do without.
He's really very angry."

What rubbish ! " muttered Gerard, who
was perhaps less apt to be impressed by his
lordship's little exhibitions of temper than
his own immediate family circle. '' They
oughtn't to let him make such an ass of
himself. So Diadems hasn't appeared, I
hear ? " he continued aloud, addressing himself
cheerfully to Lady Narborough, but feeling
much in the position of one who should
attempt to make a joke at a funeral, or on
any other equally inappropriate occasion.

Poor Lady Narborough did not answer,

VOL. II. R

except to look appealingly at Gerard. But
his lordship had heard the observation, and
took upon himself to reply.

"No, D  D  Diadems has not ap  p 
feared," he stuttered out ; " and what's more,
I'll take good care he doesn't ap  p  pear
at Easthampton again. I'll have no more of
these s  s  sort of fellows about the place,"
he continued, gradually working himself up
into a passion, and looking angrily at Gerard,
as if he considered him in some way or other
implicated in the affair.

By Jove, what an odd thing ! " remarked
Gerard, unconcernedly. "However, it will
save you any more trouble, won't it, his
having gone away on his own hook ? "

But his lordship did not appear disposed
to see it in this light ; and the General by no
means mended matters by suggesting audibly
to Lady Julia that there might possibly be a
lady in the case ; an insinuation which had
the effect of producing something approaching
to an explosion on the part of the noble host,
and caused the immediate break-up of the
breakfast party.

No further intelligence respecting the

absconding Diadems was received during
the day ; and, in fact, the remainder of
Gerard's visit passed away without anything
definite having been heard of him ; the result
being that Lord Narborough's temper, which
was apt to be affected by what to the world
in general might seem very trifling incidents,
became so exceedingly short that his guests
began to wish devoutly that Diadems and
everything connected with him were at the
bottom of the sea. " What the devil does he
want to make such a fuss about ? " growled
the General ; " the man's gone, and as* he
never liked him, he ought to be devilish glad
to get rid of him. If I were my lady, I'd
be hanged if I'd stand such nonsense, or else
I'd give him something worth while losing his
temper about, hanged if I wouldn't, and see
how he liked that."

It certainly was rather curious that the old
gentleman should have suddenly disappeared
in this mysterious way, at a time of year, too,
when his services were in such requisition,
and when it was consequently to his own
advantage to be on the spot. And even if
it could have been proved that he had really

been drunk, it was hardly probable that the
consciousness of his delinquency should have
so weighed upon bim as to make him consider
it necessary to beat a retreat. He lived all
alone in a little cottage on the Ashford Road,
about a quarter of a mile beyond the little
village of Easthampton ; and a careful search
over this secluded domicile revealed nothing
that could throw any light upon his disappearance.
His worldly goods and chattels were of
a very humble and unpretentious order ; but
such as they were, they had been left undisturbed
in their usual places. A theory that
he had gone off on a poaching expedition was
shaken by the fact of his rusty old single-barrelled
gun being found hanging up on its
usual hooks over the fireplace, together with
the accompaniments of powder-flask and shot-belt.
His rabbit-traps, too, were all lying
together in a corner ; and a closer search
disclosed certain extremely suspicious-looking
wires, which could hardly be said to form any
part of the regulation equipment of an under-keeper.
And, strangest of all, there was
actually a small packet of tobacco, showing
clearly either that he had left in such a hurry

as to forget what to him was almost the staff
of life, or else that he intended to return very
shortly.

But no one had seen him depart ; and
nothing, in fact, was known of his movements
after about five o'clock on the day of
his disappearance, at which hour he had been
left by Bill Simmons the under-keeper. This
functionary had accompanied him as far as
the village, and then, as he seemed to have to
a great extent recovered, had left him to go
home by himself. But Bill stuck to it persistently
that he was not under the influence
of liquor. " He went very queer as far as the
village," he reported, " and kept muttering to
himself as if he was dreaming ; and then he
seemed to get a bit better, and he says to me,
says he, ' All right. Bill, I'll get home right
enough now,' and then he looked me in the face
just as if he wanted to say summit, but he
didn't say northern', but he give me a squeeze of
the hand, and off" he goes as quiet as possible,
though he still looked pretty bad. No, he
won't drunk, I'll take my oath, and he
didn't smell o' liquor neither."

He had not gone off by train, for he was well

known to every one at the little station, and
nothing had been seen of him there. But a
few days after his disappearance, the house-steward,
who had gone over to the market
town of Ashford, about twelve miles off, to pay
a visit to the landlord of the Bull Hotel and
posting-house, and who had of course imparted
the story to his friend, was informed, in the
course of conversation, that on the particular
day in question a carriage and pair had been
ordered to meet a gentleman at the station and
take him over to Easthampton, returning again
in the evening ; that the carriage started with
the gentleman on the return journey about seven
o'clock, but that the driver was stopped all of
a sudden by the gentleman at a cross-roads,
about a mile from the village, to pick up a
man who appeared to be waiting there, and
who at once got into the carriage. It was a
dark night, and the driver could not discern
the features of the man, who was, moreover,
muffled up in a heavy coat ; but he was ordered
to drive straight to Ashford Station, where he
dropped both his passengers. The gentleman
was described as a tall, elderly man, with a
greyish beard, and answered on the whole

to the description of the stranger seen by
Gerard. Doubtless, the driver of the carriage,
who had evidently been rather struck by what
had happened, might have had something
more to say on the subject; but unfortunately
he had left the hotel the very next day, having
only been engaged on a temporary job ;
and the landlord had not an idea where he
had gone to. Some importance, moreover, was
attached to the evidence of an under-gardener,
who had been at Ashford market that day,
and had gone to the station to see a friend off
by the nine o'clock train. A minute or two
before the train started, a fly from the Bull
had driven up, and two men had got out,
taken tickets, and got hurriedly into the train.
As they crossed the platform, the light from a
lamp fell on the face of one of them, who was
dressed in a slouched hat and a coat turned
up over his ears, "and for a moment"' the
horticulturist averred, " I could have sworn it
were old Joe Diadems." But just as he was
about to step forward and address him, both
men got into a first-class carriage together ;
and then," as he sagely remarked, 'of course

I kuowed as it couldn't be Diadems, so I didn't
think northern' more about it."

By degrees, however, public interest in the
subject died out. His lordship gradually recovered
his temper, and in a fortnight's time
the disappearance of Joe Diadems had become
a matter of past history.

RED TAPE.

There was confusion at the General Enquiry
Office. From the Permanent Secretary down
to the office-keeper's boy, an expression of
concern, not to say dismay, sat upon every
brow. Heads of departments went in and out
of Mr Mill's room with grave and anxious
faces, and junior clerks conversed together in
groups in an undertone, exhibiting all the
appearance of men who were weighted with a
load of secret care and responsibility. Even
the messengers went about with pursed-up
lips and heads on one side, as if they were the
depositories of secrets that, if revealed, might
set the whole of Europe in a blaze, and shake
the British Constitution to its foundation. In
short, it was clear that something extraordinary
had happened, and that a complication
of an unusually serious nature had arisen in the
internal organisation of this admirably conducted
Government department.

To come shortly to the point, an appalling
discovery had just been made, which threatened
to seriously imperil the prestige and
reputation of the office, to say nothing of
ulterior consequences, the extent of which it
would be absolutely impossible to predict. A
document of indescribable importance was
missing, and the united wisdom of the office
was powerless to form the slightest idea as to
what had become of it.

For some time past a commission had been
sitting at Paris, composed of delegates from
the International Office, the Aboriginal Office,
and the French and Spanish Foreign Offices,
to consider certain important questions in
connection with the fisheries of the island of
San, Fernando, which, as every one knows, is
one of our most thriving West Indian colonies,
adjoining the continent of South America.
The shores of the island had long been resorted
to by French and Spanish, or rather Venezuelan
fishermen, who claimed certain ancient
fishery rights in those waters, but between
whom and the islanders there existed a traditional
feud, which on several occasions during
the last two or three years had culminated in

serious disturbances, not always unattended
with bloodshed and loss of life. The matter
had, in fact, assumed such a serious aspect
that the constant presence of a British gunboat
was considered necessary to preserve
order on the fishing-grounds, and despatches
and diplomatic notes innumerable had already
passed between the various governments concerned.


The Commission had now been sitting for
three or four months, and the commissioners,
finding doubtless that Paris was a very agreeable
city in which to sojourn at the public
expense, showed no particular inclination to
bring their labours abruptly to a close. They
had, however, succeeded in delivering themselves
of a preliminary report, and the matter
was to be brought before Parliament during
the approaching session, as a technical question
had arisen respecting certain points in
the original charter of the colony of San
Fernando, upon which, in the opinion of the
law officers of the Crown, it was considered impossible
to arrive at a decision without being
in the first instance formally submitted to
the Estates of the Realm. For this purpose

it was necessary to produce the charter, ora
properly authenticated copy. The charter
itself was in the keeping of the Governor and
Legislature of San Fernando ; but a copy of
it, together with other documents of equal
importance relating to the colonies, had
always been preserved in the Aboriginal Office
in London, until, in the course of years, they
had been handed over to the custody of the
General Enquiry Office. It was this document
that, on being required, was now found to have
disappeared.

It would be difficult to describe the consternation
that prevailed in the office when
this startling discovery became known. The
charters, letters patent, and other specially
important documents were all kept under
lock and key in the chief clerk's own room,
in iron-plated closets which were accessible to
no one but himself or some other person
deputed by him. The particular receptacle
wherein the copy of the charter of San Fernando
had been deposited had not been opened for
some time, and the pigeon-hole where the
precious document had reposed was found to
be coated with dust, showing that its disappearance

must have been of no very recent
date. The chief clerk himself was of course
above suspicion, and no amount of cross-examination
could shake the asseverations of
his assistants that they knew nothing about
it. Such documents were very rarely required ;
and the last that could be remembered of it
was that it had been had out about ten years
previously, to show to some newly-appointed
governor, when the chief clerk was able to
swear that he had replaced it with his own
hands. The wildest conjectures, as is usual in
such cases, were freely hazarded on the subject.
It was thought by some that, being on
parchment, it might have furnished a meal for
rats or mice, which were known to abound in
the office; and the whole place was turned
upside down to see whether the same fate had
befallen any other document. Then it was
suggested that the chief clerk, who was given
to an occasional nap on quiet afternoons,
might have walked in his sleep, and, jackdaw-like,
have unconsciously secreted the precious
document somewhere else. Suspicions, too,
were directed towards the family of a charwoman
employed at the office, whose eldest

son was known by the office-keeper to occupy
a prominent position in a Socialist debating
club in Bermondsey, and who might have been
a tool in the hands of political desperadoes.
But, anyhow, the precious charter was gone,
and no amount of speculation had the slightest
effect in casting a ray of light upon the cause
of its disappearance.

We regret to be compelled to state that the
member of the General Enquiry Office who
seemed least affected by this terrible national
disaster was the noble Vice-president himself,
who indeed exhibited an amount of equanimity
on the subject that to Mr Mills, the more experienced
Permanent Secretary, was perfectly
incomprehensible. He had been summoned
from Newmarket, much to his disgust, by
an urgent and somewhat obscurely worded
telegram from his subordinate, and it must
be confessed that when the reason was explained
to him, he by no means exhibited the
amount of interest that the occasion appeared
to demand.

'' Well, my dear Mr Mills," he observed,
having listened with becoming gravity to that
official's tale of woe, " it's a great bore certainly

; but, after all, it doesn't seem to me
such a very awful thing, you know. I suppose
we can't well get on without it, can we ? "

Good gracious, no, my lord ! " replied Mr
Mills, horrified at his chief's calmness ; "it's
certain to be called for the very first thing
when the question comes on in Parliament,
and it may very likely be wanted before that
for the law officers. Why, I really couldn't say
how soon it might be required ; I should trust
not within the next two months, but it's quite
impossible to say."

'' Well then, what's to be done ? " inquired
his lordship, standing in an easy attitude
before the fire ; " I suppose we must get hold
of the original, and have another copy made.

There is an original of the d d thing

somewhere, isn't there ? "

* Good heavens ! yes, my lord ; the original

is safe at San Fernando ; that's to say "

A fearful thought had struck him. What if it
should all be part of some terrible Nihilist or
Socialist conspiracy, and the original charter
should also have been stolen by an agent sent
out to San Fernando for the express purpose !
Why, if the charter was gone, who was to say

that the island was really a British colony ?
The question might be raised in the House of
Commons by some advanced Radical, anxious
for the dismemberment of the empire, and
how was it to be answered ? In these revolutionary
days it was impossible to foresee what
Satanic schemes might not be hatching in the
brains of the leaders of some secret society,
and a plot might be on foot to undermine the
whole colonial empire by the simple process
of gradually abstracting the title-deeds of
each colony ? And he, Mr Mills, the justly
esteemed Permanent Secretary, would be held
responsible for it all ! The very thought
made him turn deadly pale, and he was
obliged to hold on to the back of an arm-chair
to support himself. " Oh yes, of course," he
continued, though in a somewhat faint and
hesitating voice, " the original is safe enough 
at San Fernando  of course. Oh no ! nothing
can possibly have happened to that, I
trust."

Well then, we'd better find out, hadn't
we?" observed Lord Eavendale, somewhat
astonished at the manner in which the Permanent
Secretary appeared affected by what

had happened. "I'm afraid, you know," he
went on, " I'm not so much concerned about it
as I ought to be ; but of course I'll do anything
you think right. I suppose there's a telegraph
to San Fernando, isn't there ? We can just
wire out and get an answer in an hour or two,
I suppose, and then we can settle what to do
next, eh ? "

"Ah, my lord," almost groaned Mr Mills,
that's just the worst part of. It's most unfortunate,
and seems a sort of fatality, but
just at this moment we can't telegraph. I
have inquired privately at the Aboriginal
Office, and it seems that they are just changing
their telegraphic cypher ; the old one
has been called in, and the new one won't
be out at San Fernando for about three weeks
yet ; so they can only telegraph in clear  in
the ordinary way, you know, and we couldn't
possibly do that. It really is too unlucky,
happening just at this moment of all others."
And poor Mr Mills very nearly broke down.

But why the devil can't we telegraph in
the usual way ? " inquired his lordship ; " what
harm can that do ? "

Oh, it would never do," replied Mr Mills,

VOL. II. s

shaking his head. "It would get about
directly, through some clerk or employe, and
the whole thing would be known everywhere.
No ; the only thing will be to write a secret
despatch, and we can't do that for another ten
days now, till the next West Indian mail goes.
Of course the Governor can telegraph back in
clear, so that we shall understand, without
making any reference to the charter ; but we
shall have to wait three weeks for that."

Well then, we must just make the best of
it," returned the Vice-president. " I haven't
the slightest doubt myself that it s all right,
you know. Why, who the devil would want

to steal a d d publishing thing like that ?

Of course I don't mean any disrespect to anything
connected with the empire, and the
Constitution, and all that sort of thing ; but
between you and me, no man in his senses
would want to steal a rotten old charter.
Why, we shall probably find our own copy
here before we get another from the colony.
Oh no, it's all right enough, my dear Mr Mills ;
I am sure you needn't make yourself uneasy."

But although the Vice-president's view of
the case was decidedly encouraging, the Permanent

Secretary was by no means altogether
reassured. The official mind that has been
nurtured for a long course of years on red
tape and routine is not always amenable to
the dictates of practical common-sense ; and
what might seem perfectly clear and intelligible
to the ignorant and matter-of-fact
outsider, will often present itself in a very
different aspect to the highly - trained and
timorous official,

There is one thing we shall have to settle,
my lord," he continued, " and that is, about
getting the charter recopied."

Well, that's simple enough, at any rate,
surely ? " returned his lordship ; " why, some
fellow out there can do it easy enough, can't
he?"

Oh yes, of course," replied Mr Mills, " but
then, you see, it's not like copying any ordinary
document. We shall have to get it sworn to
very likely, and produce either the man who
copied it, or else some one who can swear to
having seen it compared with the original.
We must be prepared for anything of this
sort, you know."

Well then, let them send the fellow over

who copies it, copy and all ; there's no difficulty
about that, surely ? "

Oh no, of course not, my lord. But, you
see, this is rather a delicate matter, and one
would prefer not bringing any ordinary clerk
or copyist into it, if possible. It seems to me
that, on the whole, the proper thing would be
to send out some one from here who could
bring the copy back with him, and if necessary,
swear to having seen it compared with
the original."

Well, I must say that does seem rather a
strong order," exclaimed his lordship, " to send
a fellow the whole way out there and back on
such a business. However, I'm all for doing
the right thing, and if you think it really
ought to be done, let's do it, by all means.
But who is to go, eh ? "

"Well, the natural thing would of course
be for the Aboriginal Office to send some one
out, as it is, strictly speaking, a colonial matter.
But if you don't mind, my lord, I should prefer,
if possible, sending some one from here,
so that we may keep the matter in our own
hands, as it were ; and then, you know, we
need really say nothing about it. The expense

would come out of the Secret Service Fund,
and we can keep it all perfectly quiet, I trust.
Luckily, you have the power, as Vice-president
of this office, of communicating direct
with any ambassador, minister, governor," 
reading from a paper in his hand  "yes,
'Ambassador, minister, governor, or other
representative of the Sovereign beyond season
any subject or matter connected with the
archives of the said office,' so there will be no
difficulty about it, and no one can ask any
questions."

Oh, I see ! " laughed the Vice-president.
Yes, let's keep it dark, by all means ; I'm
sure I don't want to get the office into a
mess. AVell then, whom would you propose
to send ? "

That's just it, my lord," replied Mr Mills,
It's rather difficult to think of any one.
You see, it's leave time just now, and so
many are away that it would be rather difficult
to spare any one. Besides, too, although
it would be a most important and confidential
service, it's hardly one that we could expect
any of the seniors to undertake, as it would
simply be a voyage out there and back, with

perhaps a fortnight intervening ; and they are
mostly family men, and settled at home, and
might hardly care about that sort of thing.
It should be some young fellow who wouldn't
mind the knocking about, and whom we
could trust at the same time. I suppose
you couldn't spare Courtenay, my lord, fora
couple of months ? "

Hem, well, I'm not sure about that,"
mused the Vice-president. " It would be
rather a bore being without a private secretary,
certainly. Still, there's not much doing
just this moment, and I don't intend being-much
in London till after Christmas, so I
might manage to get on without him. By
Jove," he thought to himself, " I've half a
miid to let him go. It would be a bit of a
run for him, and he seems rather down on
his luck somehow. Might do the chap good,
perhaps. Well, I'll think it over," he continued,
aloud, " and I'll have a talk to Courtenay
about it, and let you know tomorrow."

When the proposal was first made to Gerard
by his chief, who did not take long in making
up his mind on the subject, his first idea was
to decline. It was now about the middle of

November, and he had just completed his
arrangements for a little hunting. He did
not . feel quite equal to making his first start
for the season in the Underdown country ;
but he and his two noble steeds had been
invited to Warrington for a fortnight, and
after that, he thought he might perhaps
summon up courage to go down to the enchanted
region once more. The expedition to
San Fernando would of course take him at
least seven or eight weeks, and he could not
possibly hope to carry out any of his own
private operations till after the new year,
which seemed a great postponement and
delay. But on second thoughts he was
obliged to confess to himself that it was
not a chance that ought to be thrown away.
There was a certain amount of excitement,
too, about the whole affair, and besides giving
him a new experience and a glimpse of a new
country, an opportunity for which might not
occur again, it would be rather a feather in
his cap, and might possibly, in some way or
other, do him good as regarded Florence.
And finding that his chief, who really took
an interest in him, was all in favour of his

going, he soon made up his mind to accept the
offer, and at once set to work to make arrangements
for his departure. The horses were confided,
not without a sigh, to the care of the
trusty Martin, a hurried visit was paid to the
maternal mansion in Somersetshire, and ten
days later, Gerard, in company with a most
imposing looking despatch-box emblazoned
with the royal arms, was proceeding down
the Southampton Water in the Royal Mail
steamship " Iberia."

CHAPTER Xxxi.

SAN FERNANDO.

Aa The general impressions formed by a young
gentleman sent on special service to the West
Indies, whose stay in those latitudes is limited
to ten days or a fortnight, are not likely to
be either particularly interesting or particularly
instructive to the general public. We
will not therefore weary our readers with a
narrative of Gerard's experiences on board
the " Iberia," or during his passage in the
branch steamer down the beautiful chain of
islands that terminates in San Fernando.
Certainly, he would be a strangely unimpressionable
man who could fail to be more or less
struck with the extraordinary loveliness of

VOL. III. A

these gems of the ocean ; and Gerard, whose
experiences as a traveller had hitherto been
very limited, felt, as many others have done
before him, that he was upon the threshold
of a new and wonderful world.

San Fernando, however, was soon reached,
and Gerard, having presented his credentials
to the Governor, Sir Henry Turner, K.C.M.G.,
and explained the object of his mission, which
excited some surprise, and, we fear, just a little
amusement in the breast of that courteous and
genial bachelor Viceroy, found himself with
eleven days on his hands in which to see the
wonders of the tropics. It is hardly necessary
to say that the precious charter, the object
of his expedition, was found safe enough in
the Colonial Secretary's Office, a trifle musty,
perhaps, and impregnated with a mingled
bouquet of dry rot and white ants, but otherwise
unimpaired and in perfect order ; and
a couple of confidential clerks were at once
set to work to transcribe it. In the meantime,
Gerard found the time hang by no
means heavily on his hands. His appearance
in the capacity of a special messenger from

the Home Government gave him a prestige
of importance which was far from unpleasant,
and much speculation was excited as to the
purport of his mission, which he of course
kept discreetly dark. In a small way, in fact,
he might be said to have realised the position
of Don Juan in London ; 

, a foreigner of high condition,

The envoy of the Secret Russian Mission,"

and was made much of accordingly. He had
been taken on expeditions to the primeval
forest, the mysterious Pitch Lake, the wonderful
Guacharo caves, and other stock lion of
the country. He had breakfasted at a cocoa
plantation, pic nicked on an enchanted islet,
been shown an " Obeah man," and danced at a
ball at Government House ; and on most of
these occasions, we regret to say, had flirted a
good deal with the fair San Fernandians,
whose beauty, of the loveliest Creole type, is
so renowned throughout the West Indies. He
was, in fact, having a very good time of it,
and we fear that the postponement of his
winter arrangements in England, including a
possible further expedition to the neighbourhood

of Netherdean, did not for the moment
weigh on his mind quite as much as under the
circumstances it ought to have done.

He had now been five days in the island, and
was sitting, one evening, quietly smoking an
after-dinner cigar in company with the Governor
and his aide-de-camp, and discussing his
plans for the remainder of his stay.

' Let's see," observed his Excellency, tilting
up his viceregal legs on to a projecting angle
of the verandah where they were sitting,
you've got six days more before the mail
goes back. Upon my word, I don't quite
know what to recommend next. It seems tome
you've done most of the regular things.
After all, there is a great sameness about
tropical scenery, in my opinion at least, unless
you have some special exploration to make,
and can devote weeks and months to it, and
then of course you get the real beauties of the
country ; but you haven't time for that, and
you've got some idea of the scenery from what
you have done already. I'll tell you what,
though," he continued, " you might run over
to the mainland for a day or two  Venezuela,

you know. I'm going to send the Government
steamer over there tomorrow night,
with a message to the President at Caracas.
You might go in her, and see the place, and
be back in a couple of days, and then you
could say you had travelled in South America,
you know."

Caracas ain't much of a place, sir," put
in the aide-de-camp. " Fortescue and I were
awfully bored there last year. Don't you
think he had better go and see the Englishman
at that place near Puerto Carrero ? He would
see much more of the country that way, and
the steamer could drop him there, and call for
him again, or he could go on to Caracas from
there if he liked."

Well, that's not a bad idea," replied his
Excellency. " The Englishman, as we call
him," addressing Gerard, "is a sort of
patriarch, who lives with his flocks and his
herds on the savannahs or downs a little way
up the country. He's got a large property
there, I believe, and goes in for stock farming,
and all that sort of thing, on a large scale.
He's a wonderful man, and has immense influence

with all the people there. Yes, I
think that might do very well. I know him
a little myself, as he stayed here a night or
two with me two years ago, and I can give
you a letter to him, and no doubt he will be
very civil to you."

"Do you devilish well," observed Capt.
Larkins, the aide-de-camp ; *' got some uncommon
good horses too ; give you a capital
mount, and take you all over the country."

I should like it of all things," said Gerard,
*' and am very much obliged to you for thinking
of it. What's this gentleman's name, by
the way ? "

"Well, he calls himself Mr Montenello,"
replied the Governor, " but of course that's no
more his real name than it is mine. There's
no doubt whatever that he's an Englishman,
but I suppose he has some reason for concealing
his own name, and it doesn't matter two
straws what you call yourself in that country.
You know more about him than I do, however,
Larkins," turning to the aide-de-camp, " as
you've been to his place ; but I suppose he
always goes by that name there, doesn't he ? "

Oh yes, sir, if they speak of him by name,
but they generally just called him ' El Senhor,'
or something of that kind. He's very close,
though ; Fortescue and I tried to make him
talk about himself, but we couldn't manatee it."

Well, I'm quite sure there's some mystery
about him," returned Sir Henry, puffing
thoughtfully at his cigar. " I was very much
struck by him when he was here, and by the
way he spoke  not that he said very much
certainly, but you may depend upon it there's
some story connected with him ; either he has
committed a murder, or he's a prince in disguise,
or the head of a secret society, or something
of that sort. However, there he is in
the meantime ; and if you like to see a little of
Venezuela, Courtenay, I don't think you could
do better than go and look bim up. I would
send Larkins with you, but I want him for a
function the day after tomorrow, this new
town-hall affair ; so I am afraid you must go
alone. I suppose he is sure to be there ; isn't
he, Larkins ? "

Oh yes, sir, I know he's there, because the
steamboat agent told me he had seen him at

St. Thomas about three weeks ago. He had
been to England on business, and was on his
way back."

"Well, that confirms my idea that he's
an Englishman," replied the Governor. " All
right then, Courtenay ; if you like to go,
there you are, and I will give instructions
to the captain of the steamer to look after
you."

Gerard had been sitting in a reverie for the
last few moments. Mr Montenello ! surely he
had heard that name before. And Venezuela,
too ! there seemed some undefinable association
in his mind between the name and the country.
Suddenly it all flashed across him. It was
the man of whom Florence had spoken to him
that first night he met her at the Shawfield
ball, who had given her that little cross she
wore round her neck. Yes, it must be the
same ; and how extraordinary that he should
now be going to pay him a visit ! Why, he
mioht be able to tell him something about
her, something of the mystery that seemed to
enshroud her whole existence. Clearly there
was a providence in it, and go he must. He

roused himself with an effort, and hurriedly
expressed his thanks to the Governor.

"It is very kind indeed of you," he stammered
out rather confusedly, " and I shall be
only too delighted. I am sure it must be
well worth seeing."

He might go on to Caracas from there, if
he liked, you know, sir," pursued Captain
Larkins ; " it's only about sixty miles, and of
course those fellows would think nothing of
riding that in a day ; or he could stop about
Montenello's place, and come back from
Puerto Carrero. I'd do that, if I were y(5u,"
he added in an undertone to Gerard ; " Caracas
is an infernally slow place, and you'll have
much more fun with old Montenello."

"Well, you must settle that for yourself,"
observed the Governor; "but anyhow, I'll
tell the captain of the steamer to call at
Puerto Carrero on his way back if you don't
join him at Caracas. Only you mustn't miss
the steamer, or you'll lose the mail home, and
then we shall all get into trouble. Why, your
friend Mr Mills would have a fit," he continued,
laughing ; for we regret to state that the idea

of Gerard's expedition had presented itself to
His Excellency in rather a ludicrous light than
otherwise. " Well, it's about time to go to
bed now, so good-night ; you'll have plenty
of time to make all your arrangements tomorrow.
I'll write a line to Mr Montenello
myself ; and by the way, Larkins, see that he
has a letter to the custom-house people at
Puerto Carrero, and that will save him any
trouble there."

So it fell out that at about eight o'clock
the following evening Gerard found himself
on board the government steamer " Gertrude,"
a smart, yacht-like little craft, but at the
same time strongly built, and capable of
weathering a heavy sea, and steaming out of
the harbour of Spanish Town on his way to
the mainland of Venezuela. It was a lovely
tropical night. Behind lay the rapidly receding
lights of the town, casting long reflections
in the still, muddy water ; on one side
rose a frowning wall of rock, crowned here and
there by a solitary palm-tree, and looking
grim and mysterious in the uncertain light ;
on the other lay a fringe of innumerable fairy

islets, backed by a dark mass of forest stretching
away into obscurity ; and, as they passed
out into the open sea, might be discerned in
the far distance a dim, cloud-like line, indicating
the great southern continent of America.
Innumerable constellations sparkled and quivered
in the heavens, and over all shone out
the lustrous, silvery light of a southern moon.
Gerard stood leaning over the rail of the
little bridge, smoking a cigar, and gazing
dreamily at the dark mysterious land to
which he was bound ; and we need hardly
say that on such an occasion and in 'the
midst of such surroundings his thoughts reverted
to his lady-love. It was very strange,
he thought, that he should be thus thrown in
the way of a man who was evidently an old
friend of hers, to say the least of it, and for
whom she appeared to entertain such a regard.
He tried to remember exactly what she had
said about Mr. Montenello at the ball, and
wished he had heard something more about
him during those few happy days that he
had passed in her society. But, somehow or
other, the name had never been mentioned

again ; and though Gerard recollected only
too well the incident of the little cross, and
her statement that the donor lived in Venezuela,
thus leaving no room for doubt that it
must be the very man he was going to visit,
he had nothing further to go upon. But that
he should come across any one connected with
Florence in this out-of-the-way corner of the
world was in itself a very remarkable thing ;
and it seemed to him a happy omen of ultimate
success.

He was roused from his reverie by a gruff
By r leave, sir," from one of the crew, who
were now busy in making everything snug
for the night ; and the captain coming up at
this moment, he resolved to try if he could
not get some further information out of him.
But this functionary, an ancient mariner who
had knocked about the West Indies for the
last five-and-thirty years, was unable to enlighten
him to any great extent. " Oh yes,
he knew Mr Montenello ; that's to say, he had
seen him going up and down the islands now
and then. Believed he had a large place in
Venezuela, and was a sort of a chief there

among the Indians and Spanish, and all that
lot. No, he had never been up to his place ;
didn't much fancy that country himself;
always having a row there, and knocking each
other on the head ; for his part, he preferred
the islands, you knew what you were about
there. However, some thought it a fine
country, no doubt ; and they seemed pretty
quiet there just now."

"What time shall we get into Puerto
Carrero ? " inquired Gerard.

"About eight in the morning," responded
the skipper, "if it keeps as fine as this all
night. We'll drop you there, and then we
ought to get to La Guayra, the port for
Caracas, you know, about this time tomorrow
night. My orders are to stop there twenty-four
hours, and if you don't join me again by
that time, I'm to run into Puerto Carrero
again, and pick you up there ; but, mind you,
I shan't wait if you're not ready then. Now
then, sir, you'd better come below with me,
and have a bit o' supper, and then, if you'll
take my advice, you'll turn in ; you may as
well get a good sleep, and the night air along

this coast is apt to be a bit dangerous when
you're not used to it."

So Gerard took the friendly skipper's advice,
and in another hour was in his berth,
listening in a half-dreamy state to the monotonous
thumping of the screw and the hissing
of the calm sea against the sides of the little
steamer as she made her way towards the
South American coast. He could not help
feeling strangely excited and interested in this
new adventure, as it seemed to him, that was
to bring him in contact with this strange man,
around whom there evidently hung some
mystery, and who, at the same time, was unquestionably
associated with her whom he
loved best in the world. Sleep came upon him,
however, before he had arrived at any definite
conclusion on the subject, and his thoughts
gradually resolved themselves into a confused
dream, in which Mr Montenello, who
had got somehow or other mixed up with
Mr Collins, the office-keeper at the General
Enquiry Office, and wore a respirator and blue
spectacles, appeared to him with the charter
of San Fernando, which it turned out had been

stolen by Lord Ballybrack for purposes connected
with the turf, but which, being written
in an unknown and incomprehensible language,
nobody could make anything of, and informed
him, with many expressions of regret, that
unless he could decipher it to the entire satisfaction
of Lady Mount Easton's governess,
who was in attendance for the purpose in deep
mourning, within the next ten minutes, not
only must he give up all hopes of Florence,
but it would be necessary for him to prepare
for instant decapitation.

He was aroused from a contemplation of
this extremely embarrassing situation by the
hoarse sound of the steam whistle, and a few
moments later the black steward put his head
in at the cabin door, and informed him that
they were in sight of Puerto Carrero, and that
he would be able to go on shore in about half
an hour. Gerard started up, made a hasty
toilette, and got his things ready, and then
went on deck to look about him. It was a
still, clear morning. The long line of coast
lay full in front of them, about a mile distant,
broken here and there by deep bays running

in between rocky headlands, and fringed with
sandy islets standing out in dazzling contrast
to the deep-blue sea. In one of these bays
or coves nestled the little town or village of
Puerto Carrero, the red roofs and whitewashed
walls of the houses standing out in
picturesque relief against a background of dark
green foliage. On the right the ground rose
abruptly in a series of rocky ridges, crowned
here and there by clumps of palm-trees, while
behind the town and away to the left the
country presented a more undulating aspect,
merging apparently into a vast plateau, and
bounded in the far distance by a stately range
of purple mountains.

It was a bright and beautiful picture, and
Gerard felt a strange exhilaration as he gazed
at the scene before him. 'what a grand
country ! " he thought to himself ; " no wonder
this old fellow likes living here. Good morning,
captain ! " he exclaimed, as that dignitary
made his appearance ; '' well, if all Venezuela
is like this, I don't think it can be such a bad
sort of country."

Oh, country's well enough," growled the

skipper ; " it's the people that live in it. Look
at the beggars, they're always up to sone
mischief or other. Why, a chap's no sooner
made president, or whatever they call it, than
another fellow comes, with a gang of ruffians
at his back, and knocks him on the head, or
shoves him into prison ; and then after a bit
the same thing happens to him. No, they're
a bad lot, you may depend upon it, sir. Ah I
there's the boat coming out for you at last ;
we signalled for it a quarter of an hour ago,
but these lazy devils don't seem to know
what it is to be smart. It's a lumbering concern
enough, but you want a heavy boat toland
here, 'cos of the swell ; a small boat
would be knocked all to bits against that
jetty."

The boat was soon alongside, a clumsy
lighter-like craft, but well adapted for
the purpose, and manned by half a dozen
swarthy rowers. In a few minutes Gerard
and his traps were on board and making
way towards the jetty, on which he could
already observe a small crowd collected to
witness his arrival. The approach required

VOL. III. B

to be very cautiously made, to avoid being
swept against the woodwork underneath.
As the boat hung on the top of a roller,
waiting for an opportune moment to run
alongside the rough wooden steps that constituted
the landing-place, Gerard looked up
at the motley crowd above him ; and there,
among the dusky faces of Indians and
mulattoes, and the sallow complexions of
Spanish and Venezuelan loafers, he fancied
he saw a rubicund British countenance
that was not altogether unfamiliar to him.
In another moment, however, they had
gained the steps, and his energies were
directed to clambering up the slippery
woodwork. He was received at the top by
a polite gentleman, whose shabby apology
for a uniform was scarcely on a footing
with his dignified manners, and who subsequently
turned out to be the custom-house
functionary, to whom his credentials from
the Governor of San Fernando were addressed.
While engaged in a fragmentary
conversation with this official, his attention
was again attracted by the face in the crowd

which he had already noticed. The man to
whom it belonged was standing some little
way off, among a knot of negroes, over whom
he was apparently endeavouring to assert a
show of authority, but who, from their grinning
gestures, did not appear to regard him
with the amount of respect that he evidently
considered his due. At this moment he turned
and came towards Gerard, who started back in
astonishment. Yes, there was no doubt about
it. Crowned with a huge sombrero, which he
wore jauntily on one side, and which contrasted
ludicrously with his weather-beaten and unmistakably
English face, with a sort of poncho
over his shoulders, but with his lower extremities
still encased in the inevitable Weald-shire
leather gaiters and hob-nailed boots,
there stood before him the form of that
veteran poacher, under-keeper, and generally
unsatisfactory character, Joe Diadems of Easthampton
I

DIDDUMS REDIVIVUS.

To say that Gerard was astonished by this
most unlooked - for apparition would be to
express a very feeble idea of bis sensations.
Why, Diadems ! " be exclaimed, hardly able
to believe his eyes. "No, surely it can't be
yes it is, by Jove. Why, you old rascal,
what are you doing out here ? "

It must be admitted that Diadems appeared
to be just as much taken aback as Gerard
himself, and exhibited, moreover, certain symptoms
of embarrassment that under other circumstances
might have struck him as somewhat
suspicious. " Well, sir," he replied,
with a sort of apologetic grin and a half
touch of his somhrero, "you see, I thought
as how a bit of a change might suit me, and
I was getting rather tired o' beating and all
that ; and so I just came a\Yay out here."

But what made you bolt off in that way,
without saying a word about it ? " inquired
Gerard. " Why, there was no end of a row at
Easthampton ; we all thought Lord Narborough
was going to have a fit."

"deed, sir, I'm sorry for that," rejoined
Diadems, with another deprecatory grin.
I'm sorry to have given his lordship any
trouble ; but  well, the fact is, sir," he
continued with some hesitation, " I came
across a friend as asked me to come along
with him, and so  so I just came, you
see."

"The deuce you did," returned Gerard,
the thought of the mysterious stranger he
had met that day at Easthampton flashing
across him. " By Jove," he thought, " old
Narborough may have been right, and that
fellow may have had something to do with
Diadems after all. Well, I must say," he
continued aloud, " you've chosen a strange
place to come to, Diadems ; I should have
thought North America or some colony would
have been more in your line."

Well, you see, sir, my friend  that's to

say, the gentleman as asked me to come 
lie lives here, you see, and he said as how
I might as well come along of him, and so,"
continued Diadems, returning rather feebly
to his original statement, " I thought I'd
better come."

Lives here, does he ? " inquired Gerard,
struck with a sudden idea. " Why, what's
his name ? "

His name, sir '? " replied Diadems, evidently
becoming more and more embarrassed;
"his name, sir? Oh, every one knows him
here ; got a large place near here, sir ; " and
then with a sort of half-defiant expression,
as of a man driven into a .corner, *' why, his
name's Mr Montenello, sir."

' Mr Montenello ! " exclaimed Gerard ; ' ' why,
that's the very man I'm going to see. Why,
how on earth did you come to know him,
Diadems ? "

"Well, you see, sir," returned Diadems,
speaking very slowly, and with the air of a
man who is determined not to be taken
advantage of, "I've known Mr MonteneUo
some time, and a weary nice gentleman he

is  got a fine property here, sir  and lie
says to me, says he,  Diadems, you come
out to my place along o' me, and I'll make
a man of you.' That's what he says, sir;
and after all, Easthampton's all very well,
you know, sir, but a change now and then
does you good, sir, and a man may get justa
bit tired o' beaten' and bozzlin' about they
woods all his life. 'Ain't such a bad place
neither, this here, though it do seem rather
warm just now ; don't it, sir ? "

Gerard was silent. He saw perfectly well
that there was something behind, and that
Diadems was determined not to tell him
anything more than he thought proper. It
was perfectly clear now that Diadems' disappearance
from Easthampton was in someway
or other connected with Mr Montenello;
and indeed it seemed highly probable that
the mysterious stranger by the covert side
could have been no other than Mr Montenello
himself. And the thought that this
Mr Montenello, whoever he might be, was
unquestionably associated with Florence, more
intimately, perhaps, than he had any idea of,

imparted an additional and overpowering interest
to the whole matter. But as it was
evident that nothing more was to be got
out of Diadems, he resolved to bide his
time, and wait till he should meet the
mysterious Montenello face to face before
endeavouring further to unravel the secret.

In the meantime his things had been hoisted
out of the boat, and the custom-house official,
who had been superintending the operation,
now motioned to him, with an air of authority,
to follow him in the direction of a 
edifice which did duty as the
local custom-house. Gerard suddenly recollected
his instructions, and, pulling out his
letter of introduction, handed it with a bow
to the representative of the Venezuelan executive.
The result was most satisfactory. The
effect produced by the seal of the government
of San Fernando on the outside of the envelope
was evidently in itself somewhat impressive
; but the contents were apparently
still more so, for the great man, who had
hitherto maintained an attitude of official
hauteur, not unmingled with a certain amount

of suspicion, was now pleased to unbend and
to inform Gerard, with many expressions of
politeness, that it would be necessary for him
to go through the form of having his baggage
examined, but that he would take care that
no inconvenience should thereby be caused
to its owner, and should be most happy to
afford mihi every assistance in his power in
prosecuting his journey to Senhor Montenello's
residence.

Gerard, who had picked up a little Spanish
during his voyage out and his short stay in
San Fernando, expressed his acknowledgments
to the best of his ability, and followed
by Diadems, who had assumed all the airs
of a travelled Englishman protecting a fellow-countryman
in distress, repaired to the seat
of custom, where his small impedimenta having
been marked with a piece of chalk by a dirty
Creole clerk, he was informed by the head
of the establishment that he was free to
proceed whither he might desire.

"Now then, Diadems," said Gerard, when
he had got rid of the pompous official, " how
am I to get up to Mr Montenello's ? I suppose

you will be going back some time or
other, won't you ? "

"Yes, sir," replied Diadems, "we're a
going back in about a couple of hours, my
mate and I. He's an Englishman too, he is,
but he's been here some time, so he can talk
to all these people here just like one of themselves.
He's away after some business of Mr
Montenello's just now, but he's to meet meat
this here public-house," pointing to a dirty
little posada, "at eleven o'clock, and you'd
better come along of us, sir. He'll get you
a horse to ride, I've no doubt, sir, and we've
got a light sort of cart as '11 take your
traps."

Gerard readily assented ; and as Diadems
had himself, according to his own account,
some business to transact on behalf of the
mysterious Mr Montenello, he prepared to
while away the next two hours by making
himself acquainted with the objects of interest
in and about Puerto Carrero. These, however,
proved on further inspection to be somewhat
limited ; and after wandering for about half
an hour among a collection of shabby-looking

white-washed houses, the inhabitants of which
appeared to be more or less in a state of torpor,
and to have hardly sufficient energy to
take even a good stare at the stranger, he
found himself back at the little wharf and
jetty where he had landed, now silent and
deserted, except for the presence of a few
negroes basking in the sun among a heap of
barrels, and a group of Creole children playing
on a mudbank left by the now receding tide.
The sun was already becoming powerful, and
he was glad to beat a retreat to the little
posada where he had arranged to meet Did-duns.
Here he established himself in a dirty
little public room, where the proprietor of the
establishment, in his shirt-sleeves, was playing
dominoes with an unwholesome-looking
patriot in the same attire, both with the
inevitable cigarette in their mouths, and both
smelling horribly of garlic. The room was,
however, cool in comparison with the heat
outside, and Gerard was glad to sit down ina
corner, and, lighting a cigarette in self-defence,
to ruminate quietly over the curious
accident that had brought him in contact

with Diadems in such an out-of-the-way part
of the world.

Deuced odd," he thought to himself ;
what on earth can the old beggar have got
to do with Montenello ? And who the devil
is Montenello ? I'm certain now he must bethe
fellow I saw that day at Easthampton, 
should remember him anywhere. And then
there's Florence and old Baldwin ; why, if
Montenello is so thick with them, one would
think Diadems might know something about
them too. However, I shall soon see Monte-mello,
and then I'll ask him straight out about
Baldwin and Florence. It's no use trying to
get anything more out of old Diadems."

So Gerard smoked and reflected in a dreamy
sort of way, gazing sleepily at the domino-players,
and lulled into a state of drowsiness
by the buzzing of innumerable insects in
the verandah outside. He had, in fact, all
but fallen asleep, when he was roused by
the tramping of horses outside, and in another
moment Diadems entered the room, followed
by a smart, saintlike - looking man, attired
in a sombrero and a linen blouse and riding-boots,

but with an unmistakably English
face.

This be the gentleman, Tom," observed
Diadems, indicating Gerard. " He's a-going
to see Mr Montenello, and I told him as he'd
better come along of us."

"All right, sir," said the new comer, with
a civil touch of his sombrero. " There's two
of our horses down here, and you can ride
one of 'em up. It's only about eighteen
miles, and we can go whenever you like.
If you will show me your luggage, I will
send it on in the cart." *

It was pleasant to hear the sound of English
voices in that strange country, and Gerard
readily acquiesced in the proposed arrangement.
" ril just put on a pair of riding-breeches,"
he said, " and then I shall be
ready whenever you like. I suppose I can
change somewhere here."

Oh, yes, sir," replied Tom, who appeared to
be quite at home ; and speaking a few words
in Spanish to the landlord, he conducted
Gerard through a passage to a small bedroom,
even dirtier than the rest of the house.

and left him to make the desired alteration
in his toilette.

"Thank goodness, I haven't got to sleep
in this hole," thought Gerard, as he looked
at the uninviting bed and generally filthy
appearance of the room. "What a beastly
place it is ! Seems rather cool, now one
comes to think of it, going and billeting
oneself on a fellow without ever being asked.
However, I suppose they're used to that sort
of thing in this country, and anyhow I'm
in for it now."

On his return to the public room he found
Diadems and his friend engaged in refreshing
themselves, and at their suggestion partook
of a few mouthfuls of an exceedingly tough
fowl, and an omelet reeking with garlic. The
repast was by no means appetising, and he
was glad to wash it down with a glass of
execrable wine and escape into the open
air. Here he found three or four horses
waiting, in charge of a couple of mulatto
boys. They were good-looking, wiry little
animals, with a strong dash of Arab, well
fitted with English saddles and bridles, and

presenting altogether a very respectable appearance.
A light though strongly - built
country waggon, drawn by a couple of mules,
was already nearly filled with various crates
and other miscellaneous articles, to which,
by direction of Diadems' companion, whom
he had designated as Tom, the mulattoes
proceeded to add Gerard's small luggage.

Now, sir," continued that worthy, turning
to Gerard, "if you're ready, we'll be off. You
can ride any of these horses you like ; perhaps
this one," indicating a well shaped little chestnut
mare, with a white blaze on her forehead,
"will carry you best; but they're all very
good horses, sir."

Gerard, nothing loth, was speedily on the
back of the chestnut; and Diadems having
also mounted with extreme care and deliberation,
the little cavalcade got under weigh,
and were soon clear of the wretched little
town. For the first two or three miles the
road skirted the base of a ridge of low hills,
and was in fairly good condition for either
horsemen or wheeled vehicles. A fresh breeze
had sprung up, which tempered the increasing

heat of the sun. The sensation of being on
horseback, in an entirely new country, was
in itself a very pleasant one ; and Gerard
felt his spirits rising, and a general sense of
exhilaration stealing over him. As yet, the
aspect of the country was rugged without
being picturesque. The low range of hills,
broken by innumerable thickly wooded ravines,
shut out the prospect on the land side ; and
a mist hanging over the sea prevented any
distant view in that direction. Here and
there they passed a small hacienda with a
coffee plantation adjoining, or encountered a
ragged peasant driving a mule or donkey ;
but otherwise there was little sign of life.
The horses were fresh, however, and the
little party trotted gaily along the rocky
road, the mule waggon bumping along in
the rear, and contriving to maintain a very
respectable pace, and keep up fairly with
the horses.

But about five miles inland their route
assumed a different aspect. They had been
gradually ascending the whole way, and had
now arrived at a sort of pass between two

low hills, where the road took a sharp turn
to the right, and where a little venta or
roadside inn appeared to indicate a customary
halting-place. Here they left the
road, and striking a rough track across the
lower ridge of the hills, commenced the ascent
of the pass. In about a quarter of an hour
they were at the top ; and here a view of
an entirely different character burst suddenly
upon them. The coast line was no longer
to be seen, being shut out by the hills they
had crossed, which formed a sort of amphitheatre
on either side. At their feet a vast
rolling prairie or savannah stretched away
for miles and miles, as far as the eye could
reach, only broken here and there by a
clump of trees or a gleaming pool of water,
and gradually melting away in a succession
of undulations into the remote horizon ;
while on the right, in the far distance, rose
a chain of purple mountains, towering one
above another in silent grandeur, with here
and there a snow-capped peak standing out
in bold relief, and gleaming in the rays of
the morning sun.

VOL. III. c

It was a lovely sight, and Gerard was
unable to restrain an expression of admiration.


"Yes, sir, it's a fine country," observed
Tom, whose additional cognomen Gerard had
ascertained to be Lockyer, and who seemed
a sharp, intelligent sort of fellow. " Pity
the people ain't a bit more civilised like
and a bit less lazy. If there was a few
more gentlemen about like Mr MonteneUo,
now, who would take 'em in hand and show
'em how to work, you might do almost
anything here."

Gerard of course assented, being determined
not to be surprised at anything more
he might hear respecting the remarkable individual
he was about to visit.

"Have you been long with Mr 
? " he inquired, more by way of
keeping up the conversation than from any
innate curiosity on the subject.

No, sir, I've only been here about three
years. I was carpenter's mate on board a
man-o'-war, I was, sir ; and I was just a-going
to take my discharge, when Mr MonteneUo

f

he heard o' me from the captain, who was
a friend o' his; and he wanted a carpenter,
and some one as could turn his hand to
anything like ; and so be engaged me, he
did, and I shall have been here three years
come next March. There's a lot o' carpentering
and what not to be done up at our
place there ; and Mr Montenello, he likes to
have things well done, he does ; and then,
you see, when there's nothing much wanted
in the carpentering line, I just do any odd
jobs that's wanted, and that's why I came
down to the port this morning, sir."

They had now reached the level ground
on the other side of the pass, and had goton
to the grass of the savannah, which
offered the most tempting inducement for a
gallop. Gerard's little chestnut shook her
head, kicked up her heels, and taking the
bit in her teeth, darted off, without much
attempt at restraint on the part of her 'rider,
who was quite disposed to enjoy the performance.
Diadems and Tom followed at
an equally useful if less headlong pace ;
and the waggon, now left some distance behind,

made the best of its way along a
grassy track, which had here and there been
improved by cutting or filing up into some
slight resemblance to a road.

Having, however, galloped ahead for the
best part of a couple of miles, Gerard thought
it might be expedient to pull up ; so, gradually
slackening his pace, he allowed Tom and
Diadems to rejoin him, and the trio jogged
on again in company. The latter, perhaps
shaken up by his ride, now became rather
more communicative, and took upon himself
to give Gerard a little general information.

"Not a bad game country this here, I
fancy, sir," he observed, "though there don't
seem to be much preserving hereabouts. I
hadn't seen no pheasants yet, nor no rabbits
neither. But there's a sight o' ducks in some
o' they petty," pointing to a pool about a
quarter of a mile to their left, and using the
old Wealdshire expression, which made Gerard '
feel almost as if he were at home again. " I
went out shooting' the other morning', and I
killed eight couple o' ducks in no time. I
could ha' sold they ducks for four shillings a

couple in Ashford Market," continued the
old poacher, reflectively ; " but, Lord bless
you," with a half-regretful, half-contemptuous
expression on his face, "there ain't no one
to buy 'em here ; northern but they niggers
and such-like. And then there's them snakes
too ; I precious nigh trod on one just as I
were a-going to shoot into a lot o' ducks ;
and they say that if you get a bite from some
on 'em, why, it's all up with you. Yes, sir,
it's a fine country, no doubt ; but there's some
queer things in it too ; and I aren't sure
as Easthampton ain't the best place after
all. Howsomever, here I be for the presents''


With such improving conversation Diadems
beguiled the time, Tom occasionally joining
in the conversation, and showing himself to
be of a remarkably keen and observant disposition.
From him Gerard gathered that Mr
Montenello had a large concession of land
from the Venezuelan Government, the title
to which had not as yet been disputed by
successive administrations ; and that he was,
moreover, the owner of large herds of cattle.

which wandered freely over the llanos or
savannahs, and gave employment to a considerable
number of stockmen or llaneros,
who, from Tom's account, all looked upon Mr
Montenello as a sort of feudal chief. He
spoke, moreover, of coffee plantations, systematic
fruit cultivation, and other industries
carried on by this Venezuelan Monsieur Mon-tonga,
as Gerard began to think him.
"And a right good master he is, too,"
observed Tom, in conclusion; "why, there
isn't one o' those chaps that he doesn't
know all about, and he takes just as much
interest in 'em as if they were his own sons.
Why, there's a regular village of 'em all
round about our place ; and he's taught 'em
to live respectable, and learned 'em to read
and write, and he's got a priest, and a doctor,
and I don't know what else." And Mr
Lockyer, who had apparently not altogether
abandoned his seafaring habits, rolled his
quid in his cheek, and expectorated with
much emphasis.

They had now been riding for about two
hours, and had traversed some ten miles of

the savannah. So far, the signs of civilised
life, since leaving the road, had been few
and far between ; an occasional herd of cattle
in the distance, attended by one or two
solitary horsemen, being the only indication
that the plain was frequented by human
beings. Now, however, it became evident
that they were approaching inhabited dwellings.
The grassy track became more beaten
and diversified by wheel-marks ; the herds
of cattle became more numerous, and already
the white walls of houses could be seen
dotted about against the dark green of a
wooded eminence about a couple of miles
away. A team of mules met them, the
drivers of which looked inquiringly at Gerard,
and exchanged greetings in Spanish with Tom,
while Diadems waved his hand to them ina
friendly and patronising manner. The heat
of the sun was now getting almost insupportable,
and Gerard was glad to think that his
ride was nearly over. They pushed on at a
rapid trot, and were soon among a collection
of neat, whitewashed cottages and cabins, for
the most part thatched with palm leaves.

and surrounded by patches of cultivated
ground. Passing through these, and by
various fold yards and outbuildings indicative
of a large cattle-farming establishment,
they came upon an open space tastefully
planted with tropical trees and flowering
shrubs ; and wheeling to the left into a sort
of courtyard, pulled up in front of a spacious
and well-built hacienda.

LOS Angels.

''Mr Montenello is away, sir, I think," said
Tom, as they dismounted at a flight of
wooden steps leading up to a door which
opened into a large, cool-looking hall or
vestibule ; " but there'll be some of the people
about who will look after you." And as he
spoke, two or three negro servants emerged
from various corners where they had been
basking in the sun, and commenced chattering
volubly. Attracted, too, by the hubbub,
a " coloured gentleman " of somewhat higher
position appeared at the top of the steps, and
motioning the inferior domestics to get out
of the way, approached Gerard in the most
urbane and condescending manner. The state
of affairs being explained to him by Tom,
he was so obliging as to express his entire
approval, and begged Gerard to come in and

make himself at home. "Mass' Montenello,
sal, he away after them dam Indians, sal ;
dam scoundrels, rogers too ; call 'themselves
rogers, nothing but thieves, I says. Walk in,
sal ; Mass' Montenello berry glad to see you.
Me Pedro, sal. Mass' Montenello steward,
head man, sal."

So Gerard entered, and found himself in
the house of the man of whose existence he
had first heard from the lips of his far-away
love, and about whom there seemed, apart
from his association with her, to be such
a halo of mystery aud interest. Passing
through the hall, which was tastefully
arranged with ferns and tropical plants, and
cooled by a little fountain, into the marble
basin of which a tiny jet of water plashed
and tinkled with a deliciously refreshing
sound, he followed the sable major-domo into
a small apartment that was evidently the
sanctum of the master of the house. The
room was hung round with guns, rifles, and
various sporting implements, and one or two
handsome skins were stretched on the floor.
A large book-case ran across one end of the

room, and a few prints and water - colour
sketches adorned the walls. There was little
actual furniture, however, beyond a large
writing-table and one or two wicker lounging
- chairs ; and had it not been for the
unmistakably tropical appearance of the sun-blinds
and the verandah outside, it might
have passed for the "den" or smoking-room
of an English country squire. But there
was something that particularly attracted
Gerard's eye as he glanced round the room.
It was a portrait of a lady in a stand on
the writing-table. Even at a distance he
thought he recognised the face, and a closer
inspection showed that he was right, and that
it was a beautifully coloured photograph of
Florence Graham.

Knowing the intimacy that existed between
them, Gerard could hardly feel much surprised
at finding a photograph of his ladylove
in the possession of Mr Montenello. He
was, in fact, inclined to feel more annoyed
than surprised, and to indulge in some resentment
against the man to whose abode
accident had so curiously wafted him, for

being the owner of what he would have
so prized himself. " Hang the fellow ! " he
thought, " why the devil should he have
this lovely thing of her, while I haven't
got even the commonest photograph?" A
moment's reflection, however, showed him
that there was probably not much ground
for jealousy on his part, and that nothing
was more natural than that an old friend ina
distant country should be in possession of
such a portrait. In the meantime, it was
very nice to come across a likeness of her
in such a place, and he felt very tender
as he gazed upon the face that was so dear
to him  dearer than ever, he thought,
in spite of all the mystery and uncertainty
that seemed to place such a barrier between
them.

He was roused from his reverie, however,
by the return of his dusky friend, who had
left him alone for a moment, and who was
now followed by two or three other domestics
of the same complexion, grinning from ear
to ear, and anxious to have a peep at the
stranger. These intruders were, however,

sternly repressed by the major-domo, anxious
to exhibit himself in Gerard's eyes as a personage
of the first importance.

Get away, you niggers ! " he exclaimed,
in disgust. " What debbil you want here ?
Gentleman not want to see your ugly face."
And then, addressing himself to Gerard, 'like
some breakfast, sal  luncheon, sal ? Get
something ready directly, sal."

Gerard's long ride had given him a healthy
appetite, and he readily accepted the offer of
refreshments, leaving it to his deputy host
to decide as to the character of the repast.
He had not long to wait ; and in twenty
minutes was sitting down, in a cool little
Indian-matted dining-room, before a first-rate
omelet and some cunning preparation
of fowl, accompanied by a bottle of excellent
light claret, to all of which he did ample
justice. Nor could he complain of suffering
from solitude, for he was waited upon with
much assiduity by his friend Pedro, who lost
no opportunity of improving the visitors
mind by his own edifying conversation. He
was glad, indeed, when his repast was over,

to get rid of his loquacious attendant by
intimating that he was rather tired, and
would prefer being left alone till Mr Montenello's
return, which he was given to understand
would probably be in another hour or
two. So he established himself in a wicker
chair in the verandah, and lighting an excellent
cigar that had been given him by
the Governor of San Fernando, prepared fora
little quiet enjoyment.

Through the wooden blinds of the verandah
he obtained a peep of a pretty lawn, planted
with all manner of flowering shrubs, and
with one or two stately palms towering
above a mass of dark-green foliage ; beyond
stretched an indistinct line of bush and prairie,
shimmering in the golden haze of a tropical
noon ; and in the far distance rose the blue
outline of the mountains. Not a sound was
to be heard but the eternal buzzing of the
countless insects, and an occasional croak
or screech from some domesticated cranes
and other curious birds that wandered about
among the tree-ferns and rhododendrons ina
listless manner, with apparently a vague

idea of picking up something to eat. Even
the chattering of the negroes and miscellaneous
loafers in the courtyard had been
subdued by the intense heat, and all nature
seemed to have acquiesced in the necessity
for a mid-day siesta.

Gerard, reclining in his wicker chair and
deriving much satisfaction from his cigar,
was by no means disinclined to succumb
to the general dolcefar niente. His interest
had at first been aroused by a glimpse of
one or two shapely Creole girls, flitting round
the corner of the verandah, and evidently
by no means devoid of curiosity regarding
himself. But these nymphs had now disappeared,
and he was left entirely to his
own reflections. These, it is hardly necessary
to say, had a tendency to gravitate ina
general way towards Florence. " Fancy
if she could see me here," he thought, " in
this chap's house. She'll probably hear about
it, by the way, as he's pretty certain to
write and tell her. By Jove ! I might get
him to give me a message or something when
I go back, that would be an excuse for seeing

her again." Then he fell back upon the old
speculation as to what the connection between
old Mr Baldwin and Mr Montenello
could be, and who Florence was herself. As
to this, however, he was determined to try
and find out something from his present host.
I'll just ask him straight out," he thought,
and if he seems a decent sort of fellow,
why, hang it ! I'll tell him all about it. He
can't possibly be spooning her himself, and
it's quite likely he might do me a good
turn." But the more he pondered the
sleepier he became, until, by degrees, his
head drooped upon his breast, the half-finished
cigar escaped from his lips, and he
sank into a profound slumber.

He must have slept for more than an
hour, when he was aroused by the trampling
of horses outside, accompanied by a
confused murmuring of voices, among which
he recognised the consequential accents of his
friend Pedro ; and in another moment the
door was thrown open by that gentleman,
and a tall figure, attired in riding-boots and
a loose tunic belted round the waist, entered

the room. Gerard jumped up in a hurry, and
advanced to meet him. It was just as he had
expected. As he told a certain person not very
long afterwards, he could not feel actually
surprised, but he was unable to repress a
start, and a strange, indescribable feeling for
which he was unable to account, as, in spite
of the change of dress, he recognised in a
moment the man whom he had met by the
covert side that bright October afternoon at
Easthampton.

For a moment, however, the recognition
was not mutual. The room was darkened
by sun-blinds, and the master of the house
had evidently not altogether grasped the
circumstances under which Gerard had made
his appearance, and looked upon him as a
chance traveller. But the reception of his
guest was none the less courteous on this
account. " Very glad to see you, sir," he
began. " I am sorry I was not in when
you arrived, but I have been out on some
troublesome business since daylight. I
hope my people have looked after you,
however ? "

VOL. III. D

Gerard hastened to assure him that he
had been well taken care of, and then to
explain his uninvited presence. "I feel as
if I ought to apologise for paying you
such an unceremonious visit, without having
the pleasure of your acquaintance," he
began; "but Sir Henry Turner, with whom
I have been staying, assured me that I
might venture to do so, otherwise I
should really have felt quite ashamed of
myself. I had better give you his letter
at once."

Pray don't talk of it, sir," interrupted
his host. " I should be delighted to see
you anyhow, but all the more so for
being a friend of Sir Henry Turner's. We
don't often see an Englishman about here,
I can tell you, and a visitor is a great
excitement to us. By the way," breaking
open the seal of the letter, " I ought
to have inquired your name."

*' My name is Cour " replied Gerard ;

but the words were hardly out of his
mouth when Mr Montenello, who had
scanned the first few lines of the letter.

gave a perceptible start, and shot a glance
of keen inquiry at him that for the
moment was most embarrassing. He recovered
himself, however, in an instant,
and remarked, " Ah yes, I see. Well,
Mr Courtenay, I shall be delighted to do
anything I can to show you what there
is to be seen here, though I'm sorry to see
by Sir Henry's letter that you will only
be able to stop a day or two. However,
we'll do the best we can. This is our
rainy season, and we are very lucky in
having these few fine days. Now then,
if you'll come with me, I'll see where we
can put you up. You mustn't expect anything
very grand here, but I daresay
you won't mind roughing it a little."

Gerard followed in silence. It had been
impossible for him to avoid being struck
by the remarkable effect that his name
appeared to have produced upon his host.
What the deuce can it mean ? " he thought
to himself. " By Jove ! she's told him, that's
what it is, and naturally he'd be a bit surprised

at seeing me here ! " And his spirits
rose as he reflected that Florence would hardly
have said anything about it unless she had
been a good deal interested in him either
one way or the other, or, at any rate, would
not have said enough to account for Mr
Montenello's singular demeanour. " My darling,"
he thought to himself; "fancy if she
really cares for me, after all ! " And he felt
more and more determined to take Mr Monte-mello
into his confidence, and endeavour to
enlist his sympathies.

Mr Montenello led the way across the
hall down a passage. " I think this will
do for you," he said, pausing at a door
about half-way down. Gerard followed him
into the room, a neat though scantily furnished
apartment, with a camp bedstead and
fittings to correspond. The room was somewhat
dark, and his host went to the window
and threw open the jalousies. As he glanced
round the room, Gerard noticed that his eye
seemed to light upon a water-colour sketch
hanging over the bed. "No, by the way,"

he continued, rather hurriedly, " I think
there's another room that you will like
better," and he hastily shut the blinds and
went out of the room. Gerard glanced at
the picture as he passed, but was unable to
make out anything in the uncertain light
beyond a very ordinary English landscape
a large house, standing apparently in a
park, with a background that might be hills,
or woods, or anything. But somehow or
other it seemed to remind him of a place
that was not unfamiliar to him ; and .the
incident only served to increase his perplexity,
and to make him resolve more firmly
than ever to endeavour by some means or
other to get to the bottom of the mystery
that unquestionably surrounded his host.

There was evidently, however, plenty of
accommodation in the hacienda; and Gerard
was soon established in a room with the
arrangements of which the master of the
house appeared perfectly satisfied. Here
they were joined by Pedro with Gerard's
things; and Mr Montenello having excused

himself on the plea of business, Gerard was
once more left to his own devices. " It's
too hot just now to do anything much out
of doors," observed his host, " but it will be
cooler in another hour or so, and then, if
you like, we will take a stroll round before
dinner. I daresay you have had enough
riding already for to-day."

Having unpacked and arranged his things,
it appeared to Gerard that the best thing
he could do would be to go back and sit
in the verandah until his host should rejoin
him. So he retraced his steps, first to the
little dining-room, and then to the room into
which he had first been shown, with a general
idea of having another look at Florence's
photograph. As he crossed the hall, he
observed two or three doors, through one of
which, being half open, he took the liberty
of peeping. He found himself in a large,
well - proportioned apartment, which might
have made a handsome drawing - room, but
which was totally destitute of furniture, and
evidently never made use of. His curiosity

being aroused, and there appearing to be
no one about, he opened another door, and
found another smaller room in the same
condition. It seemed evident, in fact, that
the only inhabited reception-rooms were the
two with which he had already made acquaintance.
'well, it's quite clear the old
boy's a bachelor," thought Gerard ; " there
are evidently no ladies about. Widower,
though, more likely; a fine old fellow like
that must probably have been married sometime
or other; however, that's no affair of
mine."

He then sauntered into the little study
or sanctum, and took another good look at
Florence's photograph. Having derived much
satisfaction from this, it suddenly occurred
to him to go back and look at the picture
in the first bedroom into which Mr Montenello
had taken him, the sight of which
appeared to have changed that gentleman's
views as regards his guest's accommodation.
He could not mistake the room ; it was the
first door on the right down the passage.

He turned the handle noiselessly, and entered
with the feeling of being about to commit a
petty larceny. Creeping softly to the window,
he let in a ray of light, and then proceeded to
examine the mysterious work of art. There
was certainly nothing remarkable about it ; a
somewhat hard water-colour sketch, evidently
the work of an amateur, whose instincts
tended more towards a map-like and Chinese
representation of the original than towards
any artistic ideal. But it was evidently
correct, as regards the windows and doors
of the house, at least, to a nicety; and
Gerard recognised it in a moment. There
was the conservatory, with its curious flight
of outside steps leading up to the drawing-room
; the great staircase window, and a
very peculiar and obtrusive buttress at the
corner by the north porch, of which excrescence
the artist had conscientiously made
the most. There was no room whatever for
doubt ; it was a sketch of Easthampton
Park.

Gerard was more puzzled than ever. There

seemed to be no end to the mystery. Here
was a man, who was intimately associated
with Florence Graham, who had, as it were,
abducted Diadems from Easthampton, and
who, it was clear from his having that sketch
in his possession, was in some way or other
interested in the place itself. What the devil
did it all mean ? And why should there have
been any objection, as certainly had appeared
to be the case, to his seeing the sketch?
However, that didn't matter so much ; but
it was absolutely necessary that he should find
out about Florence. And he returned to his
seat in the verandah, feeling almost as if he
had a personal grievance against Mr Montenello,
and resolved to get to the bottom of
the mystery by some means or other before
he went away.

An hour or two later, Gerard was sitting
at dinner with his host, having in the meantime
been taken on a short tour of inspection
in the immediate vicinity of the hacienda.
He had been much struck by the regularity
and order displayed on every side, and by the

evident care and labour that had been bestowed
upon the creation of a sort of model
farm or settlement in this lonely South
American prairie. Enough but neat and
comfortable stabling for apparently innumerable
horses ; cattle-sheds and pens without
end ; carpenters' and blacksmiths' shops ;
long rows of neat labourers' cabins, bordered
by trim gardens ablaze with tropical flowers ;
and, in short, every apparent requisite for
the maintenance of a small social community,
not omitting a neat little red-roofed chapel,
with a schoolhouse adjoining, the necessity
for which latter was demonstrated by the
numbers of woolly-headed children of various
sizes and shades of colour rolling and playing
about in front of the cabin doors.

As they sat alone after dinner, Gerard was
unable to avoid complimenting his entertainer
upon the completeness of everything about
the place, and the order and discipline that
appeared to reign everywhere. " You seem
to have established a regular little kingdom
here," he said, " and have certainly got all

your subjects in wonderful order. I should
never have dreamed of finding such a place
in Venezuela. By the way, though," he
continued, endeavouring to appear at his
ease, but conscious of failing signally in the
attempt, " I think I've heard about you in
England. I  I think you know a Miss
Graham, who lives near Shawfield, in Weald-shire,
don't you ? I remember hearing her
mention your name."

Mr Montenello looked at him hard, but
manifested no surprise. " Yes," he replied,
slowly, and as if weighing his words, * yes,
I know Miss Florence Graham. It was at
Netherdean that you met her, I suppose ? "
he added, rather abruptly, and, as appeared
to Gerard, with a certain sternness in his
manner.

"No, it was at a ball at Shawfield,"
replied Gerard, his thoughts reverting to
that memorable evening ; " that's to say,
it was there that I was introduced to her.
I had seen her before, but I didn't know then
who she was."

"Ah," returned his host, dryly. "Well,
I daresay you didn't expect then that you
were ever going to meet a friend of hers in
Venezuela. Yes," he continued, as if anxious
to change the subject, "I think the place
here is in pretty good order, and I've
managed to make some of these fellows
see that a little regular work is not a
bad thing ; and I believe they trust in
me to a certain extent. But I have been
the best part of thirty years at it, soone
ought to have something to show for
that."

Thirty years ! " echoed Gerard ; " you
must be very fond of this country, I suppose
? "

"Yes," replied Mr Montenello, with a
certain sadness in his voice, and a strange,
weary look in his face, that for the moment
made him look very much older, " it has
been my lot in life, and perhaps it has
all been for the best. Anyhow, I hope I
have done my duty, and that when I am
gone my name will perhaps be not altogether

forgotten here. But come," he added, "it's
no use talking about that. We will have
a cigar, and I daresay you will not be sorry
to turn in early. Pedro, bring the coffee
into the verandah."

THE BEGINNING OF 