CHAPTER I.

PAJK

Rawson OF RAWDOXSHAUGH, GROCER . . 1

5 CHAPTER II.

CD

FROM NURSERY TO COLLEGE

CHAPTER III.

 FROM THE UNIVERSITY TO THE WORLD

 CHAPTER IV.

2? RAWDON ENTERS SOCIETY . . . 11'.)

cP

:i
a:

CO

CHAPTER V.

* CAST ADRIFT . . . . . 1-1

c

0)

Chapter VI.

PAGE

Jeanne DE PEROUAG . . . . 173

CHAPTER VII.

SWEYN Narrow IN LOVE . . . 207

CHAPTER VIII.

NOTRE ROY 250

CHAPTER I.
EAWDON OF EAWDONSHAUGH, Grocer.

In the north of England, some hundred
years ago, dwelt a notable family called
Kawdon, of antiquity unquestioned, of
large estate, and of the High-Tory principles
befitting their position. Many generations
had found their way from the
Haugh to the churchyard, and each succeeding
heir had found his paternal lands
not diminished, but rather increased. The
Rawdons were free-handed in two senses.
Whilst their door stood hospitably wide,

VOL. I. B

their neighbours landmark was pushed
steadily backwards, until every rood of
fell and copse overlooked by that stately
mansion was their own. But Fate avenged
itself at last. The destined spendthrift
came, and he was succeeded by a worthy
heir. In two generations of madmen, all
was spent, and the last Eawdon of 
left his son, at seven years old,
penniless and alone. The mother had been
dead for years, her relatives did not come
forward, and his own connections, all distant,
ignored the existence of a child they
had never seen. All that the Jews and
lawyers gave him from that great estate
was 500. An old servant took charge
of the boy, protected his small interests,
and. passed him on to another county,
where, in fine, he was apprenticed to a
grocer. When this startling news spread
abroad, the sexton of the village church
where so many Rawdons lay surely expected
that such disgrace would wake the whole

proud clan to direful life again. But
neither the living nor the dead protested.
The boy served his time, and proved
himself both thrifty and enterprising. His
500 gave him a start. In course of years
he moved southward, and presently obtained
a partnership in a great London
firm. Money poured in, and Eawdon had
scarcely yet reached middle age when he
bought the estate of Weybridge, the seat
of an old family whose tale was very like
his own. But the pleasures of the country
did not tempt him from the shop. It is
probable that the grocer might have died
there, a bachelor, but the one romantic
episode of a prosaic existence shortly befell.
A pale and delicate old man replied to
his advertisement for a foreign clerk, and
he begged so eagerly for the place that
Rawdou overlooked the weakness of his
testimonials. For years the Frenchman did
his work, growing feebler month by month,
but complaining not at all. Rawdon was

B 2

kind in his grave way, and at length he
offered the old man a pension for his few-remaining
days. Weakened by illness and
anxiety, the clerk burst into tears, and
begged his employer's protection for the
daughter he was leaving friendless in the
world. Mr. Eawdon was not a man to
promise lightly. He visited the poor lodging
to see the girl for whom his aid was
asked. One glance of her hazel eyes found
the grocer's heart, and within a very few
weeks Marie's father had no more occasion
for anxiety on. her account. He suffered a
little, however. His parents, like so many
more, had fled from the days of Terror,
but they had not the luck to dip in that
Pactolus which flowed at the Restoration.
Representing a family of no small account,
whose younger branch had recovered much
of its . possessions, the Marquis de Perouac
came very near starvation. At his death,
the trifling sum allowed by the Count de
Perouac was discontinued, and the son

found employment in Rawdon's shop, whilst
the grand-daughter Marie earned a few poor
shillings by needlework.

The old man lived to see a quiet wedding,
and to touch French soil once more.
Upon his deathbed, he spoke hesitatingly
to Rawdon about leaving trade. The old

o

shop had been a home to him, but, said
he, " a woman's position is different." Mr.
Rawdon understood very well, though most
persons would see the distinction in an
opposite light. It was hard to surrender
his own interest, but he did it. The wedding
tour was prolonged until the heir of
the Rawdons of Rawdonshaugh could again
take his place before the world as a country
gentleman. At Weybridge, two years after,
was born to him a son christened Pier
Marie, and his wife died in childbed.

These events roused a stir in the neighbourhood.
Rawdon the grocer, a married
man, though claiming thirty-two quarterings
of nobility, and never a stain or doubt on

his escutcheon  though reputed to possess
ten thousand a year  was necessarily and
properly cut by the county. Its opinion,
deliberate and unalterable, was finely syllogism
by Mr. Latham, heir to the grand
property of that ilk, and member, of course.
If a man's a grocer," said he, when it
was announced that the purchaser of Wey-
bridge was coming to reside there, ''he
can't be a gentleman ; if he's a gentleman,
he couldn't be a grocers' The delicacy of
the unconditional mood was vastly admired.
It's his great facility in grammar which
gives James his standing in the House,"
said little Mrs. Latham ; and, as usual, no
one could be sure whether she was laughing
at her lord or no. This verdict of the shire
was not to be altered by the husband's
quiet virtues, or the wife's fascination.

But when Marie died, Eawdon the grocer
became Mr. Rawdon of Weybridge, the
widower. It was then recollected that no
one could dispute his pedigree, that his

wealth lay beyond question, visible to the
whole country-side, on hill and meadow,
night and day, frank winds blowing over
and the candid sun shining on it. A powerful
squadron came into the field, who had
not hitherto taken an active part in the
discussion. The mothers of the county
began to move, and the daughters thereof.
Once more council was held in the house
of Latham, and Lady Blenchley then and
there took up her parable.

Mr. Eawdon was very fond of her, they
say, and there must be a depth of good
feeling in a man who suffers so acutely. I
think he sets an excellent example. He is
comparatively young  not much over forty
I understand. Blenchley says that the
Weybridge rental has even increased. Do
you know whether that property is entailed ?
The poor child is said to be sickly, and
there are so many risks, even with a
mother's care. Blenchley says he would
not feel easy if he had only one son."

I think," said Mrs. Lambert, the rector s
wife, *' that your ladyship would not regret
any attention paid to Mr. Kawdon. We
have known him from the first, of course,
and I can assure your ladyship that he is
a thoroughly good and Christian person.
His wife, poor thing " (here Mrs. Lambert
touched her eyes), " was angelic. You are
aware that she was Protestant ? "

"Mr. Kawdon gives 200 a year to
the Hunt, I believe. And he is really
very nice-looking for his age," observed
Lady George Fieldfare, with the boldness
of a widow.

'rand he was born at Kawdonshaugh,"
interposed Miss Rulers, the genealogist.

"Darcy happened to speak to him a
year ago, and it was only yesterday he
declared that a man more thoroughly
presentable he had never met," murmured
Mrs. Ashton, who owned a hive
of children, all queens and drones.

"Mr. Ashton must be right, if he has

taken twelve months to mature his
opinion," said sarcastic Mrs. Latham.
But what steps can we take now ? "

Oh, the men must call, and do as
well as they can," replied Lady George
decisively.

The young ladies also held their council.
One, of course, quoted the antique custom
of Brittany, which permitted a damoiseau
to hang his sword in the parish church,
until, by hook or by crook, the fisheries
or the wool trade, he had earned enough
to mount it decently.

'' A pretty display of learning, my dear,"
objected Miss Rivers; " but this worthy man
didn't hang up his sword  indeed, I am
sure the bishop would not allow any such
tomfoolery. A grocer's weapons of offence
are sand-bags and mixing-sticks."

How dreadful you are, Grace ; of course,
nobody has a sword now-a-days."

Oh, Silly," cried a little sister, " Cousin
Alfred has, and I saw you kissing it yesterday

! " Conversation was interrupted until
the uninitiated one had been removed.

"Of course Silly is right," sighed Miss
Ashton. " Men don't wear swords and
things, and so there's no beautiful romance
in life."

"The Heraldry book says, you know,
Bojig sang ne se pert pas ! "

Oh doesn't it ? " cried practical Miss
Rivers. " The Morley are good blood, if
any of us are, but when poor Harriet ran
away with the tutor, she lost herself so
completely that I have never been able to
find her since ! "

You may be as sarcastic as you please,
Grace, but I heard papa say that it is part
of woman's mission to refine these rich
parvenus who are springing up all round
us."

And who would not like to refine
Weybridge ! " exclaimed Miss Rivers, clasping
her hands enthusiastically.

So the county made overtures to Mr.

Rawdon, which he courteously passed by.
The county was offended and astonished,
as each new assailant of the recluse made
his charge and withdrew, baffled. But Mr.
Rawdon's position changed. His manner
of declining intimacy gave no excuse, had
such been wished, for snoring; him a.oain.
And in this amphibious condition the master
of Weybridge remained, acknowledged by
society, though mixing not therein.

Comfort was long in finding Mr. Rawdon,
but as years passed, bringing strength and
beauty to his child, the bereaved man
turned with passionate love towards this
link which bound him to his dead wife.
The boy was eminently lovable. Though
quick to anger under a sense of wrong, and
slow to forgive an injury until it was
acknowledged and atoned, he had a disposition
so frank and unsuspecting that
his fits of passion were rare. The servants
were his slaves, especially the pretty ones,
and the feeling of servants towards a child

is no bad test of his character. It was
Pier's grave misfortune to have no companion
of his own age. One acquaintance
he had indeed, little Sweyn Garrow, who
lived at the Rectory with Mr. Lambert;
but the boys fought with such determination
that they seldom, were allowed to be
together. Till his eighth birthday, Pier
ruled a little kingdom all alone.

Mr. Rawdon was utterly unfitted to train
such a nature. A gentleman in every instinct,
narrowed by circumstances into the
form of an honest, god-fearing worshipper
of routine, he could not even understand
this boy. Sitting on his father's knee,
listening: to the moralities which have served
so many generations. Pier sometimes delivered
himself in a manner that confounded
the paternal wisdom. He would gravely
revolve in his young intelligence the moral
stone which should stand to him in lieu
of bread, and propound some monstrous
question. Mr. Rawdon was not quick of

thought, and eight years passed before he
thoroughly comprehended that this was
no common child he had begotten. An
incident of the class just referred to brought
him rather suddenly to a conclusion. Without
more loss of time, a note was despatched,
inviting Mr. and Mrs. Lambert
to dine and consult. "Bring little Sweyn
with you," added Mr. Kawdon in a postscript.
" He can stay the night with Pier,
if you approve."

In the mean while, the boy dismissed
deeply balanced in his mind the respective
pleasures of fishing and bathing on this
summer afternoon. The low green hills
which bounded Weybridge were quivering in
heat, and he remembered with ecstasy how
cool and black the water lay beneath the
beech trees at the upper pool. But along
the valley on which he looked, the stream
was sparkling through gaps of alder and
willow like a rosary of diamonds. Undecided
he strolled on, through the ancient shrubbery

of holly and Irish yew, beneath the nursery
windows, to the stable-yard. A lovely
child was this little Pier. When he rode
forth with Ben, his private groom, every
woman turned to smile at the slender figure
sitting so upright and assured, looking
straight in front with keen amber eyes.
His expression was firm, and his features
moulded, at an age when most children area
mere congeries of roundness. The
county people he recognized with a stately
little bow. When they stopped to kiss him,
a temptation irresistible at times, he endured
the ceremony like a monarch courteous but
bored. Young ladies called him Prince
Camaralzaman.

When he appeared in the stable-yard,
the big dogs shook their chains and barked
with joy, the little terriers and pups came
bounding from the shadow. But the men
were engaged. Under the stable wall they
sat, grooms, coachman, and under-gardeners,
listening open-mouthed to a stalwart comrade,

whose gaiters and velveteen betrayed
the gamekeeper. Little Pier advanced as
eagerly as dignity permits, hoping to hear of
a monstrous fish seen that morning amongst
the reeds and water-lilies of the big pond
on the hill, or of an abnormal bird, a
weasel, or perhaps a badger. But he found
the keeper eloquent upon another theme.

Her didn't break out dang'rous, not at
first, ye know," he was saying, whilst a
rough ash stick added force to his periods ;
"the wench only seemed a bit queer-like,
and withered a good bit in her head. But
this morning her begun a screaming and a
tearing, as 'twas terrible to hear her in my
house. They'd all as they could do to keep
her ofi" of the old man, old Smithers, as she
was so fond on. Her come at him with a
knife, her did that ! "

Aye, they mostly set on the folks
they was fondest on," said one of the
listeners.

"Well, they got her off of him, though

Smithers he was badly cut about the
hands, and they tied her neck and heels,
and locked her i' the back room, that as
looks on the garden. And there the wench
is now, a roaring like a mad bull. Eh, it's
dreadful to go off your head a-that ns."

They all shook their polls, gazing solemnly
into space.

'' Herd just kill a man like winking', and
all for fun."

"Mad folks is that strong when the fit's
on 'em."

Smithers," resumed the keeper, " he
come and axed me to give 'em a hand,
but I tell him out as I'd see him deed. I
ain't afeard of living man, nor yet of beast,
but I don't like to handle folks as ista
right. They're like to ghosts, somehow."

All shook their heads again.

You're a big coward, Watson ! " cried
little Pier, shrilly scornful.

'aye, Master Pier ain't afeard of a
woman, sane nor simple," said one of the

grooms, with a big laugh. " Are ye, Master
Pier ? "

Who are you talking about ? " asked
the child, superbly.

Betsy Smithers, as was your wet-nurse,
Master Pier," said the gamekeeper ; " she's
gone off her head, and they've locked her
up."

Poor Betsy ! Will they hurt her ? "

'' Like enough, poor thing ! She's going
to the asylum tomorrow, and they be
mortal cruel to poor folks there, I've heard
tell." So said the coachman, and ghastly
stories were recited on this text. Pier listened
in growing wrath.

'*My nurse Betsy  they'll treat her like
that ? They shan't ! I say they shan't !
Where is she ? "

Locked in the back place at Smithers'
farm, close by the dairy. They'll not let
you see her, Master Pier ; and modern soit
would frighten you out o' your seven
senses. She's the strangest sight ever you

VOL. I.

seed, from what I hear tell ; her hair's full
of flowers, like a play actress, and she
swells out her throat at you like a toad
for all the world."

Hold your deed tongues ! " muttered
Ben, who but just arrived. " Can't yer see
how mad young master's growing ? He's
fond o' Betsy Smithers above all, and this
is enough to gie a lad fits of a night.
Damn all wagging tongues. Will you come
with me. Master Pier, to catch trout i' the
brook ? "

Readily enough, of course ; and all afternoon
through he wandered on the banks
of pretty Weybridge stream, breathlessly
excited. It was not wide enough for fly-fishing,
and he who would make closer
acquaintance with the speckled trout, and
wriggling 'nine-holes," and silvery dace,
and mottled bull-heads dwelling there must
betake himself to the antique art of " tick
ling." A noble sport is that whilst one
is young, and rheumatism still a bogey.

Marked with the whitest stone were those
childish days of mine, when I dabbled all
the summer's afternoon, seeking: trout under
flowery banks, and encircling them with
restless fingers. Never has the sun shone
so genially on me, though I have followed
him from land to land where he glows
warmest. Meadows have never since appeared
so green, nor water so bright, nor
weeds so fragrant. I remember now each
sparkling shallow of the brooklet which
flowed beneath my home, and each shadowy
hole where the big fish lay. Milk-white in
spring, glowing red in autumn, the hawthorns
lined its banks, alternate with black
alders, and willows shivering. The faint
odour of the night-shade fills my nostrils.
Many a time, by lovely waters far away,
I have longed with a sick pain to tread
once more those sweet English meadows,
and rest there for ever.

Weybridge brook held many strange
creatures besides fish, and Ben's instructions

C 2

were to bring them all to light. Under the
pebbles and in holes of mossy roots were
cray-fish, which swam backwards, and performed
many curious feats. Then there
were semi-fish, like animated horsehair,
which Pier verily believed them ;  had not
Watson's brother kept a grey horsehair ina
bottle till it took life ? Caddis-worms
dwelt in a cavern of sticks and stones, and
there were shrimps, and boat-flies, and
water-beetles, and spiders with a red-velvet
cross upon their backs, and innumerable
small monsters, most of which bit.

"Aren't they brave," said Pier, sucking
his slender finger, "these little tiny boat-flies
? They bite me when I touch them,
and yet I'm ten million times bigger than
them. Don't you think men are the most
cowardly things alive, Ben?"

This was a view that honest groom had
not been trained to contemplate. He answered
vaguely, "There's a many puzzling
circumstances in Nature, Master Pier."

All the afternoon they wandered by the
stream  Ben in the water, and Pier on the
bank. " In kep' him out of mischief sofar,"
thought the former to himself, as heled
the way home ; " but he'll be rare an
mad about Betsy Smith hers when he recollects.
rU give nurse a wink to mind him."
But when they got in, Ben was ordered
instantly to mount, and fetch the doctor to
a sick housemaid ; so the hint was forgotten.
Pier, rejoicing in his load of sheeny trout,
carried them to the kitchen for Mr.
Lambert's entertainment.

The rector and his wife duly arrived,
bringing their little charge, Sweyn Garrow.
He was a child about seven years old, fair-haired,
very high-spirited, always ready to
kiss or fight. Pier submitted to a great
deal of bullying from his junior, but disputes
would arise sometimes, and there
was not so much difference in strength as
to make a combat unfair. Little Sweyn
would hold his breath so resolutely, if Pier

refused to fight, that the boy consented
in alarm. But they were very fond of each
other, and rapturously pleased to meet when
permitted. One of their keenest joys was
to sit peacefully side by side, and imagine
the atrocities they would commit upon each
other when "grown up."

Mr. Eawdon was a stickler for early
hours, and he sent the children to bed at
dinner-time. So soon as the nurse's footsteps
had died away, Pier sat up and
called 

Little Sweyn, are you afraid of anything
? "

I'm not a bit afraid of you," lisped he,
always ready for battle.

I don't want to fight you, darling little
Sweyn. Are you afraid of people who
have gone off" their heads ? "

No ! " very indignantly.

*what do people do who have gone ofi"
their heads ? "

I don't know' answered the little

hero, his fair face flushed red ; " but Fm
not afraid of them."

Pier was vague himself, but he replied,
'they come out all over feathers, little
Sweyn, and they swell out their throats
like a toad, and they bite your fingers."

This terrific description produced instant
results. Sweyn jumped out of bed, and
ran to the attack, little milk-teeth clenched,
and blue eyes shining like lamps. Pier
hurried out on the other side, and demanded
a parley.

How dare you think me a coward, you
great elephant ? " Sweyn stammered, trying
to reach his foe. " Fll kill you, and pinch
the inside of your arms ! "

Forgiveness was granted on a proper
apology. Then they sat in their night-gowns
on the edge of the bed, and held
council.

*' My nurse Betsy has gone off her head,
and they've tied her hands and feet, and
locked her up ; and tomorrow they'll take

her to be beaten, unless some one lets her
out. I'm going to let her out."

'eyes, of course," said little Sweyn, looking
in his friend's face, and taking his hand.

We'll get through the window of the
day nursery, and slip over the roof of the
tool-house, and climb down through the
hollies ; I know the way. You get your
hands pricked, but it doesn't hurt much."

They dressed in prodigious haste, but
quiet as mice. Then Pier opened the
creaking window, which was of that ancient
model called a casement. Over the tops
of the hollies and the yews the lawn could
be seen, glowing red in the level sun-rays.
Long blue shadows fell across it from the
bordering limes. No sound arose save the
evening call of the corncrake in the
meadows ; not even the small scullery-maid,
who nightly met her faithful stableman
in this secluded corner, was about.

"All's well, little Sweyn!" Pier whispered.
"Watch how I go down the tiles.

This yellow moss will bear your feet, but
if you slip there's no danger  the holly
branches will catch you."

"Danger'' repeated the superb little
fellow.

With some scratches the descent was
accomplished ; then, hand in hand, they
hurried, breathless with excitement, through
the damp, green arcade of the ancient
shrubbery.

"I see a nest," whispered Sweyn, "in
the yew."

This discovery delayed them, for, magnanimous
as Pier might feel towards his
poor nurse, it was beyond human resolution
to pass a new nest uninvestigated. Just ashe
softly introduced his hand, a warning
"hush" froze him. Sweyn crept into the
shadow, and they remained stock-still, one
beneath, one on a bough. Presently footsteps
and low voices, which Sweyn's ears
had caught, sounded closer and closer. In
the arch of dark foliage two forms appeared

 that of the grave and serious coachman,
that of the discreet nurse. The
serious coachman had his arm about the
discreet nurse, and was whispering such
sweetness in her ear, under cover of the
yew's black shadow, that she was constrained
to murmur, " Get out with your
nonsense, do, Mr. Jones." To which gentle
rebuke Mr. Jones made reply fitting, no
doubt, and the adair walked slowly on.

How many ? It's a blackbird's, isn't
it ? " whispered little Sweyn.

Yes ; four young ones, nearly fledged,"
Pier answered joyfully. " If nurse catches
us she aren't tell, for I know she's engaged
to Simpson."

You won't tell of them. Pier ? "

If you were bigger, little Sweyn, I'd
put your head in that rain-tub until you
turned blue."

You wouldn't  you wouldn't ! I'd stick
onions in your eyes, and cook you in the
green-house fire."

They came near a quarrel, but Pier apologized
humbly, and they proceeded, hand in
hand, to the ancient yew, which stood, all
black and weirdly and solemn, at the end
of the kitchen garden. Behind it was a
hole, hidden with furze and pea-rises,
whereby Pier often escaped. They crept
through and reached the fields.

The dappled cows were lounging from the
gate, after their evening visit to the farm.
Green and still and holy the meadow
looked, as the boys crouched waiting till
the cowherd withdrew. Then at top speed
they galloped across the open, climbed the
opposite fence, and reached the water-meadow,
through which ran the brook.
An irresistible temptation of king-cups and
meadow-sweet, and pale, pink milkmaids,
delayed them here awhile.

Muddy and wet, but bearing each a
nosegay of marsh-flowers, they regained
the path and crossed the stream, where
golden tassels and flowery catkins were

added to their treasure. Upon the culvert
they were once more detained by the apparition
of a crowd of minnows, fleeing before
some unseen monster. But at length the
shadow of a barn was gained, on the
other side of which lay the small village
street.

Sweyn advised a dash across ; Pier recommended
a detour by the keeper's cottage.

I won't hide' whispered Sweyn, vehemently.


We shall be like Red Indians on the
war-path," suggested Pier, and the argument
was irresistible.

Creeping under the hawthorns and
maples, they stole forward, described a
half-circle by the stile, crossed the road,
and at length, all breathless, their hearts
beating loud and eyes brightened, they
stood under cover of the garden fence.

The boys peered awhile through gaps in
the quick-set. All was still. They forced
their small bodies through, with many a

scratch and rent. Pier knew the farmhouse
well, having explored it many times
before the increasing eccentricity of his
nurse obliged Mr. Eawdon to part with
her. Easily, therefore, he singled out the
low window of the room where Betsy was
confined. He called " Nurse Betsy " under
the casement, but there was no answer.
Then he stood against the wall, and little
Sweyn climbed on his shoulders to reconnoitre.


There's a woman lying all huddled
up," he whispered.

Is the window fastened ? " Pier asked
eagerly.

It was not. Close by stood an empty
barrel. They rolled it underneath, set it
on end, and with difficulty he climbed upon
it. Betsy made no sign in answer to ibis
cautious whispers. He slipped through the
casement, and Sweyn followed. They stood
still for a time, oppressed by the silence
and the awful heap before them. No sound

was in the house, save a low murmur as
of some one reading in a distant room.
The floor was littered with crushed blossoms
 pansies, sweet-williams, and red
daises. In poor Betsy's yellow hair they
were twined, a withering garland. She did
not seem even to breathe, and her face
was hidden.

Is she dead ? " muttered Sweyn, white
with awe.

*' Nurse, nurse ! " whispered Pier, drawing
closer. He put his hand upon her
shoulder, still calling. Then slowly the
woman lifted her head, and shook back
her pretty hair. The face she raised was
deathly pale, streaked with smears of
blood. Her eyes were unnaturally wide,
with no speculation in their glare, but
her mouth twisted rapidly. Pier drew
back with a scream, and Sweyn cried out,
Oh, she is dead, and I am afraid of
her ! " But he kept his place, and raised
no alarm.

*' Nurse Betsy, don't you know us ?
I'm your little Master Pier, come to set
you free."

Then the madness broke out. Low and
soft at first she repeated, " Master Pier
Master Pier ! " but gradually her cry
grew faster and faster, higher and shriller,
till it was a frantic yell  '* Master Pier !
Master Pier ! "

The children fell back in terror at this
demon they had raised. She moved no
muscle of her body, nor turned her horrid
eyes, but lying there, cramped up, she
shrieked the name without intermission,
so fast as to dizzy their brains. Little
Garrow burst into tears of fright, but
he pulled his knife out, and handed it,
sobbing, " Be quick, dear Pier ! Some one
is at the door."

The other did not tremble less, but he
ran to cut his nurse's bonds, and they
caught him searching for them amongst

o o o

torn garments and silky hair. Of course

the children were arrested and sent home
in the midst of a crowd of villagers uncertain
whether to cheer or scold. Mr. Rawdon
was equally perplexed when they came to
interrupt him over his wine. The boys were
sent to bed again, and the council of three
resumed the discussion of their future.

Mr. Rawdon had been telling the incident
which caused him to summon his
friends. It was that excellent gentleman's
habit to dilate every day upon
some moral question, and the morning's
theme had been story-telling. Pier had
never even shirked the truth in all his
life, so there was no personal application.
But Mr. Rawdon explained the sin of lying
carefully, and his son listened. Afterwards
came one of those terrible questions which
disturbed the paternal moralist.

Yes," said Pier, '' but why is it
wrong ? "

*' Because those who tell stories never
go to heaven."

Pier thought awhile, and replied, " But
that isn't a reason, papa. I think it's
very mean and selfish, too, always counting
what you're going to get by being good.
Why is it wrong ? "

Pier was dismissed as a bad boy.

The rector said, upon hearing this
story, " There's no harm at all in that
speech. It's easy enough for any one
used to children to know what Pier meant,
and I respect him for the idea. The fact
is, Mr. Kawdon, that it needs a rather
painful operation to understand a child's
mind, if Mrs. Lambert will allow me to
say so. Pier is a noble little fellow, but
he ought to q-q to school."

Then came the discovery of the boys'
escapade, which confirmed Mr. Lambert
in his opinion.

But a child can't go to school at
eight years old," said the father.

He must, if he can't stay at home."

I will make a proposition," Mrs. Lam-vol.

I. D

bert broke in. " We have been keeping
these children apart, and they are both
growing up very troublesome. Trust Pier
to me for a few days. Arabella says that
if they saw each other oftener they would
not fight, and I have a great confidence
in Arabella's judgment. It would solve
all the difficulty if they could be brought
up together."

Mr. Rawdon was not so guileless as to
overlook that this course would also put
a very round sum in the rector s pocket
yearly, but that was no consideration.
Pier went back with Sweyn next day, and
stayed a week. The experiment was quite
successful, but Mrs. Lambert disclaimed
any but the smallest share therein.

It's all due to Arabella's cleverness,"
she said. " The dear girl knows by instinct
when they feel mischievous, and
interests them until they get good again."

Mrs. Lambert does not exaggerate,"
observed her husband. " Arabella is a

domestic Talleyrand, and she finds all the
pleasure of high diplomacy in counteracting
the evil inclinations of these children.
It's as good as a play to watch,
I assure you."

Arabella Carey was Mrs. Lambert's
daughter by a first husband, a soft, plump,
smiling girl of sixteen. She had sleepy
black eyes, with very thick white lids, a
face rather pretty than not, and a character
of unquestioned amiability. Her
mother had always persisted that Arabella's
judgment was miraculous, but nobody
believed her, though the rector
did not contradict. The servants hinted
that their young mistress was even too
clever.

Mr. Rawdon, delighted to see his child
in good hands which could manage him,
intrusted Pier to Arabella's special charge.
She smiled, blushed, and accepted. In the
course of a very few months such striking
progress was visible in the education of

D 2

both boys, that Mr. Rawson doubled the
handsome allowance he already made. For
the care of Sweyn Garrow the rector was
granted a large sum, and he began to lay
by money fast. Pier's father never missed
a day in visiting his son, and he had
many opportunities of seeing with what
skill Arabella curbed his headstrong nature.
Gratitude took a substantial form with him
and her jewel-box began to be talked of.
In this household Pier spent four years.

CHAPTER II.

FROM NURSERY TO COLLEGE.

When Pier was twelve years old, and
Sweyn eleven, Mr. Lambert suddenly died.
This misfortune caused them to be sent
to a public school, where several lads from
their county were being educated. In a
very few hours young Latham, son of Sir
James Latham already mentioned, made
insinuations which demanded notice. Pier
challenged him, and they fought until
Latham fell upon a stone, and was hors
de combat. The rector's teaching did him
credit, for both boys were placed in a class
above their years.

Whilst Latham wore a bandage round

his head the friends treated him with
grave politeness, but in a fortnight the last
trace of his mishap had disappeared. Then
Garrow carried a challenge, which was accepted,
and for an hour the boys fought
again. Latham succumbed. Most people
remember the formal words which terminate
a school-fray. The victor asks, ''Do
you give in ? " An answer " Yes " puts an
end to the business. But when Latham
failed to come up to time. Pier omitted
this formality. Leaning on Sweyn's arm, he
withdrew, to wash his cut face and hands.

Again there was peace until the last
bruise had worn away ; then Garrow made
his third appearance, with solemnity, and
delivered the message. Latham protested
against this vendetta, of a sort unusual
amongst English boys. " You can stop it
when you like," returned Garrow, But the
other wished neither to fight nor apologize.
Upon this report the challenger came on
the scene.

"Do you refuse to meet me, Mr.
Latham ? " he asked, with scrupulous
politeness.

I have fought you twice," muttered
the victim, sulkily.

Then, my good fellow, you are a coward,
and this is how cowards are treated." He
twisted his foe suddenly round, and administered
the deadly kick.

For the third time they joined, but
Latham had no heart in it. In the midst
of the struggle appeared that Neptune of
the school, the prefect. Mr. Morley was
a most unhandsome dignitary. He had a
face scarred and discoloured with smallpox,
his whiskers, though precocious, were
scanty, and his figure was squat. A softness
in the large vacant eyes, and lines
of good nature about the mouth, alone
saved the prefect from downright ugliness.
Pier had not hitherto been brought into
contact with him, having his orbit as yet
far beneath the personal notice of a being

SO high-placed; but Morley had remarked
the two new boys, whose look was so bright
and spirits so high.

He viewed the troubled scene with
sublime composure. Pier gave no attention,
for it was not unusual for the prefects
to countenance a mill particularly interesting.
But Latham's friends, glad of the
excuse, withdrew their man. When Eawdon
objected, the prefect said,

"Come with me, youngster; I want to
have a talk."

There was no appeal from this command.
Pier put on his coat, and followed indignantly
; Sweyn took his arm.

"I said I wanted to speak to you' said
Morley, glancing at their uninvited companion.


"My friend wants to speak to me also
it seems," returned Pier, with a clash of
his teeth.

Will you be good enough to grant mea
few moments' private conversation, Mr.

Rawdon?" asked the prefect, ceremoniously.


I shall not be long," said Pier to Hs
friend, who fell back.

'you have fought Latham twice before
this they tell me," Morley began.

"He has not apologized."

'' Have you asked him ? "

"No."

"Perhaps you are not anxious to give
him a chance ? "

No, I'm not ! "

"You would rather go on knocking him
about 1 "

He may knock me about, he's older
and bigger. He called my father the
Weybridge grocer ! "

He was a grocer, wasn't he ? "

Yes. I'm not ashamed of that. Rawdon
of Eawdonshaugh can do what he likes."

"Then why so deadly hard on young
Latham ? "

"If a man wants to insult another, it

doesn't matter much what his words are.
There may be as much offence meant in
'good morning' as in an oath. That's
why I don't care for an apology."

"You think that honour is only to be
absolved by the human sacrifice ? "

I think that any one who insults me
shall be sorry for it. What's an apology
to Latham ? Why, he hasn't even the
gentlemanly instinct to see that I should
be shut up ! But I expect he begins to
be sorry. '

There's something to be said for your
notion. A man must be a very bold and
ingenious cad now-a-days to push insult
beyond the limits covered by an apology.
Better not ask for it, perhaps, but smite
him. However, Latham has been punished
enough. Let the enmity drop, and embrace
a new friendship."

Latham and I could never be friends ! "

I did not mean Latham, but myself."

"You, Mr. Morley?"

*' If you think me worthy."

Why, sir, I am only in the third class."

That is a difficulty, of course. We
must get you into the first as soon as
possible."

So the boys became friends, and Morley
so urged and pushed his protege, that when
he himself left school for Oxford Pier had
actually climbed "into the first." Sweyn
was very far behind in the school. He
had talent enough and energy enough,
but the student's laurels did not tempt
him.

A favourite with all whose regards he
would have accepted, Pier Eawdon had five
hundred well-wishers, and fifty timorous
foes ; but I need mention only one amongst
the whole number. Jonas Davis, a small,
red-haired boy, had some influence upon
Eawdon's career. Upon entering the school
he was placed in Garrow's class, and that
aristocrat gave him the contemptuous name
of "Fao:in." Jonas went to the master,

who dismissed his complaint, and Garrow
promised him a " licking." In dreadful
fright he consulted his form-fellow, who,
for a sovereign and a new knife, undertook
to get him off. This business-like youth
was one of Eawdon's zealous worshippers,
and rather a favourite. He scribbled a note
and passed it from hand to hand through
the *' Long Kooni Classical," wherein the
mediation of Pier was entreated, for reasons
of state. The moment school broke up
Jonas was led to his protector, who scornfully
promised to save him. And he did
so, earning Oriental volubility of gratitude.

Mrs. Lambert and Arabella, meanwhile,
led a roving existence, of which they tired
at length. The latter, a well-grown young
lady of twenty-four, decided to return to
Weybridge, and Mr. Kawdon gave them, on
easy terms, a cottage just outside the park.
The ladies gradually acquired a certain influence,
not abused, and perceptible only
to the son of the house. He had never

liked Arabella, though she seemed to feel
for him one of those motherly affections
which became a well-bred young lady of
twenty-four towards a handsome boy of
sixteen. The silent and watchful intelligence
by which his childhood had been
ruled was not lost in disuse. Pier wished
to go abroad with Morley, now a grave
aspirant for honours. Mr. Rawdon did
not approve, but he gave way suddenly.
At the end of the long vacation. Pier was
not a bit tired of foreign ways, and he
begged to remain abroad until his matriculation.
This was refused, and then granted.
The boy had no doubt to whose intercession
he owed these favours, and he wrote to
Arabella, thanking her. She did not reply.
The tour was prolonged accordingly, but
it came to an end very near the tragic.
Whilst staying at Florence, Morley awoke
one morning in his calm and peaceful bed
to learn that his charge had fought a duel,
and had received a bullet in his arm. They

returned to England as soon as he could
travel. Mr. Eawdon knew nothing of this
incident, but Pier found a difference in him.
He was not less affectionate, but he was ill-appease
with his son. The latter dared not
inquire very closely, remembering several
escapades which might have reached the
strict old gentleman ;  not disgraceful
escapades, but such as, he admitted it
with contrition, would distress his father.
But when he gently sounded his way, Mr.
Rawdon seemed unconscious. Several of
the old servants had been pensioned off.
Ben remained, hearty and devoted as ever ;
he, had much to tell about the ladies' doings,
but Pier would not listen. They made
themselves very pleasant, and he was glad
that his father should have companions.
Then Garrow arrived from his uncle's place,
and all went merry as could be.

The county began to talk about young
Rawdon. He knew little and cared less ;
but Sweyn, of course, was familiar with the

great ones of the neighbourhood. One day
he carried a report of Mr. Rawdon's engagement
to Mrs. Lambert. With infinite
delicacy Pier took this news to his father.
In the generosity of youth and strength,
he pitied the lonely old man, who had no
resources in himself, and cared nothing for
rural pleasures.

*' Don't think of me, father," he said,
if Mrs. Lambert makes you happy ; I
shall certainly love her."

Then you would not object to my
marrying again ? " asked Mr. Eawdon,
eagerly.

'* I could not object to anything you
did, sir ; and if you marry Mrs. Lambert,
don't grudge a portion for Arabella on my
account. You mustn't marry the family,
you know," he added, laughing.

No more was said. The summer passed,
and the two boys matriculated at St.
Altare's.

The fellows of that ancient college, which

we call St. Ole's, were still seated round
their Common Room fire, though it was
nearly midnight. The Dons of a working
college are late sitters generally  that is,
they used to be, for the Oxford Pier
Rawdon knew is extinct. In those days,
when men had done their life's work, hardwork
too, they loved to rest at ease beside
the nectar.

There are those who believe that the
discussions of a Common Room are learned
as the talkers, that the scientific theories
of the day are tested, the last suggestion
of Teutonic scholarship reviewed, opposing
systems of politics loftily debated.
They are those who will believe anything.
The Common Room of St. Aldate's was
composed of men quite able, and indeed
ready, to enter on these subjects at a proper
season ; but the proper season, as they
thought, was not in those jovial hours
between hall and bedtime. Already indeed
there were men of the new school

amongst them, persons of uncertain birth
and doubtful manners, promoted, so to
speak, from the ranks. As yet these were
only two,  Danvers the Bursar, and Carpenter,
one of the most successful tutors, 
men not easily put down, but overruled
generally by the good taste and easy
humour of their fellows. The talk mostly
ran upon University scandals, with a particular
fancy for the tattle of their own
college. Now and then, towards the small
hours, la politique militaire was introduced,
or the conversation took a turn towards
speculative theology. But all these men,
saving the pair mentioned, had been taught
to "drop the shop" in the Common Room.
Drapers, I suppose, do not price their household
linen, nor play at shops with the olive
branches.

We seem to have a nice lot of freshmen
this term," said the Dean to his
neighbour.

Oh, freshmen are always nice !" replied

VOL. I. E

Danvers. *papa has given them a new
suit of clothes, and mamma has washed
their faces, and Susan has curled their hair."

*why," exclaimed the cheery old chief,
who declined to recognize new fashions,
and sit, dignified but lonely, in his dark
old house, "it seems only a month or two
since you and your friend Carpenter were
freshmen ! "

*time flies fast with us," said that
gentleman ; " but we don't keep pace with
the age. A more precocious set of young
jackanapes than those the Dean admires I
never saw. Do any of you know the name
of a tall young fellow, with yellow eyes,
who has an offensive way of staring ? "

Er, I know whom you mean," said
Danvers, a thick-browed, heavy-howled
man. ** He chums with another freshman,
light-haired also, and indeed equally offensive.
His name is Rawdon, and his father
is a grocer somewhere."

That's what we've come to in St.

xlldate's ! " cried Carpenter. " To countenance
a fraud by writing a grocer down as
Armiger."

Your facts are wrong, gentlemen ! "
said the chief. " Mr. Rawdon's father is
the only son of Colonel Kawdon of
Rawdonshaugh, the oldest family in my
own county. I understand, however, that
he has made a fortune by trade."

"Then I don't see that Mr. Bursar's
statement is incorrect. But it matters not
at all whether the elder Rawdon is a grocer
or a prince of the north country. The son s
manner is impertinent."

*' If you have really a complaint against
him, Mr. Danvers, you had better lay it
officially before the Common Room," said
the chief, stiffly.

I shall be very much mistaken if
Rawdon does not appear before us in no
long time. I judge badly of freshmen who
imitate the liberty of a man in his third
year."

E 2

The Vice-principal, waking from a doze,
muttered,

Ashen Carpenter was a fresHman, he
used to cap every one who wore a mortar-board,
even the choristers of St. Mary's."

I happened to stand for a moment
inside the gate when these youths were
lounging outside, not dressed in academic
costume. It is impossible to take notice
of remarks overheard under such circumstances
;  I was reading the Schools' notice,
of course. But I repeat that their conversation
was most insulting."

Why, what did they say ? " cried the
Vice Principal, now wide awake for mischief.

It is not necessary to detail "

"Oh, yes, it is! Mr. Dean is blushing
already at the dreadful ideas his fancy
conjures up."

"I think," said Dr. Crosby, "that you
are bound, having gone so far, to state the
actual words used. Our imaginations may
do these boys grave injustice."

"Well, then," cried Carpenter, savagely,
I sacrifice my feelings. Said one to the
other, Eawdon I'm sure it was, ' That man
must always live in fear that somebody will
catch him and shave him, and set him to
dance to a barrel organ.' What do you
think of that remark for a nice young
freshman, Mr. Dean ? "

I suggest that the Common Room take
notice of it," exclaimed Danvers.

I second that proposal," cried the Vice-principal,
who had taken wine enough tolet
the wit out  as usual, alas ! ' My bile
has not been so thoroughly moved within
me since I heard the pitiful story of a
cock and a bull. What, Mr. Principal ! a
fellow of high attainments, whose voluminous
contributions to the learned literature
of his country is acknowledged even by retail
dealers, admitted a gentleman wherever
the acts of this University have power  he
cannot listen for a moment behind our gates
without hearing a description of himself as

ill-natured as a Russian passport ? And by
whom is he thus insulted ? By a freshman,
a class which should walk with eyes downcast.
And what manner of freshman ?  one
with yellow eyes, shameless, and light hair,
damnable ! By a freshman who lies under
suspicion of grocery ! By a freshman who
has a friend, as Mr. Bursar so well puts it,
equally light-haired and  the ergo of the
schools  and equally offensive ! I say, sir,
that this matter should be put before the
Hebdomadal Council, and I propose that
this Common Room do pass an act forbidding
any persons whatsoever from listening
to ribald observations at our gates ! "

Danvers and Carpenter both rose.

"Dr. Beetle," said the former, stammer-ding
with passion, '' it has long been the misfortune
of this college to own as its most
responsible official a man who controls
neither his appetites nor the scurrilous
moods to which self-indulgence gives rise.
Every undergraduate in this University

tells how thoroughly you are at home in
scenes where wit of the kind just displayed
is cherished. The Common Room of St.
Aldate's is no place for such an exhibition,
and we shall not return to it until the
possibility of a repetition is no longer to
be dreaded. The matter does not cease
here, nor to-night. This ancient and venerable
college shall not long-er suffer from
the drunken  I have said the word ! 
the drunken eccentricities of its Apices
! "

He withdrew, and most of the others
followed.

Doctor Beetle was sobered. He foresaw
the result of Danvers' report, and he knew
that though his friends were many, his
supporters in this cause would be few.
Those who think to recognize some of my
characters, will cast back their memory to
the time when Dr. Beetle reigned in our
noble college, and mourn with me the
reckless, brilliant, kind-hearted old man.

whom all loved if none respected. He is
dead long ago, killed by the disgrace of
his deposition ; whilst his foes flourish
amain. Would a worse fate had befallen
those, and he whom they persecuted had
finished his time peaceably in the pleasant
rooms looking on the statue.

So we said ; but years, which bring responsibility,
kill youth's blind enthusiasm.
With one half of our boyish prayer I still
sympathize. One may dislike the doers of
a necessary act ; but poor Doctor Beetle
had become " impossible."

So it will be understood that Pier
Kawdon, who was the immediate cause
of a great scandal in the college, did not
enter it under good auspices. He found
himself suspected from the first by those
who had a predominant voice in the
Common Room, after their success in expelling
Dr. Beetle. The old-fashioned fellows
liked him, but their voice was no
longer powerful.

I am not telling a story of Oxford life,
engaging as that task would be. Baby
novelettes, I believe, are my true province,
something in the style of ' Harry and
his Bearer,' or ' Paul and Virginia.' But
at this moment the biography of two
men occupies my time, and leaves little
space for their boyhood. The only incidents
of that period worth relating are
those which bore result in the future.

The confinement of Oxford proved too
irksome for Sweyn Garrow. He should
have undergone a couple of years' travel
before seeking the arms of Alma Mater.
I have not mentioned, I think, that this
fortunate youth was owner of Gaythorpe,
a fine estate within some miles of Wey-
bridge, which was let during his minority.
Sweyn's only surviving guardian was a
bluff old general, to whom, after twelvemonths
at the University, he made a
proposition, " Double my allowance," said
he, " or I will go to the Jews ! "

The general told him "to go and be
damned ! " But his. lady had views connected
with her youngest daughter. She
did not wish to see the boy ruined. After
a while the guardian was persuaded, and
Garrow prepared for flight. He had won
honours at collections, moved to exert
himself by the weariness of sitting hour
by hour in hall ; he had won honours
on the river, which he scarcely valued
more, being confessedly the strongest man
in college ; honours in the cricket-field,
at the pigeon grounds of Iffley, at the
cover side. But life at Oxford was no
life for Sweyn. He craved golden joys.

The friends lay side by side in a punt,
at the other end of which sat Morley,
no more regarded with reverence and
heard with awe, but the tolerated companion
of these gilded youths. Morley
had not changed in one iota, but the
promise of boyhood had ripened. His
supporters expected no less than a Double

First, and in the mean while he was favourite
for the great Wales Exhibition, for which
Pier had also entered. But, of course,
there was no interruption in the friendship
of the rivals.

Sweyn Garrow broke a long silence.
I shall take my name off the books
tomorrow," he said.

This was not unexpected news. Pier
gazed upwards, through the golden elm
leaves to the turquoise sky.

In one month from now," continued
Sweyn, " I shall stand in the bazaar at
Cairo. I shall see palm-trees, Pier, and
real sunshine ! "

But Pier was watching a gallant dragon-fly
skim to and fro above the water.

Instead of your dull books, I shall
study the solemn Eastern tongues. For
this ditch they call a river, I shall seethe
rolling Nile. Whilst your companions
are the dull dogs we know, I shall live with
Bedouins, free as the air above us. Come

with me, Pier ? " His comrade raised a
lazy hand to intercept a caterpillar hanging
from the tree. " Your father can do
without you now."

Be gentle there, old friend ! If he's
looking for other comfort, it's my fault."

Yours ? There never was a better son,
or one a father should be more proud of!

If I were you. Pier, I'd no ! I suppose

I should do like you. But it will come
hard to have a stepmother."

It's my own fault. If I'd thought
more of the governor, and amused him, he
wouldn't have wanted a wife. Don't you
see that it was my absence in Italy, where
I was such a hideous young cub, which did
the mischief. It's too late now, but I'll
make the dear old man proud of his son.
It's not Danvers nor Carpenter that shall
stop me, nor anybody else, eh, Morley,
old man."

I don't think I can beat you, if you
choose to work."

And I don't think I can beat you, if
you'll only take a little play. Put down
your book, man, and give yourself a
chance."

'' I know it's only the way which is
natural to you, but a stranger would believe
you were trying to ' establish a funk '
already. What cheeky coolness you boys
had at school 1 "

But Morley put down his book, and
then looked eagerly forward. Another punt
was coming round the bend, poled by the
stalwart *' champion." A lady sat in the
stern, and in front of her, upon a little
camp-stool, a gentleman. The youths recognized
that cramped figure and fluffy hair.

The poodle in a punt, by Jove ! "
whispered Sweyn. *what a pretty girl
he's got with him."

By his face Pier saw that Morley knew
her, and muttered the question.

*' xA widow lady, Mrs. Lumley," he
answered.

She was very pretty. Though long out
of mourning, Mrs. Lumley was not yet
twenty-five years old, whilst her blonde
hair and exquisite complexion made her
seem still younger. Sitting in that unromantic
craft, a punt, even smiling on their
enemy, she appeared a very siren. Pencils
of light quivered down through the thick
branches of the elms, and glittered in her
hair. Her face was flushed, her blue eyes
sparkled, in the pleasure of this new
amusement ; for the banks of Chigwell
were crowded with handsome youths. As
for the Reverend Mr. Carpenter, his emotions
are grotesquely visible. Dishevelled
he was, from ceaseless arranmnor of his
light hair. His eyes were open with love,
and his mouth with heat. Even Morley
was amused in his thoughtful way.

Look at that man," he whispered. *' His
iambics are worthy of Sophocles, and his
odes are Horatian. But what a fool he
looks on a three-legged stool ! "

So intent was Mrs. Lumley on the play
of light among the elms, intent also perhaps
on the ponderous babble of Mr. Carpenter
who can guess the fancies of a young
widow ?  so intent was she upon something,
that her glance did not fall upon
the other punt apparently till they were
almost beside it. Then she gave a little
pretty cry, " Oh, Mr. Morley, I didn't see
you ! Isn't this charming ? "

The colour flushed suddenly to her face
as she met Pier Eawdon's gaze.

Champion " had stopped at this recognition.
The widow, with head aside, gazed
into the stream, whilst Garrow addressed
his tutor.

'WeVe worked so very badly together,
Carpenter, that I half doubt whether you
may not be pleased to hear that I am
throwing up the sponge. My name will
be scored off the Buttery to-night."

In his delight Carpenter did not notice
the familiarity of the address. He

even made an acidly gracious speech to
Eawdon.

I am glad to see that you have put
your name down for the Wales. You are
young enough to be not deterred by failure
if that should be your unfortunate lot.
To be beaten by Mr. Morley is not disgrace.
These two gentlemen," he said, turning to
Mrs. Lumley, " are the favourites, as sportsmen
say, for the Great Wales Exhibition."

It was possible, I suppose, to take this
speech as an introduction. The pretty
widow bowed as though the ceremony had
been performed, and Pier took off his hat.
Perhaps Carpenter suspected the propriety
of this conduct. He glanced from lady to
gentleman ; then drew himself in like a
snail which sees the marauding blackbird
near.

'' Go on, Champion ! " he cried.

"You are almost at the end of Cher-well,"
said Pier. " The proper thing now,
Mrs. Lumley, is to fasten your punt

under shadow of these trees, and there to
smoke, drink beer, and meditate."

Now I see what a real manly diversion
is. In the first place, set somebody else
to your work ; in the second, treat yourself
to amusement in which ladies cannot
possibly join."

Sweyn plunged into a loud conversation
with Carpenter ; as for Morley, no one paid
attention to him.

Can you not meditate ? " said Pier.
When so many are thinking of you, is
there no one you will give a thought to ? "

Mrs. Lumley glanced at him, indignant
and astonished, but Pier's laughing eyes
checked her.

What a very impertinent boy you are,"
she said, with a blush and a smile. " Don't
keep up the conversation in this tone, or I
must go away."

"Wouldn't you rather turn back, Mrs.
Lumley ? " asked Carpenter ; "it is very
hot."

VOL. I. P

Yes. I could almost drink some of that
beer you spoke of, Mr. Rawdon."

In an instant the tankard was produced,
and Mrs. Lumley took a sip, whilst Pier
held it. Their fingers did not g-et disentangled
till she took her fresh lips away,
and the lady expressed great interest in
the inscriptions covering the vessel.

What are all these ? " she said, softly.

We call this tankard the Special
Gazette, because it records such a number
of battles. That upper hieroglyph, which
to uninitiated eyes might seem to represent
a chess-board in a pie-dish, is the arms of
our ancient college. Here it is recounted
how Mr. Sweyn Garrow, whom you behold,"
 the lady bowed with a charming
smile, and Sweyn uncovered his handsome
head,  " with his friend, challenged the
University in pair oared races, and won
the cup of strife. The other inscriptions
show various matches between Mr. Garrow
and his friend, in which the trophy changed

hands many times, until, as you perceive,
Rawdon's mare Proserpine beat Garrow's
horse Pluto over four miles of hunting
country ;  an allegorical lesson to married
men, which is quite wasted on  ' impertinent
boys.' "

'' I have made up my mind to take no
offence. What a storied urn ! As you
have set such an example of frankness, I
may ask if your naMe is really ' Marie.'
How strange ! "

It is indeed," Carpenter broke in. " The
irony of nomenclature was never more conspicuous.
Mr. Eawdon is one of the idlest
undergraduates in college, and the most
troublesome."

"That is indeed an excellent example,
Mr. Carpenter," said Pier. "It is recorded
that Mary did not trouble about many
things."

The little widow laughed gleefully.

You are quibbling on the word ' trouble,'
Mr. Rawdon," Carpenter replied, "I said

F 2

not that you troubled yourself, but that
you troubled other people."

eyes, sir, and you trouble me for it.
That's a syllogism in Barbara, Mrs. Lumley,
which any lady will perceive. Fm a
greater nuisance to the college than any
other undergraduate ; Mr. Carpenter is a
greater nuisance to me  if I may be
allowed to say so on this neutral ground !
than any other "don ; therefore, Mrs.
Lumley  "

But Mrs. Lumley thought he was going
a great deal too fast. " Therefore," she
said, "you are a very impertinent boy."

This was an unexpected conclusion which
quick-witted youths, untroubled with self-consciousness,
could thoroughly enjoy. Delivered
with malicious intelligence, and
pointed by lovely eyes full of fun, it reached
its mark. As soon as he recovered from
his laughter, Pier owned defeat ; but Carpenter
was not granted any share in it,
and Morley did not understand at all.

"Now tell me, Mr. Eawclon," said the
pretty widow, " if you are subdued, how it
happens that you are called Marie ? "

I am not subdued at all. If the Special
Gazette does not prove to you how hardly
we two are beaten, I must challenge another
contest. I am called . Marie because my
father was a prophet."

Dear me ! "

Yes. He saw that a moment of destiny
would arrive in my existence, and he named
me in a prescient spirit. You know what
an anagram is ? "

*' Of course. I am accepting the new
challenge, you see. Well ! E, I, K, A, M
Hiram. That's not sense, and it sounds
as if one dropped one's h's. Besides,
though your father was a prophet, you
are not a king of Tyre."

Nor am I worthy to be Solomon's
friend, though he, an impertinent boy no
doubt, lived to be a master of brass. But
I feel the true significance of my name now."

Oh, though not king of Tyre, you're
tiresome. Arrange the anagram, please ! "

'the two vowels first."

''A, E, M A, I, M, E Oh, best trop
fort I  Mr. Carpenter, don't you find it very
hot ? '

Yes, it is. Champion, put back''

'' No, no," cried the little widow, seeing
that Pier was embarrassed. " I only meant
to hint to these young gentlemen"  with
the least emphasis upon the adjective 
"that their tutor might not disdain some
beer."

Mr. Carpenter, despairing, sought inspiration
in the tankard.

Are you subdued now ? "

To threaten flight is only a woman's
way of gaining victory. I do not own
myself defeated with fair arms."

"Very well. We will emblazon another
Gazette. Prophesy to me now. I am
called Bess."

May I spell it with two e's ? "

'' I believe the thing is clone by illiterate
persons, and I will allow you every advantage."


Then, if I divide your name in two,
and address you as Dick Turpin might have
done, would you prettily reply with the
other half?"

Mrs. Lumley pondered, and then a smile
not to be repressed broke over her soft lips.
For a moment she struooled, but the lauoh
mounted to the sweet dimples of her cheeks,
and to her eyes.

'' How dare you ? " she laughed, crimson
with harmless indignation.  " Now, Mr.
Carpenter, if you have slaked your thirst,
let us get home as quickly as possible."

"Then we will race," cried Sweyn.
Did you ever see punts fly, Mrs. Lumley ?
We can show you. Even the Champion is
a little afraid of us."

You'd good punters, I don't gainsay,
for I taught you," observed that master,
superbly.

Oh, let us have a race ! We came
down so slowly. Mr. Rawdon against Mr.
Garrow, for the tankard once more."

That is a consecrated vessel now. But
I will race for love."

''Ah, if that prize were for the fastest,
you would seldom run in vain," said Mrs.
Lumley.

Mr. Carpenter protested, but his sonship
had lost its virtue on the water, like other
mischievous charms. Pier and the Champion
exchanged places, and the light boats
started with a rush to amaze the inexperienced.


It is the easiest of exercises, in theory,
to push a flat-bottomed craft in a straight
line. A turn of the wrist, a judicious
distribution of weight, will do it. But
theory is a gay deceiver. Punting is an
art in any waters, but in the Cher well, so
narrow and winding, it is specially difficult.
How often there is seen that deliberate
walk overboard, so droll because compelled

by DO visible necessity, of the ambitious
freshman ! But these youths had long been
professors. From bank to bank they slid,
rapid and smooth, avoiding that tree by a
hair's breadth exactly measured, shooting
like arrows over the straight. These feats
were done so easily and lightly that a
spectator might not have guessed their skill;
but the Champion applauded loudly, and his
praise was golden.

Few men avoid looking ridiculous in the
struggle of a boat-race  the real cause
why that exercise is not popular abroad.
Great needs be the affection which can
regard without a smile the crimson features
and the agonized expression of a rower at
the crisis. But a graceful form is never
seen to more advantage than in punting,
and Mrs. Lumley, who studied art, resolved
to learn how ''Antinous conceited" would
be expressed in Greek ; at some time or
other, in those word-battles which she foresaw,
the phrase would certainly be telling.

Plenty of promenaders there always are
in Christchurch meadow at that hour, and
the news spread that Garrow and Eawdon
of St. Aldate's were racing on Cherwell for
an incredible wagoner. From arose and from
walks the crowd hastened, shouting, '' Oh,
well punted, Rawdon !  Into him, Garrow !
Now you have it !  Oh, well steered 
well poled  well punted all ! " Excitement
reached the studious halls of Merton and
the boudoirs of Canterbury Quad.

What a situation for Carpenter  careering
on Cherwell in a punt, with a pretty
woman and the fastest reprobates of his
college ! When the crowd identified that
fluffy little man so wildly gesticulating,
demoniac glee arose  a hundred voices
called his name. '* It's Carpenter, the proprietor
! They're going to duck him !
Hurrah ! "

Sweyn threw down his pole, and laughed
till he ached. Pier did the same, and
Mrs. Lumley, though rather shocked and

frightened, could not resist the jest. The
Champion, grinning but cool, pushed to
shore, and landed the pro-proctor ; a few
men of St. Aldate's helped him up the bank,
and he vanished without leave-taking.

"Will you allow me to escort you
home ? " asked Pier, as he strolled towards
the High Street with Mrs. Lumley.

Certainly not ! When you are much
older, wiser, and less impudent, you may
come to call ;  I live at Elf Cottage, about
half way to Whitney. But I don't promise
to wait there for your reformation."

It will be no long time ; I have felt
myself growing older and wiser and better
within the last hour at a prodigious rate.
By tomorrow, depend upon it, I shall be
equal to any test of sobriety, and then
may I call ? "

"Here is my carriage waiting. Good-bye ! "

A great wine was Garrow's that night 
so very great that he only left table to
catch the train for London.

CHAPTER III.

FROM THE UNIVERSITY TO THE WORLD.

It is scarcely needful to say that Rawson
very soon discovered Elf Cottage, where he
was received with that tantalizing superiority
which piques youthful manhood. The
flirtation commenced in glee warmed to
something like passion ; not the real kind
truly, but that love of the head which
is not less dangerous than love of the heart.
So well does the one imitate the other, that
a man perceives no difference until, if hebe
ill-fated, possession and familiarity reveal
the mistake ; or, if he be lucky, a short
absence displays the astonishing fact that
life is endurable apart from his beloved.

In practical result of happiness and misery,
of ecstatic delights and cruel chills, and all
the other phenomena, an affection of the
head, whilst it lasts, is identical with an
affection of the heart.

Pier did not doubt for a moment that
he was in love "for good and all." He
came as near to worship of the lady ashe
imagined, lay in his nature. And a
very charming lover she thought him, of
a kind new to her experience. A boy's
passion is nearly always wearisome and
ridiculous to a woman of twenty-five, too
old to be grateful, too young to be flattered
by mere adoration. But Pier, whatever
his inward trembling, always sustained, in
appearance at least, that air of gentle self-confidence
which becomes a man. He
would not be enslaved, and though his
sauciness was somewhat forced occasionally,
he could always summon spirit enough to
resist attack.

I am not equal to describing Mrs.

Lumley's feelings. She was one of those
women who will not, if they can help it,
look beyond the next amusement, or the
next new dress. That she enjoyed the
attentions of this handsome, brilliant boy
is certain. That she encouraged him to
the utmost he could not be unaware. But
whether really, at any time, she thought of
marrying him I cannot say. One would
wish to believe that she did  at least sometimes,
when he was before her. But her
real feelings are not very important.

Somebody at Elf Cottage watched the
small romance proceeding with eyes sharpened
by interest. Mrs. Thomas, the companion,
was that desperate being, a clever
woman defending her last stronghold.
Hard experience had taught her that such
charms and accomplishments as she could
boast are not valued by ladies seeking a
confidential housekeeper. She had no claim
upon her mistress, and if the latter married,
if this love-making came to a serious result,

a half-year's salary, a ring, or a dress, was
all she could reasonably hope. Mrs. Thomas
did not deceive herself by thinking that
Pier would have her in his house, while
she had some grounds for hope that Morley,
if he won the prize, might keep her on.
That the widow would marry again was
almost certain, and amongst all the aspirants
 they were not a few  this was the
only one who had the companion's good
wishes. She it was who encourage-ed him

o

not to despair when Mrs. Lumley neglected
him. The friendship of the youths had
suffered an eclipse, of course, and they
seldom met but at the cottage.

We may take up the episode some weeks
after that scene on Cherwell. Pier was
sitting on horseback at the garden gate
of the cottage, Mrs. Lumley on the ground
beside him, with one hand on the mare's
glossy neck, and the other clasped in her
lover's. Mrs. Thomas watched from a
window. There was evidently some light

talk between the two, concerning a bracelet,
or a glove, for Pier laughingly measured
the slender wrist.

It is time to stop this," muttered the
companion.

When she descended, Mrs. Lumley was
standing on a garden-seat, looking down
the road.

"Mr. Eawdon looks well on horseback,
ma'am, doesn't he ? " said Mrs. Thomas.

One of her objectionable habits was to
call a lady " ma'am." How many failures
had she owed to that unconscious solecism !
Is it our merits or our address, our sins or
our manners, which bring us most success
in the world, or most disappointment ?

Mrs. Lumley made an impatient gesture,
but the other went on : "He rides away quick,
like the knight one reads of in the poet."

Mrs. Lumley put out a dainty little foot
and jumped down.

Mr. Eawdon rides quickly because he
is late."

"It's a shame a young gentleman should
have to gallop like that, risking his neck.
But undergraduates are not their own
masters. It's proctors and tutors here,
parents at home, ordering them about.
They are almost worse off than girls for that.
A young widow lady like yourself, ma'am,
is the one to be envied. If I were in your
place  "

"There, go away, Thomas!" cried Mrs.
Lumley. "I see the butcher-boy coming."

The companion withdrew, but she was
not sorry to return with a very long bill.

It's Tester's boy, ma'am, with the fish
account. He says his master would be
glad if you'd settle it, for the young Oxford
gentlemen are ruining him."

Of course I'll settle it. Tell the man
to come tomorrow morning."

The incident recalled Mrs. Lumley from
pleasant meditations. Her cottage was
charming, so were her ponies, and so her
dainty entertainments. Charming indeed

VOL. I. G

they were to such extent, that 1000
slipped away every year in the most
graceful manner. Towards this sum the
widow's modest jointure provided 300,
and the balance hitherto had come out of
a few thousands over which she had control.
These had nearly vanished, and Mrs.
Lumley shuddered to think that in a very
short time the joys of life would go after
them ; she could not face existence on 300
a year.

Mrs. Thomas knew enough of her affairs
to guess the secret of that moody irritation,
which showed itself after the rare event
of a financial review. At lunch she guided
the conversation, not unskilfully, to the subject
of Rawdon's fortune. In confidential
discourse with Morley she had learned,
without the latter's intention, that Pier's
father might probably marry again. This
disastrous chance she cleverly set before her
mistress, and then she drew another picture.
Morley had a snug fortune of his own,

independent of fathers or guardians, and
the promise of a living as soon as he
reached the necessary age. The housekeeper
declared that Mrs. Lumley was born
'to fill with dignity the position of a rich
vicar's wife ; and so on.

I. fancy the little widow made up her
mind that night, with some tears possibly,
and much regret no doubt. Putting: heart
aside, as an organ whose secrets are not
easily read, her eye must certainly have
been pained by the contrast of the favoured
with the rejected lover. She would not
break with Pier until it was necessary to
declare herself. Who could tell what
chance mioht brinoj about !

So Pier received no hint, and came as
usual to receive the usual welcome. But
days spent in love-making had to be redeemed
by nights of work, for he was
resolved to win the Wales. And so, a
fortnight before the examination. Pier had

to consult a doctor about alarming slips

G 2

of memory. A week's rest was imperatively
advised. Disinclined to risk the issue of
a year's hard work in mere bravado, Pier
got leave, telegraphed his father, and
mounted his horse to bid Mrs. Lumley
farewell. They parted for a separation of
some days with cheerful regrets.

But Mrs. Thomas saw an opportunity in
this unexpected incident. Her sap was
complete, her batteries planted. A coup
de main executed with skill and resolution
would scarcely fail ; so she opened lire,
and before evening a parley was sounded.
Morley ; received a little note, reproaching
him with neglect, and begging him to take
an early dinner next day.

Pier meanwhile felt an increasing agitation.
His parting with Mrs. Lumley had
not been so warm as the occasion demanded.
With growing seriousness, a conviction
formed itself that the lady had been cool.
Perhaps she expected a proposal, as she
had the right, he thought. Anyhow, Pier

resolved to bid good-bye over again next
day, and start by a later train.

An interview with the chief detained
him till noon, and other nuisances wasted
some time. It was nearly three o'clock
when he reached the cottage, and Mrs.
Lumley had invited her other lover for
that hour. She was waiting under the
beech tree. Summer leaves threw chequers
of shadow on her white dress, her golden
hair, and pure, smooth throat. The crimson
rosette upon her shoe peeped in and out,
as she tapped a little foot in irritation 
irritation at herself, at Morley for being
plain, at Rawdon for being poor. Suddenly
the bloom paled on her soft cheek.
The too familiar beat of a horse's hoofs
approaching frightened her. She peeped
through the leaves  it was the wrong
man !

Distrusting her composure at the moment,
Mrs. Lumley hurried indoors, and
Pier found her bent over a drawing board.

The nervousness of her greeting confirmed
his suspicion that a proposal was expected
and would be not unwelcome. Boy-like,
uncover-like, he played with the situation.

Is this a reminiscence of Switzerland ?
Those mountains are really grand, and there
is a boldness of fantasy in the colour of
the forest pleasing to the eye. Scarlet oaks,
I presume ? Are the Swiss lakes really
so green as this ? I look forward with
delight to my first view of that magnificent
country. How delightful to paddle all day
amongst these numerous islands, to compare
their varied tints and curious shapes I "

Those are cows, Mr. Eawdon, and you
know it perfectly well."

' Ah, sea-cows basking in the meridian
sun. Would not a little red in the old
woman's cap carry out the tone of the
forest ? "

The view is from my own window,
and the woman is a tree, and the time
is sunset, and the mountains are clouds,

and there ! there ! there ! " she cried, tear-ins:
the sketch to fragments.

Dear me ! Let me restore that lost
work of art."

He took the brushes, arranged the torn
picture before him, and copied it in rapid
strokes. Mrs. Lumley stood silent, looking,
not at his work, but at the painter.

There ! " he said, rising. " Pray go on
with it. It gives me great pleasure to
see you busy."

'' You make me paint wrong," she answered
petulantly.

But anything was better than talk, and
Mrs. Lumley reseated herself. Blue and
red and yellow she dashed on, unable to
see for the mist before her eyes, dizzied
by the hot beat of her heart. So still
they both sat, that they heard the light
swish of the brush upon the paper, and
the tinkle of the glass. The sun rays
turned upon the floor ; the cry of the
corn-crake and the soft cuckoo's call

sounded clear from the meadow through
the open sash.

Bessyy ! "

He slipped gently on one knee beside
her, so that their faces were almost level.
She strove to look aside, to master her
emotion,  and spread a sheet of blue across
the landscape. He passed an arm round
her shrinking waist.

*' You know what I have come to ask,
Bessyy ! "

Both arms closed round her, and she
could not pursue the pretence of painting-crimson
flushes came and went, her soft
mouth quivered. Slowly she turned to that
glowing face upraised to hers, and looked
sadly into his eyes.

Don't ask it, Pier ! I am not good
enough for you."

Then she burst into an agony of sobs,
pushed him aside, and ran from the room.
In returning to Oxford he met Morley ina
pony chaise.

A refusal like that counts for nothing
on reflection. ]airs. Lumley meant, of
course, that she was too old, but of that
her lover was best judge. By the time
he reached Weybridge, Pier had quite
recovered heart.

Upon the morning of this day Arabella
Carey reminded her mother that they were
engaged to dine with Mr. Rawdon, and,
said she, " Pier is coming down for a week.
He is ill with over study. Fancy Pier
losing his health that way ! "

Ah, my poor John had a high opinion
of him, and he is a fine lad. What shall
you wear, Arabella ? "

I shall wear the grey silk Mr. Rawdon
gave me."

' He said it was for a grand occasion,
my dear," replied this old lady, with emphasis.
You would not like to offend him."

Oh, the grand occasion is past."

'when? I thought What grand
occasion ? "

Pardon me, mamma dear. I wore the
dress yesterday."

'' Yesterday? Whilst I was at the
Lathams ? "

'' Yes ; I went to Swinerton."

Alone ? "

'' No, dear mamma ; Mr. Rawdon was
with me."

The old lady looked for her spectacles,
always hidden carefully in a work-box, for
fear of an unexpected visit. Arabella got
up and found them. Whilst her mother
silently fixed them on her nose, she reseated
herself, saying, " Mr. Rawson talked a good
deal in the train."

Mrs. Lambert peered at her daughter like
an owl awakened by the sunshine. Arabella
dropped her heavy white lids, and
calmly observed 

He asked me to marry him, mamma."

Mrs. Lambert took off her spectacles, got
up, and sat down again. With a face like an
elderly Medusa's she watched her daughter.

And I did. dear mamma ! "

One cannot have much sympathy with an
old woman seeking her third husband, led
by no affection, and driven by no necessity.
Mrs. Lambert's motive was simply the
habit of a husband, and her expectations
had been raised from her own fancy. Mr.
Rawdon, of course, had given her no cause
to believe that his intentions were other
than friendly ; more than that, lie supposed
that Arabella had long since confided their
engagement to her mother. Whatever bethought
of her conduct, one could scarcely
pity Mrs. Lambert under such, circumstances,
and in truth she needed no pity
after the first surprise.

"You dlxwliat?''

I married Mr. Rawdon at Swinerton
yesterday."

What could the old lady say ?

'* You bad girl ! " she cried ; " you wicked,
deceitful, undutiful girl ! To treat your
mother like this, you  "

But what have I done, mamma dear ?
T tell you as soon as possible. I am nearly
thirty years old, and most of your income
dies with you."

Mrs. Lambert relieved her incoherent
feelings with a burst of tears, but Arabella
was ready with comfort. She neatly laid
down her work and approached.

"It is the secrecy of it that pains you.
But you know, dear mamma, that Pier does
not like me, and Mr. Rawdon is a little
afraid of him  I can't think why ! He
would not be rude or violent, of course, but
he would sneer, and you would not have
liked that."

*' Pier would not treat his fa-other as you
have treated me ! " sobbed Mrs. Lambert.

I have acted for the best, dear mamma.
It's three years since Mr. Rawdon first
proposed, and all that time he has been
trying to find courage to tell Pier. He
would never have done it. Now that weare
married, I shall tell him."

Yes, dear mamma.  I am not afraid of
him, and I am glad he is coming so unexpectedly.
Of course you will live with us
at the Hall, that's settled ; and we shall
draw Mr. Eawdon into society. He is
even richer than people suppose, and your
great taste will guide us in making
Weybridge the foremost house in the
county."

Would you talk of gaiety, Arabella, to
the mother whose heart you have broken ? "

Experience told that Mrs. Lambert was
coming to rights when she spoke in this
dignified manner. Arabella ventured to
put an arm lightly round her mother's
waist.

Not gaiety, of course, dear mamma.
Did I say gaiety ? I meant that we shall
entertain a good deal, and Mr. Rawdon
quite relies upon your tact and judgment
to guide me. I have warned him that I
shall be almost as helpless as himself without

your advice. You must forgive this
deception, mamma."

The reconciliation was made there and
then, without further sighing, and within
twenty-four hours Mrs. Lambert had quite
forgotten her hope of reigning in person at
Weybridge ;  forgotten it for some years,
that is, for after events recalled the disappointment.
For a long time they sat and
talked of the capabilities of the hall for
entertainments, intellectual or saltatory,
and the capabilities of its owner's purse
for outshining all the fixed stars of the
neighbourhood. The daughter drew blank
cheques, and the mother thoughtfully laid
out the cash. She pulled the house down
and rebuilt it, furnished a town mansion,
projected a scheme of soirees, and finally
settled herself into a reverie of toilettes
which might have been prolonged till bedtime.
But between a corsage expressive of
determination to withstand the frivolous
tastes of the day, and a jupe displaying

eager aspirations for the sublime, Mrs.
Lambert was pierced by a sudden memory.

But you have to tell that boy, my poor
child ! When is it to be done ? "

'' This afternoon, as soon as he arrives.
I shall go early, and Mr. Rawdon will send
the carriage for you."

My poor Arabella ! I should like
to be beside you. Pier's anger will be
dreadful."

I am not afraid, dear mamma ; but if
you were by I should be. If Pier did
become insulting, it might bring on one
of your attacks."

True, my child. I shall pray for you.
But  but after dinner ? "

Oh," said Arabella, calmly, " I shall
come back with you. We go away tomorrow
for a few months, and if you will
be so very kind, Mr. Rawdon would like
you to move to the Hall at once."

'' Bless you, my child, I can scarcely
believe it all ; but you have my thoughtfulness

and grasp of circumstances. That
is much the best arrangement."

Half an hour after Pier's arrival, Arabella
reached the Hall ; Mr. Kawdon had nervously
escaped, leaving a note for his son,
which partly prepared him for news.

The lady met him with a pleasant greeting.
" It is not usual," she laughed, " to
congratulate people on being ill, but you
were always an original kind of boy. We
don't know whether to be pleased with the
proof of industry, or to regret its consequences.
But as they give us the pleasure
of seeing you for a short time, we rather
incline to the selfish view."

Thank you, Arabella. A very pretty
speech. How am I to answer it ? I can't
honestly say that I am delighted to have a
stepmother, but I gave my filial blessing
to the match long ago."

'* I am glad to find that you know what
has taken place. It will not be my fault if
you are not happy under the new state of

things. We have been so intimate, ever
since you were a child, that there will
scarcely seem a difference."

''Oh, we shall get along smoothly
enough, no doubt."

Of course," said Arabella. " Mamma is
ofoinor to live with us  " The blank interrogation
of Pier's face interrupted her. " I
fear you are confounding things," she added.

' What is the truth then ? Speak out ! "
He was all aroused now.

"You must learn to address your stepmother
more respectfully, dear Pier," she
answered, with a pleasant smile. But
neither respectfully nor otherwise could he
speak just then.

Honour thy father and thy mother ! "
Pier muttered at length. 'there's no injunction
about thy father's second wife, or
my days would be short in the land. This
is the secret then ? How long has your
plot been hatching, Arabella ? "

She would not quarrel. The convenances

VOL. I. H

must be preserved at any cost. She answered
laughingly 

I can't allow that tone. You will be
plotting yourself in a very few years. Mr.
Rawdon asked me to be his wife long ago,
but 1 had scruples."

They wear with age, like Hall-marks
on gold. Have you any other secrets to
reveal at present ? What is to be done
with me, for example ? "

Oh, Pier, you cannot think I would have
entered this house if it was to make any
difference to the heir. I mean to make you
love me like a real mother. Mamma even
claims some credit for your successful dthut
at the University, and who but I nursed you
through the mumps ? You may laugh, but
your head was swollen twice its size, and
you were quite delirious. Come, Pier, don't
quarrel with your father or with me."

I don't quarrel with either. My father
is right to do as he pleases, and I am
grateful to you for the attentions you

showered on me before I could clearly recollect.
But we know each other, Arabella.
You and I cannot live in the same house,,
and if it were only for my father's sake,
I must go. You need not speak  I understand.
There shall be no scandal. We
will seem friends, and  This must be
your mother coming, I will go and
dress."

Pier went through his toilette mechanically,
so absorbed in bitter thought that
he was surprised to find it complete when
Ben came to tell that Mr. Eawdon had
returned. He went to the dressing-room,
where his father was anxiously waiting,
and threw his arms round the old man's
neck. Neither could find voice just then,
and I think they cried together. Pier
knew what would happen. As in a glass,
he saw how this woman would daunt and
drive his father, her iron will concealed by
honey words, until they two were forced
asunder. And the old man also knew it

H 2

now. A moment sometimes comes, after
the doing of an act long meditated, long
'desired, when the consequences are revealed
in one prescient flash  too late ! Pier's
unexpected return, announced that morning,
woke his father as from a dream. Arabella
had fascinated him. In the anxious
suspense of the last three years he had
not observed the phases of the game which
now stood clear before his eyes, for a
moment. Mr. Eawdon did not speak, but
clung to his son, grateful and tremulous.
God bless you, father, and make you
happy," said Pier.

Arabella had her reasons for wishing that
the first interview should not be prolonged,
and she sent to announce dinner. During
the meal Pier and she kept up a friendly
conversation. Mr. Rawdon was silent and
nervous, Mrs. Lambert showed an hysterical
impatience to bless her elderly son-in-law.
But those two repressed the demonstration,
and the new stepmother thanked Pier ina

whisper as she left the room. Father
and son remained alone, and the latter
drank, in all sincerity, to the happiness
of the marriage.

"Thank you, my boy," said the old
man, quavering. " You are all that is good
and generous. It came on me gradually 
I don't quite know how. She's a good
gir]. Pier, a very good girl. When I told
her this property was entailed on you, she
was delighted. I must let you know what
arrangements are being made. Whilst I
live your allowance will be 800 a year ;
if you think that not enough, say so.
I've done well with my property, Pier ;
the grocer will leave a full till. Now,
whilst we are alone, tell me if there's
anything you would like to say."

"Nothing, father. Your allowance is
most liberal."

And you will live with me ? "

It shall be by no fault of mine, father,
if I leave you."

'you promise that?" said Mr. Rawdon,
holding out his hand.

I swear it ! "

Next day Mr. Rawdon and his bride
quietly met at Swinerton, and departed for
some months' tour. Pier saw them go,
and when he returned, Mrs. Lambert was
already at home. She sat in the library,
addressing wedding cards to such persons
of the neighbourhood as she thought deserving.


"By the bye, Pier," the old lady
said, " I've told them to remove all that
rubbish out of the old nursery. I felt sure
you would not mind."

The rubbish was Pier's battery and
fishing apparatus, his tool chest, and the
thousand odds and ends a country-bred
youth finds needful for existence. He set
his teeth and went out. Mrs. Lambert
lowered her spectacles and wrote on
blandly, innocent of harm.

At the week's end Pier returned to

Oxford. At Lis rooms he found a pretty
note from Mrs. Lumley, begging him not
to call for a time  not till after the examination.
"I am sure you are in a feverish
state," it said, " and I should never forgive
myself if I had an indirect part in your
failure." Pier kissed the note a great many
times, though he did not quite like it, and
vowed that on his next call he would bring
matters to a crisis.

A weary, anxious time passed  laborious
days, uneasy nights. Fortunately the suspense
was not so long as usual. But eve
Candidates put up for the Wales, and one
of them broke down at an early point.
The examiners got through their work
expeditiously, and the names were duly
posted : Pier Marie Rawdon  Terence
Morley proxime acccssit. That was a
great day in St. Aldate's, a college whose
traditions rather dwelt on triumphs of the
pentathlon than of the schools.

About four o'clock, somewhat flushed

with champagne, Pier trotted along the
well-known road towards Whitney. As the
old woman at the turnpike gave him his
change, she said, you're quite a stranger
of late, sir ; Master Morley, he's had it all
his own way this fortnight past."

Pier was not a little astonished to find
that even the pike-keeper knew his errand,
or, at least, his destination, but this feeling
vanished on considering the woman's speech.
He was not jealous by nature, or suspicious,
and the idea of a rivalry between Morley
and himself anywhere but in the blind
old schools was too absurd. But somehow,
when Mrs. Lumley's servant announced
that she was not at home. Pier linked these
facts together, and felt impatient. He
remounted, and "larked" across country 
as they used to call it at St. Aldate's 
until his horse, failing to clear a treacherous
old hedge, struck his forefeet against a hawthorn
stump, and landed awkwardly upon
his nose. The rider was not hurt, nor the

horse, but both were shaken. They rested,
perforce, until nine o'clock at a farm-house.
Mounting then, he rode slowly back, and
the half-hour after ten rang from St. Giles's
Church as he passed.

It was very unlikely that a horseman
could escape the proctors on that road,
at such an hour ; but Pier had grown
indifferent. In the corn-market he was
stopped and challenged in the sacramental
form  " Your name and college, sir ? "

"Rawdon of St. Aldate's."

Ah, the winner of the Wales ? Your
friends have kept you rather late, Mr.
Rawdon. Well, well, get to your college
as quickly as possible. We may allow a
little latitude to a commoner so promising,
Mr. pro-proctor, and one of your own house
too. No fear of his taking advantage of
the indulgence, I'm sure." And the proctor
closed his note-book.

"You didn't hear the scandal of the
University at your parsonage, Dr. Easy,"

said Carpenter, viciously. "Mr. Eawdon
has great abilities, but he gives the college
more trouble than any undergraduate belonging
to it."

Well, well ! " said good old Dr. Ray.
Be more careful in future, Mr. Rawdon.
Good night."

*' If the proctor is satisfied," Carpenter
broke in, "as pro-proctor, I have nothing
more to say ; but as Dean of St. Aldate's
I have still a word. Mr. Rawdon, you will
be in college by nine o'clock until the end
of term, and you will report yourself at the
gates every night."

Eawdon smiled and took off his hat to
the astonished proctor, and trotted up the
corn, gated till Commemoration.

An hour afterwards he tapped at
Morley's door, and received a boisterous
welcome. A bottle of champagne stood
on the table, a dressed crab from Tester's,
and a plate of preserved ginger from  was
he not named Gadney, that pastry-cook

by St. Mary's, who had such a very pretty
girl behind his counter, oh, comrades of
twenty years ago ? By whatever name,
his ginger we thought a delicacy to swear
by, as a digester to shell fish. Morley
had reached that stage of the repast, and
a brightness in his vague eyes told that
half a bottle of champagne caused him to
view defeat with equanimity.

"What!" he cried. "The victor comes
to rejoice over his fallen enemy ? I can
bear it, young Eawdon ! There are compensations
for defeat in the Schools. Here's
your health ! Will you drink mine  and
Bessyy's ? "

Pier's heart seemed to contract as if a
cold hand gripped it, but he drained the
glass without speaking. The wine gave
him voice.

I'm used to drinking wedding toasts
of late. May you be as happy as you
deserve."

Thank you ! You wouldn't believe,

Kawdon, that I have been jealous of you.
Wasn't it silly  wicked indeed ! But Bessyy
has forgiven me. I couldn't resist the
temptation to drink her health after I came
back ; but isn't that champagne very
strong ? I'm no judge."

How long have you been engaged ? "

Only this afternoon. Bessyy asked me
to dine there, whether I was successful or
not. When I told her my defeat, she was
so nice that it came,  you know  "

I thought what would come of your
daily visits  the loss of the Wales, and the
inestimable gain of a wife."

But wasn't it odd I should be jealous
of you ? Have another bottle. That champagne's
been lying in the scout's hole ever
since I matriculated. How clever you are
at opening bottles ! It sounds cheerful, I
think, the pop of a champagne cork ! But I
might have known you wouldn't suit Bessyy."

No, we shouldn't suit ! " answered Pier,
carefully filling the glasses.

Of course not ! Shall I tell you what
she said when I confessed I'd been afraid
of you ? You won't be offended ? "

Not one bit, I swear ! "

*' Well, Bessyy was a good deal excited,
of course. You never saw her look so
lovely," &c., &c., &c,

"And she said something about me?"
interrupted Pier, after a while.

Oh yes ! When I said that, she laughed
out loud. 'No one,' she said, 'need be jealous
of Mr. Rawdon for some time to come.'
I asked why, and  you're sure you won't
be offended ? I thought it so neat  Bessyy
said, ' He's too mannish for a boy, and
too womanish for a man, and too boyish
for a girl. Mr. Eawdon won't be dangerous
until he makes up his mind what character
to affect.' "

Very smart indeed. It doesn't mean
anything ; but, as you hint, Mrs. Lumley
is rather brilliant than coherent. What
an ideal life will be yours, illuminated by

such flashes of wit !  Now you'll be ill, old
fellow, if you take any more champagne,
and your head-ache tomorrow will discount
even the joys of the honeymoon ! "

Brandy and soda's in scout's hole !
Been there ever since a mati  mutilated !
Sit down, an' tell all 'bout it?" And
so on.

Pier helped his rival to the bed, pulled
his boots off, blew out his candle, and left
bim.

It is ill to learn at the outset of life that
the sex of our mothers and sisters is not
all good. With trust in woman go overboard
other virtues which lend a charm
to youth. The finer his feelings, the loftier
his nature, the more keenly does a boy suffer
from that disillusion. Pier saw how he
had been deceived and played with ;  perhaps,
as is natural, he judged Mrs. Lumley
with more harshness than she deserved.
These events had an influence on his career
both immediate and future. The motive

for gaining fame had vanished when his
father married; the motive for even remaining
at Oxford was gone. Careless now
what the result might be, Pier determined
to settle a score that had long been growing.

But he did not wish, in evening himself
on the Dean, to give that gentleman a
chance of returning the blow with interest,
if it could be avoided. So far as the consequences
went, he did not care at all ;
but poetic justice must not be sacrificed.
Commemoration week arrived, however,
bringing no idea. His studies for the
Wales had been a trifle compared with the
profundities of thought in which Pier lost
himself. One day, as he strolled up the
Broad in deep reflection, a voice behind
attracted his notice. It was high and
boisterous, though drawling  a voice which
caused people to look round. Upon doing
so. Pier recognized Jonas Davis, in the full
vigour of his manhood displayed by Poole.

Very cordially indeed Pier welcomed him

to Oxford  so cordially that Jonas, who was
not a fool, smelt a bill ; not smelt it only,
but resolved that if his school friend proved
sufficiently polite, he would not decline.
Kawdon was polite enough in all conscience.
He gave the young gentleman a breakfast,
caused him to be invited to a Wine, and
brought the selected of company to the
Mitre when Jonas gave an entertainment
in return. He found him tickets also for
the Exeter Concert, the Brasenose Theatricals,
the Christchurch Ball, and the Trinity
Flower Show ; but there was no mention of
a bill. Jonas wondered how all this courtesy
was to be repaid ; and soon he learned, for
time was pressing. On the Sunday night
Pier broached his secret, and coaxed, bullied,
flattered the youth into consent. He ran
to town by the first train on Monday,
returned in the afternoon, and whispered
it was all right.

As every one knows, Wednesday used to
be the great day of Commemoration; alas.

that one should write " used to be ! "
Carpenter habitually came off his rounds
at midnight, and dismissed his bull-dogs
at the corner of the High. These customary
events took place on the Tuesday
night. Majestic then in silk robe and
velvet sleeves, the pro-proctor advanced to
the gate of St. Aldate's college and rang.
Heavily the bolts clashed, and the big
lock rolled in its case. Fat old Keats
pulled, rattled the door, tried all its bolts
again, and swore beneath his breath, whilst
Carpenter fumed outside.

D-d-d," muttered the porter. '' There's
a summit wrong with the gate, Mr. Dean.
Wait a moment, if you please, sir, whilst
I get my lantern."

"Clumsy man!" cried Carpenter, while
Keats entered his lodge.

Returning in a moment, the candlelight
streamed through the huge keyhole.

'clumsy!" roared old Keats suddenly.
"You'd be clumsy, Mr. Dean, if your

VOL. I.

gate was all screwed up like Noah's Ark !
Heavens ! Won't there be wigs singeing
for this ! Sir, it's a case for the Abdominal
Council, and they may unscrew
it, for I can't ! What am I to do ? all the
college is abed ! Can't ye speak, sir ? "

The Dean proved he could by suddenly
raising a cry of murder and thieves. Old
Keats started, listened, and let the lantern
fall, a sacrifice to the outraged numen of
St. Aldate's. Then he raised both hands
to his mouth, and bawled with eyes shut,
murder, thieves, help, and the rest, till
Carpenter's voice was overpowered.

From every staircase men hurried down.
They filled the ancient gateway with
clamour and confusion. Keats answered
no question, but stood and yelled. It
was pitch dark. The dons arrived rather
tremulous, but provided with candles.
Then, in one horrified gesture, Keats displayed
the outrage on his doors.

Do you see that, Mr. Bursar ! and

there's the Dean outside, sir, a-weltering in
his blood on the hard pavement."

"Silence, please, gentlemen," cried the
Principal, arriving, and then Carpenter's
voice was heard.

Are you much hurt, Mr. Dean ? " asked
the Principal.

I don't know. I can't use my arms.
King the alarm bell ! "

Two or three volunteers began to unscrew
the gates with such instruments as they
could find ; but long before this was done
a policeman rapped.

"We've taking the pro-proctor to the
Mitre. He's not 'urged."

'' But  but, policeman ! " exclaimed the
Bursar. " What has befallen him ? "

Some gentlemen has been 'having a
lark with him, sir. Tied him to the railings
by his sleeves, they has, a crucifying
of him like. But they ain't 'urged him."

The police tramped off, and presently
sent screw-drivers, which were handed

I 2

through the lodge window. A few minutes
more and the wicket-gate was free. Every
man in St. Aldate's rushed through, burning
to learn the fate of his beloved dean.
What a jolly night that was ! St. Aldate's
had broken bounds. It played leapfrog
in the High Street, and organized a
grind " in the Corn-Hall ; a dozen men
started to bathe at Parson's Pleasure. In
all haste the proctors were roused, and the
bull dogs summoned, which hearing, St.
Aldate's ran back as tumultuously as it had
run out.

Sitting round a bed at the Mitre meanwhile,
the dons heard aj woeful tale. Two
shameless ruffians had sprung on the
pro-proctor, put their dirty hands on his
mouth, dragged him to the railings, and
there suspended him by his official sleeves,
a spectacle for pinned cockchafers to jeer
at. All the efforts of his memory would
not suggest a trail to identify these
monsters. The machine inside Carpenter's

skull was pre-eminently useful for purposes
of University discipline, but rough men
knocked it out of gear.

St. Aldate's was gated to a man next day.
Its sisters and cousins, mothers and maiden-aunts,
might attend the theatre by themselves,
for no escort came through that
desecrated portal. The dons meantime satin
council, with several detectives as amici
curiae. Painful it is to admit that nothing
came of their long deliberation. The suspected
culprit was not without friends,
and no evidence as yet was brought against
him. But the feeling of the Common
Room found expression when Pier called,
as usual, upon Dr. Crosby before going
down.

This has been a dreadful scandal, Mr.
Rawdon," said he, gravely, " of which, of
course, we have not yet seen the end.
Er  I believe you have no specific object
in following the curriculum ? "

Nothing specific, sir."

"' Hum  er  well. You have much distinguished
yourself in the Schools, Mr.
Kawdon. The college will sustain a loss
there by the withdrawal of your name.
But in the leisure of the long vacation
you will do wisely to reflect, upon your
side, whether  er  it will be better to
return to this quiet retreat, where  er  I
may say, annoyances might encounter you,
or to seek another field for the exercise of
your abilities."

I will consider it, sir," said Pier, and
left Oxford for ever.

CHAPTER IV.

RAWDON ENTERS SOCIETY.

Had he not promised his father to remain,
Pier would have left Weybridge as
recklessly as he left the University, and
without more to-do. Mrs. Lambert had
taken possession, and the heir ceased to
be master before his step-mother returned.
She changed everything, and derided Mr.
Rawdon's system. The old butler had to
learn new methods, and the housekeeper
was told she must not " do like that." Pier
suggested that Arabella herself might prefer
the former regime, but he was told in reply
that "Mrs. Rawdon had been accustomed

to a well managed household, and she would
certainly approve her mother's changes."

Pier avoided the house as much as he
could, and held on loyally. Mrs. Lambert
did not mean any harm, and he knew it.
But she was almost the more irritating on
that account. Have you ever lived with a
woman supremely foolish, oh most bright
and intelligent of readers, at twenty-one
years old, when you thought yourself somebody
? Return thanks where they are due,
if you have not endured that experience.
Mrs. Lambert's small persecutions were
kindly meant, when not undertaken in mere
thoughtlessness. The boy had been her
charge for eve years, and she forgot the
lapse of time. But what irritated him
more than her didactic interference was the
utter silliness of the woman. Mrs. Lambert
felt actually no interest in human affairs,
past, present, or to come, unless they
touched herself or her neighbours ;  a fault
so common as to go unnoticed, but annoying

to generous twenty-one. And those
matters in wliicli she took interest seemed
so very, very small as to be invisible in
Pier's eye. When she drove out, she only
saw Lady Latham's carriage, or Mrs. Ashton's,
or somebody's. Those people spoke
to her  or did not speak  were travelling
in a mysterious direction, for unknown purposes
to be discussed at length, or on an
errand which Mrs. Lambert identified immediately;
had liveries conspicuously new
or conspicuously shabby ; had, perhaps, a
stranger With them. When this event was
announced. Pier marvelled at the old lady's
memory, and her grasp of private affairs
in each family round. Give her but a
glimpse of this stranger, and, coming home,
she would tell his name, and his object in
doing whatever she saw him do. Though
Pier found her conspicuously wrong once
or twice, not for a length of time did he
discover that these circumstantial narratives
were all fiction ; that Mrs. Lambert invented

facts and motives for the delight,
not of scandal-mongering, but of mere tattle.
Guided by this clue, he found a bitter
amusement for some time in studying the
old lady. But the fool is not to be appreciated
by the philosopher of twenty-one
years. Irritated by mysteries beyond his
solution, Pier took Solomon's advice, and
left Mrs. Lambert to her folly.

I wish that he had given more attention
to the precepts of the sage. No proof of
Solomon's consummate wisdom is more convincing
than his analysis of the fool, a
subject on which he never tires. It lies
within the range of an intelligent mind to
comprehend more or less the loftiest character,
but of those who can lift their understanding,
how few can lower it ! Every man
sees a mountain, but to sound the murky
crevasse ditties the brain. He who is saturated
with the principles of the wisest
is saved many a heart-burning, many a
helpless passion against destiny, many an

act of kindly foolishness. No human
being who has recorded his experience
had such authority to speak. Any man
can preach,  that we know too well, 
but few have the needful experience to
command respect. .When we cry " All is
vanity \'' we lie open to the retort that
we do not know all, know, in fact, mighty
little. Life is short, and our opportunities
for experiment few ; but Solomon lived a
whole existence in a day. Our one wife
resents with emphasis if we strike the
chords of emotion too strongly ; but the
Hebrew king had a thousand and five 
or thereabouts, if his toasts corresponded
with his songs ; and they could not say
nay to any process of moral vivisection.

How comforting it is, what a balm inestimable,
to perceive that the wisest man
who ever lived reached just the same conclusion
as you or I  not refining, or hair-splitting,
in his definition of life, but pronouncing
a clear and downright statement.

*' Its weariness and trouble, every bit' says
Solomon, after exhausting every pleasure
we can dream of, every ambition we can
fancy, every science and intellectual delight.
Envy, most part of hatred, and all
uncharitableness would be banished . from
human affairs if Solomon s philosophy were
accepted as a rule. At the same time, one
must regret that the circumstances have
not been recorded under which those consoling
aphorisms were devised. It may be
that the wise king wrote under influence
of dyspepsia, or gout, or toothache, or whatnot.
In that case  well, I am myself inditing
this panegyric of his philosophy before
a visit to the dentist.

One day Pier had been a ride, and
he took a short cut home over hesse and
ditch. Weybridge park was divided from
the lawn by a sunk fence. Cantering up
the slope, Pier set his horse at this leap.
He refused, flying over the grass. A smart
cut of the whip, and the pressure of his

rider's will, brought him to the effort one
more. Snorting; and tossing his head, he
rushed to a point where two chestnut trees
overhanging shadowed a garden-seat upon
the lawn  cleared the fence, and two yards
beyond. A sudden cry startled Pier, and
he reined up as soon as possible. By
the seat stood a little girl, white with
alarm, her hands clasped. Pier let his
horse go free, at the risk of bitter expostulation
from Mrs. Lambert, and advanced
with a smiling apology.

"I don't want excuses!" the child passionately
exclaimed. " It's just what I told
mamma would happen ! you're the boy
that beat my brother James, and now you
want to kill me ! "

Indeed I didn't know you were here.
We have so few visitors at Weybridge."

"No wonder, when you run over them
with horses ! Oh, I wish Dawson would
come back." But she did not try to move.

Pier noticed a little wheeled chair close

by, and it flashed across his memory that
Miss Latham was a cripple. What a pity !
he thought, looking at her perfect face,
white as silk, but marked by a small red
smear upon one cheek, like a blood-spot
carelessly rubbed. Pier thought that stain
set off the large dark eyes and the marble
skin deliciously. The child wore a dress
of sheeny white material, brown silk stockings,
and shoes. There were no signs of
distortion visible. The delicate limbs were
straight as a young Diana's. But her
childish beauty was marred by an ugly frown.

*swill you let me put you in your
carriage ? '' said Pier kindly, seeing that
she dared not move.

I won't let you touch me 1 Go and
call my servant."

"You have a very cruel prejudice against
me, Miss Latham, and I feel it the more
because you seem to me the most graceful
little girl I ever saw. Won't you let me
clear my character ? it's only fair ! "

This speech caused the child so to tremble
with anger that she dropped upon the
seat aofain. Pier was almost frightened.

Keep off ! " she cried, threatening him
with her tiny hands. " How dare you
call me a girl  you grocer's boy ? " .

Appearances are deceptive sometimes  ''

I am the daughter of Sir James Latham,
and what are youV

Your very humble servant, Miss Latham,"
said Pier, laughing heartily. " Shall I send
you some lollipops from the shop ? "

He took off his hat and started.

Stay ! " exclaimed Miss Latham, less
savagely. " Don't leave me alone. Come
nearer. I thought you were such a very
ugly boy."

"Not when I see anything very pretty.
I have my good and bad days, you know,
and this is a sort of a half-and-half
day."

'' Why ? "

Because I am admiring a lovely little

girl who has a vile temper, and I want to
get away from her as soon as possible. Here
comes your servant."

The footman approached with a glass of
milk, and upon him the vials of Miss
Latham's wrath were opened wide.

Man ! " she cried. " How dare you
leave me fifteen minutes here to be run over
by horses and insulted by tradesmen ? I
discharge you ! Don't come nearer. Take
a month's wages and go. If you steal your
livery you shall be put in prison ! "

Dawson didn't argue the matter, but withdrew
at once, never touching his hat. Miss
Latham called after him :

"Tell my mamma that I am here with
Mr. Kawdon's son, who is insulting me.
Tell her to come immediately."

The man made no answer, and perhaps he
did not hear. Suppressing his mirth, Pier
offered to bear the command himself But
she wanted him neither to go nor stay.
After sullenly allowing the messenger to

take a few steps, she called him back

imperiously.

'* I am glad you are unwilling to dismiss

me," he said.

'you would not carry the message

right ! "

'' I give you my honour I would."

You would tell my mamma you had

been insulting me ? "

Why not ? If you think so."

She looked at him gravely, the frown

(clearing from her beautiful eyes.

"I don't want you," the child said at

length ; " but some one must stop to take

care of me. I can't run, and when people

gallop about on horses I must not be left

alone. What did I come here for ? "
Let me help you into your carriage."
ril scream if you touch me. Go over

there to the top of the slope and call.

What horridly stupid people they are in

this house ! Call very loud. Perhaps they

are deaf as well as silly."

VOL. I. K

There may be a combination of infirmities
worse than that," answered Pier, disgusted
with her evil temper.

He shouted, and presently the Latham
servants heard him at the front door. They
ran in panic to rescue their young mistress
from her awful situation, but she
would be touched by no one but her
mother. Pier strolled away before that
personage arrived.

Mrs. Lambert observed during dinner, " I
was much distressed that you did not come
to the drawing-room to-day. Lady Latham
was so polite as to call  the first time, I
believe, that she has entered this house."

' A sufficient reason for my quitting it."

But you know you had an opportunity
of meeting her casually, as it were, when
you came back from riding. Why did you
leave the lawn, as that sweet little Mary
Latham told us you did ? "

"An old goose cheviot me about,"
answered Pier, laughing.

A goose on the lawn ? Where were the
gardeners ? I shall reprimand Scott severely
tomorrow."

Pray leave Scott alone. It wasn't he
brought the goose to Weybridge."

"You are too young to know what servants
are. If there was a goose on the lawn
Scott is responsible. And it was a dangerous
creature, as I understand you. Now, my
dear Pier, is it possible," &c., &c., &c.

'' Oh, confound the goose," he exclaimed,
laughing at his own vexation. " I'm going
to smoke."

''A very unfortunate, and, I must say,
a very disgusting habit," answered Mrs.
Lambert, rising also. "Your dear father
doesn't smoke, and "

How long do you make it till this day
three months ? " Pier asked bitterly.

Mrs. Lambert called after him in vain,
pondered, and finally resolved that she must
have misunderstood.

Within the next few weeks Lady Latham

K 2

made several kindly efforts to obtain acquaintance
with Pier, but they all failed,
partly by accident, partly by the want of
good-will on the gentleman's part. He had
no pleasant memories connected with the
Latham family, and he thought that the
county people would bore him. It was the
easiest thing possible to avoid an introduction
without seeming to do so, and Lady
Latham never imagined that this ill-success
was not bitterly mourned.

The acquaintance came at length in a
manner very unexpected. Jonas Davis
wrote to announce a visit, which Pier
had suggested during that time when he
was bribing the youth with attentions, and
his host was less displeased than might
have been thought possible ; for anything
was welcome that would break the eternal
duo with Mrs. Lambert.

Jonas arrived on Saturday, and next
morning he accompanied his host to church.
This gentleman was connected with the

Drum' a newspaper of some position.
Personally, he had nothing to do with
editorial work, but this fact was not universally
known. His name and his face were
familiar in London, and he was spoken of in
connection with the paper. Persons so far
removed from the inside ring as to make
the error, were very civil. Sir James
Latham would not freely have admitted
that he knew Jonas. He used, to express
the situation, one of those forms in which
he was proverbially happy  ' I was conscious
of the young man," he said to his
wife.

It happened that the Lathams attended
church that day at Acton Green, where
the Weybridge people usually sat. As
soon as the service was finished Jonas
hurried out, waited in the porch, and when
the member arrived, he invented in one
breath such important news for Monsieur,
and such a choice scandal for Madame, that
they stood a moment by their carriage door.

Pier could have found no escape lead lie
sought it ; Mrs. Lambert came up, and made
the presentation. He declined an invitation
to lunch, which Jonas accepted without
apologies. He made himself vastly agreeable.
A county member without crotchets
of legislation is as rare as one who succeeds
in carrying them through. Sir James was
convinced that public justice and propriety
demanded a reduction of his rates. Jonas
heard his views with attention, and pledged
the * Drum's * support. Conciliation of Lady
Latham proved a more agreeable task. He
had but to carry a stage further his tale of
the Duke and the heiress, and leave them ina
fix.

Then how is it settled ? " asked her
ladyship, breathless.

I cannot tell you yet," Jonas replied.
*' It's on such occasions that the Sunday
post law seems unbearable. I do not know
I actually do not know how the Duchess
has taken the matter. I gave instructions

to wire me from the  Drum,' but you know
what a great newspaper is, Sir James.
Unless I give the very strictest orders, they
will not send me information."

I weill telegraph to my sister," said Lady
Latham.

Pray don't ! " cried Jonas, much alarmed.
If this matter gets known, all is lost, and
the Duke goes abroad for ever. He would
know who betrayed confidence."

But there was a personage at table with
whom his well-meant attentions quite failed.
Miss Latham puckered her pretty chin, and
thrust out her lips scornfully at sight of
Jonas ; then she sat very still and watched.
After awhile she asked 

'' Are you Mr. Rawdon's friend ? "

Ever since we were at school together,"
said Jonas.

I don't understand that," observed Miss
Latham thoughtfully, with a manner implying
no compliment.

''He is rather an odd fellow, young

Eawdon, isn't he ? " said Sir James. " Very
clever, they say, but decidedly odd. I
thought he hadn't any friends besides that
young scapegrace, Sweyn Garrow."

*' Oh, Garrow was at school with us too.
I remember, indeed, that he introduced me
to Eawdon."

Do you recollect the quarrel between
my brother and Mr. Eawdon ? " asked Miss
Latham, with interest. " What was it about ?
Because I can't go about and ask, people
always tell me stories."

"Mary, dear!" expostulated Lady Latham.

They do, mamma ! They told me that
Mr. Eawdon was an ugly grocer's boy,
and he isn't at all. So you are his
friend ? Do you love him ? "

What an awful child ! " thought Jonas
to himself. " I am very fond of Eawdon,"
he said.

Your very is not much, I should think.
Would you die for him ? "

*'My dear Mr. Davis," said Sir James,

"you must excuse the extravagances of this
spoilt child. After entertaining for years a
grotesque antipathy to your friend, she has
suddenly conceived an admiration for him
not less fantastic. I "

James ! " interrupted his wife. *' Be
more prudent."

She stooped over her little daughter, who
was fairly gasping with rage. The delicate
pallor of her skin would bear no tint stronger
than rose, but the veins in her forehead and
temples swelled purple, and her eyes showed
a ring of white. Great artists would have
loved to mark those signs of passion which
did not spoil, though they disturbed, her
beauty ; but Jonas was prosaic, and he only
thought the child was going into a fit.

Papa," she cried, after several attempts,
*' I hate you  I hate you ! Oh, my head !
Mamma, my head ! "

Lady Latham tenderly kissed her, arranged
the pillows, and wheeled her gently from the
room. But at the door Mary raised herself,

opened lier eyes wide, and looked at her
father.

'' I hate you, papa ! " she repeated, and
fell back.

Sir James was not so much disconcerted
as one would expect. He said to Jonas 

You have been treated to a glimpse of
our family skeleton  a very little one, and
a very dear one, but uncomfortable sometimes.
Don't be shocked by those unfilial
sentiments. In half an hour's time Mary
will be crying with penitence. Our skeleton
cupboard is open, and all the country knows
its contents."

Miss Latham has a strong character,"
said Jonas, vaguely.

Yes ; and we should regard the future
very anxiously if the doctors did not give
us hope that, in regaining the natural use of
her limbs, these fits of passion would wear
away. With Mary it is the old case of the
sword eating through the scabbard. Well,
Mr. Davis, I am very much obliged to you

for those hints. Before you leave Weybridge
I must ask you to dine with us, and meet
some gentlemen of the county who are interested
in these questions as much as myself.
Pray do your best to persuade Rawdon to
join us. There was, as you know, a certain
misunderstanding between him and my boy
at school, and I think well enough of Mr.
Rawdon to believe that if you tell him James
is coming over, it will be a temptation.
My boy is attache at paris, you know."

Accordingly, next day. Pier received a
formal note from Lady Latham, as did Mrs.
Lambert and Jonas. In the afternoon Sir
James himself called, expressly for Mr. Pier
Rawdon ; he made a little speech about the
Wales, hoped to see more of his neighbours,
and so on. Por the present a brief view
seemed to satisfy him, for he departed in
ten minutes.

Oh, my dear boy ! " exclaimed Mrs.
Lambert. " What an honour ! Sir James
has heard of you, you see. What an encouragement

to persevere ! Now you see
what a good thing it is to work and get a
reputation. I wonder how Sir James heard
of your success at Oxford ? "

"Perhaps he sees a newspaper."

Perhaps so. Was it in the papers
really ? I wonder how he came to notice
it ? There's so much in the papers nowadays,
what with one thing and another.
How very lucky Sir James should just have
hit upon your name. I don't think dear
Lady Latham knows. She has never spoken
about it, and of course I did not like to
intrude your affairs. Perhaps Sir James
will tell her  most probably, indeed, I
should think ; shouldn't you ? That will
be very nice," &c., &c., &c.

Thus Mrs. Lambert worked Rawdon into
a lever. I have known a man die of
mosquito bites.

So Pier was driven into the county set.
He could no longer resist when told that
James Latham was coming to the dinner.

CHAPTER V.

CAST ADRIFT.

It was Pier's first entrance into society.
Supper parties he had known, and bachelor
dinners, and tutorial breakfasts, but to
strange ladies he had scarcely come closer
than one does in a crowd. A grave trial
it was to approach those unknown beings,
for the first time, in the pride of their
majesty at a great county dinner. All the
neighbourhood met at Latham Hall. The
fact is that Jonas, by his vapoury quotation
of the ' Drum,' had led Sir James to
believe that he might really shift some
of his taxes upon other people, and the
magnates of the shire had assembled.

Latham Hall is a building of the Italian-gothic
order  at least I should so describe
it, and the architect may cry out as he
likes. It had arches over all its windows,
an octagon tower at each wing, gurgoyles
ad limit mi, and a barbican gateway. Above
the house, for it lay in a hollow, rose the
stately ruin once called Latham jVIanor.
Visitors used to mutter, below their breath,
that to destroy the antique mansion was
barbarous. I myself am a fervent lover
of old things, and I would not suffer my
neighbour to repair his roof if I could help
it. Sir James lost my vote for ever when
he touched the old hall, and no arguments
change my resolution. What had it todo
with me that there was not a room
therein ten feet high, that the drainage
system was forgotten, or had never existed ?
Property has its duties and trials.

The baronet was such a country gentleman
as lyrical tradition loves to draw.
He was big and broad, smooth-faced, blue-eyed.

Dull of intellect, though not stupid,
hating novelty in all things but comfort,
Sir James followed the easy system of his
forefathers. What they had not seen he
did not see.

His grandfather had been only the
bailiffs son, a youth endowed with a certain
bovine beauty and gentleness. The heiress
of Latham fell in love with him, and a
hard wooing she had, for his modesty was
almost hopeless. Sighs and hints were
thrown away upon him ; any number of
inches given never enticed him further.
But all came right at last, by devices which
the lady would never tell, and the gentleman
never understood. A happier match could
not be. One weakness only the youth
had, an amiable passion for sculpture. No
matter what the subject, or the ability of
its treatment, a statue was to him a thing
of beauty to be cherished in as large
quantities as possible. *' Why, my dear,"
he would say to his wife when she remonstrated,

*' a stato is a lovely object ;
every one admits that, I think. There's a
humanising air about stationary. The extended
leg on the Moor there, kicking
up, if I might so express myself, gives an
air of freedom and sans jane to our apartment,
which was a little dull, my dear,
like  like anything else that would have
a similar effect." Mrs. Latham, for Charley
had taken her name, was too good-natured
and too fond of her big husband to oppose
this weakness, and her house was gradually
blocked with " states." Many of them had
been sold, but enough remained to make
the new hall an ideal play-ground for
children. Besides the transient pleasure of
criticizing them by daylight, there was a
weird joy in frightening oneself or others
into a fit at night-time. And they might
have been contrived expressly for playing
hide and seek.

Of a large family borne by Lady Latham,
only two survived. Pier's old antagonist,

James, and his new one, Mary. The only
pleasure he expected from the festival was
a meeting with these two, and he much
feared that the latter would be absent.
Upon entering the drawing-room with Mrs.
Lambert, he looked for her in vain. All
eyes were fixed upon him.

Gauche ! " pronounced Mrs. Ashton.

"We are so select to-night," murmured
Miss Confers.

To enter a splendid room, peopled by
splendid creatures, is indeed trying for the
first time, and 1 would not vouch that Pier
was not a little nervous. Lady Latham
was expecting him, however.

"I was so sorry to have been from home
when you called," she said. " Both James
and Mary talk so much about you, that we
feel quite out of the conversation, knowing
you so little. This is my son. I hope you
will find him improved."

Had he told the truth. Pier would have
confessed he did not. James Latham

VOL. I. L.

worthily sustained the family repute for
comeliness, but his forehead promised few
convolutions of the brain, and his eyes,
though handsome, were shifting. Such a
man, if he had no evil instincts, had certainly
no good resolutions, and some arguments
might be produced to show that
vicious inclination works less harm than
lack of virtue. The sage who loved a good
hater had doubly reason.

Latham had already gained that trick
of smiling[ " from the teeth outwards," which
is the first art of our diplomatists, often
the last. He shook hands warmly, much
more warmly than needful, observing, " I
remember you only too well, Eawdon. You
gave me a lesson in savoir vivre, impressed
perhaps with too much iteration, but all
the more lasting."

*' I am very much ashamed of my
conduct."

Oh no ! Pardon me, but I cannot
believe that. Apropos of nothing at all,

do you know that I have been questioned
about you a good deal in Paris ? ''

By the Comte de Perouac ? '' asked
Pier, suddenly interested.

More especially by his sons. Your
mother belonged to that family, I think ?
I shall be very pleased to introduce you.
Some men would give half their possessions
to claim cousinship with Mademoiselle
Jehanne ; and the brothers are very pleasant,
in different ways. If Hugues de Perouac
would only rally, a great career is open
to him."

* Rally""

To the empire, I mean. It is so utterly
stupid to sit at the back and sulk, waiting
for what will never come. There is but
one party possible in France. Take my
word for it ! I have paid great attention
to the internal politics of the country 
in fact, that is my special department at
the Embassy. Such arguments as I have
had with your relatives ! Look at their

L 2

own case : the father and Albert, Legitimist ;
Hugues, the eldest, Republican  yes, positively
Republican ! He has his seat in the
cab. Now isn't it evident that the empire
alone keeps this family from domestic

WTCCk ? "

These French relatives, of whom Pier
knew nothing but the name, and his father
no more, had always been a fascinating
subject. He asked for more information,
but dinner was announced, and a young
lady allotted to him. Pier felt himself an
actual savage, with this bemuslined damsel
on his arm. He knew none of those commonplaces
with which it is usual to begin
a languid talk, nor could he think of a
subject at the moment. They passed to
the dining-room in silence, and Miss
Blenchley explained to her friends in pantomime
that she had fallen victim to a muff.

On the left of the hostess sat her
crippled daughter, placed before the company
arrived. Pier was gratified to find

his place marked beside the child, for she
would certainly not be a bore. She looked
up with beautiful eyes, bright with intelligence,
darkened by temper now, and said
softly, ' I didn't think we should meet
again, Mr. Rawdon  didn't hope it, I mean."

But I did," answered Pier,

Lady Latham turned and exclaimed,
"They have made a mistake. Your place
was higher up the table, Mr. Rawdon. I
could not allow my little daughter to tease

you."

Don't go away," Mary whispered.

Not if they charge at me with wild
horses," Pier replied. "Those whom Fate
has joined do not put asunder, Lady
Latham. I am too comfortable here."

Miss Blenchley shrugged her shoulders,
but it crossed her mind that this young
savage was at least no muff.

Thank you," whispered Mary. " J
changed the tickets. You don't eat much,
do you ? "

'plots. Why?" asked Pier, busy with
his soup.

"Because I never eat, and I had tea an
hour ago. I thought you would talk to me.'

"That can be done, if Miss Blenchley
doesn't object."

Oh, not at all," replied that lady,
haughtily.

Pier saw that he had "put his foot in it."
He looked at his partner, and their eyes
met.

"What I meant was," he said, laughing,
that my conversation is much better suited
to Miss Latham's capacity than to Miss
Blenchley's. I don't know anything about
anything."

Not even manners ? " said the lady,
icily.

Least of all, manners. They don't teach
deportment at Oxford."

"That's why you can get on with me,
isn't it ? " asked Mary. " Tell me, you're a
very clever boy, aren't you ? "

Tell me, you're a very pretty little girl,
aren't you ? "

That opening didn't promise. The child
laughed and said 

"Not so little as I seem. I am nearly
fourteen, and I shall begin to grow, and to
walk, in another year. Where do you think
I shall go, as soon as ever I am strong
enough ? "

To your native fairy land, I should
imagine," said Pier, admiring the exquisite
beauty of the little face.

To Weybridge. And I shall stand on the
lawn, under the chestnut trees ; and you
will come galloping up, with a tremendous
thud of horse's hoofs, and pass me like
lightnings bent down on the saddle-bow to
avoid the branches. You will see then if
I stand and cry. I shall run like the wind
and laugh at you."

I hope I may be there to play my part,
and applaud yours," said Pier.

Why, where should you be ? "

'*Do you picture me to yourself," said
Pier, laughing, ' always jumping the sunk-fence,
always frightening a little girl, and
asking in vain the privilege of putting her
in her carriage ? "

I don't like to be laughed at, but no one
will ever see me evil-tempered again. What
did you mean by saying, ' There is a combination
of infirmities worse than being deaf
and silly ' ? Does it apply to me ? "

''No; to a man."

What man ? And what is the combination
? "

I am the man, and the combination is
roughness and want of sympathy."

*' So you tell stories too ! I know very
well what you meant, and I wished to tell
you that it was a lesson. I shall never,
never forget how manlike you were that
day, Mr. Eawdon ! But you are only a
boy," she added, with a pretty laugh.

"Perhaps I shall grow, like you."

*' Oh, you are tall enough. Now I will be

quiet and think, whilst you talk to Miss
Blenchley."

That lady meanwhile had tried her neighbour
of the other flank, and found no solace
there. What she overheard of Eawdon's
conversation caused her to suspect that he
might be amusing under proper treatment ;
so she met him half way.

"Do you know Mr. Morley of your
college ? " said Miss Blenchley, after some
skirmishing amongst flowers and theatres
and books and scientific propositions, which
Pier endured with difficulty.

Very well indeed. We were schoolfellows."


They say he is to be married ? Do you
know the lady ? "

Carelessly and innocently as the words
were spoken, Pier saw an open trap. His
visits to Elf Cottage had not been unreported
in the county.

She lived near Oxford, and I often met
her. You will like Mrs. Lumley very much."

Every one likes her, don't they ? Some
more than others, of course."

No doubt. She is a charming woman,
and with her, if anywhere, we undergraduates
might have learned what the professors don't
teach us''

Love ? "

No ; manners. But some men, like
other beasts, are unteachable."

"You don't mean yourself?"

No one else, certainly. If you can't
believe in such monsters, consider me as
the last representation of my species, like
the flying lizard."

1 don't know anything about flying
lizards; but you cannot be untamable 
caught so young."

I said unteachable, but perhaps the
words are synonymous. You flatter me
with delusive hopes."

What, of being caught ? "

Of finding somebody who thinks me
worth pursuing."

"Oil, sport is sport, whatever the
game."

No doubt, but the sportsman compliments
a rabbit by turning an elephant gun
upon him."

Mary Latham apparently had finished her
meditations, for she observed abruptly 

I am not afraid of you when you stand
on your own feet."

I should think not. Man is poor game.
In the great day coming, devote yourself
to hares. After hunting you can eat
them."

''I wish I was eighteen years old."

Why ? "

"To make you talk seriously. I think
you would be wortli pursuing, Mr. Eawdon.
I should like to try."

"Is this a challenge ? Your time and
place, donzella ? "

Anywhere, four years from to-day."

"It is too early for both of us. I should
give no sport ; and if I won the match your

parents would plead infancy, and deny me
the spoils."

"You shall choose your own time."

'* Say six years. Then we shall both beat
our best."

"Agreed. Oh, I will avenge myself!
Take the conditions down."

I have no betting-book."

A cela ne Hens ! " Mary answered, excitedly.
She produced a beautiful old set
of tablets, ivory and gold, and wrote rapidly.
We will ' say, on my twentieth birthday.
Mr. Pier Kawdon '   Have you any other
name  "

Pier Marie. Let us be careful not to
compromise my parent."

' Mr. Pier Marie Rawdon undertakes to
present himself before Miss Mary Latham,
and 'what ? "

I'm sure I don't know."

' And let her work her will ' "

"Her wicked will."

" Her will' "

Her wicked will. I insist on that."

' Her wickedest will upon him.' There !
Keep the record. I shall not forget."

It's a pledge' answered Pier solemnly,
pocketing the tablets, which he meant to
return next day. " I shall now go and
make my will. It is a duello to the death."

It is."

What nonsense is Mary saying to you ?
She is the oddest child," said Lady Latham.

Quite the reverse of nonsense," Pier
answered. " I "

It's a secret," Mary cried.

"My mouth is sealed."

"Have you heard anything of Garrow?"
asked James Latham across the table.

He's in Abyssinia, pursuing the local
sports," Pier answered. "They consist, he
says, in base-ball, played with Brummagem
muskets, beggar my neighbour, strip Jack
naked, and cut with his wife. The only
interruption to these games is caused by a
stray lion, which plays trump, and generally

scores the old trick. Sweyn is so thoroughly
at home that he doesn't think of abandoning
the diversion yet awhile."

After a time Pier became conscious that
the eyes of the company rested on him.
Listening a moment, he perceived that
Jonas was telling the story of his vengeance
upon Carpenter. It had been mentioned
in the papers, but without a hint
of the guilty party. Jonas's revelations did
not find approval. If James Latham had
done such a thing, the county would have
thought it excellent humour, but Rawdon's
position was different. Pier saw there
would be silence when the tale was done,
and he waited to see who would break it.
Mrs. Lambert's voice was the only one heard
besides Jonas's, and she prattled on, being
rather deaf. Pier glanced at his neighbours.
Miss Blenchley sat prim ; Mary watched
him with grave interest. At length Jonas
wound up with a description of the council
held round Carpenter's bed at the Mitre ;

its elaboration showed how often he had
recounted this tale. Then he gave the
laugh ohligato, and finished. Silence.

Pier leaned back, waiting, his face set.
Lady Latham saw danger of a scene. She
caught his eye and smiled. They said her
ladyship was the cleverest woman in the
county, and on this occasion she showed
genius. Remember Pier's training, the
character I have displayed, his position at
that table, his utter ignorance of society ;
then you will understand how that smile
affected him. He was awaiting a challenge
from the hostile powers round, and he meant
to reply as best he could. Instead, a smile !
It seemed to tell him that he had a friend,
who thought all this business a pleasant joke.
Lady Latham understood boyish nature.
Pier smiled brightly in return, leaned
forward, and said 

I have never quite understood where
you were posted during the engagement,
Jonas. My poor tutor describes his assailants

as two bearded ruffians. He may be
prejudiced as to their moral character, but
there can't be any mistake about a beard.
Where were you ? "

The hostess looked sweetly round, and
headed her sex to their own realm. Jonas
wished to explain, but the hero of the
story interrupted.

Quite enough said of a boyish joke," he
exclaimed, and rose to seat himself beside
James Latham.

I don't know, sir, that I should call
it a joke," observed the Lord-lieutenant,
ponderously.

Mr. Carpenter would be flattered to
think that your lordship agreed with him."

But you would not, sir ? Is that what
we are to understand ? "

As I never flatter, my lord, I do not
care to be flattered," Pier replied, and took
his seat.

He wished to hear more of the I)e
Perouacs, but James had little to tell

beyond what he had hinted. Though the
Count had made no sign, he was aware of
his English relations. There where two sons,
the elder a politician, and a promising member
of the Assembly ; the younger, an officer
of Spahis ; a daughter, marvellously handsome.
The family was by no means united,
though it did not suffer political differences
to cause an actual quarrel. For generations
the De Perouacs had been Lesfitimist and
Ultramontane, though by creed they were
Protestant, as are many nobles of the south.
Hopeless of turning their compatriots to
Calvinism, they were satisfied that some
religion is a political necessity, and they
consented to carry the only banner which
Notre Roy would recognize. A dreadful
backsliding then was Hugues', who would
not admit the Revolution an unmixed
curse. At this time, however (1868), differences
of political feeling were not actual,
as the French say, and the De Perouacs lived
in tolerable harmony together.

VOL. I. M

Pier soon left the gentlemen to discuss
the best means of shifting their load of taxes
upon other people's shoulders. But before
he reached the drawings-room with James
Latham, kind friends had told Mrs. Lambert
the story which Jonas had related. The old
lady burst into tears, and refused comfort.
She thought that all who bore the name of
Eawdon would be pointed at in the streets,
if not mobbed. The gift of tongues was
freely conferred at Latham that night, but
the hostess tried in vain to lead conversation
into another channel. When Pier entered
he saw at once what had taken place, and
asked Mrs. Lambert if she was ready to go.
Lady Latham bade him good-night with
extreme kindness, for she was certainly not
one to join a popular cry. As Pier shook
hands with Mary, the child raised her eyes,
and tears stood in them.

''If I ever would get into a passion
again," she said, " I should have done so
to-night. Remember ! But I will not let

you forget. Good-bye, Mr. Rawdon. If
we don't nieet for six years, I shall be
waiting for you here, on my twentieth
birthday. You will come ? "

Honour forbids me to decline. I wonder
what your wickedest will will be."

Mary laughed, and let him go.

A dreary drive home Pier anticipated ;
Jonas had accepted to stay the night at
Latham. But the worst he had imagined
was surpassed. Mrs. Lambert was dismayed
utterly. Pier had rebelled against
his pastors and masters, flying in the face of
the catechism. All the county assembled
had shown its feeling in the matter, and
Pier had insulted the Lord-lieutenant.
These thoughts were very grievous to Mrs.
Lambert. Round and round, in and out,
she exercised her feeble mind and peevish
arguments among them, declaring in one
breath that she was astonished beyond
words, and in the next that she had known
how it would be. Pier stopped the carriage

at last, and got out to walk. Mrs. Lambert
protested against this show of temper,
and sat ten minutes arguing. At length
Pier walked on, and she drove past indignant.


To the old lady he was still the little
boy intrusted to her guardianship ages
ago. Amongst certain savages every one
is put to death who sees the young chief
born. Wise are those Indians ! For what
avail beauty or strength or divine inspiration
against the formula, "Don't tell me,
lad ! I mind thee being born ! " or, "I
mind thee poor feather, who was a better
mon than ever thee be like to be." Or
otherwise : "I was present on the happy
occasion which fulfilled in your Majesty's
person the exalted hope of your august
parent," &c., c. No syllogism will make
head against this argument. It is the
immovable body, upon which the irresistible
force of logic crashes in vain. The woman
who has seen you born will never thereafter

feel a clue respect for your appearance,
your opinions, or your proudest successes.
Beware of old servants, old family friends.
The nurse who mixed your earliest caudle,
the housekeeper who bore the happy news
to master, the maiden aunt who dandled
you in long clothes  these should be dismissed
far off when young master begins
to fancy himself.

I myself have suffered grievously from
old servants. The more affection they bear
you, the greater nuisance are they  an
ancient nurse the worst. She cannot be
silenced. Always at need she has some
absurd, inconsequential, delicious tale of
your dead father or mother, fictions of
their mutual love, their care for you in
which she bore her part. Out on the
crocodile ! She cries sad tears, and wishes
herself with mistress in heaven, where, for
sure, she is, and owns herself not good for
much, saving only for her love. And
perhaps, if you be weak, if you show signs

of relenting, she takes you round the neck
and cries  the monster 1  how she holds
you dear as her own flesh, and sobs, " Bear
with me, Master John," or what your luckless
name may be  ' Bear with me, for
I'd die now in a strange place ! " Wise,
wise Indians ! Your chiefs are not thus
played upon. There is none to repeat to
them the sweet follies of a generation past,
which wet the eye and shake the resolution.
Smooth the lives of austere folks,
who have no old servants 1

All the house was in commotion when
Pier reached Wey bridge. Mr. Eawdon had
arrived, with Arabella, several weeks before
their time. A telegram sent in advance
was not forwarded to Latham, and the
household was quite unprepared. This state
of things did not make Mrs. Rawdon more
cheerful. All the three, father, stepmother,
and Mrs. Lambert, awaited Pier in the
breakfast-room. He came in hastily to
welcome the travellers and found himself

confronted by a tribunal. Mrs. Lambert
was crying, with renewed water-power, Mrs.
Rawdon watchful, and her husband worried.

Welcome home, father ! " Pier exclaimed.
" You know how glad I am to
see you ; but I hope nothing is wrong."

He shook hands kindly with Arabella,
whose fingers lay in his like a dead star fish.

"It's a miserable business, Pier, which
recalls us," said Mr. Rawdon with an efibrt.
"This newspaper fell under my eye in
Germany a fortnight since."

Pier took it, and read, " Scandal at
Oxford." There had been many such paragraphs,
some humorous, all reproving,
some abusive. He laid the paper down,
and stood expectant.

* After reading that statement," continued
Mr. Rawdon, more and more uncomfortable,
" I had a presentiment of
evil."

He paused. Pier looked at Arabella,
and she met his eye firmly.

'' I wrote to the Principal of St. Aldate's,
asking if any one was suspected of this
outrage. Here is his reply''

A glance showed that Dr. Crosby had
stated his suspicions candidly, but without
violence.

* I fear to ask whether you are guilty ? "

Guilty ? " exclaimed Mrs. Lambert.
'' The whole story was told to-night at
Latham by his confederate, and then Pier
insulted the Lord-lieutenant. Oh, wretched
boy!"

Father, I don't defend myself before
you, but there is one lady here at least
to whom I have no explanations to give."

Insolent youth ! "

This is a question between my father
and me. He has thought proper to allow
your presence, but I forbid you to interfere."


"You said one lady 'at least.' Have 1,
your father's wife, no right to protest when
you bring disgrace upon our name ? "

My father and I loved one another for
twenty years before you became his wife,
and in two months' time we stand  thus ! "

Did / tempt you to this disgraceful
conduct which has scandalized all the
county ? Did / write this paragraph ? "

*'' No. But you showed it to my father.
And you persuaded him to write to Dr.
Crosby ; and don't suppose, Arabella, that
I have deceived myself from the beginning.
You were determined from the first that
I shall leave my father's house. Be it so !
As well one pretext as another. At least
if I go now we shall all be spared much
useless wrangling, and the result will bethe
same."

"Mr. Rawdon," said Arabella, "you
have heard the insults which your son
addresses to your wife. You know if his
insinuations are just. I do not ask his
dismissal, that question lies entirely with
you ; but we cannot continue to live in
the same house."

All waited in silence for the decision.
With his hands before his face, the old
man sat quavering, unable to speak. Mrs.
Lambert made frightened signals to her
daughter. That lady sat erect. Her heavy
white eyelids were raised now, and she met
Pier's look with defiant resolution. An
ejectment of the heir had indeed been in
her thoughts from the first, but she regarded
it as an object to be patiently
pursued for years. Even this chance which
had suddenly arisen, Arabella had not
thought to use decisively. But Pier met
her half way ; in an instant she made up
her mind, and stood for triumph or disastrous
rout.

No word came from Mr. Rawdon. Pier's
heart bled for his father, but he had known
all along what would happen. If not today,
tomorrow. He turned and slowly left
the room.

Hours afterwards he stood at his casement,
watching the grey dawn pick out

tree and flower in the blurred sketch of
landscape spread before him. The door
opened softly, and his father entered.

"T was waiting for you, sir," Pier said.

The old man took his son into his arms.

It is best for me to go, father."

*not like this not like this! She
promised  "

I know, father. Believe me, it is best.
Arabella will be a good wife, she will
make you happy, if I am away. I know
her. You have not dismissed me. I go
because it must be, but not far. Your
wish will always bring me to you, father.
My mother"

"Do not name her to-night. Pier. It
is Marie's son I am allowing to be driven
from her home. If she can see us. Pier ? "

She will read nothing but love in our
hearts. Be comforted, father. I shall not
go far away."

That you promise ? "

"I do."

'' She frightens me, Pier. Promise that
you will be a brother to our child ? "

I promise that. Father, let me help
you to your room, you are worn out ? "

You forgive me, Pier ? I have no
need to ask. God bless you, my boy.
You have been a dutiful and affectionate
son, and He will reward you."

Pier slept for an hour, and walked away
before the household was astir. Nothing
did he take with him. All the litter of
the room he left for a testimony, and it
remained.

CHAPTER VI.

Jeanne DE PEROUAC.

Three years I may pass over in the story
of Pier Rawdon's life. The only conspicuous
event of that time was his attempt to serve
in the French army during the war. Accompanied
by Sweyn Garrow, he visited
Tours. Monsieur Gambetta himself found
a moment to receive them, though he gratefully
declined their services. They waited
on the dictator at the archiepiscopal palace,
finding him established in a state bed-room
of clerical appearance. A huge four-poster
hung with amber satin made almost
two chambers of the apartment. Between
it and the narrow window stood M.

Gambetta, at this desk. He gave them
the idea of a very strong man, utterly
wearied out. Whilst talking clearly and
well, he stopped short from time to time,
moved his papers, his inkstand, or any
small article upon the desk, and resumed,
after an odd pause, exactly where he left
off. The lank hair so tumbled about his
face, which he kept carefully averted, that
the young men had rather a vague notion
of M. Gambetta's appearance when they
withdrew. Full liberty was given them
to travel where they liked, but on learning
that they were not soldiers by profession,
the dictator courteously rejected them.

Going down the stairs they met the
archbishop, with cruisers and thurifers, and
an endless train. The English gentlemen
halted on a landing, and raised their hats.
No other persons, as it chanced, were on
the stairs, in the corridor above, or in the
hall below. Thus conspicuous in solitude.
Pier and Garrow saluted an old man, a

high dignitary, and the master of the house
in which they met him. The archbishop
marked them from the foot of the stairs,
watched them as he slowly climbed, looked
them full in the face as he swept by  and
made no sign whatever. Pier laughed ;
Garrow reddened, stared, and suddenly
drove his way down through the midst of
the ecclesiastical throng, who tumbled
against wall or bannisters with much
subdued protest. Rawdon took no worse
revenge than to tell his story ever afterwards
when it recurred to memory. He
insists that I recount it now. " The unspiritual
god Circumstance " has humorous
freaks occasionally. It may place a churl
born in the metropolis of ceremonial
courtesy.

The friends travelled from place to place
along the banks of the Loire, meeting
adventures which I have not time to tell,
but nowhere finding trace of the De
Perouacs whom Pier sought. The father

and eldest son were both serving; the
younger had been taken at Sedan. Giving
up the quest at length, they returned to
England, after some months' absence.
Shortly afterwards Garrow went for a
year's shooting at the Cape ; and Eawdon,
at the early age of twenty-three, began to
find himself bored.

With his father he kept up an active
correspondence, but they had not met.
Mrs. Rawdon grew not more amiable as
time went on. She had borne a daughter,
and Pier solemnly renewed his promise of
protection. Wey bridge was one of the
gayest houses in the country, but Mrs.
Lambert appeared as a guest where she
had hoped to reign. After dismissing her
stepson, in no long time Arabella shelved
her mother.

Every one remembers the great conspiracy
which began to inculcate at Versailles in
the end of 1872, and broke its shell on
May 24th of the year following. Over all

the world, those free of the secret watched
for the hatching breathlessly. Never was
a plot more characteristic of the French
mind in its strength and weakness. The
rash thoughtlessness of the undertaking-must
be contrasted with the minute skill
of the elaboration ; secresy of means with
publicity of aim ; the overweening triumph
of a premature success with the undignified
squabbling of ultimate failure. The grand
conspiracy had no bottom at all, not even
a misunderstanding or a silence. Notre
Roy spoke clearly enough ; so did the
Princes of Orleans, each in his own capacity.
The king said, " Mark you ! I give up
nothing." The count said, " I give up
my claims, but not my principles ! " The
Marshal said, " I sympathize with you, but
I am not one of yours ! " And these three
concerned, having thus frankly declared
themselves, were more mystified than anybody
else during the months that followed.
They saw les habiles the clever fellows,

VOL. I. N

busy with their plot, undiscouraged, eager,
confident. As for minor agents and confederates,
who could doubt the skill or the
clear-headdress of M. le Due ?

Rawdon had followed the politics of
France with interest, and he knew that
the de Perouacs were taking a very active
share in this business. He resolved to pay
a visit of some length to Paris, and sought
letters of introduction. This quest carried
him to the office of Mr. Davis pere, who
invited him to dinner. It was an odd
sort of gathering which assembled in the
handsome drawing-room. There were half-a-dozen
Greeks, mostly tall, slender, fine-featured,
and sly ; half-a-score of Frenchmen,
some Germans, Italians, a Turk, two
Americans, a Japanese, and a Colonel of
the Guards. Nearly every one wore rosettes
at his button-hole, all were dressed to perfection,
every one knew everybody else, and
didn't seem to like him. They talked
familiarly of public characters especially

members of the House of Peers, and celebrities
of the opera. Pier supposed them to
be adventurers of the sort which formerly
visited England in search of an heiress ora
victim ; but he mistook. Gamblers they
were, but serious ones, shrewd men of business,
who could give points to our sharpest.
Even their titles were utilized as capital.
Did not a prince about this time enter all
the boats in which he gathered the Esaean
currant crop amongst the yachts of the
Royal squadron, and enjoy, for some blissful
months, the proud distinction of owning
more tonnage under the hitrgee than any
person living ?

In such company " the plot " was ao
exciting topic. All discussed it, mostly
with knowledge. Pier was impressed with
the views of a young man, handsome as a
picture, who talked English, French, and
German equally well. He ridiculed M. le
Due without mercy, confidently forecasting
the events which would follow. Though

N 2

the speaker was so young, all listened with
attention. The gentleman next to Pier was
a thoughtful, good-looking, silent personage.
To the question put him, he answered in
good English.

'she is called M. Birch, a banker in
Paris, and a countryman of your own."

' His opinions seem to be much regarded."

"Well, they may be. I remember, sir,
watching from Birch's window in the Place
Vendee, the mob tramping past, singing
a Berlin ! ' He turned to me, and said :
In five weeks' time the Prussians will beat
our gates, and I shall be worth half a
million of money ! ' Birch was right, almost
to the day"*

After a time, somebody addressed Rawdon's
neighbour as M. de Perouac. Pier
said with interest,

It would be a poor jest to invent this story.
A luckless gentleman made the remark to myself and
the Hon. F. L. under the circumstances suggested in
the text.

'' Are we not related ? My name is
Rawdon."

The other answered, rather coolly,

''I am glad to make your acquaintance.
James Latham has often named you to us."

'' Favourably, I hope ? "

Why not ? Your father is still living,
I believe ? "

"Yes. Come now, M. de Perouac, you
have not heard a good account of me. I
am going to Paris, and I shall not rest till
I have changed your opinion."

'' Say rather to give us an opportunity
of forming one. We heard of your success
at the University ; but you left, I think,
without taking the haccalaureat /"

I understand. That is a grave matter
in France. We don't take our universities
quite so much au series in England.
Scarcely three men in four, on an average,
take their degree."

Indeed ! There is much in English life
that may be misunderstood by foreigners.

You will call on us, I hope. My father lives
in the Rue de Provence, and that is my
home also when in Paris. Have I not heard
that you offered our poor country your arm
in her misfortune ? It was gallantly done,
sir."

Unfortunately, my arm was refused. I
sought for you and the Count everywhere on
the Loire."

I was wounded early in the autumn, and
my father thought it best to withdraw. But
we are not less obliged for your chivalrous
intention."

They had much pleasant talk. Pier
learned that his relative had frankly accepted
the Republic, and had taken a sous-prefecture
in the south. He laughed at the
conspiracy, for any chance of success it had,
but he differed from Birch in anticipating
grave troubles.

After dinner Pier took an opportunity of
making himself known to this gentleman.
M. Birch's father was a very rich and

very respectable tradesman. When-the
son, after strange adventures, bloomed out
into a great Paris financier, lie thought
best to drop his patronymic. If Pier
had heard the history of this young
banker, he would never have made a very
interesting acquaintance. How little did
those know Birch who regarded him only
as a successful intriguing, wise indeed as
Ahithophel, but wicked as absalom. I hold
no brief for him. His career was a scandal.
But Birch has paid the debt. He lies
beyond our praise or blame, and those
triumph who are worse than he.

As Rawdon left his rooms next day to
call upon Mr. Davis at the ' Drum,' he met
Garrow  Garrow himself, disguised in outlandish
attire, burnt to mahogany, bright-eyed,
lean, intoxicated with the perfume of
Pall Mall. Pier thought, as he held him
fast, palm in palm,  neither speaking, but
looking in each other's eyes,  that all London
could not show a finer specimen of manhood.

And the same thought rose in Garrow's mind.
Descriptions are futile. Suffice it that each,
in his own way, was a type of masculine
beauty.

Sweyn had arrived but half-an-hour before.
He did not telegraph from Southampton,
because that beneficent device escaped his
memory. He was dying for a bath, for
breakfast, for new clothes, for a talk with
'considers," for a theatre, and a "night of
it"  any and all of those hot and artificial
pleasures whereof he would be so weary in a
month's time. Pier dismissed his business
without a word. They turned into the club,
and here and there, day and night, they
** amused themselves," until Garrow showed
symptoms of satiety. Upon this happy
event Pier suggested a migration to Paris
until the hunting season, and the idea was
received enthusiastically. They agreed to
start next day. At dinner, among the
letters at his club. Pier discovered a
small parcel, which he recognized with a

smile of comic embarassment. There were
no secrets between those two, and Garrow
exclaimed,

'' What's that ? It must be a big fetish
that makes you change colour ! "

'eton my soul, Sweyn," Pier answered,
after a moment's thought, " I'll take you
into confidence. You remember Jem
Latham at school ? He has a little crippled
sister, the prettiest child you ever saw
About three years ago  she was fourteen
then  I nearly rode over her, and she
abused me awfully. Then I met the child
at Latham, and there was some chaff.
Finally she challenged me to meet her on
her twentieth birthday, and I think I
promised. Of course one never thought
more about it. But on this day, for the
last two years, I have received a reminder
more or less significant. What on earth
is one to do about it ? The thing gets

serious."

"A young lady of seventeen is about

the most serious fact in nature, I believe.
You say she is crippled ? "

I have heard she has quite recovered,
poor little thing ! "

Oh, you feel so much interested as to
inquire after her health ! What have you
done hitherto ? "

How have I answered ? Well, the first
year she sent me a glove, and I couldn't
imagine what it meant, until I saw her
name written very big inside. So I returned
a little dagger, with a gold hilt full
of sweetmeats. Last year, having again
forgotten all about it, I was reminded hy
a little silver crutch, broken in two ; after
thinking the matter over, I made no reply
at all. This year  see ! " Pier displayed
a golden fetter, with the chain broken.
How do you interpret that ? "

'' I take it to mean that you are her
slave escaped."

Or that she has dissolved a silly engagement.
But there the thing is, and

what shall I do about it ? Do her parents
know, I wonder ? Observe the weight of
this ! The child must have saved up all
her pocket-money to buy it."

*' You persist in ignoring time. I think
if you passed your word, you're bound to
keep it. And if a lady sends reminders,
the least a gentleman can do is to acknowledge
them."

"I was a fool," said Pier, laughing, "to
ask the opinion of such a preux. Well, so
be it ! Ought I not to let her parents
know, however \ "

Certainly not. What you have to dois
to send a proper return, and to pray
that Miss Latham may be comfortably
married before her twentieth birthday."

All right ! Having put myself in your
hands, I abide by your decision. As for
the reply, nothing strikes me at this moment,
but I will consult a Paris jeweller."

They crossed that night, and for the next
few days the quest of lodgings and the

furnishing thereof absorbed them. This is
pleasant work when payment is no matter
of anxiety. Garrow was rich, and Pier's
800 per annum received so many additions
 at Christmas, on his birthday, and
such dates  that it reached nearly double
that sum. He did not propose calling on
the De Perouacs until established, but Birch
they saw frequently. That singular man
had his entree, upon one footing or another,
into every kind of woiid, and he
was pleased to introduce two such striking
young fellows. They made sensation, and
Garrow at least met his admirers half-way.
Pier remonstrated laughingly.

"My dear fellow," he said, 'pray wait
until I have established my credit at the
Hotel Perouac. They are rather collet
monte there."

I'm in no hurry. But tell me, when
do we go to the East ? "

Why, you have not been a week in
Paris ! I want to see this revolution

through. Besides, you know I can't leave,
old fellow, whilst my father lives."

May that be a thousand years ! But
if you wait much longer you'll drop into
a groove, fall sick of some she-creature, get
fat, and cease to kick."

''YouVe not told me any of your love
adventures, by the bye. Are there no
pretty women out yonder ? "

Oh, there's a chance for fools everywhere,"
said Sweyn, indifferently ; " but no
woman living is worth  By Jove, what
a lovely creature ! "

They had walked down the Eue Richelieu
into the Rue de Tivoli, and she was just
coming out of the Louvre shop. A type
of the supreme Southern beauty, tall,
deep-bosomed, majestic, she moved with
that superb grace which is forbidden to
lissome girls, the grace of large, round
limbs, perfect in their proportion. Whilst
the figure was that of a woman grown, the
face had still a girlish look. Firm and

delicately cut were its lines, in that contour
which we describe as Roman, surviving
most perfect in the south of France. In
Italy and Spain you may discover a like
purity of outline, but there the skin shades
into bistre, the mouth to purple, and over
it the connoisseur will expect, perhaps would
grieve to miss, a delicate dark pencilled
of down. Those who admire such an
adjunct to female beauty will be disappointed
amongst the maidens of Aries.
Their lustrous white skin is olive in shadow,
rosy against the light ; their chiselled lips
are pink and smooth as the fairest of their
English sisters.

Garrow, not half re-civilized yet, positively
stood still, so great was his wondering
admiration. The lady could not but see
him. She raised her large clear eyes and
looked in her admirer's face. The veriest
ass must have understood that expression
of astonishment and rebuke. She passed
quietly in front of the two and stepped

into a carriage. The foot, of which they
caught a glimpse, was long, slender, and
elastic  the sculptor's foot, as unlike to
that worshipped of the ignorant as is the
Venus of Milo to a school-girl.

Whilst Garrow was staring at this beautiful
apparition, a young officer was staring
at him with less amiable expression ;  the
fair one's brother, evidently, but the eyes
so sweetly grave in her, in him had a restless
vivacity. He wore the scarlet uniform
of the Spahis, with several medals and the
cross, though his age could scarcely be five-and-twenty.
One hand upon his sword, and
one twisting his fine moustache, this warlike
youth sought Garrow's eye frowningly. But
another gentleman had followed in beauty's
train, and at a critical moment he interrupted :

What a happy coincidence ! De
Perouac, I am going to astonish you !
This is the English cousin-german we have
talked about, and this his die damned, Mr.
Sweyn Garrow."

There was nothing of his brother's coolness
about Albert de Perouac. Leavings
Garrow and James Latham together, he
seized Pier's hand and wrung it, talking
unintelligible English all the time, and
laughing. Then he dragged his kinsman
to the carriage and presented him to Mademoiselle
Jeanne. She smiled softly, and
murmured welcome, gracious as a young
queen, dignified as a goddess. For his own
taste, Pier would have liked to see a shade
of girlish embarrassment ; but maidens of
that type are not easily discomposed. Then
brother and sister drove away with Latham,
after Pier had engaged himself to call, the
former waving his beautiful gloves until
the carriage was lost to sight.

*this is the catastrophe of our friendship
1 " cried Garrow. '' I thought there
was nothing you could do or say which I
could not forgive, but the innate villany of
your character had not been revealed to me.
/ marked down that young lady ; / discovered

her, and who is rewarded ? You !
because your granada was acquainted with
her grandmother ! I discredit it ! Aphrodite
was born of sea-foam, and Helen sprang from
an etroj ; Artemis came into the world I don't
remember how, but on like independent principles.
Mdlle. de Perouac has no relations
on earth, and you are a traitor. I shall go
and libate to the Manes of friendship."

Next day Pier visited his kinsfolk. The
Comte de Perouac lived in a fine mansion,
entre cour et jardin on the old-fashioned
and rather dingy Rue de Provence. The
walls lacked a washing, and the jalousies
wanted paint, but there was abundant
evidence of fortune. A son of the Crusaders
may dwell on the vulgar bank, but it is not
fitting he should rival the men of yesterday
in show and glitter. The Comte's house
was not very old, but for outward gloom and
formality it could bear comparison with the
Hotel of his ancestors in the Faubourg Saint
Germain, long since pulled down. Pier was

VOL.

introduced to a great bare room, with upright
chairs ranged along the walls, an
upright couch at due intervals, and the
portrait of a bygone Perouac over each, in
the most uncompromising attitudes. Comfort
was unknown in their day, and no one
could be suffered to lounge even in the
presence of their effigies. Pier sat in one
of the chairs, and felt himself begin to grow

rigid.

Albert hurried in, excited as usual.

My father is coming 1 " he said. '' You'd
call him governor if you were me, but people
are so gidnde in France ; no ease about us.
We're all stiff, and buttoned up, like a
Prussian sergeant. My father would receive
you in no other room but this, because he
says it's a family occasion, and it must be
done in presence of the family  these old
panaches" pointing irreverently to the portraits.
' And he will make you wait a
quarter of an hour, because he's head of the
family, and you only belong to us by the

spindle-side. I may run to meet you, a
mere cadet ; but if Hugues was here he
wouldn't dare come for two minutes and a
half  or else three, my father isn't certain
which. How Frenchmen ever got the reputation
of liveliness I can't conceive. We're
the dullest people in Europe ! "

'rand we're the gayest, I suppose?"
laughed Pier.

Yes, you are. I've been to London, and
I've studied your ways. What ease, what
freedom, what fun, don't you call it ? Look
at that adventure of yours at Oxford.
Latham told us, and I've wanted to know
you ever since. It wouldn't have been
possible here. Our students would have
hurt the man, and spoiled their joke, or,
more likely, they'd have borne any insolence.
The most miserable creature in the
world is a French boy, and next to him
comes a French student. Why, my brother
Hugues wouldn't believe it possible a tutor
could be fastened to a railing without revo-

O 2

lotion ill Cliureh and State, the Commune
proclaimed, and the queen's head cut off.
He looks on you as one of the most dangerous
characters in Europe. Here's my father."
A burly old gentleman entered. If you
had met the Comte de Perouac on his morning
stroll, in check trowsers, bird's-eye neckerchief,
faultless linen, and blue coat, you would
have admired him as a type of the English
country gentleman. His fresh face was
shaven, leaving only small white whiskers.
The children all took after their mother, and
Albert alone had a slight resemblance to the
Comte. It was one of expression only, a
restless look of the eyes, which were kindly
and pleasant enough. But the Comte de
Perouac regarded Pier's visit as a great
occasion, and he wore his diplomatic manner.
After graciously shaking hands, he inquired
with minuteness the state of Mr. Eawdon's
health, expressed interest in his late marriage,
and cross-examined Pier about the Lambert
pedigree. Then he set forth the exact relationship

between the first sirs. Eawdon
and himself, presented Pier to each of his
ancestors, as a king presents his chief attendants
to a guest, and then, after a thoughtful
pause, observed 

''If it pleases my young friend, I will
now present him to Mademoiselle de
Perouac."

Albert jumped up ; he had not interrupted
the ceremonies with one word, but
he came as near stretching himself at this
release as the awful majesty of his forefathers
would permit. Vastly amused Pier got up,
and the Comte bowed graciously. They
crossed a big landing, adorned with costly
vases and shrubs. Upon the other side one
found oneself re-introduced to the nineteenth
century. Saloon after saloon they traversed,
all handsomely provided with chairs to sit
upon, practicable sofas, and paintings that
gave one no chill down the back. In a
small round room that ended the suite,
Jehanne was sitting at work. The Comte

did not recognize his son's introduction of
the day before, and he solemnly presented
M. Pier Marie Rawdon, Esquire, to Mademoiselle
de Perouac. This completed the
formalities, and thereupon the Comte seated
himself, and began talking like a pleasant
old gentleman as he was.

Jehanne's beauty was not such as needed
dress. In a simple morning gown Pier
thought her more supremely distinguished
than in the furs and silks of yesterday. The
full roundness of her figure showed itself
through the soft cambric. That lustrous
skin did not fear the morning: light. Having
begged permission, of her father first,
then of Pier, she continued to work, talking
little. Possibly she knew that no words
would heighten the effect of her long lashes,
her shapely head, and neck so gracefully
bent. Jehanne's voice was strangely deep ;
but it seemed to match that superb presence.

Believed of his dignity, the Comte de
Perouac launched himself into politics. He

had no doubt of success, nor had Albert.
Their kino was coming to his own aoain, and
Heaven's visible curse would be removed
from France. Of M. Thiers they made very
light.

"When we are ready," said the Comte,
who represented his ancestral town, " we
shall dismiss the sinister old man, as one
dismisses a treacherous servant. It will be
done in a night when the time comes."

Then what are you waiting for ? " asked
Pier.

"The duke knows. He is our Georges
Monks, you know."

George Monk had the army behind
him, father," said Jehanne, " and our Duke
has the army in front."

Mademoiselle de Perouac is a clever
girl, M. Rawdon, but she doesn't know
everything. Her misguided brother Hugues
has taught her some of his doctrines'*

Not his doctrines, father, but his fears.
I could give my life for the king, but not

the life nor liberty of the meanest beggar in
France. When our king comes I would
have him bring peace, not a sword."

How do they regard our prospects in
England ? " asked the Comte.

Frankly, we don't understand your plot.
How is the king to return in face of a
people bitterly hostile, and of an army
which doesn't know his person nor respect
his dignity ? Will he come by railway ?
And who will meet him ? In what name
will France be given to him ? Who will
protect his life ? These are the points we
cannot yet explain to ourselves."

' Hush, hush, my young friend ! The
Duke knows. When the proper moment
comes these difficulties will vanish. What
a day that will be for France, on which our
Henri Y. enters his capital, and the Revolution
is swept away with all its accursed
works ! "

*'A day of mourning, I fear, for thousands
of French wives and mothers ! "

Jehanne said. '' M. Pier is too courteous
to repeat what English people think."

"Jehanne is the Cassandra of our enterprise,"
said Albert, gaily. " But I must tell
you, she worked one corner of the flag I am
to carry before his Majesty ! You shall see
my charger presently. The ladies of our
department have given him to me for the
grand occasion."

After the traditional forms of leave-taking
had been accomplished. Pier went to admire
the horse, a superb bay, worthy to bear the
tribute even of Jehanne's loyalty. Then
Albert accompanied him to meet Sweyn
Garrow, who was sullenly raging against
Fate, which had granted him no Mademoiselle
de Perouac for cousin. Pier's frankness
in bringing Albert disarmed him, and
the three went to ride in the Bois.

There the very Duke himself was pointed
out  a square man, well set up, with furtive
eyes and pallid face. Grey curls fringed his
bald head, and a small grey moustache, close

cut, outlined his mouth. There was bonhomie
and even humour in the great Duke's
expression, but a slight distortion of one
side the face marred their effect. The left
corner of the mouth was drawn upwards,
whilst the left eyelid was drawn down, giving
in the result an unpleasing sneer. The
look was nature's fault, but most certainly it
was the Duke's misfortune.

Pier learned also to know the Viscount
by sight, burliest among the champions of
Legitimacy, who thought the cause divine
because Roi rhymes with Loi, Beauty with
Loyalty, and Rouge with Bouge. Other
reasons he gave in public ; but of the Viscount
it might be said, that he was poet
first and politician afterward.

Then Albert pointed out a big, prim,
stern old gentleman, who now gave to party
a mind once devoted to the bacon trade.
No more zealous aristocrat daily worked and
nightly prayed that the blameless king
might have his own again.

Many others Pier saw, all busy, all mysterious,
all nursing their addled eggs, under
the Duke's maternal care. A few of the
opposite party Albert condescended to indicate,
and Pier thought it curious that
Royalists ran big, in size and manner,
whilst Republicans were mostly small. Was
it mere accident, or did the difference
show unconscious instincts of blood separating
these parties 'i

Returning by the Rue Castiglione, Pier
saw M. Birch at his window. He bowed,
Albert nodded familiarly, and Birch beckoned
them up. Sending the horses home,
they climbed the handsome staircase. Bankers
of M. Birch's class are still unknown in
England, but we are fast travelling in their
direction. Fine carpets lay underfoot, costly
paper hung on the walls, mirrors were fixed
everywhere. Through several large rooms,
all occupied by clerks, a stately maitre
lionel led them to the banker's private
office. Superbly furnished it was in ebony

and ivory. Birch's desk had once been used
by Cardinal Dunois, and the Regent upbraided
him with extra variance. Pictures
representing a large fortune decorated the
fine old room. Caskets and jewelled nick-nacks,
priceless enamels and porcelain, stood
on table and cabinet of pietro dura. With
such gifts had king or prince or sultan
displayed his gratitude, and by gifts more
costly still. If in details of this sort I were
not stating, and understating, actual facts,
I should not venture to tell home-staying
countrymen the magnificence of Philippe
Birch in the height of his prosperity.
But it was patent, notorious. At thirty-one
years old this extraordinary man,
besides his bank and his private dwelling, 
a wonder of luxury,  owned a villa, the
handsomest near Paris, two petites maisons
a plauaiice at Hamburg, two palaces on the
Bosphorus, and another on the Nile. He
had more horses, equipages, and servants
than he could tell. But already these

pleasures and possessions no longer charmed,
Birch had raised himself from a modest
station ere yet his beard was grown ; he
had drunk his fill whilst boys are only
longing, and he reached the dregs when
they begin to taste. Health and intellect
survived without a flaw, and no one grows
sick of life while he enjoys such gifts, and
Fortune is kind. But this man was already
reduced to gambling for his excitement
when he saw Jehanne de Perouac. She
roused the best impulses of his nature, and
if he had been hopeless of winning her,
he would still have cherished that ennobling
But Birch was not hopeless. The
Count de Perouac was involved. The world
understood, though Jehanne might probably
be ignorant, that upon her marriage the
family based their hopes of extrication.
Not for a Ion 2 while, not till other chances
seemed desperate, would their intense pride
of birth admit the possibility of alliance
with a Jew financier. But Birch could

wait. Reliance would still be the dearest
prize life could offer him, though her beauty-had
passed its glorious noon. He watched
and waited.

CHAPTER VII.

SWEYN Narrow IN LOVE.

By right of her Protestant independence,
and her own self-contained disposition,
Jehanne de Perouac filled a place in her
father's household which French girls seldom
occupy in that rank of life. She
played hostess in no conventional sense,
but actually fulfilled the functions of that
dignity. Mdlle. de Perouac received twice
a week, and upon the very first occasion
Rawdon asked and obtained leave to present
his friend. If ever Sweyn trembled in
his life, that was the moment. His face
was burned so dark that one might hastily
have said paint would not stain it ; nevertheless,

he coloured perceptibly on bowing
before Jehanne. Pier was watching with
an inward laugh. The lady recognized her
rude admirer, and a faint flush rose to her
cheek ; but she did not seem so much
displeased as Pier had dreaded. Gravely
bowing, Mdlle. de Perouac said a few
courteous words, and passed on, to be
reached no more that night.

Afterwards, as they sat smoking in Pier's
room, he said,

Sweyn, you're in love ! "

Garrow kicked the logs together moodily,
as though he sat by the] camp-fire.

I don't know ; Pve not had experience
like you fellows. It may be love, but I
feel  ill. Funny, isn't it ? Do you take
it so''

"Not so much in the temper."

Let us be philosophical. Is it of a
woman's face I have fallen so violently
sick ? Why, Delilah could not seduce a
man if he had toothache or indigestion.

What is love, friend of my soul ? I believe
I am suffering from a new type of fever ? "

A common type ; and you have it
badly."

"Is it so ? Well, you fellows should
know it. Say I am in love. What
then?"

Then marriage, I suppose."

It's a killing complaint, is it ? "

Some people take it so, and I think
you are one."

'' Have the sufferings of the honeymoon
ever been told ? Fancy solitary confinement
with a live wife ! "

I could fancy circumstances under
which it might be bearable. .If you could
not, why do you quarrel with me ? "

Have I quarrelled ? Then I apply the
cautery to this wound. Give me your
hand. Pier ! By this cigar I make oath 
loyal 111 be to our boyhood's friendship,
though all the women for whom men would
die come thrusting between us ! Win

VOL. I. P

Jehanne if you can ! You will be able
to stock a nunnery with your surplus
happiness."

'now you are yourself, Sweyn, and you
shall not go unrewarded. Mdlle. de
Perouac is the loveliest woman on earth,
but I am not so ambitious as Paris. Endow
the nunnery yourself."

What ? You are blind or mad 1 Is it
possible  no ! that would be too absurd ! "

Nothing is too absurd if it makes one
laugh. What is your notion ? "

Oh, folly ! By the bye, what present
did you send to Miss Latham ? "

A gold falcon on a perch, chained and
struggling, with its wings spread for flight."

What on earth did it mean '? "

*' What did the broken fetter mean ?
Miss Latham sent me an enigma to solve,
and I replied with another. But what has
that to do  oh, I see ! Little Miss Latham
is the cause of my indifference to Jehanne.
My dear fellow, considering the young

lady's age, your suggestion is downright
improper."

This is too absurd ! By your own
computation she must be in her eighteenth
year."

"Well, well! To be frank, Sweyn, I
don't think your courtship will run smooth.
You must try to be more conventional.
I'll stake my life on Jehanne's nobility of
character ; but recollect how she has been
swaddled in usages and prejudices 1 "

Don't talk of it so seriously. Chaff
me ! Cut jokes about the matter. I vow
it's funny enough. I haven't seen even
so much of Mdlle. de Perouac as you have
of Mary Latham, and I am in love like a
fool. What you say is very true, and it
shows how desperate my case is. If Mdlle.
de Perouac liked me  a grotesque impertinence
to suggest !  she would be shocked at
her own feelings. Well ! it is Destiny !
Consider the doings of what they call
chance in this instance. There was but

P 2

one woman in the world to whose love I
could give my life. I have the incredible
luck to find her  and she will have none
of me. Such is the irony of Fate ! Goodnight,
old fellow."

"Don't be down-hearted, man. She is
worth a seven years' servitude, if ever

woman was."

She is worth a whole existence, though
it were twice as long as Jacob's. Down-hearted
I am ; but don't suppose I mean
to fail for want of trying. A man only
wins the Victoria Cross by risking death
almost certain."

And as the days passed on Garrow
certainly tried his hardest to win Jehanne's
liking  love he did not even dream of
yet. Those who saw him constantly in
attendance, laughing and talking easily
with Mdlle. de Perouac, would not have
suspected that his heart was full of terrors.
The part was hard to play  so hard, that
there were moments when he reflected that

success would mean farewell to his free,
wild life. Not for an instant did he
question that the prize was worth the
cost, but sometimes the cost seemed heavy.
Mdlle. de Perouac rode with her father
every morning. I do not think she liked
the exercise  few French girls did ten years
ago, but later generations have had another
training. Beauty of Jehanne's type loves
repose, slow, stately movements. But she
rode well, and that dread of her horse
which she would not own was quite unreasonable.
Garrow soon learned the daily
habit, and took advantage of it. Meeting
the two, as if by accident, several days in
succession, he gradually won the privilege
of attending them every morning. The
Count was pleased to see him. Wondering
admiration possessed his mind for a youth
who disdained riches and comfort, who at
twenty years old had gone to live amongst
savages, who had a thousand strange tales
in memory, but never boasted. Such characters

are rare in France, and were rarer
ten years ago. Pier the Count liked well,
but Garrow was his favourite. But I do
not believe he had ever thought of this
young man as a son-in-law. Admiration
of Jehanne was a feeling so universal that
it did not particularly strike her father
in this case.

Though of different type to young ladies
commonly found in England, Jehanne was
certainly not less acute, nor less conscious
of her power. She knew that Garrow was
in love, and she tolerated his admiration.
That was something, but her feeling towards
him went not a line beyond. He interested
her ; she liked to see him. But
as for love, Jehanne would have smiled
pleasantly at the suggestion  would not
even have blushed.

It will have been understood that she
was not talkative by disposition. Themes
that stirred her fancy could excite a few
brief eloquent words, showing rare intelligence

; but of the small change of conversation
she had nothing. Sometimes
also she displayed subtle powers of irony ;
but it fell to the Count to sustain conversation
in the daily rides. He had a
subject never exhausted in comparing the
history, dignity, and present status of the
English and French aristocracy. There is
no politico-social problem more interesting
than this, but Sweyn had not studied the
subject. Very wild theories the gentlemen
broached between them, and Jehanne often
smiled, sometimes even laughed, hearing
their extraordinary views.

One morning the Count showed himself
particularly anxious to know the exact place
of an Earl in the British Constitution,
having gathered that such was the equivalent
of his own proper title. Sweyn was
able to state that an Earl ranks between
a Marquis and a Viscount. But when
asked why this alone survived of native
titles, he was nonplussed. Jehanne seldom

helped them out of difficulties, but she felt
in a compassionate mood.

I think, father, it is because the English
before the Conquest had no other."

There was ' thane,' " said Garrow.

' Thane,' 1 believe, was the equivalent
of your modern ' squire,' a title vague
as comprehensive. It never entailed any
direct responsibility towards the Crown, as
titles of nobility did in the beginning."

Then I will call myself Thane of Gay-thorpe
henceforward,  in any bill, warrant,
quittance, or obligation,' Garrow, Thane of
Gaythorpe."

"Do you mean that your ancestors were
established there before the Conquest ? "

That I do, and for ages unnumbered
before that. We descend from Alfred the
Great, and through him from Odin or some
superior being ! "

Really ? " exclaimed the Count, much
struck. " You must tell me all about
that."

I will show you, Count. When you
visit me at Gaythorpe, we'll have some
men from the British Museum to translate
the muniments."

This is the most interesting, the most
delightful news I have heard in my life.
There is no country like England for contradictions
after all. You honour me, sir,
with an invitation to so old a house."

The Count bowed very seriously. Such
ancient descent transformed Garrow from
a pleasant acquaintance into a semi-royal
personage. And in alluding to the visit,
he glanced rather curiously at his daughter,
as a new idea struck him. She noticed the
look, and took sudden offence.

Sweyn was not conceited of his family
more than of his person ; in truth, he
scarcely thought of one or other ; but he was
delighted to find a subject whereof he
did know a little which interested M. de
Perouac. Those two discussed his genealogy
all up the Bois and down again. In the

course of conversation, enough leaked out to
suggest that the Gaythorpe estates were
much more important than the Count had
imagined, and his respect for their owner
did not decrease. As they turned to go
home, a Legitimist politician overtook them,
and he fell back to learn the latest news.

Jehanne had not spoken for half-an-hour.
She sat very rigid in the saddle, and her
beautiful mouth was curved downward at
the corners. Garrow observed the new
expression with alarm. He had innocently
thought that his conversation this time
would have been rather successful in amusing
daughter and father alike.

Putting the best face on his disappointment,
Sweyn said, 

'' I did not think I knew so much about
my ancestors. Pray do not believe that I
often talk or think of them."

Why not ? " answered Jehanne, with the
tips of her lips. "You have reason to be
proud."

We think that a man should be proud
only of his deeds."

How and when does Mr. Garrow propose
to merit his own approbation ? "

The words were quite cool ; the tone
polite. Sweyn sharply looked, and met
Jehanne's eyes fixed on him with grave
inquiry. But the check was only more
cutting, and he did not attempt to ignore it.

What have I said or done to offend
you ? " he said anxiously. " Believe I did
not mean it."

Offend me ? " repeated Jehanne, smiling
and bowing to an acquaintance. " On the
contrary, I have heard with so much interest
of your ancestors' fame, that I ventured to
wonder how you would emulate it."

If their times should come again, I hope
I should do my duty as they did. But,
pardon me, that was not your meaning. I
am half a savage, as you have doubtless
observed ; but it is not tones of voice which
one learns to mistake in the jungle. Somehow

I have displeased you. May I know
my offence ? "

Jehanne was a little bit frightened by this
downright speech, such as she had never
heard. Half-tones, hints at most, in her
experience were enough for the most serious
conversation between a gentleman and a
young lady. But she had fallen into the
hands of a man so utterly ignorant of
civilized usage as to exact a plain answer to
a plain question, whoever the speaker. It is
not fair fighting to meet such with feminine
weapons.

I have said, sir, that you misunderstood.
If my manner seemed unkindly, I ask your
pardon."

This was true, in fact, for Jehanne was
really offended with her father.

Sweyn was not convinced at all, and
therefore not delighted. But he could
only say, disregarding the apology in his
excitement

If ladies remembered how a change of

voice may cause a man to suffer, they would
be more careful."

Jehanne turned scarlet ; but at this
moment M. de Perouac overtook them. He
said,

Our young relative is of very old family
too on the other side ? Each also. How
strange that neither of you seems to have
had one love-affair ! "

'pier is by no means heart-whole,"
answered Sweyn, scarcely knowing what
he said. " He has a most romantic
engagement."

Pray tell us ! " exclaimed Jehanne, with
a smile that intoxicated her lover. "You
have gone too far, and we are secret as
M. le Due."

It all came out, all that Sweyn knew
about Mary Latham. The Count was
bewildered. Jehanne said,

M. Latham's sister I He has only one,
and she  Oh, how amusing it would be ! "

*what?" asked Garrow.

 Something that passed through my
mind."

Decidedly," observed the Count. " You
English don't do things like any other
people. Does Lady Latham know of this
droll affair?"

I should think so. But I must tell the
real truth, at the cost of spoiling my
romance. Pier regards the matter only asa
joke."

It has seemed to me of late," said the
Count, dismounting, " that M. Latham is
not a warm friend of my young relative.
That is the reason, doubtless ? "

Oh, no. The quarrel is much older.
But your remark shows how wrong I have
been to talk of such a silly matter. Pray
keep the secret."

The Count laughed, but Jehanne, in one
grave glance, rebuked his indiscretion both
towards Pier and herself. Her curiosity
satisfied, propriety resumed its sway. Sweyn
had been consumed with a wild desire to

push the old gentleman aside, to clasp the
charming burden in his arms, and never
let it go. But that look chilled him. He
felt what an indiscretion it was to ask
this shy girl to keep a secret which concerned
a young lady and a young man.
And he withdrew in that bewildered sense
of contrition which is the torment of
love.

But the rides continued, and as Sweyn's
acquaintance widened, the young people
met elsewhere more frequently. He fell in
deeper and deeper. He no longer thought
of the sacrifice of his freedom. All the
treasures, privileges, and delights of earth
were centered in this girl. He loved her
with a boy's wondering admiration, and a
man's strength. Pier urged him to address
the Count, but this sensible method of
wooing did not commend itself to a romantic
love.

The Count gave a ball, and he invited
the friends, with James Latham, to dine

en famille. At the table Garrow was
removed several places from the young
hostess, and he chafed, answered some
foolish remarks with unnecessary sharpness
; in short, he sulked. Jehanne gave
him one glance of surprised displeasure,
which brought him to his manners suddenly.
The Count also perceived that
something was wrong", and directed his conversation
specially to the English guests.
He drifted into the subject of the Game
Laws.

"Mr. Garrow," said he to Pier, "thinks
they cannot last much longer in their present
shape."

*' You could not have a better authority,"
exclaimed Latham. " Our pheasants cost my
father about a pound apiece, and he has an
army of keepers. But Gaythorpe woods
are never touched."

*' Indeed 1 You did not tell me that, Mr.
Garrow ! How do you contrive it ? "

The statement is quite incorrect," Sweyn

replied, hastily. " Do you propose to speak
upon the game question, Count ? It is to
be brought forward, I hear."

*' If the statement is incorrect," Latham
interrupted, " at least it is generally believed
about our country. And they tell a story.
Count, to explain this singular exemption."

"Pray let us hear it," said Jehanne,
sweetly.

I infinitely regret that the tale is not
worth hearing."

You must let us judge. In common
humanity, Mr. Narrow, you should make
your secret public."

Sweyn threw himself back in despair.
Quite quietly ignoring Latham, Pier began
the tale, as if he had started the subject.

'* You must know, Count, that my friend
had a long minority, during which his house
was let, and the shooting was enjoyed by
his uncle. At that time Gaythorpe had
certainly no sanctity for poachers. You
must understand that in our neighbourhood

VOL. I. Q

they mostly come from a distance, travelling
by railway from the great manufacturing
towns. A gang of them will often number
twenty, men who follow poaching for a livelihood.
One Christmas  you must have been
fifteen years old or so ? "  Sweyn nodded 
*' one Christmas, Garrow, who was staying
with his uncle at Swinerton, rode over to
see me. He had a long distance to return,
but there was moonlight, and he trotted
merrily along the road. Od a sudden he
found himself amongst a score of men ; his
pony was stopped, and half-a-dozen voices
asked. Who he was ?

' Let go my pony ! ' cried Sweyn.

One of the fellows said, ' It's young
Garrow. Let him pass, lads.' And they
released him.

Some boys would have trotted off rejoicing,
some would have warned the police,
and others would have run to tell mamma ;
but you can guess, Count, that the young
man yonder pursued none of these courses."

Indeed, I cannot hazard a conjecture
what he did ! " exclaimed the old gentleman,
to whom these English ways seemed
alike revolutionary and incomprehensible.

'* Why, he turned his pony round, and
overtook the poachers. ' What dost thee
want, lad ? ' asked one of them.

* I want to go with you shooting,' Sweyn
answered. They laughed Numerically, and
all gathered round. ' Ho, ho ! ' cried the
leader, ' that's a good 'un, that is ! Mates,
here's young Garrow o' Gaythorpe wants
to go a-shooting with us, an' he'll gie a fi'
pun note for our good-looking company.
Wunna thee, lad ? '

* I've only two pounds,' says Sweyn.

* Fork 'em out then, young Garrow o'
Gaythorpe. Where dost thee think we're
gom f

* To Gaythorpe ? '

' That's the very identical, that there is.
Thee's going' a shooting' on thy own ground
like a gentleman. Ho  ho  ho ! ' .

Q 2

They went laughing along the highroad.
All passengers were stopped as
Sweyn had been, but they met no ill-wishers.
Nearing Gaythorpe, the pony was left ina
copse, and dogs appeared mysteriously 
clever brutes, that united the wisdom of the
serpent with the silence thereof. Hedges
were broken down, meadows crossed in full
moonlight, and pheasants shot in volleys.
Presently the keepers arrived, of course,
with what assistance they could summon.
Some poachers had driven off with carts full
of game, so that the numbers were not
unequal, either of men or dogs. Battle
joined on the instant, whilst Sweyn stood
beneath a tree. His sympathies were on
the side of law, but of course he had some
feeling for his late comrades.

The head keeper was a big man ; so
was the leader of the gang. Each had a
triumphant single combat with a less
doughty foe ; then they met, and after
an instant's sparring the poacher was laid

out flat. His enemy fell upon him, pounding
with fists and knees in a way to set a
schoolboy's hair on end. Indignant at this
foul play, Sweyn caught up a stick and
rolled the victor over. This feat amused
him, and he hastened to repeat it. Things
were righted over the field in no time.
Whoever was uppermost he impartially
levelled  poacher or keeper. When all
the combatants lay flat, Sweyn ran off
as fast as he could for laughing. The
result was that the poachers all escaped,
and this gang has been grateful ever
since."

The Count looked from one of his guests
to another, seeking a sion in his bewilderment.
Albert, delighted, said to Latham,

"Is it all really true?"

I believe so," he answered. ' But all
the tales current about these young fellows
can't be true ! "

"That's unkind, Latham," said Garrow.
No one doubts what he hears of you.

Do you think I acted very wickedly,
Mademoiselle ? "

'' I think it was very wrong. If I where
an English lady, I might see the matter
differently ; but to encourage people in
breaking the law seems to me worse than
wrong."

Oh," said Albert, " it was only, as they
say, a ' bit of fun.' "

If Mr. Garrow had been caught," pursued
Jehanne, with colour heightened 
caught ! I need say no more."

I must admit that I agree with my
daughter," observed the Count. "When a
gentleman renders himself liable to be
caught,' he is self-convicted."

I have not seen much of English
people," continued Jehanne, with a certain
still excitement in her voice, " but they seem
to me to find an excuse for everything in
the words ' It's a bit of fun.' They see fun
in the gravest breaches of courtesy, or,
indeed, decorum, and they are candidly

surprised when other people fail to catch
their humour. In France we have several
times had occasion to observe this extraordinary
characteristic. When an outrage
is committed on some historic memorial, the
astonished prisoner pleads, ' It was only
fun ! ' When a gentleman says or does something
to shock the instincts of society, he
urges ' It was only fun ! ' Lives have been
lost in fun at your universities and elsewhere.
We have not an equivalent for the
phrase in French, and  " she paused.

And what ? " asked Pier.

And, having no equivalent, I dare not
complete my thought."

They all sat rather astonished at this
outburst ; but Latham's silence was full of
enjoyment.

Albert is our ally, at least," exclaimed
Pier. " What is his opinion of Garrow's
adventure ? Albert thinks. Mademoiselle,
that we are the gayest people in Europe."

That is not exactly the quality I denied

you," said Jehanne, as she rose from the
table.

Taking Garrow's arm, Pier whispered, 

My friend, if you can't close the lips of
that delicious little preacher, I vow I will doit
myself. There never was such a fascinating
girl."

Sweyn didn't reply. His face wore the
desperate look of a man charging a battery
single-handed, with a presentiment of
death.

Pier observed him with amused sympathy,
and went off with Albert to the theatre.

They all met again after midnight.

Perhaps Jehanne's heart pricked her,
perhaps she had expected to see them
before ; at least, she turned a very kindly
glance on Garrow when he addressed her.

You come late," said she.

I come punctual to the moment," he
answered, showing his card. '' This is the
first dance you would grant me, and the
music has not yet begun."

'' I am tired. Will you let me rest ? "

AYe will exchange the dance for another,"
he replied, taking her card. " You may well
be tired, after sacrificing yourself to all these
elderly princes. Iphigenia's martyrdom was
not so long as yours."

Sweyn was leading her to the conservatory,
with a masterly air, though his heart
beat fast. Jehanne regretted her refusal
of the dance.

I wish," she said, " your countrymen
would pronounce Greek words like other
people. It is confusing."

Could you never learn to like the
English accent ? "

I fear not  in Greek, at least," Jehanne
answered, innocently.

Our faults are very visible to you.
I wish you could see our good qualities
as plainly. It is possible we have
some."

Oh, I have not been rude, have I ? " she
cried, really distressed.

I hoped it was that criticism which
means kindness. Was I wrong ? "

Like a fawn which scents danger, Jehanne
threw up her head, gave one quick glance at
the face bent over her, and dropped her eyes.
It was pale beneath its bronze, and the fair
moustache trembled with the quivering of
the lips. She tried gently to draw him on,
but his arm closed on hers and held it.
There were few people in the dim conservatory,
and those talked in whispers, unheard
amidst the music which breathed and swelled
outside, and the rustling of dancers' feet.

I know too sadly, Mademoiselle, how
rude and brutal I must seem to the eyes
of your purity ; but if you undertook my
reformation, you would find that I have one
virtue  gratitude, and one capacity  love."

Jehanne replied gently, trying to lead
him out :

If I had not seen your nobility of character,
I should not have ventured to speak
so freely."

GaiTOws eyes sparkled with sudden
delight.

You have watched me  you have
thought of me sometimes ? Then you know
that your image fills my soul, my existence !
that I live for you, worship you  "

Jehanne interrupted with astonishment
and severity, but not with such harshness
in her tone as Garrow had feared to imagine
when he thought of this avowal.

"Sir, I do not ask what you mean; but
you must not speak such words."

I mean  love ! "

Jehanne dropped his arm angrily, and
walked towards the ball-room. Sweyn overtook
her.

Do not be afraid," he said. She
hesitated. " You may trust me," he added,
with a smile that went to Jehanne's heart.
'' I had not meant to speak those words yet,
but it would have been the same if I had
waited years. I knew how it would be
from the beginning. There is not one

shade of bitterness in my mind, Jehanne.
Let us part kindly."

A rush of thoughts agitated her. The
wooing of this young savage was improper,
barbarous ; but it was not ignoble  far from
that. And he was going away, no need to
declare it  going back to his savagery that
night, heart-broken for love of her. For one
instant Jehanne forgot her training, her
maiden modesty, as she thought afterwards
with a flush of shame.

I must needs take your arm, sir," she
said, ' since I am engaged to dance with
you."

Sweyn's eyes lit up again. Doubtful of
such transcendant happiness, he paused and
looked into her face ; but it was downcast
and composed.

A waltz had just begun. Sweyn put his
arm round her and carried her off". Jehanne
was not prepared for this. She wished only
to check his despair and gain time for
thought. In truth, she had ever felt a

shrinking dislike for that familiar dance, and
now more than ever. Besides, it was not
physically pleasant to her. One is safe in
predicating that the Venus of Milo would
not have cared to feel a stranger's arm about
her perfect waist, nor to hurry those majestic
limbs in hysterical gyrations. Jehanne's
blood coursed no hotter for quick movement.
She felt only warm and vexed and uncomfortable,
borne hither and thither upon
Sweyn's strong arm. Never before, I think,
had she waltzed with a man, and if limbs
like hers could be or feel awkward, they had
been in danger at that moment. Any vague,
slight pleasure she enjoyed was more than
balanced by annoyance.

For that reason, perhaps, so selfish is
passion, her partner was more fierce in his
excitement. To hold this miracle of loveliness
in his arms, to press her tight against
his heart, had seemed such a hope as dreams
alone could realize. For it he would have
risked any peril. Strauss's music changed

to an enchanted call, summoning him to joys
divine, opening the gates of that Elysium
which is youth's dream and manhood's
despair. Jehanne's sweet breath fired him
like wine, her face velvet red, her lovely
eyes alit with vexation, maddened him.
By an effort only he refrained from pressing
his hot lips upon her hair.

She did not suspect, perhaps, her partner's
intoxication, but she much disliked to
find herself grasped so tightly ; and it was
with evident resolution that she stopped.

I am out of breath, and you hurt me !
You forget how strong you are ! "

I wish I was as strong as Aladdin's
genii ! "

To carry my father s hotel into the
desert ? Thank you very much for the
inclination. We do not propose leaving
town just yet. Will you be so kind as to
take me to my father ? "

'ewe cannot rest thus, Jehanne ! I have
asked you to be my wife  not now, when

you know me better. What you say 
shall not bind you in one iota. But
you must decide whether I go or stay."

Jehanne was bewildered. No French girl
had ever been thus addressed point blank.
x\t this moment the Due de Heureux happily
appeared, looking like a tailor's dummy that
had fallen into evil courses. He was seeking
Mdlle. de Perouac, card in hand. Never
before had he been welcome to that young
lady.

If you deprive me of this dance,"
whispered Sweyn, '' I shall know I am
refused ! "

He drew aside as the duke approached ;
but his blue eyes, dry and burning, showed
the passion in his soul.

Protected by the new-comer, Jehanne
ventured a timid glance, and pitied her
lover's sufferings.

I shall not dance any more, M. le Due,
but I beg your arm to find my father."

They strolled away, and Sweyn followed,

regardless of appearances. What chance
could a poor girl have with a man who thus
ignored the laws of propriety, and put
forward an ultimatum instead of asking
terms ?

He drew near, as Jehanne stood talking
with the Count, exchanged a word with
him, and quietly claimed his partner. She
was so shocked and astonished as to find no
words. The young duke frowned, rolled his
eyes, and then, observing no effect from
these demonstrations, laughed frankly, and
withdrew. He could afford to yield a point,
having fought half-a-dozen times.

"This is nothing less than persecution,
Mr. Garrow ! " Jehanne angrily exclaimed,
as they moved away.

*' On whose part ? Your excuse is that
you cannot understand what I feel  "

'' Oh, sir ! you have me at your mercy.
For pity's sake  "

'' For pity's sake ! come to the window,
Jehanne." The heavy curtains hid them

entirely. " There shall be no question of
partis between us two. The herder Sweyn
asks the herbert Jehanne for her truelove,
and she  does she think she could
grant it."

No answer. Mdlle. de Perouac was
frightened and dumfoundered.

"From the first moment I saw you 
do you recollect ?  I was all yours, every
thought and action. I am not a man to die
for love  I wish I were if you refuse me,
for those are happier. Do not think because
I am eager, that I shall hurry your
decision. Nor think that I would hold you
to a promise if you wished to break it. At
the altar rails you should be free as now.
That is how I understand love."

'ewe are not fitted for each other, Mr.
Garrow."

'' You can make of me what you will.
With the distant hope of your love, you
may transform me. I ask only that  a
possibility, no more."

VOL. I. 11

** But it is wrong and unkind to force me
to speak. I like you, Mr. Garrow ; but it
goes no further."

That I know. It is my task to make
you love me ; and if a man can teach what
he knows himself, I shall be a rare master.
But you have answered my question,
Jehanne. Did she not admit the possibility
 I ask no more !  that in some
distant time she might love me, Mdlle. de
Perouac would not have heard me out."

She looked him in the face now, gravely
and thoughtfully.

Whether it be so or no," she said, " you
are a gallant gentleman."

She took his arm, and they went out,
both of them too full for talking.

Meantime, Pier had been undergoing a
political examination. The Count presented
him to the Marquis de la Vieille Roche,
a gigantic nobleman, white-haired, but
upright and active as a hero. They say
that the Marquis began to grow handsome

at fifty years, and the kindly Fates have not
yet ceased beautifying him. His skin is
more soft and delicate than some fair mrs
can show ; his face has not a line in it ; and
his snowy hair displays a gloss which
beauties envy. The manners of the Marquis
belong to another era  so frank and
courteous are they, so full of stately kindliness.
What private foes and political
opponents say of him I shall not repeat,
for calumny and defamation are in France
a political science.

M. le Marquis bowed with a pleasant
smile and said 

We have been observing, Monsieur,
what a strange thing it is that all the great
English papers oppose our cause. The
king respects the English press, and he
deplores this  prejudice I dare not call it
before you, but misunderstanding. M.
de Perouac thinks you can explain the
problem."

An old lady broke in 

R 2

We can quite comprehend the position
of the ' Times.' It is compelled by its obligations
to support the cause of anarchy
in our poor France ; but are all your newspapers
bought ? "

''AH our newspapers, Madame' Pier
answered, " much as the ' Times.' "
The Count interrupted.
M. Eawdon will not allow the * Times '
is subsidized by Bismarck. He says the
whole German exchequer would not buy
its impartiality."

A polite smile went round.
Pray tell us, then," said the old lady,
mocking, " why your press is all against
us?"

I have no authority to speak upon the
subject : but if you suspect English journalists,
look across the Atlantic, and you will
see the same phenomenon."

Oh ! " said the Marquis. " The Anglo-american
press echoes yours, of course ! "
Well," Pier answered, laughing, " I

don't know what they may write in Peru
or Patagonia. The popular journals of the
States are quite at one with the ' Times ' on
this question."

What ? " exclaimed the Marquis,
shrewdly. " The people's journals, written
in their own language ? "

"What language should they be written
in but English ? " asked Pier, wondering;.

I don't refer to the Protestant upper-classes,
Monsieur," exclaimed the Marquis
with warmth, " but to the native population,
our cousins. We know  "

Somebody twitched the old man's arm
and whispered to him. He turned red, and
drew aside for an eager conversation with
his interrupter.

If Pier had not heard it, if I who write
had not heard it, neither of us could have
believed that a great French nobleman,
immensely rich, full of talent and worldly
knowledge, a leader in politics and Society,
could have been ignorant what language

was spoken in the United States. To Pier
it was a revelation. From that day he
began to understand clearly what is the
matter with France.

A bright-looking man  a lawyer or doctor
probably  continued the interrogation.

Pier answered him, 

In England we think that your troubles
are a legacy from the old Te(jime, superficially
destroyed at the Revolution. You
battered down the edifice then, but you did
not and could not root out the foundations.
We do not see how things would be
bettered by rebuilding the old structure.
As you ask for my opinion, there it is. I
think that all our best sympathies go with
the Organisms. Your own bourgeoisie the
most intelligent of them, take the same line,
but they are powerless. All classes which
have influence now combine against the
Comte de Paris, and he himself has given up
his claim. Between a restoration of the most
Christian king and an Imperial coup d'etat.

well-wishers to France do not hesitate to
choose the Republic."

A small man, who looked soldier-like,
observed 

You are speaking, Monsieur, as I understand,
for the English public  "

I am only reporting public opinion as
I understand it," Pier began.

Permit me ! The individuals whose
views you express think that our king
would restore the old abuses with the old
system. If they only saw that august and
gracious countenance, one glimpse would
dispel their illusion,"

I can speak only for myself," said
Pier, laughing. " If his Majesty's face
converted me, I should be glad to confess
my errors."

Would you write a letter to the
Times?"

I fear they would not publish it."

'but you would write  you promise
that?"

** Most certainly, if I am convinced."
'' That you shall very soon be, sir."
Jehanne withdrew before all the company
had gone. Recovered now from the weakness
of the moment, she felt ill with shame
and self-reproach. In what false position
did she stand with Gar row, having encouraged
him to stay when he was giving
up his suit, and leaving her for ever ? But
upon the other hand, how could she let
him go with despair in his heart ? Examining
her mind,  though she shrank from
the inquiry,  Jehanne knew that she did
not love him. But she admitted also that
his presence was agreeable, that she saw
him with a feeling, slight though it was,
which no other man had roused within her.
So much the more necessary was it to tell the
truth  that she could never love, nor could
bear the thought of marrying him. Now
hot, now cold, she revolved Sweyn's words
and actions  felt his arm still pressing her
waist. She would not have had him go ;

she ought not to have let him stay. He
had behaved according to his lights  and
how gallantly he looked and spoke ; she
had committed an unpardonable breach of
maidenly decorum. In her perplexity,
Jehanne's tears freely came.

CHAPTER Viii.

NOTRE EOY.

Next day Garrow called upon the Count
and formally asked his daughter's hand.
That rigid devotee of ceremonial was shocked
to hear such a demand from a gentleman in
shooting-jacket and coloured scarf. The
merest instincts of propriety suggested a
tail-coat and a white tie, if not white kid
gloves. But he liked Sweyn, and he
reverenced his ancient birth. A man who
traced his descent from King Alfred  not
to insist on the divine progenitor of the
family  might be allowed some eccentricity.
And the brief sketch of his estates and
means which the lover offered was delightful.

The Count so liked this prospect that
he asked details, given lamely and unwillingly,
in a manner which almost roused
suspicion. Sweyn could not but perceive
it, and he frankly said, 

"It is disagreeable to me to discuss such
matters in reference to your daughter. I
have telegraphed to my lawyers, and one
of them will arrive tomorrow. I beg you
to put him in communication with your
notary''

That is not quite etiquette," said the
Count, reassured however.

** Isn't it ? Well, we may sacrifice
etiquette, I hope. For another thing, I
really do not know much of my affairs.
This I can venture to declare, that I will
settle one half my fortune upon Mademoiselle
de Perouac and her children, if I am
so happy as to win her ; and I undertake
that the income will not be less than  "
a sum which caused the father to stare
speechless. " One thing more," continued

Sweyn. ' It is understood that Mademoiselle
is free to reject me when she pleases, at
any moment. I bind myself to her ; I do
not ask her to bind herself to me."

That is an odd condition."

Another breach of etiquette, I fear. Let
me explain."

And forthwith he told the astonished
Count how he had proposed to Jehanne.
Her father was shocked and astonished ; butin
his secret heart he was more displeased with
his daughter than with this unconventional
but most desirable young man. Perhaps
Sweyn suspected something, for he insisted
on a promise that no allusion of any sort
should be addressed to Jehanne touching
their conversation. The Count gave his
word.

One day Albert de Perouac invited Pier
to breakfast at the Cafe du Helter, with
other warriors of his class. After a pleasant
meal, and the customary chaff with that
ancient waiter who is supposed to know the

army list by heart, the two strolled on
together to the Hotel de Perouac. Jehanne
was reported to be in her own rooms, and
thither they proceeded.

Probably no individual of male sex,
saving her father and her brothers, had seen
these apartments. For Jehanne's use two
small rooms on the southern side the house
had been closed to mankind. There did
she entertain occasionally a very small and
select company of girl-friends. The outer
chamber was wainscoted with old panels
plundered at the wreck of the ancestral
mansion, and recovered with infinite pains
from the bric-a-brac dealers. They bore the
arms of De Perouac in colour. Settles of
oak, high-backed chairs, quaint cabinets, and
sculptured chests matched this grave background.
The moth-eaten damask had been
replaced. Ancient pictures in frames of
enamelled bronze were sunk in the wainscot
here and there. A few fragments of
black armour, blazoned with dull gold, hung

about. Tawny skins covered the floor ; and
in the deep windows, so placed as to catch
every sun-ray, stood large globes cruelly
full of goldfish, whose jewelled sides flashed
as they moved. AVhat flowers appeared
were of deepest tone, crimson and purple
and rich blue ; stately blossoms that
accorded well with that sombre room.

It was Jehanne's taste apparently which
divided all the house betwixt ancient life
and modern, for she kept the same contrast
in her own apartments. The further
one, divided by superb old curtains, was a
dainty little bower, hung with white silk,
blue-striped. Of white or blue in differing .
shades was everything there, even the
frames of a dozen little convex mirrors
disposed to face the light. All was virginal
and orderly. No sign of human
passions, no symbol of regret, no hint of
convulsions in the past, nor omens for the
future. Flowers stood everywhere.

Jehanne was seated in this chamber :

not alone, for the ring of a fresh young
voice reached the visitors' ears. Albert
called, " May I enter ? " and received a gay
assent. Pier followed, supposing his call
expected. Jehanne was seated by the window,
and beside her, in a radiance of frosty
sunshine, stood a young girl. Pier only
glanced at her and bowed, as he approached
Mdlle. de Perouac, who, no seeing him,
uttered an involuntary cry.

She said to Albert, as he stooped to kiss
her, " This is a very bad jest, do you know,
my brother ! " The words were spoken
very low, but Pier caught them, and felt
somewhat uncomfortable. Jehanne made
him welcome, however, without restraint,
though she did not introduce him to her
guest. Glancing at this young, lady, Pier
confessed that he had never seen loveliness
more exquisite in its style. The slender
lines of the small figure showed extreme
youth, and she wore her soft chestnut hair
unbound. It fell rippling to a supple waist?

all save one bright tress, which the girl
had drawn over her shoulder, and was
playing with nervously. Without looking.
Pier observed that her skin was dark
for such fair hair, her eyes and eyebrows
almost black.

Talking lightly with Jehanne, he could
steal a glance from time to time, and each
peep confirmed his opinion that the little
girl was strikingly beautiful  and quaintly,
a characteristic much more appreciated by
Rawdon. Never before had he seen the
real '' Cupid's bow '' mouth, not very small,
not much like a rose-bud, but clean-cut as
with the stroke of a chisel, and deliciously
curled upwards at the corners. The dark
complexion also was clear and radiant, with
a lovely flush upon the cheeks. Pursuing
his observations. Pier tried to form an
opinion of the young lady's eyes ; but the
glance which convinced him they were not
less lovely than the rest, told also that they
were set on his own face with a singular

expression. Hastily changing the direction
of his gaze, Pier noticed on the rounded
cheek a scarlet stain. Curiously then he
sought the girl's eyes, met them fairly, and
exclaimed :

Surely I do not mistake ! You are
Miss Latham ! "

The little beauty blushed and laughed.

"I am glad that you did not recognize
all at once the very rude little girl you
saw four years ago."

Three, Miss Latham, I am quite sure,
for it is only two months since I received  "

Once on a time somebody said to
Jehanne, that her English cousin could
never have blushed in his life. She replied
with great discernment  " Perhaps
not. But if ever he find himself in 
position where a gentleman should blush,
according to his views of gentlemanly conduct,
he will put a peony to shame." She
thought of this remark when Pier coloured

in a manner to stan his snowy shirt, if
VOL. I. a

nature's dyes " came off." Jehanne knew
what it meant, thanks to Sweyn's indiscretion
about the birthday presents. She
looked at Miss Latham.

When one person in a secret betrays
himself or herself in this way, the other
often , shows a composure perfectly abnormal.
If Pier had not blushed, Mary Latham
would have turned the colour of fire ; but
fate ordained otherwise, and she stood as
innocent as a little statue. Under such
circumstances, it is natural for the one who
feels a justifiable pride in her cool demeanour
to entertain some superior feeling
towards the muff who has risked the
secret ; and natural also that the muff' in
question should be irritated at himself. Soit
was with these two.

You will admit at least that I have
frown," she said.

'* Yes. Your dresses are certainly
longer."

Jehanne smiled, an Albert laughed out.

seeing the droll vexation in Miss Latham's
face.

Mr. Rawdon is not given to compliments,"
said the former.

*' Then he has changed indeed ! " cried
Mary.

Albert said, " You will speedily reconvert
him. Miss ! "

Mary shrugged her small shoulders, and
looked quite vicious.

This is an organized assault on a
defenceless man," said Pier. " I can make
compliments like anybody else, if you will
give me time."

'time, my cousin!" laughed Jehanne.
Oh, I am ashamed. Compliments should
flow from a gentleman's tongue like song
from a bird."

With no more art than that ? Then
I can honestly declare, Miss Latham, that
you have grown two inches prettier since
I saw you last."

Dressmakers can do so much more with

S 2

a long skirt ! " said Mary, with bitter
sarcasm.

What would the bird sing to this
tune ? " Pier asked of Jehanne.

He would cease singing, I think, till
he found where the notes jarred. I understand
that there was harmony once."

Yes, when I was a wicked, spiteful
little thing!"

Yes, when I encouraged the vicious
habit of running over little girls. It is
that has spoilt my character."

You were much nicer once, certainly."

Whose fault is it ? If you had not
behaved so prettily when threatened with
massacre, I might never have repeated
the operation."

I fear you deceive yourself. It was
not my behaviour which encouraged you.
I recollect exactly what I said, and what
you said. If you have run over more
little girls, it is not because I did not
rebuke you."

What did I say ? "

*' You said there is a combination of
qualities worse than deafness and stupidity.
What an intelligent boy you were ? "

I have grown since. What else did
I say ? "

Nothing particular."

'you forget?"

Pier had risen, and they stood together
by the window. Jehanne kindly talked
with Albert, and left them to come to terms
alone.

Mary hesitated, shyly looked out, coloured
prettily, and answered, " Yes."

I can repeat it."

It was nonsense."

"You forget that you have forgotten !
I said that you were the pretty  "

I don't care to hear childish observations
again."

Then let me put it forward as an
original remark. I say that you were the
pretty"

*' I say that I do not wish to hear, Mr.
Rawdon."

Ah, now I see how much you have
grown. You must be eighteen, Miss
Latham."

"Why?"

Because you prefer compliments to
truth, and that is the age at which the
change takes place."

"It is truth that I can walk now as
well as other people, but you have not
complimented me upon it."

I can find much better themes than
that if I look for them. But I congratulate
you very heartily, Miss Latham."

That is the first word you have spoken
like yourself. Now I want to ask  Mr.
Rawdon, you won't laugh at me ? I
know you won't if you can help it, and I
don't tease."

I am glad you do me justice. Well,
Miss Latham?"

"Is it true?"

Is what true ? If you keep your
head bent like that I cannot hear."

Mary raised her face, met Pier's laughing
eyes, and hid it again  a manoeuvre
greatly assisted by her loose hair.

*' You know what I mean. Is it true ? "

*that you are the pretty  ? Upon my
honour, it is true, now as then."

I am glad of that," Mary observed,
with calmness. " I was not sure."

"And I am glad that you trust me
sufficiently in a matter of taste to accept
my word for it. Mind, it's only an individual
opinion."

Oh, you can see very well, and I
suppose you think like other people.
This stain does not disfigure me ? " She
touched her glowing cheek with a small
finger.

'rit is another charm ! " Pier answered,
much amused.

Tell me," she asked, " what did your
last souvenir mean ? "

I don't like the past tense. Does it
not matter in the present ? "

Just as much as it did in the past.
Why is the falcon trying to fly away ? "

Because he did not like to be tied."

'now it is you who talk in the imperfect
past'

Just so, in an imperfect past. The
present is very different, but we will correspond
therein for the future, if you like."

No. I don't know. Mamma says
that I must never send you anything
again, though she is very fond of you,
Mr. Eawdon. And I think I shall not."

I could almost regret that I met you
then. I had learned to look forward to
those birthdays."

Oh, you will not forget if  " She
paused, blushing.

Well ? Shall I fill up ? If you have
told your real opinion, you are not likely
to forget ; and if you have not, I shall
not care."

"How clever you are. Tell me, Mr.
Rawdon, have you been making fun of
me?"

"Do not think so ill of mankind, Miss
Latham. A gentleman is incapable of
making fun of a good and amiable child,
though he may laugh with her."

I am not a child ; but you may think
so if you like, for the present."

'now, Mary," Jehanne exclaimed, " our
dinner is ready ; and if you wish to drive
in the Bois, we must send the gentlemen
away."

Oh, can't they return and escort us,
dear ? I have so much to say to Mr.
Rawdon."

Jehanne looked grave. She would not
have allowed the meeting had she known,
and to prolong it was quite beyond decorum.
But Pier accepted with delight,
and the young men returned in an hour.
Albert explained that Miss Latham had
been at school in Prance, and was returning

THE GOLDEN PRIME.

ing home by the night mail with her
brother.

Conversation became much pleasant in
the Bois. The morning's skirmish had
put those two upon a proper footing.
She was not inclined to worship, nor he ;
so they talked agreeably, as unaffected
young persons do who like each other,
and do not try to be witty. Jehanne
allowed them to walk on together when all
alighted at the Cascade. Had she foreseen
the course their dialogue would take, when
thus relieved of supervision, her propriety
would have been much shocked.

To begin with, Mary told all she knew
of the changes at AVeybridge. Mr. Rawdon
was said to be ill, but as Pier had heard
from him but a day or two before, he was
not alarmed. In regard to the step-mother,
county opinion was still divided ; but she
certainly ruled her husband, and all those
who came under her influence, with despotic
caprice.

*'I fear, Miss Latham," Pier said, "that
we shall not meet again for an age if that
event depend on my return to Wey-
bridge."

Ah, mamma takes me to town this
season, though I am not to be presented.
You may call."

Pier wondered how much influence James
Latham had at home ; he would be scarcely
less of an obstacle than Mrs. Rawdon.

"I certainly will," he answered, "if I
may. But you did not really mean that
our innocent exchange of presents is to be
dropped ? "

"Oh, it was childish folly, and Jehanne
says I ought not to keep up the habit now
that I am  now that my dresses are long.
By the bye, Mr. Bacon, you have something
of mine ? "

"If I have, do not ask for it."

But I must. You have my tablets."

"Is it not unkind to deprive me of one
keepsake when you forbid me to expect

any more ? I cannot give back the tablets.
How did Mdlle. de Perouac know anything
of the matter ? "

"Mr. Garrow told her, and I will
never forgive him. And you told Mr.
Garrow ! "

'' Be merciful, Miss Latham ! It is
punishment enough to lose your tablets.
But I can hardly be vexed with Sweyn,
since his tattling has given me to-day's
pleasure."

Are you so glad to see me then ? "
Mary asked, colouring, but looking frankly
into his eyes.

I do not know yet. When I return the
tablets I shall answer."

Then you may do so at once, for I
must insist, Mr. Eawdon. Indeed, it is
not kind of you to force me. Jehanne
says that T must put a stop to it all,
and I know I ought."

I cannot refuse if you insist. It means
then that the challenge is withdrawn ? "

Mary answered only with a blush and a
little smile addressed to herself.

You think the duello has already come
off, and you are victorious ? May I ask if
you were glad to see me ? "

Yes, I was. But you are not what
I expected. You are not happy, I think ;
you are two years older than you ought
to be ; and you seem, somehow, as if the
sparkle had gone off."

You are disappointed ? "

I don't say that. But I imagined you
different."

"The irony of Fate 1 It is right I
should surrender the pledge."

Now you misunderstand me. I ask for
my tablets now because I should never have
given them to you, not for any other reason."

Then give me a token which I can wear
in exchange."

Wear ? You wear my tablets ? "

They are here ! " he put his hand on
his throat.

Oh ! "

After a pause Eawdon said,

"Shall I take them off?"

You can't in public. Give them tome
the next time we meet. Have you
really worn those things ever since ? How
silly ! Have you ? "

Not all the time."

"How long?"

"Long enough to cherish them."

I have changed my mind, Mr. Eawdon.
Give me my property at once ! "

This is too cruel, Miss Latham."

You have tried to deceive me. If the
tablets are there at all, you put them in
whilst Jehanne and I were at dinner."

I am unworthy to keep such a treasure,
but I have not deceived you. Here it is."

"Do you know, I think we have rather
changed characters, Mr. Eawdon. I have
a good temper now. Is it not the truth
that you hung my tablets round your neck
for the first time an hour ago ? "

It is."

Then you will not feel the loss."

Pardon me. I did not know their
value till to-day."

What is the value ? "

'* The quintessence of all treasure 
happiness."

Mary had not taken the tablets. She said,

I do not think the chain matches."

"It is the purest gold human beings
can smelt, but dull and poor beside the
handiwork of nature," Pier replied, looking
at her bright hair.

If you mean my hair, it is not golden
at all, but chestnut."

This chain was made, as I thought,
in the most precious of materials. How
ignorant I was ! "

"I see that you have made prodigious
strides since the morning. M. Albert is
coming to call us back."

May I hope to find a chain that
matches some day ? "

No, you may not. I am quite serious
in declaring that all this must cease. It
was my own doing, of course, and the only
excuse is that I was a very foolish, spoilt
girl, only half-witted, I think. It is wrong
to let you keep the tablets ; and if I do
so, it is on the condition that you forget
all this nonsense."

They had nearly reached Jehanne and
her brother.

I am very grateful. Miss Latham,"
Pier answered seriously. '' This is a
talisman to keep me worthy of your
trust."

The drive home was rather silent, and
Mary bade him adieu with a graver lookin
her pure eyes. He had no reproaches
for Sweyn when they met. Absorbed in
his own affairs, the latter forgot an indiscretion
which had brought about rather
important consequences. Pier told the incidents
of the day. Before they had talked
long, Garrow exclaimed,

Physician, you are struck with my
disease."

I will not imitate your conduct, and
deny it. We may console each other,
Sweyn. Two fellows harder hit don't walk
the earth."

Confound your happiness ! Don't mock
me. You and your little school-girl wil
nestle down like two doves, whilst I am
pursuing a beautiful statue."

Pursuing a statue is mixed. I am
not certain but that your prospects are
better than mine. There's James."

'' Oh, an ass ! My enemy is the best part
of Jehanne herself. I wish I had courage,
Pier, to run away."

Mary Latham departed under proper
escort by the night mail, and Pier had
again no visible interest except the conspiracy.
One day the Count said to him,
mysteriously,

Attend the sitting of the Chamber
tomorrow, if possible. I have not a ticket,

VOL. I. T

and I don't know where to find one ; but
some of your journalist friends may give
you room. For your journalist friends
know nothing, of course."

Pier set to work upon this hint, and
without much difficulty he obtained a seat
in the tribune of the foreign press. His
friends were surprised he should wish ,to
attend a seance so uninteresting. But ashe
sat there in the gallery at Versailles, a
whisper spread which caused every one to
lean forward, craning into the diplomatic
box. The business of the house ceased, and
all its members turned their backs upon the
tribune. In the lower gallery ladies stood
up, whilst those behind crushed on them,
heedless of remonstrance. M. Grey forgot
to ring: his bell, the huissiers ceased their
monotonous call of silence.

But in the press seats excitement ran
hottest. Packed three rows deep on uncomfortable
benches, which stood so sharply
one above another that the seat below made

a footstool for that above, those occupying
the back forms could not see more than half
the house. The foreign press chanced to
be strongly represented that day : ' Daily
News ' and ' Cologne Gazette ' in front,
where a column narrowed the space ; ' Standard,'
* Independance Beige,' and ' New
York Herald ' behind them ; ' Times ' and
Telegraph ' in rear. " What is it ? " these
all asked of their French neighbours,
amongst whom few could answer and
none heeded. *Univers' upon ' Rapped.'
Publique ' embracing ' Debate,' they laid
themselves out in a solid mass. Half the
tumult of the French assembly is, or was,
raised by the reporters. When tired of
a debate, they sung " Assez'' to the burden
of the fa ira. When a speaker delivered
an obnoxious sentiment, they laughed
derisively ; or, in the other case, they applauded.
When excited to the necessary
pitch, they even clapped their hands. Yet
those were the people who wrote indignant

T 2

headings  " Scene at the Chamber ! " and
so on.

It may be fancied what a storm arose
when such wild fellows understood that the
king himself had been recognized in the
diplomatic box. Republican sentiment had
an overwhelming majority on the press
benches. The President awoke, and sounded
his horizontal bell as if working a pump-handle.
There was not less confusion in
the body of the house, until, every one looking
into the diplomatic box, it was found
that the king had vanished.

The boulevards ran mad that night. At
the Eiche, and the Foy, and the Anglais,
old gentlemen embraced, rejoicing to have
lived until that day. At Vachette's the
diners formed an indignation meeting,
coupling the names of Henri Cinq and
Bismarck, as our forefathers coupled the
Devil and the Pretender. " The Duke " had
a triumph indeed. Who after this could
doubt him ? The Bourbon in Paris once

more, not hiding in a distant chateau, nor
playing king at a hunt-breakfast ; but in his
capital, visibly attending a seance of his
parliament, side by side with the foreign
ambassadors ! Such great events might be
expected to follow, that Paris would not
willingly go to bed, in fear of missing an
incident. But the dawn came, other dawns
followed, and brought nothing.

Pier and Sweyn, however, received a card
for Mdlle. de Perouac's " At Home," which
differed from the usual thing. The summons
stood for an evening not generally
given to strangers, and the invitations bore
a fleur de lys in gold.

The grand monde of France, the true, the
old, the honest nobility, met at the Compte
de Perouac's that night. One Orleans
prince was there, and two Orleans dukes
Bishops swarmed too many for counting,
archbishops were frequent, and even a Cardinal
excited no surprise. There is a word
in French, but none in English, which

expresses this society. Under his breath,
Albert called these dignitaries manacles a
term untranslatable, for we have not the
thing in England. " Fogey " does not meet
it, for the manacles are young as well as old ;
many are savants, many are held to be
statesmen, and of many it is believed that
they have mastered all the wisdom of the
nineteenth century, with that of the
Egyptians to boot. I should be inclined to
regard this species as a natural product of
Catholic lands. The ganacUe is a being who
deliberately and thoughtfully turns his back
upon the present, looks behind, and longs.
Foolish persons everywhere do this ; but I
am not talking of fools. The ganache astronomer
will weigh you the bands of Orion,
and fix the procession of Jupiter's satellites ;
but his own opinion rests that the stars
have deteriorated sadly since Liberalism
was invented. The ganache soldier will
frame admirable rules for the advance of
troops under fire of a mitrailleuse; but

deep and immovable is his conviction that
the art of gentlemanly warfare reached its
apogee under Louis Quinze. So with all
things else. These people argue with you,
showing a monstrous erudition. And I am
bound to confess they have not always the
worst of a dispute. Unwise is he who
chops logic with the ganache well-read ; for
when the argument is fairly started, he will
find that the premises are misunderstood,
that the axioms differ, and the conclusion
to be brought out was eternally foregone.
Pier had seen much of the wrong-headed,
provoking, honest society called Legitimist,
enough to make him hesitate to think that
the Compte de Perouac had assembled a
gentlemanly crowd of Bedlamite. Names
and titles historically famous passed from
mouth to mouth. Beauties elsewhere disdainful
to a proverb smiled in this familiar
atmosphere. Intense excitement reigned as
the evening went on. Though there was no
quality the Duke affected with such care as

that of the inscrutable diplomatist, on this
occasion the flesh betrayed him. From
group to group he jerked, his round face
twitching, his involuntary smile distorted to
a rictus. Nervously gesticulating with his
double eye-glass, he began sentences which
didn't finish, asked questions of which he
didn't wait the answer. The Marquis de la
Vieille Roche presented Pier.

I am enchanted to make your," said the
Duke, bowing like Talleyrand. " I have
heard of the young English sympathizer
who has come to watch. You are right
indeed. These are most interesting. For
the English in general it is all history,
and history of another land. We are the
actual living people whose houses were
burnt or threatened, whose families were
murdered."

*'M. le Due is alluding to the Commune
1 "

Of course, sir. But the Commune is
the logical outcome of the Revolution, and

the  Oiir friend, Dr. Pinson "  a smile and
a bow to the new-comer  " will tell you
that radical diseases are not to be cured by
external applications''

In our country," Pier said, " it used to
be believed that the kino's touch cured all
human ills."

The Duke did not approve of suggestions
from young people.

Dr. Pinson observed,

An interesting legend ; but such beliefs
are extinct and fossilized."

In their literal sense," the Duke replied.
But the simple faith of the people is
founded."

With a bland smile the hero of the hour
departed, elate as a gentleman who has
closed a conversation with an epigram.

Since Garrow's interview with her father,
Mdlle. de Perouac had been anxious to
close this misunderstanding finally. She
did not conceal from herself that she liked
the young barbarian, but the thought of

marrying him was abhorrent. His ideas
repelled her. But somehow the opportunity
to speak had never come, and on this evening
no human love could have occupied her
thoughts. Her dark eyes burned with still
enthusiasm. The greatest and best of
France were assembled in her father's house
to welcome the Lord's Anointed, and she
felt almost sick with excitement. When
Garrow struggled to her side, jostling
princes and archbishops, he scarcely obtained
a glance. Surrounded by a noble band of
demoiselles, all glittering in their ancestral
jewelry, Jehanne awaited the king's pleasure.
Indignant, Sweyn turned away, and met
Birch.

You here," he said, " assisting at this
tomfoolery."

'' Hush ! Half the people round speak
English more or less."

Impossible ! In learning English
people learn sense."

"My dear Garrow, a great country must

uot be scrutinized through home-made
spectacles."

Is there a loan in prospect ? When is
the king coming ? "

"He is here now, in this very house, the
Hotel Perouac ; and we are waiting to see
him."

I've repressed the whistle," Sweyn said,
after gulping it down visibly. " Where are
the police ? where is M. Thiers ? "

"M. Thiers is holding a cabinet council
upon these doings, and the police are waiting
his decision. No doubt there are agents
here, and he gets a report each fifteen
minutes. But unless the old gentleman
looks sharp, notre rois will have held his
court and vanished back to Frohsdorf,
before the avengers arrive."

*' What an incredible story ! Why  "

But at this moment a surge of the crowd,
a breathless whisper, stopped conversation.
Sweyn looked up. The solid wall seemed
to open behind Jehanne and her cohort, so

noiselessly and quickly great doors folded
back. Nothing could be seen above the
throng ; but it rapidly shaped itself into a
procession, in which all were pushed gently
forward. In the ranks rose a low muttering
of deep emotion. The breadth of the saloon
forbade a dangerous crush, and ladies followed
with the curious patience of their
Gallic race. The hundreds present moved
in a mass compact, a great portion of them
muttering  prayers, as it seemed. Suddenly
a voice rang clearly out, " Vive le
Hoi ! " Women uttered a scream ; men,
some replied, some noisily rebuked the
demonstration. After that, the procession
made its way less quietly. Constant cries
arose, and the inarticulate muttering
swelled up. Some began to weep aloud,
and dry eyes burnt. Pier, watching, saw
how deep this passion of loyalty which we
ridicule can enter in men's souls.

Sweeping steadily on, 'mid sobs and
interjections, and beseeching prayers for

silence, guests made their way towards the
presence. At length Pier crossed the lintel,
and could see. In a long room, hung with
blue silk,r de li/sd, a throne had been
set up  such a throne, at least, as modern
common sense will tolerate. Beside it, in
full uniform, stood Albert de Perouac,
holding the banner which Jehanne and her
fellows had worked ; significantly folded it
was as yet. On the other side Jehanne
herself held station, with a dozen girls, all
chosen for their great historic names. Between
Albert and Jehanne the king sat.

No one at that time could reflect. Confusion
and war might arise tomorrow, but
there, visibly before them, sat the Enfant
dii miracle. When the Englishmen, in
their turn, passed the presence, they owned
that monarch more stately or more gracious
never accepted homage. He wore a plain
evening suit, crossed by the broad blue
scarf of Saint Louis. Nobler credentials
he bore, a look most open, manly, and

good-hearted, handsome features, and a
stalwart figure. His smile perhaps was
but too royally unembarrassed before that
eager throng. The Compte de Perouac
standing by named each loyal subject ashe
passed ; but the king scarcely needed
the hint. Very few did not receive a few
words of greeting, which showed his Majesty's
memory. For the English strangers he
had no special welcome, but so kindly
was his smile, that they almost joined
their voices in the muttered Vive le roil
which rose on every hand. As they went
on, through doors at the further side. Pier
w whispered,

* It's a dream, Birch ! So many mad
people cannot be at liberty ! "

The Marquis de la Vieille Roche cane up.

Now, M. Rawdon ! " he exclaimed.
Are you satisfied \ "

I am more than satisfied. This is
the most extraordinary sight I shall ever
behold."

I knew it would convince you. Why
have we not with us those reporters
who persistently misrepresent his sacred
Majesty ? "

Were they asked ? "

The Duke was afraid ; but I say, What
is there to fear now ? However, you know
those gentlemen, M. Eawdon, and you will
convince them of the truth ? "

*' I fear this most interesting demonstration
will rather excite their curiosity than
change their views."

What ? Will they not listen to you ? "

'' Why, Marquis, what am I to tell
them ? The king did not address a single
word to me."

Did you expect him to do so, sir ? "

Certainly not. But since that is the
case, I have no message to deliver."

Good evening, sir ! "

Birch was laughing.

The Marquis has implicit faith in miracles,
as is natural, seeing there are two or

three in full work on his estates, which
bring him in some thousands a-year."

The dear old donkey. Does the king-appear
again ? "

He will only walk through the ballroom
towards midnight."

'then I shall escape. Good night."

The famous ball-room of the Hotel de
Perouac was all ablaze, and Strauss had
command of the orchestra. Fair women
and brave men waited to commence, with
a vague hope that the king would lead the
revels in person. But presently the Compte
de Perouac stepped forward with an elderly
princess, and a prince of Orleans led out
Jehanne.

As Birch strolled through the crowd, he
saw Sweyn Garrow, watching the dancers
sombrely. Many girls observed with admiration
the large blue eyes and fair
moustache, so strikingly thrown into contrast
by a skin burnt almost to the colour
of mahogany. Sweyn 's face was now

familiar in Paris, where they called him
Le Rajah Blonde But araong many
advantages possessed by undemonstrative
men, not least is the ability to pass unsuspected
through a crowd of acquaintances
when passion is burning at the heart. Few
or none saw what Birch observed  that
Garrow's face was white beneath its colour,
his mouth set, his eyes shining with jealousy.
Long since he had known that
this was his most dangerous rival. He
watched.

Sweyn thought he did well to be angry.
Jehanne had given him not one word besides
her formal greeting, nor one glance
as he passed after bowing to the king.
He thought himself slighted, and had he
known that Jehanne scarcely saw him, it
would have been no excuse. In the hour
of torment and death he would have found
a smile for her, whilst she could forget him
for a tinsel king paraded in a mock court.
He was waiting an opportunity to speak,

VOL. I. u

which did not come for hours. Upon this
formal occasion a score of patricians relieved
each other on guard over the heroine of
the night. The king made his progress
through the room ; supper was eaten, and
still there was no break in the succession
of partners who danced or sat with
her.

Perhaps Jehanne noticed, as excitement
wore off, and fatigue supervened, the face
growing paler and more angry as time went
on. However it be, she paused near him
at the end of a dance, saying, " I fear I
have neglected the English gentlemen, who
welcomed his Majesty with us. Let me
present to your Highness M. Garrow, who
wishes well to the cause."

Garrow" spoke a few courteous words,
scarcely knowing what he said. Then,
after some seconds, he found himself bowing
to his Highness, and walking down the
room with Jehanne upon his arm. They
sat upon a couch beyond the throng.

"I am so very tired!" said Jehanne.
And you, what have you been doing ? "

Did you know I was here ? I have
been watching you."

Then you are tired also, I fear."

"Yes, I am tired. Listen to me,
Jehanne  stay ! It is the last time, if
you like. I have offered you my life, to
mould it, or mar it, if you will. It maybe
a worthless gift, but I see men less
deserving who are loved by noble women.
And I have asked no hasty return. But
what is it you grant ? In a spare moment
I get a word or a look which makes me
happy. Then comes a day like this 
a day when your real heart is stirred
by a phantom king and a burlesque
royalty. The submissive lover is forgotten.
What is he, to expect notice when
you are sitting on the king's right hand ?
I will tell you what he is, Jehanne. A
man whose love is strong enough to
obscure his reason, not his self-respect. I

U 2

would die for you, but I would not live a
slave."

"A phantom king and a burlesque
court I "

A man dared use such words, and ask
her love in the same breath ! Pale as
himself, but with indignation, Jehanne sat
speechless.

"It is no light love you will throw
away. How unworthy I am of you I
know too well ; but you shall never guess.
A moment since my words shocked you,
but it was jealousy that spoke, not I.
AVhat you love must be noble and pure ;
teach it me, Jehanne. For the rest, I take
your future into my hands. I answer for
your happiness as for my own. Will you
trust me ? "

I cannot, sir. Believe me, I do justice
to your high qualities, but it is useless
to delay giving you a final answer. We
have not one sympathy in common, beyond
the  " she paused on such delicate ground.

He did not catch a hesitation which
men of cooler, shrewder sight would have
perceived.

Then I will go. God bless you,
sweet Jehanne ! Good-bye ! " And he left
her.

It was all finished. For an hour longer
Mdlle. de Perouac fulfilled her duties, but
she could not stay to the end. Once more
she had a sleepless night, and perhaps this
time her pillow was wet with tears of
another source. A great pity filled her,
but what choice could there be ?

Birch, jealously watching, beheld this
scene ; and he also, amidst his selfish joy,
felt a deep compassion for Garrow, whom he
followed mechanically. iVt the ball-room
door Sweyn met Latham, flushed and
excited.

What the devil is this I hear, Garrow ? "
he said, roughly. " So your precious friend
has been trying to inveigle my sister into an
attachment, and  "

Albert de Perouac caught him by the arm
and stopped him.

*you are drunk," Garrow whispered,
for people looked on curiously ; " but not
so drunk that your impertinence can
be excused. Birch, you will act forme?"


They had walked into the ante-room,
quite deserted. Latham said in surprise,
"But I have no quarrel with you!"

"Then I wonder how you address men
with whom you have a quarrel ! But since
there is a misunderstanding on that point,
I will simply give you a fitting answer to
your casual observations"  and he threw
his glove in Latham's face.

Oh, for God's sake, gentlemen ! " Albert
exclaimed, in real distress.

Latham did not want spirit.

Albert, you will act for me ? "

I cannot. This will be a duel d mort,
and through my folly. I pray you pardon
me, Garrow."

Latham entered the ball-room, and Sweyn
said, ' I pardon you heartily, and much
more than that. But on one condition.
You will keep this affair secret. I have
your word of honour ? "

*you have. I am too bitterly punished
for an indiscretion."

Pinson arrived at this moment.

Will you accompany us on a trip to
the frontier, doctor?" Sweyn asked.

Nothing could be more convenient. I
have granted myself a week's holiday, and
I did not know what to do with it."

"I warn you," Sweyn laughingly observed,
" that it is not solely as a friend
I invite you."

So I supposed. But I hope it is only
as a friend you will need me."

Leaving Birch to look after his interests,
Garrow departed with Pinson. In a few
moments Latham introduced his friend
and all was settled. Three hours afterwards
the whole party took the train

for Luxembourg. And at evening Pier
received a telegram :  " Birch  Orange.
Garrow is dangerously hurt. Come at
once."

CHAPTER I.

PAGE

MRS. RAWDON TRIUMPHS . . . . 1

Chapter II.
A FRESH DEPARTURE . . . . 39

CHAPTER III.

AN Isle OF EDEN . . . . 78

CHAPTER IV.

A CRUISE WITH THE LANUNS . . . 108

CHAPTER V.

AT BRUNI . . . . . 141

CHAPTER VI.

Park

THE ROUT OF THP] LANUNS 189

CHAPTER VII.

EVENTS AT HOME . . . . 214

CHAPTER VIII.

A FIGHT WITH KAYANS 239

CHAPTER I.

MRS. RAWDON TRIUMPHS.

The most futile of questions, when a man
has a bullet in his body, is to ask how that
foreign substance got there. It may betaken
for granted that an instrument or
engine has been discharged with accurate
aim. I might make a chapter here about
the duel ; but my fear is that three
volumes will not give me space enough
for the story I have to tell. Not without
difficulty was the encounter brought off.
Whilst ground was being measured, near
the small town of Rodange, up came the

VOL. II. B

Maire and his aid, girt with their scarves
of office. He solemnly forbade homicide
within his jurisdiction. The point could
not be argued, and the combatants drove
back towards Longwy. On the high road
itself, within a few feet of the frontier, the
duel took place. Sweyn fired in the air,
and received a bullet in the chest. Latham
and his second withdrew at once.

When Pier arrived, in a state of utter
bewilderment and perturbation, Pinson
could give him a reassuring verdict. The
wound was serious, but not desperate ina
man less powerful than Garrow. Thus
relieved from immediate anxiety. Pier asked
who was the opponent, and what the cause
of quarrel. Birch, who himself did not
understand a bit, told all he knew. Rawdon's
feelings may be imagined. He guessed
what Birch could not tell. Sweyn had
risked his life rather than that his friend
should have a quarrel with Mary's brother.
And in so doing, he had probably wrecked

his own happiness : for Mdlle. de Perouac
held duellists in abhorrence, and she would
be doubly shocked by this affair between
two gentlemen of her close acquaintance.
Thinking matters over, "Pier resolved to
break the news himself. He could at least
put in strong light Garrow's noble motive
in fighting. If Jehanne heard of the affair
without explanation, too probably she would
refuse to listen in the future. Pier took
the next train for Paris.

An anxious scrutiny of the papers assured
him that the duel was not yet known. He
might reasonably hope to get the first word.
Driving straight to the Hotel Perouac,
Rawdon was so lucky as to find Jehanne
alone. For she was seated in the salon,
at the further end of which her father was
assisting at a Royalist council. He could
scarcely find words for a courteous greeting,
and dismissed the visitor to Jehanne. She
looked pale and tired, but there was something
in her large dark eyes, a suppressed

li 2

emotion and suspense when Pier approached,
which reminded him of their glow the
night before, when she waited for her king.
They could talk freely, since no sound less
startling than a scream would have disturbed
these conspirators.

A quaint old frame for working tapestry
stood before Jehanne, and she paused with
the shuttle in her hand.

*' I am so pleased to find you at home,"
Pier said, " to receive my adieux."

Are you going to England ? You will
return, of course ? "

The Count's kindness and yours have
made Paris my home. I only leave it to
nurse a friend who is ill."

Jehanne resumed her work. Not thus
coolly, she might think, would one of those
two men have spoken of the other.

''1 hope the illness is not alarming."

There is no danger of infection. I
should like to tell you how he took the
complaint ; it is curious."

Jehanne bowed, politely and rather wearily.

This good fellow Stephens is a very dear
friend of Garrow and myself. Latham knew
him also. It appears that by some means
Latham heard of my correspondence with
his sister, an amusing and childish romance,
quite well known, as you are aware, both
to his father and mother. But James took
violent offence,  we are not on the best
terms, you know,  and sallied out to  to do
I don't quite see what, nor probably did he.
Stephens met him by accident and learned
his intentions. People would not readily
imagine what that noble fellow did. Thinking
that it would be a painful business forme
to have a quarrel with Mary's brother,
he took advantage of some rude expressions
on Latham's part to insult him, and a duel
followed. The first I heard of it was a
telegram announcing that he was badly
hurt."

*' It was very wicked ; but you may be
proud of such a friend."

''I knew you would say that, and the
assurance will be better for him than
medicine."

Jehanne stopped working suddenly, and
turned her face away, after one startled
glance into Rawdon's eyes.

"Do I know him then?" she asked, in a
quick, harsh voice.

He is not dangerously hurt. You know
him."

One white hand gripped the frame ; from
the other, resting on her lap, the shuttle
slid rustling down. Though the girl's face
was wholly turned away. Pier saw the
troubled throbbing of her bosom.

'did Mr. Garrow send you here to
explain to me ? " she said, without looking.

No. He  he could not yet. Jehanne I
shall I call assistance ? "

No, no, no ! I shall be well"

She fell back, with eyes closed, a waxen
mark of perfect beauty. Pier had risen.

Wait  wait 1 " she murmured, bending

her brows in anger. " It is faintness ! I am
well ! "

And, indeed, the proud girl raised herself
after a moment, picked up the shuttle with
a trembling hand, and stooped over her
tapestry.

May I carry word that you forgive such
a gallant, noble sin ? "

You do not know all, Mr. Eawdon. Mr.
Garrow would not care  I have no right
to give an opinion on his actions. He is
assured of my sympathy, I hope."

Pier was astonished and pained.

Do I understand ? Oh, Jehanne ! give
me one word, and he would try to come to
you, even from his death-bed. No, no ! he
is not in danger. But judge of the lovers
worth by what I tell you of the friend. You
are his life ! Grant me at least a message
which will give him hope."

You are cruel, Mr. Rawdon, to your
friend as to me. Did I not guess his worth
before this ? A queen might be proud of

such a gentleman's regard ; but I have no
message. We must never meet again."

Though Jehanne's eyes were so bright,
and her soft lips so tremulous, that he knew
tears were not far back, to linger was
useless.

Good-bye, Jehanne," he said. " You
make my burden of gratitude heavier
towards Garrow, since I have failed to
persuade you."

"Good-bye, Mr. Rawdon." She called
him back. "Better not to speak of this
interview ; but if you should  Give me
your arm, sir. The faintness  "

He led her from the room. They parted
without a glance or word, Jehanne slowly
climbing the stairs towards her chamber.

Dr. Pinson is not a French subject born,
but he has passed all his life in Paris, and,
as so often happens, he has grown more
Parisian than a native. But of the prim,
starched pedantry of his confreres there is
not a trace. Pinson sometimes wears a suit

of " dittos," and other crimes are charged
against him. He was at once a friend of
the late emperor, and an habitue of the
Palais Royal. M. Thiers respected him,
M. Gambetta consults, and he is received by
grateful dignitaries in the Faubourg. But
no party claims Dr. Pinson, not because he
is without opinions, but because he laughs
at every party. The doctor has too keen
sense of the humorous, and too little veneration.
His broad, clean-shaven, fleshy face
has no wrinkles in it save the crow's-feet of
laughter. His heavy-lidded eyes sparkle
with fun and shrewdness. Some of the
doctor's jokes are very grim. Certain
incidents which he beheld in the private
apartments of the Tuileries, in '48, when
the mob sacked that palace, do not tickle
everybody. So with some curious cases
this famous man stores up. But Pinson is a
charming companion, when his detestable
recollections are not stirred. Many windbags
has he pricked, and he has watched

their contents dolefully escape with a merry
eye. No scandal is too small for him, no
event too large or sacred for his mirth.
Human nature seems to Doctor Pinson a
thing too weak and quaint for sneers. He
has studied it in palaces and hovels, he has
found it everywhere the same, and he simply
laughs at it. I happen to know that the
doctor has kept memoirs, and I also venture
to predict that no publisher will print them
in our generation. The greatest people in
Europe would subscribe to buy up the
proofs.

Why Birch chose to absent himself from
Paris at this moment I cannot tell ; but I
will be bound that his reasons were good
and profitable. He sent for two clerks, and
two couriers, two grooms, and horses in
proportion. When they arrived Pier had
many long days with him. They became
almost friends. Beneath the crystalline
hardness of Birch's intellect, and the cynic
wisdom of his training:, lav a kindliness of

disposition which very few suspected. He
was a poet, and not altogether a bad one ;
well-read, an excellent musician. These
studies and gifts were jealously hidden in
Paris, where men knew him only as a
financier.

As soon as Garrow had improved sufficiently
to converse, the doctor became his
most cherished companion. Bitter against
the world, despairing of the future, he found
in Pinson's philosophy a distraction, if not a
solace. I do not imagine that Garrow felt
any disquiet for his duel ; but if he did, his
doctor had a cure. And that gentleman also
liked to talk with his patient. He stretched
his holiday a week, and then another, with
pleasant disregard of calls from Paris.

''FardiV he quaintly swore, "I am no
less than a man, after all. Shall I not enjoy
myself because there are people who suffer
two hundred miles away ? Here's better
health to all of them, and confusion to the
faculty!"

You don't take a high view of your
profession," Birch said.

''Do you of yours, monsieur? What
blessings might you confer on the human
race with that money which you employ for
purposes which are doubtfully beneficial, and
that to the female sex alone ! "

'you are privileged, doctor," said Birch,
gravely.

As you are not, sir, don't interrupt the
flow of my ideas. It is quite true that
I don't regard myself as a Messiah, but I
don't object to other humbugs doing so ; and
tolerance is something, let me tell you."

Pier said, " We are only too glad to keep
you, doctor. But you have undertaken
to cure those poor sufferers, or to do your
best."

I haven't  I haven't ! I don't want
them nor their money. They come to me
and bore me. If I could cure the lot at one
word, I'd suppress our profession. But
there are so many people who suffer up and

down, and why should I make one more ?
Amusement is the aim of life. My patients
want to get well only in order to amuse
themselves again. I am well now, and you
think me selfish because I take my natural
enjoyment instead of helping others to
resume theirs. Nobody's wine would taste
bitter if they read of Doctor Pinson's illness
; there would be no mourning if he
died, though they gave him a state funeral.
A has le humbug, mes amis, et vive lajoie! I
never had but one grateful patient. He
was a sovereign, and he's dead."

But Dr. Pinson went in haste at length.
For no crowned head would he have moved
from pleasant quarters, but a little lady, of
a little theatre, perceived one day a spot on
her complexion, or some calamity of that
importance. She telegraphed to Pinson,
and he dismissed Garrow as cheerfully for
her sake as he had dismissed former patients
for his.

Queer rumours floated in Paris about the

origin of Birch's wealth, and Sweyn one day-inquired.
Of course Dr. Pinson had the
real facts, and this is the tale he told :
were it not true and typical I would not
repeat it.

Beersch ? " he said. " Oh, every one
knows that droll story. Our friend  a
charming youth, isn't he ?  was clerk in
Sweinfurths' banking-house. Sweinfurth is
a patient of mine, and I have the facts firsthand.
The Emperor of Timbuctoo wanted
a loan, and Sweinfurths wanted to have the
handling of it. They looked for an agent to
conduct this delicate negotiation, and their
eyes lighted on young Beersch. I remember
him then, a boy under twenty, handsome as
Anxious, clever as the devil. ' You are
young,' said Sweinfurth, ' but sharp. We
want you to go to Timbuctoo, and get us
the loan  anyhow. Here are two millions
of francs. A word is enough, I suppose ?
If you succeed, we take charge of your
future.'

* Have you no further instructions ? '

' No. Act according to your discretion.
If you are successful we shall ask no
questions.'

Birch went away, but presently came back.

' As I've given you a receipt for the
money, it might be well to have the
condition in writing,' says he.

They gave him a few lines to that effect, '
and the clerk departed. Three months
after Sweinfurths got the loan. Presently
Beersch arrived. They asked him casually,
anything left of those two millions ? '
Not a sou,' says he ; and the matter
dropped. Beersch took his place again in
the office, with a handsome present.

After a while, the Grand Vizier of 
visited Paris. He dined with Swains
incognito, and the thieves fell out over
their wine. Words grew hot, and at last
Sweinfurth said, * Your highness has no cause
to complain of our last transaction. Our
agent paid you handsomely.'

' The rascal never gave one of us a
copper ! ' cried his highness, vastly indignant.


' What ? Nothing to nobody ? ' screamed
Sweinfurth.

' I swear it by Mahound ! ' said the
Turk.

Next day Beersch was sent for.

' What did you do with those two
millions ? '

' I got you the loan.'

' But whom did you give them to ? '

' Here's your bond, sir,' says he. ' I
decline to answer.'

There were awful goings on at Swains
that day. Beersch was dismissed, of
course. He locked his desk and departed.
Two hours after he came back, in a beautiful
phaeton, with English horses and an English
groom. He said nothing, but took his
papers, and drove straight to that handsome
establishment you probably know. The
doors were opened next day, and Swains

had a rival who has half ruined them
already. He carried off all their tricks and
secrets, and they've not yet found any of his.
That's the story. Delightful, isn't it ? "

Quite useless to discuss the moral argument
with Doctor Pinson. Himself of
honour beyond question, for all that he could
not have understood what there was in this
ridiculous bit of knavery besides a laugh.
Had his relative or his friend done it, quite
a different thing. Birch and Sweinfurth
he looked upon as beings whose nature it is
to act in this manner, as it is a monkey's to
play tricks, and a pig's to route.

Sweinfurth," he continued, " had not
the sense to let people forget. For three
years he trailed his grievance in every law-court
of the empire, at enormous expense.
Beersch never engaged counsel, but when the
moment came he produced his agreement,
and the case was dismissed. I think this
scandal gave the poor emperor almost as
much annoyance as Bismarck's conspiracies."

VOL. II. (J

That the news of the duel had reached
England became presently apparent.
Bundles of tracts arrived to the address of
Sweyn and Pier, and they recognized the
writing of Mrs. Lambert. Tracts which
condemn this particular sin are difficult to
find, since duelling is no common offence
with the halfpenny public. Mrs. Lambert
doubtless followed the best course practicable,
when she sent a miscellaneous collection,
which rebuked all sorts and conditions of
men in all actions of life. If the net seemed
cast too widely, it is charitable to suppose
that the treatises addressed to ,
to little boys who steal apples, and to
apprentices who play truant, were slipped in
by a zealous showman, on the principle that
every little helps.

Pier was surprised that his father did
not answer the explanation-he had sent.
Sweyn's guardian wrote compliments and
congratulations. His pretty daughter added
her few words in the style of Deborah, or

Jael the Recite. She evidently regretted
that useless discharge of her hero's pistol.
One morning two letters reached Pier,
forwarded from Paris. He recognized the
handwriting of each ; the one with distaste,
the other with surprise and joy, which made
him smile involuntarily. He opened it
first.

' My dear Mr. Eawdon,

I have just learned that your
father is very ill indeed. My maid tells me
that the servants at Weybridge think you
have not been informed, and I am sure it is
somebody's duty to tell you.

"Mary Latham."

"Pes.  James is here, very good and
penitent."

Pier snatched up the other letter.

"My dear Pier,

"Your father is not expected to
live. If you have any wish to comfort his

C 2

last hours, you must come at once. I can
spare no time from his bedside for more.
"Arabella Eawdon."

In the afternoon of next day Pier reached
Hanstone, the station nearest to his home.
Ben, warned by a telegram, was waiting.

I knew you'd come, sir, when you heard,
if it was from the ends of the earth. It's
bad news I've got, Mr. Pier."

"My father is"

I'd wrote you twice, Mr. Pier ; but they
was not directed right, I suppose. Yes, sir ;
our poor master's gone. He asked for you
constant. They couldn't spare a trap from
the hall, sir; but I've got one here."

Home at once, Ben ! "

A dreary route that is at best which
they followed. It leads through a filthy
borough, slowly rotting to political extinction.
Though scarcely observant now,
after the bright streets of Paris this
prospect added to Pier's gloom. It was

market-day, and drunken farmers jostled
each other on the broken causeway. They
shouted round the inn door, and lolled with
pipes from the low windows. The pavement
was blocked with cattle in one part,
with pigs in another, with crockery at a
third. Low taverns thrust themselves into
notice at each street corner, wherein men
sung and fought uproariously. A great
noise of laughter, born of brutality ad
strong drink, hung above the town. From
the High Street Pier turned into a steep
and horrid lane, bounded on one side by
a lofty black church wall, on the other by
a row of dens, windowless, foul, and reek-ins,
which bore on their shameless fronts
the government authority to hold lodgers.
The narrow pavement glistened with foul
moisture which oozed from the churchyard,
where bodies had been mixed and
heaped together for a thousand years. The
antiquity of their borough was a subject of
great pride to its citizens, who might with

greater reason have boasted the supremacy
of their ancient smells. Troops of squalid
children hung about, whose idea of play
was to throw stones at one another, and to
daub their faces with black mud. Groups
of slouching, pale-faced men clustered round
the beer-shops in the lane ; terrible women
also, with grimy features distorted. Then
the dogcart skirted a poisonous pool, remnant
of the fosse which once encircled
this ancient town, passed the handsome
schools, endowed by antique piety, but
just recovered from the shameless greed
of Church and burgess. Then out, thank
God, into the open country, where winds
blow fresh, and men may die poisoned.
Though scarcely heeding what his eyes
beheld, a thought flashed across Pier s
mind, that if they proclaimed the Commune
here, they would have excuse indeed.
Mr. Pier, sir," said Ben at length,
breaking the silence, " there's something
I should like for to tell you before you

gets home. It isn't my place to speak of
Mrs. Rawdon, nor yet anybody else ; but
if it wouldn't offend you, I'd just say a
one thing."

"Go on, Ben."

You mind Victory and Nelson, them
Arab bosses the poor master give you
when you was a boy ? Ay, you won't
have forgotten them, poor things ! They
was kep' in the paddock, and well looked
after so honos as master could see where
they was. Why didn't you never send
for them dumb creatures, Muster Pier ? "

"What of them?"

Well, sir ; as soon as poor master took
to his bed, Victory and Nelson was sent
to the farm  they was. Muster Pier, your
Arab ponies as was admired on all the
country side, they was set to farm work.*
It's as I tell you, Muster Pier; and a

All these incidents are true, and they occurred
under the motives suggested, within the last twenty
years.

token it is as all the country rose agen
Mrs. Eawclon, when they losses kicked
themselves to bits in a cart. Which Miss
Mary Latham heard of it, and Sir James
he wrote such a letter to Mrs. Kawdon
as made her double down like a dog.
And he offered a price for the losses,
which she took. And they're at Latham
now."

The two drove silently for a time.

"There's a something else, Muster Pier,
as it ista' a servant's place to speak of,
and shameful to tell. But you recollect,
sir, when you was a boy, how the rectory
maids said Miss Arabella took laudanum ?
It's, worse than that now ! " He paused
significantly.

Pier understood very well. A struggle
awaited him. But at this moment he
would not think of it. His father lay
dead, that kindly old man who had scarcely
spoken one harsh word to his headstrong
son. Pier wished to be alone. The trap

had left the straight and treeless highway,
turning into a steep lane. At a stile which
gave admittance to the fields, he stopped it.

I will go this way, Ben," he said.
*' Come to me at the Hall tomorrow. You
and all the old servants must attend my
father's funeral."

*' I'll come, Mr. Pier," Ben answered, " if
there's a regiment to stop me."

Rawdon climbed the stile and walked
towards a tiny hamlet, shadowed by big
trees, and buried deep between two rolling
hills. This is Weybridge. A sunny brook
runs along the near side of the village, and
the path is carried across on a low culvert
where the trout swim. A broken gate
which stood open admitted to a grass-grown
street, running between a long barn and a
row of cottages, smothered in roses and
clematis. In front of each a tiny garden,
full of old-fashioned flowers run to waste,
and broken devices of stone and shell. No
one to welcome the heir returning:. The

men were all at work, the women in-doors,
the children at school. Beyond the small
row of cottages opened a deep and clayey
lane, descending from the hill above. Fifty
yards further, the old farm-house, Smithers'
farm, where Kawdon and his friend had
sought to rescue the mad nurse, almost a
score of years agone. On the other side
the way stood the keeper's cottage, then
the village pump, in a little brick recess
hung with ivy and elder bushes. Another
stile, and the fields again.

Not a cottage changed, not a feature in
the landscape. The years that pass are
uncounted in these still hamlets. Though
its landlord himself lay dead, the round of
life was still the same to Weybridge. What
then to its dwellers mattered the throes of
France, that bitter contest of ambitions
which had seemed an earth-shaking matter
to Pier Rawdon but two days ago ! He
was in mood to be impressed by common
things. The world seemed blank, bereft

of that loving father, who was his only-real
kinsman upon earth. But these cottagers
of Weybridge, did they lose nothing,
did the event bring them no anxiety, that
they should thus pursue their dull routine ?
Surely it did, and they knew it. But the
fruits of earth need tending, die who will.
No jot or tittle does Nature deviate from
her round, though we rejoice or grieve ;
though one man die or a million. Our
life is not so large or so momentous on
this earth that even our fellows can afford
to pause when we drop from sight. Looking
over the sad bare fields through which
lay his course, Pier thought of these matters
with interest sudden and sharp.

Youths strong of mind and body as was
he are not haunted by such anxieties for
the future as haunt feebler souls. Pier
had not even doubted consciously up to
this time. A thousand arguments on either
side had come before him, but the subject
was so far removed, so distant from his

actual cares, that he had passed them by
unheeding. Now the grand question came
to his heart. The testimony of the best,
even in the heathen world, brought comfort.
Socrates and Plato believed, Cicero
trusted. The wisest friends of Tacitus loved
to think good men immortal. " If there be
indeed a place for the spirits of the just 
if, as the most enlightened think, great
souls do not perish with the body  " When
a boy Pier had loved that pathetic chapter,
and it rose to his memory now. In the
worst days of old Rome, the wisest loved
to think [id sapientihiis placet) that the
virtuous do not perish utterly. None have
yet come back from the dead, nor has a
visible sign been granted us from heaven.
To frigid casuists the argument stands now
as it did then. Tacitus could not suppose
that each poor slave would be immortal,
he whose faint scintilla of a soul is torment
and perplexity to him on earth. Such a
thought he would have deemed profanation

of his great kinsman's memory. Even for
Agricola he admits the possibility of doubt.
But since the thoughtful of his time, who
had no pretence of external argument to
support their faith, did, from mere comparison
of probabilities, conclude that the
soul is undying, how much is strengthened
the Christian belief 1 The grounds on which
they reasoned are extant still, as strong as
ever. And beyond them we possess a clear
and distinct assertion. As Rawdon thought
out the case, in softened mood, he cast
aside for ever his half-conscious doubts.

So reflecting, he made his way to the
large rough-cast mansion that crowned the
hill. A wicket gave admittance to the
grounds, crossing the haw-haw beneath
those chestnut trees where Mary Latham
had cried. A century might have passed
since then, so distant seemed that former
life. The house itself looked sad and
strange, with the white blinds drawn overall
its long row of windows. The front

door stood open. Pier entered. All was
silent, empty, and still. What a return
to home !

No one seemed to be in the lower rooms.
He wandered through them all, noting a
thousand changes. Nothing remained ashe
had left it. It seemed that the stepmother
wished to rub out all memory of
the heir. He walked on, up the stairs,
and so to his father's room.

The dead man lay all alone, marble white
and cold. His thin hands clasped between
them a bunch of snowdrops and scentless
winter flowers. Pier stood and gazed on
the set face, till an agony of grief seized
on him, and he fell upon his knees by the
bed, weeping loud.

Mrs. Rawdon came in, bearing a quantity
of flowers. At sight of Pier, who raised
his head, she started, and her mouth formed
as if to scream. Great must have been the
step-mother's nervousness to be thus overcome,
even for a moment. She was deadly

pale, and her eyes seemed heavy with
anxiety and want of sleep.

In the frame of mind which that dread
presence induced, Pier stepped forward and
kissed her cheek. She bore it, but made
no return.

What was his last message ? " the son
said low.

He left none for you."

Surely my father spoke of me ? Cannot
you think of his words ? "

I do not remember anything. He
spoke of you sometimes, but not at the
last."

' Why was I not sent for 'i It was not
his wash to die without seeing me. Do you
know that the first warning I had of his
illness was the letter I received yesterday
morning ? "

The doctors said he must be kept quiet.
But I wrote twice."

Pier made no reply, and left the room.
Mrs. Rawdon stayed a moment to arrange

her flowers, and rejoined him in the diningroom.
Pier was looking across the valley,
where Weybridge brook sparkled in the
wintry sun like a chaplet of jewels. In
looking down upon its pools he sadly
thought of the days that are no more.

Mrs. Rawdon was paler, if that could be,
and her face had a set expression.

*' I hope, Pier, you will make allowance
for my position if I seem harsh. Recollect
that I am a mother."

I recollect that you were my father's
wife. What is it you wish to say '? "

"You deeply grieved Mr. Rawdon by
your manner of life. I held my peace, but
oh ! what agony you caused him ! I have
evidence of it."

I was in regular correspondence with
my father, and his letters contained no
such sentiment. If they had, be sure I
should have respected it."

If I Pier had not guessed that the correspondence
had been a secret, he would have

known it by the startled blink of Mrs.
Rawdon's eyelids. The meaning of that
trick he remembered from childish days.
For half a moment she did not answer, and
Pier knew she was revolving this new fact
in her mind. But the look of resolution
settled on her face again.

'' Therefore," she continued, as if without
interruption, "if I cannot make you welcome
in this house, it is not from ill-will.
I don't arrogate the right to condemn where
your father, as you tell me, suppressed his
disapproval. But I cannot offer you a home
with my innocent child. To that conclusion
I have arrived after painful thought, and I
hope, Pier, you will not waste time, or distress
us both, in trying to move me. The
funeral is fixed for Thursday."

Whose house is this, Mrs. Rawdon ? "

Mine, until my daughter marries," she
answered, firmly.

And these lands about ? "

'' Mine."

VOL. II.

I have no home anywhere on my father's
property ? "

' I may as well state at once, that your
generous father settled everything of which
he could dispose upon my daughter, whose
resident trustee I am."

The estate was entailed at my birth ! "

"I do not understand business. My
lawyer will explain any difficulty you raise."

She stood silent, waiting, a picture of
hard and aggressive resolution. Pier read
in her face that this scene had been pondered
and dwelt upon. He remembered too the
wanton defiance of public sentiment shown
in the matter of his horses. Mrs. Rawdon
would not be daring in words alone. She
meant to act, and let those less reckless give
way. And he knew that he must yield fora
time, not to wickedness triumphant, but
to the presence above. She dared him to
scandalize the dead, and she measured well
the emotion which would possess him at
that moment.

*this house is mine' said Rawdon.
'' And my dear father himself could not
have taken it from me. As you order me
out, I could order you  though Heaven
forbid that I should do it!"

Is this a place to dispute points of law ?
What your rights may be I do not know,
but I know your father s will, and that I am
bound in duty to carry through."

If I refuse to go ? "

You will not ! "

I do ! "

She paused a moment.

If you are so shameless and unnatural,
I must do my duty."

'' What is that ? "

I must have you turned out."

You are a woman of the antique stamp,
and the Borgia would have admired you.
But your strength of body is unequal to the
grandeur of your designs."

Oh, I have known you. Pier, long
enough. Don't think me so mad as to

D 2

have met you unprotected. I can summon
strength enough to frighten you, or even
your friend the duellist."

Pier stepped to the bell and rang.

What is it you want ? " asked Mrs.
Rawdon, anxiously.

I will not believe this of you even yet.
If you are as bold as you pretend, let me see
your protectors."

A hard-featured woman entered, whose
countenance was familiar, though Pier
could not identify it. She looked from
one to the other. Mrs. Rawdon did not
speak.

Your mistress has ordered me from my
house. Send up the men engaged to turn
me oat."

The step-mother had grown very white.
Those bluish tints appeared about her
mouth, which moral courage cannot repress.
But she nodded to the woman, who went
out. Nothing was said till, returning,
she ushered in three burly fellows, dressed

respectably, who carried the fighting stamp
on their ponderous, squat features.

Pier measured them with his eye. " You
have taken good precautions, step-mother.
Now, my men, you are engaged to ejecta
gentleman, aren't you ? Speak out ! I'm
the gentleman."

Only if necessary ! " prompted Mrs.
Rawdon, and they repeated her words
hoarsely.

"Is not your name Hawkins, and didn't
you do a little job for me at Oxford ? "

The man grinned.

Lord, sir, I thought I snowed your
face. It was me and Blubber Jones as
did that little businesses

*' Well, you I know. Give me your
cards, you others. This job's done, and
I may want you myself ! "

Mrs. Rawdon tried to interfere, but each
ruffian produced a greasy pocket-book and
a written card. Pier took them, and threw
the men a sovereign.

'' Now," he said, " I will go ! If I were
as devilishly reckless as you, I could make
such a scandal as would drive you from
the county. But you have judged me well."

Without more words he left the room.
No servants met him. Mrs. Eawdon had
dismissed them all, saving the grooms and
her maid, determined to have no witnesses
of the scene. Pier went down the avenue
of lime-trees, and through the heavy wooden
gates unnoticed.

CHAPTER II.

A FRESH DEPARTURE.

In a niche of the antique wall, hollowed
for the comfort of pilgrims in a more
charitable day, Ben was waiting. It was
not till afterwards that Pier was struck by
this inattention to orders.

Drive to Swinerton," he said.

Excuse me, sir, but Mr. James Latham
is awaiting close by. He have come on
of the part Sir James to ask after you  "

I can't see him," Pier exclaimed ; but
at that moment the gentleman came insight.


Very red and embarrassed was he, but
he frankly held out his hand, which Pier
did not observe.

"You are justified," said James, "in
thinking ill of me; but when I ask your
pardon, humbly and sincerely, you will not
refuse it. Upon my honour, Rawdon, I
was either mad or drunk the other night.
Can you not forgive me ? "

If you had shot me I should not have
borne you ill-feeling for a moment. However,
it is all finished. Here is my hand
heartily." . .

Tears came ready to James Latham's
eyes.

"Birch sends me news of Garrow twice
a day," he said. "I have paid bitterly
for my crime. At Latham they give meno
peace, and my career is broken. I have
had to resign."

It might have been worse than that."

Yes ; I might have been a murderer,
and murderer of the noblest fellow in the
world. It is that consoles me a little. Now,
Eawdon, I have a commission from my
father. He begs you will stay at the Hall.

This house cannot be a pleasant residence,
and I see that you were leaving it at once.
Be persuaded. My father says you must not
consider yourself a guest, but a friend seeking
retirement."

"You are very kind, and believe me, I
am grateful. But I would rather be alone
at Hanstone. After the funeral I will
call."

Latham withdrew, disappointed ; but the
kindly offer had done Eawdon good. All
the rest of that day, and every day until the
funeral. Pier spent in the fields, so familiar
and now so sad. He deferred business until
the dead man was put away. All the
gentry of the neighbourhood sent their carriages
to the ceremony, and many even who
had not visited at Wey bridge came in person.
Mrs. Rawdon had shocked the country in a
score of ways. Her habits, of which Ben
hinted as much as he dared, were objectionable,
and her conduct about the Arab horses
had gone home to the squirearchy.

Next day Pier roused himself to action.
His father's lawyer had been a certain
Collins of Swinerton, a careless, loud-voiced,
jovial fellow, dead for several years. His
business had passed to the hands of a Mr.
Blaise. Pier found him to be a wooden-featured
man, whose heavy grey eyebrows
worked loosely on his hard face. He admitted
preparing the will referred to by
Mrs. Eawdon, and produced a copy. Piers
name was not mentioned. Everything went
to the daughter and her children. Mrs.
Rawdon had a settlement of 2000 a year,
and the use of Weybridge for life ; she
was also sole trustee and executrix. In case
of the daughter dying unmarried or childless,
Mrs. Eawdon enjoyed all the property
for life, and afterwards it passed to " my
natural heirs""

Pier asked few questions of his stepmother's
lawyer, but crossed the road to
consult a rival, Mr. Doulton. When this
burly, full-blown gentleman heard the

position of affairs, he grew warm. " If
there's a settlement in your favour," he
said, "no will can disturb it. The thing
is void ah initio Having thus made a
circle of will and settlement, he turned
therein like a squirrel.

"For Heaven's sake," cried Pier at last,
let us get out of this ! Put it that a deed
of settlement is missing."

Oh ! " cried Doulton. " Now you talk
business. How is it missing ? "

I don't know even when or where it was
executed, who were the trustees, or, in fact,
anything about it. But my father alluded
many times to the entail. He himself had
been ruined when a boy by the absence of
a settlement, and it was a theory he maintained
with warmth that landed property
should be secured. But he never told meany
details as to what he had done. Where
are such deeds generally kept ? "

By the lawyer ; but a client may keep
them if he likes. I understand you, then,

that this will disposes of a settled estate,
a contradiction  "

Pier interrupted before he could lose
himself again.

'' I propose, Mr. Doulton, to put this
matter in the hands of a London firm.
Will you be good enough, in the mean time,
to get me a copy of the will, and to ascertain
the character of the witnesses, and such
matters connected with it as have interest ? "

Certainly, sir, certainly. But I can
assure you  "

Yes. Good morning."

Pier drove to consult Sir James Latham,
for he was utterly at sea. Passing through
the hall, he heard a sweet young voice
carolling at a distance, a thoughtless, happy
lilt ; but he did not meet the singer. Sir
James received him most kindly, and listened
to his tale with an obtuse impatience very
like Doulton's.

"Why," said he, "it is a matter of common
talk in the neighbourhood that Wey-

bridge is settled on you. Mr. Rawdon spoke
of it a hundred times in my hearing. It's
some time ago, certainly, but that makes no
difference."

When at length, by the same simple
process, the squire, like Doulton, had been
brought to understand, he grew hot. It
became a constitutional business. To devise
a settled estate must be something like
treason, if not criminal lunacy. Sir James
looked at the question from ground much
superior to personal interests. Red Radicalism
lay at the bottom of this affair, and
imminent above hung Atheism and Regicide.

'* 111 telegraph instantly," said he.
"Ford shall send us down the smartest
fellow at his command. Devise an entailed
estate ! Not so long as there's law in England,
 and we've an abundant supply just

now."

Declining an invitation to lunch, Pier
returned, and in due course a telegram was
delivered to him by one of the Latham

grooms. Mr. Ford, junior, would arrive
next day, and a consultation might be held
in the afternoon. Lady Latham begged Mr.
Eawdon to stay dinner if he could ; no
strangers would be present.

Mr. Doulton had a report to give. One
witness was Mrs. Ann Thomas, and the
other Mr. Yates of the home farm. Pier
remembered then where he had met the
hard-featured woman who was now Mrs.
Rawdon's confidential housekeeper, formerly
companion to Mrs. Lumley. Mr. Yates of
the home farm was a new tenant. Famous
he had made himself for miles round by a
stupidity beyond the bucolic average, but no
one questioned his honesty. Pier called
upon him, and was frankly received.

Sensible when he made the will ? Oh,
aye ! A' diana talk much, but a' snowed what
a' was doing. Sensible as any man about.
Asked after the missus, a did. I seed him
sign his name. What was in the document
I duenna know, but I seed him

sign it. Seem afraid of any one ? Why,
he laughed, that's what he did ! Maybe he
thought no one seed him, but I did. He
laughed ! "

Ben was waiting when Pier returned.
He said, after some embarrassment,

They're talking a deal about you, Muster
Pier, up and down. I don't know whether
it's all true they say, but the story goes as
poor master give you this property, and you
can't find the deed. Every one snowed
well he did ; but that, they tell me, is not
evidence. But there was a page-boy in the
house near twenty years back as could
prove it. Dixon his name was, and many a
time he's told us how he heard the will read
out, and see the master sign it. There was
other people there, but I can't recollect who
they was, though Pve tried ever so ; and
none of the others can recollect neither,
though they minds young Dixon's talk well
enough. I thought I'd just come over and
tell you so much. Muster Pier."

It is most valuable information, Ben.
Where is Dixon ? "

"Ah, there I'm done. He left us, as I
said, near twenty years ago, and we've heard
nothing of him since."

In the afternoon Pier met the London
lawyer, a pleasant youth, brimful of news
from the court, the camp, the grove, and
especially the stage. He knew every one,
and had a story pat, or, indeed, two stories,
one for the gentlemen and one for the ladies.
During lunch, when Eawdon was not present,
he devoted himself to Mary, talking opera
and fashion, with excursions into the religious
world. Upon none of these topics would
the young lady be drawn out. She showed
a coldness which a man much less observant
must have noticed. Ford did not get vexed
about it. His client's daughter did not care
about him ;  so much the worse for her,
since to himself it mattered not a jot. Other
people liked him ; but if all the world had
joined in Mary's opinion, this young man

would have been unconvinced. He knew
himself to be clever and amusing. Those
who do not perceive the sun at noon are
blind, and the sensible man argues not with
such. He turns calmly to fellow-creatures
blest with eyesight.

When he got to business, however, on
Pier's arrival, the lawyer showed himself
as keen and grave as if he had not one
subject in his mind less ponderous thana
state trial. In five minutes he mastered
the question, scribbled a few notes, heard
all that Pier could tell him, and went fora
ride with James and his sister. She soon
left them, cantering off with the groom
behind her, and returned but just in time
to dress for dinner. Mary did not blush
on meeting Pier, but she coloured;  there
is a difference.

*' It was more than kind  " he began,
but she interrupted.

*' Don't allude to my letter before Mr.
Ford. Mamma says, of course, that I

VOL. II. E

ought not to have written it, but that I
am a good child. It is very annoying
to be always called a child."

Lady Latham was most gracious, even
motherly ; James developed qualities which
had not been suspected ; the squire treated
his guest almost like a son. Pier sat
between Mary and her mother. Before the
ponderous Latham dinner was half through
he caught the young lady smothering a
yawn.

I've been bored to-days' she whispered
frankly, " and then Eros has carried me
twenty miles."

That's a long journey for love."
I don't think much of it. Oh, Eros 
love ! Yes, of course. Would that distance
frighten you ? But I don't take any credit
for it. I must have amusement."
Like a kitten ! A ball for choice."
**No, I'm not kitten enough to be very
fond of balls  it's true I'm not out yet.
It doesn't seem exercise, running round

a room. 1 should want to dance through
the windows. Tell me, Mr. Rawdon, how
is my dear Jehanne ? "

Very well, but anxious about her king.
Did you hear of the great demonstration ? "

Yes ; I should like to have seen Capitaine
Alberto waving his banner, and darling
Jehanne on the other side. What
a grand queen she would make. How
did notre roi look ? "

The first gentleman in Europe ; but if
he had been a little less royally composed,
he would have become the situation better
to my mind. With great ladies in hysterics,
and men in tears, he smiled as nobly and
as graciously as the Grand Monarque on
his throne."

This led the conversation to the political
state of France, on which both James and
Ford had much to say. After the ladies
had withdrawn, the latter delivered himself
of an opinion upon the business in
hand.

2

 -

Such a case as this' he said, " could
arise in no civilized country but ours. If
settlements were registered there could be
no question about them. Your impressionis
that the estates were entailed shortly
after your birth. The chances are therefore
that the settlement was drawn up
by Mr. Rawdon's London lawyers, whose
names we can find without much difficulty.
The trustees also would most likely be
found amongst his old friends in business.
Can you mention anybody who held such
a position towards your late father ? '"

"Not one. He seldom alluded to the
time when he was in trade."

This appears to me," continued Ford,
a case for advertisement. I don't like
that method of proceeding, but there are
situations in which it proves useful. Even
if the deed itself is not forthcoming, collateral
evidence may turn up. There is a
good chance that this youth Dixon is still
living, and if we can find him, his testimony

will be invaluable. Does your old
servant remember any clue to his family ? "

I have told him to urge his recollection,
and to inquire."

I think you should prosecute the researches
in London yourself. Mr. Kawdon's
old friends, amongst whom I expect to find
the trustees, would give you assistance
much more cordially than our agents.
Besides, I suspect there may be memories
lying dormant in your mind which an
accident would rouse. So, Mr. Rawdon, if
you will take my advice, you will come to
town with me tomorrow."

'' Not tomorrow. I have still something
to do here."

*' What appears to me so odd," observed
Sir James, " is the fact that your father
should have made a will which he knew
would be inoperative. That was not like
him."

'not like the character he used to have,"
said Pier, bitterly. "But I believe you

have seen little of him of late years. As
I understand it, Mrs. Eawdon persecuted
him, and in despair, to get rid of her,
he made this disposition. Yates says he
laughed whilst making it. My poor father !
What had he gone through before consenting
to such deception ! "

As the conference broke up. Pier said,

'rand now. Sir James, I want to see my
sister."

I fear you will have some difficulty.
We had better consult her ladyship about
that. Shall we go to her?"

Lady Latham had not expected the
gentlemen so early, and she was in her
own room. Time was when her odd
fancies caused talk in the neighbourhood,
but that was long ago. An utilitarian
philosopher of the straightest sect was Lady
Latham, so far as she could reconcile that
theory with feudal principles of benevolence.
Mary declared that it was only difficulties
caused by the Sale of Poisons Act which

prevented her mother from establishing a
dispensary in her boudoir. Books of severe
reference, plans of the estate, designs for
kindergarten and model cotta-es which
never were built, clothed the walls of her
study. Rolls of flannel lay in a corner.
Samples of Australian beef were neatly
piled outside the door. Nothing ever came
of Lady Latham's charitable purposes. The
estates of her husband were almost more
badly cultivated than others in the neighbourhood.
This was owing, perhaps,
amongst other causes, to the difficulty
of reconciling utilitarianism with feudal
principles.

On a low stool at her mother's knee
Mary sat, receiving instruction about the
Poor Laws, and some other things  de,
omnibus rebus et quibus dam alias,

A very strange fact it is," Lady Latham
was observing, " that a legal system of
relief is only found in northern countries.
Neither Italy nor Spain nor France has

any such provision. Yet, at the same time,
mendicancy is forbidden. I don't know
how these anomalies are reconciled."

'' They have bureaux de bienfaisance in
France," remarked the pupil,

So I believe. What the bureaux de
bienfaisance may be precisely I have tried
in vain to learn. It seems a difficult subject.
We English give out-door relief when
the person is not incapacitated from work,
but does not earn enough to meet his  "

Mamma dear, what has Mr. Rawdon to
live on if he loses his law-suit with that
hateful creature ? "

'' He hasn't even a law-suit at present.
I have heard that his mother's settlement
was twenty thousand pounds, which of
course comes to him. Out-door relief is
described by the best authorities to bea
mistake  "

Mamma, can a man marry on twenty
thousand pounds ? I mean, marry a girl
who has no money of her own ? "

He can ; but lie lead much better not."

'' If you had been papa's teacher, I
should never have been born. And what
would you have done then ? "

I don't know, indeed, my darling ; but
it is certain that if there were no imprudent
marriages I should not now be explaining
the action of the poor laws."

It was at this moment that a servant
interrupted an exchange of kisses. When
the ladies entered the drawing-room, Sir
James observed 

'sour friend Rawdon has a very honourable
wish to hear something about his
half-sister."

"Plutarch himself," said Lady Latham,
would be puzzled to construct a biography
of a little girl scarcely three years old.
Mary saw the child only to-day."

She looked a dear little thing," said
Miss Latham, "but just as nervous as ever.
It was painful to hear her screams when
I passed, but she would have been much

worse if I had been on foot. She likes
horses."

Was the child at the lodsje rates
then?" asked Sir James. "How could
they think of taking her there ? "

*' If she is to oho out at all it doesn't

o

seem to matter where she goes. A bird ora
gardener passing sends the baby into
convulsions. It's a terrible case, Mr. Rawdon
; I thought you knew."

I had not heard a whisper. Surely she
will get over it."

' To speak plainly, my dear Rawdon,
it is possible that the child may never live
to outgrow her terrors."

This news entailed a change too startling
to be thouo;lit out on the instant. If the
doctor who attended Claire gave the same
report, what could he do but drop his
meditated action? All his projects were
upset, and bewilderment possessed him.
The Lathams saw it, and they talked of
other things. Mary dispensed tea with a

pretty petulance that distracted every one's
attention. After awhile, when Mr. Ford
was in the middle of a most interesting
anecdote, she approached Pier noiselessly
and whispered,

Come and see your horses. I always
visit Eros after a long gallop."

Lady Latham overheard, and smiled approval.
The darling of the house was used
to do whatever she liked, and they withdrew
together. In the hall Mary twined
about her head some soft kind of wrapper,
with bewitching effect. Her dark eyes
shone like lamps. Opening the door, such
a shrewd wind caught them that she set
her feet close to withstand it, as you may
see a child do in like case. The little shoes
were visible, and even the rounded ankles,
for a moment. Mary took her companion's
arm, and a servant went before them with
a lantern. The wind blew her dress about,
enveloping Pier in its folds ; the swinging
light showed now her delicate, silk-shod

feet, now her white teeth and eyes dancing
with laughter, half-embarrassed, half-pleased
with the struggle. Pier declared once more
to himself, that sweeter, fresher, warmer
little being never guided a man through
devious ways.

The stud groom was waiting, and took
them first to see the Arabs. They were
still swathed in bandages, and terribly
out of condition. No one said a word as
Pier caressed them ; but Mary's lips were
set, and her little hands clenched. She
left him there, and 'entered the loose box
sacred to Eros, who submitted without
impatience to the hugging and kissing
which befell him. Many directions about
him to the stud groom were received with
a stolid countenance. As they returned,
Mary said,

That man is hateful. I know he laughs
at me because I am so small."

Do you remember what Orlando says ?
You stand as high as many men's hearts."

I dare say. But if I don't happen to
touch their hearts they look over my head.
In Paris, the dressmakers actually sneered
at me when I ordered a frock. ' It is so
difficult to fit Mademoiselle ! ' they grumbled.
But I haven't a bad figure, have I ? "

Pier felt inclined to answer with warmth,
for Mary was as neat and trim and round
as any maid of Dibdin's lays.

'you mustn't ask questions like that,
Miss Latham," he said, laughing, "or I
shall call you child."

I don't mind it from you. Do you
know, Mr. Eawdon, I always think of you
as a brother."

Pier did not like this ; but before he
could answer, she continued 

"Is it true that Mr. Garrow is in love
with Jehanne ? "

Quite true. Has he any chance ? "

"I don't know. The best of French
girls are only pawns."

Pawns ? "

"The little tliii]gs on the chess-board,
you know, which people throw away to
save their king. Jehanne is a darling,
but she aren't ask her own mind."

The next day Pier called upon the doctor
at Swinerton. Pleasant it was to find how
heartily all people greeted the heir disinherited.
Does an honest young fellow ever
lack sympathy under misfortune, when he
has not offended the rustic by affectation ?
Epigrammatist hint that he does ; but epigrammatist,
like doctors, deal only with the
sick. No good fellow in Swinerton had
Pier offended by conceit or snobbishness,
and good fellows survive, whilst bad 'go
under. Mrs. Rawdon had not been sparing
of those means to earn popularity
which are recommended by the wise ; but
her step-son reaped what he had not consciously
sown.

Marshal's report of little Claire was just
what Lady Latham had foreshadowed. Her
life would probably be short at the best.

and new scenes would almost certainly
kill her.

Is there no hope of recovery ? " Pier
asked.

Very little. You see  I must be frank,
Pier, and probably you have reason to suspect
what I tell you. The disease is congenital.
For many years past, long before
her marriage, Mrs. Eawdon was addicted
to taking laudanum. She made, I believe,
an effort to break off the habit some years
ago, but it only resulted in exchanging wine
for opium. That did not last, and now
she has returned to her former practice.
Claire suffers for her mother's folly. The
case is almost hopeless."

Pier made up his mind. He wrote Ford
to lodge a caveat against the will, and to
take all possible steps for a vigorous prosecution
of the suit at a future day, but
for the present to do nothing. To Garrow
he wrote also. That Ishmaelite was going
abroad again, and Pier gladly consented to

join him. There was nothing more to do
in England.

The Lathams were really distressed to
hear this resolution. -

Remember," said Sir James, " where
your best friends are. We have not talked
of that sad affair at Paris, but we feel very
strongly."

"Jim wished me to ask," said Lady
Latham, "if Mr. Garrow would allow him
to call."

"He will be delighted. Pray encourage
him."

I knew you would say so. God bless
you, Pier! Where is Mary? You must
bid her good-bye''

The servants reported that Miss Latham
was in the gardens somewhere ; and Rawdon
went to seek her, grateful to the Fates
for giving him this opportunity. She was
discovered chattering to a small family of
linnets, whose anxious parents did not at
all appreciate the pretty intruder.

''I am going abroad, Miss Latham, and
I come to wish you good-bye."

Only to Paris, I suppose ? "

"Much further, I think. Sweyn talked
of the Eastern seas."

'rand you are going with him? Oh,
Mr. Rawdon ! how wicked to leave all
your friends just when they are getting
to know you ! Good brothers do not run
to the ends of the earth, and leave their
sisters to cry."

Will you cry, Mary ? " Pier exclaimed,
suddenly shaken in his resolve.

No. For you need not go away unless
you like."

I must ! "

'why?"

"Because you regard me as a brother,
whilst I"

"Are you offended?" Mary cried in
astonishment. " I only meant that I liked
you very much. Oh dear ! I 7?iust be a
child ! "

VOL. II. p

You are not a child, except in goodness
and innocence. You are so nearly a
woman, that in twelve months' time, when
I return, I shall ask  "

"What?"

I shall ask you to be my wife'

Your wife ? " she laughed merrily.

"Don't laugh  it pains me. What shall
you say ? "

"What shall I say in twelve months'
time ? I love you dearly, Mr. Rawdon ;
but I could never wish to marry you."

"Then what mockery was your challenge
? Do you remember that the time
arrives on your twentieth birthday ? Here
are the tablets."

Do you always wear them ? "

"Yes. They shall never leave me."

How silly ;  but it's very nice. Why
will you go away, Mr. Rawdon ? "

I have told you. You will not forget
me, Mary?"

That I promise. 1 could not forget

you. Do you recollect asking something
of me once ? If you would like it, I will
give it you ! " She turned into an arbour,
where feminine instruments and work lay on
the table, loosed the riband which bound
her pretty hair, and exclaimed, " Choose
the victim for yourself. What would mamma
say, I wonder ! How clumsy you are ! "

"My hand trembles. I cannot sacrifice
this gold'

It was not a sentimental reluctance,
however, that caused his delay, but the
blushing face which peeped through a veil
of glossy hair.

*' I have told you already that my hair
is not gold. Give me the scissors."

Grant me one kiss instead."

He spoke timidly and low, but she
cheerfully replied, " You shall have both,"
and put up her rosy mouth.

Rawdon kissed her with such calmness
as he could summon, but his throat was
rather dry as he said,

P 2

This is only the kiss of a brother who
bids his little sister good-bye. When I come
back, give me no kiss at all, or one
different."

But perhaps Mary felt a certain difference
already, for she blushed hotly, her sweet
eyes looked suddenly grave, and her hands
trembled in their turn as she severed a long
tress and gave it silently.

Good-bye, my darling. You will never
doubt nor mistrust me ? "

Why should I ? "

Are you sorry that I am going ? "

Very sorry."

"May I write?" 

*' Enclose the letters to mamma ; she will
give them to me. Good-bye, Mr. Rawdon."

"For twelve months only."

She smiled, and made no answer.

He went, and, turning at a corner of
the path, saw her looking after him gravely.
That small figure in its bright spring
costume, with the fair hair hanging loose.

and the eyes  as he fancied  round with
tears, was never far from his mind's eye
in the wild time that followed.

Travelling continually between London
and Rodange, Pier waited Garrow's recovery.
He had a thousand preparations
to make for his friend and himself, and
the weeks slipped by. It was the 24th
of May when all was finally completed.
Sweyn had gone to Nice as soon as he
could be moved ; he did not care to visit
England, and the name of Paris was abhorrent
to him. But Pier guessed all the
same what last news he would wish to
hear. The Perouacs had been staying at
their chateau for the spring, but they were
back in Paris now with all the leaders of
legitimacy, gathered for the grand coup.
Pier found every member of the family
absent at Versailles. The great conspiracy
had swelled, running thicker and faster,
until all the king's friends dropped into
it, men, women, and priests, devotees and

petits craves, philosophers and bacon merchants.
They hurried hither and thither,
wrote, telegraphed in secret forms, and
flew from end to end of Europe. The
Count de Perouac had a bed made up in
his study ; Jehanne held herself ready to
transcribe at all hours of the twenty-four ;
Albert grumbled that a penny postman's
berth was a sinecure compared with his.
Hugues ran up from his prefecture every
other day, demonstrated logically that the
conspirators were mad, and returned in
despair. The anxiety was overwhelming,
the pace awful. Each moment brought its
rumour of intrigues, quarrels, reconciliations,
misunderstandings, deceptions exposed,
and equivocal doings explained.

Pier travelled on to Versailles, reaching
the parliamentary capital at midnight.
The neighbourhood of the palace was
crowded, and the salons of the Reservoirs
presented what may be fitly called a
galaxy, a coup dceil an ovation, or whatever

is the strongest term in our penny
vocabularies. Nobles, statesmen, generals,
each attended by a dame or two, feverishly
passed from table to table, consulted, ran
out with an idea, or returned with news.
An evening full of delight, to be ever
remembered. Versailles probably had seen
nothing like this since Damien assaulted
the Well-beloved.

It was no time to speak of merely human
affairs, when right divine lay staked upon
the hazard of the die. Jehanne was watching
the tournament breathlessly, waiting
notes under her father's dictation, conferring
with other busy ladies, counting votes with
a sick anxiety. I am not going to tell the
alarms and surprises of that night, which
might have been so memorable. At 1 a.m.
all was over, a president deposed, a president
chosen, and notre roy at the foot
of his throne. The assemblage dispersed,
with mutual congratulations and hysterics,
not chilled by the threatening crowd

gathered at St. Lazar, nor by the cries
that reached their aristocratic ears as they
drove home. The trick was played ; the
people had lost, and they must pay.

Pier accompanied the Count to supper,
a serious meal, for in truth none of these
conspirators had properly sat down to eat
for several days past. Everything possible
to be said about the victory had been
exhausted before even the ceremonious
Count remembered his guest's loss. Then
they spoke of Garrow, and Pier watched
the lady's face. He fancied she turned paler
on hearing that he was so soon to leave
Europe.

I thought you might have some message
for him ? " Pier said generally.

The Count was astonished, then vexed,
embarrassed, and finally enraged.

Do I understand that Mr. Garrow is
not returning to Paris ? "

I do not know his plans, but I understand
that such is his intention 1 "

That is very strange. In the intimate
friendship which unites Mr. Garrow and
yourself, I do not doubt that he has informed
you of a singular but quite intelligible
conversation which he did me the
honour to hold some months since. Remembering
what passed, I am at a loss
to understand how he can leave France
for an indefinite time without further explanation."


"Father," said Jehanne, rising suddenly,
Mr. Garrow is not to blame."

My child ! What passes between a
gentleman and a young lady cannot absolve
the former from his duty towards her
parents. Mr. Garrow should have informed

me."

He means to do so, I am quite sure,
before leaving. He has scarcely yet quitted
his bed."

I am glad to receive the explanation.
Beg him to come and see me before he
goes. I like Mr. Garrow extremely, and

I trust that he may yet see reason to
change his projects."

Pier looked at Jehanne, who stood with
face averted. She made no sign, but kissed
her father s forehead, and held out her hand
to Rawdon without looking up.

Mademoiselle ! " he said, holding it in
his, " the Count entrusts me with a message
which would bring Sweyn Garrow from the
world's end if you added but one syllable."

Still with head downcast she answered,
I have nothing to say to Mr. Narrow save
wishing him well."

Then good-bye indeed ! You have had
in your hands the noblest spirit in the
world, and you turn it forth broken and
ruined. If you disliked him, Jehanne, there
would be forgiveness for you, or if you
misunderstood him. But in pure wantonness
of self-will and austerity you reject
a man who, as you know, could win your
love if you would let him. Sweyn will be
avenged, Jehanne ! When you, who pride

yourself on being marble, discover that you
are a very woman, hungry of love, then
you will understand what you have thrown
away ! "

*the warmth of your friendship excuses
you!

That was all Jehanne's reply, as she swept
from the room like an indignant goddess.

"This is all most improper," said the
Count, irritably. " The whole trouble arises
from your indecent English fashions. If
Mr. Garrow had paid his addresses in a
proper way, things would not have fallen
into such a state'

My father is quite right there," said
Albert. " Mr. Garrow has shocked
Jehanne's sense of propriety. That is the
secret of it all."

So Pier Rawdon had not a cheering
report to carry to Rodange. He found
Sweyn up, and eager to receive him. One
glance of his feverish eyes revealed the
hope which he would not confess, and

Pier hastened gently to tell what had
passed. The light faded from his face ashe
listened, and the last words were followed
by a pause.

Well," said Sweyn at length, '' it is
only awaking to the old life, as if from
a dream. I am an Ishmaelite by birth, of
no country and no kin, no dwelling-place
and no ties. Your friendship was enough
for my wants, Pier. Before I saw Jehanne
I never felt weary, I never wanted to get a
hold upon humanity. One could live, I
think, under her spell as gently and contentedly
as a knight of old in a witch's
sleep. One could rest, and bury old
memories deep, under the stillness of love ;
look after the crops and one's neighbours,
breed children, and sit at the Local Board.
Virtue is good for something, if only to give
one interest in one's fellows. But it's not
for me ! "

I think you would have made her
happy, Sweyn."

Perhaps not ; and I should have broken
my heart in trying. There ! It is done
with for ever. Never name her, Pier.
Listen to my plans. I am offered a yacht
which will suit us thoroughly, and I have
only delayed to buy it till your return.
We sail to the dear old Cape, have some
shooting in the Kaffir country, run across
to India and bag a tiger each, then work
pleasantly through the China Seas, visit
Japan, cross to San Francisco, kill buffaloes
on the plains, and round by the Horn. As
far as I can judge, we shall be eighteen
months or so away ; but if there is any
hurry, the yacht can be sent home, whilst
we return by rail across America."

"I only wish to be twelve months
away."

You have something to return for.
I wish to get rid of my life."

CHAPTER III.

AN ISLE OF EDEN.

A SWELTERING, shimmering sea, silver on
its crests, steel-grey in its shadows, heaving
languidly from a dim horizon. A wall of
shrubs and flowers, overhung by giant trees.
Betwixt these barriers a reach of sand,
bleached to snowy whiteness, parted down
its length by a narrow, black, bristling stripe
of jetsam. In the front, steep, sunny rocks,
crowned with verdure, girt with foam. A
river upon one hand, gently pouring from
the forest, with canoes drawn up around
its mouth, amid nipa palms and mangroves,
under a shadow of tall cocoa trees. Grey
and brown huts peeping amongst the green.
On a level space of turf, beneath a giant

tapong tree, a little swarm of girls running,
shrilly laughing, swinging to and fro, with
flutter of red skirts and gleam of satin
shoulders. A braver and a sweeter spectacle
than Paris boulevards or dun English
fields.

Dayang ! Dayang Isa ! What is your
Highness going to do ? "

*' I am going, nurse, to swing on my
brother's rope. Throw it to me."

Oh no ! Your Highness will break her
neck, and the Rajah will blind me with
red peppers ! "

** So he would, poor old nurse. Keep
out of the way then. Here, one of you
free-born girls, toss me the ring ! "

*'0h, don't try it, Dayang!" all the
others exclaimed, clustering together.
'come down and play!"

I won't ! I won't ! Aysha says she
has swung on the Rajah Mudah's rope, and
so will I."

You are not strong enough."

*' Oh ! Now, listen ! If no one will toss
me the ring I will jump straight down.
Then you will all be suspected of killing
me, and the Eajah will torture you to
death !  all but Aysha, who will be kissed
because she is our cousin ! Poor little
things ! I'm so sorry for you ; but here
goes ! "

The young tyrant stood upon a platform,
some twenty-five or thirty feet above the
ground. Painters seldom fancy a more
charming figure than that which the tropic
sun-rays outlined as with gold, when the
girl leaned over the boards, and stretched
her little hands to dive. A wealth of hair
drawn back to a heavy chignon, wreathed
with flowers, left the small face unshaded.
Golden-bronze it was in colour, with big-eyes
of unfathomable depth, so long and
thick their lashes grew, and a purple, dimpled
mouth. The delicate perfection of her
shape was displayed by the jacket of silk,
laced and buttoned with eold, and the

black and silver petticoat, caught up in
graceful loops, and tucked in the embroidered
girdle. The tiny jewelled sandals
kicked off sparkled in the sun behind her.

Stay, you obstinate child ! I will
throw you the ring."

Good Aysha ! Now you will see if I am
not strong enough."

Pretty girls there were in the group down
below, but none to compare with the cousins.
Aysha was tall for her race, of a grave and
stately presence. Both figure and features
showed a strain of Arab blood in the spare
grace of the one and the aquiline correctness
of the other. Isa was charming, but Aysha
beautiful. Both had a complexion fairer by
several degrees than that of the lightest
among their comrades ; but this is usual in
the family of a rajah. Those others had
mostly thrown off their jackets, which lay ina
heap beneath a tree, wearing only the
tartan petticoat. Their hair was tumbled
and loose, their polished brown shoulders

VOL. II. G

glistened with perspiration. But Aysha,
like her cousin, still wore the pretty dress of
high-born maidens.

She stood beneath a tapong tree, from the
lowest bough of which, a hundred feet in
air, a rope was suspended, with a large iron
ring at its extremity. The old nurse wrung
her hands, and the girls held their breath,
as Aysha grasped this steadily with outstretched
arm, and swung it upwards. With
a little cry of delighted excitement Isa
watched it come, measured the distance, and
launched herself to meet it. One simultaneous
exclamation of relief burst from the
little crowd as their mistress caught the iron,
swung through their midst with a flash of
gold, and soared aloft upon the other side.
As she sped by again, Aysha pushed her,
and until the slender arms ached she clung
to the ring, shedding sweet flowers from her
loosened hair, laughing breathlessly, and
crying out in childish joy.

Oh, it is glorious ! " Isa exclaimed,

when at length they stopped her. "Our
swings are not like this." She sat upon the
ground and panted, while the nurse arranged
her toilette, chiding. " Oh, I forgot ! " the
princess suddenly cried. " There is something
in the bay, far out. Climb the tree,
one of you, and look 1 "

The great tapong had a ladder fixed
against it, whereby slaves assured themselves,
from time to time, that the young
rajah's swing was safe. Our carpenters
might be puzzled to construct a ladder a
hundred feet long or more ; but there are
several hints they might gain in the East.
A male bamboo is first planted about two
feet from the trunk. A stout stick is thrust
into a hole dug in the wood itself, and
fastened at its other extremity to the
bamboo : thus forming the rung of a ladder.
The operation is repeated until reaching the
top of the bamboo, when a second is lashed
to it securely, end to end, and so the work
goes on to any height. Very seldom do

G 2

these structures give way, and even then
an accident is nearly always avoided.

But such conveniences are raised for
males alone, and their rungs often stand
three feet apart. It would be no light effort
for a young girl to climb from step to step,
and the attendants looked at each other unwillingly.
Isa glanced at them and laughed.

Why don't you go up, my brave cousin ? "
she said.

I am not the daughter of a monkey, to
climb trees ! " Aysha answered, disdainfully.

"If I were afraid I should own it."

So should I," replied Aysha, turning
away.

Say ! " Isa cried, imperatively, " go
up and look what it is floating out at sea."

The young slave named slowly and unwillingly
tightened the knot of her strong,
girt it round her to obtain full play of limb,
and clambered with difficulty from rung to
rung till she could overlook the nipa palms
and mangroves.

It is a boat," she called down. *' A
white man's boat, I think. There is a rag
of sail set, and it drifts in fast."

So saying the child quickly slid from her
perch, clasping the bamboo.

Great excitement this news produced.
Isa and Aysha both mounted the ladder to
verify, and they felt almost inclined to
believe the improbable story. Certainly
this was no boat belonging to their people,
and it must belong to an enemy therefore.
But no others came in sight, and it was too
small to give occasion for alarm. The girls
resolved to wait a little. If the craft was
empty there might perhaps be loot in it;
and Isa trembled with delight and hope,
while Aysha stretched her great eyes eagerly.
Even if there were men on board they could
not be very formidable. So, clinging with
one arm to the bamboo, seated one above the
other, these pirate girls watched like dogs
for game.

In half-an-hour the boat had drifted near

enough for their hawk-eyes to see it plainly.
The mast was only an oar, the sail dragged
over the side. No human beings could be
observed ; but at the bottom, in water which
lapped and sparkled, lay some bundles, vague
and shapeless.

"It is a wreck ! " cried Aysha, joyously,
and slid down.

Isa followed with no less speed, and they
raced towards the shore, where canoes
were lying.

"Run to the house, some of you,"
exclaimed the nurse, "and get paddles ! "

"No, no ! All the old women will comedown
and claim their share. What is to be
done, Aysha ? "

That energetic maiden did not answer.
She had glanced into every canoe, and assured
herself that no paddle lay forgotten there.

Fetch my knife ! " she cried, hastily
unbuttoning her jacket and throwing it off.

They brought a handsome weapon, with a
long, curved haft of polished ebony, girt

with bands of silver, and a broad blade.
After hesitating a moment, Aysha untied
her strong and tied it up again in a double
knot ; kilted it so closely that the gold-fringed
ends of the under-dress glistened
against her thigh ; threw off the gorgeous
waist-scarf, and took her knife.

"Are you going to swim out, Yang
Aysha?" piteously exclaimed the nurse.
Oh, what mad girls are Lanun princesses ! "

I will go with you ! " cried Isa, jealously,
making the same preparations.

We will 11 go," the girls repeated.

Those must be quick swimmers who
take my share ! " Aysha exclaimed, running
through the shallow water, which splashed
like a shower of jewels round her.

Isa was but just behind ; but the others,
prudently recollecting that those who hunt
with the lion get more blows than prey, stayed
on the beach. Swiftly the girls sped over
the waves, when they reached deeper water,
not breasting them as we do, but throwing

first one slender arm above their heads, and
then the other, scooping the water towards
them with palm gracefully hollowed, and
bearing their foreheads well erect. In an
incredibly short time they came within hailing
distance of the boat, and those ashore
heard the melancholy cry familiar to Oriental
travellers. There was no answer, nor any
movement. Then they saw Aysha dart for
the stem ;  her bare shoulders gleamed for
an instant, then disappeared beneath a royal
mantle of wet hair. She paused one second
to glance inside, and, with a spring so light
that experience alone can demonstrate how
skilful it is, she raised herself and climbed
on board.

Isa came only an instant in the rear, but
she nearly missed a prize. Three bodies lay
at the bottom of the vessel. Without even
looking at their features, Aysha sprang on
the nearest, hurriedly tore the ring from
his hand, the watch from his pocket. She
moved towards the next, but stumbled

over the sail, which dropped, enveloping
her in rotten canvas. With a joyous
laugh of triumph, Isa threw herself upon
the other form stretched helpless on the
planks.

Now," she cried, holding up two rings,
*' we will fairly divide what remains."

Aysha agreed, and they leisurely began
their search. When it was finished, and
the plunder admired with ecstatic delight,
one observed  >

"These dogs are not dead, I think."

No," said the other, indifferently.

Then for the first time they looked at the
men they had been robbing. Persons without
their awful experience would have
shuddered with horror at the sight of
human faces burnt, swollen, and distorted
in a manner which I could not tell. But
these pirate girls too often had beheld such
spectacles.

They are very young," said A.ysha, " the
white ones."

'sand how rich, they must have been.
Sons of great rajahs in Bel at, I suppose."

Then there was a pause, and another
scrutiny.

I wonder what nation the dogs belong
to. If they are not English, nor Spaniards,
nor Hollanders, it is a pity they should die.
Look how this diamond sparkles. It shines
brighter than a whole handful of mine."

' The djinns cut them for these infidels.
Don't you know  " etc., etc.

So for a quarter of an hour the girls talked
of wonders beyond sea, utterly forgetful of
the dying men. Isa indeed had drawn her
little feet out of the bilge, and rested them
for a footstool on a human chest.

Horrible, you think, reader, a libel on
womanhood and humanity. We may wish it
were. These pirate princesses were what a
bloody training had made them  reckless of
suffering, greedy of gain. But he would be
hugely mistaken who supposed that in all
respects they were annexed. Habit made

them unobservant of an enemy's pain  and
all the world was their enemy. They
regarded it as the natural state of things
that is, they would have done so had
they speculated on the subject  that men
should suffer and die for their pleasure
or advantage ; just as an English lady
considers it a law of Providence that gems
and precious furs should be bestowed upon
her. She does not think what agony the
winning of such spoils may have entailed.
And the Church teaches her that poor people
were born to work, for her advantage and
comfort ultimately. Many of them die in
the struggle, but that is a dispensation of
Providence. Woman accepts things as they
are, unless a special instance cause her to
reflect. The Lanun girls showed as much
feeling as could be expected when they took
no delight in cruelty. Asking more of them
than a vague compassion would be as
unreasonable as asking ladies and honourable
misses to forswear jewels and finery

because there are suffering paupers in the
neighbourhood.

After regarding their plunder in every
light, Isa exclaimed,

Let us try to save the dogs. Perhaps
they are orang Grants (Frenchmen), or they
belong to some small Beati people, who
don't attack us. I will take one as my
slave, and do you take the other."

' The Eajah would not let you keep him.
As soon as he came back he would throw
the Kaffir to the sharks."

I think he would not if he found him at
his own hearth."

But I am sure he would, and throw you
after him perhaps. You can try if you like,
but I will have nothing to do with it."

I will speak to the Eajah Mudah.
My brother Ibrahim will burn all the
camping rather than vex me. Don't be a
coward, Aysha."

They will die before we get to shore
unless this boat drifts more quickly." She

rose and glanced towards the land. " Why,
the wind is dying already, and the current
taking us out to sea ! Quick ! Let us hoist
the sail."

They tried to do so, but the ropes were
entangled and knotted. The breeze still
came in steady force for ten minutes at a
time, then dropped, again to recur. They
knew very well that within half-an-hour it
would shift to the opposite direction, and
carry them off shore, xlt the worst they
could always spring overboard, but they were
loth to abandon the boat.

Wei ! " cried Isa, after five minutes'
struojolinoj with the canvas. " Our strong
will carry us in."

So saying, she stripped off her outer
petticoat, and Aysha did the same, not
without a suspicious glance at the bodies
lying as though dead beneath their feet.
Fastening one end of the cloth to the mast,
and holding out the other with fingers and
toes, they caught the last puffs of wind, and

drove to shore. Before they reached it,
however, half-a-dozen canoes put out,
paddled by slaves and attendants. The
Sayings hastily resumed their dress, and
suffered themselves to be towed in.

As she put her hand upon the thwarts to
jump overboard, Isa struck a face again with
her small toes. She looked at it with some
attention, stooping to part the fair hair on
the discoloured forehead.

'' Aysha," she cried, gaily, " this is my
share of the slaves. I won't have him
hurt ! "

You are very welcome," the other
answered in the same tone. " If it comes
to that, I prefer this one. As for the Lascar,
we will give him to Her Highness, your
mother."

A score of active maidens, pulling at the
rope, dragged the small vessel up the beach.
Not till then did it occur to their mistresses
to give the dying creatures water. They
had been too much occupied, up till that

moment, with displaying the objects looted ;
but when an adventurous damsel tried to
enter the boat, their quick eyes detected her,
and she was repulsed with blows. Thus
recalled to their interests, the Sayings leapt
aboard again, and the first thing they did
was to disembarrass the craft of its late
owners. Aided by two stalwart slaves, they
heaved the bodies to the gunwale, and then
delivered them to the old nurse, with injunctions
to bring the dead to life. She
undertook the charge with indifference, saw
the white men carried into the shade,
drenched with water, stripped of their
wet clothes, and wrapped in female
strong. Then she put into each of their
mouths a lump of rice boiled in a bamboo,
and left them. As for the Lascar, he lay
where he fell, under the boat, until some
inquisitive girl observed that he had the
air of an " orang latin." The nurse was
eminently patriotic and religious. She
looked at the object  hideous enough, but

scarcely more so than were those others ;
decided that there was reasonable ground for
thinking it might be Malay and Moslem; and
therefore turned out a Christian dog who
occupied the shadiest place to give room for
this disciple of Mohammed.

After overhauling every nook and corner
of the prize, the Sayings started homeward
with their loot. They gave the white menin
charge of slaves, who humorously rolled
them over and over through the sand until
they reached the canoe. I do not know
whether this treatment would be approved
by theorists, but I can vouch that it was
successful. The sweet water permeated
veins and pores choked up with salt, withered
in dry heat. The. lump of rice, bound tight
in its own juice, melted imperceptibly. As
the wrecked men began to recover consciousness,
they were thoroughly shaken up, and
their limbs shampooed by the process of
conveying them through the hot soft sand
to the canoes in waiting. There the slave

girls heaved them in anyhow, and paddled
up the river.

The camping of Rajah Mummein hay
some three or four miles above the sea,
beyond the reach of artillery. It was fortified
with stockades capable of resisting a
small force provided only with light cannon.
Not less than fifty brass guns, three to ten
pounders, were mounted on these works, en
barbette. The village itself consisted of
about three hundred houses, raised on posts,
and built either of wood or palm thatch,
along the river-side. In the midst stood
the Eajah's palace, a building of considerable
size, painted blue, and surmounted by flags.
Next in importance was the house of Aysha's
mother ; her father had been killed at sea.
The girls decided, after mature consideration,
that it would be best to land their slaves
at the palace, and thither the canoes were
taken.

The princesses arrived an hour before, and
half the women of the settlement had

VOL. II. H

gathered to see their loot. Objects so
attractive had not been secured in Generations
of piracy. There were three handsome
rings, two watches, a little bag with a chain
of hair to attach it round the neck, gold and
silver money, arms, and all sorts of mysterious
things. The bag was opened with care,
for it evidently contained a saphi (a charm) ;
and the excitement was general when Aysha
displayed a small set of ivory tablets bound
in gold. Lanun women live on good terms
generally, but if these beautiful things could
have been secured by murdering the two
lucky finders, not one would have hesitated.
Whilst still the plunder passed from hand
to hand with admiration, Say came to
announce that the white slaves had arrived.
All the Rajah's harem broke into fury. No
European had been ever spared by Lanuns,
not at least in our time or our fathers'; they
have come to think it religious duty to kill
orang putih. They boast of such atrocities
in comparing themselves with Sulu and

Balignini, who sometimes hold white men
to ransom at Bruni. If the males of the
country had been at home they would have
settled in a moment the dispute which arose ;
but nearly all were absent on their annual
cruise. An old chief governed in the
Rajah's name, with just sufficient force to
prevent a servile outbreak. He lay ill, however,
and the ladies of the palace ruled.
Isa's mother, as head-wife, was endowed
with some theoretical power, but it was
disregarded in times of crisis. The more
violent dames rushed forth, calling on their
slaves to follow. Isa and Aysha leapt from
the balcony to the ground, and ran ahead,
little panting furies, to protect their rights
and dignity.

Both parties hurried to the spot where
the prisoners had been tossed out upon
the mud. In the light undress of their
home employments, the female population
gathered to take part, their strong fluttering,
waist-belts jingling. Many of them

H 2

carried a knife, not for utility alone, and
the Kaffir had no friend in that array.
The personal influence of the girls, of
course, was wholly confined to those of
their sex and age. Family connection
would have saved them in case of personal
danger, but very few matrons would take
their side in such a quarrel. The princesses
did not quail, however. They resolutely
stood before the prisoners, clasping knives
very pretty but by no means ineffective.
A long ray of sunset streamed through
the mangroves and glowed upon their
young faces set for a death struggle.

In the midst of the screaming and confusion
a canoe was seen, hastily scudding
up the opalescent channel. The paddle,
bent to his knees, threw long scoops of
water behind him at each stroke. All
saw that he bore news, and paused. At
hailing distance he cried, " Oh, wei, 
! The fleet is returning."

This intelligence drove out all other

thoughts. Dure the mishap must be, or
startling the good luck, which sent Rajah
Mummein back within the month when
he had started on his cruise. In another
instant it was known that the fleet was
visible from the river's mouth, advancing
with all speed. Forgetful of the late dis .
pute, wives and daughters of the pirates
sprang into their canoes, and hastened
down the stream. The white men, insensible
to pain or danger, even to scornful
little spurning by little royal feet, were
conveyed to Aysha's home and abandoned.

Isa and her cousin reached shore rather
late, detained by this care. The moon
had risen, stretching a silver net above
the dark-blue sea. Far out in the mist
and haze blotches of fire glowed luridly,
signals of the returning fleet. Nearer the
strand, black specks heaved and vanished
before a trail of phosphorescent light ;
some canoes, in the impatience and anxiety
of mothers, daughters, wives, had gone out

to sea. The other women waited, clustering
round fires of drift, dozing in the soft sand.
Gradually the beacons shone clearer, and
great war prays came into view, pulsating
with thirty oars a-side, creeping like swift
centipedes. Presently the " clank  clank " of
that human machinery was heard in feverish
rhythm, arms glistened in the moonlight.
All who could find a boat pushed
off for tidings, and the rest swam out.
Questions were shouted in long, wailing
cry, and answers came from the fighting
deck. The English were approaching to
attack their stronghold. So the Sultan of
Bruni had sent notice, and he invited
them to shelter in his dominions.

It was near midnight when the prays
entered the river, and sped upwards without
stopping. Slaves sank as they rowed, and
were tossed overboard, with a cut across
their throats. Warriors took their place,
and toiled with a sort of rage. Behind the
vessels streamed a little navy of canoes.

many of them still far out upon the
moonlit sea.

Instantly on arrival the Rajah gave his
orders. Guns were rolled down, and lifted
on board. Every household began to
pack. It is no toilsome business to gut
a Lanun dwelling, though it be a palace.
Furniture there is scarce any moveable ;
and the beautiful mats, the draperies, the
silks and handsome robes, the arms, the
ornaments, the simple basins and utensils,
are easily stowed away. By the flare of
bonfires all the property of the settlement
had been transported aboard ship when
morning came ; and other villages, less
imperilled, must wait their turn. Eajah
Mummein sat on his huge bed, stripped
of its mattresses, ruminating. A fierce
old sea-king was he, lean as a tiger, with
wrinkled eyes, and broad, ill-shaped mouth.
Isa brought him a pannikin of brandy,
a precious commission entrusted to her,
envied by all the Eajah's wives. They

could not understand why this girl should
bring their lord a cup of water every night.

How is my little Isa ? " said the pirate
chief, smelling her hair and shoulders, in
the way these Orientals substitute for kissing.

Father, I have a new slave, and so has
Aysha. We found them in a boat."

Ah ! what was it I heard ? Something
about white men you are protecting.
Where are they ? "

*' Will you promise not to hurt them ? "

"No. They must die. Ibrahim," he
added to the youth who just came in,
'find' those Kaffir doors the girls brought
Id, and pitch them into the river ! "

Isa petulantly began to exclaim, but
Ibrahim silenced her. He was a fine young
pirate, slender and handsome, but stern
of expression.

"If we dare not fight the Kaffirs," he
said briefly, with a kind glance at his
sister, "we will not murder them to vex
our little Isa."

"Do you think I love to run away?"
cried the Eajah, angrily. " Enough ! The
elders have talked of this. Count how
many of your young warriors would stand
by you to resist the orang putih  be they
cursed ! "

"I have counted. Not a man would
fly, if the Hollander, and the Spaniard,
and the Englishman sailed at them
abreast."

You are boys, and have no memory.
I have fought the white man on sea and
land, when the bravest of our nation were
in thousands. I have ordered. Obey !
Toss those Kaffirs into the river ! "

' My arms are in the pray. I have
obeyed once''

The Rajah turned green with passion.

Do you defy me ? " he cried, drawing
his kris.

Ibrahim did not answer, but with a
look as fierce as his own. Isa ran
between them. She still held the pannikin.

and her movement spilt its cod tents upon
her brother's chest.

What is that ? " Ibrahim cried, taking
the cup and smelling it. Scornfully and
sternly he eyed his father as he threw
the brandy on the floor. The Rajah
quailed at this detection of his secret,
and Ibrahim went out silently. At the
door he turned and said, 'the Kaffirs
shall not be killed. If you have forgotten
how young men fight, lead on your
greybeards, and you shall see, Eajah ! "

Forgive me ! " whispered Isa, drawing
near.

It is enough. Go. Keep out of my
sight."

He would not be mollified ; and the
girl withdrew at length, her heart very
full, for the two loved each other in their
wild way. Going to seek Aysha, she
found Ibrahim superintending the transport
of the prisoners on board a merchant
ship, captured in a former foray.

At dawn the vessels dropped down the
river, carrying as many of the population
as could find room. Those remaining held
themselves in readiness to fly into the
jungle at the first alarm, there to wait
until the prays returned to take them off
from a spot appointed.

CHAPTER IV.

A CRUISE WITH THE LANUNS.

Gradually the shipwrecked men recovered
consciousness as the vessel sped
day by day towards Bruni. They found
themselves stretched upon a sloping deck
of thatch, like a pent-house, with the sea
all round and beneath them, the brilliant
tropic sky above. The lateen sail threw a
grateful shadow, which they followed painfully
as it moved. Glancing between eyelids
too swollen to bear the dazzling liorht,
they watched a crowd of ruffians, gaily
dressed, in the fore part of the vessel ;
a score of women in the after part. A
lively interchange of wit passed above their

heads. The tum-tum was constantly in use,
and the stream of song scarcely ceased day
or night ;  if song that may be called
which is more like the humming of a bluebottle,
varied by a nasal scream, abrupt
and long-drawn out, like the sudden whirr
of a cicala. In general the ditty reached an
end after a verse or two, at the remonstrance
of the women, who could scarcely
express their distaste of its objectionable sentiments,
so convulsed were they with laughter.
Every colour was displayed in the costume
of these people, red predominating.
Some of the men wore only the national
strong, gracefully looped about their agile
frames, and the picturesque head-handkerchief
; others were clothed in shirts of
silk, and trousers beneath the inevitable
strong. A frosty gleam of gold here and
there proved them to be not all common
rovers. The slender foremast was girdled
with arms, wavy kris, ponderous kempilan
tulwar of Indian manufacture, pieces of

chain-mail, British cutlass. Very pleasant
and bright was the scene. The intense
sunshine appeared to carve things solidly
out, and the shadows seemed cut with
axe. Supple v/ith constant bathing and
constant heat, the men's shoulders glistened
like silk. Even their ugliness was picturesque.
The small eyes gleamed with
every changeful mood, the ill-cut mouths
rested not a moment still. When not
open for talk or laughter or song, they
rolled penang incessantly, and their chins
were dabbled with its scarlet stain, as with
blood. Lanuns are represented as a handsome
race, and so, in truth, are their chiefs
and nobles, crossed for generations with the
blood of their most beautiful captives. But
the common warrior is distinguished from
other scions of the great Malay family
only by his height. These pirates lolled
their misshapen heads upon their stalwart
shoulders, exhibiting a wild-beast array of
teeth, filed, dyed, and opalescent. Loud

and long they laughed, with oblique and
sinister glances of the eye at the women in
the after part. These, on their side, found
amusement enough. Under the formal
protection of veils, which hid none of their
features, they returned those gnomes quite
as good as they received, and the war of
cynic wit scarcely ceased.

One afternoon Pier awoke, perfectly conscious,
and desperately hungry. Sweyn
Garrow lay beside him still asleep, so
disfigured that his friend shuddered at the
sight. Beyond squatted the interpreter,
S'Ali Kasut, a lean and lank Malay, whose
sun-dried skin was fast recovering such
gloss as it had possessed. At Pier's request
S'Ali called for food, and the women were
greatly interested to see one of the orang
putih sitting up. But good nature is a
quality almost universal in a race which
habitually and, as it were, religiously tortures
its captives at the outset. After
laughing their fill, two of the women rose,

and let themselves drop through a hole in
the thatch. They reappeared with plates of
rice, dried fish, and pickles, which they set
before Rawdon, moving easily above the
sloping and unprotected deck. A fire of
broad jests from the men saluted them, and
they returned it stoutly.

Sweyn wakened with a start which
racked all the bones of his frame.

Where am I ? " he murmured, looking
round bewildered.

The Lanuns bent forward on hands and
knees, watching curiously, with their keen
shadeless eyes and cynical wry mouths.

Ah, those devils still I " Sweyn muttered,
shuddering, and they fell back, screaming
with delight.

One of them instantly began to improvise
a ribald song, to which the others added a
verse in turn.

I understand only vaguely," Pier answered,
with his mouth full. '' Tell us
what has happened, Ali."

In his quaint English the Malay explained
events, from the time when those three,
the sole survivors of their yacht's crew,
gradually lost consciousness in suffering and
despair. More accustomed to hardship, and
more carefully tended,  as a Mahometan, 
he had regained possession of his senses
many hours ago ; and the pirates, indefatigable
story-tellers, had informed him of
everything that had taken place, making
the narrative very droll. It appeared that
they picked up many portions of the yacht,
but they had mostly been abandoned at
the town. S' All's tale was heard with
astonishment.

'' What do you remember of all this ? "
Pier asked.

I remember those awful scenes in the
l)oat, when  let us not talk of it ! And it
seems that I opened my eyes once afterwards.
A bronze figure of an angel stood
in the bows, holding a purple sail with
hand and foot. Its round limbs shone all

VOL. II. 1

over like gold, and a halo sparkled round
its head. Then I appear to recollect being
rolled over and over. There was a great
noise and bustle. It was dark night round
me, but the heavens flared overhead. All
the time I was conscious of those fiends
yonder, seeing them without opening my
eyes."

"My recollections are much the same.
What are the pirates going to do with
us, S'Ali?"

Nobody knows it. They say Rajah
Mudah not let you killed be. They make
you slave."

The friends looked at each other and
smiled. Slaves of those inhuman brutes !
Not whilst there was water in the sea, nor
trees on land. They talked of escape, but
for the moment this was impossible, and
they slept again, gathering strength with
every gust of perfumed air.

Another day passed, and another, cloudless
above, smooth below. The vessel did

not sail alone. A fleet of prays and large
canoes, all filled with people and goods,
covered the sea. Swift vessels darted
by continually, racing with one another.
Richly-dressed chiefs upon their fighting
decks grinned at the prisoners as they
passed. Sometimes also there were women,
densely veiled, but graceful of figure,
who showed no less interest. Once S'Ali
pointed out a handsome pray, on which
sat two girls and an old lady, surrounded
by slaves. They never glanced aside, but
S'Ali whispered 

Them the sayings what you caught.
Dayang Isa, she with her father be dare
not. She with Dayang Aysha's mother
sail, and Rajah Mudah he watching
always."

On the fifth day they approached the
land, visible till then only like a cloud.
Very beautiful it was. Hanging in the
sky loomed the huge peak of Kina Ball, a
hundred and fifty miles away as the crow

I 2

flies. Scarcely less majestic rose Motu,
and range on range of stately hills, one
before the other, springing from the very
surge. Not rugged nor threatening were
they, but brilliant of verdure in the sun.
The eternal forest here was broken into
glades and pretty copses, with savannahs
interspersed. Great herds of half wild
cattle roamed about, and the smoke rising
everywhere amidst the trees betrayed the
site of villages unseen.

This is my fancy of Paradise," said
Rawdon.

And its inhabitants realize my notion
of fiends," Sweyn answered.

S'Ali was now quite at home with the
Lanuns. He went where he pleased, saving,
of course, the women's quarter ; he cracked
jokes and sang a verse, took the tum-tum
or the stick of sugar-cane from any hand.
The Englishmen might have done the like
could they have talked. Of the easy Malay
speech, indeed, they were not quite ignorant,

and, giving themselves to the study
now with zeal, their progress in the
Lanun dialect was rapid. A tongue which
has no genders, no declensions, but three
moods and three tenses to the verb,  
expressed by particles,  with nearly all its
parts of speech interchangeable, is not
difficult to acquire.

All the fleet lay to off shore, whilst a
vessel coming from the south-west rapidly
approached. Upon its deck sat a personage
gorgeously attired, under shade of a yellow
silk umbrella. Rajah Mummein paid him
a short but ceremonious visit, and then,
returning to his pray, ordered the voyage
to be resumed.

"That man," S'Ali observed, after inquiry,
' great Bruni pangeran. He come
say English man-of-war at Labuan no be,
and this afternoon we pass."

It happened so. Sailing just beyond
cannon-shot, the Lanuns scudded under
the very batteries of Labuan. The red flag

of Eiiorland was visible, even the white
uniform of soldiers standing by their guns.
The pirates shook aloft their weapons, and
reviled the banner of their great enemy ;
but they cautiously kept their distance.
Afterwards they passed before the town,
where a dozen ships lay at anchor, and
the wharf were crowded with people hurrying
to behold this spectacle. But to
attempt escape here would have been
mere waste of life ; at Bruni, if they were
taken there, as had been announced, there
is a consul, and besides, the Sultan himself
would stand by them resolutely, for
his throne's sake.

Next day the fleet entered the Bay of
Bruni, a beautiful stretch of water, like
an inland sea. At Chorion Island it cast
anchor, while the Eajah and some leading
chiefs rowed up to the capital. Every one
landed, Pier and Sweyn with the rest.
They sat beneath a tree on the pretty,
strand, and S'Ali went from group to group

inquiring cautiously what was to be done
with them at Bruni.

To their bitter disappointment he learned
that there was no intention of visiting the
town itself. The Sultan desired his immigrants
to settle on the river Limbang, where
the Kayans were playing awful mischief;
and thither they would proceed direct. The
only chance was to write to the Consul,
and S'Ali went out to seek a messenger.

Whilst the captives sat there, rather
despondent, slaves were building sheds,
of branches and bamboo. Others landed
bedding and kitchen utensils, made fires,
carried water. Presently the mistresses
appeared, in rude delight to touch dry soil
again. They gathered about the Englishmen,
making remarks very improper, laughing
loud, and pushing.

I could almost believe," said Sweyn,
'that the girl in purple yonder was that
bronze statue I dreamed of in real flesh."

Two pirate-maidens were watching them

silently, apart from the crowd, their beautiful
eyes uncovered ; and in truth the shawl
about their heads concealed very little of
the features. The friends observed them
with an interest and a gratitude by no
means void of admiration, and the girls
reflected their expression. But others came
up, saucy and sportive. One of them seized
Aysha's hand, and held it forth with mischievous
triumph. A perfect hand it was,
the finger-tips and the small soft palm
stained orange-pink with henna. Pier recognized
his diamond ring, and Isa, without
solicitation, thrust out her own small paw,
gleefully laughing in Sweyn's face.

You jolly little thieves ! " he exclaimed,
merrily.

Pier asked by signs for the object he had
worn round his neck, and Aysha, smiling
pleasantly, threw aside her shawL Mary
Latham's tablets lay upon a bosom as pretty
as her own, bronze instead of marble. He
made a gesture as if to seize it, but the

girls ran like deer, laughing loud. An old
woman cooking at the fire picked up a
stone and hurled it with all her senile
force. It flew wide, but Sweyn caught it,
tossed it up behind him like a cricket ball,
recovered and lightly pitched it towards
Isa, who was returning. All Malays are
skilled in games of ball, and this little feat
delighted the women. Catching the pebble
neatly, Isa tossed it round among her slaves.

S'Ali came with his report. "Things
bad, turns ! " he said. " No man to Bruni
go, but Rajah. I one slave ask, my
countryman, letter to carry. He say no,
and I think he Rajah tell. Things very
bad!"

They were indeed, if S'Ali's suspicions
proved correct. The Lanuns would now
have an overpowering motive to rid themselves
of their prisoners, besides the national
hatred of orang putih. Towards nine
o'clock the Rajah's pray returned, ablaze
with torches, which lit the sombre forest

and the hurrying stream. Some warriors
and slaves landed, but the wives of the
chiefs went aboard with their attendants,
carrying supper. The princesses stood at
the landing-place, Isa looking wistfully at
her father's pray. The scene was superbly
picturesque. Kawdon and Garrow had
innocently posted themselves in the women's
quarter of the camp, and no one troubled
to dislodge them. Black against the fires,
rosy in the light, draped figures passed from
shed to shed, gossiping and laughing,
(girl slaves, half naked, crouched round
the blaze, which glistened on their shoulders
whilst they ate the leavings of the supper.
At a little distance the men were busy
furbishing their arms, singing, cooking. In
the stream, the big black prays flared with
light, which showed the more aristocratic
women and the chiefs on deck, gleaming
with silk and gold, glittering with weapons.
Vessels further off were outlined in the
ruddy glare, which died gradually away in

the breadth of that grand river. Overhead
the fire-flies played in swarms, wrapping
some favourite tree with a sheet of silver,
and vanishing, to reappear each instant.
The noise was wild but musical  long
shout 'of men, laughter of girls, rhythmic
beat of tum-tum, and sudden burst of
nasal song.

When S'Ali brought them food the
Englishmen ate, and lay down where they
stood. Presently a slave appeared, carrying
a bottle of raid, which he put beside
them without speaking. For this attention
they gave the Sayings credit, and proposed
to drink their healths. But as Sweyn
poured himself a capful, S'Ali uttered a
warning sound, listened an instant, and like
a snake he stole behind the tree. Presently
he crept back. " Lady Aysha to speak
wishes, with Tuan Eawdon. She say raki
not drink."

Sweyn put down the pannikin untasted,
whilst Pier glided noiselessly away with

S'Ali. The girl's dark figure was invisible,
until lie made her presence known by a
whisper.

You are the Kaffir who asked me
for the charm I took. Here it is. And
here are the arms we found in your boat.
Listen ! The Eajah is afraid to keep you.
He sent raki to make you sleep. Do not
die like boatmen, crying. The Dayang Isa
is endeavouring to get her brother to protect
you. You have arms. We can do no
more."

You can, Dayang ! " Pier exclaimed,
taking hold of her dress. " If the consuls
at Bruni knew we were here they would
ransom us. Send a slave. We are rich.
You shall be clothed in gold'

But Aysha answered coldly that no one
could pass the sentries, and turned away.
Eawdon pleaded as a man does for life, and
Malay interpreters are eloquent. The girl
was moved.

Listen ! " she said. '' Gold would not

buy our help. But if it be, as you say, that
the cruisers will follow us, and the Sultan
will avenge your death, the Rajah Mudah
Ibrahim perhaps will forward a message.
I go to tell him. It is already late."

She withdrew, and Pier returned, carrying
the weapons  a brace of revolvers,
loaded but rusty, two cutlasses, and a
sheath knife. The chances of slipping away
and hiding until the fleet sailed were discussed.
S'Ali crept off to explore, and
reported, after half an hour s absence, that
sentinels kept watch all round. Sweyn
proposed a rush for liberty, but the Malay
demonstrated that escape was impossible,
and that death might or might not come
to them where they sat. He said,

Lanun Rajah be not noise like. At
Bruni they tell him if he Englishmen kill,
Sultan eat him up. So he raki send.
But Rajah Mudah Ibrahim with his father
mad for running away. He say, kill
English prisoners no good. I think he

help us. The fate of man on his forehead
written."

'' You drunken Kaffir dogs, go sleep,"
cried a voice from the jungle.

You see 1 " whispered the Malay. " They
want us sleep, we want not sleep." He called
out to the unseen challenger, " You are
happy with your wife in your arms, Lanun.
Shall not a slave talk of his misery  if a
Moslem, shall he not say his prayers ? "
There was no answer to this appeal.

Neither sound nor movement roused suspicion.
The fires were smouldering under
green logs, which threw volumes of smoke
into the misty air. Found them lay slaves,
doubled up and muffled in a scanty cotton
robe. The torches on the river were extinguished,
and one feeble light only threw
a tremulous reflection on the current. The
day's work had been heavy, the meal
copious. At many camp-fires the opium
pipe had been passed round. Nobody was
stirring. The murmur of the forest and

the stream, the drowsy croak of frogs, the
sudden trill of a cigale, suppressed as soon
as heard, the bell of deer, the splash of
leaping fish  these pleasant sounds all spoke
of peace. But somewhere at hand, everywhere,
assassins crouched. It was a night
dusky rather than dark. Mists rolled in
from the water and gathered over the clearing.
The forest-edge, where the prisoners
lay, was black as a vault.

They withdrew from that perilous shelter,
where assailants had every advantage, taking
no pains to conceal their movement,

"Egad," Sweyn muttered, "perhaps we
do the Rajah injustice. He may have sent
that sleeping draught to protect us against
the mosquitos."

They were indeed a torment to fear. Men
have died in those rivers under the fever
of their bites.

It is a gruesome watch, expecting attack
in the jungle. The darkness takes form,
and writhes towards a man. Shadowy

things approach, and suddenly fade away.
Where his back is there is the enemy,
creeping, knife in hand, with white eyes
in a shapeless face. Fearless though they
were, a semi superstitious dread made the
Englishmen's flesh creep. They rose and
walked to and fro.

A man approached from the bush, saying
rudely,

The Sayings cannot sleep. Lie down,
infidels 1 "

"We have no tobacco," Pier exclaimed.

The man disappeared, and presently
brought a roll of nipa leaves, with a
handful of native tobacco. 'now sleep,"
he said, and left them.

"What is the time, S'Ali ? " Sweyn
asked.

"Past midnight. If the Rajah Mudah
his slave sent, he now at Bruni be. Two
hours' time we free or we dead."

Are you afraid of death ? " asked Rawdon,
curiously.

Why afraid ? What good ? "

Have you prayed to Allah ? "

Seven times every day I have prayed
since young I was. Why pray out of time ?
The Almighty sees ; He knows. Shall I
tell Him something new ? "

This is fatalism of the best sort, Sweyn.
But you will fight for life I hope ? "

Why not ? Allah make man and Allah
make lamb."

Bravo, S'Ali ! That is in the spirit of
Blake. Do you remember poor old Mr.
Lambert puzzling over his lines on the
tiger ? ' When the stars threw down their
spears, and watered Heaven with their
tears,' &c. They seemed rather mixed at
first. Old fellow, we may learn many
mysteries before the dawn."

When Aysha returned to her companion
she found Ibrahim gone. He had been
coaxed to protect the prisoners once again,
for the young chief was devoted to his sister.
For a while the girls sought him in the

VOL. II. K

dark, but it was vain. Returned to their
hut of boughs, Isa suddenly cried 

"Let us go ourselves. We can return
before the dawn 1 "

Aysha hesitated. It went against her
code of fitness to take so much trouble for
Kaffir slaves, but these were so rich, she
said to herself. They would cover their
saviours with gold. What a pity if such
chance of fortune were destroyed by bloodthirsty
stupid ! And she agreed.

Of noble blood though they were, no girl
of the clan was quicker at the paddle than
these ; every Lanun girl has that accomplishment,
whatever her degree. They
thought nothings of the dozen miles before
them, and little of the risk. What forms of
danger occurred to their minds did not
belong to the class which town-bred maidens
recognize, in the East as in the West. Disguising
themselves in plain attire, and taking
weapons which they would not be slow to
use, they stepped into a small canoe and

shoved off. To sentry after sentry, peering
from the look-out aboard each pray, they
gave the password. Each fancied they were
making for the next vessel as they edged
quietly upwards. At length the canoe
swung round, and at full speed they started
up the river.

Hours went by. It was shortly after
midnight when the first signs of the capital
appeared on either hand. High up in air
dim outlines peered through the fog, and
lights shone duskily. The season is important
to recollect. The fast month of
Amazon had begun that very day, scarcely
noticed by the careless Lanuns, but a great
event at this most orthodox of capitals.
The sayings as yet had not reached the
aristocratic quarter, but the magnitude and
splendour of the floating city alarmed whilst
it astonished them. The canals and waterways
seemed endless, the tall, silent houses
glimmering on either bank oppressed them
with a kind of superstitious awe. In this

K 2

part, the abode of fishermen mostly, they
found no people stirring after the supper
time. Occasionally from the shadow of a
building a canoe paddled noiselessly out.
But midnight lovers are bad people to
apply to for information.

As they went up, in the midst of the
channel lay a small fleet of sampans, laden
with hay and fruit and market produce. A
kind of guard-ship, painted the royal yellow,
was anchored at a little distance, for all the
energy of which this government is now
capable concentrates itself on keeping the
markets open. The sentry lay doubled up
beneath his strong, but he rose with a
grunt, and sulkily asked their business.
What could women want with the English

o

consul ? To give him information ? Oh,
very well. He would show the ladies with
pleasure.

Summoning a comrade to take his duty,
the man stepped aboard, nearly swamping
the very small canoe. He guided them to a

quarter much more animated, where the
big houses were lit up, and handsome boats
full of richly-dressed people passed to and
fro. But the large building which they
approached was dark and quiet, saving the
watchman's lantern down beneath, and a
shrouded halo on the upper floor. They
paddled to steps which opened from the
middle of the house by a trap, and descended
to the water. The watchman
challenged, and, after naming his position,
the guide went up and spoke with him.
After a few moments both disappeared.
Returning presently, they invited the girls
to mount. At the end of a suite of apartments,
magnificently furnished,  according
to Lanun ideas,  sat an elderly man, upon
a bed some twenty feet long by fifteen.
The mosquito curtains of figured Indian
stuff were joined at his back, framing a
picture lit up by tall candelabra on each
side. He had evidently been roused from
slumber. He wore a loose jacket and wide

drawers of silk ; his eyes were dull and
heavy ; his voice ill-tempered.

'' What is it you have to tell, parampuan
(women) ? " he said discourteously.

It was the first time in their lives that
these princesses had been roughly addressed.
Isa burst forth 

We have a message for the British
consul, orang " (man).

The attendants standing by gasped inarticulately,
and one of them raised his
hand to strike this insulting creature. But
the chief arrested him quickly, and said in
another tone 

I am the Datu Shahbandhar. Tell me
your errand to the consul."

Isa would not speak, but her cousin briefly
disclosed their business. The announcement
of an enemy at the gate would not have
caused more alarm.

What ? Shipwrecked Englishmen in our
river enslaved ! And in danger ! By the
name of the All Merciful, I adjure you !

Every man afoot ! Get out my swiftest
pray ! I go myself ! These Lanun swine !
The Blessed One knows our innocence !
Bruni is ruined 1 My kris ! Quick with
the boat ! If we do not arrive in time
Bruni is lost ! "

With threats and ejaculations the Datu
Shahbandhar was hastily equipped. Slaves
rushed about ; weapons clanked. The
great house was astir with feet swiftly
rustling on the mats. The bed-curtains
moved and swayed. Black eyes glimmered
at every rent, as the women, disturbed by
this ado, came hurrying from their apartments
and peeped through the drapery.
It takes no long time to rouse a Malayan
household, and in ten minutes the Pangeran
was embarked, with his official suite, his
soldiers, and his paddle-slaves. The girls
followed him ; but turning at the door he
cried 

Take these Lanun women within the
purdah and keep them safe ! "

In spite of cries and struggles they were
borne away.

All those long hours the Englishmen were
expecting death. They did not speak of
what lay uppermost in the mind of both.
Jehanne's name was never mentioned now,
and in kindness Pier repressed allusion to
his more hopeful love. But he held tight
the silken bag, grateful for the superstitious
friendliness which had led Aysha to restore it.

It was long past midnight ; the cocks
began to crow. Without one pause they
had kept a cigarette glowing, to show their
wakefulness.

St ! " S'Ali whispered, suddenly.

They knew it was the time, and their
expectant hearts gave a sickening bound.
Silently they rose and stood back to back,
exchanging a pressure of the hand. Vague
forms could be seen in the obscurity, darker
blotches on the undergrowth.

'' Are you waking, Kaffirs ? " a voice
exclaimed, and a man stepped towards them.

"Wei, Rajah Mudah ! " SAli answered.
*ewe keep wa,tc]i like those who wait for
death. Do you mean us well ? "

I come to sit beside you in peace."

There was a rustle and a murmur of
voices, conferring low. Ibrahim turned
back. They heard him say,

I am here. It is enough."

The whispering continued.

*' Mark me then," said the Rajah Mudah
aloud. '' I am going to sit with these
Kaffirs, and if any of you would hurt them,
ponder that fact."

Some angry words followed, and then a
scuffle, the thud of a body falling, and a
groan. In another second the young chief
stood beside the prisoners, armed and resolute.

The Lanuns rushed forward. But a shot
fired over their heads by Rawdon caused an
instant's halt of surprise. By the flash the
pirates saw their victims standing prepared,
whilst Ibrahim, in front, had his kempilan
drawn. They hesitated, and some withdrew.

In the sudden silence, a thud of paddles
beating in feverish haste upon the gunwale
caught their ears. A boat approached from
Bruni. Faintly amongst the trees clothing
the nearest reach a glow of light appeared.
The Lanuns hastily retired to consult their
chief.

Almost before the men so suddenly preserved
could exchange congratulations, a
pray sped round the bend amidst a blaze
of torches. The water splashed behind its
paddles like a rain of blood. Upon the
low deck amidships stood a chief amongst
his attendants. He shouted towards the
Lanun boats, and shook his kris. But the
effect was not such as he desired upon those
ashore. With or without command, the
pirates turned.

Clear aside, oh, Rajah Mudah ! " they
shouted. " Those Kaffirs are dead dogs."

Clearly now in the lurid radiance they
saw the Lanuns, stripped to fight, their
long hair tied back and streaming, as they

ran like wolves to blood. So close they
charged, and so eagerly, that several stumbled
over the roots and inequalities of
ground. But the struggle was brief. The
young Rajah yelled his rallying cry, but he
was separated, overthrown, and disarmed ;
not without ugly wounds, for the Lanun is
blind in fight. Pier and Sweyn, back to
back, made a desperate resistance. But
already they were beaten down by crushing
blows of the two-handed Lanun sword,
when the comrades of the Eajah Mudah
broke in, and the melee joined. At this
instant the Bruni noble sprang ashore,
behind his soldiers and retainers, armed
with European weapons, and disciplined
in some measure. They drove both parties
into the jungle, recovered the bodies of the
wounded men, and carried them on board
the pray. But Eajah Mummein, in answer to
a message, declared he would see neither
the Shahbandhar nor the Sultan himself
that night.

The Data's people were skilled in dressing
wounds, and they announced that both
Pier and Sweyn would certainly recover.
Poor S'Ali was dead, and they left him
on the ground. Forthwith the Shahbandhar
set forth on his return, for he felt no
inclination to linger amongst those wild and
reckless Lanuns. Ibrahim's party, distrustful
of the Rajah, asked a passage for their
wounded chief, and were refused, of course.
They embarked with him in their own
vessels, and departed for Bruni with the
Shahbandhar, loudly menacing and insulting
the Rajah as they passed. At dawn the
capital was reached.

CHAPTER V.

AT Beni.

A FORTNIGHT afterwards Pier was sitting
in the verandah of a house at Bruni, his
head and neck swathed in bandages.
Stretched on the floor beside him was the
Lanun Eajah Mudah, equally swaddled, but
smoking a cigarette with eyes half-closed.
Fortunate it was that their assailants had
mostly relied upon downright cutting to
effect their purpose. But one of the four,
S'Ali, had received a thrust from the deadly
kris, roughened with lime-juice, envenomed
by constant rubbing with slices of rotten
pineapple ; and he had died.

The palace where they lay stood upon

piles in the river. It was that of the Datu
Shahbandhar, the minister of Trade and
Hospitality, so to call him. His duty it is
to receive strangers. To observe the curious
interest of Bruni life they could not have
found a better spot. On either hand the
river stretched, not bordered, but occupied
with houses. To the very edge of the deep
water they stood in picturesque masses,
following the broken outline of shore and
sandbank. Boats vanished and appeared
every instant amidst the shadow of their
floors. Every water-way was a street, the
markets a throng of canoes and sampans,
prettily roofed with boughs, piled high with
glittering fish, or fruits of brilliant colour.
Just round the curve they saw the stake-nets
of the Pablat quarter, stretching hundreds
of yards. At morn and evening
they could watch the cast-net fishers, whose
camping is higher up, their naked figures
shining like polished bronze in a thousand
graceful attitudes. Opposite lay the 

Panseraii Mohammed, the noble camping,
with its big houses, streaming flags,
and endless procession of state prays. On
the higher ground rising above stood the
camping of the blacksmiths and kris-makers,
resonant all day with a cheerful clang of
hammers. And so, past many a toiling
quarter, the mat-makers, the rice-cleaners,
the workers in wood and brass, the net-makers,
up to Burong Pine, where no flags
may be hoisted, but where the houses are
large and handsome, as befits a community
of traders. For all its poverty and ruin,
Bruni is still a fine city of the savage
and barbaric class, unequalled east or
west for the quaintness of its site. It
seems to have gone adrift upon the river,
arrested here in some back eddy. Superb
mountains encircle it, and glorious foliage.
Though the Bruni nobles be hard pressed
for necessaries, they have no lack of silk
and gold and diamonds. Though the
Kay an is at their gates, and the area of

cultivation yearly dwindles, they maintain
their suite of picturesque banditti, their
gilded boats, and the umbrellas of hue
so nicely determined by the herald. Though
the empire is doomed, and they know it,
they take a new wife each month, and
make merry.

Sweyn entered, convalescent, but not yet
rid of all his bandages.

Our Lanun friends have started for the
Limbang," he said, " in boats furnished by
the Sultan  that is to say, he has impressed
a lot of fishermen's canoes. Their own
prays have gone back to fetch the remainder
of the brutes. Why should we go to
Labuan in such a hurry ? There's a prospect
of enormous fun here shortly'

*why, what is happening?"

'' The Kayans are in tremendous* force,
and this time they mean nothing less than
to sweep the country clean up to the bay
itself There is an awful panic. Have you
any news of the girls ? "

No. Ibrahim takes the matter with
astonishing philosophy."

'' And poor S'Ali told us he was engaged
to his cousin ! This fellow gives one a
lesson," Sweyn said, bitterly. *' He bears
the loss of his bride with more than Christian
calm."

Polygamy takes off the fine edge of
passion I should think. But I imagine
that our friend is not by any means so
indifferent as he seems. His Lanuns are
constantly bringing reports, and Aysha's
old mother holds whispered councils with
him every night. Do you observe that
he never goes out, though better able to
walk than you, I should think ? "

ril ask him," Sweyn answered. " Why
don't you look for the Sayings ? " he said,
in broken Malay.

"If I find them, what?" He smiled
and touched the handle of his kris.

"That means they would be murdered,
I suppose ! What tigers these people are !

VOL. II. L

Ibrahim tells me that his father has sworn
to have his life, and his sister's too, I
dare say."

"It is a lively and an interesting race,
the Lanun. Well, my friend, we must makeup
our minds. The Consul is sending a
pray to Labuan tomorrow. I asked him
not to mention our arrival until we decided
what to do ; but he said he must, as weare
shipwrecked mariners. That gave me a
happy idea. When he asked my name
I said Charles Wood, and egad, when he
asked yours, I followed the same vein, and
struck out James Forrest, surviving passengers
of the ' Coromandel.' But I couldn't
carry on the nonsense, and flatly refused
more particulars. To-morrow, when the
boat is gone, we may tell him the truth ;
but anyhow we have a fortnight before
us."

'' Yes ; but there may be people in
England who will feel somewhat anxious
when they hear the yacht is wrecked."

'' How are they to hear it ? We have
passed into the spaces and the voids and
the infinities, yacht and all. By the next
consular mail we will write ourselves, and
those letters will be the first any one can
hear of us."

Very good," answered Pier, unwillingly.
In the mean while, I should fancy the
consul thinks us pirates, or escaped convicts
at the best. What did he say ? "

Oh, the good fellow was awfully puzzled,
tried round in all directions. What was
the ' Coromandel '  where from, where to,
what flag, and so on, and so on. I declined
to answer, and he evidently wished
he could commit me for contempt. However,
we'll set it all right tomorrow. Oh,
by-the-bye, you have observed that small
wing attached to the house by a covered
way? As I passed just now, something
was thrown at me through one of the windows
in the tap roof  at least I thought
so. It's the first time I've noticed any

L 2

ill-will towards us, and probably enough
the affair was an accident."

I'm astonished that Mahometan can
keep any patience at all, when they see
us eating and drinking in the month of
Ramazan. It must try their temper awfully.
Did I tell you that the Datu Shahbandhar
has invited us to dine with him upon the
first of Bairam, one day next week ? It's
an honour for shipwrecked mariners. I
scent a feast."

*dear man, I should think we would
dine with him. I believe I have never
seen perfect manners excepting in this
country, and the Shahbandhar is a Malay
Grandison. What delightful, courteous,
polished gentlemen these Bruni nobles
are!"

Sweyn was standing by the verandah
rail, looking across the busy river. He
turned suddenly, convulsed with laughter,
and threw himself on the divan beside
Pier.

'' Oh Lord ! " lie cried. '' Here be larks !
The consul is coming to inspect ns. Prepare
yourself, James Forrest ! Remember
the * Coromandel ' ! "

The consul entered, leaving his suite on
the stairs. It is not necessary to detail
the conversation, amusing to these young
fellows, utterly incomprehensible to the
representative of England. But he saw
enough to be assured that they were neither
shipwrecked mariners nor escaped convicts.
Pier frankly told him that they did not
wish the news of their adventure to reach
England until they could announce their
future movements, which were quite uncertain
as yet. Then he briefly told how
the Lanun princesses had saved them at
such a terrible cost, how Ibrahim was
exiled from his people. Under such circumstances,
they felt bound to stay until
the situation cleared.

The consul quite saw all this, and he
admitted it probable that the wreck of

their yacht might never be told in England.
Rising to go, he said, with a smile,

I have had many strange experiences in
Bruni, but you will allow me to declare
that this is the very oddest. I rely upon
your promise to explain everything as
soon as the mail boat has left. That
being the case, I shall not report your
arrival. Will you do me the pleasure to
make my house your own so long as you
stay?"

They thanked him, but declined. The
quaint ways of the Shahbandhars palace
amused and interested them. Moreover,
they wished to remain with Ibrahim, at
least until the girls were recovered. But
with pleasure they accepted a standing
invitation to dinner; and at evening they
repaired, in such odd raiment as the Bruni
tailors had devised, to the consul's agreeable
house.

In the course of a delightful meal, Sweyn
repeated his opinion of the Bruni chiefs.

"You are under the spell, of course,"
said the consul, smiling.

We have not seen enough of them, nor
enough of those we have seen, to forma
very decided judgment," observed Pier.
"But I certainly incline to agree with
S  Charles Wood." The slip of the name
was retrieved with great presence of mind,
but the consul's lady marked it.

"Mr. Charles Wood," said she, "is
quicker in coming to an opinion."

All laughed ; and then her husband began
to tell anecdotes of these most courteous and
amiable chiefs. Such anecdotes they were
as made the flesh creep and the blood boil.
When at a loss for dates or details, he asked
a servant, who gave the information calmly
as he attended to his duties.

"Why," Sweyn exclaimed, "I feel like
some startled convert, who learns that he
has been adoring devils 1 "

Next day, after the mail boat had left,
all was made clear to the worthy consul.

He could not fail to respect the young men's
motive in remaining, but he implored them
to leave as soon as honour would allow.

"If you wish to see more of life in these
seas, this is not the country to explore.
It is a kingdom in its death-throes, so
utterly weak and rotten that nothing that
could befall would save it. Naked savages
are eating it up year by year ; and almost
every man, from the Sultan downwards,
who has any power to make head against
them, secretly shares the spoil. The statement
seems incredible, but it is true."

Incredible it did appear, but in no longtime
the doubters had tangible evidence.

Corruption'' he continued, '* is so universal,
that if three righteous men could
save this city, they would not be found.
I could almost say that every individual
therein, who has had opportunity and
temptation, is a criminal of the worst class.
The women are as bad as the men. If you
leave the capital you will certainly be plundered,

probably killed. Take my advice,
and go elsewhere."

As for aiding them in their search for
the kidnapped girls, the consul did not
see his way at all. If there be any race
conspicuously outside of English protection
it is the Lanun. All he could do was to
lodge a complaint with the Sultan, and to
cross-examine the Datu Shahbandhar. That
dignitary swore, and his slaves supported
him, that after delivering their message the
princesses departed. So the matter rested.

The friends begged an audience of the
Sultan, and one day they were summoned
to the palace. This building is just like
others, but larger. It has an audience hall,
a suite of rooms for the head wife and
one or two favourites, and a nest of cupboards
for the rest, whose name is legion.
They found the durbar hall hung with
mats of exquisite beauty, some coloured,
some plaited in open-work patterns, neither
stitched nor cut, marvels of ingenuity. At

top of the room stood a round table, covered
with a white satin cloth, superbly embroidered
in silver and gold. Behind this,
in a gilt chair, sat the lang de per Tuan, to
give the Sultan his proper title. He wore
a yellow jacket of Chinese silk, blazoned
with flowers and dragons, the national
strong, scarlet, primrose, and silver, and
white satin trowsers stiff with gold to the
knee. His gilded sandals were attached by
an enormous pearl betwixt the great toe
and the next. From wrist to elbow his
arms were covered with jewelled bracelets,
whilst the ivory handle of his kris, peeping
beneath the kain barbara, or waist cloth,
shimmering with gold, was studded with
fine emeralds. But there were nobles sitting
beside him, slightly in rear, scarcely
less gorgeous, though forbidden the royal
yellow. Three empty chairs in front
marked the places of the visitors. A troop
of brigands claiming noble blood, whose
silks were ragged, but arms bright with

use, squatted in irregular groups about the
hall. No one may stand or walk upright
in the Sultan's presence.

The conversation was not quite so dull
as is usual on such occasions. His Majesty
asked details of the shipwreck, and such
matters always interest the orang laiit, the
men of the sea, as Malays proudly term
themselves. He trusted that the Lanuns
had been hospitable, and gravely awaited
the reply. Sweyn wished to tell the truth,
which would have seemed gravely indecent
to these people, but he was stopped. The
Sultan rejoiced to hear that his new subjects
had been so kind. Then sweetmeats and
coffee appeared. The audience ended.

As they were retiring, a poor man forced
his way into the outer room, shouting
loudly. At a word from the Sultan the
guards let him pass, and he threw himself
at the royal feet, striking the ground with
his head, and showing a back all bruised
and bleeding.

Justice ! justice 1 thou lord who rules
supreme (lang de per Tuan) ! I was going
in my boat from market, and I saw a
piece of fire wood  oh justice, father of
the poor ! I fished it up, and lo ! attached
thereto was a ring with diamonds, large
as the lang de per Tuan's own blessed
thumb-nail, and bright as a cascade when
the sun shines. I regarded them with delight,
when the pray of Pangeran Snail
came by  oh, right me upon Pangeran
Ismail, thou who controlled the men of
the sea ! He took the ring away, and when
I called on Allah and your Highness, his
servants beat me ! Oh justice ! justice ! "

The Sultan frowned, glancing at his
guests.

Summon Pangeran Ismail," he said,
sternly.

Now," whispered the consul, *you will
see Bruni equity."

In a few moments Pangeran Ismail
appeared, a thin, weakened noble, whose

shifting eye and tremulous limbs declared
the opium-eater.

'what is it this man says of you?"
exclaimed the Sultan.

Lord of the Islands," said Ismail,
prostrating himself. '' I found him looking
at the proceeds of his wicked theft. In his
very hand he held your Highness's ring. It
is here."

The Sultan took it, tried it complacently
on his finger, and held it up to the
light.

I am obliged to you, Pangeran.
Enough. Go ! "

The man was hustled out, speechless.

'' Does the hoary villain say that ring is
his ? " cried Sweyn.

He doesn't say so ; but he pockets it."

Not if I know it. That is my ring,
taken from me by the Lanuns ! "

'' Hush ! " Pier exclaimed. " What was it
you told me of something thrown to you
from the little house ? It was that bit of

firewood, with your ring attached. The
girls are detained under our very noses ! "

< Very good ; then we will set them free.
But I mean to have my ring."

The consul spoke to the vizier, who was
half-amused, half-annoyed. He promised to
recover the article, and they left in the
consul's boat.

What do you think of your gentlemanly
friends now, Mr. Garrow ? "

'' Claude Dual would have been quite at
home among them. What a stupendous liar
is that most amiable Shahbandhar ! Now
that we know where the girls are, surely you
can do something for them ? "

I fear not. Pangeran Hussein, the
Shahbandhar, is brother-in-law to the Vizier,
his partner in a thousand crimes and
villainies. Moreover, he is connected with
the blood-royal by a network of kinship.
The Vizier may recover your ring, and he
may even punish Pangeran Ismail, who is
not of much consequence ; but to meddle

with the Datu Shahbandhar is quite another
thing. However, unless I am mistaken, our
young Lanun friend suspected him from the
first, and you may be sure he has not been
idle. The season gave him time. During
Ramazan, a strict Mussulman like the
Shahbandhar would not even see his slaves.
It ends in three days' time, and before that,
depend upon it, Ibrahim will have made
his effort''

Instantly on returning home they told
the Rajah Mudah what had happened. He
smiled, and gave no answer, but for the first
time he left the house. The friends talked'
of quitting the Shahbandhar's palace ; but on
reflection they saw the folly of this proceeding.
In one's own British castle, with a
policeman round the corner, and the penny
press accessible to a penny letter, one may
talk in a high-minded strain. But where
treachery and murder are incidents of daily
life, a lofty system of philosophy will
not long survive. So they determined to

meet a villain with this own weapon of
duplicity.

Some forty Lanuns, nearly all in the
prime of youth, had clung to their Eajah
Mudah. The Englishmen were well aware
of this body-guard. The pirate warriors
hung about all day in their canoes, chaffing
the market-women, insulting the traders,
jeering even at the lesser dignitaries who
passed in state up or down. A dozen at
least always followed when Sweyn or Pier
went abroad, disrespectfully grinning, but
evidently resolved to fight in their defence.

On the following day, they heard a violent
clamour in the next house, a large building
inhabited by the Datu Bandhara, or Home
Secretary. Upon inquiry, they learned
that the Datu's favourite son was being
exorcised by a wise woman from Tampasuk ;
furthermore, that if they wished to see the
operation, they would doubtless be welcome.
They entered the inevitable canoe and set
out. The Datu Bandhara was delighted to

see them. His boy lay in the verandah,
stretched on mats, and watching with feverish
gaze the antics of an old woman, who
foamed and tossed her arms, ravin or unintelligibly
as she circled round him. Her
arms and neck and waist were so profusely
hung with charms, each dangling from a
strip of leather, that she looked like a
draggled hen fluttering as she spun about.

After a moment the witch stopped, and
gazed intently at the visitors. Then, creeping
towards her patient, with vehement
motions for silence, she drew forth a slip of
paper inscribed with Arabic characters, took
his head between her hands, rummaged
amongst his hair, and suddenly caught as it
were a fly, which was eagerly wrapped in
the paper, and screwed up fast.

What is that ? " asked Pier, gravely.

Never mind, Datu," Sweyn broke in.
What an indelicate question, my friend ! "

But the Datu answered, with a superior
smile 

VOL. II. M

It is one of the spirits tormenting my
son. The poor boy desired to see a witch-woman,
and I let him have his way."

The evil spirit thus captured was conveyed
with infinite precaution to a youth who
stood at some distance.

' Why ! " Sweyn exclaimed, " surely 
yes, it is !  "

For Heaven's sake, don't name him ! "
Pier whispered.

All eyes were fixed on the old woman,
who returned to her incantations. But the
Englishmen watched cautiously, and they
saw the youth choose a small arrow from
the quiver by his side, wrap the paper
round, and fit it to the mouthpiece of a
blow-pipe. With an air of unconcern he
raised his instrument, and puffed the light
dart away. From their position they could
not see the target, but his manner betrayed
a miss. Quietly inserting his hand into the
quiver, he manipulated his arrows. Meantime
the wise-woman had secured another

spirit, from the lad's stomach this, which
was treated in the same fashion, and blown
away with a like result. So the operation
was repeated until a glance that passed
between the confederates told that the last
effort had been successful. Again the witch
caught an invisible devil, with more demonstration,
more foaming and shrieking than
before. This was treated by a new process.
The youth tied it to a string, and dangled
it from the balcony, whilst all the crowd
gathered to see. A passing boatman saw
the paper, and took it, laughing, attaching
in its place a plantain. This was drawn up,
and solemnly offered to the boy, who ate it,
whilst the boatman was supposed to be a
victim of the evil spirit.

Standing on the edge of the verandah, it
was easy to comprehend the stratagem sofar.
A roof window of the hut stood open
forty yards below. Whilst Pier looked, he
saw a white cloth glimmer for a moment
against the shadowy interior. Communicate

2

tion was opened. Leaving the old woman
to cliafFer for her fees, Ibrahim quietly
slipped out, and an hour afterwards he
reappeared at the Datu Shahbandhar's in
his bandages and his rich Lanun dress.
Kawdon only said to him,

If you want money or help, we are your
slaves."

He smiled and thanked them.

The Datu Shahbandhar was a pleasant
host. Pleasantness, in truth, is the single
virtue of Bruni nobles, but they have
abundance of it. Debarred froui the honour
and satisfaction of entertaining his guests
by the fact that ifc was now the month
of Ramazan, he looked forward to giving
them a feast on the very day after its
termination, the first of Bairam. For this
many invitations had been issued, and
many preparations made. Discussing the
matter with the consul a day before, the
latter observed 

"You will see tomorrow one of the

prettiest customs of any land, savage or
civilized. Every one except the Sultan
calls on all his acquaintance to ask pardon
for injuries or slights committed during the
year past. Deadly enmities have been made
up by a bold resolution of this kind."
*' Is forgiveness always granted ? "
A man may please himself, but it is
thought bad form to refuse. Occasionally,
however, in my own experience, the application
has resulted in a free fight, when
the man whose pardon was asked thought
it not an offer of reconciliation, but a
mockery. But such cases are rare, for
hatred runs so furious at Bruni, that an
enemy would fear above all things to betaken
at his word."

The friends stayed somewhat late with
the consul. Saving some few houses, where
the end of the fast was being celebrated
with the aid of dancing women and story-tellers,
the town was already dark and
quiet, for the great feast is held next

day. Smoking a last cheroot lazily, they
sat in the Shahbandhar's canoe, and were
borne over the darkling river. They talked
of the matter foremost in their thoughts.
Ibrahim had given no sign. He came and
went as usual, courteous but silent. Three
days had passed since the girls' abode was
discovered, and the morrow was the first of
Bairam.

"By the way," said Pier, " none of our
Lanun escort accompanies us to-night. Two
or three boats followed to the consul's, I
think."

Certainly there were none following now,
and they drew the conclusion that Ibrahim's
plan, whatever it might be, was approaching
its development. Still discussing, they
crept beneath their curtains and lay down.
Half-an-hour afterwards, when nearly asleep,
they heard the low reverberating cry with
which Malay sportsmen summon their dogs.
That was a strange but not quite a startling
sound in the river-city. The friends, however,

thought it might be a signal, and they
rose, to peer across the verandah raiL The
river flowed black and gloomy, quivering
here and there, far out, with a trembling
reflection of some liszt on shore. The

o

shrowded glow in the upper story of the
houses did not reach the water. In the
shadow which they looked upon nothing
could be distinguished, but they were dimly
conscious of movement and a living presence.
Suddenly the call broke out again,
and as it ceased there was a cry, a heavy
splash, and then, quick as thought, an
outburst of noise  crack of timber, scream
of human voice, and the sound of tumbling
walls that plunged bodily into the river.
The fall shook the planks beneath their feet,
the spray wet them through, the dust
choked them ; but they heard the muffled
clank of paddles hastily and cautiously
receding. Men called to each other in the
Shahbandhar's palace, women screamed, and
naked feet rustled swiftly over the mats.

In an instant every one was astir. Then
rose another sudden cry, as of a woman
in agony, and the clank of paddles faintly
reached their ears again.

The Shahbandhar came hurrying outwith
a lamp, which showed the verandah
full of slaves and women and retainers half
naked. Without heeding them, the chief
leant over the rail and stared below.
Opposite was the Datu Bandhara, in deshabille
also, peering down with a torch.
The small house lay in wreck, its posts
gone, fast breaking piecemeal in the
current. Great flakes broke off each moment
and sailed away. Not a bit of it
remained aloft saving some ragged fragments,
which fluttered and rustled in the
night wind, by the door. The covered
gallery still stood erect, gaping black over
the stream. Lamp in hand, the Shahband-
har rushed down, sprang into a canoe, and
himself, in one swing of his paddle, reached
the spot. He tore at the taps, and

wrenched them from their fastenings. nothing:
was visible above the submerged
floor but water and rubbish eddying round.
Slaves came to his assistance, and Pier,
watching above, saw the Lanuns very
active. They dived again and again, bringing
up all sorts of things ; but after exploring
every corner of the two small rooms, no
trace of human being. Very pale, but
calm, the Shahbandhar retired at length,
and came to apologize for this disturbance.
Such accidents, he said, were not uncommon,
and the only grief he could feel, under the
circumstances, was devoted to commiseration
of his guests who had been disturbed
in their first sleep.

Don't name it," said Sweyn, almost
laughing in his face. " I am afraid you
have hurt yourself, Datu."

There was blood on his hands and sleeping
jacket. In surprise he called a slave to
look, but no wound was discovered. The
chief hastened down with a new suspicion,

but the light taps had nearly all been
whirled slwslj, and he found nothing.
Every one retired again, whilst the guests
drank Ibrahim's health, and talked of his
crafty deed.

In the morning all Bruni awoke to joy.
The fast was over ! Guns fired without
ceasing, and revelry began at dawn. Sober
it was in the meaning that no liquor was
consumed, but frantic in the way of noise
and public enjoyment. On every hand
were making preparations for the feast,
since those nobles who proposed '' dining
out '' themselves had none the less to give
their wives and retainers a banquet. Glad
to escape the bustle and confusion. Pier and
Sweyn withdrew to the consul's. Their
canoe was half filled with flowers in the
transit, so many boats of merrymakers
passed up or down the river. The Malay,
man or woman, loves flowers. They are to
him an article of furniture and of the
toilette, indispensable for the comfort of

life. Upon occasions like this he lays in a
stock and pelts his neighbours.

The consul had a busy time. Every
noble who could claim acquaintance, and
every merchant, waited on him to apologize
if any offence he had committed in the year
gone by. With exquisite grace and tact
this ceremony was performed, and the consul
patiently repeated, a hundred times,
I am your slave. Your actions are too
virtuous to give offence."

This formula he had taught his guests,
who were supplicated for pardon by scores
of dignitaries whom they had never seen.
Bored at length, they fled to an inner
apartment, where presently Ibrahim appeared.
He answered their eager inquiries
coolly.

Yes, the girls were safe at the house
of a Lanun merchant from Tampasuk.
They had sustained no violence or injury.
Ibrahim continued  " My sister and my
kinswoman saved your lives. We all can

see that you are great Pangerans in Beat.
I am going into danger, and perhaps I
shall be killed  who will protect the
princesses ? "

'' We will ! " cried Sweyn, " if the Sultan
himself tried to take them."

Ibrahim gravely touched his eyes and
mouth. He said,

'' I leave six of my youths, their own
kinsmen. One of them will always be
waiting to show you the house when
necessary. I thank you, Turns."

He departed.

The consul came in and heard of this
engagement.

I foresee endless trouble," he sighed.
If the women are as pretty as you say,
they will be kidnapped in a week."

Sweyn swore his great oath.

I will go and keep watch at the house
myself."

The consul shrugged his shoulders.

*' Let me remind you, that if a Bruni

noble adults a Lamp princess, at least he
marries her."

How small and mean is this world,
by Jove ! Cannot a man protect a charming
girl even in this out-of-the-way den
of thieves without bad designs ? If he
cannot, I mean to show that every rule
has exceptions."

The consul only shrugged his shoulders
aofain.

What danger is Ibrahim plunging into ? "
he asked. '' Things are going badly with
his people on the Limbang, but I thought
no one knew in the town."

He left them, and returned to grant a
gracious pardon to some more scoundrels.

They returned to the Shahbandhar's, for
the hour of the feast approached. The
formal ceremony of the day concluded, a
large number of guests had assembled.
After awhile the Datu casually alluded
to dinner, a suggestion received with
protest by all the hungry but well-bred

gentlemen who had gathered for no other
purpose. At that moment the Rajah
Mudah Ibrahim appeared, with three young
chiefs of his following. Gravely and
simply he advanced, the picture of an
Eastern hero, superbly dressed in the graceful,
manly costume of his people. He said,

'' T come to ask your forgiveness, most
noble pangeran."

The Shahbandhar made no reply. Pale
aud expectant, he leaned upon the handle
of his kris, which, with a quiet movement,
he had drawn beyond the folds of his kain
bandhara.

I have wronged your Excellency," Ibrahim
continued. '' You deigned to seize
two girls of my kindred, whom you intended
taking into your noble purdah. I
removed them last night, and in so doing
a valuable servant of your Highness got
killed. Furthermore, I destroyed your house
and property. For these offences I ask
forgiveness, Datu Shahbandhar."

The pangeran listened to the end,
growing more pale, till his complexion
took a greenish hue. The perspiration
stood on it, and his eyebrows worked
with twitches up and down. He bowed
as Ibrahim finished, and made a step or
two ;  then, swinging round like a wild
beast, kris in hand, he leapt on his insulter.
The Lanun, quick though he was, did not
escape that treacherous attack. The slender,
jewelled kris transfixed him through the
chest, and he fell. His three companions
raised the war-shout, and sprang forward ;
but a score of ready hands and naked
weapons interposed. They fell back towards
the staircase, uttering their slogan uninterruptedly.
Meanwhile, Pier and Sweyn
threw themselves upon the Shahbandhar,
as he stooped over Ibrahim to give another
thrust. They pushed him roughly aside,
and stood guard over the body.

The Lanun war-cry is never heard by one
of that savage people without response. A

score of voices took it up outside, and,
hurrying and crushing, beating back the
Malay guard, Ibrahim's followers climbed
the staircase. But from the verandah, from
inner rooms, came pressing on the retainers
of the Shahbandhar and of his guests. The
three Lanun chiefs were cut down before
help could reach them. Then battle joined
at the head of the staircase. Swords flashed,
pistol-shots cracked, the wild Lanun shout
rang in hoarse chorus. When they understood
the danger, the bodyguard of each
noble guest struggled out of the melee and
gathered round their lord. They formed
hastily across the hall, leaving the Shah-banda's
men to fight it out.

Though thus abandoned, they were still
two against one. . But the Datu's servants
had not Lanun devilry. Foot by foot the
pirates made their way, and as the stairhead
was cleared, their heavy kampilans
found room to swing. A whirl of blades
glittered above the throng in holiday silks

and spotless cottons. The air rang with
tumult, the solid floor rocked with struggling
feet and falling bodies. Those
wounded staggered apart, and yelled their
death-song.

As yet the heaving, swaying crowd
blocked all close view of the scene. But
after three minutes' desperate stand the
Bruni men wavered, the Lanuns burst into
view, with sunken eyes glare, lips curled
back, and grinding ebony teeth. The foam
of penang flecked their jaws like a bloody
froth. Very*fiends of battle they appeared,
hewing with their great two-handled swords,
roaring the slogan in an ecstasy of homicide.

The Shahbandhar struck in, with fierce
upbraiding of his people. For an instant
the pirates were checked. Then shrill arose
the whistle calling them to board, and they
ran together in a solid little phalanx, glaring
and panting. Again the whistle screamed,
and in one burst they cleft the hostile
rank, to fall upon the second line, the

VOL. II. N

bodyguard of the guests. Picked men were
these, many of them Lanius of Tampasuk
and Balambangan, or fearless Sulus. Pirate
met pirate in front, whilst the Shahband-
har's people closed in on flanks and rear.
One wildest burst of clamour, and the
struggle ceased. For a time the discordant
strains of the death-song resounded,
in thinning chorus, as one by one the
disabled Lanuns received their fate.

When the slain came to be examined,
a howl of rage and grief announced the
Shahbandhar's death. Like one man his
retainers turned upoYi the Rajah Mudah,
whom Pier and Sweyn had propped against
the wall at his own request. He had
watched the battle with eyes fevered and
delirious, cheering on his men, cursing the
foe, in a voice which grew hoarser and more
feeble. When all was finished he could just
whisper the death-song, as his head fell
upon his chest.

Well was it for the Englishmen that they

were surrounded by the greatest men of
Bruni when the Shahbandhars retainers
charged down upon them  men who knew
the danger of injuring English turns. They
beat off the avenging crowd. The Datu
Tomanggong himself, Minister of War,
was among them, and Pier implored this
great dignitary to protect the young Eajah.
He consented,  with a hope of magnificent
reward,  and sent him ofi" to his own
dwelling.

Then they sought the Lanun who was
detailed to guide them to the Sayings' refuge,
and found him, muffled in his strong,
crooning the eternal dirge ; he showed the
house in the traders' quarter. Leaving
Sweyn and two or three of the crew, well
armed, with strict injunctions not to tell
the Sayings what had happened. Pier
hurried to the Consulate, keeping his Lanun
with him. Very much distressed on all
accounts was their excellent friend. He
advised Pier to en2:ag:e a certain broken

N 2

noble, Ampuan Budrudeen, to recruit a
garrison and command it. Then he took

o

charge of the Lamp  who of course would
have talked  and sent his interpreter. Pier
hurried back, instructing this official what
to tell and what to keep secret.

A small fleet of boats had already collected
round the dwelling, but the people
were only curious. The death of the Shah-banda
did not irritate them ; quite otherwise.
His papuans, or dependent kindred,
were the persons to be feared, and these
did not yet know where the Sayings had
found refuge, if they knew their existence.

The interpreter waited on them, and
told as much as was necessary. He admitted
Ibrahim's wound, but made light
of it, and assured the girls of Safety under
the Consul's protection. The house was
ruinous, but suited to the purpose. No
others overlooked it, or cast those shadows
under which a stealthy foe can attack the
piles  every house in Bruni is built on

piles. Presently Ampuan Budrudeen arrived,
a very ugly personage indeed, notorious
for his ready wit and unscrupulous
courage. No more finished scoundrel could
be found in that wicked city, but he was
the man to help them. For such a large
rate of pay as precluded any fear of bribery,
he undertook with enthusiasm to protect
the girls against the Fang de per Tuan himself
; and straightway retired to collect his
men. Within two hours he returned,
bringing a score of desperadoes, in frayed
silk and ragged velvet, cutthroats to a
man, ready for any service, good or evil, at
a price. After surveying the locality by the
light of torches, Budrudeen disposed his
people, and took up quarters in the place
assigned. The Datu Tomanggong sent a
message presently, with the thoughtful
politeness of a Bruni chief, reporting that
Ibrahim's wound was declared not mortal.

The interpreter had retired to his duties
at the Consulate without warning, and

they were alone, in a position sufficiently
embarrassing. The Shahbandhar s servants
had waited on them up to the present, and
they had none of their own. It was necessary
to ask the Sayings about their wants,
and to tell the news ; but how to communicate
was a puzzle. Whilst they held an
amused discussion, over the cold viands of
the Consul, they became aware of two
figures which stood and whispered in the
dusky shadow of a doorway. Taking
candle and revolver, Sweyn went to identify
them, and the Lanun girls came forward
without difficulty. Their eyes were dim
with tears, and in another room Sweyn
heard the mother, chanting the Lanun
dirge, feeble and low. But the intelligence
he conveyed about Ibrahim restored their
spirits, and they advanced into the light.
Isa looked at the meat, whispered to Aysha,
and exclaimed,

We are so hungry, tuan ! "

The young men hastened to give them

plates, but they peered into the darkness,
and shook their heads. Comprehending
this fear of witnesses, Rawdon took the
things to an inner room and set them
out as gracefully as he knew how. But
neither was this what they wanted. Aysha
observed,

"We cannot eat in our veils."

Then take them off," said Sweyn.

Isa broke into a little laugh, and Aysha
seemed to hesitate. It is to be remembered
that covering the face is no more than a
formality with Malay women, and one very
loosely observed by the Lanuns.

"We are here without servants," urged
Pier, gravely. "Wee thought that you
would arrange things for us."

This amused the pirate princess, who
snatched oft' Aysha's veil, then her own, and
folded her hands like a slave, touching forehead
and bosom. It was the first time that
the Englishmen had beheld their protegees
plainly, and they were astonished at the

loveliness revealed. He who has only seen
Malay females of the lower class would not
credit how beautiful may be their aristocratic
sisters. Of kindred race, but of
blood exceedingly mixed, the Lanun nobles,
men and women, are strikingly handsome.
And their graceful costume brings out every
advantage. The tight-fitting jacket of silk
showed Isa's slender neck and rounded
bosom ; her delicate waist was girt with a
shawl that glimmered with the sheen of
gold in waves of light ; her strong was
looped in folds which displayed the pretty
ankle to the calf; and her tiny bare feet
rested on jewelled sandals. The face was
charming in feature and saucy innocence of
expression. The coils of hair, which fell to
the very ground when loose, were garlanded
with the yellow flower of strong scent, called
sandal malam, " Love at night." Even more
beautiful, though less fascinating, was Aysha.
Dressed in the same fashion, not less exquisite
of shape, she had the look of proud reserve

bequeathed by Arab blood. Whilst Isa
simply enjoyed like a child the effect of her
beauty which Sweyn s eyes frankly owned,
Aysha met Pier's glance of admiration with
dislike.

They sat down and ate silently. When
they had done Pier removed the plates.
This proceeding appeared very droll, and
they whispered and laughed. Isa caught
sight of the ring on Sweyn's hand, which
had been yielded, with profuse explanations,
by the Sultan.

Oh, I am so glad ! " she cried, stretching
out her little palm. "I saw you passing
backwards and forwards, and I lay in wait
to throw it. I shall love that ring."

But it is mine ! "

I did not give it to you. It was only
a signal."

But you took it from me ? "

On the sea ! Don't tease me. I tell
you it was only thrown out to show you
where we were, you bad Kaffir ! "

But I tell you it is my property. You
stole it from me ! "

I took it on the sea, I say ! " Tsa repeated
angrily.

"Is it not stealing to take other people's
property on the sea ? "

*' Stealing ? What a Lanun finds on saltwater
is his, whether he be warrior or
maiden. The Lanuns are lords of the sea."

"Oh, I did not know that. But if I give
it you now, will you  "

Oh, give me my ring at once, or I shall
be angry. ""

I should like to see this child angry,"
said Sweyn.

"My dear fellow, surely you have seen
enough of evil passions to-day. Give her
the ring, and let us go to bed. What a
nightmare I shall have."

It seems an age since the morning.
Superb brutes these Lanuns are after all.
Did you observe  "

But he was interrupted by a shrill cry.

'will you give me my ring, Kaffir dog?
Will you will you?"

The detention of her beautiful diamonds,
and the insulting disregard of these infidel
white men who talked among; themselves
instead of listening to her imperious demands,
stirred the wild blood in her heart.
When Sweyn looked round, he saw the
same glare in her beautiful eyes which
those misshapen savages had displayed infight.
One little hand was clenched upon
the knife at her girdle. The small body
doubled up, one foot extended, had the
menace of a wild beast crouching to spring.
The pretty face was distorted with passion,
but the lissom figure, in its shimmering
silks and cloth of gold, had a lovely grace.

'' What a delicious little vixen ! " Sweyn
exclaimed, admiringly.

Aysha threw her arm about the girl,
but he said, laughing,

Let her go, Dayang ; " and taking her
hand, slipped the ring upon a tiny finger.

Then he kissed her cheek, and murmured
soothing words of penitence in that tone
which needs no interpreter. The shrewdest
student of womankind could not have found
means to quell a savage passion more effectually.
Isa looked down with dewy eyes, her
pretty mouth quivering before a burst of
tears. The kiss spoke in no way to her
spirit, but womanhood moved in her childish
soul. With eyes downcast she followed
Aysha, and both withdrew without saluting
a noteworthy sign of agitation with Malay
or Lanun. Pier took them blankets, water,
and rice for the morning meal. Aysha's
mother watched his proceedings stolidly, but
said no word. Then he planted Budrudeen
himself before their door, visited the sentries,
and turned in.

CHAPTER VI.

THE ROUT OF THE LANUNS.

'' I WILLINGLY admit, best of friends, that
your argument is unimpeachable, as commonplaces
always are. But for an advocate you
occupy an invidious position. There is a
magnet at home to polarize your wandering
admiration, or you would flirt with Aysha
more than I do with her cousin."

Ton my honour, Sweyn, I don't believe
I should, seeing what terrible consequences
to her might follow."

Bah ! I will answer for the consequences.
I grant you that it might be
serious if things happened of which there
is no danger at all. But don't try to

persuade me Mrs. Grundy has travelled sofar
as this. What an incredible fuss to
make over a pretty savage."

Pretty savages have hearts, old fellow."

I haven't a very wide knowledge of the
subject, but my belief is that young women
keep their hearts under enviable control.
Enough preaching, Pier ; leave that to the
Consul, for whom it is, I believe, an official
duty at times of emergency when there is
no professional parson at hand. I have an
open score with Love, and he owes a bitter
debt. What if the worst came, and this
innocent child were driven out by her brutal
kin ? The Eastern world is large, and I
have no wish to leave it. Recall your
memories of 'Locksley Hall,' and ponder
them. My philosophy is embodied therein."

Sweyn ! Surely you are not in your
senses ? "

As much as usual, and as little. I am
hit somewhere. Pier, and the wound doesn't
heal."

So he drifted along, and Isa with him.
Her cousin kept aloof, and the mother did
not interfere. The pretty child was worthy
of more devotion than Sweyn could give,
if truth and courage and generosity could
redeem the faults of a savage training.
Lanun women are frank, and Isa showed
all the changing sensations of her mind
without reserve. To like a Kaffir seemed
very unnatural, and the winsome face often
looked grave as Sweyn pursued his reckless
courtship. Startled pride even bent her
brows, but when he was not abashed she
glanced shyly under her silken lashes, and
a smile dimpled her cheek. Pier could only
leave them, with a foreboding of trouble to
come, though he had perfect confidence in
Sweyn's promise that Isa was safe with him.
But he began to long to get away.

They had now been a month at Bruni.
By the last mail Pier had sent a long letter
to Mary, through Lady Latham, and the
Consul had forwarded to the Governor of

Labuan their statement of the circumstances
attending; the loss of 'La Donna.' But at
Sweyn's earnest wish, no application for a
vessel had been sent in. Labuan, the
English settlement, is only forty miles or so
from the mouth of the Bruni river, but few
vessels pass at that season of the year. The
proper thing to have done was to ask that
one of the ships always cruising after pirates
on that fatal coast should be despatched to
take them off. It might be weeks before an
opportunity arrived of which the Governor
could avail himself to perform such a service,
and the sooner he had notice the better.
Seeing now the trouble into which Sweyn
was heedlessly drifting. Pier refused longer
to delay, and the Ampuan Budrudeen
found a nikodah who undertook to sail for
Labuan direct. But when Pier had sent in
his request for a man of war, the situation
was nohow simplified. What to do with
the Sayings and the wounded Ibrahim
remained a puzzling question.

By large presents to the Sultan and the
chief Imams,, as well as to the Tomanggong,
they had procured Ibrahim a respite from
trial until his wounds healed. By the same
means, no doubt, they could secure him
immunity. That was their least trouble.
But while the old rajah lived he could not
rejoin his clan, and at Bruni he would be
no better than a dead man the instant they
retired. And the Sayings, what was to
become of them ? Sweyn would take no
part in these councils, and the best scheme
Pier and the Consul could devise was to
ship all three to some Lanun settlement in
Bruni, with ample means, when Ibrahim
should be well enough to move. Sweyn
heard them, and kept an ominous silence.

Meanwhile grave events happened. For
the last thirty years and more the Kayan
tribes of the interior have been encroaching
on the empire. What are the Lanuns,
Sulus, and Balignini on the seas, such are
these hideous naked savages on land. The

VOL. II. o

protection of Sambas by the Dutch restricted
their forays in one quarter. Rajah
Brooke's occupation of Sarawak repressed
them in another. After disastrous wars
with each protecting sovereignty, the
Kayans have turned all their strength on
miserable Bruni. The lowest estimate of
their warriors is two hundred thousand men,
of whom a large part yearly take the warpath.
Province by province, the empire
once so powerful has been restored to waste ;
river by river, its commerce has been eaten
up. In ever-growing force, as the weakness
of the resistance is perceived, the Kayans
push onward towards the capital, dragging
their canoes from stream to stream over
roads cut through the forest, to surprise a
new district. In hope of opposing to this
enemy a race more desperate than themselves,
immeasurably better skilled in the
arts of war, the Sultan had invited Rajah
Mommein and his clan when they were
threatened by the English fleet.

The idea was good, but, as it was carried
out, one sure to fail. No people dwell upon
the earth braver or more determined than
the pirates of the China seas. Such experienced
judges as Repel, Cochrane,
Mundi, Beecher, and Brooke have recorded
their astonishment and admiration at their
courage. But jungle warfare is not their
custom. Assigned to occupy and defend
certain Murut villages upon the Limbang,
with no authority over them, simply guides
to show the way, the Lanuns did exactly
what might have been expected. The
Consul at Bruni foretold their proceedings
like a prophet. They treated the
Muruts as slaves, turned them out of their
own houses, took their women, and all they
possessed, and cut down any wretched
creature who protested. Within a week
the Muruts took up arms, were defeated
easily, and those who could not escape were
massacred, rebels and submissive all alike.
Those who survived fled to the Kayans.



Slavery with them was better than slavery
with the pirates. If they did not die on
the march, the rest of their days would pass
in no unbearable servitude, amongst the
mountains and the forests which no invader
has yet seen ; for the operations of
the Dutch, and the more interesting campaigns
of Rajah Brooke, valuable as they
were, explored but a fringe of the enormous
Kayan country.

With Murut guides to show the way,
and Murut well-wishers to reveal the secret
depots of provisions, the Kayan marauders
made a bold attack. Their bands collected
to the number of a thousand or more, and
they came on at night, as is their custom,
protected by huge shields of plank, used for
this purpose.

It must always be remembered that a
building in these lands is raised on posts,
more or less substantial, more or less lofty.
Under protection of their enormous bucklers,
the assaulting force hew down these supports,

or light fires round them. But
Lanuns are too well disciplined in arms to
be surprised, like birds at the top of a tree.
They kept their watches as on board ship,
above and below. When the Kayans stole
noiselessly into the clearing, sharp eyes
discerned their approach, and the signal was
given. Quietly the watch below was reinforced,
and when the assailants had crawled
into the very shadow of the house, the
Lanun war-cry suddenly pealed forth. Encumbered
with their shields, unfitly armed
for a combat in the dark against the kama
and kris, the Kayans sustained a
disastrous rout. Nearly a hundred of them
fell, and as many more were terribly
wounded.

This good news reached the Sultan, who
saw the result of victory in a hasty withdrawal
of the bands closing in around his
capital. He presented Eajah Mommein
with a kris and a khilat of honour ; but
before these rewards could be forwarded,

other rumours came to hand. The Lanuns
pursued their advantage. But in the jungle
Kayans have no master and few rivals. A
very few days afterwards they enticed a
large party of the foe into a marsh, the
paths of which had been thickly strewn
with rainbows, or bamboo-stakes, no trifling
obstacle to booted soldiers, and desperate
to naked feet. When the Lanuns were
trapped, a cloud of poisoned arrows descended
on them from the thick foliage
about. Charging in one direction or another
their legs were transfixed by the
rainbows, and they fell in heaps. The whole
body was saved from extermination only
by the dread of fire-arms which still prevails,
though it yearly diminishes, amongst
these forest warriors. The rearguard fought
its way back, with slight loss, but half the
Lanun households raised their death-wail
that night.

Meantime the scattered Kayan forces
had been gathering, recalled from plunder

by the unexpected news of a defeat. They
surrounded the village in thousands, making[
no attack, but collecting in numbers irresistible
to oppose a sortie. At this crisis
the desertion of the Muruts produced its
effect. After consuming their stores of
grain, the Lanuns knew not where to look
for more. The river still was open, and food
lay in the villages about ; but their war-prays
and large vessels had returned to
convey the remainder of the clan. They
had not canoes enough to embark a foraging
expedition which could hold its own, and
in those tiny craft the practised savage is
quite a match for the skilful seaman.
Appeals to the Sultan were fruitless. His
expedient seemed likely to fail ; anyhow,
he was not prepared to back it with his
own resources. Indeed, he had nothing to
back it with, neither men nor influence nor
money  nothing but guns, without gunners
or ammunition. Despairing at length, the
pirates built rafts to carry their women and

goods for a retirement upon the capital.
Their preparations could not be hidden,
and when, after some days, the craft were
launched the enemy also was ready.

I have mentioned that the Limbano- flows

o

into the great gulf, to the eastward of the
river Bruni. Some twenty or thirty miles
to the south-west of the town so called, it
suddenly thrusts out an elbow, which at the
nearest point approaches within four or five
miles of the Bruni river. A passage,
natural or artificial,  probably a ruin of the
Chinese sovereignty these parts,  connects
the two streams. This is called the Truman,
and it is the most important commercial
highway in the empire. When cleared of
drift and floating rubbish, it is fifty or sixty
feet wide ; but very seldom has it been
cleared in the last century. In consequence
of neglect, the channel is so obstructed that
in many places four canoes cannot pass
abreast, and fights occur between the market-people
and the fierce nobility. The Climbing

end of the Trusan debauches in a wide
shallow lake, wherein stands the wooded
island Pandam, a great resort of the sago-cutters.


It was evident that unwieldy rafts could
not be trusted in the bay of Bruni. The
retiring Lanuns therefore must pass through
the Trusan. No one supposed that a foe
dare lie so close to the capital, and as they
dropped down the stream, unmolested night
or day, the pirates began to think themselves
out of danger. In their last camp,
on Pandam island, they congratulated each
other, admitting terrors unconfessed before.
Had any one warned them that the Kayans
lay in ambush on the Trusan, they would
have laughed. For the market boats were
passing to the capital, and returning empty.
Cargoes of gutta and camphor and birds'
nests for the foreign trade, of honey, wax,
and tamar, of rattan, and gambler, and
tortoiseshell, were lying round them, expecting
the tide. How should these naked

Kaffirs dare approach a city of some forty
thousand Moslem, governed by the lang
de per Tuan himself ?

But there the Kayans lay, and the lang
de per Tuan, these trading people round,
every soul in Bruni of dark skin knew it
perfectly. They had sent a message. If
allowed to secure the Lanun heads without
interference, they undertook to surrender all
the young girls and children, with one half
the booty, to His Highness. Furthermore,
they promised to withdraw at once, and
treat for a definite pacification ; this was a
form, understood as such, but three years of
quiet they guaranteed. The Sultan and his
counsellors could not resist the offer of some
hundreds of slaves, besides a very considerable
loot. They blithely consented to the
massacre of their allies, and orders were
despatched to every chief, rajah, pangeran,
datu, orang kara, and tush on the route,
forbidding them to give the Lanuns warning.
The Kayans, on their part, swore to interfere

with no one but their enemies. To
their honour be it told, that the Kayan word
is sacred, and traders went about their
business in security whilst these deadly foes
of their race were stocking the Trusan.
They watched the preparations with curiosity,
talked and jested with such as could
understand, during three days of labour,
while the Kayans swarmed like bees about
their work. There was no necessity to
forbid them warning the pirates. Those
commercial folk would gladly have lent a
hand for the destruction of such rowdy
oppressors.

When the fated morning dawned, the
carofo boats all had vanished, in sheltered
creeks and bays of the lake ; their crews
expecting the issue. The Lanuns started
once more on their retreat. Paddling carelessly,
with the rafts in tow, they passed
half-way through the Trusan, reaching the
point where it is narrowest. Here a tree,
new fallen, almost blocked the way. There

was nothing unusual or suspicious about
this accident, and, with many curses against
bad luck, they set themselves to clear the
channel. Meantime the rafts gathered

o

behind them, and the men of the rearguard
pushed to the front to help. When all were
massed together, the hearts of the bravest
quailed, hearing a sudden outburst of the
Kayan yell. Arrows rained upon them from
tree tops, from stockades cunningly hidden
in the brushwood. In a second more the
enemy rushed forward, sword in hand, to
forestall the use of rifles. The Lanuns were
armed  when is the pirate caught weaponless
?  and battle joined. No need to tell
the details of the struggle. After resistance
worthy of their fame for valour, four-fifths
of the Moslem warriors were slaughtered, all
the women and all the plunder taken. It
chanced that Eajah Mommein led the rearguard,
and with him had stayed a hundred
of the noblest Lanuns. Seeing; the battle
lost, and their families taken, they mostly

turned their canoes. Another tree had
been felled behind them, but the Eajah himself
led a charge into the forest, whilst
others forced their way through an obstruction
but half completed. Then, running
the gauntlet of poisoned arrows, they sped
back to Pandam.

News of the issue reached Bruni as fast
as the Imperial messengers could travel, but
it was kept secret as long as possible. The
Consul heard it late in the afternoon, and as
Pier returned homewards he met a score of
Kayan chiefs, all tinkling with golden
bells, agape at the magnificence around
them. An hour later Sweyn and the
Sayings on the balcony saw a little fleet of
boats going towards the palace, and heard
the angry cries of women, the screams of
frightened children, issuing from it. The
Lanun tongue was easily recognized, and
the girls could not understand it at all.
But Pier came in and told the story. It
was a terrible scene when they understood.

They tore their bosoms and their hair,
dashed their heads upon the ground,
shrieked with despair. Had they been men
they had gone amos and killed people ;
being girls, they mutilated themselves. We
can no longer comprehend the pride of race,
the bond of kinship closer than blood, which
links the children of Ishmael, against whom
all men lift their hands. These did not
grieve for friends or relatives ; that personal
feeling would come after. What they raged
against was the shame of defeat, the degradation
of Lanun maidens enslaved by the
foreigner. And wdiat they asked was not
comfort, but revenge.

In the midst of this excitement Ibrahim
was borne in by two Malays, whom the Am-plan
Budrudeen had engaged to guard and
attend on him in the Tomanggong's house.
Isa threw herself into his arms, inarticulately
wailing. He put her from him, and the
bearers laid him on the floor. Like a corpse
the young chief looked, as he gazed around

with eyes so sunk and glassy, that even this
intelligence could not brig-ten them. The
orirls and the old woman fell on their knees
beside him, their cries dying into sobs.

Turns ! " Ibrahim said, very feebly and
low, "there was a debt of blood between
us, but it has been paid. Listen to me,
however, and if my words are just, take
heed of them. It was for you that I
quarrelled with the Rajah ; for you that
my sister was forbidden to accompany him
on board his ship. Had you not come
among us, I should be lying in the Trusan
with the bravest of our youth, and the
Dayang Isa  she would not have been
amongst those scolding girls up by the
palace. Our hearts are broken ! The marrow
dries in our bones. Our brains are
scorched !  for we live when our tribe is
crushed, and our father is hunted by the
Kayans."

What would you have us do ? " Pier said.

We are ready," added Sweyn.

'' No slave polished your fathers' sword !
I am very weak. I cannot lead a force
to save the remnant of our people."

If the Sultan will give us men we will
go!"

The Sultan will not help. But there
are a thousand papuans in the city who
will fight for pay."

"They shall have it!" Sweyn cried.
Where is Budrudeen ? "

That swashbuckler appeared, pale with
opium, but not stupefied. He had taken
just enough to stimulate all his faculties
and passions, to nerve his limbs for a
desperate task, had it been set him.
Ibrahim lay back with eyes closed ; the
girls divided their attention betwixt him
and the projects for vengeance discussed
with Budrudeen. Their pallid faces, dabbled
with blood, streaming hair, and eyes
alight with eager passion, betrayed the
savage nature which underlay pretty graces
and many noble traits.

Budrudeen understood in few words. He
named a price which the Englishmen could
scarcely believe, so cheap bravos run in
this capital. For a sum slightly larger,
he undertook to secure a battery of brass
guns, 12-pounders, beside boat-guns as
many as they could wish. The price was
$2000 for the job, or $2000 a week and
rations, if for any reason the campaign was
prolonged. At this rate Budrudeen undertook
to furnish five hundred Malays well
armed and used to fighting, by the next
afternoon, besides the guns named. If any
loot was taken, one half belonged to him.

This was easily arranged, but to secure
the safety of the girls during their absence
was another affair. Budrudeen could be
trusted, if they left him behind ; but he
would be deprived of his supporters. It
was at length resolved to appeal to the
Datu Tomanggong once more, and he
proved obliging as usual  at a price. He
consented that Ibrahim should stay with

VOL. II. p

his sister, and he sent a confidential retainer,
with a dozen cut-throats, to keep
guard. With Budrudeen to watch over
this . garrison, Sweyn felt tolerably easy.
That consummate ruffian had earned their
respect in a sense. They knew that no
bribe would tempt him to betray the trust
for which his salary was paid. He was
quite capable of murdering his employer
on sudden offence, but not of violating
his engagement.

Sweyn's parting from his Lanun mistress
had none of those affecting incidents
which in like case would have marked it
had she been an English girl. Isa gave
no thought to the danger he was about
to run. Her whole mind was full of the
catastrophe, the horror of her father's situation,
the prospect of success. She displayed
a feverish gratitude, but no regret to see
her lover depart for perils unknown but
terrible. To fight is man's business, and
this was a cause dear to her. If Sweyn

died, not improbably she would die also ;
but there was no need to talk of such
things. The fortune of war had been her
daily experience since birth, and she regarded
death on the battle-field as the
natural ending of a warrior. Under such
conditions, it was impossible for Isa to feel
as girls would otherwise brought up.

The Consul had learned by this time
that to protest against the vagaries of
these odd young men was useless. He
shrugged his shoulders, whistled a tune,
threw his cheroot through the window,
and in a voice of desperate resignation expressed
his willingness to do what they
wished. After aiding them to find the
money, he accepted charge of it in presence
of Budrudeen and the representatives of
his merry men. An agreement was drawn
by the consulate writer, and signed all
round, guaranteeing payment though the
Englishmen were killed in a successful attack
upon the Kayans.

P 2

The position of the Lanuns was well
understood next day. They had hastily
stockaded themselves in Pandam, and the
enemy had been once repulsed with heavy
loss. With such superior arms and skill
in warfare, they might hold the island for
an indefinite time, provided water and food
did not fail. For the present there was
no danger on this score. A spring sufficient
for their numbers was enclosed in
the stockade, which had been run up
amongst the huts of sago-cutters. A great
quantity of the pith was stored there, and
although, being half prepared, it would
give dysentery in the end, for some time
these hardy warriors could thrive upon it.

Such was the report of spies. The
Kayans, discouraged and perplexed, had
sent great chiefs to the Sultan, begging a
loan of artillery and gunners. His Majesty
was willing, provided the terms of the bargain
were satisfactory. But the Kayaiis
had nothing; to offer which he valued, and

the negotiation fell through. A proclamation
was issued, however, outlawing the
pirates for their doings up the river. It
was a justification of the Sultan's policy
for the benefit of the dreaded European
consuls.

At the end of two days Budrudeen
announced all complete, and in the dusk
the friends set forth by water for the
rendezvous.

CHAPTER VII.

EVENTS AT HOME.

Oh, I don't believe it, mamma ! All
the silly scandal of Paris floats to our
embassy, and Jim has nothing to do now
but lie in wait for it, like a fish, with his
mouth open."

But he would scarcely be mistaken,
my dear, on a matter concerning persons
he knows so well. Besides, I should imagine
that Mr. Birch's money would be acceptable
to the Count, and he is a very fascinating
man."

"Oh!! Well, perhaps he is, if one did
not look too close. But to believe that
my Jehanne would refuse Sweyn Garrow

to marry a Jew ! I am going to her
now, as soon as ever I can get dressed.
May I?"

"Take my maid with you then, spoilt
child ! Here is Jim."

"Don't try to kiss me ! Who told you
that Jehanne was engaged to Mr. Birch ? "

Why, let me see. The first was Tattler,
of course  "

I told you so, mamma."

The second was Birch himself  "

The braggart ! "

The third was Albert, and the fourth,
I think, was the Count. Is that evidence
good enough 1 "

Mary's faith in her idol, in womanhood
itself, was dashed to the ground,
and she stood rather breathless among the
ruins. Prettier picture of an angry child
there could not be. She stamped with
vexation, exclaiming 

*' I will never see her again. After sending
poor Sweyn abroad heartbroken  "

"Mary, I do not like to hear you talk
of young men by their Christian names."

*It is only Mr. Garrow, mamma. I
don't call any one else so familiarly."

"And why Garrow?" asked James,
astonished.

His sister suddenly grew very red, and
dropped the subject. She cried 

"Yes, I will go to Jehanne  this very
minute. I shall tell her what I think."

She will not be up yet."

But Mary, unheeding, had left the room.
Ten minutes afterwards she was driving
to the Hotel de Perouac, where Jehanne's
maid readily allowed her to enter the
bedroom. After a late party the night
before, dancing and politics, supper and
diplomacy, attentions from an accepted
lover, and, perhaps, thought of a lover
absent, Mdlle. de Perouac was sleeping
late. Her perfect beauty stirred no compassion
in Miss Latham's indignant little
soul. It made her more impatient to

have done with this treacherous and deceiving
creature. She could not remain
quiet, and presently Jehanne opened her
eyes, rounded a white bare arm, and
languidly parted the curving lashes ;  a
pretty gesture, natural to girls so happy
as to have them close and long.

"My little Mary! You have but just
arrived ? I hoped to call on you first ! "

'*! have been long enough in Paris to
hear the news."

And you have come to talk it over
with me? "What is it?"

*' You know well why I am here. Is it
true, Jehanne ? "

Quite true, little Mary, if you refer
to my engagement. But let us talk of
something else."

How can you be so beautiful and so
wicked ? Do you understand how Mr.
Garrow loves you  "

*' Hush, child ! I have never granted
you the right to speak to me in this

manner. Do not be offended. I love you
very dearly, but there are some subjects
that ought not to be mentioned even
between friends without invitation."

And there are some girls who ought
never to have friends or lovers either.
Good-bye ! "

Mary darling ! " Jehanne exclaimed,
sitting up and pleading with arms outstretched.
'' Do not leave me like this ! I
have been so longing to see my truehearted
little friend ! Can we not leave
this personal affair of mine alone ? "

No ! You had a right, I suppose, to
reject Sweyn Garrow, as you have a right
to cut your hair off, if you like. But no
girl can be a friend of mine who refuses
such a man as that, and marries Birch."

But, dear," urged Jehanne, vexed and
ashamed, but smiling sadly, " I did not love
the gentleman you speak of."

Mary sat down upon the bed, and looked
into her eyes. " You did not ? But he

loved you, and after refusing him you
could accept a Birch ! Oh, you did not
know him, Jehanne ! Why did they go
away ? We have not had a line for three
months, and they were just starting for
the China seas, where there are squalls
and pirates."

"I did not know you were so very
deeply interested in the movements of these
gentlemen," said Jehanne, coldly.

I am not, not in the sense you mean,"
Mary answered, blushing. " I love Pier
Eawdon like a brother. And I am afraid
something has happened."

What could happen '? They are so
strong and so manly."

Why," said Mary, wondering, " you
speak as if you appreciated Sweyn ! If
he had only been more patient ! But he
went away, perhaps to death, and you are
going to marry M. Birch. It is hideous,
Jehanne ! "

Oh, child, do not torture me ! 

Being the bell, clear, and we will have
chocolate."

Mary rose, but she stood by the bedside,
and looked with eyes dilated.

I believe, I do believe, you love Sweyn
after all ! And how sinful it is to marry
one man when you  "

"Don't begin again, darling. Let us
have our chocolate, and I will getup."


They talked of other matters constrainedly,
until Jehanne went into her dressing-room.
Mary stayed behind, listlessly turning
over the papers, which were duly
brought to Mdlle. de Perouac, though she
never read them. Suddenly she uttered a
short, sharp cry, and Jehanne came hurrying
in, her maid behind her. Mary met
them, and threw her arms about Jehanne's
neck.

Oh, I said so ! They have been
wrecked, and they are dead," she sobbed.

Dead ? " Jehanne repeated. " Mr. Garrow

dead ? And you say it is my fault ?
How dead ? "

Killed ! It is in the paper ! "

Mary could not proceed for sobs. Jehanne
stood stiff, holding the journal, on which
her eyes were fixed without seeing. Then
she turned abruptly, and knelt by the bed.

The Count de Perouac's voice was heard
outside, and in a few moments he entered,
with Hugues. They came to break the
news to Mary. She took them away, and
all three hastily returned to the Bristol,
where Sir James Latham was staying. In
the mean while they discussed this painful
intelligence.

The captain of her H.M.SS. ' Rosicrucian '
cruising in the China Seas, reported to the
admiral, that he had found the pirate
settlement which he had orders to destroy.
The inhabitants, however, had fled. Ample
evidence of their guilt was found, amongst
other things a shattered boat and a quantity
of wreckage, apparently picked up at

sea, belonging to a small vessel called ' La
Donna.' The captain of the ' Eosicrucian '
supposed she had been wrecked, and it
seemed probable to him that her crew, if
any survived, had fallen into the pirate's
hands. This conjecture was supported by
the declaration of a slave who joined the
force occupied in burning the town. He
said the Lanuns in their hasty flight had
carried with them two white prisoners.

Oh, gentlemen ! " Mary almost screamed
at length, "I am distracted with these
names of places I never heard of. Is there
a telegraph ? I beg you to find my father !
He loved those poor boys."

Here she broke down.

Sir James Latham exerted himself manfully
when he heard the distressing news.
He found and interrogated men of every
colour and variety, telegraphed in all
directions, and sought information wherever
it might lie. Very odd information it was,
most of it. Few are the Frenchmen who

have gone beyond Singapore, except by
the highway to China and Japan. The
enormous local traffic, the vast countries
round the Straits, are scarcely touched by
Europeans, saving the thin fringe of Dutch
settlements. Singapore is a wondrous halfway
town, so busy, so eager, that men
devote a life-time there without further
exploration than the Camping Glad on one
side, and Tangled upon the other ; if, once
or twice, they picnic on Bukat Timak,
they may almost claim the honour due to
pioneers. It may be imagined, therefore,
that the hints to be picked up in Paris
were fantastic. Sir James wrote to the
India Office and the Admiralty, begging
that the fullest inquiry should be made.
And he telegraphed freely to Bombay, the
utmost point to which despatches could
be forwarded in those days.

Meanwhile Jehanne was really ill. The
shock of this calamity had a painful effect,
and she believed herself responsible in some

degree for the death of these young men 
that they were dead she never questioned.
Probably Jehanne's nerves had undergone
much trial lately to be so gravely upset.
She shut herself up, receiving even Mary
with unwillingness. Birch behaved in a
very gentlemanly way. He begged an
interview, and the Count insisted. One
glance of the frightened face, so passionless
formerly, told his quick eye the prudent
course to follow. With real feeling and
exquisite tact he deplored the unhappy
fate of those gallant youths, betrayed no
surprise at Jehanne's emotion, which he
affected to think quite natural, and withdrew.
I have such confidence in Birch's
shrewdness that I believe he really understood
the cause of Jehanne's suffering. It
was not love for Garrow that oppressed her,
and since he was dead, to be jealous of him
would have been foolish anyhow.

The Lathams had left England six months
before, with the idea of travelling for two

years. Sir James had lost a great deal
more money than he cared to own in
searching for minerals on his estate. He
was to some small extent embarrassed, and
his character led him to exaggerate the
mischief. They had been living through
summer in a cheap Norman watering-place,
and the visit to Paris was made en route to
Italian baths cheaper still. They had hoped
in passing to see the instalment of Henri
Cinq upon the throne of his ancestors.
But time had not brought that event. Les
habiles plotted and combined, sounded this
man, outmanoeuvred that party, kept a buzz
of intrigue always swelling ; but did not
advance a step. Their scheme was founded
on nothing at all. Its exits and entrances,
its front and back staircases, so to speak,
were admirably designed. No architecture
could be more excellent than that of its
upper floors. Once the king in power,
they knew precisely what lines to follow,
and one may admit that the programme

VOL. II. Q

was well contrived in every point of view.
But when at length the moment came for
the Child of Miracle to speak, he shattered
all the fabric with one honest, stupid
breath. No historical interview can have
been more surprising to all parties, more
dramatic, than that between the Comte de
Chambord and M. de MacMahon. When
they came face to face, each of them hopeful
under the illusions so recklessly instilled
by the contrivers of the plot, within ten
minutes all was over, the bubble burst.

I move under the flag of my ancestors ! "
said the deluded king.

In that case," replied the deluded king-maker,
" the rifles of your Majesty's army
will go off of their own accord ! "

The interview ended here for practical
purposes, but it was carried on to the bitter
end. A thousand questions there were to
ask, a thousand explanations to demand of
those luckless hailed. Very droll but very
painful the scene must have become when

the ministers waiting anxious in the anteroom
were summoned to account. What
pitiful revelations of rash self-delusion,
of conscious misunderstanding and concealment
of unpleasant truths, that cross-examination
must have disclosed ! It is
high testimony to the Duke's skill, a disheartening
evidence how little talent could
be found among the royalists, that he should
have kept his place after this affair. But
we are concerned with French history only
so far as it influenced our characters, and
the thread of it we have been following
ends here.

The collapse of her high enthusiasm for
the Cause gave Jehanne de Perouac another
blow. The Count grew alarmed about her,
and proposed a sojourn at the family chateau
in Provence. Sir James Latham, urged by
his daughter, suggested an alternative. He
invited Jehanne to pass some months in
their Italian villa, and she consented with
delight. Albert had rejoined his regiment

Q 2

in Algiers ; and solitary confinement with
her father frightened the girl. So it was
arranged. But before leaving for some
months' absence, Sir James proposed to
visit London for a short time. There only
could he exert himself to procure special
information about the loss of 'La Donna.'
And at Mary's earnest prayer, the whole
family, with their guest, accompanied him.

In this capital of ours news is concentrated.
Before the Lathams had passed two days
in London some events happened. After
visiting the India Office and the Admiralty,
Sir James went upon his private business
to Ford's. When that was finished,
the lawyer observed 

A very strange thing has occurred
since you left England. You will recollect
that I advised young Kawdon to advertise
for that page-boy, Dixon, who was supposed
to have seen the settlement executed.
I do not approve of advertising, but this
seemed a peculiar case. And the result

is very satisfactory. Some weeks ago I
received a letter from the man, enclosing
a declaration duly sworn before the magistrate
at Singapore. So far as it goes the
document quite confirms public rumour.
Here it is."

Sir James had sincerely grieved for the
loss of his young friend, but he was overwhelmed
with sorrow when he read Dixon's
affidavit. In due form that person swore
that in his presence, and that of Mrs. Lambert,
with others, Mr. Eawdon executed a
settlement of all his landed property upon
his young son. Sir James Latham marked
none of the drawbacks. He did not trouble
to observe that the trustees were not identified,
nor the witnesses named. He thought
Pier's case made out and triumphant. Ford
did not undeceive him, since the result, as
it stood, was creditable to himself professionally
; and Pier Eawdon was dead.

His young friend then had been legal
owner of Weybridge. Lady Latham quite

shared his feelings, but Mary could not
see the change of the situation. To learn
that if Pier had not been drowned he
would have been rich did not affect her.
But the event caused another flood of
tears.

Next morning, amongst her letters forwarded
from the Hall, Lady Latham received
Pier's account of his adventures, dated from
Bruni. It reached her in bed. I am quite
sure this excellent and charming lady shed
tears in reading it ; I am sure also, that
the good baronet would have been overjoyed,
though he had never heard of Dixon's
statement. But the incident of yesterday
lent a very peculiar interest to the news.
When the letter had been skipped through
hurriedly, they sent it to Mary's room, and
held a serious talk. This resuscitated young
man was worth 10,000 a year, and in all
respects a most desirable son-in-law. He
had not concealed his admiration and
attachment for Miss Latham, hinting marriage

so frankly that several times of late
her mother had hesitated to give Mary the
letters. For Pier Rawdon with but 20,000,
though a delightful youth, was no proper
match for a daughter of Latham. And her
ladyship had not delivered them without
significant remarks quite unnecessary. Mary
shared her opinion from different motives.
Whilst all went smoothly, and each mail
brought news of pleasant novelties and
prosperous gales, she often coloured with
impatience at Pier's unconscious tone of 
mastership. It grew upon him as time
went on. In the long watches of a tropic
night, upon a silver sea, or camped in the
sombre woods, he had so idealized and
transfigured that last interview as nearly
to persuade himself that Mary had given
him a formal promise. And, whatever he
thought, he wrote in that sense, his trust
and assurance of Mary's love underlying
every remark addressed to her. Her replies,
not too frequent, endeavoured to repress

this tone, which gravely irritated and
annoyed her.

All this Lady Latham quite understood
and approved. But matters had changed
now. Upon the one hand, Pier was going
to be master of an estate as fine as any in
the county almost ; upon the other, Mary
was no longer such a catch. It would be a
convenience to Sir James if his son-in-law
whoever he might be  would take the
bride penniless ; and they well knew that
money had no value in Pier Rawdon's eyes.
In the bedroom council, therefore, it was
decided that in future his timid allusions
to marriage should be encouraged, and
Mary's petulance judiciously rebuked ; also,
that Jim should be taken into confidence.

Needless to tell with what delight Mary
read the first two lines of Pier's despatch,
how she flew into Jehanne's room, and
hugged her, and cried 

They are safe at Bruni  where is
Bruni ? They have been wrecked, and

taken prisoners by pirates, and now they
are free ! "

She got into bed to read all the letter,
and they studied it with their arms about
each other's necks.

So Jehanne's great remorse came to an
end ; but she did not shake off the nervous
depression which had seized her. Mary
showed herself milch more elastic of disposition.
Within a few hours she began
to criticize the letter in the old spirit of
cavil and discontent, finding offence in
every line which personally referred to her.
As was natural after danger so imminent,
Pier's heart warmed in writing for the eye
of her he loved, and there were expressions
even more self-assured than usual. Mary
was exceedingly droll and sarcastic ; but to
her surprise. Lady Latham reproved her.
Jim, who was present, observed

After giving Rawdon all the encouragement
you have, it's a little hard on the
poor beggar to chaff him as you do. He

might well deceive himself when you
deceived everybody else ! "

'' Jim ! " interrupted Lady Latham, " you
go too far ! "

In arms for the fray, Mary exclaimed 

What encouragement have I given him
since I grew up ? '*

How should I know what was in the
letters and things you have always been
exchanging ? Kisses, I dare say ! "

' You are offensive and insulting I "

Well, it doesn't matter what was inside.
The envelope and the address were encouragement
enough. Have you kept up
a correspondence with any other man ?
Tell me that. But when a straightforward
young fellow draws the natural conclusion,
you cut up, and say clever things about him."

You exaggerate excessively, Jim," said
his mother, repenting her of this imprudent
ally.

Not by such reproaches would Mary be
swayed.

Oh, well," Jim answered, rather in
bewilderment, " that's how the case would
appear to any young fellow of my age ; but
I dare say we should all be mistaken."

And he went out.

The family cause had sustained enormous
mischief by this outburst, vastly more than
Lady Latham guessed. Mary knew, of
course, what conclusions had been drawn
from Dixon's affidavit, when Pier was
thought to be lost. A much less clever
girl would have marked a coincidence of
events. Jim hitherto had not seemed to
observe anything unusual in her relations
with Pier, had never alluded, or appeared
to notice them, since his outburst in Paris,
so disastrous, and so sincerely repented.
But so soon as it became evident that
he was alive, and probable that he was
heir of Weybridge, then Jim took a line
which in effect sustained his right to
look on Mary as his destined bride. The
suspicion she drew from this Mary kept

in her shrewd little head, and watched
the behaviour of her parents. Sir James
could not keep a secret, and he soon
betrayed himself. Lady Latham, put off
her guard by an air of guileless ignorance,
presently allowed her desires to be seen.
With that self-control which impulsive
natures often display when overpowering
sentiment possesses them, Mary kept silence
until discussions that arose over two following
letters made her quite, quite certain.
Then, in family conclave, she relieved her
soul, beginning in a strain of lofty irony,
continuing in a gust of passion, and ending
amidst indignant tears. Her astonished
parents gathered that they were deceitful,
treacherous, and generally unnatural persons,
who would sell her for a slave if they
could, that Mr. Pier Eawdon was an impertinent
boy, whom she would never marry
if he had millions, and that she herself
might be reckoned among the most unfortunate
and unhappy girls mentioned in

history. At this point Jehanne quietly
entered, and before she could withdraw
Mary threw herself into her arms, passionately
sobbing.

Whilst Sir James and Lady Latham
looked at each other disconsolate not very
much shocked by the abusive language of
their fiery little darling  Jim had a happy
inspiration of laughter. He rolled and
choked with amusement so genuine, repeating
little morsels of the harangue as they
occurred to him, that all the party followed
his example. Even Jehanne added her rare
and silvery laugh in pure sympathy. Mary
stamped, then pouted, then merrily joined.
But when all had recovered, she added 

*' Of course I was very ridiculous, and all
that. But, papa and mamma, and you,
Jim, remember ! what I said about Mr.
Kawdon was perfectly serious. I mean it,
every word."

They all knew she meant it, and the
family council, annoyed but not desperate.

built their remaining hopes upon the lover's
personal fascination. Lady Latham urged
him to come home, frankly suggesting that
Mary had still to be won, and advising
more cautious allusions to the past and
future in .his letters. The message found
Pier at Labuan, in no state for love-making,
cautious or other.

Then the Lathams went to Italy for the
winter, returning to England in the spring.
Jehanne, restored in health but not inspirits,
rejoined the Count.

CHAPTER VIII.

A FIGHT WITH KAYANS.

When the young Englishmen set out
from Bruni to relieve the beleaguered
Lanuns, they could not hide from themselves
that it was a desperate risk. 
staked his life that Pangeran
Hassan Makota, to whom he had entrusted
the command, would be true as himself;
but this chief did not carry recommendation
in his looks. He was son of that
superlative villain, whose ill deeds found
mention in so many despatches thirty or
forty years ago. At the landing-place on a
small island half-way betwixt Bruni and the
Trusan he met them, and introduced the

other leaders, Pangeran Mail, Papuans
Daoud and Abdullah. Hassan Makota was
a tall man for his race, evil looking and dissipated,
superbly dressed, of course. He had
a great deal of that courtesy and charm of
manner which caused Rajah Brooke to warn
the Colonial Office that they should always
recollect the Vizier Makota, his parent, was
the most finished gentleman, as the most
fiendish blackguard, in the Eastern seas 
where blackguards are so very gentlemanly,
and so very finished. Hassan had much
also of his father's ability. When that
chief was murdered, after a crowning
his enormous wealth disappeared.
The Sultan took all that could be found,
but it was a sum trifling in comparison.
For one good reason or other, Mr. St. John
ordered inquiries to be made, and it was
proved that Makota kept in his pray a
chest full of gold money, amounting, it is
supposed, to several scores of thousands.
This chest undoubtedly was on board at

the time of the assassination, but it had
vanished a few hours after. What became
of it has never been ascertained, though
many suspicions are afloat. The family got
nothing, and the Sultan little. He allowed
the wives, if I remember rightly, fifty
pounds a year amongst them. Hassan
Makota was thrown upon the world penniless,
exposed to the hatred of millions, with
whom his name was a terror. He joined
the large army of " costers and tories," as
that same class was called in Ireland. I
could tell by what oppressions, intrigues,
complaisances, and crimes he lived in a
sort of feverish luxury, but the recital
would be long.

To this kindred spirit Budrudeen introduced
his paymasters. A shed of boughs
had already been constructed, and furnished
with elegance. Makota guided them to it
with much grace, talking shrewdly and
pleasantly. When sentries had been posted
out of earshot, and the four chiefs had pro-vol.

II. . R

seised their entire devotion, Pier invited
them to speak. Makota answered for all.
He said 

When the Amj)uan Budrudeen informed
me that the relatives of the English
Queen asked my aid in driving back
these Kayan pigs, I was proud. I sent out
faithful men, such as I shelter in plenty
at my house, to visit the Trusan and
Pandam Island. We are waiting their
return. I sent others into the markets
and places where bad people resort ; and
I also, animated with desire to show myself
worthy of the English lords' friendship,
made inquiries. I find that the Kayans
are not unsupported. Paugeran Usup, Pan-german
Suleiman,"  he counted on his fingers
a dozen names,  " have joined them. This
nobleman has forty followers, that a score,
that ten. In all, there are not less than
two hundred Bruni men, well-armed, fighting
in the Kayan ranks. What I would
suggest is that the relatives of the English

Queen should authorize me to send messengers
to these, and offer honourable
alliance."

This way of treating the matter tickled
the fancy of the Englishmen, but they kept
their countenance. The advice was sound,
if the facts were true. Sweyn said quietly,
without offensive significance in his tone 

"If we think proper to follow this course,
we offer terms to one hundred only. The
other hundred, perhaps, will not take part
in the fight."

The Malays evidently thought more
highly of their employers after an incident
which showed them not so guileless as was
expected. It was decided at once to acton
the idea. A trusty man started in the
dark to bear the proposition. After sometime
passed in discussing arrangements,
brandy and opium were introduced, without
such formal excuses and small deceptions
as usual. Thus warmed, the Bruni swashbucklers
conversed on things in general,

R 2

and Kayan warfare in particular. No
companion more pleasant is found than a
Malay noble. He is generally intelligent,
always courteous. The law of survival
exacts that he should be well acquainted
with public affairs, and public men, and
the tendencies of local interests ; for if
he neglect these studies, his too careless
existence is nipped before its happy prime.

All through the night small parties arrived
from Bruni. Things were manasseh
very orderly and quiet. Those who first
landed had built long beds or platforms,
of sticks and bamboo, raised a foot above
the ground.' Sentries who watched for
new-comers directed them to the camping
of their chief, one of the four.
This careful arrangement was necessary to
avoid a premature outbreak of some feud
or vendetta.

At the earliest dawn the pangerans
came. Their spies had returned, bringing
full accounts of the Kayan position. The

Trusan was quite undefended and unguarded.
Some fifty men lay at its further
outlet, to secure any food which
passing market people would dispose of.
A diversion from the Bruni side was
evidently not thought of. Upon Pandam
the whole Kayan force was encamped : one
large body guarding the boats, at the further
side the island, and the remainder
disposed, each clan under its chief, about
the Lanun stockade. This had been erected
amidst the great sago plantation. The
palms had been felled, and pitched one on
another ; in a very small circle at first,
but enlarged by annexes, as the Lanuns
gained time and confidence. A great advantage
they had in the prickly undergrowth
which surrounds a sago palm  a
natural abattis, very difficult to naked men.
Up to the present time five grand attacks
had been repulsed; but the Kayans held
position within fifty yards, and a desperate
effort might be expected on the following

nioht. Their number moonlit be two
thousand. Some fifty or sixty Malays, well-armed,
had lately joined them, under chiefs of
note. More were expected, with some guns.
Upon receipt of this news, urgent messengers
hastened back to Bruni. At any
risk the cannon and the main body of the
mercenaries must be ready to advance at
sunset, for there was little hope that the
Lanuns would repel an attack such as
threatened. The Englishmen were not so
eagerly impatient of the issue as to be
incapable of appreciating the strange scene
around them. It was indeed a very interesting
camp. These pleasant-mannered desperadoes
were picturesque in all they did,
full of life and character. And the island
was beautiful. Groves of cocoa-nut covered
great part of it, and the rest was a tangled
garden. Borneo is not liberal in the display
of flowers. In nooks and dark recesses they
shyly expand, with beauty nowhere surpassed
; and the tree-tops are clothed in

blossom. But the glory of the island lies
in its orchids and nepenthes, solitary gems
shining in gloom, and strange vagaries of
vegetation. There are exceptional spots,
however, and this was one of them.

After the evening prayer, recited with
particular devotion, two messengers arrived.
Budrudeen informed his masters that the
Sultan was moving. Patrols quartered the
river, and the guns had a narrow escape.
He abandoned all hope of forwarding them,
but the rest of the force was on its way.
The other tidings came from Pangerans
Usup and Suleiman. They accepted the
alliance proposed, and they would attack
the Kayans in rear, whilst Makota led a
charge in front. The treachery promised
with such calmness was excessively distasteful
to English ideas.

I would not kill a rat so basely ! "
Sweyn cried.

Makota looked at him with complaisant
scorn.

"If the Turns want a great fight, it is
the same to me," he said. " Shall I send
the infidels guns and powder ? "

At dark all was complete, and the flotilla
started. A small body went in advance, to
capture, if possible, the enemy's picket on
the Trusan, under the guise of market
people. This was effected without noise,
the Kayans crowding eagerly to buy provisions
; not one escaped, for they were
half-starved. Vastly inspirited by a success
which gave them two score of able-bodied
slaves, the Bruni force pushed on towards
Pandam. It was dark night when they
entered the broad stretch of water in which
that island stands. The enemy's camp
was marked by dense undergrowth, but
above the tree-tops hung a ruddy glow of
fires. The dull beat of a tum-tum j)ulsated
over the water, telling that the Lanuns still
held out.

A hundred men separated from the main
body, paddling swiftly round to secure a

place of vantage whence they might seize
the Kayan boats so soon as the attack
began. The others waited. Pier and
Sweyn sat in Makota's pray with that
chieftain. Quite calm was he, pleasantly
humorous and communicative about Kayan
habits. Would the enemy fight well ?
Certainly he would. Many lives of the
faithful would be sacrificed that night.
This species of Kaffir, unlike the Dyak,
loves to do battle in darkness. He does
not use his venomous blowpipe, unless in a
regular ambuscade, but draws his parang,
and rushes to close quarters. Perhaps the
lords had seen that very curious weapon of
the dogs ? Its blade is round on one side,
hollow on the other, and with it the Kayan
warrior will cleave a man to the shoulders.
Many Malays of the poorer sort use them.
Their disadvantage * is," Makota added,
*that a sword like mine will cut them
through." Had he any doubt of success 1
Not the smallest ! It is true that the savages

are not now so much afraid of guns as they
used to be. Many possess firearms, but
they have no skill with them. Powder is
so difficult to get that they cannot afford to
practise shooting. If the Kayans were ten
times as numerous, such men as he had
gathered would cut through them. For
they have no discipline. Every man seeks
his foe and kills him, or is killed. The
Malays would push straight on, and the
Kayans would disperse. Not one ought to
escape. For the treacherous Bruni nobles,
in whom they relied, were instructed to
make for the boats at the first signal, to
overpower the guard, in concert with
Makota's detachment, and to seize the
fugitives as they came up. Some of the
most desperate might try to swim, but
the Muruts and the Malayans would pick
them up in the woods.' The greater number
knew too well what hideous fate would befall
them. And Makota blandly recounted how
the peasantry would treat their captives.

For this two months past," said Eaw-
don, " I have felt like a man living amongst
devils, and this seems to be our own initiation
into their mysteries. It is all too
horrible, Sweyn ! "

We are on the side of goodness, at all
events ! Remember the stories we have
heard of Kayan fiendishness. I wish the
row would begin. Shall you fight, Pier ? "

Only to defend myself. How could
one strike a blow in company with these
ravishers and cut-throats to release such
inhuman brutes as Lanuns ? As you say,
we are on the right side ; but Christian
gentlemen have no business here  unless it
were to blow up that den of wickedness,
Bruni, and hang every man in it."

"Listen, Turns ! " said Makota. "The
time is passing. You will do well not to
leave the boats."

We shall go with you," they both
exclaimed.

*that is wise. I feared you might be

imprudent. The Kayans will swarm like
wasps at the first glimmer of our torches."

Do you remain in the pray then ? "

I am a great chief, and it is unbecoming
in me to exchange blows with a Kaffir  "

Then let me tell you, Pangeran  "
Sweyn began.

Pier interrupted him.

We shall go ashore with the first," he
said briefly.

As you please. I will name twenty
men to guard us. Here is the messenger."

Noiselessly-and stealthily a small canoe
approached. The occupant informed them
that Pangeran Mail had taken his position
over against the Kay an flotilla. The
moment had come, and death was awaiting
some of them.

Has every man his arms to hand ? "
asked Makota ; and a general murmur
answered him. " Are the torches ready ?
Those who carry tow-ropes ashore, are they
in the bows ? The twenty men dio attend

on me and the Turns, do they know their
duty ? "

All those practised and disciplined fighters
were ready, each in his place.

These, then, are the orders. When
we reach shore, six men from every praii
will land with his arms, as quietly as maybe.
Two of them will be provided with
ropes to haul the vessels in. If the enemy
be prepared, you will all raise your shout,
light the torches, and dash in. If not,
you will form upon the beach, and move
under your chiefs in the order appointed 
Ampuan Daoud commanding the advance,
Ampuan Abdullah the centre, and I the
rear, with the Inggris Turns. No man will
stay to plunder. The slaves and the booty
shall be divided according to rule. Has
any noble ampuan anything to say ? No ?
Then, Orang Alit, in Allah's name we goto
victory for the rescue of faithful Moslem.
When the evening prayer is said  advance ! "'

One instant they paused, turning towards

the West. Rapidly they touched their
foreheads, mouths, and chests, bowing low ;
then resumed the paddles, with a faint
clatter, and gently pulled in.

"I could shout with excitement ! " Sweyn
muttered.

If only we had a better cause, and more
honest comrades," answered Kawdon.

Makota whispered, 'hush!" and in dead
silence they proceeded. The noises of the
jungle reached them faintly ; the drip of
paddles and the rush of water made soft
harmony. Gradually the lurid halo on
the island grew clearer, creeping downward
amidst the trees. But there was no hum
of men, such as rises from a camp, and
Makota raised himself to look uneasily
shore wards. Daoud led the way, with his
detachment, in two large prays. Every
man was familiar with the spot. Making
for the landing-place, where sago-cutters
had cleared a considerable area, Abdullah
diverged to his proper left, and Makota to
his right. There was room for all to reach

shore at once, but the advance guard had
instructions to be foremost.

The blurred outline of the trees hung

very close overhead when Makota whist



peered 

That's Daoud's signal. His men are
landing. By the name of the All-merciful,
the Kayans are roused ! "

As he spoke, musketry began to peal,
first a stray shot, then volleys. By the flash
Daoud's two prays were seen, close in shore,
glittering with arms. His men where splashing
through the shallow, shrilly cheering.
No enemy appeared, but by the stream of
light now incessant, missiles glanced from
the darkness of the wood, and bodies lay
already on the beach. Whilst paddles
worked furiously, making the prays leap
like hounds, Makota and Abdullah threw
a rain of lead into the jungle. The torches
hastily lit, twinkled, steadied, flared as they
were tossed aloft, throwing a shower of
red sparks. Then the Kayans burst out,
charging with levelled spears. The red

glow lit up their feathered head-dresses,
their war coats of black bull's hide or
panther skin, their shields clothed with
tufts of human hair. They pressed on
ferociously, with screams and yells, driving
the Malays before them into the sea.
Daoud was outnumbered and repulsed.

Makota stood up, with the fury of battle
in his wild eyes, urging his men with
brandished sabre. They answered him
gallantly. But a moment the Englishmen
were spectators : the next, they sprang
overboard with others, splashing through
the mud and shallow water. A mob of the
enemy encountered them, with spear and
sword. So savagely they came that a volley
failed to stop them, and the foremost of
Makota's warriors went down, while the rest
fell back. But he himself rushed forward,
with Pier, and Sweyn, and his body-guard.
The Kayans closed round, a ring of imp-like
forms, with burning eyes and mouths
agape, and waving parents. One savage,
gauntleted with brass wire, seized Rawdon

by the sword arm, and dealt a blow which
must have cleft his skull ; but Sweyn
grasped his wrist and tore it round, twisting
him off his legs, and throwing him
head foremost among struggling feet of
friend and foe. At the next step he himself
fell in a hole, and Pier seized by the throat
a Kayan who stooped over to despatch him.
The brute writhed like a snake, and that
was no time for struggling. Lifting him
by the breech-clout, Pier tossed him aside,
upon the weapons of his friends, and aided
Garrow to regain his feet.

This is the heroic sport ! " he breathlessly
exclaimed. "At it again, Pier ! "

But the Kayans, undisciplined and unused
to act in masses, had no real chance.
Abdullah attacked them in rear ; Daoud's
men returned to the fight. Whilst Makota
and his chosen few kept the ground won,
other Malays fell back, reloaded, and again
advanced, to deliver fire at close quarters.
The Kayans broke. An old chief, conspicuous
for a scarlet cap, decked with

VOL. II. s

feathers of the rhinoceros hornbill, rallied
them once, and led them to a final effort.
But Makota sprang at him. The ancient
warrior stooped, and his opponent's blade
sliced the plume of his headdress. Eawdon
caught him in his arms, and Sweyn
snatched his sword away. The chief's look,
when he perceived the colour of the face
so close to his, was irresistibly comic. He
struggled no more. The bravest of men
may yield to a devil, and nothing less did
this veteran suppose his captor. He sat
upon the ground, staring and trembling.
Makota readily deputed a man to put him onboard
the pray. Then they formed up and
advanced, leaving the wounded and the dead.
It was all over. Not a Kayan remained
in sight. Silently as they had appeared, so
silently they vanished. From first to last
the affair had occupied about fifteen minutes,
but very many brave souls had gone to
their account. Led by Murut guides, the
victors hastened up the path in a red flare
of torches. No shot was fired until, at the

stockade itself, Daoud's men suddenly
recommenced. Pushing forward, Makota
learned that a few Kayans had rushed out
of it as the Malays came in sight, but they
made no stand. This strange news somewhat
prepared them for the scene within.
The area was strewn with bodies, mostly
headless. Their clothes told them to be
Lanun, but there were some Kayans also,
those unmitigated. What had happened
was easy to comprehend. Put off their
guard by the noise of fight at the landing-place,
the besieged had neglected for a
moment to keep watch, and the foe, scaling
their defences, attacked them unprepared.
But a score had escaped, for hiding is not in
Lanun nature.

While J;he Malays, with vengeful hearts,
regarded this spectacle, doubly shocking to
them as Mussulman and as allies, ina
sense, a distant uproar roused them to
new efforts. The fugitive Kayans had
reached their boats, to find them in the
power of the enemy. Amidst the tumult

S 2

of their own battle, none lead heard the
lesser fight, nor marked the desertion of
the Bruni chiefs. When they came up the
guard were killed, dispersed, or captured,
and the prays had been removed. Too well
those savages knew what would be their
fearful end, caught in the woods. Reckless
of mere death, they swam out, their parents
in their teeth, to recover the canoes. The
Malays offered quarter in vain. They had
no wish to destroy or to maim these fine
fellows, worth forty dollars apiece at Bruni.
The firing was intended only to daunt them.
But the Kayans were very numerous and
very desperate. Several canoes, less ably
manoeuvred than the rest, fell into their
hands, and all aboard were slain. These
vanished instantly in the darkness. But
the large prays, after enticing swimmers to
exhaustion, suddenly turned, noosing their
scattered pursuers with ropes, stunning them
with blows, dragging them aboard by main
force. Few of the Kayans displayed that
heroism of soul which enables a Lanun or a

Balignini to sink and appear no more when
in such case. They yielded themselves
prisoners, or sullenly swam back. There
the Malays drawn up received them, tied
their hands, and threw them on the ground.
Some of those whose wounds were painful
struck the poor wretches cruelly ; but
Eawdon, observing such a case, knocked the
perpetrator off his legs into the trampled
mud. Fortunately he had no friends
amongst the on-lookers, who only laughed.
Makota, when appealed to, angrily forbade
ill-treatment of the prisoners. It depreciated
their market-value.

Before leaving the stockade Garrow had
found the Lanun rajah. Wounded several
times in the previous actions, he had been
unable to keep his feet when the rush came,
and his slaughtered warriors, falling over
him, had saved his life. He looked at his
preservers sternly, without speaking, and
they left him in care of his friends.
Meantime both camps were plundered systematically,
the prisoners being disposed in

the manner easiest for safety, without the
least regard to comfort or to wounds, unless
there was danger of death. Sickened by
the view of pain and brutality which they
could not prevent, the Englishmen retired
to Makota's pray. It was full of Kayans,
mostly injured. On the small deck aft
lay the old man with scarlet cap whom Pier
had made captive. One of Makota's servants
observed, with a grin familiar but not
disrespectful 

*' This Kaffir says he is a great pangeran
in his own country : so we have put him
alongside of your lordship."

The chief looked up at them with awe ;
he had sustained little hurt, but the uneasy
shifting of his limbs told of pain. Examining
him closely by the red torch-light,
they found that the cords which tied his
hands and feet were actually buried in the
flesh. After cutting them, they invited the
prisoner to take some spirits, which he did
like a man whose death is decreed, and who
submits to fate.

An interpreter was found with ease. He
reported that the Kayan's name was ,
that he was orang kara of a village
on the Aram. Starting from thence,
twelve months before, with two hundred
warriors, he dropped down the Aram river
as far as the mouth of the Tutu. This he
ascended to the junction of the Milan,
which the party entered. Travelling to
the Motu mountains, they hauled their
war-boats overland to the waters of the
Truman, a distance, probably, of thirty
miles. A road for the purpose is cut
through the jungle, upon which trees are
laid crosswise, about a yard apart ; so
regular and systematic are the Kayan
forays. The labour of dragging such a
distance, over such a path, vessels sixty
or seventy feet long, may scarcely be
imagined. Launching upon the Truman,
they descended to the Macadam, and thence
to the Limbang, where at length they began
to search for human heads  the object of
this long pilgrimage. But the population

now is very scanty, and skilled in every
ruse of Kay an warfare. They lost more
skulls than they gained, and not a single
slave was caught. Journeying onwards
down the Limbang, they overtook a fleet
of their inland relatives, and joined them.
In process of time their adventurous career
was stopped by the Lanuns, as already
detailed.

Good heavens ! " Sweyn cried. " It is
not possible that human beings would incur
such toil and danger for the sake of cutting
people's throats ! What is the whole
distance ? "

The chief replied, with complacency, that
a man travelling a full day's journey would
not cover the ground under two months,
allowing no time for halts.

Has his tribe any hatred of these poor
wretches ? Does he wish to conquer
Bruni ? "

** Not at all ! They seek heads alone ;
but if children are captured they are
enslaved. There is nothing to plunder.

The Kayans are too ricci to value what the
Muruts have."

*' Now," Sweyn exclaimed, ' you will be
more charitable to the Lanuns, Pier. There
are worse devils than they. How many
heads has this vile old brute taken in his
life ? " he added, to the interpreter.

This question roused the ancient warrior.
He began a sort of chant, and the other
prisoners emphasized each pause with a
short exclamation intoned. The interpreter
repeated after him a string of barbarous
names, each succeeded by a number, at such
a place one head, at another two, and so on.

*' How many ? How many ? " Sweyn
cried, furious with indignation. " I believe
I really believe, that if Makota proposed
to flay this wretch alive, I could walk away
and leave him to do it without a word.
Think, Pier, of the misery beyond all telling
which he has devoted his long life to
inflict, for sport, without motive or purpose
but devilry ! Shut up, you fiend ! How
many is it ? "

The metrical reckoning could not easily
be arrested, and it was with sullen dignity
that the Kayan gave its tale in brief.

A hundred and seventeen ! Was there
ever tiger that had such an account ? Take
him forward out of our sioht ! You have
no repentance now, Pier ? "

"Not one vestige left. I could hang
every ]prisoner upon a tree, and my conscience
would never give one twinge. If
we meet Kayans again in fair fight we
will do some vengeance, Sweyn."

Makota's voice was heard, eagerly hailing.
He came on board with Pangerans
Suleiman and Usup, who were ceremoniously
presented to the Turns. After
shaking hands, and expressing with graceful
interest their deep regard for Englishmen
in general, and for these specimens in particular,
they begged permission to see the
chief with a scarlet head-dress. He had
been taken forward, but the attendants
brought him to the raised deck amidships,
where the pangerans had squatted with

torch bearers. At sight of them the okl
Kayan raised himself to his full height,
and said in Malay, 

"I am here, Siniawan, chief of Cura,
who never broke his word to friend or
foe."

The Malays present uttered a simultaneous
cry ; it was the most active of all the
Kayan marauders whom they had taken.
They crowded to look at him, a lean and
wiry figure, almost naked. The fighting
jacket of panther skin, and the cuirass
of antedate's scales, had been stripped ofi*
by his captors, and he wore only a breech -
clout of the poorest stuff. The wrinkled
face, though very plain, had an air of
command. The cheekbones were high, the
mouth stern and set, the eyes, small and
prominent, had a steady glance He was
tattooed in patterns here and there ; the
lobes of his ears hung like loops of twine,
so distended that a cricket-ball might easily
have been passed through them. The upper
part also was bored, in a series of holes,

tliroiigh Yllich the teeth of the tiger cat
protruded. Savage and ugly, but dignified
and resolute, the great chief stood before
his enemies.

Makota looked at him thoughtfully.

Where are your gold ornaments,
Kafir ? " he said at length.

*' Buried in the ground. One of my
slaves will show you."

But the Malays rose eagerly, and, at a
sign, the old man was tumbled overboard,
and carried with them ashore. The cache
was soon discovered, and rude jewellery of no
small value turned up. Afterwards he was
dismissed, to sleep with the other prisoners,
whilst the pangerans consulted in low tones.
Presently they departed, and Makota came
to smoke his opium-pipe before retiring.

What shall you do with Siniawan ? "
Pier asked.

'' We shall give him to the Sultan, with
twenty slaves ; other fifty we distribute
amongst the Dates. Every man will have
a slave. Never did our poor fellows share

such a plunder since their ancestors
captured the Princess of Johore in the Gulf
of Siam. If the Turns propose another
expedition, all Bruni will volunteer."

What will the Sultan do with Siniawan?"

Hold him to ransom probably."

What ? Let the murderous old villain
go free ? "

I suppose so. He is very rich."

*' Without a promise to take no more
heads ? "

He would not make it if they roasted
him alive, for he would not keep it,"
Makota said, laughing.

And he would not lie ? He lied to us
before you came."

"That was another thing. The Sultan
will not ask an oath of him. But it maybe
that the Kayan will never again wish
to invade our territory."

That is a poor chance to rely on. His
whole object in life is murder."

No doubt. But the Sultan's physicians
are very skilful."

Will he be poisoned then ? "

No. The Kayans would come down
like a flight of ants. They will give him
something. Ah, it was my father who had
those secrets ! Nobody like him. He made
people angry or sad, drew the strength
from their limbs, the energy from their
hearts, caused them to love or hate, as it
answered his purpose. Any one will tell
you there was no physician like Vizier
Makota. A pleasant night to you, Turns."

The first duty of the morning was to
count the dead, the wounded, and above all
the slaves. Forty-two Malays had perished
in the fight, or bled to death untended.
Makota had not exaggerated the mutilations
wrought by that strange instrument, the
Kayan parang. A large proportion of the
dead, however, had been destroyed by the
tiny poisoned arrows of the blow-pipe. After
picking out twenty slaves for the Sultan,
and fifty more for influential nobles, Makota
embarked the bodies of his slain countrymen,
and the wounded. Then he built a

stockade for the prisoners, who dared not
escape to fall into the power of Ruts
and Malayans.

A messenger arrived from Budrudeen.
He announced that the remainder of the
Lanun clan had reached Bruni Bay, where
the Sultan, a good deal alarmed, desired
them to wait instructions. Anxious, above
all things, to keep his wicked policy a
secret from these new-comers, he forbade
all intercourse with them under pain of
death. Carrying this news, Pier and Sweyn
visited the Lanun survivors. The Eajah sat
amongst them, but he would not speak.
The others seemed almost cheerful, but
such discourtesy on their monarch's part
caused them shame. Seeking an excuse
for him, they declared he could not use
his voice, and the old man himself sulkily
made a gesture of acquiescence. It must
be remembered that a breach of manners
is the worst, if not the only crime regarded
by these people. He who would cut your
throat would not neglect to salute you ;

he who meditates the most direful deeds
will perform any office which breeding demands.
Lanuns are less polite than other
Malays, but all those round were noble.
The Rajah must be vengeful indeed to
neglect the proprieties in such a way. But
it was necessary to decide something about
him and his followers, forbidden as they
were to join their friends. Makota met
this difficulty by offering his house as
shelter for the Lanuns  at a consideration
understood. So that was settled, and in
the afternoon all returned to Bruni, occupying
last night's camp, and arriving next
day.

CHAPTER I.

PACK

A TRAGEDY . . . . . 1

CHAPTER II.
LANUNS AT BAY . . . . . 32

CHAPTER III.

AT HOME AGAIN . . . . . 55

CHAPTER IV.
sweyn's last attempt . . . . 90

CHAPTER V.

KICKED OUT

127

CHAPTER VI.

PACiS

MRS. MORLEY PLAYS GOOD FAIRY . . 170

CHAPTER VII.

THE AWAKENING OF NEMESIS . . . 204

CHAPTER VIII.

AT LAST . . . . . . 230

CHAPTER I.

A TRAGEDY.

I IsA received the victors very prettily
indeed, betwixt smiles and sobs. Her
delight at seeing Garrow safe could not
be repressed, but her father's wound, and
the disaster of her people, caused sharp
suffering. Aysha met them sad and stately,
kissed their hands, and pressed them to her
bosom in the graceful Lanun fashion of
displaying gratitude. It was coldly done,
and Pier was surprised to feel how the
heart beat. The girls sent a letter to the

VOL. III. B

Rajah, begging leave to nurse him ; but it
was sternly refused.

On the following day arrived a war-pray
of the Lanuns, carrying a deputation. After
much delay, the Sultan received it, and
announced his resolve. These new-comers,
several hundred strong in warriors, beside
their families, must leave at once for ,
where many of their countrymen are
settled, refugees, like themselves, from English,
Dutch, or Spanish cruisers. The most
jealous care was taken to prevent the chiefs
communicating with any one who could
not be trusted implicitly, and they little
thought that many scores of captive women
saw their flags go past with streaming eyes.
But some explanation of events they demanded,
resolutely though respectfully. An
inkling of the truth had to be revealed, and
the Vizier admitted that their Rajah was
now in Bruni ; but, he added, the old man
will probably die to-night. This significant
announcement was carried to the English

gentlemen by Makota, who had been present
at the audience. He came hastily
to declare, that if the lang de per Tuan
decreed the Rajah's death he could not
protect him, and Sweyn instantly ordered
his canoe to fetch the old man away.

Meanwhile, the Consul brought other
news in person. An English trading ship
had been chartered by the Governor of
Labuan to take them away, and it would
arrive that night ; one of his own swift
despatch boats had out sailed it easily from
the Bay, bringing letters. The Governor
added, that since engaging the ' Eliza ' he
had intelligence of a man-o'- war available
for the like service, which would be also
sent immediately.

The home mail had no special interest, besides
a pleasant, affectionate note nominally
from Lady Latham, dictated to her daughter,
but full of those pretty, girlish nothings
that read so delightfully to exiled men.
Pier was overjoyed with this apparent proof

B 2

that their adventures were still a secret,
until he opened the Governor's letter.
Then he learned how the telegraph had
been daily thrilling with his name, and
what keen interest Sir James showed.
Whilst regretting deeply those apprehensions,
Pier was unconsciously elated. He
sat down forthwith to write a despatch
which could not be forwarded until he
reached Singapore. After re editing it a
dozen times, he went out to buy the farewell
presents compulsory at Oriental courts.
On returning at nightfall, with two sampans
loaded to the gunwale, Sweyn astonished
him by announcing that the Rajah
had arrived, had seen his daughter, and
given her welcome, though a cold one.

Next morning the ' Eliza ' anchored
opposite the Consulate, and without delay
they went on board. The Captain, named
Banks, received them pleasantly enough,
but they were not greatly taken with him ;
the mate had gone ashore. For such a

short voyage the ' Eliza ' was comfortable.
About two hundred tons burden, she had
a crew sufficient for twice the tonnage, as
is necessary for vessels that embark in the
local trade of those perilous seas. Sweyn
was so unusually interested in the arrangements
for passengers that his friend observed,
with laughing frankness, as they returned,

One would almost think you proposed
carrying Isa with you."

If she will go, why not ? I cannot
leave her here, and her father will not
take her. Regard the matter simply as a
gentleman. Pier. If she were an ugly old
woman, seeing what we owe to her, would
you not be first to declare she must not
be abandoned ? How much more, then,
when she is beautiful ? "

Put thus, the question was not easily
answered.

But the Rajah has forgiven her ! "

You did not see his face. He knows
not even the word forgiveness."

*' But what will you do with her ? "

Time enough to think of that when we
reach Singapore. The first point is to get
the child away from this."

"And Aysha?"

Oh, she is all right. To-morrow she
rejoins her people in the bay. The Rajah
was kind enough towards her."

Does Isa consent to go with you ? "

Say with us, please. I have not asked
her."

When they got home the Eajah had
closed his curtains for the night. Sweyn
led Isa into the balcony for a serious conversation,
and Pier set out the gifts purchased
by himself for both girls, by Sweyn
for Aysha only. All that is prettiest in
Bruni had been chosen, and when the
things were arranged, he sent for Aysha.
She came, veiled as usual, and her large
black eyes had more than their common
austerity. But feminine composure was
not proof against the lovely stuffs displayed,

the silks and satins and cloth of
gold or silver. When the ornaments were
shown, her girlish delight became uncontrollable.
The troublesome veil got pushed
aside ; the beautiful eyes shone with excitement,
and the small fingers trembled
as she fastened on necklaces and waists
which passed twice round her slender,
supple body.

Isa and Sweyn arrived during this pretty
scene. The dayang's eyes were swollen,
but she looked composed and resolute. It
was charming to observe her elder-sisterly
interest in Aysha's happiness ; the roles
were exchanged.

"Where are your presents, Isa?" asked
her cousin.

I have none."

What ? "

In a long, keen glance Aysha scrutinized
the three faces ; then she dropped the
objects in her hand, and turning without
a word, left the room. Isa ran and

took lier in her arms, but she went unheeding
to her own chamber. Pier looked
on blankly, and Sweyn muttered,

Cast the beam out of your own eye."
Neither of the girls appeared again that
night, and before dawn Aysha had found
means to escape, leaving all her finery.

Pier sent the things on board the ' Eliza,'
confident that by some means he could
forward them to the Lanuns in the Bay.
Then, with Garrow, he made a formal round
of visits, and at the hour appointed reached
the palace. A number of fine gifts they
had reserved for His Majesty, which he
repaid with magnificent old arms and hand-woven
silks stiff and ponderous with gold.
As a supreme honour, the Tang de per Tuan
gave each a little box, neatly turned, of
that rare and lovely wood used for the
handle of a state kris. His Highness had
a turn for joining, and these, he pointed
out, were specimens of his own handicraft ;
a statement more or less untrue, no doubt,

Jut all the more complimentary. After
their audience, the Englishmen went home,
followed by the great pangerans and court
officials, who bore the Sultan's presents and
their own. Each of these, and many more,
it was necessary to receive in person. Even
Garrow, though he fumed and swore, did
not outrage the conventionalities as he
would have done in Europe under much
less provocation. There is in truth a
completeness, a sense of fitting, and a grace
about Malay etiquette which impresses
every foreigner.

It was well in the afternoon when the
last departed, vowing that his life had
culminated in this supreme moment. Pier,
aided by Budrudeen, set himself to superintend
the packing of a small ship-load
of curiosities contributed by their noble
friends. Whilst they took counsel, a sudden
cry, " Pier, Pier ! " in tones of agony
and horror, made them rush to the other
side the house. Through the open door

of Isa's room they saw Garrow kneeling,
with the girl's body in his arms. Her eyes
were half-closed, her hair neat, her pretty
dress had not a fold awry. She might have
been sleeping. But the dark, polished
handle of a kris protruded above her
shoulder. A stool overturned lay beside
her, in a creeping pool of blood. She had
died without a struggle, probably without a
cry, struck from behind with that deadly
weapon used for executing criminals, differing
from the common shape.

Pier stood silent in horror. Budrudeen
threw himself on the floor, and screamed
with rage, beating his fist upon the boards
till the blood spurted out, tearing his thin
moustache and scalp-lock. It was an outrage
on his honour, which the death of every
Lanun upon earth could not wash out.
For this the Rajah had accepted hospitality,
for this he had feigned desperate wounds,
and he had escaped ! The All-merciful hear
the prayer of an unworthy but blameless

servant ! Place him before an army of
Lanuns, and let him hide his disgrace
in death amidst them, having glutted
vengeance !

After the first shock Pier hurried to the
other room, where Ibrahim had his quarters.
A pillow covered his face ; he was dead,
stabbed through the heart.

Returning to the other death-chamber.
Pier met his friend in the door. His face
was grey and stern ; he had a difficulty
in speaking.

You must go alone, Pier. I have work
that will keep me here''

Your cause is mine. I shall not leave
you."

What I have to do is not work fora
Christian gentleman. For Mary's sake
you must go."

'* Mary would despise me. For good or
evil I am with you."

Sweyn urged no more. With wild delight
Budrudeen received the commission

to call his friends once more together, as
many hundreds as could be raised. A note
was sent to Captain Banks, asking his
attendance, and then they visited the
Datu Tomanggong. That chief was really
angry, and he swore by his head that all
the race of Lanuns should be exterminated.
How often, in the course of bloody centuries,
lias that oath been registered ? No doubt at
all existed who was the criminal. The
Rajah had left, quite cool and composed,
whilst his hosts were with the Sultan. By
this time he had doubtless rejoined his
subjects in the bay.

Will the Sultan send his war-prays,
Datu ? " Sweyn cried, impatient. " I will
pay every charge."

The Tomanggong had particular reason
to know that the imperial vessels were not
seaworthy. He looked grave and statesmanlike.


I will consult his Highness. But if
such a measure should not commend itself

to his wisdom, you may depend on me
unofficially. The Ampuan Budrudeen is
acting for you ? I will communicate with
him."

When  where ? " Sweyn cried.

The Datu was shocked by this brusque
manner, and he replied with dignity,

'' When I have learned his Highness's
commands I will send for the Ampuan."

They returned to the house.

Something: must be done about the
funeral," Pier remarked with hesitation.

I cannot. Arrange all for me. When
that poor child is avenged I may be able
to think  not now. What would she have
wished ? "

Pier sent to the chief Imam, and so
renowned was now the liberality of the
Turns Inggris, that dignitary came at once,
bringing women and. priests and all things
needful. It wm dark night by this time,
but the river was aglow with hurrying
canoes and prays bearing torches. All

round the dwelling a shoal of sampans
clustered ; the houses were lit up, and
bustle reigned. All Bruni was mustering
for the fray  and the loot.

It needed a large bribe and some entreaty
to gain the Imam's sanction to a night
interment. Such demands are very unusual,
but for money everything is possible in
the East. Funeral ceremonies are not
elaborate there, and at midnight the coffins
were closed, the prayers recited. The remaining
forms are not impressive, unless for
very great people indeed. But Pier and
Sweyn followed Western habits, accompanying
the bodies to the graveyard. It
was a picture awful in its savage dreariness
the dank, untended waste ; the ruck of
graves, misty beneath a still, blue sky ; the
little group of servants, half naked, loose-haired,
perspiring in the flare of torches. Ko
priest was there, his rites were done ; and as
Isa's coffin dropped in the shallow trench,
Garrow leaned upon his friend and sobbed.

Whilst Pier was arranging these sad
duties schemes of vengeance had been
maturing rapidly. Captain Banks was
ready enough to lend the ' Eliza at a price,
and he answered for his crew on similar
conditions. The Tomanggong had arrived,
with sympathetic expressions from the
Sultan, who regretfully declined to lend
his prays ; but placed all his artillery at the
disposal of the Turns  for a price, understood.
This was a valuable concession,
since it enabled them to arm the ' Eliza ' and
the prays with heavy metal ; and it was
used at once. The sturdy old Tomanggong
declared that he himself would lead his
contingent-sat a price. Budrudeen, meantime,
brought in the list of gallant spirits
who would follow him, upon the usual
terms. All was tumult and excitement.
Presently arrived the swift canoes despatched
to watch the Lanun movements.
They reported that on the arrival of some
boats from Bruni, those doubtless which

conveyed the Rajah and his followers, all
the fleet prepared to leave in haste. The
wind was contrary, but, toiling at their
sweeps, the enemy had started towards
sunset.

The morning was within an hour of
dawn when all was ready. The Tomang-
gong then left them to go aboard his war-pray,
and presently the beat of his great
drum summoned the vanguard. The arrangements
worked smoothly, as they always
do amongst a people used to warlike expeditions,
and, well-assured that they had
done their utmost, Pier and Sweyn entered
the ' Eliza's ' boat at last. Through a crush
of prays it forced its way. As far as
one could see, through pitchy darkness and
curling mist, the black river was alive
With weirdly craft, swarming full of gleaming
naked figures that writhed and shouted.
Here and there were nooks and bars of
blackness, not unpeopled, against which
blazed some noble's vessel, lit with torches

from end to end. The water ran in streams
glittering of blood and ink. It was hell
let loose and flaring. Upon either bank
the great houses, sleepless, palely shone
through the fog like ghosts. The noise was
a roar, a scream, a beat of gongs and
tom-toms, shrill laughter, monotonous intoning
of the Koran.

It's enough to frighten an honest man,"
muttered Captain Banks as they pressed
through.

But what a picture !

When they reached the 'Eliza' they
turned in at once, utterly fagged ; but sleep
did not visit Garrow. Five minutes afterwards
anchor was weighed, and with a
kindly breeze they dropped down the river.

Four bells struck as Pier lay dozing,
forgetful of all that had passed since he
was cradled in a nice luxurious berth aboard
La Donna.' The late hour startled him,
and in a flash he recollected what work lay
in hand that day. Whilst he dressed, a

VOL. III. c

tap sounded at the door, and a stranger
entered  a pleasant-looking man, some ten
years older than himself.

Good morning, Master Pier," he said,
with a friendly but respectful grin. " Well,
you've grown into a handsome young
gentleman, you have that."

Pier stared. The accent and the expression
recalled Weybridge, and a sudden,
most improbable thought struck him.

Did you ever see me before ? "

The man laughed quietly.

Pve had you in these here arms whilst
nurse was carrying on with gardener, ay,
many's the time."

Your name is Dixon ? "

Well, of all the  You don't say you
mind  Well, I am deed."

You were in my father's service twenty
years ago ? "

Pve said Pm deed ! A man can't put
it straighter than that. Why, you wasn't
modern five years old when I left."

Never mind. I know all about you  '*

Why, of course you do ! What a lout
I am ! It was you, sir, as put this advertisement
in the paper ? "

He unfolded an ancient sheet, which had
gone through many hands in travelling half
round the world."

Yes, it was my friends. Old Ben,
whom you remember, told us you could
give some information of great value to me
now."

I guessed what it was, sir. I aren't
always so dull as just now. And when
I see the advertisement, I went to the
magistrate at Singapore, and I made an
affidavit which is home by this time."

** I shall be grateful to you for life,
Dixon," Pier said, taking his hand. " You
must never leave me again."

We'll talk of that, sir, when the scrimmage
is over," he answered, with a cloudy
brow. " But I am glad to have shaken
hands with you again, Mister Pier, whatever

happens, I am. You're your father's

son''

Now tell me all you know. It is of
the greatest importance to me."

So it is, sir. When the captain showed
me that there paper, I wasn't long in
puzzling out what Mr. Ford and Sons
wanted John Dixon for  him as had been
page-boy with Mr. Eawdon of Weybridge.
John Dixon hasn't a many secrets as would
interest Mr. Ford and Sons."

But what is this you have to
say ?

Well, I see the document signed, sir,
and I heard Mr. Collins explain it all."

To whom  to whom ? "

I was holding wool for Mrs. Lambert,
and she was there. And Mr. Lambert, he
was there ; and Mr. Collins, he was there'*

'' Nobody else ? "

That's what I've turned over and over
a thousand times. It seems to me there
was another, but who he was the Lord

knows. He must have been a stranger, I'd
take oath of that."

How is it you remember so much ? "

Well, sir, to speak truth, it struck meas
hard that a little chap like you, scarcely
out of long clothes, should have all that
there property, whilst bigger boys had to
work for a shilling. No offence meant.
Mister Pier."

The same thought has struck me, and
wiser people than both of us. Well ? "

Mr. Collins he read over all you was to
have when Mr. Eawdon died, and they
talked of it. And I see Mr. Rawdon sign
his name ; I remember that, for there was
jokes passed about it."

'' Who were the trustees, and who were
the witnesses ? "

Tve told all I recollect, sir, and it
aren t no use inventing. When I had done
the wool Mrs. Lambert sent me away."

And how long is this ago ? "

I've thought on that hard, and it seems

as if it was six months, not more, before
I went to sea. That would be betwixt
twenty and twenty-one years ago."

And you have embodied all these facts
in an affidavit ? "

Yes, sir, I have. You see a man's life
aren't half its natural value in these seas,
what with one thing and another. If he
has any matter important to do, he'd best
do it quickly,"

Then why have you chosen such a
service ? You are an officer, I see, and I
am sure a smart one."

Well, it's paid according. If the risk's
something, it's counted in the profits. You
see, we run up and down these coasts,
entering places where only rowdy Malays
and thieving Chinamen appear as a rule.
And we pay down, not honest prices I
allow, but six times what the poor devils
are used to get at a long credit. And so
they've come to know us, and they hold onto
what they have against our arrival. If

it wasn't for pirates and bad charts we
could do twice the business, and make a
fortune all round in a year or two."

If it wasn't for pirates and bad charts
you would have all Singapore engaged in
your traffic. Have you ever had a serious
fight with Lanuns, or Balignini, or Sulu ? "

"I've had four, and I never felt as I do
to-day. There's a kind of presentiment on
me, Mister Pier! What's that?"

A gun spoke out at sea, and another.
Both ran on deck. Under full press of
canvas, the ' Eliza ' was scudding up the
channel betwixt Labuan and Borneo. Before
her course lay a chain of islands,
radiant in the morning sun, plumes of
verdure girdled by white fleece of foam.
Amongst them the Lanun prays were
scudding, and the shots had come from
Bruni vessels firing at long range.

Morning, sir ! " said Captain Banks,
coolly. " It's a pretty sight, isn't it ? "

None but a blind man could have dispute

that. The broad white bay sparkled
and shone beneath a sky azure blue, flecked
with balls of driving cloud. Upon one side
it heaved in diamonds to the pale horizon ;
on the other it was bounded by a stretch of
snowy sand, a wall of dark-green bush, and
the misty, glimmering summits of untrodden
hills. Before them, to the left, lay pale
Labuan, and the laughing islets in mid
channel. Ahead were the brown pirate
ships, flying over the sea, so swift they
seemed to travel under the maddened beat of
oars and straining lateen sail. Their pennons
streamed defiantly from mast and
poop, long triangles of silk with grim devices,
tied on a cross-bar. All round, before
and behind the ' Eliza,' pressed the Bruni
prays, scudding in a cloud of spray. Brilliant
they were with flags, and fluttering
robes of silk, and sparkling weapons. But
Dixon pointed out how woefully their
strength was scattered. A half-dozen of
the best equipped must soon reach fighting

distance of the Lanuns ; but their supports
straggled in the rear, and a mass of Bruni
vessels was stretched out behind the * Eliza.'

Captain Banks confirmed his hint, saying
gravely,

Yes, it's a pretty sight for a man and
for a sailor ! Lor', how them Lanuns drive
along ! But if they was to put about 
where are you then 1 "

Gar row was leaning on the taffrail. He
could hear, but he paid no attention.

Where is the Tomanggong's pray ? "
asked Kawdon.

*' It's alongside yonder, but the Datu, he's
come aboard here. The best thing too for
him ; he can see better what's going on."

And doesn't he pay attention ? A
landsman like myself can see the danger."

Oh, the Tomanggong has been signalling
this half-hour with all his might, but
no one heeds, though we've hoisted his
pennant. Them Malays get mad when they
smell a fight and plunder. There'll be

smart work before long. Mark them five
islands as stand across the straits. D'ye see
what the pirates is about ? When they first
caught sight of us fairly, they was making
for the passage betwixt Burong and Vino
yonder, which would take them before the
wind, past Labuan. But when they see us,
they hauled off, sailing across our bows to
the easterly channel, betwixt Daat and the
mainland, or perhaps betwixt Daat and
Malamkasan there. They won't get in
before some of our Malays fall foul of them,
but what then ? Just look ! You could
cover all their squadron with a pocket-handkerchief,
as the saying is. Mark their disposition.
There's thirteen big prays in the
van and thirteen in the rear, carrying heavy
metal, and stuffed with fighting men, you
may bet on that. When the small craft
are near the opening of the passage, our
fellows will be driving into them, and then
then you'll see some business."
'' How ? "

You'll see those twenty-six big prays
yonder just let their sails drop, out with the
sweeps  and there'll be a good deal of Malay
mincemeat floating; round in ten minutes.
Leastways, if these are the sort of Lanuns
I've had dealings with."

He withdrew to consult with the Tom-angling,
and to inspect his battery. The
fire grew still hotter from the foremost
Bruni boats, but the Lanuns did not reply.

In a few moments Captain Banks returned.


'' Them chaps are fools," he said. " They
don't heed the Tomanggong not a morsel
though he has put out his biggest signals,
and beat his drums and gongs so as Bairam
feast is a blessed silence to it." He continued
with hesitation : '' Don't suppose I
want to back out of a bargain, if I say
there's still time to change your minds,
gentlemen. It will be rough work, and
these Bruni swells are daft."

"Yes' Sweyn cried suddenly. "The

captain is right. Put me on board the
Tomanggong's pray, and return. I beg you
to do so, Pier."

Pier laughed, and threw his arm round
the other's neck.

You wouldn't have dared make such a
selfish proposition over sharing toffee fifteen
years ago."

No, by gum ! " cried Banks. " If it's a
question of leaving anybody behind, Fm not
in it neither. We'll  I thought so ! "

The foremost craft of the Lanun fleet had
doubled Daat Island, under a fire now severe.
Each hoisted a yellow flag as it went round,
and a sudden movement was visible in the
great war prays following. They hauled
their sheets, after a moment, and bore
straight down on the pursuers. The smoke
of their brass leas, discharged with practised
rapidity, enveloped them upon the instant,
but the clash of gongs and talawals was
faintly heard even at such a distance. .The
leading Malays turned to rejoin their main

body. But in a few minutes the Lanuns
were amongst them ; a serried throng of
boarders mustered on the fighting-deck,
their naked skins glistening in the sunshine,
and their tossed arms sparkling. With ease
they outpaced and out-manoeuvred the
Bruni vessels, half their size, and indifferently
manned. Four of the pursuing fleet
were caught, and in a mass compact, the
boarders swung down. It was over in a
moment. The greater number of the crew
leapt overboard. Those resisting were overwhelmed.
Then the empty craft drifted
away, gradually filling.

'* How many men have we ? " cried
Sweyn.

Sixteen white," the captain answered,
and there's two score of the Tomanggong's
people alongside, a-messing and a-shrieking."

Call them on board ; fling them ropes.
We must depend on ourselves."

As the ' Eliza ' cleft the radiant waves
full speed, the Tomanggong shouted to

boats in reach ; their amphibious warriors
sprang overboard, and came swarming up
the side.

The Lanuns had sped back, swift as they
came, and formed in rear of the weaker
squadron as it passed up the channeL
Not daunted, but cautioned, the Malays
paused to take some kind of order, before
returning to the assault. Meanwhile, they
fired their long brass guns. The pirates
necessarily slackened speed in that cramped
and narrow passage, and the * Eliza ' gained
on them fast. But it became evident that
when once they had gone through, they
could laugh at her pursuit upon the open
sea.

Half-an-hour passed. A series of brisk
actions began as the Malay vessels drew
together. Two Lanun prays had been cutoff
by concerted manoeuvres, but things
looked ill. The foremost craft had cleared
the channel, and as they did so, they raised
the yellow flag again.

Sweyn was standing, very white of face,
watching the destruction of his vengeful
hopes. Suddenly his eyes lit up.

"What is that, captain?" he cried.
They are turning in shore ! "

It was true. Through the drifting smoke,
the leading prays were seen to change their
course, and a sort of pause, a hesitation, was
apparent amongst the war-boats following.
They closed up, and formed in line.

The Lord knows what it means ! " said
Dixon, watching through his glass. " But
it comes to this, as we're going to have a
real fight at last. I knew it," he added.

Chapter 11.

Plan DNS AT BAY.

Dixon was evidently right. Vessel by
vessel the Lanun fleet drew up to the
island Malankasan, and dropped anchor.
What could be their motive Banks was at
a loss to conjecture, but the pirates plainly
intended to stand. The small boats, laden
with non-combatants, ran upon the beach
itself, and the women and children landed 
their bright dresses beaming; against white
sand and dark green forest. The largest
vessels formed line outside, keeping regular
distance as they anchored, and a swarm of
men and women busied themselves on deck.
Captain Banks watched anxiously through

his glasses, and Dixon shook his head
continuously.

Meanwhile, the war-prays kept out to
sea, and they gathered in one powerful
squadron. The ' Eliza ' was now fairly in the
channel betwixt Daat and Malankasan,
within range of the pirates, and momentarily
closing on them. The Bruni ships
scudded and hurried in all directions, firing
as fast as they could load, doing evident
mischief. But the Lanuns, as all could
see, were gathering for a swoop down that
narrow passage. For aptness of seamanship,
as for devilry of character, they have
no equal in eastern waters, perhaps not in
the world. Nearly all the Malay peoples
tire brave, good sailors, and used to arms,
but they do not hold their own against these
supreme masters of battle.

When the ' Eliza ' was about a mile away,
the pirate squadron dipped oars and sprang
forward, like a dog from the leash. The
Bruni vessels turned, scudding towards the

VOL. III. D

'Eliza making her the point of rendezvous.
But half a dozen were captured and sunk,
one after another. The loss of life in these
cases is comparatively small. When a crew
found itself overpowered, all who could
move jumped into the sea.

The ' Eliza ' now kept up an uninterrupted
fire with her eighteen-pounders. A
Lanun war-boat is a model of shipbuilding,
surprisingly strong as swift. But it is
not made to withstand such heavy metal.
Round shot pass from side to side through
those fragile craft, which would meet a
typhoon, and sink them. But they moved
so swiftly and tortuously, that the gunners
could take no aim, and two only were struck
before bullets began to fly thick aboard the
Eliza,' with that musical but threatening
hum which he who has once heard does not
forget. Summoned by blare of gong and
scream of whistle, every sound of which
they understood, the pirates drew in to
surround the English ship. Their sweeps

worked like mad machinery. From three
sides the storm of missiles swept singing over
the deck. Blind to all but the joy of
slaughter, the Lanun heeds not a jot
whether friends be in the line of fire.
Unable to bear that hail of lead, the crew
lay down on deck. Within a few moments
the sails of the ' Eliza ' fluttered loose in rags,
and she lost way. Banks at the wheel
dropped and lay groaning ; Dixon rose
quietly and took his place, whilst Pier,
creeping under shelter of the broken bulwarks,
dragged the wounded captain towards
the companion. As he reached it, a big
pray crashed alongside, half its sweeps
snapping at the impact. There was time
to fire one gun, and the pirates swarmed
aboard. Kampilan in teeth, fifty desperate
warriors leapt from their fighting deck, and
engaged hand to hand. Well was it then
that Garrow had reinforced the crew with
every swimming man who could grasp a
rope. Springing to their feet, the Malays

D 2

and English seamen opposed the boarders,
who were driven over the side to breathe
for a new attempt.

But others poured in from every quarter,
and the ' Eliza s ' crew, gathered, pressed into
a solid phalanx, made head on all sides.
One half of them, heavily swaying to and
fro, could not use their arms. Command
or direction there was none, but a massive
strain of opposing crowds. The dead and
the wounded could not fall, but upright or
drooping they swayed this way and that,
breast to breast, face against face.

For some minutes, which seemed hours,
that awful melee lasted. Then suddenly
the crush ceased, the pirates drew back,
and corpses fell down, one on another, a
wall betwixt the living combatants. Bruni
vessels, sweeping up, attacked the enemy
in rear, with all the advantage of numbers.
To meet this new assault, the outermost
Lanuns turned, but those who remained,
unconscious or heedless of the danger, made

a fight not unequal. Pier and Sweyn led a
charge, springing across the barrier of dead.
The Lanuns also recognized a leader, a
big old man, whose clothes had been ripped
off him. His face, his bare, ropy limbs
painted gules with blood, his broken teeth
gapped and opalescent, his eyes bloodshot,
and long grey hair all loose, made him a
very incarnation of the fiend which animates
his people. Sweyn rushed at him,
and with a sudden flash in his glaring eyes
the old chief met him half-way. The heavy
kampila.n whirled round with such tremendous
force that though it clashed full upon
the cutlass grasped with steady hand,
Garrow was twisted round and slipped
amongst the blood, falling prone. A rush
of Malays saved him: Inch by inch the
Lanuns gave way, and when Sweyn recovered
footing, bruised by the trample of
contending foes, he saw the last of the
pirates driven overboard, and the Malays
springing after them.

The struggle on the pray was brief.
Every Lain who could move leapt into
the sea, trying to regain a friendly vessel.
Taking possession, the Malays sped on,
amidst a crowd of swimmers, whom they
shot or speared with savage jests. From
the ruinous fighting deck, cleared of corpses
by a short and simple operation, the
Englishmen could survey the scene. Several
Lanun prays had been captured, and the
rest were pulling hastily, fighting as they
went, towards a small cove on the mainland,
where the remainder of the fleet lay close
in shore. A number of small craft were
evidently abandoned, floating and drifting
at mercy of the waves and winds. But
the larger had anchored in line with their
bows to seaward, about ten yards apart,
linked together with hawsers, but leaving
a space between. It was evident they
meant to make a stand, but the preparations
for defence were not nearly complete.
Women hurried to and fro, putting up the

ampilans or ball-proof planks along the
gunwale, dragging guns about ; and it might
be that these were heavy guns brought
up from the hold, artillery of position,
which had been mounted doubtless in the
batteries of their island home.

The vessels already armed kept up a hot
lire, which daunted the Malays. One by
one these dropped the pursuit, as the
Lanun prays drew closer to their friends,
contenting themselves with a distant cannonade.
And as friendly vessels approached,
they passed through the gap, taking station
behind the line, and hastily discharging
their crews into the vessels anchored.

The ' Eliza' alone could force this position,
if forced it might be. The friends returned
on board, wh-ere they found the Datu
Tomanggong chewing betel in bland fury.
Some persons, fortunately unknown, bad
trodden on his Excellency. He had not
been able to breathe for a quarter of an
hour, so he casually swore, and he was

passing the time in devising torments for the
Lannns. The mortally wounded and the dead
of both parties had been pitched overboard, so
thorough are sanitary measures in those seas.
But all the deck was slippery with blood.

The Tomanggong had not found time or
breath to glance around, and he was much
surprised to hear that all was not finished
save division of the spoil. With difficulty
he arose, to survey the situation, and declared
at once that reinforcements must be
sent for. Garrow fiercely protested. At
nightfall the Lanuns would steal away,
and the guilty at least, the Eajah and his
followers, would escape.

Then why have they anchored here ? "
said the Tomanggong quietly. 'you do
not understand ? Look ! " He stretched
out his lean arm. " Do you not perceive
that smoke on the horizon ? It is a steamer
from Labuan. Those on board have heard
our firing. Within three hours or less it
will be here."

"The more reason to attack at once. We
want no English man-o'-war to help us.
This is my fleet, is it not ? Paid by me.
I give the order to attack  do you refuse ? "

The Tomanggong said nothing, but he
went astern. A moment afterwards his
gong boomed out, and the red flag, with
emblazonings of the royal yellow, was waved
to summon the Pangerans. Some had
already come on board ; others, detained by
plunder, hastily replied. Presently all those
qualified to assist at a council of war were
squatting in a circle in the poop, discussing
the course of action.

Meanwhile Pier had been seeking his
friend the mate. After awhile, he found a
seaman who had carried him below, severely
wounded. Going down. Pier found Dixon
just released from the hands' of Malay practitioners,
who knew enough of surgery to
declare that his case was hopeless. As for
the captain, his hurts were much less serious,
though painful.

"The thought will pursue me always,"
said Pier, deeply moved, " that you, to whom
I owe so much, were killed in my quarrel."

It might be worse, sir," answered Dixon,
faintly. " You'll take care of my old mother,
won't you, Mister Pier. Ay, I know that 1
Captain Banks will give you her address.
There's a something on my mind ! Pm failing
fast, and they say a dying man's word is
took in court like Scripture. Now, sir, just
you draw out the affidavit you know on, and
the Captain, he'll witness it."

"Don't trouble now. There are other
things you should think of, my poor fellow."

Let's get business done, sir. Pll have
time to repent when this is off my mind.
Pens and paper is in the steward's cupboard
there. Now write, Mr. Pier.

' I, John Dion, being wounded to death
by  the pirates ! ' Mr. Pier, sir, just say
the ' pirates ' short  ' do make my dying
confession  ' "

Excuse me ! " said the captain, interested.

It's usual to put it ' being sound in
mind.' "

Ay, ay, sir ! ' being wounded to death
by the pirates, but sound in mind, do make
my dying confession. In or about the year
1853, being page-boy at Mr. Kawdon's of
Weybridge, I see Mr. Eawdon sign a deed,
giving all his property to Mr. Pier. That I
swear, as I hope for salvation  and I swear
to everything else as is set down in the
affidavit I took before the magistrate at
singapore, on the ninth of April.' Now
I'll sign, sir. Where is it ? "

He scrawled his name somehow, and
eagerly watched the captain witness it. Then
he lay still for a moment with eyes shut.

I'm a going fast, sir. It's nigh over,
and I don't suffer. Eh, Mrs. Rawdon would
give a something for that document, wouldn't
she ? Killed by them Lanuns ! You'll look
after the mother, sir, won't you ? "

And so, quite quietly, he died in a few
moments.

Sweyn descended the companion.

Gone, poor fellow ? We'll avenge him
with the others. Come on deck, Pier.
The Tomanggong is landing a force, and I
go with it. What you have to do is to
keep those devils engaged in front, whilst
we creep up to them through the woods.
Had this poor fellow any relations, captain ?
They shall not miss his wages at least.
Good-bye, Pier. Come on deck as soon as
you can."

Pier had been arranging the dead man's
limbs.

Stay ! " he said. " I am with you.
Explain to me the plan."

They found the Malays refitting, splicing,
knotting, to get the vessel under way again.
From time to time a heavy shot hurtled
amongst them, but they were too busy to
reply. The party told off to land were
gathered in sampans and canoes under
shelter of the vessel, and they impatiently
waited for Garrow. The scheme of attack

was simple. Landing round the nearest
point, out of cannon-range, this force proposed
to work silently along, and take the
Lanuns in rear. The flanking vessels of
their line, stretched across a little cove,
were moored within sixty yards of the
forest ; the space behind the fighting prays
was thronged with small craft which had
conveyed non-combatants and property.
Most of these were empty now, some of
the women having gone to die beside their
husbands ; others, with the children, having
taken refuge on shore. Their gay dresses
could be seen amongst the trees.

One grip of the hand the friends
exchanged and parted ; Garrow had no
word nor thought but for vengeance. The
Lanuns could not mistake the design on
foot when they saw canoes shoot out oneby
one from the lee side of the ' Eliza,'
and paddle hurriedly away. But they could
do nothing effectual to oppose the movement,
saving to concentrate their fire on

the crowded craft. Two or three suffered,
lout they kept so far apart that the loss
was trifling. And when the last of those
sampans, carrying five hundred men, slipped
out of view around the point, the Lanuns
knew their doom. Not a man quailed,
scarcely a woman, even when she thought
of her little ones. She gathered them round
her, as a tigress gathers her cubs, and waited
knife in hand.

"The second mate took command of the
*' Eliza,' and under his directions, forestalled
by skilful volunteers, she was refitted sufficiently
for the work in hand. Every
Malay is a practical seaman, and the
greater part of those on board had served,
not unintelligently, upon English or Dutch
vessels. In an hour they had done their
work, and the war-prays had taken up
their stations impatient for the fray. All
this time the cannonade was incessant on
either side. The lighter Bruni craft, which
could not sustain a direct advance against

such heavy guns as were now mounted
by the enemy, had found safe points
whence to harass him. Parties had occupied
the rocks more or less fortified by
nature, and had transported their light
pieces. Some party-fighting ensued upon
this movement ; the Lanuns sallying out
to storm such annoying forts, the Bruni
men gathering to repulse them. All this
was trifling to the main issue, but it
prevented the enemy from completing his
defences as thoroughly as he would have
wished.

Meanwhile, the smoke of the steamer
on the horizon grew plainer and clearer.
The firing had doubtless been heard onboard,
travelling down the wind, and at
quickened speed she would reach the spot
within two hours. Pier understood why
Garrow hurried ; if the pirates surrendered
to an English captain, good-bye to his hopes
of retribution. Upon the success of his
attack depended the immediate issue of

the fight, which was now a siege. A
direct assault could scarcely prevail against
that hawser-bound array of ships, each a
floating battery, sheltered by the breastwork
of stout planks carried by the Lanuns
for such straits as this. The carpenter of
the ' Eliza ' had done what he could to
improvise a similar defence, but it was
very imperfect.

When all was ready, about two o'clock,
the Tomanggong signalled a general advance,
and with a crash of gongs and
talawals, a hollow, hurried beat of tumours,
the prays gave way. Perceiving that
the great effort was now at hand, the La-nuns
ceased firing, heedless of the mischief
caused by the * Eliza's' cannon. As the fleet
sped on, and the clearing smoke revealed
more plainly what desperate work lay ahead,
the English sailors muttered to each other.
Fifteen great prays made the first line,
blinded and muffled, as it were, with shot-proof
boards, through which, here and

there, peeped the silent muzzle of a gun.
Dimly through these embrasures they saw
naked forms of men against the sunny
waves behind. Pier observed that the
main armament was concentrated on this
side, and drew the Tomanggong's notice.
That experienced chief saw the opportunity,
and a moment afterwards a canoe shot outwith
orders for the leader of the starboard
squadron, which sheered off, to cross the
pirates' front and attack upon the other
flank.

Ten minutes more, silent on the Lanuns'
part, and the ' Eliza ' had approached within
three hundred yards. The movements of
the enemy were distinctly visible.

Down, every man," cried the Tomang-
gong, throwing himself upon the deck.

As he shouted the line of pirate vessels
broke into flame  a roar, a hurtling din
of shot passed over the 'Eliza,' and she
staggered under blows which struck her
hull. Every sail was pierced and torn, but

VOL. III. E

the wind right aft urged her forward, and
the gunners bravely replied, piercing hull
and breastwork. Amidst a storm of bullets
she drove on, suffering small loss of
life, for the Malays lay prone and fired
through holes cut in the bulwarks. But
presently the heavy Lanun guns sent another
crashing volley. Splinters flew, cannon
were disabled, tackle fell headlong to
the deck ; but still the ' Eliza ' drifted in,
and the shrieking Malays kept up their
fire. A third time the roar and hail
passed through their midst. A round shot,
which smashed the Tomanggong beyond
recognition as a thing of human shape,
wounded Pier with splinters. The deck
was strewn with dead and writhing bodies.
So dense was the smoke nothing could be
seen at ten yards' distance, until, with a
sudden shock that brought the injured
foremast down, the ' Eliza ' crashed against
the pirate defences.

In its fill the mast broke through the

upper deck of the nearest Lanun pray, and
made a bridge which instantly became a
scene of battle. A swarm of men leapt
on it, by aid of pendant ropes, and met
breast to breast. The slippery foothold
was like firm earth to that race of prehensile
toes, but the pirates running on
from their shattered deck had an advantage.
The heavy ground-swell burst apart
the craft, but the fallen mast linked them
together, and the aerial combat went on
fiercely. Men dropped into the sea, and
there renewed the combat until one or
other sank. But the Lanuns gradually
forced their way, and from the protection
of the ampilans their comrades kept up
a deadly fire. " Load ! load ! " cried Pier,
setting the example, and when in a few
moments the vessels crushed together on
the swell, all the battery of the ' Eliza ' was
discharged at arm's-length. Both keels
staggered under the shock, the Lanun decks
were cleared, and an overwhelming force

E 2



kr- II I Imo

of Bruni men poured in. Some few of
the enemy stood their ground, and fell
upon the heap of slaughtered comrades,
mostly women. But the greater number
sprang overboard, as usual, taking refuge
on the prays on either side.

The triumph was very short. Whilst
the ' Eliza ' was occupied with the batteries
immediately in front, the Malay fleet had
been repulsed all along the port line of
attack, unable to face those heavy cannon.
Several vessels had sunk, and the rest
drew off in panic, running to shore with
the hope of avoiding a like fate. Relieved
of this distraction, all the Lanuns of the
port side concentrated their efforts on the
Eliza ' and her prize, heedless of course
whether friend were injured when they
aimed at a foe. The prays on either
hand opened a deadly fire at ten yards'
distance. Stirred now by the delirium
of battle, and the pressing necessity to
advance, Pier jumped into a sampan heaving

alongside. Scores of men followed him,
those who found no room swimming, kris
in mouth. A dozen strokes of the paddle
brought them to the nearest pray, and
Pier, lifted on the swell, sprang aboard
in the after-part, where no ampilans made
a barrier. A throng of savages were on
him before he regained his feet  their
heavy swords whirled  he fell, gashed in
every limb. But others had followed,
swarming up on all sides. Regardless of
an enemy disabled, the pirates trampled
him as he lay. His own immediate party
was repulsed, but a whistle summoned the
victors forward, and again they rushed
over him, their horny feet striking like
sharp hoofs. Pier lay quiet, half-stunned.
He felt himself grasped by the hair, felt
his head drawn back.

Looking up he met the same ferocious
eyes which had glared at Sweyn three
hours before, peering dry and bloodshot
through long grey hair that fell like a

liorsetail in one twisted whip across the
old man's wrinkled brow and down his
hack. The thin large mouth was twisted
to a grin that showed the few black teeth.
But as he drew Pier's head back, the grin
vanished in a disappointed scowl.

With all the strength of his knuckly
foot, hard as a root, he kicked the prostrate
man ; then took him by the hair
tigain, bending back his throat. Pier
struggled feebly, and cried out. The old
man paused, and looked suddenly over
him. Troubled though his vision, Pier
saw a girl rush by, her long hair streaming,
her purple skirt a-flutter. A word
was spoken  a kris gleamed  and his head
released fell heavily upon the deck. There
was a rush of feet, a warm soft body fell
on his. He remembered no more.

Chapter III.

AT HOME AGAIN.

'* Poor girl  poor girl ! " sighed Laches
Latham. " So she saved your life and
died 1 Who killed her ? "

If I knew that, I fear I should merit
some of the reproof you have been lavishing
on poor Sweyn. Perhaps she killed herself
many did ! "

Pray go on ! " said Mary.

You will understand that I recollect no
more, but the rest has been told me many
times. It was the attack of our starboard
squadron which drew the pirates' attention.
And then, in a few moments, Sweyn's party
broke out of the woods. A terrible scene

followed. The Lanun women ashore  in
brief, they stabbed every child too young to
fight, and with the elder they rushed at the
Malays. All, or nearly all, were killed.
Meantime the warriors, beset in front and
rear, abandoned their smaller craft, concentrating
in the four largest. Suddenly they
cut the hawsers, and 'at full speed of their
long sweeps dashed through the enemy,
who, taken by surprise, cleared a passage.
But the man-o'-war had been drawing
nearer all this time, though we were too
much occupied to notice. She stood right
across the pirates' course, and fired a gun
summoning them to halt. They took no
heed, hastily getting up sail. Boats were
lowered, under a white flag, and they took
possession of the nearest pray. The Lanuns
on board received our sailors cheerfully, and
pulled alongside the vessel without demur.
But whilst some of them aided to attach a
hawser, the whistle sounded and every
white man on board was cut down. From

the lower deck, also, they treacherously
thrust spears through the open ports,
wounding officers and crew gathered thereto
watch the proceedings. Then they
sprang to their oars again and bounded off.

' The steamer poured in a charge of grape
which shattered sweeps and rowers, and as
the pray lay helpless, her bows crushed
through it, and it sank instantly. But
even then the Lanuns were unconquered.
Some paddled round, not trying to escape,
until a sailor bent to lift them out of the
water. Then they stabbed at his bare
throat, or seized him to drag him down.
So our men took to noosing the pirates,
or stunning them with blows, before trying
to save their lives. Seeing their trick discovered,
all the swimmers started to overtake
the other prays. The boats pulled
their hardest, and they overtook several
who were wounded ; these threw up their
hands, and went down, as a pebble sinks.

"After this, the steamer caught another

vessel, all the crew of which jumped overboard,
after murdering some slaves ; the
remaining two escaped. Their crews landed
at Labuan that night, to fill their water-casks
at a stream, when they killed two
Chinamen who happened to fall in their
way. And no one knows what became of
them after."

What monsters ! " cried Lady Latham.

Mary was breathless and pale with
horror.

Are you quite certain," asked Sir
James, 'that you were not imposed on?
Sailors are very fond of romance."

So especially are Marines, who have a
whole class of travellers' literature devoted
to them," said Jim.

I have told you nothing, sir, which
cannot be paralleled in the despatches of
Repel, and Cochrane, and Beecher, and
Brooke. If you will point out any incident
that tries your faith too hard, with the help
of naval friends to find me chapter and

paragraph; I will show you a like case, if
not one more shocking, in official records."

'' I could not have believed there were
such devils in human shape existing ! " said
Sir James."

Please go on with the tale ! " Mary
repeated.

"It is soon finished now. When the
man-o'-war returned from the chase, Sweyn
carried me on board, and in twelve hours I
was landed at Labuan. I recovered not so
quick as a man could wish, but at length
they got me to Singapore, where I took a
P. & 0. steamer, and the kindest of friends
welcome me home."

'ewe should have been glad to see Mr.
Garrow with you," said Lady Latham.
But he is evidently as deep in love
as ever."

Deeper, if possible. That message
which you were so good as to obtain from
Jehanne acted like a charm. Without it,
he would not have returned home, and of

course it has drawn him to Paris like a
magnet."

Ah, I hope we acted wisely," said Lady-nathan
doubtfully.

And what are you going to do now,
Pier ? " asked Sir James.

I did not quite finish my story after
all. Just after they got Captain Banks out
of her, the ' Eliza ' sank, carrying to the
bottom, I regret to say, poor Dixon's last
declaration. Ashen I think of that fine
fellow so miserably cut off in our quarrel, I
feel guilty and ashamed''

But do you mean that you left such an
important paper in the cabin or wherever
it was ? "

You see, sir, there was a good deal of
excitement just at that time, the row beginning,
and Sweyn going ofi" I don't really
recollect what I did with the paper, nor can
Banks. It is certainly lost."

A valuable document to be picked up
by an unscrupulous person," said Lady

Latham. " Have you perfect confidence in
this Captain Banks ? "

Certainly not ! To tell the real truth,
I have suspected this man all along. But
Ford tells me the paper has no real value
to my case, so I have taken no steps."

Whilst the others consulted, Mary exclaimed
with emphasis, " How could you
ask me to get that message from Jehanne ?
I shall never forgive myself for persuading
her."

'' If you think he is to blame for that
poor girl's fate, I assure you it is a great
injustice. You used to like Sweyn."

One outgrows childish admirations. You
did very wrong to suggest it."

Perhaps Madlle. de Perouac has changed
her mind. I see many revolutions at home."

Sir James interposed. ** Where is this
fellow Banks ? "

He sailed for England by a merchant
ship which reached London some ten days
ago. Be sure I have kept my eye on him,

Sir James. Ford was warned, and he got
his address in town."

Did you see Ford in passing through ? "

Yes. As soon as he heard from me from
Singapore he called on Mrs. Lambert, but she
was too ill to receive him, and he thought
it better not to excite suspicion as I said
I was returning as soon as I could. Mrs.
Lambert must know who the other trustee
was, if, as is almost certain, there were two.
Perhaps it /as Collins, but more probably
my father chose an old friend."

"It is so very strange," said Lady
Latham, "that Mrs. Lambert should have
kept silence up to now. I cannot understand
that."

We must suppose she did not know the
circumstances. I don't for an instant
believe that Mrs. Lambert would have any
part in a fraud."

Your former scruples about dispossessing
your sister have vanished ? " Mary said.

Not in the least. My feelings do not

chancre as I stow older. But Mrs. Radii
shall be brought to acknowledge that she
holds her position at my mercy, and that
is all my vengeance."

If you wish to marry," said Jim Latham,
'you won't find many girls who take such
a high-minded view of a family sentiment.
Have you thought of that ? "

No, I had not considered the matter
in that point of view," Pier answered,
gravely.

Don't talk cynical nonsense, Jim,"
exclaimed Lady Latham. "There are
thousands  Are you going, Mary ? "

"I have supped so full of horrors that
I must invite Wilson to sleep in my room,
if you will let her, mamma. Good night,
Mr. Rawdon. It must be an empty form
to wish you pleasant dreams henceforward,
I should think."

You are not mistaken ! "

Mary tried to stare down his grave and
meaning; look with an air of unconsciousness,

but the effort failed. Her eyes confessed
the understanding, but there was no
sympathy or kindness in them.

Lady Latham also withdrew, and the
gentlemen betook themselves to the
smoking-room. Here the talk was earnest
on topics really serious to the human kind.
Pier had shot tigers at Johore, a rhinoceros
in Sumatra ; had chased deer on a barebacked
horse with the Wajos of Celebes ;
had enjoyed single combat with a panther ;
had bagged a snake twenty-five feet long ;
in short, had done all and everything which
it becomes the Far-Eastern traveller to
accomplish. But he disliked story telling,
and his adventures were recounted drily.

Upon my word," laughed Sir James,
your record of sport is about as lively
hearing as a page of my game-book. I
thought better of your gifts as a story-teller
from the narrative we had just now. Do
your wounds pain you still ? "

The bandages make me feel like an

infant in swaddling-clothes that don't fit.
I will go to my room if you will let me
leave so early this one night "

He went, but not to sleep. This was
the return to which he had looked forward
with such keen longing. Imagination had
not pictured Mary more beautiful than she
was ; but how different the greeting he
had rehearsed a thousand times ! Her
father met him at the station, even James
so timed his ride as to welcome him there.
Lady Latham was waiting at the hall door.
But Mary sat in the tea-room, occupied
with some trivial work, and she did not
rise till her mother called her joyfully.
There was no change of colour, scarcely a
(quiver of the eyelids. Her voice might
be somewhat hoarse, but that was immediately
explained by the declaration of a
slight cold. In a manner just such as is
enjoined by good breeding, she made
remarks precisely fitted to the situation ;
recognizing the former intimacy, dwelling

VOL. III.

nicely on the alarm Pier had caused, and
establishing as plain as possible that since
he had escaped those perils, the interest
felt in him had lapsed. Such was the
manner she had kept all evening, unless
when stirred by natural emotion.

This was the girl he had adored for
years as his peculiar deity, the human
embodiment of that sweet little cherub who
sits up aloft guarding a mans life  this
cool, uninterested specimen of the fine
young lady ! It was the upset of his
visions, his plans of life. If this were not a
deception, the future had no more rewards.
Rawdon was not quite so ignorant of
womankind as to be unaware that sometimes
indifference is assumed, nor that there
are girls who love to play a part in wantonness.
But supposing this the case, he
found no comfort. His Mary, the child he
had loved, must be transformed beyond
recognition when side sought such arts. To
reconcile himself to that change, he must

fall out of love with his ideal. The whole
incident lay beyond explaining. Until the
news reached her of his safety, what anxious
letters, mail after mail, she wrote ; what
kind and delicate  as he thought, what
loving  fancies she expressed ! They had
stopped when that too impulsive letter
assured Lady Latham of his escape. Did
the metamorphosis date from that time, and
to what could it be owing ? Unless a rival
had won her heart ? If it could not be
trusted for an absence of eighteen months,
stimulated by sympathy with such dangers
as men do not often undergo, it was never
worth the winning. But what love that
deserved the name was consoled by philosophical
reflections ?

Pier retained the habit of early rising,
which is one of the maladies acquired-in
the tropics. At dawn next day he woke,
oppressed with a heavy sorrow, which fora
moment he did not recognize. But it
all came upon him, a thousand painful

F 2

thoughts. Bed was a torment, and he
dressed himself hastily. Not a soul stirred
in the house, as he quietly slipped downstairs,
wondering as he passed the silent
corridors which was Mary's room. He
imagined her sleeping, the heartless, lovely
little creature, smiling as she dreamed of
that man, favoured by Heaven, who had
supplanted him. The mind-picture added
another woe. He unbarred the hall dour
and went out.

It was the still, white, dewy morning-time
that painters cannot render. The
misty grey of dawn has been caught by
one world-genius, the glow of sunrise by a
thousand ; but that autumn light, so cold,
so unfeeling, so unconscious in its austerity,
betwixt the dawn and sunrise, is beyond
the scope of pigments.

Pier longed for exercise to break the
spell of nature and of his own sad thoughts.
Seeking the stables by a well-remembered
path,  how prettily she clung to his arm

that iiiglit when they visited Eros ! how
her sweet eyes danced and shone in the
lantern light !  he looked for an early
groom. Much amazed was that rustic
helper, scrubbing himself at the pump, to
see a swell abroad at six o'clock before the
cub-hunting. He rubbed the yellow soap
from his eyes, and answered that Mr. Yates,
the stud-groom, would not be out for hours ;
in his absence nothing could be done. Pier
strolled across the park to rouse him, and
obtained a sleepy line. Half-an-hour afterwards
he was riding through the pretty
lanes towards Weybridge.

That familiar road was taken unconsciously.
The farm-people had begun to stir,
and many of them recognized him, touching
their hats and smiling, after a stare at the
sunburnt face. He stopped to talk with
some, and thus, cantering over the turf,
often pausing to survey a well-remembered
scene, he reached the lodge. All was quiet
there, but some few yards beyond Pier met

du interesting group. Two women strolled
]jy the roadside, each grasping the hand of
a little girl who walked between them.
The elder caught up her charge in evident
alarm, whilst the younger posted herself in
such a way as to screen Pier from view.
But the child struggled in impatience and
delight, exclaiming,

I want to see the pretty horse ! I
am not Tightened ! Let me down 1 "

Don't come any nearer, please, sir ? "
entreated the nurse. " Miss Claire is very
timid of strangers."

There was no occasion to name the little
girl. Pier had recognized his half-sister by
the precautions taken, and he sat looking
at her with a smile of saddest interest. She
had gained her feet, and, holding a nurse by
either hand, she drew them across the road ;
very nervously in truth, and with sudden
shrinking.

'' Well, I never I " exclaimed both the
women, reluctantly complying.

"You've quite bewitched Miss Claire,
sir," the elder added, an honest-looking soul,
whose fitness for her duty was displayed
in bold and resolute features, brawny arms,
and fearless eyes.

"Missis will be glad to hear of this,"
said the other. " Perhaps, Miss Claire,
you wouldn't mind seeing grand mamma this
afternoon, as you've got so brave ? "

The child wrinkled up her pretty face,
as if to cry ; but looking at Pier she
laughed, a faint little cooing note.

Is Mrs. Lambert at the Hall ? " he asked.

Yes, sir. Mrs. Rawdon went to fetch
her, and she arrived sudden the day before
yesterday. No, Miss Claire, you mustn't go
no nearer. It's a pretty gee-gee, yes, it is,
&c., &c. Now, sir, if you don't mind,
would you just quietly walk on ? I don't
know how it may turn out if you stay
longer. Miss Claire is so odd in her ways.
Good morning, sir."

All this while, at a discreet distance, the

child was prattling to the horse, with timid
smiles for his rider. Pier kissed his hand
and softly withdrew. She shrank back and
changed colour ; but when safe .behind her
nurse's ample petticoats, she kissed her
little hand, and cried, " Good-bye," in a
pretty treble.

As Pier rode on, reflecting over the
difficulties raised by Mrs. Lambert's visit to
Weybridge, a healthy morning appetite
made itself obnoxious. Remembering; the
comfortable " public " at Milstone, where he
had stayed in that sad time following his
father's death, he trotted quickly forwards.
The homely people welcomed him, and he
took a light refreshment of bread and cheese
and pears, the chota hazard affectioned on
his Italian tour, ages ago. Is there nota
proverb in shrewd Tuscany  ' Don't tell
the farmer how good pears are with
cheese " ? Whilst thus enoasred he overheard
a dialogue between the village postman
and the servant.

'' Why," said the latter, " Captain Banks
ha bin gone four days since, an' he diana
say nothing o' coming' back."

A duenna know about that. Tak' it or
leave it."

"I'll last the mester."

'* Thee mee last thee grandam if thee
please, but a duenna wait."

Thee mat be more neighbourly, postman."


Neebourly ? I've a round o' atween
mile, elmer nineteen, for atween shilling's a
week. Cheers yer neeboorly then ? Duenna
thee mak' a fool o' herself a-thattans, my
lass. Tak' it or leave it."

Pier hurried out.

Has Captain Banks been here  a sailor-man,
very brown, with a round beard ? "

"That's him, sir."

Take the letter by all means. If he
does not return I know his address."

Why, why, why, if it inn Mester
Pier," exclaimed the old postman. " Glad

to see thee back from furred parts, Master
Pier. A diana ha' the honour o' drinking
thee health last Christmas, Mester Pier."

Is that the kindest welcome you have
for me ? " Pier said, laughing.

Thank ye kindly, Mester Pier, an' duenna
thee be hard o' poor chaps. Thee went
away for thee own pleasure, an' that cost
some on us eve shilling' more or less.
We're gay an' glad to see thee back, but a
five shilling' duenna spoil nothing."

To the landlord Pier described Banks
minutely, and he could no longer doubt
that he was the man who had been staying
in this suspicious proximity to Weybridge.
He eagerly inquired about the captain's
movements.

He diana talk much," the landlord said,
"been out all day, an' stopping' but one
night. Otherways he might be the man.
There's a letter just a come for him."

What was he doing here 1 "

He come to seek out a Widow Dixon,

as lives ten miles away, tother side o'
Hanstone. I says to him, ' It's a roundabout
road you're come, captain He laughs an'
he says, * A mon canna sail straight ashore
as he can sea.' "

"How did he go?"

In my chaise. 'Twas nigh four o'clock
when he started, though I tried to get him
off earlier, seen' nobody about these parts
knows Widow Dixon  "

What time did he arrive then ? "

Towards eleven o'clock, I repose."

And what time did he go next day ? "

In the afternoon."

There was leisure enough here for a
thousand times the business Banks might
have had with Mrs. Rawdon. Pier resolved
to see this matter through at once.

Give my horse a feed of corn," he
ordered. "You can direct me to Mrs.
Dixon's ? "

"The boy can, sir. What shall I do
about Captain Banks's letter ? "

Let me look at it."

The postmark was Oldham, the nearest
large town ; the writing masculine, but not
cursive.

"I am a good deal interested in the
movement of Captain Banks," Pier said,
handing it back. "I should very much
like to know what he did during all those
hours he was here."

He just walked about, sir. Nobody
watched him. But I could ask."

' Do, only be careful. Banks is a most
respectable man. Don't make any mistake
about that, and don't let the people you
ask suspect anything. You see I am
trusting you with a little secret, landlord."

It's safe, Mr. Pier. We know a thing
or two in these parts. And we're with
you, sir, through thick or thin."

On his way to Mrs. Dixon's Rawdon
passed the cottage where Ben lived at ease
upon his pension. It is useless to tell the
delight of the excellent old fellow when

he beheld his master once again. Business
could not be mentioned for a long while.
At length Pier asked about the inmates of
the Hall.

I've kep' an eye on 'em, Mester Pier,
ever sin' you left. We must know how
things goes there, mustn't us ? An' it's
easy for me to watch, sin' my sister's
daughter were taken on as Miss Claire's
head nurse. Her comes over mostly when
her gets an afternoon."

I know her, a pleasant-looking woman.
Can you get speech with her freely ? "

"Well, no, Mester Pier, I can't; but
there's a young fellow as can. You understand
? I expect lads and wenches are
much the same in furred parts, anna
they ? "

Very much the same. Now I want to
find out very particularly whether a Captain
Banks has been to the Hall, whether
he sent a message to Mrs. Eawdon, whether
she saw him, or sent a letter to him, or

held any communication whatever with him,
to the knowledge of your niece. This is a
very important matter for us, Ben. Tell
her to ask in every direction  but quietly,
prudently, you know."

It shall be done, Mr. Pier. How shall
I let you know ? "

Write to my lawyer's office  here is the
address. Good-bye, Ben. As soon as I
return from London I shall come to see
you again."

Thence he continued his journey to the
cottage of Widow Dixon. The old woman
cried, in a matter-of-fact way, but a handsome
allowance had brought consolation for
her sons death. Captain Banks also had
been very kind, himself bringing the arrears
of wages, and the few things that
John left. Every one was kind and good
to a poor widow, and thank ye most heartily,
sir.

She knew nothing more, and Pier hastened
back, arriving just at lunch time. Lady

Latham found a pleasant homily in her
guest's early rising, which Mary attributed
to conscience. She was not more friendly
than yesterday, and Pier assumed a tone
of equal coolness. When the servants had
withdrawn he told his adventures of the
day. Lady Latham showed her interest
therein by ordering the carriage round at
once for a call upon Mrs. Lambert. Mary
declined to accompany her mother, protesting
she had no turn for conspiracies,
and vanished. Sir James stayed a little,
discussing the new events ; but in an hour s
time Pier was seated with a book in the
smoking-room, where he presently fell
asleep.

He had covered nearly thirty miles, after
a very bad night's rest, and his doze was
heavy. He did not hear the rustling: of
drapery, nor a light step on the matted
floor. Mary passed up the room, starting
with a little frown as she caught sight of
Pier. But he slept firm, and she paused to

look at him, resting lier crossed arms upon
a chair, and gravely scanning the face
before her. Whatever her feelings, she
could not deny its beauty or its manliness.
A worn and troubled look possessed it now,
not wdioUy caused by illness, and the brows
slightly moved. Something there was to
stir Miss Latham's pity, but she gazed with
judicial scrutiny, and turned away with a
frown and a little stamp. Then she left
the room, but returned immediately, with
a clatter of door and shifted furniture.
Rawdon sprang up.

I beg your pardon," Mary said, with
innocence. " The smoking-room is so
seldom used during the  day, that I have
learned an unlady-like habit of sitting
here."

Don't let me expel you. You will go ?
Even little Claire was neither distant nor
hostile to me to-days'

I can understand that. She recognized
a well-behaved young man, and her limited

experience did not suggest that he might
wish to smoke."

*' A well-behaved young man ! Is that
how you class me ? "

*' You would not wish to frighten the
little girls you met ? I think well-behaved
a very complimentary epithet."

Before I left England, Miss Latham,
I asked you to be my wife on my
return."

Her eyes fell, and her face burned with
blushes ; but she answered quickly,

Did I consent ? "

** You consented to keep heart-whole, and
to give me a hearing."

Your slave listens."

What have I done to deserve this new
tone, or what change has come over you
to cause it ? That man is an evil guide
who has already transformed the happy
girl into a sarcastic, cynical woman."

"You go beyond bounds, Mr. Rawdon,"
she said, angrily. *' Our relations were

VOL. III. G

unusual, wrong, I am afraid ; but I never
gave you a claim to make such hints."

With a promise goes the right to see
it performed."

''I was a child."

We have said nearly enough. And it
all ends thus. Give me my answer, and I
will go."

"You have scarcely had your share of
suffering in this world, Mr. Eawdon ; but
I should be sincerely sorry if I credited
that anything I said would give you lasting
pain."

The words were ironical, the glance
smiling. Pier received them with a frown,
and left the room. Mary looked after him
with real surprise ; whatever her feelings
towards the rejected lover, she had never
thought him capable of blunt anger towards
herself. Then she shrugged her shoulders,
crossed to the window, and stood looking
out ; another little stamp and a bending
of the brows closed her soliloquy.

When they met before dinner, Lady
Latham announced that her call at Wey-
bridge had been unsuccessful. Mrs. Eaton
came, pleasant and genial, as if their
relations had never known a break, to hint
with ominous reticence that her mother
stood in very evil case, quite unable to see
visitors. It was suggested that her brain
had given way. Then she delicately turned
the conversation on her step-son, displaying
much proper interest in him and his
movements.

During dinner Rawdon gave his whole
mind to talk, working at it attentively, as
an intellectual exercise. And he displayed
a faculty for story-telling which he was
too indolent, too much afraid of showing
off, to use in society. All were interested,
and Mary was astonished. She had not
suspected him of such powers. Her eyes
frankly confessed the feeling now that
all was settled, and she displayed for the
rejected lover's torment all those pretty

G 2

graces which had charmed him in a happier
day. Saucy enough she was, but her
merry glance drew the sting of sharp
sayings. Pier knew her now, the lovely,
heartless witch. Lady Latham somewhat
disconcerted both by remarking, as she
rose from table,

"You are quite yourself again, Mary.
I have not recognized my silly little
daughter in the grave young lady of the
last few days."

Mary blushed with sudden warmth, and
cast down her eyes, but there was no
occasion for an answer. Early next day
Pier was going London wards, to confer with
Ford. But  before bed-time a note arrived
from the inn-keeper at Milstone. Captain
Banks came by an afternoon train, read his
letter, strolled up the road to Weybridge,
where he met nobody, ate some eggs and
bacon, drove back to the train. The friendly
inn-keeper was so puzzled by these doings
that he himself acted as coachman, and

kept his guest in view. He entered the
waiting-room, where a woman sat alone ;
they spoke a very few words, and their
hands met secretly. Then the woman left
at once. Her face was not recognized, but
the observer thought he had seen it before
had noticed it carefully, and the dress 
would communicate further, and remained
in haste, &c. Pier decided to wait another
day, and follow this trail up whilst the
scent was warm ; Sir James declared his
intention of keeping him company. That
mysterious proceedings of this sort should
go on in his neighbourhood, almost beneath
the shadow of Latham Hall, so to put it,
was a personal offence to him. He must
put a stop to such things at once, before
they turned to communism and rick-burning.
After breakfast they rode out, and they
found news enough. Directing the village
gossips, assembled in his own tap-room
over-night, to the subject of Captain Banks,
mine host got information in two minutes.

For the man whose wife kept the sweet-stuff
shop was present, and he told, with
many digressions, how a little lad belonging
to the lodge-keeper at the Hall had brought
her a whole sixpence to exchange for luxuries
 a peg-top, let me see, was it a peg-top
? yes, and a pennyworth of bell's-eyes,
&c., &c. Suspicious of such a large sum,
the good woman asked questions, and she
learned that a gentleman, for all the world
like Captain Banks, as she knew him by
sight, had give the little lad that there
sixpence to take a note in to the Hall.

Upon these facts a council was held.
Sir James of course would have defied
scandal, but Pier had his way. In a few
moments the children would be out of
school, and this urchin among them. Just
on the stroke of twelve, Pier's horse was
brought round to the door, where the rough
stable lad held it. Then the school children
burst out, filling the little street. They
fathered about the horse, and at the same

moment the landlord called his boy away,
and apologized afterwards.

All right ! " cried Pier, '' there are
Weybridge lads about who will hold my
horse. You little chap yonder, I know
your face. Come along ! "

Guided by the landlord's signs and looks,
Pier singled out the child, and put the
bridle in his little hand, to his unutterable
pride and joy. The next step was to get
rid of all the rest, which was easily
managed by the apparition of Sir James,
and a despatch of half-a-crown in advance
to the sweet-stuff shop. The little boy
remained alone with them, and in half-a-dozen
careless laughing questions they
learned all he could tell. The man was tall
and stout, dressed in black, very dark of
complexion, with a round beard. He found
the child playing at the lodge gates, gave
him a note and a sixpence. Didn't know
if there was an address on the note ; didn't
ask for an answer, having no instructions

SO to do. Gave the note to James the
footman. When he got back the man had
gone, and he didn't see him any more.
Would know him again.

You have got me most useful information,
landlord," said Pier, giving him a
five-pound-note. " You know what we
want now  to ascertain how Banks communicated
with the Hall afterwards. Be
quiet and prudent in your inquiries, and
above all, find out who the woman was he
met at the station. That, I suspect, is
everything."

Sir James added a few words of magisterial
weight, and they rode on to gather
Ben's information. He had none as yet,
but his niece would be over that evening,
if all went well, and he would write
immediately.

I think we have case enough to frighten
Banks," said Pier. "It is evident he has
tried to sell us all round. After such
surprising luck in this matter, which is, as

one may say, a bye-issue in my fight with
Mrs. Eawdon, I feel vastly encouraged.
Just think, Sir James, if I had not passed
a bad night I should not perhaps have
awakened early, should not have gone for
an idle ride, nor dropped into this inn just
as the postman brought a letter for Banks.
It's an odd chain of coincidences."

*' I hope you will not throw it back
another link by convicting my cook of the
responsibility for your bad night."

Oh, no ! It was not indigestion spoilt
my rest."

CHAPTER lY.

SWEYN's last ATTEMPT.

As Eawdon put the case before his
lawyer, it was clear as a brief for the prosecution.
Banks had naturally been occupied
for some days with his agents and
owners. As soon as he could get away, on
a Friday, he ran down to Milstone. Possibly
the note he sent to the Hall contained
a copy of Dixon's statement ; more likely,
he had used the facts therein to impress
Mrs. Eawdon with a fear of something
much more conclusive. Then he withdrew
appointing Wednesday for a settlement, and
inviting her to name place and circumstances.
On Saturday Mrs. Rawdon went

in all haste to her mother, who could give
such damning evidence if she chose, and
Pier did not doubt she would choose, if
the matter were explained to her. Mrs.
Eawdon succeeded in persuading the old
lady to pay her a visit, and on Monday
they arrived at Weybridge, where no one
probably would be allowed to see her.
Next day Mrs. Eawdon wrote to Banks at
Milstone as agreed, fixing Oldham Station
as the rendezvous. There her agent  was
she Mrs. Thomas ?  received the document
and paid for it.

'' Nothing could be more lucid," said
Ford, admiringly. "It is for me to ask
advice. What are you going to do about it ? "

What technical hold have I on Banks ?
I can accuse him of stealing, I suppose ? "

Certainly, and of fraud, conspiracy,
and other offences. But I doubt very
much indeed whether a magistrate would
grant a warrant on the evidence as it
stands for any form of offence."

His confession might involve Mrs.
Rawson in the charge ? ' '

Probably ! That would be a grave
scandal."

'' I mean to have my own now, Ford.
There shall be no scandal, and little Claire
will never know the difference. But I
mean to have my own. Now I am going to
call on Banks."

Let me send a man with you. That
sort of fellow is often dangerous. You
won't ? Ah, not quite the man of business
yet."

Banks lodged in a private hotel off the
Strand  one of those slatternly establishments
whose claim on the rustic favour lies
in their respectability, at which the experienced
mock with especial knowingness.
The ragged, smutty girl said Captain
Banks was at home, and showed his visitor
into the coffee-room, where half-a-dozen
persons, devouring a nauseous lunch, stared
at the swell. Banks was boisterous in

his greeting, urged the greasy chops, the
pallid beef, on his guest's attention, and
would not be satisfied with the assurance
that Pier could not eat. His own
appetite was not allayed for half-an-hour,
during which time the provincials made
observations inconceivably silly, to show
this aristocrat they " were up to a thing
or two." At length Banks could eat no
more, and he reluctantly led the way to
a private room.

'' So you have been to Wey bridge ? " Pier
said, cheerfully, as soon as they were
seated.

Yes ; I took Mrs. Dixon her son's screw,
poor chap ! He was well worth that
trouble."

You are a little out in your geography
ashore. Mrs. Dixon lives at Stanton, ten
miles from Weybridge," said Pier, smiling.

Banks gave him a quick glance, which he
caught full, and dropped his eyes, rummaging
for tobacco in a pouch.

Oh, ay," he said. " It was a long drive
from that place  where was it I started
from ? "

'' Milstone."

Yes, Milstone. I missed the last train,
which was riling, with my owners waiting
for me next day an' all."

'' That was not quite what I was alluding
to. Captain Banks."

'' What might you have been alluding to
then ? " looking up under his brows, and
ramming the tobacco in his pipe as if he
had been caulking oakum.

*' I suggested in a friendly manner that
you should explain your business with Mrs.
Rawdon of Weybridge Hall."

My business with  I  " he looked
round, then met the other's eye defiantly.
I ain't got no business with Mrs. Rawdon."

Then I should ask, why did you write
to her *? And why did she send you a large
sum of money to Oldham Station ?  in a
friendly way, mind ! Some people may be

asking these same questions in a way not
friendly at all within a few hours."

'* Then you've come here to bully me,
have you ? " Banks cried, gathering up his
heavy limbs, whilst his veins swelled.

No, I have come here to ask explanations.
If you can give a reason for these
odd circumstances, you who were present
and witnessed a paper Dixon drew up on his
death-bed,  a paper which endangered all
Mrs. Eawdon's fortune,  I shall be pleased
to hear it, and if I am satisfied, to shake
hands with you'

'' And supposing I refuse ? "

Well, in that case, you will have to
give your reasons to the police magistrate.
It makes no difference to me. But as we've
fought together, and you've eaten my salt,
as they say, I gave you the chance of
explaining to me pleasantly."

The man looked about him, still ramming
at his pipe with a lissom thumb, and said
hoarsely, with evil glances 

And suppose I was to chuck you
through the window ? '

Now you're talking foolishly  "

Am I ? Why ? "

Don't come any nearer. You talk
foolishly because, in the first place, I am as
strong as you, and in the next place, you
would be hung. Now look here. I am
going to ring for a cab, or a policeman.
Either you will come with me, in the cab, to
my lawyer's, where this matter can be settled
agreeably,  upon my honour, I mean agreeably
to you,  though you shall give back the
money, every farthing, that you received
from Mrs. Kawdon ;  or I give you in
charge."

You won't do that," Banks hoarsely
growled, approaching.

Pier rang. There was a roar and a rush,
a smothering of the fragile furniture, and a
thud that shook the room. Fortunately,
the slattern girl did not hurry to answer
bells, and when she came Banks was seated

*
on a sofa, with a handkerchief to his face,

but subdued. The instrument that mastered

him was simply a chair. Knock your man

down, and set a chair across his body, held

with strong muscles, and supported by good

boots  Achilles himself would be in most

uncomfortable, most undignified straits.

Will you get us a four-wheeled cab,
please ? " said Rawdon ; and the slavey, with
a dumb glance of bewilderment at the
shattered furniture, departed.

Meanwhile Pier busied himself in making"
Banks presentable, for he had all the boyish
feeling which returns from driving through
London with a guy, whatever the neighbourhood.
That discomfited mariner lent
himself to circumstances, tidied his person
and his room ; but he said very little. They
drove to Ford's, and what passed there will
be shown in action.

We have neglected Sweyn Garrow too
long, and he is brought to recollection
now by the telegram awaiting Pier at

VOL. III. H

his lawyer's. it contained two words
only

Congratulate me."

Allusion has been made to a message
which Mdlle. de Perouac sent to Garrow at
Singapore, on Pier's earnest suggestion.
Whilst recovering from his wounds, he
found that Sweyn had resolved to stay in
the East, if not for life, for an indefinite
time. He proposed to devote himself to
the extermination of Lanuns, Balignini,
Sulus, and other malefactors of that quarter.
Neither his friend's entreaties, nor the ridicule
of every one who heard of this mad
notion, produced effect. Sweyn could not
see how an English gentleman, or a Christian,
committed an absurd act in taking
steps to root out piracy  piracy so fiendish
that I have only hinted its worst atrocities.
Nor would he admit, with the Bible at his
hand, that death would be inglorious, much
more wicked, if it befell him in this task, as
it probably would. Rawdon was not among

those who disputed on such ground as that,
but he held a conviction that man's duty
begins at home. There is quite enough to
occupy philanthropical yearning in fighting
wiki beasts of native growth. Garrow
admitted so much, but he persevered. It
was painful to contemplate a lifelong
separation from the friend who was more
than brother to him, but he could not live
in the same atmosphere, the same world,
with Jehanne, to hear her spoken of, perhaps
to meet her, as another man's wife.
Pier was by no means satisfied that the
case was hopeless there, and he ventured a
last effort. He explained the situation to
Lady Latham, and begged her, if she could
conscientiously, to urge Mdlle. de Perouac
to send one word that might change Sweyn's
resolve. How Lady Latham regarded this
commission she had not told ; but Mary
hinted bitterly that she was guiltiest. Lithe
end, a telegram was sent to Sweyn,
which finished with the words, " Jehanne

II 2

also hopes you will not be precipitate."


The consequences looked for were immediately
apparent. Sweyn ceased to feel
a personal interest in piratical misdeeds.
He packed up to travel so soon as Pier
could be moved, and on reaching Brindisi
he took his ticket only as far as
Paris.

As early as the proprieties allowed next
day, Sweyn called at the Hotel Perouac.
The Count was absent at his property,
Albert was with his regiment in Algeria ;
but the Chevalier Hugues kept house, and
he received the visitor warmly. That
austere Ee publican was not very French in
his ways, but a traveller, and one who had
been talked about, stirred all his Gallic
blood. It is contradictory, but not unnatural,
that the people most stay-at-home
in the universe should be most inclined to
honour wandering heroes.

Hugues had a thousand things to say,

but Sweyn's one subject overbore them all.
He plunged into it straightforward.

"As prospective head of the family,
Chevalier, you are doubtless aware that I
made  that I did myself the honour to ask
your sister's hand nearly two years ago."
Hague's face assumed a double-saintlike
impassibility as he replied  '' Something
was told me of the compliment you
paid us, but  "

"In personal merit I am not worthy to
touch her hand, but in a worldly sense I
am no unfit match. And all I have is my
wife's. I mean  " he paused in embarrassment
among the proprieties.

"My father also confided to me your
very generous proposals. But  "

I was not successful in winning Mademoiselle
Jehanne's esteem, and I tried to
forget a painful disappointment in travelling."


I sympathized  we all deeply sympathized
with your distress, but  "

I have returned in the same mood,
more strongly fixed in it if that was possible.
I beg your permission to urge my
suit again."

'* I excessively regret to tell you that
cannot be. Mdlle, de Perouac has made
her choice."

I had heard something of that  "

Pardon me, sir, but if you knew my
sister engaged, to what purpose reopen this
most unfortunate affair? It is settled."

Not settled at all, unless she loves M.
Birch."

Pardon me again," said Hugues, with
his courteous smile. " The question whom
my sister loves is one you have already
put, as I understand, without gaining a
satisfactory answer. Upon reflection, you
will see that a cross-examination on the
point is neither decorous nor useful."

I hope the Count will reconsider this
matter. When does he return ? "

In four days. But do not deceive

yourself, M. Garrow. I may say that we
all regretted, shall always regret, my sister's
strange refusal of your most honourable offer.
But what is done is done. There can be
no change now. Let me hope you will not
cease to regard us as friends."

"Be assured on that point. Chevalier.
But I warn you I am not defeated  at
least, not disheartened. Until Mdlle. de
Perouac becomes Madame Birch I shall not
cease my efforts to win her."

Hugues laughed frankly.

*' We are warned," he said. " And now,
M. Garrow, I am longing to put a thousand
questions, to hear a thousand interesting
stories. You will let me call upon you ? "

No suggestion of a meeting with
Jehanne.

Come and dine to-night at the Eiche.
I don't forget what I owe to the kindness
of your family, and if you like travellers'
tales, lay in a stock of patience."

So they parted for a few hours.

This firm opposition on Hugues' part did
not surprise Garrow, but he had expected
to deal with the Count and Albert, whose
material was much less stern. Hugues
had treated as a jest the hint that he
might try to reach Jehanne against the
wishes of her family ; but the Count had
more experience, and much less confidence
in woman. If no progress was made in
the next four days, it might be a loss of
time invaluable, upon which the future
life of both might depend.

Sweyn sat in the Cafe Foy at breakfast,
revolving these things. That is an establishment
where any commission, however
eccentric, is secret at the moment and forgotten
in an hour. He called the sot

o

maitre d'hotel renowned through Europe.

I want you to do me a little service,
Henri. If there is still a groom called
Pierre in the Comte de Perouac's service,
send him a quiet message  you understand ?
to call upon me at the Grand Hotel. This

is the number of my room. Let him go up
straight."

' Siiffit, monsieur!" said Henri, calmly,
pocketing his louis.

And in due time Pierre arrived.

Ah, it is M. Garrow ! I welcome you
joyfully, sir ! What great events have you
passed through ! Ah, malabar ! "

Thank you, Pierre. And you, are you
still Mdlle. de Perouac's groom ? "

In name only, alas ! If I bring the
poor horses round, Mdlle. will descend
sometimes, but never, never does she order
them."

Does the Chevalier ride with her ? "

Me ? Never ! When the Count is not
at home Mdlle. rides alone if she does go
out  early in the morning."

Now, Pierre, you are obliging and discreet.
You know, I doubt not, that I
wished to marry your mistress before I
went away, and I desire to see her
again."

"Ah! It may be that I shall be dismissed
! "

Do not let yourself be influenced by
that fear."

That is enough from Monsieur I But
I beg him to believe that I would give no
assistance if I were not sure that Mdlle.
would be happy with him. It was the wish
of us all ! We said, ' M. Garrow is the husband
for Mdlle.  he the,' " etc , etc.

Sweyn cut short his eloquent description.
In a few moments the plan was laid.

That would have been a wearisome evening
with Hugues, though Garrow had not
been pre-occupied with sudden, broken
visions of the morrow. Frenchmen  I
speak very generally of course   have
so little of the knowledge requisite to
understand travellers' tales, whilst their
imaginations are so quick, and their self-confidence
so assured, that they build up
a romance of their own devising side by
side with the matter-of-fact narrative they

hear. At one point or another the stories
constantly come in collision, and then the
Frenchman does not for a moment hesitate
to declare that yours is the one incorrect.
He will show, on your own words and facts,
how you are wrong logically and circumstantially.
The effect is droll, but irritating
to people of quick temper. Hugues was
much less given to these diversions than are
most others of his race ; but he was given
too much.

Long before eight o'clock next day
Sweyn was watching the long white avenue
from a sheltered nook by the Arc de Triomphe.
And at length he saw what made
his heart spring suddenly, then pause with
a sick chill. His very goddess was recognized
at a half-mile distance by her
perfect form, by the instinct of worship.
He slipped away unseen, mounted the horse
in waiting, and rode quick towards the
Cascade. Loitering back through the less
frequented alleys favoured by Jehanne

fortune served him. He was recognized
at a distance, and Jehanne welcomed him
with quiet grace ; but her cheeks were
waxen pale, and her eyes did not meet his.

Sweyn turned and rode beside her without
asking leave. Too many words which
must not be uttered rose to his tongue,
and his heart beat painfully.

'' We often feared we should never see
you again," said Jehanne at length.

It always lay in your power to recall
me ; and, thank God ! you took pity at last."

Mr. Garrow ! Can you be referring to
that message ? It was only  "

"I do not presume upon it. But your
message alone brought me back  nothing
else. I gave up my projects, and I have
returned across the world to plead again
for my happiness  ay, my life ! As I
went away, I return, your slave, your
chattel ! I am like a man held in bonds
of witchcraft, whose whole being lies at
the mercy of the enchantress."

*you must not talk like this," she
faltered. Then, more resolutely, " Did you
come here to waylay me ? I beg you to
go away, Mr. Garrow."

"I tell you, Jehanne, I have come across
the world for no other purpose but to ask
you, for your own sake and for mine, to
think once more. Is such a love as mine
to be dismissed with pretty thanks, and
forgotten ? It is my own whole self, every
muscle of my body, and every impulse of
my mind  and it is strong as my life.
I cannot repress it if I would. Such a
passion could not fail to find the means
of making you happy ? "

This is horrible ! Do you not knows
that I am no' longer free even to hear
such wild words with honour ? "

I have heard foolish talk, but I recognize
only your voice. Say, only make a
sign, that you love this man, and I go."

White and eager with desperate hope he
looked at her, and she kept her head bent.

You cannot say it ! " he whispered
in low, hoarse tones, whilst all the blood
rushed to his face. "He stands as far
beneath me as you above ! What is it
he can offer to deserve the prize for which
I have given body and soul ? You do
not love him ! And I may hope  merciful
God, I may hope ! "

Jehanne burst into tears, whilst she
turned her horse suddenly round ; but
Narrow turned with her.

"You persecute me!" she sobbed.

"I hold you for some short minutes 
you who hold me through this life and
for ever. Tell me you love Birch, in
your frank, pure tones which the angels
of Heaven believe, and I am gone."

What torment ! " she moaned in French.
I  I  What right have you to put me
to such shame ? It is unmanly. I cannot
bear it."

Then somehow, in the next moment,
he was lifting her from the saddle, whilst

the horses went on their own way. And
Jehanne, after tottering an instant, and
clinging involuntarily to the strong arm
beside her, was standing under the shadow
of the trees. She shook with sobs, of which
the violence told through what long months
of pain they had been repressed. Without
explanation Garrow had claimed her ; and
when Jehanne could think, she remembered
with a flush how unconscious instinct had
thrown her into his arms as he lifted her
down.

My darling ! " he whispered. '' Fear
nothing now. You are mine ; and shall
I not protect my treasure, my life, my
own soul ? "

He laughed at the thought of human
interference betwixt him and his love 
laughed aloud. He envied the Lanuns
their song of victory for an occasion like
this.

Jehanne did not struggle longer against
her fate. Without resistance she surrendered

handkerchief and hand. But her
lovely face was very sad and downcast as
she murmured broken words about honour
and modesty.

Your honour is mine," Garrow replied
; " and modesty ?  not in all France
dwells a blind idiot who would impugn
it. Have I not loved well enough, waited
long enough, suffered enough, to merit
reward ? Have confidence only. Throw
your cares and terrors all on me. I am
strong now to bear them, if they were
heavy as empires ! "

And after a time Jehanne took courage,
being of that most loveable type of maiden
who, when they give their hearts, give
their whole mind and spirit. They walked
for an hour, and did not know where they
had been ; Pierre following with a stolid
countenance, but glowing with delight in
his soul. He loved his mistress, he admired
her lover. He had heard something,
seen all, and imaoiued a whole universe of

romance. As confidant of a grave secret,
he knew his fortune assured for life. Could
any combination of circumstances give a
French groom more ecstatic pleasure ?

Jehanne had absolutely forgotten him,
until, after lingering farewells, Sweyn called
up the horses. Then she saw Pierre, and
turned a startled look upon her lover. He
whispered, '* We may trust hin ! " and
Pierre comprehending, tried to lay his hand
upon his heart ; but Jehanne's horse reared
at the twitch. Then Garrow grasped the
slender foot, and raised his sweetheart, won
at last, into the saddle. A moment more
and she had gone, leaving a gentle pressure
on his hand, a haunting look unutterable of
the soft dark eyes, as memorials of an hour
snatched from the joys of paradise. No,
there was something else  a small handkerchief,
still damp with tears, which Garrow
seemed anxious to dry at his lips.

But the telegram, " Congratulate me," was
not sent that night. Very much remained

VOL. III. I

to do before Sweyn could indulge such a
boast. Jehanne had confessed her love,
but it was too probable the Count would
not be influenced by this tardy admission.
At the next interview he sought to teach
the duty of resistance, if they should try to
force her. That was easily effected, for she
had spirit enough. But Sweyn was not
satisfied. He wanted her by his side at
Gaythorpe, in his own house, the idolized
companion of his life. It did not suffice at
all that she should be living like a nun,
waiting on destiny, whilst the sweet bloom
faded from her cheek, and her eyes dimmed
with hope deferred. It would be quite
another task, however, to convince this
highborn demoiselle, to whom conventionality
was a religion, that in the worst resort
daughters are justified, nay, commanded to
leave home and family with the man their
heart has chosen. But Sweyn did not
despair, recognizing the girl's soft and yielding
character towards those she trusted and

loved  a trait which stirred his headstrong
nature to the chivalry of passion.

When first he breathed a hint of this
theory Jehanne was terribly shocked. She
had heard and read of a crime called elopement,
not unknown in England, where other
strange and barbarous rites are practised.
But the suggestion that Mdlle. de Perouac
could follow this unnatural custom, though
it were a mere hypothesis, tried her love too
far. She rejected it upon the spot with
haughty surprise, and turned homewards.
Had she then recalled one instance of
Sweyn's departure from the decorous etiquette
enjoined by her code, his cause had
been lost for many a day, if not for ever.
But he had been very cautious. Not a kiss
had he stolen when his eyes where most
hungrily fixed upon the lovely mouth smiling
at him ; not once had he passed his
arm round the perfect waist so close to his
side, and this self-command was rewarded.
Jehanne listened to his entreaty, coni

2

descended with repugnance to argue on
such a subject.

And the Count, ill-advised, delayed his
return a day or two ; so that, on the very
morning he was expected, Jehanne made a
sorrowful and shame-faced promise, that in
the very hast, after an indefinite time, if
everything failed them, she would elope.
T am very sure that Garrow had not cried,
except with passion, since he reached years
of consciousness, having no kindred to
mourn. But tears came to his eyes, and
honestly stood there, when Jehanne sadly
consented to throw over all her cherished
proprieties, all the sacred bonds and duties
of family, in trust on his honour and love.
He bowed himself and kissed her little
hand, saying in some such beautiful, old-world
phrase as come to an Englishman's
lips at a time of great emotion : " God do
so to me, and more also, if I give you cause
to repent." And Jehanne recognized the
truth which speaks from the very heart.

and in a measure she was consoled. Sweyn
could not have loved her more, but from
that day she was holy. He guaged the
sacrifice she made in following his impulse,
felt the purity which she hazarded for
him, and swore himself to be a better man,
that he might be less unworthy of such a
helpmeet.

In the afternoon he called upon the
Count, who was more than delighted to see
him. These young Englishmen had fulfilled
the utmost expectations he could have
formed of their eccentricity, and their knack
of incurring adventure. Shipwrecked, good.
Exposed in an open boat, excellent. Captured
by pirates, rare. Fighting the barbarous
invader, delicious. Causing scandal in
the Eajah's harem, natural and romantic.
Avenging their murdered mistresses by a
wholesale slaughter of the pirates, and
coming home safe to devise fresh incidents,
oh quite harmonious, meritorious, and beautiful,
a remembrance of happier days in

Europe ! Sweyn found, however, that the
Count had never studied a map, nor made
a geographical inquiry, during all the time
he was most unaffectedly interested in their
doings. He did not precisely know whether
these delightful events had taken place in
Asia, Africa, or America ; he inclined to
locate them in Australia.

But when, after two hours' talk all abroad,
supported with the patience which a suitor
always has at command towards the father
of his love, Sweyn approached the subject
near his heart, he found no comfort. The
Count deeply regretted his daughter's prejudice.
Perhaps M, Garrow was too hasty
in leaving, though who could urge that
after the glorious result. Mais enfin !
Mdlle. de Perouac had made her choice,
and it would be quite useless to re-open the
old affair. Sweyn was not yet willing to
engage at close quarters. He had still to
see Birch, and if the terrible pain of opposing
her father might be spared to Johannes

at any cost she should escape. Sweyn
answered that his feelings had not changed,
that it would be painful to meet Mdlle. de
Perouac under the circumstances, and that
he hoped to see the Count as often as possible
elsewhere. This was understood in
the most gentlemanly spirit, and they parted
excellent friends.

He went forthwith to call on Birch. A
few steps from his door he met Doctor-pinson,
not thoughtful in a brougham like
other aug-ours, but ocoing; his rounds in a
swift Victoria, exposed to all men's sight,
and especially women's, eager, alert, enjoying
the afternoon, since we must all die
tomorrow. Recognizing an ex-patient, he
joyfully called out and descended, heedless
of seventy years, a grotesque obesity, and
a combination of complaints.

'jump in ! jump in ! You have nothing
to do at your age. She will wait half-an-hour.
Now tell me all about it, the hints
in our newspapers were too ridiculous. Or

better, come and dine to-night at the
Anglais. I have Madame this and that,
Mdlle. the other. Were you going to call
on 23oor Birch ? Sweinfurths have the
better of him at last. If pity were not
an ' extinct emotion, I could feel for that
plucky fellow."

Why ? what is the matter ? "

Ruin ! He irritated the big wigs of
finance too much. How often I warned
him ! And now Birch is high and dry,
solitary as the restored Napoleon in mid
air yonder."

*' Is this generally known ? '

"If it were would Pinson be repeating
it 1 No, my friend, I tell secrets only.
Perhaps Birch himself doesn't grasp his
situation. Oh, these financiers ! They are
the only diplomats left, they and Bismarck.
Birch has felt some pressure, but he doesn't
yet know, I think, how hopelessly he is
environed, every avenue by which he could
escape, or help could come, barred by a net

invisible. He will fall from his monument
(irish ! one of these days soon."

You are still friends with him, doctor.
Will you convey to him that a speculative
individual, whose name you will not hint,
has a round sum at his disposal for carrying
on the war ? "

The doctor sang a little song to himself
in high delight.

No, my young friend," he replied at
length. " Your proposal charms me, but
I will carry no such message. Birch is
doomed. His own imprudence, made the
most of by Sweinfurths, has banded all the
kings of finance against him. No single
man in Europe could save him, and your
loan, were it a million francs, would go
down, absolutely imperceptible, with the
wreck. There," he added, with a quick,
shrewd glance, "I have given you some
news that interests you. Now talk to me."

Half-an-hour afterwards Sweyn was
shaking hands with Birch.

The keen, handsome face of the young
banker had aged, his manner had a certain
nervous irritation. After the first formal
greetings, Sweyn said,

I have a great regard for you, Birch.
I remember how you stood by me at some
risk and much inconvenience when that
idiot Latham picked a quarrel with me.
And you know very well what my feelings
were towards Mdlle. de Perouac, who is
now engaged to you. Therefore, I would
speak to you frankly on that subject."

"Pray go on," said Birch, with a grim smile.

"Mdlle. de Perouac gave her consent
hastily, without due thought. She wishes
to withdraws it."

Birch started from his chair. He was
pale, but his face became ghastly, and his
lips twitched with such violence that he
abruptly turned away to hide the distortion.

Sweyn was shocked.

'' You are ill ! " he exclaimed, in real concern.
" Pardon me ! "

I can talk upon trivial subjects. Mdlle.
entrusted this message to you ? "

"No. The idea is all my own."

"It is very humorous. I thought,
Garrow, that I had given proofs enough
I am not a fool ; but you have been away a
long time, and you forget. I shall refer
your idea to the Count de Perouac."

You will not do that, because you are
too manly and too generous to avenge yourself
upon a woman."

And so you think yourself safe in
insulting me ? "

If you shot me, if the heavens fell, your
position would not be improved. Mdlle.
de Perouac will not marry you."

She will marry you if I get out of
the way ? "

I hope so."

One of us w411 be in his grave before that. "

I will not fight with you, Birch. Recall
your better nature. Would you take your
bride by force, like a savage ? "

"I see no occasion to justify my proceedings
before you, but much occasion to
demand an explanation of your intimacy
with the feelings of my promised wife. 1 do
not propose fighting  at present. But I
will tell you what your interference has
effected. To-night I shall ask the Count
de Perouac to give me his daughter in
the shortest delay possible  next week, if
it can be done."

Widen she does not love you ? When
you know she does not love you ? "

When I know she promised to be my
wife."

A tap at the door interrupted him. He
opened it, and exchanged a few eager words
with the person outside ; then returned,
consulted some papers and books on his
desk, and sat staring across the room,
absorbed in desperate thought. Sweyn
rose.

'* Think once more. Birch," he said,
pityingly. 'your enemies are powerful.

they may triumph over your ruin in business
; but do not give them the boast, that
in your fall you uselessly destroyed a girl's
happiness, and caused scandal to be busy
with her name."

''Ah! What I have said I shall carry
out. You have heard of this conspiracy
then, it is common talk ? Well ! I may
go under ; but I will marry Jehanne de
Perouac, or one of us two will be in his

Have."

At Pinson's dinner that night there was
much talk of the sudden movement on
the Bourse, by which, as it was already
rumoured, Birch had been grievously hit.
But Pierre's visit next day told that his
resolution retarding[ Jehanne had not
changed. He dined with the Count, and
Mdlle. de Perouac retired from the 
much agitated She dismissed
her maid as soon as possible, and burst into
tears before the door was shut, at least
before her maid had left the keyhole.

Sweyn had not ventured to propose a
secret correspondence, but it was hard to
receive such news without trying to comfort
his love. She tossing and crying through
the night, insulted possibly, suspected and
blamed by those whose approval was the
mainspring of her life ! Only for a few
weeks or days could she suffer ; but Garrow's
pain was acute, and the longing to console
her so intense, that he wrote a letter full
of sympathizing passion, destroyed when
finished. The shock and humiliation of
receiving a note through a servant's hand
must not be risked until things reached
their crisis.

CHAPTER V.

KICKED OUT.

Pier had returned to Latham. He would
rather have taken up his quarters elsewhere,
lout after the extreme kindness of the squire,
he could not neglect his invitation. All
received him in their former manner  the
elders affectionate, James friendly, Mary
cool, sarcastic.

Sir James heard without astonishment,
rather with mournful self-satisfaction, the
tale of Banks's treachery and Mrs. Rawdon's
fraud. He offered at once to accompany his
guest to Wey bridge, and as magistrate, as
leader and member of the county, his support
must be very valuable. But he could

not go next clay, as there was a meeting of
his fellows at the county town, and all other
earthly business must come to a stand on
these occasions. At breakfast-time Lady
Latham discussed the movements of her
household.

I suppose," she said to Pier, " you had
not courage to rouse Mr. Yates again, since
you have been wandering about the grounds,
they tell me. I hope some one was up intime
to open the door for you."

Mr. Eawdon has four or five hours the
advantage of us," said Mary. "Did you
find anything in the park worth study ? "

I gathered those late roses on the table."

"A pretty occupation, but not befitting
heroes."

'' I think, Mary, that you talk more nonsense
than any girl of your age and weight
in the county," said Sir James.

I quite agree with your father," added
Lady Latham. "It is a bad habit that has
grown over you lately, to talk for the sake

of talking:. Nothing: could be sillier than
your last remark."

Jim entered and kissed his mother.
Under this interruption Mary shot a
laughing glance at Pier ; but her colour
was heightened, and there was vexation in
her pretty eyes.

What are your projects for the day,
Jim ? Pray go with your father to the
meeting. It looks well to take an interest
in county business, and you must be bored
doing nothing."

Allusions to his fiasco in the diplomatic
service, caused by the scandal of the duel
with Garrow, made James sore. He said,

*' I prefer the society of old duffers' sons
to their own. I am going to play lawn
tennis at Morley's. Morley has built a
covered court, and his little wife has the
prettiest feet in the county. I suppose
you mean to ride, Rawdon. Is that your
way ? "

' I propose to call on my old groom, Ben

VOL. III. K

I fear that is neither in your way nor your
line."

If you don't mind," interrupted Lady
Latham, '' you might execute a commission
for me. Mary is so lazy now, she won't go
out, and I have not a groom to spare in
these hard times."

Mary exclaimed 

Jim takes all our horses, and puts them
in training under Mr. Yates."

Where is Eros ? " asked Pier.

Somewhere about, I suppose. We are
going to back him for the Oaks."

Oh, you consummate little monkey ! "
Jim cried. " In the first place, Eros is nota
filly. In the second place  "

Oh, of course I am wrong in the special
instance, but I am right in principle. Mr.
Kawdon, did you ever escort a young lady
mounted on an ass during your travels ? "

*that would be an occupation befitting
a hero. I have not yet been promoted
to it."

'then, like many other travellers who
refute proverbial philosophy, you shall have
greater honour at home than abroad. I
will do your commission, mamma, if Mr.
Rawdon will take me with him, on my
humble steed."

All the elders looked vexed, but they let
the matter drop. An hour afterwards. Pier
and Mary started, she riding a pretty pony,
full of spirit and tricks. Rawdon was angry.
Why should this girl break her usual habits
to accompany him ? She did not do it in
ignorance ; no woman could be so dense as
not to know that the long tete-astute would
be painful to a cast-off lover, and Mary
was very far from dense. She could have
no motive but to torment.

"I am lucky," he said, "to profit by a
momentary return of your old love."

My old love ? " she repeated, indignantly.

"For horses and exercise."

Oh ! You do not seem overpowered by
your good fortune."

K 2

It is not perfect. I had hoped to see
you mounted on a donkey."

"Jim has him in training also. Surely
this steed is humble enough ? Don't you
feel sufficiently elevated on that tall horse
above Woman  with a capital W ? "

Why  with a capital W  should you
think I wish to feel myself elevated above
woman ? "

Oh, pray don't ask me to explain my
feeble observations. So long as they sound
smart, I never ask myself what they
mean."

Pier did not think it worth while to
reply, and they rode some distance silently.
Mary stole a look in his face, and saw there
not despairing passion, but quiet contempt.
Her colour rose, and she gave herself a little
angry shake. They talked awhile brokenly,
until Mary observed,

So you are likely to get back Wey-
]bridge after all ? I congratulate you withall
my heart."

His indignation broke bounds.

"Your congratulations ' are a mockery
now, Miss Latham. Weybridge is nothing
to me if I gain it, and that you know.
How have I been deceived all these
years ! "

Little girls are so perfidious."

"And women so heartless. You had
made me understand quite distinctly that
all was done between us. I should not
have worried you again. But you seek
an opportunity to torment me. Congratulations
1 After roughly dissipating the
hopes I had cherished from boyhood, the
sweet dreams which had sustained me
through many troubles, you congratulate
me on the chance of winning some money  "

Mary interrupted him. The hot phase
had passed, and her eyes shone large in a
white face.

"Let us be quite frank, Mr. Eawdon.
Formerly I listened to your condescending
flatteries, and I blushed prettily, I dare say.

complimented by the attentions of the heir
of Weybridge, as a nice little cherub would
be. If I behaved in the same manner now,
I should be an angel full-grown ! "

"You would be the dearest woman that
earth could hold for me. Condescending ?
There may be in my manner  does a man
condescend if he bends himself to pick up a
tiny, perfect jewel ? or some holy herb on
which his life depends ? I am not stupid,
Miss Latham. My life to this has not been
of the happy sort, which inclines a man to
hope and believe all things. What am I ?
A grocers son  a pauper  with some sporting
chances upon which you have the good
nature to congratulate him prematurely !
That man is no fitting match for Miss
Latham, who recognizes the self-evident fact
as she grows older. But could she not have
brought it home to the poor self-deluded
wretch without  She glad brought it home,
and he accepted it ! Were you not satisfied ?
Do you think he had not suffered enough ? **

Mary was passionate ; but nobody had
seen one of her old malignant fits of temper
since she recovered from the illness which
concentrated all her fury within by forbidding
the natural relief of motion. Moral
bonds cramping her had something of the
same effect as physical. She could not tell
what was in her mind ; and the passion
smouldering for months burst forth. A
cruel cut set the pony off full gallop, and
she urged him faster and faster, until he
bolted.

Pier had not been too much alarmed, for
he saw it was rider, not steed, which was
beyond control. But they had almost
reached the town, where the road might be
blocked at any moment. Urged to speed,
in a few long strides his horse outraged the
pony, and Pier, stooping, seized its bridle
at the cheek.

'* How dare you ? " Mary gasped. " Let
go my bridle, sir ! let go my bridle ! "

Indifferent to the threat of her voice.

Pier dragged the pony to one side. Both
horses plunged with fear and temper. At
the same moment Pier received a cut on
his left hand like a sword blow, and another,
quick as a flash. The pain was so intense
he could not have held his grip a second
more, when the groom, springing off, caught
both horses and quieted them. Had he
seen ?

We cannot execute Lady Latham's commission
at full gallop," Pier said, laughing.

He saw, or thought he saw, the groom's
eyes seeking his hand, and he hastily doubled
it, palm outwards, on his hip. The pain
was so sharp he felt sick, and put his horse
in motion. Neither spoke, for they wanted
voice and words. Pier threw a furtive
glance at the whip which punished so terribly
in a girl's hand, and recognized a
present of his own, sent from the Cape  a
slender rod of hippopotamus skin mounted
in ivory and gold. All his hand was livid
and swollen ; the two purple stripes across

the back had scarlet splashes, and the blood
was trickling. He twisted his handkerchief
round.

It was fortunate that Mary did not dismount
to transact her business for he could
not have lifted her down. No word passed
between them in the street, but amongst the
lanes beyond Mary found voice.

*' I ask your pardon," she said ; " you do
not know my troubles, aud you irritated me."

Then it is I who should beg forgiveness.
We will forget this with other things."

You forget nothing, and you are pitiless.
Did I not  strike you ? "

*' Strike me I "

I thought  your hand is tied up ! Is it
possible I  and how pale you are ! Say you
are not hurt, Mr. Rawdon ! "

I am not hurt," he answered, laughing,
whilst shoots of pain traversed his arm.
In grasping your bridle the pony resented
my impertinence, and sprained my hand a
little. Will you tell me how I offended ? "

Didn't you say  well, it can't be wrong
to repeat your own words !  didn't you
say I used to treat you differently when I
thought you were heir of Weybridge ? A
very stupid suspicion, really, because girls
don't trouble about those things before they
put on long frocks. And then didn't you
hint that I am a heartless coquette, who
loves to tease people ? "

Be frank, then, Miss Latham. Why
did you join me in this ride ? "

"You still believe it? There is so much
you don't know, Mr. Rawdon. I cannot
tell why I proposed to join you ; it was the
impulse of the moment. Perhaps I thought
a chance might come of explaining, so that
we should be friends again, without danger
of misunderstanding. But we got on the
wrong path somehow."

'* Can't we turn back, and start afresh as
if nothing had happened ? It is the explanation
I long for."

As if nothing had happened ! When I

have been in such a passion as to strike you !
I am sure that sprain is more painful than
you admit, and it is my fault also."

But the explanation, Miss Latham ? "

*' I cannot talk of it now. Show me your
hand?"

This explanation was to destroy, very
gently and prettily, any hopes of mine that
might have survived the last few days'
experience, to define our relations henceforward,
and to finish with an elegy on platonic
friendship. Was it not so ? "

You are bitter."

Was it not so ? "

Why can't we be friends, then ? I have
known you so long, and always liked you.
Has not the first human being who flatters
a girl a perpetual claim on her regard ? Do
you recollect, on the lawn at Weybridge, ' I
feel your prejudice the more because you are
the most graceful little girl I ever came
across 

It was in a spirit of prophecy I spoke."

Let US be friends, then, as we used to
be."

As we used to be we were not friends.
I have strength to leave you for ever, but
not to meet you on such terms. Is this the
hast word, truly, which you came out to
speak ? You say there is much I do not
know. Why is it kept from me ? "

Indeed I am very sorry, Mr. Rawdon ;
but it is useless to reopen the whole matter.
It is not strange you refuse such a wicked
girl as a friend. We all thought these fits
of passion where quite extinct ; but do you
know, if I had had a sword instead of a
whip I should have used it just the same.
I am a horrible creature ! "

She looked in his face with large pleading
eyes, that asked for pity and forgiveness.

Friends only," Pier whispered, stooping
from the saddle. " To see your loveliness
day after day, ever changing, and ever more
witching  to take your hand for a moment,
and let it go  to resist hour by hour the

phrenzy which urges me to seize and carry
you away  I could kill myself, or you, but
I could not bear that.

Oh, hush, Mr. Eawdon ! "

She pushed on faster, and they exchanged
no more words until reaching the cottage.

Ben was expecting his young seigneur,
who threw his leg across the pommel and
dismounted easily enough ; but he speculated
with some disquiet how he would get
on again. It irritated him to see old Ben
help Mary down ; but by this time the
whole arm was swollen and tingling. Before
all else he must have cold water bandages
to his hand, and a sling. Ben's granddaughter
convoyed the unconscious young
lady to eat plums and pears in the garden,
and Pier went into the old man's room.
It would have been quite useless trying to
deceive him as to the nature of the wounds,
and Pier made up a tale about some row
with a drunken coachman whilst Miss
Latham was shopping.

"But law, Mr. Pier," Ben exclaimed,
what sort of a whip had he ? That would
cut a loss's hide open ! I never see the
like ! A man deserves hanging who would
use such a thing, the cruel brute ! "

And thus he exclaimed whilst binding up
the hand, and fitting it comfortably in a
sling. Pier himself, though he had seen the
horrid slashes of the sambo, was astonished.
The skin was cut in half-a-dozen places, and
one severed vein had soaked his handkerchief
with blood. He enjoined the utmost
secresy on Ben, and they talked of Wey-
bridge.

By the nurse's report, Mrs. Lambert
was perfectly sane and well. Moreover,
she did not approve by any means the
seclusion in which she was kept, and words
had passed. She wanted to go out, to call
upon her friends, the county people. It
was evident that Mrs. Lambert would meet
half-way any effort Sir James Latham made
to see her, if she could be warned of it.

Great was Mary's consternation to see the
sling, though she never fancied her slender
whip could have made it necessary. Pier
climbed into the saddle, and they set off.
Very pretty was her contrite mood on the
way home, showing remorse and begging
forgiveness in a thousand gentle looks and
tones. Lovers again, a stranger would have
thought ; but no word of love passed
between them. Pier was not a man to sit
quiet under a mystery, or to yield his life's
hope while a chance still remained. He no
longer feared a rival, though unable to
explain why that dread had vanished.
Mary did not love him as a lover, she never
had, but she was free. So soon as this
crisis in his affairs was over he would
frankly take her parents into confidence.
And in the mean time he set himself to win
her love, as well as his pains would let him.

They lunched by themselves, for Lady
Latham was occupied with some of her
charitable enterprises, and then they strolled

in the park till dusk. What a contrast
it was to their intercourse of the last few
days  this pleasant, easy commune as of
brother and sister I Pier blessed the passion
fit which had wrought such a change, since
better might not be. On their return to
the house Jim Latham had come in. He
gave Pier a little perfumed note 

"My DEAR Mr. Eawdon,

'' I have just heard of your dispute
with Mrs. Eawdon of Wey bridge. I think
I might give you something which would
perhaps be useful to you, but I cannot
judge its value. If you will call tomorrow
afternoon, or any time, it is very much at
your service.

*' Bessyy Morley."

Jim told how much interested his hostess
had been when, at luncheon, he recounted
as much as was proper of the state of
things. She interjected " It is very odd ! "

How strange ! " several times, and was
evidently possessed with a secret. But how
could his old Oxford love be concerned in
the affairs of the Eawdon family ? Remembering
what he did, Pier guessed this to be
some frivolous move towards a renewal of
the old flirtation. He would call, in politeness
; but he expected nothing.

Without difficulty Pier had won credence
for his story of a sprain ; but her ladyship
confused him terribly by insisting on an
examination of it. She was almost offended
when Pier, summoning all his wits
to aid, hit upon a bright excuse.

Dear Lady Latham," he said, confidentially,
" you force me to confess. In
younger but not wiser days I tattooed my
arm, and there is a secret there of which I
am not ashamed nor repentant now, not in
the very least. But I dare not let you
see it  yet. Do not ask me."

With keen anxiety he waited the reply.
Lady Latham smiled, gave him a look just

VOL. III. L

SO intelligent as to show she understood,
but void of all opinion on the subject, and
let the matter drop.

Next day at noon Sir James and Pier
drove to Weybridge Hall. Everything was
again changed, outside and in, not for the
worse to a stranger's eye. The quaint old
steps, with their iron balustrade, fashioned
to give a seat on either side the door, were
enclosed under a plate-glass porch forty feet
long, filled with blossom and tropical foliage.
The lofty, narrow hall was hung with
tapestry, beneath trophies of antlers and
arms. The footman led them into a charming
room, which Pier scarcely recognized as
that in which he had last seen Mrs. Rawdon,
changed though it was even then. Sir
James cried, in admiration 

"Egad, my boy, your stepmother has made
you the prettiest house in the county ! "

Mrs. Rawdon entered, grave and quiet.

I am glad to see you. Sir James," she
said, " and you too, Pier. Pray sit down."

Then she waited.

'' You have a right to ask the cause of
my presence in the house you occupy," Pier
began. " I will give it in very few words.
I have always contended, as you know, that
this estate was settled on me, that my
father's will was inoperative, so far as it
dealt with the land, and that he knew it
to be so. In the course of my inquiries, I
heard of a page-boy who had seen the
settlement executed. I advertised for him
now a man of middle life  and by a
strange chain of events I found him myself.
He confirmed all I had been told. Buta
very few hours afterwards this man was
mortally wounded. In a deathbed declaration
he certified his story. That declaration
was not forthcoming when searched for, and
it was thought to be lost. But I have
discovered that the captain of the vessel
stole it, and I have his evidence that he
sold it to you."

Then you come to accuse me of

L 2

fraud ? " said Mrs. Rawdon, smiling pleasantly.


*for that purpose and another."

Why did you not bring a constable ? "

"" I am a magistrate, madam' interposed
Sir James.

And most active, I'm sure. But a
magistrate does not carry the same moral
influence with us rustics as the village
constable."

Sir James looked aghast at Pier, who
went on resolutely 

I did not apply to the law because you
were my father's wife ; also because your
purchase of Dixon's declaration has no
practical effect whatever on the case. He
made a deposition in Singapore some
months earlier."

A startled look flashed suddenly across
Mrs. Rawdon's heavy eyes, and the smile
fixed itself in a grimace.

If you had given me an intimation of
your coming," she said, after a moment, " I

could have had my lawyer in attendance.
Will you kindly explain what all this comes
to, setting aside the ridiculous story of the
sea-captain and the page-boy ? "

'' It comes to this," said Sir James, roused
by the trifling manner in which sacred land
was treated, 'that we can now prove Mr.
Rawdon settled his estate upon his son.
All the wills possible could not upset that
deed."

"Have patience with a lady, please, Sir
James. We do not understand such matters,
but I have a weak fancy that settled
estates are vested in trustees. Why have
those gentlemen allowed me to keep possession
so many years ? How is it we only
hear of a settlement through a boy who
was, perhaps, given to dreaming ? To my
ignorance these things seem strange."

The trustees may be dead  probably
are'' impatiently exclaimed Sir James.
What we can prove is  "

The smile was broad again on Mrs.

Eawdon's face, as she interrupted with
malicious warmth.

But surely  pardon me !  you have
made inquiries ? You have ascertained at
least whether the gentlemen named as
trustees are living or not ? "

Sir James saw his error and kept silence.
That secret was out, and Mrs. Eawdon
knew that the deposition did not contain
the names of the trustees. Pier made the
best of the situation.

It is quite true," he said, " that we
have not found out whom my father
appointed, but we have found a person
who knows. That person is your mother,
now under this roof."

Indeed ! I will ask her about it."

'* I desire to see her myself"

Mrs. Rawdon showed not the least
hesitation or trouble.

You will understand how much I am
grieved to refuse you. My mother is
hi no state of health to discuss matters

which possibly might agitate her. And
now, perhaps, you will agree with me that
this interview has lasted long enough, if
the question at issue can be brought to a
final conclusion. I have listened OTavelv
and attentively to all you found to say,
excepting that episode of the captain and
the page, which, however, lightened the
seriousness of our talk. If you had taken
the usual steps, and pursued these inquiries
through a lawyer, it would have
been more pleasant for me ; but, upon
the other hand, it would have been much
less dramatic, and much more expensive 
considerations with us country people. As
you. Sir James, can be influenced by no
motive except a pure desire to get at the
truth, I am glad to be able to quiet
your mind on this subject for ever."

Mrs. Rawdon turned to a cabinet between
the windows, an object all lapis
lazuli, ivory, ebony, and enamelled copper.
Whilst leisurely choosing the key, she

glanced under her eyelids at the two
gentlemen, who stood bewildered, and she
evidently enjoyed the picture. Just so
long as theatrical effect demanded they
had to wait ; then the cabinet was opened.
Taking a paper therefrom, Mrs. Rawdon
seated herself and unfolded it.

'' Here," she said, " is the draft of that
deed which your page-boy dreamt he saw
executed. As many copies as you wish
shall be supplied you. For the present
I will read a passage which, unless my
interpreters are mistaken, closes this annoying
and offensive controversy. Pray give
me all your attention, Sir James, for the
phraseology is rather legal than intelligible.
After settling all his landed estate upon
Pier Marie Rawdon, the document proceeds :
And from and after the decease of the
said Pier Rawdon '  that is my late husband,
Sir James  ' to such uses upon such
trust and with and subject to such powers
provisos and declarations as the said Pier

Kawdon shall by any deed or deeds with
or without power of revocation and new
appointment or by Will or Codicil direct
limit or appoint and in default of and
until such direction limitation or appointment
and so far as no such direction
limitation or appointment shall extend to
the use of the said Pier Marie Rawdon his
heirs and assigns for ever.' "

What on earth does all that signify ? "
asked Sir James, aghast.

That signifies," Mrs. Rawdon continued,
'that my late husband already saw cause
to distrust his baby son, and secured to
himself the power of revoking the gift
if he thought proper  so, at least, I am
advised ; but you gentlemen will judge for
yourselves. His will nullified the settlement.
He rejoiced at his own forethought
when you. Pier, were scandalizing
the University and all England with your
riot and insubordination, when you were
leading a life of idle debauchery, and

consorting with the most abandoned of
mankind."

This was an anti-climax which turned a
grave situation into farce. Pier laughed out.

Thankless profligate ! " cried Mrs. Eaton,
extending her hand with dramatic
action really impressive. " When your
father was dying where were you ? At
the bed-side of one of your associates,
wounded in a duel by the son of this
Christian magistrate, who has made you
his protege  wounded in sheltering you
from vengeance, for I know not what discreditable
conduct. Was not your father
justified in revoking his hasty deed ?
Every parent in England will declare he
was."

"You go quite too far, madam," said
Sir James, feebly.

I have my father's . letters, continued
to the very date of his last illness,
and they show nothing but love and
confidence."

He was weak with you, as always.
But it matters not what he wrote in the
impulse of a too fond nature. What he
did is shown in his last will."

*how did you get this draft? It is
very imperfect. The names of the trustees
are not inserted, or they were inserted in
pencil, and have been rubbed out ; ay,
they have been rubbed out most carefully.
See, Sir James."

Will you dare accuse me of that ? "

I accuse you of nothing. But Captain
Banks declares that you bought a
paper which he stole."

* For the second time, Pier Eawdon,
I order you from my home. Sir James
Latham, I apologize to you, and I feel
for your humiliation. You now see what
manner of person it is you have recklessly
admitted into your family."

What, madam ? You order me out
of the house ? " '

No ; 1 order your companion. For

yourself," she added, with a sarcastic
smile, " I shall be most flattered if you
will stay to luncheon."

Thank ye, thank ye. I should choke !
Kicked out ! Come, Eawdon."

"One moment. You have not yet answered
a question I have the right to
put  where did you get this draft ? "

From my lawyer, sir, who will give
you all the information you choose to ask.
Go."

Without another word they departed.
Sir James drove moodily, oppressed by
the incredible sensation of having been
"kicked from the door," as he put it.
Pier was too busy thinking and calculating
to give proper respect to his companion's
wounded dignity, which turned
to something like resentment against the
man who had brought such an insult on
him.

There are a dozen suspicious points,"
said Pier. ' In the first place, provided

with such a conclusive document, if she
herself believed in it, why did Mrs. Eaton
buy Dixon's declaration ? In the next
place, why was she visibly alarmed to
hear that he had made an affidavit, until
you let it slip out that the trustees were
not named in that document ? In the
draft she showed us the names of the
trustees had been most carefully and
patiently erased."

If they had ever been inserted,"
grumbled Sir James, " it was in pencil."

Certainly. But lawyers don't trouble
to rub out every trace of the pencil when
they make a change in a rough draft.
We must have clever Mr. Ford's opinion.
There is something strange in the whole
business."

Strange enough when a man makes
a settlement, keeping the power to revoke
it. Such a thing isn't a settlement at
all. But I see clearly that you may give
up all hopes of Wey bridge."

The tone made Pier look at him keenly.
He observed the sullen air of wrong which
darkened the baronet's florid face.

I regret excessively, sir, that you should
have incurred this unpleasantness in my
quarrel. It looks like a most ungrateful
return for all your goodness ; but trust
me, we will enter Weybridge Hall as
conquerors yet."

' Unpleasantness you call it ? Kicked
out by Mrs. Rawdon ! Unpleasantness ! "

The tone was rough, almost offensive,
and Pier flushed. He himself had so far
profited by the rude lessons of peril and
hard life, that expulsion by a creature
such as he thought Mrs. Rawdon was to
him a mere incident, and no important
one, in the struggle. But he could quite
understand, when his attention was called
to the matter, that it struck Sir James
Latham, M.P., J.P., and all the rest of
it, quite differently. So he set himself to
calm the baronet's nerves with profuse explanations,

apologies, and sympathy ; but
to so little effect that his plans were
altered suddenly. He had intended to
go up to town after luncheon, to see
Ford, and, if possible, .bring him down
for the interview with Mr. Blaise. But
if this was the attitude Sir James meant
to hold henceforward, he would have his
position defined in one respect before leaving
Latham, since it would be impossible
to return.

Lunch had been deferred for them, and
Lady Latham, James, and Mary were not
less impatient for their meal than for news
when the adventurous pair returned. So
soon as the servants were dismissed Sir
James took up his parable. It accorded
with all the rules of poor human nature
that he should make himself the hero of
the scene. Pier was scarcely in it until
that fatal command '' Leave the house ! "
From that moment Sir James vanished, as
if he had walked out of the room just

before. It was an experience bitterly instructive
for a man like Eawdon, who, in
spite of all, bad kept very much of those
chivalrous fancies and illusions which seldom
survive the shocks of life.

Lady Latham, with a woman's courage
and distrust of her sex, would not admit
that all was lost ; but she showed grievous
disappointment, and a kindly sympathy for
the wronged heir. Jim took his father's view,
with much more than his father's directness
of expression. Thanks to the care with
which Sir James had guarded his own
dignity, neither of these understood, in
the first moment, that the head of their
family had been expelled from Weybridge.
They discussed the question on its merits,
and Jim said, with a rude laugh,

"You must drop the ornamental now,
Rawdon, and try if you're good for anything.
There's the Church. You might
pick up an elderly heiress."

But Pier was regarding Mary. Not the

winning only, but the wooing had still
to be done. The incident of the day before
had been the crisis of Mary's revolt against
a thraldom she did not recognize. From
that time, recovering her freedom unmistakably,
the girl had been gentle, unaffected,
easy with a man she liked. And
he, brought to his senses, had submissively
begun his efforts to gain favour without
reference to the past.

Mary said very little, but the sentiments
her eyes expressed were not chilling to
Rawdon's hopes. He had little to do
during Sir James's narrative except to
watch ; and what he saw was a warm
interest in the story, glowing indignation
against Mrs. Rawdon's triumph, and sisterly
compassion for his defeat. When Jim made
his ill-natured remark, Mary gave him a
glance which entirely consoled the sufferer.
He said,

"You did not hear Mrs. Rawdon's
description of me, Jim, or your feeling of

VOL. III. M

reverence would have prevented you from
even suggesting the Church until I disproved
her accusations. I should like, Sir
James, if you can spare an hour, to show
you my father's letters, the last of which
is dated within three weeks of his death."

''If it's any satisfaction to you," replied
Sir James, unwillingly, " I will look them
over with pleasure. But of course nobody
believes such foolish things about you as
Mrs. Rawdon said. We have known you
since you were a boy, and that is
enough."

Not quite, under the circumstances
which will arise. I am sorry to bore you
with this correspondence, but a glance at
each letter will suffice. If Lady Latham
would help you to get through the troublesome
favour, I shall be doubly obliged."

The whole party rose to seek elsewhere
their different occupations. As Pier descended
from his room, letters in hand, he
met Mary Latham.

"You refused my congratulations," she
said, with a soft smile, " and fate has
avenged me."

Does your favour carry luck ? Then I
beg you, Miss Latham, to wish me well in
my enterprise of this afternoon,"

I must know what it is ! You may
have many schemes I could not wish luck
to."

"Do you also think so badly of me?"

No indeed. But you are a man, and
you have, I suppose you ought to have,
all sorts of projects which I could not
understand."

"This, I assure you, is intelligible as
innocent, and I promise you shall know it
to the last detail as soon as I dare confide
in any person, excepting your father and
mother. Give it your blessing, Miss
Latham ! "

He spoke laughingly, but his eyes were
anxious. Mary hesitated, and her colour
rose.

M 2

'' Remember the story of Balaam," she
Had, going on. ' Perhaps success would
not be for your good, you know."

Pondering these words, Eawdon went his
way. After glancing at the letters, Sir
James admitted them to be most tender
and confiding ; but they did not alter his
conviction. He advised Pier again to drop
all hopes of regaining Wey bridge, and to
look his situation in the face at last.
Without going so far, Lady Latham was
scarcely more comforting.

This topic exhausted. Pier felt a yearning
of the midriff, and a twitching of the lips,
which peril of man or element had not
stirred within him. But he resolutely began
his speech : 

I am sorry you take such a desponding
view, not only because I respect your judgment
most highly, but for another reason.
I think you know how I am placed financially,
if we put Weybridge out of the
question. The little fortune settled on

my mother is all my means. But I am
not too old to begin work, and whatever
come of our conference now, I shall certainly
make the effort. But unless you
carry your kindness to an extreme, I fear
you will think me impertinent under these
circumstances, in asking leave to win your
daughter's affection, if I can."

Sir James flushed, and glanced at his
wife uncomfortably. She looked down a
moment before answering for both. Then,
in kindest tones,

''My dear Pier," she said, 'rit is not
worth while to pretend that this question
takes us by surprise. We can answer it
thoughtfully and conclusively. You know
what regard we have felt for you since
the beginning of our acquaintance. And
if events had turned out as all the country
wished, we should have been delighted to
hear this proposal. But  I will show our
feeling towards you by entrusting you with
a secret."

Sir James made a gesture of vexed
dissent, but Lady Latham proceeded.

We are not so rich as we were. Some
speculations in which we had engaged have
not turned out well. In short, Mary's fortune
will be very small. Yes, I know what
you would say. The amount of her dowry
is a question which, I'm sure, has never
passed through your mind ; but we elders
must think for the young. Mary has habits
of careless and unconscious expense, of which
she could not be broken without annoyance
to you and pain to herself. I am not considering
now whether she would accept your
proposal. From what I have lately observed,
you must feel, I should think, considerable
anxiety on that point ; but we need
not speculate upon it. In the interest of
both of you, we must answer your question
with a distinct negative."

Tone and manner were final, though
most considerate. Pier understood it, that
if he could offer Weybridge, or its equivalent

value, he might buy Miss Latham, sofar
as her parents could strike the bargain ;
and if not, not. With this feeling, his
words of reply were cold, and Sir James
readily met him in the same tone. But
Lady Latham had more tact, more foresight,
and a more constant friendship ; it
is true she had not been '* kicked  out of
anybody's house that morning. She said
with a smile,

"You are doing us injustice. Pier. We
know our daughter better than you ; but
even if we mistake her character, is it nota
duty to follow our conscientious belief?
You cannot doubt our regard for you, after
all these years, and, rightly or wrongly, weare
satisfied that your marriage with Mary
would bring unhappiness to both of you.
For no other reason do we object toit."


Pier was ashamed, if not convinced.

Forgive me, dear Lady Latham," he
cried. " In the bitterness of my disappointment

I forgot the evidence of your tried
friendship."

So that was finished. Pier went for the
List time to pack his things. There was
still an hour to wait before driving to the
station ; but in his irritable, nervous mood
he could not rest in the house. Bidding
farewell to Sir James and Lady Latham, 
the former still cool, the latter honestly
grieved,  he left messages for Jim and Mary,
and started to walk. It was growing dusk,
a chill and melancholy evening ; but in pitch
darkness, as he vowed, Pier could have
recognized a little figure, quickly advancing
towards the lodge.

Did you learn the habits of the opium-eaters
over yonder, that you take your
constitutional in the dark ? "

** I am going away. The cause you
would not bless has failed, of course. Shall
I tell you now what it was ? I asked leave
to win your heart, if I could ; and it was
refused me."

In the gloaming light Pier saw her blush,
but the expression of her face he could not
read.

Mary looked him gravely in the eyes as
she said,

And you had the impertinence to ask
my approval of this proceeding beforehand 'i
My good genius preserved me from the trap.
Good-bye, Mr. Eawdon. You will miss
your train if you stand here to gossip."

''Mar}  darling! I cannot understand
your words ! Have pity on me ! May I
hope after all ? "

He had followed and caught her hand.

Only wicked fun sparkled in the eyes she
turned to his ; but in Rawdon's eagerness
the sling had dropped, and her look became
graver as she saw the bandages.

Be merciful ! Put me out of this
suspense!" he repeated.

Frankly then, Mr. Rawdon,  upon my
honour as a woman,  I don't know ! "

CHAPTER YL

MES. Morley PLAYS GOOD FAIRY.

Things had come to a crisis with Garrow.
Urged continually by Birch, who was wasted
with fever, anxiety, and sleeplessness, the
Count showed the worst side of his nature.
Hugues himself tried vainly to make him
pause. The banker's imminent ruin was
now public talk, and at the club to which he
belonged bets were made upon the length
of time he could hold out. So ingeniously
conceived, so masterly executed, the
financial tactics by which he strove to break
through the narrowing circle of his foes,
that they were struck with admiration. But
the result was not pity. Like a general

who finds himself matched against a
stronger, cleverer antagonist than he had
expected, and feels that he must use his
utmost skill, they closed in for the last *
struggle. Birch was doomed.

The Count would not admit it, perhaps
did not believe. But the real motive actuating
him was not confidence in the banker's
fortune. Obeying still in some measure the
old law, " Noblesse oUige he would not
break off the match when unmerited misfortune
overtook his accepted son-in-law.
The wrench had been painful to admit
plebeian addresses ; it would be shame and
disgrace to reject them now. The heavy
loan Birch had made, upon terms almost
nominal, had relieved his estates ; and if now
it must be repaid, the Count would be in a
very different position to that he held before
this master of finance took his affairs in
hand.

So preparations for the marriage proceeded
hastily. Long engagements are not the rule

in France, and this had now been on hand
an unusual time. It was a natural thing
that it should end suddenly if the Count
could be really so eccentric as to match his
child to a ruined banker. Garrow, of
course, had been quietly dropped. Hugues,
though he disapproved the wedding, would
give no countenance to an ex-lover, who, as
Birch hinted, did not accept his dismissal.
The time had come for action.

As soon as he thoroughly understood the
situation, Garrow had written to Albert at
length. For that gay young warrior he
indulged no sentimental pleadings, but
treated the matter in a business-like point of
view. He told his own means, and Birch's
hopeless embarrassments ; recounted the
honourable antiquity of his race, and alluded
superciliously to his rival's origin ; hinted
many obvious advantages which a young
and handsome officer of the Chasseurs
d'Afrique would obtain by his alliance, and
contrasted them with the fruitless attentions

which a bankrupt financier could show, were
he never so affectionate. As an argumentative
case, Sweyn was proud of his composition
; he washed his hands after finishing it,
and went to ask pardon of the unconscious
Jehanne through her darkened windows.

Allowing: time for this communication to
arrive, in the mean while he exerted himself
to ensure leave of absence for Albert. This
was easily effected by mutual friends at the
embassy, and Sweyn telegraphed that if
application were made, it would be granted.
Albert sent back one significant word,
Entendu ! " and on the same day that the
Count had leisurely chosen to apply for leave
at the War Office, he received a letter
announcing that his son was on the way.
And Albert duly arrived about a week before
the wedding, instead of two days only, as
the Count had designed. He distrusted his
younger son on several grounds. Of lier
two brothers  neither of them very sympathetic
 Albert was the one to whom Jehanne

was used, whom she certainly loved better,
and who, in his reckless affection, would be
quite likely to encourage her in resistance to
the parental will, if she showed an inclination.
To do him justice, the Count never
fancied for one moment that Garrow had
any hold whatever on his daughter's heart.
He did not know they had met, since
Jehanne, to his own grave disappointment,
refused the English lover. But under all the
circumstances of the case, he thought Albert
had much better stayed away until the very
last moment.

And he was right. As soon as he left his
father, that impetuous youth burst into
Jehanne's room, sabre and sabretache and
all, kissed her on mouth and eyes, dismissed
the maid, and perched her on his knee.
Then, burying his moustache in her loose
hair,  she was dressing,  he whispered,

Tell me, little one ; I am going to see
your Garrow. What is the message I
bear ? "

From me ? " cried Jehanne, pale with
fright.

Albert was mystified.

'' I don't understand then. He got me
leave of absence ; he wrote that he was
dying for you. Ah, there is something !
You are not so guileless as you pretend,
little sister. Now tell me all about it."

And somehow, favoured by her hair, and
her sideways position on her brother's knee,
Jehanne contrived to let it be understood
that she had met Mr. Garrow, that his suit
would not displease lier if it found approval
with everybody else, that she would never
marry Mr. Birch, at any rate  never ! If
they dragged her to the altar she would
refuse.

It is enough, little sister," Albert laughed.
No one will drag you to the altar, like a
modern Iphigenia. Now kiss me ! One 
two. These are for the brother. Now for
the Sieur Garrow, how many ? "

"Albert!"

He has not converted you to English
ways yet, I see. In England lovers kiss all
the day till they get married, and then
they beat their wives day and night. Seriously,
little one," he added, whispering,
'' you may send a message through your
brother."

I have nothing to say," she whispered
back, red even to her shoulders. '' I will
never marry M. Birch. But he knows that."

And you don't love him much ? "

With a pretty shake of the head, and a
swift movement of her white arms, Jehanne
veiled herself impenetrably behind a mass of
silken hair. Then she clasped Albert softly
round the neck and whispered, with happy
laughter gurgling through her tones, 

'' I love him very, very much  more than
all the world except my little brother
Albert  more than life ! "

That is a very pretty message for your
little brother to carry. How delighted the
dear G arrow will be."

But as Jehanne cleared away her veil in
haste, and looked through with eyes big iu
alarm, he added, laughing 

"Trust my modesty, mignonne," and
clattered out.

Ten minutes later he clattered into
Garrow's room.

They came to an understanding in a very
sentences. Albert highly disapproved
the match arranged, and desired with equal
warmth the match in posse. He had assured
himself that the Count would listen t(
no words of protest, and it remained only to
decide what steps to take. Sweyn had
formed a dozen schemes, but they were all
dependent more or less upon Jehanne's
nerve and resolution, qualities most untrustworthy.
Albert thrust them aside.

It is well for you I join the conspiracy,"
he said, laughing. '' My little sister would
never have found courage to leave home alone,
not to cross the street. I will take her away,
and the only question is when and whither."

VOL. III. N

Garrow sprang to his feet in delighted
gratitude, vowing that no man ever possessed
a brother so devoted as he would be ;
and Albert knew he did not promise lightly.
Various small matters occurred to him in a
flash, wherein the help of an enthusiastic
beau-free would be useful. With increased
zeal he set himself to think.

Tiens ! I have it. What more natural !
Of course it is the obvious and simple plan
which occurs to us last. The night before
the signing of the contract, that is to say,
this day week, we convey our sweet Jehanne
across the Channel, and at the moment we
should be entering, dressed for the ceremony,
we are embracing that pretty little Miss
Latham in her own house. It is good, eh ? "

"It is perfection," Sweyn cried. " I
know the Lathams are at home, for Kawdon
is staying there. I will run over by tonight's
train, and  no, I won't take the old
people into our confidence. Mary can tell
thei an hour before we arrive."

*' We ? " repeated Albert, laughing.
'' Think, my friend, for one moment, and
you will see that for everybody's sake  except
your own  it is necessary you stay
here."

You are right." Sweyn's tone was
much less jubilant as he proceeded. '* Well,
then, I arrange the matter with Miss
Latham, and an hour before you arrive she
tells her mother and father. You can send
a telegram about that time, if she wishes.
But, Albert, give me a promise. The plans
I had thought out ended in a marriage.
Before the Count recovered his daughter,
she would have been my adored wife. This
combination is different. Promise me that
the end shall be the same."

Why, love has affected your wits.
Don't you see that the affaire Birch necessarily
comes to a rupture ? And to whom
should the fugitive be given unless to the
man she loves, for whom she has eloped,
with her brother entrench ! who is vouncr,

X 2

rich, a hero of romance ? We all desired
the marriage when she refused it ; and now,
when our cherished one accepts with all her
heart, will the family long resist ? Allons
done''

They settled some trifling details, and
Sweyn left by the night mail. At luncheon
time next day he reached Latham, pretending
to be en route for Gaythorpe ; it was the
morning after Pier's departure. Very glad
were all to see him, including Jim, who
showed his best in the presence of the man
he had nearly killed.

And my darling Jehanne ? How is
she ? I have not heard from her for a
month. Last week we received invitations  "

Mary paused, remembering that the
subject was painful.

** Yes," replied Sweyn, easily ; " she is
still engaged to marry Birch. But I have
so much to say to you. Miss Latham, on
that subject, that we must give it .a chapter
to itself, as novelists say. Tell me what

Pier Eawdon has done 1 He is a bad correspondent,
and I have not had a line from
him since he was here last."

So Lady Latham told, sympathetically
enough, the story of his adventures at Wey-
bridge. Svveyn was astonished and shocked,
but the bad news did not affect him as if
the case had been his own. Mary knew
that it would have done so formerly, and
she marked the difference with surprise.
Sweyn caught her eye, and endeavoured to
put into his look a world of secrets. He
was successful in making Mary blush while
she laughed. But, putting things together,
her shrewd little brain suddenly guessed
that Garrow's visit was for her.

You are not g-oino- on till tomorrow at
least," said Lady Latham, as they rose ;
not till next week or next month, if you
consult our wishes alone."

"You are very good. I left my portmanteau
at the station, and if you can send
for it, I shall be delighted to accept the

invitation in a modest way. Or," he added
boldly, " if Miss Latham would drive me in
that dear little pony-carriage, it would be
pleasant to behold familiar scenes again."

Of course she will," answered Lady
Latham ; and at the same moment a servant
called her attention.

What dear little pony-carriage ? " asked
Mary, sternly.

Yours ; one of the dearest and least in
the world, I'm sure."

May I ask when you saw it, and how
you knew I possessed it ? And pray did
you come from the station in a police van,
that you have not already enjoyed the
pleasure of beholding those familiar scenes 1 "

I throw myself on your mercy," Sweyn
whispered, hastily. " Let me see you alone,
I implore ! "

About ? " asked Mary, suspiciously.

'' About Jehanne."

My Jehanne ? Why didn't you say so
outright ? "

Stay. It is a secret ! Not a word to
any one."

In ten minutes we will start,"

Needless to say that Mary was delighted
with the project. From every point of view
it suited her temper and her notions. She
quite agreed that to tell Sir James Latham, or
even her mother, what was about to happen
would be extremely dangerous. Parents
are apt to make common cause against disobedient
children, and in any case it would
be no small responsibility to harbour the
runaway daughter of a friend. Sweyn sent
a telegram to Albert, announcing that all
was settled, and they drove back.

When his affairs with Jehanne had been
discussed as long as was polite, not so long
as he could have wished, Sweyn looked fora
subject more personally interesting to his
companion. Pier had but hinted his disappointment
in Mary, and the hint was quite
forgotten. Searching round for a topic
other than his own love, Sweyn naturally

list upon his friend's. But he remembered
the change in Pier's circumstances, and
approached it cautiously.

' If Jehanne consents to marry before
she is forgiven, we may have to fall back
on the pew-opener for a bridesmaid."

Oh, horror ! But yesterday playing
hostess to Notre Roy, and now attended
by a wheezy pew-opener. Fortunately, in
that event, the wedding will take place at
Milstone, and I shall be there at least."

I fear Jehanne will need much pressing,
and before the time comes she may act
bridesmaid to you."

*' To me ? I don't know whether I shall
need as much pressing, but Jehanne is a
long way advanced ahead of me."

'' Pardon my indiscretion ! I thought 
I hoped "

Like other persons. You where not
singular."

Poor fellow ! " Sweyn murmured, after
a pause. " He left me in Paris with such

happiness in his face. And now, fortune
and love, both lost."

You are not helping his cause, Mr.
Garrow," Mary exclaimed, angrily. " He
did not whine, at least."

No, I don't think Pier would whine
much. I'll stake my head he's preparing
fit a retordre for dear Arabella, and in the
intervals he is meditating a new campaign
at Latham. My story will encourage him.
Do you know I proposed three times to
Jehanne ? "

And he did not once propose to me !
that is  I mean, it would have been
just the same  To change a silly subject 
that house through the trees is Mr. Morley's
vicarage. Mrs. Morley sent your friend a
note, hinting mysteriously that she knows
something of Mr. Eawdon's settlement, and
all that. I wish he had paid her a
call."

Let us go now. Morley is an old
schoolfellow, and I knew his wife at Oxford.

How awfully  hem  how awfully pretty
she was."

How awfully Mr. Rawdon was in love
with her ? That's an open secret which
you need not hesitate to mention. Yes, let
us call, though I detest the woman."

Mrs. Morley was at home, her husband
also, and Jim Latham, and young Blenchley.
They were drinking tea, and very becoming
was the lady's dress appropriate to this
ceremony. She gave a little delighted
scream at sight of Garrow.

Oh, you dear man, to come and seeme
! I can never be approximately grateful
to you, Miss Latham, for guiding the steps
of this too welcome visitant. I beseech
you, Mr. Blenchley, to make room close by
me. Now tell me all about them. Merciful
heavens, if he had lost his way ! Miss
Latham, this service I will inscribe 'in
my heart's core, e'en in my heart of
hearts.' "

"ras I do thee'" Sweyn exclaimed,

finishing the quotation. '' Suffer me only
to congratulate my dear old friend. Remember,
I have not seen him since he
married you!'

All through his guileless life, poor Morley
had worn that air which slang people
describe as " not in it." Intensified now,
it was an air distinctly " out of it." Neither
his wife nor his house, nor anything therein,
belonged to him. The servants did not ask
his orders, the visitors did not come to
see him ; not those at least who entered
his drawing-room. Greatly flattered he
was, but more embarrassed, by the warm
greeting of this young hero, with skin clear
as brown silk, forehead unwrinkled, wide
blue eyes with daring and laughter in every
glance. Was it possible that they had
been at school together, had been comrades
in a sense, that yq or six years only
divided them ? Morley straightened himself
instinctively, and his voice had a ring
as he heartily welcomed his visitor. They

spoke together for a moment, but the lady
coukl not wait.

Unfeeling monster ! Do you not see
that I die of inanition ? Come at once,
and tell me all about them."

They don't really fly at all, but they
are very good broiled on toast. And they
black their teeth not, as the ignorant report,
with burnt cocoa-nut, but with the wood
called ' Sinks.' And it is very uncertain
whether they exist at all, but the credible
statements I gathered on the spot seem to
show that something of the sort is found in
some parts. There are many different
varieties, but it may be said that cocoa-nut
milk is the distinguished characteristic of
all ; that is, not the milk as we understand
it, but the soft pulp scraped and mixed
with water. They form a large and heterogeneous
dependency, which used to belong
to"

I am enthralled ! But what are you
talking about ? "

Well, as near as I recollect, flying fish,
Malay men, elephants, curries, the Straits
Settlements. Give me time, and I will
satisfy you."

How satisfy me, most bewildering of
men {

By telling you all about them.
They" 

Don't, my brain reels ! This is
sarcasm. And to me I in your first visit 1
After six years absence ! Oh, shame on
chivalry ! "

I thought you wished to have a concise
summary of things in the far East, adapted
for the use of advanced pupils. Formulate
your question, Mrs. Lumley  pardon me !
the years have made such slight impression
on you  Mrs. Morley."

The lady knew very well she was being
laughed at outrageously, but that did not
annoy her. Many women at the present
time lay themselves out for ridicule, and as
the majority of them are not fools at all, I

presume it answers their purpose somehow.
Mrs. Morley replied,

I want to hear your adventures, your
travels, fights, dangers, and loves, so far
as  in short, I rely on your discretion.
Now, begin."

Lady Latham dines at half-past seven,
and it is now half-past five. I'm afraid
there is scarcely time. But Pier Kawdon
will be down here shortly, and he will have
ample leisure for a charming task. I know
he will do his utmost with such a listener."

Sweyn threw a wicked significance into
his laughing eyes.

Mr. Eawdon is not polite, nor indeed
judicious," said Mrs. Morley, brought down
to common language by a sense of wrong.
*' I despatched a note of the greatest importance
nearly a week ago, to which he has
paid no attention whatever. Silly man !
It is his loss ! "

Sweyn devoted himself with zeal to
clearing his friend's character, and he

mischievously contrived to draw Miss
Latham into the task. Vexed, but laughing,
in spite of herself, Mary pleaded
and explained until Mrs. Morley was so
good as to soften. She sent her husband
for a certain " casket," which proved to bean
old-fashioned writing desk ; and from a
drawer quasi-secret took a yellow paper.

Understand," said she, '* that this is not
the document I could produce to astonish
Mr. Rawdon. Not that at all. But I
rather think it will cause him to regret the
indifference he has shown to an old, a very
old friend.

It will heap coals of fire on his head,
I'm sure," answered Sweyn. "But," he
added, whispering, " it ill becomes Mrs.
Lumley to seek even a harmless revenge.
Guileless as you are, you can guess why
Rawdon did not like to call, poor fellow."

Mrs. Morley could still blush very prettily
indeed, still look shocked and surprised.
She displayed the faculty on this occasion ;

but before words appropriate came to her
lips, Mary Latham rose.

You forget how time passes, Mr. Garrow,
in talking of those days long gone by.
And so does Jim, if he proposes to dine at
home to-night."

I have not been talking of bygone
days," Jim cried. *' Blenchley and T haven't
got a word in for an hour. There's lots
of time."

But Mary was resolved, and Sweyn quite
ready, though he had not exhausted half
the fun of tea with Mrs. Morley. So they
went off. At the first moment they examined
the paper thus mysteriously delivered
to them. It was an ancient letter, beginning
'' Dear Lumley," running on through
allusions quite unintelligible now, and ending
Pier Kawdon."

By Mahomet ! " Sweyn cried, " it is old
Eawdon's writing. So he was a friend of
Lumley defunct. We are on the trail at
last, Mary dear ! Hurrah ! This is great

news for Pier. And she has more behind.
Dear, good, blessed image, I love Mrs.
Morley ! "

You forget yourself, Mr. Garrow."
' No, I don't. But if I did, what friend
of Pier Eawdon's could be quite himself
when such possibilities open before him ?
What have I done ? Oh, I know ! called
Miss Latham ' dear Mary ' ! So you are.
The dear and dearest little ally that ever
conspirator possessed. Don't play th*
prude, Miss Latham, because I am not ina
humour to stand it."

You try my liking very far, Mr.
Garrow."

Is it really possible you are serious ? "
'' I am perfectly serious. I don't see
anything in the prospect of Mr. Eawdon's
success which authorizes you to address meas
'dear.' And I beg you will not do it."
Sweyn sat staring incredulously in her
face, while she, red with anger, lips set, and
eyes fixed straight before her, looked a

VOL. III.

Study of downright ill-temper. After a
moment, Sweyn said,

Pray accept my apologies. We learn
rough habits at sea, and practise little
ceremony with a trusted friend. What is
young Blenchley doing 1 "

So they talked futilities until Latham
was reached. Sweyn was voluble, easy,
and bright ; but Mary thought to recognize
an utter change in his tone after this snub.
She felt sure that if he had not been
dependent on her help in his own affairs,
he would not have accepted the check so
quietly. Merry chaff or indignant rebuke
would have met her querulous objection,
which, in the long relations between those
two, was simply an impertinence. Under
the peculiar circumstances of this case
Sweyn submitted, but with contempt.
Mary felt what his tone signified, and when
she reached her own room she cried  with
vexation, I believe, at herself and him and
all the world, but in especial with Mrs.

Morley. The fit of tears softened her
towards Garrow, and as she left the diningroom
she whispered, with a shy glance
upwards, '* I am so penitent ! " He laughed
frankly and bowed. Sweyn's impressions
were not easily effaced.

Next morning he left for Gaythorpe, and
they had a few moments' private conversation.
After settling every detail of their
plot, Mary said,

'' Good-bye, dear Mr. Garrow ! "

Good-bye, dear Miss Latham."

Good-bye, dear  "

I did not catch the last word, dear Miss
Nathan."

Dear Sweyn ! ''

I fear you were born for man's torment,
dear Mary. He will have an enviable but
an anxious task who wins you."

'what task dear Sweyn ? "

Bewildering little creature, I don't
know ! There, it is not my business.
Have you no message for Pier ? "

O 2

'none at all. Yes. Tell him Mrs.
Morley is looking beautiful. Good-bye,
finally. "

Sweyn visited Gaythorpe for form's sake,
scurried up and down, reached London next
day, and called on Eawdon. Warned by
telegram, his friend was at home, and they
passed a long evening together. Fully
roused now to the 'joys of battle," Pier
was impatient for the day that he might
run down to see Mrs. Morley. He did
not propose to call at Latham.

The next day Sweyn crossed to Paris,
and Pier called at the Rectory. Mrs. Morley
went through a whole comedy of manners
for his benefit, not wholly affected
perhaps. She was cool and reserved, relenting,
forgiving, sentimental, melting.
I should love to sketch the interview, but
time presses. In the end, she presented
Pier with another rough draft of the settlement,
in which the power of revocation was
struck out, and various alterations introduced

in his father's writing;. Among
others, Lumley's name was entered in pencil
as one of the trustees.

Pier was disappointed. The document
had its value, no doubt, but he hoped for
something more definite. Gratitude was

o

due, however, and he acknowledged Mrs.
Morley's service warmly.

 It was long before your marriage that
these events took place, of course," he said,
when the debt had been paid. '* But I
wonder you did not recognize my name
when we met at Oxford."

I never heard it. When you have read
the fragments of correspondence in this desk,
you will see that your father and my late
husband quarrelled not long after the deed
was drawn up. Now I must tell you how
I came to find it. About twelve months
ago Mrs. Rawdon asked me if I had any
letters from your father to Mr. Lumley.
I was much astonished to hear they had
known each other ; but when she explained

it all  as much as she thought proper  I
let her go through such papers as I had.
She took several away. Fortunately, this
desk had been put on one side and forgotten
for years. When, the other day, I heard of
your arrival, and your intention to take
proceedings, I was very vexed to think how
Mrs. Rawdon had used me. It occupied
my mind a good deal as I lay in bed one
night, after spending hours uselessly over
the fusty old box where my late husband's
papers had lain. Suddenly I remembered
his desk, jumped out of bed, put on a
dressing-gown, and then and there, with bare
feet and my hair down, I made a hunt for it."

How good of you  and what a pretty
picture you call up ! Believe me, Mrs.
Morley, I am very, very grateful. It was
not my fault."

The conclusion had no visible relations
with the beginning, but Mrs. Morley seemed
to understand. She blushed and sighed,
and continued 

'' John thought me crazy, but I hunted
about, up-stairs and down, until I found
the desk. It was there Mr. Lumley used
to keep his most important papers. My
lawyer examined them at his death, and
took charge of those important to me as
executrix. It had not been opened for
years. Now, you will stay to dinner, I
hope ; and all the rest of the afternoon I
leave you to go through the letters."

She smiled, sighed, blushed again, and
withdrew.

"What a dear, good little soul!" Pier
thought " I could run that sarcastic
slanderer Sweyn through the body ! What
should I have been now if  perhaps happier,
nay, certainly, if that bewildering little
pixie makes up her mind against me in the
end 1 "

He turned to the correspondence. There
were several letters, highly important,
relating to the disposition of Mr. Kawdon's
property, but none that bore distinctly on

the question at issue. Then he found a
packet, endorsed three years later, " Mr.
Rawdon's letters upon the Corsaire business."
They showed that the friends had
joined in a tea-speculation, which turned
out badly, and disputes arose between them
as to the proportion each should bear incertain
particulars of the loss. It was
evident that this misunderstanding caused
a rupture.

By tea time Pier had mastered the whole
correspondence, and the guests too frequently
seen at Mrs. Morley's house arrived  Jim
Latham and young Blenchley. The hostess
descended, quite a different being. Pier
recognized with keen regret the original
of Sweyn's picture, affected, unnatural,
rouged, and over-dressed. She asked
minutely what he had found, and what
he had hoped to find, bringing him at
length to a confession that her documents
did not absolutely resolve the question.

Dear, dear, dear !" Mrs. Morley sighed.

"It is a thankless part, playing the good
fairy without wings or wand, or anything
supernatural. Now, what would you like,
insatiable creature ? Would you be contented
with a letter, explaining why, and
when, and how Mr. Rawdon cut out the
what-d'you-call it  the thing, you know ?
Saying, for instance, ' I will not show distrust
of my baby son by threatening to cut
him off before he is out of long clothes.
He is the sweetest child that ever man had ;
but I hope my dear friend Lumley will show
one some day to rival his beauty and his
pretty ways. I see my lost darling '  and
so on. Is that the sort of thing you
want ? '"'

Dear Mrs. Morley, do not tantalize a
miserable wretch ! Is it possible you have
such a letter ? "

It mioht go on  * Therefore in the
draft I enclose, you will find the revocation
clause struck out. I am ashamed that Collins
could have persuaded me even for a time

to insert it ; my decision now is final. You
were right, of course, to approve a measure
of precaution ; I should have done the same
when I was only a bachelor. But comedown
here,  you have never been yet since
that first visit when I bought the place, 
and see my Pier. He will convert you to
a better opinion of your species'"

The words were delivered with feeling,
and they recalled to Pier, as by a sudden
flash, the tender love which had once
been his on earth, which was eternal in
Heaven. He covered his face, and the
tears wet his sunburnt cheek.

This was not the coup de theatre Mrs.
Morley had contemplated. Telling it was,
but she had prepared her little mise en scene
for another finale. It is ridiculous that one
should need French expressions for this
business," but suggestive. So good an
actress had tact, of course, and she instantly
changed the denouement. Slipping her hand
beneath the table-cloth, whilst Pier was

unable to observe, Mrs. Morley brought out
a letter, and rose.

'' Forgive my thoughtlessness, Mr. Eaw-
don'' she whispered, with one hand lightly
pressed upon his shoulder. " Here is the
paper I kept back. May it secure you all
you desire ! Come, gentlemen ; I want
your help to re-arrange my conservatory."

They all went out in silence, leaving
Pier alone.

CHAPTER VII.

THE AWAKENING OF NEMESIS.

The case was complete ; nothing now
remained but to bring an action at law, and
recover the property. One detail alone still
puzzled Kawdon. He could not understand
how Mrs. Lambert, who must have known
the facts, could have kept them secret.
The action of her daughter, when Dixon's
undetermined revelations first gave the
alarm, showed distrust of the old lady's
connivance ; but how was it she had not
revealed the truth years ago ? Before taking
active steps. Pier vowed to see Mrs.
Lambert, and he placed his trust in Claire's
honest-looking nurse.

He went to see Ben, and told him the
moment of action had arrived. One way
or other he was quite resolved to have an
interview. Ben's account did not give
much encouragement. Mrs. Lambert had
been unwell, confined to her bed, and the
nurse hinted a suspicion that her daughter
was not wholly unconnected with this sickness
 which, of course, had no gravity.
So soon as she recovered, the ladies proposed
to travel in parts undetermined ;
but their departure would be immediate,
and their absence prolonged, though Claire
remained at Weybridge. Meanwhile, Ann,
the nurse, perceived that she was regarded
with distrust. Upon pretence of keeping
the invalid quiet, no one besides Mrs.
Thomas was allowed to enter her apartments.
She occupied two rooms in the east
wing, separated by the whole width of the
house front from the nurseries, which had
their own means of communication with the
kitchen. Claire slept with her mother, and

Ann slept in the room which had been
Pier's night-nursery, alluded to in the
second chapter of this tale. No pretext
had been found to justify even an approach
to Mrs. Lambert's chamber against formal
orders, and Mrs. Thomas kept vigilant
guard.

Knowing the house, every nook in it.
Pier recognized the force of these objections;
but he did not despair. The old lady's
chamber could easily be reached from the
court-yard by a scramble over the pantry
roof; he had climbed in and out of that
window a score of times when a bov. The
only peril was a strong chance that the
butler, sleeping near his plate on the
ground-floor, would take alarm ; that must
be risked. But it was absolutely necessary
to drive Mrs. Lambert warnings, or she would
be frightened to death. The difficulty here
did not seem insuperable. If Ann could
not find excuse for entering the east wing,
housemaids were passing constantly. Moreover,

Pier thought it improbable that Mrs:
Thomas would do menial work, such as
lighting; fires and making beds. If inn
could bribe one of the girls to carry a note,
he felt himself able to answer for the rest.
So he sat down to write it, then and therewith
infinite pains and thought.

My dear Mrs. Lambert,

The sad news of your illness makes
us all regret still more keenly that we were
refused the pleasure of welcoming you on
your arrival. Mrs. Rawdon might be unwilling
to see me in her house, but surely
Lady Latham, Sir James, and all the other
county people might have been admitted
when they called. We all fear you must be
very much more seriously indisposed than
is confessed, since you have not acknowledged
the warm inquiries of the best
people in the neighbourhood. It is very
much talked of, and I am urged to ascertain
the real state of things. You will believe

me, I hope, my dear Mrs. Lambert, when I
sap that the orders of the county are executed
with most especial pleasure by one
wio passed so many happy years under your
care, and who owes so much to you. Mrs.
Rawdon has ordered me from the door, but
I can creep in at the window, don't you
recollect ? At the moment when you are
reading this, perhaps I shall be in the
court-yard below ; in any case, I shall be
there after nightfall, waiting. If you will
receive me, take the light off your dressing-table
and put it on the chest of drawers.
In three minutes I shall be tapping at the
casement.

Pier."

Latham Half

Heaven forgive me the suggestion falsi I
It's a diplomatic document, which won't bear
study ; but Mrs. Lambert will never read it
twice. I think the first perusal will fetch
her. Now, Ben, attend : I shall go straight

from here to London, returning tomorrow
afternoon. By that time you will have
seen your niece, and handed her this note.
I will give a hundred pounds, or two, or
three, to have it reach Mrs. Lambert. But
mark this ! Ann must give us warning an
hour or two before it is delivered, so that we
may get to Weybridge. You shall be kept
informed of my movements so closely that
you can borrow a horse and find me at any
hour of the twenty-four."

Then Pier explained his scheme.

"Lord Harry!" cried Ben. "It's a
game, this is ! A-scramblin' up the roof
like a * Thickening serenade ! There ain't
ne'er a one i' these parts like our Mester
Pier 1 But if old Stokes the butler leers ye,
it'll be an okkard parallel. He's got a gun ! "

I must risk that. How about dogs ? "

Oh ay, them can be accommodated.
Ann's sweetheart '11 shut 'em all up if she
acts him, and trust a wench to fit a lie on a
handle."

VOL. III.

So Pier went to London to report.

Meanwhile there was sadness and self-reproach
at Latham. Jim had carried back
the news that Kawdon's battle was as good
as won, and blank dismay got hold upon
his parents. I do not wish to represent
them as mercenary people or heartless. On
the contrary, they were models of generosity,
virtue, and good-feeling, as times go.
But in the struggle of life they had learned
prudence, a quality which often bears the
likeness of characteristics not so praiseworthy.
They could only blame themselves
for a miscalculation of chances. Pier's
rashness had hurried on a crisis which they
did not seek ; and as they turned things
over, some comfort and mutual exculpation
were discovered in the assurance that he
alone was to blame. Unfortunately that
did not change the embarrassing situation.

Mary rejoiced, but she did not say much.
The new turn of affairs had an influence on
her not favourable to Rawdon. As she had

begun to pity and forgive him a little when
her parents refused his suit, so she began to
harden once more even while rejoicing at
the news of his prosperity. Mary formed
in her ingenious mind a picture of his
triumphant visit, to ask her hand again
with the assurance of a welcome. And she
thought of several clever little, pretty,
*' nasty " things to say. But the days
passed on, and he did not appear. They
knew he was stopping at Milstone, for Jim
had met him again at Mrs. Morley's, where
he called nearly every day, and was received
in such a manner that the former flutterers
of Latham and Blenchley began to look at
him darkly. Jim was not admitted far into
the family secrets.

So the days passed until three telegrams
arrived at the Hall one from Albert de
Perouac to Sir James, two from Jehanne to
Lady Latham and Mary. They announced
that the fugitives would reach Milstone by
the last train that night, and begged asylum.

P 2

Very angry was Sir James, much distressed
her ladyship. Though the messages gave
no information on the subject, commonsense
told that Jehanne must be running
away upon the eve of signing her marriage
contract. All the Lathams had been invited
to that ceremony three weeks before, and
with their courteous refusal they had sent
wedding gifts. Sir James used strong language
about rebellious girls, who did not
know their own minds until it was too late.
But he could not refuse, could not even
reply, for the telegrams were addressed
from Dover. And Mary supported her
friend with quaint arguments and pretty
coaxing ways, irresistible to her father when
she chose to employ them. And he promised
to be cordial.

Upon the same day Ben sought out his
master. Ann had bribed a girl whose duty
it was to make up Mrs. Lambert's fire
last thing at night, about half-past nine
o'clock to ten. This young woman had

been brought into the household by Mrs.
Thomas, for which reason the nurse had
been reluctant to sound her if other means
could be devised. Mrs. Thomas trusted
her, and she generally chose this hour to
absent herself. The letter might be delivered
that night  certainly within a short
time  unless the girl proved traitor. The
dogs in the court would be shut up.

Pier made his arrangements with Ben,
who emphatically declined to let him go
alone ; as the danger for him would be
trifling, no objection was urged. Details
had been well considered. After entering

o

Weybridge grounds through one of a score
of weak places in the defence known to
Pier, they were to remain beneath the
nursery windows until Ann gave a signal
that the maid had gone about her duty. If
the reader will turn back to the second
chapter of this tale, he will see that a hedge
of tall holly trees masked the first floor of
the west wing. Under its black shadow a

score of men might hide at night. It was
better to wait here till the last moment
than to risk discovery by grooms, and alarm
from the house-dogs chained in the courtyard.


At nine o'clock they reached a . dusky
corner of the road close by Weybridge
gates, fastened the dog-cart securely, crept
through the fence, and reached the garden.
It was dark as a well, but Pier knew every
foot of it. Arrived in safety beneath the
holly hedge, the nursery window was still
dark. So were all those on the ground
floor of the facade, but from Mrs. Eawdon's
bedroom streams of light poured upon the
lawn.

The missus seems to have gone for the
night, Mester Pier 1 " whispered Ben.

If she isn't paying a visit to her
mother."

Well, there's no harm done if we have
to put it off a night or two  "

"Hush!"

They listened intently. Pier had thought
he heard a something, scarcely definable, a
very soft crackling of the gravel on the
other side the hedge, and a faint stir. But
nothing followed, and it was too dark to see.
They waited silently.

Mrs. Eawdon had not yet received official
intimation of the new danger threatening by
Mrs. Morley's discovery. But it was county
talk. Blaise had called in alarm, and Mrs.
Thomas had gathered rumours. Things
looked ill, if what people said was true.
Mrs. Eawdon meant fighting to the last,
with any weapons, with any crime, though
she did not confess that to herself. But her
rage against Pier was of the dumb, cruel
sort, which contains the spirit of murder.
And Mrs. Kawdon's manner of life was not
such as would enable her to resist evil
thoughts. As a girl, she had taken laudanum
whenever she could get it. During
her husband's life he gently protested
against the quantity of wine she drank.

but he did not know all the truth. I do
not mean she was a drunkard, of course.
But her brain was in a state of perpetual
excitement. After his death, when the
county looked black, Mrs. Kawdon lived
more freely, but her natural caution and
secretiveness kept her within bounds. Then
Mrs. Thomas entered her service, and revealed
the delights of hasheesh, bhang,
Cannibals Indica, to which she gave way
entirely. This fatal stimulant does not
stupefy like wine or opium, leaves no disgusting
traces, only burns away the brain.
The fancies engendered by hasheesh are not
soft and dreamy, but stirring, active, monstrous.
When an Oriental would commit
some desperate deed, run a fearful risk blind
to the consequences, he primes himself with
hasheesh. The persons in England who
give themselves to it yearly increase in
number. Greater and greater quantities
Mrs. Kawdon consumed, in the housekeeper's
society. A small apartment off

her bedroom had been specially fitted with
double doors and impenetrable hangings.
During the day she chewed lozenges of
hasheesh, and at night, with Mrs. Thomas,
she smoked hasheesh cigarettes until her
brain reeled with fierce excitement.

Upon that evening, as usual, Mrs. Eawdon
had half undressed, and in peignoir and
slippers had sought her tabagie. Thinking
of her wrongs and grievances against Pier,
which dated back to childish times unforgotten,
she smoked without intermission,
whilst mad pictures formed before her eyes,
mad thoughts came in a flash, and broke
up and reshaped themselves as in a
kaleidoscope. To her entered Mrs. Thomas,
hurriedly.

"Ma'am, he is outside  hidden beneath
the holly hedge, with another man ! I was
on the terrace, and heard them coming ! I
slipped under the hedge, frightened, and the
other man whispered that you had retired
for the night. ' If she isn't paying a visit to

her mother ! ' Pier Rawdon answered. Then
the other said, * We can put it off a night or
two ! ' What shall we do ? "

Mrs. Rawdon laughed loud as she sprang
up, and hurried out, and. in two steps reached
her bed-room door. But no panther stealing
on its prey could have tread more velvety
than hers as she crossed the chamber. The
maid who watched little Claire until her
mother came to bed was sleeping in an
arm-chair. Softly Mrs. Rawdon opened a
drawer, took something out, and withdrew.
The housekeeper was waiting, pale with
excitement.

*' What are you going to do, Ma'am ?
Pray be cautious ! "

She followed as her mistress passed swiftly
down the stairs, dimly lit.

Trust me, brave Thomas, elderly but
heroic person ! What is the golden rule '?
Do as you would be done to by them ! '
Did you ever read, Thomas, a great book
with red letters and pictures all gold and

emblazonry, full of devils and men fighting,
and  oh, it is glorious ! There is hell all
flaming at the end ! "

Ma am ma'am ! "

Stay where you are, you coward ! and
hold your tongue ! "

Whilst speaking, Mrs. Rawdon had quickly
and noiselessly unbarred the door. She
slipped out into the darkness, throwing off*
her light shoes. Mrs. Thomas stayed behind,
her eyes wide and forehead wrinkled with
fearful expectation, twisting her hands in
speechless terror.

At that moment a candle was set in the
nursery window, and faintly shone amongst
the hollies.

At last ! " Pier whispered. '*' Now for
it, Ben ! "

What are you doing here ? Who are
you ? Speak, or I fire ! "

And on the instant, waiting no reply,
two shots followed, flashing through the
hedge. Pier fell into Ben's arms.

I am hurt, Ben ! " he cried. " Quick !
Let us get away ! "

Leaning heavily on the groom, groaning
with pain irrepressible, but urging always
greater speed, Pier went back by the way
they came, a weary distance as it seemed.
Somehow they got through the gap, and
then his resolution could no longer support
his weakness. He muttered, ' Don't
tell who did it, Ben ; not a word ! " and
fainted.

Ben carried him to the dog-cart, and
drove as fast as the horse could gallop.

Seeing Pier fall, Mrs. Rawdon turned and
ran. At the front door she found Thomas,
in an agony of fright.

Say you did it, and I give you ten
thousand pounds ! There is no danger !
You challenged them, and they did not
answer ! Here is the pistol ! You lost
your head and fired ! " Her wits evilly
sharpened by the drug, Mrs. Pardon
thought of everything. "There is no

danger, I tell you ! All the servants know
you walk on the terrace at night. There
is no danger, and ten thousand pounds
to gain ! "

"Is he dead?"

I hope so. You consent ? "

"Yes." .

We will settle everything to-night."

The house was alarmed, and servants came
hurrying from their chambers half-dressed.

Go to the east wing ! " cried Mrs.
Rawdon. "Thomas has shot a burglar.
He is lying by the holly hedge, she says.
Go immediately, all you men ! "

Unwillingly they set out, armed with
pokers and miscellaneous weapons. Then
Mrs. Eawdon thought of her child, and
hurried up-stairs. Upon the landing she
met Mrs. Lambert, in nightcap and long
white dressing-gown.

What is this commotion, Arabella ? 1
was looking for you to speak upon a very
serious subject. What has happened ? "

"Thomas has shot a burglar  did not
you hear the shots ? I cannot explain now,
mamma, for Claire may be frightened ! "

"I heard nothing. But Claire seems to
be quite tranquil. I looked at her a
moment since, and  "

"You looked at her?"

Mrs. Eawdon bounded up the stairs, and
entered her room. No watcher sat in the
darkened chamber. The bed curtains were
parted, and the mother anxiously peeped
between. Claire lay placid, her big eyes
fixed upon the opening. For an instant
Mrs. Rawdon was reassured.

You have not been frightened, darling,
by the noise ? It was nothing to alarm
you!"

I wished to speak, Arabella, about this
extraordinary letter which  "

"My life, my soul, what is the matter?
Oh, she is dead ! A doctor  fetch a
doctor ! "

She rang the bell without ceasing.

Let me see the child," said Mrs. Lambert,
majestically. *' There was nothing

wrong 

'' You have killed her, woman ! Oh, will
nobody come ? My darling  my treasure !
If I could breathe my life into you, like the
white-bearded old Jew of  ! Tell both the
grooms to saddle and fetch Doctor Thorne
then go on to Flamborough, and call Doctor
Ramsay ! Quick  quick ! My child is
dead!"

So she raved and cried, with strange
flashes of the hasheesh delirium striking
through her words. Claire breathed, though
her body was ice-cold, and her consciousness
gone. It seemed an age before the
maid, returning, announced that the grooms
had started, and after hours of waiting
they sent word that some unknown doctor
was following.

Why did they not bring Thorne ? "
cried Mrs. Rawdon, furiously.

'' Please 'm, Mr. Pier Rawdon has met

with an accident, and Doctor Thorne was
attending him."

'' Ah !  and Doctor Ramsay ? "

Please m, Doctor Thorne had sent for
him to help with Mr. Pier Eawdon."

The mother pressed her hand to her heart
and sat down. Nemesis had begun to move
already.

Meanwhile, at the doctor's door, Ben
called for help, and half-a-dozen fellows
hurried from the public-house near by.
They lifted the body out. At that momenta
brougham passed, stopped a few yards on.
Jim Latham descended to ask what was the
matter, and entered the house. On his
return he said 

It's young Rawdon. He's been shot by
poachers."

What ? And you could leave him like
this ? Is he badly hurt ? Stop stop ! "

'* My dearest Mary, the train will not
stop for Rawdon, or anybody else, and what
good can we do ? He's not dead. Old

Tliorne can't say more at present. It's a
sad business ! "

You are utterly heartless and abominable,
Jim ! Poor Mr. Eawdon ! " she cried, bitterly.

1 am not heartless, child," said Jim,
rather ashamed. " But what was the good
of stopping ? Thorne didn't want my help,
and the Perouacs are waiting for us."

'jeanne will be so distressed," Mary
sobbed. " She loved him  every one did,
but you ! "

And you ! "

I loved him as a brother. To be killed
now, just when he was going to recover
his  Jim, as sure as heaven this is Mrs.
Rawdon's doing; ! She has murdered him ! "

'' Egad ! " And Jim pondered. " The
poacher story is odd when you think of it !
Why should those fellows  By my soul,
Mary, I believe you have hit the truth !
AVhat a horrible business for the county !
But he isn't dead yet, I tell you ! Here
we are, and the train is in."

VOL. III. Q

Vastly astonished was Mdlle. de Perouac
when Mary threw herself into her arms,
weeping, and carried her at once to the
shelter of the brougham. A few words of
explanation loosed the flood of Jehanne's
tears, for she was over-excited and tired.
The girls were impatient to get back and
learn the worst. Albert himself was moved,
and Jim, feeling the general distress, began
to show more sympathy. But the suspicion
Mary suggested had greater interest for him.

They drove to the doctor's at full speed,
and the gentlemen got down. A crowd was
gathered round the door, talking in low-toned
excitement. They passed through. Pier
lay upon a table in the small dining-room,
his face, deadly pale under its mask of bronze,
turned towards the door. Doctor Thorne
was busy winding bandages about the left
shoulder, with nervous and unskilful hands.

Tell him that is not the way ! " Albert
eagerly exclaimed in French. '' Let me
do it ! "

Jim translated briefly, and Thorne surrendered
his place without resistance.

I have had little experience of gun-shot
wounds," he said, whilst Albert swiftly but
gently unwound the roll of linen. " A man
started on horseback to fetch Doctor Ramsay
of Flamborough the instant I saw what
it was. No, I don't think the wounds are
mortal, but he has lost a great deal of
blood. How clever your friend is ! Is he
a surgeon ? '"

Meanwhile the girls outside were sick
with anxiety.

*' Can no one tell us anything '? " Mary
said to the people round.

Where's Ben ? Miss Latham wants to
know how it came about, Ben."

I don't rightly know, miss," said he,
advancing. " Doctor Thorne, he's turned
me out, and there's my young master
a-dyin' ! Oh, the Lord curse 'em as did
it ! The kindest lad, the boldest heart on
our country-side ! "

Q 2

Do you know who did it ? " Mary cried,
fiercely.

Ben's tone changed.

*' No, miss, I can't tell. We was in the
wood. Mester Pier is quick-tempered, and
he slips easy into a fight. Why, miss, that
day as you called at my cottage with him
whilst you was a shopping, he had words
with some good-for-nothing chap, as cut him
over the hand dreadful ! He kep' it from you,
miss, the brave lad ! But his hand was laid
open in two great wales, all bleeding, like
slashes of a sword. Cruel to see it was. But
you know'd nought about it, miss, did ye ? "

Mary sat silent an instant, then opened
the carriage door, and sprang out.

"I cannot bear this suspense, Jehanne ! "
she cried, and ran to the house.

'' I think he is coming to," said Albert,
pinning the last fold.

They drew closer and looked with intense
excitement. The waxen eyelids quivered,
rose drowsily.

"He is awake," Thorne muttered, " and
conscious. By Heaven ! he is smiling ! "

Such expression there was in the brown
eyes disclosed, the pallid lips curled with
such sudden intelligence, that all three
men followed their glance  and saw Mary
Latham in the doorway.

Pardieu, mademoiselle ! " Albert cried
gaily. " You have raised the dead. But
let me entreat you to withdraw."
Pier feebly raised his hand,  it was the
left,  and Mary saw the ugly lines, not yet
quite effaced, which showed so distinctly on
the dead-white skin.

"Thank you. Miss Latham," he whispered.
" I am not going to die yet."

I insist that you retire, Mary ! " cried
Jim, finding words.

Pier's forehead creased with sudden
annoyance, as if he awakened from delicious
thoughts.

I shall return your call at Latham,"
he murmured, with a soft laugh.

these communications. Looking into the
matter dispassionately, it is evident  first,
that no further advantage could be obtained
from Birch, whatever happened ;
second, that the Count loved his daughter ;
third, that Sweyn, in all respects, was the
son-in-law he would have desired. But
M. de Perouac did not seem to regard
this matter dispassionately. What he did
I know. The letters reached him as he
set out for a stroll. He read them standing
in the ante-room. And forthwith he
cursed and swore, raised his stick, and
smashed all the crockery he could find.
You say, critical reader, that a wealthy
gentleman of ancient family, who shaved
his chin and lip, wore tweeds and birds-eye
handkerchiefs, would not knock the
furniture about because his daughter ran
away. It is not my business to argue.
Perhaps you have seen more than I of
human nature, French and other. But
I certify the fact, nevertheless, and you

may reconcile it as you will with your
experience.

After relieving his mind thus, the Count
returned to his apartments and sent for
Hugues. In his grave and quiet way, the
latter was much distressed. He understood
his sister, and loved her dearly, understood
and loved much better than her favourite
Albert ; but political opinions raised a wall
between them. Hugues knew, as if he
had seen, what pains and trouble Jehanne
must have suffered before she took such
a step as this. He added no word to
the Count's passionate invectives, and the
latter, after awhile, grew calm enough.
Quite methodically the pair drew up a
series of notes, addressed to the family,
and to persons of importance, who had
been invited to the sig-ninon of the contract
next day. To their townspeople, some
hint of the truth was given, with different
degrees of finesse ; for relatives of varying
affinity, of varying positions, have

these communications. Looking into the
matter dispassionately, it is evident  first,
that no further advantage could be obtained
from Birch, whatever happened ;
second, that the Count loved his daughter ;
third, that Sweyn, in all respects, was the
son-in-law he would have desired. But
M. de Perouac did not seem to regard
this matter dispassionately. What he did
I know. The letters reached him as he
set out for a stroll. He read them standing
in the ante-room. And forthwith he
cursed and swore, raised his stick, and
smashed all the crockery he could find.
You say, critical reader, that a wealthy
gentleman of ancient family, who shaved
his chin and lip, wore tweeds and birds-eye
handkerchiefs, would not knock the
furniture about because his daughter ran
away. It is not my business to argue.
Perhaps you have seen more than I of
human nature, French and other. But
I certify the fact, nevertheless, and you

may reconcile it as you will with your
experience.

After relieving his mind thus, the Count
returned to his apartments and sent for
Hugues. In his grave and quiet way, the
latter was much distressed. He understood
his sister, and loved her dearly, understood
and loved much better than her favourite
Albert ; but political opinions raised a wall
between them. Hugues knew, as if he
had seen, what pains and trouble Jehanne
must have suffered before she took such
a step as this. He added no word to
the Count's passionate invectives, and the
latter, after awhile, grew calm enough.
Quite methodically the pair drew up a
series of notes, addressed to the family,
and to persons of importance, who had
been invited to the sio;nino of the contract
next day. To their townspeople, some
hint of the truth was given, with different
degrees of finesse ; for relatives of varying
affinity, of varying positions, have

various rights of admittance to the secrets
of a great family. For all strangers one
formula sufficed : Mdlle. de Perouac, suddenly
indisposed, had been obliged to take
change of air. It was not worth while to
make greater mystery of an event which
would be horribly notorious in a few
hours.

When they had done the Count rose.

I shall go to the Chateau for a month.
There are many things which need my
presence. You will wait some days, for
appearance sake, and then you will rejoin
your brother and sister at Latham."

*' Very good, sir."

They passed the door, and strolled along
the corridor, talking, for breakfast-time had
long passed.

"About M. Birch?" said Hugues,
suddenly.

They remembered him for the first time
since this news came. The Count stopped,
with a look aghast, and blankly stared in

his son's face. Then he took his arm and
turned back, paused again, and said 

''I leave that matter entirely in your
hands. You have carte blanche. But you
will find no difficulty with Birch. He is
a sensible man, and Jehanne has eloped
through no fault of ours. Pardieu, sir,
if De Perouac can digest such a misfortune,
M. Birch will survive it. Come to
breakfast."

Meanwhile Sweyn had made himself
conspicuous in Paris that morning, had
ridden in the Bois, visited a fashionable
shooting-gallery, strolled up and down the
Boulevard, and invited a dozen friends to
breakfast at the window-table of the Cafe
Eiche. As he went to the rendezvous
he met Doctor Pinson, gay and careless
as ever.

"Ah," said he cheerily, taking Sweyn's
arm, 'you know the news ? No ? I
always remark that pleasant intelligence
travels slowly."

"We have the proverb in England 
111 news flies apace."

You really don't know it ? Then you
will allow me my little coup de theatre.
Here we are. Silence until the psychological
moment arrives. * Psychological
moment ! ' I thank thee, Bismarck, for that
word."

They took their hors deceives, their
oysters, and their fish. Then Pinson
observed 

Did any of you gentlemen meet Birch
last night?"

I saw him at the opera," said one.

I supped with him at the Anglais,"
said another.

He was gay, wasn't he ?  happy asa
man should be who is going to marry
the loveliest girl in Europe within twenty-four
hours."

Birch was in good spirits," said the one.

"I never saw him in better form," said
the other.

Of course. They always are in good
spirits, these people who have resolved to
blow their brains out before morning."

"Great God!" Sweyn exclaimed. "Is
this an ugly joke ? "

His guests all paused, fork in hand.
Every one of them knew Birch intimately.
Pinson swallowed his last mouthful and
replied,

I am as serious as poor Birch was
when he pulled the trigger. One can't
put it more strongly than that, I think."
"And he is dead?" they all cried.
People breakfasting at the tables round
paused to listen, the parsons clustered
about, for Birch's face was familiar to all
Paris.

As dead as even Sweinfurths could
desire. It seems that yesterday afternoon
they opened a masked battery, which at
a single discharge smashed our friend's
last defences. He would have had to
put up his shutters to-day. I have forgotten

my classics, and I sit under correction
; but it seems to me that this act
recalls the happier times of Rome."

Poor fellow ! " said they all, and watched
with anxiety whilst Philippe carved the
partridges.

That operation beautifully complete, they
told stories of Birch, some of them good-natured
; the) speculated who would buy
his pictures, horses, and petites maisons, so
long empty. After a time Pinson noticed
the host's silence.

'* My friend'' said he, in a low tone,
I know more news of the day than this
suicide. No act or design of yours is
connected with poor Birch's fate. He did
not even suspect that all would not go
smoothly to-day."

"That is comfort. Doctor. You have
relieved me. But I remember that he was
a friend, one who stood by my side, with
you, when I ran a serious danger. Poor
fellow  poor fellow ! "

He had many good points. It is no
matter how Birch made his money. His
life was kindly and charitable, and his
death proves a keener sense of honour
than one man in a thousand possesses
now-a-days. I say, gentlemen, that our
unfortunate friend had many good points."

'' He once lent me twenty thousand
francs."

What a chef he had formerly."

He introduced Baccarat into the casino
at Paix."

What charming little pieces he used
to give when he had the Theatre Mignon."

'' And what pretty girls ! "

And what suppers afterwards ! "

All that is long ago. Poor Birch gave
up pleasure long before he gave up life  a
mistake."

The De Perouacs have had a lucky
escape."

In short, gentlemen," cried Pinson,
all Birch's virtues had fled this uncongenial

world, and lie possibly was not ill-advised
to go in search of them."

At the earliest moment Sweyn withdrew.
He did not easily master the shock. Pinson
was right, doubtless, in alleging that Jehanne's
flight had nothing to do with the
suicide, but Sweyn felt guilty. And he
perceived at once that if such an irrational
sentiment oppressed himself, it would quite
overcome Jehanne. Impossible to guess
what changes and complications might
follow. Hastily Garrow telegraphed the
sad news to Albert, imploring him to conceal
the truth from Jehanne. He thought
this would not be difficult, with the ladies'
connivance, seeing that Mdlle. de Perouac
never glanced at a newspaper. And then
he waited impatiently for a communication
from the Count ; but none arrived, hostile,
inquiring, or other. He sent for Pierre,
and learned that his master had left home,
and that Huoues was summoned to his
Prefecture at once. Not one of the family

to attend Birch's funeral ! Sweyn would
have liked himself to go, but the act might
have been misinterpreted.

He ought to have waited in Paris ten
days after Jehanne's departure. But the
next morning brought a despatch from
Doctor Thorne, stating that Pier had met
with an accident, and advising him to come.
He left by the next train. Had Garrow
known to a certainty that the act would
cost him all his hopes in life he would not
have hesitated. The afternoon following
reached Milstone. A great surgeon
arrived from town would not yet pronounce
decisively, but he was hopeful. One bullet
which entered the left upper chest had been
extracted ; the other had passed dangerously
near the lung, if it had not perforated
it. The truth would be known on the
morrow. Pier was very weak, somewhat
delirious occasionally, always in great pain.
Meanwhile, the contradictions and inconsistencies
of Ben's story were common

VOL. III.

talk. Concocted at a moment's notice, and
patched up pro re nat, it could not be
reconciled with itself or with probability.
The statement of all the servants at the
Hall flatly contradicted it. Mrs. Thomas
admitted firing the shots upon the terrace,
whilst Ben talked some nonsense about
strolling in Birkstead wood, where they
met a gang of poachers. When this intention
was proved false, he gave it up,
and refused to answer questions. Even Sir
James Latham could not get a word from
him.

Under these circumstances suspicion grew
bewildered, but the vox populi, as usual,
struck the right trail. It might be, as the
Hall servants averred, that Mrs. Thomas
had a nightly habit of walking on the
terrace, but if so brave as to like promenading
in the dark, why did she carry a
revolver ? And why did such a fearless
creature lose her head on seeing two men on
the far side of a thick holly hedge ? With

that safe barrier betwixt herself and harm,
why did she not quietly retire and get
help ? Pursuing this track, shrewd people
inquired why Ben should think proper to
tell a falsehood about the business ? What
interest had he in shielding Mrs. Thomas ?

Upon the other hand, what had Mr. Pier
and his follower to do upon the terrace ?
That was an ugly question ; but uglier was
the hint that he might have been tempted
there, to the place where a woman was
strolling up and down, armed with a pistol.

So long as the wounded man survived,
the law must be content to keep an eye on
Mrs. Thomas, and provisionally to accept
her candid avowal. It was all a sad accident
as yet. But how should the law
regard Ben, who confessedly was present,
wherever the affair took place, and who had
made a series of statements disproved by a
dozen witnesses ?  unless the man shot by
Mrs. Thomas was not his master, but someone
else. So the law kept a sharp eye on

R 2

him also, and worried the poor fellow about
those poachers, asking when and where and
how, until Ben felt crazy.

Then the nature of Claire's illness got
wind, and the doctor's inquiries soon
ascertained its origin. She was suddenly
awakened, no doubt, by the shots almost
beneath her window, and by the startled
scream of her nurse-maid, who ran out
immediately. Alone in the dimly lighted
room, quivering with fear, she heard a
strange voice  old, broken, offended  call
Arabella ! " And she saw a tall, white
form, fantastically dressed, peep through
the curtains. Mrs. Lambert, very deaf,
had heard nothing ; unacquainted with the
customs of the house, she did not know that
Claire slept with her mother. So, to the last,
the sins and follies of Mrs. Eawdon came
back home for vengeance. Had she not made
her own mother a stranger in the house,
this final calamity would not have happened.

Under the influence of sudden fright,

little Claire had fallen into a state of catalepsy.
Persons so afflicted may live for
years, but the organization here was far
too delicate. It might be weeks or months
before the end came, but come it must.
And then Pier Rawdon once more became
heir of Weybridge, even if the settlement
were put aside. That was the end of Mrs.
Rawdon's intrigues, and falsehoods, and
crimes. But she had no thought for the
future or the past. Her life was wrapped
up in her child's.

At Latham they did what they could to
keep the manner of poor Birch's death a
secret from Jehanne ; but as the days passed
on one hint or another roused her suspicions.
Girl friends writing from Paris
alluded to it delicately and mysteriously,
until Jehanne demanded and learned the
truth. The effect of it was just what
Sweyn foresaw. Birch's death had been a
painful blow, though in revealing it as
the result of incurable disease, Albert had

demonstrated that her conduct must have
been unknown to him. Now she doubted
in spite of evidence. Jehanne conceived a
shuddering horror of herself, and a repugnance
to see or hear of the man who was
associated with her in causing this terrible
event. She did not love him less, but she
dreaded his approach, as good people who
have been led into crime tremble and shrink
from an accomplice.

And Mary also. suffered. That revelation
of Pier's fortitude and generosity which
Ben gave  being desperately puzzled what
to say  went home to her conscience ; she
tried the slender, harmless-looking whip on
her own hand, and screamed with the pain
of a mere flick. His waking to sensibility at
her approach, as if by instinct, his smile
ready to welcome her in the doorway,
appealed to the romance of maidenhood.
How gallant it was, amidst his pain and
trouble, to cover her impulsive act by a jest,
when Jim reproved her.

I will return the call at Latham ! " No
hero of story was so brave. At the point
of death this ill-treated lover could make an
effort to protect his mistress with a laugh !
She had been offended because such a man
assumed airs of ownership and superiority.
She had dared to mock him, and to inflict
on him her childish humours. Always extreme,
Mary longed to beg pardon on her
knees, to tell face to face how she admired
and worshipped him.

Of course she would have done nothing
of the sort, under the fairest opportunity.
And kneeling, adoring, and the rest of it,
are not always tokens, nor generally, that a
young girl is prepared to accept the object
worshipped as a husband.

Miss Latham's speculations of the future
did not yet take quite the form Pier would
have desired. They went not a step beyond
enthusiastic admiration and vehement
self-rebuke. These feelings did not wane
in force as each morning and evening Sir

James or Jim or Albert reported the slow
and fluctuating progress of recovery.

Long since, of course, the mystery of
Jehanne's unexpected visit had been revealed
to her host and hostess. Sir James
did not half understand, and did not like it
at all. Up to a certain point he followed
the story ; but beyond that, it took an un-english
tinge, which he could not quite
explain, but vaguely felt. However, Garrow
of Gaythorpe was an important personage
in the county ; the Comte de Persuaded
not complain. He had written some
dignified, but not too reproachful letters to
his children, and a friendly acknowledgment
to Lady Latham. Then, for all her sadness,
Jehanne was the sweetest girl ; Albert
always amusing. And so he hoped it was
all right  that Rawdon would get well soon,
and charge his step-mother with an attempt
to get him murdered. Well, things grew
awkward to forecast at this point, but the
very end of all ought to be two marriages,

universal happiness, and an increased majority
at the next general election.

Albert found life very pleasant indeed.
Cub-hunting was well on, the county families
had returned from their autumnal trips.
Every day he or Jim rode into Milstone, to
get the latest news of Pier, who remained
at the Doctor's modest dwelling. In three
weeks time he was so far recovered as to
hold a serious talk with Sweyn, in consequence
of which the latter visited Wey-
bridge, and without difficulty got speech
with Mrs. Lambert. That interview, painful
enough, removed the last doubt. Mrs.
Lambert had known all along that by the
settlement, as finally drafted, Mr. Eawdon
had designed Pier should succeed to the
estate. Her late husband had been one
trustee, Lumley the other. But at the
time of Mr. Rawdon's death, her daughter
had. so cleverly mixed up the will, the prior
decease of both trustees, and the existence
of little Claire, that she was honestly persuaded

the settlement was no longer valid.
Asked now if she would swear to the original
intention of the deed, she tearfully but
firmly declared her willingness to do so.
There and then Sweyn got a witnessed
statement to that effect.

Needless to say, that Pier was unacquainted
with the condition of his half-sister.
Upon receiving Mrs. Lambert's
declaration, he dictated ten words for Ford,
urging him to proceed at any cost or
trouble. Sweyn dutifully wrote the message
and suppressed it. This business off
his mind. Pier devoted himself to the pleasing
occupation of recovery, and he was very
successful. Experience teaches in all things
sublunary, and he had undergone a certain
training in the science of pulling round.
So, two months after Ben deposited him on
Dr. Thomas's dinner table, he sat up and
gave audience. The same day Claire died.

Sweyn had not ventured, all this time, to
ask an interview with Jehanne. He wrote

lier letters, not too often nor too warm,
which Albert conveyed ; by the same decorous
channel she replied, less frequently, and
without lovers' warmth at all. I have
failed to draw, Jehanne's fine character, if it
be supposed that her lofty self-respect and
chaste constraint had any tinge of prudery.
Her letters were tender though sad, containing
no allusion to the future. Things
might remain on this footing for years.

It was understood that so soon as Pier
could be moved he should go to Latham,
and Sweyn also. Until that day he laughingly
refused to let Mary see him, reiterating
his promise to return her call at home.
This young man had not lived twenty-seven
years in vain. It did not suit his character
to pose as an invalid hero, and he shrewdly
suspected that the man who would gain
winsome, impulsive Mary Latham should
show himself in the best light. She might
be touched by pallor and leanness ; but her
second thoughts would turn towards ridicule.

So, studying his face daily in the glass, to
the surprise and contempt of good Mrs.
Thorne, he waited the moment. It came at
length.

That morning, for the first time, Sweyn
rode over to Latham. It was necessary to
tell Pier of his half-sister's death, and he
had put off this sad duty time after time, as
strong men will defer such a task. At
length Sweyn decided that Lady Latham
should break the news. But she was suffering
from a nervous headache, and sent
word, with kindly apologies, that she could
receive no one but Pier. Much perplexed,
Sweyn begged to speak with Mary, and
he was shown into a little room where the
two girls sat together. So beautiful was
Jehanne in her mourning  she had worn
black since Birch's death  that he spoke
timidly, with a knot in his throat. She
met his look of worship with a smile almost
imploring in its appeal to his manliness and
sympathy. It was some minutes before

Sweyn recovered such possession of himself
as to tell his errand coherently.

Mary's alarm and consternation were so
great, that tears gathered in her eyes. For
the first time in her happy, careless life a
sad charge was laid upon her. She walked
about the room, despairingly protesting that
the mission was too hard, too cruel. At
length Jehanne rose too, and put her arm
about the slender girl, saying gently, " I
will persuade her, Mr. Garrow." And
Sweyn retired in such awe and agitation asa
man would feel who had talked with a
heavenly spirit.

In the afternoon Pier came, able to walk
a few yards between Sir James and his
friend. Lady Latham was at the hall-door.
But she withdrew at once, and then, by
arrangement preconceived, Pier found himself
alone with Mary in the room prepared
for him. Recovered from her fright, brought
to her true, brave little self by Jehanne's
tender admonitions, Mary was resolute to

perform her duty, though she trembled.
She did it with the sweetest sympathy.
Only one who knew her thoroughly could
have credited that this thoughtful, gentle
girl, who found words that reached the
heart and lofty consolations, was the same
who childishly cried out some hours before
that melancholy scenes appalled her.

But the blow fell heavily on Pier, though
dealt by the hand dearest to him in all the
world. It deprived him for a while of the
desire to get strong again. Excuse and
argue as they might, Sweyn and others, it
remained that through his act the child he
swore to guard and love had perished.
The shock utterly destroyed all those ideas
with which he had returned to Latham.
The thought of love recurred now only as a
harassing recollection. And Sweyn was not
less miserable.

Circumstances thus induced the two
young men to do exactly what was wisest.
They kept in Pier's room whenever Sweyn

was not hunting. Mary and Jehanne
visited him once a-day, receiving no invitation
to come oftener, or to take part in
the nursing. When Sweyn dined below he
paid his mistress no special attention, restraining
even the language of the eye.
She was simply and sincerely grateful, but
Mary had no such confidence in herself, or
her lover. She grew perplexed, then angry,
then sad and self-distrustful. There were
moments every day when she would have
accepted Pier with humility and gratitude
had he been at hand to ask.

Hugues had run over to typify the forgiveness
of the family, and after awhile
the Count himself appeared. He enjoyed
himself immensely, stayed a fortnight, and
held several anxious councils with Albert.
At the last of these Sweyn was formally
introduced, and the Count gravely received
his new proposal for Jehanne's hand. Her
sadness had been quietly diminishing of
late, and she now met her lover's eye

with composure, spoke with him almost uii-
constrainedly, smiled once or twice a day,
looking even in his face. Sweyn cautiously
took advantage of these changes
in his favour.

At the end of his visit the Count proposed
that the three young men should
accompany him to Provence. The convalescent
was recommended southern air for
the winter approaching, and all three
gladly accepted. Pier rehearsed his farewell
several times in imagination ; and
when he came to the test it was successful
as a piece of acting, so gentle and kindly
but passionless, that Mary ran up-stairs to
cry. Pier's self-control was sorely taxed,
as he pressed the small cold hand, and saw
the downcast eyes, raised only once to his
as they stood in the morning room. That
glance very nearly upset him  so pleading
it was, so full of tears repressed. But
Sweyn carried him away.

Mournful enough was the big house.

abandoned to Mary and her parents. They
shortly departed on a round of visits.

Months went by. Pier followed the sun
from place to place in the south of Europe,
reporting continual progress till he ceased
to mention health at all. The De Perouacs
returned to their hotel in Paris, and Sweyn
ran up frequently to pass a few days witli
them.

At length  it was in the early summer 
those two were riding in the Bois, the
trusty Pierre in attendance, for the. Count
had suddenly excused himself. The'
reached a certain alley, and Sweyn said,
pausing 

Do you remember this spot, my
darling ? "

Jehanne looked round, and blushed, with
a little smile and a sigh.

It was here I asked for your love, and
I remember every word we both uttered.
I said  ' Have I not loved well enough,
waited long enough, suffered enough, to

VOL. III. S

merit reward ? ' That is twelve months
ago. I will wait for ever at your bidding.
But assure me again, as you did that happy
day, that I have your love."

She gave him a glance so full that words
were needless ; but Sweyn longed to hear.

"You recollect this tree? It was here
I lifted you from your horse, and for one
moment held you in my arms. How many
pilgrimages have I made to it since ! "

He was on the ground. Jehanne did
not resist as he lifted her from the saddle.
She silently took his arm, and they turned
down a narrow path walled with leaves.
Sweyn bent over her 

"Whisper to me, my beautiful queen."

Jehanne blushed and laughed a little,
and whispered 

I think this alley is very damp, dear
Sweyn."

Provoking witch ! Aren't we yet close
enough for telling secrets ? " -

He took her suddenly in his arms, and

for the first time pressed her perfect

So great was Jehanne's surprise, she
scarcely struggled, but cried, red with
shame 

Oh, loose me ! Dear Sweyn, let me
go!"

'not till you speak."

Her head was on his shoulder, but he
scarcely heard the words 

'' You are my lord and my darling !
Oh, please let me go ! " And after a
moment he did.

Pier, just arrived in Paris, was waiting
eagerly.

sewell? welles he cried.

Sweyn threw himself into a chair.

I don't know how Hannibal and Hercules,
and other great conquerors felt after
the decisive engagement ; but I, Pier, I
feel that the earth and the heavens have
no more prize for me ! "

They shook hands,

S 2

*' God bless you both," Pier said. " Bethe
omen propitious ! I cross to-night. "

If Lady Latham was not in the secret,
he had food luck when he reached the
house. The front door stood open, and
the hall was empty. But as Pier walked
up it, a little figure came out of the
morning room, and rather listlessly moved
towards the stairs. It turned with a
little scream at Pier's low call, and after
a second's hesitation, ran up to him with
hands outstretched 

It is your living self indeed ? You
have come at last ? "

He took her hands, and then her waist.
Mary nestled to him in great contentment,
speechless and unresisting. But in an
instant she drew back, with a fine movement
of outraged dignity.

*' Hush ! " Pier whispered, " here comes
some one." And he quietly regained possession,
drawing her behind one of the many
statues in the hall.

All innocence and asthma, the wheezing
old butler passed before them. When he
had gone well out of hearing, Mary broke
away again.

Here are your tablets ; read the challenge.
To-morrow is your twentieth birthday,
and I am here. Let us understand
each other at last, dear Mary. I have
loved you, I think, from that first night we
met  do you remember ? when you gave me
these. Will you put me out of pain now ? "

"I love you dearly, Pier ! "

And after half-an-hour amongst the
statues they went together to announce
the visitor s arrival. It was not necessary
to declare the other news.

In the evening, as they strolled in the
duskiest walks Pier could discover, he said 

Why have you tortured me so long,
mischievous fairy ? My love is not greater
now than two years ago  it could not be.
But then you gave me whip-cuts for kisses."

Oh, don't remind me, Pier. I have

been a changed girl  I have indeed, since
Ben toil me."

I hope not. But you have not answered
my question."

Indeed, I don't know. But it may be,
Pier, because  you never asked me."

Why, in this very arbour  "

*' In this very arbour, dear, you were good
enough to mention incidentally that you
were coming back to marry me. I don't
remember that you asked any question of
importance."

What a fool I was ! But you knew my
meaning, sweet ? "

Yes ; but on mature reflection I thought
it much better to do things in the usual way."

Saucy little creature," etc., etc.

*' But," Pier continued, " you ran into my
arms this afternoon before I said a word.
Explain that contradiction."

Why, you looked so miserable. But I
confess I was hasty. Take the whole thing
back, dear, and let us begin again. It is

much better to start properly, and I have
lots of funny things to say. No, don't begin
at that point. Much further back," etc., etc.
So they were merry, as young lovers
should be who have not a care in the world
beyond their precious heart-throes. And
a fortnight afterwards Jehanne arrived,
having persuaded her father to let the
wedding take place at Milstone quite quietly,
and far from Paris gossip.

The two couples were married on the
same day, Morley assisting, and his wife
crying profusely.

And u to this time there has not been
one breath of unhappiness in their life.

Mary is petulant sometimes, but when
Pier raises his left hand  on which the scar
can still be traced  she creeps to him
humbly, and kisses it, and vows, with big
eyes full of penitence, that never more will
she give way. Pier would be sorry if she
kept her word.

And Sweyn occasionally feels the impulse

of his first youth to break away. But that
is in Jehanne's absence. The look of her
sweet eyes, not reproachful, but amused, the
smile so gracefully mocking and so conscious
of power, bring him home again to supreme
human happiness.

Mrs. Eawdon lived at Weybridge unmolested
until her death  sudden, of course
two years after her stepson's marriage.
They had held no communication of any
sort. Arrows's purse was open to his friend,
and he used it without thought or scruple.
Mrs. Eawdon left no papers, no will, and no
provision for her mother, who became once
more tenant of the cottage in Weybridge
park, and pensioner of the house. Twelvemonths
after the death Pier took possession
of his own at last, and there is no possibility
of future doubt whether it is .settled on his
heir.

