CONTENTS

THE SECOND VOLUME

CHAPTER

XVI. THE PLOUGHING MATCH .

XVII. THE WRONG WAY WITH DAN

XVIII. THE BLIND WOMA2's SECOND SIGHT

XIX. HOW Swan FOUND DAN .

XX. BLIND PASSION AND PAIN

XXI. THE VOICE IN THE NIGHT.

XXII. ALONE, ALONE  ALL, ALL ALONE ! .

XXIII. ALONE ON A WIDE, WIDE SEA .

XXIV. ' there's GOLD ON THE Shags YET '

XXV. A RESURRECTION INDEED .

XXVI. HOW Swan CAME TO CHURCH

XXVII. HOW THE NEWS CAME TO THE BISHOP

XXVIII. THE CHILD GHOST IN THE HOUSE .

XXIX. BY bishop's LAW OR DEEMSTER's

XXX. THE deemster's INQUEST

PAGE













24J




THE PLOUGHING MATCH.

When Ewan 2;ot back home there was Dan
sitting before the fire in the old hall, his legs
stretched out before him, his hands thrust deep
in his pocket, his head low in his breast, and
his whole mien indicative of a crushed and
broken spirit. He glanced up furtively as
Ewan entered, and then back with a stony-stare
to the fire. If Ewan had then given him
one word of cheer, God knows what tragic
consequences would have been spared to them
both. But Ewan had saved Dan from the

VOL. II. B

/

penalty of his crime at the cost of truth and
his self-esteem.

 Dan,' he said, ' you and I must part  we
can be friends no longer.'

He spoke with a strong effort, and the
words seemed to choke him. Dan shambled
to his feet ; he appeared to collect his
thoughts for a moment, like one who had
fainted and returns to consciousness.

Mind  I don't turn you out of the
house,' said Ewan, only if we are to share
this place together we must be strangers.'

A hard smile broke out on Dan's face.
He seemed to be trying to speak, but not a
word would come. He twisted slowly on his
heel, and lifted the latch of the door that led
to the inner part of the house.

One thing more,' said Ewan, speaking
quickly, and in a tremulous voice,  I will ask
you to look upon yourself as a stranger to
my sister also.'

Dan stopped and turned about. Over the
forced smile his hard face told of a great
struggle for self-command. He said nothing,
and after a moment he went out, drawing his
breath audibly.

Then straightway Ewan flung himself in
the chair from which Dan had risen, and his
slight frame shook with suppressed sobs.
After some minutes the sense of his own degradation
diminished, and left room for a just
idea of Dan's abject humiliation. ' I have
gone too far,' he thought ; ' I will make
amends.' He had risen to follow Dan, when
another thought trod heavily on the heels of
the first.  Leave him alone, it will be best
for himself  leave him alone, for his own
sake.' And so, with the madness of wrath
fermenting in his own brain, he left it to ferment
in Dan's brain as well.

Now when Dan found himself left alone he
tried to carry off his humiliation by a brave

B 2

show of unconcern. He stayed on at the old
Ballamona, but he never bothered himself 
not he, forsooth  to talk to folks who passed
him on the stairs without a word of greeting,
or met in the hall without a glance of recognition.


It chanced just then that, in view of a
threatened invasion, the authorities were getting
up a corps of volunteers, known as the
Manx Fencibles, and that they called on the
captains of the parishes to establish companies.
Dan threw himself into this enterprise with uncommon
vigour, took drills himself, acquired a
competent knowledge of the rudiments in a
twinkling, and forthwith set himself to band
together the young fellows of his parish. It
was just the sort of activity that Dan wanted
at the moment, and in following it up the
Three Legs ' saw him something oftener than
before, and there the fellows of the baser sort
drank and laughed with him, addressing him

sometimes as captain, but oftener as Dan,
never troubling themselves a ha'p'orth to put
a handle to his name.

This Twas a turn of events which Ewan
could not understand. ' I have been mistaken
in the man,' he thought ; ' there's no heart
left in him.'

Towards the middle of December Jarvis
Kerruish arrived at Ballamona, and forthwith
established himself there in a position that
would have been proper to the Deemster's
heir. He was a young man of medium
height and size, closely resembling the Deemster
in face and figure. His dress was
English ; he wore a close-fitting undercoat
with tails, and over it a loose cloak mounted
with a brass buckle at the throat \ he had a
beaver hat of the shape of a sugar loaf ; and
boots that fitted sto his legs like gloves. His
manner was expansive, and he betrayed a complete
unconsciousness of the sinister bar of his

birth, and of the false position he had taken up
in the Deemster's house. He showed no desire
to visit the cottage at the Cross Vein, and he
spoke of the poor with condescension. When
he met with Ewan he displayed no uneasiness,
and Ewan on his part gave no sign of resentment.
Mona, on the other hand, betrayed an
instinctive repulsion, and in less than a week
from his coming their relations had reached
an extraordinary crisis, which involved Ewan
and Dan and herself in terrible consequences.
This is what occurred.

On the day before Christmas Day there was
to be a ploughing match in a meadow over
the Head, and Ewan stood pledged by an old
promise to act as judge. The day came, and
it was a heavy day, with snow clouds hanging
overhead, and misty vapours floating down
from the hills and up from the Curraghs, and
hiding them. At ten in the morning Mona
muffled herself in a great cloak and went over

to the meadow with Ewan. There a crowd
had already gathered, strong men in blue
pilots, old men in sheepskin coats, women
with their short blue cable gowns tucked
over their linen caps, boys and girls on every
side, all coming and gong like shadows in the
mist. At one end of the meadow several pairs
of horses stood yoked to ploughs, and a few
lads were in charge of them. On Ewan's
arrival there was a general movement among
a group of men standing together and a
respectful salutation to the parson. The
names were called over of the ploughmen who
had entered for the prize  a pound note and
a cup  and last of all there Alas a show of
hands for the election of six men to form a

Then the stretch was staked out. The
prize was to the ploughman who would
make the stretch up and down the meadow
in the shortest time, cutting the furrows

straightest, cleanest, and of the most regular
depth.

When all was ready, Ewan took uj) his
station where the first furrow would be cut
into the field, with Mona at his side, and the
six jurors about him. The first ploughman
to bring up his slough was a brawny young
fellow with a tanned face. The ploughman
had brought up his horses in front of the stake,
and had laid hands on his slough handles, and
was measuring the stretch with his eye for a
landmark to sight by, when Jarvis Kerruish
came into the meadow and walked through
the crowd and took up a place by Mona's side.
There were audible comments, and some racy
exclamations as he pushed through the crowd,
not lifting an eye to any face 5 but he showed
complete indifference, and began to talk to
Mona in a loud, measured tone.

 Ah ! this is very gratifying,' he was saying,
' to see the peasantry engaged in manly

sports  useful sports  is, I confess, very
gratifying to me.'

 My rough ! ' said a voice from one side.

Hurroo ! ' said a voice from the other side.

Lack-a-day ! ' came from behind in a
shrill female treble. ' Did ye ever see a grub
turn butterfly ? '

Jarvis seemed not to hear. ' Now there

are sports ,lie began ; but the ploughman

was shouting to his horses, ' Steady, steady
the plough was dipping into the succulent
grass, the first swish of the upturned soil
was in the air, and Jarvis's wise words were
lost.

All eyes were on the bent back of the
ploughman plodding on in the mist. ' He
cuts like a razor,' said one of the spectators.

He bears island too much on,' said another.

Do better yourself next spell,' said a third.

When the horses reached the far end of
the stretch the ploughman whipped them

round like the turn of a wheel, and in another
moment he was toiling back, steadily, firmly,
his hand rigid, and his face set hard. When
he got back to where Ewan, with his watch
in his hand, stood surrounded by the jurors,
he was covered with sweat.  Good, very
good  six minutes ten seconds,' said Ewan,
and there were some plaudits from the people
looking on, and some banter of the competitors
who came up to follow.

Jarvis Kerruish, at Mona's elbow, was
beginning again, ' I confess that it has always

been my personal opinion ,' but in the

bustle of another pair of horses whipped up to
the stake no one seemed to be aware that he
was speaking.

Five ploughmen came in succession, but all
were behind the first in time and cut a less
regular furrow. So Ewan and the jurors
announced that the prize was to the stranger.
Then as Ewan twisted about, his adjudication

finished, to where Mona stood with Jarvis by
her side, there was a general rush of competitors
and spectators to a corner of the
meadow, where, from a little square cart, the
thirdly stranger who was victor proceeded to
serve out glasses of ale from a small barrel.

While this was :oino; on, and there was
some laughter and shouting: and sinmio:, there
came a loud Hello I as of many voices from a
little distance, and then the beat of many
irregular feet, and one of the lads in the
crowd, who had jumped to the top of the
broad turf hedge, shouted, ' It's the capt'n  
it's Martha Dan.'

In another half minute Dan and some
fifty or sixty of the scam* of the parish came
tumbling into the meadow on all sides  over
the hedge, over the gate, and tearing through
the gaps in the gorse. They were the corps
that Dan had banded together towards the
Manx Fencibles, but the only regimentals

they yet wore were a leather belt, and the only
implement of war they yet carried was the
small dagger that was fitted into the belt.
That morning they had been drilling, and
after drill they had set off to see the ploughing
match, and on the way they had passed
the ' Three Legs,' and, being exceeding dry,
they had drawn up in front thereof, and every
man had been served with a glass, which
had been duly scored off to the captain's
account.

Dan saw Mona with Ewan as he vaulted
the gate, but he gave no sign of recognition,
and in a moment he was in the thick of the
throng at the side of the cart, hearing all
about the match, and making loud comments
upon it in his broadest homespun.

"What ! he said, '- and you've let yourselves
be bate by a craythur like that.
Hurroo ! '

He strode up to the stranger's furrow,

cocked his eye along it, and then glanced at
the stranger's horses.

'- Och I'll go bail I'll bate it with a yoke
of oxen.'

At that there was a movement of the
crowd around him, and some cheering, just
to egg on the rupture that was imminent.

The big stranger heard all, and strode
through the people with a face like a thundercloud.


*Who says he'll bate it with a yoke of
oxen ? ' he asked.

 That's just what I'm after saying, my
fine fellow. Have you anything agen it ? '

In half a mute a wager had been laid of
a pound a side that Dan with a pair of oxen
would beat the stranger with a pair of horses
in two stretches out of three.

Davy ! Davy ! ' shouted Dan, and in a
twinkling there was Davy Fayle, looking
queer enough in his guernsey, and his long

boots, and his sea-cap, and withal his belt
and his dagger. Davy was sent for the pair
of oxen to where they were leading manure,
not far away. He went off like a shot, and
in ten minutes he was back in the meadow,
driving' the oxen before him.

Now these oxen had been a gift of the
Bishop to Dan. They were old, and had
grown wise with their years. For fifteen
years they had worked on the glebe at
Bishop's Court, and they knew the dinner
hour as well as if they could have taken the
altitude of the sun. When the dinner bell
ran' at the Court at twelve o'clock the oxen
would stop short, no matter where they were
or what they were doing, and not another
budge would they make until they had been
unyoked and led off for their midday
mash.

It was now only a few minutes short of
twelve, but no one took note of that circumstance,

and the oxen were yoked to a
plough.

Same judge and jury,' said the stranger,
but Ewan excused himself.

Aw, what matter about a judge,' said
Dan from his plough handles, 'let the jury
be judge as well.'

Ewan and Mona looked on in silence for
some moments. Ewan could scarce contain
himself. There was Dan, stripped to his red
flannel shirt, his face tanned and glowing, his
whole body radiant with fresh life and health,
and he was shouting and laughing as if there
had never been a shadow to darken his
days.

Look at him,' whispered Ewan, with
emotion, m Mona's ear. 'Look! this good-nature
that seepas so good to others is almost
enough to make me hate him.'

!Mona was startled and turned to glance
into Ewan's face.

 Come, let us go,' said Ewan, with
head aside.

 Not yet,' said Mona.

Then Jarvis Kerruish, who had stepped
aside for a moment, returned and said,

 Will you take a wager with me, Mona 
a pair of gloves? '

 Very well,' she answered.

'- Who do you bet on ? '

Oh, on the stranger,' said Mona, colouring
slightly, and laughing a little.

How lucky,' said Jarvis,  I bet on the
captain.'

I can stand it no longer,' whispered
Ewan,  will you come ? ' But Mona's eyes
were riveted on the group about the oxen.
She did not hear, and Ewan turned away,
and walked out of the meadow.

Then there was a shout, and the oxen
started with Dan behind them. On they
went through the hard, tough ground, tranquilly,

steadily, with measured pace, tearing
through roots of trees that lay in their way
as if nothing could stop them in their great
strength.

When the oxen got back after the first
stretch the time was called  five minutes
thirty seconds  and there was a great cheer,
and Mona's pale face was triumphant.

The stranger brought up his horses, and
set off* again, straining every muscle. He did
his stretch in six minutes four seconds, and
another cheer  but it was a cheer for Dan
went up after the figures were called.

Then Dan whipped round his oxen once
more, and brought them up to the stake. The
excitement among the people was now very
great. Mona clutched her cloak convulsively,
and held her-breath. Jarvis was watching:
her closely, and she knew that his cold eyes
were on her face.

One would almost imagine that you were

VOL. II. c

anxious to loose your bet,' lie said. Lie
made no answer. Alien the oxen started
again her lips closed tightly, as if she was in
pain.

On the oxen went, and made the first half
of the stretch without a hitch, and, with the
blade of the plough lifted, they were wheeling
over the furrow end when a bell ranf across
the Curragh  it was the bell for the midday
meal at Bishop's Court  and instantly they
came to a dead stand. Dan called to them,
but they did not budge ; then his whip fell
heavily across their snouts, and they snorted,
but stirred not an inch. The people were ina
tumult, and shouted with fifty voices at
once. Dan's passion mastered him. He
brought his whip down over the flanks and
across the eyes and noses of the oxen ; they
winced under the blows that rained down on
them, and then shot away across the meadow,
tearing up the furrows they had made.

Then there was a cry of vexation and
anger from the people, and Dan, who had let
go his reins, strode back to the stake. ' I've
lost,' said Dan, with a muttered oath at the
oxen.

All this time Jarvis Kerruish had kept his
eyes steadily fixed on Mona's twitching face.
 You've won, Mona,' he said, in a cold voice
and with an icy smile.

I must go. Where is Ewan ? ' she said
tremulously, and before Jarvis was aware she
had gone over the grass.

Dan had heard when Ewan declined to act
as judge, he had seen when Ewan left the
meadow, and, though he did not look, he
knew when Mona was no longer there. His
face was set hard, and it glowed red under
his sunburnt skin.

Davy, bring them up,' he said ; and
Davy Fayle led back the oxen to the front of
the stake.

c 2

Then Dan unyoked them, took out the
long swinging tree that divided them  a heavy
wooden bar clamped with iron  and they stood
free and began to nibble the grass under their
feet.

 Look out ! ' he shouted, and he swung the
bar over his shoulder.

The crowd receded and left an open space
in which Dan stood alone with the oxen, his
great limbs holding the ground like their own
hoofs, his muscles standing out like bulbs on
his bare arms.

 What is he going to do  kill them ? ' said
one.

 Look out ! ' Dan shouted again, and in
another moment there was the swish of the
bar through the air. Then down the bar
came on the forehead of one of the oxen, and it
reeled, and its legs gave way, and it fell dead.

The bar was raised again, and again it
fell, and the second of the oxen reeled like

the first and fell dead beside its old yokefellow.


A cry of horror ran through the crowd,
but heeding it not at all Dan threw on his
coat and buckled his belt about him and strode
through the people and out at the gate.

CHAPTER Xiii.

THE WRONG WAY WITH DAN.

What happened next was one of those
tragedies of bewildering motive, so common
and so fatal, in which it is impossible to decide
whether evil passion or evil circumstance plays
the chief malicious part.

Dan walked straight to the new Balla-mona,
and pushed through the house without
ceremony, as it had been his habit to do in
other days, to the room where Mona was
to be found. She was there, and she looked
startled at his coming.

 Is it you, Dan? ' she said in a tremulous
whisper.

He answered sullenly 

It is I. I have come to speak with you 
I have something to say  but no matter '

He stopped and threw himself into a chair.
His head ached, his eyes were hot, and his
mind seemed to him to be in darkness and
confusion.

Mona, I think I must be going mad,' he
stammered after a moment.

Why talk like that ? ' she said. Her
bosom heaved and her face was troubled.

He did not answer, but after a pause turned
towards her, and said in a quick, harsh tone,
You did not expect to see me here, and you
have been forbidden to receive me. Is it not
so?'

She coloured deeply, and did not answer
at once, and then she began with hesitation


 My father  it is true, my father '

It is so,' he said sharply. He got on to his
feet and tramped about the room. After a

moment he sat down again, and leaned his
elbows on his knees and his head in his hands.

But what of Ewan ? ' he asked.

Ewan loves you, Dan, and you have
been at fault,' said Mona in broken accents.

At fault ? '

There was a sudden change in his manner.
He spoke brusquely, even mockingly, and
laughed a short grating laugh.

 They are taking the wrong way with me,
Mona  that's the fact,' he said, and now his
breast heaved and the words came with difficulty.


Mona was gazing absently out at the
window, her head aslant, her fingers interlaced
before her. ' Oh, Dan, Dan,' she murmured
in a low tone, ' there is your dear, dear father,
and Ewan and  and myself '

Dan had leapt to his feet again. ' Don't
turn my eyes into my head, Mona,' he said.

He tramped to and fro in the room for a

moment and then broke out nervously, ' All
last night I dreamt such an ugly dream. I
dreamt it three times, and, God ! what an
ugly dream it was ! It Alas a bad night, and
I was walking in the dark, and stumbling first
into bogs and then in cart ruts, when all of a
sudden a man's hand seized me unawares.
I could not see the man, and we struggled
long in the darkness, and it seemed as if he
would master me. He gripped me by the
waist, and I held him by the shoulders. We
reeled and fell together, and when I would
have risen his knee was on my chest. Buta
great flood of strength seemed to come tome
and I threw him off, and rose to my
feet, and closed with him again, and at last
I was over him, covering him, with his back
across my thigh and my hand set hard in
his throat. And all this time I heard his
loud breathing in the darkness, but never
once the sound of his voice. Then instantly,

as if by a flash of lightning, I saw the face
that was close to mine, and  God Almighty !
it was my own face  my own  and it was
black already from the pressure of my stiff
fingers at the throat.'

He trembled as he spoke, and sat again
and shivered, and a cold chill ran down his
back.

 Mona,' he said, half in a sob, ' do you
believe in omens ? '

She did not reply. Her breast heaved
visibly, and she could not speak.

 Tush ! ' he said, in another voice,
omens ! ' and he laughed bitterly, and rose
again and picked up his hat, and then said
in a quieter way,  Only, as I say, they're
taking the wrong way with me, Mona.'

He had opened the door, and she had
turned her swimming eyes towards him.

'It was bad enough to make himself a
stranger to me, but why did he want to make

you a stranger, too ? Stranger, stranger ? 
He echoed the word in a mocking accent, and
threw back his head.

Dan,' said Mona, in a low, passionate
tone, and the blinding tears rained down her
cheeks, 'nothing and nobody can make us
strangers, you and me  not my father, or
your dear father, or Ewan, or '  she dropped
her voice to a deep whisper  ' or any misfortune
or any disgrace.'

Mona ! ' he cried, and took a step
towards her, and stretched out one arm with
a yearning gesture.

But at the next moment he had swung;
about, and was going out at the door. At
sight of all that tenderness and loyalty in
Mona's face his conscience smote him as it
had never smitten him before.

*Ewan was right, Mona. He is the
noblest man on God's earth, and I am the
foulest beast on it.'

He was pulling the door behind him when
he encountered Harris Kerruish in the hall.
That gentleman had just come into the house,
and was passing through the hall in hat and
cloak. He looked appalled at seeing Dan
there, and stepped aside to let him go by ;
but Dan did not so much as recognise his
presence by lifting his head as he strode out
at the porch.

AVith head still bent. Dan had reached
the gate to the road and pushed through it,
and sent it back with a swing and a click,
when the Deemster walked up to it, and half
halted, and would have stopped. Bit Dan
went moodily on, and the frown on the
Deemster's wizened face was lost on him.
He did not take the lane towards the old
Ballamona, but followed the turnpike that
led past Bishop's Court, and as he went by
the lahore house behind the trees Ewan came
through the smaller o-ate, and turned towards

the new Ballamona. They did not speak,
or even glance at each other's faces.

Dan went on until he came to the parish
church. There was singing within, and he
stopped. He remembered that this was
Christmas Eve. The choir was practising
the psalms for the morrow's services.

Before I was troubled, I went wrong: 
but now have I kept Thy word.'

Dan went up to the church porch, and
stood there and listened.

It is o'ood for me that I have been i

tom



trouble, that I may learn Thy statutes.'

The wooden door, clamped and barred
and worm-eaten and cut by knives, was ajar,
and from where he stood Dan could see into
the church. There were the empty pews,
the gaunt, square, green clad boxes on which
he had sat on many a Christmas Eve at Oiel
Yerree. He could picture the old place as it
used to be in those days of his boyhood, the

sea of faces, some solemn and some bubbling
over with mischief, the candles with their
ribbons, the old clerk. Will as Thorn, standing
up behind the communion-rail with his
pitch-pipe in his hand, and Homme-beg, in
his linsey-wolsey petticoat, singing lustily
from a paper held upside down. The singing
stopped. Behind were the hills Lieu Dhoo
and Lieu Volley, hidden now under a thick
veil of mist, and from across the flat Curragh
there came in the silence the low moan of the
sea. ' Once more,' said a voice within the
church, and then the psalm was sung again.
Dan began to breathe easier, he scarce knew
why, and a great weight seemed to be lifted
off his breast.

As he turned away from the porch a
heavy web of cloud was sweeping on and
sweeping on from over the sea. He looked
up and saw that a snow-storm was coming,

and that the snow-cloud would break when it
reached the mountains.

The clock in the grey tower was striking
one  two  three  so it was now three
o'clock. Dan went down towards the creek
known as the Lockjaw, under Orris Head.
There he expected to see old Billy Quilleash
and his mates, who had liberty to use the
 Ben-my-Chree ' during the winter months for
fishing with the lines. When he got to the
creek it was an hour after high water, and the
lugger, with Quilleash and Teare, had gone
out for cod. Davy Fayle, who, like Dan himself,
was still wearing his militia belt and
dagger, had been doing something among
scraps of net and bits of old rope, which lay
in a shed that the men had thrown together
for the storing of their odds-ancients.

Davy was looking out to sea. Down there
a stiff breeze was blowing, and the white

curves of the breakers outside could just be
seen through, the thick atmosphere.

 The storm is coming, Martha Dan,' said
Davy.  See the diver on the top of the white
wave out there ! D'ye hear her wild note ? '

Davy shaded his eyes from the wind,
which was blowing from the sea, and looked
up at the stormy petrel that was careering
over the head of the cliff above them and
uttering its dismal cry. ' Ay, and d'ye see
Mother Carey's chickens up yonder ? ' said
Davy again. ' The storm's coming, and
wonderful quick too.'

Truly, a storm was coming, and it was a
storm more terrible than wind and snow.

CHAPTER Xviii.

THE BLIND WOMAn's SECOND SIGHT.

Now when Jarvis Kerruish encountered Dan
in the act of coming out of Monads room his
surprise was due to something more than the
knowledge that Dan had been forbidden the
house. On leaving the meadow after the
ploughing-match, and the slaughter of the
oxen that followed it, Jarvis had made a long
circuit of the Curragh, and returned to Balla-mona
by the road. He had been pondering
on Mona's deportment during the exciting
part of the contest between Dan and the
stranger, and had just arrived at obvious
conclusions of his own by way of explaining
the emotion that she could not conceal, when

VOL. II. D

he recognised that he was approaching the
cottage occupied by Homme-beg and his wife
Kerry. A droning voice came from within,
accompanied by some of the most doleful
wails that ever arrested mortal ears.

Jarvis was prompted to stop and enter.
He did so, and found both the deaf husband
and the blind wife at home. Hommy was
squatting on a low three-legged stool, with
his fiddle at his shoulder, playing vigorously
and singing as he played. It was Christmas
Eve to Homme-beg also, and he was practising
the carol that he meant to sing at the
Oiel Yerree that night. Blind Kerry was
sitting by the fire knitting with grey yarn.
The deaf man's eyes and the blind woman's
ears simultaneously announced the visit of
Jarvis, and as Homme-beg dropped his fiddle
from his shoulder, Kerry let fall the needles
on her lap, and held up her hand with an
expression of concern.

Och, and [didn't I say that something
happening at Ballamona ? ' said Kerry.

 And so she did said Hommy.

I knew it,' said Kerry. ' I knew it, as
the say in' is.'

All this in return for Jarvis's casual visit
and mere salutation surprised him.

 The sight ! The sight ! It's as true as
the ould Book itself. Aw, yes ; aw, yes,'
continued Kerry, and she began to wring her
hands.

Jarvis felt uneasy. ' Do you know, my
good people,' he said largely, ' I'm at a loss
to understand what you mean. What is it
that has happened at Ballamona ? '

At that the face of the blind wife looked
puzzled.

Have ye not come from BaUamona
straight ? ' she asked.

 No  it's four hours since I left there,'
said Jarvis.

Aw dear, aw degree dear ! ' said Kerry.
 The sight ! the sight ! '

Jarvis's uneasiness developed into curiosity,
and in answer to many questions he
learned that blind Kerry had that day been
visited by another of those visions of Dan
which never came to her except when her
nursling was in some disgrace or danger, and
never failed to come to her then. On this
occasion the vision had been one of great
sorrow, and Kerry trembled as she recounted
it.

 I saw him as plain as plain, and he was
standing in Mistress Mona's room, atween
the bed and the wee craythur's cot, and he
went down on his knees aside of it, and cried,
and cried, and cried mortal, and Mistress
Mona herself was there sobbing her heart out,
as the saying' is, and the wee craythur was
sleeping soft and quiet, and it was dark
night outside, and the candle was in the

mistress's hand. Aw, yes, I saw it, sir, I
saw it, and I would my man here, and, behold
ye, he said, " Drop it, woman, drop
it," says he, " it's only drames, it's only
drames." '

Jarvis did not find the story a tragic one,
but he listened with an interest that was all
his own.

 You saw Mr. Dan in Miss Mona's room
do you mean her chamber ? '

Sure, and he climbed in at the window,
and white as a haddock, and all amuck with
sweat.'

 Climbed in at the window  the window
of her chamber  her bedroom  you're sure it
was her bedroom ? '

Marten sure. Don't I know it same as
my own bit of 'a place ? The bed, with the
curtains all white and dimity, as they're saying',
and the wee thing's cot carved over with
the lions and the tigers and the beasties, and

the goat's rug, and the sheepskin  aw, yes,
aw, yes.'

The reality of the vision had taken such
hold of Kerry that she had looked upon it asa
certain presage of disaster, and when Jarvis
had opened the door she had leapt to the conclusion
that he came to announce the catastrophe
that she foresaw, and to summon her
to Ballamona.

Jarvis smiled grimly. He had heard
in the old days of Kerry's second sight,
and now he laughed at it. But the blind
woman's stupid dreams had given him an
idea, and he rose suddenly and hurried
away.

Jarvis knew the Deemster's weakness, for
he knew why he found himself where he was.
Stern man as the Deemster might be, keen of
wit and strong of soul, Jarvis knew that there
was one side of his mind on which he was
feebler than a child. On that side of the

Deemster Jarvis now meant to play to his
own end and profit.

He was full to the throat of the story
which he had to pour into credulous ears that
never listened to a superstitious tale without
laughing at it and mocking at it, and believing
it, when he stepped into the hall at Balla-mona,
and came suddenly face to face with
Dan and saw the door of Mona's sitting-room
open before and close behind him.

Jarvis was bewildered. Could it be possible
that there was something in the blind
woman's second sight ? He had scarcely
recovered from his surprise when the Deemster
walked into the porch, looking as black
as a thundercloud.

 That man has been here again,' he said.
'Why didn't you turn him out of the
house ? '

I have something to tell you,' said
Jarvis.

They went into the Deemster's study. It
was a little place to the left of the hall, half
under the stairs, and with the fireplace built
across one corner. Over the mantelshelf a number
of curious things were hung from hooks
and nails  a huge silver watch with a small
face and great seals, a mask, a blunderbuss,
a monastic lamp and a crucifix, a piece of
silvered glass, and a pistol.

What now ? ' asked the Deemster,

Jar vis told the blind woman's story with
variations, and the Deemster listened intently
and with a look of deadly rage.

And you saw him come out of her
room  you yourself saw him ? ' said the
Deemster.

With my own eyes, dear sir,' said Jarvis.

The Deemster's lip quivered. ' My God !
it must be true,' he said.

At that moment they heard a foot in the
hall, and going to the door in his restless

tramping to and fro, the Deemster saw that
Ewan had come into the house. He called
to him, and Ewan went into the study, and
on Ewan going in Jarvis went out.

There was a look of such affright on the
Deemster's face that before a word was spoken
Ewan had caught the contagion of his father's
terror. Then, grasping his son by the wrist
in the intensity of his passion, the Deemster
poured his tale into Ewan's ear. But it was
not the tale that blind Kerry had told to
Jarvis, it was not the tale that Jarvis had told
to him ; it was a tale compounded of superstition
and of hate. Blind Kerry had said of
her ceram knowledge that Dan was accustomed
to visit lona in her chamber at night
alone, entering in at the widow. Jarvis
Kerruish himself had seen him there  and
that very day, not at night, but in the broad
daylight, Jarvis had seen Dan come from
Mona's room. What ? Had Ewan no bowels

that he could submit to the dishonour of his
own sister ?

Ewan listened to the hot words that came
from his father in a rapid and ceaseless whirl.
The story was all so fatally circumstantial
as the Deemster told it ; no visions ; no
sights ; no sneezing of an old woman; all
was clear, hard, deadly, damning circumstance,
or seemed to be so to Ewan's heated
brain and poisoned heart.

Father,' he said, very quietly, but with
visible emotion, ' you are my father, but there
are only two persons alive from whose lips
I would take a story like this, and you are
not one of them.'

At that word the Deemster's passion overcame
him. ' My God,' he cried, ' what have
I done that I should not be believed by my
own son ? Would I slander my own
daughter ? '

But Ewan did not hear him. He had

turned away, and was going towards the door
of Mona's room. He moved slowly ; there
was an awful silence. Full half a minute his
hand rested on the door handle, and only then
did his nervous fingers turn it.

He stepped into the room. The room was
empty. It was Mona's sitting-room, her
workroom, her parlour, her nursery. Out of
it there opened another room by a door at
the farther end of the wall on the left. The
door of that other room was ajar, and Ewan
could hear, from where he now stood quivering
in every limb, the soft cooing of the child  his
child, his dead wife's child  and the inarticulate
nothings that Mona, the foster-mother,
babbled over it.

Boo-loo-la-la-pa-pa,' * Dearee-dearee-dear,'
and then the tender cooing died off into a
murmur, and an almost noiseless long kiss on
the full round baby-neck.

Ewan stood irresolute for a moment, and

the sweat started from his forehead. He felt
like one who has been kneeling at a shrine
when a foul hand besides it. He had half
swung about to go back, when his ear caught
the sound of the Deemster's restless foot outside.
He could not go back : the poison had
gone to his heart.

He stepped into the bedroom that led out
of the sitting-room. Mona raised her eyes asher
brother entered. She was leaning over
the cot, her beautiful face alive with the light
of a tender love  a very vision of pure
and delicious womanhood. Almost she had
lifted the child from the cot to Ewan's arms
when at a second glance she recognised the
solemn expression of his face, and then
she let the little one slide back to its
pillow.

What has happened ? '

Is it true,' he began very slowly,  that
Dan has been here ? '

Then Mona blushed deeply, and there
was a pause.

Is it true ? ' he said again, and now with
a hurried and startled look, ' is it true that
Dan has been here  here ? '

Mona misunderstood his emphasis. Ewan
was standing in her chamber, and when he
asked if Dan had been there he was inquiring
if Dan had been with her in that very room.
She did not comprehend the evil thought that
had been put in his heart. But she remembered
the prohibition placed upon her both by
Ewan and her father never to receive Dan
again, and her confusion at the moment of
Ewan's question came of the knowledge that
contrary to that prohibition she had received
him.

Is it true '? ' he asked yet again, and he
trembled with the passion he suppressed.

After a pause he answered himself with an
awful composure, ' It is truest

The child lifted itself and babbled at Mona
with its innocent face all smiles, and Mona
turned to hide her confusion by leaning over
the cot.

 Boo  loo  la-la.'

Then a great wave of passion seemed
to come to Ewan, and he stepped to his
sister, and took her by both hands. He
was like a strong man in a dream, who
feels sure that he can only be dreaming 
struggling in vain to awake from a terrible
nightmare, and knowing that a nightmare
it must be that sits on him and crushes
him.

No, no, there must be a mistake ; there
must, there must,' he said, and his hot breathing
beat on her face. ' He has never been
here  here  never. '

Mona raised herself. She loosed her
hands from his grasp. Her woman's pride
had been stung. It seemed to her that her

brother was taking more than a brother's
part.

There is no mistake,' she said with some
anger. ' Dan has been here.'

You confess it ? '

 She looked him straight in the eyes and
answered, ' Yes, if you call it so  I confess
it. It is of no use to deceive you.'

Then there was an ominous silence.
Ewan's features became deathlike in their
rigidity. A sickening sense came over him.
He was struggling to ask a question that
his tongue would not utter.

 Mona  do you mean  do you mean that

Dan has  has  outrage Great God! what

am I to say ? How am I to say it ? '

Mona drew herself up.

I mean that I can hide my feelings no
longer,' she said. ' Do with me as you may ;
I am not a child, and no brother shall govern
me. Dan has been here  outrage or none

call it what you will  yes, and / she

dropped her head over the cot, *I love
him;

Ewan was not himself; his heart was
poisoned, or then and there he would have
unravelled the devilish tangle of circumstance.
He tried again with another and yet another
question. But every question he asked, and
every answer Mona gave, made the tangle
thicker. His strained jaw seemed to start
from his skin.

I passed him on the road,' he said to
himself in a hushed whisper.  Oh, that I
had but known ! '

Then with a look of reproach at Mona
he turned aside and went out of the room.

He stepped back to the study, and there
the Deemster was still tramping to and fro.

Simpleton, simpleton, to expect a woman
to acknowledge her own dishonour,' the
Deemster cried.

Ewan did not answer at once ; but in
silence lie reached up to where the pistol
hung; over the mantelshelf and took it
down.

What are you doing ? ' cried the Deemster.


She lias acknowledged it said Ewan,
still in a suppressed whisper.

For a moment the Deemster was made
speechless and powerless by that answer.
Then he laid hold of his son's hand and
wrenched the pistol away.

No violence he cried.

He was now terrified at the wrath that his
own evil passions had aroused ; he locked the
pistol in a cabinet.

'It is better so said Ewan, and in
another moment he was going out at the
porch.

The Deemster followed him, and laid a
hand on his arm.

VOL. ir. E

Remember  no violence he said ;  for
the love of God, see there is no violence.'

But Ewan, without a word more, without
relaxing a muscle of his hard, white face,
without a glance or a sign, but with bloodshot
eyes and quivering nostrils, with teeth compressed
and the great veins on his forehead
large and dark over the scar that Dan had
left there, drew himself away, and went out
of the house.

CHAPTER XIX.

HOW Swan FOUND DAN.

EwAN went along like a man whose reason
is clogged. All his faculties were deadened.
He could not see properly. He could not
hear. He could not think. Try as he might to
keep his faculties from wandering, his mind
would not be kept steady.

Time after time he went back to the passage
of Scripture which he had fixed on that
morning for his next lesson and sermon.
It was the story how Esau, when robbed of
the birthright blessing, said in his heart, ' I
will slay my brother Jacob ; how Jacob
fled from his brother's anger to the home of
Laban ; how after many years Esau married

E 2
UNWtRSTV OF \l-

the daughter of Ishmael, and Jacob came to
the country of Edom ; how in exceeding fear
of Esau's wrath Jacob sent before him a present
for Esau out of the plenty with which
God had blessed him ; and how Jacob lifted
up his eyes and beheld Esau, and ran to
meet him and embraced him, and fell on his
neck and kissed him, and they wept.

Ewan would see the goats and the ewes,
and the rams, and the milch camels toiling
along through the hot lush grass by the
waters of the Jordan ; then all at once these
would vanish, and he would find himself
standing alone in the drear winter day, with
the rumble of the bleak sea far in front, and
close overhead the dark snow clouds sweeping
on and on.

His strong emotion paralysed all his
faculties. He could neither fix his mind on
the mission on which he had set out, nor
banish the thought of it. Mission ! What

was it ? At one moment lie thought he
knew, and then his eyes seemed to jump from
their sockets. * Am I going mad ? ' he asked
himself, and his head turned giddy.

He went on ; a blind force impelled him.
At length he reached the old Ballamona. His
own especial room in the house was the little
book-encased closet, looking over the Curraghs
towards the sea  the same that had been the
study of Gilcrist Mybea, before he went away
and came back as bishop.

But Ewan turned mechanically towards
another part of the house and entered a room
hung about with muskets and the horns of
deer, fishing rods and baskets, a watchman's
truncheon, lettered in red, loose pieces of net,
and even some horse harness. A dog, a
brown collie,' lay asleep before the fire, andover
the rannel-tree shelf a huge watch was
ticking.

But Dan was not in his room. Then

Ewan remembered in a dazed way  how had
the memory escaped him so long ?  that
when Dan passed him on the road he
was not going homewards, but towards the
village. No doubt the man was on his way
to the low pot-house he frequented.

Ewan left Ballamona and went on towards
the ' Three Legs of Man.' He crossed the fields
which the Bishop had cut oiF from the episcopal
demesne for his son's occupation as a farm.
As he walked, his wandering, aimless thoughts
were arrested by the neglected state of the
land and the stock, upon it. In one croft the
withered stalks of the last crop of cabbage lay
rotten on the ground ; in a meadow a sheep
was lying dead of the rot, and six or seven of
the rest of the flock were dragging their falling
wool along the thin grass.

Ewan came out of the fields to the turnpike
by the footpath that goes by Bishop's
Court, and as he passed through the stile he

heard the Bishop m conversation with someone
on the road within.

What is the balance that I owe you, Mr.
Looney, for building those barns on my son's
farm ? ' the Bishop was saying.

Seven pounds five shilling, my lord,' the
man answered,  and reel bad I'm wanting the
money, too, my lord, and three months I'm
after waiting for it.'

So you are, Mr. Looney. You would
have been paid before this if I'd had wherewith
to pay you.'

Then there was silence between the two, and
Ewan was going on when the Bishop added :

Here  liere  take this,' there was a sound
as of the rattle of keys and seals and a watch
chain  ' It was my old father's last gift tome,
all he had to give to me  God bless
his memory !  and I little thought to part
with it  but there, take it and sell it, and
pay yourself, Mr. Looney.'

The man seemed to draw back.

'Your watch !' he said. 'Aw, no, no,
no ! Och, if I'm never paid, never, it's not
Patrick Looney that is the man to take the
watch out of your pocket.'

Take it  take it ! Why, my good man '
the Bishop's voice was all but breaking 

you should not refuse to take the time of day
from your Bishoj).' Then there was a jaunty
laugh, with a great sob at the back of it.

Besides, I've found the old thing a sore tax
on my failing memory this many day to wind
it and wear it. Come, it will wipe out my
debt to you.'

Ewan went on ; his teeth were set hard.
Why had he overheard that conversation ?
Was it to whet his purpose ? It seemed as if
there might be some supernatural influence
over him. But this was not the only conversation
he overheard that day. When he got
to the ' Three Legs of Man ' a carrier's cart

stood outside. Ewan stepped into the lobby
of the house. The old cat was counting up
the chalk marks, vertical and horizontal, at
the back of the cupboard door, and the carrier
was sitting on a round table recounting certain
mad doings at Castletown.

 " Let's down with the watch and take
their lanterns," says the captain, says he,
laughing mortal and a bit sprung, maybe ;
and down they went, one a top o' the other,
Jemmy the Red, and Johnny-by-Nite, and all
the rest of them, bellowing strong, and the
capt'n and his pals whipping up their lanterns
and their truncheons, and away at a slant.
Aw, it was right fine.'

The carrier laughed loud at his story. 

Was that when Martha Dan was down
at Castletown fixing the business for the Fencibless
! '

Aw, yes, woman, and middling' stiff it
cost him. Next morning Jemmy the Red

and Johnny-by-Mte were off for the Castle,
but the capta met them, and " I'm not for
denying it," says he, and "a bit of a spree,"
he says, and '' Take this. Jemmy," says he,
and say no more." '

 And what did he give the watch to
sweeten them ? '

Three pound, they're saying. Aw, yes,
woman, woman  liberal, very. None o' yer
close-fisted about the captain.'

The blood rushed to Ewan's heart. Ina
moment he found himself asking for Dan,
and hearing from the old woman with the
whiskers, who spoke with a curtsey after every
syllable, that Martha Dan had been seen to
go down towards the creek, the Lockjaw,
under Orris Head.

Ewan went out of the pot-house and
turned the lane towards the creek. What
was the mysterious influence on his cestui
that he of all men must needs overhear two



such conversations, and hear them now of all
times ? The neglected lands, the impoverished
old Bishop, the reckless spendthrift, all
rose before Ewan's mind in a bewildering
haze.

The lane to the Lockjaw led past the
shambles that stood a little out of the village.
Ewan had often noticed the butcher's low
waggon on the road, with sheep penned in by
a rope across the stern-board, or with a calf
in a net. All at once he now realised that he
was walking behind this wagon, and that a
dead ox lay in it, and that the driver at the
horse's head was talking to a man who
plodded along beside him. Ewan's faculties
were now more clouded than before, but he
could hear, with gaps in which his sense of
hearing seemed to leave him, the conversation
between the two men.

Well, well, just to think  killing the
poor beast for stopping when the dinner bell

rang at the Coort ! And them used of it for
fifteen years ! Aw, well, well.'

He's no Christian, anyway, and no disrespect.'


Christian ? Christian, is it ? Brute
beast as I'm saying'. The ould Bishop's son ?
Well, well'

Bit by bit, scarcely listening, losing the
words sometimes, as one loses at intervals the
tick of a clock when lying awake at night with
a brain distraught, Ewan gathered up the story
of the bad business at the ploughing match
after he had left the meadow.

Christian ? Och, Christian ? ' one of the
men repeated with a bitter laugh of mockery.
I'm thinking it would be a middling' little
crime to treat a Christian like that same as he
treated the poor dumb craythurs.'

Ewan's temples beat furiously, and a fearful
tumult was rife in his brain. One wild
thought expelled all other thoughts. Why

had he overheard three such conversations ?
There could be but one answer  he was designed
by supernatural powers to be the instrument
of a fixed purpose. It was irrevocably
decided  he was impelled to the terrible business
that was in his mind by an irresistible
force to which he was blind and powerless.
It was so, it was so.

Ewan pushed on past the wagon, and
heard the men's voices die off to an indistinct
mumble behind him. How hideous were
the meditations of the next few minutes ! The
beating of his temple drew the skin hard
about the scar above it. He thought of his
young wife in her grave, and of the shock
that sent her there. He felt afresh the
abject degradation of that bitter moment in
the library at Bishop's Court, when, to save
the honour of a forger, he had lied before
God and man. Then he thought of the grey
head of that august old man, serene of saints,

fondest of fathers, the Bishop, bowed down to
the dust with shame and a ruined hope. And
after his mind had oscillated among these
agonising thoughts, there came to him overall
else, and more hideous than all else, the
memory of what his own father, the Deemster,
had told him an hour ago.

Ewan began to run, and as he ran all his
blood seemed to rush to his head, and a thousand
confused and vague forms danced before
his eyes. All at once he recognised that he
was at the mouth of the creek, going down
the steep gate to the sea that ended in the
Lockjaw. Before he was aware he was talking
with Davy Fayle, and asking for Dan. He
noticed that his voice would scarcely obey
him.

He's in the crib on the shore, sir,' said
Davy, and the lad turned back to his work.
He was hammering an old bent nail out of a
pitch-pine plank that had washed ashore with

the last tide. After a moment Davy stopped
and looked after the young parson, and shook
his head and muttered something to himself.
Then he threw down his hammer, and followed
slowly.

Ewan went on. His impatience was now
feverish. He was picturing Dan as he would
find him  drinking, smoking, laughing, one
leg thrown over the end of a table, his cap
awry, his face red, his eyes bleared, and his
lips hot.

It was growing dark, the snow-cloud was
very low overhead, the sea-birds were screaming
down at the water's edge, and the sea's
deep rumble came up from the shingle below
and the rocks beyond.

Ewan saw the tent and made for it. Ashe
came near to it he slipped and fell. Regaining
his feet, he perceived that in the dusk
he had tripped over some chips that lay about
a block. Davy had been chopping firewood

of the driftwood that the sea had sent up.
Ewan saw the hatchet lying among the loose
chips. In an instant he had caught it up.
Recognising in every event of that awful
hour the mysterious influence of supernatural
powers, he read this incident as he had read
all the others. Until then he had thought of
nothing but the deed he was to do ; never for
one instant of how he was to do it. But now
the hatchet was thrust into his hand. Thus
was everything irrevocably decided.

And now Ewan was in front of the tent,
panting audibly, the hatchet in his hand, his
eyes starting from their sockets, the great
veins on his forehead hard and black. Now,
God! for a moment's strength, one little
moment's strength, now, now !

The smoke was rising from the gorse-covered
roof ; the little black door was shut.
Inside was Dan, Dan, Dan ; and while
Ewan's young wife lay in her grave, and

Ewan's sister was worse than in her o-rave,
and the good Bishop was brought low, Dan
was there, there, and he was drinking and
laughing, and his heart was cold and dead.

Ewan lifted the latch and pushed the door
open, and stepped into the tent.

Lord of grace and mercy, what was there ?
On the floor of earth in one corner of the
small place a fire of gorse, turf, and logs
burned slowly ; and near this fire Dan lay
outstretched on a bed of straw, his head pillowed
on a coil of old rope, one hand twisted
under his head, the other resting lightly on
his breast, and he slept peacefully like a
child.

Ewan stood for a moment shuddering and
dismayed. The sight of Dan, helpless, and at
his mercy, unnerved his arm and drove the
fever from his blood. There was an awful
power in that sleeping man, and sleep had
wrapped him in its own divinity.

VOL. II. F

The hatchet dropped from Ewan's grasp -
less fingers, and he covered his face. As a
drowning man is said to see all his life pass
before him at the moment of death, so Ewan
saw all the past, the happy past  the past of
love and of innocence, whereof Dan was a
part, rise up before him.

It is true, I am going mad,' he thought,
and he fell back on to a bench that stood by
the wall. Then there came an instant of
unconsciousness, and in that instant he was
again by the waters of the Jordan, and the
ewes and the rams and the milch camels were
toiling through the long grass, and Esau was
falling on the neck of Jacob, and they were
weeping together.

CHAPTER XX.

BLIND PASSION AND PAIN.

Dan moved uneasily, and presently awoke,
opened this eyes, and saw Ewan, and betrayed
no surprise at his presence there.

Ah ! Is it you, Ewan ? ' he said, speaking
quietly, partly in a shamefaced way, and
with some confusion. ' Do you know, I've
been dreaming of you  you and Mona ? '

Ewan gave no answer. Because sleep is
a holy thing, and the brother of death, whose
shadow also it is, therefore Ewan's hideous
purpose hat left him while Dan lay asleep at
his feet ; but now that Dan was awake, the
evil passion came again.

 I was dreaming of that Mother Carey's

r 2

chicken  you remember it ? when we were
lumps of lads, you know  why, you can't
have forgotten it  the old thing I caught in
its nest just under the Head ? '

Still Ewan gave no sign, but looked down
at Dan resting on his elbows. Dan's eyes
fell from Ewan's face, but he went on in a
confused way.

Mona couldn't bear to see it caged, and
would have me put it back. Don't you remember
I clambered up to the nest, and put
the bird in again ? You were down on the
shore, thinking sure I would tumble over the
Head, and Mona  Mona '

Dan glanced afresh into Ewan's face, and
its look of terror seemed to stupefy him ; still
he made shift to go on with his dream in an
abashed sort of way.

My rough ! if I didn't dream it all as
fresh as fresh, and the fight in the air, and the
screams when I put the old bird in the nest 

the young ones had forgotten it clean, and
they tumbled it out, and set on it terrible, and
drove it away  and then the poor old thing
on the rocks sitting by itself as lonesome as
lonesome  and little Mona crying and crying
down below, and her long hair rip-rip-rippling
in the wind, and  and '

Dan had got to his feet, and then seated
himself on a stool as he rambled on with the
story of his dream. But once again his shifty
eyes came back to Ewan's face, and he stopped
short.

'My God, what is it ? ' he cried.

Now Ewan, standing there with a thousand
vague forms floating in his brain,
had heard little of what Dan had said,
but he had noted his confused manner,
and had taken this story of the dream as a
feeble device to hide the momentary discomfiture.


What does it mean ? ' he said. * It means

that this island is not large enough to hold
both sou and me

What ? '

It means that you must go away.'

Away ! '

Yes  and at once.'

In the pause that followed after his first
cry of amazement, Dan thought only of the
bad business of the killing of the oxen at the
ploughing match that morning, and so in a
tone of utter abasement, with his face to the
ground, he went on ; in a blundering, humble
way, to allow that Ewan had reason for his
anger.

I'm a blind headstrong fool, I know that
and my temper is  well, it's damnable?
that's the fact  but no one suffers from it more
than I do, and if I could have felled myself
after I had felled the oxen, why down
Ewan, for the sake of the dear old times
when we were good chums, you and I and

little Mona, with her quiet eyes, God bless
her ! '

 Go away, and never come back to either
of us, cried Ewan, stamping his foot.

Dan paused, and there was a painful
silence.

Why should I go away ? ' he said, with
an effort at quietness.

Because you are a scoundrel  the basest
scoundrel on God's earth  the foulest traitor
the blackest-hearted monster '

Dan's sunburnt face whitened under his
tawny skin.

 Easy, easy, man been, easy,' he said,
struggling visibly for self-command while he
interrupted Ewan's torrent of reproaches.

 You are a disgrace and a by word. Only
the riff-raff of the island are your friends and
associates.'

That's true enough, Ewan,' said Dan,

and his head fell between his hands, his
elbows resting on his knees.

 What are you doing ? Drinking, gambling,
fostering, cheating  yes '

Dan got on his feet uneasily and took a
step to and fro about the little place ; then
sat again, and buried his head in his hands
as before.

'- IVe been a reckless, self-willed, mad
fool, Ewan, but no worse than that. And if
you could see me as God sees me, and know
how I suffer for my follies and curse them,
for all I seem to make so light of them, and
how I am driven to them one on the head
of another, perhaps  perhaps  perhaps you
would have pity  ay, pity.'

Pity ? Pity for you ? You who have
brought your father to shame ? He is the
ruin of the man he was. You have impoverished
him ; you have spent his substance
and wasted it. Ay, and you have made his

grey head a mark for reproach. " Set your
own house in order "  that's what the world
says to the man of God, whose son is a child
of the '

Stop,' cried Dan.

He had leapt to his feet, his fist clenched,
his knuckles showing like nuts of steel.

But Ewan went on, standing there with a
face that was ashy white above his black coat.
Your heart is as dead as your honour. And
that is not all, but you must outrage the
honour of another.'

Now, when Ewan said this, Dan thought
of his forged signature, and of the censure and
suspension to which Ewan was thereby made
liable.

Go away,' Ewan cried again, motioning
Dan off with his trembling hand. .

Dan lifted his eyes. ' And what if I refuse
? ' he said in a resolute way.

Then take the consequences.'

You mean the consequences of that 
that  that forgery ? 

At this Ewan realised the thought in
Dan's mind, and perceived that Dan conceived
him capable of playing upon his fears by
holding over his head the penalty of an offence
which he had already taken upon himself
God in heaven ! ' he thought, ' and this is the
pitiful creature whom I have all these years
taken to my heart.'

 Is that what your loyalty comes to ? '
said Dan, and his lip curled.

Loyalty,' cried Ewan, in white wrath.
Loyalty, and you talk to me of loyalty 
you who a ve outraged the honour of my
sister '

'Mona !'

 I have said it at last, though the word
blisters my tongue. Go away from the island
for ever, and let me never see your face
again.'

Dan rose to his feet with rigid limbs. He
looked about him for a moment in a dazed
silence, and put his hand to his forehead as if
he had lost himself.

 Do you believe that ? ' he said in a slow
whisper.

 Don't deny it  don't let me know you
for a liar as well,' Ewan said eagerly ; and
then added in another tone,  I have had her
own confession.'

 Her confession ! '

Yes, and the witness of another.'

 The witness of another ! '

Dan echoed Ewan's words in a vague,
half-conscious way.

Then, in a torrent of hot words that
seemed to blister and sting the man who
spoke them no less than the man who heard
them, Ewan told all, and Dan listened like
one in a stupor.

There was silence, and then Ewan spoke

again in a tone of agony. ' Dan, there was a
time when in spite of yourself I loved you 
yes, though I'm ashamed to say it, for it was
against Grod's own leading ; still I loved you,
Dan. But let us part for ever now, and each
go his own way, and perhaps, though we can
never forget the wrong that you have done
us, we may yet think more kindly of you, and
time may help us to forgive '

But Dan had awakened from his stupor,
and he flung aside.

Damn your forgiveness ! ' he said hotly,
and then, with teeth set and lips drawn hard
and eyes aflame, he turned upon Ewan and
strode up to him, and they stood together face
to face.

 You said just now that there was not
room enough in th island for you and me,'
he said in a hushed whisper. ' You were
right, but I shall mend your words : if you
believe what you have said  by Heaven, I'll

not deny it for you !  there is not room
enough for both of us in the world

 It was my own thought said Ewan,
and then for an instant each looked into
the other's eyes and read the other's purpose.


The horror of that moment of silence was
broken by the lifting of the latch. Davy
Fayle came shambling into the tent on some
pretended errand. He took off his militia
belt with the dagger in the sheath attached toit,
and hung it on a long rusty nail driven
into an upright timber at one comer. Then
he picked up from among some ling on the
floor a waterproof coat and put it on. He
was going out, with furtive glances at Dan
and Ewan, who said not a word in his presence,
and were bearing themselves towards
each other with a painful constraint, when his
glance fell on the hatchet which lay a few
feet from the door. Davy picked it up and

carried it out, muttering to himself, ' Strange,
strange, uncommon ! '

Hardly had the boy dropped the latch of
the door from without than Ewan took the
militia belt from the nail and buckled it about
his waist. Dan understood his thought ; he
was still wearing his own militia belt and
dagger. There was now not an instant's
paltering between them  not a word of explanation.


'We must get rid of the lad,' said Dan.

Ewan bowed his head. It had come to
him to reflect that when all was over Mona
might hear of what had been done. What
they had to do was to be done for her honour,
or for what seemed to be her honour in that
blind tangle of passion and circumstance.
But none the less, though she loved both of
them now, would she loathe that one who
returned to her with the blood of the other
upon him.

She must never know,' lie said. ' Send
the boy away. Then we must go to where
this work can be done between you and me
alone.'

Dan had followed his thought in silence,
and was stepping towards the door to call to
Davy when the lad came back, carrying a log
of driftwood for the fire. There were some
small flakes of snow on his waterproof coat.

Go up to the shambles, Davy,' said Dan,
speaking with an effort at composure,  and tell
Jemmy Burghley to keep me the ox-horns.'

Davy looked up in a vacant way, and his
lip lagged low. ' Aw, and didn't you tell
Jemmy yourself, and terrible particular, too ? '

Do you say so, Davy ? '

 Marten sure.'

Then just slip away and fetch them.'

Davy fixed the log on the fire, tapped it
into the flame, glanced anxiously at Dan and
Ewan, and then in a lingering way went out.

His simple face looked sad under its vacant
expression.

The men listened while the lads footsteps
could be heard on the shingle, above the deep
murmur of the sea. Then Dan stepped to the
door and threw it open.

 Now,' he said.

It was rapidly growing dark. The wind
blew strongly into the shed. Dan stepped
out, and Ewan followed him.

They walked in silence through the gully
that led from the creek to the cliff head.
The snow that had begun to fall was swirled
about in the wind that came from over the
sea, and, spinning in the air, it sometimes beat
against their faces.

Ewan went along like a man condemned
to death. He had begun to doubt, though he
did not know it, and would have shut his
mind to the idea if it had occurred to him.
But once when Dan seemed to stop as if only

half resolved, and partly turn his face towards
him, Ewan mistook his intention. 'He is
going to tell me that there is some hideous
error,' he thought. He was burning for that
word. But no, Dan went plodding on again,
and never after shifted his steadfast gaze,
never spoke, and gave no sign. At length he
stopped, and Ewan stopped with him. They
were standing on the summit of Orris Head.

It was a sad, a lonesome, and a desolate
place, in sight of a wide waste of common
land, without a house, and with never a tree
rising above the purple gorse and tussocks of
long grass. The sky hung very low over it ;
the steep red cliffs, with their patches of
green in ledges, swept down from it to the
shingle and the sharp shelves of slate covered
with sea weed. The ground swell came up
from below with a very mournful noise, but
the air seemed to be empty, and every beat of
the foot on the soft turf sounded near and

VOL. II. G

large. Above their heads the sea-fowl kept
up a wild clamour, and far out, where sea and
sky seemed to meet in the gathering darkness,
the sea's steady blow on the bare rocks
of the naze sent up a deep, hoarse boom.

Dan unbuckled his belt, and threw off his
coat and vest. Ewan did the same, and they
stood there face to face in the thin flakes of
snow, Dan in his red shirt, Ewan in his white
shirt open at the neck, these two men whose
souls had been knit together as the soul of
Jonathan was knit to the soul of David, and
each ready to lift his hand against his heart's
best brother. Then all at once a startled cry
came from near at hand.

It was Davy Fayle's voice. The lad had
not gone to the shambles. Realising in some
vague way that the errand was a subterfuge
and that mischief was about, he had hidden
himself at a little distance, and had seen when
Dan and Ewan caaie out of the tent too-ether.

Creeping through the ling, and partly hidden
by the dusk, he had followed the men until
they had stopped on the Head. Then Davy
had dropped to his knees. His ideas were
obscure, he scarcely knew what was going
on before his eyes, but he held his breath and
watched and listened. At length, when the
men threw off their clothes, the truth dawned
on Davy ; and though he tried to smother an
exclamation, a cry of terror burst from his
husky throat.

Dan and Ewan exchanged glances, and
each seemed in one moment to read the
other's thoughts. In another instant, at three
quick strides, Dan had taken Davy by the
shoulders.

 Promise he said, ' that you will never
tell what you have seen.'

Davy struggled to free himself, but his
frantic efforts were useless. In Dan's grip he
was held as in a vice.

G 2

Let me go, Martha Dan,' the lad cried.

Promise to hold your tongue said Dan ;
promise it, promise it

Let me go, will you ? let me go,' the lad
shouted sullenly.

 Be quiet,' said Dan.

'I won't be quiet,' was the stubborn
answer.'  Help ! help ! help ! ' and the lad
screamed lustily.

Hold your tongue, or by G '

Dan held Davy by one of his great hands
hitched into the lad's guernsey, and he lifted
the other hand threateningly.

 Help ! help ! help ! ' Davy screamed still
louder, and struggled yet more fiercely, until
his strength was spent, and his breath was
gone, and then there was a moment's silence.

The desolate place was still as desolate as
before. Not a sign of life around ; not an
answering cry.

 There's nobody to help you,' said Dan.

You have got to promise never to tell what
you have seen to man, woman, or child.'

I won't promise, and I won't hould my
tongue,' said the lad stoutly.  You are going'
to fight, you and Martha Ewan, and '

Dan stopped him.  Hearken here. If
you are to live another hour, you will
promise '

But Davy had regained both strength and
voice.

I don't care  help ! help ! help ! ' he
shouted.

Dan put his hand over the lad's mouth,
and drao:f>:ed him to the cliff head. Below
was the brant steep, dark and jagged and
quivering in the deepening gloom, and the
sea-birds were darting through the mid air like
bats in the dark.

Look,' said Dan, ' you've got to swear
never to tell what you have seen to-night, so
help you God.'

The lad, held tightly by the breast and
throat, and griping the arms that held him
with fingers that clung like claws, took one
horrified glance down into the darkness. He
struggled no longer. His face was very
pitiful to see.

I cannot promise,' he said in a voice like
a cry.

At that answer Dan drew Davy back from
the cliff* edge, and loosed his hold of him. He
was abashed and ashamed. He felt himself a
little man by the side of this half-daft fisher-lad.

All this time Ewan had stood aside looking
on while Dan demanded the promise, and
saying nothing. Now he went up to Davy,
and said in a quiet voice :

Davy, if you should ever tell any one
what you have seen, Dan will be a lost man
all his life hereafter.'

Then let him pitch me over the cliff,' said
Davy in a smothered cry.

Listen to me, Davy,' Ewan went on ;
you're a brave lad, and I know what's in
your head, but '

 Then what for do you want to fight
him ? ' Davy broke out. The lad's throat
was dry and husky, and this eyes were growing
dim.

Ewan paused. Half his passion was
spent. Davy's poor dense head had found
him a question that he could not answer.

 Davy, if you don't promise, you will ruin
Dan  yes, it will be you who will ruin him,
you, remember that. He dll be a lost man,
and my sister, my good sister Mona, she will
be a broken-hearted woman.'

Then Davy broke down utterly, and big
tears filled his eyes, and ran down his
cheeks.

*I promise,' he sobbed.

Good lad  now go.'

Davy turned about, and went away, at

first running, and then dragging slowly, then
running again, and then again lingering.

What followed was a very pitiful conflict
of emotion. Nature, who looks down pitilessly
on man and his big, little passions,
that clamour so loud but never touch her at
all  even Nature played her part in this
tragedy.

When Davy Fayle was gone, Dan and
Ewan stood face to face as before, Dan with
his back to the cliff, Ewan with his face to
the sea. Then, without a word, each turned
aside and picked up his militia belt.

The snowflakes had thickened during the
last few moments, but now they seemed to
cease and the sky to lighten. Suddenly in
the west the sky was cloven as though by the
sweep of a sword, and under a black bar of
cloud and above a silvered water-line the sun
came through very red and hazy in its setting,
and with its ragged streamers around it.

Ewan was buckling the belt about his
waist when the setting sun rose upon them,
and all at once there came to him the Scripture
that says, ' Let not the sun go down
on your wrath.' If God's hand had appeared
in the heavens, the effect on Ewan could not
have been greater. Already his passion was
more than half gone, and now it melted entirely
away.

Dan,' he cried, and his voice was a sob,
Dan, I cannot fight  right or wrong I cannot,'
and he flung himself down, and the tears
filled his eyes.

Then Dan, whose face was afire, laughed
loud and bitterly. coward,' he said, 'coward
and poltroon ! '

At that word all the evil passion came
back to Ewan and he leapt to his feet.

That is enough,' he said ; ' the belts 
buckle them together.'

Dan understood Ewan's purpose. At the

next breath the belt about Dan's waist was
buckled to the belt about the waist of Ewan,
and the two men stood strapped together.
Then they drew the daggers, and an awful
struggle followed.

With breast to breast until their flesh all
but touched, and with thighs entwined, they
reeled and swayed, the right hand of each held
up for thrust, the left for guard and parry.
What Dan gained in strength Ewan made up
in rage, and the fight was fierce and terrible.
Dan still with his back to the cliff*, Ewan still
with his face to the sea.

At one instant Dan, by his great stature,
had reached over Ewan's shoulder to thrust
from behind, and at the next instant Ewan
had wrenched his lithe body backwards and
had taken the blow in his lifted arm, which
forthwith spouted blood above the wrist. In
that encounter they reeled about, changing
places, and Ewan's back was henceforward

towards the cliff, and Dan fought with his
face towards the sea.

It was a hideous and savage fight. The
sun had gone down, the cleft in the heavens
had closed again, once more the thin flakes of
snow were falling, and the world had dropped
back to its dark mood. A stormy petrel
came up from the cliff and swirled above the
men as they fought and made its direful
scream over them.

Up and down, to and fro, embracing
closely, clutching, guarding, and meantime
panting hoarsely, and drawing hard breath,
the two men fought in their deadly hate. At
last they had backed and swayed to within
three yards of the cliff, and then Ewan, with
the gasp of a drowning man, flung his weapon
into the air, Ind Dan ripped his dagger's edge
across the belts that bound them together,
and at the next breath the belts were cut, and
the two were divided, and Ewan, separated

from Dan, and leaning heavily backward, was
reeling, by force of Ms own weight, towards
the cliff.

Then Dan stood as one transfixed with
uplifted hand, and a deep groan came from
his throat. Passion and pain were gone from
him in that awful moment, and the world itself
seemed to be blotted out. When he came to
himself, he was standing on the cliff head
alone.

The clock in the old church was striking.
How the bell echoed on that lonely height !
One  two  three  four  five. Five o'clock !
Everything else was silent as death. The day
was gone. The snow began to fall in thick,
large flakes. It fell heavily on Dan's hot
cheeks and bare neck. His heart seemed to
stand still, and the very silence itself was
awful. His terror stupefied him. * What
have I done ? ' he asked himself. He could
not think. He covered his eyes with his

hands, and strode up and down the cliff head,
up and down, up and down. Then m a bewildered
state of semi consciousness he looked
out to sea, and there far off, a league away,
he saw a black thing looming large against
the darkening sky. He recognised that it was
a sail, and then perceived that it was a lugger,
and quite mechanically he tried to divide
the mainmast and mizzen, the mainsail and
yawlsail, and to note if the boat were fetching
to leeward or beating down the Channel.

All at once sea and sky were blotted out,
and he could not stand on his legs, but
dropped to his knees, and great beads of perspiration
rolled down his face and neck. He
tried to call 'Ewan! EwanI' but he could not
utter the least cry. His throat was parched ;
his tongue swelled and filled his mouth. His
lips moved, but no words came from him.
Then he rose to his feet, and the world loved
back upon him : the sea-fowl crying over ibis

head, the shrillness of the wind in the snowcapped
gorse, and the sea's hoarse voice
swelling upwards through the air, while its
heavy, monotonous blow on the beach shook
the earth beneath him. If anything else had
appeared to Dan at that moment, he must
have screamed with terror.

Quaking in every limb, he picked up his
clothes and turned back towards the shore.
He was so feeble that he could scarcely walk
through the snow that now lay thick on the
short grass. When he reached the mouth of
the gully he did not turn into the shed, but
went on over the pebbles of the creek. His
bloodshot eyes, which almost started from
their sockets, glanced eagerly from side to
side. At last he saw the thing he sought,
and now that it was under him, within reach
of his hand, he dare hardly look upon it.

At the foot of a jagged crag that hung
heavily over from the cliff the body of Ewan

Mylrea lay dead and cold. There was no
mark of violence upon it save a gash on the
wrist of the left hand, and over the wound
there was a clot of blood. The white face lay
deep in the breast, as if the neck had been
dislocated. There were no other outward
marks of injury from the fall. The body was
outstretched on its back, with one arm  the
left arm  lying half over the forehead, and
the other, the right arm, with the hand open
and the listless fingers ajart, thrown loosely
aside.

Dan knelt beside the body, and his heart
was benumbed like ice. He tried to pray, but
no prayer would come, and he could not
weep.

Ewan ! Ewan ! ' he cried at length, and
his voice of agony rolled round the corpse
like the souo-hins; of the wind.

Ewan ! Ewan ! ' he cried again ; but only
the sea's voice broke the silence that followed.

Then Lis head fell on the cold breast, and his
arms covered the lifeless body, and he cried
upon God to have mercy on him, and to lift
up His hand against him and cut him off.

Presently he got on his feet, and, scarcely
knowing what he was doing, he lifted the
body in his arms, with the head lying backwards
on his shoulder, and the white face
looking up in its stony stare to the darkening
heavens. As he did so his eyes were raised
to the cliff, and there, clearly outlined over
the black crafts and against the somewhat
lighter sky, he saw the figure of a man.

He toiled along towards the shed. He
was so weak that he could scarce keep on his
legs, and when he reached the little place at
the mouth of the creek, he was more dead
than alive. He put the body to lie on the
bed of straw on which he had himself slept
and dreamt an hour before. Then all at once
he felt a low sort of cunning coming over

him, and he went back to the door and shut
it, and drew the long wooden bolt into its
iron hoop on the jamb.

He had hardly done so when he heard an
impatient footstep on the shingle outside. In
another instant the latch was lifted and the
door pushed heavily. Then there was a knock.
Dan made no answer, but stood very still and
held his breath. There was another knock,
and another. Then in a low tremulous murmur
there came the words,

Where is he ? God A'mighty !
he ? ' It was Davy Fayle. Another knock,
louder, and still no reply.

 Martha Dan, MasthaDan, they're coming ;
Martha Dan, God A'mighty ! '

Davy was now tramping restlessly to and
fro. Dan was trying to consider what it was
best to do, whether to open to Davy and hear
what he had to say, or to carry it off as if he
were not within, when another foot sounded

VOL. II. H

on the shingle and cut short his meditations.


Have you seen Mr. Ewan  Parson
Ewan ? '

Dan recognised the voice. It was the
voice of Jarvis Kerruish.

Davy did not answer immediately.

Have you seen him, eh ? '

No, sir,' Davy faltered.

Then why didn't you say so at once. It
is very strange. The people said he was
walking towards the creek. There's no way
out in this direction, is there ? '

Way out  this direction. Yes, sir,' Davy
stammered.

How ? show me the way.'

By the sea, sir.'

The sea ! Simpleton, what are you doing
here?'

Waiting for the boat, sir.'

What shed is this ? '

Dan could hear that at this question Davy-was
in a fever of excitement.

 Only a place for bits of net and cable,
and all to that,' said Davy eagerly.

Dan could feel that Jarvis had stepped upto
the shed, and that he was trying to look in
through the little window.

Do you keep a fire to warm your nets
and cables ? ' he asked in a suspicious tone.

At the next moment he was trying to
force the door. Dan stood behind. The bolt
creaked in the hasp. If the hasp should
give way, he and Jarvis would stand face to
face.

Strange  there's something strange about
all this,' said the man outside. ' I heard a
scream as I came over the Head. Did you
hear anything ? '

I tell you I heard nothing,' said Davy
sullenly.

Dan grew dizzy, and, groping for some

2

thing to cling to, his hand scraped across the
door.

 Wait ! I could have sworn I heard
something move inside. Who keeps the key
of this shed ? '

Kay ? There's never a kay at the like
of it.'

 Then how is it fastened ? From within ?
Wait  let me see.'

There was a sound like the brushing of a
hand over the outside face of the door.

Has the snow stopped up the keyhole,
or is there no such thing ? Or is the door
fastened by a padlock ? '

Dan had regained his self-possession by
this time. He felt an impulse to throw the
door open. He groped at his waist for the
dagger, but belt and dagger were both gone.

All this is very strange,' said Jarvis, and
then he seemed to turn from the door and
move away.

Stop. Where is the man Dan  the captain
? ' he asked, from a little distance.

I dunno said Davy stoutly.
 That's a lie, my lad.'

Then the man's footsteps went off in dull
beats on the snow-clotted pebbles.

After a moment's silence there was a soft
knocking ; Davy had crept up to the door.

Martha Dan,' he whispered, amid panting
breath.

Dan did not stir. The latch was lifted in
vain.

Martha Dan, Martha Dan.' The soft
knocking continued.

Dan found his voice at last.

Go away, Davy ; go away,' he said
hoarsely.

There was a short pause, and then there
came from without an answer like a sob.

I'm going, Martha Dan.'

After that all was silent as death. Half

an hour later, Dan Mylrea was walking
through the darkness towards Ballamona. In
his blind misery he was going to Mona. The
snow was not falling now, and m the lift of
the storm the sky was lighter than it had
been. As Dan passed the old church, he
could just descry the clock. The snow lay
thick on the face, and clogged the hands. The
clock had stopped. It stood at %n exactly.
The blind leading that is here of passion
by accident is everywhere that great tragedies
are done. It is not the evil in man's heart
more than the deep perfidy of circumstance
that brings him to crime.

CHAPTER XXI.

THE VOICE IN THE NIGHT.

However bleak the night, however dark the
mood of the world might be, there was a room
in Ballamona that was bright with one beautiful
human flower in bloom. Mona was there
Mona of the quiet eyes and the silent ways
and the little elfish head. It was Christmas
Eve nth her as with other people, and she
was dressing the house in hibbin and lolling
from a great mountain of both, that Hommes
had piled up in the hall. She was looking
very smart and happy that night in her
short body of homespun turned in from neck
to waist, showing a white habit shirt and a
white handkerchief crossed upon it ; a quilted

overshot and linen apron that did not fall so
low as to hide the open-work stockings and
the sandal-shoes. Her room, too, was bright
and sweet, with its glowing fire of peat and
logs on the wide hearth, its lamp on the
square oak table, and the oak settle drawn up
between them. In one corner of the settle,
bubbling and babbling and sputtering and
cooing amid a very crater of red baize cushions,
was Mona's foster-child, Ewan's motherless
daughter, lying on her back and fighting the
air with clenched fists.

While Mona picked out the hibbin from
the lolling, dissected both, made arches and
crosses and crowns and rosettes, and then
sprinkled flour to resemble snow on the red
berries and the green leaves, she sang an old
Manx ballad in snatches, or prattled to the
little one in that half articulate tongue that
comes with the instinct of motherhood to
every good woman that God ever makes.

I rede ye beware of the Carrasdoo men

As ye come up the wold ;

I rede ye beware of the haunted glen

But a fretful whimper would interrupt the

singer.

 Hush, hush, Ailee darling, hush.*
The whimper would be hushed, and again
there would be a snatch of the ballad : 

In Forby Curragh they dwell alone

By dark peat bogs, where the willows moan,

Down in a gloomy and lonely glen

Once again the whimper would stop the

song.

Hush, darling ; papa s coming to Ailee,
yes ; and Ailee will see papa, yes, and papa
will see Ailee, yes, and Ailee '

Then a long, low gurgle, a lovely head
leaning over the back of the settle and dropping
to the middle of the pillow like a lark to
its nest in the grass, a long liquid kiss on the
soft round baby legs, and then a perfect fit of
baby laughter.

It was as pretty a picture as the world
had in it on that bleak Christmas Eve. Whatever
tumult might reign without, there within
was a nest of peace.

Mona was expecting Ewan at Ballamona
that night, and now she was waiting for his
coming. It was true that when he was there
three hours ago it was in something like
anger that they had parted, but Mona recked
nothing of that. She knew Ewan's impetuous
temper no better than his conciliatory
spirit. He would come to-night as he had
promised yesterday, and if there had been
anger between them it would then be gone.

Twenty times she glanced at the little
clock with the lion face and the pendulum
like a dog's head that swung above the ingle.
Many a time, with head aslant, with parted
lips, and eyes alight, she cried ' Hark ! ' to the
little one when a footstep would sound in the
hall. But Ewan did not come, and meantime

the child grew more and more fretful as her
bed-time approached. At length Mona undressed
her and carried her off to her crib in the
room adjoining, and sang softly to her while
she struggled hard with sleep under the oak
hood with the ugly beasts carved on it, until
sleep had conquered and all was silence and
peace. Then, leaving a tallow dip burning on
the table between the crib and the bed, lest
perchance the little one should awake and cry
from fear of the darkness, Mona went back to
her sitting-room to finish off the last bunch
of the hibbin and lolling.

The last bunch was a bit of prickly green,
with a cluster of the reddest berries, and
Mona huno it over a portrait of her brother,
which was painted by a great artist from
England when Ewan was a child. The
Deemster had turned the portrait out of the
dining-room after the painful interview at
Bishop's Court about the loan and surety, and

Mona had found it, face to the wall, in a lum-bedroom.
She looked at it now with a new
interest. When she hung the lolling over it
she recognised for the first time a resemblance
to the little Aileen whom she had just put to
bed. How strange it seemed that Ewan had
once been a child like Ailee !

Then she began to feel that Ewan was
late in coming, and to make conjectures as
to the cause of his delay. Her father's house
was fast becoming a cheerless place to her.
More than ever the Deemster was lost to her.
Jarvis Kerruish, her stranger brother, was her
father's companion ; and this seemed to draw
her closer to Ewan for solace and cheer.

Then she sat on the settle to thread some
loose berries that had fallen, and to think of
Dan  the high-spirited, reckless, rollicking,
headstrong, tender-hearted, thoughtless, brave,
stubborn, daring, dear, dear Dan  Dan,
who was very, very much to her in her

great loneliness. Let other people rail at
Dan if they would ; lie was wrapped up
with too many of her fondest memories to
allow of disloyalty like that. Dan would
yet justify her belief in him. Oh yes, he
would yet be a great man, all the world
would say it was so, and she would be very
proud that he was her cousin  yes, her

cousin, or perhaps, perhaps And then

without quite daring to follow up that delicious
train of thought, even in her secret
heart, though none might look there and say
if it was maidenly, Mona came back to the
old Manx ballad and sang to herself another
verse of it : 

Who has not heard of Adair, the youth ?
Who does not know that his soul was truth ?
Woe is me ! how smoothly they speak,
And Adair was brave, and a man, but weak.

All at once her hand went up to her forehead,
and the words of the old song seemed to have
a new significance. Hardly had her voice

stopped and her last soft note ceased to ring
in the quiet room, when she thought she
heard her own name called twice  ' Mona !
Mona ! '

The voice was Ewan's voice, and it seemed
to come from her bedroom. She rose from
the settle, and went into her room. There
was no one there save the child. The little
one was disturbed in her sleep at the moment,
and was twisting restlessly, making a faint
cry. It was very strange. The voice had
been Ewan's voice, and it had been deep and
tremulous as the voice of one in trouble.

Presently the child settled itself to sleep,
all was silent as before, and Mona went back
to the sitting-room. Scarcely was she seated
afresh when she heard the voice again, and it
again called her twice by her name, ' Mona !
Mona ! ' in the same tremulous tone, but very
clear and distinct.

Then tremblingly Mona rose once more

and went into her room, for thence the voice
seemed to come. No one was there. The
candle burned fitfully, and suddenly the child
cried in its sleep  that strange night cry that
freezes the blood of one who is awake to hear
it. It was very, very strange.

Feeling faint, hardly able to keep on her
feet, Mona went back to the sitting-room, and
opened the door that led into the hall. No
one seemed to be stirring. The door of her
father's study opposite was closed, and there
was talking  the animated talking of two
persons  within.

Mona turned back, closed her door quietly,
and then, summoning all her courage, she
walked to the window and drew the heavy
curtains aside. The hoops from which they
hung rattled noisily over the pole. Putting
her face close to the glass, and shading her
eyes from the light of the lamp behind her,
she looked out. She saw that the snow had

fallen since the lamp had been lit at dusk.
There was snow on the ground, and thin
snow on the leafless boughs of the trees. She
could see nothing else. She even pushed up
the sash and called 

Who is there ? '

But there came no answer. The wind
moaned about the house, and the sea rumbled
in the distance. She pulled the sash
down again.

Then, leaving the curtain drawn back, she
turned again into the room, and partly to
divert her mind from the mysterious apprehensions
that had seized it, she sat down at
the little harpsichord that stood on the further
side of the ingle against the wall that ran at
right angles from the window.

At first her fingers ran nervously over
the keys, but they gained force as she went
on, and the volume of sound seemed to dissipate
her fears.

It is nothing,' she thought. ' I have
been troubled about what Ewan said to-day,
and I'm nervous  that is all.'

And as she played her eyes looked not
at the finger-board, but across her shoulder
towards the bare window. Then suddenly
there came to her a sensation that made her
flesh to creep. It was as if from the darkness
outside there were eyes which she could not
see looking steadily in upon her where she sat.

Her blood rushed to her head, she felt
dizzy, the playing ceased, and she clung by
one hand to the candle-rest of the harpsichord.
Then once more she distinctly heard
the same deep, tremulous voice call her by
her name  ' Mona ! Mona ! '

Faint and all but reeling she rose again,
and again made her way to the bedroom. As
before the child was restless in her sleep. It
seemed as if all the au' were charged. Mona
had almost fallen from fright when all at once

VOL. II. I

she heard a sound that she could not mistake,
and instantly she recovered some self-possession.


It was the sound of the window of her
sitting-room being thrown open from without.
She ran back and saw Dan Mylrea climbing
into the room.

 Dan ! ' she cried.

Mona.'

' Did you call ? '

When ? '

'- Now  a little while ago ? '

No.'

A great trembling shook Dan's whole
frame. Mona perceived it, and a sensation
of disaster not yet attained to the clearness of
an idea took hold of her.

 Where is Ewan ? ' she said.

He tried to avoid her gaze. ' Why do
you ask for him ? ' said Dan, in a faltering
voice.

 Where is he ? ' she asked again.

He grew dizzy and laid hold of the settle
for support. The question she asked was
that which he had come to answer, but his
tongue clave to his mouth.

Very pale and almost rigid from the
heaviness of a great fear which she felt but
could not understand, she watched him when
he reeled like a drunken man.

 He has called me three times. Where is
he ? He was to be here to-night,' she said.

 Ewan will not come to-night,' he answered,
scarcely audibly ; ' not to-night, Mona,
or tomorrow  or ever  no, he will never
come again.'

The horrible apprehension that had taken
hold of her leapt to the significance of his
words, and, almost before he had spoken, a
cry burst from her.

 Ewan is dead  he is dead ; Mona, our
Ewan, he is dead,' he faltered.

1 2

She dropped to the settle, and cried, in
the excess of her first despair, ' Ewan, Ewan,
to think that I shall see him no more 1 * and
then she wept. All the time Dan stood over
her, leaning heavily to bear himself up, trembling
visibly, and with a look of greatagony
fixed upon her, as if he had not the strength
to turn his eyes away.

 Yes, yes, our Ewan is dead,' he repeated
in a murmur that came up from his heart.
 The truest friend, the fondest brother, the
whitest soul, the dearest, bravest, purest,
noblest God ! God ! dead, dead !
Worse, a hundredfold worse  Mona, he is
murdered.'

At that she raised herself up, and a bewildered
look was in her eyes.

 Murdered ? No, that is not possible.
He was beloved by all. There is no one who
would kill him  there is no one alive with a
heart so black.'

 Yes, Mona, but there is lie said ; ' there
is one man with a heart so black.'

Who is he ? '

Who ! He is the foulest creature on
God's earth. Oh, God in heaven ! why was
he born ? '

Who is he ? '

He bowed his head where he stood before
her, and beads of sweat started from his brow.

 Cursed be the hour when that man was
born ! ' he said in an awful whisper.

Then Mona's despair came upon her like a
torrent, and she wept long. In the bitterness
of her heart she cried 

'Cursed indeed, cursed for ever! Dan,
Dan, you must kill him  you must kill that
man.'

But at the sound of that word from her
own lips the spirit of revenge left her on the
instant, and she cried, ' No, no, not that.'
Then she went down on her knees and made

a short and piteous prayer for forgiveness for
lier thought. ' Father,' she prayed, ' forgive
me. I did not know what I said. But
Ewan is dead ! Father, our dear Ewan
is murdered. Some black-hearted man has
killed him. Vengeance is Thine. Yes, I
know that. Father, forgive me. But to
think that Ewan is gone for ever, and that
base soul lives on. Vengeance is Thine ; but,
Father, let thy vengeance fall upon him.
If it is Thy will, let Thy hand be on him.
Follow him, Father ; follow him with thy

vengeance '

She had flung herself on her knees by the
settle, her upturned eyes wide open, and her
two trembling hands held above her head.
Dan stood beside her, and as she prayed a
deep groan came up from his heart, his
breast swelled, and his throat seemed to
choke. At last he clutched her by the shoulders
and interrupted her prayer, and cried,

'Mona, Mona, what are you saying  what
are you saying ? Stop, stop ! '

She rose to her feet.  I have done
wrong she said more quietly. ' He is in
God's hands. Yes, it is for God to punish
him.'

Then Dan said in a heartrending voice :

Mona, he did not mean to kill Ewan 
they fought  it was all in the heat of blood.'

Once more he tried to avoid her gaze, and
once more, pale and immovable, she watched
his face.

 Who is he ? ' she asked, with an awful
calmness.

Mona, turn your face away from me,
and I will tell you,' he said.

Then everything swam about her, and her
pale lips grew ashy.

Don't you know ? ' he asked in a
whisper.

She did not turn her face, and he was

compelled to look at lier now. His glaring
eyes were fixed upon her.

 Don't you know ? ' he whispered again,
and then in a scarcely audible voice he said,
It was I, Mona.'

At that she grew cold with horror. Her
features became changed beyond recognition.
She recoiled from him, stretching her trembling
hands before her as if to keep him off.

 Oh, horror ! Do not touch me ! ' she
cried faintly through the breath that came so
hard.

Do not spare me, Mona,' he said in a
great sob. ' Do not spare me. You do right
not to spare me. I have stained my hands
with your blood.'

Then she sank to the settle, and held her
head, while he stood by her and told her all 
all the bitter blundering truth  and bit by bit
she grasped the tangled tale, and realised the
blind passion and pain that had brought them

to such a pass, and saw her own unwitting
share in it.

And he on his part saw the product
of his headstrong wrath, and the pitiful
grounds for it, so small and so absurd as such
grounds oftener are. And together these
shipwrecked voyagers on the waters of life
sat and wept, and wondered what evil
could be in hell itself if man in his blindness
could find the world so full of it.

And Dan cursed himself and said 
 Oh, the madness of thinking that if either
were gone the other could ever again know
one hour's happiness with you, Mona. Ay,
though the crime lay hidden, yet would it
wither and blast every hour. And now, behold,
at the first moment, I am bringing my
burden of sin, too heavy for myself, to you.
I am a coward  yes, I am a coward. You
will turn your back upon me, Mona, and then
I shall be alone.'

Lie looked at him with infinite compassion,
and her heart surged within her as she
listened to his voice of great agony.

'Ah me ! and I asked God to curse you,'
she said. ' Oh, how wicked that prayer was !
Will God hear it ? Merciful Father, do not
hear it. I did not know what I said. I ama
blind, ignorant creature, but Thou seest and
knowest best. Pity him, and forgive him.
Oh, no, God will not hear my wicked prayer.'

Thus in fitful outbursts she talked and
prayed. It was as if a tempest had torn up
every tie of her soul. Dan listened, and he
looked at her with swimming eyes.

And do you pray for me, Mona,' he
said.

Who will pray for you if I do not ? In
all the world there will not be one left to
speak kindly of you if I speak ill. Oh, Dan,
it will become known, and every one will be
against you.'

 And can you think well of him who
killed your brother ? '

 But you are in such sorrow ; you are so
miserable.'

Then Dan's great frame shook woefully,
and he cried in his pain  ' Mercy, mercy,
have mercy ! What have I lost ? What
love have I lost ? '

At that Mona's weeping ceased ; she
looked at Dan through her lashes, still wet,
and said in another tone :

Dan, do not think me maidenly. If
you had done well, if you had realised my
hopes of you, if you had grown to be the good
and great man I longed to see you, then,
though I might have yearned for you, I would
rather have died with my secret than speak it.
But now, now that all this is not so, now that
it is a lost faith, now that by God's will you
are to be abased before the whole world  oh,
do not think me maidenly, now I tell you.

Dan, that I love you, and have always loved
you.'

 Mona ! ' he cried, in a low, passionate tone,
and took one step towards her and held out
his hands. There was an unspeakable language
in her face.

Yes ; and that where you go there I
must go also, though it were to disgrace and
shame '

She had turned towards him lovingly,
yearningly, with heaving breast. With a
great cry he flung his arms about her, and
the world of pain and sorrow was for that
instant blotted out.

But all the bitter flood came rushing back
upon them. He put her from him with a
strong shudder.

 We are clasping hands over a tomb,
Mona. Our love is known too late. We are
mariners cast on a rock within a cable's
length of harbour, but cut off from it by a

cruel sea that may never be passed. We are
hopeless within sight of hope. Our love is
known in vain. It is a vision of what might
have been in the days that are lost for ever.
We can never clasp hands, for, God ! a cold
hand is between us and lies in the hand of
both.'

Then again she fell to weeping, but suddenly
she arose as if struck by a sudden idea.

 You will be taken,' she said ; 'how can I
have forgotten it so long ? You must fly
from the island. You must get away tonight.
To-morrow all will be discovered.'

I will not leave the island,' said Dan
firmly.  Can you drive me from you ? ' he
said with a suppliant look. ' Yes, you do
well to drive me away.'

My love, I do not drive you from me.
I would have you here for ever. But you
wil be taken. Quick, the world is wide.'

There is no world for me save here,

Mona. To go from you now is to go forever,
and I would rather die by my own hand
than face such banishment.'

 No, no, not that ; never, never that.
That would imperil your soul, and then we
should be divided for ever.'

It is so already, Mona,' said Dan, with
solemnity.  We are divided for ever  as the
blessed are divided from the damned.'

Don't say that, don't say that.'

Yes, Mona,' he said, with a fearful calmness,
' we have thought of my crime as against
Ewan, as against you, myself, the world, and
its law. But it is a crime against God also,
and surely it is the unpardonable sin?'

 Don't say that, Dan. There is one great
anchor of hope.'

What is that, Mona ? '

Ewan is with God. At this moment
while we stand here together Ewan sees God.'

'Ah!'

Dan dropped to his knees with awe at
that thought, and drew off the cap which he
had worn until then, and bent his head.

Yes, he died in anger and in strife,' said
Mona ; ' but God is merciful. He knows the
feebleness of His creatures, and has pity.
Yes, our dear Ewan is with God ; now he
knows what you suffer, my poor Dan ; and he
is taking blame to himself and pleading for
you.'

No, no ; I did it all, Mona. He would
not have fought. He would have made
peace at the last, but I drove him on. ' I
cannot fight, Dan," he said. I can see him
saying it, and the sun was setting. Xo, it
was not fight, it was murder. And God will
punish me, my poor girl. Death is my just
punishment  everlasting death.'

Wait. I know what is to be done.'

What, Mona ? '

You must make atonement.'

How ? '

' You must give yourself up to justice and
take the punishment of the law. And so you
will be redeemed, and God will forgive you.'

He listened, and then said :

And such is to be the end of our love,
Mona, born in the hour of its death. You,
even you, give me up to justice.'

 Don't say that. You will be redeemed
by atonement. When Ewan was killed it was
woe enough, but that you are under God's
wrath is worse than if we were all, all slain.'

 Then we must bid farewell. The penalty
of my crime is death.'

No, no ; not that.'

I must die, Mona. This, then, is to be
our last parting.'

 And even if so, it is best. You must
make your peace with God.'

And you, my last refuge, even you send
me to my death. Well, it is right, it is just,

it is well. Farewell, my poor girl ; this is a
sad parting.'

 Farewell.'

 You will remember me, Mona ? '

Remember you ? When the tears I shed
for Ewan are dry, I shall still weep for you.'

There was a faint cry at that moment.

Hush ! ' said Mona, and she lifted one
hand.

It is the child,' she added. ' Come, look
at it.'

She turned, and walked towards the bedroom.
Dan followed her with drooping head,
The little one had again been restless in her
sleep, but now, with a long breath, she settled
herself in sweet repose.

At sight of the child the great trembling
shook Dan's frame again. ' Mona, Mona, why
did you bring me here ? ' he said.

The sense of his crime came with a yet
keener agony when he looked down at the

VOL. II. K

child's unconscious face. The thought flashed
upon him that he had made this innocent bale
fatherless, and that all the unprotected years
were before her wherein she must realise her
loss.

He fell to his knees beside the cot, and his
tears rained down upon it.

Mona had lifted the candle from the table,
and she held it above the kneeling man and
the sleeping child.

It was the blind woman's vision realised.

"When Dan rose to his feet he was a stronger
man.

Mona,' he said resolutely, ' you are right.
This sin must be wiped out.'

She had put down the candle, and was now
trying to take his hand.

 Don't touch me,' he said,  don't touch
me.'

He returned to the other room, and threw
open the window. His face was turned towards

the distant sea, whose low moan came up
through the dark night.

'Dan she murmured, ' do you think
we shall meet ao-ain ? '

Perhaps we are speaking for the last time,
Mona he answered.

Oh, my heart will break ! ' she said. ' Dan,'
she murmured again, and tried to grasp his
hand.

Don't touch me. Xot until later  not
until  until then!

Their eyes met. The longing, yearning
look in hers answered to the wild light in his.
She felt as if this were the last she was ever to
see of Dan in this weary world. He loved her
with all his great, broken, bleeding heart. He
had sinned for her sake. She caught both his
hands with a passionate grasp. Her lips
quivered, and the brave, fearless, stainless girl
put her quivering lips to his.

To Dan that touch was as fire. With a

e: 2

passionate cry he flung his arms about her.
For an instant her head lay on his breast.

Now go,' she whispered, and broke from
his embrace. Dan tore himself away, with
heart and brain aflame. Were they ever to
meet again ? Yes. At one great moment
they were yet to stand face to face.

The night was dark, but Dan felt the darkness
not at all, for the night was heavier within
him. He went down towards the creek. Tomorrow
he would give himself up to the
Deemster ; but to-night was for himself 
himself and it.

He went by the church. A noisy company
were just then trooping out of the porch into
the churchyard. There they gathered in little
knots, lit lanterns, laughed, and drank healths
from bottles that were brought out of their
pockets.

It was the breaking up of the Oiel Verree.

CHAPTER XXII.

ALONE, ALONE ALL, ALL ALONE !

When Dan got down to the creek the little
shed was full of the fisher-fellows. There were
Quilleash, Teare, Crennell, and the lad Davy.
The men wore their oilskins, as if they had
just stepped out of the dingy on the beach,
and on the floor were three baskets of cod and
ray, as if they had just set them down. The
fire of gorse was crackling on the hearth, and
Davy sat beside it, looking pale and ill.
He had watched Dan away from the shed,
and tliei>, trembling with fear, but girding
up his young heart to conquer it, he
had crept back and kept guard by the
body.

I couldn't give myself liberty to lave it
lie said, half fearfully, lifting his eyes to Dan's
as Dan entered. Then the men, who in the
first moment of horror had asked Davy fifty
questions, and got never an answer to any of
them, seemed to understand everything at once.
They made way for Dan, and he strode through
them, and looked down at the body, for it was
still lying where he had left it. He said nota
word.

When the men had time to comprehend in
its awful fulness what had occurred, they stood
together and whispered, cast side looks at Dan,
and then long searching looks at the body.
The certainty that Ewan was dead did not at
first take hold of them. There was no mark
of violence on the body except the wound above
the wrist, and suddenly, while the men stood
and looked down, the wound bled afresh. Then
old Quilleash, who was reputed to possess a
charm to stop blood, knelt beside Ewan, and

while all looked on and none spoke he
whispered his spell in the deaf ear.

A few good words can do no harm,' said
Crennell, the cook, who was a Quaker.

Old Quilleash whispered again in the dead
ear, and then he made a wild command to the
blood to cease flowing in the name of the three
godly men who came to Rome  Christ, Peter,
and Paul.

There was a minute of silence and the
blood seemed to stop. The men trembled ;
Davy, the lad, grew more pale than before, and
Dan stood as if in a stupor, looking down and
seeing all, yet seeing nothing.

Then the old man lifted his tawny face.
Cha marrow as clagli he said in another hoarse
whisper. ' He is dead as a stone.'

There was a deep groan from the throats
of the men ; they dropped aside, and awe fell
upon them. None of them spoke to Dan, and
none questioned the lad again ; but all seemed

to understand everything in some vague way.
Billy Quilleash sat on a block of a tree trunk
that stood at one side, and there was silence
for a space. Then the old man turned his face
to his mates and said,  I'm for a man sticking
up for a friend', I am.'

At that there was an uneasy movement
among the others.

Aw, yes, though, a man should stick to
this friend', he should, alow or aloft, up or down,'
continued Billy ; and after some twisting and
muttering among the other fisher-fellows he
went on,  You have to summer and winter a
man before you know him, and lave it to us
to know Martha Dan. We've shared meat,

shared work with him, and, d me soul !

nothing will hould me, but I'll stand up for
him now, sink or swim.'

Then one of the fellows said, ' Ay,' and
another said, say,' and a third  it was Crennell
said, ' A friend in need was more precious

nor good ' ; and then old Billy half twisted
his head towards Dan, but never once lifted
his eyes to Dan's face, and, speaking at him
but not to him, said they were rough chaps
maybe, and couldn't put out no talk at all,
never being used of it,but if there was something'
wrong, as was plain to see, and keeping' a quiet
tongue in your head was the way it was going',
and buskin' up for them as was after buskin'
up for his chums, why, a friend' was afrien', and
they meant to stand by it.

At that, these rough sea dogs with the big
hearts in their broad breasts took hold of each
other's hard hands in a circle about the body
of Ewan, whose white face looked up at them
in its stony stare, and there in the little lonely
shed by the sea they made their mutual pledge.

All that time Dan had stood and looked
on in silence, and Davy, sitting by the spluttering
fire, sobbed audibly while Uncle Billy
spoke.

We must put it away,' said old Billy ina
low tone, with his eyes on the body.

Ay,' said Ned Teare.

What's o'clock ? '

A piece past twelve.'

 Half-flood. It will be near the turn of
the ebb at three,' said Quilleash.

Xot another word of explanation was
needed, all understanding that they must
take the body of Ewan out to sea, and bury it
there after three o'clock next morning, so
that, if it stirred after it was sent down to its
long home, it must be swept away over the
Channel.

Hesse,' said one, and he put his hand
down to lift the body.

Shoo ! '

Dan himself stepped aside to let them pass
out. He had watched their movements with
wide eyes. They went by him without a word.
When they were gone, he followed them

mechanically, scarcely knowing what lie did.
Davy went after him.

The fishermen stepped out into the night.
In silence they carried the body of Ewan to
the dingy that lay on the beach. All got
into the boat and pushed oiF. It was very
dark now, but soon they came athwart the
hawse of the ' Ben-my-Chree,' which was lying
at anchor below low-water. They pulled uplifted
the body over the gunwale, and followed
it into the fishing-boat.

There's a good taste of a breeze,' said old
Quilleash.

In five minutes more they were standing
out to sea, with their dread freight of horror
and crime. They had put the body to lie by
the hatchways, and again and again they turned
their heads towards it in the darkness. It was
as though it might even yet stand up in their
midst, and any man at any moment might find
it face to face with him, eye to eye.

The wind was fresh outside. It was on
their larboard quarter as they made in long
tacks for the north. When they were well
away the men gathered about the cockpit and
began to mourn over Ewan, and to recount
their memories concerning him.

 Well, the young paton's cruise is up, and
a reel good man anyway.'

Aw, yes, there's odds of parsons, but the
like of him isn't in.'

 Poor Paton Ewan,' said Quilleash,  I
remember him since he was a wee skate in his
mother's arms  and a fine lady too. And him
that quiet, but thinking a dale maybe, with his
head a piece to starboard and his eyes fixed
like a figurehead, but more natural, and
tender uncommon. And game too. Aw, dear,
you should 'a seen him buck up to young Dan
at whiles.'

Game ? A hot temper at him for all, and
I wouldn't'trust but it's been the death of him.'

Well, man, lave it at that ; lave it, man.
Which of us doesn't lie ever in a bit of a breeze
either to port or starboard ? God won't be
hard on him for the temper. No, no, God '11
never be hard on a warm heart because it keeps
company with a hot head.'

Aw, but the tender he was ! ' said Crennell
the Quaker. 'And the voice like an organ
when it's like a flute, soft and low, and all a-
trembling' ! D'ye mind the day ould Betty
Kelly lost her little gel by the saver, the one
with the slander little stalk of a body, and the
head like a flower, and the eyes like a pair of
numbers playing in it ? You mind her, the
million ? Well, young Paton Ewan up and
went to Ballig-beg impatiently, and ould
Betty screaming and crying mortal, and
sMd die-l so she would, and what for should
you live? but och, boy, the way the paton
put out the talk at him, and the bit of a
spell at the praying'  aw, man alive, he

caulked the seams of the ould body wonderful.'


The man was free, as free as free said
old Quilleash. ' When he grew up it was,
How are you, Billy Quilleash ? " And when
he came straight from the College at Bishop's
Court, and all the learning at him, and the fine
English tongue, and all to that, it was '' And
how are you to-day, Billy ? " "I'm middling'
to-day, Martha Ewan." Aw, yes, yes, though,
a tender heart at him anyway, and no pride at
all at all.'

The old man's memories were not thrilling
to relate, but they brought the tears to his
eyes, and he wiped them away with his sleeve.

Still a quick temper for all, and when his
blood was up it was batten down your hatches,
my boys  a storm's coming,' said Ned Teare.

All at once they turned their faces in the
darkness to where Dan sat on the battened
hatches, his elbows on his knees, his head on

his hands, and a sort of shame took hold of
them at all this praise of Ewan. It was as if
every word must enter into Dan's soul Eke
iron. Then, hardly knowing what they did,
they began to beat about to undo the mischief.
They talked of the Deemster in his relation to
his son.

 Deed on Ewan  there was not much truck
atween them  the Deemster and him. It
wasn't natural. It was like as if a serpent
crawled in his ould soul, the craythur, and
spat out at the young paton.'

Then they talked of Jar vis Kerruish.

Och, scheming' and planning' regular, and
stirring' and stirring' and stirring' at the civil's
own gruel.'

 Aw, the Deemster's made many a man toe
the mark but I'm thinking he'll have to stand
to it when the big day comes. I'll go bail the
ould polecat's got summit to answer for in
this concern.'

Dan said nothing. Alone, and giving no
sign, he still sat on the hatches near where the
body lay, and, a little to aft of him, Davy
Fayle was stretched out on the deck. The
lad's head rested on one hand, and his eyes
were fixed with a dog's yearning look on the
dark outlines of Dan's figure.

They were doubling the Point of Ayr when
suddenly the wind fell to a dead calm. The
darkness seemed to grow almost palpable.

More snow coming'  let the boat drilOP,' said
old Billy Quilleash, and the men turned into
the cabin, only Dan and the body, with Davy,
the lad, remaining on deck.

Then, through the silence and the blank
darkness, there was the sound of large drops
of rain falling on the deck. Presently there
came a torrent which lasted about ten minutes.
When the rain ceased the darkness lifted away,
and the stars came out. This was towards
two o'clock, and soon afterwards the moon

rose, but before long it was concealed again by
a dense black turret cloud that reared itself
upwards from the horizon.

When Dan stepped aboard, a dull, dense
aching at his heart was all the consciousness
he had. The world was dead to him. He
had then no clear purpose of concealing his
crime, and none of carrying out the atonement
that Mona had urged him to attempt. He was
stunned. His spirit seemed to be dead. It
was as though it could awake to life again only
in another world. He had watched old Billy
when he whispered into Ewan's deaf ear the
words of the mystic charm. Without will or
intention he had followed the men when they
came to the boat. Later on a fluttering within
him preceded the return of the agonising sense.
Had he not damned his own soul for ever ?
That he had taken a warm human life ; that
Ewan, who had been alive, lay dead a few feet
away from him  this was nothing to the

VOL. II. L

horrible thought that he himself was going,
hot and unprepared, to an everlasting hell.
 Oh, can this thing have happened ? ' his
bewildered mind asked itself a thousand times
as it awoke as often from the half dream of a
paralysed consciousness. Yes, it was true
that such a thing had occurred. No, it was nota
nightmare. He would never, never awake in
the morning sunlight, and smile to know that
it was not true. No, no  true, true, true it
was, even until the Day of Judgment, and he
and Ewan stood once more face to face, and
the awful voice would cry aloud,  Go, get thee
hence.'

Then Dan thought of Mona, and his heart
was nigh to breaking. With a dumb longing
his eyes turned through the darkness towards
the land, and while the boat was sailing before
the wind it seemed to be carrying him away
from Mona for ever. The water that lay
between them was as the river that for all

eternity would divide the blessed and the
damned.

And while behind him the men talked, and
their voices fell on his ear like a dull buzz, the
last ray of his hope was flying away. When
Mona had prompted him to the idea of atonement,
it had come to him like a gleam of sunlight
that, though he might never, never clasp
her hands on earth, in heaven she would yet be
his, to love for ever and ever. But no, no, no ;
between them now the great gulf was fixed.

Much of this time Dan lay on the deck
with only the dead and the lad Davy for company,
and the fishing-boat lay motionless with
only the lap of the waters about her. The
stars died off, the darkness came again, and
then, deep in the night, the first grey streaks
stretching; alone; the east foretold the dawn.
Over the confines of another night the soft
daylight was about to break, but more utterly
lonely, more void to Dan was the great waste

of waters now that the striding light was
chasing the curling mists than when the darkness
lay dead upon it. On one side no object
was visible on the waters until sky and ocean
met in that great half circle far away. On the
other side was the land that was once called
home.

When the grey light came, and the darkness
ebbed away, Dan still sat on the hatches,
haggard and pale. Davy lay on the deck a
pace or two aside. A gentle breeze was rising
in the south-west. The boat had drifted many
miles, and was now almost due west oflp Peel-town,
and some five miles out to sea. The
men came up from below. The cold whiteface
by the hatchway looked up at them, and
at heaven.

*We must put it away now,' said Billy
Quilleash.

Ay, it's past the turn of the ebb,' said
Crennell.

Not another word was spoken. A man
went below and brought up an old sail, and
two heavy iron weights, used for holding down
the nets, were also fetched from the hold.
There was no singing out, no talking. Silently
they took up what lay there cold and stiff, and
wrapped it in the canvas, putting one of the
weights at the head and another at the feet.
Then one of the men  it was old Billy himself,
because he had been a bigger in his young
days  sat down with a sail maker's needle and
string, and began to stitch up the body in the
sail.

Will the string hold ? ' asked one.

 It will last him this voyage out  it's a
short one,' said old Billy.

Awe and silence sat on the crew. When
all was made ready, the men brought from
below a bank-board used for shooting the nets.
They lifted the body on to it, and then with
the scudding-pole they raised one end of the

board on to the gunwale. It was a solemn
and awful sight. Overhead the heavy clouds
of night were still rolling before the dawn.

Dan sat on the hatches with his head in his
hands and his haggard face towards the deck.
None spoke to him. A kind of awe had fallen
on the men in their dealings with him. They
left him alone. Davy Fayle had got up and
was leaning against the mitch-board. All
hands else gathered round the bank-board and
lifted their caps. Then old Quilleash went
down on one knee and laid his right hand on
the body, while two men raised the other end
of the board.  Dy dislike jeeah shin  God
prosper you ! ' murmured the old fisherman.

God prosper you ! ' echoed the others, and
the body of Ewan slid down into the wide
waste of waters.

And then there occurred one of those
awful incidents which mariners say have been
known only thrice in all the strange history

of the sea. Scarcely had the water covered
up the body, when there was a low rumble
under the wave circles in which it had disappeared.
It was the noise of the iron
weights slipping from their places at the foot
and at the head. The stitching was giving
way, and the weights were tearing open the
canvas in which the body was wrapped. In
another mute these weights had rolled out
of the canvas and sunk into the sea. Then
a tenable thing happened. The body, free
of the weights that were to sink it, rose to
the surface. The torn canvas, not yet
thoroughly saturated, opened out, and spread
like a sail in the breeze that had risen again.
The tide was not yet strong, for the ebb
had only just begun, and the body, floating
on the top of the water like a boat, began
to drive athwart the hawse of the fishing-boat
straight for the land. Xor was the
marvel ended yet. Almost instantly a great

luminous line arose and stretched from the
boat's quarter towards the island, white as a
moon's water-way, but with no moon to make
it. Flashing along the sea's surface for several
seconds, it seemed to be the finger of God
marking the body's path on the waters. Old
mariners, who can interpret aright the signs of
sea and sky, will understand this phenomenon
if they have marked closely what has been said
of the varying weather of this fearful night.

To the crew of the  Ben-my-Chree ' all
that had happened bore but one awful explanation.
The men stood and stared into
each other's faces in speechless dismay. They
strained their eyes to watch the body until
the strange light being gone  it became a
speck in the twilight of the dawn and could
be seen no more. It was as though an
avenging angel had torn the murdered man
from their grasp. But the worst thought
was behind, and it was this : the body of

Ewan Mylrea would wash ashore, the murder
would become known, and they themselves,
who had thought only to hide the crime of
Dan Mylrea, would now in the eyes of the
law become participators in that crime or
accessories to it.

Dan saw it all, and in a moment he was
another man. He read that incident by
another light. It was God's sign to the guilty
man, saying  Blood will have blood.' The
body would not be buried ; the crime would
not be hidden. The penalty must be paid.
Then in an instant Dan thrust behind him
all his vague fears, and all his paralysing
terrors. Atonement! atonement! atonement!
God Himself demanded it. Dan leapt to his
feet and cried :  Come, my lads, we must go
back  sheave hearty and away.'

It was the first time Dan had spoken
that night, and his voice was awful in the
men's ears.

CHAPTER XXIII.

ALONE ON A WIDE, WIDE SEA.

The wind strengthened, and the men hoisted
sail and began to beat in to the island. The
breeze filled the canvas, and for half an hour
the jib lay over the side, while the fishing-boat
scudded along like a startled bird. The
sun rose over the land, a thin, gauze obscuring
it. The red light flashed and died away
and fanned the air as if the wind itself were
the sunshine. The men's haggard faces caught
at moments a lurid glow from it. In the west
a mass of bluish cloud rested a little while on
the horizon, and then passed into a nimbus of
grey rain-cloud that floated above it. Such
was the dawn and sunrise of a fateful day.

Dan stood at the helm. When the speck
that had glided along the waters like a spectre
boat could be no more seen, he gazed in
silence towards the eastern light and the green
shores of morning. Then he had a sweet
half-home's blessed respite from terrible
thoughts. He saw calmly what he had done,
and in what a temper of blind passion he had
done it. 'Surely, God is merciful,' he thought,
and his mind turned to Mona. It relieved
him to think of her. She intertwined herself
with his yearning hope of pardon and peace.
She became part of his scheme of penitence.
His love for her was to redeem him in the
Father's eye. He was to take it to the foot of
God's white throne, and when his guilt came
up for judgment he was to lay it meekly
there, and look up into the good Father's
face.

The crew had now recovered from their
first consternation, and were no longer obeying

Dan's orders mechanically. They had come
aboard with no clear purpose before them,
except that of saving their friend ; but
nature is nature, and a pitiful thing at the
best, and now every man began to be mainly
concerned about saving himself. One after
one they slunk away forward and sat on the
thwart, and there they took counsel together.
The wind was full on their starboard beam,
the mainsail and yawl were bellied out, and
the boat was driving straight for home. But
through the men's half-bewildered heads there
ran like a cold blast of wind the thought that
home could be home no longer. The voices
of girls, the prattle of children, the welcome
of wife, the glowing hearth  these could be
theirs no more. Davy Fayle stayed aft with
Dan, but the men fetched him forward and
began to question him.

'Tarprit all this mysterious trouble tous,'
they said.

Davy held down his head, and made no
answer.

You were with him  what's it he's
after doing?'

Still no answer from the lad.

Out with it, you cursed young imp
said old Billy. ' Damn his fool's face, why
doesn't he spake ? '

It's the martha's secret, and I wunnit
tell it,' said Davy.

You wunnit, you idiot waits tree ? '

'No, I wunnit,' said Davy, stoutly.

Look here, ye beachcomber, snapping'
yer fingers at your old uncle that's after
bringing' you up, you pauper  what was it
going' coin' in the shed yonder ? '

It's his secret,' repeated Davy.

Old Billy took Davy by the neck as if he
had been a sack with an open mouth, and
brought down his other hand with a heavy
slap on the lad's shoulder.

Germ out, you young devil,' he said.

Davy took the blow quietly, but he stirred
not an inch, and he turned on his uncle with
great wide eyes.

 Germ out, scollop eyes ; ' and old Billy
lifted his hand again.

 Aise, aise,' said Crennell, interposing ;
and then, while Davy went back aft, the men
compared notes again.

It's plain to see,' said Ned Teare, ' it's
been a quarrel and maybe a fight, and he's
had a piece more than the better, as is only
natural, and him a big strapping chap as
strong: as a black ox and as straight as the
backbone of a herring, and he's been in hid-line,
and now he's after takin' a second
thought, and going' back and chance it.'

This reading of the mystery commended
itself to all.

It's aise for him to lay high like that,'
said Ned again.  If I was the old Bishop's

son I'd hould my luff too, and no hiding
neither. But we've got ourselves in for it,
so we have, and we're the common sort, so weare,
and there's never no sailing' close to the
wind for the like of us.'

And to this view of the situation there
were many gruff assents. They had come
out to sea innocently enough and by a kindly
impulse, but they had thereby cast in their
lot with the guilty man ; and the guilty man
had favour m high places, but they had none.
Then their tousled heads went together
again.

What for shouldn't we lay high, too ? '
whispered one ; which, with other whispers,
was as much as to say, why should they not
take the high hand and mutiny, and put Dan
into irons, and turn the boat's head and stand
out to sea ? Then it would be anywhere,
anywhere, away from the crime of one, and
the guilt of all.

 Hould hard,' said old Billy Quilleash,
ril spake to himself

Dan, at the tiller, had seen when the men
went forward, and he had also seen when some
of them cast sidelong looks over their shoulders
in his direction. He knew  she thought
he knew  the thought wherewith their brave
hearts were busy. They were thinking  so
thought Dan  that if he meant to throw himself
away they must prevent him. But they
should see that he could make atonement.
Atonement ? Empty solace, pitiful unction
for a soul in its abasement, but all that remained
to him  all, all.

Old Quilleash went aft, sidled up to the
helm, and began to speak in a stammering
way, splicing a bit of rope while he spoke,
and never lifting his eyes to Dan's face.

'- What for shouldn't we germ away to
Shetlands ? ' he said.

Why to Shetlands ? ' asked Dan.

Aw, it's safe and well we'll be when
we're there. Aw, yes, I've been there afore
to-day. They're all poor men there, but right
kind ; and what's it saying', " when one poor
man helps another poor man, God laughs." '

Dan thought he saw into the heart of the
old fellow. His throat grew hard and his
eyes dim, and he twisted his face away, keeping
one hand on the tiller. They should yet
be justified of their loyalty, these stout sea-dogs
 yes, God helping him.

 No, no, Billy,' he said, ' there's to be no
running away. We're going back to see it
out.'

At that old Quilleash threw off some of
his reserve.

Martha Dan,' he said,  we came out to
sea just to help you out of this peel, and because
we've shared work, shared meat with
you, and a friend' should stand to a friend' ; but
now we're in for it too, so we are, and what

VOL. II. M

you'll have to stand to we'll have to stand to,
and it'll be unknown to the law as we are
innocent as kittens ; and so it's every man
for himself and God for us all.'

Then Dan understood them  how had he
been blind so long to their position ?

 You want me to put about ; is that it ? '
he asked.

Old Quilleash nodded his head, still keeping
his eyes down.

 You think you'll be taken with me ? '

Old Quilleash made an abashed mutter of
assent. ' Aw, yes, as 'accessories before the
fac's,' he added.

At that Dan's great purpose began to
waver.

Don't fear, Billy,' he said, ' I'll speak up
for you.'

And that'll that go for ? Nothing'.
Haven't we been train' to put it away?'

That's true.'

It was a fearful situation. The cold sweat
rose in big beads on Dan's forehead. What
had he done ? He had allowed these brave
fellows to cast in their lot with him. They
were with him now for o:ood or ill. He misfht
say they were innocent, but what would his
word avail ? And he had no proof They
had tried to cover up his crime ; they could
not cover it ; God had willed that the crime
should not be hidden. And now, if he wished
to lose his life to save his soul, what right had
he to take the lives of these men also ? The
brave fellows had wives that waited for them,
and children that climbed their knees. Atonement
? Empty heroics, to be bought at the
price of the blood of yq loyal fellows whose
only crime was that they had followed him.
He had dressed himself in a proud armour of
self-sacrifice, but a righteous God, that sees
into the heart of man and hates pride and
brings it to the dust, had stripped him naked.

Dan's soul was in a turmoil. What
should he do ? On the one hand were love,
honour, Mona, even everlasting life ; and on
the other were five innocent men. The agony
of that moment was terrible. Atonement ?
God must have set His face against it.

Dan's hand rested on the tiller, but there
was no strength in his arm, because there was
now no resolve in his heart. The fishing-boat
was about three miles west of Jury Point,
going well before the wind. In half an hour
more it would run into the creek. It was now
to act or never. What was he to do ? What ?
What ?

It* was, then, in that moment of awful
doubt, when the will of a strong man might
have shrivelled up, that nature herself seemed
to give the answer.

All at once the wind fell again to a dead
calm. Then Dan knew, or seemed to know,
that God was with the men, and against him.

There was to be no atonement. No, there
was to be no proud self-sacrifice.

Dan's listless hand dropped from the tiller,
and he flung himself down in his old seat by
the hatches. The men looked into each other's
faces and smiled a grisly smile. The sails
flapped idly ; the men furled them, and the
boat drifted south.

The set of the tide was still to ebb, and
every boat's length south took the boat a
fathom farther out to sea. This was what
the men wanted, and they gathered in the
cockpit, and gave way to more cheerful
spirits.

Dan lay by the hatches, helpless and
hopeless, and more haggard and pale than
before. An unearthly light now fired his
'eyes, and that was the first word of a fearful
tale. A witch's Sabbath, a devil's revelry,
had begun in his distracted brain. It was as
though he were already a being of another

world. In a state of sdld hallucination lie
saw his own spectre, and he was dead. He
lay on the deck ; he was cold ; his face was
white, and it stared straight up at the sky.
The crew were busy about him ; they were
bringing up the canvas and the weights. He
new what they were going to do ; they were
going to bury him in the sea.

Then a film overspread his sight, and when
he awoke he knew that he had slept. He had
seen his father and Mona in a dream. His
father was very old, the white head was bent,
and the calm, saintly gaze was fixed upon
him. There was a happy thought in Mona's
face. Everything around her spoke of peace.
The dream was fresh and sweet and peaceful
to Dan when he woke where he lay on the
deck. It was like the sunshine and the carolling
of birds and the smell of new-cut grass.
Was there no dew in Heaven for parched lips,
no balm for the soul of a man accursed ?

Hours went by. The day wore on. A
passing breath sometimes stirred the waters,
and again all was dumb, dead, pulseless peace.
Hearing only the faint flap of the rippling
tide, they drifted, drifted, drifted.

Curious and very touching were the
chant-es that came over the feelings of the
men. They had rejoiced when they were
first becalmed, but now another sense was
uppermost. The day was cold to starvation.
Death was before them  slow, sure, relentless
death. There could be no jugglery. Then
let it be death at home rather than death on
this desert sea ! Anything, anything but this
blind end, this dumb end, this dying bit by
bit on still waters. To see the darkness come
again, and the sun rise afresh, and once more
the sun sink and the darkness deepen, and
still to lie there with nothing around but the
changeless sea, and nothing above but the
empty sky, and only the eye of God upon

them J while the winds and the waters lay in
His avenging hands  let it rather be death,
swift death, just or unjust.

Thus despair took hold of them, and drove
away all fear, and where there is no fear there
is no grace.

 share yn oik shone dooin na yn oik nigh
hone dooin,' said old Billy, and that was the
old Manx proverb that says that better is the
evil we know than the evil we do not know.

And with such shifts they deceived themselves,
and changed their poor purposes, and
comforted their torn hearts.

The cold, thick, winter day was worn far
towards sunset, and still not a breath of wind
was stirring. Gilded by the sun's hazy rays,
the waters to the west made a floor of bleared
red. The fishing-boat had drifted nearly ten
miles to the south. If she should drift two
miles more she must float into the southeastern
current that flows under Contrary

Head. At the thought of that, and the bare
chance of drifting into Peeltown Harbour, a
little of the vague sense of hopelessness seemed
to lift away. The men glanced across at Dan,
and one murmured : 'Let every herring hang
by its own gill ' ; and another muttered :
'Every man to the mill with his own sack
Davy Fayle lay on the deck a few paces
from Dan. The simple lad tried to recall the
good words that he had heard in the course
of his poor, neglected, battered life. One after
one they came back to him, most of them from
some far-away dreamland, strangely bright
with the vision of a face that looked fondly
upon him, and even kissed him tenderly.
Gentle Jesus,' and, ' Now I lay me down
to sleep '  he could remember them both
'pretty well, and their simple words went up
with the supplicatory ardour of his great-grown
heart to the sky on which his eyes
were bent.

The men lounged about, and were half
frozen. No one cared to go below. None
thought of a fire. Silence and death were in
their midst. Once again their hearts turned
to home, and now with other feelings. They
could see the island through the haze, and a
sprinkling of snow dotted its purple hills.
This brought to mind the bright days of
summer, and out of their hopelessness they
talked of the woods, and the birds, and the
flowers. ' D'ye mind my ould mother's bit
of a place up the glen,' said Crennell, ' an' the
wee croft afore it swaying and allowing same
as the sea in the softest taste of a south
breeze, and the red ling like a rod of good
running up the hedge, and the fuchsia
stretching' up the wall of the loft, and drooping
its red wrack like blood, and the green
mammon atop of the porch  d'ye mind it ? '
And the men said ' Ay,' and brushed their
eyes with their sleeves. Each hard man,

with despair seated on his rugged face,
longed, like a sick child, to lay his head in
the lap of home.

It was Christmas Day. Old Quilleash
remembered this, and they talked of Christmas
Days gone by, and what happy times
they had been. Billy began to tell a humorous
story of the two deaf men, Homme-beg,
the gardener, and Jemmy Quirk, the schoolmaster,
sino-vino; against each other at Oiel
Yerree ; and the old fellow's discoloured teeth,
with their many gaps between, grinned horribly
like an ape's between his frozen jaws
when he laughed so hard. But this was too
tender a chord, and soon the men were silent
once more. Then, while the waters lay cold
and clear and still, and the sun was sinking
in the west, there came floating to them from
the land, through the breathless air, the
sound of the church bells ringing at home.

It was the last drop in their cup. The

poor fellows could bear up no longer. More
than one dropped his head to his knees and
sobbed aloud. Then old Quilleash, in a
husky voice, and coarsely, almost swearing ashe
spoke, just to hide his shame in a way,
said, spitting from his quid,  Some chap pray
a spell.'  Ay, ay,' said another. ' Aw,
yes said a third. But no one prayed.
You, Billy,' said Ned Teare. Billy shook
his head. The old man had never known
a prayer. ' It was Paton Ewan that was
powerful at prayer,' said Crennell. ' You,
CrennelL' Crennell could not pray.

All lay quiet as death around them, and
only the faint sound of the bells was borne to
them as a mellow whisper. Then, from near
where Dan sat by the hatches, Davy Fayle
rose silently to his feet. None had thought
of him. With the sad longing in his big,
simple eyes, he began to sing. This was
what he sang : 

Lo ! He comes-with clouds descending,
Once for favoured sinners slain.

The lad's voice, laden with tears, floated away-over
the great waters. The men hung their
heads, and were mute. The dried-up well of
Dan's eyes moistened at last, and down his
hard face ran the glistening tears in gracious
drops like dew.

CHAPTER Xxii.

 there's gold on the shags yet.'

Then there came a breath of wind. At first
it was soft as an angel's whisper. It grew
stronger, and ruffled the sea. Every man
lifted his eyes and looked at his mates. Each
was struggling with a painful idea that perhaps
he was the victim of a delusion of the
sense. But the chill breath of the wind was
indeed among them.

Isn't it beginning to puff up from the
sou-west ? ' asked Crennell, in an uncertain
whisper. At that old Quilleash jumped to
his feet. The idea of the supernatural had
gone from him. ' Now for the sheets and to
make sail he cried, and spat the quid.

One after one the men got up and bustled
about. Their limbs were well-nigh frozen
stiff. All was stir and animation in an
instant. Pulling at the ropes, the men had
begun to laugh, yes, with their husky,
grating, tear-drowned voices, even to laugh
through their grisly beards. A gruesome
sense of the ludicrous had taken hold of
them. It was the swift reaction from solemn
thoughts. When the boat felt her canvas she
shook herself like a sea-bird trying her wings,
then shot off at full flight.

Bear a hand there. Lay on, man alive.
Why, you're going about like a brewing-pan,
old fellow. Pull, boy, pull. What
are your arms for, eh ? ' Old Quilleash's
eyes, which had been dim with tears a moment
ago, glistened with grisly mischief.
' Who hasn't heard that a Manxman's arms
are three legs ? ' he said with a hungry
grin. How the men laughed ! What

humour there was now in the haggard old
saw !

 Where are you for, Billy ? ' cried Corkell.

 Peel, boy, Peel, d it. Peel,' shouted

Quilleash.

 Hurroo ! Would fellow ! Ha, ha, he,
he.'

 Hurroo ! There's gold on the shags
yet.'

How they worked ! In two minutes the
mast was stepped, the mainsail and mizzen
were up, and they filled away and stood out.
From the shores of death they had sailed
somehow into the waters of life, and hope was
theirs once more.

They began to talk of what had caused
the wind.  It was the blessed Saint Patrick,'
said Corkell. St. Patrick was the
patron saint of that sea, and Corkell was
more than half a Catholic, his mother being a
fishwife from Kindle.

 Saint Patrick be ,' cried Ned Teare,

with a scornful laugh, and they got to words
and at length almost to blows.

Old Quilleash was at the tiller. ' Drop
it,' he shouted, * we're in the down stream
for Contrary, and we'll be in harbour in ten
minutes.'

God A' mighty ! it's running a ten-knots
tide,' said Teare.

In less than ten minutes they were sailing
under the castle islet up to the wooden
pier, having been eighteen hours on the
water.

Xot a man of the four had given a
thought to Dan, whether he wished to go
back to the island, or to make a foreign port
where his name and his crime would be unknown.
Only the lad Davy had hung about
him where he sat by the hatches. Dan's pale
face was firm and resolute, and the dream of
a smile was on his hard-drawn lips. But his

VOL. II. N

despair had grown into courage, and he knew
no fear at all.

The sun was down, the darkness was
gathering, and through the day mist the dew
fog was rising as the fishing-boat put to under
the lee of a lantern newly lighted, that was
stuck out from the end of the pier on a pole.
The quay was almost deserted. Only the old
harbour-master was there, singing out, as by
duty bound, his lusty oaths at their lumbering.
Never before did the old grumbler's
strident voice sound so musical as now, and
even his manifest ill-temper was sweet tonight,
for it seemed to tell the men that thus
far they were not suspected.

The men went their way together, and
Dan went off alone. He took the straightest
course home. Seven long miles over a desolate
road he tramped in the darkness, and
never a star came out, and the moon, which
was in its last quarter, struggling behind a

rack of cloud, lightened the sky sometimes,
but did not appear. As he passed through
Michael he noticed, though his mind was
preoccupied and his perception obscure, that
the street was more than usually silent, and
that few lights burned behind the window
binds. Even the low porch of the ' Three
Legs ' when Dan came to it was deserted, and
hardly the sound of a voice came from within
the little pot-house. Only in a vague way
did these impressions communicate themselves
to Dan's stunned intelligence as he plodded
along, but hardly had he passed out of the
street when he realised the cause of the desolation.
A great glow came from a spot in
front of him, as of many lanterns and torches
burning together, and though in his bewilderment
he had not noticed it before, the lights
lit all the air about them. In the midst of
these lights there came and went out of the
darkness the figures of a great company of

people, sometimes bright with the glare on
their faces, sometimes black with the deep
shadow of the torchlight.

Obscure as his ideas were, Dan comprehended
everything in an instant, and, chilled
as he was to the heart's core by the terrors of
the last night and day, his very bones seemed
now to grow cold within him.

It was a funeral by torchlight, and these
maimed rites were, by an ancient usage,
long disused, but here revived, the only
burial of one whose death had been doubtful,
or whose body had washed ashore on the
same day.

The people were gathered on the side of
the churchyard near to the high road, between
the road and the church. Dan crept up to
the opposite side, leapt the low cobble wall,
and placed himself under the shadow of the
vestry by the chancel. He was then standing
beneath the window he had leapt out of in his

effort to escape the Bishop on that Christmas
Eve long ago of his boyish freak at the Oiel
Verree.

About an open vault three or four
mourners were standing, and, a little apart
from them, a smoking and flickering torch
cast its light on their faces. There was the
Bishop, with his snowy head bare and deeply
bowed, and there by his elbow was Jarvis
Kerruish in his cloak and beaver, with arms
folded under his chin. And walking to and
fro, from side to side, with a quick, nervous
step, breaking out into alternate shrill cries
and harsh commands to four men who had
descended into the vault, was the little restless
figure of the Deemster. Behind these
and about them was the close company of the
people, with the light coming and going on
their faces, and a deep low murmur, as of
many whispers together, rising out of their
midst.

Dan shook from head to foot. His heart
seemed to stand still. He knew on what
business the mourners were met ; they were
there to bury Ewan. He felt an impulse to
scream, and then another impulse to turn
and fly. But he could not utter the least
cry, and quivering in every limb he could
not stir. Standing there in silence he
clung to the stone wall with trembling
fingers.

The body had been lowered to its last
home, and the short obsequies began. The
service for the dead was not read, but the
Bishop stretched out his hands above the
open vault and prayed. Dan heard the
words, but it was as if he heard the voice
only. They beat on his dazed, closed mind
as a seagull, blown by the wind, beats against
a window on a stormy night. While the
Bishop prayed in broken accents, the deep,
thick boom of the sea came up from the distant

shore between the low-breathed murmurs
of the people.

Dan dropped to his knees, breathless and
trembling. He tried to pray, too, but no
prayer would come. His mind was beaten,
and his soul was barren. His father's faltering
voice ceased, and then a half-stifled moan
burst from his own lips. In the silence the
moan seemed to fall on every ear, and the
quick ear of the Deemster was instantly
arrested.  AVho's that ? ' he cried, and
twisted about.

But all was still once more, and then the
people began to sing. It was a strange sight,
and a strange sound : the torches, the hard
furrowed faces in the flickering light, the
white-headed Bishop, the restless Deemster,
and the voices ringing out in the night
over the open grave. And from where
he knelt Dan lifted his eyes, and by the
light of the torches he saw the clock in

the cliurcli tower ; the hands still stood at
five.

He rose to his feet and turned away. His
step fell softly on the grass of the churchyard.
At one instant he thought that there
were footsteps behind him. He stopped, and
stretched his arms half fearfully towards the
sound. There was nothing. After he had
leapt the cobble wall he was conscious that
he had stopped again, and was listening as
though to learn if he had been observed.

CHAPTER XXV.

A RESURRECTION INDEED.

And now a strange accident befell him 
strange enough in itself, mysterious in its
significance, and marvellous as one of God's
own miracles in its results. He was going to
give himself up to the Deemster at Balla-mona,
but he did not any longer take the
high road through the village, for he shrank
fi-om every human face. Almost without
consciousness he followed the fenceless cart-track
that went by the old lead mine known
as the Cross Vein. The disused shaft had
never been filled up and never even enclosed
by a rail. It had been for years a cause of
anxiety, which nothing but its remoteness

on the lone waste of the headland had served
to modify. And now Dan, who knew every
foot of the waste, and was the last man to
whom danger from such an occasion might
have been feared, plodding along with absent
mind in the darkness, fell down the open
shaft.

The shaft was forty-five fathoms deep, yet
Dan was not so much as hurt. At the bottom
were nearly twenty-five fathoms of water,
the constant drainage of the old workings
which rose almost to the surface, or dropped
to a great depth, according to weather. This
had broken his fall. On coming to the surface,
one stroke in the first instant of dazed
consciousness had landed him on a narrow
ledge of rock that raked downward from the
seam. But what was his position when he
realised it ? It seemed to be worse than
death itself ; it was a living death : it was
burial in an open grave.

Hardly had he recovered his senses when
he heard something stirring overhead. Were
they footsteps, those thuds on the ear, like
the first rumble of a distant thunder cloud ?
In the agony of fear he tried to call, but his
tongue clave to his mouth. Then there was
some talking near the mouth of the shaft.
It came down to him like words shouted
through a black, hollow, upright pillar.

No use, men,' said one speaker,  not a
foot farther after the best man alive. It's
every man for himself, now, and I'll go bail
it's after ourselves they'll be going next.'

And then another voice, laden with the
note of pain, cried, 'But they'll take him,
Uncle Billy, they'll take him, and him known'
no thin.'

Drove it, drove it ! Come along, man
alive. Lave the lad to this d  d blather 
you'd better. Let's make a slant for it. The
fac's is agen us.'

Dan shuddered at the sound of human
voices. Buried, as he was, twenty-five fathoms
beneath the surface, the voices came to him
like the voice that the wind might make on
a tempestuous night if, as it reaches your
ear, it whispered words and fled away.

The men had gone. Who were they ?
What had happened ? Dan asked himself if
he had not remembered one of the voices, or
both. His mind was stunned and he could
not think. He could hardly be sure that in
very truth he was conscious of what occurred.

Time passed  he knew not how long or
short  and again he heard voices overhead,
but they were not the voices that he had
heard before.

 I apprehend that they have escaped us.
But they were our men nevertheless. I have
had advices from Peel that the boat put into
the harbour two hours ago.'

Mind the old lead shaft, sir.'

Dan was conscious that a footstep approached
the mouth of the shaft.

 What a gulf ! Lucky we didn't tumbledown.'


There was a short laugh  as of one who
was panting after a sharp run  at the mouth
of Dan's open grave.

This was the way they took, sir ; over
the head towards the Curraghs. They were
not half wise, or they would have taken the
mountains for it.'

They do not know that we are in pursuit
of them. Depend upon it they are
following him up to warn him. After all, it
may have been his voice that the Deemster
heard in the churchyard. He is somewhere
within arm's reach. Let us push on.'

The voices ceased, the footsteps died off.
Forty feet of dull, dead rock and earth had
carried the sounds away in an instant.
Stop ! ' cried Dan, in the hurry of fear.

Despair made him brave ; fear made him
fearless. There was no response. He was
alone once more, but Death was with him.
Then in the first moment of recovered consciousness
he knew whose voice it was that
he had heard last, and he thanked God that
his call had not been answered. It was the
voice of Jar vis Kerruish. In a2:onv of despair
Dan perceived that the first company of
men had been Quilleash and the fisher-fellows.
What fatality had prevented him fi:om
crying aloud to the only persons on earth
who could have rescued and saved him ?
Dan realised that his crime was known, and
that he was now a hunted man.

It was then that he knew how hopeless
was his plight. He must not cry for help ;
he must stand still as death in his deep tomb.
To be lifted out of this pit by the men who
were in search of him would be, as it would
seem, to be dragged from his hiding place,

and captured in a feeble effort to escape.
What then of his brave atonement ? Who
would believe that he meant to make it ? It
would be a mockery at which the veriest
poltroon might laugh.

Dan saw now that death encircled him on
every side. To remain in the pit was death ;
to be Hated out of it was death no less surely ;
to escape was hopeless. But not so soon is
hope conquered when it is hope of life. Cry
for help he must ; be dragged out of this
grave he should, let the issue be what it could
or would. To lie there and die was not
human. To live was the first duty, the first
necessity, be the price of life no less than
future death.

Dan looked up at the sky ; it was a small
square patch of leaden grey against the impenetrable
blackness of his prison walls.
Standing on the ledge of the rock, and
steadying himself with one hand, he lifted

the other cautiously upward to feel the sides
of the shaft. They were of rock, and were
quite precipitous, but had rugged projecting
pieces on which it was possible to lay hold.
As he grasped one of these, a sickening pang
of hope shot through him, and wounded him
worse than despair. But it was gone in an
instant. The piece of rock gave way in his
hand, and tumbled into the water below him
with a hollow splash. The sides of the shaft
were of crumbling stone !

It was then, in that blind labouring of
despair, that he asked himself why he should
struggle with this last of the misfortunes that
had befallen him. Was life so dear to him ?
Not so, or, being dear, he was willing to
lay it down. Was he not about to deliver
himself to the death that must be the first
punishment of his crime ? And what, after
all, wa there to choose between two forms
of death ? Nay, if he must die, who was no

longer worthy of life, better to die there, none
knowing his way of death, than to die on the
gallows.

At that thought his hair rose from its
roots. He had never rightly put it to himself
until now that if he had to die for the
death of Ewan he must die the death of
hanging. That horror of hanging which all
men have was stronger in Dan than in most.
With the 'grim vision before him of a shameful
and damning death it came to him to tell
himself that better, a thousand times better,
was death in that living tomb than the
death that awaited him outside it. Then he
thought of his father, and of the abasement
of that good man if so great a shame overtook
his son, and thereupon, at the same breath
with a prayer to God that he might die
where he was, a horrible blasphemy bolted
from his lips. He was in higher hands than
his own. God had saved him from himself.

VOL. II. o

At least he was not to die on the gallows. He
had but one prayer now, and it cried in its
barrenness of hope, ' Let me never leave this
place ! ' His soul was crushed as the moth
that will never lift wing again.

But at that his agony took another turn.
He reflected that, if God's hand was keeping
him from the just punishment of his crime,
God was holding him back from the atonement
that was to wash his crime away. At
this thought he was struck with a great
trembling. He wrestled with it, but it would
not be overcome. Had he not parted with
Mona with the firm purpose of giving himself
up to the law ? Yet at every hour since that
parting some impediment had arisen. First,
there were the men in the shed at the creek,
their resolve to bury the body, and his own
weak acquiescence ; then came the dead calm
out at sea when he stood at the tiller, and the
long weary drifting on the wide waters ; and

now there was tins last strange accident. It
was as if a higher will had willed it tha the
should die before his atonement could be
made. His spirit sank yet lower, and he was
for giving up all as lost. In the anguish of
despair he thought that in very deed it must
be that he had committed the unpardonable
sin. This terrible idea clung to him like a
leech at a vem. And then it came to him to
think what a mockery his dream of atonement
had been. \Yhat atonement could a bad man
make for spilling the blood of a good one ?
He could but send his own wasted life after
a life well spent. Would a righteous God
take that for a just balance ? Mockery of
mockeries ! No, no ; let him die Adhere he
now was, and let his memory be blotted out,
and his sin be remembered no more.

He tried to compose himself, and pressed
one hand hard at his breast to quiet the
labouring of his heart. He began to reckon

the moments. In this he had no object, or
none save only that mysterious longing of a
dying man to know how the hour drags on.
With the one hand that was free he took out
his watch, intending to listen for the beat of
its seconds ; but his watch had stopped \ no
doubt it was full of water. His heart beat
loud enough. Then he went on to count 
one, two, three. But his mind was in a
whirl, and he lost his reckoning. He found
that he had stopped counting, and forgotten
the number. Whether n minutes or fifty
had passed he could not be sure.

But time was passing. The wind began
to rise. At first Dan felt nothing of it as he
stood in his deep tomb. He could hear its
thin hiss over the mouth of the shaft, and
that was all. But presently the hiss deepened
to a sough. Dan had often heard of the
wind's sob. It was a reality, and no metaphor,
as he listened to the wind now. The

wind began to descend. With a great swoop
it came down the shaft, licked the walls,
gathered voice from the echoing water at the
bottom, struggled for escape, roared like a
caged lion, and was once more sucked up to
the surface, with a noise like the breaking of
a huge wave over a reef. The tumult of the
wind in the shaft was hard to bear, but when
it was gone it was the silence that seemed to
be deafening. Then the rain beoran to fall.
Dan knew this by the quick, monotonous patter
overhead. But no rain touched him. It
was driven aslant by the wind, and fell only
against the uppermost part of the walls of the
shaft. Sometimes a soft thin shower fell over
him. It was like spray from a cataract,
except that the volume of water from which
it came was above and not beneath him.

It was then in the deadly sickness of fear
that there came to Dan the dread of miscarrying
for ever if he should die now. He seemed

to see what it was to die the unredeemed. Not
to be forgiven, but to be for ever accursed, to
be cut off from the living that live in God's
peace  the dead darkness of that doom stood
up before him. Life had looked very dear to
him before, but what now of everlasting death?
He was as one who was dead before his death
came. Live he could not, die he dared not.
His past life rose up in front of him, and he
drank of memory's very dregs. It was all so
fearsome and strange that as he recalled its
lost hours one by one it was as if he were
a stranger to himself He saw himself, like
Esau, who for a morsel of meat had sold his
birthright, and could thereafter find no acceptance,
though he sought it with tears. The
Scripture leapt to his mind which says, ' It is
a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the
living God.'

And then from the past to the future his
mind went on in a rapid and ceaseless whirl.

He saw himself fleeing as from the face of a
dreadful judge. Tossed with the terror of a
dreadful doom, he saw his place in the world,
cold, empty, forsaken. He saw his old father,
too, the saintly Bishop, living under the burden
of a thousand sorrows, while he who was
the life of the good man's life, but his no
longer, was a restless, wandering soul, coming
as a cold blast of wind between him and his
heaven. That thought was the worst terror
of all, and Dan heard a cry burst from his
throat that roused echoes of horror in the
dark pit.

Then, as if his instinct acted without help
from his mind, Dan began to contemplate
measure for escape. That unexpected softness
of the rock which had at first appalled
him began now to give him some painful
glimmerings of hope. If the sides of the
shaft had been of the slate rock of the island
the ledge he had laid hold of would not have

crumbled in his hand. That it was soft
showed that there must be a vein of sandstone
running across the shaft. Dan's bewildered
mind recalled the fact that Orris Head was a
rift of red sand and soft sandstone. If this
vein were but deep enough his safety was
assured. He could cut niches into it with a
knife, and so, perhaps, after infinite pain and
labour, reach the surface.

Steadying himself with one hand, Dan
felt in his pockets for his knife. It was not
there ! Now indeed his death seemed certain.
He was icy cold and feverishly hot at
intervals. His clothes were wet ; the water
still dripped from them, and fell into the hidden
tarn beneath in hollow drops. But not
to hope now would have been not to fear.
Dan remembered that he had a pair of small
scissors which he had used three days ago in
scratching his name on the silver buckle of
his militia belt. When searching for his knife

he had felt it in his pocket, and spurned it
for resembling the knife to the touch of his
nervous fingers. Now it was to be his sole
instrument. He found it again, and with
this paltry help he set himself to his work
of escape from the dark, deep tunnel that
stood upright.

The night was wearing on ; hour after
hour went by. The wind dropped ; the rain
ceased to patter overhead. Dan toiled on step
over step. Resting sometimes on the largest
and firmest of the projecting ledges, he looked
up at the sky. The leaden grey had changed
to a dark blue, studded with stars. The
moon arose very late, being in its last quarter,
and much beset by rain clouds. It shone a
little way down the shaft, lighting all the
rest. Dan knew it must be early morning.
One star, a large, full globe of light, twinkled
directly above him. He sat long and watched
it, and turned ao;ain and aoain in his toilsome

journey to look at it. At one moment it
crept into this heart that the star was a symbol
of hope to him. Then he twisted back to his
work, and when he looked again the star was
gone  it had moved beyond his ken, it had
passed out of the range of his narrow spot
of heaven. Somehow it had been a mute
companion.

Dan's spirit sank in his cheerless solitude,
but he toiled on. His strength was far spent.
The moon died off, and the stars went out
one after one. Then a deep cloud of darkness
overspread the little sky above. Dan knew it
must be the darkness that precedes the dawn.
He had reached a ledge of rock that was wider
than any of the ledges that were beneath it.
Clearly enough a wooden rafter had lain along
it. Dan rested and looked up. At that moment
he heard the light patter of little feet
overhead. It was a stray sheep, a lamb of
last year's flock, wandering and lost. Though

he could not see it lie knew it was there, and
it bleated down the shaft. The melancholy
cry of the lost creature in that dismal place
touched a seared place on Dan's heart, and
made the tears which he had not shed until
now to start from his eyes. What old memory
did it awaken ? He could not recall it at
first, but then he remembered the beautiful
story which he had heard many times of the
lost lamb that came to the church porch at
the christening of Ewan. Was it strange
that there and then his thoughts turned to
Ewan's child, the babe that was innocent of
its great sorrows to come ? He began to wish
himself a little child again, walking by his
father's hand, with all the years rolled back,
and all the transgressions of the years blotted
out as a cloud, and with a new spirit sweet
and fresh, where now was a spirit seared and
old, and one great aching wound. In a moment
the outcast lamb went off, sending upas

it went, its pitiful cry into the night. Dan
was alone once more, but that visitation had
sweetly refreshed his spirit.

Then it came back to him to think that of
a surety it was not all one whether he died
where he was, never coming alive from his
open tomb, or died for his crime before the
faces of all men. He must live, he must live,
though not for life's sake, but to rob death of
its worst terrors. And as for the impediments
that had arisen to prevent the atonement
on which his mind was set, they were
not from God to lay his soul outside the
reach of mercy, but from the devil to beset
him and keep him back from the washing
away of his sin. This thought revived him,
and he turned to his task with a new resolve.

His fingers were chilled to the bone, and
his clothes clung like damp cerements to his
body. The meagre blades of the scissors were
worn short; they could .not last long. He

rose to his feet on the ledge of rock, and
plunged the scissors into the blank wall above
him, and at that a fresh disaster seemed to
overwhelm him. His hand went into soft
earth ; the vein of rock had finished, and
above it must be loose, uncertain mould !

He gasped at the discovery. A minute
since life had looked very dear. Must he
abandon his hopes after all ? He might
have been longer vexed with this new fear,
but that he recalled at that moment the words
spoken by Jarvis Kerruish as he went by on
the road that ran near the mouth of the shaft.
Was it not clear that Quilleash and the fisher-fellows
were being pursued as his associates ?
Without his evidence to clear them would
they not surely suffer, innocent though they
might be, and even though he himself lay
dead in this place. Now, indeed, he saw
that he must of a certainty escape from this
death in life, no difficulties conquering him.

Dan paused and reflected. As nearly as
lie could remember, lie had made twenty
niches in the rock. Hence he must be fully
thirty-five feet from the water and ten from
the surface. Only ten feet, and then freedom.
Yet these ten seemed to represent an impossibility.
To ascend by holes dug deep in
the soft earth was a perilous enterprise. A
great clot of soil might at any moment give
way above or beneath him, and then he would
be plunged once more into the pit. If he fell
from the side of the shaft he would be more
likely than at first, when he fell from the top,
to strike on one of the projecting ledges and
be killed before reaching the water.

There was nothing left but to wait for
the dawn. Perhaps the daylight would reveal
some less hazardous method of escape. Slowly
the dull, dead, impenetrable blackness was
lifted off. It was as though a spirit had
breathed on the night, and it fled away. When

the woolly hue of morning dappled his larger
sky, Dan could hear the slow beat of the
waves on the shore. The coast rose up before
his vision then, silent, solemn, alone with the
dawn. The light crept into his prison-house,
and he looked down at the deep black tarn
beneath him.

And now hope rose in his heart again.
Overhead he saw timbers running around and
across the shaft. These had been used to bank
up the earth, and to make two grooves in which
the ascending and descending cages had once
worked. Dan lifted up his soul in thankfulness.
The world was once more full of grace
even for him. He could climb from stay to
stay, and so reach the surface. Catching one
of the stays in his uplifted hands, he swung
his knee on to another. One stage he accomplished,
and then how stiff were his joints,
and how sinewless his fingers ! Another and
another stage he reached, and then four feet

and no more were between him and the gorse
that waved in the light of the risen sun across
the mouth of his night-long tomb.

But the rain of years had eaten into these
timbers. In some places they crumbled, and
were rotten. God ! how the one on which
he rested creaked under him at that instant.
Another minute, and then his toilsome journey
would be over. Another minute, and his
dead self would be left behind him, buried forever
in this grave. Then there would be a
resurrection in very truth. Yes, truly, God
helping him.

Half an hour later Dan Mylrea, with swimming
eyes and a big heart, was walking towards
the Deemster at Ballamona. The flush
of the sun newly risen, and the brighter
glory of a great hope newly born, was on his
worn and pallid cheek. What terrors had life
for him now ? It had none. And very soon
death also would lose its sting. Atonement !

atonement ! It was even as he had thought ;
a wasted life for a life well spent, the life of a
bad man for the life of a good one, but all he
had to give  all, all !

And when he came to lay his offering at
the merciful Father's feet it would not be
spurned.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER Xxii.

HOW Wax CAME TO CHURCH.

It is essential to the progress of this history
that we should leave Dan where he now
is, in the peace of a great soul newly awakened,
and ffo back to the beginning; of this Christmas
Day on shore.

The parish of Michael began that day withall
its old observances. While the dawn of
Christmas morning was struggling but feebly
with the night of Christmas eve a gang of the
baser sort went out with lanterns and long
sticks into the lanes, there to whoop and
beat the bushes. It was their annual hunting
of the wren. Before the parish had sat down
to its Christmas breakfast two of these lusty

enemies of the tiny bird were standing in the
street of the village with a long pole from
shoulder to shoulder and a wee wren suspended
from the middle of it. Their brave
companions gathered round and plucked a
feather from the wren's breast now and asrain.
At one side of the company, surrounded by a
throng of children, was Homme-beg, singing
a carol and playing his own accompaniment
on his fiddle. The carol told a tragic story of
an evil spirit in the shape of a woman who
pestered the island in the old days, of how
the people rose up against her to drive her
into the sea, and of how she turned herself
into a wren, and all on the holy day of the
blessed Saint Stephen. A boy, whose black
eyes danced with a mischievous twinkle, held
a crumpled paper upside down before the gardener,
and from this inverted text and score
the unlettered coxcomb pretended to play and
sing. The women came to their doors top

2

listen, and the men with their two hands in
their breeches' pockets leaned against the ends
of their houses and smoked and looked on
sleepily.

When the noisy crowd had passed, the
street sank back to its customary repose, broken
only by the voice of a child  a little auburn-haired
lassie, in a white apron tucked up in
fishwife fashion  crying, ' Shrimps, fine
shrimps, fresh shrimps ! ' and then by a
lustier voice that drowned the little lassie's
tones, and cried, ' Conger  conger eel  fine,
ladies  fresh, ladies  and bellies as big as
bishops ! Conger eel  con-ager ! '

It was not a brilliant morning, but the
sun was shining drowsily through a white
haze like a dew fog that hid the mountains.
The snow of the night before was not quite
washed away by the sharp rain of the morning
; it still lay at the eaves of the thatched
houses, and among the cobbles of the paved

pathway. The blue smoke was coiling up
through the thick air from every chimney
when the bells at Bishop's Court began torino;
for Christmas service. An old woman
here and there came out of her cabin in her
long blue cape and her mutch, and hobbled
along on a stick to church. Two or three
men in sea-boats, with shrinking nets over
their shoulders and pipes in their mouths,
sauntered down the lane that led by the
shambles to the shore.

Half an hour later, while the bells were
still ringing, and the people were trooping
into the chapel, the Bishop came out of his
house and walked down the path towards the
vestry. He had a worn and jaded look that
morning as if the night had gone heavily with
him, but he smiled when the women curtsied
as they passed, and waved his hand when the
men fumbled their caps. -

Good morning, and a merry Christmas to

you,' he said as lie went by the open porch
to Will as-thorn, the parish clerk, who was
tugging at the bell-rope there, bare-headed,
stripped to his sheepskin waistcoat with its
grey flannel sleeves, and sweating.

He hailed Billy the Gawk, too, the hoary
old dog turned penitent in his latter days.
 A merry Christmas, Billy, and may you live
to see many of them yet, please God ! '

Billy was leaning against the porch buttress
and taking alms if any offered them.

 Then it's not living it will be, my lord ;
it's lingering,' said this old Barriers.

And Jabez Gawne, the sleek little tailor,
had the Bishop's salutation as he passed on in
the ancient cloak with many buttons.

 A merry Christmas to you, Jabez, and a
good New Year.'

Aw 'deed, my lord,' said Jabez, with a
face as long as a fiddle, ' if the New Year's no
better than the ould one, what with quiet

times and hio'h rents and the children's
schooling;, it's o-oino; on the houses I'll be,
middling' safe.'

 Nay, nay, remember our old sajdng,
Jabez : the greater the calm the nearer the
south wind.'

As the Bishop was turning in at the vestry
door, blind Kerry and her husband Hommy
passed him, and he hailed them as he had
hailed the others.

I'm taking joy to see you so hearty, my
lord,' said the blind woman.

Yes, I'm well, on the whole, thank God ! '
said the Bishop ; ' and how are you, Kerry ? '

 I'm in, my lord, I'm in ; but distracted
mortal with the sights. Och, sir, it's allis
the sights, and the sights, and the sights ;
and it's Martha Dan that's in them still. This
morning, bless ye, when I woke, what should
it be, behold ye, but a company of great
ones from the big house itself, going down to

the churchyard with lanterns. Aw, 'deed it
was, sir, my lord, begging your pardon, though
it's like enough you'll think it's wake and a
kind of silly, as the saying' is.'

The Bishop listened to the blind woman's
garrulous tongue with a downcast head and
a look of pain, and said in a subdued voice
as he put his hand on the wooden latch of the
vestry door :

 It is not for me to laugh at you, Kerry,
woman. All night long I have myself been
tortured by an uneasy feeling, which would
not be explained or yet be put away. But
let us say no more of such mysteries. There
are dark places that we may never hope to
penetrate. Let it content us if, in God's
mercy and His wisdom, we can see the step
that is at our feet.'

So saying, the Bishop turned about and
passed in at the door. Kerry and her husband
went into the chapel at the west porch.

*It's just an ould angel he is,' whispered
Kerry, reaching up to Hommy's ear, as they
went by Will-as-thorn.

Aw, yes, yes,' said Homme-beg, ' a reel
ould archangel, so he is.'

And still the bells rang for the service
of Christmas morning.

Inside the chapel the congregation was
larger than common. There was so much
hand-shaking and ' taking of joy ' to be gone
through in the aisles and the pews that
Christmas morning that it was not at first
observed  except by malcontents like Billy
the Gawk and Jabez Gawne, to whom the
wine of life was mostly vinegar  when the
hour for beginning the service had come and
gone. The choir in the west gallery had
taken their places on either side of Will-ashore's
empty seat over the clock, with the
pitch-pipe resting on the rail above it, and,
opening their books, they faced about for

gossip. Then the bell stopped, having rung
some minutes longer than was its wont ; the
whispering was hushed from pew to choir,
and only the sound of the turning of the
leaves of many books disturbed the silence a
moment afterwards.

The Bishop entered the chancel, and, while
he knelt to pray, down like corn before a south
wind went a hundred heads on to the book-rail
before the wind of custom. When the Bishop
rose there was the sound of shuffling and settling
in the pews, followed by some craning
of necks in his direction and some subdued
whispering.

Where is Paton Ewan ? '
What's come of the young paton ? '
The Bishop sat alone in the chancel, and
gave no sign of any intention to commence
the service. In the gallery, the choir, books
in hand, waited for Will-ass Thorn to take his
seat over the clock ; but his place remained

empty. Tien, to the universal surprise, the
bell began to ring again. Steadily at first and
timidly, and after that with lusty voice the
bell rang out over the heads of the astonished
people. Forthwith the people laid those same
heads together and whispered.

What was agate of Paton Ewan ? Had
he forgotten that he had to preach that morning
? Blind Kerry wanted to know if some
of the men craythurs shouldn't just take a
lieu round to the ould Ballamona and wake
him up, as the saying is ; but Mr. Quirk, in
more ' gmtale ' phraseology, as became his
scholastic calling, gave it out as probable that
the young paton had only been making a
little bestower ' after breakfast, and gone a
little too far.

Still the bell rang, and the uneasy shuffling
in the pews grew more noticeable. Presently,
in the middle of an abridged movement
of the iron tongue in the loft, the head and

shoulders of Will as-thorn appeared m the
opening of the green curtain that divided the
porch from the body of the chapel, and
the parish clerk beckoned to Homme-beg.
Shambling to his feet and down the aisle
Hommy obeyed the summons, and then, amid
yet more vigorous bobbing together of many
heads in the pews, the schoolmaster, not to be
eclipsed at a moment of public excitement, got
up also and followed the gardener into the
porch. The whispering had risen to a sibilant
hiss that deadened even the bell's loud
clangour when little Jabez Gawne himself felt
a call to rise and go out after the others.

All this time the Bishop sat motionless in
the chancel, his head down, his face rather paler
than usual, his whole figure somewhat weak
and languid, as if continued suffering in silence
and in secret had at length taken the power of
life out of him. Presently the bell stopped
suddenly, and almost instantly little Jabez,

with a face as sharp as a pen, came back to his
pew, and Mr. Quirk also returned to his place,
shaking his head meantime with portentous
gravity. A moment later Will-as-Thorn appeared
inside the communion-rail, having put
on his coat and whipped the lash comb
through his hair, which now unlike a dozen
of wet dip candles down his forehead straight
for his eyes.

The dull buzz of gossip ceased, all was
dead silence in the chapel, and many necks
were craned forward as Will-as-Thorn was
seen to go up to the Bishop and steak to him.
Listening without much apparent concern
the Bishop nodded his head once or twice,
then rose immediately and walked to the
reading-desk. Almost at the same moment
Will-as-Thorn took his seat over the clock in
the little west gallery, and straightway the
service began.

The choir sang the psalm which they had

practised at the parish church the evening
before  ' It is good for me that I have been
in trouble, that I may learn thy statutes.'
For the first of his lessons the Bishop read the
story of Eli and of Samuel, and of the taking
by the Philistines of the ark of the covenant
of God. His voice was deep and measured,
and when he came to read of the death of Eli's
sons, and of how the bad news was brought
to Eli, his voice softened and all but broke.

 And there ran a man of Benjamin out of
the army, and came to Shiloh the same day
with his clothes rent, and with earth upon his
head.

And when he came, lo, Eli sat upon a
seat by the wayside watching ; for his heart
trembled for the ark of God. And when the
man came into the city, and told it, all the city
cried out.

And when Eli heard the noise of the crying,
he said, " What meaneth the noise of this

tumult? " And the man came in hastily and
told EH.

Now Eli was ninety and eight years old,
and his eyes were dim that he could not see.

sand the man said unto Eli, 'I am he that
came out of the army, and I fled to-day out
of the army." And he said, ' What is there
done, my son?" '

The Bishop preached but rarely now, and
partly for the reverence they always owed the
good man, and partly for the reason that they
did not often hear him, the people composed
themselves to a mood of sympathy as he
ascended the pulpit that Christmas morning.
It was a beautiful sermon that he gave them,
and it was spoken without premeditation, and
was loose enough in its structure. But it was
full of thought that seemed to be too simple
to be deep, and of emotion that was too deep
to be anything but simple. It touched on the
life of Christ, from His birth in Bethlehem to

His coming as a boy to the Temple where the
doctors sat, and so on to the agony in the
garden. And then it glanced aside, as touchingly
as irrelevantly, at the story of Eli and his
sons, and the judgment of God on Israel's
prophet. In that beautiful digression the
Bishop warned all parents that it was their
duty before God to bring up their children in
God's fear, or theirs would be the sorrow, and
their children's the suffering and the shame
everlasting. And then in a voice that could
barely support itself he made an allusion that
none could mistake.

Strange it is, and very pitiful,' he said,
that what we think in our weakness to be the
holiest of our human affections may be a snare
and a stumbling-block. Strange enough,
surely, and very sad, that even as the hardest
of soul among us all may be free from blame
where his children stand for judgment, so the
tenderest of heart may, like Eli of old, be

swept from the face of the living God for the
iniquity of his children, which he has not restrained.
But the best of our earthly passions,
or what seem to be the best, the love of the
mother for the babe at her breast, the pride of
the father in the son that is flesh of his flesh,
must be indulged with sin if it is not accepted
with grace. True, too true, that there are
those of us who may cast no stone, who should
offer no counsel. Like Eli we know that the
word of God has gone out against us, and we
can but bend our foreheads and say, "It is the
Lord, let Him do what seemeth Him good." '

When the sermon ended there was much
needless industry in searching for books under
the book-rail, much furtive wiping of the eyes,
much demonstrative blowing of the nose, and
in the midst of the benediction a good deal of
subdued whispering.

Aw, 'deed the ould Bishop bates the
young paton himself at putting out the talk

VOL, II. Q

studies like, and not so fiery maybe ; but,
man alive, the tender he is ! 

And d'ye mind that taste about Eli and
them two idiot waistrels Hofi*nee and Fin-pass?
'

And did ye observe the ould man trembling
mortal ? '

Och, yes, and I'll go bail it wasn't them
two backwards he was thinking of, at all at
all;

When the service came to an end, and the
congregation was breaking up, and Billy the
Gawk was hobbling down the aisle on a pair
of sticks, that hoary old sinner, turned saint
because fallen sick, was muttering something
about ' a reel good ould father,' and ' dirty like
than Dan,' and ' a thundering' rascal with all.'

A strange scene came next. The last of
the congregation had not yet reached the
porch, when all at once there was an uneasy
move among them like the ground swell

amonof the slioalin2:s before the storm comes
to shore. Those who were in front fell back
or turned about and nodded as if they wished
to say something; and those who were
behind seemed to think and wonder. Then,
sudden as the sharp crack of the first
breaker on a reef, the faces of the people fell
to a great heaviness of horror, and the air was
full of mournful exclamations, surprise, and
terror.

Lord ha' massy ! '

Dead, you say ? '

 Aw, dead enough.'

 Washed ashore by the Mooragh ? '

So they're say in', so they're saying.'

Hiain Jean myghin orrin  Lord have
mercy upon us ! '

Half a minute later the whole congregation
were gathered outside the west porch. Therein
the recess between the chapel and the house,
two men, fisher-fellows of Michael, stood

Q 2

surrounded by a throng of people. Something
lay at their feet, and the crowd made a circle
about it, looked down at it, and drew long
breaths. And when one after another came
up, reached over the heads of the others, and
saw what lay within, he turned away with
uplifted hands and a face that was white with
fear.

 Lord ha' massy ! Lord ha' massy ! ' cried
the people on every side, and their senses
were confused and overpowered.

What the dread thing Alas that lay at the
feet of the two fishermen does not need to be
said.

At the Mooragh, d'ye say  came ashore
- at the Mooragh ? '

 Ay, at the top of the flood.'

God bless me ! '

I saw it an hour before it drifted
in,' said one of the two grave fellows. * I
was down long shore shrinking, and it was a

good piece out to sea, and a heavy tide running.
" Lord ha' massy, what's that ? " I
says. " It's a gig with a sail," I was thinking,
but no, it was looking too small. It's a
diver, or maybe a solan goose with its wings
stretched out ; but no, it was looking too

big.'

Bless me ! Lord bless me ! '

 And when it came a piece nearer it was
into the sea I was going, breast high and
more, and I came nigh it, and saw what
it was  and frightened mortal, you go bail 
and away to the street for Jemmy here, and
back middling' sharp, and it griffin' and griffin'
on the beach by that time, and the water
flopping on it, and the two of us up with it
on to our shoulders, and straight away for
the Coort.'

And sure enough the fisherman's clothes
were drenched above his middle, and the
shoulders of both men were wet.

 Bless me ! bless me ! Lord ha massy ! '
echoed one, and then another, and once again
they craned their necks forward and looked
down.

The loose canvas that had been ripped
open by the weights was lying where the
seams were stretched, and none uncovered
the face, for the sense of hmnan death was
strong on all. But word had gone about
whose body it was, and blind Kerry, wringing
her hands and muttering something about the
sights, pushed her way to the side of the two
men, and asked why they had brought their
burden to Bishop's Court instead of taking it
to Ballamona.

 Aw, well,' they answered,  we were
thinking the Bishop was his true father, and
Bishop's Coort his true home for all.'

And that's true, too,' said Kerry, ' for
his own father has been worse than a hay-then
naygro to him, and lave it to me to

know, for didn't I bring the million into the
world ? '

Then there came a rush of people down
the road from the village. A rumors that
something horrible had washed ashore had
passed quickly from mouth to mouth, after
the fisherman had run up to the village for
help. And now in low, eager tones, questions
and answers came and went among the
crowd. ' Who is it ? ' 'Is it the captain ? '

What, Martha Dan ? ' ' That's what they're
saying up the street anyway. ' Wrapped ina
hammock  good Lord preserve us ! ' * Came
up in the sideways at the Mooragh  gracious
me ! and I saw him myself only yesterday.'

The Bishop was seen to come out of the
vestry door, and at the sight of him the
crowd seemed to awake out of its first stupor.

God help the Bishop ! ' ' Here he's coming.'

Bless me, he'll have to pass it by, going into
the house.' * The shock will kill the ould

man.' ' Poor tiling, poor thing ! ' ' Someone
must up, and break the bad newses to
him ' Aw, yes, for sure.'

And then came the question of who was
to tell the Bishop. First, the people asked
one Corlett Ballafayle. Corlett farmed a
hundred acres, and was a churchwarden, and
a member of the Keys. But the big man
said no, and edged away. Then they asked
one of the Turbans, but the brewer shook
his head. He could not look into the Bishop's
face and tell him a tale like that. At length
they thought of blind Kerry. She at least
would not see the face of the stricken man
when she took him the fearful news.

Aw, yes, Kerry, woman, it's yourself for
it, and a reel stout heart at you, and blind for
all, thank the Lord.'

 I'll try, please God,' said Kerry, and
with that she moved slowly towards the
vestry door, where the Bishop had stopped to

stroke the yellow curls of a little shy boy,
and to ask him his age next birthday, and to
wish him a merry Christmas and eighty more
of them, and all merry ones. It was observed
that the good man's face was brighter
now than it had been when he went into the
chapel.

The people watched Kerry as she moved
up to the Bishop. Could she be telling him ?
He was smiling ! Was it not his laugh that
they heard ? Kerry was standing before him
in an irresolute way, and now with a wave of
the hand he was leaving: her. He was coming;
forward. No, he had stopped again to speak
to old Auntie Nan from the Curragh, and
Kerry had passed him in returning to the
crowd.

I couldn't do it ; he spoke so cheerful,
poor thing,' said Kerry ; ' and when I was
going' to speak he looked the smitten picture
of my ould father.'

The Bishop parted from the old woman of
the Curragh, and then on raising his eyes he
became conscious of the throng by the porch.

Lave it to me,' said a rough voice, and
Billy the Gawk stepped out. The crowd fell
aside, and the fishermen placed themselves
in front of the dread thing on the ground.
Smiling and bowing on the right and left the
Bishop was passing on towards the door that
led to the house when the old beggar of the
highways hobbled in front of him.

We're right sorry, sir, my lord, to bring
ye bad newses,' the old man stammered,
lifting the torn cap from his head.

The Bishop's face fell to a sudden gravity.
 What is it ? ' he said, and his voice sank.

We're reel sorry, and we know your
heart was gripe to him with grains.'

Ay, ay,' said some in the crowd.

 What is it, man ? Speak,' said the
Bishop, and all around was silence and awe.

The old man stood irresolute for a moment.
Then, just as lie was lifting his head
to speak, and every eye was on the two who
stood in the midst, the Bishop and the old
beggar, there came a loud noise from near at
hand, and voices that sounded hoarse and
jarring were in the air.

Where is it ? When did they bring it
up ? Why is it not taken into the house ? '

It was the Deemster, and he came on with
great flashing eyes, and behind him was
Jarvis Kerruish. In an instant the crowd
had fallen aside for him, and he had pushed
through and come to a stand in front of the
Bishop.

We know what has happened. We have
heard it in the village,' he said. ' I knew
what it must come to sooner or later. I told
you a hundred times, and you have only
yourself to thank for it.'

The Bishop said not a word. He saw

what lay behind the feet of the fishermen, and
stepped lip to it.

 It's of your own doing shouted the
Deemster in a voice of no ruth or pity. ' You
would not heed my warning. It was easy to
see that the devil's own dues were in him.
He hadn't an ounce of grace in his carcase.
He put his foot on your neck, and threatened
to do as much for me some day. And see
where he is now ! Look at him ! This is
how your son comes home to you ! '

As he spoke, the Deemster pointed contemptuously
with the handle of his walking-cane
to the thing that lay between them.

Then the hard tension of the people's
silence was broken ; they began to mutter
among themselves and to propose and demur
to something. They saw the Deemster's
awful error, and that he thought the deadman
was Dan.

The Bishop still stood immovable, with

not the sign of a tear on his white face, but
over it the skin was drawn hard.

'And let me tell you one thing more
said the Deemster. ' Whoever he may be
that brought matters to this pass, he shall
not suffer. I will not lift a fino-er ag-ain't
him. The man who brings about his own
death shall have the burden of it on his own
head. The law will uphold me.'

Then a hoarse murmur ran from lip to lip
among the people who stood around, and one
man, a burly fellow, nerved by the Deemster's
error, pushed forward and said :

Deemster, be merciful, as you hope for
mercy ; you don't know what you're saying.'

At that the Deemster turned about hotly
and brought down his walking cane with a
heavy blow on the man's breast.

The stalwart fellow took the blow without
lifting a hand. ' God help you ! Deemster,'
he said in a thick voice, ' God help you ! you

don't know what you're doing. Go and look
at it, Deemster. Go and look, if you've the
heart for it. Look at it, man, and may the
Lord have mercy on you, and on us all in
our day of trouble, and may God forgive you
the cruel words you've spoken to your own
brother this day ! '

There was then a great silence for a moment.
The Deemster gazed in a sort of
stupor into the man's face, and his stick
dropped out of his hand. With a look of
majesty and of suffering the Bishop stood atone
side of the body, quiet, silent, giving no
sign, seeing nothing but the thing at his feet,
and hardly hearing the reproaches that were
being hurled at him in the face of his people.
The beating of his heart fell low.

There was a moment of suspense, and
then, breathing rapid, audible breath, the
Deemster stooped beside the body, stretched
out a half-palsied hand and drew aside the

loose canvas, and saw the face of his own son
Ewan.

One long exclamation of surprise and
consternation broke from the Deemster, and
after that there came another fearful pause,
wherein the Bishop went down on his knees
beside the body.

In an instant the Deemster fell back
to his savage mood. He rose to his full
height ; his face became suddenly and awfully
discoloured and stern, and, tottering almost
to falling, he lifted his clenched fist to the
sky in silent imprecation of heaven.

The people dropped aside in horror, and
their flesh crawled over them. ' Lord ha'
massy ! ' they cried again, and Kerry, who
was blind and could not see the Deemster,
covered her ears that she might not hear
him.

And from where he knelt the Bishop, who
had not spoken until now, said, with an awful

emphasis, ' Brother, the Lord of heaven looks
down on us.'

But the Deemster, recovering himself,
laughed in scorn of his own weakness no less
than of the Bishop's reproof. He picked up
the walking cane that he had dropped, slapped
his leg with it, ordered the two fishermen to
shoulder their burden again and take it to
Ballamona, and sent straightway for the coroner
and the joiner, for,' said he, 'my son
having come out of the sea must be buried
this same day.'

CHAPTER XXVII.

HOW THE NEWS CAME TO THE BISHOP.

The Deemster swung aside and went ofp,
followed by Jar vis Kerruish. Then the two
fishermen took up their dread burden and set
their faces towards Ballamona. In a blind
agony of uncertainty the Bishop went into his
house. His mind was confused ; he sat and
did his best to compose himself. The thing
that had happened perplexed him cruelly.
He tried to think it out, but found it impossible
to analyse his unlinked ideas. His
faculties were benumbed, and not even pain,
the pain of Ewan's loss, could yet penetrate
the dead blank that lay between him and a
full consciousness of the awful event. He
VOL. II. R

shed no tears, and not a sigh broke from him.
Silent he sat, with an expression of suffering
that might have been frozen in his stony eyes
and on his whitening lips, so rigid was it,
and as if the power of life had ebbed away
like the last ebb of an exhausted tide.

Then the people from without began to
crowd in upon him where he sat in his library.
They were in a state of great excitement, and
all reserve and ceremony were broken down.
Each had his tale to tell, each his conjecture
to offer. One told what the long shore
shrimper had said of finding the body near
the fishing ground known as the Mooragh.
Another had his opinion as to how the body
had sailed ashore instead of sinking. A third
fumbled his cap, and said, ' I take sorrow to
see you in such trouble, my lord, and wouldn't
bring bad newses if I could give myself lave
to bring good newses instead, but I'll go bail
there's been bad work going', and foul play as

they're saying', and I wouldn't trust but
Martha Dan  I'm saying I wouldn't trust

but Martha Dan could tell us something; *

The Bishop cut short the man's garrulity
with a slight gesture, and one by one the
people went out. He had listened to them in
silence and with a face of saintly suffering,
scarcely hearing what they had said. ' I mil
await events,' he thought, ' and trust in God.'
But a great fear was laying hold of him, and
he had to gird up his heart to conquer it. ' I
will trust in God,' he told himself a score of
times, and in his faith in the goodness of his
God he tried to be calm and brave. But one
after another his people came back and back
and back with new and still newer facts. At
every fresh blow from damning circumstances
his thin lips trembled, his nervous fingers ran
through his flowing white hair, and his deep
eyes filled without moving.

And after the first tempest of his own

B 2

sorrow for the loss of Ewan, lie thought of
Dan, and of Dan's sure grief He remembered
the love of Ewan for Dan, and the love
of Dan for Ewan. He recalled many instances
of that beautiful affection, and in the
quickening flow of the light of that love half
the follies of his wayward son sank out of
sight. Dan must be told what had occurred,
and if none had told him already, it was best
that it should be broken to him from lips that
loved him.

Thus it was that this brave and long
harassed man, trying to think ill of his own
harshness, that looked so impotent and so
childish now, remembering no longer his vow
never to set eyes on the face of his son, or
hold speech with him again, sent a messenger
to the old Ballamona to ask for Dan, and to
bring him to Bishop's Court without delay.

Half an hour later, at the sound of a knock
at his door, the Bishop, thinking it was Dan

himself, stood up to his stately height, and
tried to hide his agitation, and answered in
an unsteady voice, that not all the resolution
of his brave heart could subdue to calmness.
But it was the messenger, and not Dan, and
he had returned to say that Martha Dan had
not been home since yesterday, and that when
Martha Ewan was last seen at home he had
asked for Martha Dan, and, not finding him, had
gone down to the Lockjaw Creek to seek him.

 When was that ? ' the Bishop asked.

The ould body at the house said it might
be a piece after three o'clock yesterday evening,'
said the man.

Beneath the cold quietness of the regard
with which the Bishop dismissed his messenger,
a keener eye than his might have noted a
fearful tumult. The Bishop's hand grew cold
and trembled. At the next instant he had
become conscious of his agitation, and had
begun to reproach himself for his want of

faith. ' I will trust in God and await events
lie told himself again. ' !No, I will not speak ;
I will maintain silence. Yes, I will await the
turn of events, and trust in the good Father
of all'

Then there came another knock at his
door. ' Surely it is Dan at length ; his old
housekeeper has sent him on,' he thought.
Come in.' he called, in a voice that shook.

It was Homme-beg. The Deemster had
sent him across with a message.

And what is it ? ' the Bishop asked,
speaking at the deaf man's ear.

Homme-beg scratched his tousled head
and made no answer at first, and the Bishop
repeated the question.

 We're all taking sorrow for you, my lord
said Hommy, and then he stopped.

 What is it ? ' the Bishop repeated.

And right sorry I am to bring his
message.'

The Bishop's pale face took an ashy grey,
but his manner was still calm.

What did the Deemster send you to say,
Hommy ? '

The Dempster  bad less to him, and no
disrespect'  she sent me to tell you that they're
after stripping the canvas off, and, behold ye,
it's an ould sail, and they're knowing it by its
number, and what fishing-boat it came out of,
and all to that.'

Where did the sailcloth come from ? '
asked the Bishop, and his deep eyes were
fixed on Hommy.

 It's an ould  well, the fact is  to tell
you not a word of a lie  aw, my lord, what
matter  what if it is '

Where ? ' said the Bishop calmly, though
his lips whitened and quivered.

It's an old drift yawlsail of the '' ."
Aw, yes, yes, marten sure, and sorry
I am to bring bad newses.'

Homme-beg went out, and the Bishop
stood for some minutes in the thrall of fear.
He had been smitten hard by other facts, but
this latest fact seemed for the moment to
overthrow his great calm faith in God's power
to bring out all things for the best. He
wrestled with it long and hard. He tried to
persuade himself that it meant nothing. That
Ewan was dead was certain. That he came
by his death through foul play seemed no less
sure and terrible. But that his body had
been wrapped in sailcloth once belonging
to Dan's fishing-boat was no sufficient ground
for the terrible accusation that was taking
shape hi other minds. Could he accept the
idea ? Ah, no, no, no. To do so would be
to fly in the face of all sound reason, all
fatherly love, and all trust in the good Father
above. Though the sailcloth came from the
Ben-my-Chree,' the fact said nothing of where
the body came from. And even though it

were certain that the body must have been
dropped into the sea from the fishing boat
that belonged to Dan, it would still require
proof that Dan himself was aboard of her.

With such poor shifts the Bishop bore
down the cruel facts as one after one they
beat upon his brain. He tried to feel shame
of his own shame, and to think hard of his
own hard thoughts. ' Yes, I will trust in
God,' he told himself afresh, ' I will await
events, and trust in the good Father of all
mercies.' But where was Dan ? The Bishop
had made up his mind to send messengers to
skirr the island round in search of his son,
when suddenly there came a great noise as of
many persons talking eagerly, and drawing
hurriedly near and nearer.

A minute afterwards his library door was
opened again without reserve or ceremony,
and there came trooping into the room a
mixed throng of the village folk. Little

Jabez Gawne was at their head with a coat
and a hat held in his hands before him.

Cold as the day was the people looked hot
and full of puzzled eagerness, and their
smoking breath came in long jets into the
quiet room.

 My lord, look what we've found on the
top of Orrisdel,' said Jabez, and he stretched
out the coat, while one of the men behind him
relieved him of the beaver.

The coat was a long black cloth coat, with
lappets and tails and wristbands turned over.
The Bishop saw at a glance that it was
the coat of a clergyman.

Leave it to me to know this coat, my
lord, for it was myself that made it,' said
Jabez.

The Bishop's brain turned giddy, and the
perspiration started from his temples, but his
dignity and his largeness did not desert him.

 Is it my poor Ewan's coat ? ' he asked,

as he held out his hand to take it, but his
tone was one of almost hopeless misery and
not of inquiry,

That's true, my lord,' said Jabez, and
thereupon the little tailor started an elaborate
series of identification, based chiefly on points
of superior cut and workmanship. But the
Bishop cut the tailor short with a wave of
the hand.

 You found it on Orrisdale Head ? ' asked
the Bishop.

And one of the men behind pushed his
head between the shoulders of those who were
before him and said :

Aw, yes, my lord, not twenty yards from
the cliff, and I found something else beside
of it.'

Just then there was a further noise in
the passage outside the library, and a voice
saying

Germ out of the way, you old loblolly-boys,

bringing bad newses still, and glad of
them, too.'

It was Homme-beg returned to Bishop's
Court with yet another message, but it was a
message of his own and not of the Deemster's.
He pushed his way through the throng until
he came face to face with the Bishop, and then
he said :

The Dempster is after having the doctor
down from Ramsay, and the big man is
saying' the neck was broken, and it was a fall
that killed the young paton, and nothing
worse, at all at all.'

The large sad eyes of the Bishop seemed
to shine without moving as Hommy spoke,
but in an instant the man who had spoken
before thrust his word in again, and then the
Bishop's face grew darker than ever with
settled gloom.

It was myself that found the coat and
hat, my lord ; and a piece nearer the cliff I

found this, and this ; and then, down the brew
itself  maybe a matter of ten feet down  I
saw this other one sticking in a green carry of
grass and ling, and over I went, hand-underhand,
and brought it up.'

While he spoke the man struggled to the
front, and held out in one hand a belt, or
what seemed to be two belts buckled together
and cut across as with a knife, and in the
other hand two daggers.

A great awe fell upon every one at sight
of the weapons. The Bishop's face still
showed a quiet grandeur, but his breathing
was laboured and harassed.

 Give them to me,' he said, with an impressive
calmness, and the man put the belts
and daggers into the Bishop's hands. He
looked at them attentively, and saw that one
of the buckles was of silver, while the other
was of steel.

Has any one recognised them ? ' he asked.

A dozen voices answered at once that they
were the belts of the newly banded militia.

At the same instant the Bishop's eye was
arrested by some scratches on the back of the
silver buckle. He fixed his spectacles to examine
the marks more closely. When he had
done so he breathed with gasps of agony, and
all the cheer of life seemed in one instant to die
out of his face. His nerveless fingers dropped
the belts and daggers on to the table, and the
silver and the steel clinked as they fell.

There had been a dead silence in the room
for some moments, and then with a laboured
tranquillity the Bishop said, ' That will do ' ;
and stood mute and motionless while the
people shambled out, leaving their dread treasures
behind them.

To his heart's core the Bishop was struck
with an icy chill. He tried to link together
the terrible ideas that had smitten his brain,
but his mid wandered and slipped away.

Ewan was last seen going towards the creek ;
he was dead ; he had been killed by a fall ;
his body had come ashore in an old sail of the
 Ben-my-Chree ' ; his coat and hat had been
picked up on the top of Orrisdale Head, and
beside them lay two weapons and two belts,
whereof one had belonged to Dan, whose
name was scratched upon it.

In the crushing coil of circumstance that
was every moment tightening about him the
Bishop's great calm faith in the goodness of his
Maker seemed to be benumbed. ' Oh, my son, my
son ! ' he cried, when he was left alone.  Would
to God I had died before I saw this day ! Oh,
my son, my son ! ' But after a time he regained
his self-control, and said to himself
again, * I will trust in God ; He will make the
dark places plain.' Then he broke into short,
fitful prayers, as if to drive away by the
warmth of the spirit the chill that was waiting
in readiness to freeze his faith  * Make haste

unto me, God ! Hide not Thy face from
Thy servant, for I am in trouble.'

The short winter's day had dragged on
heavily," but the arms of darkness were now
closing round it. The Bishop put on his
cloak and hat and set off for Ballamona. In
length of days he was but little past his
prime, but the dark sorrow of many years had
drained his best strength, and he tottered on
the way. Only his strong faith that God
would remember His servant in the hour of
trouble gave power to his trembling limbs.

And as he walked he began to reproach
himself for the mistrust whereby he had been
so sorely shaken. This comforted him somewhat,
and he stepped out more boldly. He
was telling himself that, perplexing though
the facts might be, they were yet so inconclusive
as to prove nothing except that Ewan
was dead, when all at once he became conscious
that in the road ahead of him, grouped

about the gate of Ballamona, were a company
of women and children, all agitated and some
weeping, with the coroner in their midst,
questioning them.

The coroner was Quayle the Gyke, the
same who would have been left penniless by
his father but for the Bishop s intervention.

And when did your husband go out to
sea ? ' the coroner asked.

At flood tide yesterday,' answered one of
the women ; ' and my man, he said to me,
Lisa," he said, '' get me a bite of priddhas
and salt herein's for supper," he said ; " we'll
be back for twelve," he said ; but never a
sight of him yet, and me up all night till
daylight.'

 But they've been in and gone out to sea
again,' said another of the women.

 How d'ye know that. Mother Quilleash ? '
asked the coroner.

Because I've been taking a lieu round

VOL. II. s

to the creek, and there's a basket of ray and
cod in the shed,' the woman answered.

At that the Bishop drew up at the gate,
and the coroner explained to him the trouble
of the women and children.

 Is it you, Mrs. Corkell ? ' the Bishop
asked of a woman near him.

Aw, yes, my lord.'

 And you, too, Mrs. Teare ? '

The woman curtsied ; the Bishop named
them one by one, and stroked the bare head
of the little girl who was clinging to her
mother's cloak and weeping.

Then it's the " Ben-my-Chree " that has
been missing since yesterday at high water ? '
the Bishop said, in a sort of hushed whisper.

Yes, sure, my lord.'

At that the Bishop turned suddenly aside,
without a word more, opened the gate, and
walked up the path.  Oh, my son, my son,'
he cried in his bleeding heart, ' how have

you shortened my days ! How have you
clothed me with shame ! Oh, my son, my
son ! '

Before Ballamona an open cart was standing,
with the tail-board down, and the horse
was pawing the gravel which had once  on a
far different occasion  been strewn with the
blithe-bread.' The door of the house stood
ajar, and a jet of light from within fell on
the restless horse without. The Bishop entered
the house, and found all in readiness for
the hurried night burial. On chairs that
were ranged back to back a rough oak coffin,
like an oblong box, was resting, and from the
rafter of the ceiling immediately over it a
small oil lamp was suspended. On either
side of the hall were three or four men holding
brands and leathern lanterns, ready for
lighting. The Deemster was coming and
going from his own room beyond, attended
in bustling eagerness by Jarvis Kerruish.

s 2

Near the coffin stood the vicar of the parish,
father of the dead man's dead wife, and in
the opening of a door that went out from the
hall Mona stood weeping, with the dead man's
child in her arms.

And even as it is only in the night that
the brightest stars may truly be seen, so in
the night of all this calamity the star of the
Bishop's faith shone out clearly again, and
his vague misgivings fell away. He stepped
up to Mona, whose dim eyes were now fixed
on his face in sadness of sympathy, and with
his dry lips he touched her forehead.

Then, in the depth of his own sorrow and
the breadth of shadow that lay upon him, he
looked down at the little one in Mona's arms,
where it leapt and cooed and beat its arms
on the air in a strange wild joy at this gay
spectacle of its father's funeral, and his eyes
filled for what the course of its life would be.

Almost as soon as the Deemster was conscious

of the Bishop's presence in the house
he called on the mourners to make ready, and
then six men stepped to the side of the coffin.

Thorkell,' said the Bishop calmly, and
the bearers paused while he spoke, ' this haste
to put away the body of our dear Ewan is
unseemly, because it is unnecessary.'

The Deemster made no other answer thana
spluttered expression of contempt, and the
Bishop spoke again.

You are aware that there is no canon of
the Church requiring it, and no law of State
demanding it. That a body from the sea
shall be buried within the day it has washed
ashore is no more than a custom.'

 Then custom shall be indulged with custom,'
said Thorkell decisively.

Not for fifty years has it been observed,'
continued the Bishop ;  and here is an outrage
on reason and on the respect we owe to our
dead.'

At this the Deemster said : ' The body is
mine, and I will do as I please with it.'

Even the six carriers, with their hands on
the coffin, caught their breath at these words ;
but the Bishop answered without anger :
 And the graveyard is mine, in charge for
the Church and God's people, and if I do
not forbid the burial, it is because I would
have no wrangling over the grave of my dear
boy.'

The Deemster spat on the floor, and calledon
the carriers to take up their burden. Then
the six men lifted the coffin from the chairs,
and put it into the cart at the door. The
other mourners went out on to the gravel, and
such of them as carried torches and lanterns
lighted them there. The Old Hundredth was
then sung, and when its last notes had died
on the night air the princess cart went
jolting down the path. Behind it the
mourners raised themselves two abreast, with

the Deemster walking alone after the cart, and
the Bishop last of all.

Mona stood a moment at the open door in
the hall that was now empty and desolate and
silent, save for the babblings of the child in
her arms. She saw the procession pass through
the gate into the road. After that she went
into the house, drew aside the curtain of her
window, and watched the moving lights until
they stopped, and then she knew that they
were gathered about an open grave, and that
half of all that had been very dear to her in
this weary world was gone from it for ever.

CHAPTER Xxviii.

THE CHILD GHOST IN THE HOUSE.

After the coroner, Quayle the Gyke, had
gone through one part of his dual functions
at Ballamona, and thereby discovered that
the body of Ewan had been wrapped in a
sailcloth of the  Ben-my-Chree/ he set out
on the other part of his duty, to find the
berth of the fishing-boat, and, if need be, to
arrest the crew. He was in the act of leaving
Ballamona when, at the gate of the highroad,
he came upon the women and children
of the families of the crew he was in search
of, and there, at the moment when the Bishop
arrived for the funeral, he heard that the men
had been at sea since the middle of the previous

day. Confirmed in his suspicions, but
concealing; them, he returned to the village
with the terrified women, and on the way he
made his own sinister efforts to comfort them
when they mourned as if their husbands had
been lost. *Aw, no, no, no, never fear ; we'll
see them again soon enough, I'll go bail,' he
said, and in their guileless blindness the women
were nothing loth to take cheer from the
fellow's dubious smile.

His confidence was not misplaced, for
hardly had he got back to the village, and
stepped into the houses one after one, making
his own covert investigations while he
sandwiches his shrewd questions with solace,
when the fishermen themselves, old Quilleash,
Crennell, Teare, and Corkell, and the lad
Davy Fayle, came tramping up the street.
Then there was wild joy among the children,
who clung to the men's legs, and some
sharp nagging among the women, who were

by wifely duty bound to conceal their satisfaction
under a proper appearance of wrath.
*And what for had they been away all night?'
and ' Didn't they take shame at treating a
woman like dirt?' and 'Just like a man,
just, not caring a ha'p'orth, and a woman
up all night, and taking notions about drowning,
and more fool for it.'

And when at length there came a cessation
of such questions, and the fishermen sat
down with an awkward silence, or grunted
something in an evasive way about 'Women
preaching mortal,' and ' Never no reason in
them,' then the coroner began his more
searching inquiries. When did they run in
with the cod and ling that was found lying in
the tent ? Was there a real good 'strike' on
that they went out again at half-flood last
night ? Doing much outside ? No ? He
wouldn't trust but they were lying off the
Mooragh, eh ? Yes, you say ? Course,

course. And good ground, too. And where
was the capt'n ? Out with them ? He
thought so.

Everything the coroner asked save the
one thing on which his mind was set, but at
mention of the Mooragh the women forgot
their own trouble in the greater trouble that
was over the parish, and blurted out with
many an expletive the story of the coming to
shore of the body of Ewan. And hadn't they
heard the peel ? Aw, shocking, shocking !
And the young paton had sailed in their
boat, so he had ! Aw, terrible, terrible !

The coroner kept his eyes fixed on the
men's faces, and marked their confusion with
content. They on their part tried all their
powers of dissembling. First came a fine
show of ferocity. Where were their priddhas
and herrings ? Bad less to the women, the
idle, shouldering' craythurs, did they think a
man didn't want never a taste of nothing'

coming' in off the say, after working' for them
day and night same as hay then negroes, and
no thanks for it ?

It would not do, and the men themselves
were the first to be conscious that they could
not strike fire. One after another slunk out
of his house until they were all five on the
street in a group, holding their heads together
and muttering. And when at length
the coroner came out of old Quilleash's house,
and leaned against the mammon at the porch,
and looked towards them in the darkness, but
said not a word, their self-possession left them
on the instant, and straightway they took to
their heels.

Let's away at a slant over the Head and
give warning to Martha Dan,' they whispered ;
and this was the excuse they made to themselves
for their flight, just to preserve a little
ray of self-respect.

But the coroner understood them, and he

set his face back towards the churchyard,
knowing that the Deemster would be thereby
that time.

The Bishop had gone through the ceremony
at the grave side with composure,
though his voice when he spoke was full of
tears, and the hair of his uncovered head
seemed to have passed from iron-grey to
white. His grand calm face was steadfast,
and his prayer was of faith and hope. Only
beneath this white quiet as of a glacier the
red riot of a great sorrow was rife within him.

It was then for the first time in its fullness
that  undisturbed in that solemn hour
by coarser fears  he realised the depth of his
grief for the loss of Ewan. That saintly soul
came back to his memory in its beauty and
tenderness alone, and its heat and uncontrollable
unreason were forgotten. When he
touched on the mystery of Ewan's death his
large, wan face quivered slightly and he

paused ; but when he spoke of the hope of
an everlasting reunion, and how all that was
dark would be made plain and the Judge of
all the earth would do right, his voice grew
bold as with a surety of a brave resignation.

The Deemster listened to the short night-service
with alternate restlessness  tramping
to and fro by the side of the grave  and cold
self-possession, and with a constant hardness
and bitterness of mind, breaking out sometimes
into a liofht trill of laughter, or assail
into a hoarse gurgle, as if in scorn of the
Bishop's misplaced confidence. But the crowds
that were gathered around held their breath
in awe of the mystery, and when they sang
it was with such an expression of emotion
and fear that no man knew the sound of his
own voice.

More than once the Deemster stopped in
his uneasy perambulations, and cried ' What's
that ? ' as if arrested by sounds that did not

break on the ears of others. But nothing;
occurred to disturb the ceremony until it had
reached the point of its close, and while the
Bishop was pronouncing a benediction the
company was suddenly thrown into a great
tumult.

It was then that the coroner arrived, panting
after a long run. He pushed his way
through the crowd, and burst in at the grave-side
between the Bishop and the Deemster.

They've come ashore,' he said eagerly ;
the boat's in harbour and the men are here.'

Twenty voices at once cried ' Who ? ' but
the Deemster asked no explanation. ' Take
them,' he said, ' arrest them ; ' and his voice
was a bitter laugh and his face in the light
of the torches was full of malice and un-charity.


Jarvis Kerruish stepped out. ' Where are
they ? ' he asked.

 They've run across the Head in the line

of the Cross Yein/ the coroner answered ;
 but six of us will follow them.'

And without more ado he twisted about
and impressed the five men nearest to him
into service as constables.

How many of them are there ? ' said
Jarvis Kerruish.

Five, sir said the coroner, ' Quilleash,
Teare, Corkell, Crennell, and the lad Davy.'

 Then is he not with them ? ' cried the
Deemster, in a tone that went to the Bishop's
heart like iron.

The coroner glanced uneasily at the
Bishop, and said,  He was with them, and
he is still somewhere about.'

 Then away with you ; arrest them,
quick,' the Deemster cried in another tone.

But what of the warrant, sir ? ' said the
coroner.

Simpleton, are you waiting for that ? '
the Deemster shouted, with a contemptuous

sweep of the hand. Where have you been,
that you don't know that your own warrant
is enough ? Arrest the scoundrels, and you
shall have warrant enough when you come
back;

But as the six men were pushing their
way through the people, and leaping the
cobble wall of the churchyard, the Deemster
picked from the ground a piece of slate stone
that had come up from the vault, and scraped
his initials upon it with a pebble.

 Take this token, and go after them,' he
said to Jarvis Kerruish, and instantly Jarvis
was following the coroner and his constables,
with the Deemster's legal warranty for their
proceedings.

It was the work of a moment, and the
crowd that had stood with drooping heads
about the Bishop had now broken up in confusion.
The Bishop himself had not spoken ;
a shade of bodily pain had passed over his

VOL. II. T

pale face, and a cold damp had started from
his forehead. But hardly had the coroner
gone, or the people recovered from their bewilderment,
when the Bishop lifted one hand
to bespeak silence, and then said, in a tone
impossible to describe : ' Can any man say of
his own knowledge that my son was on the
Ben-my-Chree ' last night.

The Deemster snorted contemptuously,
but none made answer to the Bishop's question.


At that moment there came the sound of
a horse's hoofs on the road, and immediately
the old archdeacon drew up. He had been
preaching the Christmas sermons at Peeltown
that day, and there he had heard of the death
of his grandson, and of the suspicions that
were in the air concerning it. The dour
spirit of the disappointed man had never gone
out with too much warmth to the Bishop, but
had always been ready enough to cast contempt

on the * moonstruck ways ' of the man
who had  usurped ' his own place of preferment
; and now, without contrition or pity,
he was ready to strike his blow at the stricken
man.

I hear that the " Ben-my-Chree " has put
into Peel harbour.' he said, and as he spoke
he leaned across his saddle-bow, with his
russet face towards where the Bishop stood.

 Well, well, well ? ' cried the Deemster,
rapping out at the same time his oaths of
impatience as fast as a hen might have
pecked.

And that the crew are not likely to show
their faces soon,' the archdeacon continued.

Then you're wrong,' said the Deemster
imperiously,  for they've done as much
already. But what about their owner ? Was
he with them ? Have you seen him ? Quick,
let us hear what you have to say.'

The archdeacon did not shift his gaze from

T 2

the Bishop's face, but he answered the Deemster
nevertheless.

Their owner incas with them he said,
 and woe be to him. I had as Hef that a
millstone were hung about my neck as that I
stood before God as the father of that man.'

And with such charity of comfort the old
archdeacon alighted and walked away with
the Deemster at the horse's head. The goodman
had preached with unwonted fervour that
day from the Scripture which says, ' With
what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to
you again.'

In another instant the Bishop was no
longer the same man. Conviction of Dan's
guilt had taken hold of him. Thus far he
had borne up against all evil shown by the
strength of his great faith in his Maker to
bring out all things well. But at length that
faith was shattered. When the Deemster and
the archdeacon went away together, leaving

him in the midst of the people, he stood there,
while all eyes were upon him, with the stupid
bewildered look of one who has been dealt an
unexpected and dreadful blow. The world
itself was crumbling under him. At that first
instant there was something like a ghastly
smile playing over his pale face. Then the
truth came rolling over him. The sight was
terrible to look upon. He tottered backwards
with a low moan. When his faith went down
his manhood went down with it.

 Oh, my son, my son ! ' he cried again,
 how have you shortened my days ! How
have you clothed me with shame ! Oh, my
son, my son ! '

But love was uppermost even in that
bitter hour, and the good God sent the stricken
man the gift of tears. ' He is dead, he is
dead ! ' he cried ; ' now is my heart smitten
and withered Hke grass. Ewan is dead. My
son is dead. Can it be true ? Yes, dead,

and worse than dead. Lord, Lord, now let
me eat ashes for bread and mingle my drink
with weeping.'

And so he poured out his broken spirit ina
torrent of wild laments. The disgrace that
had bent his head heretofore was but a dream
to this deadly reality. ' Oh, my son, my
son ! Would God I had died before I saw
this day ! '

The people stood by while the unassuageable
grief shook the Bishop to the soul.
Then one of them  it was Thormod Myle-
christ, the bastard son of the rich man who
had left his offspring to public charity  took
the old man by the hand, and the crowd
parted for them. Together they passed out
of the churchyard, and out of the hard glare
of the torchlight, and set off for Bishop's
Court. It was a pitiful thing to see. How
the old father, stricken into age by sorrow
rather than years, tottered feebly on the way.

How low his white head was bent, as if the
darkness itself had eyes to peer into his
darkened soul.

And yet more pitiful was it to see how
the old man's broken spirit, reft of its great
bulwark, which lay beneath it like an idol
that was broken, did yet struggle with a vain
effort to glean comfort from its fallen faith.
But every stray text that rose to his heart
seemed to wound it afresh. ' As arrows in
the hand of a mighty man, so are children of
the youth. . . . They shall not be ashamed.
. . Oh, Absalom, my son, my son ! . . .
For thy sake I have borne reproach ; shame
hath covered my face. . I am poor and
needy ; make haste unto me, God. . . .
Hide not Thy face from Thy servant, for I amin
trouble. . God, Thou knowest my
foolishness. . . . And Eli said. It is the
Lord, let Him do as seemeth Him good. . . .
The waters have overwhelmed me, the streams

have gone over my soul ; the proud waters
have gone over my soul.'

Thus, tottering feebly at the side of Myle-
christ and leaning on his arm, the Bishop
went his way, and thus the poor dead soul of
the man, whose faith was gone, poured forth
its barren grief. The way was long, but they
reached Bishoj)'s Court at last, and at sight of
it a sudden change seemed to come over the
Bishop. He stopped and turned to Myle-
christ, and said with a strange resignation :

I will be quiet. Ewan is dead, and Dan
is dead. Surely I shall quiet myself as a child
that is weaned of its mother. Yes, my soul
is even as a weaned child.'

And, with the simple calmness of a little
child, he held out his hand to Mylechreest to
bid him farewell, and when Mylechreest, with
swimming eyes and a throat too full for
speech, bent over the old man's hand and put
his lips to it, the Bishop placed the other

hand on his head, as if he had asked for a
blessing, and blessed him.

Good night, my son,' he said simply, but
Mylechreest could answer nothing.

The Bishop was turning into his house
when the memory that had gone from him
for one instant of blessed respite returned,
and his sorrow bled afresh, and he cried
piteously. The inanimate old place was in a
moment full of spectres. For that night
Bishop's Court had gone back ten full years,
and if it was not now musical with children's
voices, the spirit of one happy boy still lived
in it.

Passing his people in the hall and on the
stairs, where, tortured by suspense, bewildered,
distracted, they put their doubts and
rumours together, the Bishop went up to the
little room above the library that had once
been little Danny's room. The door was
locked, but the key was where it had been for

many a day  though Dan m his headstrong
waywardness had known nothing of that  it
was in the Bishop's pocket. Inside the room
the muggy odour was of a chamber long shut
up. The little bed was still in the corner,
and its quilted counterpane lay thick in dust.
Dust covered the walls, and the floor also, and
the table under the window was heavy with
it. Shutting himself in this dusty crib, the
Bishop) drew from under the bed a glass-covered
case, and opened it, and lifted out oneby
one the things it contained. They were a
child's playthings  a whip, a glass marble, a
whistle, an old Manx penny, a tomtit's mossy
nest with three speckled blue eggs in it, some
pearly shells, and a bit of shrivelled seaweed.
And each joor relic as it came up
awoke a new memory and a new grief, and
the fingers trembled that held them. The
sense of a boy's sport and a boy's high
spirits, long dumb and dead, touched the

old man to the quick within these heavy
walls.

The Bishop replaced the glass-covered case,
locked the room, and went down to his library.
But the child ghost that lived in that gaunt
old house did not keep to the crib upstairs.
Into this book clad room it followed the
Bishop, with blue eyes and laughter on the
red lips ; with a hop, skip, and a jump, and
a pair of spectacles perched insecurely on the
diminutive nose.

Ten years had rolled back for the brokenhearted
father that night, and Dan, who was
lost to him in life, lived in his remembrance
only as a beautiful, bright, happy, spirited,
innocent child that could never grow older,
but must be a child for ever.

The Bishop could endure the old house
no longer. It was too full of spectres. He
would go out and tramp the roads the long
night through. Up and down, up and down,

through snow or rain, under the moonlight
or the stars until the day dawned, and the
pitiless sun should rise again over the heedless
sleeping world.

CHAPTER XXIX,

Br bishop's law or deemster's.

The Bishop had gone into the hall for his
cloak and hat when he came face to face with
the Deemster, who was entering the house.
At sight of his brother his bewildered mind
made some feeble efforts to brace itself up.

Ah, is it you, Thorkell ? Then you
have come at last. I had given you up.
But I am going out to-night. Will you not
come into the library with me ? But perhaps
you are going somewhere ? '

It was a painful spectacle, the strong brain
of the strong man tottering visibly. The
Deemster set down his hat and cane, and
looked wp with a cold mute stare in answer

to his brother's inconsequent questions. Then,
without speaking, he went into the Library,
and the Bishop followed him with a feeble,
irregular step, humming a lively tune  it was
Sally in Our Alley '  and smiling a melancholy,
jaunty, bankrupt smile.

'- Gilchrist,' said the Deemster, imperiously,
and he closed the door behind them as he
spoke, ' let us put away all pretence, and talk
like men. We have serious work before us, I
promise you.'

By a perceptible spasm of will the Bishop
seemed to regain command of his faculties, and
his countenance, that had been mellowed down
to most pitiful weakness, grew on the instant
firm and pale.

What is it, Thorkell? ' he said, in a more
resolute tone.

Then the Deemster asked deliberately,
what do you intend to do with the murderer
of my son ? '

What do I mean to do ? I ? Do you ask
me what I intend to do? ' said the Bishop, ina
husky whisper.

I ask you what you intend to do said
the Deemster, firmly. ' Gilchrist, let us make
no faces. You do not need that I should tell
you what powers of jurisdiction over felonies
are held by the Bishop of this island as its
spiritual baron. More than once you have
reminded me, and none too courteously, of
those same powers when they have served
your turn. They are to-day what they were
yesterday, and so I ask you adam. What do
you intend to do with the murderer of my
son? '

The Bishop's breath seemed suspended fora
moment, and then in broken accents he said
softly, ' You ask me what I intend to do with
the murderer of our Ewan  his murderer, you
say?'

In a cold and resolute tone the Deemster

said again,  His murderer and bowed
stiffly.

The Bishop's confusion seemed to overwhelm
him.  Is it not assuming too much,
Thorkell ? ' he said, and while his fingers
trembled as he unlaced them before him, the
same sad smile as before passed across his
face.

Listen, and say whether it is so or not,'
said the Deemster, with a manner of rigid impassibility.
 At three o'clock yesterday my
son left me at my own house with the declared
purpose of going in search of your son. With
what object ? Wait. At half-past three he
asked for your son at the house they shared
together. He was then told that your son
would be found at the village. Before four
o'clock he enquired for him at the village pothouse,
your son's daily and nightly haunt.
There he was told that the man he wanted had
been seen going down towards the creek, the

frequent anchorage of the fishing smack, the
Ben-my-Chree," with which he has frittered
away his time and your money. As the parish
clock was striking four he was seen in the lane
leading to the creek, walking briskly down toit.
He was never seen again.'

My brother, my brother, what proof is
there in that ? ' said the Bishop, with a gesture
of protestation.

Listen. That creek under the Head of
Orrisdale is known to the fisher-folk as the
Lockjaw. Do you need to be told why?
Because there is only one road out of it. My
son went into the creek, but he never left it
alive.'

How is this known, Thorkell?'

How ? In this way. Almost immediately
my son had gone from my house Jarvis
Kerruish went after him, to overtake him and
bring him back. Not knowing the course,
Jarvis had to feel his way and enquire, but

VOL. II. u

he came ujDon his trace at last, and followed
Ewan on the road he had taken, and reached
the creek soon after the parish clock struck
five. Now, if my son had returned as he went,
Jar vis Kerruish must have met him.'

Patience, TLorkell, have patience,' said
the Bishop. ' If Ewan found Dan at the
Lockjaw Creek, why did not the young man
Jarvis find both of them there ? '

Why ? ' the Deemster echoed,  because the
one was dead, and the other in hiding.'

The Bishop was standing at that moment
by the table, and one hand was touching something
that lay upon it. A cry that was half a
sigh and half a suppressed scream of terror
burst from him. The Deemster understood it
not, but set it down to the searching dower of
his own words. Shuddering from head to
foot the Bishop looked down at the thing his
hand had touched. It was the militia belt.
He had left it where it had fallen from his

fingers when the men brought it to him. Beside
it, half hidden by many books and papers,
the two small daggers lay.

Then a little low cunning crept over the
heart of that saintly man, and he glanced up
into his brother's face with a dissembled look,
not of enquiry, but of supplication. The
Deemster's face was imperious, and his eyes
betrayed no discovery. He had seen nothing.

 You make me shudder, Thorkell,' the
Bishop murmured, and while he spoke he lifted
the belt and daggers furtively amid a chaos of
loose papers, and whipped them into the door
of a cabinet that stood open.

His duplicity had succeeded; not even
the hollow ring of his voice had awakened
suspicion, but he sat down with a crushed
and abject mien. His manhood had gone,
shame overwhelmed him, and he ceased to
contend.

I said there was only one way out of the

u 2

creek,' said the Deemster, ' but there are
two.'

Ah!'

The other way is by the sea. My son
took that way, but he took it as a dead man,
and when he came ashore he was wrapped for
sea-burial  by ignorant bunglers who had
never buried a body at sea before  in a sailcloth
of the " Ben-my-Chree." '

The Bishop groaned, and wiped his forehead.


Do you ask for further evidence ? ' said
the Deemster, in a relentless voice. ' If so, it
is at hand. Where was the " Ben-my-Chree "
last night? It was on the sea. Last night
was Christmas Eve, a night of twenty old
Manx customs. Where were the boat's crew
and owner ? They were away from their
homes. To-day was Christmas Day. Where
were the men? Their wives and children
were waiting for some of them to eat with

them their Christmas dinner and drink their
Christmas ale. But they were not in their
houses, and no one knew where they were.
Can circumstances be more damning? Speak,
and say. Don't wring your hands ; be a man,
and look me in the face.'

 Have mercy, Thorkell,' the Bishop murmured,
utterly prostrate. But the Deemster
went on to lash him as a brutal master whips
a broken-winded horse.

 When the " Ben-my-Chree" came into harbour
to-night what was the behaviour of crew
and owner ? Did they go about their business
as they are wont to do when wind and tide
has kept them too long at sea? Did they
show their faces before suspicion as men should
who have no fear? No. They skulked away.
They fled from question. At this moment
they are being pursued.'

The Bishop covered his face with his
hands.

And so I ask you again,' resumed the
Deemster, ' what do you intend to do with the
murderer of my son? '

Oh, Dan, Dan, my boy, my boy ! ' the
Bishop sobbed, and for a moment his grief
mastered all other emotions.

Ah ! see how it is ! You name your son,
and you know that he is guilty.'

The Bishop lifted up his head, and his eyes
flashed. ' I do not know that my son is
guilty,' he said in a tone that made the Deemster
pause. But, speedily recovering his self-command,
the Deemster continued in a tone
of confidence, ' Your conscience tells you that
it is so.'

The Bishop's spirit was broken in a moment.


What would you have me do, Thorkell? '

To present your son for murder in the
court of your barony.'

Man, man, do you wish to abase me? said

the Bishop. ' Do you come to drive me to
despair ? Is it not enough that I am bent to
the very earth with grief but that you of all
men should crush me to the dust itself with
shame ? Think of it  my son is my only tie
to earth, I have none left but him ; and,
because I am a judge in the island as well as
its poor priest, I am to take him and put him
to death.'

Then his voice which had been faint grew
formidable.

 What is it you mean by this cruel torture
? If my son is guilty , must his crime go
unpunished though his father's hand is not
lifted against him? For what business are
you yourself on this little plot of earth? You
are here to punish the evil-doer. It is for you
to punish him if he is guilty. But no, for you
to do that would be for you to be merciful.
Mercy you will not show to him or me. And,
to make a crime that is terrible at the best

thrice shameful as well, you would put a
father as judge over his son. Man, man, have
you no 23ity ? No bowels of compassion?
Think of it. My son is myself, life of my
life. Can I Iojd away my right hand and still
keep all my members? Only think of it.
Thorkell, Thorkell, my brother, think of it.
I am a father, and so are you. Could you
condemn to death your own son? '

The sonorous voice had broken again to a
sob of supplication.

 Yes, you are a father,' said the Deemster,
unmoved, ' but you are also a priest and a
judge. Your son is guilty of a crime '

Who says he is guilty ? '

 Yourself said as much a moment since.'

Have I said so ? What did I say ? They
had no cause of quarrel  Dan and Ewan.
They loved each other. But I cannot think.
My head aches. I fear my mind is weakened
by these terrible events.'

The Bishop pressed his forehead hard like
a man in bodily pain, but the Deemster showed
no ruth.

It is now for you to put the father aside
and let the priest-judge come forward. It is
your duty to God and your Church. Cast
your selfish interests behind you and quit
yourself like one to whom all eyes look w.
The Bishop has a sacred mission. Fulfil it.
You have punished offenders against God's
law and the Church's rule beforetime. Don't
let it be said that the laws of God and Church
are to pass by the house of their Bishop.'

pity, pity! have pity,' the Bishop murmured.


Set your own house in order, or with
what courage will you ever again dare to intrude
upon the houses of your people? Now
is your time to show that you can practise the
hard doctrine that you have preached. Send
him to the scaffold, yes, to the scaffold '

The Bishop held up his two hands and
cried,  Listen, listen. What would it avail
you though my son's life were given in forfeit
for the life of your son? You never loved
Ewan. Ah ! it is true, as Heaven is my witness,
you never loved him. While I shall have
lost two sons at a blow. Are you a Christian,
to thirst like this for blood? It is not justice
you want ; it is vengeance. But vengeance
belongs to God.'

 Is he not guilty ? ' the Deemster answered.
 And is it not your duty and mine
to punish the guilty ? '

But the Bishop went on impetuously,
panting as he spoke, and in a faint, broken
tone :

Then if you should be mistaken  if all
this that you tell me should be a fatal coincidence
that my son cannot explain away ?
What if I took him and presented him, and
sent him to the gallows, as you say, and

some day, when all that is now dark became
light, and the truth stood revealed, what if
then I had to say to myself before God, " I
have taken the life of my son ? " Brother, is
your heart brazed out that you can think of
it without pity ? '

The Bishop had dropped to his knees.

I see that you are a coward,' said the
Deemster, contemptuously. ' And so this is
what your religion comes to ! I tell you
that the eyes of the people of this island are
on you. If you take the right course now
their reverence is yours ; if the wrong one, it
will be the worst evil that has ever befallen
you from your youth upwards.'

The Bishop cried, ' Mercy, mercy, for
Christ's sake, mercy!' and he looked about
the room with terrified eyes, as if he Avould
fly from it if he could.

But the Deemster's lash had one still
heavier blow.

 More, more he said,  your Church is on
its trial also, and if you fail of your duty
now, the people will rise and sweep it away.'

Then a great sjDasm of strength came to
the Bishop, and he rose to his feet.

Silence, sir ! ' he said, and the Deemster
quailed visibly before the heat and flame of
his voice and manner.

But the spasm was gone in an instant, for
his faith was dead as his soul was dead, and
only the galvanic impulse of the outraged
thing remained. And truly his faith had
taken his manhood with it, for he sat down
and sobbed. In a few moments more the
Deemster left him without another word.
Theirs had been a terrible interview, and its
mark remained to the end like a brand of iron
on the hearts of both the brothers.

The night was dark but not cold, and
the roads were soft and draggy. Over the
long mile that divided Bishop's Court from

Ballamona the old Deemster walked home
with a mind more at ease than he had known
for a score of years. ' It was true enough,
as he said, that I never loved Ewan,' the
Deemster thought. ' But then whose was
the fault but Ewan's own ? At every step
he was against me, and if he took the side
of the Bishop and his waistrel son he did it
to his own confusion. And he had his good
parts, too. Patient and long-suffering like
his mother, poor woman, dead and gone. A
little like my old father also, the simple soul.
With fire, too, and rather headstrong at
times. I wonder how it all happened.'

Then, as he trudged along through the
dark roads, his mind turned full on Dan.
He must die,' he thought with content and
a secret satisfaction. ' By Bishop's law or
Deemster's he cannot fail but be punished
with death. And so this is the end ! He
was to have his foot on my neck some day.

So much for the brave vaunt and prophecy.
And when he is dead my fate is broken. Tut,
who talks of fate in these days ? Idle chatter
and balderdash ! '

When the Deemster got to Ballamona he
found the coroner, Quayle the Gyke, in the
hall awaiting him. Jarvis Kerruish was on
the settle pushing off his slush-covered boots
with a bootjack.

Why, what ? How's this ? ' said the
Deemster.

They've escaped us so far,' said the
coroner meekly.

Escaped you ? What ? In this little
rat-hole of an island, and they've escaped
you?'

We gave them chase for six miles, sir.
They've taken the mountains for it. Up
past the Sherragh Yane at Sulby, and under
Snaefell and Beinn-y-Phott  that's their way,
sir. And it was black dark up yonder, and

we had to leave it till the morrow. We'll
take them, sir, make yourself easy.'

Had any one seen them ? Is he with
them ? '

Old Moore, the miller at Sulby, saw them
as they went by the mill running mortal
hard. But he told us no, the captain wasn't
among them.'

What ! then you've been wasting your
wind over the fishermen while he has been
clearing away ? '

Jarvis Kerruish raised his head fi'om
where he was pulling on his slippers.

Set your mind at rest, sir,' he said
calmly. ' We will find him, though he lies
like a toad under a stone.'

Mettle, mettle,' the Deemster chuckled
into his breast, and proceeded to throw off his
cloak. Then he turned to the coroner as-ain.

Have you summoned the jury of inquiry
? '

I have, sir  six men of the parish 
court-house at Ramsey  eight in the morning.'


 We must indict the whole six of them.
You have their names ? Jarvis will write
them down for you. We cannot have five of
them giving evidence for the sixth.'

The Deemster left the hall with his quick
and restless step, and turned into the diningroom,
where Mona was helping to lay the
supper. Her face was very pale, her eyes
were red with long weeping, she moved to
and fro with a slow step, and misery itself
seemed to sit on her. But the Deemster saw
nothing of this. ' Mona,' he said, ' you must
be stirring before daybreak tomorrow.'

She lifted her face with a look of enquiry.

 We breakfast at half-past six, and leave
in the coach at seven.'

With a puzzled expression she asked in a
low tone where they were to go.

To Ramsey, for the court of inquiry he
answered with complacency.

Mona's left hand went up to her breast,
and her breath came quick.

 But why am I to go ? ' she asked
timidly.

 Because in cases of this kind, when the
main evidence is circumstantial, it is necessary
to prove a motive before it is possible to
frame an indictment.'

Well, father ? ' Mona's red eyes opened
wide with a startled look, and their long
lashes trembled.

 Well, girl, you shall prove the motive.'


The Deemster opened the snuff-horn on
the mantleshelf.

 / am to do so ? '

The Deemster glanced up sharply under
his spectacles. * Yes, you, child, you,' he

VOL. II. X

said, with quiet emphasis, and lifted his pinch
of snufF to his nose.

Mona's breast began to heave, and all her
slight frame to quiver.

 Father,' she said faintly, ' do you mean
that I am to be the chief witness against the
man who took my brother's life ? '

Well, perhaps, but we shall see. And
now for supper, and then to bed, for we must
be stirring before the lark.'

Mona was going out of the room with a
heavy step when the Deemster, who had
seated himself at the table, raised his eyes.
Wait,' he said ; ' when were you last out of
the house ? '

 Yesterday morning, sir. I was at the
ploughing match.'

 Have you had any visitors since five last
night ? '

 Visitors  five  I do not understand '

That will do, child.'

Jarvis Kerruisli came into the room at
this moment. He was the Deemster's sole
companion at supper that night. And so
ended that terrible Christmas Day.

CHAPTER XXX.

THE deemster's INQUEST.

It was at the late dawn of the following
morning that Dan Mylrea escaped from his
night-long burial in the shaft of the disused
lead mine. On his way to Ballamona he
went by the little shed where Mrs. Kerruish
lived with her daughter Mally. The sound
of his footstep on the path brought the old
woman to the doorway.

Asking pardon, sir the old body said,
and which way may you be going ? '

Dan answered that he was going to
Ballamona.

Not to the Deemster's ? Yes ? Och !
no. Why, d'ye say ? Well, my daughter

was away at the Street last night  where she
allis is o' nights, more's the pity, leaving mea
lone woman, to fret and fidget  and therein
the house where they tell all newses, the
guzzluig craythms, they were saying' as maybe
it was yourself as shouldn't trouble the
Deemster for a bit of a spell longer.'

Dan took no further heed of the old
woman's warning than to thank her as he
passed on. When he got to Ballamona the
familiar place looked strange and empty. He
knocked, but there was no answer. He
called, but there was no rejDly. Presently a
foot on the gravel woke the vacant stillness.
It was Homme-beg, and at sight of Dan he
lifted both his hands.

Then, amid many solemn exclamations,
slowly, disjointed, explaining, excusing,
Hommy told what had occurred. And no
sooner had Dan realised the business that was
afoot, and that the Deemster, with Jarvis

Kerruish and Mona, were gone to Eamsey on
a court of inquiry touching Ewan's death,
than he straightway set his face in the same
direction.

The court begins its business at eight,
you say ? Well, good-bye, Hominy, and
God bless you! ' he said, and turned sharply
away. But he stopped suddenly, and came
back the pace or two. ' Wait, let us shake
hands, old friend ; we may not have another
chance. Good-bye.'

In a moment Dan was going at a quick
pace down the road.

It was a heavy morning. The mists were
gliding slowly up the mountains in grim,
hooded shapes, their long white skirts sweeping
the meadows as they passed. Overhead the
sky was dim and empty. Underfoot the roads
were wet and thick. But Dan felt nothing of
this wintry gloom. It did not touch his
emancipated spirit. His face seemed to open

as he walked, and his very stature to increase.
He reflected that the lumbering
coach which carried the Deemster and his
daughter and bastard son must now be
far on its way through the ruts of this
rough turnpike that lay between Michael
and Ramsey. And he pushed on with new
vigour.

He passed few persons on the roads. The
houses seemed to be deserted. Here or there
a little brood of children played about a cottage
door. He hailed them cheerily as he
went by, and could not help observing that
when the little ones recognised him they
dropped their play and huddled together at
the threshold like sheep affrighted.

As he passed into Ballaugh under the foot
of Glen Dhoo he came upon Corlett Ballafayle.
The great man opened his eyes wide at sight
of Dan, and made no answer to his salutation ;
but when Dan had gone on some distance he

THE DEEMSTER

turned, as if by a sudden impulse, and hailed
him with scant ceremony.

Ay, why do you take that road ? '
Dan twisted his head, but he did not stop,
and Corlett Ballafayle laughed in his throat at
a second and more satisfying reflection, and
then, without waiting for an answer to his
question, he waved the back of one hand, and
said, ' All right. Follow on. It's nothing tome.'


Dan had seen the flicker of good-will, followed
by the flame of charity, that flashed
over the man's face, but he had no taste or
time for parley. Pushing on past the muggy
inn by the bridge, past the smithy that stood
there and the brewery that stood opposite, he
came into the village. There the women,
standing at their doors, put their heads together,
looked after him and whispered, and,
like Corlett Ballafayle, forgot to answer his
greeting. It was then that over his newfound

elevation of soul Dan felt a creeping
sense of shame. The horror and terror that
had gone before had left no room for the lower
emotion. Overwhelmed by a crushing idea
of his guilt before God, he had not realised
his position in the eyes of his fellow-men.
But now he realised it and knew that his
crime was known. He saw himself as a
hunted man, a homeless, friendless wanderer
on the earth, a murderer from whom all must
shrink. His head fell into his breast as he
walked, his eyes dropped to the ground, he
lifted his face no more to the faces of the
people whom he passed, and gave none his
salutation.

The mists lifted off the mountains as the
morning wore on, and the bald crowns were
seen against the empty sky. Dan quickened
his pace. When he came to Sulby it had
almost quickened to a run, and as he went by
the mill in the village he noticed that old

Moore, the miller, who was a square set,
middle-aged man with a heavy jowl, stood
at the open door and watched him. He did
not lift his eyes, but he was conscious that
Moore turned hurriedly into the mill, and
that at the next instant one of his men came
as hurriedly out of it.

In a few minutes more he was at the
bridge that crosses the Sulby river, and there
he was suddenly confronted by a gang of men,
with Moore at their head. They had crossed
the river by the ford at the mill side, and
running; alone; the southern bank of it had
come up to the bridge at the moment that
Dan was about to cross it from the road.
Armed with heavy sticks, which they carried
threateningly, they called on Dan to surrender
himself. Dan stopped, looked into their hot
faces, and said, ' Men, I know what you think,
but you are wrong. I am not running away ;
I am going to Eamsey court-house.'

At that the men laughed derisively, and
the miller said with a grin that if Dan was
on his road to Eamsey they would take the
pleasure of his company, just to see him safely
landed there.

Dan's manner was quiet. He looked
about him with calm but searching looks. At
the opposite bank of the river, close to the
foot of the bridge, there was a smithy. At
that moment the smith was hooping a cart-wheel,
and his striker set down his sledge and
tied up his leather apron to look on and listen.

 Men,' said Dan again in a voice that was
low, but strong and resolute, ' it is the truth
that I am on my way to Ramsey courthouse,
but I mean to go alone, and don't
intend to allow any man to take me there
as a prisoner.'

A likely tale,' said the miller, and with
that he stepped up to Dan and laid a hand
upon his arm. At the next moment the

man of flour had loosed his grip with
a shout, and his white coat was rolHng in
the thick mud of the wet road. Then the
other men closed around with sticks uplifted,
but before they quite realised what they
were to do, Dan had twisted some steps
aside, darted through them, laid hold of the
smith's sledge, swung it on his shoulder, and
faced about.

Now, men,' he said as calmly as before,
'none of you shall take me to Ramsey, and
none of you shall follow me there. I must
go alone.'

The men had fallen quickly back. Dan's
strength of muscle was known, and his stature
was a thing to respect. They were silent fora
moment, and dropped their sticks. Then
they began to mutter among themselves, and
ask what it was to them after all, and what
for should they meddle, and what was a few
shilling' anyway ?

Dan and his sledge passed through. The
encounter had cost hmi some minutes of
precious time, but the ardour of his purpose
had suffered no abatement from the
untoward event, though his heart was the
heavier for it and the dreary day looked the
darker.

Near the angle of the road that turns to
the left to Ramsey and to the right to the
Sherragh Yane, there was a little thatched
cottage of one story, with its window level
with the road. It was the house of a cobbler
named Palliser, a lean, hungry, elderly man,
who lived there alone under the ban of an old
rumour of evil doings of some sort in his
youth. Dan knew the poor soul. Such
human ruins had never been quarry to him,
the big-hearted scapegrace, and now, drawing
near, he Heard the beat of the old man's
hammer as he worked. The hammering ceased,
and Palliser appeared at his door.

Capt'n,' he stammered, ' do you know 

do you know ? ' He tried to frame his

words and could not, and at last he blurted
out, ' Quayle the Gyke drove by an hour
ago.'

Dan knew what was in the heart of
the poor battered creature, and it touched
him deeply. He was moving off without
speaking, merely waving his hand for answer
and adieu, when the cobbler's dog, as lean
and hungry as its master to look upon,
came from the house and looked up at
Dan out of its rheumy eyes and licked his
hand.

The cobbler still stood at his door, fumbling
in his fingers his cutting-knife, worn
obliquely to the point, and struggling to speak
more plainly.

The Whitehaven packet leaves Ramsey
to-night, capt'n,' he said.

Dan waved his hand once more. His

heart sank yet lower. Only by the very dregs
of humanity, the very quarry of mankind, and
by the dumb creatures that licked his hand,
was his fellowship rewarded. Thus had he
wasted his fidelity, and thrown his loyalty
away. In a day he had become a hunted
man. So much for the world's gratitude and
even the world's pity. And yet, shunned or
hunted, a mark for the finger of shame or an
aim for the hand of hate, he felt, as he had felt
before, bound by strong ties to his fellow-creatures.
He was about to part from them ;
he was meeting them for the last time. Not
even their coldest glance of fear or suspicion
made a call on his resolution.

At every step his impatience became
more lively. Through Lezayre, and past
Milton, he walked at a quick pace. He
dared not run, lest his eagerness should seem
to betray him and he should meet with
another such obstacle as kept him back at

Sulby Bridge. At length he was walking
through the streets of Ramsey. He noticed
that most of the people who passed him gave
him a hurried and startled look, and went
quickly on. He reached the court-house at
last. Groups stood about the Saddle Inn,
and the south side of the enclosure within the
rails was crowded. The clock in the church
tower in the market-place beyond was striking
nine. It was while building that square tower,
twenty years before, that the mason Looney
had dropped to his knees on the scaffold and
asked the blessing of the Bishop as he passed.
To the Bishop's son the clock of the tower
seemed now to be striking the hour of doom.

The people within the rails of the courtyard
fell aside as Dan pushed his way through,
and the dull buzz of their gossip fell straightway
to a great silence. But those who stood
nearest the porch were straining their necks
towards the inside of the court-house in an

effort to see and hear. Standing behind
them for an instant Dan heard what was
said in whispers by those within to those
without, and thus he learned what had been
done.

The Deemster's inquest had been going on
for an hour. First, the landlady of the ' Three
Legs of Man ' had sworn that, at about three
o'clock on Christmas Eve, Parson Ewan had
enquired at her house for Mr. Dan Mylrea,
and had been directed to the creek known
sometimes as the Lockjaw. Then, the butcher
from the shambles in the lane had sworn that
Parson Ewan had passed him walking towards
the creek ; and the long shore fisherman
who brought the body to Bishop's Court gave
evidence as to when (ten o'clock on Christmas
morning) and where (the coral ground for
herrings, called the Mooragh) it came ashore.
After these, Jarvis Kerruish had sworn to
following Parson Ewan within half an hour of

VOL. II. Y

the deceased leaving Ballamona, to hearing a
loud scream as he approached the lane leading
to Orris Head, and to finding at the creek the
fisher lad Davy Fayle, whose manner awakened
strong suspicion when he was questioned as
to whether he had seen Parson Ewan and his
master, Mr. Daniel Mylrea. The wife of one
of the crew of the ' Ben-my-Chree ' had next
been called to say that the fishing-boat had
been at sea from high-water on Christmas
Eve. The woman had given her evidence
with obvious diffidence and some confusion,
repeating and contradicting herself, being
sharply reprimanded by the Deemster, and
finally breaking down into a torrent of tears.
When she had been removed the housekeeper
at the old Ballamona, an uncomfortable, bewildered
old body, stated that Mr. Dan Mylrea
had not been home since the early morning
on the day before Christmas Day. Finally,
the harbour-master at Peel had identified the

sailcloth in which the body had been wrapped
as a drift yawlsail of the ' Ben-my-Chree/ and
he had also sworn that the lugger of that
name had come into the harbour at low-water
the previous night, with the men Quilleash,
TearCj Corkell, Crennell, and Davy Fayle, as
well as the owner, Mr. Dan Mylrea, aboard of
her.

Without waiting to hear more, Dan made
one great call on his resolution and pushed his
way through the porch into the court-house.
Then he realised that there was still some
virtue left in humanity. Xo sooner had
the people in the court become aware of his
presence among them than one stepped before
him as if to conceal him from those in front,
while another tapped him on the shoulder, and
elbowed a way out, beckoning him to follow
as if some pressing errand called him away.

But Dan's purpose was fixed, and no
cover for cowardice availed to shake it.

THE DEEMSTER

Steadfast and silent he stood at the back of
the court, half hidden by the throng about
him, trying to look on with a cool countenance,
and to fix his attention on the proceedings
of his own trial. At first he was conscious
of no more than the obscurity of the
dusky place and a sort of confused murmur
that rose from a table at the farther end.
For a while he looked stupidly on, and even
trembled slightly. But all at once he found
himself listening and seeing all that was going
on before him.

The court-house was densely crowded.
On the bench sat the Deemster, his thin,
quick face as sharp as a pen within his heavy
wig. Jar vis Kerruish and Quayle, the coroner,
stood at a table beneath. Stretched on
the top of this table was a canvas sail. Six
men from Michael sat to the right as a jury.
But Dan's eyes passed over all these as if
scarcely conscious of then* presence, and

turned by an instinct of which he knew nothing
towards the witness-box. And there
Mona herself was now standing. Her face
was very pale and drawn hard about the
lips, which were set firm, though the nostrils
quivered visibly. She wore a dark
cloak of half-conventual pattern, with a hood
that fell back from the close hat that sat like
a nun's cap about her smooth forehead. Erect
she stood, with the fire of two hundred eager
eyes upon her, but her bosom heaved and
the fingers of her unloved hand gripped nervously
the rail in front of her.

In an instant the thin shrill voice of the
Deemster broke on Dan's consciousness, and
he knew that he was listening to his own trial,
with Mona put up to give evidence against
him.

 When did you see your brother last ? '
On the afternoon of the day before yesterday.'


At what hour ? '

 At about two o'clock

 What passed between you at that interview
? '

There was no answer to this question.

Tell the jury if there was any unpleasantness
between you and your brother at
two o'clock the day before yesterday.'

There was a pause, and then the silence
was broken by the reply, meekly spoken, ' It
is true that he was angry.'

What was the cause of his anger ? '

Another pause and no answer. The
Deemster repeated his question, and still there
was no reply.

Listen ; on your answer to this question
the burden of the indictment must rest.
Circumstance points but too plainly to a
crime. It points to one man as perpetrator of
that crime, and to five other men as accessories
to it. But it is necessary that the jury

should gather an idea of the motive that inspired
it. And so I ask again, what was the
difference between you and your brother at
your interview on the afternoon of the day
before yesterday ? '

There was a deep hush in the court. A
gloomy, echoless silence, like that which
goes before a storm, seemed to brood over
the place. All eyes were turned to the
witness-box.

Answers said the Deemster, with head
aslant. ' I ask for an answer  I demand it.

Then the witness lifted up her great, soft,
liquid eyes to the Deemster's face, and spoke :
Is it the judge or the father that demands an
answer ? ' she said.

'The judge, the judge,' the Deemster replied
with emphasis, ' we know of no father
here.'

At that the burden that had rested on
Mona's quivering face seemed to lift away.

Then, if it is the judge that asks the question,
I will not answer it.'

The Deemster leaned back in his seat,
and there was a low rumble among the people
in the court. Dan found his breath coming
audibly from his throat, his finger-nails digging
trenches in his palms, and his teeth
set so hard on his lips that both teeth and lips
were bleeding.

After a moment's silence the Deemster
spoke again, but more softly than before, and
in a tone of suavity.

If the judge has no power with you,
make answer to the father,' and he repeated
his question.

Amid silence that was painful Mona said,
in a tremulous voice, ' It is not in a court of
justice that a father should expect an answer
to a question like that.'

Then the Deemster lost all self control,
and shouted in his shrill treble that, whether

as father or judge, the witness's answer he
should have ; that on that answer the guilty
man should yet be indicted, and that even as
it would be damning to that man so it should
hang him.

The spectators held their breath at the
Deemster's words and looked aghast at the
livid face on the bench. They were accustomed
to the Deemster's fits of rage, but such
an outbreak of wrath had never before been
witnessed. The gloomy silence was unbroken
for a moment, and then there came
the sound of the suppressed weeping of the
witness.

Stop that noise ! ' said the Deemster.
*We know for whom you shed your tears.
But you shall yet do more than cry for the
man. If a word of yours can send him to the
gallows, that word shall yet be spoken.'

Dan saw and heard all. The dark place,
the judge, the jury, the silent throng, seemed

to SNvim about him. For a moment lie struggled
with himself, scarcely able to control the
impulse to push through and tear the Deemster
from his seat. At the next instant, with
complete self-possession and strong hold of
his passions, he had parted the people in front
of him, and was making his way to the table
beneath the bench. Dense as the crowd was
it seemed to open of itself before him, and
only the low rumble of many subdued voices
floated faintly in his ear. He was conscious
that all eyes were upon him, but most of
all that Mona was watching him with looks
of pain and fear.

He never felt stronger than at that moment.
Long enough he had hesitated, and
too often he had been held back, but now his
time was come. He stopped in front of the
table, and sais in a full clear voice, ' I am hereto
surrender  I am guilty.'

The Deemster looked down in bewilderment

; but the coroner, recovering quickly
from his first amazement, bustled up with the
air of a constable making a capture, and put
the fetters on Dan's wrists.

What happened next was never afterwards
rightly known to any of the astonished spectators.
The Deemster asked the jury for
their verdict, and immediately afterwards he
called on the clerks to prepare the indictment.


Is it to be for this man only, or for all
six ? ' the clerk asked.

All six,' the Deemster answered.

Then the prisoner sjooke again. ' Deemster,'
he said, ' the other men are innocent.'

Where are they ? '

I do not know.'

If innocent, why are they in hiding ? '

I tell you, sir, they are innocent. Their
only fault is that they have tried to be loyal
to me.'

Were they with you when the body was
buried ? '

Dan made no answer.

Did they bury it ? '

Still no answer. The Deemster turned to
the clerk, ' The six.'

Deemster,' Dan said, with stubborn resolution,
 why should I tell you what is not
true ? I have come here when, like the men
themselves, I might have kept away.'

You have come here, prisoner, when the
hand of the law was upon you, when its vengeance
was encircling you, entrapping you,
when it was useless to hold out longer ; you
have come here thinking to lessen your punishment
by your surrender. But you have
been mistaken. A surrender extorted when
capture is certain, like a confession made
when crime cannot be denied, has never yet
been allowed to lessen the punishment of the
guilty. Nor shall it lessen it now.'

Then as the Deemster rose a cry rang
through the court. It was such a cry out of
a great heart as tells a whole story to a multitude.
In a moment the people saw and knew
all. They looked at the two who stood before
them, Dan and Mona, the prisoner and the
witness, with eyes that filled, and from their
dry throats there rose a deep groan from their
midst.

I tell you, Deemster, it is false, and the
men are innocent,' said Dan.

The clerk was seen to hand a document to
the Deemster, who took a pen and signed it.

The accused stands committed for trial
at the Court of General Gaol Delivery.'

At the next moment the Deemster was

gone.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

rniNTED BY

SrOTTISWOODE And CO., New-street SQCARR

London

A NEW NOVELIST.

// is with Mr. Caine the novelist that we are here concerned.
Both his published fictions afford evidence of a
pronounced individuality of genius which is calculated to
cottnt as a potent factor itt the prevailing romantic movement.
. . . Mr. Caine is essentially a romanticist. Though
his heroes are Cambrian dalesmen, and his mise en scene
is chiefly ont the farmstead arid the fell., he is able to invest
his characters with a dignity of action., a strength of feeling,
and a nobility of moral purpose which have the effect of
seating them firmly alike in the reader's imagination and
affections. He makes straight for the heart. Putting aside
the fripperies and conventionalities of the drawing-room arid
the boudoir, he invades Nature. . . . Mr. Cai7is ro77iance is
the 7'07na7ice of reality. He has recognised that fiction is the
esse7iceoffact, that the improbable is the reflex of the probable.
He C077ibi7tes 77ioral sanity with imaginative fervour, truth
of e77iotion with strength of passion and thus succeeds ii
that combination of the familiar with the unfamiliar that
blending of the C07n77i07iplace with the U7ico77i7non, which
77iust ever re77iai7i the essence of ro77ia7itic achieve77ie7it.

3 0112 041662369

'i' rS

If

;:1

m

M

liii

OF THE

UN Diversity

Of 


V.3

A SON OF HAGAR.

By HALL CAINE, Author of * The Shadow of a Crime:

'A brilliant and powerful romance. There has not appeared in this
country for a long time past a story more brilliantly and forcibly told. It
stands out from the novels of the day as the work of an acute thinker and
powerful writer.'  SCOTSMAN.

Quite as powerful a novel as " The Shadow of a Crime." The author's
aims are as high and pure, his burning love of justice is as apparent."

Saturday Review.

The episode of Mercy Fisher and her child, though it is, like the Wanting
episode in " Les Miserabless," almost too painful for art, may really be
compared with that terrible picture for power and pathos.'  AthenUM.

Mr. Hall Caine's novels are, in their way, prose epics. . . . He is a wonderfully
powerful novelist' Glasgow Herald.

Mr. Hall Caine has done for the fells and dales of Cumberland what
George Eliot did for pastoral Derbyshire and Warwickshire. , . . His power
of portraiture is very great ; his pictures of fell scenery are trenchant transcripts
from nature. . . . There are few episodes in modern fiction more
pathetic than the death of Mercy Fisher's baby."  Westmoreland Gazette.

Passion, eloquence, and conviction. . . . One magnificent chapter.'

St. James's Gazette.

Shows the hand of a great master. . A poet, preacher, prophet. The
last book of the story rises to a sublimity of grandeur. The retribution on
Hugh Ritson has its forecasts in the last hours of Ralph Nickleby, and his
death recalls that of the hapless brother of Charlotte Bronte. The characters
seem to live and breathe on the pages before us. One of them. Parson
Christian, is worthy to stand beside the Vicar of Wakefield. . . . Scenes in
this story will linger in the memory long after the book is laid aside.'

Dundee Advertiser.

'A powerful, almost lurid, study of a Nineteenth Century Macbeth.'

Rochdale Observer.

Taken altogether, the story is in every sense of the word a great story.
It is intensely dramatic. Quite apart from the central figure of the novel
which, in its breadth of treatment, and its minuteness of detail, is a marvellous
piece of mental p portraiture  the surroundings in which it is set have a
freshness in conception, a grace in finish, and an inner beauty of their own
which are captivating in the highest degree. . . . In the way of the indigenous
country clergyman of the past, nothing better than Parson Christian has been
given us in a novel since Fielding's Parson Adams. . . . Masterly fiction.'

Liverpool Mercury.

That two such novels should have come from his pen gives promise of a
brilliant future.'  Birmingham Post.

'We pronounce unhesitatingly that "A Son of Hagar" is a powerful and
unique work, with the stamp of genius marked indelibly upon it.'

Whitehall Review.

It takes a master-hand to draw such pictures as " Young Folk's Day " in
the Vale of Newlands, and the stricken home of the charcoal-burner.'

Literary World.

London: Chatty &- WIN DUS, Piccadilly, W.

THE SHADOW OF A CRIME.

By HALL CAINE, Author of 'A Son of Hagar:

Mr. Caine has written a fine story. . , . Ralph Ray is a strong and a
beautiful figure. The character of the heroine, too (Rotha Stagg) is lifelike
and charming. The scenes between the Garths (mother and son) are thrilling,
and the reader's curiosity is worked up to a high pitch. . In this art Mr.
Caine shows himself to be an adept. The story, indeed, is picturesque, and
unusually full of incidents of a striking and novel kind. It is, moreover, full of
that true local colour which can only come from local knowledge. The scenes
among the Cumbrian hills are highly impressive. There is one scene in particular,
where during a funeral procession across the hills a horse runs away
with the coffin strapped to his back, and is lost  a scene which once read will
not soon be forgotten ; and altogether the characteristics of the story are
freshness of incident and originality of treatment.'  Athenaeum.

To say that u e derive from it much the same quality of literary pleasure
as from Mr. Blackmore's masterpiece is to pay it a great compliment, but not
an undeserved one. In both we have strong and simple characters of the
primitive heroic type, and Ralph Ray is grander morally, if not physically,
than the hero of " Lorna Doone." . It is a fine story finely told, full of
racy humour, and rising to true and unaffected pathos. Some of the more
tragic scenes  eg. , the night on which the body of Ralph's father is found, and
the tailor (Simeon Stagg) is driven from his cave in the mountain by the
rain and thunder  are remarkable for sustained strength of tragic power,
never degenerating into melodrama.'  Saturday Review,

There are in this novel passages which the most callous reviewer cannot
read without emotion of various kinds  of strong sympathy felt with the
characters, as well as admiration for the writer ; and there are scenes and
descriptions which the most cautious reviewer would be inclined to describe
as little short of splendid. The tone, too, is so wholesome and manly, and
the fundamental conception is so fine, that the most cynical reviewer cannot
fail to be impressed, and to record with ready pen his cordial approbation. A
novelist who presents to the public so noble an example of life as the Cumbrian
dalesman, Ralph Ray, confers a benefit, whether advantage be taken of it or
not, upon the community.'  St. James's Gazette.

This book is no ordinary novel ; to treat it as such would be an injustice
alike to the author and the public. It is a character-study of a high order of
merit  how high we should not venture to sav after a first perusal. . . . Mr.
Caine has produced a work of art which will live m the memory of all those
who can put themselves in the position of sympathy with deep feeling and
highly-wrought emotion.'  Academy.

If this book, as we believe to be the case, is Mr. Caine's first essay as a
novelist, it must be at once conceded that it is a most successful one  so successful
that its pages remind the reader of some of the best attributes of
Charles Reade. The story has almost all the vigour of the author of "The
Cloister and the Hearth," with almost more than that writer's picturesqueness
as a romanists' Standard.

A very noble note is struck in "The Shadow of a Crime," bv Hall Caine.
. . The novel is one which it does the author great honour to have written,
and which it should do a reader appreciable good to read. . It is very
seldom indeed that there appears a novel so fine in conception, so heroic intone,
so healthy in its associations, so attractive, and so natural in its descriptions,
so altogether good, sound, and improving.'

Illustrated London News.

London: Chatty &- Indus, Piccadilly, W,

A ROMANCE

BY

HALL CAINE

AUTHOR OF 'THE SHADOW OF A CRIME' ETC.

Lbs love to me was wonderful, passing the love of women
b, wretches man that 5 am, wbo will deliver mc from tbc
bois of this 6eatb ? '

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. in.

Chatty & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[The -fr'if rf tn-<:'n';r

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW Street Square

LONDON

CONTENTS

THE THIRD VOLUME

Chapter PAGE

XXXI. FATHER AND SON 1

XXXII. DIVINATION 28

XXXIII. KIDNAPPED . 45

XXXIV. A RUDE TRIBUNAL 70

XXXV. THE COURT OF GENERAL GAOL DELIVERY . 94

XXXVI. CUT OFF FROM THE PEOPLE . . . . 112

XXXVII. OF HIS OUTCAST STATE 139

XXXVIII. OF HIS WAY OF LIFE . . . 154

XXXIX. OF THE GHOSTLY HAND UPON HIM . . 105

XL. OF HIS GREAT LONELINESS . . . . 189

XLI. OF HOW HE KEPT HIS MANHOOD . . . 210

XLII. OF THE BREAKING OF THE CURSE . . . 232

XLIII. OF HIS GREAT RESOLVE 253

XLIV. THE SWEATING SICKNESS . . . . . 263

XLV. 'our FATHER, WHICH ART IN HEAVEN ' . 320

FATHER AND SOX.

The prison for felons awaiting trial in the
civil courts was in Castle Russian, at Castletown,
but Dan Mylrea was not taken to it.
There had been a general rising in the south
of the island on the introduction of a coinage
of copper money, and so many of the rioters
had been arrested and committed for trial,
without bail, at the Court of General Gaol
Delivery that the prison at Castle Rushen
was full to overflowing. Twenty men had
guarded the place day and night, being relieved
every twenty-four hours by as many

more from each parish in rotation, some of
them the kith and kin of the men imprisoned,
and all summoned to Castletown in the
morning by the ancient mode of fixing a
wooden cross over their doors at night.

Owing to this circumstance the Deemster
made the extraordinary blunder of ordering
his coroner to remove Dan to the prison beneath
the ruined castle at Peeltown. Now,
the prison on St. Patrick's Islet had for centuries
been under the control of the Spiritual
Courts, and was still available for use in the
execution of the ecclesiastical censures. The
gaoler was the parish sumner, and the sole
governor and director was the Bishop himself.
All this the Deemster knew full well, and
partly in defiance of his brother's authority,
partly in contempt of it, but mainly in bitter
disdain of his utter helplessness, where his
son's guilt was manifest and confessed, he
arrogated the right, without sanction from

the spiritual powers, of committing Dan to
the Church prison, the civil prison being full.

It was a foul and loathsome dungeon, and
never but once had Bishop Mylrea been
known to use it. Dark, small, damp, entered
by a score of narrow steps, down under the
vaults on the floor of the chapel, over the
long runnels made in the rock by the sea, it
was as vile a hole as the tyranny of the
Church ever turned into a gaol for the punishment
of those who resisted its authority.

The sumner in charge was old Paton
Gorry, of Kirk Patrick, a feeble soul with a
vast respect for authority, and no powers of nice
distinction between those who were placed
above him. When he received the Deemster's
warrant for Dan's committal he did not doubt
its validity ; and when Quayle, the coroner, for
his own share ordered that the prisoner should
be kept in the close confinement of the dungeon,
he acquiesced without question.

If Dan's humiliation down to this moment
had not been gall and wormwood to his pro ad
and stubborn spirit the fault did not lie at the
door of Quayle the Gyke. Every indignity
that an unwilling prisoner could have been
subjected to Dan underwent. From the moment
of leaving the court-house at Ramsey,
Dan was pushed and huddled and imperiously
commanded with such an abundant lack of
need and reason that at length the people
who crowded the streets or looked from their
windows  the same people, many of them,
who had shrunk from Dan as he entered the
town  shouted at the coroner and groaned at
him. But Dan himself, who had never before
accepted a blow from any man without returning
it, was seen to walk tamely by the coroner's
side, towering above him in great stature,
but taking his rough handling like a child at
his knees.

At the door of the prison where Quayle's

function ended that of the sumner began, and
old Gorry was a man of another mould.
Twenty times he had taken charge of persons
imprisoned six days for incontinence, and
once he had held the governor's wife twelve
hours for slander, and once ao-am a fisrhtino-
clergyman seven days for heresies in looking
towards Rome, but never before had he put
man, woman, or child into the pestilential
hole under the floor of the old chapel. Dan
he remembered since the Bishop's son was a
boy in corduroys, and when the rusty key of
the dungeon turned on hun with a growl in
its wards, and old Gorry went shivering to
the guard-room above and kindled himself a
fire there and sat and smoked, the good man
under his rough stout got the better of the
bad gaoler. Then down he went again, and
with a certain shamefacedness, some half
comic, half pathetic efforts of professional reserve,
he said he wouldn't object, not he, if

Dan had a mind to come up and warm himself.
But Dan declined with words of cold
thanks.

No, Gorry,' he said, ' I don't know that
I feel the cold.' ' Oh, all right, all right, sit
ye there, sit ye there,' said Gorry. He
whipped about with as much of largeness ashe
could simulate, rattled his keys as he went
back, and even hummed a tune as he climbed
the narrow stairs. But, warming itself at the
fire, the poor human nature in the old man's
breast began to tear him pitilessly. He could
get no peace for memories that would arise of
the days when Dan plagued him sorely, the
sad little happy dog. Then up he rose again,
and down he went to the dungeon once more.

I respects the ould Bishop,' he said, just
by way of preliminary apology and to help
him to carry off his intention, ' and if it be so
that a lilian has done wrong I don't see  I
don't see,' he stammered, ' it isn't natural that

he should be starved alive anyway, and a cold
winter's night too.'

'- It's no more than I deserve Dan mumbled
; and at that word old Gorry whipped
about as before, repeating loftily,  Sit ye
there, sit ye there.'

It was not for him to cringe and sue to a
prisoner to come up out of that foul hole, och !
no ; and the Bishop's sumner inflated his
choking chest and went back for another pipe.
But half an hour later the night had closed
in, and old Gorry, with a lantern in his hand,
was at the door of Dan's prison again.

To tell the truth, sir,' he muttered,  I
can't get lave for a wink of sleep up yonder,
and if you don't come up to the fire I wouldn't
trust but I'll be forced to stay down here in
the cold myself.'

Before Dan could make answer there came
a loud knocking from overhead. In another
moment the key of the door had turned in its

VOL. III. B

lock from without, and Gorry's uncertain
footfall was retreating on the steps.

When Dan had first been left alone in his
dark cell he had cast himself down on the
broad slab cut from the rock which was his
only seat and bed. His suspense was over ;
the weight of uncertainty was lifted from his
brain ; and he tried to tell himself that he
had done well. He thought of Ewan now
with other feelings than before  of his uprightness,
his tenderness, his brotherly affection,
his frequent intercession and no less
frequent self-sacrifice. Then he thought of
his own headlong folly, his blank insensitive-ness,
his cold ingratitude, and, last of all, of
his blundering passion and mad wrath. All
else on both sides was blotted from his
memory in that hour of dark searching.
Alone with his crime  tortured no more by
blind hopes of escaping its penalty, or dread
misgivings as to the measure of his guilt  this

heart went out to the true friend whose life
he had taken with a great dumb yearning*
and a bitter remorse. No cruel voice whispered
now in palliation of his offence that it
had not been murder, but the accident of self-defence.
He had ji'oposed the fight that
ended with Ewan's death, and, when Ewan
would have abandoned it, he, on his part,
would hear of no truce. Murder it was ; and,
bad as murder is at the best, this murder had
been, of all murders, most base and foul.
Yes, he had done well. Here alone could
he know one hour of respite from terrible
thoughts. This dark vault was his only
resting-place until he came to lie in the last
resting-place of all. There could be no going
back. Life was for ever closed against him.
He had spilled the blood of the man who had
loved him with more than a brother's love, and
to whom his own soul had been grappled with
hooks of steel. It was enough, and the sick

certainty of the doom before him was easiest
to bear.

It was with thoughts like these that Dan
had spent his first hours in prison, and when
old Gorry had interrupted them time aftertime
with poor little troubles about the freezing
cold of the pestilential place he hardly
saw through the old man's simulation into
the tender bit of human nature that lay behind
it.

A few minutes after Gorry had left the
cell, in answer to the loud knocking that
had echoed through the empty chambers overhead,
Dan could hear that he was returning
to it, halting slowly down the steps with
many a pause, and mumbling remarks meantime,
as if lighting some one who came after
him.

Yes, my lord, it's dark, very dark. I'll
set the lantern here, my lord, and turn the
key.'

In another moment old Gory was at
Dan's side, saying, in a fearful under-tone,
 Lord a massy ! It's the Bishop himself. I
lied to him mortal, so I did  but no use  I
said you were sleeping, but no good at all at
all. He wouldn't take rest without putting

a sight on you. Here he is . Come in,

my lord.'

Almost before Dan's mind, distraught
by other troubles, had time to grasp what
Gorry said, the old gaoler had clapped his
lantern on the floor of the cell, and had
gone from it, and Dan was alone with his
father.

Dan, are you awake ? ' the Bishop asked,
in a low, eager tone. His eyes were not yet
familiar with the half-light of the dark place,
and he could not see his son. But Dan saw
his father only too plainly, and one glance at
him in that first instant of recovered consciousness
went far to banish as an empty

sophism the soothing assurance he had lately-nursed
at his heart that in what he had done
he had done well.

The Bishop was a changed and shattered
man. His very stature seemed to have
shrunk, and his Jovian white head was dipped
into his breast. His great, calm front was
gone, and in the feeble light of the lantern on
the floor his eyes were altered and his face
seemed to be cut deep with lines of fear and
even of cunning. His irresolute mouth was
half-open, as if it had only just emitted a
startled cry. In one of his hands he held a
small parcel bound tightly with a broad strap,
and the other hand wandered nervously in the
air before him.

Dan saw everything in an instant. This,
then, was the first-fruits of that day's work.
He rose from his seat.

Father ! ' he cried, in a faint tremulous
voice.

 My son ! ' the Bislioj) answered, and for
some swift moments thereafter the past that
had been very bitter to both was remembered
no more by either.

But the sweet oblivion was cruelly brief
*Wait the Bishop whispered, are we alone?'
And with that the once stately man of God
crept on tip-toe like a cat to the door of the
cell, and put his head to it and listened.

Art thou there, Paton Gorry ? ' he asked,
feebly simulating his accustomed tone of
quiet authority.

Old Gorry answered from the other side
of the door that he was there, that he was
sitting on the steps, that he was not sleeping,
but waiting my lord's return.

The Bishop crept back to Dan's side with
the same cat-like step as before. * You are
safe, my son,' he whispered in his low, eager
tone.  You shall leave this place. It is my
prison, and you shall go free.

Dan had watched his father's movements
with a sickening sense.

 Then you do not know that I surrendered
? ' he said faintly.

 Yes, yes oh yes, I know it. But that
was when your arrest was certain. But now
listen.'

Dan felt as if his father had struck him
across the face. ' That was what the Deemster
said,' he begun ; ' but it is wrong.'

Listen  they have nothing against you.
I know all. They cannot convict you save
on your own confession. And why should
you confess ? '

Why ? '

Don't speak  don't explain  I must not
hear you  listen ! ' and the old man put one
arm on his son's shoulder, and his mouth to
his ear. ' There is only one bit of tangible
evidence against you, and it is here ; look ! '
and he lifted before Dan's face the parcel

he carried in his other trembling hand. Then
down he went on one knee, put the parcel
on the floor, and unclasped the strap. The
parcel fell open. It contained a coat, a hat,
two militia daggers, and a large, heavy stone.

Look ! ' the Bishop whispered again, in a
note of triumph, and as he spoke a grin of
delight was struck out of his saintly old face.

Dan shuddered at the sight.

Where did you get them ? ' he asked.
The Bishop gave a little grating laugh.

They were brought me by some of my
good people,' he answered.  Oh, yes, good
people all of them ; and they will not tell.
Oh, no, they have promised me to be silent.'

Promised you ? '

 Yes  Glisten again. Last night  it was
dark, I think it must have been past midnight
 I went to all their houses. They
were in bed, but I knocked, and they came
down to me. Yes, they gave me their word

on the Book they gave it. Good people
all  Jabez the tailor, Steam the cobbler, Juan
of Fallacy, and Thormod in the Street. I
remembered every man of them.'

father, do you say you went to these
people  these, the very rifF-rain of the island 
you went to them  you, and at midnight 
and begged them '

Hush, it is nothing. Why not ? But
this is important.' The Bishop, who was still
on his knee, was buckling up the parcel again.
 You can sink it in the sea. Did you mark
the stone ? That will carry it to the bottom.
And when you are in the boat it will be easy
to drop everything overboard.'

The boat ? '

Ah ! have I not told you ? Thormod
Mylechreest  you remember him ? A goodman,
Thormod, a tender heart, too, and
wronged by his father, poor misguided man.
Well, Mylechreest has promised  I have must

left him  to come down to the harbour at
nine to-night, and take the fishing smack, the
Ben-my-Chree," and bring her round to the
west coast of St. Patrick's Islet, and cast
anchor there, and then come ashore in the
boat, and wait for you.'

 Wait for me, father ? '

Yes ; for this prison is mine, and I shall
open its doors to whomsoever it pleases me to
liberate. Look ! '

The Bishop rose to his full height, threw
back his head, and with a feeble show of his
wonted dignity strode to the door of the cell
and cried, in a poor stifled echo of his accustomed
strong tone, ' Paton Gorry, open thou
this door.'

Old Gorry answered from without, and
presently the door was opened.

Wider.'

The door was thrown wide.

 Now, give me the keys, Paton Gorry,'

said the Bishop, with the same assumption of
authority.

Old Gorry handed his keys to the Bishop.

 And get thee home, and stay there.'

Old Gorry touched his cap and went up
the steps.

Then, with a bankrupt smile of sorry
triumph, the Bishop turned to his son. 'You
see,' he said,  you are free. Let me look 
what is the hour ? ' He fumbled for his
watch. ' Ah, I had forgotten. I paid my
watch away to poor Patrick Looney. No
matter. At nine by the clock Mylechreest
will come for you, and you will go to your
boat, and set sail for Scotland, or England, or
Ireland, or  or '

Dan could bear up no longer. His heart
was choking. ' Father, father, my father,
what are you saying ? ' he cried.

 I am saying that you are free to leave
this place.'



I will not go  I cannot go.'

The Bishop fetched a long breath and
paused for a moment. He put one trembling
hand to his forehead, as if to steady his reeling
and heated brain.

 You cannot stay he said. ' Hark I do
you hear the wind how it moans ? Or is it
the sea that beats on the rock outside ? Andover
our heads are the dead of ten generations.'


But Dan was suffocating with shame ; the
desolation around, the death that was lying
silent above, and the mother of sorrows that
was wailing beneath had no terrors left for
him.

 Father, my father,' he cried again, 'think
what you ask me to do. Only think of it.
You ask me to allow you to buy the silence
of the meanest hinds alive. And at what a
price ? At the price of the influence, the
esteem, the love, and the reverence that you

have won by the labour of twenty years.
And to what end ? To the end that I 
I '

To the end that you may live, my son.
Remember what your father's love has been
to you. No, not that  but thmk what it
must have been to him. Your father would
know you were alive. It is true he would
never, never see you. Yes, we should always
be apart  you there, and I here  and I should
take your hand and see your face no more.
But you would be alive '

Father, do you call it living ? Think if
I could bear it. Suppose I escaped  suppose
I were safe in some place far away  Australia,
America, anywhere out of the reach of shame
and death  suppose I were will, ay, and
prosperous as the world goes  what then ? '

Then I should be content, my son. Yes,
content, and thanking God.'

 And I should be the most wretched of

men. Only think of it, and picture me there.
I should know, though there were none to
tell me, I should remember it as often as the
sun rose above me, that at home, thousands
of miles away, my poor father, the righteous
Bishop that once was, the leader of his people
and their good father, was the slave of the
lowest offal of them all, powerless to raise his
hand for the hands that were held over him,
dumb to reprove for the evil tongues that
threatened to speak ill. And, as often as
night came and I tried to sleep, I should see
him there growing old, very old, and, maybe,
very feeble, and wanting an arm to lean on,
and good people to honour him and to make
him forget  yes, forget the mad shipwreck of
his son's life, but with eyes that could not lift
themselves from the-earth for secret shame,
tortured by fears of dishonour, self-tormented
and degraded before the face of his God. No,
no, no, I cannot take such sacrifice.'

The Bishop had drawn nearer to Dan and
tried to take his hand. V/hen Dan was silent
he did not speak at once, and when Dan sat
on his stone seat he sat beside him, gentle asa
child, and very meek and quiet, and felt for
his hand again, and held it, though Dan would
have drawn it away. Then, as they sat
together, nearer the old Bishops crept, nearer
and yet nearer, until one of his trembling
arms encircled Dan's neck, and the dear head
was drawn down to his swelling, throbbing
breast, as if it were a child's head still, and it
was a father's part to comfort it and to soothe
away its sorrows.

 Then we will go together,' he said, after
a time, in a faint forlornness of voice,  to the
utmost reaches of the earth, leaving all behind
us, and thinking no more of the past. Yes,
we will go together,' he said very quietly,
and he rose to his feet, still holding Dan's
hand.

Dan was suffocating with shame. 'Father,'
he said, ' I see all now ; you think me innocent,
and so you would leave everything for
my sake. But I am a guilty man.'

Hush ! you shall not say that. Don't
tell me that. No one shall tell me that. I
will not hear it.'

The hot eagerness of the Bishop's refusal
to hear with his ears the story of his son's
guilt told Dan but too surely that he had
already heard it with his heart.

Father, no one would need to tell you.
You would find it out for yourself. And
think of that awful undeceiving ! You would
take your son's part against the world, believing
in him, but you would read his secret
bit by bit, day by day. His crime would
steal in between you like a spectre, it would
separate you hour by hour, until at length
you would be for ever apart. And that end
would be the worst end of all. No, it cannot

VOL. III. c

be. Justice is against it ; love is against it.
And God, I think, God must be against it,
too.'

god!'

Dan did not hear. ' Yes, I am guilty,' he
went on. ' I have killed the man who loved
me as his own soul. He would have given
his life for my life, even as he gave his honour
for my honour. And I slew him. Ewan !
Ewan ! my brother, my brother ! ' he cried, and
where he sat he buried his face in his hands.

The Bishop stood over his son with the
same gentle calm that had come upon him in
the cell, and with not one breath of the restless
fever with which he entered it. Once
again he tried to take Dan's hand and to hold
it, and to meet with his own full orbs Dan's
swimming eyes.

 Yes, father, it is right that I should die,
and it is necessary. Perhaps God will take
my death as an atonement '



Atonement ! '

Or, if there is no atonement, there is
only hell for my crime, and before God I
am guilty.'

Before God ! '

The Bishop echoed Dan's words in a dull,
mechanical under-breath, and stood a Ions:
time silent while Dan poured forth his bitter
remorse. Then he said, speaking with something
of his own courageous calm of voice,
from something like his own pure face, and
with some of the upright wrinkles of his high
forehead smoothed away,  Dan, I will go
home and think. I seem to be awakening
from a dreadful nightmare in a world where
no God is, and no light reigns, but all is dark.
To tell you the truth, Dan, I fear my faith is
not what it was or should be. I thought I
knew God's ways with His people, and then
it seemed as if, after all these years, I had not
known him. But I am only a poor priest,

and a very weak old man. Good night, my
son, I will go home and think. I am like
one who runs to save a child from a great
peril and finds a man stronger than himself
and braver : one who looks on death face to
face and quails not. Good-night, Dan, I will
go home and pray.'

And so he went his way, the man of Godin
his weakness. He left his son on the stone
seat, with covered face, the lantern and the
parcel on the floor, and the door of the cell
wide open. The keys he carried half consciously
in ]his hand. He stumbled along in
the darkness down the wading steps hewn
from the rock to the boat at the little wooden
jetty, where a boatman sat awaiting him.
The night was very dark, and the sea's loud
moan and its dank salt breath were in the air.
He did not see, he did not hear, he did not
feel. But there was one in that lonesome
place who saw his dark figure as he passed.

Who is there ? ' said an eager voice, as he
went through the deep portcullis and out at
the old notched and barred door ajar. But
the Bishop neither answered nor heard.

At the house in Castle Street, near to the
quay, he stopped and knocked. The door
was opened by the old sumner.

 I've brought you the keys, Paton Gorry.
Go back to your charge.'

Did you lock the doors, my lord ? '

Yes  no, no  I must have forgotten. I
fear my mind  but it is of no moment. Go
back, Paton  it will be enough.'

I'll go, my lord,' said the sumner.

He went back, but others had been there
before him.

CHAPTER XXXII.

DIVINATION.

Well satisfied with this day's work the
Deemster drove from the Ramsey court-house
to midday dinner with his father-in-law, the
old archdeacon, taking Jarvis Kerruish with
him. Mona he sent home in the lumbering
car driven by the coroner. It suited well
with the girl's troubled mind to be alone, and
when night fell in and the Deemster had not
returned, the grim gloom of the lonely house
on Slieau Dhoo brought her no terrors. But
towards nine o'clock the gaunt silence of the
place was broken, and from that time until
long after midnight Ballamona was a scene
of noise and confusion.

First came blind Kerry, talking loudly
along the passages, wringing her hands, and
crying,  Aw, dear ! oh, mam ! oh, goodness
meT

Martha Dan was no longer in prison, he
had been kidnapped ; four men and a boy
had taken him by main force ; bound hand
and foot he had been carried through the
mountains to a lonely place ; and there at
daybreak tomorrow he was to be shot.
All this and more, with many details of
place and circumstance, Kerry had seen as ina
flash of light, just as she was raking the
ashes on the fire preparatory to going to
bed.

Mona had gone through too much to be
within touch of the blind woman's excitement.


We must not give way to these fancies,
Kerry,' she said.

'Fancies, mam? Fancies you're saying?

Scoffers may mock, but don't you, mam 
brought up with my own hand, as the saying

is;

 I did not mean to mock, Kerry ; but we
have so many real troubles that it seems
wicked to imagine others  and perhaps a
little foolish, too

At that word the sightless face of Kerry
grew to a great gravity.

'Foolish, mam? It is the gift  the gift
of the good God. He made me blind, but
he gave me the sights. It would have been
hard, and maybe a taste cruel, to shut me up
in the dark, and every living craythur in the
light ; but he is a just God and a merciful, as
the saying is, and he gave me the gift for
recompense.'

My good Kerry, I am so tired to-night,
and must go to bed.'

Aw, yes, and well it has served me time
upon time '

We were up before six this morning,
Kerry.'

And now I say to you, send impatient,
mara, or the Lord help '

The blind woman's excitement and
Mona's impassibility were broken in upon by
the sound of a man's voice in the hall asking
sharply for the Deemster. At the next
moment Quayle, the coroner, was in the room.
His face was flushed, his breath came quick,
and his manner betrayed extreme agitation.

'When the Deemster comes home from
Kirk Andreas tell him to go across to Bishop's
Court at once, and say that I will be back
before midnight.'

So saying the coroner wheeled about
without ceremony, and was leaving the room.

What has happened at Bishop's Court?'
Mona asked.

Nothing,' he said impatiently.

Then why should I tell him to go there? '

The tone of the question awakened the
curmudgeon's sense of common policy.

Well, if you must know, that man has
escaped, and I'm thinking the Bishop himself
has had his foot in the mischief.'

Then Kerry, with a confused desire to
defend the Bishop, interrupted, and said,
The Bishop's not at the Coort  let me tell
ye that.'

Whereupon the coroner smiled with a
large dignity, and answered, ' I know it,
woman.'

When did this happen? ' said Mona.

not an hour ago, I am straight from
Peel town this minute.'

And without more words the coroner
turned his back on her, and was gone in an
instant.

When Quayle had left the room Kerry
lifted both hands ; her blind face wore a
curious expression of mingled pride and fear.

It is the gift,' she said in an awesome
whisper.

Mona stood a while in silence and perplexity,
and then she said in tremulous voice,
'Kerry, don't think me among those that
scoff, but tell me over again, my good Kerry,
and forgive me.'

And Kerry told the story of her vision
afresh, and Mona now listened with eager
attention, and interrupted with frequent
questions.

'Who were the four men and the boy?
Never saw their faces before? Never? Not
in the street ? No ? Never heard their
voices? Ah, surely you remember their
voices ? Yes, yes, try to recall them ; try,
try, my good Kerry. Ah! the fishermen  
they were the voices of the fishermen ! How
were you so long in remembering ? Quilleash ?
Yes, old Billy. And Crennell ? Yes, and
Teare and Corkell, and the boy Davy Fayle?

Poor young Davy, he was one of them?
Yes ? Oh, you dear, good Kerry ! '

Mona's impassibility was gone, and her
questions, like her breath, came hot and fast.

And now tell me what place they took
him to. The mountains? Yes, but where?
Never saw the place before in all your life?
Why, no, of course not ; how could you,
Kerry? Ah, don't mind what I say, and
don't be angry. But what kind of place?
Quick, Kerry, quick.'

Kerry's blind face grew solemn, and one
hand, with outstretched finger, she raised
before her, as though to trace the scene in
the air, as she described the spot in the
mountains where the four men and the boy
had taken Dan.

It was a great lone place, mam, with the
sea a-both sides of you, and a great, large
mountain aback of you, and a small, low one
in front, and a deep strange running under

you through the gorse, and another shallow
one coming into it at a slant, and all whigs
and tussocks of the lush grass about, and
maybe a willow by the water's side, with the
sally-buds hanging dead from the boughs,
and never a stick, nor a sign of a house, nora
barn, but the ould tumbled cabin where
they took him, and only the sea's roar afar
away, and the sheep's bleating, and maybe
the mountain geese cackling, and all to that.'

Mona had listened at first A\\\ vivid
eagerness, and a face alive with animation,
but as Kerry went on the girl's countenance
saddened. She fell back a pace or two, and
said in a tone of pain and impatience :

 Oh, Kerry, you have told me nothing.
What you say describes nearly every mountain
top in the island. Was there nothing
else? Nothing ? Think. What about the
tumble-down house? Had it a roof? Yes?
No one living in it ? No buildings about it ?

A shaft-head and gear? Oh, Kerry, how
slow you are! Quick, dear Kerry! An old
mme? A worked-out mine? Oh, think, and
be sure ! '

Then the solemnity of the blind woman's
face deepened to a look of inspiration.
Think ? No need to think,' she said in an
altered tone. ' Lord bless me, I see it again.
There, there it is  there this very minute.'

She sank back into a chair, and suddenly
became motionless and stiff. Her sightless
eyes were open, and for the first few moments
that followed thereafter all her senses seemed
to be lost to the things about her. In this
dream state she continued to talk in a slow,
broken, fearsome voice, exclaiming, protesting,
and half sobbing. At first Mona looked on in
an agony of suspense, and then she dropped
to her knees at Kerry's feet, and flung her
arms about the blind woman, with the cry
of a frightened bird.

 Kerry, Kerry ! ' she called, as if prompted
by an unconscious impulse to recall her from
the trance that was awful to look upon. And
in that moment of contact with the seer she
suffered a shock that penetrated every fibre ;
she shuddered, the cry of pain died off in her
throat, her parted lips whitened and stiffened,
her eyes were frozen in their look of terror, her
breath ceased to come, her heart to beat, and
body and soul together seemed transfixed.
In that swift instant of insensibility the
vision passed like a throb of blood to her
fi'om the blind woman, and she saw and knew
aU.

Half an hour later, Mona, with every nerve
vibrating, with eyes of frenzy, and a voice of
fear, was at Bishop's Court enquiring for the
Bishop.

He is this minute home from Peel,' said
the housekeeper.

Mona was taken to the library, and there

the Bishop sat before the fire, staring stupidly
into the flame. His hat and cloak had not yet
been removed, and a riding-whip hung from
one of his listless hands.

He rose as Mona entered. She flew to his
arms, and while he held her to his breast his
sad face softened, and the pent-up anguish of
her heart overflowed in tears. Then she
told him the tangled, inconsequent tale, the
coroner's announcement, Kerry's vision, her
own strange dream state, and all she had seen
in it.

As she spoke the Bishop looked dazed ; he
pressed one hand on his forehead ; he repeated
her words after her ; he echoed the questions
she put to him. Then he lifted his head to
betoken silence. * Let me think,' he said. But
the brief silence brought no clearness to his
bewildered brain. He could not think ; he
could not grasp what had occurred. And the
baffled struggle to comprehend made the veins

of his forehead stand out arose and blue. A
most pitiful look of weariness came over his
mellow face, and he said in a low tone that
was very touching to hear, * To tell you the
truth, my dear child, I do not follow you 
my mind seems thick and clouded  things
run together in it  I am only a feeble old

man now, and But wait ' (a flash of

light crossed his troubled face) ; ' you say
you recognise the place in the mountains ?'

 Yes, as I saw it in the vision. I have
been there before. When I was a child I was
there with Dan and Ewan. It is far up the
Sulby river, under Snaefell, and over Glen
Crammag. Don't say it is foolish and
womanish and only hysteria, dear uncle. I
saw it all as plainly as I see you now.'

Ah, no, my child. If the patriarch Joseph
practised such divination, is it for me to call
it foolishness ? But wait, wait, let me think.'
And then in a low murmur, as if communing

VOL. III. D

with himself, he went on, ' The door was left
open . . . yes, the door . . . the door
was . . .'

It was useless. His brain was broken, and
would not link its ideas. He was struggling
to piece together the fact that Dan was no
longer in prison with the incidents of his own
abandoned preparations for his son's escape.
Mumbling and stammering, he looked
vacantly into Mona's face, until the truth of
his impotence forced itself upon her, and she
saw that from him no help for Dan could
come.

Then with many tears she left him and
hastened back to Ballamona. The house was
in confusion ; the Deemster and Jarvis Kern
had returned, and the coroner was with
them in the study.

And what of the Peeltown watch ? ' the
Deemster was asking sharply. ' Where was
he?'

 Away on some cock-and-bull errand,
sir.'

By whose orders ? '

The Bishop's.'

 And what of the harbour-master when
the 'Ben-my-Chree" was taken away from her
moorings ? '

He also was spirited away.'

By whom ? '

The same messenger  AYill-as-Thorn, the
parish clerk.'

Old Gorry, the sumner, gave up the
prison keys to the Bishop, you say ? '

To the Bishop, sir.'

And left him in the cell, and found the
door open and the prisoner gone upon his
return ? '

 Just so, sir.'

What have you ' been doing in the
matter ? '

 Been to Ramsey, sir, and stationed three

D 2

men on the quay to see that nobody leaves the
island by the Cumberland packet that sails at
midnight.'

 Tut, man, who will need the packet ? 
the man has the fishing-boat.'

Mona's impatience could contain itself no
longer. She hurried into the study and told
her tale. The Deemster listened with a keen,
quick sense ; he questioned, cross-questioned,
and learned all. This done he laughed a little,
coldly and bitterly, and dismissed the whole
story with contempt.

Kidnapped ? No such matter. Escaped,
woman, escaped ! And visions, forsooth !
What pedlar's French ! Get away to bed,
girl.'

Mona had no choice but to go. Her agitation
was painful ; her sole thought was of
Dan's peril. She was a woman, and that Dan
was a doomed man whether in prison or out
of it, whether he had escaped or been

kidnapped, was a consideration that had faded
from her view. His life was in imminent danger,
and that was everything to her. She had
tried to save him by help of the Bishop, and
failing in that direction she had attempted
the same end by help of the Deemster, his
enemy.

The hours passed with feet of lead until
three o'clock struck, and then there was a
knock at her door. The Deemster's voice
summoned her to rise, dress quickly and
warmly, and come out immediately. She had
not gone to bed, and in two minutes more
was standing hooded and cloaked in the hall.
The Deemster, Jarvis, the coroner, and
seven men were there. At the porch a horse,
saddled and bridled, was pawing the gravel.

Mona understood everything at a glance.
Clearly enough the Deemster intended to acton
the guidance of the vision which he had
affected to despise. Evidently it was meant

that she should go with the men to identify
the place she had described.

An old lead mine under Snaefell and over
Glen Crammag, d'you say ? '

Yes, father.'

Daybreak ? '

It was daybreak.'

You would know the place if you saw it
again ? '

Yes.'

The Deemster turned to the coroner.

Which course do you take ? '

'" Across Glen Dhoo, sir, past Eavensdale,
and along the mountain path to the Sherragh
Yane.'

 Come, girl, mount ; be quick.'

Mona was lifted to the saddle, the coroner
took the bridle, and they started away, the
seven men walking behind.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

KIDNAPPED.

What had happened was a strange series of
coincidences. Early that day the crew of the
*Ben-my-Chree/ in the mountain solitude
where they found freezing and starving safety,
had sent one of their number back to Sulby village
to buy a quarter of meal. Teare was the
man chosen for the errand, and, having compassed
it, he was stealing his way back to
the mountains when he noticed that great
companies of people were coming from the
direction of Ramsey. Lagging behind the
larger groups on the road was a woman whom
he recognised as his wife. He attracted her attention
without revealing himself to the people

in front. She was returning from the Deemster's
inquest, and told what had occurred there ;
that Dan, the Bishop's son, had surrendered,
and that the indictment to the Court of
General Gaol Delivery had been made out
not only in his name, but in the names of
the four men and the boy of the ' Ben -my-
Three.'

Teare carried back to the mountains a
heavier burden than the quarter of meal.
His mates had watched for him as he plodded
up the bank of the Sulby river, with the bag
on his back. When he came up his face was
ominous.

Send the lad away for a spell,' he
muttered to old Billy Quilleash, and Davy
Fayle was sent to cut gorse for a fire.

Then the men gathered around Teare and
heard what had happened. The disaster had
fallen which they foresaw. What was to be
done ? Crennell, with a line from a psalm,

was for trusting in the Lord ; and old
Quilleash, with an oath, was for trusting in
his heels. After a pause Teare propounded
his scheme. It centred in Dan. Dan with
his confession was their sole danger. Once
rid of Dan they were as free men. Before his
confession of guilt their innocence was beyond
his power to prove or their poAver to establish.
On his way up from the valley Teare had hit
on a daring adventure. They were to break
ito the castle at Peel, take Dan by force,
bring him up to the mountains, and there
give him the choice of life or death : life if he
promised to plead Not Guilty to the indictment,
death if he adhered to the resolution by
which he had surrendered.

The men gathered closer about Teare, and
with yet whiter faces. Teare gave his plan ;
his scheme was complete ; that night they
were to carry it out. Paton Gorry was
the gaoler at Peel Castle. The lad Davy was

the old Sumner's godchild. Davy was to
go forth and smuggle Gorry's keys out of the
guard-room. If that were found impossible
well, Paton was an old man ; he might be
put quietly out of harm's way  no violence
och ! no, not a ha'p'orth. Then Corkell
was son-in-law of the watch at Peeltown, and
hence the watch must take the harbour-master
to the 'Jolly Herrings,' in Castle Street, while
they themselves, Teare, Quilleash, Crennell,
and Corkell, took the ' Ben-my-Chree ' from
her moorings at the mouth of the harbour.
On the west coast of St. Patrick's Isle they
must bear down and run the dingy ashore.
Then Dan must be seized in his cell, bound
hand and foot, and brought aboard. With a
fair wind  it was blowing east sou-east  they
must set sail for Ramsey Bay, put about at
Lague, anchor there, and go ashore. ' That'll
lave it,' said Teare, ' to reasonable inference
that Martha Dan had whipped off to England

by the Whitehaven packet that sails at midnight
from the quay

This done they were to find a horse, strap
the fettered man to its back, fetch him into
the mountains in the dark hours of the night,
and at daybreak try him solemnly and justly
on the issue they had hit upon of life or
death. No violence ! Aw, no, all just and
straight ! If so be that the man was hanging
them, they'd do him justice man to man as
fair as the backbone lies down the middle
of a herring. Deemster's justice couldn't be
cleaner \ no, nor as clean. Aw, yes, no
violence !

It was an intricate plan, involving many
risks, presuppose many favourable chances.
Perhaps it was not a logical computation of
probabilities. But, good or bad, logical or
illogical, probable or improbable, easy of
accomplishment or full of risk and jDcril, it
was the only alternative to trusting in the

Lord, as Creniiell had suggested, or in their
heels, as Quilleash had preferred. In the end
they took it, and made ready to act on it.

As the men arrived at their conclusion
Davy Fayle was returning with an armful of
withered gorse for a fire. The first move in
that night's adventure was to be made by
him. ' Lave the lad to me,' whispered
Quilleash, and straightway he tackled Davy.
Veracity was not conspicuous in the explanation
that the old salt made. Poor Martha
Dan had been nabbed, bad less to it, and
jiggered up in Peel Castle. He would be
hanged marten sure. Aw, safe for it, if some
chaps didn't make an effort impatient. They
meant to do it, too. Aye, that very everin !
Wouldn't they let him help ? Well, possible,
possible. They wasn't no objection to that.
Thus Davy fell an eager victim to a plan that
was not propounded to him. If saving
Martha Dan from the dirty that had nabbed

him was the same that was going', why nothing'
would hould him but he would be in it. ' Be
daisy with the loblolly boy and you have him,'
whispered old Billy behind the back of his
hand, as he spat a long jet from his quid.

Relieved of doubt as to their course of action ,
they built a fire and warmed themselves, and
with water from the river below they made
cold porridge of the meal, and ate and drank,
and waited for the night. The darkness came
early, it was closing in at four o'clock. Then
the men smothered their fire with turf and
earth and set out for Peeltown. Their course
was over Golden, and between Greeba and
Bear, to the breast of Sleau Whallin, and
then down to St. Patrick's Isle by the foot of
Corrin's hill. It was twelve miles over hill
and dale, through the darkness and the muggy
air of the winter's night. They had to avoid
the few houses and to break their pace when
footsteps came their way. But they covered the





distance in less than four hours. At eight
o'clock they were standing together on the
south of the bridge that crosses the Neb river
at the top of Peel harbour. There they
separated. Corkell went off to the marketplace
by a crooked alley from the quay to find
the watch, and dispose of him. When the
harbour-master had been removed, Corkell
was to go to the ' Ben-my-Chree,' which was
moored in deep water at the end of the wooden
pier, open the scuttle on the south, and put the
lamp to it as a signal of safety to Quilleash,
Teare, and Crennell above the bridge on the
headland opposite. They were then to come
aboard. Davy Fayle took the south quay to
St. Patrick's Isle. It was now the bottom of
the ebb tide, and Davy was to wade the
narrow neck that divided the isle from the
mainland. Perhaps he might light on a boat ;
perhaps cross dry-shod. In half-an-hour he
was to be on the west of the castle, just under



a spot known as the Giant's Grave, and there
the four men were to come ashore to him in
the dingy. Meantime he was to see old
Paton Gorry and generally take the soundings.
Thus they parted.

Davy found the water low and the ford
dry. He crossed it as noiselessly as he could,
and reached the rocks of the isle. It was not
so dark but he could descry the dim outlines
of the ruined castle. A flight of steps
ascended from the water's edge to the portcullis.
Davy crept up. He had prepared to
knock at the old notched door under the
arch, but he found it standing open. He
stood and listened. At one moment he
thought he heard a movement behind him.
It was darkest of all under these thick walls.
He went on ; he passed the doorway that is
terrible with the tradition of the Motley
Dhoo. As he went by the door he turned
his head to it in the darkness, and once again

he thought he heard something stir. This
time the sound came from before him. He
gasped, and had almost screamed. He
stretched his arms towards the sound.
There was nothing. All was still once
more.

Davy stepped forward into the courtyard.
His feet fell softly on the grass that grew
there. At length he reached the guard-room.
Once more he had lifted his hand to knock,
and once more he found the door open. He
looked into the room. It was empty ; a fire
burned on the hearth, a form was drawn up
in front of it ; a pipe lay on a bare deal table.
He has gone down to the cell,' Davy told
himself, and he made his way to the steps
that led to the dungeon. But he stopped
again, and his heart seemed to stand still.
There could now be no doubt but someone
was approaching. There was the faint jingle
as of keys.  Paton ! Paton ! ' Davy called

fearfully. There was no answer, but the
footsteps came on.  Who is there ? ' he
cried again in a tremulous whisper. At the
next instant a man passed in the darkness,
and Davy saw and knew him. It was the
Bishop.

Davy dropped to his knees. A moment
afterwards the Bishop was gone through the
outer gate and down the steps. His footsteps
ceased, and then there were voices,
followed by the plash of an oar, and then all
was silence once more, save for the thick
boom of the sea that came up from the
rocks.

Davy rose to his feet and turned towards
the steps that led down to the door of the
dungeon. A lio;ht came from below. The
door was open also, and stretching himself
full length on to the ground Davy could see
into the cell. On the floor there was a
lantern, and beside it a bundle lay. Dan was

VOL. III. E

there ; he was lyhig on the stone couch ; he
was alone.

Breathless and trembling Davy rose adam
and fled out of the old castle and along the
rocky causeway to a gullet under the Giant's
Grave. There the men were waiting for him.

The place is bewitched,' he said with
quick coming breath ; and he told how every
door was open, and not a soul was in the
castle except Dan. The men heard him with
evident terror. Corkell had just told them a
similar story. The watch and the harbour-master
had both been removed before he had
gone in search of them. Everything seemed
to be done to their hands. Nothing was left
to them to do but simply to walk into the
castle and carry out their design. This
terrified them. ' It's a fate,' Corkell whispered;
and Crennell, in white awe of the unseen
hand that was helping them, was still
for trusting in the Lord. Thus tlie put

their heads together. Quilleash was first to
recover from superstitious fears.  Come, lay
down, and no blather,' he said, and stalked
resolutely forward, carrying a sack and a coil
of rope. The other men followed him in
silence. Davy was ordered to stay behind
with the small boat.

They found everything as the lad had left
it ; the notched door of the portcullis was
open, the door of the guard-room was open,
and when they came to the steps of the
dungeon the door there was also open. A
moment they stood and listened, and heard
no sound from below but a liofht, regular
breathing, as of one man only. Then they
went quietly down the steps and into the cell.
Dan was asleep. At sight of him, lying
alone and unconscious, their courage wavered
a moment. The unseen hand seemed to be
on them still. ' I tell thee it's a fate,'
Corkell whispered again over Quilieash's

shoulder. In half a minute the sleeping
man was bound hand and foot, and the sack
was thrown over his head. At the first
touch he awoke and tried to rise, but four
men were over his prostrate body, and they
overpowered him. He cried lustily, but
there was none to hear. In less time than
it takes to tell it the men were carrying Dan
out of the cell. The lantern they left on the
floor, and in their excitement they did not
heed the parcel that lay by it.

Over the courtyard, through the gate,
along the ledge under the crumbling walls
they stumbled and plunged in the darkness.
They reached the boat and pushed ofl*. Ten
minutes afterwards they were aboard the ' ,'
and were beating down the bay.

Dan recognised the voices of the men, and
realised his situation. He did not shout
again. The sack over his head was of coarse
fibre, admitting the air, and he could breathe

through it without difficulty. He had been
put to lie on one of the bunks in the cabin,
and he could see the tossing light of the horn
lantern that hung from the deck planks.
When the boat rolled in the strong sea that
was running he could sometimes see the
lights on the land through the open scuttle.
With a fair wind for the Point of Ay re,
full sail was stretched. Corkell stood to the
tiller, and, when all went smoothly, the three
men turned in below, and lit a fire in the
stove, and smoked. Then Davy Fayle came
down T\ith eyes dull and sick. He had
begun to doubt, and to ask questions that the
men could not answer. What for was
Martha Dan tied up like like a heathen ?
And what for the sack ? But the men were
in no humour for cross-examination. No
criss-crossing ! The inherent young idiot
waste, let him keep his breath to cool his
porridge. To quiet the lad the men plied

him with liquor, and at the second draught
he was reeHng drunk. Then he laughed a
wild laugh, and sang a mad song, and finally
stood up to dance. It was a grim sight, but
it was soon ended, and Davy was put to
sleep in another of the bunks. Then two
hours passed, and there was some growling
and quarrelling.

Crennell and Teare went up on deck.
Quilleash remained below, sitting before the
stove cleaning with oil and a rag a fowling-piece
that Dan had brought aboard at the
beginning of the herring season. Sometimes
he crooned a Manx carnal, and sometimes
whistled it, as he worked, chewing his quid
meantime, and glancing at intervals at Dan's
motionless figure on the bunk :  .

With pain we record

The year of our Lord,
Sixteen hundred and sixty and sayven,

When it so come to pass

A good fishing there was
Off Douglas, and a wonderful samson.

There was no other sound in the cabin,
except Davy's heavy breathing and the
monotonous beat of the water at the boat's
bow. Dan lay as quiet as the dead. Never
once had he spoken or been spoken to.

The boat was flying before the wind.
The sky had cleared, and the stars were out,
and the lights on the shore could be plainly
seen. Orrisdale, Jury, and the Eue went
by, and when Bishop's Court was passed
the light in the library window burned clear
and strong over the sea. Towards ten
o'clock the lighthouse on the Point of A3re
was rounded, and then the boat had to bear
down the Ramsey Bay in tacks. Before
eleven they were passing the town, and
could see the lights of the Cumberland packet
as she lay by the quay. It was then three-quarter
tide. In half an-hour more the
lugger was put about at Port Lague, and
there Dan was taken ashore by Teare and

CrennelL Quilleash went with them, carrying
the fowling-piece.

Corkell and Davy Fayle, who had recovered
from his stupor, were to take the
Ben-my-Chree ' back into Ramsey Bay, to
drop anchor under Allure, and then to rejoin
their companions at Lague before twelve
o'clock. This was to divert suspicion, and
to provoke the inference, when the fishing-boat
would be found next morning, that
Dan had escaped to England by the White-haven
packet.

The ' Ben-my-Chree ' sailed ofi* with Corkell
and Davy. Teare went in search of a horse.
Quilleash and Crennell remained on the shore
at Lague with Dan. It was a bleak and
desolate place, with nothing to the south but
the grim rocks of the Tableland Head, and
with never a house to the north nearer than
Folieu, which was half a mile away. The
night was now bitterly cold. The stars were

gone, the darkness was heavy, and a nipping
frost was in the dense atmosphere. But the
wind had dropped, and every sound sent a
dull echo through the air. The two men
waited and listened. Thus far all had gone
well with them, but what remained to do was
perilous enough. If Corkell and the lad
happened to be seen when coming from
the boat, if Teare were caught in the act of
borrowing a horse without leave, then all
would be over with them. Their suspense
was keen.

Presently there came up to them from the
bay, over the dull rumble of the waves on the
shore, a quick creaking sound, followed by a
splash and then a dead roll. They knew
it was the anchor being slipped to its berth.
Soon afterwards there came from the land to
the south the sharp yap of dogs, followed
at a short interval by the heavy beat of a
horse's hoofs on the road. Alas it Teare

with the horse ? Was he pursued ? The
men listened, but could hear no other noise.
Then there came through the dense air the
muffled sound of a hell ringing at the quay.
It was the first of three bells that were rung
on the Cumberland packet immediately before
it set sail.

The horse behind drew nearer, the bell in
front rang again. Then Teare came up leading
a big draught mare by the bridle. He
had been forced to take it from the stable at
Lague, and in getting it away he had aroused
the dogs ; but he had not been followed, and
all was safe. The bell rang a third time, and
immediately a red light crept out from the
quay towards the sea, which lay black as a
raven below. The Cumberland packet had
gone.

At that moment Corkell and Davy Fayle
returned, Corkell holding Davy by the neck
of his guernsey. The lad had begun to give

signs of a mutinous spirit, wliicli the man
had suppressed by force. Davy's eyes flashed,
but he was otherwise quiet and calm.

What for is all this, you young devil ? '
said Quilleash. ' What d'ye mean ? Outwith

it, quick ! what tricks now ? D his

fool's face, what for does he look at me like
that?'

Dowse that, Billy, and bear a hand and
be quiet,' said Crennell.

 The young pauper's got the inference
of sin,' said Quilleash.

Then the men lifted Dan on to the back

of the big mare, and strapped him with his

covered face to the sky. Xever a word was

spoken to him, and never a word did he

peak.

Let's make a slant for it,' said Teare,
and he took the bridle. Corkell and Crennell
walked on either side of the horse. Quilleash
walked behind, carrying the fowling-piece over

his left shoulder. Davy was at his right
hand.

The journey thereafter was long and
heavy. They took the path that is to the
north by Barrel and Clay Outre, and runs
above Glen Auldyn and winds round to the
south of Snaefell. Ten miles they plodded on
in the thick darkness and the cold, with only
the rumbling rivers for company, and with
the hidden mountains making unseen ghosts
about them. On they went, with the horse
between them taking its steady stride that
never varied and never failed, even when
the rivers crossed the path and their own feet
stumbled into ruts. On and on, hour after
hour, until their weary limbs dragged after
them, and . their gossip ceased, and even their
growling and quarrelling was no more heard.
Then on and still on in the gruesome silence.

Under the breast of Snaefell they came
into the snow of two days ago, which had

disappeared in the valleys but still lay on
the mountains, and was now crisp under their
feet. It seemed, as they looked down in the
darkness, to pass beneath them like short
smoky vapour that dazed the eyes and made
the head giddy. Still higher the sound of
running waters suddenly stopped, for the
rivers were frozen and their voices silenced.
But the wind blew more strongly as they
ascended the chill heights.

Sometimes at the top of a long raise they
stopped to breathe the horse, and then, with
no sound above or around except the shrill
sough of the wind in the gorse, their courage
began to fail. Ghostly imaginings would
not be kept down.

Did you ever hear the Hickman ? ' said
Crennell beneath his breath.

 1 never come agen him,' said Quilleash.
When I see anything at night on the
mountains I allis lave it alone.'

The other' men shuddered, and forthwith
began to whistle right lustily.

Sometimes they passed a mountain sheep-pen,
and the sheep being disturbed would
bleat. Sometimes a dog at a distant house
would hear them and bark; and even that,
though it was a signal of danger, was also
a sort of human companionship on the grim
mountain side.

It was a dreary walk, and to Dan, bound
hand and foot on the horse, it was a painful
ride  a cold one it could not be, for the
awkward motion brought warmth. The
night wore on, and the air grew keener ;
the men's beards became crisp with the
frost.

At length the silent company rounded
Snaefell to the north of Cronk-y-Yane and
Beinn-y-Phott. Then Teare at the horse's
head twisted about. ' Do we take the ould
mine shed for it ? ' he asked.

 Ay,' said Quilleash.

Their journey was almost ended. The
sky over the sea behind them was then
dabbled with grey, and a smell of dawn was
coming down from the mountains.

CHAPTER Xxxi.

A RUDE TRIBUNAL.

The course taken by the coroner and his
seven men, with Mona on the horse, came to
a triangle of mountain paths above a farm
known as the Sherragh Yane. One path
wound close under the west foot of Snaefell,
another followed the bed of the river that
ran through a glen called Crammag, and the
third joined these two by crossing the breast
of Beinn-y-Phott. At the acute angle of the
Sherragh Yane the coroner drew up.

Can anyone see the lead shaft ? ' he
asked. None could see it. The darkness
had lifted away, and the crown of Snaefell
was bare against the sky, like an islet of

green floating over a cloud of vapour. But
the mists still lay thick on the moorlands,
and even the high glens were obscure.

It must be yonder, about a mile and a
half up the river,' said the coroner.

The lead mine was in the south-east angle
of the triangle of paths, under the south-west
of Snaefell and the north of Beinn-y-Phott.
For some minutes the company was at a
stand while the coroner considered their
movements.

Mona's impatience was manifest. ' Let
us push on,' she said.

The coroner merely eyed her largely and
resumed his deliberations.

 Oh ! how we waste our time,' she said
again. ' If the lead mine is there, what have
we to do but reach it ? '

The coroner with an insolent smile inquired
if the lady felt the cold.

He is in danger for his life, and here we

VOL. III. F

waste the precious minutes in idle talk,' she
answered.

 Danger for his life,' the coroner echoed,
and laughed coldly. Then in a tone of large
meaning he added, ' Possible, possible,' and
smiled at his own subtle thought.

Mona's anxiety mastered her indignation.


 Look, the mist is lifting. See, there is
the shed  there in the gap between the hills,
and it is the very place I saw. Come, make
haste  look, it is daylight.'

 Be aise, be aise. If they are in yonder
shed, they're packed as safe as herrings in a
barrel,' said the coroner.

Then he divided his forces. Three men
he sent down the path of the Glen Crammag.
Two he left where they then stood to guard
that outlet to the Curraghs of the north and
west. Two others were to creep along the
path under Snaefell, and shut out the course

to the sea and the lowlands on the south and
east. He himself would walk straight up to
the shed, and his seven men, as they saw him
approach it, were to close quickly in from the
three corners of the triangle.

Is it smoke that's rising; above the
shed? A fire? Possible. Pie thinks he's
safe, I'll go bail. Och ! yes, and maybe
eating and drinking and making aise. Now,
men, away with you.'

Within the shed itself at that moment
there was as grim a scene as the eye of man has
yet looked upon. The place was a large square
building of two rooms, one on the ground
level and the other above it, the loft beings



entered by a trap in the floor with a wooden
ladder down the wall. It had once served as
gear-shed and office, stable and store, but
now it was bare and empty. In the wall
looking east there was a broad opening

F 2

without door, and in the wall looking north a
narrow opening without window.

To a hasp in the jamb of the doorway the
bio: mare was tethered, and in the draught
between the two openings the lad Davy with
wandering mind was kindling a fire of gorse
over two stones. The smoke filled the place,
and through its dense volumes in the dusk of
that vaporous dawn the faces of the men
were bleared and green and haggard. The
four fishermen stood in a group together,
with old Quilleash a pace to the fore, the
fowling-piece in his hand, its butt on the
ground. Before him and facing him, two
paces in front, stood Dan, his arms still
bound to his sides, his head uncovered, and
his legs free. There was a gaunt earnestness
in every face.

Listen to me,' said old Quilleash. ' We're
going to judge and jury you, but all fair
and square as God is above us, and doing

nothing that we can't answer for when the
big day comes and every man has to toe
his mark. D'ye hear what we're saying,
sir ? '

Dan moved his head slightly by way of
assent.

We've trapped you, it's true, and fetched
you by force, that's martin ; but we mean to
be just by you, and no violence ; and it's
spain' the truth we're going' to do, and never
a word of a lie.'

The other men muttered ' Ay, ay ' ; and
Quilleash went on : ' We're chaps what believes
in a friend, and buskin' up for them
as bucks up for you, and being middling'
staunch, and all to that ; but we're after
doing it once too often.'

So we are,' said Crennell, and the others 
muttered again, ' Ay, ay.'

Quilleash spat behind his hand and
continued : ' The long; and short of it is that

you're goiii' middling' straight for hanging us,
and it isn't natural as we're to stand by and
see it done.'

Dan lifted his face from the ground. ' I
meant to do you no harm, my good fellows,'
he said quickly.

 Meaning's meaning, but doing's doing,
and we've heard all that's going,' said Quill
' You've surrendered and confessed,
and the presentment is agen us all, and
what's in for you is m for us.'

But you are innocent men. What need
you fear ? '

Innocent we be, but where the Deemster
comes there's not a ha'p'orth to choose between
you and us.'

Dan's face flushed, and he answered
warmly,  Men, don't let your miserable fears
make cowards of you. What have you done?
Nothing. You are innocent. Yet how are
you bearing yourselves ? Like guilty men.

If I were innocent do you think I would skulk
away in the mountains ? '

'Aise, sir, take it aise. Maybe you'd
rather run like a rat into a trap. Cowards ?
Wei], possible, possible. There's nothing
like having; a wife and a few chiltern for
making a brave chap into a bit of a skunk.
But we'll lave " cowards " alone if you
place.'

Quilleash made a dignified sweep of the
back of his hand, while the other men said,
Better, better.'

Why have you brought me here ? ' said
Dan.

There isn't a living soul knows where
you are, and when they find you're missing at
the Castle they'll say you've thought better of
it and escaped.'

Why have you brought me here ? ' Dan
repeated.

 The Whitehaven boat left Eamsey after

we dropped anchor in the bay last night, and
they'll say you've gone off to England.'

Tell me why you have brought me to this
place.'

We are alone and can do anything we like
with you, and nobody a ha'p'orth the wiser.'

What do you mean to do ? '

Then they told him of the alternative of
life or death. There was nothing against him
but his own confession. If he but held his
tongue there was not enough evidence to hang
a cat. Let Inn only promise to plead Not
Guilty when the trial came on, and they were
ready to go back with him and stand beside
him. If not

What then ? ' Dan asked.

 Then we'll be forced ' said Quilleash,

and he stopped.

Well ? '

I'm saying we'll be forced ' He

stopped adam.

Out with it, man alive Teare broke in 
forced to shoot him like a dog.'

Well, that's only spain' the truth anyway,'
said Quilleash quietly.

Davy Fayle leapt up from the fire nth
a cry of horror. But Dan was calm and
resolute.

Men, you don't know what you're asking.
I cannot do it.'

Aise, sir, aise, and think agen. You see
we're in if you're in, and who's to know who's
deepest ? '

God knows it, and he will never allow
you to suffer.'

 We've chiltern and wives looking to us,
and who can tell how they'd fend in the world
if we were gone ? '

You're brave fellows, and I'm sorry for
the name I gave you.'

Shoo ! Lave that alone. Maybe we
spoke back. Let's come to the fac's.'

They stated their case again and with calm
deliberation. He asked how it could mend
their case if his life was taken. They answered
him that they would go back and surrender,
and stand their trial and be acquitted. Those
four men were as solemn a tribunal as ever a
man stood before for life or death. Not a
touch of passion, hardly a touch of warmth,
disturbed their rude sense of justice.

 We're innocent, but we're in it, and if
you stand to it we must stand to it, and what's
the use of throwing your life away ? '

Dan looked into their haggard faces without
wavering. He had gone too far to go
back now. But he was deeply moved.

Men,' he said, ' I wish to God I could do
what you ask, but I cannot, and, besides, the
Almighty will not let any harm come to you.'

There was a pause, and then old Quilleash
said with quiet gravity, ' I'm for religion myself,
and singing hymns at whiles, and maybe

a bit of a sell at the oulcl Book, but when it

comes to trusting for life, d d if I don't

look for summit substantial

As little was their stubborn purpose to
be disturbed by spiritual faith as Dan's resolution
was to be shaken by bodily terrors.
They gave him as long to decide as it took a
man to tell a hundred. The counting was
done by Teare amid dead silence of the
others.

Then it was that, thinking rapidly, Dan
saw the whole terrible issue. His mind went
back to the visit of the Bishop to the castle,
and to the secret preparations that had been
made for his own escape. He remembered
that the sumner had delivered up his keys to
the Bishop, and that the Bishop had left the
door of the cell open. In a quick glance at
the facts he saw but too plainly that if he
never returned to take his trial it would bethe
same to his father as if he had accepted

the means of escape that had been offered him.
The Bishop, guilty in purpose, but innocent in
fact, would then be the slave of any scoundrel
who could learn of his design. Though his
father had abandoned his purpose, he Avould
seem to have pursued it, and the people whom
he had bribed to help him would but think
that he had used other instruments. There
could be only one explanation of his absence
that he escaped ; only one means of escape
the Bishop ; only one way of saving the
Bishop from unmerited and life long obloquy
returning to his trial ; and only one condition
of going back alive  promising to plead
Not Guilty to the charge of causing the death
of Ewan.

It was an awful conflict of good passions
with passions that were not bad. At one moment
the sophistry took hold of him that, as his
promise was being extorted by bodily threats,
it could not be binding on his honour ; that

he might give the men the word they wanted,
go back to save his father, and finally act at
the trial as he knew to be best. But at the
next moment in his mind's eye he saw himself
in the prisoner's dock by the side of these five
brave fellows, all standing for their lives, all
calmly trusting in his promise, and he heard
himself giving the plea that might send them
to their deaths. Better any consequences than
such treachery. Truth it must be at all costs :
truth to them and to himself And as for the
Bishop, when did the Almighty ask for such
poor help as the lie of a blood-stained criminal
to save the honour of a man of God ?

It was a terrible crisis of emotion, but it
was brief The counting ended, and Quilleash
called for the answer.

No, I cannot do it  God forgive me, I
wish I could,' said Dan, in a burst of impatience.


It was said. The men made no reply toit.

There was awful quiet among them.
They began to cast lots. Five copper coins
of equal size, one of them marked with a cross
scratched with the point of a nail, they put
into the bag. One after one they dipped a hand
and drew out a coin, and every man kept his
fist clenched till all had drawn. The lad was
not for joining, but the men threatened him,
and he yielded. Then all hands were opened
together.

The lot had fallen to Davy Fayle. When
he saw this, his simple face whitened visibly
and his lip lagged very low. Old Quilleash
handed him the gun, and he took it in a listless
way, scarcely conscious of what was intended.

'- What's going' doing ? ' he asked vacantly.

The men told him that it was for him todo
it.

Do what ? ' he asked, dazed and stupid.

Shamefully, and with a touch of braggadocio,
they told what he had to do, and then

his vacant face became suddenly charged with
passion, and he made a shriek of terror and
let the gun fall. Quilleash picked the gun
from the ground and thrust it back into
Davy's hand.

You've got to do it,' he said ; ' the lot's
fallen to you, and it's bad work flying in the
face of fate.'

At first Davy cried that nothing on God's
earth would make him do it ; but suddenly he
yielded, took the gun quickly, and was led to
his place three or four paces in front of where
Dan stood with his arms bound at his sides,
his face of an ashy whiteness and his eyes
fearful to look upon.

I can't kill him while he's tied up like
that,' said Davy. ' Loose him and then I'll
shoot.'

The men had been startled by Davy's
sudden acquiescence, but now they understood
it. Not by so obvious a ruse were they to be

deceived. They knew full well that Dan as a
free man was a match for all four of them
unarmed.

You're meaning to fire over his head,'
they said to Davy ; and carried away by his
excitement, and without art to conceal his
intention, the lad cried hysterically, ' That's
the truth, and so I am.'

The men put their heads together, and
there was some hurried whispering. At the
next minute they had laid hold of Davy,
bound him as Dan was bound, and put him
to stand at Dan's side. This they did with
the thought that Davy was now Dan's
accomplice.

Then again they cast lots as before. This
time the lot fell to Quilleash. He took his
stand where the lad had stood, and put the
trigger of the gun at cock.

 Men,' he said, ' if we don't take this man's
life nothing will hould him but he'll take

ours ; and it's our right to protect ourselves,
and the ould Book will uphold us. It isn't
murder we're at, but justice, and Lord
A'mighty ha' massy on their souls ! '

Give him another chance,' said Teare,
and Quilleash, nothing loath, put his question
again. Dan, with a glance at Davy, answered
as before, with as calm a voice, though his
face was blanched and his eyes stood out
from their sockets, and his lijos and nostrils
quivered.

Then there was silence, and then down
on their knees behind Quilleash fell the three
men, Crennell, Corkell, and Teare. ' Lord
ha' massy on their souls ! ' they echoed, and
Quilleash raised the gun.

Never a word more did Dan say, and
never a cry or a sign came from Davy Fayle.
But Quilleash did not fire. He paused and
listened, and turning about he said in an
altered tone, ' Where's the horse ? '

VOL. III. G

The men lifted their heads and pointed,
without speaking, to where the horse was
tethered by the doorway. Quilleash listened
with head aslant. ' Then who's foot is that? '
he said.

The men leapt to their feet. Teare was at
the doorway in an instant. ' God A'mighty,
they're on us ! ' he said in an affrighted
whisper.

Then two of the others looked, and saw
that from every side the coroner and his men
were closing in upon them. They could recognise
every man, though the nearest was
still half a mile away. For a moment they
stared blankly into each other's faces and
asked themselves what was to be done. In
that moment every good and bad quality
seemed to leap to their faces. Corkell and
Crennell, seeing themselves outnumbered, fell
to a bout of hysterical weeping. Teare, a
fellow of sterner stuff, without pity or ruth,

seeing no danger for them if Dan were out
of sight, was for finishing in a twinkling what
they had begun  shooting Dan, flinging him
into the loft above, down the shaft outside,
or into a manure-hole at the doorway, that
was full of slimy filth and was now half frozen
over.

Quilleash alone kept his head, and when
Teare had spoken the old man said, Xo, and
set his lip firm and hard. Then Dan himself,
no less excited than the men themselves, called
and asked how many they were that were
coming. Crennell told him nine  seven men
and the coroner, and another  it might be a
woman  on a horse.

Eight men are not enough to take six of
us,' said Dan. ' Here, cut my rope and
Davy's  quick.'

When the men heard that, and saw by
the light of Dan's eyes that he meant it, and
.that he whose blood they had all but spilled

was ready to stand side by side with them and
throw in his lot with their lot, they looked
stupidly into each other's eyes, and could say
nothing. But in another breath the evil spirit
of doubt had taken hold of them, and Teare
was laughing bitterly in Dan's face.

Crennell looked out at the doorway again.
They're running, we're lost men,' he said ;
and once more he set up his hysterical
weeping.

Dowse that,' said Quilleash ; ' where's
your trusting' now ? '

Here, Billy,' said Dan eagerly,  cut the
lad's rope and get into the loft, every man of
you.'

Without waiting to comprehend the meaning
of this advice, realising nothing but that
the shed was surrounded and escape impossible,
two of them, Crennell and Corkell,
clambered up the ladder to the loft. Old
Quilleash, who from the first moment of the

scare had not budged an inch from his place
on the floor, stood there still with the gun in
his hand. Then Dan, thinking to free himself
by burning one strand of the rope that
bound him, threw himself down on his knees
by the fire of gorse and wood, and held himself
over it until one shoulder and arm and
part of his breast were in the flame. For a
moment it seemed as if, bound as he was, he
must thrust half his body into the fire, and
roll in it, before the rope that tied him would
ignite. But at the next moment he had leapt
to his feet with a mighty eflbrt, and the rope
was burning over his arm.

At that same moment the coroner and
the seven men, with Mona riding behind them,
came up to the doorway of the shed. There
they drew up in consternation. No sight on
earth was less like that they had looked to see
than the sight they then beheld.

There, in a dense cloud of smoke, was

Davy Fayle, still bound and helpless, pale
and speechless with affright ; and there was
Dan, also bound, and burning over one
shoulder as if the arm itself were afire, and
straining his great muscles to break the rope
that held him. Quilleash was m the middle
of the floor as if rooted to the spot, and his
gun was in his hands. Teare was on the
first rung of the wall-ladder, and the two
white faces of Corkell and Crennell were peering
down from the trap-hole above.

What's all this ? ' said the coroner.

Then Teare dropped back from the ladder
and pointed at Dan and said, ' We caught
him and were taking him back to you, sir.
Look, that's the way we strapped him. But
he was trying to burn the rope and give us the
slip.'

Dan's face turned black at that word of
treachery, and a hoarse cry came from his
throat.

Is it true ? ' said the coroner, and his
lip curled as he turned to Dan. Davy Fayle
shouted vehemently that it was a lie, but Dan,
shaking visibly from head to foot, answered
quietly and said, ' 111 not say no, coroner.'

At that Quilleash stepped out.  But I'll
say no,' he said firmly. ' He's a brave man,
he is ; and maybe I'm only an ould rip, but

d me if I'm going' to lie like that for

nobody  no, not to save my own sown'

Then in his gruff tones, sometimes faltering,
sometimes breaking into deep sobs, and
then rising to deeper oaths, the old fellow
told all. And that night all six of them 
Dan, the four fishermen, and the lad Davy 
were lodged in the prison at Castle Rushen.

CHAPTER XXXV.

THE COURT OF GENERAL GAOL DELIVERY.

From Christmas-tide onward through the
dark months, until a ' dream of spring ' came
once again on the slumbering face of winter,
the six men lay ui Castle Rushen. Rumours
from within the grey walls of the gaol told
that some of them were restive under their
punishment, and that the spirits of others
sank under it, but that Dan bore up with the
fortitude of resignation, and, though prone to
much sadness, with even the cheerfulness of
content. It Alas the duty of each man to take
his turn at cleaning the cell, and it was said
that Dan's turn seemed by his own counting
to come frequently. Reproaches he bore with

humility, and on one occasion he took a blow
from Crennell, who was small of stature and
had a slight limp in one leg. Constant
bickering's were rife among; them, and Dan
was often their subject of quarrel, and still
oftener their victim ; but they had cheerful
hours too, and sometimes a laugh together.

Such were some of the reports that made
gossip outside, where public curiosity and excitement
grew keener as the half-yearly sitting
of the Court of General Gaol Delivery drew
nearer. Copper riots and felonies of all descriptions,
disputes as to tithe, and arbitrations
as to the modes of counting the herrings, sank
out of sight m prospect of the trial of Dan
and his crew. From Point of Ayre to the
Calf of Man it was the engrossing topic, and
none living could remember a time when
public feeling ran so high. The son of the
Bishop was to be tried for the murder of the
son of the Deemster, and a bigger issue could

no man conceive. Variable enough Twas the
popular sympathy  sometimes with Dan,
sometimes against him, always influenced by
what way the wave of feeling flowed with
regard to the Deemster and the Bishop. And
closely where these two watched at every
turn.

The Deemster showed uncommon animation,
and even some sprightliness. He was
more abroad than at any time for fifteen years
before, and was usually accompanied by
Jar vis Kerruish. His short laugh answered
oftener to his own wise witticisms than at
any time since the coming to the island of his
brother, the Bishop ; but people whispered
that his good spirits did not keep him constant
company within the walls of his own
house. There his daughter, Mona, still soft
as the morning dew and all but as silent, sat
much alone. She had grown ' wae ' as folk
said, rarely being seen outside the gates of

Ballamona, never being heard to laugh, and
showing little interest in life beyond the crib
of her foster-child, Ewan's orphaned daughter.
And people remembered her mother, how
silent she had been, and how patient, and
how like to what Mona was, and they said
now, as they had said long ago, ' She's going
down the steep places.'

The Bishop had kept close to Bishop's
Court. Turning night into day, and day
into night, or knowing no times and seasons,
he had been seen to wander at all hours up
and down the glen. If any passed him as he
crossed the road from the glen back to the
house he had seemed not to see. His grey
hair had grown snowy white, his tall figure
drooped heavily from his shoulders, and his
gait had lost all its sprig. Stricken suddenly
into great age, he had wandered about
mumbling to himself, or else quite silent.
The chapel on his episcopal demesne he had

closed from the time of the death of Ewan,
his chaplain. Thus had he borne himself,
shut out from the world, until the primrose
had come and gone, and the cuckoo had begun
to call. Then as suddenly he underwent a
change. Opening the chapel at Bishop's
Court, he conducted service there every Sunday
afternoon. The good souls of the parish
declared that never before had he preached
with such strength and fervour, though the
face over the pulpit looked ten long years
older than on the Christmas morning when
the long shore men brought up their dread
burden from the Mooragh. Convocation was
kept on Whit Tuesday as before, and the
Bishop spoke with calm and grave power.
His clergy said he had gathered strength
from solitude and fortitude, from many days
spent alone, as in the wilderness, with his
Maker. Here and there a wise one among
his people said it might look better of him to

take the beam out of his own eye than to be
so very zealous in pointing out the motes in
the eyes of others. The world did not standstill,
though public interest was in suspense,
and now and again some girl was presented
for incontinence or some man for drunkenness.
Then it was noticed that the censures
of the Church had begun to fall on the evildoer
with a great tenderness, and this set the
wise ones whispering afresh that someone
was busy at sweeping the path to his own
door, and also that the black ox never trod
on his own hoof.

The day of the trial came in May. It
was to be a day of doom, but the sun shone
with its own indifference to the big little
affairs of men. The spring had been a dry
one, and over the drought came heat. From
every corner of the island the people trooped
off under the broiling sun to Castletown.
The Court of General Gaol Delivery was held

ill Castle Riislien, in the open square that
formed the gateway to the prison chapel,
under the clear sky, without shelter from any
weather. There the narrow space allotted to
spectators was thronged with hot faces under
beavers, matches, and sun-bonnets. The
passages from the castle gate on the quay
were also thronged by crowds who could not
see but tried to hear. From the lancet windows
of the castle that overlooked the gateway
eager faces peered out, and on the lead
flat above the iron staircase and over the
great clock tower were companies of people
of both sexes, who looked down and even
listened when they could. The windows of
the houses around the castle gate were thrown
up for spectators who sat on the sills. In the
rigging of the brigs and luggers that lay in
the harbour close under the castle walls
sailors had perched themselves to look on,
and crack jokes and smoke. Nearly the

whole floor of the market-place was thronged,
but under the cross, where none could see or
hear, an old woman had set up nmepins,
tipped with huge balls of toiFee, and a score
of tipsy fellows were busy with them amid
much laughter and noise. A line of older
men, with their hands in their pockets, were
propped against the castle wall ; and a young
woman from Ballasalla, reputed to be a
prophetess, was standing on the steps of the
cross, and calling on the careless to take note
that, while they cursed and swore and forgot
their Maker, six men not twenty yards away
were on the brink of their graves.

The judges were the Governor of the island
(who was robed), the Clerk of the Rolls, the
two Registers (who wore wigs and gowns),
the Water Bailiff, the Bishop, the Archdeacon,
the Vicars General, and the twenty-four Keys.
All these sat on a raised platform of planks.
The senior and presiding Deemster (Thorkell

Mylrea), who was the mouthpiece of the
court, was elevated on a central dais.

Thorkell was warm, eager, and even
agitated. When the Bishop took his seat,
amid a low murmur of the spectators, his
manner was calm, and his quiet eyes seemed
not to look into the faces about him.

The prisoners were brought in from the
cell that opened to the left of the gateway.
They looked haggard and worn, but were not
wanting in composure. Dan, towering above
the rest in his great stature, held his head low ;
his cheeks were ashy, but his lips were firm.
By his side, half clinging to his garments, was
the lad Davy, and at the other end of the line
was old Quilleash, with resolution on his
weather-beaten face. Crennell and Corkell
were less at ease, but Teare's firm set figure
and hard-drawn mouth showed the dogged
determination of a man who meant that day
to sell his life dear. Sixty-eight men were

present, summoned from the seventeen parishes
cf the island to compose a jury of twelve to
be selected by the prisoners. Over all was
the burning sun of a hot day in May.

When the officer of the court had made
the presentment, and was going on to ark the
prisoners to plead, the proceedings were
suddenly interrupted. The steward of the
spiritual barony of the Bishop, now sole
baron of the island, rose to a point of law.
One of the six prisoners who were indicted
for felony was a tenant of the Bishop's barony,
and as such was entitled to trial not by the
civil powers of the island, but by a jury of
his barony, presided over by the ji'oper
president of his barony. The prisoner in
question was Daniel Mylrea, and for him the
steward claimed the privilege of a remand
until he could be brought up for trial before
the court of the lord of the barony under
TJhich he lived.

VOL. III. H

This claim created a profound sensation
in the court. Dan himself raised his eyes,
and his face had a look of pain. When asked
by the Deemster if the claim was put forward
by his wish or sanction he simply shook his
head. The steward paid no attention to
this repudiation. ' This court,' he said,
 holds no jurisdiction over a tenant of the
Bishop's barony ; ' and forthwith he put in a
document showing that Daniel Mylrea was
tenant of a farm on the episcopal demesne,
situate partly in Kirk Ballaugh and partly in
Kirk Michael.

The Deemster knew full well that he was
powerless. Nevertheless he made a rigid
examination of the prisoner's lease, and, finding
the document flawless, he put the point of
law to the twenty-four Keys with every
hampering difficulty. But the court was
satisfied as to the claim, and allowed it. ' The
prisoner, Daniel Mylrea, stands remanded for

trial at the court of his barony,' said the
Deemster, in a tone of vexation ; * and at that
trial,' he added, with evident relish, ' the president
of the barony shall be, as by law
appointed, assisted by a Deemster.'

Dan was removed, his name was struck
out of the indictment, and the trial of the five
fishermen was proceeded with. They pleaded
Not guilty.' The Attorney General prosecuted,
stating the facts so far as they
concerned the remaining prisoners, and reflecting
at the evidence against the prisoner
who was remanded. He touched on the
evidence of the sailcloth, and then on the
mystery attaching to a certain bundle of
clothes, belts, and daggers that had been found
in the prison at Peel Castle. At this reference
the steward of the barony objected, as also
against the depositions that inculpated Dan.
The witnesses were fewer than at the Deemster's
inquest, and they had nothing to say that

H 2

directly criminated the fishermen. Brief and
uninteresting the trial turned out to be with
the chief prisoner withdrawn, and throughout
the proceedings the Deemster's vexation was
betrayed by his thin, sharp, testy voice. Some
efforts were made to prove that Dan's disappearance
from Peel Castle had been brought
about by the Bishop ; but the steward of the
barony guarded so zealously the privileges
of the ecclesiastical courts, that nothing less
than  an open and unseemly rupture between
the powers of Church and State seemed
imminent when the Deemster, losing composure,
was for pressing the irrelevant inquiry.
Moreover, the Keys, who sat as arbiters of
points of law and to ' pass ' the verdict of the
jury, were clearly against the Deemster.

The trial did not last an hour. When
the jury was ready to return a verdict, the
Deemster asked in Manx, as by ancient usage,
 Yod y fer-carrie sole ? ' (May the Man of

the Chancel [the Bishop] sit ?) And the
foreman answered, ' Fod ' (He may) ; the
ecclesiastics remained in their seats ; a verdict
of ' Not guilty ' was returned, and straightway
the five fishermen were acquitted.

Later the same day the Deemster vacated
his seat on the dais, and then the Bishop rose
and took it with great solemnity. That the
Bishop himself should sit to try his own son,
as he must have tried any other felon who was
a tenant of his barony, made a profound impression
among the spectators. The Archdeacon,
who had hoped to preside, looked
appalled. The Deemster sat below, and on
either side were the ecclesiastics, who had
claimed their right to sit as judges in the civil
court. Another jury, a jury of the barony,
was channelled. The serjeant of the barony
brought Dan to the bar. The prisoner was
still very calm, and his lips were as firm,
though his face was as white and his head

held as low as before. When a presentment
was read over to him, charging him with
causing the death of Ewan Mylrea, deacon in
holy orders, and he was asked to plead, he
lifted his eyes slowly, and answered in a clear,
quiet, sonorous voice, that echoed from the
high walls of the gateway, and was heard by
the people on the clock tower, ' Guilty.'

As evidence had been taken at the Deemster's
inquest, no witnesses were now heard.
The steward of the barony presented. He
dwelt on the prisoner's special and awful
criminality, in so far as he was the son of the
Bishop, taught from his youth up to think of
human life as a holy thing, and bound by that
honoured alliance to a righteous way in life.
Then he touched on the peculiar duty of right
living in one who held the office of captain
of his parish, sworn to preserve order and to
protect life.

When the steward had appended to his

statement certain commonplaces of extenuation
based on the plea of guilty, the Deemster,
amid a dead hush among the spectators, jut
questions to the prisoner which were intended
to elicit an explanation of his motive
in the crime, and of the circumstances attending
it. To these questions Dan made no
answer.

 Answer me, sir,' the Deemster demanded,
but Dan was still silent. Then the
Deemster's wrath mastered him.

 It ill becomes a man in your position to
refuse the only amends that you can make to
justice for the pains to which yoa have put
this court and another.'

It was an idle outburst. Dan's firm lip
was immovable. He looked steadily into the
Deemster's face, and said not a word.

The steward stepped in. ' The prisoner,'
he said, ' has elected to make the gravest of all
Amends to justice,' and at that there was a

deep murmur among the people. ' Nevertheless,
I could wish,' said the steward, ' that he
would also make answer to the Deemster's
question.'

But the prisoner made no sign.

There is some reason for thinking that,
if all were known, where so much is now hidden,
the crime to which the prisoner pleads
guilty would wear a less grievous aspect.'

Still the prisoner gave no answer.

Come, let us have done,' said the Deemster,
twisting impatiently in his seat.  Pronounce
the sentence, and let your sergeant
carry it into effect.'

The murmur among the people grew to a
great commotion, but in the midst of it the
Bishop was seen to rise, and then a deep hush
fell on all.

The Bishop's white head was held erect,
his seamed face was firm as it was pale, and
his voice, when he spoke, was clear and full.

Daniel Mylrea/ he said, ' you have pleaded
guilty to the great crime of murder. The
sergeant of your barony will now remove you,
and on the morning of this day of next week
he will take you in his safe custody to the
Tynwald Hill, in the centre of the island,
there, in the eye of light, and before the faces
of all men, to receive the dreadful sentence of
this court, and to endure its punishment

Chapter Xxxii.

CUT OFF FROM THE PEOPLE.

During the week that followed the trial of
Daniel Mylrea at the court of his barony, the
excitement throughout the island passed all
experience of public feeling. What was to
be the sentence of the barony ? This was
the one question everywhere  at the inn, the
mill, the smithy, the market cross, the street,
in the court-house ; and if two shepherds
hailed each other on the mountains they
asked for the last news from Peel.

With a silent acceptance of the idea that
death alone could be the penalty of the crime
that had been committed, there passed through
the people the burden, first of a great awe and

then of a great dread that any Christian man
should die the death of hanging. Not for
nearly two score years had the island seen
that horror, and old men shuddered at the
memory of it.

Then it came to be understood in a vao-ue
way that after all Daniel Mylrea was not to
die. Whispers went from mouth to mouth
that old Quilleash had sailed down to the Calf
Sound with the ' Ben-my-Chree,' well stored
with provisions. In a few days the old
salt returned, walking overland, preserving
an air of vast mystery, and shaking his head
when his gossips questioned him. Then poor
human nature, that could not bear to see
Daniel Mylrea die, could not bear to see him
saved either, and men who had sworn in their
impotent white terror that never again should
a gallows be built in the island, lusty fellows
who had shown ruth for the first time, began
to show gall for the hundredth, to nudge, to

snigger, and to mutter that blood was thicker
than water, and there was much between saying
and doing, as the saying' was.

The compassion that had been growing in
secret began to struggle with the ungentle
impulses that came of superstitious fear. It
seemed to be true, as old folk were whispering,
that Daniel Mylrea was the Jonah of
the island. What had happened in the first
year of his life ? A prolonged drought and a
terrible famine. What was happening now ?
Another drought that threatened another
famine. And people tried to persuade themselves
that the sword of the Lord was over
them, and that it would only rest and be
quiet when they had executed God's judgment
on the guilty man.

The day of Tynwald came, and the week
before it had passed like a year. There was
no sun, but the heat was stifling, the clouds
hung low and dark and hot as the roof of an

open oven, the air was sluggish, and the earth
looked blue. Far across the sea to the northwest
there was a thin streak of fiery cloud,
and at some moments there was the smell of
a thunderstorm in the heavy atmosphere.
From north and south, from east and west the
people trooped to Tynwald Hill. Xever before
within the memory of living man had so
vast a concourse been witnessed on that
ancient ground of assembly. Throughout
the island the mill-wheel was stopped, the
smithy fire was raked over with ashes, the
plough lay in the furrow, the sheep were
turned out on to the mountains, and men
and women, old men, old women, and young
children, ten thousand in all, with tanned
faces and white, in sun-bonnets, matches, and
capes, and some with cloaks in preparation
for the storm that was coming, drove in their
little springless carts, or rode on their small
Manx ponies, or trudged on foot through the

dusty roads, and over the bleached hillsides
and the parched Curraghs.

At ten o'clock the open green that surrounds
the hill of Tynwald was densely
thronged. Carts were tipped up in corners,
and their stores of food and drink were
guarded by a boy or a woman, who sat on
the starboard. Horses were tethered to the
wheels, or turned loose to browse on a common
near at hand. Men lounged on the green
and talked, their hands in their pockets, their
pipes in their mouths, or stood round the
Tynwald Inn, lifting pannikins to their
lips, and laughing  for there was merriment
among them though the work for which they
had come together was not a merry one.

 The mount itself was still empty, and
twelve constables were stationed about the
low wall that surrounded it, keeping the
crowd back. And though, as the people met
and mingled, the men talked of the crops and

of the prospect for the fishing, and women of
the wool and yarn, and boys tossed somersaults,
and young girls betook themselves to
girlish games, and girls of older growth in
bright ribbons to ogling and giggling, and
though there was some coarse banter and
coarser singing, the excitement of the crowd
beneath all was deep and strong. At intervals
there was a movement of the people
towards a church, St. John's Church, that
stood a little to the east of Tynwald, and
sometimes a general rush towards the gate
that looked westward towards Peeltown and
the sea. Earlier in the day someone had
climbed a mountain beyond the chapel, and
put a light to the dry gorse at the top, and
now the fire smouldered in the dense air, and
sent up a long sinuous trail of blue smoke to
the empty vault of the sky. The mountain
was called Greeba, which is the native word
for grief.

Towards half-past ten old Paton Gorry,
the sumner, went down the narrow, tortuous
steps that led to the dungeon of Peel Castle.
He carried fetters for the hands and legs of
his prisoner, and fixed them in their places
with nervous and fumbling fingers. His
prisoner helped him as far as might be, and
spoke cheerily in answer to his mumbled
adieu.

 I'm not going to St. John's, sir. I
couldn't give myself lave for it,' the sumner
muttered in a breaking voice. With a choking
sensation in his throat Daniel Mylrea said,
God bless you, Paton,' and laid hold of the
old man's hand. Twenty times during the
week the sumner had tried in vain to prevail
on the prisoner to explain the circumstances
attending his crime, and so earn the mitigation
of punishment which had been partly promised.
The prisoner had only shaken his head in
silence.

A few minutes afterwards Daniel Mylrea
was handed over in the guard-room to the
sergeant of the barony, and Paton Gorry's
duties  the hardest that the world had yet
given him to do  were done.

The sergeant and the prisoner went out of
the castle and crossed the narrow harbour ina
boat. On the wooden jetty, near the steps
by which they landed, a small open cart was
drawn up, and there was a crowd of gaping
faces about it. The two men got into the cart
and were driven down the quay towards the
path by the river that led to Tynwald under
the foot of Slieau Whallin. As they passed
through the town the prisoner was dimly conscious
that white faces looked out of windows
and that small knots of people were gathered
at the corners of the alleys. But all this was
soon blotted out, and when he came to himself
he was driving under the trees, and by the side
of the rumbling water.

VOL. III. I

All the day preceding the prisoner had
told himself that when his time came, his great
horn' of suffering and expiation, he must bear
himself with fortitude, abating nothing of the
whole bitterness of the atonement he was to
make, asking no quarter, enduring all contumely,
though men jeered as he passed or
spat in his face. He thought he had counted
the cost of that trial. Seven sleepless nights
and seven days of torment had he given to try
his spirit for that furnace, and he thought he
could go through it and not shrink. In his
solitary hours he had arranged his plans.
While he drove from Peel to St. John's he was
to think of nothing that would sap his resolution,
and his mind was to be a blank. Then,
as he approached the place, he was to lift his
eyes without fear, and not let them drop though
their gaze fell on the dread thing that must
have been built there. And so, very calmly,
silently, and firmly, he was to meet the end of
aU.

But now that he was no longer in the
dungeon of the prison, where despair might
breed bravery in a timid soul, but under the
open sky where hope and memory grow strong
together, he knew, though he tried to shut his
heart to it, that his courage was oozing away.
He recognised this house and that gate, he
knew every turn of the river  where the trout
lurked and where the eels sported  and when
he looked up at the dun sky he knew how
long it might take for the lightning to break
through the luminous dulness of the thundercloud
that hung over the head of Slieau
Whallin. Do what he would to keep his mind
a blank, or to busy it with trifles of the way,
he could not help reflecting that he was seeing
these things for the last time.

 Then there came a long interval, in which
the cart wherein he sat seemed to go wearily
on, on, on, and nothing awakened his slumbering
senses. When he recovered consciousness

I 2

with a start he knew that his mind had been
busy with many thoughts such as sap a man's
resolution and bring his brave schemes to
foolishness. He had been asking himself where
his father was that day, where Mona would be
then, and how deep their shame must be at
the thought of the death he was to die. To
him his death was his expiation, and little had
he thought of the manner of it ; but to them
it was disgrace and horror. And so he shrunk
within himself. He knew now that his great
purpose was drifting away like a foolish voice
that is emptied in the air. Groaning audibly,
praying in broken snatches for strength of
spirit, looking up and around with fearful eyes,
he rode on and on, until at length, before he
was yet near the end of his awful ride, the
deep sound came floating to him through the
air of the voices of the people gathered at the
foot of Tynwald. It was like the sound the
sea makes as its white breakers fall on some

sharp reef a mile away : a deep, multitudinous
hum of many tongues. When he lifted his
head and heard it, his pallid face became ashy,
his whitening lips trembled, his head dropped
back to his breast, his fettered arms fell between
his fettered legs, river and sky were blotted
out of his eyes, and he knew that before the
face of his death he was no better than a poor
broken coward.

At eleven o'clock the crowd at Tynwald
had grown to a vast concourse that covered
every foot of the green with a dense mass of
moving heads. In an enclosed pathway that
connected the chapel with the mount three
carriages were drawn up. The Deemster satin
one of them, and his widened face was full
of charity. By his side was Jarvis Kerruish.
Oh an outskirt of the crowd two men stood
with a small knot of people around them ;
they were Quilleash and Teare. The BaUasalla
prophetess, with glittering eyes and hair in

ringlets, was preaching by the door of the inn,
and near her were Corkell and Crennell, and
they sang when she sang, and while she prayed
they knelt. Suddenly the great clamorous
human billow was moved by a ruffle of silence
that spread from side to side, and in the midst
of a deep hush the door of the chapel opened,
and a line of ecclesiastics came out and walked
towards the mount. At the end of the line
was the Bishop, bare-headed, much bent, his
face white and seamed, his step heavy and
uncertain, his whole figure and carriage telling
of the sword that is too keen for its scabbard.
When the procession reached the mount the
Bishop ascended to the topmost round of it,
and on the four green ledges below him his
clergy ranged themselves. Almost at the
same moment there was a subdued murmur
among the people, and at one side of the green,
the gate to the west, the crowd opened and
parted, and the space widened and the line

lengthened until it reached the foot of the
Tynwald. Then the cart that brought the
sergeant and his prisoner from the castle
entered it slowly, and drew up, and then with
head and eyes down, like a beast that is struck
to its death, Daniel Mylrea dropped to his feet
on the ground. He was clad in the blue cloth
of a fisherman, with a brown knitted guernsey
under his coat, and sea-boots over his stockings.
He stood in his great stature above the shoulders
of the tallest of the men around him ; and
women who were as far away as the door of
the inn could see the seaman's cap he wore.
The sergeant drew him up to the foot of the
mount, but his bowed head was never raised
to where the Bishop stood above him. An
all-consuming shame sat upon him, and around
him was the deep breathing of the people.

Presently a full, clear voice was heard over
the low murmur of the crowd, and instantly
the mass of moving: heads was lifted to the

mount, and the sea of faces flashed white under
the heaviness of the sky.

Daniel Mylrea/ said the Bishop, ' it is
not for us to know if any hidden circumstance
lessens the hideousness of your crime. Against
all question concerning your motive your lips
have been sealed, and we who are your earthly
judges are compelled to take you at the worst.
But if, in the fullness of your remorse, your
silence conceals what would soften your great
offence, be sure that your Heavenly Judge,
who reads your heart, sees all. You have
taken a precious life ; you have spilled the
blood of one who bore himself so meekly and
lovingly and with such charity before the
world that the hearts of all men were drawn
to him. And you, who slew him in heat or
malice, you he ever loved with a great tenderness.
Your guilt is confessed, your crime is
black, and now your punishment is sure.'

The crowd held its breath while the Bishop

spoke, but the guilty man moaned feebly and
his bowed bead swayed to and fro.

Daniel Mylrea, there is an everlasting
sacredness in human life, and God who gave it
guards it jealously. When man violates it,
God calls for vengeance, and if we who are His
lawgivers on earth shut our ears to that cry of
the voice of God, His fierce anger goes forth
as a whirlwind and His word as a fire upon all
men. Woe unto us if now we sin against the
Lord by falling short of the punishment that
He has ordered. Righteously and without
qualm of human mercy, even as God has commanded,
we. His servants, must execute judgment
on the evildoer, lest His wrath be poured
out upon this island itself, upon man and upon
beast, and upon the fruit of the ground.'

At that word the deep murmur broke out
afresh over the people, and under the low sky
their upturned faces were turned to a grim
paleness. And now a strange light came into

the eyes of the Bishop, and his deep voice
quavered.

Daniel Mylrea,' he continued, ' it is not
the way of God's worst chastisement to take
an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth, and to
spill blood for blood that has been spilled.
When the sword of the Lord goes forth it is
sometimes to destroy the guilty man, and
sometimes to cut him off from the land of the
living, to banish him to the parched places of
the wilderness, to end the days wherein his
sleep shall be sweet to him, to blot out his
name from the names of men, and to give him
no burial at the last when the darkness of
death shall cover him.'

The Bishop paused. There was a dreadful
silence, and the distant sea sent up into the
still air, under the low clouds that reverberated
like a vault, a hoarse threatening murmur 

Daniel Mylrea, you are not to die for your
crime.'

At that ill-omened word the prisoner
staggered like a drunken man, and lifted his
right hand mechanically above his head, as one
who would avert a blow. And now it was
easy to see in the wild light in the eyes of the
Bishop, and to hear in his hollow, tense voice,
that the heart of the father was wrestling with
the soul of the priest, and that every word
that condemned the guilty man made its sore
wound on the spirit of him that uttered it.

You have chosen death rather than life,
but on this side of death's darkness you have
yet, by God's awful will, to become a terror to
yourself ; you have water of gall to drink ;
toilfuUy you have to live in a waste land alone,
where the sweet light of morning shall bring
you pain, and the darkness of night have eyes
to peer into your soul ; and so on and on from
year to weary year until your step shall fail
and there shall be never another to help you
up ; hopeless, accursed, finding death in life,

looking only for life in death, and crying in
the bitterness of your desolation, " Cursed bethe
day wherein I was born ; let not the day
wherein my mother bare me be blessed ! Cursed
be the man that brought tidings to my father,
saying, ' A man child is born unto thee,' making
his heart glad." '

One hoarse cry as of physical pain burst
fi'om the prisoner before these awful words
were yet fully uttered. The guilty man
gripped his head between his hands, and like
a beast that is smitten in the shambles he
stood in a stupor, his body swaying slightly,
a film upon his eyes, and his mind sullen and
stunned. There was silence for a moment,
and when the Bishop spoke again his tempest-beaten
head, white with the flowers of the
grave, trembled visibly. The terrified people
were grasping each other's hands, and their
hard-drawn breath went through the air like
the hiss of the sea at its ebb. As they looked

up at the Bishop they understood that an
awful struggle of human love and spiritual
duty was going on before them, and over all
their terror they were moved to a deep compassion.


Daniel Mylrea,' said the Bishop again,
and, notwithstanding his efforts to uphold it,
his voice softened and all but broke, 'vengeance
belongs to God, but we who are men
and prone to fall are not to deny mercy.
When your fetters are removed, and you leave
this place, you will go to the Calf Sound that
flows at the extreme south of the island.
There you will find your fishing-boat, stored
with such as may meet your immediate wants.
With that offering we part from you while
life shall last. Use it well, but henceforward
look for no succour whence it has come.
Though you loathe your life, be zealous to
preserve it, and hasten not, I warn you, by one
hour the great day of God's final reckoning.

Most of all be mindful of the things of an
eternal concernment, that we who part from
you now may not part for ever as from a soul
given over to everlasting darkness.'

The prisoner gave no further sign. Then
the Bishop turned with a wild gesture to the
right and to the left and lifted both his hands.
Men and women of Man he said, in a voice
that rose to the shrillness of a cry, ' the sentence
of the court of the barony of the island
is, that this man shall be cut off from his
people. Henceforth let him have no name
among us, nor family, nor kin. From now
for ever let no flesh touch his flesh. Let no
tongue speak to him. Let no eye look on
him. If he should be an-hungered, let none
give him meat. When he shall be sick, let
none minister to him. When his death shall
come, let no man bury him. Alone let him
live, alone let him die, and among the beasts
of the field let him hide his unburied bones.'

A great hoarse groan arose from the
people, such as comes from the bosom of a
sullen sea. The pathos of the awful struggle
which they had looked upon was swallowed
up in the horror of its tragedy. What they
had come to see was as nothing to the awfulness
of the thing they had witnessed. Death
was terrible, but this was beyond death's
terror. Somewhere in the dark chambers of
the memory of their old men the like of it
lived as a grim gorgon from old time. They
looked up at the mount, and the gaunt figure
standing there above the vast multitude of
moving heads seemed to be something beyond
nature. The trembling upraised hands, the
eyes of fire, the white quivering Hjds, the fever
in the face which consumed the grosser senses
appeared to transcend the natural man. And
below was the prisoner, dazed, stunned, a
beast smitten mortally and staggering to its
fall.

The sergeant removed the fetters from the
prisoner's hands and feet, and turned him
about with his face towards the south. Not
at first did the man seem to realise that he
was no longer a prisoner but an outcast, and
free to go whither he would save where other
men might be. Then, recovering some partial
consciousness, he moved a pace or two forward,
and instantly the crowd opened for him
and a long wide way was made through the
dense mass, and he walked through it, slow
yet strong of step, with head bent and eyes
that looked into the eyes of no man. Thus
he passed away from the Tynwald towards
the foot of Slieau Whallin and the valley of
Fondle that runs southward. And the people
looked after him, and the Bishop on the
mount and the clergy below followed him
with their eyes. A great wave of compassion
swept over the crowd as the solitary figure
crossed the river and began to ascend the

mountain path. The man was accursed, and
none might look upon him with pity ; but
there were eyes that grew dim at that sight.

The smoke still rose in a long blue column
from the side of Greeba, and the heavy cloud
that had hung at poise over the head of Slieau
Whallin had changed its shape to the outlines
of a mighty bird, luminous as a sea-gull, but
of a sickly saffron. Over the long line of sea
and sky to the west the streak of red that had
burned duskily had also changed to a dull
phosphoric light, that sent eastward over the
sky's low roof a misty glow. And while the
people watched the lonely man who moved
away from them across the breast of the hilla
pale sheet of lightning, without noise of
thunder, flashed twice or thrice before their
faces. So still was the crowd, and so reverberant
the air, that they could hear the man's
footsteps on the stony hillside. When he
reached the topmost point of the path, and

VOL. III. K

was about to descend to the valley, lie was
seen to stop, and presently to turn his face,
gazing backwards for a moment. Against the
dun sky his figure could be seen from head
to foot. While he stood the people held
their breath. When he was gone and the
mountain had hidden him the crowd breathed
audibly.

At the next moment all eyes were turned
back to the mount. There the Bishop, a priest
of God no longer, but only a poor human
father now, had fallen to his knees, and lifted
his two trembling arms. Then the pent-up
anguish of the wretched heart that had steeled
itself to a mighty sacrifice of duty burst forth
in a prayer of great agony.

Father in Heaven, it is not for him
who draws the sword of the Lord's vengeance
among men to cry for mercy, but rather to
smite and spare not, yea, though his own
flesh be smitten ; but, Thou that fullest

heaven and earth, from whom none can hide
himself in any secret place that Thou shalt not
see him, look with pity on the secret place of
the heart of Thy servant and hear his cry.
Lord on High, whose anger goes forth asa
whirlwind, and whose word is like as a fire,
what am I but a feeble, broken, desolate old
man? Thou knowest my weakness, and how
my familiars watched for my halting, and
how for a period my soul failed me, and how
my earthly affections conquered my heavenly
office, and how God's rule among this people
was most in danger from the servant of God,
who should be valiant for the Lord on the
earth. And if through the trial of this day
Thou hast been strength of my strength, woe
is me now, aged and full of days, feeble of
body and weak of faith, that Thou hast
brought this heavy judgment upon me. God
of Goodness and Righteous Judge of all the
Earth, have mercy and forgive if we weep for

K 2

him who goeth away and shall return no
more, nor see his home and kindred. Follow
him with Thy Spirit, touch him with Thy
finger of fire, pour upon him the healing of
Thy grace, so that after death's great thundering,
when all shall stand for one judgment,
it may not be said of Thy servant, " Write ye
this old man childless." '

It was the cry of a great shattered soul,
and the terrified people dropped to their knees
while the voice pealed over their heads. When
the Bishop was silent the clergy lifted him to
his feet, and helped him down the pathway to
the chapel. There was then a dull murmur
of distant thunder from across the sea. The
people fell apart in confusion. Before the last
of them had left the green the cloud of pale
saffron over the head of Slieau Whallin had
broken into lightning, and the rain was falling
heavily.

THE BRIEF RELATION OF DANIEL MYLREA,

WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.

CHAPTER XXXYIL

OF HIS OUTCAST STATE.

I, Daniel Mylrea, the son (God forgive me !)
of Gilcrist Mylrea, Bishop of Man  grace
and peace be with that saintly soul !  do set
me down in the year (as well as my reckoning
serves me) 1712, the month September,
the day somewhere between the twentieth
and the thirtieth, to begin a brief relation of
certain exceeding strange accidents of this life
that have befallen me since, at the heavy judgment
of God, I first turned my face from the
company of men. Not, as the good Bunyan

was, am I now impelled to such a narration 
bear with me though I name myself with that
holy man  by hope or thought that the goodness
and bounty of God may thereby be the
more advanced before the sons of men, though
it is for me also to magnify the Heavenly Majesty,
insomuch as that by this door of my
outcast state He has brought me to partake of
grace and life. Alone I sit to write what perchance
no eye may read, but it is with hope,
perhaps only vain, that she who is dear to me
beyond words of appraisement may yet learn
of the marvels which did oft occur, that I try
in these my last days to put my memory under
wardship. For it has fastened on me with
conviction that God has chosen me for a vessel
of mercy, and that very soon He will relieve
me from the body of the death I live in. If
I finish this writing before I go hence, and if
when I am gone she reads it, methinks it will
come to her as a deep solace that her prayer

of long since was answered, and that, though
so sorely separated, we twain have yet been
one even in this world, and lived together by
day and hour in the cheer of the spirit. But
if the gracious end should come before I bring
my task to a period, and she should know only
of my forlorn condition and learn nothing of
the grace wherein much of its desolation was
lost, and never come to an understanding of
such of those strange accidents as to her
knowledge have befallen, then that were also
well, for she must therein be spared many
tears.

It was on May 29, 1705  seven years
and four months, as I reckon it, back from
this present time  that in punishment of my
great crime the heavy sentence fell on me that
cut me off for ever from the number of the
people. What happened on that day and on
the days soon following it I do partly remember
with the vividness of horror, and partly

recall with difficulty and mistrust from certain
dark places of memory that seem to be clouded
over and numb. When I came to myself as I
was plodding over the side of Slieau Whallin,
the thunder Alas loud in my ears, the lightning
was flashing before my eyes, and the rain was
swirling around me. I minded them not, but
went on, hardly seeing what was about or
above me, on and on, over mountain road and
path, until the long day was almost done and
the dusk began to deepen. Then the strength
of the tempest was spent, and only the hinder
part of it beat out from the west a thin, misty
rain, and I found myself in Rushen, on the
south brew of the glen below Car-ny-Gree.
There I threw myself down on the turf with a
great numbness and a great stupor upon me,
both in body and in mind. How long I lay
there I know not, whether a few minutes
only, or, as I then surmised, near four-and-twenty
hours ; but the light of day was not

wholly gone from the sky when I lifted my
head from where it had rested on my hands,
and saw that about me in a deep half-circle
stood a drift of sheep, all still, save for their
heavy breathing, and all gazing in their questioning
silence down on me. I think in my
heart, remembering my desolation, I drew solace
from this strange fellowship on the lone
mountain side, but I lifted my hand and drove
the sheep away, and I thought as they went
they bleated, but I could hear nothing of their
cry, and so surmised that under the sufferings
of that day I had become deaf.

I fell back to the same stupor as before,
and when I came to myself again the moon
was up, and a white light was around the
place where I sat. With the smell of the
sheep in my nostrils I thought they might be .
standing about me again, but I could see
nothing clearly, and so stretched out my
hands either way. Then, from their confusion

in spurring away, I knew that the sheep had
indeed been there, and that under the sufferings
of that day I had also failed in my
sight.

The tempest was over by this time, the
mountain turf had run dry, and I lay me
down at length and fell into a deep sleep
without dreams ; and so ended the first day of
my solitary state.

When I awoke the sun was high, and the
wheat-ear was singing on a stone very close
above me, whereunto her pale blue egg she
had newly laid. I know not what wayward
humour then possessed me, but it is true that
I reached my hand to the little egg and
looked at it, and crushed it between my
finger and thumb, and cast its refuse away.
My surmise of the night before I now found
to be verified, that hearing and sight were
both partly gone from me. No man ever
mourned less at first knowledge of such infirmities,

but in truth I was almost beyond
the touch of pain, and a sorer calamity would
have wanted strength to torture me. I rose
and set my face southwards, for it was in the
Calf Sound, as I remembered, that I was to
find my boat, and if any hope lived in my
heart, so numb of torpor, it was that perchance
I might set sail and get myself away.

I walked between Barrel and Dalby, and
came down on the eastward of Cronk-na-Irey-
Lhaa. Then I, who had never before known
my strength to fail, grew suddenly weary, and
would fain have cast me down to rest. So to
succumb I could not brook, but I halted in my
walking and looked back, and across the plain
to the east, and down to the Bay of Fenwick
to the west. Many times since have I stood
there and looked on sea and sky, and mountain
and dale, and asked myself was ever so
fair a spot, and if the plains of heaven were
fairer ? But that day my dim eyes scoured

the sea for a sail and the mountains for a man,
and nothing did they see of either, and all
else was then as nothing.

Yet, though I was so eager to keep within
sight of my fellow-man, I was anxious not to
come his way, and in choosing my path I
walked where he was least likely to be. Thus,
holding well to the west of Fenwick, I took
the cliff head towards Breda, and then came
down between Port Erin and Port le Mary to
the moors that stretch to the margin of the
sound. Some few I met, chiefly shepherds
and fishermen, but I lifted my eyes to none,
and none gave me salutation. This was well,
for my heart was bitter, and if any had spoken,
not knowing me, I doubt not I should have
answered ill. In my great heart-torpor, half
blind, half deaf, I was that day like a wounded
beast of the field, ranging the moorland with
a wild abandonment, and dangerous to its
kind.

When I came to Cregneesh and saw it for
the first time, a little disjointed gipsy encampment
of mud-built tents pitched on the
bare moor, the sky was reddening across the
sea, and from that I knew how far advanced
the day must be, how slow my course had
been, and how low my strength. In half-an-hour
more I had sighted my boat, the ' ,'
where she lay in the Doon Creek
of the sound, at the length of some fifty
fathoms inside the rocks of Kitterland. When
I came up to her I found her anchored in
some five fathoms of water, with the small
boat lying dry on the shingly beach. Her
cabin contained provisions enough for present
needs, and more than that I was in no mood
to think about. Since the morning of the
day before I had not broken fast, but now I
ate hungrily of oaten and barley cake. Later
in the evening, when the stars were out and
the moon, which was in its last quarter, was

hanging over the Calf, I mixed myself some
porridge of rye-meal and cold water, and ate
it on the deck, and then went below to my
bunk and lay me down alone. Between sleep
and waking I tried to think of my position
and to realise it, but an owl was hooting
somewhere on the land, and somewhere over
the waters of the sound a diver was making
his unearthly laugh. I could not think save
of the hooting owl and the screaming diver,
and when I thought of them, though their
note was doleful and seemed to tell of suffering
or perhaps of demoniac delight, I could
not thank God that I had been made a man.
Thus, feeling how sore a thing it is to be a
creature living under the wrath of God, I
tossed on my bunk until I fell to sleep ; and
so ended the second day of my unblessed condition.


To follow closely all that befell on the
next day, or the many days thereafter whereof

I kept no reckoning, were to weary my spirit.
One thing I know, that a sudden numbness
of the spiritual life within me left me a worse
man than I had been before the day of my
cutting off, and that I did soon lose the little
I had of human love and tenderness. My gun
had been put in the boat, and with that I
ranged the cliffs and the moor from the Mull
Hills that lie to the west of Cregneesh to the
Chasms that are to the east of it. Many
puffins I shot, that much frequent these shores,
but their flesh was rank and salt, and they
were scarcely worth the powder I spent on
them. Thus it sometimes happened that,
being in no straits for food, I cast the birds
away, or did not put myself to the pains of
lifting them up after they fell to my gun, but
went on, nevertheless, to destroy them in my
wanton humour. Rabbits I snared by a trick
I learned when a boy, and sometimes cooked
them in the stove and ate them like a Christian

maiij and at other times I sat me down on
the hillside and rived them asunder as a
wild creature of the hills might do. But
whether I ate in my boat or on the cliff I took
no religion to my table, and thought only that
I like my food or disliked it.

Many times in these first days I had to
tear myself away from thinking of my condition,
for to do so was like the stab of a knife
to my brain, and I plainly saw that in that
way madness itself would lie. If I told myself
that other men had been cast alone ere
now in desolate places where no foot of
man was and no sound of a human voice, a
great stroke would come upon my spirit with
the thought that only their bodies had been
cast away, but that my soul was so. The
mourned seaman on an uninhabited island,
when at length he set eyes on his fellowman,
might lift up his heart to God, but tome
the company of men was not blessed.

Free I was to go where men were, even to
the towns wherein they herded together, but
go where I would I must yet be alone.

With this thought, and doubting not that
for me the day of grace was past and gone,
since God had turned His face from the
atonement I had ere while been minded to
make, I grew day by day more bitter in my
heart, and found it easiest to shut my mind
by living actively from hour to hour. Then,
like a half-starved hound, I went abroad at
daybreak and scoured the hills the day long,
and returned to my bed at night. I knew I
was a baser thing than I had been, and it
brought some comfort then to know that I
was alone and no eye saw me as I now was.
Mine was a rank hold of life, and it gave mea
savage delight unknown before to live by
preying on other creatures. I shot and slew
daily and hourly, and if for a moment I told
myself that what I had killed held its life on

VOL. III. I*

the same tenure that I did, my humanity was
not touched except to feel a strange wild thrill
that it was not I that lay dead. Looking
back over these seven years, it comes to me as
an unnatural thing that this mood can ever
have been mine ; but mine it was, and from the
like of it may God in His mercy keep all
Christian men.

One day  I think it must have been somewhere
towards the end of the first month of
my outcast state  I was ranging the cliff side
above the grey rocks of the Black Head when
I chanced on a hare and shot it. On coming
up with it I found it was lean and bony, and
so turned aside and left it as it squeaked and
bounced from my feet. This was in. the morning,
and towards nightfall I returned by the same
way and saw the hare lying by a brookside,
ragged and bleeding, but still alive. At sight
of me the wee thing tried to move away, but
its weakness and a clot of its blood kept it

down, and, feeling its extremity, it lifted its
two slender paws in the air, while its glistening
eyes streamed visibly, and set up a piteous
cry like the cry of a little child. I cannot
write what then I did, for it wounds me sore
to think of it, but when it was done, and that
piteous cry was no more in mine ears, suddenly
I said with myself this awful word,  I
am no longer a man, but a beast of the field ;
and the God of mercy and of tenderness has
cast me for ever out of the hollow of His
hand.'

CHAPTER Xxxiii.

OF HIS WAY OF LIFE.

This meeting with the poor hare, though now
it looks so trivial a thing, did then make a
great seizure upon my mind, so that it
changed my course and habit of life. For
ceasing not to believe that I was wholly
given over to a reprobate soul, I yet laid my
gun aside, and locked my shot and powder
in a drawer beneath my bunk, and set my
face towards new ways of living. First I
put myself to counting all that I possessed.
Thus I found that of rye and Indian meal
I had a peck each, of barley a peck,
with two quarters of fine barley flour, of
oats a pecks with two quarters of oaten

meal, of potatoes two kitchen, beside onions
and a little common salt. In the hold under
the hatches there were stored sundry useful
implements  a spade, a fork, a hedge-knife,
some hempen rope and twine, and with the
rest were the four herring-nets which belonged
to the boat, a mackerel-net, and some
deep-sea lines. Other things there were that
I do not name  wanting memory of them
at this time of writing;  but enough in all
for most uses that a lone man might have.

And this had ofttimes set me wondering
why, if it had been meant that I should be
cast utterly away, I had been provided with
means of life, who could well have found
them for myself. But after that meeting
with the hare I perceived the end of Godin
this, namely, that I should not, without
guilt, descend from the state of a Christian
man when hunger had to be satisfied.

And herein also I found the way of the

stern Judge with guilty man, that, having
enough for present necessities, I had little for
the future, beyond the year that then was, and
that if I must eat, so I must work. Thus
upon a day somewhere, as I reckon, about a
month after my cutting off, I rose early, and
set myself to delve a piece of fallow ground 
where all was fallow  two roods or more in
extent, lying a little to the north of the Black
Head, and to the south of the circle of stones
that stand near by. All day I wrought fasting,
and when darkness fell in the fellows
were turned. Next morning I put down my
seed, of potatoes a half kitchen, cut in quarters
where the eyes were many, and also of barley
and oats half a peck each, keeping back my
other half-peck lest the ground were barren,
or the weather against it, or the year too far
worn for such-like crops.

And that day of the delving, the first on
which I wrought as a man, was also the first

on which I felt a man's craving for the
company of other men. The sun was strong
all the fore part of the day, and its hot rays
scorched the skin of my back  for I had
stripped to my waist for my labour  and
that set me thinking what month it was, and
wondering what was doing in the world, and
how long; I had been where I then was.
When I returned to my boat at nightfall,
the air, as I remember it, was quiet over the
sound as it might be in a cloister, and only
the gulls were jabbering on Kitterland and
the cormorants at the water's edge. And I
sat on the deck while the sun went down in
the sea, and the red sky darkened and the
stars beofan to show and the moon to look out.
Then I went below and ate my barley bread
and thought of what it was to be alone.

It was that night that I bethought me of
my watch, which I had not once looked for
since the day of my immersion in the Cross

Vein on Orrisdale, when I found it stopped
from being full of water. In my fob it had
lain with its seals and chain since then, but
now I took it out and cleaned it with oil
from the fat of the hare and wound it up.
For months thereafter I set a great store by
it, always carrying it in my fob when I
went abroad, and when I came home to the
boat always hanging it on a nail to the larboard
of the stove-pipe in the cabin. And
in the long silence of the night, when I heard
it, sure, I thought, it is the same to me as
good company. Very careful I was to wind
it when the sun set, but if perchance it ran
down, and I awoke in my bunk, and, listening,
heard it not, then it was as if the pulse
had stopped of the little world I lived in, and
there was nothing but a great emptiness.

But withal my loneliness increased rather
than diminished, and though I had no longer
any hankering after my old way of life in

ranging the moorlands with my gun, yet I
felt that the activity of that existence had led
me off from thinking too much of my forlorn
condition. Wherefore, when my potatoes had
begun to show above the ground, and I had
earthed them up, I began to bethink me,
touching my boat, that it must be now the
time of the herring fishing come again, and
that I would go out of nights and see what
I could take. So never doubting; that sino-landed
I could navigate the luoorer, I hoisted
the nets out of the hold athwart the bunk-board,
and took them ashore to mend and to
bask them on the beach. I had spread them
out on the shingle, and was using my knife
and twine on the holes of the dog-fish, when
suddenly from behind me there came the loud
bark of a dog. Well I remember how I
trembled at the sound of it, for it was the
nearest to a man's voice that I had heard
these many lonesome days, and how fearfully

I turned my head over my shoulder as if
some man had touched me and spoken. But
what I saw was a poor mongrel dog, small
as a cur, and with ragged ears, a peaky nose,
and a scant tail, which for all its loud challenge
it dangled woefully between its legs.
Until then I had never smiled or wept since
my cutting oiF, and I believed myself to have
lost the sense of laughter and of tears, but I
must have laughed at the sight of the dog,
so much did it call to mind certain brave
painters I had known, who would come upto
a bout of wrestling with a right lusty
brag, and straightway set to trembling before
one had well put eyes on them. At the
sound of my voice the dog wagged his tail,
and crept up timidly with his muzzle down,
and licked the hand I held out to him. All
day he sat by me and watched me at my
work, looking up in my face at whiles with
a wistful gaze, and I gave him a morsel of

oaten cake, wMcli lie ate greedily, seeming
to be half starved of hunger. And when at
dusk my task was finished and I rose and
got into the dingy, thinking now he would
go his ways and be seen of me no more, he
leaped ito the boat after me, and when we
reached the lugger he settled himself in the
corner under the locker as if he had now
fully considered it that with me he would
make his habitation henceforth.

Having all things in readiness for the
fishing, I slipt anchor upon an evening towards
autumn, as I reckoned, for the leaves
of the mammon were then closing like a
withered hand and the berries of the lolling
were reddening. When the stars were out,
but no moon was yet showing, I put about
head to the wind, and found myself in nowise
hampered because short-handed, for
when I had to take in my sails I lashed my
tiller, and being a man of more than common

strength of arm it cost me nothing to step
my mainmast.

That night, and many nights thereafter,
I had good takings of fish, and in the labour
of looking after my corks and making fast
my seizings the void in my mind was in
some wise filled with other matter than
thoughts of my abject state. But one thing
troubled me at first, namely, that I took
more fish by many meshes than I could ever
consume. To make an end of my fishing-was
a thing I could not bring myself to, for
I counted it certain that so to do would be
to sink back to my former way of living.
Wherefore I thought it safest to seek for
some mode of disposing of my fish, such as
would keep me at my present employment
and do no harm to my feelings as a man, for
with this I had now to reckon watchfully,
being in constant danger, as I thought, of
losing the sense of manhood.

So I soused some hundreds of my herrings
with rough salt, which I distilled from the
salt water by boiling it in a pan with pebbles.
The remainder I concluded to give to such as
would consume them, and how to do this, being
what I was, cost me many bitter thoughts,
wherein I seemed to be the most unblessed of
all men. At length I hit on a device, and
straightway brought it to bear. Leaving my
fishing ground while the night was not yet
far spent, I ran into the sound before dawn,
for soon I learned those narrow waters until
they grew familiar as the palm of my hand.
Then before the sun rose above the Stack of
Scarlet, and while the eastern sky was only
dabbled with pink, I, with a basket of herrings
on my shoulder, crossed the moor to
Cregneesh, where the people are poor and not
proud, and, creeping in between the cabins,
laid my fish down in the open place that is
before the little chapel, and then went my

way quickly lest a door should suddenly
open or a window be lifted, and a face look
forth. Thrice I did this before I marked
that there were those who were curious to
know whence the fish came, and then I was
put on my mettle to go into the village and
yet to keep myself from being seen, for well I
knew that if any eye beheld me, that knew
me who I was, there would, thenceforward,
be an end of the eating of my herrings, even
among the poorest, and an end of my fishing
also. But many times I went into Cregneesh
without being seen of any man, and now I
know not whether to laugh or to weep when
I look back on the days I write of, and see
myself like a human fox stealing in by the
grey of dawn among the sleeping homes of
men.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

OF THE GHOSTLY HAND UPON HIM.

All that autumn I followed the herrings,
choosing my ground mainly by guess, but
sometimes seeing the blue lights of the
herring fleet rise close under my quarter, and
at other times, when the air was still, hearing
voices of men or the sound of laughter rumoured
over the quiet waters. But ever
fanciful to me, as a dream of a friend dead
when it is past, was that sound on the sea,
and as often as I heard it I took in my nets
and hauled my sails, and stood out for the
sound. Putting no light on my mitch-board
I would ofttimes pass the fleet within a
cable's length and yet not be known, but

once and again I knew by the hush of voices
and the dying away of laughter on the boats
about me that my dark craft was seen scudding
like a black bird of evil omen through
the night.

In my cabin I was used to burn a tallow
dip made of the fat of the birds I had shot
and rushes from the soft places of the moor,
and while my boat drifted under the mizzen
between take and take of herrings I would go
below and sit with my dog. He grew sleek
with the fare I found him, and I in these days
recovered in a measure my sense of sight and
hearing, for the sea's breath of brine is good
to man. Million veg-been I called him, and,
though a man of small cheer, I smiled to
think what a sorry misname that name
would seem in our harder English tongue.
For my poor mongrel cur had his little sorry
vices, such as did oft set me wondering what
the chances of his life had been, and whether

like his new messmate he had not somewhere
been driven out. Nevertheless he had his
good parts, too, and was a creature of infinite
spirits. I think we were company each to
the other, and if he had found me a cheerier
mate-fellow, I doubt not we should have had
some cheerful hours together.

But in truth, though my fishing did much
to tear me away from the burden of myself,
it yet left me many lonesome hours wherein
my anguish was sore and deep, and, looking
to the years that might be before me, put me
to the bitter question whether, being a man
outside God's grace, I could hold out on so
toilsome a course. Also, when I fell to sleep
in the daytime, after my work of the night
was done, I was much wrought upon by
troublous dreams, which sometimes brought
back the very breath odour of my boyish days
with the dear souls that filled them with joy,
and sometimes plagued me with awful ques-vol.

III. M

tions which in vain I tried to answer, knowing
that my soul's welfare lay therein. And
being much followed by the thought that the
spirit of the beast of the field lay in wait to
fall on the spirit of the man within me, I was
also put to great terror in my watchfulness
and the visions that came to me in hours of
idleness and sleep. But suddenly this sentence
fell on my mind : Thou art free to go
whithersoever thou wilt, though it be the
uttermost reaches of the earth. Go, then,
where men are, and so hold thy soul as a
man.

Long did this sentence trouble me, not
being able to make a judgment upon it, but
at length it fastened on me that I must follow
it, and that all the dread I had felt hitherto
of the face of man was no more than a thinks.
Thereupon I concluded that I would go
into Castletown at high fair on the next
market day, which I should know from other

days by the carts I could descry from the top
of the Mull going the way of Rushen Church
and Kentraugh. This resolve I never brought
to bear, for the same day whereon I made it a
great stroke fell upon my spirit and robbed
me of the little wherewith I had tried to
comfort me.

Going out of the sound that night by the
Spanish Head, for the season was far worn
and the herrings lay to the eastward of the
island, I marked in the dusk that a smack
that bore the Peel brand on its canvas was
rounding the Chicken Rocks of the Calf. So
I stood out well to sea, and did not turn my
head to the wind, and cast my nets, until I
was full two leagues from shore. Then it
was black dark, for the night was heavy, and
a mist lay between sea and sky. But soon
thereafter I saw a blue light to my starboard
bow, and guessed that the smack from Peel
had borne down in my wake. How long I

M 2

lay on that ground I know not, for the
takings were good, and I noted not the passage
of thine. But at short whiles I looked
towards the blue light, and marked that as
my boat drifted so did the smack drift, and
that we were yet within hail. The moon
came out with white streamers from behind a
rack of cloud, and knowing then that the
fishing was over for that night  for the her-minor
does not run his stills into mischief when
he has light to see by  I straightway fell to
hauling my nets. And then it was that I
found the smell of smoke in the nostrils, and
heard loud voices from the Peeltown smack.
Lifting my eyes I could at first see nothing,
for though the moon's light was in the sky
the mist was still on the sea, and through it
there seemed to roll slowly, for the wind was
low, a tunnel of smoke like fog. Well I knew
that something was amiss, and soon the mist
lifted like a dark veil into the air, and the

smoke veered, and a flash of red flame rose
from the smack of the Peeled. Then I saw
that the boat was afire, and in two mutes
more the silence of the sea was lost in the
fire's loud hiss and the men's yet louder
shouts. It was as if a serpent in the bowels
of the boat struggled to make its way out,
and long; tongues of fire shot out of the
scuttle, the hold, the combings, and the flue
of the stove. Little thought had I then of
these things, though now by the eye of
memory I see them, and also the sinuous trail
of red water that seemed to crawl over the
dark sea from the boat afire to the boat I
sailed in. I had stepped my mast and
hoisted sail before yet I knew what impulse
possessed me, but with my hand on the tiller
to go to the relief of the men in peril. On a
sudden I was seized with a mighty fear, and
it was as though a ghostly hand laid on me
from behind, and a voice above the tumult of

that moment seemed to cry in my ears, ' Not
for you, not for you.' Then in great terror I
turned my boat's head away from the burning
smack, and as I did so the ghostly hand did
relax and the voice did cease to peal in mine
ears.

They will drop into their dingy,' I said
with myself. ' Yes,' I said, as the sweat
started cold from my forehead, ' they will
drop into the dingy and be saved ; ' and
turning my head I saw, by the flame of the
fire, that over the bulwark at the stern two
men were tumbling down into the small boat
that they hauled behind. And I sped away
in agony, for now I knew how deep was the
wrath upon me, that it was not for me so
much as to stretch my accursed hand to
perishing men to save them. Scarce had I
gone a cable's length when a great shout,
mingled with oaths, made me to turn my
head, thinking the crew of the boat were

crying curses down on me, not knowing me,
for deserting them in their peril, but I was
then in the tunnel of smoke wherein I might
not be seen, and, lo, I saw that the dingy
with the two men was sheering off, and that
other two of their mates were left on the
burning boat.

Haul the wind and run the waistrels

down, d them,' shouted one of the two

men on the smack, and amid the leaping flames
the mainsail shot up and filled, and a man
stood to the tiller, and with an oath he
shouted to the two in the small boat that for
then' treachery they should go down to hell
straightway.

In the glare of that fierce light and the
turmoil of that moment my eyes grew dim, as
they had been on the day of my cutting off,
and I squeezed their lids together to relieve
them of water. Then I saw how fearful a
thing was going on within my cable's length.

Two men of a crew of four in the burning
smack had got themselves into the small boat
and cleared off without thought of their comrades
who were struoo;lino; to save their craft,
and now the two abandoned men, doomed to
near death in fire or water, were with their
last power of life, and in life's last moments  
for aught they could tell  thirsting for deadly
vengeance. On the smack went, with its
canvas bellied, and the flames shooting
through and hissing over it, but just as it
came by the small boat the men therein pulled
to the windward and it shot past.

Ere this was done, and while the smack's
bow was dead on for the dingy, I too had
sheered round and was beating up after the
burning boat, and when the men thereon saw
me come up out of the smoke they ceased to
curse their false comrades and made a great
cry of thanks to God. At a distance of six
fathoms I laid to, thinking the men would

plunge into the sea and come to me, but, apprehending
my thoughts, one shouted me to
come closer, for that he could not swim.
Closer to the burning smack I would not go
from fear of firing my own boat, and I dared
not to risk that fate wherein we might all have
been swallowed up together. For despair, that
fortifies some men, did make of me a coward,
and I stood in constant terror of the coming
of death. So I stripped me of my jacket and
leapt into the water and swam to the boat,
and climbed its open combings as best I could
through the flame and heat. On the deck
the two men stood, enveloped in swirling
clouds of smoke, but I saw them where they
were, and pulling one into the water after me,
the other followed us, and we reached my
boat in safety.

Then, as I rubbed my face, for the fire had
burnt one cheek, the men fell to thanking
me in a shamefaced way  as in the manner of

their kind, fearing to show feeling  when on
a sudden they stopped short, for they had
lifted their eyes, and in the flame of their
boat had seen me, and at the same moment I
had looked upon them and known them.
They were William Quilleash and Edward
Teare, and they fell back from me and made
for the bow, and stood there in silence
together.

Taking the tiller, I bore in by tacks for
Port-le-Mary, and there I landed the men,
who looked not my way nor ever spoke word
or made sign to me, but went oiF with their
heads down. And when I stood out again
through the Poolvash to round the Spanish
Head and make for my moorings in the
sound, and saw the burning smack swallowed
up by the sea with a groan that came over
the still waters, its small boat passed me
going into harbour, and the men who
rowed it were Crennell and Corkell, and when

they saw me they knew me, and made a broad
sweep out of my course. Now all this time
the ghostly hand had been on my shoulder,
and the strange voice had pealed in mine ears,
and though I wanted not to speak with any
man, nor that any man should speak with
me, yet I will not say but that it went to my
heart that I should be like as a leper from
whose uncleanness all men should shrink
away.

For many days hereafter this lay with a
great trouble upon me, so that I let go my
strong intent of walking into Castletown at
high fair, and put this question with myself,
whether it was written that I should carry me
through this world down to death's right
ending. Not as before did I now so deeply
abhor myself; but felt for myself a secret
compassion. In truth I had no bitterness
left in my heart for my fellow-men, but,
tossed with the fear that if I lived alone much

longer I must surely lose my reason, and
hence my manhood, smoking down to the
brute, this consideration fell with weight
Tij)on me. What thou hast suffered is from
men who know thy crime, and stand in terror
of the curse upon thee, wherein thou art so
blotted out of the book of the living that
without sm none may look thy way. Go
therefore where no man knows thee, and the
so heavy burden thou dearest will straightway
fall from thee. Now, at this thought, my
heart was full of comfort, and I went back to
my former design of leaving this place forever.
But before I had well begun what I
was minded to do a strange accident befell
me, and the relation thereof is as followeth.

By half-flood of an evening late in autumn
for though the watch showed short of six
the sun was already down  I left my old
moorings inside the rocks of Kitterland,
thinking to slip anchor there no more. The

breeze was fresh in the sound, and outside it
was stiff from the nor-east, and so I ran outwith
a fair wind for Ireland, for I had considered
with myself that to that country I
would go, because the people there are tender
of heart and not favoured by God. For a
short while I had enough to think of in
managing my cordage, but when I was well
away to southwest of the Calf suddenly the
wind slackened. Then for an hour full I stood
by the tiller with little to do, and looked back
over the green waters to the purple mountains
vanishing in the dusk, and around to
the western sky, where over the line of sea the
crimson streamers were still trailing where the
sun had been, like as the radiance of a goodly
life remains a while after the man has gone.
And with that eye that sees double, the thing
that is without and that which is within, I
saw myself then in my little craft on the
lonely sea like an uncompanionable bird in

the wide sky, and my heart began to fail me,
and for the first time since my cutting off I
must have wept. For I thought I was leaving
for ever the fair island of my home, withall
that had made it dear in dearer days.
Though it had turned its back on me since,
and knew me no more, but had blotted out
my name from its remembrance, yet it was
mine, and the only spot of earth on all this
planet  go whither I would  that I could
call my own. How long this mood lasted I
hardly can say, but over the boat two gulls
hovered or circled and cried, and I looked up
at their white transparent wings, for lack of
better employment, until the light was gone
and another day had swooned to another
night. The wind came up with the darkness,
and, more in heart than before, I stood out
for the south of Ireland, and reached my old
fishing port of Kindle by the dawn of the
next day.

Then in the gentle sun of that autumn
morning I walked up from the harbour to the
market-place, and there found a strange company
assembled about the inn, and in the
midst were six or seven poor ship-broken
men, hopeless, half naked, and lean of cheek
from the long peril and privation that eats the
flesh and makes the eyes hollow. In the
middle of the night they had come ashore on
a raft, having lost their ship by foundering
twelve days before. This I learned from the
gossip of the people about them, and also that
they had eaten supper at the inn and slept
there. While I stood and looked on there
came out in the midst of the group two other
men, and one of them was their captain and
the other the innkeeper. And I noted well
that the master of the inn was suave to his
tattered customers, and spoke of breakfast as
being made ready.

But first go to the Mayor,' said he.

addressing the captain,  and make your protest,
and he will lend whatever moneys you want.'
The captain, nothing loth, set out with a
cheerful countenance for the Mayor of the
town, a servant of the inn going with him to
guide him. The ship-broken crew stayed behind,
and I, who was curious to learn if their
necessities would be relieved, remained standing
in the crowd around them. And while we
waited, and the men sat on the bench in front
of the inn, there came down on them from
every side the harpies that find sea-going men
with clothes. There was one with coats and
one with guernsey, and one with boots of
leather and of neatest-skin, and with these
things they made every man to fit himself.
And if one asked the price, and protested that
he had got no money, the Samaritans
laughed and bade them not to think of price
or money until their captain should return
from the treasury of the Mayor. The seamen

took all with good cheer, and every man
picked out what he wanted, and put it on,
throwing his rags aside laughing.

But presently the master of the crew returned,
and his face was heavy; and when his
men asked how he had fared, and if the
Mayor had advanced him anything, he told
them Xo. and that the Mayor had said he was
no usurer to lend money. At that there were
organs and oaths from the crew, and looks of
bewilderment among: those who had fetched
the clothes ; but the innkeeper said all would
be well, and that they had but to send for a
merchant in the next street who made it his
trade to advance money to ship-broken men.
This news brought back the light to the dark
face of the captain, and he sent the servant
of the inn to fetch the merchant.

When this man came my mind misgave,
for I saw the stamp of charity in his face.
But the captain told his story, whereof the

VOL. III. N

hand that I have before mentioned seemed to
seize me from behind. Then on the instant
I faced about to hasten away, for now the
struggle within me was more than I could
bear, and I stopped and went on, and stopped
again and again went on, and all the time the
watch was in my palm, and the ghostly hand
on my shoulder. At last, thinking sure that
the memory of the seven sea going men, hungry
and ill clad, would follow me, and rise upto
torment me on land and sea, I wheeled
around and ran back hot-foot and did as I
was minded, Then I walked rapidly away
from the market-place, and passing down to
the harbour I saw a Peeltown fisherman, and
knew that he saw me also.

Now, I should have been exceeding glad
if this thing had never befallen, for though it
made my feeling less ungentle towards the two
men, my old shipmates, who had turned from
me as from a leper when I took them from

their burning boat, yet it brought me to a
sense that was full of terror to my oppressed
spirit, namely, that though I might fly to
lands where men knew nothing of my great
crime, yet that the curse thereof was mostly
within mine own afflicted soul, from which I
could never flee away.

All that day I stayed in my boat, and
the sun shone and the sky Alas blue, but my
heart was filled with darkness. And when
night fell in I had found no comfort, for then
I knew that from my outcast state there was
no escape. This being so, whether to go back
to mine own island was now my question.
Oh, it is a goodly thing to lie down in the
peace of a mind at ease and rise up from the
refreshment of the gentle sleep. But not forme
was that blessed condition. The quaking
of my spirit was more than I could well stand
under without losing my reason, and in the
fear of that mischance lay half the pain of life

hand that I have before mentioned seemed to
seize me from behind. Then on the instant
I faced about to hasten away, for now the
struggle within me was more than I could
bear, and I stopped and went on, and stopped
again and again went on, and all the time the
watch was in my palm, and the ghostly hand
on my shoulder. At last, thinking sure that
the memory of the seven sea-going men, hungry
and ill-clad, would follow me, and rise upto
torment me on land and sea, I wheeled
around and ran back hot foot and did as I
was minded. Then I walked rapidly away
from the market-place, and passing down to
the harbour I saw a Peeltown fisherman, and
knew that he saw me also.

Now, I should have been exceeding glad
if this thing had never befallen, for though it
made my feeling less ungentle towards the two
men, my old shipmates, who had turned from
me as from a leper when I took them from

their burning boat, yet it brought me to a
sense that was fall of terror to my oppressed
spirit, namely, that though I might fly to
lands where men knew nothing of my great
crime, yet that the curse thereof was mostly
within mine own afflicted soul, from which I
could never flee away.

All that day I stayed in my boat, and
the sun shone and the sky Alas blue, but my
heart was filled with darkness. And when
night fell in I had found no comfort, for then
I knew that from my outcast state there was
no escape. This being so, whether to go back
to mine own island was now my question.
Oh, it is a goodly thing to lie down in the
peace of a mind at ease and rise up from the
refreshment of the gentle sleep. But not forme
was that blessed condition. The quaking
of my spirit was more than I could well stand
under without losing my reason, and in the
fear of that mischance lay half the pain of life

to me. Long were the dark hours, and when
the soft daylight came again I did resolve that
go back to my own island I would. For
what was it to me though the world was wide
if the little place I lived in was but my own
narrow soul ?

That night in the boat for lack of the
tick of my watch there seemed to be a void
in the air of my cabin. But when the tide
was about the bottom of the ebb I heard
the plash of an oar alongside, and presently
the sound of something that fell overhead.
Next morning I found my watch lying on the
deck, by the side of the hatches.

At the top of the flood I lifted anchor and
dropped down the harbour, having spoken no
word to any man since I sailed into it.

CHAPTER XL.

OF HIS GREAT LONELINESS.

Back at my old moorings inside the rocks
of Kitterland I knew full Tell that the
Almighty Majesty was on this side of me and
on that, and I had nothing; to look for now
or hereafter. But I think the extremity of
my condition gave me some false courage,
and my good genius seemed to say, What
have you to lament ? You have health, and
food, and freedom, and you live under no
taskmaster's eye. Let the morning see you
rise in content, and let the night look on you
lying down in thankfulness. And turn not
your face to the future to the unsettling of
your spirit, so that when your time comes you

may not die with a pale face. Then did I
laugh at my old yearning for fellowship, and
asked wherefore I should be lonely since I
lived in the same planet with other men,
and had the same moon and stars above my
sleep as hung over the busy world of men.
In such wise did I comfort my torn heart,
and shut it up from troubling me, but well
I knew that I was like to one who cries
peace where there is no peace, and that in
all my empty sophistry concerning the moon
and the stars there was no blood of poor
human neighbourliness.

Nevertheless, I daily went about my businesses,
in pursuance whereof I walked up to
the place over the Black Head where I
had planted my corn and potatoes. These
in their course I reaped and delved, cutting
the barley and rye with my clasp-knife
for sickle, and digging a burrow in the earth
for my potatoes. Little of either I had, but

enough for my frugal needs until more might
grow.

When my Trork was done, and I had no
longer any employment to take me ashore, the
autumn had sunk to winter, for in this island
of Man the cold and the mist come at a
stride. Then sitting alone in my boat, with
no task save such as I could make for myself,
and no companion but little Yeg-veen, the
strength of the sophistry wherewith I had
appeased myself broke down pitifully. The
nights were long and dark, and the sun shone
but rarely for many days together. Few were
the ships that passed the mouth of the sound,
either to east or west of it, and since my
coming; to moorao;e there no boat had crossed
its water. Cold and bleak and sullen it lay
around my boat, reflecting no more the forehead
of the Calf, and lying now under the
sunless sky like a dead man's face that is
moved neither to smiles nor tears. And an

THE DEEMSTER

awful weariness of the sea came to me then,
such as the loveliest land never brought to the
spirit of a Christian man, for sitting on the
deck of my little swaying craft, with the beat
of the sea on its timbers, and the sea-fowl
jabbering on Kitterland, and perhaps a wild
colt racing the wind on the Calf, it came into
my mind to think that as far as eye could see
or ear could hear there was nothing around
me but the hand of God. Then all was darkness
within me, and I did oft put the question
to myself if it was possible for man to be with
God alone and live.

Now it chanced upon a day that I wanted
potatoes out of my burrow over the Black
Head, and that returning therefrom towards
nightfall I made a circuit of the stone circle
above the Chasms, and the northernmost side
of it, midway to Cregneesh, came on a sight
that arrested my breath. This was a hut
built against a steepness of rugged land from

which stones had sometime been quarried.
The walls were of turf ; the roof was of gorse
and sticks, with a hole in it for chimney.
Window there was none, and the doorway-was
half closed by a broken gate whereof
the bars were intertwined with old straw.

Mean it was, and desolate it looked on the
wild moorland, but it was a mark of the hand
of man, and I who had dwelt so long with
God's hand everywhere about me was touched
with a sense of human friendliness. Hearing
no voice within I crept up and looked into the
little place. A bed of straw was in one
corner, and facing it was a lump of freestone
hollowed out for the bed of a fire. A broken
pipe lay near this rude hearth, and the floor
was of mountain turf worn bare and hard.
Two sacks, a kettle, a saucepan, and some 
potato-parings were the only other things in
the hut, and poor as it all was it touched me
so that in looking upon it I think my eyes

were wet, because it was a man's habitation.
I remember that as I turned to go away the
rain began to fall, and the pattering drops on
the roof seemed to my eye and ear to make
the place more human.

In going back to my boat that day I came
nearer to Cregneesh than was my wont in the
daytime, and though the darkness was coming
down from the mountains I could yet see into
the streets from the knoll I passed over. And
there in the unpaved way before a group of
houses I saw a witless man in coat and
breeches, but no vest or shirt, and with a
rope about his waist, dancing and singing to
a little noisy crowd gathered about him.

After that I had come upon the hut my
mind ran much on the thought of it, and in
three days or thereabouts I went back to look
at it again, and coming near to it from behind
saw sundry beehives of a rude fashioning
made of straw and sticks. Yeg- been was with

me, for he was now my constant company,
and in a moment he had bounced in at the
doorway and out again at yet more speed,
with three of his kind close at his tail. Before
I could turn me about to go away a man
followed the dogs out of the hut, and he was
the same witless being that I had seen at his
dancing in the streets of Cremeesh. His
lip lagged low and his eyes were dull as a
rabbit's ; on his head was a crownless hat
through which his hair was seen, and I saw
that his breast, where his shirt should be,
was blackened as with soot. I would have
gone about my own employments but he
spoke, telling me not to fear him, for it was
false that he was possessed, as hard spoken
people said, with the spirit of delusion. I
answered nothing to this, but stood and
listened with eyes turned aside, while the
broken brain of the poor creature rambled
on.

they call me Billy the Bees,' lie said,
 because I catch them and rear them  look,'
and he pointed to his hives. He talked of
his three dogs and named them, saying that
they slept in a sack together, and that in the
same sack he slept with them. Something he
said of the cold that had been coming latterly,
and pointed to the soot on his breast, saying
that it kept him warm. He told how he
made a circuit of the farmhouses once a week,
dancing and singing at all of them, and how
the people gave him barley meal and eggs.
Much more he said, but because the method
of it  where method there was any  has gone
from my memory I pass it. That the world
was nigh about its end he knew of a surety,
because he saw that if a man had money and
great store of gear it mattered not what else
he wanted. These with other such words he
spoke tremblingly, and I stood aside and
answered him nothing, neither did I look up

into his face. At last he said timidly, ' I
know I have always been weak in my intellects
and hearing that I could bear to hear
no more, but went about my business with
a great weight of trouble upon me. And
God,' I cried that night in my agony,
I am an ignorant sot, without the grace of
human tenderness, or the gift of understanding.
I am guilty before Thee, and no man
caret for my soul, but from this affliction,

Almighty Master, save me; save me from
this degradation, for it threatens me, and
when death comes that stands at the foot of
life's awful account I will pay its price with
thankfulness.'

Now after this meeting with the witless
man the weariness that I had felt of my home
on the sea lay the heavier on my spirits, and

1 concluded with myself that I should forsake
my boat and build me a home on the land
within sight of man's habitation. So I walked

the cliffs from the Mull Hills to the Noggin
Head, and at last I lit on the place I looked
for. Near to the land where I had lately-broken
the fellows and grown me a crop) of
corn and potatoes there were four roofless
walls. Sometime a house had stood there,
but being built on the brink of the great clefts
in the earth that we call the Chasms it had
shrunken in some settlement of the ground.
This had affrighted the poor souls who inhabited
it, and they had left it to fall into
ruins. Such was the tale I heard long afterwards,
but none came near it then, and none
have come near to it since. Save the four bare
walls, and a wall that crossed it midway, nothing:
was left. Where the floor had been the
grass was growing ; wormwood was in the
settle nook, and cranberries had ripened and
rotted on the hearth. The door lintel was
gone, and the sill of the window was fallen
off. There was a round patch of long grass

where the well had been, and near to where
the porch once stood the mammon-tree still
grew, and thus, though the good people who
had lived and died there, been born and buried,
were gone from it for ever, the sign of their
faith, or their superstition, lived after them.

Better for me than this forsaken place it
was hard for any place to be. On a dangerous
spot it stood, and therefore none would
come nigh it. Near to Cregneesh it was,
and from the rising ground above it I could
look down on the homes of men. Truly it
looked out on the sea, and had a great steepness
of shelving rocks going down to an awesome
depth, where, on the narrow beach of
shingle, the tide beat with a woeful moan ; but
though the sea was so near, and the sea-fowl
screamed of an evening from the great rock
like a cone that lifted its gaunt finger a cable's
length away, yet to me it was within the very
pulse of human life.

VOL. III. o

So I set me to work, and roofed it with
driftwood and turf and gorse ; and then with
lime from a cliff at the Tubal Creek in
the Calf I whitened it within and without,
walls and roof. A door I made in sometime,
and for a window I had a piece of transparent
skin, having no glass. And when all
was made ready I moved my goods from the
boat to my house, taking all that seemed
necessary  flour, and meat, and salt, and my
implements, as well as my bed and the spare
clothes I had, which were not many.

I had been in no haste with this work,
being well content with such employment,
but it came to an end at last, and the day
that I finished my task was a day late in the
first year after my cutting ofl*. This I knew
because the nights were long, and I had been
trying with my watch to cast on the shortest
day, and thereby recover my lost count of
time. On the night of my first sleeping in

my new home there came a fierce storm of
wind and rain from the east. Four hours the
gale lasted, and often the gulls were dashed
screaming at the walls wherein I sat by the
first fire I had yet kindled on my hearth.
Towards midnight the wind fell suddenly to
a dead calm, and, looking out, I saw that the
moon was coming very bright in its rising
from behind a heavy cloud over the sea. So,
wondering what chance had befallen my boat
for though I had left it I had a tenderness
for it and meant perchance to use it again  I
set out for the sound. When I got to the
head of the cliff I could plainly see the rocks
of Kitterland, and the whole length of the
Doon Creek, but where my boat had been
moored no boat could I see, nor any trace of
one from Bastard Head on the east to Half-walk
Rock on the west. Next morning,
under a bright winter's sun, I continued the
search for my boat, and with the rising tide

o '2

at noon I saw her thrown up on to the beach
of the Doon, dismasted, without spar or boom,
bilged below her water-line, and altogether
a hopeless hulk. I made some scaling shift
to pull her above high water mark, and then
went my ways.

Now this loss, for so I considered it, did
at first much depress me, thinking, with
a bitter envy of my late past, that my future
showed me a far more unblessed condition,
seeing that I was now for ever imprisoned on
this island, and could never leave it attain
whatsoever evil might befall. But when I had
thought twice upon it my mind came to that
point that I was filled with gratitude : first,
because the wrecking of my boat on the very
day of my leaving it seemed to give assurance
that, in making my home on the land, I had
done that which was written for me to do ; and
next, because I must inevitably have been
SV' allowed up in the storm if I had stayed on

the sea a single night longer. And my terror
of death was such that to have escaped the
peril of it seemed a greater blessing than debasement
from this island could ever be.

Every day thereafter, and oftener at daybreak,
I walked up to the crest of the rising
ground at the back of my house, and stood
awhile looking down on Cregneesh, and
watching for the white smoke that lay like a
low cloud over the hollow place wherein Port
Erin lay. After that I had done this I felt
strangely refreshed as by a sense of companionship,
and went about my work, such as it was,
with content. But on a bitter morning; sometime
in December, as I thought, I came upon
a sight that well nigh froze my heart within
me, for, outstretched on the bare moorland,
under the bleak sky and in the lee of a thick
gorse bush, tipped with yellow, I found the witless
man, Billy the Bees, lying cold and dead.
His bare chest was blue, as with starvation.

under the soot wherewith in his simpleness
he had thickened it, and his pin died face
told of privation and of pain. And now that
he lay stretched out dead I saw that he had
been a man of my own stature. In his hut,
which was farther away than my own house
from the place where he lay, there was neither
bite nor sup, and his dogs seemed to have
deserted him in his poverty, for they were
gone. The air had softened perceptibly for
some minutes while I went thither, and as I
returned to the poor body, wondering what
to do with it, the snow besran to fall in bio;
flakes. ' It will cover it,' I said with myself
The snow will bury it,' I thought ; and casting
a look back over my shoulder, I went home
with a great burthen of trouble upon me.

All that day, and other two days, the snow
continued to fall, until the walls of my house
were blocked up to the level of my window,
and I had to cut a deep trench to the gable

where I piled my wood. And for more than
a week following, shut in from my accustomed
walk, I sat alone in the great silence and tried
to keep my mind away from the one fearful
thought that now followed it. Remembering;
those long hours and the sorry employments
I found for them  scrabbling on all fours in
play with Millish-veg-veen, laughing loud, and
barking; back at the doo's shrill bark, I could
almost weep while here I write to think of the
tragic business that was at the same time lying
heavy on my spirit. Christmas Day fell while
thus I was imprisoned, for near to midnight I
heard the church bells ring for Oiel Yerree.

When the snow began to melt I saw that
the dog put his muzzle to the bottom of the
door instantly, and as often as I drove him
away he returned to the same place. I will
not say what awful thing came then to my
mind, knowing a dog's nature, and how near
to my door lay the body of the witless man ;

only that I shuddered with a fear that was
new to me when 1 remembered that, by the
curse I lived under, the time would come when
my unburied bones would lie on the bare face
of the moor.

As soon as the snow had melted down to
within a foot's depth of the earth I went out
of my house and turned towards where my
poor neighbour lay; but before I had come close
to him I saw that three men were coming over
the hillside by way of Port-le-Mary, and,
wishing not to be seen by them, I crept back
and lay by the hinder wall of my house to
watch what they did. Then I saw that they
came up to the body of the witless man and
saw it, and stood over it some minutes talking
earnestly, and then passed along on their way.
And as they walked they turned aside and
came close up by the front of my house, and
looked in at the window, pushing the skin
away. Standing by the wall, holding Veg-been

by the throat least he should betray me,
I heard some words the men said each to the
other before they went on again.

 Well, man, he's dead at last, poor cray-thus,'
said one, * and good luck too.'

And the other answered, ' Aw, dear, to
think, to think ! No man alive could stand
up agen it. Aw, terrible, terrible ! '

I was at the Tynwald myself yonder day,'
said the first, ' and I'll give it a year, I was
saying, to finish him, and behold ye, he's
lying dead in half the time.'

Then both together said, ' God bless me ! '
and passed on.

At that moment my eyes became dim, and
a sound as of running water went through my
ears. I staggered into my house, and sat
down by the cold hearth, for in my eagerness
to go forth on my errand at first awakening
no fire had I kindled. I recalled the words
that the men had spoken, and repeated them

aloud one by one, and very slowly, that I
might be sure I took their meaning rightly.
This done, I said with myself, ' This error will
go far, until the wide island will say that he
who was cut off, he who is nameless among
men, is dead.' Dead? What then? I had
heard that when death came and took away a
bad man, its twin angel, the angel of mercy,
bent over those who were left behind on the
earth, and drew out of their softened hearts all
evil reports and all charity.

And a great awe slid over me at that
thought, and the gracious dew of a strange
peace fell upon me. But close behind it came
the other thought, that this error would reach
my father also  God preserve him !  and
Mona  God's holy grace be with her!  and
bring them pain. And then it came to me to
think that when men said in their hearing, ' He
whom you wot of is newly dead,' they would
take heart and answer, ' No, he died long;

ago \ it was only his misery and God's wrath
that died yesterday.'

With this thought I rose up and went out,
and put some shovels of earth over the body
of my poor neighbour that his face might be
hidden from the sky.

CHAPTER XLl.

OF HOW HE KEPT HIS MANHOOD.

The great snow lay long on the mountains
and died oiF in its silence like one who passes
away in sleep. And the spring came, the
summer and the winter yet again, and to set
down in this writing all that befell would bea
weariness, for I feel as I write that the pulse
of my life is low ; and neither am I one who
can point his words with wit. My way of
life was now orrown straight and even, and at
my simple employments I wrought early and
late, that by much bodily toil I might keep
in check the distempers of my mind.

With my fishing-boat, my gun, which I
had left behind me of design, had been carried

to the bottom of the sound, and Then the
hulk of the lugger drifted up with the tide the
gun was no longer within her. This I took
for a direction to me that I should hunt no
more. Nevertheless for some while I went
on to fish with a line from my small boat,
which, being on the beach, the storm had
spared. But soon it was gotten into my head
that,, if to shoot a hare was an ill deed, to take
a cod was but a poor business. Well I knew
that there was some touch of insanity in such
fancies, and that for man to kill and eat was
the law of life, and the rather because it was
enjoined of God that so he should do. But
being a man like as I was, cut off from the
land of the living, never more to have footing
there for the great crime committed of spilling
blood, I think it was not an ungentle madness
that made me fear to take life, whether
wantonly or of hunger's need. This dread
lay close to me, and got to extremities whereat

one of healthy mind might smile. For being
awakened some nights in succession by the
nibble of a mouse, I arose from my bed in
the dawn, and saw the wee mite, and struck
it with an iron rod and killed it, and then
suffered many foolish twitches, not from pity
for the mouse, for of humanity I had none
left, but from the sudden thought that the
spirit of its life, which I had driven from its
harmless body, was now about me as an invisible
thing. Though I had fallen into such
a weakness, yet I think that where choice was
none for one like me between the weakness of
a man and the strength of a beast, I did least
injury to my own nature and disposition by
yielding with childish indulgence towards the
gentler side.

And truly it is a beautiful thing to mark
how the creatures of earth and air will answer
with confidence to man's tenderness, whether,
as with my saintly father, it comes of the love

of them, or, as with me, of the love of myself.
The sea-fowl flew in at my door and pecked
up the morsels that fell at ray feet ; the wild
duck on the moor would not rise though I
walked within a stride of it ; a fat hare nested
in a hole under my house and came out at
dusk to nibble the parings of potatoes that I
threw at the door, and, but for Millish-veg-
been and his sly treacheries, with the rabbits
of the Black Head I might have sported as
with a kitten.

I could fill this account with the shifts I
was put to by want of many things that even
a lone man may need for his comfort or his
cheer. Thus, I was at pains to devise a substitute
for tinder, having lost much of all I
had in the wrecking of my boat ; and to find
leather for the soles of my shoes when they
were worn to the welt was long a search.

Yet herein my case was but that of many
another man who has told of his privation, and

the less painful was my position for that I had
much to begin my battle of life with. In this
first year of my unblessed condition my senses
not only recovered their wonted strength, but
grew keener than before my cutting off. Oft
did my body seem to act without help of my
intelligence, and, with a mid on other matters,
I would find my way over the trackless moor
back to my home in the pitch of darkness,
and never so much as stumble by a stone.
When the wind was from the north, or when
the air lay still, I could hear the church bells
that rang in the market square at Castletown,
and thereby I knew what the day of the week
was. None came nigh to my dwelling, but
if a man passed it by at the space of two
furlongs I seemed to feel his tread on the
turf.

And now, as I hold the pen for these
writings, my hand is loath and my spirit is
not fain to tell of the strange humours of these

times. So ridiculous and yet so tragic do
they look as they come back to me in the
grave-clothes of memory, that my imagination,
being no longer turned wayward, shrinks from
them as sorry things that none shall see to be
of nature save he who has lived in an outcast
state. But if the eyes I look for should ever
read these lines, the tender soul behind them
will bring me no laughter for my pains, and
I ask no tears. Only for my weakness let it
be remembered that the terror of my life was
that the spirit of madness and of the beast of
the field waited and watched to fall upon me
and to destroy the spirit of the man within
me.

It is not to be expressed with what eagerness
I strove to live in my solitude as a man
should live in the company of his fellows.
Down to the pettiest detail of personal manners
I tried to do as other men must be donor.

o

Whatsoever seemed to be the habit of a Chris -

VOL. III. p

tian man that I practised, and (though all
alone and having no man's eye to see me)
with a grim and awesome earnestness. Thus
before food, I not only washed but dressed
afresh, taking off the sea-boots or the currants
I worked in, and putting on my shoes with
silver buckles. My seaman's jacket I removed
for a long coat of blue, and I was careful that
my shirt was spotless. In this wise I also
never failed to attire myself in the evening of
the day for the short hours of rest between my
work and my bed. That my cheeks should
be kept clean of hair and that the hair of my
head should never outgrow itself was a constant
care, for I stood in fear of the creeping
consciousness which my face in the glass
might bring me that I was other than other
men. But I am loth to set down my little
foolish formalities on sitting to meat and rising
from it, and the silly ceremonies wherewith I
indulged myself at going abroad and coming

home. Inexpressibly comic and ridiculous
some of them would seem to me now, but for
the tragic meaning that in my terror underlay
them. And remembering; how much a defaulter
I had been in all such courtesies of life when
most they were called for, I could almost
laugh to think how scrupulous I was in their
observance when I was quite alone, with never
an eye to see me, what I did or how I was
clad, or in what sorry fashion I in my solitude
acquitted myself like a man.

But though I could be well disposed to
laugh at my notions of how to keep my manhood
while compelled to live the life of a beast,
alone like a wolf and useless for any purposes of
man or the world, it is not with laughter that I
recall another form of the insanity that in these
times possessed me. This was the conviction
that I was visited by Ewan, Mona, and my father.
Madness I call it, but never did my pulse beat
more temperately or my brain seem clearer

than when conscious of these visitations. If
I had spent the long day delving, or gathering
limestone on the beach of the Sound, and returned
to my house at twilight, I would perhaps
be suddenly aware as I lifted the latch
having thought only of my work until then
that within my kitchen these three sat
together, and that they turned their eyes tome
as I entered. Nothing would be more
convincing to my intelligence than that I
actually saw what I say, and yet I always
seemed to know that it was not with my bodily
eyes that I was seeing. These indeed were
open, and I was broad awake, with plan
power of common sight on common things 
my stool, my table, the settle I had made myself,
and perhaps the fire of turf that burned
red on the hearth. But over this bodily vision
there was a spiritual vision more stable than
that of a dream, more soft and variable than
that of material reality, in which I clearly

beheld Ewan and Mona and my father, and
saw their eyes turn towards me. Madness
it may have been, but I could say it at the
foot of the White Throne that what I speak
of I have seen not once or tT\dce, but many
times.

And well I remember how these visitations
affected me : first as a terror, for when on a
sudden they came to me as I lifted the latch I
would shrink back and go away adam, and
return to my house with trembling ; and then
as a strange comfort, for they were a sort of
silent company m my desolation. More than
once, in these days of my great loneliness, did
I verily believe that I had sat me down in the
midst of the three to spend a long hour ui
thinking of the brave good things that might
have been for all of us but for my headstrong
passion, helped out by the cruel tangle of our
fate.

One thing I noted that even yet seems

strange in the hours when my imagination is
least given to waywardness. Throughout the
period wherein I lived in the boat, and for
some time after I removed me to my house,
the three I have named seemed to visit me
together ; but after that I had found my witless
neighbour lying dead on the moor, and after
that I had heard the converse of the men who
mistook his poor body for my own, the visitations
of Mona and my father ceased altogether,
and Ewan alone did I afterwards seem to see.
This I pondered long, and at length it fastened
on me with a solemn conviction that what I
had looked for had come about, and that the
error that I was a dead man had reached the
ears of my father and of Mona. With Ewan
I sat alone when he came to me, and oft did
it appear that we were loving company, for in
his eyes were looks of deep pity, and I on my
part had ceased to rail at the blind passion
that had parted us flesh from flesh.

These my writings are not for men who
will look at such words as I have here set
down with a cold indifFerency, or my hand
would have kept me back from this revelation.
But that I saw apparently what I have described
is as sure before God as that I was a
man cut off from the land of the living.

A more material sequel came of the finding
of the body on the moor. I was so
closely followed by dread of a time that was
coming when I must die, and stretch out my
body on the bare ground with no man to give
it Christian burial in the earth, that I could
take no rest until I had devised a means
whereby this terror might not haunt me in
my last hours. In front of my house there
were, as I have said, the places we call the
Chasms, wherein the rock of this hungry
coast is honeycombed into a hundred deep
gullies by the sea. One of these gullies I
descended by means of a cradle of rope swung

overtliwart a strong log of driftwood, and
there I found a long shelf of stone, a deep
fissure in the earth, a tomb of shelving rock
coated with fungus and mould, whereto no
dog could come, and wherein no bird of prey
could lift its wing. To this place I resolved
that I would descend when the power of life
was on the point of ebbing away. Having
lowered myself by my cradle of rope, I meant
to draw the cordage after me, and then, being
already near my end, to lie down in this close
gully under the earth, that was to serve me
for grave and death-bed.

But I was still a strong man, and, ungracious
as my condition was, I shrank from
the thought of death, and did what I could
to put by the fear of it. Never a day did I
fail to walk to the crest of the rising; ground
behind me and look down to where in the
valley lay the habitations of men. Life, life,
life, was now the constant cry of the voice of

J

my heart, and a right goodly thing it seemed
to me to be alive, though I might be said not
to live, but only to exist.

Whether from the day thereon I heard
the converse of the two men who went by
my house I was ever seen of any man for a
twelvemonth or more I scarce can tell. Great
was my care to keep out of the ways wherein
even the shepherds walked, and never a foot
seemed to come within two furlongs of these
abandoned joints from the bleak Black Head
to the margin of the Sound. But it happened
upon a day towards winter, beginning the
second year since my cutting oiF, that I
turned towards Port-le-Mary, and walking on
with absent mind, came nearer than I had
purposed to the village over the Allow Point.
There I was suddenly encountered by four or
five men who, much in liquor, were playing
at leap-frog among the gorse. English seamen
they seemed to be, and perhaps from the

brig that some time before I had noted where
she lay anchored to the lea of the Carrick
Rock in the Poolvash below. At sight of
them I was for turning quickly aside, but
they raised such a cry and shot out such a
volley of levities and blasphemies that try
how I would to go on I could not but stop
on the instant and turn my face to them.

Then I saw that of me the men took no
note whatever, and that all their eyes were
on my dog Millish-veg-veen who was with
me, and was now creeping between my feet
with his stump of a tail under his belly, and
his little cunning face full of terror.  Why,
here's the dog that killed our monkey,' said
one, and another shouted, ' It's my old cur,
sure enough,' and a third laughed and said he
had kept a rod in pickle for more than a year,
and the first cried again, ' I'll teach the beast
to kill no more Lackeys.' Then, before I was
yet fully conscious of what was being done.

one of the brawny swaggerers made towards
us, and kicked at the dog with the
fierce lunge of a heavy seaman's boot. The
dog yelped and would have made off, but
another of the blusterers kicked him back,
and then a third kicked him, and whatever
way he tried to escape between them one
of them lifted his foot and kicked again.
While they were doing this I felt myself
struggling to cry out to them to stop, but nota
syllable could I utter, and, like a man paralysed,
I stood stock-still, and did nothing to
save my housemate and only companion in
life. At length one of the men, laughing a
great, fostering laugh, stooped and seized the
dog by the nape of the neck and swung him
round in the air. Then I saw the poor
cur's piteous look towards me, and heard its
bitter cry ; but at the next instant it was
flying ten feet above our heads, and when it
fell to the ground it was killed on the instant.

At that sight I heard an awful groan
burst from my mouth, and I saw a cloud of
fire flash before my eyes. When next I knew
what I was dong I was holding one of the
men by a fierce grip about the waist, and was
swinging him high above my shoulders.

Now if the good God had not given me
back my consciousness at that moment I
know full well that at the next he who was
then in my power would have drawn no more
the breath of a living man. But I felt on a
sudden the same ghostly hand upon me that
I have written of before, and heard the same
ghostly voice in mine ear. So, dropping the
man back to his feet as gently as a mother
might slip her babe to its cot, I lifted up my
poor mangled beast by its hinder legs and
turned away with it. And as I went the
other men fell apart from me with looks of
terror, for they saw that God had willed it
that, with an awful strength, should I, a

man of great passions, go through life in
peril.

"When I had found coolness to think of
this that had happened I mourned for the loss
of the only companion that had ever shared
with me my desolate state \ but more than my
grief for the dog was my fear for myself,
remembering with horror that when I would
have called on the men to desist I could
not utter one word. Truly, it may have
been the swift access of anger that then
tied my tongue, but I could not question that
my sudden speechlessness told me I was
losing the faculty of speech. This conclusion
fastened upon me with great pain, and I saw
that for a twelvemonth or more I had been
zealously preserving the minor qualities of
humanity, while this its greatest faculty,
speech, that distinguishes man from the brute,
had been silently slipping from me. Preserve
my power of speech also, I resolved I would,

and though an evil spirit within me seemed
to make a mock at me, and to say, ' Wherefor
this anxiety to keep your speech, seeing that
you will never require it, being a man cut off
for ever from all intercourse with other men,'
yet I held to my purpose.

Then I asked myself how I was to preserve
my speech save by much and frequent
speaking, and how I was to speak having none
not even my dog now  to speak to. For
to speak constantly with myself was a practice
I shrank from as leading perchance to madness,
since I had noted that men of broken wit
were much given to mumbling vain words to
themselves. At last I concluded that there
was but one way for me, and that was to
pray. Having lit on this thought I had still
some misgivings, for the evil spirit within
me again made a mock at me, asking why I
should speak to God, being a man outside
God's grace, and why I should waste myself

in the mis-spent desire of prayer, seeing that
the Heavenly Majesty had set His face from
me in rejecting the atonement of my life
which I had offered for my crime. But after
great inward strivings I came back to my old
form of selfishness, and was convinced that
though when I prayed God would not hear
me, yet that the yearning and looking of
prayer might be a good thing for the spiritual
part of my nature as a man  for when was
the beast known to pray?

At this I tried to recall a few good words
such as my father used, and at length, after
much beating of the wings of my memory, I
remembered some that were the words of
Bishop Jeremy Taylor, and did betake myself
to prayer in this manner :  ' most gracious
God, I tremble to come into thy presence, so
polluted and dishonoured as I am by my foul
stain of sin which I have contracted ; but I
must come or I perish. I am useless to any

purposes of God and man, and, like one that
is dead, unconcerned in the changes and
necessities of the world, living only to spend
my time and, like a vermin, eat of the fruits of
the earth. my God, I cannot help it now ;
miserable man that I am, to reduce myself to so
sad a state that I neither am worthy to come
to Thee nor dare I stay from Thee. The greatness
of my crime brings me to my remedy ;
and now I humbly pray Thee to be merciful
to my sin, for it is great.'

And this prayer I spoke aloud twice daily
thenceforward, at the rising and the setting of
the sun, going out of my house and kneeling
on the turf on the top of the Black Head.
And when I had prayed I sang what I could
remember of the psalm that runs, ' It is good
for me that I have been in trouble that I may
learn Thy statutes.'

In my mind's eye I see myself a solitary

man in that lone place, with the sea stretching
wide below me, and only the sound of its
heavy beat on the rocks rising over me in the
quiet air.

VOL. III.

CHAPTER XLII.

OF THE BREAKING OF THE CURSE.

Thus far have I written these four days past,
amid pain and a quick lessening of the powers
of life. In sleepless hours of the night I have
made this writing, sitting oftener by the light
of my feeble candles until the day has been
blue over the sea. And now that I glance
back and see my own heart in the mirror I.
have made for it, I am like to one who has
been brought through a fearsome sickness,
that has left its marks upon him, to look for
the first time at his altered face in the glass.
And can it be that I, who have penned these
words, am the man of seven years ago ? Ah,
now I see how profound has been the change

that my great punishment has made in me,
and perceive the end of God in refusing my
poor atonement of life for life, and cutting me
off from among men.

I will not say that what I have already
written has not cost me some pangs, and perhaps
some tears. But now I am come to that
place where I must tell of the great turning
point in my sad state, and though the strength
fails me wherewith I hold the pen to write of
it, my spirit rises before it like as the lark
awakened by the dawn.

This year  surely the darkest within the
memory of our poor people of Man  began
with more than its share of a winter of heavy
rains. The spring that followed was also
rainy, and when I looked for the summer to
begin, the rains were still incessant. Heavy
and sodden was the ground even of the moor
whereon I lived, so that my feet sank into it
as into a morass, and much of the seed I

a2

THE DEEMSTER

sowed was washed from it and wasted. When
at length the long rains ceased to fall the year
was far worn into June, and then the sun
came quick and hot. My house stood on a
brow descending to the cliffs of the coast, and
beneath me were less than two feet of mould
above the rock, but when the great heat came
after the great rain, out of the ground there
rose a thick mimic mist that filled the air,
obscured the light, lay heavy in sweat upon
my hair and flesh, and made the walls and
floor, the furniture and the bed of my home,
damp and dripping with constant dew.

Quickly I set myself to the digging of
deep trenches that went vertically down the
brow to the cliff head, and soon the ground
about me across many acres was drained dry.
But though I lived in a clear air, and could
now see the sun as well as feel it, yet I perceived
that the mists stood in a wide half
circle around me like walls of rain seen afar,

while the spot whereon you stand is fair and
in the sunshine. In my daily walks to the
top of the moor I could no longer see the
houses of Cregneesh for the cloud of vapour
that lay over it, and when I walked to the
Allow Head for the erst time since the day
I lost my dog, the basin below, where 
stands, was even as a vast vaporous
sea, without one islet of house or hill.

My health suffered little from this unaccustomed
humidity, for my bodily strength
was ever wonderful ; but my spirits sank to a
deep depression, and oft did I wonder how
the poor souls must fare who lived on the low,
wet Curraghs near to where my own home
once lay. From day to day, and week to
week, the mist continued to rise from the
dank ground under the hot sun, and still the
earth came up in thick clods to the spade.

The nights alone were clear, and towards
midsummer I was witness to strange sights in

the heavens. Thus I saw a comet pass close
across the island from coast to coast, with a
visible motion as of quivering flame. What
this visitation could foretell I pondered long
and sadly, and much I hungered for knowledge
of what was being done in the Avorld of men.
But therein it seemed to my wayward mind
that I was like a man buried in the churchyard
while he is yet alive, who hears the bell
in the tower that peals and tolls, but has no
window in his tomb from which to see who
comes to rejoice, and who to mourn.

When the fleet of fishing boats should
have put out from Port Term for the ground
that lies south of the Calf, scarce a sail could
I see, and not a boat had I noted coming
from the Poolvash where Port-le-Mary stands
above the bay. From the top of the Mull
Hills I could faintly descry the road to Castletown,
but never a cart on market day seemed
to pass over it. Groups of people I vaguely

saw standing together, and once, at mid day,
from the middle of a field of new-mown hay,
there came to me the sounds of singing and
prayer. Oftener than at any period during
my solitary life I saw men on the mountains
or felt their presence near me, for my senses
were grown very keen. Oftener, also, than
ever before, the sound of church bells seemed
to come through the air. And going to the
beach where my shattered boat lay, I one day
came upon another boat beating idly down the
waters of the Sound, her sails flapping in the
wind, and no hand at her tiller. I stood to
watch while the little craft came drifting on
with the flow of the tide. She ran head onto
the cliff* at Bastard, and then I went down
to her, and found never a living soul aboard
of her.

From these and other startling occurrences
that came to me vaguely, as if by the one sense
of the buried man, I felt that with the poor

people of this island all was not well. But
nothing did I know of a certainty until a day
towards the first week of September  as I
have reckoned it  and then a strange thing
befell.

The sun was not shining, and when there
was no sun there was little mist. A strong
wind, too, had got up from the north-east,
and the atmosphere over land and sea grew
clearer as the day wore on. The wind
strengthened after the turn of the ebb, and
at half-flood, which was towards three in the
afternoon, it had risen to the pitch of a gale,
with heavy swirling rain. The rain ceased ina
few hours, and in the lift of the heavy clouds
I could see from the rising ground above my
house a brig with shortened sail toiling heavily
to the south-west of the Calf. She was struggling
in the strong currents that flow there to
get into the lea of the island, but was beaten
back and back, never catching the shelter of

the cliffs for the rush of the wind that swept
over them. The darkness was falling in while
I watched her, and when she was swept back
and hidden from me by the forehead of the
Calf I turned my face homeward. Then I
noticed that on the top of the Mull Hills a
great company of people had gathered, and I
thought I saw that they were watching the
brig that was labouring heavily in the sea.

That night I had close employment at my
fireside, for I was finishing a coat that I had
someways fashioned with my unrest fingers
from the best pieces of many garments that of
themselves would no longer hold together.
Rough as a monk's long sack it was, and all
but as shapeless, but nevertheless a fit companion
for the currants on my feet, which I
had made some time before from the coat of
my hapless Millish-veg-veen.

While I wrought with my great sail-makers
needle and twine, the loud wind

moaned about the walls of my house and
whistled through its many crevices, and made
the candle whereby I worked to flicker and
gutter. Yet my mind was more cheerful
than had lately been its wont, and I sang to
myself with my face to the glow of the fire.

But when towards ten o'clock the sea
below sent up a louder hiss than before,
followed by a deeper under-groan, suddenly
there was a clash at my window, and a poor,
panting sea mew with open beak, came through
it and fell helpless on the floor. I picked
up the storm-beaten creature, and calmed it,
and patched with the needle the skin of the
window which it had broken by its entrance.

Then all at once my mind went back to
the brig labouring in the sea behind the Calf.
Almost at the same moment, and for the first
time these seven years, a quick knock came to
my door. I was startled, and made no answer,
but stood stock-still in the middle of the floor

with the frightened bird in my hand. Before
I was yet fully conscious of what was happening,
the wooden latch of the door had been
lifted, and a man had stepped across the
threshold. In another moment he had closed
the door behind him, and was speaking tome.


You will never find heart to deny me
shelter on such a night as this? ' he said.

I answered him nothing. Surely with
my mind I did not hear him, but only with
mine ears. I was like one who is awakened
suddenly out of a long dream, and can scarce
be sure which is the dream and which the
reality, what is behind and what is before.

The man stumbled a step forward, and
said, speaking falteringly,  I am faint from a
blow.'

He staggered another pace forward," and
would have fallen, but I, recovering in some
measure my self-command, caught him in my

arms, and put him to sit on the settle before
the hearth.

Scarce had he gained this rest when his
eyelids trembled and closed, and he became
insensible. He was a large, swart, and bony-man,
bearing in his face the marks of life's
hard storms. His dress was plainly the dress
of a priest, but of an order of priesthood quite
unknown to me. A proud poverty sat upon
the man, and before I yet knew wherefor, my
heart went out to him in a strange, uncertain
reverence.

Loosening the hard collar that bound his
neck, I made bare his throat, and then moistened
his lips with water. Some other offices
I did for him, such as with difficulty removing
his great boots, which were full of
water, and stretching his feet towards the
fire. T stirred the seats, too, and the glow
was full and grateful. Then I looked for the
mark of the blow he spoke of, and found it

where most it was to be feared, on the hinder
part of the head. Though there was no
blood flowing, yet was the skull driven in
upon the brain, leaving a hollow spot over
a space that might have been covered by a
copper token.

He did not soon return to consciousness,
but toiled hard at intervals to regain it, and
then lapsed back to a breathless quiet. And
I, not knowing what else to do, took a basin
of water lukewarm and bathed the wound
with it, damping the forehead with water that
was scold. All this time the seamen, which I
had cast from my hand when the priest
stumbled, lay in one corner panting, its head
down, its tail up, and its powerless wings
stretched useless on either side.

Then the man, taking a long breath,
opened his eyes, and seeing me he made some
tender of gratitude. He told me that in
being put ashore out of the brig ' Bridget,'

from Cork, in Ireland, lie had been struck on
the head by the boom as it shifted with the
wind, but that heeding not his injury, and
thinking he could make Port-le-Mary to lie
there that night, he had set out over the
moor, while his late comrades of the brig put
off from our perilous coast for England,
whither they were bound.

So much had he said, speaking painfully,
when again he fell to unconsciousness, and
this time a strong delirium took hold of him.
I tried not to hear what then he said, for it
seemed to me an awful thing that in such an
hour of reason's languishment the eye of man
might look into the heart which only God's
eye should see. But hear him I must, or
leave him alone in his present need. And he
talked loudly of some great outrage wherein
helpless women were thrown on the roads
without shelter, and even the dead in their
Staves were desecrated. When he came to

himself again he knew that his mind had
wandered, and he told me that four years
before he had been confessor at the convent
of Port Royal in France. He said that in
that place they had been men and women of
the Order of Jansenist, teaching simple
goodness and piety. But their convent had
been suppressed by commission of the
Jesuits, and being banished from France, he
had fled to his native country of Ireland,
where now he held the place of parish priest.
More in this manner he said, but my mid
was sorely perplexed, and I cannot recall his
words faithfully, or rightly tell of the commerce
of conversation between us, save that
he put to me some broken questions in his moments
of ease from pain, and muttered many
times to himself after I had answered him
briefly, or when I had answered him not at all.
For the sense that I was a man awakening
out of a dream, a long dream of seven

lonesome years, grew stronger as lie told of
what traffic the world had lately seen, and he
himself been witness to. And my old creeping
terror of the judgment upon me that
forbade that any man should speak with me,
or that I should speak with any man,
struggled hard with the necessity now before
me to make a swift choice whether I should
turn away and leave this man, who had
sought the shelter of my house, or break
through the curse that bound me.

Choice of any kind I did not make with a
conscious mind, but before I was yet aware I
was talking with the priest, and he with me.

The Priest : He said, I am the Catholic
priest that your good Bishop sent for out of
Ireland, as you have heard I doubt not ?

Myself : I answered No, that I had not
heard.

The Priest : He asked me, did I live alone
in this house, and how long I had been here ?

Myself : I said, Yes, and that I had been
seven years in this place come Christmas.

The Priest : He asked, What, and do you
never go up to the towns ?

Myself : I answered, Xo.

The Priest : Then, said the priest, thinking
long before he spoke, you have not heard
of the great sickness that has broken out
among your people.

Myself : I told him I had heard nothing.


The Priest : He said it was the sweating
sickness, and that vast numbers had fallen toit
and many had died. I think he said  I
cannot be sure  that after fruitless efforts of
his own to combat the disease, the Bishop of
the island had sent to Ireland a message for
him, having heard that the Almighty had
blessed his efforts in a like terrible scourge
that broke out two years before over the bogs
of western Ireland.

VOL. III. R

I listened with fear, and began to comprehend
much that had of late been a puzzle
to me. But before the priest had gone far
his sickness overcame him afresh, and he fell
to another long unconsciousness. While he
lay thus, very silent or rambling afresh
through the ways of the past, I know not
what feelings, possessed me, for my heart was
in a great turmoil. But when he opened his
eyes again, very peaceful in their quiet light,
but with less than before of the power of life
in them, he said he perceived that his errand
had been fruitless, and that he had but come
to my house to die. At that word I started to
my feet with a cry, but he  thinking that my
thoughts were of our poor people, who would
lose a deliverer by his death  told me to have
patience, for that God who had smitten him
down would surely raise up in his stead a far
mightier saviour of my afflicted countrymen.

Then in the lapses of his pain he talked of

the sickness that had befallen his own people :
how it was due to long rains that soaked the
soil, and was followed by the hot sun that
drew out of the earth its foul sweat ; how the
sickness fell chiefly on such as had their
houses on bogs and low-lying ground ; and
ho7 the cure for it was to keep the body of
the sick person closely wrapped in blankets, and
to dry the air about him with many fires. He
told me, too, that all medicines he had yet
seen given for this disease were useless, and
being; oftener of a cooling nature were sometimes
deadly. He said that those of his own
people who had lived on the mountains had
escaped the malady. Much he also said of
how men had fled from their wives and
women from their children in terror of the
infection, but that, save only in the worst cases,
contagion from the sweating; sickness there
could be none. More of this sort he said
than I can well set down in this Writing.

b2

Often he spoke with sore labour, as though a
strong impulse prompted him. And I who
listened eagerly heard what he said with a
mighty fear, for well I knew that if death
came to him as he foretold, I had now that
knowledge which it must be sin to hide.

After he had said this the lapses into unconsciousness
were more frequent than before, and
the intervals of cool reason and sweet respite
from pain were briefer. But a short while
after midnight he came to himself with a smile
on his meagre face and peace in his eyes. He
asked me would I promise to do one thing for
him, for that he was a dying man ; and I told
him yes before I had heard what it was that
he wished of me. Then he asked did I know
where the Bishop lived, and at first I made
no answer.

Bishop's Court they call his house, he said,
and it lies to the north-west of this island by
the land they have named the Curraghs. Do
you know it ?

I bent my head by way of assent.

The Priest : I would have you go to him,
he said, and say  The Catholic priest you sent
for out of Ireland, Father Dalby, fulfilled his
pledge to you and came to your island, but
died by the visitation of Grod on the night of
his landing on your shores. Will you deliver
me this message ?

I did not make him an answer, and he put
the question again. Still my tongue clave to
the roof of my mouth and I could not speak.

The Priest : You need not fear, he said, to
go to the Bishop, for he is a holy man, as I
have heard, without pride of worldly place, and
the poor and outcast are his constant guests.

Even yet I answered nothing, but only
held down my head while my heart surged
within me.

The Priest : The fame of him as a righteous
servant of God had gone far into other
lands, and therefore it was I, who love Protestantism

not at all, and hold no dalliance
with it, came to your island at his call.

He took my hand in his hands and asked
me again if I would go to the Bisho23 to say
the words which he had given me, and I, with
swimming eyes that saw nothing of the dying
face before me, bowed my head, and answered,
I will go.

Near three hours longer he lived, and much
of that time he passed in a feeble delirium.
But just before the end came he awoke, and
motioned to a small bag that hung about his
waist. I guessed his meaning, and drawing
out a crucifix I placed it in his hands.

Then he passed silently away, and Death,
the black camel that had knelt at the gate of
my lone house these seven years of ,
had entered it at last to take another man
than me.

CHAPTER XLIII.

OF HIS GREAT RESOLVE.

When he had ceased to breathe, the air of
my house became suddenly void and empty.
With a great awe upon me I rose and
stretched him out on the settle, and covered
his white face with a cloth. Then in the
silence I sat and tried to think of the strange
accident that had that night befallen. One
thing I saw with a fearful certainty, that
a great burden of responsibility had fallen
upon me. I thought of the people of this
island perishing in their sickness, and I remembered
that I alone of all men here knew
how to succour and save them. I alone,
and who was I ? The one man accursed

among men; the one man cut oiFfor ever from
the company of the living; the man without
family or kin or name among the people ;
whose flesh no man might touch with his
flesh ; whose eye no other eye might look
upon.

And thus with the burden of responsibility
came a yet more terrible burden of
doubt. Was it for me to break through the
dread judgment pronounced upon me, and
go down among the people to heal them?
And if I went would the people receive me,
even in this their last extreme ? Before the
face of death would all other fears sink out of
their sight ? Or, fearing death itself less than
the curse, would they rise up and drive me
from them?

Long I sat in the anguish of black
misgivings, and then rose and ranged my
room from side to side, if perchance I might
find some light in my darkness. And oft did

the strangeness of that night's accidents sofar
bewilder me that for an instant it would
seem that I must be in a dream. Once I
lifted the face-cloth from the face on the
settle that I mio;ht be sure that I was
awake.

At length it fixed itself on my mind that
whatsoever the judgment upon me, and whatsoever
the people's terror of it, I had no
choice but to bear the burden that was
now mine own. Go down among my sick
countrymen I should and must, let the end
be what it would ! Accursed man though I
was, yet to fulfil the dead priest's mission was
a mission wherewith God Himself seemed to
charge me !

And now I scarce can say how it escaped
me that my first duty was to take the body
of the priest who had died in my house to
one of the churchyards for Christian burial.
There must have been some end of Providence

in my strange forgetfulness, for if this
thing had but come into my wild thoughts,
and I had indeed done what it was fitting that
I should do, then must certain wonderful
consequences have fallen short of the blessing
with which God has blessed them.

What I did, thinking no evil, was to pickup
my spade and go out on the moor and
delve for the dead man a shallow grave. As
I turned to the door I stumbled over something
that lay on the floor. Stooping to look
at it, I found it to be the poor seamen. It
was dead and stiff, and had still its wings
outstretched as if in the act of flight.

I had not noted until now, when with a
fearful glance backwards I stepped out into
the night, that the storm had gone. A thick
dew-cloud lay deep over the land, and the
round moon was shining through it. I chose
a spot a little to the south of the stone circle
on the Black Head, and there by the moonlight

I locket a barrow of earth. The better
part of an hour I wrought, and when my
work was done I went back to my house, and
then the dead man was cold. I took a piece
of old canvas, and put it about the body,
from head to feet, wrapping it over the
clothes, and covering the face. This done,
I lifted the dead in my arms and carried it
out.

Very hollow and heavy was the thud of
my feet on the turf in that uncertain light.
As I toiled along I recalled the promise that
I had given to the priest to see my father
and speak with him. This memory brought
me the sore pam of a wounded tenderness,
but it strengthened my resolve. When
I had reached the grave which I had
made the night was near to morning, the
dew cloud had lifted away, and out of the
unseen, murmuring sea that lay far and wide
in front of me a grey streak, like an arrow's

barb, was shooting up into the darkness of
the sky.

One glance more I took at the dead man's
face in that vague fore-dawn, and its swart
meagreness seemed to have passed off under
death's composing hand.

I covered the body with the earth, and
then I said my prayer, for it was nigh to my
accustomed hour. Also I sang my psalm,
kneeling with my face towards the sea.  And
while I sang in that dank air the sky
lightened and the sun rose out of the deep.

I know not what touched me then, if it
was not the finger of God Himself; but
suddenly a great burden seemed to fall from
me, and my heart grew full of a blessed joy.
And, Father, I cried, I am delivered from
the body of the death I lived in ! I have
lived, I have died, and I live again !

T saw apparently that the night of my long
imprisonment was past, that the doors of my

dungeon were broken open, and that its air
was to be the breath of my nostrils no more.

Then the tears gushed from mine eyes
and rained down my bony cheeks, for well
I knew that God had seen that I, even I, had
suffered enough.

And when I rose to my feet from beside
the dead man's grave I felt of a certainty
that the curse had fallen away.

His Last Words.

Three days have gone since last I put my
hand to this writing, and now I know that
though the curse has fallen from me, yet
must its earthly penalties be mine to the end.
Sorely weary, and more sorely ashamed, I
have, within these three hours past, escaped
from the tumult of the people. How their
wild huzzahs ring in my ears ! ' God bless
the priest ! ' ' Heaven save the priest ! '

Their loud cries of a blind gratitude, how
they follow me ! Oh, that I could fly from
the memory of them, and wipe them out of
my mind ! There were those that appeared to
know me among the many that knew me not.
The tear-stained faces, the faces hard and
stony, the faces abashed and confused  how
they live before my eyes ! And at the
Tynwald, how the children were thrust under
my hand for my blessing ! My blessing 
mine ! and at the Tynwald ! Thank God,
it is all over ! I am away from it for ever.
Home I am at last, and for the last time.

Better than three weeks have passed since
the priest died in my house, and I buried
him on the moor. What strange events have
since befallen, and in what a strange new
world! The Deemster's terrible end, and
my own going with the priest's message to
the Bishop, my father. But I shall not live
to set it down. Nor is it needful so to do,

for she whom I write for knows all that
should be written henceforward. Everything
she knows save one thing only, and if this
writing should yet come to her hand that
also she will then learn.

God's holy grace be with her ! I have
not seen her. The Deemster I have seen,
the Bishop I have spoken with, and a living
vision of our Ewan, his sweet child-daughter,
I have held to my knee. But not once these
many days has she who is dearest of all to me
passed before my eyes. It is better so. I
shunned her. Where she was there I would
not go. Yet, through all these heavy years
I have borne her upon my heart. Day and
night she has been with me. Oh, Mona,
Mona, my Mona, apart for ever are our paths
in this dim world, and my tarnished name is
your reproach. My love, my lost love, as a
man I yearned for you to hold you to my
breast. But I was dead to you, and I would

not break in with an earthly love that must
be brief and might not be blessed, on a
memory that death had purified of its stains.
Adieu, adieu, my love, my own Mona ; though
we are never to clasp hands again, yet do
I know that you will be with me as an
unseen presence when the hour comes  ah !
how soon  of death's thundering.

For the power of life is low in me. I
have taken the sickness. It is from the
Deemster that I have taken it. No longer do
I fear death. Yet I hesitate to do with myself
what I have long thought that I would
do when the end should come. ' To-morrow,'
and ' tomorrow,' and ' tomorrow,' I say in
my heart, and still I am here.

CHAPTER XLIV.

THE SWEATING SICKNESS.
I.

When the sweating sickness first appeared in
the island it carried ofi the lone body known
as Auntie ]san, who had lived on the Cur-rage.
 Death never came without an excuse
the woman was old,' the people said, and
went their way. But presently a bright
young girl, who had taken herbs and broths
and odd comforts to Auntie Nan while she
lay helpless, was stricken down. Then the
people began to hold their heads together.
Four days after the girl was laid to rest her
mother died suddenly, and two or three
days after the mother's death the father was

VOL. III. s

smitten. Then three other children died in
quick succession, and in less than three weeks
not a soul of that household was left alive.
This was on the southwest of the Curragh,
and on the north of it, near to the church at
Andreas, a similar outbreak occurred about
the same time. Two old people named Career
were the first to be taken ; and a child at
Cretan's farm and a servant at the rectory of
the archdeacon followed quickly.

The truth had now dawned upon the
people, and they went about with white faces.
It was the time of the hay harvest, and
during the two hours' rest for the midday
meal the haymakers gathered together in the
fields for prayer. At night, when work was
done, they met again in the streets of the
villages to call on God to avert His threatened
judgment. On Sundays they thronged the
churches at morning and afternoon services,
and in the evening they congregated on the

shore to hear the Quaker preachers, who went
about, under the shadow of the terror, without
hindrance or prosecution. One such preacher,
a town watch at Castletown, known as ,
threw up his calling, and travelled
the country in the cart of a carrier, prophesying
a visitation of God's wrath, wherein the
houses should be laid waste and the land be
left utterly desolate.

The sickness spread rapidly, and passed
from the Curraghs to the country south and
east of them. Not by ones but tens were
the dead now counted day after day, and the
terror spread yet faster than the malady.
The herring season had run a month only,
and it was brought to a swift close. Men
who came m from the boats after no more
than a night's absence were afraid to go up to
their homes lest the sickness had gone up
before them. Then they went out to sea no
longer, but rambled for herbs in the rank

places where herbs grew, and, finding them,
good and bad, fit and unfit, they boiled and
ate them.

Still the sickness spread, and the dead
were now counted in hundreds. Of doctors
there were but two in the island, and these
two were closely engaged sitting by the bedsides
of the richer folk, feeling the pulse with
one hand and holding the watch with the
other. Better service they did not do, for
rich and poor alike fell before the sickness.

The people turned to the clergy, and got
beautiful texes/ but no cure. They went to
the old Bishop, and prayed for the same help
that he had given them in the old days of
their great need. He tried to save them and
failed. A preparation of laudanum, which
had served him in good stead for the flux,
produced no effect on the sweating sickness.
With other and other medicines he tried and
tried adam. His old head was held very low.

 My poor people he said, with a look of
shame,  I fear that by reason of the sins of
me and mine the Spirit of the Lord is gone
from me

Then the people sent up a cry as bitter as
that which was wrmig from them long before
when they were in the grip of their niger.
The Sweat is on us,' they groaned ; and the
old Bishop, that he might not hear their voice
of reproach, shut himself up from them like
a servant whom the Lord had forsaken.

The terror spread like a fire, but terror in
some minds begets a kind of courage, and
soon there were those who would no longer
join the prayer-meetings in the hay-fields or
listen to the preaching on the shore. One of
those was a woman of middle life, an idle
slattern, who had for six or seven years lived
a wandering life. While others prayed she
laughed mockingly and protested that for the
Sweat, as well as for every other scare of life,

there was no better' preventive than to think
nothing about it. She carried out her precept
by spending her days in the inns and her
nights on the roads, being supported in her
dissolute existence by secret means, whereof
gossip spoke frequently. The terrified world
about her, busy with its loud prayers, took
small heed of her blasphemies until the numbers
of the slam had risen from hundreds to
thousands. Then in their frenzy the people
were carried away by superstition, and heard
in the woman's laughter the ring of the
devil's own ridicule. Somebody chanced to
see her early one morning drawing water to
bathe her hot forehead, and before night of
that day the evil word had passed from mouth
to mouth that it was she who had brought
the sweating sickness by poisoning the wells.
Thereupon half a hundred lusty fellows,
with fear in their wild eyes, gathered in the
Street, and set out to search for the woman.

In her accustomed haunt, the ' Three Legs of
Man they found her, and she was heavy with
drink. They hounded her out of the iii into
the road, and there, amid oaths and curses,
they tossed her from hand to hand until her
dress was hi rags, her face and arms were
bleeding, and she was screaming in the great
fright that had sobered her.

It was Tuesday night, and the Deemster,
who had been holding court at Peeltown late
that day, was riding home in the darkness
when he heard this tumult in the road in
front of him. Putting spurs to his horse, he
came upon the scene of it. Before he had
gathered the meaning of what was proceeding
in the dark road, the woman had broken from
her tormentors and thrown herself before him,
crawling on the ground and gripping his foot
in the stirrup.

Deemster, save me ! save me, Deemster ! '
she cried in her frantic terror.

The men gathered round and told their
story. The woman had ]poisoned the wells,
and the bad water had brought the Sweat.
She was a charmer by common report, and
should be driven out of the island.

 What pedlar's French is this ? ' said the
Deemster, turning hotly on the crowd about
him. ' Men, men, what forgotten age have
you stepped out of that you come to me with
such drivelling, doddering, blank idiocy ? '

But the woman, carried away by her
terror, and not grasping the Deemster's
meaning, cried that if he would but save her
she would confess. Yes, she had poisoned
the wells. It was true she was a charmer.
She acknowledged to the evil eye. But save
her, save her, save her, and she would tell
all.

The Deemster listened with a feverish impatience.
* The woman lies,' he said, under
his breath, and then lifting his voice he asked

if any one had a torch. ' Who is the woman ? '
he asked ; ' I seem to know her voice.'

D her, she's a witch,' said one of

the men, thrusting his hot face forward in the
darkness over the woman's cowering body.
 Ay, and so was her mother before her,' he
said again.

Tell me, woman, what's your name ? '
said the Deemster stoutly ; but his question
seemed to break down as he asked it.

There was a moment's pause.

 Mally Kerruish,' the woman answered
him, slobbering at his stirrup in the dark
road before him.

Let her go,' said the Deemster in a thick
underneath. In another moment he had
disengaged his foot from the woman's grasp
and was riding away.

That night Mally Kerruish died miserably
of her fright in the little tool shed of a cottage
by the Cross Yein, where six years before

her mother had dropped to a liiigermg death
alone.

News of her end was taken straightway to
Ballamona by one of the many tongues of evil
rumour. With Jarvis Kerruish, who was
in lace collar and silver-buckled shoes, the
Deemster had sat down to supper. He rose,
left his meat untouched, and Jarvis supped
alone. Late that night he said uneasily :

 I tend to send in my resignation to
Castletown  the burden of my office as Deemster
is too much for my strength.'

Good,' said Jarvis ; ' and if, sir, you
should ever think of resigning the management
of your estate also, you know with
how much willingness I would undertake it,
solely in order that you might spend your
days in rest and comfort.'

I have often thought of it latterly,' said
the Deemster. Half-an-hour thereafter he
spent in an uneasy perambulation of the

dining-room, while Jar vis picked his teeth
and cleaned his nails.

I think I must surely be growing old,'
he said then, and, drawing a long breath, he
took up his bedroom candle.

n.

The sickness increased, the deaths were
many in the houses about Ballamona, and in
less than a week after the night of Mally
Kerruish's death, Thorkell Mylrea, a Deemster
no longer, had made over to Jarvis
Kerruish all absolute interest in his estates.
I shall spend my last days in the cause of
religion,' he said. He had paid ujd his tithe
in pound notes  five years' tithe in arrears,
with interest added at the rate of six jeer cent.
Blankets he had ordered for the poor of his
own parish, a double blanket for each family,
with cloaks for some of the old women.

This done, he relinquished his worldly

possessions, and slit himself from the sickness
in a back room of Ballamona, admitting
none, and never stirring abroad except to goto
church.

The Bishop had newly opened the chapel
at Bishop's Court for daily prayers, and of all
constant worshippers there Thorkell was now
the most constant. Every morning his little
shrivelled figure knelt at the form before the
Communion, and from his blanched lips the
prayers were mumbled audibly. Much he
sought the Bishop's society, and in every
foolish trifle he tried to imitate his brother.
A new canon of the Church had lately ordered
that every Bishop should wear an episcopal
wig, and over his flowing white hair the
Bishop of Man had perforce to put the grotesque
head-covering. Seeing this, Thorkell
sent to England for a periwig, and perched
the powdered curls on his own bald crown.

The sickness was at its worst, the terror

was at its height, and men were flying from
their sick families to caves in the mountains,
when one day the Bishop announced in
church that across in Ireland, as he had heard,
there was a good man who had been blessed
under God with miraculous powers of curing
this awful malady.

Send for him ! send for him ! ' the people
shouted with one voice, little heeding the
place they sat in.

But,' said the Bishop, with a failing voice,
the good man is a Roman Catholic  indeed,
a Romish priest.'

At that word a groan came from the
people, for they were Protestants of Protestants.


 Let us not think that no good can come
out of Nazareth,' the Bishop continued.
And who shall say, though we love the
Papacy not at all, but that holy men adhere
to it ? '

There was a murmur of disapproval.

My good people,' the Bishop went on,
falteringly, ' we are in God's hands, and His
anger burns among us.'

The people broke up abruptly, and talking
of what the Bisho23 had said, they shook their
heads. But their terror continued, and before
its awful power their qualms of faith went
down as before a flood. Then they cried,
Send for the priest ! ' and the Bishop sent
for him.

Seven weary days passed, and at length
with a brightening countenance the Bishop
announced that the priest had answered that
he would come. Other three days went by,
and the news passed from north to south that
in the brig ' Bridget' of Cork, bound for White-haven,
with liberty to call at Peeltown, the
Romish priest. Father Dalby, had sailed for
the Isle of Man.

Then day after day the men went up to

the hill-tops to catch sight of the sail of an
Irish brig. At last they sighted one from
the Mull Hills, and she was five leagues south
of the Calf But the wind was high, and the
brig laboured hard in a heavy sea. Four
hours the people watched her, and saw her
bearing down into the most dangerous currents
about their coast. Night closed in, and
the mind rose to the strength of a gale. Next
morning at early dawn the people climbed the
headlands again, but no brig could they now
see, and none had yet made their ports.

She must be gone down,' they told themselves,
and so saying they went home with
heavy hearts.

But two days afterwards there went
through the island a thrilling cry, ' He is
here !  he has come !  the priest ! ' And at
that word a wave of rosy health swept over a
thousand haggard faces.

III.

In the dark sleeping-room of a little
ivy-covered cottage that stood end-on to the
high road through Michael a blind woman lay
dying of the sickness. It was old Kerry ; and
on a three-legged stool before her bed her
husband Hommy sat. Pitiful enough was
Hommy's poor ugly face. His thick lubber
lips were drawn heavily downwards, and
under his besom brows his little eyes were red
and his eyelids swollen. In his hands he
held a shovel, and he was using it as a fan to
puis air into Kerry's face.

It's all as one, man,' the sick woman
moaned. ' Ye're only keeping the breath in
me. I'm bound to lave ye.'

And thereupon Hommy groaned lustily
and redoubled his efforts with the shovel.
There was a knock at the door, and a lady
entered. It was Mona, pale of slice, but very

beautiful in her pallor, and with, an air of
restful sadness.

And how are you now, dear Kerry ? ' she
asked, leaning over the bed.

Middling badly, mam,' Kerry answered
feebly. ' I'll be took, marten sure, as the
saying is.'

Don't lose heart, Kerry. Have you not
heard that the priest is coming ? '

 Chut, mam ! I'll be gone, place God,
where none of the like will follow me.'

Hush, Kerry ! He was in Patrick yesterday;
he will be in German tomorrow, and
the next day he will be here in Michael. He
is a good man, and is doing wonders with the
sick.'

Kerry turned face to the wall, and Hommy
talked with Mona. What was to become of
him when Kerry was gone ? Who would be
left to give him a bit of a tidy funeral ? The
Dempster ? Bad less to the like of him.

VOL. III. T

What could be expected from a master who
had turned his oai daughter out of doors ?

I am better where I am Mona whispered,
and that was her sole answer to the deaf man's
too audible questions. And Hommy, after a
pause, assented to the statement nth his
familiar comment, ' The Bishop's a reel ould
archangel, so he is.'

Thereupon Kerry turned her gaze from
the wall and said, ' Didn't I tell ye, mam, that
he wasn't dead ? '

Who ? '

Why  him him that we mayn't name 
him!

Hush, dear Kerry, he died long ago.'

I tell ye, mam, he's a living man, and
coming back  I know it  he's coming back
impatient  I saw him.'

 Drop) it, woman, it's drames,' said
Hommy.

 I saw him last night as plain as plain 

wearing a long grey sack and curtains on his
feet, and a queer sort of list.'

' It must have been the priest that you
saw in your dream, dear Kerry

The sick woman raised herself on one
elbow, and answered eagerly, ' I tell you no,
mam, but him  him!

Lie still, Kerry ; you will be worse if
you uncover yourself to the cool air.'

There was a moment's quiet, and then the
blind woman said finally, ' I'm going where
I'll have my eyes same as another body.'

At that Hommy's rugged face broadened
to a look of gruesome sorrow, and he renewed
his exertions with the shovel.

lY.

At seven o'clock that day the darkness
had closed in. A bright turf fire burned in a
room in Bishop's Court, and the Bishop sat
before it with his slippered feet on a sheep -

T 2

skill rug. His face was mellower than of old,
and showed less of strength and more of sadness.
Mona stood at a tea-table by his side,
cutting slices of bread and butter.

A white face, with eyes of fear, looked in
at the dark window. It was Davy Fayle. He
was but little older to look upon for the seven
years that had gone heavily over his troubled
head. His simple look was as vacant and his
lagging lip hung as low ; but his sluggish
intellect had that night become suddenly
charged with a ready man's swiftness.

Mona went to the door. ' Come in,' she
said ; but Davy would not come. He must
sjieak with her outside, and she went out to
him.

He was trembling visibly.

 What is it ? ' she said.

Mistress Mona,' said Davy, in a voice of
great emotion, ' it's as true as the living God

'What?' she said.

He's alive  ould Kerry said true  he's
alive, and coming back.'

Mona glanced into his face by the dull
lio:ht that came through the Tiidow. His
eyes, usually dull and vacant, were aflame
with a strange fire. She laid one hand on
the door-jamb, and said, catching her breath :

 Davy, remember what the men said long
ago  that they saw him lying in the snow.'

He's alive, I'm telling you  I've seen
him with my own eyes.'

Where ? '

 I went down to Patrick this morning to
meet the priest coming up  but it's no priest
at all it's it's it's Um:

Again Mona drew her breath audibly.

Think what you are saying, Davy. If it
should not be true ! Oh, if you should be
mistaken ! '

It's Bible truth, Mistress Mona  I'll go
bail on it afore God A'mighty.'

The priest, you say ? '

Aw, lave it to me to know Mastoid  I
mean  liimH

I must go in, Davy. Good night to you,

and thank yon Good night, and 

the plaintive tenderness of her voice broke
down to a sob. ' Oh, what can it all mean? 
she exclaimed more vehemently.

Davy turned away. The low moan of
the sea came ujd through the dark night.

Y.

It happened that after service the next
morning the Bishop and Thorkell walked out
of the chapel side by side.

We are old men now, Gilcrist,' said
Thorkell, ' and should be good friends together.*


That is so,' the Bishop answered.

 We've both lost a son, and can feel
for each other.'

The Bishop made no reply.

We're childless men, in fact.'

There's Mona, God bless her ! ' the Bishop
said very softly.

 True, true,' said Thorpe, and there was
silence for a moment.

It was partly her fault when she left me
partly, I say ;  don't you think so, Gilcrist
? ' said Thorkell nervously.

 She's a dear sweet soul,' the Bishop said.

It's true.'

They stepped on a few paces, and passed
by the spot whereon the two fishermen laid
down their dread burden from the Mooragh
seven years before. Then Thorkell spoke
again and in a feverish voice.

'D'ye know, Gilcrist, I sometimes awake
in the night crying, " Ewan ! Ewan ! " '

The Bishop did not answer, and Thorkell,
in another tone, asked when the Irish priest
was to reach Michael.

He may be here to-morrow the Bisho23
said.

Thorkell shuddered.

It must be that God is revenging Himself
upon us with this fearful scourge.'

It dishonours God to say so,' the Bishops
replied. ' He is calling upon us to repent.'


There was another pause, and then Thor-well
asked what a man should do to set things
right in this world if perchance he had taken
a little more in usury than was fair and
honest.

Give back whatever was more than justice,'
said the Bishop promptly.

But that is often impossible, Gilcrist.'

If he has robbed the widow, and she is
dead, let him repay the fatherless.'

It is impossible  I tell you, Gilcrist, it
is impossible  impossible.'

As they were entering the house, Thor-well

asked if there was truth in the rumour
that the wells had been charmed.

To believe such stories is to be drawn off
from a trust in God and a dependence on His
good providence,' said the Bishop.

But I must say, brother, that strange
thugs are known to happen. Now I myself
have witnessed extraordinary fulfilments.'

 Superstition is a forsaking of God, whom
we have most need to fly to in trouble and
distress,' the Bishop answered.

True  very true  I loathe it ; but still
it's a sort of religion, isn't it, Gilcrist ? '

So the wise man says  as the ape is a
sort of a man.'

VI.

Three days later the word went round
that he who had been looked for was come to
Michael, and many went out to meet him. He
was a stalwart man, straight and tall, bony

and muscular. His dress was poverty's own
livery : a grey shapeless sack-coat, reaching
below Ms knees, curtains on his feet of untanned
skin with open clocks, and a cap of
cloth, half helmet and half hood, drawn closely
down over his head. His cheeks were shaven
and deeply bronzed. The expression of his
face was of a strange commingling of strength
and tenderness. His gestures were few, slow,
and gentle. His measured step was a rhythmic
stride  the stride of a man who has
learned m the long endurance of solitude to
walk alone in the ways of the world. He
spoke little, and scarcely answered the questions
which were put to him. ' Aw, but I
seem to have seen the good man in my drames,'
said one ; and some said ' Ay ' to that, and
some laughed at it.

Within six hours of Ms coming he had set
the whole parish to work. Half of the men
he sent up into the mountains to cut gorse

and drag it down to the Curraghs in piles often
feet liigli, tied about with long sheep-lancets
of twisted straw. The other half he
set to dig trenches m the marshy places. He
made the women to kindle a turf fire in every
room with a chimney-flue, and when night
came he had great fires of gorse, peat, withered
vegetation, and dried sea-wrack built on the
open spaces about the houses in which the
sickness had broken out. He seemed neither
to rest nor eat. From sick house to sick
house, from trench to trench, and fire to fire,
he moved on with his strong step. And
behind him at all times, having never a word
from him and never a look, but trudging
along at his heels, Hke a dog, was the man-lad,
Davy Fayle.

Many of the affrighted people who had
taken refuge in the mountains returned to their
homes at his coming, but others, husbands and
fathers chiefly, remained on the hills, leaving

their wives and families to fend for themselves.
Seeing this, he went up and found some of
them in their hiding-places, and, shaming them
out of their cowardice, brought them back
behind him, more docile than sheep behind a
shepherd. When the ex-towns watch, ,
next appeared on the Curraghs in
the round of his prophetic iteration, the
strange man said not a word, but he cut short
the vehement jeremiad by taking the Quaker
prophet by legs and neck, and throwing him
headlong into one of the drain-troughs newly
dug in the dampest places.

But the strength of this silent man was no
more conspicuous than his tenderness. When
in the frenzy of their fever the sufferers would
cast off their clothes, and try to rise from their
beds and rush into the cooler air from the
heat by which he had surrounded them, his
big horny hands would restrain them nth a
great gentleness.

Before lie had been five days in Michael
and on the Curraghs the sickness began to
abate. The deaths were fewer, and some of
the sick rose from their beds. Then the people
plied him with many questions, and would
have overwhelmed him with their rude gratitude.
To their questions he gave few answers,
and when they thanked him he turned and
left them.

They said that their Bishop, who was
grown feeble, the good ould angel, thought
it strange that he had not yet visited him. To
this he answered briefly that before leaving
the parish he would go to Bishop's Court.

They told him that Mistress Mona, daughter
of the Dempster that was, bad cess to him,
had been seeking him high and low. At this
his lip trembled, and he bent his head.

The good man's face plagues me mortal,'
said old Billy-the-Gawk. ' Whiles I know it,
and otherwhiles I don't.'

Iii.

Only another day did the stranger remain
in Michael, but the brief time was full of
strange events. The night closed in before
seven o'clock. It was then very dark across
the mountains, and the sea lay black beyond
the cliffs, but the Curraghs were dotted over
with the many fires which had been kindled
about the infected houses.

Within one of these houses, the home of
Jabez Gawne, the stranger stood beside the
bed of a sick woman, the tailor's wife. Behind
him there were anxious faces. Davy Fayle,
always near him, leaned against the door-jamb
by the porch.

And while the stranger wrapped the sweltering
sufferer in hot blankets, other sufferers
sent to him to pray of him to come to them.
First there came an old man to tell of this
grandchild, who had been smitten down that

day, and she was the last of his kin whom the
Sweat had left alive. Then a woman, to say
that her husband, who had started again with
the boats but yesterday, had been brought
home to her that night with the sickness. He
listened to all who came, and answered quietly,
 I will go

At length a young man ran in and said,

The Dempster's down. He's shouting for
you, sir. He sent me hot-foot to fetch you.'
The stranger listened as before, and seemed

to think rapidly for a moment, for his underlip

trembled, and was drawn painfully inward.

Then he answered as briefly as ever, and nth

as calm a voice, * I will go.'

The man ran back with his answer, but

presently returned, saying, with j)antmg

breath, '- He's rambling, sir ; raving mad, sii ;

and shouting that he must be coming after you

if you're not for coming to him.'

 We will go together,' the stranger said.

and they went out immediately. Davy Fayle
followed them at a few paces.

Viii.

Through the darkness of that night a
woman, young and beautiful, in cloak and
hood like a nun's, walked from house to house
of the Curraghs, where the fires showed that
the sickness was still raging. It was Mona.
These three days past she had gone hither and
thither, partly to tend the sick people, partly
in hope of meeting the strange man who had
come to cure them. Again and again she had
missed him, being sometimes only a few
minutes before or after him.

Still she passed on from house to house,
looking for him as she went in at every fresh
door, yet half dreading the chance that might
bring them face to face.

She entered the house where he had received

her father's message almost on the
instant when he left it. The three men had
gone by her in the darkness.

Jabez, the tailor, who sat whimpering in
the ingle, told her that the priest had that
moment gone off to Ballamona, where the
Dempster that was  hadn't she heard the
newses ?  was new down with the Sweat.

Her delicate face whitened at that, and
after a pause she turned to follow. But going
back to the hearth, she asked if the strand-er
had been told that the Bishop) wanted to see
him. Jabez told her yes, and that he had
said he would go up to BIsIiojd's Court before
leaving the parish.

Then another question trembled on her
tongue, but she could not utter it. At last
she asked what manner of man the stranger
was to look upon.

'Aw, big and straight and tall,' said
Jabez.

VOL. III. U

And Billy tlie- Gawk, who sat at the opposite
side of the ingle, being kin to Jabez's sick
wife, said, ' Ay, and quiet like, and solemn
extraordinary.'

A wonderful man, wonderful, wonderful,'
said Jabez, still whimpering. ' And wherever
he comes the Sweat goes down before him
with a flood.'

As I say,' said Billy-the-Gawk, ' the goodman's
face plagues me mortal. I can't bethink
me where I've seen the like of it afore.'

Mona's lijs quivered at that word, and she
seemed to be about to speak \ but she said
nothing.

And the strong he is ! ' said Jabez ; ' I
never knew but one man in the island with
half the strength of arm as him.'

Mona's pale face twitched visibly, and she
listened as with every faculty.

'- Who d'ye mane ? ' asked Billy-the-Gawk.

At that question there was a moment's

silence between the men. Then each drew a
long breath, dislodged a heavy burden from
his throat, glanced significantly up at Mona,
and looked into the other face.

Hvm said Jabez, in a faint under-breath,
speaking behind his hand.

'EimV

Billy-the-Gawk straightened his crooked
back, opened wide his rheumy eyes, pursed up
his wizened cheeks, and emitted a low, long
whistle.

 Lord A'mighty ! '

For an instant Jabez looked steadily into
the old mendicant's face, and then drew himself
up in his seat 

Lord a-massy ! '

Mona's heart least to her mouth. She
was almost beside herself with suspense, and
felt an impulse to scream.

IX.

Within a week after old Tliorkell had
conversed with the Bishop about the rumour
that the wells had been charmed, his terror of
the sickness had grown nigh to madness. He
went to church no longer, but shut himself up
in his house. Night and day his restless footstep
could be heard to pass from room to
room and floor to floor. He ate little, and
such was his dread of the water from his well
that for three days together he drank nothing.
At length, burning from thirst, he went uj)
the Shoon Glen and drank at a pool, going
down on hands and knees to lap the water
like a dog. Always he seemed to be mumbling
prayers, and when the bell of the church
rang, no matter for what occasion, he dropped
to his knees and prayed audibly. He forbade
the servants of the house to bring him

news of deaths, but waited and watched and
listened at open doors for their conversation
among themselves. At night he went to the
front windows to look at the fires that were
kindled about the infected houses on the
Curraghs. He never failed to turn fiom that
sight with bitter words. Such work was but
the dedl's play ; it was making a mock at God,
who had sent the sickness to revenge Himself
on the island's guilty people. Thorkell told
Jarvis Kerruish as much time after time.
Jarvis answered contemptuously, and Thor-well
retorted angrily. At length they got
to high words, and Jarvis flung away.

One morning Thorkell called for Hommes
They told him that Hommy had been
nursing his wife. The blind woman was now
dead, and Hommy was burying her. At this
Thork ell's terror was appalling to look upon.
All night long he had been telling himself
that he despised the belief in second sight, but

that lie would see if Kerry pretended to know
whether he himself was to outlive the scourge.
No matter, the woman was dead. So much
the better !

Later the same day, Thorkell remembered
that somewhere on the mountains there lived
an old farmer who was a seer and bard. He
would go to see the old charlatan. Yes, he
would amuse himself with the superstition
that aped religion. Thorkell set out, and
found the bard's lonely house far uj) above the
Sherraoh Vane. In a corner of the ibis;
fireplace the old man sat, with a black shawl
bound about his head and tied under his
chin. He was past eighty years of age, and
his face was as old a face as Thorkell had
ever looked upon. On his knee a young child
was sitting, and two or three small boys were
playing about his feet. A brisk middle-aged
woman was stirring the seats and settling the
kettle on the chimney-hook. She was the old

man's wife, and the young brood were the old
man's children.

Thorkell began to talk of carats, and
said he had come to hear some of them. The
old bard's eyes brightened. He had written
a carol about the sickness. From the ' lath '
he took a parchment pan, fall of papers that
were worn, thumb-marked, and greasy. From
one of these papers he began to read, and
Thorkell tried to listen. The poem was an
account of a dream. The dreamer had dreamt
that he had gone into a church. There was
a congregation gathered, and a preacher was
in the pulpit. But when the preacher prayed
the dreamer heard nothing of God. At lenoi:h
he discovered that it was a congregation of
the dead in the region of the damned. They
had all died of the Sweat. Every man of
them had been warned by wise men and
women in this world. The concur elation
sang a joyless psalm, and when their service

was done they began to break ujd. Then the
dreamer recognised some whom he had known
in the flesh. Among them was one who had
killed his own son, and he was afflicted with a
burning thirst. To this unhappy man the
dreamer offered a basin of milk-and-water,
but the damned soul could not get the basin
to his parched lips, struggle as he might to
liffc it in his stiff arms.

At first Thorkell listened with the restless
mind of a man who had come on better
business, and then with a feverish interest.
The sky had darkened smce he entered the
house, and while the old bard chanted m his
sing-song voice, and the children made their
clatter around his feet, a storm of heavy rain
pelted against the window-pane.

The ballad ended in the grim doggerel of
a harrowing appeal to the sinner to shun his
evil courses :

O sinner, see your dangerous state,

And think of hell ere 'tis too late ;

"When worldly cares would drown each thought.

Pray call to mind that hell is hot.

Still to increase your godly fears

Let this be sounding in your ears,

Still bear in mind that hell is hot,

Remember, and forget it not.

Thus J with a swinging motion of the
body, the old bard of the mountains chanted
his rude song on the dangers of damnation.
Thorkell leapt up from the settle and sputtered
out an expression of contempt. What
madness was this ? If he had his way he
would clap) all superstitious people into the
Castle.

The next morning, when sitting down to
breakfast, Thorkell told Jarvis Kerruish that
he had three nights riinnmof dreamt the same
dream, and it was a terrible one. Jarvis
laughed in his face, and said he was a foolish
old man. Thorkell answered with heat, and
they parted on the instant, neither touching

food. Towards noon Thorkell imagined he
felt feverish, and asked for Jarvis Kerruish ;
but Jarvis was at his toilet and would not
be disturbed. At y o'clock the same day
Thorkell was sweating from every pore, and
crying lustily that he had taken the sickness.
Towards seven he ordered the servant  a
young man named Juan Caine, who had come
to fill Hommy's place  to go in search of the
Romish priest, Father Dalby.

When the stranger came, the young man
opened the door to him, and whispered that
the old master's wits were gone.  He's not
been wise these two hours,' the young man
said, and then led the way to Thorkell' s
bedroom. He missed the corridor, and the
stranger pointed to the proper door.

Thorkell was sitting uj) in his bed. His
clothes had not been taken off, but his coat 
a blue coat, laced  and also his long yellow
vest were unbuttoned. His wig was perched on

the top of a leigh-backed chair, and over his
bald head hung a torn piece of red flannel.
His long hairy hands, with the prominent
blue veins, crawled over the counterpane.
His eyes were open very wide. When he
saw the stranger he was for getting out of
bed.

I am not ill,' he said ; 4t's folly to think
that I've taken the sickness. I sent for you to
tell you something that you should know.'

Then he called to the young man to bring
him water. ' Juan, water ! ' he cried ;  Juan,
I say, more water.'

He turned to the stranger. ' It's true I'm
always athirst, but is that any jDroof that I
have taken the sickness ? Juan, be quick 
water ! '

The young man brought a pewter pot of
cold water, and Thorkell clutched at it, but ashe
was stretching his neck to drink, his hot
lips working visibly, and his white tongue

protruding, lie drew suddenly back.  Is it
from the well ? ' he asked.

The stranger took the pewter out of 'his
hands, unlocking his stiff fingers with his own
great bony ones.  Make the water hot he
said to the servant.

Thorkell fell back to his pillow, and the
rag of red blanket dropped from his bald
crown. Then he lifted himself on one elbow
and began again to talk of the sickness.
You have made a mistake,' he said. * It is
not to be cured. It is God's revenge on the
people of this sinful island. Shall I tell you
for what offence ? For superstition. Superstition
is the a23e of religion. It is the
reproach of God. Juan ! Juan, I say, help
me off with this coat. And these bed-clothes
also. Why are there so many ? It's true,
sir  Father, is it ?  it's true. Father, I'm hot,
but what of that ? Water ! Juan, more
water Glen water, Juan ! '

The stranger pushed Thorkell gently back,
and covered him closely from the air.

As I say, it is superstition, sir,' said Thor-well
again. ' I would have it put down bylaw.
It is the curse of this island. What
are those twenty-four Keys doing that they
don't stamp it out ? And the clergy  what
are they wrangling about now, that they don't
see to it? I'll tell you how it is, sir. It is
this way. A man does something, and some
old woman sneezes. Straightway he thinks
himself accursed, and that what is predicted
must certainly come about. And it does come
about. Why ? Because the man himself,
with his blundering, doddering fears, brings it
about. He brigs it about himself  that's
how it is ! And then every old woman in the
island sneezes adam.'

Saying this, Thorkell began to laugh,
loudly, frantically, atrociously. Jarvis Kern
had entered while he was ruining on

with his tirade. The stranger did not lift his
eyes to Jarvis, but Jar vis looked at him attentively.


When Thorkell had finished his hideous
laugh he turned to Jarvis and asked if superstition
was not the plague of the island, and
if it ought not to be put down by law. Jarvis
curled his lips for answer, but this form of
contempt was lost on old Thorkell' s dim eyes.

Have we not often agreed that it is so ? '
said Thorkell.

And that you,' said Jarvis, speaking
slowly and bitterly,  are the most superstitious
man alive.'

What ? what ?' Thorkell cried.

The stranger lifted his face, and looked
steadily into Jarvis's eyes. * You he said
calmly, ' have some reason to say so.'

Jarvis reddened, turned about, stepped to
the door, glanced back at the stranger, and
went out of the room.

Tliorkell was now moaning on the pillow.
I am all alone lie said; and he fell to a bout
of weeping.

The stranger waited until the hysterical
fit was over, and then said, ' Where is your
daughter ? '

Ah ! ' said Thorkell, dropping his red eyes.
 Send for her.'

I will. Juan, go to Bishop's Court.
Juan, I say, run fast and fetch Mistress
Mona. Tell her that her father is ill.'

As Thorkell gave this order Jar vis Kern
returned to the room.

No ! ' said Jar vis, lifting his hand against
the young man.

No ? ' cried Thorkell.

If this is my house, I will be master in
it,' said Jarvis.

Master ! your house ! yours ! ' Thorkell
cried ; and then he fell to a fiercer bout of
hysterical curses. * Bastard, I gave you all !

THE DEEMSTER

But for me you would be on the roads  ay,
the dunghill ! '

This violence will avail you nothing
said Jarvis, with hard constraint. * Mistress
Mona shall not enter this house.'

Jarvis placed himself with his back to the
door. The stranger stepped up to him, laid
one powerful hand on his arm, and drew him
aside. ' Go for Mistress Mona,' he said to the
young man.  Knock at the door on your
return. I will open it.'

The young man obeyed the stranger.
Jarvis stood a moment looking blankly
into the stranger's face. Then he went out of
the room again.

Thorkell was whimpering on the pillow.
It is true,' he said, with labouring breath,
though I hate superstition and loathe it, I
was once its victim  once only. My son
Ewan was killed by my brother's son, Dan.
They loved each other like David and Jonathan,

but I told Ewan a lie, and they fought,
and Ewan was brought home dead. Yes, I
told a lie, but I believed it then. I made myself
believe it. I listened to some old wife's
balderdash, and thought it true. And Dan
was cut off  that is to say, banished, excommunicated
; worse, worse. But he's dead now.
He was found dead in the snow.' Again
Thorkell tried to laugh, a poor despairing
laugh that was half a cry. ' Dead ! They
threatened me that he would push me from
my place. And he is dead before me ! So
much for divination ! But tell me  you area
priest  tell me if that sin will drag me down

to  to But then, remember, I believed it

was true  yes, I '

The stranger's face twitched, and his
breathing became quick.

And it was you who led the way to all
that followed ? ' he said in a subdued voice.

It was ; it was '

VOL. III. X

The stranger had suddenly reached over
the bed and taken Thorkell by the shoulders.
At the next instant he had relinquished his
hard grasp, and was standing upright as before,
and with as calm a face. And Thorkell
went jabbering on 

'- These three nights I have dreamt a fearful
dream. Shall I tell you what it was ?
Shall I ? I thought Dan, my brother's son,
arose out of his grave, and came to my bedside,
and peered ito my face. Then I
thought I shrieked and died ; and the first
thing I saw in the other world was my own
son Ewan, and he steered into my face also,
and told me that I was damned eternally.
But, tell me, don't you thmk it was only
a dream ? Father ! Father ! I say, tell
me '

Thorkell was clambering up by hold of
the stranger's coat.

The stranger pushed him gently back.

Lie still ; lie still  you, too, have suffered
much,' he said.  Lie quiet  God is merciful.'

Just then Jarvis Kerruish entered m wild
excitement. ' Now I know who this man is.'
he said, pointing to the stranger.

Father Dalby,' said Thorkell.

Pshaw !  it is Dan Mylbea.'

Thorkell lifted himself stiffly on his elbow,
and rigidly drew his face closely up to the
stranger's face, and peered into the stranger's
eyes. Then he took a convulsive hold of the
stranger's coat, shrieked, and fell back on to
the pillow.

At that moment there was a loud knocking'
at the door below. The strand-er left the
room. In the hall a candle was burning. He
put it out. Then he opened the door. A
woman entered. She was alone. She passed
him in the darkness without speaking. He
went out of the house and pulled the door
after him.

X.

An hour later than this terrible interview,
wherein his identity (never hidden by any
sorry masquerade) was suddenly revealed,
Daniel Mylrea, followed closely at his heels
by Davy Fayle, walked amid the fires of the
valley to Bishop's Court. He approached the
old house by the sea front, and went into its
grounds by a gate that opened on a footpath
to the library through a clumps of elms. Sluggish
as was Davy's intellect, he reflected that
this was a oath that no stranger could know.

The sky of the night had lightened, and
here and there a star gleamed through the
thinning branches overhead. In a faint breeze
the withering leaves of the dying summer
rustled slightly. On | the meadow before the
house a silvery haze of night-dew lay in its
silence. Sometimes the croak of a frog came
from the glen ; and from the sea beyond
(though seemingly from the mountains opposite)

there rose into the air the rumble of the
waves on the shore.

Daniel Mylrea passed on with a slow,
strong step, but a secret pain oppressed him.
He was walking on ground that was dear with
a thousand memories of happy childhood. He
was ofoino: back for some brief moments that
must be painful and joyful, awful and delicious,
to the house which he had looked to
see no more. Already he was very near to
those who were very dear to him, and to whom
he, too  yes, it must be so  to whom he, too,
in spite of all, must still be dear. ' Father,
father,' he whispered to himself. ' And Mona,
my Mona, my love, my love.' Only the idle
chatter of the sapless leaves answered to the
yearning cry of his broken spirit.

He had passed out of the shade of the elms
into the open green of the meadow with the
stars above it, when another voice came to
him. It was the voice of a child singing.

Clear and sweet, and with a burden of tenderness
such as a child's voice rarely carries, it
floated through the quiet air.

Daniel Mylrea passed on until he came by
the library window, which was alight with a
rosy glow. There he stood for a moment and
looked into the room. His father, the Bishop,
was seated in the oak chair that was clamped
with iron clamps. Older he seemed to be, and
with the lines a thought deeper on his massive
brow. On a stool at his feet, with one elbow
resting on the apron in front of him, a little
maiden sat, and she was singing. A fire
burned red on the hearth before them. Presently
the Bishop rose from his chair, and
went out of the room, walking feebly, and with
drooping head.

Then Daniel Mylrea walked round to the
front of the house and knocked. The door
was opened by a servant whose face was
strange to him. Everything that he saw was

strange, and yet everything was familiar. The
hall was the same but smaller, and when it
echoed to his foot a thrill passed through him.

He asked for the Bishop, and was led like
a stranger through his father's house to the
door of the library. The little maiden was
now alone in the room. She rose from her
stool as he entered, and, without the least reserve,
stepped up to him and held out her
hand. He took her tender Httle palm in his
great fingers, and held it for a moment while
he looked into her face. It was a beautiful
child-face, soft and fair and oval, with a
faint tinge of olive in the pale cheeks, and
with yellow hair  almost white in the glow of
the red fire  falling in thin tresses over a fill,
smooth forehead.

He sat and drew her closer to him, still
looking steadily into her face. Then in a
tremulous voice he asked her what her name
was, and the little maiden, who had shown no

fear at all, nor any bashfulness, answered that
her name was Aileen.

But they call me Ailee,' she added
promptly ; ' everybody calls me Ailee.'

'Everybody? Who?'

Oh, everybody,' she answered, with a true
child's emphasis.

Your mother ? '

She shook her head.

Your  your  perhaps  your '

She shook her head more vigorously.

I know what you're going to say, but I've
got none,' she said.

Got none? ' he reseated.

The little maiden's face took suddenly a
wondrous solemnity, and she said, ' My father
died a long, long, long time ago  when I was
only a little baby.'

His lijos quivered, and his eyes fell from
her face.

Such a long, long while ago  you

wouldn't think. And auntie says I can't
even remember him.'

Auntie ? '

But shall I tell you what Kerry said it
was that made him die ?  shall I?  only I
must whisper  and you won't tell auntie 
will you?  because auntie doesn't know  shall
I tell you?'

His quivering lips whitened, and with
trembling hands he drew aside the little 



den's head that her innocent eyes might not
gaze into his face.

How old are you, Ailee even ? ' he asked
m a brave voice.

Oh, I'm seven  and auntie, she's seven
too ; auntie and I are twas.'

And you can sing, can you not ? Will
you sing for me ? '

What shall I sing ? '

Anything, sweetheart  what you sang a
little while since.'

For grandpa ? '

Grandpa ? '

Kerry says no, it's uncle, not grandson.
But that's wrong,' with a look of outraged
honour ; ' and besides, how should Kerry
know ? It's not lier grandpa, is it? Do you
know Kerry ? ' Then the little face saddened
all at once. ' Oh, I forgot  'poor Kerry.'

 Poor Kerry?'

 I used to go and see her. You go up
the road, and then on and on and on until you
come to some children, and then on and on
and on until you get to a little boy  and then
you're there.'

Won't you sing, sweetheart ? '

 I'll sing grandpa's song.'

Grandpa's ? '

Yes, the one he likes.'

Then the little maiden's dimpled face
smoothened out, and her simple eyes turned
gravely upwards as she began to sing : 

0, Myle Charaine, where got you your gold ?

Lone, lone, you have left me here.
0, not in the Outrage, deep under the mould.

Lone, lone, and void of cheer.

It was the favourite song of his own
boyish days ; and while the little maiden sang
it seemed to the crime stained man who gazed
through a dim haze into her cherub face that
the voice of her dead father had gone into her
voice. He listened while he could, and when
the tears welled up to his eyes, with his horny
hands he drew her fair head down to his
heaving breast, and sobbed beneath his breath,
Ailee even, Ailee even.'

The little maiden stopped in her song to
look up in bewilderment at the bony, wet face
that was stooping over her.

At that moment the door of the room
opened, and the Bishop entered noiselessly.
A moment he stood on the threshold, with a
look of perplexity. Then he made a few halting
steps, and said :

My eyes are not what they were, sir, and
I see there is no light but the firelight ; but I
presume you are the good Father Dalby ? '

Daniel Mylrea had risen to his feet.

I come from him,' he answered.

Is he not coming himself ? '

He cannot come. He charged me with a
message to you.'

 You are very welcome. My niece will
be home presently. Be seated, sir.'

Daniel Mylrea did not sit, but continued
to stand before his father, with head held
down. After a moment he spoke again.

 Father Dalby,' he said, ' is dead.'

The Bishop sank to his chair. ' When 
when '

'- He died the better part of a month ago.'

The Bishop rose to his feet.

 He was in this island but yesterday.'

He bade me tell you that he had fulfilled
his pledge to you and come to the island, but

died by the visitation of God the same night
whereon he landed here.'

The Bishop put one hand to his forehead.


Sir he said, ' ray hearing is also failing
me, for, as you see, I am an old man now, and
besides I have had trouble in my time. Perhaps,
sir, I did not hear you aright? '

Then Daniel Mylrea told in few words the
story of the priest's accident and death, and
how the man at whose house he died had
made bold to take the good priest's mission
upon himself.

The Bishop listened with visible pain, and
for a while said nothing. Then, sjDeakmg ina
faltering voice, with breath that came
quickly, he asked who the other man had
been. ' For the good man has been a blessing
to us,' he added nervously.

To this question there was no reply, and
he asked again :

Myself

The Bishop lifted with trembling fingers
his horn-bridged spectacles to his eyes.

Your voice is strangely familiar he said.
What is your name ? '

Again there was no answer.

 Give me your name, sir  that I may
pray of God to bless you.'

Still there was no answer.

Let me remember it in my prayers.'

Then in a breaking voice Daniel Mylrea
replied :

In your prayers my joor name has never
been forgotten.'

At that the Bishop tottered a pace backward.


Light,' he said faintly. ' More light.'

He touched a bell on the table, and sank
quietly into his chair. Daniel Mylrea fell to
his knees at the Bishop's feet.

Father lie said in a fervent whisper, and
put his lips to the Bishop's hand.

The door was opened, and a servant entered
with candles. At the same moment Daniel
Mylrea stepped quickly out of the room.

Then the little maiden leaped from the
floor to the Bishop's side.

 Grandpa, grandpa ! Oh, what has haj)-
leaned to grandpa ? ' she cried.

The Bishop's head had dropped into his
breast and he had fainted. When he opened
his eyes in consciousness Mona was bathing
his forehead and damping his lips.

My child,' he said nervously,  one has
come back to us from the dead.'

And Mona answered him T\'ith the thought
that was now uppermost in her mind :

 Dear uncle,' she said, ' my poor father
died half-an-hour ago.'

CHAPTER XLV.

OUR FATHER, WHICH ART IN HEAVEN.'

Not many days after the events recorded in
the foregoing chapter, the people of Man
awoke to the joyful certainty that the sweating
sickness had disappeared. The solid
wave of heat had gone ; the ground had
become dry and the soil light ; and no foetid
vapours floated over the Curraghs at midday.
Also the air had grown keener, the nights
had sharpened, and in the morning the fronds
of hoar-frost hung on the withering leaves of
the mammon.

Then the poor folk began to arrange
their thoughts concerning the strange things
that had happened ; to count up their losses

by death ; to talk of children that were
fatherless ; and of old men left alone in the
world, like naked trunks, without bough or
branch, flung on the bare earth by yesterday's
storm.

And in that first roll-call after the battle
of life and death the people suddenly became
aware that, with the sweating sickness, the
man who had brought the cure for it had also
disappeared. He was not on the Curraghs,
he was no longer in Michael, and further east
he had not travelled. None could tell what
had become of him. When seen last he was
walking south through German towards
Patrick. He was then alone, save for the
half daft lad, Davy Fayle, who slouched at
his heels like a dog. As he passed uj) Crew
Willet's Hill the people of St. Holm's followed
him in ones and twos and threes to ofl'er him
their simple thanks. But he pushed along as
one who hardly heard them. When he came

VOL. III. Y

by the Tynwald lie paused and turned partly
towards Greeba, as though half minded to
alter his course. But, hesitating no longer,
he followed the straight jDath toT'ards the
village and the foot of Slieau Whallm. Ashe
crossed the green the people of St. John's,
who followed him up the hill road, had grown
to a great number, being joked there by the
people of Tynwald. And when he passed
under the ancient mount, walking with long,
rapid steps, his chi on his breast and his
eyes kept steadfastly down, the grey-headed
men uncovered their heads, the young women
thrust their youiig children under his hands
for his blessing, and all by one impulse
shouted in one voice, ' God bless the priest ! '
 Heaven save the priest ! '

There were spectators of that scene who
were wont to say, when the sequel had freshened
their memories, that amid this wild
tumult of the gratitude of the island's poor

people, he who was the subject of it made one
quick glance of pain upwards to the mount,
now standing empty above the green, and
then, parting the crowds that encircled him,
pushed through them without word, or
glance, or sign. Seems at last that he shrank
fi'om their thanks, the people followed hun no
farther, but remained on the green, watching
him as he passed on towards Slieau Whallm,
and then up by the mountain track. When
he had reached the toj of the path, where it
begins its descent to the valley beyond, he
paused adam and turned about, glancing
back. The jDcojile below saw his full figure
clearly outlined against the sky, and once
more they sent ujd their shout by one great
impulse m one great voice that drowned the
distant rumble of the sea : ' God bless the
priest ! ' ' Heaven save the jijriest ! ' And
he heard it, for instantly he faced about and
disappeared,

Y 2

THE DEEMSTER

When he was gone it seemed as if a spell
had broken. The people looked into each
other's faces in bewilderment, as if vaguely
conscious that somewhere and sometime,
under conditions the same yet different, all
that they had then seen their eyes had seen
before. And bit by bit the memory came
back to them, linked with a name that might
not be spoken. Then many thugs that had
seemed strange became plain.

In a few days the whisper passed over
Man, from north to south, from east to west,
from the sod cabins on the Curragh to the
Castle at Castletown, that he who had cured
the people of the sickness, he who had been
mistaken for the priest out of Ireland, was
none other than the unblessed man long-thought
to be dead ; and that he had lived to
be the saviour of his people.

The great news was brought to Bishop's
Court, and it was found to be there already.

Rumour said that from Castletown an inquiry
had come asking if the news were true, but
none could tell what answer Bishop's Court
had made. The Bishop had shut himself up
from all visits, even those of his clergy.
With Mona and the child, Ewan's little
daughter, he had passed the days since
Thorkell's death, and not until the day
of Thorkell's funeral did he break m upon
his solitude. Then he went down to the
little churchyard that stands over by the
sea.

They buried the ex-Deemster near to his
son Ewan, and with scarcely a foot's space
between them. Except Jarvis Kerruish, the
Bishop was Thorkell's sole mourner, and
hardly had the service ended, or the second
shovel of earth fallen from old Will-as-thorn's
spade, when Jarvis whipped about and
walked away. Then the Bishop stood alone
by his brother's unhonoured grave, trying to

forget his malice and peculiarity, and this
senseless superstitions that had led to many
disasters, thinking only with the pity that is
nigh to love of the great rum whereunto his
poor beliefs had tottered down. And when
the Bishop had returned home the roll-call
of near kindred showed him pitiful gaps.
The island grows very lonesome, Mona,' he
said.

That night Davy Fayle came to Bishop's
Court with a book in his hand. He told
Mona how he had found the ' Ben-my-Chree ' a
complete wreck on the shingle of the Shoon
Creek in the Calf Sound, and the book in its
locker. Not a syllable could Davy read, but
he knew that the book was the fishing log of
the lugger, and that since he saw it last it
had been filled with writings.

Mona took the book into the library, and
with the Bishop she examined it. It was a
small quarto, bound in sheepskin, with corners

and back of untanned leather. Longways on
the back the words ' Ben-my-Chree Fishing
Log ' were lettered, as with a soft quill in a
bold hand. On the front page there was this
inscription : 

Ben-my-Chree.
Owner, Daniel Mylrea, Bishop's Court,
Isle of Man.
Master, William Qiiilleash.

Over page was the word ' Accounts,'
and then followed the various items of the
earnings and expenditure of the boat. The
handwriting was strong; and free, but the
bookkeeping was not lucid.

Eight pages of faintly-tinted paper, much
frayed, and with lines ruled by hand one way
of the sheet only, were filled with the accounts
of the herring season of 1705. At the bottom
there was* an attempt at picking out the
items of profit and loss, and at reckoning the
shares of owner, master, and man. The balance

stood but too sadly on the wrong side. There
was a deficit of forty pounds four shillings
and sixpence.

The Bishop glanced at the entries, and
passed them over with a sigh. But turning
the leaves, he came upon other matter of more
pathetic interest. This was a long personal
narrative from the owner's pen, covering
some two hundred of the sages. The Bishop
looked it through, hurriedly, nervously, and
with eager eyes. Then he gave \r the book
to Mona.

Read it aloud, child,' he said, in a voice
unlike his own, and with a brave show of
composure he settled himself to listen.

For two hours thereafter Mona read from
the narrative that was written in the book.
What that narrative was does not need to be
said.

Often the voice of the reader failed her,
sometimes, it could not support itself. And

ill the lapses of her voice the silence was
broken by her low sobs.

The Bishop listened long with a great
outer calmness, for the affections of the father
were struggling with a sense of the duty of
the servant of God. At some points of the
narrative these seemed so to conflict as to tear
his old heart woefully. But he bore ujd very
bravely, and tried to think that in what he
had done seven years before he had done well.
At an early stage of Mona's reading he stopped
her to say :

Men have been cast on desert islands
beforetime, and too often they have been
adrift on unknown seas.'

Adam he stopped her to add, with a slow
shake of the head :

Men have been outlawed, and dragged
out weary years in exile  men have been
oftentimes under the ban and chain of the
law.'

And once again lie interrupted and said,
in a trembling undertone, ' It is true  it
has been what I looked for  it has been a
death in life.'

But as Mona went on to read of how
the outcast man, kejot back from speech
with every living soul, struggled to preserve
the spiritual part of him, the Bishop interrupted
once more, and said in a faltering
voice :

This existence has been quite alone in
its desolation.'

As Mona went on again to read of how
the unblessed creature said his prayer in his
solitude, not hoping that God would hear,
but thinking himself a man outside God's
grace, though God's hand was upon him 
thinking himself a man doomed to everlasting
death, though the blessing of Heaven had
already fallen over him like morning dew 
then all that remained of spiritual pride in

the heart of the Bishop was borne down by
the love of the father, and his old head fell
into his breast, and the hot tears rained down
his wrinkled cheeks.

Later the same night Mona sent for Davy
Fayle. The lad was easily found ; he had
been waiting m the darkness outside the
house, struggling hard with a desire to go
in and tell Mistress Mona where Daniel
Mylrea was to be found.'

Davy,' she said, ' do you know where
he is ? '

Sure,' said Davy.

And you could lead me to him ? '

I could.'

Then come here very early in the morning,
and we will go together.'

Next day when Mona, attired for her
journey, went down for a hasty breakfast,
she found the Bishop fumbling a letter in his
trembling fingers.

Read this, child,' he said in a thick
voice, and he handed the letter to her.

She turned it over nervously. The superscription
ran, ' These to the Lord Bishop) of
Man, at his Palace of Bishops's Court,' and
the seal on the other face was that of the
insular Government.

While the Bishop made pretence of wiping
with his handkerchief the horn-bridged spectacles
on his nose, Mona opened and read
the letter.

It was from the Governor at Castletown,
and said that the Lord of Man and the
Isles, in recognition of the great services
done by Daniel Mylrea to the people of the
island during their recent affliction, would be
anxious to appoint him Deemster of Man, iii
succession to his late uncle, Thorkell Mylrea
(being satisfied that he was otherwise qualified
for the post), if the Steward of the Ecclesiastical
Courts were willing to remove the

censure of the Church under which lie now
laboured.

When she had finished reading Mona cast
one glance of nervous supplication upwards
to the Bishop's face, and then with a quick
cry of joy, which was partly pain, she flung
her arms about his neck.

The old Bishop was quite broken down.

Man's judgments on man he said, ' are
but as the anger of little children  here
to-day, gone tomorrow, and the Father's face
is over all.'

"What need to tell of one of the incidents
of Mona's journey, or of the brave hopes that
buoyed her up on the long and toilsome way?
Many a time during these seven years past
she had remembered that it was she who
had persuaded Dan to offer his life as an
atonement for his sin. And often the thought
came back to her with the swiftness of remorse

that it was lie who, in her blindness, had sent
him to a doom that was worse than death. But
Heaven's ways had not been her ways, and
all was well. The atonement had been made,
and the sin had been wiped out of the book
of life. Dan, her love, her beloved, had
worked out his redemption. He had proved
himself the great man she had always known
he must be. He was to come back loaded
with honour and gratitude, and surrounded
by multitudes of friends.

More than once, when the journey was
heaviest, she put her hand to her bosom and
touched the paper that nestled so warmly
there. Then in her mind's eye she saw Dan
in the seat of the Deemster, the righteous
judge of his own people. Oh, yes, he would
be the Deemster, but he would be Dan still,
her Dan, the lively, cheerful, joyous, perhaps
even frolicsome Dan once more. He would
sport with her like Ailee ; he would play

with lier as he used to play long ago with
another little girl that she herself could remember
 tickling her under her armpits, and
under her chin, and in twenty different cosy
nests of her pretty body, where whole broods
of birdies sent up a chorus of squealing song-laughter.


The burden of Mona's long years of
weary sorrow had been so suddenly lifted
away that she could not restrain her thoughts
from childish sportiveness. But sometimes
she remembered Ewan, and then her heart
saddened, and sometimes she thought of herself,
and then it flushed full of quick, hotblood.
And, oh, how delicious was the secret
thing that sometimes stole up between her
visions of Dan and the high destiny that
was before him. It was a vision of herself,
transfigured by his noble love, resting upon
and looking up to him, and thus passing on
and on and on to the end.

Once she remembered, with a chill passing
through her, that in the writing which she
had read Dan had said he was ill ? But
what of that? She was going to him, and
would nurse him back to health.

And Davy Fayle, walking at her side,
was full of his own big notions, too. Martha
Dan would be Dempster, true ; but he'd have
a boat for his ]pleasure, marten sure. Davy
Fayle would sail man in her, perhaps mate,
and maybe skipper some day  who knows ?
And then  lying aft and drifting at the herrings,
and smookm', and the stars out, and
the moon making' a peep  aw, well, well,
well!

They reached the end of their journey at
last. It was in a small gorse-covered house
far over the wild moor, on the edge of the
Chasms, looking straight out on the hungry
sea. In its one bare room (which was without
fire, and was cheerless with little light)

there was a table, a settle, a chair, a stool,
and a sort of truckle-bed. Dan was there,
the same, yet, oh, how different ! He lay on
the bed unconscious, near to death of the
sickness  the last that the scourge was to
slay.

Of this story of great love and great
suffering what is left to tell ?

There are moments when life seems like
the blind swirl of a bat in the dusk  blundering,
irresponsible, not to be counted with,
the swift creature of evil chance. We see a
little child's white face at a hospital window,
a strong man toiling hopelessly against
wrong, the innocent suffering with the guilty,
good instincts thwarted and base purposes
promoted, and we ask ourselves, with a thrill
of the heart. What, after all, is God doing
in this His world ? And from such blind
labouring of chance the tired and beaten

VOL. HI. z

generations of men seem to find it reward
enough to drojo one after one to the hushed
realms of rest.

Shall we marvel very much if such a
moment came to this pure and noble woman
as she stood in the death chamber of her
beloved, with whom, after years of longing,
she was at last brought face to face ?

But again, there are other moments,
higher and better, dien there is such a thing
in this so bewildering world as the victory
of languishment, when the true man crushed
by evil chance is yet the true man undestroyed
by it and destroying it, when Job on
his dunghill is more to be envied than Pharaoh
on his throne, and death is as good as
life.

And such a higher moment came to Mona
in that death-chamber. She sat many hours
by Dan's side, waiting for the breaking of his
delirium and the brief space of consciousness

and of peace which would be the beginning
of the end. It came at long, long length,
and, ah, how soon it" came !

The night had come and gone while she
sat and watched. When the sunrise shot
red through the skin covered window it fell
on Dan and awakened him. Opening his
eyes he saw Mona, and his soul smiled over
his wasted face. He could not speak, nor
could he lift his worn hands. She knew
that the time was near, and holding back
her grief, like wild creatures held by the
leash, she dropped to her knees, and clasped
her hands together to pray. And while she
prayed the dying man repeated some of the
words after her.

Our Father*

Our  Father,' 

Which art in heaven, hallowed be Thy
name,' 

Hallowed  be  thy  name,' 

Thy kingdom come, Thy will be done
in earth, as it is in heaven ; give us this
day our daily bread ; and forgive us our
trespasses, as we forgive them that trespass
against us ; and lead us not into temptation,
but deliver us from evil,' 

But deliver us from evil,' 

Amen.'

Amen;

