CHAPTER IX.

Hugh Eitson was content that Greta
should think she had been the victim of
a delusion. He was not unwilling that
she should be tortured by suggestions of the
supernatural. If she concluded that Paul
had deceived her as to his departure from
Lowlands he would not be unlikely to foster
the delusion. The one thing of all others
which Hugh Pdtson was anxious to prevent
was that Greta should be led to draw the
VOL. ir. 21

purely matter-of-fact inference that when
she thought she saw Paul she had really
seen another man.

But that was his own conviction. He
was now sure beyond the hope of doubt
that there was a man alive who resembled
Paul Prison so closely that he had thrice
before, and now once again, been mistaken
for him by unsuspecting persons. That
other man was to be the living power in
his own life, in his brother's life, in his
mother's life, in Greta's life. Who was he ?

Left alone in the courtyard when the
trap drove away, Hugh Kit son shuddered
and looked round. He had laughed with
the easy grace of a man no longer puzzled
as he bade Greta good-night, but suspense
was gnawing at his heart. He returned
hastily to his room, sat down at the table,
picked up the paper which Parson Christian
had sent him, and read it with eager eyes.

He read it and re-read it ; he seemed to

devour it line by line, word by word. When
he would have set it down his fingers so
trembled that he let it fall, and he rose from
his chair with rigid limbs.

What he had dreaded he now knew for
certainty. He had stumbled into an empty
grave. He opened a drawer and took out
the three copies of certificates that Mr.
Bonnithorne had brought him. Selecting
the earliest of these in order of date, he set
it side by side with the copy of the extract
from Parson Christian's diary.

By the one Paul, the son of Grace Ormerod
by her husband Piobert Lowther, was born
August 14, 1845.

By the other Paul, the reputed son of
Grace Ormerod by her husband Allan
Eitson, was an infant still in arms on
November 19, 1847.

Paul Eitson could not be Paul Lowther.

Paul Eitson could not be the half-brother
of Greta Lowther.

21-2

Hugh Ritson fell back as one who had
been dealt a blow. For months he had
been idly hatching an addled villainy. The
revenge that he had promised himself for
spurned and outraged love  the revenge
that he had named retribution  was but au
impotent mockery.

For an hour he strode up and down the
room with flushed face and limbs that shook
beneath him. Natt came home from the
Vicarage, put in his horse, and turned into
the kitchen  now long deserted for the
night. He heard the restless footstep backwards
and forwards, and began to wonder if
anything further had gone wrong. At last
he ventured upstairs, opened noiselessly the
door, and found his master with a face
aflame and a look of frenzy. But the
curious young rascal with the sleepy eyes
had not time to proffer his disinterested
services before he was hunted out with an
oath. He returned to the kitchen with a

settled conviction that somewhere in that
mysterious chamber his master kept a
capacious cupboard for strong drink.

Like master, like man : Natt brewed himself
an ample pint of hot ale, pulled off his
great boots, and drew up to warm before
the remains of a huge fire.

Hugh Ritson's bedroom opened off his
sitting-room. He went to bed ; he tried
to sleep, but no sleep came near him ; he
tossed about for an hour, rose, Vvalked the
room again, then went to bed once more:

He was feeling the first pangs of honest
remorse. A worse man would have accommodated
himself more speedily to the
altered conditions when he found that he
had pursued a phantasm. To do this erring
man justice, he writhed under it. A better
man would have fled from it. If at the
outset, if when the first step in the descent
had been taken, he had seen clearly that
villainy lay that way, he would not have

gone further. But now he had gone too
far. To go on were as easy as to go back ;
and go on he must.

While he honestly believed that Greta
was half-sister to the man known to the
world as Paul Kitson and his brother, he
could have stood aside and witnessed without
flinching the ceremony that was to hold
them for ever together and apart. Then
without remorse he could have come down
and separated them, and seen that woman
die of heart's hunger who had starved to
death the great love he bore her. There
would have been a stern retribution in that ;
and the voice of nature would have whispered
him that he did well.

But when it was no longer possible to
believe that Greta and Paul were anything
to each other, the power of sophistry collapsed,
and retribution sank to revenge.

He might go on, but there could be no
self-deception. The blind earthworms of

malice might delude themselves if they
liked, but he could see, and he must face
the truth. If ever he did what he had
purposed to do, then he was a scoundrel,
and a conscious scoundrel.

Hugh Kitson leapt out of his bed. The
perspiration rolled in big beads from his forehead.
His tongue grew thick and stiff in his
mouth. The great veins in his neck swelled.

Without knowing whither he went, he
walked out of his own into his mother's
room. A candle still burned on the table.
The fire had smouldered out. A servant-maid
sat by the bedside with head aslant,
sleeping the innocent sleep. He approached
the bed. His mother was breathing softly
She had fallen into a doze ; the pale face
was very quiet ; the weary look of the
worn cheeks was smoothed out ; the absent
eyes were lightly closed. Closed too on
the rough world was the poor soul that was
vexed by it.

Hugh Eitson was touched. Somewhere
deep down in that frozen nature the angel
of love troubled the still waters.

Bending his head, he would have touched
the cold forehead with his feverish lips.
But he drew back. No, no, no ! Tenderness
was not for him. The good God gave
it to some as manna from heaven. But
here and there a man, stretched on the rack
of life, had not the drop of water that
would cool his tongue.

With stealthy steps, as of one who
had violated the chamber of chastity,
Hugh Eitson crept back to his own
room.

He took brandy from a cupboard and
drank a glass of it. Then he lay down
and composed himself afresh to sleep.
Thoughts of Greta came back to him.
Even his love for her was without tenderness.
It was a fiery passion. But it made
him weep nevertheless. Galling tears, hot,

bitter, smarting tears rolled from his eyes.
And down in that deep and hidden well of
feeling, where he, too, was a man like other
men, Hugh Ritson's strong heart bled. He
would have thought that love like his must
have subdued the whole world to its w411 :
that when a woman could reject it the very
stones must cry out. Pshaw !

Would sleep never come ? He leapt up
again, and laughed mockingly; drank
another glass of brandy, and laughed again.
His door was open, and the hollow voice
echoed through the house.

He put on a dressing-gown, took his
lamp in his hand, and walked downstairs
and into the hall. The wind had risen.
It moaned around the house ; then licked it
with hissing tongues.

Hugh Eitson walked to the ingle, where
no fire burnt. There he stood, scarcely
knowing why. The lamp in his hand cast
its reflection into the mirror on the wall.

Behind it was a flushed face, haggard, with
hollow eyes and parted lips.

The sight recalled another scene. He
stepped into the little room at the back.
It was in that room his father died. Now
it was empty : a bare mattress, a chair, a
table  no more.

Hugh Eitson lifted the lamp above his
head and looked down. He was enacting
the whole terrible tragedy afresh. He
crept noiselessly to the door and opened it
slightly, and looked cautiously out. Then,
leaving it ajar, he stood behind it with
bent head and inclining ear. His face
wore a ghastly smile.

The wind soughed and wept without.

Hugh Eitson threw the door open and
stepped back into the hall. There he stood
some minutes with eyes riveted on one
spot. Then he hurried away to his room.
As he went up the stairs he laughed again.

Back at his bedside, he poured himself

another glass of brandy, and once more lay
down to sleep. He certainly slept this
time, and his sleep was deep.

Natt's dreamy ear heard a voice in the
hall. He had drunk his hot ale, and from
the same potent cause as his master he also
had slept, but with somewhat less struggle.
Awakened in his chair by the unaccustomed
sound, he stole on tiptoe to the kitchen
door. He was in time to see from behind
the figure of a man ascending the stairs
carrying a lamp before him. Natt's eyes
were a shade hazy at the moment, but he
was cock-sure of what he saw. Of course
it was Mister Paul, sneaking off to bed
after more ' straightforward ' folk had got into
their nightcaps and their second sleep.
That was where Natt soon put himself.

When all was still in that troubled house
the moon's white face peered through a
rack of flying cloud and looked in at the
dark windows.

Next morning, Tuesday morning, Hugh
Ritson found this letter on his table :

Dearest, I do not know what is happening
to me, hut my eyes get worse and worse.
To-day and yesterday I have not opened
them. Oh, dear, I think I am losing my
sight ; and I have had such a fearful fright.
The day after I wrote to you, Mrs. Drayton's
son came home, and I saw him. Oh,
I thought it was your brother Paul, and his
name is Paul, too, but I think now it must
be my eyes  they were very bad, and perhaps
I did not see plain. He asked me
questions, and went away the next morning.
Do not be long writing, I am oh so very

lonely. When are you coming to me ?
Your loving Mercy. Write soon.'

Hugli Eitson had risen in a calmer mood.
He was prepared for a disclosure like this.
Last night he had been overwhelmed by the
discovery that Paul Eitson was not the son
of Robert Lowther. With the coming of
daylight a sterner spirit of inquiry came
upon him. The question that now agitated
him was the identity of the man who had
been mistaken for Paul.

After Mercy's letter the mystery was ina
measure dispelled. There could hardly
be the shadow of a doubt that the man who
had slept at the Packhorse  the man who
had been seen by many persons at the fire
the man whom Greta had encountered in
the lane  was one and the same with the
man whom Mercy knew for Paul Drayton,
the innkeeper at Hendon.

But so much light on one small spot only
made the surroundings gloom more dark.

Far more important than any question of
who this man was by repute was the other
question of why he was there. Wherefore
had he come ? Why had he not come
openly ? What hidden reason had he for
moving Hke a shadow where he knew no
one and was known of none ?

Hugh thought again of the circumstance
of his mother's strange seizure. Last night
he had formulated his theory respecting it.
And it was simple enough. The second
man, whoever he was, had, for whatever
reason, come to the house, and failing to
attract attention in the hall, had wandered
aimlessly upstairs to the first room in which
he heard a noise. That room happened to
be his mother's, and when the stranger
with the fatal resemblance to her absent
son presented himself before her in that
strange way, at that strange hour, in that
strange place, the fear had leapt to her
heart that it was his wraith warning her

of his death, and she had fainted and
fallen.

The theory had its serious loopholes for
incredulity, hut Hugh Eitson minded them
not at all. x\n other and a graver issue
tortured him.

But this morning, hy the light of Mercy's
letter, his view was clearer. If the man
who resembled Paul had come secretly to
Lowlands he must have had his reasons
for not declaring himself. If he had
wandered when none were near into Mrs.
Prison's room, it must have been because
he had a secret purpose there. And his
mother's seizure might not have been due to
purely superstitious fears, or her silence to
shattered nerves.

There was one thing to do, and that was
to get at the heart of this mystery. Whoever
he was, this second man was to be the
living influence in all their lives.

Thus far, one thing only was plain  that

Paul Eitson was not the half-brother of
Greta.

Hugh determined to travel south forthwith.
If the other man was still beating
about Lowlands, so much the better. Hugh
would be able to see the old woman, his
mother, and talk with her undisturbed by
the suspicions of a cunning man.

Hugh spent most of that day in his
office at the spithead, settling up such business
as could not await his return. On
Wednesday morning early he despatched
'Natt on foot with a letter to Mr. Bonnie
explaining succinctly, but with
shrewd reservations, the recent turn of
events. Then he stepped for a moment
into his mother's room.

Mrs. Eitson had risen, and was sitting by
the fire writing. Hugh observed as she
rose that there were tears in her eyes, and
that the paper beneath her pen was stained
with great drops that had fallen as she

wrote. A woman was busy on her knees
on the floor sorting linen into a trunk.
This garrulous body, old Dinah Wilson,
was talking as Hugh entered.

It caps all  you never heard sec feckless
work,' she was saying. ' And Reuben
three me down too. There he was in
the peat loft when I went for the seats,
and he had it all as fine as clerk after pas-son.
 It was Master Paul at the fire,
certain sure," he says over and over again.
** What, man, get away wi' thy botheration
Mister Paul was off to London," I says.
** Go and see if tha can leet on a straight
waistcoat any spot," I says. But he three
and he three. *rit was Master Paul or
his own birth-brother," he says
Hush, Dinah,' said Mrs. Ritson.
Hugh told his mother in a quiet voice
that business was taking him away. Then
he turned about and said * Good-day '
without emotion.

VOL. ir. 22

She held out her hand to him and looked
hin tenderly in the eyes.

Is this our parting ?' she said, and then
leaned forward and touched his cheek with
her lips. He seemed surprised and turned
pale ; but he went out calmly and without
speaking. In half an hour he was walking
rapidly over the snow-crusted road to the
station.

When Paul had parted from Natt at the
station on Saturday night, he had told the
stableman to meet him with the trap on the
same spot and at the same hour on Wednesday.
Since receiving these instructions,
however, Natt had, as we have seen, arrived
at conclusions of his own respecting
certain events. The futility of doing
as he had been bidden began to present
itself to his mind with peculiar force.
What was the good of going to the station
for a man who was not coming by the
train ? What was the use of pretending to
bring home a person who had never been
away ? These and other equivocal 



hems defied solution when Matt essayed
them.

He revolved the situation fully on his
way home from Lawyer Bonnithorne, and
decided that to go to the station that night
at eight o'clock would be only a fine way of
making a fool of a body. But When he
reached the stable, and sat down to
smoke, and saw the hour approaching,
his instinct besran to act automatically,
and in sheer defiance of the thing he
called his reason. In short, Natt pulled
off his coat and proceeded to harness the
mare.

Then it was that, relieved of the weight
of abstract questions, he made two grave
discoveries. The first was that the horse
bore marks of having been driven in his
absence ; the next, that the harness was not
hanging precisely on those hooks where he
had last placed it. And when he drew
out the trap he saw that the tires of the

wheels were still crusted with unmelted
snow.

These concrete issues finally banished
the discussion of general principles. Matt
had not entirely accounted for the strange
circumstances when he jumped into his
seat and drove away. But the old idea of
Paul's dubious conduct was still fermenting
; the froth and bubbles were still
rising.

Natt had not gone above half way to the
station when he almost leapt out of the
trap at the sudden advent of an original
thought : The trap had been driven out
before ! He had not covered a mile more
before that thought had annexed another :
And along this road too ! After this the
sequence of ideas was swift. In less than
half a league, Natt had realized that Paul
Ritson himself had driven the mare to the
station in order that he might be there to
come home at eight o'clock, and thus complete

the deception which he had practised
on gullible and slow-witted persons. Butin
his satisfaction at this explanation Natt
overlooked the trilling difficulty of how the
trap had been got home again.

Driving up into the station, he was
greeted by a flyman waiting for hire :

Bad on the leal mare, ma man  two sec
journeys in ya half day. I reckon tha
knows it's been here afore. 

Natt's face broadened to a superior smile,
which seemed to desire his gratuitous informant
to tell him something he didn't
know. This unspoken request was about
to be gratified :

Dust ken who came down last ?

Natt waved his hand in silent censure
of so much unnecessary zeal, and passed
on.

Promptly as the clock struck eight
o'clock, the London train drew up at the
station, and a minute afterwards Paul

Eitson came out. ' Here he be, of course,'
thought Natt.

Paul was in great spirits. His face
wore the brightest smile and his voice had
the cheeriest ring. His clothes, seen by
the lamp, looked a little draggled and
dirty.

He swung himself into the trap, took the
driver's seat and the reins, and rattled
along with cheerful talk.

It was months since Natt had witnessed
such an access of geniality on Paul's
part.

Too good to be true,' thought Matt, who,
in his own wise way, was silently making
a study in histrionic.

Anything fresh while I've been away ?'
asked Paul.

Humph !' said N'att.

Nothing new ? Nobody's cow calved ?
The mare not lost her hindmost shoe 
nothing?' asked Paul, and laughed.

I know no more nor you,' said N'att,
in a grumpy tone.

Paul looked at him and laughed again.
Not to-night were good spirits like his to
be quenched by a servant's ill-humour.

They drove some distance without speaking,
the silence being broken only by
Paul's coaxing appeals to the old mare to
quicken the pace that was carrying him
to somebody who was waiting at the
Vicarage.

Natt recovered from, his natural dudgeon
at an attempt to play upon him, and began
to feel the humour of the situation. It
was good sport, after all  this little trick
of Master Paul's. And the best of it was
that nobody saw through it but Natt himself.
Natt began to titter and look up significantly
out of his sleepy eyes into Paul's
face. Paul glanced back with a look of
bewilderment ; but of course that was only
a part of the game.

Keep it up,' thought Matt ; ' how weare
doing 'em.'

The landscape lying south was a valley,
with a double gable of mountains at the top ;
the mill stood on a knoll two miles farther
up, and on any night but the darkest its
black outlines could be dimly seen against
the sky that crept down between these fells.
There was no moon visible, but the moonlight
was behind the clouds.

What has happened to the mill ?' said
Paul, catching sight of the dismantled mass
in the distance.

Nowt since Saturday meet, as Tve heard
on,' said iS'att.

And what happened then ?'

Oh nowt, nowt  I's warrant not,' said
Natt with a gargling titter.

Paul looked perplexed. Natt had been
drinking, nothing surer.

Why, lad, the wheel is gone  look !'

I'll not say but it is. We know all about
that, ive do.'

Paul glanced down again. Liquor got
into the brains of some folk, but it had gone
into Natt's face. With what an idiotic grin
he was looking; into one's eyes !

But Paul's heart was full of happiness.
His bosom's lord sat lightly on its throne.
Natt's face was excruciatingly ridiculous,
and Paul laughed at the sight of it. Then
Natt laughed, and they both laughed together,
each at, neither leith, the other. ' /
don't know nothing, 1 don't. Oh no!'
chuckled Natt inwardly. Once he made
the remark aloud.

When they came to the Vicarage Paul
drew up, threw the reins to N"att, and got
down.

Don't wait for me,' he said : ' drive
home.'

Natt drove as far Homewards as the Flying
Horse, and then turned in there for a crack,

leaving the trap in the road. Before he
left the inn, a discovery yet more astounding,
if somewhat less amusing, was made
by his swift and subtle intellect.

An itinerant mendicant preacher had walked
through the valley that day, and when night
fell in he had gravitated to the parson's door.

Seeing the sun low,' he said, ' and
knowing it a long way to Keswick, and I
not being able to abide the night air, but
sure to catch a cold, I came straight to your
house.'

Like other guests of high degree, the
hopeless being made a virtue of accepting
hospitality.

Come in. brother, and welcome,' said
Parson Christian, and that night the wayfarer
lodged at the Vicarage. He was a poor
stra":ole- headed creature, with a broken brain

DO '

as well as a broken purse, but lie had the
warm seat at the ingle.

Greta heard Paul's step on the path, and
ran to meet him.

Paul, Paul, thank God you are here at last !'

Her manner was warm and impulsive to
seriousness, but Paul was in no humour to
make nice distinctions.

Parson Christian rose from his seat before
the fire and shook hands, with feeling and
gravity.

Eight glad to see you, good lad,' he
said. ' This is Brother Jolly,' he added,
a fellow-soldier of the cross, who has suffered
sore for neglecting Solomon's injunction
against suretyship.'

Paul took the flaccid hand of the fellow
soldier, and then drew Greta aside into the
recess of the square window.

4t's all settled,' he said eagerly ; 'I saw
my father's old friend, and agreed to go out to
his sheep runs as steward, with the prospect

of farming for myself in two years' time. I
have been busy, I can tell you. Only listen.
On Monday I saw the old gentleman  he's
living in London now, and he won't go
back to Victoria, he tells me  wants to lay
his bones where they Avere got, he says 
funny old dog rather  says he remembers
my whither when he wasn't as solemn as a
parish clerk on Ash Wednesday. Well, on
Monday I saw the old fellow, and settled
terms and things  liberal old chap, too, if
he lias got a hawk beak  regular Shy lock,
you know. Well  where was I ?  Oh, of
course  then on Tuesday T took out our
berths  yours, mother's, and mine  the
ship is called the Ballarat  queer name  a
fine sea-boat, though  she leaves the London
docks next Wednesday '

Next Wednesday ?' said Greta absently,
and with little interest in her tone.

Yes, a week to-day  sails at three prompt
pilot comes on at a quarter to  everybody

aboard at twelve. But it didn't take quite
four-ands twenty hours to book the berths,
and the rest of the day I spent at a lawyer's
office. Can't stomach that breed somehow ;
they seem to get all the clover  maybe it's
because they're a drift of sheep with tin cans
about their necks, and can never take a
nibble without all the world knowing. Ha,
ha ! I Wish I'd thought of that when I saw
old Shylock.'

Paul was rattling on with a glib tongue,
and eyes that danced to the blithe step of
an emancipated heart.

In the slumberous firelight the parson
and the itinerant preacher talked together
of the dust and noise in the great world
outside these sleepy mountains.

Greta drew back into the half light of
the window recess, too greedy of Paul's
good spirits to check them.

Yes, I went to the lawyer's office,' he
continued, 'and drew out a power of attorney

in Hugh's name, and now he can do what
he likes with the Ghyll, just as if it were
his own. Much luck to him, say I, and
some bowels too, please God! But that's
not all  not half. This morning  ah, now,
you wise little woman, who always pretend
to know so much more than other folks,
tell me what 1 did in London before leavings
this mornings?'

Greta had hardly listened. Her eyes had
dropped to his breast, her arms had crept
about his neck, and her tears were falling
fast. But he was not yet conscious of the
deluge.

 What do you think ? Why, I went to
Doctors' Commons and bought the license 
dirt cheap, too, at the price  and now it can
be done any day  any day  think of that.
So ho, so ho, covering your face, eh?  up,
now, up with it  gently. Do you know,
they asked me your complexion, the colour
of your eyes, or something  that dear old

Shylock or somebody  and I couldn't tell
for the life of me  there, a peep, just one
wee peep. Why, what's this  what the

d What villain  what in the name of

mischief is the ma Why, Greta,

you're cry yes, you are  you are

crying.'

Paul had forced up Greta's face with
gentle violence, and now he held her at
arms' length, surveying her with bewildered
looks.

Parson Christian twisted about in his
chair. He had not been so much immersed
in wars and rumours of wars as to be quite
ignorant of what was going on around him.
Greta is but in badly case,' he said, pretending
to laugh. ' She has fettled things
in the house over and over again, and she
has gift and baffled over everything. She's
been longing, surely.' The deep voice had
a touch of tremor in it this time, and the
twinkling old eyes looked hazy.

VOL. TI. 23

Ah, of course, of course !' shouted Paul,
in stentorian tones, and he laughed about as
heartily as the parson.

Greta's tears were gone in an instant.

You must go home at once, Paul,' she
said ; ' your mother must not wait a moment
longer.'

Naturally, he laughed and bantered and
talked of his dismissal. She stopped him
with a grave face and a solemn word. At
last his jubilant spirit was conquered ; he
realized that something was amiss. Then
she told him what happened at the Ghyll
on Monday night. He turned white, and
at first stood tongue-tied. Next he tried
to laugh it off, but the laughter fell
short.

Must have been my brother,' he said ;
 it's true, we're not much alike, but then it
was night, dark night, and you had no
light but the dim lamp  and at least there's
a family resemblance.'

Your brother Huoh was sittings in his
room.'

Paul's heart sickened with an indescribable
sensation.

You found the door of my mother s
room standing open?'

Wide open.'

And Hugh was in his own room V said
Paul, his eyes flashing and his teeth set.
I saw him there a moment later.'
My features, my complexion, my height,
and my build, you say ?'

The same in everything.'

Paul lifted his slice, and in that luminous
twilight it wore an expression of peculiar
horror.

In fact, myself  in a glass V

Greta shuddered and answered, ' Just
that, Paul ; neither more nor less.'

Very strange,' he muttered. He was
shaken to the depths of his soul. Greta crept
closer to his breast, trembling with dread.

232

And when my mother recovered she
said nothing ?'

Nothing.'

You did not question her?'

How could I? But I was hungering
for a word.'

Paul patted her head with his tenderest
touch.

Have you seen her since ?'

Not since. I have been ill  I mean,
rather unwell.'

Parson Christian twisted again in his
chair. ' What do you think, my lad ?
Greta in a dream last night rose out of
bed, went to the stairhead, and there fell
to the ground.'

My poor darling,' said Paul fervently,
the absent look flying from his eyes.

'But, blessed be God, she had no harm,'
Bait the parson, and turned once more to
his guest.

Paul, you must hurry away now. Goodbye

for the present, dearest. Kiss me,
good-bye.'

But Paul stood there still. ' Greta, do
you ever feel that what is happening now
has happened before  somehow  somewhere
 and where ?  when ?  the questions
keep ringing in your brain and racking
your heart  but there is no answer  you
are shouting into a voiceless cavern.'

o

His face was as pale as ashes, his eyes
were fixed, and his gaze was far away.
Greta grew afraid of the horror she had
awakened.

Don't think too seriously about it,' she
said. ' Besides, I may have been mistaken.
In fact, Hugh said '

 Well, what did he say V

He made me ashamed. He said I had
imagined I saw you, and screamed, and so
frightened your mother.'

Pshaw ! there are men in the world who
would see the Lord of Hosts come from the

heavens in glory and say it vas only a
waterspout.'

But as you said yourself, it was in the
night, and it was very dark. I had nothing
but the feeble oil-lamp to see by. Don't
look like that, Paul.'

The girl lifted a nervous hand and
covered his eyes, and laughed a little
hollow laugh.

Paul shook himself free of his stupor.

Good-night, Greta,' he said tenderly, and
walked to the door. Then the vacant look
returned.

The answer is somewhere  somewhere,'
he said faintly. He shook himself again,
and shouted in his lusty tones, ' Good-night
all  good-night, good-night.'

The next instant he was gone.

Out in the road, he began to run ; but it
was not from exertion alone that his breath
came and went in gusts. Before he reached
the village his nameless sentiment of dread

of the unknown had given way to anxiety
for his mother. What was this strange
illness that had come upon her in his
absence % Her angel-face had been his
beacon in darkness. She had lifted his
soul from the dust. Tortured by the
world and the world's law, yet heaven's
peace had settled on her. Let the world
say what it would, into her heart the world

had not entered.

He hurried on. AYhat a crazy fool he

had been to let Matt go off with the trap.

Why had not that coxcomb told him what

had occurred? He would break every bone

in the blockhead's skin.

How long the road was, to be sure ! A

hundred fears suggested themselves on the

way. Would his mother be worse ? Would

she be still conscious ? Why, in God's

name, had he ever gone away?

He came by the Flying Horse, and there,

tied to the blue post, stood the horse and

trap, matt was inside. There he was, the
villain, in front of the lire, laughing boisterously,
a glass of hot liquor in his hand.

Paul jumped into the trap and drove
away.

It was hardly in human nature that Natt
should resist the temptation to show his
cronies by ocular demonstration what a
knowing young dog he could be if he
liked. Natt never tried to resist it.

Is it all die-spensy V he asked, with a
Avink, when, with masterly circumlocution,
he had broached his topic.

It's a fate, I tell tha,' said Tom o' Dint,
taking a churchwarden from between his
lips ; and another thin voice, from a back
bench  it was little Jacob Berry's  corroborated
that view of the mystery.

A fine scorn sat on the features of Natt ashe
exploded beneath their feet this mine of
supernaturalism.

Shaf on your bogies and wonderment,
say I,' he cried ; ' there are folks as won't
believe their own senses. If you'll no'but
show me how yon horse of mine can be in
two places at once, I'll maybe believe as
Master Paul can be here and in London at
the same time. Nowt short o' that'll do
for me, I can tell you.'

And at this conclusive reasoning Natt
laughed, and crowed, and stirred his steaming
liquor. It was at that moment that
Paul whipped up into the trap and drove
away.

Show me as my horse as I've tied to the
post out there is in his stable all the time,
and I's not be for saying as maybe I won't
give in.'

Gubblum Oglethorpe came straggling
into the room at that instant, and caught
the words of Matt's clinching argument.

What sec a post ?' he asked.

Why, the post afore the house, for sure.'

Well, I woiildna be for saying but I's
gotten a bit shortsighted, but if their's a
horse tied to a post afore this house Ts not
be for saying as I won't be dome.'

Natt ran to the door, followed by a dozen
pairs of quizzing eyes. The horse was
gone. Natt sat down on the post and
looked round with a look of blank amazement.


Well, I will be dome !' he said.

At last the bogies had him in their grip.

By the time that Paul had got to the Ghyll
his anxiety had reached the point of anguish.
Perhaps it had been no more than a fancy,
but he thought as he approached the house
that a mist hung about it. When he Walked
into the hall his footsteps sounded hollow to
his ear, and the whole place seemed empty
as a vault. The spirit-deadening influence
of the surroundings was upon him, when
old Dinah Wilson came from the kitchen
and looked at him with surprise. Clearly
he had not been expected. He wanted to
ask twenty questions, but his tongue clave
to his mouth. The strong man trembled
and his courage oozed away.

Why did not the woman speak ? How
scared she looked, too ! He was brushing
past her, and up the stairs, when she told
him, in faltering tones, that her mistress
was gone.

The word coursed through his veins like
poison. ' Gone ! how gone ?' he said. Could
it be possible that his mother was dead ?

Gone away,' said Dinah.

Away ! Where ?'

Gone by train, sir, this afternoon.'

Gone by train,' Paul repeated mechanically,
with absent manner.

There's a letter left, sir; it's on the table
in her room.'

Recovering his self-possession, Paul darted
upstairs at three steps a stride. His
mother's room was empty; no fire in the
grate ; the pictures down from the walls ;
the table coverless ; the few books gone
from the shelf ; all chill, voiceless, and blind.

What did it mean ? Paul stood an

instant on the threshold, seeing all in one
swift glance, yet seeing nothing. Then,
with the first return of present consciousness,
his eye fell on the letter that lay on
the table. He took it up with trembling
fingers. It was addressed in his mother's
hand to him. He broke the seal. This is
what he read :

I go to-day to the shelter of the Catholic
Church. I had long thought to return to
this refuge, though I had hoped to wait
until the day your happiness with Greta was
complete. That, in heaven's purposes, was
not to be, and I must leave you without a
last farewell. Good-bye, dear son, and God
bless and guide you. If you love me, do
not grieve for me. It is from love of you
I leave you. Think of me as one who is at
peace, and I shall bless you even in heaven.
If ever the world should mock you with
your mother's name, remember that she is
yOur mother still, and that she loved you to

the last. Good-bye, clear Paul ; you may
never know the day Yhen this erring and
sorrowing' heart will be allowed in His
infinite pity to join the choirs above. Then,
dearest, from the hour when you read this
letter think of me as dead, for I shall be
dead to the world.'

Paul held the letter before him and looked
at it long with vacant eyes. Feeling itself
seemed gone. Xot a tear came from him,
not a siofh, not one moan of an overwrought
heart escaped him. All was blind, pulseless
torpor. He stood there crushed and
overwhelmed ; a shaken, shattered man. A
thousand horrors congealed within him to
one deep, dead stupor.

He turned away in silence and walked
out of the house. The empty chambers
seemed as he went to echo to his heavy footsteps.
He took the road back towards the
Vicarage, turning neither to the right nor
the left, looking straight before him and

never once shifting his gaze. The road
mioht be honos but now it fretted him no
more. The nisfht mio-ht be cold, but colder
far was the heart within him. The moon
might fly behind the cloud aloes and her
light burst forth afresh ; but for him all was
blank niofht.

In the Vicarage the slumberous fire
was smouldering down. The straggle-brained
guest had been lit to his bed.
and the good parson himself was carrying
to his own tranquil closet a head full of the
great world's dust and noise. Greta was still
sitting before the dying fire, her heart heavy
with an indefinable sensation of dread.

When Paul opened the door, his face was
very pale, and his eyes had a strange, wild
look ; but he was calm, and spoke quietly.
He told what had occurred, and read aloud
his mother's letter. The voice was strong
in which he read it, and never a tremor told
of the agony his soul was suffering. Then

he sat some while without speaking, and
time itself had no reckoning.

Greta scarcely spoke, and the old parson
said little. What power had words to express
a sorrow like this ? Death had its
solace ; but there was no comfort for death -
in-life.

At last Paul told Parson Christian that
he wished the marriage to take place at
once  tomorrow, or, at latest, the day after
that. He told of their intention to leave
England, of his father's friend, and, in
answer to questions, of the power of attorney
drawn up in the name of his brother.

The old man was deeply moved, but his
was the most unselfish of souls. He understood
very little of all that was meant by
what had been done and was still to do.
But he said, ' God bless you and go with
you,' though his own wounded heart was
bleeding. Greta knelt at his chair, and
kissed the tawny old face, lined and

wrinkled, and damp) now with a furtive
tear. It was agreed that the marriage
should take place on Friday. This was
Wednesday night.

Paul rose and stepped to the door, and
Greta followed him to the porch.

It is good of you to leave all to your
brother,' she said.

We'll not speak of it,' he answered.

Is there not something between you ?'
she asked.

Another time, darling.'

Greta recalled Hugh Ritson's strange
threat. Should she mention it to Paul ?
She had almost done so, when she lifted
her eyes to his face. The weary, worn expression
checked her. Xot now ; it would
be a cruelty.

*I knew the answer to that omen was
somewhere,' he said, ' and it has come.'

He stepped over the threshold, and stood
one pace outside. The snow still lay under-vol.

II. 24

foot, crusted with frost. The wind blew
strongly, and soughed in the stiff and leafless
boughs. Overhead the flying moon at
that moment broke through a rack of cloud.
At the same instant the red glow of the firelight
found its way through the open door,
and was reflected on Paul's pallid face.

Greta gasped ; a thrill passed through
her. There, before her, eye to eye with
her once again, was the face she saw at the
Ghyll.

Paul went back home, carrying with him a
crushed and broken spirit. He threw
himself into a chair in a torpor of dejection.
When the servants spoke to him he lifted
to their faces two clouded eyes, heavy with
suffering, and answered their questions in
few words. The maid laid the supper, and
told him it was ready. When she returned
to clear the cloth, the supper was untouched.
Paul stepped up to his mother's room, and
sat down before the cold grate. The candle
he carried with him burned out.

In the kitchen the servants of the farm
and house gossiped long and bickered
vigorously.  Whatever ails Master Paul T

242





 Crossed in love maybe.' * Shaf on sec
woman's wit ' Wherever has mistress
gone ?' ' To buy a new gown mayhap.'
Siesta now how a lass's first thowt runs on
finery.' ' Didst hear nowt when you
drove mistress to the rail, Reuben ?' ' Nay,
nowt' ' Dust say it war thee as drove to
the station this afternoon ?' ' I wouldn't
be for saying as it wasn't.' ' Wilt be
meeting Master Hugh in the forenoon,
jSTatt ?' ' Nay, ax Natt na questions. He's
fair tongue-tied to-meet, K'att is. He's
clattering all of it to himself  swearing a bit,
and sec as that.'

When the servants had gone to bed and
the house was quiet, Paul still sat in his
mother's abandoned room. No one but he
knew what he suffered that night. He
tried to comprehend the disaster that had
befallen him. Why had his mother shut
herself in a convent ? How should her
love for him require that she should leave

him ? To demand answers to these questions
was like knocking at the door of a
tomb : the voice was silent that could
reply : there came no answer save the dull,
heavy, hollow echo of his own uncertain
knock. All was blind, dumb, insensate
torpor, o outlook ; no word ; no stimulating
pang.

His stupor was broken by a vision that
for long hours of that dead night burned in
his brain like molten lead. The face which
Greta had seen, and which his mother must
also have seen, seemed to rise up before him
as he sat in that deserted chamber. He
saw his own face as he might have seen it
in a glass. Not even the blackness of night
could conceal it. Clear as a face seen in
the day it shone and burned in that dark
room. He closed his eyes to shut it out,
but it was still before him. It was within
him. It was imprinted in features of
fire on his brain. He trembled with fear,

never until that hour knowing what fear
was. It acted upon him like his own
ghost.

He knew it was but a phantasy, but no
phantasy was ever more horrible. He got
up to banish it, and it stood before him face
to face. He sank down again, and it sat
beside him eye to eye.

Then it changed. For a moment it faded
away into a palpitating mist, and the tension
of his gaze relaxed. How blessed was that
moment's respite! His thought returned
to his mother. ' If ever the world should
mock you with your mother's name,
remember that she is your mother still, and
that she loved you to the last.' Dear,
sacred soul, little fear that he should forget
it ! Little fear that the wise world should
tarnish the fair shrine of that holy love!
Tears of tenderness rose to his eyes, and in
the midst of them he thought his mother
sat before him. Her head was bent ; an

all-eating shame was crimsoning her pale
cheek. Then he knew that other eyes were
upon her, looking into her heart, prying
deep down into her dead past, keeping
open the heavy eyelids that could never
sleep. He looked up ; his own shadow
was silently gazing down upon both of
them.

Paul leapt to his feet and ran out of the
room. Surely the spirit of his mother still
inhabited the deserted chamber. Surely
this was the shadow that had driven her
away. Big drops of sweat rolled in beads
from his forehead. He went out of the
house. Heavy black clouds were adrift ina
stormy sky ; behind them, the bright
moon was scudding.

He walked among the naked trees of the
gaunt wood at the foot of Coledale, and
listened to the short breathing of the wind
among the frost covered boughs. At every
second step he gave a quick glance

backward. But at last he saw the thing
he looked for : it was walking with him
side by side, pace for pace.

He passed slowly out of the wood, not
daring now to run. The white fell rose
sheer uj) to the grim grey crags, that hung
in shaggy, snowy masses over the black
seams of the ravines : and the moon's lioht
rested on them for an instant. Without
thought or aim he began to climb. The
ascent was perilous at any hour to any
foot save that of the mountaineer. The
exertion and the watchfulness banished the
vision, and his liberated mind turned to
Greta. What was life itself now without
Greta's love? Nothing but a succession of
days. She Alas the saviour of his outcast
state ; she was his life's spring, whence the
waters of content miiht flow. And a flood
of emotion came over him, and in his heart
he blessed her. It was then that on that
gaunt headland he seemed to see her at his

side. But between them, and dividing them,
stalked the spectre of himself.

All to the east was dense gloom, save
where the pulsating red of the smelting
house burned in the distance. With no rest
for his foot, Paul walked in the direction of
the light. And the shadow of his face
walked with him. As the wind went by
him it whistled in his ear, and it sounded
in that solitude like the low cry of the thing
at his side.

Old Laird Fisher was at his work of
wheeling the refuse of the ore from the mouth
of the furnace, and shooting it down the
bank. The glow of the hot stone in the
iron barrow that he trundled was reflected
in sharp white lights on his wrinkled face.
*Ista their. Mister Paul?' he said, catching
his breath and coughing amid the smoke,
and shouting' between the o;usts of wind.
The slow beat of the engine and the clank of
the chain of the caa'e in the shaft deadened

the wind's shrill whistle. The smoke from
the bank shot up and swirled away like a
long flight of swallows.

Standing there the vision troubled him no
longer. It had been merely a waking phantasy,
bred of what Greta said she saw in the
snow, and heightened by the shock to his
nerves caused by his mother's departure.
The sight of Matthew helped to beat it off.
His submissive face Alas the sign of his
broken spirit. A tempest had torn up his
only hold on the earth. He was but a poor
naked trunk flung on the ground, without
power of growth or grip of the soil. He
was old and he had no hope. Yet he lived
on and worked submissively. Paul's own
case was different. Destiny had dashed him
in unknown seas against unseen rocks. But
he was young, he had the power of life, and
the stimulus of love. Yet here he was the
prey to an idle fancy, tortured by an agony
of fear.

Good-night to you, Matthew I' he shouted
cheerily above the wind, and went away into
the night. He would go home and sleep
the fever out of his blood ; he took the
road ; and as he went the monotonous
engine-throb died off behind him. He passed
through the village ; the street was empty,
and it echoed loud to the sound of his footfall.
Large shadows fell about him when for an
instant the moon shot clear of a cloud. A
light burned in a cottage window. Poor Mrs.
Truesdale's sick life was within that sleepless
chamber lingering out its last days.
The wind fell to silence at one moment,
and then a child's little cry came out to
him in the night.

He walked on, and plunged again into
the darkness of the road beyond. The
dogs were howling at the distant Gliyll. A
fibrous sable cloud floated in the sky, and
at its back the moon sailed. It was like
black hair silvered with grey. But on one

spot on the road before him the moon shone
clear and white. The place fascinated him
like a star. He quickened his pace until he
came into the moon's open light. Then it
turned to an ashy tint : it lay over the
churchyard. His father's grave was only a
few paces from the road.

What unseen povver had drawn him there ?
Was it meant that he should understand
that all the stings that fate had in store for
him were to be in some unsearchable way
the refuse of his father's deed ? His mind
went back to the night of his father's death.
He thought of his mother's confession  a
confession more terrible to make, more fearful
to listen to, than a mother ever made
before or a son ever heard. And now
again was the disaster of this very night
a link in the chain of destiny ?

Let no man compare the withering effects
of a father's curse with the blasting influence
of a father's sin. If the wrath of Providence

should fail in its stern and awful
retribution, the world in its mercy would
not forget that the sins of the fathers must
be visited upon the children.

Paul opened the loch-gate and entered
the churchyard. The night dew on his
cheeks was not colder than his tears as he
knelt by his father's grave. Turbid waves
of agony rolled over him. At one instant
he cursed the world and the world's cruel
law Then there stole into his heart a
poison that corroded its dearest memory :
he thought of his father with bitterness.


At that moment a strange awe crept over
him. He knew, though still only by the
eyes of his mind, that the vision had returned.
He knew it was standing against
the night sky as a ghastly headstone to the
grave. But when he raised his eyes, wreathe
saw was more terrible. The face was
before him, but it was a dead face now He

saw his own corpse stretched out on his
father's grave.

His head fell on to the cold sods. He lay
like the dead on the grave of the dead.
Then he knew that it was ordered above
that the cloud of his father's sin should
darken his days ; that through all the range
and change of life he was to be the lonely
slave of a sin not his own. His fate was
sin inherited, and the wages of sin is death.

Was it strange that at that moment, when
all the earth seemed gloomed by the shadow
of a curse that lay blackest over him 
when reverence for a father's memory and
love learned at a mother's knee were
deadened by a sense of irremediable wrong
was it strange that there and then peace
fell on him like a dove from heaven ?

Orphaned in one hour  now, and not till
now  foredoomed to writhe like a worm
amid the dust of the world  the man in
him arose and shook off its fear.

It was because lie came to know  rude
man as he was, unlettered, but strong of
soul  that there is a power superior to fate,
that the stormiest sea has its master, that
the waif that is cast by the roughest wave
on the loneliest shore is yet seen and
known.

And the voice of an angel seemed to
whisper in his heart the story of Hagar and
her son ; how the boy was the firstborn of
his father ; how the second-born became the
heir ; how the woman and son were turned
away ; how they were nigh to death in the
desert ; and how at last the cry came from
heaven, ' God hath heard the voice of the
lad where he is.'

The horror of the vision had gone. It
would come back no more. Paul walked
home, went up to his own room, and slept
peacefully.

When he awoke the pink and yellow rose
of a wintry sunrise bloomed over the head

of the Eel Crags. The tinkle of the anvil
came from across the vale. Sheep were
bleating high up on the frost-nipped side of
the fell. The echo of the axe could be
heard from the wood, and the muffled lowing
of the kine from the shipping in the yard
behind. The harsh scrape of Natt's clogs
was on the gravel. A robin with full throat
perched on the window-ledge and warbled
cheerily.

Last night was gone from him for all
eternity. Before him was the day, the
world, and life.

That clay  the day before the wedding  all
the gossiping tongues in Lowlands were
cackling from morning till night. Natt had
been sent round the dale with invitations
addressed to statesmen, their wives, sons,
and daughters. Parson Christian himself
made the round of the homes of the poor.

" The poor ye have always with you,"
but not everywhere, and not often in Can a
of Galilee,' he said to Greta on setting out.

And the people of the highways and
hedges were nothing loth to come in to the
feast. ' Good luck to the weddings!' they
said, ' and may they never lick a lean
polish-stick.'

VOL. II. 25

There was not much work done in the
valley that day. The richest heiress on the
country-side was about to be married to the
richest statesman in the dale. On the eve
of such an event it was labour enough to
drop in at the Flying Horse and discuss
"mathematics. The general problem was
one in simple addition, namely, how much
Paul Ritson would be worth when he
married Greta Lowther. And more than
once that day twice two made a prodigious
five.

The frost continued, and the roads were
crisp. Heavy rains had preceded the frost,
and the river that ran down the middle of
the valley had overflowed the meadows to
the width of a wide carriage-way. This was
now a road of ice five miles long, smooth as
glass, and all but as straight as an arrow.

Abraham Strong, the carpenter, had been
ordered to take the wheels off a disused
landau and fix instead two keels of wood

beneath the axles. This improvised sledge,
after it had been shod in steel by the blacksmith,
was to play a part in tomorrow's
ceremony.

Early in the day Brother Peter was
despatched to the town to fetch Mr. Bonnie
The four miles journey afoot
seemed to him a bigger candle than the
entire game was worth.

Don't know as I see wdiat the lass wants
mair nor she's got,' he told himself grumpily,
as he plodded along the road. ' AVhat call
has she for a man? Hasn't she two of 'em
as she is ? I made her comfortable enough
myself. But lasses are verra ficklesome.'

Mr. Bonnithorne gathered enough from
Brother Peter s * Don't know as there's nota
wedding in t' wind to infer what was
afoot. Hugh Ritson was away from home,
and his brother Paul was avaiUno- himself
of his absence to have the marriage ceremony
performed.

252

This was the inference with which Mr.
Bonnithorne had walked from the town ;
but before reaching the vicarage he encountered
Paul himself, who was even then
on the way to his office. Few words passed
between them. Indeed, the young dalesman
was civil and no more. He gave scant
courtesy, but then he also gave something
that was more substantial, and the severity of
the lawyer's cynicism relaxed. Paul handed
Mr. Bonnithorne, without comment, the
deed drawn up in London. Mr. Bonnie
glanced at it, pocketed it, and
smiled. His sense of Paul's importance asa
dangerous man sank to nothing at that
moment. They parted without more words.

Parson Christian got home towards
evening, dead beaten with fatigue. He
found the lawyer waiting for him. The
marriage had been big in his eyes all day,
and other affairs very little.

 So you shall give her away, Mr. Bonnie

he said, without superfluous preface
of any kind.

I  I ?' said Mr. Bonnithorne, with elevated
brows.

Who has more right ?' said the parson.

lyell, you know, you  you '

le ! say, I must marry them. It is
sou for the other duty.'

 You see, Mr. Christian, if you think of
it, I am  I am '

You are her father's old friend. There,
let us look on it as settled.'

The lawyer looked on it as awkward.
Well, to say the truth, Mr. Christian, I'd
Td rather not.'

The old parson lifted two astonished eyes,
and gazed at Mr. Bonnithorne over the rims
of his spectacles. The lawyer's uneasiness
increased. * Odd, isn't it ?' he said with
his conventional smile.

Very,' said the parson.

Then Parson Christian remembered that

only a little while ago Mr. Bonnithorne had
offered reasons why Paul should not marry
Greta. They were rather too secular, those
same reasons, but no doubt they had appealed
honestly to his mind as a friend of
Greta's family.

Paul and Greta are going away said
the parson.

 So I judged.'

They go to Victoria, to farm there continued
the parson.

On Greta's money added the lawyer.

Parson Christian looked again over the
rims of his spectacles. Then for once his
frank and mellow face annexed a reflection
of the curl on the lawyer's lip. ' Do you
know he said, ' it never once came into my
simple old pate to ask which would find the
dross and which the honest labour ?'

Mr. Bonnithorne winced. The simple old
pate could, on occasion, be more than a
match for his own wise head.

 Seeing that I shall marry her, I think
it will be expected that you should give her
to her husband ; but if you have an objection
'

An objection ?' Mr. Bonnithorne interrupted,
' I don't know that my feeling is so
serious as that.'

Then let us leave it there, and you'll
decide in the morning,' said Parson Christian.


So they left it there, and Mr. Bonnithorne,
the dear friend of the family, made haste to
the telegraph office, and sent this telegram
to Hugh Ritson in London : ' They are
to be married tomorrow. If you have
anything imperative to say, write to-night.
Or come.'

Paul and Greta saw each other only for
five minutes that day amid the general
hubbub ; but their few words were pregnant
with serious issues. Beneath the
chorus of their hearts' joy there was an

undersong of discord ; and neither knew
of the other's perplexity.

Greta was thinking of Hugh Ritson's
mysterious threat. Whether or not Hugh
had the power of preventing their marriage
was a question of less consequence to Greta
at this moment than the other question of
whether or not she could tell Paul what
Hugh had said. As the day wore on, her
uncertainty became feverish. If she spoke,
she must reveal  what hitherto she had
partly hidden  the importunity and unbrotherly
disloyalty of Hugh's love. She
must also awaken fresh distress in Paul's
mind, already overburdened with grief for
the loss of his mother. Probably Paul would
be powerless to interpret his brother's
strange language. And if he should be
puzzled, the more he must be pained. Perhaps
Hugh Ritson's threat was nothing but
the outburst of a distempered spirit  the
noise of a bladder that is emptying itself

Still, Greta's nervousness increased ; no
reason, no sophistry could allay it. She
felt like a blind man who knows by the
current of air on his face that he has reached
two street crossings, and cannot decide
which turn to take.

Paul, on his part, had a grave question
to revolve. He was thinking whether it
was the act of an honourable man to let
Greta marry him in ignorance of the fact
that he was not his father's legitimate son.
Yet he could never tell her. The oath he
had taken over his father's body must seal
his lips for ever. His mother's honour was
wrapped up in that oath. Break the one,
and the other was no longer inviolate.
True, it Avould be to Greta, and Greta alone,
and she and he were one. True, too, his
mother was now dead to the world. But
the oath was rigid.

Never to reveal to any human soul byword
or deed his act or her shame.' He

had sworn it, and lie must keep it. The
conflict of emotion was terrible. Love was
dragging him one way, and love the other.
Honour said yes, and honour said no. His
heart's first thought was to tell Greta everything,
to keep nothing back from her whose
heart's last thought was his. But the
secret of his birth must lie as a dead and
speechless thing within him.

If it was not the act of an honourable man
to let Greta marry him in ignorance of his
birth, there was only one escape from the
dishonour  not to let her marry him at all.
If they married the oath must be kept. If
the oath were kept the marriage might be
dishonoured  it could not be the unreserved
and complete union of soul with soul, heart
with heart, mind with mind, which true
marriage meant. It would be laving the

O Iso

treasure at the altar and keeping back part
of the price.

Paul Alas not a man of subtle intellect,

or perhaps such reflections would have
troubled him too deeply. Love was above
everything, and to give up Greta vsas impossible.
If Circumstance was the evil
genius of a man's life, should it be made the
god of it also ?

At all hazards Paul meant to marry
Greta. And after all, what did this question
of honour amount to ? It was a mere
phantasm. AVhat did it matter to Greta
whether he were high or basely born?
Should he love her less or more? AVould
he be less or more worthy of her love ?
And how was his birth base? Not in God's
eyes, for God had heard the voice of Hagar's
son. Only in the eyes of the world. And
what did that mean? It meant that
whether birth was high or base depended
one part on virtue and nine hundred and
ninety-nine parts on money. Adhere had
half the world's titled great ones sprung
from ? Not  like him  from their father

and their father's fathers ; but from a
monarch's favourite.

Thus Paul reasoned with himself at this
juncture. Whether he was wholly right or
wholly wrong, or partly right and partly
wrong, concerns us not at all. It was
natural that such a man in such a place at
such an hour should decide once for all to
say not a word to Greta. It was just as
natural that his reticence should produce
the long series of incidents still to be recorded.


Thus it was that not a word was said
between them of what lay nearest to the
hearts of both.

The morning was brilliant  a vigorous
lusty young day, such as can awake from
the sleep of the night only in winter and in
the north. The sun shone on the white
frost ; the air was hazy enough to make
the perspective of the fells more sharp),
and leave a halo of mystery to hang over
every distant peak and play about every
tree.

The Ghyll was early astir, and in every
nook and corner full of the buzz of
gossip.

Well, things is at a pass for sure.' ' And
never no axings other.' ' And all cock-a-hoop,
and no waiting for the mistress to

come back.' ' Shaf, what matter about
the mistress  she's no' but a killjoy.
There'd be no merry-meet an' she were at
home.' ' Well, I is fair maize 'at he won't
wait for Master Hugh  his awn brother,
too knows.' ' What, lass, clusta think ashe
wad do owt at the turdus to-meet ?
Maybe tha's reckoning on takin' a step wi'
him, eh ?' ' And if I z', it's nowt sa
strange.' ' Weel, I wadna be for saying
tha's aiming too high, for I mind me of a
leal lass once as they called Mercy Fisher,
and folks did say as somebody were partial
to her.' ' Hod thy tongue about [the bit
thing; don't too mistaken me to sec a
stroma.'

Resplendent in a blue cloth coat, light
check trousers, a flowered yellow silk waistcoat,
and a white felt hat, matt was flying
up and down stairs to and from Paul's
room. Paul himself had not yet been seen.
Rumour in the kitchen whispered that he

had hardly taken the trouble to dress, and
had not even been at the pains to shave.
Natt had more than once protested his
belief that his master meant to be married
in his shirt-sleeves. Nothing but 'papers
and pens and sealing-wax and things ' had
he asked for.

Outside the Vicarage a motley group had
gathered.

There was John Proudfoot, the blacksmith,
uncommonly awkward in a frock
coat and a pair of kid gloves that sat
on his great hands like a clout on a pitchfork.
Dick, the miller, was there too, with
Giles Paisley, the miner ; and Job Sheep-shanks
(by the way of treaty of peace)
stood stroking the tangled mane of Gub-
blum Oglethorpe's pony. Children hung
on the fence women gathered about
the gate, dogs capered on the path. Gub-
blum himself had been in the house,
and now came out accompanied by Brother

Peter Ward and a huge black jug. The
jug was passed round with distinct satisfaction.


Is the leal man ever coming?' said Gub-
blum, smacking his lips and taking a swift
survey of the road.

*Why, here he is at sec a suffer as'll
break' his shins.'

At the top of his speed, and breathless,
clad in a long coat whose tails almost swept
the ground, grasping a fiddle in one hand
and a paper in the other, Tom o' Dint came
hurrying up.

Tha's here at last, Tom, ma man.
Teem a glass into him, Peter, and let's mak
a start.'

Ye see I's two men, I is,' said the small
man apologetically. ' I had my rounds
with my letters to do first, and business afore
pleasure, you knows.'

Pleasure afore business, say I,' cried
Gubblum. ' Never let yer work get the

upper hand o' yer wages  tiens my
maxims

Two coaches came up at the moment,
having driven four miles for the purpose of
driving four furlongs.

John Proudfoot, without needless courtesy,
took the fiddler-postman by the neck of his
coat and the garment beneath its tails, and
swung him, fiddle and all, on to the saddle
of the pony, and held him there a moment,
steadying him like a sack with an open
mouth.

 Sit thee there as sticky as a broody
hen ; and now let's mak' shift,' said the
blacksmith.

But I must go inside first,' said the
fiddler ; ' I've a letter for Lawyer Bonnie


Shaf on thee and thy letter. Away with
thee. Deliver it at the church door

The men dropped into a single file, with
Tom o Dint riding at their head, and Gub-

VOL. II. 26

blum walking by the pony's side and holding
the reins.

Strike up shouted Job Sheepshanks.
Ista ever gain to begin '?'

Then the fiddler shouldered his fiddle,
and. fell to, and the first long sweeps of his
wedding-march awoke the echoes of the
vale.

The women and children followed the
procession a few hundred yards, and then
returned to see the wedding-party enter the
coaches.

Inside the Vicarage all was noise and
bustle. Greta was quiet enough, and
ready to set out at any time, but a bevy
of gay young dales women were grouped
about her, trying to persuade her to change
her brown broche dress for a pale-blue silk,
to have some hothouse plants in her hair,
and at least to wear a veil. ' And mind
you keep up heart, darling, and speak out

your responses ; and, dearest, don't cry
until the parson gets to "God bless you!"
Greta received all this counsel with equal
thanks. She listened to it, affected to
approve of it, and ignored it. Her face
betrayed anxiety. She hardly understood
her own fears, but whenever the door
opened, and a fresh guest entered, she knew
that her heart leapt to her mouth.

Parson Christian stood near her in silk
gaiters and a coat that had been old-fashioned
even in his youth. But his
Jovian gray head and fine old face, beautiful
in its mellowness and childlike simplicity,
made small demand of dress. He
patted Greta's hair sometimes with the
affectionate gesture that might be grateful
to a fondled child.

Mr. Bonnithorne arrived early, in a
white waistcoat and coat adorned by a
flower. His brave apparel was scarcely in
keeping With the anxiety written on his

2G 2

face. He could not sit for more than a
moment in the same seat. He was up and
down, walking to and fro, looking' out of
the window, and diving for papers into his
pocket.

The procession, headed by Tom o' Dint,
had not long been gone when word was
given, and the party took to the coaches
and set off at a trot. Then the group of
women at the gate separated with many a
sapient comment.

Weel, he's gotten a bonny lass for sure.'
And many a sadder thing med happen
to her, too.

The village lay midway between the
Vicarage and the church, and the fiddler
and his company marched through it to a
brisk tune, bringing fifty pairs of curious
eyes to the windows and the doors. Tom
o' Dint sat erect in the saddle, playing
vigorously, and when a burst of cheering

Hailed the procession as it passed a group
of topers gathered outside the Flying-horse,
Tom accepted it as a tribute to his
playing, and bowed his head with becoming
dignity and without undue familiarity,
always remembering that courtesy comes
after art, as a true artiste is in loyalty
bound to do.

Once or twice the pony slipped its foot
on the frosty road, and then Tom was fain
to abridge a movement in music and make
a movement in gymnastics towards grasping
the front of the saddle.

But all went well until the company
came within fifty paces of the church door,
and there a river crossed the road. Being;
shallow and very swift, the river had
escaped the grip of the frost and slipped
through its fingers. There was a footbridge
on one side, and the men behind the
fiddler fell out of line to cross by it.
 Gubblum dropped the reins and followed

them ; but, as bridges are not made for the
traffic of ponies, Tom o' Dint was bound to
go through the water. Never interrupting
the sweep and swirl of the march he was
playing, he gave the pony a prod with his
foot, and it plunged in. But scarcely had
it taken two steps and reached the depth of
its knees, when, from the intense cold, or
from coming sharply against a submerged
stone, or from indignation at the fiddler's
prod, or from the occult cause known as
pure devilment, it shied up its back legs
and tossed down its tousled head, and
pitched the musician head-foremost into the
stream.

Amid a burst of derisive cheers Tom o'
Dint was drawn wet as a sack to the opposite
bank, and his fiddle was rescued from
a rapid voyage down the river.

Now, the untoward adventure had the
good effect of reducing the fiddler's sense
of the importance of his artistic function,

and bringing him back to consciousness of
his prosaic duties as postman. He put his
hand into his pocket, feeling as if he had
dipped it into a bag of eels, and drew out
the lawyer's letter. It was wet, and the
ink of the superscription was beginning to
run.

Tom o' Dint also beoan to run. Fearing
trouble, he left his unsympathetic cronies,
hurried on to the church, went into the
vestry, where he knew there would be a
fire, and proceeded to dry the letter. The
water had softened the gum, and the envelope
had opened.

So much the mair easier dried,' thought
Tom, and, nothing loth, he drew out the
letter, unfolded it, and held it to the
fire.

The paper was smoking with the heat,
and so was Tom, when he heard carriage
wheels without, and then a mighty hubbub,
and loud voices mentioning his own name

without reverence : ' Where's that clot-head
of a fiddler?' and sundry other dubious
allusions.

Tom knew that he ought to be at the
gate striking up a merry tune to welcome
the bride. But then the letter was not dry.
There was not a moment to lose. Tom
spread the paper and envelope on the
fender, intending to return for them, and
dashed oiF with his fiddle to the discharge
of his artistic duty.

As Tom o' Dint left the vestry, Parson
Christian entered it. The parson saw the
papers on his fender, picked them up, and
in all innocence read them. The letter fan

as follows :

'Morley's Hotel,

Trafalgar Square,

Nov. 28. 

Dear Bonnithorne,

 The man who was in Lowlands is
Paul Lowther, Greta's half-brLowther. Paul
Eitson is my own brother, my father's son.

Keep this to yourself as you value your
salvation, your pride, or your jDurse, or
whatever else you hold most dear. Send
me by wire to-day the name of their hotel
in London, the time of their train south 
and who, if any, are with them.
Yours,

*HUGH RiTSOK

P.S.  The girl Mercy will be troublesome.'


The parson had scarcely time to understand
the words he read, when he, too, was
compelled to leave the vestry. The bride
and bridegroom had met at the church door.
It was usual to receive them at the altar
with music. The fiddler's function was at
an end for the present. Parson Christian
could not allow the fiddle to be heard in
church. There a less secular instrument
was required. The church was too poor
for an organ ; it had not yet reached the

dignity of an harmonium ; but it had an
accordion, and among the parson's offices
was the office of accordionist. So, throwing
his gown over his head, he walked into the
church, stepped into the pulpit, whipped up
his instrument from the shelf where he kept
it, and began to play.

Stow it chanced that Mr. Bonnithorne in
his legal capacity held certain documents
for signature, and having accompanied the
bride to the altar rail, he hurried to deposit
them in the vestry. The gloom had still hung
heavy on his brow as he entered the church.
He was brooding over a letter that he had
expected and had not received. Perhaps it
was his present hunger for a letter that
made his eye light first on the one which
the fiddler-postman had left to dry. The
parson had dropped it on the mantelshelf.
At a glance Mr. Bonnithorne saw it was his
own.

Tom o' Dint had been compelled to come

up the aisle at the tail of the wedding-party.
He saw Mr. Bonnithorne, who was at the
head of it, go into the vestry. Dripping
wet as he was, and with chattering teeth,
the sweat stood on his forehead. ' Dear''
me, what sec a char-after will I have ?' he
muttered. He elbowed and edged his way
through the crowd, and got into the vestry
at last. But he was too late. With an eye
that struck lightning into the meek face of
the fiddler, Mr. Bonnithorne demanded an
explanation.

The request was complied with.

And who has been in the room since
you left it ?

Nay, nobody, sir.'
 Sure of that?'

For sure,' said Tom.

Mr. Bonnithorne's countenance brightened.
He had read the letter, and, believing that
no one else had read it, he was satisfied.
He put it in his pocket.

Maybe I may finish drying it, sir,' said
Tom o' Dint.

The lawyer gave a contemptuous snort
and turned on his heel.

When Paul walked with a firm step up
the aisle, he looked fiesh and composed.
His dress was simple ; his eyes were clear
and bright, and his wavy brown hair fell
back fi:'om a smooth and peaceful brow.

Greta at Paul's side looked less at ease.
The clouds still huno over her face. Her
eyes turned at intervals to the door, as if
expecting some new arrival.

The service was soon done, and then the
parson delivered a homily. It was short
and simple, telling how the good bishop
had said marriage was the mother of the
world, filling cities and churches and heaven
itself, whose nursery it was. Then it
touched on the marriage rite.
 ' * I do not love ceremonies,' said the pearson,
'for they are too often 'devised to set a

gloss on faint deeds," and there are such of
them as throw the thins; they celebrate
farther away than the wrong end of a
telescope

Then he explained that though the marriage
ceremony was unknown to the early
Christians, and never referred to in the old
Bible, where Abraham ' took ' Sarah to
wife, and Jacob ' took ' Rachel, yet that the
marriage of the Church was a most holy and
beautiful thing, symbolizing the union of
Christ with His people. Last of all, he spoke
of the stainless and pious parentage of both
bride and bridegroom, and warned them to
keep their name and fame unsullied, for
What is birth to man or woman,' said
the teacher, 4f it shall be a stain to his
dead ancestors to have left such offspring
?'

Greta bowed her head meekly, and Paul
stood, while the parson spoke, with absent
eyes fixed on the tablets on the wall before

him, spelling out mechanically the words of
the commandments.

In a few moments the signatures were
taken, the bell in the little turret was
ringing, and the company were trooping
out of the church. It was a rude old
structure, with great bulges in the walls,
little square lead lights, and open timbers
untrimmed and straight from the tree.

The crowd outside had gathered about
the heedless landau which the carpenter
and blacksmith had converted into a sledge.
On the box seat sat Tom o' Dint, his fiddle
in his hand and icicles hanging in the folds
of his capacious coat. The bride and bridegroom
were to return in this conveyance,
which was to be drawn down the frozen
river by a score of young dalesmen shod in
steel. They took their seats and had
almost set off when Greta called for the
parson.

Parson Christian, Parson Christian !'

echoed twenty voices. The good parson
was ringing the bell, being bell-ringer also.
Presently the brazen tongue ceased wagging,
and Parson Christian re-appeared.

Here's your seat, parson,' said Paul,
making space.

In half a crack,' replied Parson Christian,
pulling a great key out of his pocket
and locking the church door. He was
sexton as well.

Then he got up into the sledge, word
was called, the fiddle broke out, and away
they went for the river bank. A minute
more and they were flying over the smooth
ice with the morning sunlight chasing them,
and the music of fifty lusty voices in their
ears.

They had the longer journey, but they
reached the Vicarage as early as the coaches
that had returned by the road. Then came
the breakfast  a solid repast, tit for appetites
sharpened by the mountain air. Parson

Christian presided in the parlour, and
Brother Peter in the kitchen, the door
between being thrown open. The former
radiated smiles like April sunshine ; the
latter looked as sour as a plum belied by
the earthworms, and * didn't know as he'd
ever seen sec a pack of hungry hounds.'

After the breakfast the toasts, and up
leapt Mr. Bonnithorne. That gentleman
had quite cast off the weight of his anxiety.
He laughed and chaffed, made quips and
cranks.

Our lawyer is foreclosing,' whispered a
pert young damsel in Greta's ear.  He's
ofettins: drunk.'

Mr. Bonnithorne would propose * Mr.
and Mrs. Eitson.' He began with a few
hoary and reverent quotations  ' Men are
April when they woo, December when they
wed.' This was capped by ' Maids are
May when they are maids, but the sky
changes when they are wives.' Mr. Bonnie

protested that both had been true,
only with exceptions.

Paul thanked the company in a dozen
manly and well-chosen phrases, and then
stepped to the kitchen door and invited
the guests over whom Brother Peter presided
to spend the evening at the Ghyll.

The ladies had risen and carried off Greta
to prepare for her journey, when Gub-
blum Oglethorpe got on his feet and, willynilly,
would propose ' the lasses.' What
Gubblum had to say on that subject it is
not given us to record. By some strange
twist of logic, he launched out on a very
different topic. Perhaps he sat in the
vicinity of Fancy Tartarus, for he began
with the story of a funeral.

It minds me,' he said, ' of the carriers at
Adam Strong's funeral, at Gosport, last
back end gone twelvemonth. There were
two sets on 'em, and they'd a big bottle
atween 'em  same as that one as auld Peter,
VOL. II. 27

the honey, keeps to hissed at yon end of the
table. Well, they carried Adam shoulder
high from the house to the graveyard, first
one set and then 'tother, mile on mile
apiece, and when one set got to the end of
their mile they set down the coffin and
went on for 'tother set to pick it up. It
were nine mile from Branches Edge to Gosport,
so they had nine shifts atween 'em,
and at every shift they swigged away at the
big bottle  this way with it, Peter. Well,
the mourners they crossed the fields for
shortness, but the bearers they had to keep
the corpse road. All went rest for eight
mile, and then one set with Adam were far
ahead of the other with the bottle. They
set the coffin on a wall at the roadside and
went on. Well, when the second set came
up, they didn't see it  they couldn't see
owt, that's the fact  same as I expect I'll
be afore the day's gone, but not with Peter's
goodwill seemingly. Yell, they went on,

too. And when all of 'em comet up to
the church together, there was the parson in
his white smock and his bare poll and big
book open to start. But, you see, there
wasn't no corpse. Where was it ? Why,
it was no' but resting quiet all by itself' on
the wall a mile away.'

Gubblum was proceeding to associate the
gruesome story with the incidents of Paul's
appearance at the fire while he was supposed
to be in London ; but Greta had
returned to the parlour, muffled in furs ;
Paul had thrown on a lone: frieze ulster,
and everyone had risen for the last leave-taking.
In the midst of the company stood
the good old Christian, his wrinkled face wet
with silent tears. Greta threw herself into
his arms and wept aloud. Then the parson
began to cast seeming merry glances around
him, and to be mighty jubilant all at once.

The improvised sledge was at the door,
laden with many boxes.

272

Good-bye, good-bye, good-bye!'

A little cheer, a little attempt at laughter,
a suppressed sigh, then a downright honest
cry, and away they were gone. The last
thing seen by Greta's hazy eyes was a
drooping white head amid many bright
girl faces.

How they flew along! The glow of
sunset was now in their faces. It crimsoned
the west, and sparkled like gold
on the eastern crags. Between them and
the light were the skaters drawing the
sledge, sailing along like a flight of great
rooks, their voices echoing in unseen
caverns of the fells.

Mr. Bonnithorne sat with Paul and
Greta.

Where did you say you would stay in
London?' he asked.

At Morley's Hotel,' said Paul.

With this answer the lawyer looked unreasonably
happy.

The station was reached in twenty minutes.
The train steamed in. Paul and
Greta got into the last carriage, all before it
being full. A moment more and they were
gone.

Then Mr. Bonnithorne walked direct to
the telegraph office. But the liquor he had
taken played him false. He had got it into
his stupefied head that he must have
blundered about Morley's Hotel. That was
not Paul's but Hugh's address. So he sent
this telegram :

Left by train at one. Address, Hawk
and Heron.'

Then he went home happy.

That night there was high revel at the
Ghyll. First, a feast in the hall : beef,
veal, mutton, ham, haggis, and hot bacon
pie. Then an adjournment to a barn,
where tallow candles were stuck into cloven
sticks, and hollowed potatoes served for

lamps. Strong ale and trays of tobacco
went round ; and while the glasses jingled
and the smoke wreathed upwards a song-was
sung :

A man may spend

And God will send,
If his wife be good to owt ;

But a man may spare

And still be bare,
If this wife be good to nowt.'

Then bondman's buff. ' Antony Bondman
kens ta me, sen I bought butter and cheese
o' thee ? I ga' tha ray pot, I ga' tha my
pan, I ga' all I had but a rap ho' penny I
gave a poor auld man.'

Last of all, the creels were ranged round
the hay-mows and the floor was cleared of
everything except a beer barrel. This was
run into the corner, and Tom o' Dint and
fiddle were seated on top of it. Dancing
was interrupted only by drinking, mitil
Tom's music began to be irregular, whereupon
Gubblum remonstrated; and then

Tom, with the indignation of an artist,
broke the brittle of his fiddle on Gubbhim's
head, and Gubblum broke the bridge of
Tom's nose with his fist, and both rolled onto
the floor and lay there, until Gubblum
extricated himself with difficulty, shook his
lachrymose noddle, and said :

The leal man is as drunk as a fiddler
The Vicarage was quiet that night. All
the guests save one were gone. Parson
Christian sat before the smouldering fire.
Old Laird Fisher sat with him. Neither
spoke. They passed a long hour in
silence.

A WAYSIDE hostelry, six miles from London,
bearing: its swinofino' sion of the silver hawk
and golden heron. It was a little low-roofed
place, with a drinking bar in front
as you entered, and rooms opening from it
on either hand.

The door of the room to the left was
shut. One could hear the voices of children
within, and sometimes a peal of their merry
laughter. The room to the riolit stood
open to the bar. It was a smoky place,
with a few chairs, a long deal table, a bench
with a back, a form against the wall, pities
hung on nails, and a rough beam across the
low ceil in ST.

A big fire burned in an open grate on a
hearth without a fender. In front of it,
coiled up in a huge chair like a canoe, that
had the look of having been hewn straight
from the tree, sat the only occupant of the
room. The man wore a tweed suit of the
indefinite pattern known as pepper-and-salt.
His hat was drawn heavily over his
face to protect his eyes from the glare of
the firelight. He gave satisfactory evidence
that he slept.

Under any light but that of the fire, the
place must have looked cheerless to desolation,
but the comfortless room was alive
with the fire's palpitating heat. The rosy
flames danced over the sleeper's tawny hair,
over the sanded floor, over the walls adorned
with gaudy prints. They threw shadows
and then caught them back again ; flashed
a ruddy face out of the little cracked
window, and then lay still while the blue
night looked in.

An old woman, with a yellow face,
deeply-wrinkled, served behind the bar.
Two or three carriers and hawkers sat on
a bench before it. One of these worthies
screwed up the right side of his face with
an expression of cutting irony :

Burn mv body, though, but wot an
incapable thing to have a son wot never
need do no work !'

The old woman lifted her eyes.

There, enough of that,' she said, and
then jerked her head towards the room
from whence came measured snores. ' He'll
be working at throwing you out, some of
you, same as he did young Bobby on
Sunday sennight.'

Like enough. He don't know which
side his bread is buttered, he don't.'

His bread ?' said another, an old road-mender,
with a scornful dig of emphasis.
His old mother's, you mean. Don't you
notice as folks as eat other folks's bread,

and earn none for themselves, never knows
no more nor babies which side the butter
is on ?

Hold your tongue, Luke Sturgis,' said
the old woman. ' Mayhap, you think it's
you're pint of half-and-half as keeps us all
out of the union.'

Now you're again' to get vexed, Mrs.
Drayton. So wot's to prevent me having
another pint, just to get that fine son of
your an extra cigar or so. Hold hard
with the pewter, though. I'll drain off
what's left, if convenient.'

A drowsy eyed countryman, with a dog
snoring at his feet, said :

Been to Lunnon again,' and pointed the
shank of his pipe in the direction of the
sleeping man. ' Got the Lunnon smell on
his clothes. I alius knows it forty perches
off.'

You're wrong, then, Mister Wiseman,'
said the old woman, ' and he ain't got no

smell of no Lunnon on his clothes ills day,
anyways. For he's been where there ain't
no smells no more nor in Hendon, leastways
unless the mountings smells and the
cataracts and the sleeps.'

The mountings ? And has Master Paul
been alone of the mountainous ?'

Yes ; Cumberland, that's the mountings,
and fur off, too, I've heard.'

Cumberland? Ain't that the part as
the young missy comes from V

Mayhap it is ; I wouldn't be for saying
no to that.'

So that's the time o' day, is it ?' The
speaker gave a prolonged whistle, and
turned a suggestive glance into the faces
of his companions. ' Well, I alius says
to my old woman, " Bide quiet," T says,
'' and it'll leak out," and sure enough soit
has.'

The landlady fired up.

'And alius says to your missis, "Mistress

Sturgis," I says, " it do make me that
vexed to see a man a-prying into other
people's business and a-talking and a- scandalising,
which it is bad in a woman, where
you expects no better, as the saying is,
but it ain't no ways wearisome in a man
and I wish you'd keep him," I says,
'' from poking his nose, as you might
say, into other people's peters." There 
that's what / alius says to your missis.'

And weary perverse of you too,' said
the worthy addressed, speaking with the
easy good-nature of one who could afford
to be rated. 'And wot's to prevent me
having a screw of twist on the strength of
it,' jutting a penny on the counter.

The landlady threw down the paper of
tobacco, picked up the penny and cast it
into the till.

Only, as 1 say, there's no use denying
now as Mester Paul Drayton has a finger
in the young missy's pie.'

There, that's enough o' that. I told
YOU afore she never set eyes on him till a
fortnight come Sunday

Two women came into the bar with
jugs.

And how is the young missy ?' asked
the elder of the two, catching up the conversation
as the landlady served her.

She's there,' said the landlady rather
indefinitely, indicating with a sidelong nod
the room to the left with the closed
door.

At that moment the laughter of children
could be heard from within.

She's merry over it, at any rate, though
I did hear a whisper, said the woman, * as
she feeds two when she eats her withal, as
the saying is.'

The men laughed.

That's being over curious, mistress,'
said one, as the woman passed out sniggering.


VOL. II. 28

Such baggage oughtn't to be taken in to
live with respectable people said the other
woman, the younger one, who wore a
showy bonnet and a little gay ribbon at her
neck.

'And that's being over charitable,' said
another voice. ' It's the women for charity,
especially to one of themselves.*

It's curiosity as is the mischief i' this
world said the drowsy-eyed countryman.
People talk o' the root o' all evil, and
some says drink, and some says money, and
some says rheumatism, but I says curiosity.
Show me the man as ain't curious, and he
don't go a-poking his nose into every stink-pot,
as you might say.'

Of course not,' said the gentleman
addressed as Luke Sturgis. ' And show
me the man as ain't curious he said, with a
wink, * and I'll show you the man as is
good at a plough and incapable at a ditch,
and were near worth his weight in gold at

gapping a hedge, and mocking up a horse
midden, and catching them nasty moles
wot ruin the country worse nor wars and
publicans and parsons.'

282

lT was Mercy Fisher who sat in the room
to the left of the bar, and played with the
children, and laughed when they laughed,
and tried to forget that she was not as
young as they were, and as happy and as
free from thought, living, as they lived,
from hour to hour, with no past and without
a future, and all in the living present.
But she was changed, and was now no
longer quite a child though she had a
child's heart that would never grow old,
but be a child's heart still, all the same
that the weight of a woman's years lay
upon it, and the burden of a woman's
sorrow saddened it. A little older, a little

wiser perhaps, a little graver of face, and
with eyes a little more wistful.

A neighbour who had gone to visita
relative five miles away had brought
round her children, begging the * young
missy ' to take care of them in her absence,
A curly-headed boy of four sat wriggling
in Mercy's lap, while a girl of six stood
by her side, watching the needles as she
knitted. And many a keen thrust the innocent
prattling tongues sent straight as an
arrow to Mercy's heart. The little fellow
was revolving a huge lozenge behind his
teeth.

And if 00 had a little boy would 00 give
him sweets very often  all days  sweets and
cakes  would 00 ?'

Yes, every day, darling ; I'd give him
sweets and cakes every day.'

I ices 00. And would 00 let him go
out to play with the big boys, and get birds'
nests and things, would 00 X

Yes, birds' nests, and berries, and everything.'


I ices 00, I do. And let him go to
meet daddy coming home at night, and ride
on daddy's back ?'

A shadow shot across the girl's simple face,
and there was a pause.

'Would 00? Eh? And lift him on
daddy's shoulder ; would oo ?'

Perhaps, dear.'

Oh !' The little chap's delight required
no fuller expression.

Ot's 00 doing ?'

Knitting, darling  there, rest quiet on
my knee.'

Ot is it  knitting  stockings for oo little
boy?'

I have no little boy, sweetheart. They
are mittens for a gentleman.'

How booty ! Ot's a gentleman ?'

A man, dear. Mr. Drayton is a gentleman,
you know.'

Oh.' Then, after a moment's sage reflection,
' Me knows  a raskilL'

 Willy!'

At's what daddy say he is.'

All this time, the little maiden at Mercy's
side had been pondering her own peculiar
problem : ' What would you do if you had
a little girl V

Well, let me see ; I'd teach her to knit
and to sew, and I'd comb her hair so nice,
and make her a silk frock with flounces,
and, oh ! such a sweet little hat.'

How nice. And would you take her to
market and to church, and to see the dolls
in Mrs. Bickers's window?'

Yes, dearest, yes.'

And never whip her V

My little girl would be very, very good,
and oh! so pretty.'

And let her go to grandma's whenever
she liked, and not tell grandpa he's not to
give her apennines  would you V

Yes dear yes
perhaps.'

Areyour eyes very sore to-day, Mercy ?
They are so red.'

But the little one of all was not interested
in this turn of the conversation : ' Well,
why don't oo have a little boy V

A dead silence.

Won't 00, eh V

Willy was put to the ground. ' Let us
sing something. Do you like singing,
sweetheart V

The little fellow climbed back to her
lap in excitement. ' Me sing, me sing.
Mammy told I a song  me sing it oo.'

And without further ceremony the little
chap struck up the notes of a lullaby.

Mercy had learned that same song, as her
mother crooned it long ago by the side of her
cot. A great wave of memory and love and
sorrow and remorse in one swept over her.
It cost her a struggle not to break into a

flood of tears. And the little innocent face
looked up at the ceiling as the sweet child-voice
sang the familiar words.

There was a new-comer in the bar outside.
It was Hugh Ritson, clad in a long ulster,
with the hood drawn over his hat. As he
entered he seemed to comprehend everything
and everybody in one swift glance. He
stepped up to the landlady, who curtsied
low from behind the counter. ' So he has returned,'
he said, without greeting of any kind.

Yes, sir, he is back, sir ; he got home in
the afternoon, sir.'

You told him nothing of anyone
calling ?'

Xo, sir  that is to say, sir  not to say
told him, sir  but I did mention  just
mention, sir, that '

Huo'h Ritson smiled coldly. ' Of course 
precisely. Were yoa more prudent with
the girl f

Oh yes, sir, being as you told me not to
name it to the missy '

 He is asleep, I see.'

Yes, sir, he'd no sooner taken bite and
sup then he dropt off in his chair, same as
you see, sir ; and never a word since. He
must have travelled all night.'

He did not explain ?'

Oh no, sir ; he only called for his cold
meat and his ale, sir, and '

You see his old mother ain't noways in
his confidence, mester,' said one of the
countrymen on the bench.

Nor you in mine, my friend,' said Hugh
Ritson, facing about. Then turning again
to the landlady, he said, ' Tell him someone
wants to speak with him. Or wait, I'll
tell him myself

He stepped into the room with the
sleeping man, and closed the door after
him.

Luke Sturgis,' said the landlady with

sudden austerity, * I'll have you know as it's
none of your business saying words wot's
unpleasant  and me his mother, too. Wot's
it you say ? Clovenhoof ? He's a personable
gentleman, if he has got summit a matter
with a foot, and a clever face how-never.
And don't you be disliking God's creature,
Luke Sturgis, and them free of their money
likewise.'

Alone with the sleeping man, Hugh Ritson
stood and looked down at him intently.
The fire had burnt to a steady glow of red
coal without flame. There was no other
light in the room.

The sleeper began to stir with the uneasy
movement of one who is struooiino; against
the effect of a fixed gaze bent upon him.
Then, with a shake of the head and a shrug
of the shoulders, he sat up in his chair. He
tossed his hat back from his forehead, and a
tuft of wavy brown hair tumbled over it.
His head was held down, and his eyes were
on the fire. Hugh Ritson took a step
towards him and put one hand on his arm.

Paul Drayton he said, and the man
shrank under his touch and slowly turned
his face full upon him.

When their eyes met, Hugh Eitson saw
what he had expected to see  the face of
Paul Eitson. In that Igw,' red light every
feature was the same. By the swift impulse
of sense it seemed as if it could
be the same man and no other; as if
Paul Drayton and Paul Eitson were one
man.

Drayton got on to his feet wdtli an uncertain
shuffle, and then in a moment the
hallucination was dispelled. He kicked,
with a heavy boot, at the slumbering coals,
and the fire broke into a sharp crackle and
bright blaze. The white light fell on his
face. It was a fine face brutalized b}'
excess. The features where strong, manly,
and impressive. What God had done was
very good ; but the eyes where bleared,
and the lips discoloured, and the expression,

which might have been frank, was
sullen.

I don't wonder that you were tired after
3oiir journey ; it was a long one,' said
Hugh Ritson. He affected an easy manner,
but there was a tremor in his voice. ' You
caught the early Scotch mail from Penrith,'
he added, and drew a bench nearer to the
hire and sat down.

Drayton made a half-dazed scrutiny of
his visitor, and said :

Damme, if you're not the fence as was
here afore  criss-crossing at our old woman.
Tell us your name.'

The voice was husky, but it had, nevertheless,
a note or two of the voice of Paul
Ritson.

That will be unnecessary,' said Hugh
Ritson, with complete self-possession.
 We've met before,' he added, smiling.

 The deuce we have  where?'

You slept at the Pack Horse at Keswick

rather more than a week ago,' said
Hugh.

Drayton betrayed no surprise.

Last Saturday night you were active at
the fire that almost destroyed the old mill
at Lowlands.'

Drayton's sullen face was immovable.

By the way,' said Hugh, elevating his
voice and affecting a sudden flow of spirits,
I owe you my personal thanks for your
exertions. What do you drink  brandy?'

Going to the door, he called for a bottle
of brandy and glasses.

Then again on monday night,' he added,
turning into the room, ' you did me the
honour to visit my own house.'

Drayton was still standing.

I know you,' he said. ' Shall I tell you
sour name?'

Hugh smiled with undisturbed humour.
That also will be unnecessary,' he said :
and leisurely drew off his gloves.

What d ye Avant ? I ain't got no time
to waste  that's fiat

Well, let me see, it's just ten o'clock
said Hugh Ritson, taking out his watch.
I want you to earn twenty pounds before
twelve

Mr. Drayton gave vent to a grim laugh.

I'll pound it as I'm fly to what that
means. You're looking to earn two hundred
before midnight.'

Mr. Drayton gave Hugh a sidelong glance
of great astuteness.

Ha2:h lifted his eyebrows and shook his
head.

Money is not my object.'

'Oh, it ain't, eh? Well, I'm not afraid
for you to know as it's mine  very much

so.'

And Mr. Drayton gave vent to another
grim laugh.

Mrs. Drayton entered the room at this
moment and set down the brandy, two

glasses, and a water-bottle, on the deal
table.

Let me offer you a little refreshment
and Hugh took u]d the brandy and poured
out half a tumbler.

Thankee, thanked.'

Water ? Say Ashen.'

But Mr. Drayton stopped the dilution by
snatching up his tumbler. His manner had
undergone a change. The watchfulness of
a ferocious creature dogged and all but
trapped gave way to reckless abandonment,
bravado, and audacity.

What's the lay ?' he said, with a
chuckle.

To accompany a lady to Kentish Town
Junction, and see her safe into the midnight
train  that's all.'

Drayton laughed outright.

Of course it is,' he said.

The lady will be here shortly before
midnight.'

VOL. II. 29

Of course she will.'

Hugh Ritson's face lost its smiles, and
became rigid and pale.

Don't laugh like that  I won't have it.'

Mr. Drayton made another application
to the spirit bottle, and then leaned towards
Hugh Ritson over the arm of his
chair.

Look here he said, ' it's just a matter o'
thirty year gone August since my mother
put me into swaddling clothes, and deny
my buttons if I'm wearing 'em yet.'

What do you mean, my friend ?' said
Hugh.

Drayton chuckled contemptuously.

Speak out plain,' he said. ' Give the
work its right name. I ain't afraid for
you to say it. A man don't give twenty
pounds for the like o' that. Not if he works
for it honest, same as me. I'm a licensed
victualler and a gentleman  that's what I
am, if you want to know.'

Hugh Ritson repudiated all unnecessary
curiosity, whereupon Mr. Drayton again
had recourse to the spirit bottle, mentioned
afresh his profession and pretensions, and
wound up by a relative inquiry, ' And what
do you call yourself?'

Hugh did not immediately gratify Mr.
Drayton's curiosity.

Quite right, Mr. Drayton,' he said, ' I
know all about you. Shall I tell you why
you went to Cumberland?'

Remarking that it was easy to repeat an
old woman's gossip, Mr. Drayton took out
of his pocket a goat-skin tobacco pouch,
and proceeded to charge a discoloured meerschaum
pipe.

Thirty years ago,' said Hugh Ritson,
a young lady tried to drown herself and
her child. She was rescued and committed
to an asylum. Her child, a son, was given
into the care of the good woman with
whom she had lodged.'

292

Mr. Drayton interrupted. ' Thankee,
but, as the wice- chairman says, "we'll take
it as read, so we will." '

Hufrh Eitson nodded his head, and continued,
while Mr. Drayton smoked vigorously.
' You have never heard of your
mother from that hour to this ; but one day
you were told by the young girl whom circumstances
had cast on your foster mother's
care that amono- the mountains of Cumberland
there lived another man who bore you
the most extraordinary resemblance. That
excited your curiosity. You had reasons
for thinking that if your mother were alive
she might be rich, xow, you yourself had
the misfortune to be poor.'

And I'm "not afraid for anybody to
know it,' interrupted Mr. Drayton. ' Come
to the point honest. Look here, we are
like two hyenas I saw one day at the Zoo.
One got a bone in his tooth at feeding
time, and blest if the other didn't fight

for that bone I don't know how long and
all.'

Well,' continued Hugh Ritson, with a
dubious smile that the cloud of smoke
mio'ht have hidden from a closer observer,
being a man of spirit, and not without
knowledge of the world, having inherited
brains, in short, from the jrents who bequeathed
you nothing else '

Mr. Drayton puffed volumes, then poured
himself half a tumbler of the raw spirit and
tossed it off.

 You determined on seeing if after all
this Avere only a fortuitous resemblance.

Mr. Drayton raised his hand. ' I'm a
licensed victualler, that's what I am, and
I ain't flowery,' he said in an apologetic
tone ; ' I hasn't had the chance of it, being
as I'd no schooling  but, deny me, you've
just hit it' And the gentleman dio could
not be flowery shook hands exclusively with
the gentleman who could.

Precisely, Mr. Drayton, precisely,' said
Hugh Ritson. He paused, and watched
Drayton closely. That worthy had removed
his pipe, and was staring, with
stupid eyes and open mouth, into the
fire.

But you found nothing.'

How d'ye know?'

Your face at this moment says so.
Pooh ! Don't you go along trusting to
this here timepiece for the time o' day. It
ain't been brought up in habits o' truthfulness
same as yours.'
Hugh Ritson laughed.

You and I are meant to be friends, Mr.
Drayton,' he said. ' But let us first understand
one another. Your idea that you
could find your parents in Cumberland was
a pure fallacy.'

'Eh! Why?'

Because your mother is dead.'

Drayton shook ofi* the stupor of the

liquor, and betrayed a keen if momentary
interest.

The book of the asylum in which she
was confined after the attempted suicide
contains the record '

But she escaped,' interrupted Drayton.

Contains the record of her escape and
subsequent recovery  dead. The body was
picked out of the river, recognised by the
authorities as that of the unknown woman,
and buried in the name she gave.'

What name?' said Drayton.

Hugh Ritson's face underwent a momentary
change.

That is indifferent,' he said, ' I forget.'

Sure you forget ?' said Drayton.
Couldn't be Ritson, eh V

Hugh struck the table.

Assuredly not  the name was not
Ritson.'

The tone irritated Mr. Drayton. He
glanced down with a look that seemed to

say that Hugh Kitson had his Maker to
thank for giving him the benefit of an
infirm foot.

Hugh Ritson mollified him by explaining
that if he had any curiosity as to the name
he could discover it for himself. ' Besides,'
said Hugh, ' what matter about the name if
your mother is dead ?'

That's true,' said Drayton, who, being
now appeased, began to see that his anger
had been puerile.

Depend upon it, your father, wherever
he is, is a cypher,' said Hugh Ritson.

Drayton got on to his feet and trudged
the floor uneasily. An idea had occurred
to him. ' Tie person picked out of the
river may have been another woman. I've
heard of such.'

Possibly ; but the chance of error is
worth little to you,' Hugh looked uncomfortable
as he said this, but Drayton saw
nothing.

'Bah! What matter?' said Drayton,
and, determined to cudgel his brains no
longer, he reached for the brandy and drank
another half-glass. There was then an interchange
of deep amity.

Tell me,' said Hugh, * what passed at
the Ghyll on Monday night?'

'TheGhyll? Monday? That was the
night of the snow. What passed?
Nothing.'

Why did you go ?'

 Wanted to see your mother. Saw your
brother one night late at the door of the
parson's house. Saw you at the fire. At
the fire?  certainly. Stood a matter of a
dozen yards away when that young buck of
a stableman drove up with the trap. What
excuse for going? Blest if I remember 
summit or other ; knocked, and no one
came. I don't know how lomond all I
stood cooling my heels at the door. Then
I saw a light coming from a room on the

Burst floor, and up I went and knocked.
*' Come in," says somebody. I went in.
Withered old party got up. Black crape
and beads, you know. But, afore I could
speak, she reeled like a top and fell all of a
heap. Blest if the old girl didn't take me
for a ghost.' Mr. Drayton elevated his eyebrows,
and added with emphasis, ' I got
out.'

And on the way back you frightened
a young lady in the lane, who, like my
mother, mistook you for the ghost of my
brother Paul. Well, that young lady was
married to my brother this morning. They
are now on their way to London. They
intend to leave England on Wednesday
next, and they mean to pass to-night in
your house.'

The deuce they do.'

It is certainly hard to understand  but
look,' and Hugh Ritson handed to Drayton
the telegram he had received from Bonnie

That worthy examined it minutely
back and front, with bleared and bewildered
eyes, and then looked to his visitor for explanation.


The lady must not leave England,' said
Hugh.

Drayton steadied himself and tried hard
to look appalled.

Upon my soul you make my flesh creep,'
he said. ' What do you want for your
twenty pounds? Speak out plain. I'm
not flowery, I'm not. I'm a licensed
victualler and a gentleman '

What do I want ? Only that you should
send the lady home again by the first
train.'

Drayton began to laugh.

You see, there was no cause for alarm,'
said Hugh, with an innocent smile.

Drayton's laughter became boisterous.

 I am to decoy the young thing away by
making believe as I'm her husband, eh?'

Mr. Drayton, you are a shrewd fellow.'

And what about the husband  ain't he
another shrewd fellow?'

Leave him to me. When the time
comes, make no delay. Don't expose yourself
unnecessarily. Wear that ulster you
have on at present. Say as little as possible
nothing if practicable. Get the lady into
the fly that shall be waiting at the door ;
drive to the station ; book her to Keswick ;
put her into the carriage at the last moment ;
then clear away with all expedition. The
midnight train never stops this side of
Bedford.'

Drayton was shuffling across the room,
chuckling audibly. ' He, he, he, haw, haw
so I'm to leave her at the station, eh?
Poor young thing ; I hasn't got the heart 
I hasn't got it in me to be so cruel. No, no,
I couldn't be such a vagabond of a husband,
he, he, haw, haw  and on the poor thing's
wedding-day, too.'

Hugh Ritson rose to his feet.

If you go an inch farther than the station
you'll repent it to your dying day,' he said,
once more bringing down his fist heavily on
the table.

At this Drayton chuckled and crowed
yet louder, and declared that it would be
necessary to have another half-glass in order
to take the taste of the observation out of
his mouth.

Then his laughter ceased.

Look here, you want me to do a job as
can only be done by one man alive. And
what do you offer me  twenty pounds?
Keep it,' he said ; ' it won't pass, sir.'

The fire had burnt very low, the cheerless
room was dense with smoke and
noisome with the smell of dead tobacco.
Drayton buttoned up to the throat the long
coat he wore.

Tve summit on,* he said ; 'good-night.'

The sound of children's voices came

from the bar. The little ones were going
home.

Good-night, missy, and thank you.'
It was a woman's voice.

Good-night, Mercy,' cried the children.

Drayton was opening the door.

Think again,' said Hugh Ritson. 'You
run no risk. Eleven forty-five prompt will
do.'

When Drayton went out, Hugh Ritson
walked into the bar. The gossips had
gone. Only the landlady was there. The
door to the room opposite now stood open.

Mrs. Drayton,' said Huoh, ' have you
ever seen this face before ?'

He took a medallion from his pocket and
held it out to her.

 Lors a mercy me,' cried the landlady ;
why, it's her herself as plain as plain 
except for the nun's bonnet.'

Is that the lady who lodged with you at
Pimlico  the mother of Paul ?'

As sure as sure. Lors, yes ; and to
think the poor young dear is dead and gone.

It's thirty years since, but it do make me
cry, and my husband  he's gone too  my
husband he said to me, "Martha," he said,
' Martha " '

The landlady's garrulity was interrupted
by a light scream : ' Hugh, Hugh!'

Mercy Fisher stood in the doorway,
with wonder-stricken eyes and heaving
breast.

In an instant the poor little soul had
rushed into Hugh Eitson's arms with the
flutter of a frightened bird.

Oh, I knew you would come  I was
sure you would come,' she said, and dried
her eyes, and then cried again, and then
dried them afresh, and lifted her pouting
lips to be kissed.

Hugh Ritson made no display. A shade
of impatience crossed his face at first, but
it was soon gone. He tried to look pleased,
and bent his head and touched the pale
lips slightly.

 You look wan, you poor little thing,'
he said quietly. ' What ails you ?'

Nothing  nothing now that you have
come. Only you were so long in coming,
so very long.'

He called up a brave word to answer
her.

But you see I keep my word, little
woman,' he said, and smiled down at her
and nodded his head cheerfully.

And you have come to see me at last !
All this way to see poor little me !'

The mute weariness that had marked her
face fled at that moment before a radiant
smile.

One must do something for those who
risk so much for one,* he said, and laughed
a little.

'Ah I'

The first surprise over, the joy of that
moment was beyond the gift of speech.
Her arms encircled his neck, and she

VOL. II. 30

looked up at his face in silence and with
brightening eyes.

'- And so you found the time long and
tedious ?' he said.

I had no one to talk to,' she said with a
blank expression. ;.

Why, you ungrateful little thing, you
had good Mrs. Drayton here, and her son,
and all the smart young fellows of Hendon
who came to drink at the bar and to say
pretty things to the little barmaid, and '

It's not that  I had no one who knew
you she said, and dropped her voice to a
whisper.

But you go out sometimes  into the
village  to London ?' he said.

No, I never go out  never now.'

Then your eyes are really worse ?'

It's not my eyes. But never mind. Oh,
I knew you would not forget me. Only
sometimes of an evening, when the dusk
fell in and I sat by the fire all alone, something

would say, '' He doesn't want me,"
He won't come for me." But that was
not true, was it ?'

Why, no, of course not.'

And then when the children came  the
neighbour's children and I put the little
darlings to bed, and they said their prayers
to me, and I tried to pray too  sometimes
I was afraid to pray  and then, and then '
(she glanced round watchfully and dropped
her voice) ' something would say, " Why
didn't he leave me alone, I was so happy?" '

You morbid little woman, you shall be
happy again  you are happy nov, are you
not ?' he said.

Her eyes, bleared and red, but bright with
the shafts of love, looked up at him in the
dumb joy that is perfect happiness.

Ah,' she said, and dropped her comely
head on his breast.

But you should have taken walks  long,
healthy, happy walks,' he said.

302

I did  while the roses bloomed, and the
dahlias and things, and I saved so many of
them against you would come, moss roses
and wild white roses ; but you were so long
coming, and they withered. And then I
couldn't throw them away, because, you
know, they where yours ; so I pressed them
in the book you gave me. See, let me show
you.'

She stepped aside eagerly to pick up a
little gilt-edged book from the table in
the inner room. He followed her mechanically,
hardly heeding her happy
prattle.

And was there no young fellow in all
Hendon to make those lonely walks of yours
more cheerful ?'

She was opening her book with nervous
fingers, and stopped to look up with blank
eyes.

 Eh ? No handsome young fellow who
whispered that you were a pretty little thing,

and had no right to go moping about by
yourself ? None ? Eh ?'

Her old look of weariness was creeping
back.

Come, Mercy, tell the truth, you sly
little thing  eh ?'

She was fumbling his withered roses with
nervous fingers. Her throat felt parched.

He looked down at her saddening face,
and then muttered, as if speaking to himself,
' I told that Bonnithorne this hole and
corner was no place for the girl. He should
have taken her to London.'

The girl's heart grew sick. The book
was closed and dropped back on to the
table.

And now, Mercy,' said Hugh Ritson, ' I
want you to be a good little thing, and do
as I bid you, and not speak a word. Will
you ?'

The child-face brightened, and Mercy
nodded her head, a little tear rolling out of

one gleaming eye. At the same moment
she put her hand in the pocket of her muslin
apron, and took out a pair of knitted mittens,
and tried to draw them on to Hugh's
wrists.

He looked at the gift and smiled, and said,
I won't need these  not to-day, I mean.
See, I wear long gloves, with fur wristbands
there, I'll store your mittens away in my
pocket. What a sad little soul  crying
again ?'

Mercy's pretty dreams were dying one by
one. She lifted now a timid hand until it
rested lightly on his breast.

Listen. I'm going out, but I'll soon
be back. I must talk with Mrs. Drayton,
and I've something to pay her, you
know.'

The timid hand fell to the girl's side.

When I return there may be some friends
with me, a lady, and a gentleman, but I
want to see them alone, quite alone, and I

don't want them to see you  do you understand
?'

A great dumb sadness was closing in on
Mercy's heart.

But they will soon be gone, and then tomorrow
you and I must talk again, and try
to arrange matters so that you won't be quite
so lonely, but will stir about, and see the
doctor for your eyes, and get well again, and
try to forget '

'Forget?' said the girl faintly. Her
parched throat took away her voice.

I mean  that is to say  I was hoping 
of course, I mean forget all the trouble in
Cumberland. And now get away to bed
like a good little girl. I must be off. Ah,
how late  see, a quarter to eleven, and my
watch is slow.'

He walked into the bar, buttoning up his
coat to his ears. The girl followed him listlessly.
Mrs. Drayton was washing glasses
behind the counter.

Mind you send this little friend of mine
to bed very soon said Hugh to the landlady.
 Look how red her eyes are. And
keep a good fire in this cosy parlour on the
left  you are to have visitors. You need
not trouble about a bedroom  they don't
stay long. Let me see, what do they say is
the time of your last up-train ?'

To London ? the last one starts away at
the half past twelve,' said the landlady.

 Very good. I'll see you again, Mrs.
Drayton. Good-night, Mercy, and do keep
a brighter face. There  kiss me. low,
good-night  what a silly affectionate little
goose  and mind you are in bed and asleep
before I return, or I shall be that angry 
yes, I shall. You never saw me angry.
Well, never mind. Good-night.'

The door opened and closed. Mercy went
back into the room. It was cheerless and
empty, and the children's happy voices lived
in it no more. The girl's heart ached with

a dull pain that had never a pang at all, but
was dumb and dead and cold ; and Mercy
was all alone.

Perhaps he was only in fun when he said
that about walking out with somebody and
trying to forget, and not be seen,' she thought.
Yes ; he must have been only in fun,' she
thought, ' because he knew how I waited
and waited.'

Then she took up again the book that he
had hardly glanced at. It fell open at a
yellow dried-up rose that had left the stain
of its heart's juice on the white leaf

Yes ; he was only in fun,' she said, and
then laughed a little ; and then a big drop
fell on to the open page, and on to the dead
flower.

Then she tried to be very brave.

I must not cry ; it makes my eyes, oh !
so sore ; I must get them well and strong 
oh, yes ! I must be well and strong against 
against  ellen'

She lifted her head slowly where she stood
alone, and a smile, like a summer breeze on
still water, rippled over her mouth.

He kissed me,' she thought, ' and he
came to see me  all this long, long way.'

A lovely dream shone in her face now.

And if he does not come again until 
until then  he will be glad  oh, he will be
very glad!'

The thought of a future hour when the
poor little soul should be rich with something
of her own that would be dearest of
all because not all her own, shone like a
sleeping child's vision in her face. She went
out into the bar and lit a candle.

So that's your sweetheart  not the lawyer
man, ell' said Mrs. Drayton, bustling
about.

'I've no call to hide my face now  not
now that he has come  have I ?' said
Mercy.

Well, he is free cf his money, and I's just

been hoping you get some of it, for as I says
you wants things bad, and them as has the
looking to it should find 'em, as is only
reasonable.'

Mercy did as she had been bidden ; she
went off to her bedroom. But her head was
too full of thoughts for sleep. She examined
her face in the glass, and smiled and blushed
at it because he called it pretty. It was
prettier than ever to her own eyes now.
After half an hour she remembered that she
had left the book on the table in the parlour,
and crept downstairs to recover it. When
she was on the landing at the bottom, she
heard a hurried knock at the outer door.

Thereafter all her dreams died in an
instant.

When Hugh Eitson stepped out into the
road, the night was dark. Fresh from the
yellow light of the inn, his eyes could barely
descry the footpath, or see the dim black
line of the hedge. The atmosphere was
damp. The moisture in the air gathered in
great beads on his eyebrows and beard,
stiffening them with frost. It was bitterly
cold. The mist that rose from the river
spread itself over the cold open wastes of
marshy ground that lay to the right and to
the left. The gloomy road was thick with
half frozen mud.

Hugh Ritson buttoned his coat yet closer
and started at a brisk pace.

Xo time to lose,' he thought, ' if I've to
be at the station when the North train roes

o

through. AYould have dearly liked to keep
an eye on my gentleman. Should have
done it, but for the girl. ' Summit on,"
eh ? What is it, I wonder. It might be
useful to know.'

With a cutting wind at his back he
walked faster as his eyes grew familiar with
the darkness. He was thinking that Bonnie
terram mio-ht be in error. Perhaps
it had even been tampered with. It
was barely conceivable that Paul and
Greta had ever so much as heard of the
Hawk and Heron. And what possible
inducement could they have to sleep in
Hendon when they would be so near to
London ?

His mind went back to Mercy Fisher.
At that moment she was dreaming beautiful
dreams of how happy she was very soon to
make him. He was thinking, with vexation,

that the girl was a connecting link
with the people in Cumberland. Yes  and
the only link, too. Could it be that Mercy

No ; the idea of Mercy's disloyalty

to him was really too ridiculous. If he
could get to the station before the train
from the north was due to stop there, he
would see for himself whether Paul and
Greta alighted. If they did not, as they
must be in that train, he would get into it
also, and go on with them to London.
Bonnithorne might have blundered.

The journey was long, and the roads
were heavy for walking. It seemed a far
greater distance than he had thought. At
the angle of a gate and a thick briar hedge
he struck a match and read the time by his
watch. Eleven o'clock. Too late, if the
watch were not more than a minute slow.

At that moment he heard the whistle of
a train, and between the whirr of the wind
he heard the tinkle of the signal bell. Too

late, indeed. He was still a quarter of a
mile from the station.

The girl did the mischief he thought.

Still he held on his way, without hope for
his purpose, yet quickening his pace to a
sharp run.

He had come within three hundred yards
of the station when he heard an unearthly
scream, followed in an instant by a great
clamour and tumult of human voices.
Shrieks, shouts, groans, sobs, wails  all
were mingled together in one agonized cry
that rent the thick night air asunder.

Hugh Hits on ran faster.

Then he saw haggard men and women
appearing and disappearing before him in
the light of a fire that panted on the ground
like an overthrown horse.

The North train had been wrecked.

Within a dozen yards from the station
the engine and three of the front carriages
had broken from their couplings and

plunged on to the bank. The last four
carriages, free of the fatal chain, had kept
the rails and were standing unharmed
above.

Women who had been dragged through
the tops of the overturned carriages fled
away with white faces into the darkness of
the fields. Men, too, with panic-stricken
eyes, sat down on the grass helpless and
useless. Some resolute souls, roused to
activity, were pulling at the carriages to set
them right. Men from the station came
with lanterns, and rescued the injured,
and put them to lie out of harm's
way.

The scene was harrowing, and only two
of its incidents are material to this history.
Over all the rest, the clamour, the tumult,
the agony, the abject fear, and the noble
courage, let a veil be drawn.

Fate had brought together in that hour
of disaster three men whose lives, hitherto

apart, were henceforth to be bound up as
one life for good or ill.

Huo'h Ritson rushed here and there like
a man distraught. He peered into every
face. He caught up a lantern that someone
had set down, and ran to and fro in the
darkness, stooping to let the light fall on
those on the ground, holding up the red
glare to the windows of the uninjured
carriages.

At that moment all his frozen soul
seemed to melt. Face to face with the
pitiless work of destiny, his owen heartless
schemes disappeared. At last he saw the
face he looked for. Then he dropped the
lantern to his side, and turned the glass of
it from him.

Stay here, Greta,' said a voice he knew.
 I shall be back with you presently. Let
me lend them a hand over yonder,'

The man went by him in the darkness.

Hark !

VOL. II. 31

Hugh Ritson heard a cry from the field
beyond the bank. It was there that they
had placed the injured.

Help, help ! I am robbed  help V came
out of the darkness.

Where are you ?' asked another voice.

Here ; help, help !'

Hugh Ritson ran towards the place whence
the first voice came, and saw the figure of a
man stooping over something that lay on
the ground. At the same moment another
man rushed up and laid strong hold of the
stooping figure. There was a short, sharp
struggle. The two men were of one stature,
one strength. There was a sound as of
cloth ripped asunder.

At the next moment one of the men went
by like the wind, and was lost in the blackness
of the fields. But Hugh Ritson had
held up the lantern as the man passed and
caught one swift glimpse of his face. He
knew him.

A group bad gathered about the injured
person on the ground and about the other
man who had struo'o;led to defend him.
' Could you not hold the scoundrel ?' said
one.

I held him till his coat came to pieces in
my hand. See here,' said the other.

Hugh Ritson kneY the voice.

A piece of Irish frieze, I should say '
(feeling it).

You must have gripped him by the
lapel of his ulster. Let me keep this. I
am a police sergeant. AYhat is your name,
sir?'

Paul Ritson.'

And your address ?'

I was on my way to Morley's Hotel,
Trafalgar Square. What place is this ?'

Hendon.'

Could one oet accommodation here for
the night ? A lady is with me.'

Best go up by the twelve-thirty, sir.'

312

The lady is too much worn and excited .
Any hotel, inn, lodging-house?'

A porter came up.

The Hawk and Heron's handiest. A
mile, sir. Drayton  it's him as keeps
it  he's here somewhere. Drayton !'
(calling).

Can you get me a fly, my good fellow ?'

Yes, sir.'

The police sergeant moved off.

Then I may look for you at the Hawk
and Heron?' he said.

Hugh Ritson heard all. He kept the
lantern down. In the darkness not a face of
that group was seen of any man.

A quarter of an hour later Hugh Ritson,
panting for breath, Alas knocking at the door
of the inn. The landlady within fumbled
with the iron bar behind it.

Come, quick !' said Hugh.

The door opened and he stepped in
sharply, bathed in perspiration.

Is your son back T he said, catching his
breath.

'Back, sir? Xo, sir; it's a mercy if
he gets home afore morning, sir ; he's
noways '

Stop your clatter. The girl is in
her room. Go and turn the key on
her.*

It Alas at that moment that Mercy,
having stood an instant at the bottom of
the stairs, had ventured nervously into the
bar. Turnings about, Huo-h Ritson came
face to face with her. At the sisht of her
his crimsoning cheeks became white with
wrath.

Didn't I tell you to be in bed ?' he
muttered, in a low, hoarse whisper.

IVe only come for . I came down
for . . . Hugh, don't be angry with me.'

Come, get back then ; don't stand
snivelling there. Quick  and mind you
lock your door.'

Yes, I'm going. You wouldn't be angry
with me, would you?'

Well, no, perhaps not ; only get off 
and quick. Do you hear? Why don't you

go?'

'I only came down for . I only

came . . .'

'God! what foolery is this? The girl's
fainting. Never mind. Here, landlady,
bring a light. Lead the way. She's not too
heavy to carry. Upstairs with you. What
a snail you are, old Avoman. Which
room ?'

Another knock at the outer door. Another
and another in rapid succession.

I'm a-coming, I'm a-coming!' cried the
landlady from the floor above.

She bustled down the stairs as fast as her
stiff joints would let her, but the knock
came again.

Mercy me, mercy me, and whoever is
it?'

Damme, move your bones, and let me in.'

The door flew open with pressure from
without. Ghastly white, yet dripping' with
perspiration  his breath coming in short,
thick gusts, his neck bare, his shirt-collar
torn aside, the lappet of the frieze ulster
gone, and the rent of the red flannel lining-exposed
 Paul Drayton entered. He was
sober now.

Where is he ?' with an oath.

I'm here,' said Hugh Ritson, walking
through the bar and into the bar-room to
the right, a candle in his hand.

Drayton followed him, trying to laugh.

Am I in time?'

Of course you are,' with a hard smile.

Fearing I might be late.'

Of course you were.'

Ran all the way.'

Of course you did.'

What are you sniggering and mocking
at ?' with another oath.

Hugh Ritson dropped his banter, and
pointed without a word to the torn ulster
and the disordered shirt collar. Drayton
glanced down at his dress in the light of the
candle.

Crossed the fields for shortness, and
caught in a bramble bush,' he said,muttering.

Drop it,' said Hugh Ritson. ' There's
no time for it. Look here, Drayton, Tm a
downright man. Don't try it on with me.
As you say, it won't pass. Shall I tell you
where the collar of that coat is now ? It's
at the police-station.'

Drayton made an uneasy movement and
glanced up furtively. There was no mistaking
what he saw in Hugh Ritson's face.

I've my own suspicions as to what
caused that accident,* said Hugh.

Drayton shuddered and shrank back.

No, damme. That shows what you are,
though. Show me the man as alius suspects
others of lying, and I'll show you a

liar. Show me the man as alius suspects
others of stealing and I'll show you a thief.
You suspect me of that, d'ye? I know you
now !'

Xo matter,' said Hugh impatiently ;
'your sense of the distinction between
crimes is a shade too nice. One crime I
do not suspect you of  I saw you commit it.
Is that enough?'

Drayton was silent.

You'll go to the station with the lady.
The gentleman will go to London with me.
They are to come here after all, though my
first advice was a blunder.'

I'll take the twenty,' Drayton mumbled.

Will you now ? We'll discuss that
matter afterwards.'

Drayton seemed stupefied for a moment.
Then he lifted his haggard face and
grinned. Hugh linton understood him in
an instant.

No tricks, I tell you. If you don't put

the lady in the train  the right train  and
be back here at half past one, tomorrow
you shall improve your acquaintance with
the Old Bailey.'

Drayton carried his eyes slowly up to Hugh
Rit son's face, then dropped them suddenly.

'If Tm lagged, it will be a lifer,' he
muttered. He fumbled his torn ulster. ' I
must change my coat,' he said.

'No.'

She'll see the rent.'

So much the better.'

But the people at the junction will
see it.'

'What matter?  you will be there as
Paul Ritson, not Paul Drayton.'

Drayton began to laugh  to chuckle to
crow.

'Hush!'

The sound of carriage-wheels came from
the road.

They're here,' said Hugh Ritson. ' Keep

you out of sight as you value your liberty.
Do you hear ? Take care that he doesn't
see you, and that she doesn't see you until
he is gone.'

Drayton was tramping about the floor in
the intensity of his energy.

Here's the bar slide. Til just lift it an
inch.'

sot half an inch,' said Hugh, and he
blew out the candle.

Then he took the key out of the inside of
the lock, and put it on the outside.

What ! am I to be a prisoner in my
own house?' said Drayton.

I'll put the key on the bar-slide,' whispered
Hugh. ' When you hear the door
close after us, let yourself out  not a moment
sooner.'

The carriage - wheels stopped outside.
There was a sound as of the driver jumping
from the box. Then there came a
knock.

Hugh Ritson stepped back to Drayton
and whispered :

This is the very man who tried to hold
you  keep you close

 This way, sir, this way, my lady ; we
knew you was a-coming, so we kep' a nice
warm fire in the parlour. This way, my
lady, and mind the step up. Yes, it air
dark, but it's clean, sir ; yes, it is, sir ; but
there's a light in here, sir.'

Paul and Greta followed the landlady
through the dark bar.

We'll find our way, my good woman.
Ah, and how cosy you are in here. Aswarm
as toast on a cold night. Thank
you, thank you  and  why, surely we've 
we've surprised you. Did you say you
were expecting somebody ? Ah, I see.'

Mrs. Drayton was backing out of the

room with a pallid face and twitching at
the string of her apron. When she got to
the bar she was trembling from head to
foot.

I don't believe in ghosts she muttered
to herself, ' but if so be as I did believe in
ghosts, and afeard of 'em, I don't know
as . . Lors a mercy me ! Who was
a-saying as our Paul was like some one?
And now here's some one as is like our
Paul. And as much a match as two
peters, only more smarter, mayhap, and
studies.'

Whatever ails the old lady ?' said Greta
faintly.

Paul stood a moment and laughed.

Strange ! but wx can't trouble now.
What a mercy Averse safe and unharmed.'


 A fearful sight  I'll never, never forget
it,' said Greta, and she covered her
face.

Paul stepped to the door. The flyman
Alas bringing; in the luooao-e.

Leave the boxes in the bar, driver 
there, that will do. Many of them, eh?
Rather. Here's for yourself. Why, bless
my soul, who's this? What, Hugh!'

Hugh Ritson walked into the room calm
and smiling, and held out his hand to
Greta and then to his brother.

I came up to meet your train,' he said,
in answer to the look of inquiry.

AVell, that was good of you. Of course,
you know of the accident. How did you
find us here ?'

 I heard at the station that a lady and
gentleman had gone on to the Hawk and
Heron.'

And you followed ? Well, Hugh, I
must say that was brotherly of you, after
all. Wasn't it, Greta?'

Yes, dear,' said Greta faintly, her voice
trembling'.

Paul observed her agitation.

My poor girl, you are upset. I don't
wonder at it. You must get off for the
night. Hugh, you must excuse her. It
was a terrible scene, you know. Our new
life begins with a great shock to you, Greta.
never mind ; that only means that the
bright days are before us.'

Paul stepped to the door again, and
called to Mrs. Drayton.

Here, my good landlady, take my wife
to her room.'

The landlady hobbled up.

Room, sir, room ? The gentleman
didn't say nothing '

Take the lady to your best room
upstairs,' said Hugh with a significant
look.

Greta was going. Her step was slow
and uncertain.

Won't you say good-night, Greta ?' said
Huofh.

Good-nights she said, so faintly as
hardly to be heard.

The brothers looked after her.

'God bless her!' said Paul fervently.
The days before her shall be brighter if I
can make them so.'

Hugh Ritson closed the door.

Paul he said, ' you and your wife must
never meet again.'

Paul Ritson turned red and then ashy
pale. A scarcely perceptible tremble of
the eyelids, then a jaunty laugh, and then
an appalling solemnity.

What d'ye mean, man?' he said, with a
Vacant stare.

Sit down and listen,* said Hugh, seating
himself, and lifting the poker to draw the
lire together.

Quick, tell me what it is,' said Paul

adam.

'Paul, don't chafe. We are hot-tempered
men both at bottom,' said Hugh, and his
VOL. II. 32

eye perused his brother vith searching-power.


Don't look at me like that,' said Paul.
 Don't try to frighten me. Speak out, and
quickly.'

Be calm,' said Hugh.

Bah ! you take me blindfold to the edge
of a precipice and tell me to "be calm !" '

You are wrong'. I find you there and
remove the bandage,' said Hugh.

Quick ; what is it ? In another moment
I shall cry out.'

Hugh Eitson rose stiffly to his feet.

Paul, did you tell Greta she was marrying
a bastard ?'

With one look of anguish Paul fell back,
mute and trembling.

Did you tell her T said Hugh, with
awful emphasis.

Paul's eyes were on the ground, his head
bent forward. He was silent.

I thought you did not mean to tell her,'

said Hugli coldly. His eyes looked steadfastly
at Paul's drooping head. ' I think
so still.'

Paul said nothing, but drew his breath
hard. Hugh watched him closely.

To marry a woman under a false pretence
is it the act of an honourable man ? Is ita
cheat ? Give it what name you will.'

Paul drew himself up ; his lips were
compressed, and he smiled. ' Is this all V
he asked.

Why did you not tell her X said Hugh.

Because I had sworn to tell no one.
You will read that secret as you have read
the other.'

Hugh smiled. ' Say, rather, because you
dare not do so ; because had you told her,
she had never become your wife.'

Paul laughed vacantly. ' We shall see.
My own lips are sealed, but yours are free.
You shall tarnish the memory of our father
and blacken the honour of our mother.

322

You shall humble me, and rob me of my
Avise's love  if you will and can

Saying this, Paul stepped hastily to the
door, flung it open and cried : ' Greta !
Greta!'

Hugh followed him and caught his
arm. ' What are you doing ?' he said ina
hoarse whisper ; ' be quiet, I tell you, be
quiet.'

Paul turned about. * You say I am
afraid to tell her. You charge me with
trapping her into marrying me. You shall
tell her yourself, now, here, and before my
very face.'

Come in, and shut the door,' said
Hugh.

It would do no good, and perhaps some
harm. No matter, you shall tell her. I
challenge you to tell her.'

Come in, and listen to me,' said Hugh
sullenly, and, putting himself between Paul
and the door, he closed it. ' There is more

to think of than what Greta may feel,' he
added. ' Have you nothing to say tome
f

Paul's impetuous passion cooled suddenly.
I have made you atonement,' he said
faintly, and dropped into a seat.

Atonement !'

Hugh Ritson smiled bitterly.

Ashen you return, you will see,' said
Paul, his eyes once more on the ground.

You are thinking of the deed of attorney
I have heard of it already,' said Hugh.
A cold smile played on his compressed lips.

It was all that was left to do,' said
Paul, his voice hardly stronger than a
whisper. His proud spirit was humbled,
his challenge dead.

Paul, you have robbed me of my
inheritance, consciously, deliberately. You
have stood in my place. You stand there
still. And you leave me your pitiful deed
by way of amends.'

A black frown crossed Hugh Ritson's
face.

Atonement ! Are you not ashamed of
such mockery % What atonement is therefor
a wrong like that?'

I did it for the best ; God knows, I did
said Paul, and his head fell on the table.

Hugh Ritson stood over him, pale with
suppressed wrath.

Was it hest to hold my place until my
place was no longer worth holding, and
then to leave it with an empty show of
generosity ? Power of attorney ! What
right have you to expect that I will take
that from you ? To take my own from the
man who robbed me of it, and to receive
it back on my knees ! To accept it as a
gift, whereof the generosity of giving is
yours, and the humility of receiving is
mine !'

A strong shudder passed over Paul's
shoulders.

I was helpless ; I was helpless !' he
said.

Understand your true position  your
legal position. You were your mother's
illegitimate son '

I did it to protect her honour !'

You mean  to hide her shame.'

As you will. I was helpless, and I did
it for the best.'

Huo;h Eitson's face drew dark.

Was it best to be a perjured liar ? he
said.

Paul gasped, but did not reply.

Was it best to be a thief?'

Paul leapt to his feet.

God, give me patience !' he muttered.

Was it best to be an impostor V

Stop, for God's sake, stop !'

Was it best to be a living he  and all
for the sake of honour? Honour, forsooth!
Is it in perjury and robbery that honour
lies V

Paul strode about the room in silence,
ashy pale, his face convulsed and ugly.
Then his countenance softened, and his
voice was broken as he said :

Hugh, I have done you too much
wrong already. Don't drive me into more;
don't, don't, I beseech you.'

Hugh laughed lightly  a little trill that
echoed in the silent room.

At that heartless sound all the soul in
Paul Ritson seemed to freeze. No longer
abashed, he lifted his head, and put his foot
down firmly.

So be it he said, and the cloud of
anguish fell from his face. ' I say it was to
save our mother's good name that I consented
to do what I did.'

Consented V said Hugh, elevating his
eyelids.

You don't believe me % Very well ; let
it pass. You say my atonement is a
mockery. Very well, let us say it is so.

You say I have ke)! your place until it is
no longer worth keeping. You mean that
I have impoverished sour estate. That is
not true. And you know it is not true.
If the land is mortgaged, you yourself have
had the money.'

And who had a better right to it ?' said
Huoh, and he lao-hed again.

Paul waved his hand, and gulped down
the wrath that was rising.

You have led me the life of the damned.
You know well what bitter cup you have
made me drink. If I have stood to the
world as my father's heir, you have eaten
up the inheritance. If my father's house
was mine, I was no more than a cipher in
it. I have had the shadow, and you the
substance. You have undermined me inch
by inch.'

And, meantime, I have been as secret as
the grave,' said Hugh; and once more he
laughed lightly.

God knows your purpose  you do
nothing without one,' said Paul. * But it is
not I alone that have suffered. Do you
think that all this has been going on under
our mother's eyes without her seeing it V

Hugh Eitson dropped the bantering
tone.

Paul's face grew to an awful solemnity.

When our father died, it was to be her
honour or mine to die with him. That was
the legacy of his sin, heaven forgive him.
/ did not hesitate. But since that hour she
has wasted away.'

 Is this my fault V Hugh asked.

Heaven knows, and Heaven will judge
between you,' said Paul. ' She could bear
it no longer.' Paul's voice trembled as he
added, ' She is gone !'

There was a moment's silence. It was
as if an angel went by weeping.

I know it,' said Hugh coldly. ' She has
taken the veil. I have since seen her.'

Paul glanced up.

She is in the Catholic Convent at Westminster,'
said Hugh.

Paul's face quivered.

Miserable man ! but for you, how happy
she might have been !'

You are wrong,' said Hugh. ' It came
of her own misdeed  and yours.'

Paul strode towards his brother with
uplifted hand.

Xot another word of that,' he said, and
his voice was low and deep.

How could she examine her conscience
and be happy ? she had put an impostor
in the place of my father's heir,' said
Hugh.

She had put there your father's firstborn
son,' said Paul.

It is false ! She had put there her
bastard hy another man ?

Silent and awful, Paul stood a moment
with an expression of agony so horrible

that for an instant even Hugh Ritson
quailed before it.

Go on,' he said huskily, and crouched
down into his seat.

Your mother was married before,' said
Hugh, ' and her marriage was annulled.
It was invalid. A child was born of that
union.'

Paul lifted his head.

I won't believe it.'

It is true  and you shall believe it.'

Paul's heart sickened with dread.

Your father married again, and had a
daughter. Your mother married again, and
had a son. Your father's daughter is now
living. Shall I tell you who she is ? She
is your wife  the woman you have married
to-day.'

Paul sprang to his feet.

It is a lie !' he cried.

See for yourself said Hugh Ritson ;
and, taking three papers from his pocket,

he threw them on to the table. They were
the copies of certificates which Bonnithorne
had given him.

Paul glanced at them with vacant and
wandering eyes, fell back in his chair,
dropped his head on to the table, and
groaned.

Oh, God ! can this thing be ?'

Hugh Eitson looked down contemptuously.


When your mother told you that you
were an illegitimate son, she omitted to say
by what father. That was natural in her,

but cruel to you. I knew the truth from

%/

the first

Then you are a scoundrel confessed,'
cried Paul.

Hugh rolled his head slightly and made a
poor pretence to smile.

I knew how she had passed from one
man to another. I knew what her honour
counted for. And yet I was silent. Silent,

though by silence I lost my birthright. Say
noTv if yoa will, which of us  you or I 
has been the true oaiardian of our mother's
name?'

Paul got up again, abject, crushed,
trembling in every limb.

Man, man, don't gnaw my heart away.
Unsay your words. Have pity on me, and
confess that it is a lie  a black, foul lie.
Think of the horror of it  only think of it,
and have pity.'

It is true.'

Then Paul fell on to his knees and caught
his brother by the arm.

Hugh, Hugh, my brother, confess it is
false. Don't let my flesh consume away
with horror. Don't let me envy the very
dead who lie at peace in their graves ! Pity
her, if you have no pity left for me.'

I would save you from a terrible sin.'

Paul rose to his feet.

Now I how it is a lie he said, and all

the abject submission of his bearing fell in
one instant away.

Hugh Ritson's face flushed.

You know? "What do you know?'

There is that here,' said Paul, throwing
up his head and striking his breast, ' that
tells me it is false.'

Hugh smiled coldly, and regained his
self-possession.

My mother knew all. If Greta had been
my half-sister, would she have stood by and
witnessed our love?'

Hugh waved his hand deprecatingly.

Your mother was as ignorant of the
propinquity as you were. Robert Lowther
was dead before she settled at Lowlands.
The survivors knew nothing of each other.
The secret of that early and ill-flirted marriage
was buried with him.'

 Destiny itself would have prevented it,
for destiny shapes its own ends, and shapes
them for the best,' said Paul.

Yes, destiny is shaping them now,' said
Hugh, ' here, and in me. This is the point
to which the pathways of your lives have
tended. They meet here  and part.'

Paul's ashy face smiled.

Then Nature would have prevented it,*
he said. ' If this thing had been true, do
you think we should not have known it 
she and I  in the natural recoil of our own
hearts \ When true hearts meet, there is
that within which sanctions their love, and
says it is good. That is heaven's own license.
Xo sanction of the world or the
world's lav, no earthly marriage is like to
that, for it is the marriage first made by
nature itself. Our hearts have met, hers
and mine, and the same nature has sanctioned
our love and sanctified it. And
against that last, that first, that highest
arbiter, do you ask me to take the evidence
of these poor pitiful papers % Away with
them!'

Paul's eyes were bright; his face had lost
its shadows.

That is very beautiful, no doubt,' said
Hugh, and he smiled deeply. ' But I warn
you to beware.'

I have no fear,' said Paul.

See to it, I tell you. These lofty emotions
leave a void that only a few homely
facts can fill. Verify them.'

I shall, please God

Accept my statements and these papers,
or  disprove both'*

*I shall disprove them.'

Meantime, take care. Leave your wife
in this house until morning, but do you go
elsewhere.'

What V

Paul's anger was boiling up.

If you have wronged Greta '

'I have done her no wrong,' said Paul,
growing fiercer.

I say if you have wronged her, and

VOL. II. 33

would have it in your power to repair
the injurT-j you must pass this night
apart.'

hugh!' cried Paul, in white rage,
rising afresh to his feet. ' You have
tortured me and broken the heart of my
mother. You have driven me from my
home and her from the world. You have
thrust yourself between me and the woman
who loves me, and now, when I am stripped
of all else but that woman's love, and am
2:oin2: out to a strange land a stranger and
with empty hands, you would take her from
me also and leave me naked.'

I would save you from a terrible sin,'
said Hugh Ritson once again.

Out of my way,' cried Paul, in a thick
voice, and he lifted his clenched fist.

Take care, I tell you,' said Hugh.

Paul looked dangerous ; his forehead contracted
into painful lines ; his quick breathing
beat on Hugh's face.

For the love of heaven, get out of my
way !'

But with awful strength and fury his fist
fell at that moment, and Hugh Ritson was
dashed to the ground.

In an instant Paul had lifted his foot to
trample him, but he staggered back in
horror at the impulse, his face ghastly
white, his eyes red like the sun above snow.
Then there was silence, and then Paul
gasped in a flood of emotion :

Get up, get up. Hugh, Hugh, get up !'

He darted to the door and threw it open.

Come in, come in ; will nobody come ?'
he cried.

The landlady was in the room at a stride.
She had been standing' listening and
quivering, behind the door.

In another moment Greta hurried downstairs,
and hastened to Paul's side.

Paul was leaning against the wall, his
face buried in his hands.

332

Take him away be groaned, * before I
rue the day I saw him.'

Huob Ritson rose to bis feet.

Paul, what bas happened ?' cried Greta.

 Take bim away.'

And still Paul covered bis eyes from the
siofbt of what be bad done and bad been
tempted to do.

'Huge, what is it?'

Huge Ritson stepped to the door.

Ask your ImsbandJ be said with emphasis,
and an appalling calmness.  And
remember this night. You shall never
forget it.'

Then be baited out of the room.

Hugh Eitson walked to the bare room
opposite. The handle of the door did not
turn in his hand. Drayton held it at the
other side, and with head bent low he
crouched there and listened.

Who is it V he whispered, when Hugh
Ritson unlocked the door and pushed at
it.

Let me in,' said Hugh sullenly.

*I)oes he suspect?' whispered Drayton
dien the door closed again. ' Did he
follow me ? What are you going to do fora
fellow 1 Damme, but I'll be enough for
him!'

And Drayton groped in the dark room

among the dead cinders on the hearth, and
picked up the poker.

You fool!' said Hugh, in a low voice.
Put that thing down.'

'Isn't he after me? D'ye think I'm
2foinf]f to be taken? Let him come here
and see.'

Drayton tramped the room, and the floor
creaked beneath his heavy tread.

Speak lower, you poltroon !' Hugh whispered
huskily. ' He knows nothing about
you. He has never heard of you. Be quiet.
Do you hear?'

There was a light, nervous knock at the
door.

Who's there ?' said Hugh.

It's only me, sir,' said Mrs. Drayton
from without, breathing audibly, and speaking
faintly amid gusts of breath.

Hugh Ritson opened the door, and the
landlady entered.

Lors a mercy me, whatever ails the

gentleman ? Oh, is it yourself in the dark,
Paul? I'm that fearsome, I declare I shiver
and quake at nothing. And the gentleman
so like you, too. I never did see nothing
like it, I'm sure.'

Hush ! Stop your clatter. What does
he say?' said Hugh.

The gentleman ? He says and says
and says as nothing and nothing and
nothing will make him leave the lady tlvis
night'

He'll think better of that.'

 And wherever can I put them ? and me
only one room, forby Paul's. And no
cleaning and airing, and nothing. That's
what worries me.'

Hold your tongue. Put the lady in
your son's room. Your son won't need it
to-night'

That's where I did put her.'

Very well; leave her there.'

And the gentleman, too, belike ?'

The gentleman will go back with me.
Come, get away.'

Quite right; only there's no airing and
cleaning; and I declare I'm that fearsome
'

Hugh Ritson had taken the landlady by
the shoulders and was pushing her out of
the room.

One moment,' he whispered, and drew
her back. ' Anything doing upstairs V

Upstairs ?  the bed  airing '

The girl ? Has she made any noise
yet ? Is she conscious V

Eot as I know of. I went up and
listened and listened, and never a sound.
Deary me, deary me, I'm that fearsome '

Go up again, and put your ear to the
door.'

I'm afeard she'll never come round, and
her in that way, and weak, too, and '

At that instant there came from the dark
road the sound of carriage-wheels approaching.

Hugh Eitson thrust the landlady out
of the room, slammed the door to, and
locked it.

 What's that ?' said Drayton in a husky
whisper. ' Who do they want % You've
not rounded on a fellow, eh ?'

It's the carriage that is to take you and
the lady to Kentish Town,' said Hugh.
Hush. Listen !'

The driver rapped at the door with the
end of his whip, and shouted from his seat :
 Height, height  ready for Kentish Town '{
Eleven o'clock struck this half-hour.' Then
he could be heard beating his crossed arms
under his armpits to varm his hands.

The fool !' muttered Hugh,  can't he
keep his tongue in his mouth V

 Quite right,' shouted Mrs. Drayton, in a
shrill voice, putting her face to the windowpane.
'Belike it's for the gentleman,' she
explained to herself, and then, with candle
in hand, she began to mount the stairs.

The door of the room to the left opened,
and Paul Ritson came out. His great
strength seemed to be gone  he reeled like
a drunken man.

Landlady,' he said, ' when does your
last train go up to London ?'

At half past twelve,' said Mrs. Drayton,
from two steps up the stairs.

Can I ge at fly, my good woman, at this
hour of night '

The fly's at the door, sir  just come,
sir.'

Paul went back into the room where he
had left his Avise.

The two men in the dark room opposite
listened intently.

Be quiet,' whispered Hugh Ritson.  I
knew he must think better of it. He is
going. Keep still. Five minutes more,
and you start away with the lady for
Kentish Town. He shall walk to the

station with me. The instant we leave the
house, you go to the lady and say, " I have
changed my mind, Greta. AYe must go
together. Come." Xot a word more ;
hurry her into the fly, and away.'
Easier said nor done, say I.'

Alone with Greta, Paul kissed her fervently,
and his head fell on her shoulder. He was
prostrate. The strong man was as feeble asa
child now.

The black lie is like poison in my veins
he said.

'What is it?' said Greta, and she tried to
soothe him.

A lie more foul than man ever uttered
before  more cruel, more monstrous.'

What is it, dearest?' said Greta again,
with her piteous imploring face close to his.

'I know it's a lie. My heart tells me
it is a lie. The very stones cry out that it
is a lie.'

Tell me what it is '?' said Greta, and she
embraced him tenderly

But even while he was strno-o-linor with
the poison of one horrible word it was
mastering him. He jut his wife from him
with a strong shudder, as if her proximity
stung him.

Her bosom heaved. She looked a2:>pea]-
ingle into his face. ' If it is false she said,
vrliatever it is, why need it trouble you ?'

That is true, my darling,' he said,
gulping down his fear and taking Greta in
his arms, and trying to laugh lightly.
Why, indeed 'liy iGcd it trouble me?'

Can you not tell me ? she said with an
upward look of entreaty. She wasthinking
of what Huiih Ritson had said of an
impediment to their marriage.

Why should I tell you what is false.''

Then let us dismiss the thought of it
she said soothingly.

Why, yes, of course, let us dismiss the

thought of it, darling and he laughed a loud,
hollow laugh. His forehead was damp.
She wiped away the cold sweat. His
temples burned. She put her cool hand on
them. He was the very wreck of his
former self ; the ruin of a man.

Would that I could !' he muttered to himself.


Then tell me,' she said. ' It is my right
to know it. I am your wife now '

He drew himself away. She clung yet
closer. ' Paul, there can he no secrets
between you and me. Nothing can be kept
back.'

'Heavenly Father!' he cried, uplifting a
face distorted with agony.

If you cannot dismiss it, let it not stand
between us,' said Greta. Could it be true
that there had been an impediment ?

 My darling, it would do no good to tell
you. When I took you to be my wife, I
vowed to protect and cherish you. Shall I

keep my vow if I burden you with a black
lie that will drive the sunshine out of your
life ? Look at me  look at me /'

Greta's breast heaved heavily, but she
smiled with a piteous sweetness as she laid
her head on his breast, and said, ' Neo, while
I have you, no lie can do that.'

Paul made no answer. An awful burden
of speech was on his tongue. In the silence
they heard the sound of weeping. It was as
if some poor woman were sobbing her heart
out in the room above.

Dearest, when two hearts are made one
in marriage they are made one indeed,' said
Greta in a soft voice. ' Henceforth the
thought of the one is the" thought of both :
the happiness of the one is the happiness of
both ; the sorrow of the one is the sorrow
of both. Nothing comes between. Joy is
twofold joy when both share it, and only
grief is less for being borne by two. Death
itself, cruel, relentless death itself, even

death knits that union closer. And in
sunshine and storm, in this world and in
the next, the bond is ever the same. The
tie of the purest friendship is weak compared
with this tie. And even the bond of blood is
less strong.'

Oh, God of heaven, this is too much
said Paul.

Paul, if this union of thought and deed,
of joy and grief, begins with marriage and
does not end even with death, shall we nowhere,
at the threshold of our marriage, do it
wrong V

A great sob choked Paul's utterance.
I cannot tell you,' he cried ; ' I have sworn
an oath.'

 An oath V Then, surely, this present
trouble was not that which Hugh Kitson had
threatened.

Greta, if our union means anything, it
means trust. Trust me, my darling. I
am helpless. My tongue is sealed. I dare

not speak. Ko, not even to you. Scarcely
to God Himself;

There was silence for a moment.

That is enough,' she said very tenderly,
and now the tears coursed down her own
cheeks, ' I shall not ask again. I do not
wish to know. You shall forget that I asked
you. Come, dearest, kiss me. Think no
more of this. Come, now.' And she drew
his head down to hers.

Paul threw himself into a chair. His
prostration was abject.

Come, dearest,' said Greta soothingly,
be a man.'

There is worse to come,' he said.

What matter?' said Greta, and smiled.
I shall not fear if I have you beside me

I can bear it no more,' said Paul. ' The
thing is past cure.'

No, dearest, it is not. Only death is
that.'

Greta, you said death would bind us
VOL. II. 34

closer together, but this thing draws us
apart.'

No, dearest, it does not. That it cannot
do.'

 Could nothing part us?' said Paul, lifting
his face.

Nothing. Though the world divided us,
yet we should be together.'

Again the loud sobs came from overhead.


Paul rose to his feet, a shattered man no
more. His abject mien fell from him like a
garment. ' Did I not say it was a lie?' he
muttered fiercely. ' Greta, I am ashamed,'
he said ; * your courage disgraces me. See
what a pitiful coward you have taken for
your husband. You have witnessed a
strange weakness. But it has been for the
last time. Thank God, I am now the man
of yesterday.'

Her tears were rolling down her cheeks,
but her eyes were very bright. ' What do

you Lavish me to do?' she whispered. 'Is
it not something for me to do?'

It is, darling. You said rightly that the
thought of one is the thought of both.'

'What is it?'

A terrible thing. 

Xo matter. I am here to do it.
What?'

It is to part from me to-night  only for
to-night  only until tomorrow.'

Greta's face broke into a perfect sunshine
of beauty. ' Is that all ?' she asked.

My darling,' said Paul, and embraced
her fervently and kissed the quivering lips,
I am leading you through dark vaults,
where you can see no single step before
you.'

'But I am holding your hand, my
husband,' Greta whispered.

Speech was too weak for that great
moment Ao-ain the heart-breaking; sobs
fell on the silence. Then Paul drew a cloak

342

over Greta's shoulders, and buttoned up his
ulster. 'It is a little after midnight,' he
said with composure. ' There is a fly at
the door. We may catch the last train upto
London. I have a nest for you there,
my darling.'

Then he went out into the bar. ' Landlady,'
he said, ' I shall come back to-morrow'
for our luggage. Meantime let it lie here,
if it won't be in your way. We've kept
you up late, old lady. Here, take this
and thank you.'

Thankee, and the boxes are quite safe,
sir ; thanked.'

He threw open the door to the road, and
hailed the driver of the fly cheerily. ' Cold,
sleety night, my good fellow. You'll have
a sharp drive.'

Yes, sir; it air cold waiting, very, specially
inside, sir, just for want of summit short.'

'Well, come in quick and get it, my lad.*

Plight, sir.'

This,' she said, holding out one of themis
not the certificate of your birth. This
person, Paul Lowther, is no doubt my
father's lost son.'

Xo doubt,' said Paul, dropping his
head.

But he is thirty years of age  See ! You
are no more than twenty-eight.'

If I could but prove that, it would be
enough,' he said.

I can prove it, and I shall,' she said.

'You! How?'

'AVait until tomorrow, and see,' she
said.

He had put one arm about her waist and
was taking her to the door.

She stopped. * I can guess what the
black lie has been she whispered.

Xow, driver, up and away.'

Right, sir. Kentish Town Junction?'

The station, to catch the 12.30 up.'

The carriage door was opened and closed.
Then the bitter weeping from the upper room
came out to them in the night.

 Poor girl, whatever ails her? I seem to
remember her voice,' said Greta.

We can't wait,' Paul answered.

The clocks of London were striking one
when Paul and Greta descended the steps
in front of St. Pancras Station. The night
was dark and bitterly cold. Dense fog
hung in the air, and an unaccustomed silence
brooded over the city. A solitary four-wheeled
cab stood in the open square. The
driver was inside, huddled up in his greatcoat
and asleep. A porter awakened him,
and he made way for Greta and Paul. He
took his apron from the back of his horse,
wrapped it about his waist, and snuffed the
wicks of his lamps  they burned low and
red, and crackled in the damp atmosphere.
What hotel, sir ?'

The convent, Westminster.'

Convent, sir ? Did you say the convent,
sir ? S. Margaret's, Westminster, sir?'

The Catholic convent.'

Greta's hand pressed Paul's arm.

The cabman got on to the box, muttering
something that was inaudible. As he passed
the gate lodge he drew up while the porter
on duty came out with a lamp, and took the
number of the cab.

The fog grew more dense at every step,
and the pace at which they travelled was
slow. To avoid the maze of streets that
would have helped them to a shorter cut on a
clearer night, the driver struck along Euston-
road to Tottenham Court-road, and thence
south towards Oxford Street. This straighter
and plainer course had the disadvantage of
being more frequented. Many a collision
became imminent in the uncertain light.

The cabman bought a torch from a passer-by,
and stuck it in his whip barrel. As

they reached the busier thoroughfares he got
down from his box, took the torch in one
hand and the reins in the other, and stalked
at his horse's head.

The pace was now slower than before. It was
like a toilsome passage through the workings
of an iron mine. Volumes of noisome vapour
rolled slowly past them. The air hung close
over their heads like an unseen vaulted roof.
Red lights gleamed like vanishing stars down
the elastic vista. One light would turn out
to be a cofFee-stall, round which a group of
people gathered  cabman muffled to the
throat, women draggled and dirty, boys
with faces that were old. Another would
be a potato-engine with its own volumes of
white vapour, and the clank of its oven door
like the metallic echo of the miner's pick.
The line of regular lamps was like the line
of candles stuck to the rock, the cross streets
were like the cross-workings, the damp air
settling' down into streaks of moisture on the

glass of the cab window was like the ceaseless
drip, drip, of the oozing water from
overhead.

And to the two laden souls, sitting within
in silence and with clasped hands, the great
city, nay, the world itself, was like a colossal
mine which human earthworms had burrowed
underground, while the light and the
free air were both above.

At one point, where a patch of dry pavement
indicated a bakehouse under the street,
three or four squalid creatures crouched
together and slept. The streets were all but
noiseless. It would be two hours yet before
the giant of traffic would awake. The few
cabman hailed each other as they passed unrecognised,
and their voices sounded hoarse.
When the many clocks struck two, the
many tones came muffled through the dense
air.

The journey was long and wearisome, but
Paul and Greta scarcely felt it. They were

soon to part ; they knew not when they
were to meet again. Perhaps soon, perhaps
late ; perhaps not until a darkness deeper
than this should cover the land.

Turning into Oxford Street, the cabman
struck away to the west, in order to come
upon Westminster by the main artery of
Regent Street. The great thoroughfare was
quiet enough now. Fashion was at rest,
but even here and in its own mocking guise
misery had its haunt. A light laugh broke
the silence of the empty street, and a girl, so
young as to be little more than a child,
dressed in soiled finery, and reeling with
unsteady step on the pavement, came up to
the cab window and peered in.

At the open door of an hotel from
whence a shaft of light came out into the
fog, the cabman drew up. ' Comfortable
hotel, sir ; think you'd like to put up,
sir ?'

Paul dropped the window. ' We want

the Catholic convent at Westminster, my
man.'

The cabman had put up his torch, and
was flapping his arms under his armpits.
'Cold job, sir. Think I've had enough of
it. Ha'past two, and a mile from S. Margaret's
yet, sir. Got a long step home, sir,
and the missis looking out for me this hour
and more.'

The night porter of the hotel had opened
the cab door, but not for an instant did
Paul's purpose waver. ' I'm sorry, my
good fellow, but we must reach the convent,
as I tell you.'

 Won't tomorrow do, sir ? Comfortable
quarters, sir. Can recommend 'em,' with a
tip of his hand over his shoulder.

We must get to the convent to-night,
my man.'

The cabman returned to his horse's head
with a grunt of dissatisfaction. ' Porter,
can you keep a bed for me here ? I shall

be back in an hour,' said Paul. The porter
signified assent, and once aoain the cab
moved off on its slow journey.

As it passed out of Trafalgar Square by
Away of Charing Cross, the air suddenly
lightened. It was as if waves of white mist
rolled over the yellow vapour. The cabman
threw away his torch, mounted his box, and
set off at a trot. When he reached
Parliament Square the fog was gone. The
great clock of "Westminster was striking
three ; the sky was a dun gray behind the
clock tower, and the dark mass of the Abbey
could be dimly seen.

The cab drew up on the south-west of
Abbey Gardens and before a portico railed
in by an iron gate. The lamp burning on
the sidewalk in front cast a hazy light on
what seemed to be a large brick house, plain
in every feature.

This is S. Margaret's, sir. Eight
shillings, sir, if you please.'

Paul dismissed the cabman and rang the
bell ; the hollow tongue sent out a startling
reverberation into the night. The sky to
the east was breaking ; thin streaks of a
lighter gray foretold the dawn.

The door opened and the iron gate swung
back. A sister carrying an open oil lamp
motioned them to enter.

Can I see the Superior ?' said Pauli

She is newly risen,' said the sister, and
she fixed the lamp to a bracket in the wall
and went away. They were left in a bare,
chill, echoing hall.

The next moment a line of nuns in their
coifs passed close by them with quick and
silent steps. At that gray hour they had
risen for matins. Some of them were pale
and emaciated, and one that was palest and
most worn went by with drooping head and
hands that enlaced her rosary. Paul stepped
back a pace. The nun moved steadily
onward With the rest. Xever a sign of

recognition, never an upward glance ; only
the quivering of a lip  but it was his
mother.

He, too, dropped his head, and his own
lip trembled. The Mother Superior was
standing with them before he was aware.
For an instant his voice was suspended, but
he told her at length that a great calamity
had befallen them, and begged her to take
his wife for a time into her care.

Charity is our office,' said the Mother,
when she had heard his story. ' Come, my
sister, the Church is peace. Your poor
laden soul may put off its load while you
are here.'

Paul beoo;ed to be allowed a moment to
say farewell, and the good Mother left them
together.

Then from an inner chamber came the
solemn tones of an organ, and the full voices
of a choir. The softened harmonies seemed
to float into their torn hearts, and they wept.

The grey dawn was creeping in. It blurred
the red light of the lamp.

Good - bye, darling, good - bye,' Paul
whispered ; but even while he spoke he clung
the closer.

Good-bye for the present, dear husband,'
said Greta, and smiled.

AVho would have thought that this
calamity could wait for you at the very steps
of God's altar?'

A day will turn all this evil into good.'

At the threshold of our life together to
be torn apart !'

\ Think of it no more, dearest. Our lives
will yet be the brighter for this calamity.
Do you remember what Parson Christian
used to say? The happiest life is not
that which is always in the sunlight, but
rather that over which a dark cloud has
once lowered and passed away.'

Paul shook his head. ' My lips are sealed.
You do not know all. It is a cruel lie that

separates us. But what if it cannot be
disproved ?'

Greta's eyes were full of a radiant hopefulness.
' It can, and shall.'

Paul bent his head, and touched her
forehead with his lips. ' The past is a
silence that gives back no answer,' he said.
My mother alone could disprove it, and
she is dead to the world.'

Xot alone, dearest. I can disprove it.
AVait and see.'

Paul smiled coldly, and once more
shook his head. ' You don't know all,'
he said again, and kissed her reverently.
What if tomorrow, and tomorrow, and
tomorrow britons lioht to unravel this
mystery?'

Xever fear it. The finger of heaven is
in this,' said Greta.

Say rather the hand of destiny. And
how little we are, in the presence of that
pitiless power !'

VOL. II. 35

God sees all said Greta. ' He has led
me in here, and He will lead me out again

What if I have brought you for a day
and you remain for a year, for life?'

Then think that God Himself has taken
your wife at your hands

Paul's face, that had worn a look of deep
dejection, became distorted with pain.
Oh, it is horrible! And this cloister is to
be your marriage bed !'

Hush ! All is peace here. Good-bye,
dearest Paul. Be brave, my husband.'

Brave? Before death a man may be
brave. But in the face of a calamity like
this, what man could be brave ?'

God will turn it away.'

God grant it. But I tremble to ask for
the truth. The future is not more awful tome
now than the past.'

Keep up heart, dear Paul. You know
how pleasant it is to fall asleep amid storms
that shake the trees, and to awake in the

stillness and the sunshine, and amid the
sono's of the birds. To-morrow the falsehood
will be outfaced, and you will return
to fetch me.'

Yes said Paul, ' or else drag out my
days as an outcast in the world.'

Xo, no, no. Good-bye, dearest.' Then
the voice of the comforter failed her, and she
dropped her head on his breast.

The choir within chanted the matin service.
Paul removed the iron bar that crossed
the door and opened it. The opposite side
of the street was a blank wall, with haunt
boughs of leafless trees behind it and above
it, and beyond all was the dim Sanctuary.
Traffic's deep) buzz flowed in from the distance.
The dawn had reddened the eastern
sky, and the towers of the Abbey were black
against the glory of the coming day.

It may be that there is never a sunrise
on this old city but it awakens some one to
some new calamity,' said Paul ; ' yet surely

352

this is the heaviest stroke of all Good-bye,
my darling.'

Good-bye, my husband.'

Yonder gray old fabric has looked on
the scarred rums of many a life, but never a
funeral that has passed dovfn its aisles was so
sad as this parting. Good-bye, dearest wife,
good-bye.'

Good-bye, Paul.'

lie struck his breast and drew his breath
audibly. ' I must go. The thing is not to
be thought of and ended.'

Good-bye, Paul.' Pier face was buried
in his breast, to hide it from his eyes.

They say that the day a dear friend is
lost to us is purer and calmer in remembrance
than the day before. May it be so
with us !'

Hush ! You will soon be back to take
me away.' And Greta nestled closer to his
breast.

If not  if not'  his hot breathing beat

fast on her drooping head  ' if not, then  as
the world is dead to both without the other's
love  remain here  in this house  for ever.
Good-bye ! Good-bye T

He disenoao'ed her clino-ino- arms. He
pressed her cold broad with his quivering
lips. Her fears conquered lier brave heart
at last. A mist was fast hiding her from
him.

Good-bye ! good-bye !'

A moment's silence, a breaking sigh, a
rising sob, a last lingering touch of the
enlaced fingers, and then the door closed
behind him. She was alone in the empty
hall ; her lips were cold ; her eyes were shut.
The rosy hues of morning were floating
in the air, now rich and sweet and balmy
and restful, With the full, pure, holy harmonies
of the choir.

It was merely a momentary vexation which
Huo:h Ritson felt when the course that Paul
had taken had falsified his prescience. 'Xo
matter,' he said, ' it is only a question of
a day, more or less. The thing must be
done.'

Drayton made no attempt to conceal his
relief when the door closed and the fly drove
off. ' I ain't sorry the fence is gone, and
that's flat.'

Only, being gone, you will have a bigger
risk to run now, my friend,' said Hugh
Ritson, with undisguised contempt.

Drayton looked up with a glance half of
fear, half of suspicion. ' You ain't gone and

rounded on a fellow after all ? You ain't
told him as I'm here?'

Don't be a fool ! Get off to bed. Wait,
you must put me up for the night. You'll
take care of yourself if you're wise. The
police will be here in the morning ; take
my word for that.'

Here ? In the morning ? Xo I'

Ashen they asked for his address, he
save them the name of this house. They'll
not forget it. Men of that sort don't forget.'


I'll pound it they don't.'

They have memories for other things
beside addresses. Consider if they have any
other reason to remember the landlord of
your house ?'

Neo criss-crossing ! you don't do me same
as the old woman.'

Xo matter. You know best. Take care
of yourself, Mr. Drayton.'

Drayton buttoned his coat as near to the

throat as the torn Lappet would allow.
That's what I mean to do. I ain't going
to be lagged. It's a lifer this time, and
that would take the stiff 'king out of a
man.'

Where are you going T

No criss-crossing, I say.'

Leave this house, and they'll have you
in twenty-four hours.'

Stay here, and they'll lag me in twelve.
Being as that's twelve to the good, I'm off.'

Drayton's hand Alas on the door handle.
Hugh linton snatched it away. ' An idiot
like you deserves to be taken. Such men
ought to be put away.'

Drayton lifted his fist. ' Damme, but I'll
put you away if  if '

Hugh Ritson did not flinch. ' What if I
show you how to escape the consequences of
to-night's work altogether ?'

Drayton's uplifted hand fell. ' I ain't
objecting to that,' he growled. ' How V

 By putting another man in your place.'

Drayton's eyes opened in a stare of blank
amazement. ' And what about me ?' he
asked.

You,' said Hugh Ritson, and a scarcely
perceptible sneer curled his lip  ' you shall
stand in Ms shoes.'

A repulsive smile crossed Drayton's face.
He fumbled the torn lappet with restless
fingers. His eyes wandered to the door.
There was a moment's silence-him?'

he said, with an elevation of the
eyebrows.

Hugh Ritson bent his head slightly.
Drayton stood with mouth agape.

Old Mrs. Drayton was pottering around
the bar preparatory to going to bed.

I'll be a-bidding you good night, sir.
Paul, you'll lock up after the gentleman.'

Good night, Mrs. Drayton.'

The landLady hobbled away. But from
midway up the stairs her querulous voice

came again. ' The poor young thing  I
declare she's a-crying her eyes out.'

What d'ye mean to do ?' asked Drayton.

Forget him here.'

 Howell ye track him ? He's gone to
London, ain't he? That's a big haystack to
find a needle in, ain't it ?'

London is not a haystack, Mr. Drayton.
It's a honeycomb, and every cell is labelled.
On getting out of the train at St. Pancras
Station they will either hire a cab or they will
not. If they hire one, then the number will
be taken at the lodge. By that number the
cabman can be found. He will know where
he drove his fare. If my brother left his
wife at one place and settled himself at
another the cabman Avill know that also.
If they do not hire a cab, then, as the houris
late, and one of them is a lady, they must
be somewhere in the vicinity of the station.
Thus in that vast honeycomb their particular
cells are already marked out for us. That's

enough for the present. Who sleep in this
house beside yourselves -and the girl?'

 Nobody but a lad  a potboy.'

 Where is he now  in bed ?'

Four hours ao'one.'

Adhere does he sleep 1'

 Up in the attic'

Don't let that lad see you. On which
side of the house does the attic lie V

In the gable this end.'

Is there an attic in the other gable ?'

Yes, a bad one.'

Xo matter. Get a mattress and sleep
there yourself, and lie close all day tomorrow.
Take food, but no liquor, mind
that. I'll come for you when all is clear.
And now shoal me to your room.'

After some preparation, the two men
Event upstairs, carrying the only remaining
light.

Give me the candle. You had best go
up to your attic in the dark. Here, put

this key in the girl's door and unlock it.

She's quiet enough now. Hush ! Xo ;

it was only the wind. Good-night  and
mind what I say, don't let that boy see
you  and, listen, no liquor!'

The day had not yet dawned, and all lay
still in that house, when lercy Fisher
opened noiselessly the door of her room, and
crejDt stealthily down the stairs. It was
very dark in the bar below, and she had no
light. The sickening odour of dead tobacco
was in the air. She carried a little bundle
in one hand, and With the other she felt her
way around the walls until she came to the
outer door. A heavy chain fastened it, and
with nervous fingers she drew it out of the
slide. When free of its groove, it slipped
from her hand, and fell against the door-jamb
with a clang. The girl's heart leapt
to her throat. At first she crouched in

fear, then lifted the latch, opened the door,
and fled away into the gloom without,
leaving the door wide open.

Never to the last day of her life did she
know what purpose guided her in that hour.
She had no object, no aim. Only to fly
away from a broken heart. Only to lie
down on the earth and know no more, withall
the heart-ache over. But she was drifting
in her blind misery to that reservoir of life,
London.

She hurried down the road, never once
looking back. The leafless trees were
surging in the night-wind ; their gaunt
branches were waving grimly over her head.
The hedges took fantastic shapes before her
and beside her. Her limbs trembled and
her teeth chattered, yet she hastened on.
Her head ached. She felt suffocated. The
world was so cruel to her. If only she
could fly from it and forget  only forget !

The day was dawning ; the deep blue of

the sky to the left of her was streaked with
thin bars. All before her was a blank void
of dun gray. A veil of vapour beat against
her cheeks. The wide marshy lands lay in
mist around her. Xot a sound but her own
footstep on the road. Xot a bird in the
empty air. Xot a cloud in the blank sky.
It was a dreary scene ; neither day nor
night.

And through this grim realnrthat is aloof
from all that is human, one poor heartbroken
girl hurried on, her little bundle in
her hand, a shawl wrapped about her
shoulders, her red, tearless eyes fixed in
front of her.

Like the spirit of unrest, the wind moaned
and soughed. Xow and then a withered leaf
of last year went by her with a light rustle
and stealthy motion. Desolate as the heart
within her was the waste around.

Bit by bit the gray sky lightened ; the
east was fretted over with pink, and a freshness

was breathed into the air. Then she
beofn to run. Behind her were all her
pretty dreams, and they were dead. Behind
her was the love she had cherished, and that
was dead too. From a joyful vision she
had awakened to find the idol cold at her
breast.

Running hard along the gloomy road,
under the empty sky, through the surging
wind, the outcast girl cried in her tearless
grief as a little child cries for the
mother who is in her grave  never knowing
its loss until it has grown tired and
weary and sick, and the night is very
near.

She came to a brick ddln that stood
back from the road. Its wreathing smoke
coiled slowly upward in the smoke-like
atmosphere. The red 'haze drew her to it,
as it drew the shivering waifs of the air.
Cold and tired she crept up and stood some
minutes in the glow ; but a step fell on her

ear from behind the kiln, and she stole away
like a guilty thing.

Away, away, she knew not where. On,
on, she knew not why.

The day had dawned now. In the brightness
of morning her heart sank lower.
Draggled and soiled, her hair still damp with
the dew, and the odour of night in her
dress, she walked on in the golden radiance
of the risen sun.

Oh, to bury herself for ever, and yet not
to die  no, no, not to die !

At a cross-road there was a finger-post,
and it read, ' To Tilbury.' Beyond it there
was a wood, and the sunlight played on the
pine trees, and reddened the dead leaves that
still clung to an oak. She Alas warm now,
but oh, so tired. Behind the ambush of a
holly-bush, close to the road, Mercy crept
down on a drift of withered leaves at the
foot of a stout beech. She dozed a little and
started. All was quiet. Then weary nature
VOL. II. 36

conquered fear and overcame sorrow, and
she slept.

And sleep, that makes kings and queens
of us all  gracious sleep made a queen
of the outcast girl, a queen of love ; and
she dreamt of her home among the mountains.


Mercy was still sleeping when a covered
wagon, such as carriers use, came trundling
along the road. The driver, a bright-eyed
man, with the freshness of the fields in his
face, sat on the front rail and whistled. His
horse shied at something, and this made
him get up. He was at that moment in
front of the holly-bush, and he saw Mercy
lying behind it.

Her face worn and pale, her bonnet fallen
back from her forehead ; her head leaning
against the trunk of the tree, one hand on
her breast, the other straying aside on the
drift of yellow leaves, where a little bundle
covered by a red handkerchief had fallen

from lier graceless fingers  and the radiant
morning sunlight over alL

The driver of the wagon jumped to the
ground. At the same moment Mercy awoke
with a frightened look. She rose to her
feet, and would have hurried away.

Young to be granting about, ain't ye,
missy ?' said the driver. His tone was
kindlier than his words.

Let me go, please,' said Mercy, and she
tried to pass.

Course, course, if yer Avants to.'

lercy thanked him, her eyes on the
ground. She was already on the road.

Being as you're going my way, I ain't
objecting to giving you a lift.'

Xo, thank you. I have no  I've no
money. I must run.'

You'll wait till I ax for it, won't ye,
missy? Come, get up.'

And will you let me go down whenever
Hike?'

3G 2

Course I will ; why not ? Up with ye.
There, easy, kneel on the shaft, that's the
size of it. Xow go set yourself clown on
them sacks. Them's apples, them is.
Right? Very well. We're off, then.'

The wagon was about half fall of sacks,
and Mercy crept down in the farthest corner.

I ain't in the apple line regular. I'm a
fern-gatherer, that's wot I am. Only nature
don't keep serving all the year round, so I've
forced to go fruiting winter times  buying
apples same as them from off'n the farmers
down the country, and bringing 'em up to
Covent Garden. That's where I'm going
now, that is. And got to be there afore
the sales starts.'

Mercy listened, but said nothing.

You know Covent Garden  not fur from
Leicester Square and the Haymarket?'

Mercy shook her head.

what! Never been there  and that
near ?'

Mercy shook her head again and dropped
her eyes.

The driver twisted about to look at her.
Let a be, she's feeling it bad,' he thought,
and was silent for a moment. Then he
twisted about for another look.

I say, missy, got bad eyes T

They're sore and a little dim said
Mercy.

Blest if you don't look the spitting image
of a friend of mine  'bourn the eyes, I mean
red and swelled up and such. It was
Tom Crow, a partner of mine, in fact. Tom
caught cold sleeping out one night as we
Alas termino' down Eoo;er Tichborne's estates
him as was the claimant for 'em, you
know, only he didn't get 'em. The cold
few to Tom's eyes straight, and blest if he
ain't gone blind as a mole.'

Mercy's lips quivered. The driver
stopped his chatter, conscious that he had
gone too far, and then, with somewhat

illogical perversity, he proceeded to express
his vexation at himself by punishing his
horse.

Get along, you stupid old perverse old
knacker's crutch!'

The horse set off at a trot. They passed
through a village, and Mercy read the name
Child's Hill printed on the corner of a
house.

'Is it London you are going to?' said
Mercy timidly ; ' Covent Garden  is that
London ?'

Eh ?' The driver opened his eyes very
wide in a blank stare.

Mercy trembled, and held down her head.
They jogged on awhile in silence, and then
the driver, who had cast furtive glances at
the girl, drew the rein, and said, ' I'm
vexed as I said Tom Crow was as blind asa
mole. How-andover, a mole ain't blind,
and it's only them coster chaps as think so,
but I've caught a many of 'em out serving.

Besides, Tom was worried with his missus,
Tom was, and happen that was worse nor
his cold

[' Get along, you old perverse old file I']
You see, Tom's missus cut away and
left him. As young as you, and maybe as
good to look at, but a bad un ; and she
broke Tom's heart, as the saying is. So
Tom left the serving. He hadn't no heart
for it. Morning' s a thing as wants heart, it
do. He started fostering first, and now
Tom's got a 'tater engine, only being as he's
blind he has a boy to wheel it. And that
woman she done it all. '' Jim Grounded,"
he says to me  that's my name  " Jim' he
says, " don t fix your heart on nothing," he
says, " and keep to your sight and the
serving." '

[' Well, you perverse old crutch ! Get
along with you']

'But I went and done it myself. And
now my missus, she's a invalide as they

say, and she ain't out o' bed this twelvemonth
come Christmas, and she gets lonesome
lying all by herself, and frets a bit
maybe, and '

[' Get along, will you, you waxing old
fence !']

There was a long silence this time. They
were leaving the green fields behind them,
and driving: through looser streets than

o o o

Mercy had ever seen before. Though the
sun was shining feebly, the lamps on the
pavement were still burning. They passed
a church, and Mercy saw by the clock that
it was hard on eight. They drove briskly
through Camden Town into St. Giles's, and
so on to Long Acre.

The streets were thronged by this time.
Troops of people were passing to and fro.
Cabs and omnibuses Avere rattling hither and
thither. At every turn the crowd became
denser, and the noise louder. Mercy sat in
her corner bewildered. The strange city

frioiitenerl her. For the time it drove

o

away the memory of her sorrow.

When they reached Covent Garden, Jim,
the driver, drew up with a jerk, and nodded
to some of the drivers of similar wagons,
and hailed others with a lusty shout. All
was a babel to the girl's dazed sense :
laughter, curses, yelling, whooping, quarrelling.


]\Iercy's head ached. She got down,
hardly knowing what to do next. Where
was she to go ? In that wilderness of
London, more desolate than the trackless
desert, what was she?

She stood a moment on the pavement,
her little bundle in her hand, and all the
bewildering scene went round and round.
The tears rose to her eyes, and the glare and
the noise and the tumult Avere blotted out.

The next instant she felt herself being
lifted back into the wagon, and then she
remembered no more.

Two days later, Hugh Kit son entered the
convent church of S. Margaret. It was
evening service, and the nave was thronged
from chancel to porch. The aisles, which
were bare of seats, were filled only halfway
down, the rest of the pavement being
empty save for a man here and there who
leaned lightly against the great columns of
the heavy colonnade.

The sermon had already begun. Hugh
Ritson walked up the aisle noiselessly until
he came close behind the throng of people
standing together. Then he stood at the
side of a column and looked round on those
in the nave.

He was within range of the preacher's
voice, but he hardly listened. His eyes
traversed the church until at last they rested
on one spot in the south transept, where a
company of nuns sat with downcast eyes
half closed. The face of one of them was
hidden beneath her drooping coif ; the
rosary held to her breast was gripped with
nervous fingers. Near at hand there was
another face that riveted Huorh Kit son's
gaze. It was the face of Greta, radiant in
its own beauty, and tender with the
devotional earnestness of parted lips and of
lashes wet With the dew of a bruised spirit.

From these two his eyes never wandered
for longer than a minute. Languidly he
listened to the words that floated over the
people and held them mute. The preacher
was a slight young man, emaciated, pale,
with lustrous eyes, and a voice that had a
thin, meek pipe. But the discourse was ina
strain of feverish excitement, a spirit of

hard intolerance, a tone of unrelenting
judgment, that would have befitted the
gigantic figure and thunderous accents of
the monk Jerome.

There is a way that seemeth right unto
a man, but the end thereof is death This
was the text, twenty times repeated. Men
talked of the rights of conscience, as if conscience
were God's law. They babbled of
toleration, as if any heresy were to be endured
if only it were believed. Conscience ! It
was the slave of Circumstance. Toleration!
It was the watchword at the gate of hell.

Hugh Ritson listened with a vague
consciousness, his eyes fixed alternately on
the nun with the drooping coif and on the
fair upturned, face beside her. At last a
ivory struck him, and made his whole soul
to vibrate. Men, women, the great mute
throng, pillars, arches, windows of figured
saints, altar a-flame with candles, the
surpliced choir, and the pale thin face with

the burning eyes in the pulpit above  all
vanished in an instant.

What was true, said the preacher, in the
realm of thought, could not be false in the
world of life. Men did evil deeds and
justified them to their own enslaved minds.
Neo way so dark but it had appeared to bethe
path of light ; none so far wrong but it
had seemed to be rioht. Let man beware
of the lie that he told to his own heart.
The end thereof is death.

Staring from a bloodless face, Hugh
Ritson reeled a step backwards, and then
clung with a trembling hand to the pillar
against which he had leaned. The harsh
scrape of his foot was heard over the
hushed church, and here and there a neck
was craned in his direction. His emotion
was gone in an instant. A light curl of
the hard lip told that the angel within him
had once again been conquered.

The sermon ended with a rapturous

declaration of the immutability of God's
law, and the eternal destinies of man. The
world was full of change, but man, who
seemed to change most, changed least. The
stars that hung above had seen the beginning
and the end of ages. Before man was, they
were. The old river that flowed past the
old city that night had flowed there centuries
ago, and generations of men had lived and
died in joy and sorrow, and still the same
waters washed the same shore. But the
stars that measured time itself, and the sea
that recorded it, would vanish away, and
man should be when time would be no more.
They shall perish, but thou shalt endure.
They shall wax old as doth a garment. . . .
But thou art the same, and thy years shall
have no end.'

The preacher finished, and the buzz and
rustle of the people shifting in their seats
told of the tension that had been broken.
Faces that had been distorted with the

tremors of fear, or contracted with the
quivering of remorse, or glorified with the
light of ecstasy, resumed their normal
expression.

The vesper hymn was sung by the whole
congregation, standing. It floated up to
the blue roof, where the lights that burned
low over the people's heads left in the gloom
the texts written on the open timbers and
the imaged Christ hung in the clerestory.
There was one voice that did not sing the
vesper hymn ; and the close-locked lips of
Hugh Ritson were but the symbol of the
close-locked heart.

He was asking himself, was it true that
when the fire of the stars should be burnt
to ashes, still man would endure ? Pshaw !
What was man? These throngs of men,
whose great voice swelled like the sea, what
were they? In this old church where they
sang, other men had sung before them, and
where were they now ? AVho should say they

had not perished ? Living, believing, dying,
the' were gone : gone with their sins and
sorrows ; gone with their virtues and
rewards ; gone from all sight and all
memory ; and no voice came from them,
pealing out of the abyss of death to join
this song of hope. Hope ! It was a dream.
A dream that great yearning crowds like
these, filling churches and chapels, dreamt
asse after ao'e. But it was a dream from
which there would be no awakening to
know that it was not true.

The priest and choir left the church.
Then the congregation broke up and
separated. Hugh Kit son stood a while,
still leaning against the column of the
colonnade. The nuns in the south transept
rose last, and went out by a little aperture
opening from the south aisle. Hugh
watched them pass at the distance of the
width of the nave. Greta Walked a few
paces behind them. When the people had

gone, and she rose from her seat, her eyes
fell on Hugh. Then she dropped her head,
and walked down the aisle with a hurried
step. Hugh saw her out ; the church Alas
now empty, and the voluntary was done.
He followed her through the door, and
entered into the sacristy.

Before him was another door ; it led
into the convent. The last of the line of
nuns was passing through it. Greta stood
in the sacristy, faint, with a scared face,
one hand at her breast, the other on the
base of a crucifix that stood by the wall.
When she saw that he had followed her, her
first impulse was to shrink away ; her
second impulse was to sink to her knees at
his feet. She did neither. Conquering her
faintness, but still quivering from head ta
foot, she turned upon him with a defiant
look. ' Why do you come here? I do not
wish to speak with you. Let me pass,' she
said.

VOL. II. 37

Hugli Eitson made no effort to detain
lier He stood before her with downcast
eyes, his infirm foot bent under him. ' I
come to bid you farewell he said calmly ;
I come to say that we may meet no
more.'

Would that we had parted for ever
before we met the last time!' said Greta
fervently.

Would that we had never met !' said
Hugh, in a low voice.

That was a lie with Which you parted
me from my husband she said.

It was  God forgive me.'

And you knew it was a lie said Greta.

I knew it was a lie.'

Then where is your shame, that you can
look me in the face ? Have you no shame T
she said.

Have you no pity?' said Hugh.

What pity had you for me ? Have you
not done me wrong enough already?'

God knows it is true. And He knows
I am a miserable man. Have pity and
forgive, and say farewell.'

Something of contrition in the tone
touched her. She was silent.

The preacher was wrong,' he said.
There is no spirit of evil. We are betrayed
by our own passions. And the
chief of those passions is love. It is the
Nemesis that stalks through the world,
haunting all men, and goading some to
great wrong.'

It was of your doing that I came here,'
said Greta.

Would to God it may be of my doing
that you remain here said Hugh.

That is a prayer He will not hear. I
am leaving: this house to-night. There is
some one coming who can unmask your
wicked falsehood.'

Parson Christian?' said Huofh.

Greta made no answer, and Hugh 



tinned, ' His journey is needless. A word
from my mother would have done all. She
is in this house.'

 Yes, Heaven forgive you, she is here
said Greta.

You are wrong ; you do not know all.
Where is your husband ?'

Greta shook her head.  I have neither
seen him nor heard from him since we
parted at these doors she said.

And when jou leave them to-night, do
3'ou leave him behind you ?' said Hugh.

Heaven forbid !' said Greta passionately.

Hugh Ritson's bloodless slice was awful
to look upon. ' Greta he said, in a tone of
anguish, ' give up the thought. Look on
that false union as broken for ever, and all
this misery Avill end. It was I and you 
you and I. But that is over now. I do
not come between you. It is useless to
think of that. I do not offer you my love;
you refused it long ago. But I cannot see

you my brother's wife. That would be too
much for me to endure. I will not endure
it. Have pity upon me. If I have no
claim to your love, have I no right to your
pity? What have I suffered for your love?
A life's misery. What have I sacrificed
to it ? M} name  my place  my inheritance.'


Greta lifted her eyes with a look of
inquiry.

 What ? Has he not even yet told you
all T said Hugh. * Xo matter. What has
he done to earn your love that I have not
done? What has he suffered? What has
he sacrificed V

If this is love, it is selfish love,' said
Greta in a broken voice.

Selfish ?  be it so. All love is selfish.'

Leave me, leave me.'

Hugh Eitson paused ; the warmth of his
manner increased. 'I will leave you,'
he said, ' and never seek you again ; I

will go from you for ever, and crush
down the sorrows that must be With me
to the end, if you will promise me one
thing.'

What is it "?' said Greta, her eyes on the
ground.

'It is much,' said Hugh, ' but it is not
all. If the price is great, think of the
misery that it buys  and buries. You
would sacrifice something for me, would
you not f

His voice swelled as he spoke, and his
pale face softened, and the light of hopeless
love was in his great eyes.

Say that you would  for me  me !' He
held out his arms towards her as if soul and
body together yearned for one Avoid, one
look of love.

Greta stood there, silent and immovable.
What is it?' she repeated.

Let me think that you would do something
for my sake  mine,' he pleaded.

Let me carry away that solace. Think
what I have suffered for you, and all in vain.
Think that perhaps it was no fluilt of mine
that you could not love me ; that another
woman might have found me worthy to
be loved Who had not been unworthy of
love from me.'

What is it ?' repeated Greta coldly,
but her drooping lashes were wet with
tears.

Think that I am of a vain, proud,
stubborn spirit ; that in all this world
there is neither man nor woman, friend nor
enemy. to whom I have sued for o-race or
favour ; that since I was a child I have
never even knelt in prayer in God's house
that man miodit see or God mio-ht hear.
Then think that I am at your feet, a
miserable man.'

What is it V said Greta again.

Hugh Ritson paused, and then added
more calmly : ' That you should take the

VOWS and the veil, and stay here until
death.'

Greta lifted her eyes. Hugh's eyes were
bent upon her.

Xo ; I cannot. I should be false to my
marriage vows she said quietly.

To be true to them is to be false to
yourself, to your husband, and to me said
Hugh.

I love my husband said Greta with an
eloquent, glance.  To be true to them is to
be true to him.'

There was a pause. Hugh Eitson's
manner underwent a change. It was the
white heat of high passion that broke the
silence when he spoke again.

Greta,' he said, and his deep voice had
a strong tremor, ' if there is any truth in
what that priest told us to-night  if it is
not a dream and a solemn mockery made to
enchant or appal the simple  if there is
a God and judgment  my soul is already

too heavily burdened with sins against you
and yours. I would have eased it of one
other sin more black than these ; but it is
not to be

 AVhat do you mean ?' said Greta. Her
face was panic-stricken.

Hugh Ritson came a step nearer. ' That
your husband is in my hands  that one
word from me would commit him to a doom
more dreadful than death  that if he is to
be saved as a free man, alive, you must
renounce him for ever.'

Speak plain. AVhat do you mean?' said
Greta.

Choose  quick. Which shall it be ?
You for this convent, or your husband
for lifelong imprisonment ?'

Greta's mind was in a whirl. She was
making for the door in front of them. He
stepped before her.

I parted you with a lie,' he said, ' but tome
it was not ahavs a lie. I believed it

once. Do you think I should have denied
myself my inheritance, and let a bastard
stand in my place, if I had not believed
it?'

What further lie is this ?' said Greta.

No matter. Heaven kno\YS. And all I
did was for love of you. Is it so guilty
a thing that I have loved you  to all
lengths and ends of love? I meant to put
a hemisphere between you  to send him to
Australia and you back home to Cumberland.
What if the lie had then been outfaced
? I should have parted you, and
that would have been enough.'

And now, when your revenge falls idle
at your feet, you come to me on your knees,'
said Greta.

'Revenge? That was but a feeble revenge,'
said Hugh. * He would have
learned the truth and come back to claim
you. There would have been no peace forme
while he was alive and free. Do I

come to you on my knees ? Yes ; but it is
to pray of you to save your husband. Is it
so much that I ask of you ? Think what is
earned by it. If you have no pity for me,
have you none for him ?'

She was struggling to pass him. 'Greta
he said, ' choose, and at once. It is now or
never. To-night  tomorrow will be too
late. You for a holy life of self-announcement,
or your husband to draof out his
miserable days in penal servitude.'

This is only another lie. Let me pass,'
she said.

It is the truth, as sure as God hears
us,' said Hugh.

I shall never believe it.'

I will swear it.' He laid a strong hand
on her wrist. ' ' I will swear it at the
very foot of God's altar.'

He tried to draw her back into the
church. She resisted. ' Let me go ; I shall
cry for help.'

He dropped her wrist, and fell back flora
her. She drew herself up in silence, and
walked slowly away.

He stood a moment, alone in the sacristy.
Then he went out through the church. It
was empty and all but dark. The sacristan
with a long rod was putting out the lights
one by one. He turned, with arm uplifted,
to look after the halting figure that passed
down the aisle and out at the west porch.

Abbey Gardens, the street in front, was
dark and all but deserted. Only a drunken
woman went reeling along. But the dull
buzz m the distance and the white sheet in
the sky told that, somewhere near, the wild
heart of the nisht beat hio-h.

Hugh Ritson looked up at the heavy
mass of the convent buildiiio; as he crossed
the street The lights were already out,
and all was dark within. He went on, but
presently stopped by a sudden impulse, and
looked again.

It was then he was aware that something
moved in the deep portico. The lamp on
the pavement sent a shaft of light on to the

door, and there, under the gaslight, with
the face turned from him, was the figure of
a woman. She seemed to cast cautious
and stealthy glances around, and to lift
a trembling hand to the bell that hung
above her. The hand fell to her side, but
no ring followed. Once again the hand
was - lifted, and once again it fell back.
Then the woman crept totteringly down the
steps and turned to go.

Hugh Eitson re-crossed the street. Amid
all the turmoil of his soul the incident had
arrested him.

The woman was coming towards him.
He put himself in her path. The light fell
full upon her, and he saw her face. It was
Mercy Fisher.

With a low cry, the girl sank back against
the railings of the convent, and covered her
face with her hands.

Is it you, Mercy?' said Hugh.

She made no answer. Then she tried to

steal away, but he held her with gentle
force.

Why did yon leave Hendon?' he asked.

Yon did not want me,' said the girl, ina
tone of unutterable pain. And still her
face was buried in her hands. He did not
reply. He let her grief spend itself.

Just then the drunken woman reeled
back along the pavement and passed them
close, peering into their midst, and going
bv with a jarring' lau-h. ' What's he
a-doing to ye, my dear, eh ?' sie said jeeringly.
' Serve ye right,' she added, and
laughed a<2;ain. She was a drao-ofled, battered
outcast  a human ruin, such as night,
the slander, flings away.

Mercy lifted her head, A dull, weary
look was in her eyes. ' You know how I
waited, and waited,' she said, ' and you
were so long in coming, so very long.'

But when I had come you ran away,'
said Hugh.

You did not want me. In your heart
you did not want me,' said Mercy; 'and I
had waited so  so long. But then  then
  when you came '

The wave of bitter memory drowned her
voice. Xot unmoved, he stood and looked
at her, and saw the child-face wet with
tears, and the night breeze of the city drift
in her yellow hair.

Where have you been since ?' he said.
Had you any money?'

A man going to market brought me up
in his waijon. I fainted, and then he took
me to his home. He lives close by, in
Horse and Groom Yard. His wife is bedridden,
and such a sweet, good creature,
and, oh ! so kind to me. But they are poor,
and I had no money, and I was afraid to
be a burden to them, and besides  besides
'

Well ?'

She saw that I was she saw Avhat

was oroino to beings a woman, she kneY

I was soon '

Yes, yes said Hugh, stopping another
flood of tears with a Hight touch of the hand.
How red your eyes look. Are they
worse ?'

The man was very good ; he took me to

the doctors at a hospital, and they said

Oh, they said I might lose my sight !'

Poor little Mercy 1' said Hugh. He was
now ashamed of his own sufferings. How
loud they had clamoured a while ago ; yet,
what were they side by side with this poor
girl's tangible sorrows ! Mere things of the
air, with no reality.

But no matter!' she burst out. ' That's
no matter.'

You must keep up heart, Mercy. I
spoke angrily to you the other night, but
it's over now, is it not ?'

 Oh, why didn't you leave me alone ?
said the girl.

VOL. II. 38

'Hush, Mercy ; it will be well with you
yet;

His own eyes were growing dim, but
even then his heart was bitter. Had he
not said in his wrath that passion was the
demon of the world? He might say it in
his sorrow too. The simple heart of this
girl loved him even as his own lustier soul
loved Greta. He had wronged her. But
that was only a tithe of the trouble. If
she could but return him hate for wrongs, how
soon everything would be right with her !

What brought you here, Mercy ?'

One of the sisters  they visit the sick 
one of them visited the house where they
gave me lodgings, and I heard that they
sometimes took homeless girls into the
convent. And I thought I was homeless
now, and  and '

Poor little woman ! And yet you were
afraid to ring!'

I came the night before last, but saw

your brother Paul walking here in front.
So I went away.'

Paul ?'

Then I came last night, and he was
here again. So I went away once more.
And to-night I came earlier, and he wasn't
here ; but just as I was going to ring the
bell, and say that I had no home and that
my eyes were growing worse, something
seemed to say that they would ask if I had
a father, and why I had left him; and then I
couldn't ring  and then I thought if only I
could die  yes, if only I could die and forget,
and never wake up again in the morning '

Hush, Mercy. You shall go back home
to your father.'

Xo, no, no!'

Yes, and I shall go with you.'

There was silence. The bleared eyes
looked stealthily up into his face. A light
smile played there.

'Ah I'

382

A bright vision came to lier of a fair day
"when, hand in hand with him she loved,
she should return to her forsaken home in
the mountains, and hold up her head, and
wipe away her father's tears. She was
in the dark street of the city then : she
and her home were very far apart.

He laughed inwardly at a different vision.
In a grim spirit of humour he saw all his
unquenchable passion conquered, and he
saw himself the plain, homely, respectable
husband of this simple wife.

Was Paul alone when you saw him 7
said Hugh.

Yes. And would you tell them all ?'
The girl's sidelong glance eras far away.

mercy', I want you to do something for me.'

Yes, yes.' Again the sidelong glance.

Huo;h lifted the girl's head with his hand
to recall her wandering thoughts. ' Paul
will come again to-night. I want you to
wait for him, and speak to him.'

'Yes, yes; but won't he ask me questions
?'

What if he does ? Answer them alL
Only don't say that I have toil you to
speak to him. Tell him  will you remember
it ?  arc you listening ?  look mein
the face, little woman.'

Yes, yes.'

Tell him that Mr. Christian Parson
Christian, you know  has come to London
and wishes to see him at once. Say he has
looked for him at the hotel in Regent
Street and not found him there, and is now
at the inn in Hendon. Will you remember
?'

Yes.'

Where were you going, ]\Iercy  back to
your poor friends ?'

Xo. But will he be sure to come
to-night T

No doubt. At Vvdiat time was he here

last night V

Ten o'clock

It is now hard on nine. Tell him to goto
Hendon at once, and when he goes, you
go with him. Do you understand V

Yes.'

Don't forget  to-nioht ; tomorrow
nio'ht will not do. If he does not come
you must follow me to Hendon and tell me
so. I shall be there. Don't tell him that
do you hear ?'

The girl gave a meek assent.

And now good-bye for an hour or two,
little one.'

He turned away, and she was left alone
before the dark convent. But she was not
all alone. A newborn dream was with her,
and her soul was radiant with light.

Hugh Ritsox walked rapidly through Dean's
Yard in the direction of the Sanctuary.
As he turned into Parliament Street the
half-moon rose above the roof of Westminster
HalL But the niiht was still dark.

He passed through TraMgar Square and
into the Haymarket. The streets were
thronged. Crowds on crowds went languidly
by. Dim ghosts of men and women,
most of them, who loitered at this hour in
these streets. Old men with the souls long
years dead within them, and the corruption
reeking up with every breath to poison
every word, or lurking like charnel lights
in the eyes to blink contagion in every

glance. Young girls hopping like birds
beside them, the spectres of roses in their
cheeks, but the real thorns at their hearts.
There had been no way for them but this 
this and one other way : either to drift into
the Thames and be swallowed up in the
waters of death, or to be carried along fora
brief minute on the froth of the waves of
life.

Laughing because they might not weep ;
laughing: because their souls were dead ;
laughing in their conscious travesty of the
tragedy of pleasure  they tripped and
lounged and sauntered along. And the
lamps shone round them, and above them
was the glimmering moon.

As Hugh Ritson Event up the steep Hay-market
his infirmity became more marked,
and he walked with a sliding gait. Seeing
this, a woman who stood there halted and
limped a few paces by his side, and, pretending
not to see him, shouted with a

mocking' lauo-h ' AYhat is it  a man ora
bat ?'

How the wild, iiiacl heart of the night
leapt up I

A man passed through the throng with
eyes that seemed to see nothing of its
frantic frenzy and joyless joy : a stalwart
man, who strode along like a giant among
fidgets, his vacant eyes fixed before him,
his strong white face expressionless. Hugh
Ritson saw him. They passed within two
paces, but without recognition. The one
was wandering aimlessly in his blind misery
towards the convent of S. Margaret. The
other was making' for the old inn at Hendon.

o

An hour later Hugh Ritson was standing
in the bar of the Hawk and Heron. His
mind was made up ; his resolve was fixed;
his plan was complete.

Anybody with him ?' he said to the
landlady, motioning towards the stairs.

Not as I knows on, sir, but he do seem
that restless and off his withal, and I don't
know as I quite understands why '

Hugh Ritson stopped her garrulous
tongue. * I have found the girl. She will
come back to you to-night, Mrs. Drayton.
If she brings with her the gentleman who
left these boxes in your care, take him to
your son's bedroom, and tell him the person
he wishes to see has arrived, and Avill be
with him directly.'

With this he went up the stairs. Then,
calling down, he added, ' The moment he is
in the room come up and tell me.'

A minute later he called again, ' Where's
the key to this door ? Let me have it.'

The landlady hobbled up with the key to
Drayton's bedroom; the room was empty
and the door stood open. Hugh Ritson
tried the key in the lock and saw that the
wards moved freely. ' That will do,' he
said, in a satisfied tone.

The old woman was hobbling back.
Huo'h was standing in thono'ht, with head
bent, and the nail of his forefinger on his
cheek.

By the way, Mrs. Drayton he said,
 yon should get the girl to help you a little
sometimes.'

 Lors, sir, I never troubles her, beings
she's like a visitor.'

Nonsense, Mrs. Drayton. She's young
and hearty, and your own years are just a
little past their best, you know. How's
your breathing to-day  any easier ?'

Well, I can't say as it's a mort better,
neither, thanking you the same, sir,' and a
protracted fit of coughing bore timely
witness to the landlady's words.

Ah, that's a bad bout, my good woman.'

AVell, it is, sir ; and I gets no sympathy
neither  leastways not from him as a mother
might look to  in a manner of speaking.'

Bethink you. Is there nothing the girl

can do for you when she comes? Nothing
wanted? ]o errand?'

Well, sir ; taking it kindly, sir, there's
them finings in the cellar a- wants doing bad,
and the boy as ought to do 'fern, he's that
grumpysome as I declare '

Quite right, Mrs. Drayton. Send the
girl down to them the moment she comes in,
and keep her down until bedtime.'

Thank you, sir! I'm sure I takes it very
kind and thoughtful of a gentleman to say
as much, and no call neither.'

The landlady shuffled downstairs, wagging
gratefully her dense old noddle ; the
thoughtful gentleman left the kev of
Drayton's room in the lock on the outside
of the door, and ascended a ladder that went
up from the end of the passage. He
knocked at a door at the top. At first
there Alas no answer. A dull shuffling of
feet could be heard from within. ' Come,
open the door,' said Hugh impatiently.

The door was opened cautiously. Drayton
stood behind it : Huo;h Ritson entered.
There was no light in the room ; the red
smoking' wick of a tallow candle, newly
extinguished, was filling the air with its
stench.

You take care of yourself said Hugh.
Let us have a light.'

Drayton went down on his knees in the
dark, fumbled on the floor for a box of
lucifers, "and relit the candle. He was in
his shirt sleeves.

 Cold without your coat, eh?' said Hugh.
A sneer played about this lips.

Without answering, Drayton turned to a
mattress that lay in the gloom of one corner,
lifted it, took up a coat that lay under it,
and put it on. It was the ulster with the
torn lapel.

Hugh Ritson followed Drayton's movements,
and laughed slightly. ' glen like
you are always cautious in the wrong place

he said. ' Let them lay hands on you, and
they won't be long finding your  coat!
The last word, lead a contemptuous dig of
emphasis.

Damme if I won't burn it, for good and
all,' muttered Drayton. His manner was
doo'o-ed and subdued.

Xo, you won't do that,' said Hugh, and
he eyed him largely. The garret was empty,
save for the mattress and the blanket that
lay on it, and two or three plates, with the
refuse of food, on the floor. It was a low
room, with a skylight in the rake of the
roof, which sloped down to a sharp angle.
There was no window. The walls were
half-timbered, and had once been plastered,
but the laths were now bare in many
patches.

Heard anything ?' said Drayton doggedly.

Yes ; I called and told the police
sergeant that I thought I was on the scent. 

What ? Xo !'

The two men looked at each other 
Drayton suspiciously, Hugh Ritson with
amused contempt.

Tell you what, you don't catch me hobnobbing
with them gentry,' said Drayton,
recovering his composure.

Hugh Ritson made no other answer thana
faint smile. As he looked into the face of
Drayton, he was telling himself that no
man had ever before been at the top of
such a situation as that of which he himself
was then the master. Here was a man who
was the half-brother of Greta, and the living
image of her husband. Here Alas a man
who, despite vague suspicions, did not
know his own identity. Here was a man
over whom hung an inevitable punishment.
Huo'h Ritson smiled at the daring' idea
he had conceived of making; this man
personate himself.

Drayton,' he said, ' I mean to stand
your friend in this trouble.'

Tell you again, the best friend to me
is the man as helps me to make my
lucky.'

You shall do it, Drayton, this very
night. Listen to me. That man, my
brother, as they call him, Paul Eitson as
his name goes, is not my father's son. He
is the son of my mother by another man,
and his true name is Paul Lowther.'

I don't care what his true name is, nor
his untrue neither. It ain't nothing to me,
say I, and no more is it.'

AVould it be anything to you to inherit
five thousand pounds ?'

AVhat ?'

Paul Lowther is the heir to as much.
What would you say if I could jut you in
Paul Lowther's place, and get you Paul
Lowther's inheritance ?'

Eh ? A fortune out of hand  how ?'

The way I described before.'

There was a light scraping sound, such

as a rat mio-ht have made in burrowing; behind
the partition.

What's that ?' said Drayton, his face
whitening, and his watchful eyes glancing
towards the door. ' A key in the lock,' he
whispered.

Tut, isn't your own key on the inside ?'
said Hush Ritson.

Drayton hung his head in shame at his
idle fears.

I know  I haven't forgot,' he muttered,
covering his discomfiture.

'It's a pity to stay here and be taken,
when you might as easily be safe,' said
Hugh .

So it is,' Drayton mumbled.

And go through penal servitude for life
when another man might do it for you,'
added Hugh with a ghostly smile.

I ain't axing you to say it over. What's
that?' Drayton cowered dovrn. The bankrupt
garret had dropped a cake of its rotten

VOL. II. 39

plaster. Hugh Ritson moved not a muscle;
only the sidelong glance told of his contempt
for the hulking creature's cowardice.

The lawyer who has charge of this
legacy is my friend and comrade,' he said
after a moment's silence. ' We should have
no difficulty in that quarter. My mother

is Well, she's gone. There would be

no one left to question you. If you were
only half shrewd the path would be clear.'

What about lur f

Greta ? She would be your wife.'

My wife ?'

In name. You would go back, as I
told you, and say, ' I whom you have
known as Paul Eitson am really Paul
Lowther, and therefore the half-brLowther of
the woman with whom I went through the
ceremony of marriage. This fact I learned
immediately on reaching London. I bring
the lady back as I found her, and shall ask
that the marriage  which is no marriage 

be annulled. I deliver up to the rightful
heir, Hugh Kitson, the estates of Allan Rit-son,
and make claim to the legacy left me
by my father, Robert Leather." This is
what you have to say and do, and everyone
will praise you for an honest and upright

man.'

 Very conscientious, no doubt; but what
about liimf

He will then be Paul Drayton and a
felon.'

Drayton chuckled. ' And what about lier

If he is in safe keeping, she will count
for nothing.'

So I'm to be Paul Lowther!'

You are to pretend to be Paul Lowther.'

I told you afore, as it won't go into my
nob, and no more it Avill,' said Drayton,
scratching his head.

You shall have time to learn your
lesson ; you shall have it pat,' said Hugh

Pinson. ' Meantime '

392

At that instant Drayton's eyes were
riveted on the skylight with an affrighted
stare.

Look yonder,' he whispered.

AVhat ?'

The face on the roof.'

Hugh Ritson plucked up the candle and
thrust it over his head and against the
glass. ' What face X he said contemptuously.


Again Drayton's head fell in shame at
his abject fear.

There was a shuffling footsteps on the
ladder outside. Drayton held his head
aside and listened. ' The old woman,' he
mumbled. 'What now? Supper, I suppose.'

At that moment there was a visitor in the
bar downstairs. He was an elderly man,
with shaggy eyebrows and a wizened face ;
a diminutive creature, with a tousled head
of black and gray. It was Gubblum Oglethorpe.
The mountain pedlar had travelled
south to buy chamois leather, and had
packed a great quantity of it into a bundle,
like a pannier, which he carried over one
arm.

Since the wedding at Xewlands three
days ago, Gubblum's lively intelligence had
run a good deal on his recollection of the
man resembling Paul Ptitson, whom he had
once seen in Hendon. He had always

meant to settle for himself that knotty
question. So here on his first visit to
London he intended to put up at the very
inn about which the mystery gathered.

How's ta rubbun on ?' he said by way of
salute on entering. When Mrs. Drayton
had gone upstairs, she had left the pot-boy
in charge of the bar. He was a loutish lad
of sixteen, and his name was Jabez.

Jabez slowly lifted his eyes from the
peters he was washing, and a broad smile
crossed his face. Evidently the new-comer
was a countryman.

Cold meet, eh ? Sharp as a stepmother's
breath,' said Gubblum, throwing
clown the pannier, and drawing up to the
fire.

The smile on the face of Jabez broadened
perceptibly, and he began to chuckle.

What's ta spartan at, eh?' said Gubblum.
I say it's hot weather, verra. Hasta owt
agent it .'

Jabez laughed outright. Clearly the
countryman must be crazy.

 What's yon daft thingamy about ?'
thought Gubblum. Then aloud, ' Ay, my
lad, gie us a leal sup o' summit.'

Jabez found his risible faculties sorely
disturbed by this manner of speech. But
he proceeded to fill a pewter. The potboy's
movements resembled those of the
tortoise in celerity.

'He's a stirred lad, yon,' thought Gub-
blum. ' He's wandering like a duck ina
puddle.'

'Can I sleep here to-meet ?' he asked,
when Jabez had brought him his beer.

o

Then that sapient smile on the pot-boy's
face ripened into speech. ' I ain't answering
for the sleeping,' said Jabez, ' but
happen you may have a bed  he, he, he!
I'll ask the missis  he, he, haw !'

The missis ? Hasta never a master,
then ?' said Gubblum.

Xow, Jabez had been warned with many
portentous threats that in the event of anyone
asking for the master he was to be as
mute as the grave. So in answer to the
pedlar's question he merely shook his wise
head and looked grave and astonishingly
innocent.

Xo ? And how lang hasta been here V

Three year come Easter,' said Jabez.

And how lang dust say 'at missis has
been here V

Missis ? I heard father say as Mistress
Drayton has kep' the Hawk and Heron this
five-and-twenty year.'

Five-and4wenty 1 Then I reckon that
master would be no'but a leal wee barn
when she coot first,' said Gubblum.

Happen he were,' said Jabez. Then,
recovering the caution so unexpectedly disturbed,
Jabez protested afresh that he had
no master.

It's slow work supper buttermilk wi' a

pitchfork,' thought Gubblum. He proceeded
to employ a spoon.

Siesta, my lad, wadta like me to lend
thee a shillings: V

Jabez grinned, and closed his fat fist on
the coin thrust into his palm.

I once knew a man as were the verra
smitten pictor of your master,' said Gub-
blum. ' In fact, his verra sel', upsett'n and
toon thross'n. I thowt it were hissed',
that's the fact. But Ashen I tackled him he
threep'd me down, and I was that vexed I
could have bitten the side out of a butter-bowl.'


But I ain't got no master,' protested
Jabez.

I were riding by on my leal pony that
day, but now Fm going shanks naggum,'
continued Gubblum, unmindful of the potboy's
mighty innocent look. ' " A canny
morning to you, Master Paul," I shouted,
and on I went.'

Then you know his name V said Jabez,
opening wide his drowsy eyes.

" Master Paul's half his time frae home,"
says a chap on t' road. " Course he is," I
says: " it's me for knowing that." Ah, I
mind it same as it were yesterday. I
looked back, and there he was standing at
the door, and he just snitit his nose wi' his
finger and thoom. Ey, he did, for sure.'

Jabez found his conscience abnormally
active at that moment. ' But I ain't got
none he protested afresh.

None what V

No master.'

That's a lie, my lad, for I see he's been
patten a swine ring on yer snout to keep
ye frae rooting up the ground.'

After this Gubblum sat a good half-hour
in silence. Mrs. Drayton came downstairs
and arranged that Gubblum should sleep
that night in the house. His bedroom was
to be a little room at the back, entered from

the vicinity of the ladder that led to the
attics.

Gubblum got up, said he was tired, and
asked to be shown to his room. Jabez lit
a candle, and they went off together.

Wherever does that lead to X said
Gubblum, pointing to the ladder near his
bedroom door.

/ dunno,' said Jabez moodily. He had
been ruminating; on Gubblum's observation
about the swine ring.

He's as sour as vargis,' thought Gub-
blum.

There was the creak of a footstep overhead.


Who sleeps in the pigeon loft ?' Gubblum
asked, tipping his finger upwards.

/ dunno,' repeated Jabez.

His dander's up,' thought Gubblum.

Just then the landlady in the bar heard a
sound of wheels on the road, and the next

moment a carriage drew up at the open
door.

I say there, lend a hand here, quick
shouted the driver.

Mrs. Drayton hobbled up. The flyman
was leaning through the door of the fly,
helping some one to alight.

Take a' arm, missy; there, that's the size
of it. Now, sir, down, gently

The person assisted was a man. The
lieth from the bar fell on his face, and
the landlady saw him clearly. It was
Paul Kitson. He was flushed, and his
eyes were bloodshot. Behind him was
Mercy Fisher, with recent tears on her
cheeks.

Oh, he's ill, Mrs. Drayton,' said Mercy.

Paul freed one of his arms from the grasp
of the girl, waved it with a gesture of deprecation,
smiled a jaunty smile, and said,
o, no, no ; let me walk ; I'm well ; I'm
well.'

Deary me, deary me, the poor gentleman's
taken badly,' said Mrs. Drayton,
fussing about.

Paul Ritson laugh-hed a little, lifted his red
eyes and said, ' Well, well ! But it's nothing:.
Just dizzy, that's alL And thirsty  very 
give me a drink, good woman.'

Bring that there bench up, missy, and
we'll put him astride it,' said the driver.
Eight, that's the time o' day. Xow, sir,
down.'

Deary me, deary me, drink this, my good
gentleman. It'll do you a mort osgood. It's
brandy.'

Water  bring me water,' said Paul Rit-son
feebly; ' I'm parched.'

How hot his forehead is!' said Mercy.

And no light un to lift neither,' said the
driver.  Does he live here, missis ?'

Mrs. Drayton brought a glass of water.
Paul drained it to the last drop.

No, sir ; I mean yes, driver,' said the
landlady confusedly.

He wasn't so bad getting in,' the driver
observed.

Oh dear, oh dear, where is Mr. Christian
Parson Christian?' said Mercy, whose
distracted eyes wandered around.

The gentleman's come, sir ; he's upstairs,
sir,' said the landlady, and muttering to herself,
Mi's. Drayton hobbled away.

Paul Ritson's head had fallen on his
breast. His hat was off, and his hair tumbled
over his face. The strong man sat coiled
up on the bench. Then he shook himself
and threw up his head, as if trying to
cast off the weight of stupor that sat on
him.

AVell, well, who'd have thought of this?
Water  more water,' he mumbled in a thick
voice.

Mercy stood before liii with a glass in
her hand.

Is it good for him, I wonder ?' she said.
Oh, where is Mr. Christian?'

Paul Ritson saw the glass, clutched at it
with both hands, then smiled a poor, weak
smile, as if to atone for his violence, and
drank every drop.

Well, well  so hot  and dizzy  and
cold,' he muttered incoherently.

Then he relapsed into silence. After a
moment the driver, who was supporting him
at the back, looked over at his face. The
eyes were closed, and the lips were hanging.

He's gone off unconscious,' said the flyman.
' Ain't ye got a bed handy?'

At that moment Mrs. Drayton came hastily
downstairs, in a fever of agitation.

You've got to get him up to his room,'
she said, between gusts of breath.

That's a job for two men, ain't it, missis?'
said the driver.

Mercy had loosened Paul's collar, and with
a nervous hand she Alas bathing his burning
forehead.

Oh, tell Mr. Christian,' she said ; ' say
he has fainted.'

Mrs. Drayton hobbled back. In another
instant there was a man's step descending
the stairs. Hugh Kitson entered the bar.
He looked down at the unconscious man,
and felt his pulse. ' When did this happen ?'
he asked, turning to Mercy.

He said he was feeling ill when I met
him ; then he was worse in the train, and
when we reached Hendon he was too dizzy
to stand,' said Mercy.

'His young woman, ain't it?' said the
flyman aside to Hugh.

Hugh nodded his head slightly. Then,
turning towards Mrs. Drayton with a significant
glance, ' Your poor son is going to
be ill,' he said.

The landlady glanced back With a puzzled

expression, and began in a blundering
fashion, ' The poor gentleman '

'The old lady's son?' said the flyman,
tipping his finger in the direction of the
landlady.

Paul Drayton,' said Hugh.

Mercy saw and heard all. The tears
suddenly dried in her eyes, which opened
wide in blank amazement. She said
nothing.

Huoh caught the altered look in her face.

Mrs. Drayton he said, ' didn't you say
you had something urgent for the girl todo?
Let her set about it at once. Xow,
driver, lend a hand  upstairs ; it's only a
step.'

They lifted Paul Pit son between them,
and were carrying him out of the bar.

Where's the boy?' asked Hugh. ' Don't
let him get in the way. Boys are more
hindrance than help,' he added, in an explanatory
tone.

VOL. II. 40

They had reached the foot of the stair.
'Now, my man, easy  heavy, eh? rather.'

They went up. Mercy stood in the
middle of the floor with a tearless and
whitening face.

Half a minute later, Hugh Ritson and the
flyman had returned to the bar. The phantom
of a smile lurked about the flyman's
mouth. Hugh Eitson s face was ashen, and
his lips quivered.

The boxes and portmanteaus which Paul
and Greta had left in the bar three nights
ago still lay in one corner. Hugh pointed
them out to the driver. ' Put them on the
top of the cab,' he said. The flyman proceeded
to do so.

When the man was outside the door,
Hugh Ritson turned to Mrs. Drayton. The
landlady was fussing about, twitching her
apron between nervous fingers. ' Mrs.
Drayton,' said Hugh, ' you will go in this
fly to the convent of S. Margaret, Westminster.

There you will ask for Mrs. Kit-son,
the lady who was here on Friday night.
You will tell lier that you have her Ino-o-ao'e
with you, and that she is to go with you to
St. Pancras Station to meet her husband,
and return to Cumberland by the midnight
traui. You understand?'

 I can't say as I do, sir, asking pardon,
sh If so be as the lady axes why her husband
didn't come for her himself  what
then?'

Then say what is true  nothing more,
sirs. Drayton.'

And happen what may that be, sir?'

That her husband is ill  but mind  not
seriously.'

Oh! Well, I can speak to that, sir, being
as I saw the poor gentleman.'

Mrs. Drayton was putting on her bonnet
and shawl. The flyman had fixed the ]uo'-
gage on the top of the cab, and was standing
in the bar, whip in hand.

402

A glass for the driver,' said Hugh. Mrs.
Drayton moved towards the counter. ' No,
you get into the cab, Mrs. Drayton ; Mercy
will serve.'

Mercy went behind the counter and served
the liquor in an absent manner.

It's now ten-thirty,' said Hugh, looking
at his watch. ' You will drive first to the
Convent, Westminster, and from there to
St. Pancras, to catch the train at
twelve.'

Saying this, lie walked to the door and
put bis head through the window of the cab.
The landlady was settling herself in her
seat. ' Mrs. Drayton,' he whispered, ' you
must not utter a syllable about your son,
when you see the lady. Mind that. You
understand ?'

Well, sir, I can't say  being as] I saw
the gentleman  wherever's Paul?'

Hush ! '

The driver came out. He leapt to his

seat. In another moment the cab rattled
away.

Hugh Ritson walked back into the house.
The boy Jabez had come downstairs.
 When do you close the house?' Hugh
asked.

Eleven o'clock, sir,' said Jabez.

Xo one here  you might almost as well
close now. Xo matter  go behind the bar,
my lad. ]\lercy, your eyes are more inflamed
than ever; goX. away to bed immediately.'


Mercy's eyes were not more red than their
expression was one of bewilderment. She
moved off mechanically. When she reached
the foot of the stairs, she turned and tried
to speak. The words would not come. At
length she said in a strange voice, ' You did
not tell me the truth.'

]\Iercy 1 *

'Where's Parson Christian?' said Mercy,
and her voice are stern.

You must not use that tone to me.
Come, get away to bed, girl.'

Her eyes dropped before his. She turned
away. He watched her up the stairs. So
sure of hand was he that not even at that
moment did he doubt his hold of her.

But Mercy did not go to bed. She turned
in at the open door of Drayton's room. The
room was dark; only a htfal ray of bleared
moonlight fell crosswise on the floor; but
she could see that the unconscious figure of
Paul Ritson lay stretched upon the bed.

And I have led you here with a lie,' she
thought. Then her head swam and fell onto
the counterpane. Some minutes passed
in silence. She was aroused by footsteps in
the passage outside. They were coming towards
this room. The door, which stood
ajar, was pushed open. There was no time
for Mercy to escape, so she crept back into
the darkness of a narrow space between the
foot of the bed and the wall.

Two men entered. Mercy realized their
presence in the dark room rather by the
sense of touch than the senses of hearing or
sight. They walked lightly, the darkness
hid them, but the air seemed heavy with
their hot breath. One of them approached
the bedside; Mercy felt the bed quiver. The
man leaned over it, and there was a panse.
Only the scarcely perceptible breathing of
the insensible man fell on the silence.

He's safe enough still,' said a voice that
thrilled her through and through. * Now
for it  there's no time to lose.'

The girl crouched down and held her
breath.

Damme if I ain't wishing myself well out
of it,' muttered another voice.

Mercy knew both men. They were Hugh
Ritson and Paul Drayton.

Hugh laughed mockingly and closed the
door. * What simpleton says fortune favours
the brave?' he said, in a low derisive tone.

Here is fortune at the feet of a man like
you.'

Drayton growled, and Mercy heard the
oath that came from beneath his breath.
I'm wanting to be out of this, and I ain't
ashamed for you to know it.'

Hugh Eitson's light laugh came again
from the bedside. He was still standing by
Paul Ritson's head. ' If the Lord Mayor
came for you in his carriage, with a guard
of flunkeys, you would leave this house in
less safety,' he said. Then he added impatiently,
' Come, waste no words, strip off
that tell-tale coat.'

With this he leaned over the bed, and
there was a creak of the spring mattress.

'What's that?' said Drayton in an affrighted
tone.

For God's sake be a man said Hugh
E it son bitterly.

'D'ye call this a man's Avork?' muttered
Drayton.

The light laugh once more. ' Perhaps not
so manly as robbing the dead and dying,'
said Hugh Ritson, and his voice was deep
and cold.

Mercy heard another muttered oath. Dear
God ! what was about to be done ? Could she
escape? The door was closed. Still, if she
could but reach it she might open it and
lily away.

At that instant laugh Ritson, as if apprehending
her thought, said, 'Wait.' and then
stepped back to the door and drew the snap
bolt. Mercy leaned against the wall, and heard
the beating of her heart. In the darkness
she knew that Paul Drayton had thrown off
his coat. ' A good riddance !' lie muttered,
and the heavy garment fell with a thud.

Huoh Ritson had returned to the bed-head.
' Give me a hand,' he said ; ' raise him
gently  there, I'll hold him up  now draw
off his coat  quietly, one arm at a time. Is
it free? Then lift  away.'

Another heavy garment fell with a thud.

Wot's the fence got in his other pockets,
eh?'

Come, lend your hand again  draw off
the boots  they're Cumberland make, and
yours are Cockney style  quick.'

Drayton stepped to the bottom of the bed
and fumbled at the feet of the insensible
man. He was then within a yard of the
spot where the girl stood. She could feel
his proximity, and the alcoholic fumes of
his breath rose to her nostrils. She was
dizzy, and thought she must have fallen.
She stretched out one hand to save herself,
and it fell on to the bed-rail. It was within
a foot of Drayton's arm.

Take off his stockings  they're homespun
 while I remove the cravat. The pin
was a present; it has his name engraved on
the plate behind.'

The slant of moonlight had died off the
floor, and all was dark.

Drayton's craven fears seemed to leave
Mm. He laughed and crowed. ' How
quiet the fence is  very obliging, I'm sure
-just fainted in the nick of time. Will it
last X

Hold your clatter. Quick, strip ois
your own clothes and 2ut them where these
have come from. The coat with the torn
lapel  where is it ? Make no mistake
about that!

I'll pound it, no.' Drayton laughed
a short hoarse laugh.

There was some shuffling in the darkness.
Then a pause.

'Hush!'

Mercy knew that Hugh Ritson had grasped
the arm of Drayton, and that both held their
breath. At that moment the moonlight
returned, and the bleared shaft that had
once crossed the floor now crossed the bed.
The light fell on the face of the prostrate
man. His eyes were open.

Water  water said Paul Ritsoii, very
feebly.

Hugh Ritson stepped out of the moonlight
and went behind his brother. Then
Mercy saw a hand before Paul's face, putting
a spirit flask to his mouth.

When the hand was raised the face
twitched slightly, the eyes closed with a
convulsive tremor, and the half-lifted head
fell back on to the pillow.

He'll be quieter than ever now,' said
Hugh Ritson softly. Mercy thought she
must have screamed, but the instinct of
self-preservation kept her still. She stirred
not a limb. Her head rested against the
wall ; her eyes peered into the darkness,
her parched tongue and parted lips burned
like fire.

Quick ! put his clothes on to your own
back, and let us be gone.'

Drayton drew on the garments, and
laughed hoarsely.  And a good fit, too

same make of man to a T ex 

act ly!'

The window and door stood face to face ;
the bed was on the left of the door, with
the head at the door end. The narrow alcove
in which the girl stood was to the left of
the window, and in front of the window there
was a dressing-table. Drayton stepped up to
this table to fix the cravat by the glass.
The flint moonlight that fell on his grinning
face was reflected dimly into the mirror.

At that moment Mercy's sickening eyes
turned towards the bed. There in repose
that was like death itself lay the upturned

face of Paul Ritson. Two faces cast bv

/

nature in the same mould  one white and
serene and peaceful, the other bloated, red,
smirking, distorted by passion, with cruel
eyes and smoking lips.

The very thing  the very thing  damme
if his own mother wouldn't take me for her

son.'

Hugh Ritson stepped to Drayton's side.
When he spoke his voice was like a cold
blast of wind.

Now listen. From this moment at
which you change sour coat for his you
cease to be Paul Drayton and become Paul
Ritson.'

Didn't you say I was to be Paul
Lowther ?'

That will come later.'

As I say, it won't go into my nob.'

No matter ; say nothing to yourself but
this, " I am to pretend to be Paul Ritson." '

Well, now for it.'

Ready?' asked Hugh. He had returned
to the bed-head.

Ready.'

Then give a hand here. We must put
him up into your garret. When the police
come for him he must seem to be in hiding
and in drink. You understand ?'

A low hoarse laugh was the only answer.

Then they lifted the unconscious man
from the bed, opened the door, and carried
him into the passage.

Mercy recovered her stunned senses.
When the men were gone she crept out on
tip-toe and tripped down the passage to her
own room. At the door she reeled and fell
heavily. Then in a vague state of consciousness
she heard these words passed
over her  ' Carry her back into her room
and lock her in.' At the next instant she
felt herself being lifted in a strong man's
arms.

Chapters on the Being and
Faculties of Man, and Additional
Phenomena of Natural Magic, by
J. A. Smith. Post Svo, cl. ex., 4s. 6d,

Briggs, Memoir of Gen. John.

By Major Evans Bell. With a Portrait.
Royal Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Bri I lat-Savarin. Gastronomy

as a Fine Art. By Brilliant-Savarin.
Translated by R. E. Anderson, Mea.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Buchanan's (Robert) Works:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. each.

Ballads of Life, Love, and Humour.
Frontispiece by Arthur Hughes.

Undertones.

London Poems.

The Book of Form.

White Rose and Red: A Love Story,

Idylls and Legends of Inverburn.

Selected Poems Robert Buchanan.
With a Frontispiece by T. Daniel.

The Hybrid Isles: Wanderings in the
Land of Lome and the Outer Hebrides.
With Frontispiece by William
Small.

A Poet's Sketch-book: Selections
from the Prose Writings of Robert
Buchanan.

The Earthquake; or, Six Days and
a Sabbath. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Robert Buchanan'sComplete Poetical
Works. With Steel-plate Portrait.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illust. boards, 2s. each.

The Shadow of the Sword.

A Child of Nature. With a Frontispiece.


God and the Man. With Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard.

The Martyrdom of Madeline. With
Frontispiece by A. W. Cooper.

Love Me for Ever. With a Frontispiece
by P. Macnab.

Annann Water.

The New Abelard.

Foxglove Manor.

Matt : A Story of a Caravan.

The Master of the Mine. Wish a
Frontispiece by W. H. Covered.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.

Edited by Rev. T. Scott. With 17
Steel Plates by Stothard engraved
by Goodwill, and numerous Woodcuts.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Burnett (IVIrs.), Novels by:

Surly Tim, and other Stories. Post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Fcap. Svo, picture cover, Is. each.
Kathleen Mavourneen.
Lindsay's Luck.
Pretty Polly Pemberton

Burton (Captain), Works by:

To the Gold Coast for Gold : A Personal
Narrative. By Richard F. Burton
and Verney Loveth Cameron.
With Maps and Frontispiece. Two
Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 2l3.

The Book of the Sword: Being a
History of the Sword and its Use in
all Countries, from the Earliest
Times. By Richard F. Burton.
With over 400 Illustrations. Square
8vo, cloth extra. 32s.

Burton (Robert):
The Anatomy of Melancholy. A

New Edition, complete, corrected
and enriched by Translations of the
Classical Extracts. Demy 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.
Melancholy Anatomisedd: Being an
Abridgment, for popular use, of Burton's
Anatomy of Melancholy,
Post Svo, cloth limp, 28. 6d.

Byron (Lord) :
Byron's Child Harold. An entirely

New Edition of this famous Poem,
with over One Hundred new Lusts.
by leading Artists. (Uniform with
the Illustrated Editions of "The
Lady of the Lake " and " Marmion")
Elegantly and appropriately bound,
small 4to, 16s.

Byron's Letters and Journals. With
Notices of his Life. By Thomas
Moore. A Reprint of the Original
Edition, newly revised, with Twelve
full-page Plates. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Byron's Don Juan. Complete in One
Vol., post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

Caine (T. Hall), Novels by:
The Shadow of a Crime. Cr. Svo,
cloth extra, 3s 6d. ; post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.
A Son of Hagar. Three Vols., crown
Svo. [Shortly.

Cameron (Comers), Works by:

To the Gold Coast for Gold: A

Personal Narrative. By Richard
F. Burton and Verney Loveth
Cameron. With Frontispiece and
Maps. Two Vols., crown Svo, cloth
extra, 2l3.
The Cruise of the "Black Prince"
Privateer, Commanded by Robert
Hawkins, Master Mariner. By
Commander V. Loveth Cameron,
Ren., CD., D.C.L. With Frontispiece
and Vignette by P. Macnab.
Crown Svo, cl. ex., 5s.

Cameron ( Mrs. H. Lo vent )7

Novels by:
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each

post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Juliet's Guardian. | Deceivers Ever.

Carlyle (Thomas) :

On the Choice of Books. By Thomas
Carlyle. With a Life of the Author
by R. H. Shepherd. New and Revised
Edition, post Svo, cloth extra,
Illustrated, Is. 6d.

The Correspondence of Thomas
Maryland Ralph Waldo Emerson,
1834 to 1872. Edited by Charles
Eliot Norton. With Portraits. Two
Vols., crown Svo, cloth extra. 243.

Chapman's (George) Works:

Vol. I. contains the Plays complete,
including the doubtful ones. Vol. II.,
the Poems and Minor Translations,
with an Introductory Essay by Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Vol. III.,
the Translations of the Iliad and Odyssey.
Three Vols., crown Svo, cloth
extra, 18s. ; or separately, 63. each.

Chatter Jackson.  Treatise

on Wood Engraving, Historical and
Practical. By Wm. Andrew Chatty
and John Jackson. With an Additional
Chapter by Henry G. John ;
and 450 fine Illustrations. A Reprint
of the last Revised Edition, Large
4to, hal f-bound, 288.

Chaucer:
Chaucer for Children : A Golden
Key. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. With
Eight Coloured Pictures and numerous
Woodcuts by the Author.
New Ed., small 4to, cloth extra, 68.
Chaucer for Schools. By Mrs. H. R.
Haweis. Demy Svo, cloth livnp, 28. 6d.

Chronicle (The) of the Coach":

Charing Cross to Ilfracombe. By J. D.
Champlain. With 75 Illustrations by
Edward L. Chichester. Square 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

City (The) of Dream : A Poem."

Fcap. Svo. cloth extra, 6s. [/ the press.

Clodd.  Myths and Dreams.

By Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S., Author
of "The Childhood of Religions," &c.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

Cobban.  There of Souls :

A Story. By J. Maclaren Cobban.
P ost Svo, illus t rate d boards , s

Col e m an . C TTrl y : An Actor's
Story. By John Coleman. Illustrated
by J. C. Dollman. Crown Svo, Is.
clo th. Is. 6d.

Collins (Mortimer), Novels by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Sweet Anne Page. | Transmigration.
From Midnig ht to Midnight.

A Fight with Fortune. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Collins (Mortimer &, Frances),

Novels by:
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Blacksmith and Scholar;
The Village Comedy.
You Play Me False.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 28. each.

Sweet and Twenty.

Frances.

Collins (Wilkie), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated,
3s.6d. each ; post8vo,iI]ustrated bds.,
2s. each ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

Antonina. Illust. by SirJoHNGiLBERT.

Basil. Illustrated by Sir John Gilbert
and J. Mahoney,

Hide and Seek. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and J. Mahoney.

The Dead Secret. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert.

Queen of Hearts, Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert.

My Miscellanies. With a Steel-plate
Portrait of Wilkie Collins.

The Woman in White. With Illustrations
by Sir John Gilbert and

F. A. Fraser.

The Moonstone. With Illustrations

byG. Du MAURiERand F. A. Fraser.

Man and Wife. Illust. by W. Small.

Poor Miss Finch. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and Edward
Hughes.

Miss or Mrs.? With Illustrations by

S. L. FiLDEsand Henry Woods.
The New Magdalen. Illustrated by

G.Du Maurier and C.S.Reinhardt.
The Frozen Deep. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and J. Mahoney.
The Law and the Lady. Illustrated

by S. L. Fildes and Sydney Hall,
The Two Destinies.
The Haunted Hotel. Illustrated by

Arthur Hopkins.
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel's Daughter.
The Black Robe.
Heart and Science: A Story of the

Present Time.
"I Say No

The Evil Genius: A Novel. Three
Vols., crown 8vo.

Collins (C. Allston). The Bar

Sinister: A Story. By C. Allusion
Collins. Po s t8v o, illustrated bds. ,2s.

Coleman's Humorous Works:

Broad Grins," " My Nightgown and
Slippers," and other Humorous Works,
Prose and Poetical, of George Col-man.
With Life by G. B. Blackstone,
and Frontispiece by Hogarth, Crown
8vo cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Convalescent Cookery: A

Family Handbook. By Catherine
Ryan. Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Conway (Concur D.), Works

Demonology and Devil-Lore. Tv.o

Vols., royal 8vo, with 65 lusts., 2b3.

A Necklace of Stories. Illustrated

by W. J. Hennessy. Square 8vo,

cloth extra, 6s.

Cook (Dutton), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
Hours with the Players. With a

Steel Plate Frontispiece.
Nights at the Play : A View of the

English Stage.

Leo: A Novel. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Paul Foster's Daughter, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Copyright.  A Handbook of

English and Foreign Copyright in
Literary and Dramatic Works. By

Sidney Jerrold, of the Middle
Temple, Esq., Barrister-at-law. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Cornwall.  Popular Romances

of the West of England; or. The

Rolls, Traditions, and Superstitions
of Old Cornwall. Collected and Edited
by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. New and
Revised Edition, with Additions, and
Two Steel-plate Illustrations by
George Cruikshank. Crown 6vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6 d. 

Cracldock.  The Prophet of

the Great Smoky Mountains By

Charles Egbert Craddock. Post
8yo. illust. bds., 2s. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d .

Creasy. Memoirs of Eminent

Etonians: with Notices of the Early
History of Eton College. By Sir
Edward Creasy, Author of " The
Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World."
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 13
Portraits, 7s. 6d.

Cruikshank (George):
The Comic Almanac. Complete in
Two Series : The First from 1835
to 1843 ; the Second from 1S44 to
1853. A Gathering of the Brest
Humour of Thackeray, Hood, Mathew,
Albert Smith, A'Bf.ckett,
Robert Brough, &c. With 2,000
Woodcuts and Steel Engravings by
Cruikshank, Line, Landclls, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, two very thick
volumes, 7s. 6d. each.

Gruikshank (George), continued.
The Life of George Cruikshank. By

Blanchard Jekrold, Author ot
"The Life of Napoleon Iii," &c.
With 84 Illustrations. New and
Cheaper Edition, enlarged, with Additional
Plates, and a very carefully
compiled Bibliography. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Robinson Crusoe. A beautiful reproduction
of Major's Edition, with
57 Woodcuts and Two Steel Plates
by George Cruikshank, choicely
printed. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Cummings. F. Gordon),Works

by:

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 8s. 6d. each.

In the Hebrides. With Autotype Facsimile
and numerous full-page Illustrations.


In the Himalayas and on the Indian
Plains. With numerous Illustrations.


Via Cornwall to Egypt. With a
Photogravure Frontispiece. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Cussans. Handbook of Heraldry;
with Instructions for Tracing
Pedigrees and Deciphering Ancient
MSS., &c. By John E. Cussans.
Entirely New and Revised Edition,
illustrated with over 400 Woodcuts
and Coloured Plates. Crown 8vo,
-loth extra, 7s. 6d.

Cyples. Hearts of Gold : A

Novel. By William Cyples. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Daniel.  Merrie England in

the Olden Time. By George Daniel.
With Illustrations by Robt. Cruik-
shank. Crown f?vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Daudet. The Evangelist; or,

Port Salvation. By Alphonse
Daudet. Translated by C. Harry
Seltzer. With Portrait of the
Author. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post Bvo, illust. boards, 2s.

Davenant.  What shall my

Son be ? Hints for Parents on the
Choice of a Profession or Trade for
their Sons. By Francis Davenant,
M . A. Post 8vo, cloth li mp, 2s. 6d.

Davies (Dr. N. E.), Works by:

Crown 8vo, Is. each; cloth limp,
Is. 6d. each.
One Thousand Medical Maxims.
Nursery Hints: A Mo ther's Guide.
Aids to Long Life. Crown 8vo, 23. ;

cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete

Poetical Works, including Psalms I.
to L. in Verse, and other hitherto Unpublished
MSS., for the first time
Collected and Edited, with Memorial-introduction
and Notes, by the Rev.
A. B. Grosart, D.D. Two Vols.,
crown 8vo, cloth boards, 123.

De Maistre. A Journey Round

My Room. By Xavier de Maistre.
Translated by Henry Attwell. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

De Mille. A Castle in Spain:

A Novel. By James De Mille. With
a Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Derwent (Leith), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Soup Lady of Tears.
Circe's Lovers.

Dickens (Charles), Novels by :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Sketches by Boz. I Nicholas Nickleby.
Pickwick Papers. I Oliver Twist.

The Speeches of Charles Dickens

1841-1S70. With a New Bibliography,
revised and enlarged. Edited and
Prefaced by Richard Herne Shepherd.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. 
Also a Smaller Edition, in the
Mayfair Library. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 23. 6d.
About England with Dickens. By
Alfred Rimmer. With 57 Illustrations
by C. A. Vanderhoof, Alfred
Rimmer, and others. Sq. 8vo, cloth
extra, 10s. 6d.

Dictionaries:

A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. By the
Rev. E. C. Brewer, LL.D. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.; hf.-bound, 9s.

The Reader's Handbook of Allusions,
References, Plots, and
Stories. By the Rev. E. C. Brewer,
LL.D. Fifth Edition, revised
throughout, with a New Appendix,
containing a Complete English Bibliography.
Crown 8vo, 1,400 pages,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Authors and their Works, with the
Dates. Being the Appendices to
The Reader's Handbook," separately
printed. By the Rev. Dr.
Brewer. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, 23.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Dictionaries, continued

Familiar Allusions: A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information ; including
the Names of Celebrated
Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country
Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships,
Streets, Clubs, Natural Curiosities,
and the like. By Wm. A: Wheeler
and Charles G. Wheeler. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Short Sayings of Great Men. With
Historical and Explanatory Notes.
By Samuel A. Bent, M.A. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

A Dictionary of the Drama: Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and America,
from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport Adams.
A thick volume, crown 8vo, half-bound,
12s. 6d. [In preparation.

The Slang Dictionary: Etymological,
Historical, and Anecdotal. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s. 6d.

Women of the Day: A Biographical
Dictionary. By Frances Hays. Cr.
8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Words, Facts, and Phrases: A Dictionary
of Curious, Quaint, and 
Matters, By Believer
Edwards. New and Cheaper Issue.
Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d. ; hf.-bd., 9s.

Diderot. The Paradox of Acting.
Translated, with Annotations,
from Diderot's "Le Paradoxe sur le
Comedies," by Walter Berries
Pollock. With a Preface by Henry
Irving. Cr. 8vo, in parchment, 4s. 6d.

Dobson (W. T.), Works by :

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,
and Frolics.

Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.


Dorann.  Memories of our

Great Towns ; with Anecdotic Gleanings
concerning their Worthies and
their Oddities. By Dr. John Dorann,
F.S.A. With 38 Illustrations. New
and Cheaper Ed., cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d.

Drama, A Dictionary of the.

Being a comprehensive Guide to the
Plays, Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport
Adams. (Uniform with Brewer's
Reader's Handbook") Crown svo,
half-bound, 12s. 6d. [In separation.

Dramatists, The Old. Cr, 8vo,

cl. ex., Vignette Portraits, 6s. per Vol.

Ben Jonson's Works, With Notes
Critical and Explanatory, and a Biographical
Memoir by Wm. Gifford.
Edit, by Col. Cunningham. 3 Vols,

Chapman's Works. Complete in
Three Vols. Vol. I. contains the
Plays complete, including doubtful
ones; Vol. II., Poems and Minor
Translations, with IntroductoryEssay
by A. Swinburne; Vol. III., Translations
of the Iliad and Odyssey.

Marlowe's Works. Including his
Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introduction, by Col. Cunningham.
One Vol.

Massinger's Plays. From the Text of
William Gifford. Edited by Col.
Cunningham. One Vol.

Dyer.  The Folk - Lore of

Plants. By Rev. T. F. Thiselton
Dyer, M.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d. [In preparation,

Early English Poets. Edited,

with Introductions and Annotations,
by Rev. A. B.Grosart, D.D. Crown
8vo, cloth boards, 6s. per Volume.

Fletcher's (Giles, B.D,) Complete
Poems. One Vol.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete
Poetical Works. Two Vols.

Herrick's (Robert) Complete Collected
Poems. Three Vols.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete
Poetical Works. Three Vols.

Herbert ( Lord) of Cherbury's Poems.
Edited, with Introduction, by J.
Churton Collins. Crown 8vo,
parchment, 8s.

Edwardes(Mrs.A.), Novels by:
A Point of Honour. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.
Archie Lovell. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d, ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Eggleston. Roxy: Novel. By

Edward Eggleston. Post 8vo, illust.
boards, 2s.

Emanuel.  On Diamonds and

Precious stones: their History, Value,
and Properties ; with Simple Tests for
ascertaining their Reality. By Harry
Emanuel, F.R.G.S. With numerous
Illustrations, tinted and plain. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s.

English Merchants: Memoirs
in Illustration of the Progress of British
Commerce. By H. R. Fox Bourne.
With Illusts. New and Cheaper Edit,
revised. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Ewald (Alex. Charles, F.S.A.),

Works by:

The Life and Times oT Prince
Charles Stuart, Count of Albany,
commonly called the Young Pretender.
From the State Papers and
other Sources. New and Cheaper
Edition, with a Portrait, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Stories from the State Papers.
With an Autotype Facsimile. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Studies Re-studied: Historical
Sketches from Original Sources.
Demy 8vo cloth extra, 123.

Eyes, The. How to Use cup

Eyes, and How to Preserve Them. By
John Browning, Fer. A. S. , &c. Fourth
Edition. With 55 Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth. Is.

Fairholt. Tobacco: Its History

and Associations ; with an Account
of the Plant and its Manufacture,
and its Modes of Use in all
Ages and Countries. By F. W. Fair-holt,
F.S.A. With upwards of 100
Illustrations by the Author. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Familiar Allusions: A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information ;
including the Names of Celebrated
Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country
Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships, Streets,
Clubs, Natural Curiosities, and the
like. By William A. Wheeler,
Author of " Noted Names of Fiction ; "
and Charles G. Wheeler, Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.

Faraday (Michael), Works by :

Post 8vo, cloth extra, 43. ci. each.
The Chemical History of a Candle :

Lectures delivered before a Juvenile

Audience at the Royal Institution.

Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.

With numerous Illustrations.
On the Various Forces of Nature,

and their Relations to each other :

Lectures delivered before a Juvenile

Audience at the Royal Institution.

Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.

With numerous Illustrations.

Farrer.  Military Manners

and Customs. By J. A. Farrer,
Author of "Primitive Manners and
Customs," &c. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Fin-Bec.  The Cupboard

Papers : Observations on the Art of
Living and Dining. By Fin-Bec. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Fitzgerald (Percy), Works by:

The Recreations of a Literary Manor,
Does Writing Pay ? With Recollections
of some Literary Men,
and a View of a Literary Man's
Working Life. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

The World Behind the Scenes.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Little Essays: Passages from the
Letters of Charles Lamb. Post
8vo, cloth limp. 2s. 6d.

Fatal Zero : A Homburg Diary. Cr.
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. [Shortly.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Bella Donna. | Never Forgotten
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Polly.

Seventy-five Brooke Street.
The Lady of Ransome.

Fletcher's (Giles, B.D.) Complete

Poems: Christ's Victorie in
Heaven, Christ's Victorie on Earth,
Christ's Triumph over Death, and
Minor Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D. Cr. 8vo, cloth bds., 6s.

Fonblanque.  Filthy Lucre: A

Novel. By Albany de Fonblanque.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Francillon (R. E.), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s. each.
One by One. I A Real Queen.

Queen Cophetua. |

Olympia. Post 8vo, illust. boards, 23.
Esther's Glove. Fcap. 8vo, Is,

French Literature, History of.

By Henry Van Laun. Complete in
3 Vols., demy 8vo, cl. bds., 73. 6d. each.

Frere.  Pandurang Hari ; or,

Memoirs of a Hindoo. With a Preface
by Sir H. Battle Frere, G.C.S.I., &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33, 6d. ; post
8vo, illustrated boar ds, 2s.

Friswell. OneofTwo: Novel.

By Hair Friswell. P-ist 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Frost (Thomas), Works by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each.
Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
The Lives of the Conjurers.
The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs,

Fry's (Herbert) Royal Guide

to the London Charities, 1886-7

Showing their Name, Date of Foundation,
Objects,Income,Officials,&c. Published
Annually, Cr. 8vo, cloth, la. 6d.

hOOKS PUBLISHED B7

Gardening Books:

Post 8vo, Is. each ; cl. limp, Is. Gd. each.

A Year's Work in Garden and Greenhouse:
Practical Advice to Amateur
Gardeners as to the Management of
the Flower, Fruit, and Frame Garden.
By George Blenny.

Our Kitchen Garden : The Plants we
Grow, and How we Cook Them.
By Tom Jerrold.

Household Horticulture: A Gossip
about Flowers. By Tom and Jane
Jerrold. Illustrated.

The Garden that Paid the Rent.
By Tom J errol.

My Garden Wild, and What I Grew
there. ByF.G. Heath. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 5s. ; gilt edges, Gs.

Garrett.  The Capel Girls: A

Novel. By Edward Garrett. Cr. 8vo,
cl. ex., 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Gentleman's Magazine (The)

for 1885. One Shilling Monthly. In
addition to the Articles upon subjects
in Literature, Science, and Art, for
which this Magazine has so high a
reputation, " Science Notes," by W.
Mattieuu Williams, F.R.A.S., and
"Table Talk," by Sylvanus Urban,
appear monthly.
*,.* Now ready, the Volume for January

to June, iso, cloth extra, price 8s. 6d. ;

Cases for binding, 2s. each.

Gentleman's Annual (The) for

Christmas, 1886. Containing a Complete
Novel, "Wife or No Wife?" by
T. W. Speight, Author of "The
Mysteries of Heron Dyke." Demy
8vo, Is. [Preparing,

German Popular Stories. Collected

by the Brothers Grimm, and
Translated by Edgar Taylor. Edited,
with an Introduction, by John Ruskin.
With 22 Illustrations on Steel by
George Cruikshank. Square 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Gibbon (Charles), Novels by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s 6d. each
post 8vo, illustrated boards. 2s. each.

Robin Gray.

For Lack of Gold.

What will the

World Say
In Honour Bound.
Queen of the

Meadow.

Braes of Yarrow.
The Flower of the
Forest. [hem.
A Heart's .

Of High Degree.
Fancy Free.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s each.

For the King. | In PasturesGreen.

In Love and War.

By Mead and Stream.

Heart's Delights [Preparing,

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Loving a Dream. | A Hard Knot.

Gilbert (William), Novels by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Dr. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke, Costermonger.

Gilbert (W. S.), Original Plays

by: In Two Series, each complete in
itself, price 2s. 6d. each.

The First Series? contains  The
Wicked World  Pygmalion and Galatea
 Charity  The Princess  The
Palace of Truth  Trial by Jury.

The Second Series contains  Broken
Hearts  Engaged  Sweethearts
Gretchen  Dan'l Druce  Tom Cobb
H.M.S. Pinafore The Sorcerer The
Pirates of Penzance.

Eight Original Comic Operas. Written
by W. S. Gilbert. Containing:
The Sorcerer H.M.S. "Pinafore"
The Pirates of Penzance  calantha
Patience  Princess Ida  The
Mikado Trial by Jury. Demy 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Glenny. A Year's Work in

Garden and Greenhouse: Practical
Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to
the Management of the Flower, Fruit,
and Frame Garden. By George
Glenny. Post 8vo, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d.

Godwin.  Lives of the Necromancers.
By William Godwin.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Golden Library, The:

Square imo (Tauchnitz size), cloth
limp, 2s. per volume.

Bayard Taylor's Diversions of the
Echo Club.

Bennett's (Dr. W. C.) Ballad History
of England.

Bennett's (Dr.) Songs for Sailors.

Byron's Don Juan.

Godwin's (William) Lives of the
Necromancers.

Holmes's Autocrat of the Breakfast
Table. Introduction by Sala.

Holmes's Professor at the Breakfast
Table.

Hood's Vv'hims and Oddities. Complete.
All the onglnal Illustrations.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of a
Traveller.

Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and Occupations
of a Country Life.

Lamb's Essays of Ella. Both Series
Complete in One Vol.

Leigh Hunt's Essays: A Tale for a
Chimney Corner, and other Pieces.
With Portrait, and Introduction by
Edmund Oilier.



Golden Library, continued.

Melior's (Sir Thomas) Mort
arthur: The Stories of King
Arthur and of the Knights of the
Round Table. Edited by B. montgomery
Ranking.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A New
Translation, with Historical introductions
Notes, byT.M'CRiE.D.D.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and Moral
Reflections. With Notes, and Introductory
Essay by Sainte-veuve.

St. Pierre's Paul and Virginia, and
The Indian Cottage. Edited, with
Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke.

Golden Treasury of Thought,
The: An Encyclopaedia of Quotations
from Writers of all Times and
Countries. Selected and Edited by
Theodore Taylor. Crown Svo, cloth
gilt and gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Graham.  The Professor's

Wife : A Story. By Leonard Graham.
Fcap. Svo, picture cover. Is.

Greeks and Romans, The Life

of the, Described from Antique Monuments.
By Ernst Gull and W.
Koner. Translated from the Third
German Edition, and Edited by Dr.
F. Suffer. 545 Illusts. New and
Cheaper Edit., demy Svo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d.

Greenaway (Kate) and Bret

Harte.  The Queen of the Pirate
Isle. By Bret Harte. With 25
original Drawings by Kate Greenaway,
Reproduced in Colours by E.
Evans. Sm. 410, bds., 5s. Shortly.

Greenwood (James), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
The Wilds of London.
Low-life Deeps: An Account of the
Strange Fish to be Found There.

Dick Temple: A Novel. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Guyot. The Earth and Manor,

Physical Geography in its relation
to the History of Mankind. By
Arnold Guyot. With Additions by
Professors Agassiz, Pierce, and Gray;
12 Maps and Engravings on Steel,
some Coloured, and copious Index.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 4s. 6d.

Habberton Brueton's Bayou.

By John Habberton, Author of
Helen's Babies." Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; cloth, 2s, 6d.

Hair (The): Its Treatment in
Health, Weakness, and Disease.
Translated from the German of Dr. J.
Pin cus. Crown Svo, Is.; cloth, I s. 6d.

Hake (Dr. Thomas Gordon),

Poems by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
New Symbols.
Legends of the Morrow.
The Sere went Play.

Maiden Ecstasy. Small 4to, cloth
extra, 8s.

Hall. Sketches of Irish Character.

By Mrs. S. C. Hall. With
numerous Illustrations on Steel and
Wood by Maclise, Gilbert, Harvey,
and G. Cruikshank. Medium Syo,
cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Halllday. Every-day Papers.

By Andrew Hallid.\y. Post Svo,
ill stated boards, 2s.

Handwriting, The Philosophy

of. With over 100 Facsimiles and Explanatory
Text. By Don Felix de
Salamanca. Post Svo, cl. limp, 23. 6d.

Hanky-Panky: A Collection of

Very EasyTricks.Very Difficult Tricks,
White Magic, Sleight of Hand, &c.
Edited by W. H. Cremer. With 200
Illusts. Crown Svo, cloth extracts. 6d.

Hardy (Lady Duffus).  Paul

Wynter's Sacrifice: A Story. By
Lady Duffus Hardy. Post Svo, illust.
boards, 2s.

Hardy (Thomas. Under the

Greenwood Thee. By Thomas Hardy,
Author of "far from the Madding
Crowd." With numerous Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Harwood.  The Tenth Earl.

By J. Berwick Harwood. Post Svo,
illustrated bo arts, 2s.

Haweis (Mrs. H. R.), Works by :

The Art of Dress. With numerous
Illustrations. Small Svo, illustrated
cover. Is. ; cloth limp. Is. 6d.

The Art of Beauty. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown Svo, cloth extra.
Coloured Frontispiece and Illusts. 6s.

The Art of Decoration. Square Svo,
handsomely bound and profusely
Illustrated, 10s. 6d.

Chaucer for Children: A Golden
Key. With Eight Coloured Pictures
and numerous Woodcuts. New
Edition, small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.

Chaucer for Schools. Demy Svo,
cloth limp, 23. 64.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Haweis (Rev, H. R.).  American

Humorists. Including Washington
Irving, Oliver Wendell Holmes,
James Russell Lowell, Artemus
Ward.Mark Twain, and Bret Harte.
By the Rev. H. R. Haweis, M.A.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Hawthopne(JuIian), Novels by.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Garth. I Sebastian Stroke.

Ellice Question. | Dust.

Prince Saroni's Wife.

Fortune's Fool. | Beatrix Randolph.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Miss Madonna.

Love  or a Name.

Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds.
Fcap. 8vo, illus treated cover, Is.

Hays. Women of the Day: A

Biographical Dictionary of Notable
Contemporaries. By Frances Hays.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Heath (F. G.).  My Garden

Wild, and What I Grew There. By
Francis George Heath, Author of
The Fern World," &c. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 53. ; cl. gilt, gilt edges, 6s.

Helps (Sir Arthur), Works by :

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 23. 6d. each.
Animals and their Masters.
Social Pr assure.

Ivan de Biron : A Novel. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s

Heptalogia (The); or. The

Seven against Sense. A Cap with
Seven Bells. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Herrick's (Robert) Hesperides,

Noble Numbers, and Complete Collected
Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D., Steel Portrait, Index
of First Lines, and Glossarial Index,
&c. Three Vols., crown Svo, cloth, 183.

Hesse Wartegg (Chevalier

Ernst von), Works by :

Tunis: The Land and the People.
With 22 Illustrations. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

The New South-West: Travelling
Sketches from Kansas, New Mexico,
Arizona, and Northern Mexico.
With 100 fine Illustrations and Three
Maps. Demy Svo, cloth extra,
lip. C/ frepcirci'tion.

Herbert. The Poems of Lord

Herbert of Cherbury. Edited, with
Introduction, by J. Churton Collins.
Crown Svo, bound in parchment, 83.

Hindley (Charles), Works by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d, each.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings : Including
the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with
Taverns, Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
With Illustrations.

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Hindley.

Hoey. The Lover's Creed.

By Mrs. Castel Hoey. With Frontispiece
by P. Macnab. New and Cheaper
Edit. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Holmes (O. Wendell), Works by :

The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.
Illustrated by J. Gordon
Thomson, Post Svo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.  Another Edition in smaller
type, with an Introduction by G. A.
Sala. Post Svo, cloth limp, 23.

The Professor at the Breakfast-table
; with the Story of Iris. Post
Svo, cloth limp, 23.

Holmes,  The Science of

Voice Production and Voice Preservation
: A Popular Manual for the
Use of Speakers and Singers. By
Gordon Holmes, M.D. With Illustrations.
Crown Svo, Is. ; cloth. Is. 6d,

Hood (Thomas):

Hood's Choice Works, in Prose and

Verse. Including the Cream of the
Comic Annuals. With Life of the
Author, Portrait, and 200 Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
With all the original Illustrations.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

Hood (Tom), Works by:

From Nowhere to the North Pole:

A Noah's Archaeological Narrative.
With 25 Illustrations by W. Brun-ton
and E. C. Barnes. Square
crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 6s.
A Golden Heart: A Novel, Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s,

Hook's (Theodore) Choice Humorous
Works, including his Ludicrous
Adventures,Bons Mots, Puns and
Hoaxes. With a New Life of the
Author, Portraits, Facsimiles, arid
musts'. Cr. Svo, cj. extra. gelt, 7s . Q.



Hooper.  The House of Raby :

A Novel. By Mrs. George Hooper.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Hopkins " 'Twixt Love and

Duty:" A Novel. By Tight Hopkins.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Home. Orion : An Epic Poem,
in Three Books. By Richard Hengist
HoRNE. With Photographic
Portrait from a Medallion by Summers.
Tenth Edition, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s.

Howell.  Conflicts of Capital

and Labour, Historically and Economically
considered : Being a History
and Review of the Trade Unions
ot Great Britain. By Geo. Howell
M.P. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. ci.

Hunt. Essays by Leigh Hunt.

A Tale for a Chimney Corner, and
other Pieces. With Portrait and Introduction
by Edmund Ollier. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 23.

Hunt (Mrs. Alfred), Novels by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

Thornlcroft's Model.

The Leaden Casket.

Self-condemned

That other Person. Three Vols.,
crown 8vo.

Indoor Paupers. By One of

Them. Crown 8vo, is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Ingelow. Fated to be Free : A

Novel. By Jean Ingelow. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Irish Wit and Humour, Songs

of. Collected and Edited by A. Perceval
Graves. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
23. 6d.

Irving  Tales of a Traveller.

By Washington Irving. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s.

Jay (Harriet), Novels by:

The Dark Colleen. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

The Queen of Connaught. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; cost 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s. ' '

Janvier. Practical Keramics

for Students By Catherine A.
Janvier. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6$.

JefPeries (Richard), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63. each.
Nature near London.
The Life of the Fields.
The Open Air.

Jennings (H. J.), Works by:

Curiosities of Criticism. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Lord Tennyson: A Biographical
Sketch. With a Photograph-portrait.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Jerrold (Tom), Works by :

Post 8vo, Is. each ; cloth. Is. 6d. each.
The Garden that Paid the Rent.
Household Horticulture: A Gossip

about Flowers. Illustrated.
Our Kitchen Garden: The Plants

we Grow, and How we Cook Them.

Jesse. Scenes and occupations

of a Country Life. By Edward
Jesse. Post 8vo, cloth limp. 2 s.

Jeux esprit. Collected and
Edited by Henry S. Leigh. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Jones (Wm., F.S.A.), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Finger-Ring Lore: Historical, Legendary,
and Anecdotal. With over
Two Hundred Illustrations,

Credulity, Past and Present; including
the Sea and Seamen, Miners,
Talismans, Word and Letter Divination,
Exorcising and Blessing of
Animals, Birds, Eggs, Luck, &c.
With an Etched Frontispiece.

Crowns and Coronations : A History
of Regalia in all Times and Countries.
With One Hundred Illustrations.


Jonson's (Ben) Works. With

Notes Critical and Explanatory, and
a Biographical Memoir bv William
Gifford. Edited by Colonel Cunningham.
Three Vols., crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 18s. ; or separately , 63. each.

Joseph us, The Com pleteWorks

of. Translated by Whiston. Containing
both " The Antiquities of the
Jews " and " The Wars of the Jews."
Two Vols., 8vo, with 52 Illustrations
and Mans, clQtb extra, gilt, 14s.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Kempt. Pencil and Palette:

Chapters on Art and Artists. By Robert
Kempt. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Kershaw.  Colonial Facts and

Fictions: Humorous Sketches. By
Mark Kershaw. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; cloth, 2s. 6d.

King (R. Ashe), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
A Drawn Game.
"The Wearing of the Green."

Kingsley (Henry), Novels by :

Oakshott Castle. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Number Seventeen. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Knight.  The Patient's Vade

Mecum: How to get most Benefit
from Medical Advice. By William
Knight, M.R.C.S., and Edward
Knight, L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, Is. ;
cloth, Is. 6d.

Lamb (Charles):

Lamb's Complete Works, in Prose
and Verse, reprinted from the Original
Editions, with many Pieces
hitherto unpublished. Edited, with
Notes and Introduction, by R. H.
SHEPHfc-RD. With Two Portraits and
Facsimile of Page of the " Essay on
Roast Pig." Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

The Essays of Ella. Complete Edition.
Post 8vo, cloth extra, 2s.

Poetry for Children, and Prince
Doris. By Charles Lamb. Carefully
reprinted from unique copies.
Small 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Little Essays : Sketches and Characters.
By Charles Lamb. Selected
from his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.
Post Svo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.

Lares and Penates ; or, The

Background of Life. By Florence
Caddy. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Haywood (Jacob), Works by:

The Story of the London Parks.

With Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, Ss. 6d.

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Forensic Anecdotes.
Theatrical Anecdotes.

Lane's Arabian Nights, &c.:

The Thousand and One Nights;

commonly called, in England, " The
Arabian Nights' Entertainments."
A New Translation from
the Arabic, with copious Notes, by
Edward William Lane. Illustrated
by many hundred Engravings on
Wood, from Original Designs by
Wm. Harvey. A New Edition, from
a Copy annotated by the Translator,
edited by his Nephew, Edward
Stanley Poole. With a Preface by
Stanley Lane-Poole. Three Vols.,
demy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.
Arabian Society in the Middle Ages:
Studies from "The Thousand and
One Nights." By Edward William
Lane, Author of "The Modern
Egyptians," &c. Edited by Stanley
Lane-Poole. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Life in London ; or. The History
of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian
Tom. With the whole of Cruik-
shank's Illustrations, in Colours, after
the Originals. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. clinton

(E. Lynn), Works by:

Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Witch stories.

The True story of Joshua Davison.
Ourselves: Essays on Women.

Crown Svo, cloth extra. 3s. 6d. each ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Leam Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord ?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
My Love !" j lone.

Longfellow:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Longfellow's Complete Prose Works,
Including " Outre Mer," " Hyperion,"
" Kavanagh," *' The Poets and
Poetry of Europe, "and "Driftwood''
With Portrait and Illustrations by
Valentine Bromley.

Longfellow's Poetical Works. Carefully
Reprinted from the Original
Editions. With numerous fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood.

Long Life, Aids to: A Medical,
Dietetic, and General Guide in
Health and Disease. By N. E.
Davies. L.R.C.P. Crown Svo, 2s. J
qlotb limp, ?3. 6d.

Cro-.vn 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post svo, illustrated boards, 2s, each.
Dear Lady Disdain.
The Watergate Neighbours.
My Enemy's Daughter.
A Fair Saxon.
Miss Misanthrope.
Donna Quixote.
The Comet of a Season.
Maid of Athens.

Linley Rochford. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 23.

Camiola: A Girl with a Fortune.
New and Cheaper Edition. Crown
bvo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
'The Right Honourable:" A Romance
of Society and Politics. By
Justin McCarthy, M.P., and Mrs.
Campbell - Praed. Three Vols.,
crown 8vo.

McCarthy (Justin H., M.p),

Works by:

An Outline of the History of Ireland,
from the Earliest Times to the Present
Day. Cr. 8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

A History of Ireland from the Union
to the Introduction of Mr. Gladstone's
Bill. Crown Bvo, cloth extra,
68. [In the press.

Lucy. Gideon Fleyce: A Novel.

By Henry W, Lucy. Crown Bvo,
cl, ex., 3s. 6d.; post Svo, illust. bds., 23.

Lusiad (The) of Camoens.

Translated into English Spenserian
Verse by Robert French Duff.
Demy Svo, with Fourteen full-page
Plates, cloth boards, 183.

Macalpine.  Teresa Itasca,

and other Stories. By Avery Macalpine.
Crown Svo, bound in canvas,
2s. 6d.

McCarthy (Justin, M.P.),Works I

by: I

A History of Our Own Times, from ]

the Accession of Queen Victoria to |

the General Election of iso. Four !

Vols, demy Svo, cloth extra, 12s.

each.  Also a Popular Edition, in

Four Vols. cr. Svo, cl. extra, 6s. each.
A Short History of Our Own Times.

One Vol., crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
History of the Four Georges. Four

Vols, demy Svo, cloth extra, 123.

each. [Vol. I. ou/ ready.

McCarthy (Justin H.), continued 
England under Gladstone, 1880-85.
Second Edition, revised and brought
down to the Fall of the Gladstone
Administration. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 6s.

Doom I An Atlantic Episode. Crown
Svo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Our Sensation Novel. Edited by
Justin H. McCarthy. Crown Svo,
Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Hafiz in London. Choicely printed.
Small Svo, gold cloth, 33. 6d.

Macdonald (George, LL.D.),

Works by :
Works of Fancy and Imagination.

Pocket Edition, Ten Volumes, in
handsome cloth case, 21s. Vol. i.
Within and Without. The Hidden
Life. Vol. 2. The Disciple.
The Gospel Women. A Book of
Sonnets. Organ Songs. Vol. 3.
Violin Songs. Songs of the Days
AND Nights. A Book of Dreams.
Roadside Poems. Poems for
Children. Vol. 4. Parables.
Ballads. Scotch Songs. Vols.
5 and 6. Phantasies: A Faerie
Romance. Vol. 7. The Portent.
Vol. 8. The Light Princess. The
Giant's Heart. Shadows.  Vol.
9. Cross Purposes. The Golden
Rei'. The Carson. Little
Daylight.  Vol. 10. The Cruel
Painter. The Wow o' Riven.
The Castle. The Broken Swords.
The Gray Wolf. Uncle Cornelius.


The Volumes are also sold separately
in Grolier-pattern cloth, 23. 6d. each.

Macdonell.  Quaker Cousins:

A Novel. By Agnes Macdonell.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3? 6d. ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Macgregor.  Pastimes and

Players. Notes on Popular Games.
By Robert Macgregor. Post Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Maclise Portrait-Gallery (The)

of Illustrious Literary Characters;
with Memoirs  Biographical, Critical,
Bibliographical, and Anecdotal  illustrative
of the Literature of the former
half of the Present Century. By
William Bates, B.A, With 85 Portraits
printed on an India Tint. Grown
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Mackay Interludes and Undertones:
or. Music at Twilight. By
Charles Mackay, LL.D. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Macquoid (Mrs), Works by:

Square 8vo, cloth extra, lOs. 6d. eac

In the Ardennes. With 50 fine Illustrations
by Thomas R. Macquoid.

Pictures and Legends from Normandy
and Brittany. With numerous":
Illustrations by Thomas R.
Macquoid.

About Yorkshire. With 67 Illustrations
by T. R. Macquoid.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Through Normandy. With 90 Illustrations
byT. R. Macquoid.

Through Brittany. With numerous
Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
The Evil Eye, and other Stories.
Lost Rose.

Magician's Own Book (The):

Performances with Cups and Balls,
Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All
from actual Experience. Edited by
W. H. Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Magic Lantern (The), and its

Management: including full Practical
Directions for producing the
Limelight, making Oxygen Gas, and
preparing Lantern Slides. By T. C.
Hepworth. With 10 Illustrations.
Crown Svo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Magna Charta. An exact Facsimile
of the Original in the British
Museum, printed on fine plate paper,
3 feet by 2 feet, with Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours. 5s.

Mallock (W. H.), Works by:

The New Republic; or, Culture, Faith
and Philosophy in an English Country
House. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. ;
Cheap Edition, illustrated boards, 2s.

The New Paul and Virginia ; or, Positivism
on an Island. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Poems. Small 4to, in parchment, 8s.

Is Life worth Living? Crown 8yo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort

arthur : The Stories of King Arthur
and of the Knights of the Round Table.
Edited by B. Montgomery Ranking.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

Marlowe's Works. Including
his Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introductions, by Col, Cunningham.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Marryat (Florence), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Open ! Sesame!
Written in Fire

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
A Harvest of Wild Oats.
A Little Stepson.
Fighting the Air.

Waterman.  Half a Dozen

Daughters: A Novel. By J. Master-man.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Mark Twain, Works by:

The Choice Works of Mark Twain.

Revised and Corrected throughout by
the Author. With Life, Portrait, and
numerous Illustrations. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d,

The innocents Abroad ; or. The New
Pilgrim's Progress : Being some Account
of the Steamship " Quaker
City's " Pleasure Excursion to
Europe and the Holy Land. With
234 Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.  Cheap Edition (under
the title of" Mark Twain's Pleasure
Trip "post Svo, illust. boards, 28.

Roughing it, and The Innocents at
Home. With 200 Illustrations by
F. A. Eraser. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

The Gilded Age. By Mark Twain
and Charles Dudley Warner.
With 212 Illustrations by T. Coppin.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Adventures of Tom Sawyer.
With III Illustrations. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Cheap Edition,
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

The Prince and the Pauper. With
nearly 200 illustrations. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

A Tramp Abroad. With 314 Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Cheap Edition, post 8vo,illustrated
boards, 2s.

The stolen White Elephant, Ac.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 0s. ; post Svo,
illustrated boards, 28.

t1

Mark Twain's Works, continued
Life on the Mississippi. With about
300 Original Illustrations. Crown
bvo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
The Adventures of Huckleberpy
Finn. With 174 Illustrations by
E. W. Kemble. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d. Cheap Edition, post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Massinger's Plays. From the

Text of William Gifford. Edited
by Col. Cunningham. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Matthews. A Secret of the

Sea, &c. By Brander Matthews.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s ; cloth,
23. 6d.

Mayfair Library, The:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. per Volume.

A Journey Round My Room. By

Xavier de Maistre. Translated
by Henry Attwell.

Latter-day Lyrics. Edited by W.
Davenport Adams.

Quips and Quiddities. Selected by
W. Davenport Adams.

The Agony Column of "The Times,"
from 1800 to 1870. Edited, with an
Introduction, by Alice Clay.

Melancholy Anatomisedd: A Popular
Abridgment of " Burton's Anatomy
of Melancholy."

Gastronomy as a Fine Art. By

Brilliant-Savarin.

The Speeches of Charles Dickens.

Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,
and Frolics. By W. T, Dobson.

Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.
Selected and Edited by W. T.

DoBSON.

The Cupboard Papers. By Fin-Bec.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
First Series. Containing: The
Wicked World  Pygmalion and
Galatea  Charity  The Princess 
The Palace of Truth  Trial by Jury.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
Second Series. Containing : Broken
Hearts  Engaged  Sweethearts 
Gretchen Dan'l Druce  Tom Cobb
H.M.S. Pinafore  The Sorcerer
The Pirates of Penzance.

Songs of Irish Wit and Humour.
Collected and Edited by A. Perceval
Graves.

Animals and their Masters. By Sir
Arthur Helps.

Social Pressure. By Sir A. Helps.

Mayfair Library, continued 

Curiosities of Criticism. By Henry
J. Jennings.

The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.
By Oliver Wendell Holmes, Illustrated
by J, Gordon Thomson.

Pencil and Palette. By Robert
Kempt.

Little Essays : Sketches and Characters.
By Chas. Lamb. Selected from
his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.

Forensic Anecdotes; or. Humour and
Curiosities of the Law and Men of
Law. By Jacob Haywood.

Theatrical Anecdotes. By Jacob
Haywood.

Jeux d'Esprlt. Edited by Henry S.
Leigh.

True History of Joshua Davidson
By E. Lynn Linton.

Witch Stories. By E. Lynn Linton.

Ourselves: Essays on Women. By
E. Lynn Linton.

Pastimes and Players. By Robert
Macgregor.

The New Paul and Virginia. By
W. H. Mallock.

New Republic. By W. H. Mallock.

Puck on Pegasus. By H.Cholmonde-
ley-penned.

Pegasus Re-Saddled. By H. Chol-
mondeley-Pennell. Illustrated by
George Du Maurier.

Muses of Mayfair. Edited by H.
Cholmondeley-Pennell.

Thoreau : His Life and Aims. By
H. A. Page.

Punlana. By the Hon. Hugh Rowley.

More Punlana. By the Hon. Hugh
Rowley.

The Philosophy of Handwriting. By
Don Felix de Salamanca.

By Stream and Sea. By William
Senior.

Old Stories Retold. By Walter
Thornbury.

Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
By Dr. Andrew Wilson.

Mayhew.  London Characters

and the Humorous Side of London
Life. By Henry Mayhew. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown Bvo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Medicine, Family.  One Thousand

Medical Maxims and Surgical
Hints, for Infancy, Adult Life, Middle
Age, and Old Age. By N. E. Davies,
L.R.C.P. Lord. Cr.Svo.ls.; cl.,l3.6d.

Meppy Circle (The) : A Book of
New Intellectual Games and Amusements.
By Clara Belleww. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Mexican Mustang (On a),

through Texas, from the Gulf to the
Rio Grande. A New Book of American
Humour. By Alex, E. Sweet and
J. Army Ki;ox, Editors ot " Texas
Sittings." With 265 Illusts. Cr. 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. cl.

Middlemost (Jean), Novels by:

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Touch and Go.
Mr. Dorillion.

Miller.  Physiology for the

Young; or, The House of Life: Human
Physiology, with its application
to the Preservation of Health. For
Classes and Popular Reading. With
numerous Illusts, By Mrs. F. Fenwick
Miller. Small Svo, cloth limp, 2s, 6d

Milton (J. L.), Works by:

Sm. 8vo, Is. each ; cloth ex,, Is. 6d. each.
The Hygiene of the Skin. A Concise

Set of Rules for the Management of

the Skin ; with Directions for Diet,

Wines, Soaps, Baths, &c.
The Bath in Diseases of the Skin,
The Laws of Life, and their Relation

to Diseases of th e Skin.

Wordsworth (Mrs,). Fathers

Rectory. By Mrs. Moles-worth,
Author of "The Cuckoo
Clock," &c. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
4s. 6d.

Murray (D. Christie), Novels

by. Crown Svo.cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

A Life's Atonement.

A IVlode! Father.

Joseph's Coat.

Coats of Fire.

By the Gate of the Sea

Val strange.

Hearts.

The Way of the World.

A Bit of Human Nature.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

First Person Singular: A Novel.

With a Frontispiece by Arthur

Hopkins.
Cynic Fortune: A Tale of a Man with

a Conscience. With a Frontispiece

by R, Canon Woodville.

North Italian Folk. By Mrs.

Commons Carr, Illustrated by Randolph
Caldecott. Square Svo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Number Nip (Stories about),

the Spirit of the Giant Mountains. j
Retold for Children by Walter

Grahame. With Illustrations by J. !

Moor Smith. Post Svo, cl, extra, 5s, ]

Nursery Hints: A Mother's

Guide in Health and Disease. By N, ,
E, Davies, L.R.C.P. Crown Svo, Is
cloth, Is. 6d.

O'Connor. Lord Beaconsfield

Biography, ByT. O'connor, M.P. 1
Sixth Edition, with a New Preface, |
bringing the work down to the Death j
of Lord Beaconsfield. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

O'Hanlon,  The Unforeseen: 1

A Novel. By Alice O'Hanlon. New
and Cheaper Edition. Post Svo, illus |
tract boards, 2s. 1

Oliphant (Mrs.) Novels by:

Whiteladies. With Illustrations by
Arthur Hopkins and H. Woods. j
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. (

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d. each. 'j

The Primrose Path, |

The Greatest Heiress In England. '

Reilly. Phoebe's Fortunes:

A Novel. With Illustrations by Henry
Tuck. Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23.

O'Shaughnessy (Artis), Works

by:
Songs of a Worker. Fcap. Svo, cloth

extra, 7s. 6d.
Music and Moonlight. Fcap. Svo,

cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Lays of France. Crown Svo, cloth

extra, 10s. 6d.

Ouida, Novels by. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 5s. each ; post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s. each.

Held In Bondage,

strath more.

Chances.

Under Two Flags,

Cecil Castle-maine's

Gage.
Italia,
Tricotrln.
Puck,

Folle Farine,
TwoLittleWooden

Shoes.
A Dog of Flanders.
Pascarei.

Signa,

In a Winter City.

Ariadne

Friendship.

Moths.

Pipistrello.

A Village Commune.


Bimbi,

In Maremma

Wands.

Frescoes,

Princess Naprax-
Fine.



OuiDA, Novels by, cciiii:tued 
Othman: A Novel. Cheaper Edition.
Crown 8vo. cloth extra, 5s.

Wisdom, Wit, and Pathos, selected
from the Works of Ouida by F.
Sydney Morris. Small crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 53.

Page (H. A.), Works by :
Thoreau : His Life and Aims : A Study.
With a Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.
Lights on the Way : Some Tales within
a Tale. By the late J. H. Alexander,
B.A. Edited by H. A. Page.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
Animal Anecdotes. Arranged on a
New Principle. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 5s. shortly.

Parliamentary Elections and

Electioneering in the Old Days (A
History of). Showing the State of
Political Parties and Party Warfare at
the Hustings and in the House of
Commons from the Stuart to Queen
Victoria. Illustrated from the original
Political Squibs, Lampoons, Pictorial
Satires, and Popular Caricatures ot
the Time. By Joseph Greg, Author
of "Rowlandson and his Works,"
"The Life of Gillray," &c. Demy
Svo, cloth extra, with a Frontispiece
coloured by hand, and nearly 100
Illustration ns, 16s.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A

New Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, by T. M'Crie,
D.D. Post Svo, clot h limp, 2s.

Patient's (The) Vade Mecum:

How to get most Benefit from Medical
Advice. By William Knight,
M.R.C.S,, and Edward Knight,
L.R.C.P. Crown Svo, Is.; cloth, ls.6d.

Paul Ferrol :

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Paul Ferrol : A Novel.
Why Paul Ferrol Killed his Wife.

Paul. Gentle and Simple. By

Margaret Agnes Paul. With a
Frontispiece by Helen Paterson.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 61. ; post Svo,
illustrated boards. 23.

Payn (James), Novels by.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each
post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Lost Sir Massinger.
The Best of Husbands.
Walter's Word. | Halves.
What He Cost Her.
Less Black than we're Painted.
By Proxy. j High Spirits.

Under One Roof.

Payn (James), Novels by, continued 

A Confidential Agent.

Some Private Views.

A Grape from a Thorn.

For Cash Only, j From Exile.

The Can on's Ward.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Kit: A Memory. | Carlyon's Year.

A Perfect Treasure.

Bentinck's Tutor. Murphy's Master.

Fallen Fortunes.

A County Family. | At Her Mercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.

Cecil's Tryst.

The Clyffards of ClyfFe.

The Family Scapegrace.

The Foster Brothers.

Found Dead.

Gwendoline's Harvest.

Humorous Stories.

Like Father, Like Son.

A Marine Residence.

Married Beneath Him.

Mirk Abbey.

Not Wooed, but Won.

Two Hun died Pounds R edward.

In Peril and Privation: Stories ot
Marine Adventure Re-told. A Book
for Boys. With numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, 6s.

The Talk of the Town: A Novel.
With Twelve Illustrations by Harry
Furnish. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d.

The Fly on the Wheel : Humorous
Papers. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
6s. [In the press.

Pears.  Represent Depression
in Trade: Its Causes and Remedies.
Being the " Pears" Prize Essays
(of One Hundred Guineas). By Edwin
GoADBY and William Watt. With
an Introductory Paper by Prof. Leone
Levi, F.S.A., F.S.S. Demy Svo, Is.

Pennell (H. Cholmondeley),

Works by :

Post novo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Puck on Pegasus. With Illustrations
Pegasus Re-Saddled. With Ten full'

page Illusts. by G. Du Maurier,
The Muses of Mayfair. Vers da

Societe, Selected and Edited by H.

C. Pennell. 

Phelps (E. Stuart), Works by:

Post Svo, Is. each ; cloth limp,
Is. 6d. each.
Beyond the Gates. By the Author

of "The Gates Ajar."
An Old Maid's Paradise.
B u r glass in Paradise.

Pirkis (Mrs. C. L.), Novels by:

Trooping with Crows. Fcap. Svo,

picture cover. Is.
Lady Lovelace. Post Svo, illustrated

boards, 2s. [Preparing

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Planches (J. R.), Works by:

The Pursuivant of Arms ; or, Heraldry
Founded upon Facts. With
Coloured Frontispiece and 200 Illustrations.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Songs and Poems, from 1819 to 1879.
Edited, with an Introduction, by his
Daughter, Mrs. Backwardness. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious

Men. Translated from the Greek,
with Notes Critical and Historical, and
a Life of Plutarch, by John and
William Langhorne. Two Vols.,
8vo, cloth extra, with Portraits, Lips. 6d.

Poe (Edgar Allan:

The Choice Worlds, in Prose and
Poetry, of Edgar Allan Poe. With
an Introductory Essay by Charles
Baudelaire, Portrait and Facsimiles.
Crown 8vo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

The Mystery of Marie Roget, and
other Stories. Post 8vo. ill st.bds.,23.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete

in One Vol. Post 8vo, cl. limp, 2s.

Praed (Mrs. Campbell) "The

Right Honourable:" A Romance of
Society and Politics. By Mrs. 
and Justin McCarthy,
M.P. Three Vols., crown 8vo.

Price (E. C), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Valentina. | The Foreigners.

Mrs. Lancaster's Rival.
Gerald. Post Svo, illust. boards, 2s.

Proctor (Rich. A.), Works by :

Flowers of the Slay. With 55 Illusts.
Small crown Svo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Easy Star Lessons. With Star Maps
for Every Night in the Year, Drawings
of the Constellations, &c.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Familiar Science Studies. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Saturn and Its System. New and
Revised Edition, with 13 Steel Plates.
Demy Svo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

The Great Pyramid : Observatory,
Tomb, and Temple. With Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Mysteries of Time and Space. With
Illusts. Cr. Svo. cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Universe of Suns, and other
Science Gleanings. With numerous
Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Wages and Wants of Science
Workers. Crown Svo, Is. 6d.

Pyrotechnist'sTreasury(The);

cr. Complete Art of Making Fireworks.
By Thomas Kentish. With numerous
Illustrations. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 4s. 6d

Rabelais' Works. Faithfully

Translated from the French, with
variorum Notes, and numerous characteristic
Illustrations by Gustave
Dore. Crown Svo, cloth extra. 7s. 6d.

Rambosson. Popular Astronomy,
By J. Rambosson, Laureate of
the Institute of France. Translated by
C. B. Pitman. Crown Svo, cloth gilt,
numerous Illusts., and a beautifully
executed Chart of Spectra, 78. 6d.

Reade (Charles), Novels by:

Cr. Svo, cloth extra, illustrated,3s.6d.
each ; post Svo, illust. bds., 2s. each.

Peg Wofflngton. Illustrated by S. L.
Fildes, A.R.A.

Christie Johnstonee. Illustrated by
William Small.

It is Never Too Late to Mend. Illustrated
by G. J. PiNWELL.

The Course of True Love Never did
run Smooth. Illustrated by Helen
Paterson.

The Autobiography of a Thief ; Jack
of all trades; and James Lambert
Illustrated by Matt Stretch.

Love me Little, Love me Long. Illustrated
by M. Ellen Edwards.

The Double Marriage. Illust. by Sir
John Gilbert, R.A.,andC. Keene.

The Cloister and the Hearth. Ils
illustrated by Charles Keene.

Hard Cash. Illust. by F. W. Lawson.

Griffith Gaunt. Illustrated by S. L.
Fildes, A.R.A., and Wm, Small.

Foul Play. Illust. by Du Maurier.

Put Yourself In His Place. Illustrated
by Robert Barnes.

A Terrible Temptation. Illustrated
by Edw. HuGHEsandA. Cooper.

The Wandering Heir Illustrated by
H. Paterson, S. L. Fildes, A.R.A. ,
C. Green, and H, Woods, A.R.A.

A Simpleton. Illustrated by Kate
Crawford.

A Woman-hate. Illustrated by
Thos. Coulter.

Singleheart and Doubleface: A
Matter-of-fact Romance. Illustrated
by P. Macnab.

Good stories of Men and other
Animals. Illustrated by E. A. Abbey,
Percy Macquoid, and Joseph Nash.

Th e J lit, and other Stories. Illustrated
by Joseph Nash.

Readiana. With a Steel-plate Portrait
of Charles Reade.

Reader's Handbook (The) of

Allusions, References, Plots, and
Stories. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer.
Fifth Edition, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Cr. Svo, 1,400 pages, cloth extra. 7s. 6



Richardson.  A Ministry of

Health, and other Papers. By Benjamin
Ward Richardson, M.D., &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Liddell (Mrs. J. H.), Novels by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 66 each ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Her Mother's Darling.
The Prince of Wales's Garden Party
Weird Stories.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
The Uninhabited House.
Fairy Water.
The Mystery in Palace Gardens.

Rummer (Alfred), Works by :

Square Svo, cloth gilt, 10s.6d. each.
Our Old Country Towns. With over

50 Illustrations.
Rambles Round Eton and Harrow.

With 50 Illustrations.
About England with Dickens. With

58 Illustrations by Alfred Rimmer

and. A. Vanderhoof.

Robinson Crusoe: A beautiful

reproduction of Major's Edition, with
37 Woodcuts and Two Steel Plates by
George Cruikshank, choicely printed.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Robinson (F. W.), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Women are Strange.

The Hands of Justice.

Robinson (Phil), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

The Poets' Birds.

The Poets' Beasts.

Poets' Natural History y. [ Preparing .

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and

Moral Reflections. With Notes, and
an Introductory Essay by Sainte-veuve.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Roll of Battle Abbey, The ; or,

A List of the Principal Warriors who
came over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in
this Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours. Handsomely printed, 5s.

Rowley (Hon. Hugh), Works by:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Puniana: Riddles and Jokes. With

numerous Illustrations.
More Puniana . Prof self Illustrated.

R u n c i m an ( J am es)7Stor i esb

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each

cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Skippers and Shellbacks.
Grace Balmaign's Sweetheart,
phocis and Scholars. tPhparing.

Russell (W. Clark), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each ; post

8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Round the Galley-Fire.
On the Fo'k'sle Head : A Collection
of Yarn s and Sea Descry nations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each,
In the Middle Watch.
A Voyage to the Cape.

Sala, Gaslight and Daylight.

By George Augustus Sala. Post
Svo, illustrated boards. 2s.

Sanson.  Seven Generations

of Executioners: Memoirs of the
Sanson Family (16S8 to 1847). Edited
byHENRvSANsoN. Cr.8vo,cl.ex.3s.6d.

Saunders (John), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each,

Bound to the Wheel.

Guy Waterman.

The Lion in the Path.

The T wo Dreamers.
One Against the World. Post Svo,

illustrated boards, 2s.

Saunders (Katharine), Novels

by. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.

Joan Merryweather.

Margaret and Elizabeth.

The Hi gh Mills.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Heart Salvage. | Sebastian.
Gideon's Rock.

Science Gossip: An Illustrated
Medium of Interchange for Students
and Lovers of Nature. Edited by J. E.
Taylor, F.L.S., &c. Devoted to Geology,
Botany, Physiology, Chemistry,
Zoology, Microscopy, Telescope, Physiography,
&c. Price 4d. Monthly ; or
6s. per year, post free. Vols. I . to
XIV. may be had at 7s. 6d. each ; and
Vols. XV. to XXI. (1885), at 5s. each.
Cases for Binding, Is. 6d. each.

Scott (Sir Walter), Poems by :

Marmion. With over 100 new Illustrations
by leading Artists. Small
4to, cloth extra, I63.

The Lay of the Last Minstrel. With
over 100 new Illustrations by leading
Artists. Sm.4to, cl.ex.,163.

"Secret Out" Series, The:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, profusely Illustrated,
4s. 6d. each.
The Secret Out: One Thousand
Tricks with Cards, and other Recreations
; with Entertaining Experiments
in Drawing-room or " White
Magic." By W. H. Cremer. 30a
Engravings.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

"Secret Out " Series, continued 

The Pyrotechnist's Treasury; or.
Complete Art of Making Fireworks.
By Thomas Kentish. With numerous
Illustrations.

The Art of Amusing : A Collection of
Graceful Arts, Garaes.Tricks, Puzzles,
and Charades. By Frank Belleww.
With 3C0 Illustrations.

HnnkyPanky: Very Easy Tricks,
Very Difficult Tricks, White Magic
Sleight of Hand. Edited by W. H.
Cremer. V/ith 200 Illustrations.

The IVierry Circle: A Book of New
Intellectual Games and Amusements.
By Clara Belleww. Many Illusts.

Magician's Own Book: Performances
with Cups and Balls, Esrgs, Hats,
Handkerchiefs, &c. All from actual
Experience. Edited by W. H. Cramer.
200 Illustrations.

Senior.  By Stream and Sea.

By William Senior. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Seven Sagas (The) of Prehistoric
Man. By James H. Stoddart,
Author of " The Village Life." Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Shakespeare :

The First Folio Shakespeare. Mr.

William Shakespeare's Comedies,
Histories, and Tragedies. Published
according to the true Original Copies.
London, Printed by Isaac Haggard
and Ed. Blunt. 1623. A Reproduction
of the extremely rare original,
in reduced facsimile, by a photographic
process  ensuring the strictest
accuracy in every detail. Small 8vo,
half-roxburgh, '7s. 6(1.

TheLansdowne Shakespeare. Beautifully
printed in red and black, in
small but very clear type. With
engraved facsimile of Droeshout's
Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Shakespeare for Children: Tales
from Shakespeare. By Charles
and Mary Lamb. With numerous
Illustrations, coloured and plain, by
J. Moyr Smith. Cr. 4to, cl. gilt, 6s.

The Handbook of Shakespeare
Music. Being an Account of 350
Pieces of Music, set to Words taken
from the Plays and Poems of Shakespeare,
the compositions ranging
from the Elizabethan Age to the
Present Time, By Alfred Rosse;
4to, half-roxburgh, 7s.

A Study of Shakespeare. By Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Crown
g'/o, cloth extra, 8s.

Sheridan: 

Sheridan's Complete Works, with
Life and Anecdotes. Including his
Dramatic Writings, printed from the
Original Editions, his Works in
Prose and Poetry, Translations,
Speeches, Jokes, Puns, &c. With a
Collection of Sheridaniana. Crown
Evo, cloth extra, gilt, with to full-page
Tinted Illustrations, 7s. 6(1.

Sheridan's Comedies: The Rivals,
and The School for Scandal.
Edited, with an Introduction and
Notes to each Play, and a Biographical
Sketch of Sheridan, by
Brander Matthews. With Decorative
Vignettes and lofull-page Illusts.
Demy 8vo, half-parchment, 12s. 6d.

Short Sayings of Great iVlen.

V/ith Historical and Explanatory
Notes by Samuel A. Bent, M.A,
Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete

Poetical Works, including all those in
Arcadia." With Portrait, Memorial-introduction,
Notes, Sic, by the Rev.
A. B. Grosart, D.D. Three Vols,,
crown 8vo, cloth boards, 18s.

Signboards: Their History.
With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns
and Remarkable Characters. By
Jacob Haywood and John Camden
Hotten. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
with 100 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Sims (George R.), Works by :

How the Poor Live. With 60 Illusts.

by Fred. Barnard. Large 4to, Is.
Rogues and Vagabonds. Post 8vo,

illust. boards, 2s. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
The Ring o' Bells. Post 8vo, illust.

bds., 2s. ; cloth, 2s. 6d.

Sketchley.  A Match in the

Dark. By Arthur Sketchley. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s,

Slang Dictionary, The : Etymological,
Historical, and Anecdotal.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s. 6d.

Smith (J. Moyr), Works by:

The Prince of Argolis: A Story of the
Old Greek Fairy Time. Small 8vo
cloth extra, with 130 Illusts., 3s. 6d.

Tales of Old Thule. With numerous
Illustrations. Cr. 8vo, cloth gilt, 6s.

The Wooing of the Water Witch:
A Northern Oddity. With numerous
Illustrations. Small 8vo, cl, ex., 6,



Society In London. By A

Foreign Resident, Nevvand Cheaper
Edition, Revised, with an Additional
Chapter on Society among the
Middle and Professional Classes.
Crown 8vo. Is.; cloth, Is. 6d.

Spalding.-Elizabethan Demonology

: An Essay in Illustration of the
Belief in the Existence of Devils, and
the Powers possessed by Them. By T.
A. Spalding, LL.B. Cr. 8v o, cl. ex., 53.

Spanish Legendary Tales. By

Mrs. S. G. C. MiDDLEMORE, Author of
Round a Posada Fire." Crown bvo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Speight (T. W.), Novels by:
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.
With a Frontispiece by M. Ellen
Edwards. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. ci. ; post 8vo, illustrated bds., 2s.
A Barren Title. Cr. 8vo, Is. ; cl., ls.6d.
Wife or No Wife? Being; the Gentleman's
Annual for iso. Demy
Bvo, Is. Nov.

Spenser for Children. By M.

H. Tov/RY. With Illustrations by
Walter J. Morgan. Crown 4to, with
Coloured Illustrations, cloth gilt, 6s.

Staunton.  Laws and Practice

of Chess; Together with an Analysis
of the Openings, and a Treatise on
End Gaines. By Howard Staunton.
edited by Robert B. World. New
Edition, small cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Stedman.  The Poets of

America. With full Notes in Margin,
and careful Analytical Index. By
Edmund Clarence Stedman, Author
of " Victorian Poets." Cr. 8vo,cl. ex., 9s.

Sterndale.  The Afghan Knife:

A Novel. By Robert Armytage Stern-dale.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6(1.; post
:j vo, illustrated boa rds, 2s

Stevenson (Louis), WorI<s by :
Travels with a Donkey in the

Cevennes. Fifth Ed. Frontispiece by

W. Crane. Post Svo, cl. limp, 2s. 6d.
An Inland Voyage. With Front, by

VV. Crane. Post Svo, cl. Ip., 23. 6d.
Familiar Studies of Men and Books.

Second Edit. Crown 8vo, cl. ex., 6s.
New Arabian Nights. Crown bvo,

cl. extra, 6s. ; post Svo, illust. bds., 23.
The Silverado Squatters. With

Frontispiece. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Cheap Edition, post Svo, picture

cover, Is. ; cloth. Is. 6d.
Prince Otto: A Romance. Fourth

Edition. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. ;

post Svo, illustrated boards, 23.
The Merry Men, and other Tales and

Fables. Cr.8vo,cl. ex.,6s. Shortly,

St. John.  A Levantine Family.

By Bayle St. John. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Stoddard.  Summer Cruising

in the South Seas. By Charles
Warren Stoddard. Illust. by Wallis
Mackay. Crown Svo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d.

Stories from Foreign Novelists.
With Notices of their Lives and
Writings. By Helen and Alice Simmer.
Frontispiece. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

St. Pierre.  Paul and Virginia,

and The Indian Cottage. By Bernardin
St. Pierre. Edited, with Lie,
by Rev. E. Clarke. Post Svo, cl. Ip., 2s,

Struts's Sports and Pastimes

of the People of England; including?
the Rural and Domestic Recreations,
May Games, Mummers, Shows, Sec,
from the Earliest Period to the Present
Time. With 140 Illustrations, Edited
by William Hone. Crown Svo, clothe
extra, 73. 6d.

Suburban Homes (The) of

London : A Residential Guide to
Favourite London Localities, their
Society, Celebrities, and Associations.
V/ith Notes on their Rental, Rates, and
House Accommodation. With Map of
Suburban London. Cr.8vo,cl.ex,,7s.6d,

Swift's Choice Works, in Prose

and Verse, With Memoir, Portrait,
and Facsimiles of the Maps in the
Original Edition of " Tulliver's
Trap els." Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d .

Swinburne (Algerian C),

Works by:
Atlanta in Corydon, Crown Svo, 63.
Chartulary, A Tragedy, Cr, Svo, 7s.
Poems and Ballads. First Series.

Fcap. Svo, 9s. Cr. 8vo, same price.
Poems and Ballads, Second Series.

Fcap. bvo, 9s, Cr. Svo, same price.
Notes on Poems and Reviews. Svo, Is.
Songs before Sunrise. Cr.Svo, 10s.6d.
Bothv/cll: A Tragedy, Cr.Svo,12s.6d,
George Chapman: An Essay. Crown

Svo, 73.
Songs of Two Nations. Cr. Svo, 63.
Essays and Studies. Crown Svo, 123.
Erechtheus: A Tragedy. Cr. Svo, 6s.
Note of an English Republican 011

the Muscovite Crusade. Svo, Is.
Note on Charlotte Bronze. Cr.Svo.Cs.
A Study of Shakespeare. Cr. Svo, 8s.
Songs of the Springtide. Cr.Svo, 63.
studies in Song. Crown Svo. 73.
Mary Stuart: A Tragedy. Cr.Svo, 88.
Tristan of Lioness, and other

Poems. Crown Svo, 9s.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Swinburne's (A. C.) Works, continued
Century of Roundels. Small 410. 8s.
A Midsummer Holiday, and other

Poems. Crown 8vo, 7s,
Marino Falter: AATragedy. Cr.8vo,6s.
A Study of Victor Hugo. Cr. 8vo, 6s.
Miscellanies. Crown Svo, 12s.

Symonds.  Wine, Women and

Song: Medieval Latin Students'
Songs. Now first translated into English
Verse, with Essay by J. Addington
Symonds. Small Svo, parchment, 6s.

syntax's (Dp.) Three Tours :

In Search of the Picturesque, in Search
of Consolation, and in Search of a
Wife. With the whole of Rowlandson's
droll page Illustrations in Colours
and a Life of the Author by J. C.
Hotel. M ed. Svo, cloth extra, 7s . 6d.
Taine's History of English
Literature. Translated by Henry
Van Laun. Four Vols., small Svo,
cloth boards, sos. Popular Edition,
Two Vols., crown Svo, cloth extra, 153.

Taylor's (Bayard) Diversions

of the Echo Club: Burlesques of
Modern Writers. Post Svo, cl. limp, 23.

Taylor (Dr. J. E., F.L.S.), Works

by. Crown Svo, cloth ex., 7s. 6d. each.

The Sagacity and Morality of
Plants : A Sketch of the Life and
Conduct of the Vegetable Kingdom.
ColouredFrontispiece and 100 Illust.

Our Common British Fossils, and
Where to Find Them : A Handbook
for Students. With 331 Illustrations.

Taylor's (Tom) Historical

Dramas: "Chancery," "Jeanne
Dare," " 'Twixt Axe and Crown," " The
Fool's Revenge," " Arkwright's Wife,"
"Anne Boleyn'' " Plot and Passion''
One Vol., cr. Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
** The Plays may also be had separate
y, at Is. eac h.

Tennyson (Lord): A Biographical

Sketch. By H. J. Jennings.
With a Photograph-Portrait. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 6 s.

Thackerayana: Notes and Anecdotes.
Illustrated by Hundreds of
Sketches by William Makepeace
Thackeray, depicting Humorous
Incidents in his School-life, and
Favourite Characters in the books of
his every-day reading. With Coloured
Frontispiece. Cr. Svo, c l. extra, 7s. 6d.

Thomas (Bertha), Novels by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Cressida. | Proud Maisie.

The Violin Player.

Thomas (M.). A Fight for Life :

A Novel. By W. Moy Thomas. Post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Thomson'sSeasonsand Castle

of Indolence. With a Biographical
and Critical Introduction by Allan
Cunningham, and over 50 fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Thornbury (Walter), Works by

Haunted London. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Life and Correspondence of
J. M. W. Turner. Founded upon
Letters and Papers furnished by his
Friends and fellow Academicians.
With numerous Illusts. in Colours,
facsimile from Turner's Original
Drawings. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

Old Stories Re-told. Post Svo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Tales for the Marines. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Tombs (John), Works by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

The History of Clubs and Club Life
in London. With Anecdotes of its
Famous Coffee-houses, Hostelries,
and Taverns. With many Illusts.

English Eccentrics and Eccentricities:
Stories of Wealth and
Fashion, Delusions, Impostures, and
Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights
and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric
Artists, Theatrical Folk, Men ot
Letters, &c. With nearly 50 Illusts.

Trollope (Anthony), Novels by:

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

The Way We Live Now.

Kept in the Dark.

Frau Frohmann. | Marion Fay.

Mr. Scarborough's Family.

The Land Leaguers.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
The Golden Lion of Grantee.
JohnCaldigate. | American Senator '

Trollope(FrancesE.),Novelsby

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each ;

post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Like Ships upon the Sea
Mabel's Progress. | Anne Furness.

Trollope (T. A.). Diamond Cut

Diamond, and other Stories, By
T. Adolphus Trollope. Post vow
illustrated boards, 23.



Trowbridge. Parnell's Folly:

A Novel. By J. T. Trowbridge. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Turgenieff.  Stories from

Foreign Novelists. By Ivan Surges
and others. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d ; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Tytler (C. C. Fraser).  mistress

Judith: A Novel. By C. C.
Fraser-tatler. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post Bvo, illust. boards, 2s.

Tytler (Sarah Novels by :

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each,
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.
Saint iVlungo's City.
Beauty and the Beast. With a
Frontispiece by P. Macnab.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Noblesse Oblige. With Illustrations

by F. A. Fraser.
Citoyenne Jacqueline. Illustrated

by A. B. Houghton.
The Huguenot Family. With lusts.
Lady Bel l. Front, by R. M macbeth.

Buried Diamonds: A Novel. Three
Vols., crown 8vo.

Van Laun. History of French

Literature. By H. Van Laun. Three
Vols., dem y Svo, c l. bds., 7s. 6d. each.

Villari.  A Double Bond: A

Story. By Linda Villari. Fcap.
Svo, picture cover, Is.

Waldo rd (EdwTrMiAOyWorks by :

The County Families of the United
Kingdom. Containing Notices of
the Descent, Birth, Marriage, Education,
&c., of more than 12,000 distinguished
Heads of Families, their
Heirs Apparent or Presumptive, the
Offices they hold or have held, their
Town and Country Addresses, Clubs,
&c. Twenty-sixth Annual Edition,
for 1886, cloth gilt, 50s.

The Shilling Peerage (1886). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
House of Lords, Dates of Creation,
Lists of Scotch and Irish Peers,
Addresses, &c. 32mo, cloth, Is.
Published annually.

The Shilling Baronetage (1886).
Containing an Alphabetical List of
the Baronets of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates
of Creation, Addresses, &c. 32mo,
::;loth, Is.

The Shilling Knightage (1886). Containing
an Alphabetical' List of the
Knights of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates of

Creation, .A-ddresses.&c. 32mo,cl.,ls.

Walford's (Edw.) Works, continued 

The Shilling House of Commons

(1886). Containing a List of all the

Members of Parliament, their Town

and Country Addresses, &c. New

i Edition, embodying the results of

I the recent General Election. 32mo,

cloth. Is. Published annually.

The Complete Peerage, Baronetage,
Knightage, and House of
Commons (1886). In One Volume,
royal 32mo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 53.
Haunted London. By Walter
Thornbury. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. Crown
Bvo, cloth extra. 78. 6d.

Walton andCotton'sComplete

Angler; or. The Contemplative Man's
Recreation; being a Discourse of
Rivers, Fishponds, Fish and Fishing,
written by Izaak Walton; and Instructions
how to Angle for a Trout or
Grayling in a clear Stream, by Charles
Cotton. With Original Memoirs and
Notes by Sir Harris Nicholas, and
61 Copperplate Illustrations. Large
crown Sv o, cloth an tique, 7s. 6d.

Walt Whit man, poems' by.

Selected and edited, with an Introduction,
by William M. Rossetti. A
New Edition, with a Steel Plate Portrait.
Crown Svo, printed on hand-made
paper and bound in buckram,
6s. 

Wanderers Library, The :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Wanderings in Patagonia; or. Life
among the Ostrich-Hunters. By
Julius Beerbohm. Illustrated.

Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and
Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
America. By Frederick Boyle.

Savage Life. By Frederick Bovlk.

Merrie England in the Olden Time
By George Daniel. With Illustrations
by Robt. Cruikshank.

Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
By Thomas Frost.

The Lives of the Conjurers. By
Thomas Frost.

The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs. By Thomas Frost.

Low Life Deeps. An Account of the
Strange Fish to be found there. By
James Greenwood.

The Wilds of London. By James
Greenwood.

Tunis: The Land and the People.
By the Chevalier de .
With 22 Illustrations.

The LIfeand Adventures of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Hisdi.ev.

The World Behind the Scenes. By
Percy Fitzgerald.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Wanderer's Library, The, continued-tavern
Anecdotes and Sayings:
Including the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected v/itb Taverns,
Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
By Charles Hindley. With Illusts.
The Genial Showman: Life and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. By E. P.
Kingston. With a Frontispiece.
The Story of the London Partes.

By Jacob Haywood. With Illusts.
London Characters. By Henry May-hew.
Illustrated.
Seven Generations of Executioners :
Memoirs of the Sanson Family (1688
to 1847). Edited by Henry Sanson.
Summer Cruising In the South
Seas. By C. Warren Stoddard.
Illustrated by Wallis Mackay y.

Warner.  A Roundabout Journey.
By Charles Dudley Warner,
Author of " My Summer in a Garden."
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Warrants, Sec. : 
Warrant to Execute Charles I. An

exact Facsimile, with the Fifty-nine
Signatures, and corresponding Seals.
Carefully printed on paper to imitate
the Original, 22 in. by 14 in. Price 2s.

Warrant to Execute aviary Queen of
Scots. An exact Facsimile, including
the Signature of Queen Elizabeth,
and a Facsimile of the Great
Seal. Beautifully printed on paper
to imitate the Original MS. Price 2s.

Magna Charta. An exact Facsimile
ot the Original Document in the
British Museum, printed on fine
plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2
feet wide, with the Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours.

The Roll of Battle Abbey; or, A List

of the Principal Warriors who came
over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in this
Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
an d Colours. Price 5s.

Wayfarer, The : Journal of the

Society of Cyclists. Published Quarterly.
Price Is. Number i, for October,
is now ready.

Weather, How to Foretell the,

with the Pocket Spectroscope. By
F. W. Cry, M.R.C.S. Eng., F.R.Met.
Soc, &c. With 10 Illustrations. Crown
8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Westro pp. Handbook of Pottery
and Porcelain ; or, History ot
those Arts from the Earliest Period.
By Fodder M. Westropp. With numerous
Illustrations, and a List of
Marks. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, 4s. 6d.

Whistler's(Mr.) "Ten o'clock."

Uniform with his " Whistler v. Ruskin :
Art and Art Critics." Cr.8vo,lS. [Shortly .

Williams (W. Mattieuu, F.R.A.S.), ;

Works by:
Science Notes. See the Gentleman's

Magazine, is. Monthly.
Science in Short Chapters. Crown 1

8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. !

A Simple Treatise on Heat. Crown

8vo, cloth limp, with Illusts., 23. 6d. J

The Chemistry of Cookery. Crown '

8v o, cloth extra, 6s. |

Wilson (Dr. Andrew, F.R.S.E.), I
Works by: I

Chapters on Evolution: A Popular

History of the Darwinian and j
Allied Theories of Development. 1
Third Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth !
extra, with 259 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Leaves from a Naturalist's Note 1
book. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Leisure-Time Studies, chiefly Biological.
Third Edit., with New Pre i
face. Cr.8vo, cl. ex., with Illusts,, 6s. !

Studies in Life and Sense. With '
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s. ]preparing. i

Common Accidents, and How to
Treat them. By Dr. Andrew Wilson
and others. With numerous Ii ;
hesitations. Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth
limp.S.. 

Winter (J. S.), Stories by :

Cavalry Life. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s. !

Regimental Legends. Crown 8vo, ;
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Women ofTiTe~Day : A Biographical

Dictionary of Notable Contemporaries.
By Frances Hays. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Wood.  Sabina: A Novel By

Lady Wood. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Words, Facts, and Phrases: '

A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and
Out-oi-the-Way Matters. By Believer
Edwards. New and cheaper issue,
cr. 8vo,cl. ex.,7s.6d. ; half-bound, 9s.

Wright~(Thornas)r Works by f"

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. Gd. each.
Caricature History of the Georges. '
(The House of Hanover.) With 400
Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs, Broad '
sides. Window Pictures, &c. \
History of Caricature and of the
Grotesque in Art, Literature, |
Sculpture, and Painting. Profusely j
Illustrated by Few. Fairholt.F.S.A.

Yates (Edmund), Novels by : ]

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2a each.
Castaway. | The Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last. -i

7

NEW Three-volume NOVELS.

WILKIE Collins's NEW NOVEL.

The Evil Genius: A Novel. By V.'ilkie
Collins, Author of "The Woman in
White." Three Vols., crown 8vo.

WA L TER Best N T'S NE W NO VEL.

Children of Gibeon: A Novel. By
Walter Besa.nt, Author of " All Sorts
and Conditions of Men," "Dorothy
Forster," &c. Three Vols., crown
8vo.

ANOTHER NEW NOVEL BY
WALTER BESANT.
The World Went Very Well Then.
Three Vols., crown Svo. May, 1SS7.

MRS. HUNT'S NEW NOVEL.
That other Person : A Novel. Ev Mrs.
Alfred Hunt, Author of "Thorns
Model'' "The Leaden Casket,"
&c. Three Vols., crown Svo.

GRANT ALLEN'S NEW NOVEL.
In all Shades: A Novel. By Grant
Allen, Author of " Strange Stories,"
"Philistia," "Babylon," itc. Three
Vols., crown Svo.

HALL CAINE'S NEW NOVEL.
A Son of Hagar : A Novel. By T. Hall
Caine, Author of "The Shadow ot a
Crime," &c. Three Vols. Ajar , 18S7.

THE PICCADILLY NOVELS.

Popular Stories by the Best Authors. Library Editions, many Illustrated,
crown Svo, cloth extra, 33. 6d. each.

BY GRANT ALLEN.
Philistia.

BY W. BESANT & JAMES Rich.
Ready-money PVIortiboy.
My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
This Son of Vulcan.
With Harp and Grown
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Chelsea.
Twas in Trafalgar s Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY WALTER BESANT.
All Sorts and Conditions of Men.
The Captains' Room.
Ail in a Garden Fair.
Dorothy Forster.
Uncle Jack.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN,
A Child of Nature.
God and the Man.
The Shadow of the Sword.
The Martyrdom of Madeline.
Love Me for Ever.
Annann Water. I The New Abelard.
Matt. I Foxglove Manor.

The Master of the Mine.

BY HALL CAINE,
The Shadow of a Crime.

BY MRS. H. LOVETT CAMERON.
Deceivers Ever. [Juliet's Guardian,

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page.
Transmigration.
From Midnight to Midnight.

MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.

Blacksmith and Scholar.

The Village Comedy.

You Play me False.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.
Antonina. I New Magdalen.

Basil. The Frozen Deep.

Hide and Seek. The Law and the

The Dead Secret. ! Lady.
Queen of Hearts, j TheTv/o Destinies
My Miscellanies. Haunted Hotel.
Woman in White. 1 The Fallen Leaves
The Moonstone. Jezebel'sDaughtep
Man and Vife. The Black Robe.

Poor Miss Finch. Heart and Science
Miss or Mrs. ? I I Say No.

BY BUTTON COOK.
Paul Foster's Daughter.

BY WILLIAM Cycles
Hearts of Gold.

BY ALPHONSE DAUDET.
The Evangelist; or. Port Salvation.

BY JAMES DE MILLE.
A Castle in Spain.

BY J. LEITH Derwent.
Cur Lady of Tears. I Circe's Lovers.

BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS.
Felicia. | Kitty.

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
Archie Lovell.

BY PERCY FITZGERALD.
Fatal Zero.

BY R. E. Franciscan.
QueenCophetua. I A Real Queen.
One by One |

Prefaced by Sir BARTLE Free.
Pandurang Hari.

BY EDWARD GARRETT,
The Capel Girls.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BV

Piccadilly Novels, continued 
BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray. | For Lack of Gold.
What will the World Say?
In Honour Bound.
Queen of the Meadow.
The Flower of the Forest.
A Heart's Problem.
The Braes of Yarrow.
The Golden Shaft. I Of High Degree.
Fancy Free. | Loving a Dream.

A Hard Knot.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.

BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth. 1 Ellice Quentln.

Sebastian Stroke.
Prince Saroni's Wife.
Dust. I Fortune's Fool.

Beatrix Randolph.
Miss Madonna.
Love  or a Name.

BY SIR A. HELPS,
Ivan de Biron.

BY MRS. Cassel Holy.
The Lover's Creed.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT,
Thornicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self-condemned.

BY JEAN Angelo,
Fated to be Free.

BY HARRIETT JAY.
The Queen of Connaught

BY R. ASHE KING.
A Drawn Game.
"The Wearing of the Green."

BY HENRY KINGSLEY,
Number Seventeen.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
Atonement of Leam Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord ?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family
"My Love !" I lone.

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fleyce.

BY JUSTIN McCarthy.

The Waterdale Neighbours.

My Enemy's Daughter.

A Fair Saxon.

Dear Lady Disdain.

Miss Misanthrope. | DonnaQulxote

The Comet of a Season.

Maid of Athens.

Camiola.

BY MRS. Macdonald,
Quaker Cousins.

Piccadilly Novels, continued
BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.
Open ! Sesame ! | Written in Fire
BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
Life's Atonement. I Coals of Fire.
Joseph's Coat. Val Strange

A Model Father. I Hearts
By the Gate of the Sea
The Way of the World.
A Bit of Human Nature.
First Person Singular
Cynic Fortune.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteladies.

BY MARGARET A. PAUL.
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES Pain.

Lost Sir Massingberd.


Best of Husbands
Halves.

Walter's Word.
What He Cost Her
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy.
High Spirits.
Under One Roof.
BY E.

Valentine.

A Confidential

Agent.
From Exile.
A Grape from a

Thorn.
For Cash Only.
Some Private

Views.
The Canon's

Ward.
Talk of the Town.
C. PRICE.

The Foreigners.

Mrs. Lancaster's Rival.

BY CHARLES READE.
It is Never Too Late to Mend.
Hard Cash.
Peg Wofflngton.
Christie Johnstonee.
Griffith Gaunt. | Foul Play.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long.
The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
The Autobiography of a Thief.
Put Yourself in His Place.
A Terrible Temptation.
The Wandering Heir. I A Simpleton.
A Woman-hater. | Readiana.

Singleheart and Doubleface.
The Jilt.

Good Stories of Men and other
Animals.

BY MRS. J. H. Liddell.
Her Mother's Darling.
Prince of Wales's Garden Party,
Weird Stories.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.
Women are Strange.
The Hands of Justice.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.
Bound to the Wheel.
Guy Waterman.
Two Dreamers.
The Lion in the Path.

!i5

Piccadilly Novels, continued
BY KATHARINE SAUNDERS.
Joan Mepryweather.
Margaret and Elizabeth.
Gideon's Rock. I Heart Salvage.
The High Mills. | Sebastian.

BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

BY R. A. STERNDALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY BERTHA THOMAS,
Proud Maisie. | Cressida.
The Violin-Player.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE,
The Way we Live Now.
Frau Frohmann. | Marion Fay
Kept In the Dark.
Mr. Scarborough's Family.
The Land-Leaguers.

Piccadilly Novels, continued
BY FRANCES E. TROLLOPE.
Like Ships upon the Sea.
Anne Furness.
Mabel's Progress.

BY IVAN TURGENIEFF, &c.
Stories from Foreign Novelists.

BY SARAH Tatler.
What She Came Through,
The Bride's Pass.
Saint Mungo's City.
Beauty and the Beast.
Noblesse Oblige.
Citoyenne Jacqueline.
The Huguenot Family.
Lady Bell.

BY C. C. FRASER-tatler.
Mistress Judith.

BY J. S. WINTER.
Regimental Legends.

CHEAP EDITIONS OF POPULAR NOVELS.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

BY ED MONO ABOUT.
The Fellah.

BY HAMILTON AIDE.
Cam of Carrlyon. | Confidences.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.
Maid, Wife, or Widow P
Valerie's Fate.

BY GRANT ALLEN,
Strange Stories.
Philistia.

BY Shelley BEAUCHAMP.
Grantly Grange.

BY W. BE S ANT & JAMES RICE.
Ready-money Mortify.
With Harp and Crown.
This Son of Vulcan. | My Little GIpI.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas In Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY WALTER BBS ANT.
All Sorts and Conditions of Men,
The Captains' Room.
All in a Garden Fair.
Dorothy Forster.
Uncle Jack

BY FREDERICK BOYLE.
Camp Notes. | Savage Life.
Chronicles of No-man's Land.

BY Bred HARTE.
An Heiress of Red Dog.
The Luck of Roaring Camp.
Californian Stories.
Gabriel Conroy. | Flip.
Maruja.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN.

The Martyrdom

of Madeline.
Annann Water.
The New Abelard.
Matt

The Shadow of

the Sword.
A Child of Nature.
God and the Man.
Love Me for Ever.
Foxglove Manor.

BY MRS. BURNETT.
Surly Tim.

BY HALL CAINE.
The Shadow of a Crime.
BY MRS. LOVETT CAMERON
Deceivers Ever. | Juliet's Guardian

BY M ACL A REN COBBAN.
The Cure of Souls.

BY C. Allusion COLLINS,
The Bar Sinister.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.
Antonina. I Queen of Hearts.

Basil. My Miscellanies.

Hide and Seek. Woman In White.
The Dead Secret. I The Moonstone.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Cheap Popular Novels, continued 

WiLKiE Collins, continued.
Man and Wife. Haunted Hotel.
Poor Miss Finch. The Fallen Leaves.
Miss OP Mrs.? Jezebel'sDaughtep

New Magdalen. The Black Robe.
The Frozen Deep. Heart and Science
Law and the Lady. "I Say No."
TheTwo Best i n lies

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page. | From Midnight to
Transmigration. | Midnight
A Fight with Fortune.

MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.
Sweet and Twenty. | Frances.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play me False.

BY BUTTON COOK.
Leo. I Paul Foster's Daughter.

BY C. EGBERT CRADDOCK.
The Prophet of the Great Smoky

Mountains.

BY WILLIAM Cycles.
Hearts of Gold.

BY ALPHONSE DAUDET.
The Evangelist; or, Port Salvation.

BY JAMES DE MILLE.
A Castle in Spain.

BY J. LEITH DERWENT.
Our Lady of Tears. ] Circe's Lovers.

BY CHARLES DICKENS.
Sketches by Boz. I Oliver Twist.
Pickwick Papers. | Nicholas Nickleby

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
A Point of Honour. | Archie Loveit

BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS,
Felicia. | Kitty.

BY EDWARD EGGLESTON.
Roxy.

BY PERCY FITZGERALD.
Bella Donna. | Never Forgotten.
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Polly.

Seventy-five Brooke Street.
The Lady of Ransome.

BY ALBANY DE FONBLANQUE.
Filthy Lucre.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Olympia. I Queen Cophetua.

One by One. | A Real Queen.
Prefaced by Sir H. BARTLE Free,
Pandurang Hari.

BY Pain FRISWELL.
One of Two.

BY EDWARD GARRETT.
The Capel Girls.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
BY CHARLES GIBBON.

Robin Gray.

For Lack of Gold.

What will the
World Say?

In Honour Bound.

In Love and War.

For the King.

In PasturesGreen

Queen of the Meadow.


The Flower of the
Forest.

A Heart's Problem

The Braes of Yarrow.


The Golden Shaft

Of High Degree.

Fancy Free.

By Mead and
Stream.

BY WILLIAM GILBERT.
Dr. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke.

BY JAMES GREENWOOD
Dick Temple.

BY JOHN HABBERTON.
Brueton's Bayou.

BY ANDREW Holiday.
Every-Day Papers.

BY LADY DUFFUS HARDY.
Paul Wynter's Sacrifice.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.
BY J. BERWICK Haywood.
The Tenth Earl.
BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth. I Sebastian Stroma

EllJce Question. | Dust.
Prince Saroni's Wife.
Fortune's Fool. | Beatrix Randolph.
BY SIR ARTHUR HELPS.
Ivan de Biron.

BY MRS. CASH EL Holy.
The Lover's Creed.

BY TOM HOOD.
A Golden Heart.

BY MRS. GEORGE HOOPER,
The House of Raby.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT.
Thornicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self-condemned.

BY JEAN Angelo.
Fated to be Free.

BY HARRIETT JAY,
The Dark Colleen.
The Queen of Connaught.

BY MARK KERSHAW.
Colonial Facts and Fictions.

BY R. ASHE KING.
A Drawn Game.
"The Wearing of the Green."
BY HENRY KINGSLEY.
Oakshott Castle.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Leam Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord P



Cheap Popular Novels, continued
K. Lynn Linton, continued 
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
My Love I lone.

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fleyce.

BY JUSTIN McCarthy.

DearLadyDlsdain
The Watergate

Neighbours.
My Enemy's

Daughter.
A Fair Saxon.

Linley Rochford.
MissMisanthrope
Donna Quixote.
The Comet of a

Season.
Maid of Athens.

BY MRS. Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID,
The Evil Eye. | Lost Rose.
BY W. H. Matlock.
The New Republic.

BY FLORENCE MARRYAT.

Open! Sesame I A Little Stepson.

A Harvest of Wild Fighting the Air

Oats. I Written in Fire.

BY J. Waterman
Half-a-dozen Daughters.
BY BRANDER MATTHEWS.
A Secret of the Sea.

BY JEAN Middlemost.
Touch and Go. | Mr. Dorillion.

BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY,
ALife'sAtonement Val Strange.
A Model Father. Hearts.
Joseph's Coat. The Way of the

Coals of Fire. World.

By the Gate of the A Bit of Human
Sea. Nature.

BY ALICE O'HANLON.
The Unforeseen.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteladies.

BY MRS. ROBERT Reilly.
Phoebe's Fortunes.

BY OUIDA.

Held In Bondage.

Stratford.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Italia.

Cecil Castle-maine's

Gage.
Tricotrin.
Puck.

Folie Farley
Dog of Flanders.
Pascal.
Signa,

Princess Napraxine.

TwoLlttleWooden
Shoes.

In a Winter City.

Ariadne.

Friendship.

Moths.

Pipistrello.

A Village Commune.


Bimbi.

Wands.
I Frescoes.
I In Maremma.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
BY MARGARET AGNES PAUL.
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES Pain.

BY EDGAR A. POE.
The Mystery of Marie Roget.

BY E. C. PRICE.
Valentina. | The Foreigners.

Mrs. Lancaster's Rival.
Gerald.

BY CHARLES READE.
It is Never Too Late to Mend
Hard Cash. | Peg Washington.

Christie Johnstonee.
Griffith Gaunt.
Put Yourself in His Place.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long.
Foul Play.

The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
Autobiography of a Thief.
A Terrible Temptation.
The Wandering Heir.
A Simpleton. I A WomanHater.
Readiana. | The Jilt.

Singleheart and Doubleface.
Good Stories of Men and other
Animals.

BY MRS. J. H. Liddell.
Her Mother's Darling.
Prince of Wales's Garden Party.
Weird Stories.
The Uninhabited House.
Fairy Water.
The Mystery in Palace Gardens.

BY F. W. ROBINSON,
Women are Strange.
The Hands of Justice.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
BY JAMES RUNCIMAN.
Skippers and Shellbacks.
Grace Balmaign's Sweetheart.
Schools and Scholars.

BY W. CLARK RUSSELL.
Round the Galley Fire.
On the Fo'k'sle Head.

BY BAYLE ST. JOHN.
A Levantine Family.
BY GEORGE AUGUSTUS SALA,
Gaslight and Daylight.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS,
Bound to the Wheel.
One Against the World.
Guy Waterman.
The Lion in the Path.
Two Dreamers.

BY KATHARINE SAUNDERS.
Joan Merryweather.
Margaret and Elizabeth.
The High Mills.

BY GEORGE R. SIMS.
Rogues and Vagabonds.
The Ring o' Bells.

BY ARTHUR Sketches.
A Match in the Dark.

BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

BY R. A. STERN DALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY R. LOUIS STEVENSON.
New Arabian Nights.
Prince Otto.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Cressida. | Proud Malsla

The Violin-Player.

BY W. Moi THOMAS.
A Fight for Life.

BY WALTER THORNBURY.
Tales for the Marines.
BY T. ADOLPHUS TROLLOPS.
Diamond Cut Diamond.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.
The Way We Live Now.
The American Senator.
Frau Frohmann.
Marion Fay.
Kept in the Dark.
Mr. Scarborough's Family.
The Land-Leaguers.
The Golden Lion of Grantee.
John Candidate.
y ERA NOES ELEANOR TROLLOPE
Like Ships upon the Sea.
Anne Furness.
Mabel's Progress.

BY Jet. TROWBRIDGE.
Parnell's Folly.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
BY IVAN TURGENIEFF, &c.
Stories from Foreign Novelists.

BY MARK TWAIN.
Tom Sawyer.
A Pleasure Trip on the Continent

of Europe.
A Tramp Abroad.
The Stolen White Elephant.
Huckleberry Finn.

BY C. C. FRASER-tatler.
Mistress Judith.

BY SARAH Tatler,
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.
Saint Mungo's City.
Beauty and the Beast

BY J. S. WINTER.
Cavalry Life. | Regimental Legends.

BY LADY WOOD.
Sabina.

BY EDMUND YATES.
Castaway. | The Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last.

ANONYMOUS.
Paul Ferrol.
Why Paul Ferrol Killed his Wife.

POPULAR SHILLING BOOKS.
Jest Briggs's Love Story. By Bret

Harte,
The Twins of Table Mountain. By

Bret Harte.
Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds. By

Julian Hawthorne.
Kathleen Mavourneen. By Author

of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Lindsay's Luck. By the Author of

That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Pretty Polly Pemberton. By the

Author of "That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Trooping with Crows. By Mrs.

PiRKIS.

The Professor's Wife. By Leonard

Graham.
A Double Bond. By Linda Villari.
Esther's Glove. By R. E. Francillon.
The Garden that Paid the Rent.

By Tom Jerrold.
Curly. By John Coleman. Illustrated
by J. C. Dollman.
Beyond the Gates. By E. S. Phelps.
An Old Maid's Paradise. By E. S.

Phelps.
Burglars in Paradise. ByE. Phelps.
Doom : An Atlantic Episode. By

Justin H. MacCarthy, M.P.
Our Sensation Novel. Edited by

Justin H. MacCarthy, M.P.
A Barren Title. By T. W. Speight.
Wife or No Wife P By T. W. Speight.
The Silverado Squatters. By K.

Louis Stevenson.

J. OGDEN and CO., printers, 29, 30 AND 3I

IKEaT S.-vtKKON HILL, fc C.

i=-vijT

fi



i

M

/w<

;

3 0112 041662088

OF THE

U N Diversity

OF 


%/, 3

<>-

-I. SMITH & SON'S
SUBSCRIPTION 

186, STRAND, LONDON

AND AT T HE R Alway Books ,

novels m ,esu ED ro,7 BSCR , Bears IN SETS only

For onVvT" 5 0BTA,N,,G "  i * wu-
For ONE Volume at a time  6 Month - * Month,

For FOUR 13 0 220

For SIX

For TWELVE

31 romance of our time

By HALL CAINE

God hath heard the voice of the lad where he is '

IN TPIREE VOLUMES
VOL. Ill

% o n to o n

CHATTO AND WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[The right 0/ translation is reserved

v.3>

CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

BOOK THIRD continued).

PAGE

THE DECLIVITY OF CRIME 1

BOOK FOURTH.

THE WATERS OF March ARE BITTER - - 69

BOOK THE THIRD (continued).
THE DECLIVITY OF CRIME.

CHAPTER XVL

Before Gubblum Oglethorpe parted with
Jabez he tried to undo the mischief he had
done. * Give us a shake' o' thy saddle,' he
said, holding out his hand. But Jabez had
not forgotten the .similitude of the swine
ring. He made no response.

Dang him for a fool,' thought Gubblum.
1 He's as daft as a besom.' Then Gubblum
remembered with what lavish generosity he
had bribed the pot-boy to no purpose. ' He
covert a shilling danish,' he thought ;
I'll dang his silly head off.'

VOL. III. 41

Jabez put down the candle and backed
out of the room, his eyes fixed on the
pedlar with a ghostly stare.

You needn't bosde at me. I'll none
hurt ye said Gubblum. Jabez pulled the
door after him.

i His head's no'but a lump of pudding'
and a daub o' pancake,' thought Gub-
blum.

Then the pedlar sat on the bed and
began to wonder what possible reason there
might be for the lad's sudden change of
temper. He sat long, and many crude
notions trotted through his brain. At last
he recalled the fact that he had said something
about Jabez's snout carrying a swine
ring. That was the rub, sure enough.
I mak no doubt he thowt it was a by-wipe,'
thought Gubblum.

Just as the pedlar had arrived at this
sapient conclusion he heard heavy footsteps
ascending and descending the ladder that
stood in the passage outside. Gubblum
understood the sounds to mean that the inn
was so full of visitors that some of them

had to be lodged even in the loft. ' Ey, I
shouldn't wonder but this is a bonny paying
concern,' he thought.

He undressed, got into bed, and blew out
his light. He lay awhile waiting for sleep,
and thinking of the failure of his plummets
to sound the depths of Jabez. Then he
remembered with vexation that the lad had
even laughed at him in spite of the ' shilling
danish.'

Shaf, it was no' but his guts crowding,'
thought Gubblum, and he rolled over, face
to the wall, and began to pay nasal tribute
to sleep.

From the slowly tightening grip of unconsciousness,
Gubblum was aroused to
sudden wakefulness. There was a noise as
of heavy shuffling feet outside his door.
The pedlar raised himself and listened.

Too dark in this corner,' said a voice.
Get a light.'

Gubblum crept out of bed, held his head
to the door, and listened.

There were retreating steps. Then the
man who had spoken before spoke again.

412

Quick, there ! Ave must catch the train
at 11-15.'

The voice pealed in Gubbl urn's memory.
He knew it. It was the voice of the last
man he should have looked for in this
house  Hugh Ritson.

Presently the footsteps approached, and
thin fingers of light shot over Gubblum's
head into his dark room. He looked up at
the door. Three small round holes had
been pierced into the stiles for ventilation.

6 Put the candle on the floor and take the
feet  I'll go up first,' said the same voice.

Gubblum raised himself on tiptoe and tried
to peer through the perforations. He was
too small a man to see through. There was
a chair by the side of his bed, and his extinguished
candle stood on it. He removed
the candlestick, lifted the chair cautiously,
placed it back to the door, and mounted it.
Then he saw all.

There were two men, and he knew both
the brothers Ritson. Ah ! had he not
said that Paul Ritson kept this inn? 'I'll
shut up the whole boiling' of 'cm next time,'

thought the pedlar. Wait ! what were
they 'lugging into the pigeon loft'?

1 Easy  damme, but the fence is a weight.'

It was the hoarse voice of the other man.
The candle was behind him and on the floor.
It cast its light on his back. ' If I could
no'but o-et a blink frae the cannel I'd see
what's atween them,' thought Gubblum.

The men with their burden were now at
the top of the ladder.

Twist about, and go in sideways,' muttered
the voice first heard.

The man below twisted. This movement
brought the full light of the candle 0:1 to
the faces of all three.

'Lord Almighty, whatever's this?' Gub-
blum thought.

The burden was a man's body. But it
was the face that startled the pedlar  the
face of Paul Ritson.

Gubblum' s eyes passed over the group in
one quick glance. He saw two Paul R it-sons
there, and one of them lay as still as
the dead.

A minute more of awful tension, and the

door of the loft above was slammed and
shut; the heavy feet of the two men descended
the ladder quickly, and went down
the stairs into the bar.

Gubblum listened as if with every sense.
He knew that the outer door to the road
had opened and closed. He heard footsteps
dying away in the distance without. All
was silent within the house.

Two men hastening in the night to the
Hendon railway-station paused at that turn
of the road which leads to the police offices
and gaol.

You go on, and take care of yourself 
I'll follow in hive minutes,' said one.

 You ain't going to give a man away?'
said the other.

There was only a contemptuous snort for
answer. The first speaker had turned on
his heel. When he reached the police
offices, he rang the bell. The door was
answered by a sergeant in plain clothes.
I've found your man for you,' said Hugh
Ritson.

1 Where, sir?'

4 At the Hawk and Heron.'

4 Who is he ?'

4 Paul Drayton. You'll find him lying
drunk in the garret at the west end of the
gable. Lose not an hour. Go at once.'

4 Is the gentleman who struggled with him
still staying there  Mr. Paul Eitson ?'

No, he goes back home to-night.'

1 What's his address in the country?'

The Ghyll, Lowlands, Cumberland.'

And yours, sir ?'

I am his brother, Hugh Ritson, and my
address is the same.'

1 We'll go this instant.'

Take your piece of frieze with you and
see if it fits. It was by the torn ulster that
I recognised your man. Good-night.'

As soon as the noise of the retiring steps
had died away on Gubblum's ear, he dressed
himself partially, opened the door of his
bedroom cautiously, and stepped into the
passage. He was still in the dark, and,
groping with one hand, he felt for the ladder
by which the two men had carried their
burden to the loft above. He had grasped
the lowest rungs of it, and was already
some steps up, when he heard a singular
noise. It was something between the cry
of a child and the deep moan of a sick man.
Did it come from the loft? Gubblum held
his head in that direction and listened. No ;
the sound was from the other end of the
passage. Now it was gone, and all was
quiet. What a strange house was this !

Can't see a style,' thought Gubblum.
6 I'll away for the cannel.'

Back in his bedroom he struck a match,
and then stepped afresh into the passage,
guarding the newly-lighted candle with the
palm of his hand. Then there came a shrill
cry. It seemed to be before him, above
him, behind him, everywhere about him.
Gubblum's knees gave way, but the stubborn
bit of heart in him was not to be
shaken. ' A racer queerly sort of a house,'
he thought : and at that instant there were
heavy lunges at a door at the farther end
of the passage, and a cry of ' Help, help !'

Gubblum darted in the direction of the
voice.

Let me out !' cried the voice from within.

Gubblum tried the door. It was locked.

1 Help, help !' came again.

In a swifter ; rest ve a bit.' shouted
Gubblum, and putting the light on the floor,
he planted his shoulder against the door and
one foot against the opposite wall.

'Help, help! let me out! quick, quick !'
came once more from within.

c See a skrummidge,' shouted Gubblum,
panting for breath.

Then the lock gave way, and the door
flew open. In the mist of the bad light,
Gubblum saw nothing at first. Then a
woman with wild eyes and a face of anguish
came out on him from the dark room. It
was Mercy Fisher.

When they recognised each other there
was a moment of silence. But it was only
a moment, and that moment was too precious
to be lost. In a flood of tears the girl told
what had happened.

Gubblum understood no more than that
villainy had been at work. Mercy saw
nothing but that she had been deceived
and had been herself the instrument of deception.
This was enough.

The raffffabrash ! I'd like to nozzle their

DO

backs with an ash stick,' said Gubblum.

Oh, where have they taken him 
where, where?' cried Mercy, wringing her
hands.

Don't put on wi' thee  I know,' said
Gubblum. ; I question them up the stairs.

Come along wi' me, lass, and don't slobber
and yo wl like a barn.'

Gubblum whipped up his candle and
hurried along the passage and up the
ladder like a monkey, Mercy following at
his heels.

Belike they've locked this door forby,' he
said.

But no, the key was in the lock. Gub-
blum turned it, and pushed it open. Then
he peered into the garret, holding the candle
above his head. "When the light penetrated
the darkness, they saw a man's figure outstretched
on a mattress that lay on the bare
floor of the empty room. They ran up toit,
and raised the head. l It's his sadder's
son, I'll uphold thee,' said Gubblum. ' And
yon riff-raff, his smitten pictor, is no' but
some waste merry-begot.'

Mercy was down on her knees beside the
insensible man, chafing his hands. There
was a tremulous movement of the eyelids.

1 Siesta. he's coming tul't. Slip away for
water, lass said Gubblum.

Mercy was gone and back in an instant.

{ Let a be, let a be  he'll come round ina
crack. Rub his forehead  stir thy hand,
lass  pour the water  there, that's enough
plenty o' butter wad sto a dog. Siesta,
he's coming tul't fast

Paul Ritson had opened his eyes.

Slip away for mair water, lass  there,
that's summit like  rest ye, my lad  a
drink?  ey, a sup o' water.'

Paul looked round him. His filmy eyes
were full of questions. But at first his
tongue would not speak. He looked up at
the bare skylight and around at the bleached
walls, and then back into the face of the
pedlar. He noticed Mercy and smiled.

Where are we, my girl V he said
faintly.

This is the Hawk and Heron,' she
answered.

How do I come to be here?' he asked.

Mercy covered her face, and sobbed. l I
brought you,' she said at length.

Paul looked at her a moment with
bewildered e} T es. Then the tide of memory
flowed back upon his mind.

I remember he said quietly ; ' I was
feeling dizzy  hadn't slept two nights  not
even been in bed  walked the streets the
long hours through.'

Everything had rushed over him in a
moment, and he closed his eyes with a deep
groan. At his feet Mercy buried her face
and sobbed aloud.

Paul drew himself feebly up on his
elbow. ' Where is Parson Christian?' he
asked, and gazed around with a faint smile.

The girl's anguish overflowed.
That was a lie I told you,' she sobbed.

The smile fled away.

'A lie! Why a lie?'

He was struggling with a dazed sense.

4 I told you that Parson Christian was
here and wanted you. He is not here.'

And Mercy's weeping seemed to choke
her.

My good girl, and why ?'

They brought you to this room and
left you, and now they are gone

'They! Who?'

Your brother Hugh and Mr. Drayton.'

Paul looked deadly sick at heart.

Who is this Drayton ?'

1 The smitten pictor of yourself, my lad,'
said Gubblum ; ' the man I tell } T e of lang
ago  him as keeps this house.'

Paul's eyes wandered vacantly. His
nervous fingers twitched at the ulster that
he wore.

What's this ?' he said, and glanced down
at his altered dress.

1 When you were insensible they stripped
you of your clothes and put others on you,'
said Mercy.

Whose clothes are these?'

Mr. Drayton's.'

Paul Ritson rose to his feet.

Where are the men ?' he said in a husky
voice.

< Gone.'

Where?'

To the station  that was all I heard.'

Paul gazed about with hazy eyes.
Mercy flung herself at his feet and wept
bitterly.

Forgive me, oh ? forgive me!'

He looked down at her with a confused
expression. His brain was benumbed.
He drew one arm aero ss his face as though
struggling to recover some lost link of
memory.

Why, my good lass, what's this V he
said, and then smiled faintly and made an
attempt to raise her up.

Who is at the convent at Westminster V
she asked.

Then all his manner changed.

Why ? what of that V he said.

1 Mrs. Drayton was sent there in a cab to
tell Mrs. Ritson to be at St. Pancras Station
at midnight, to meet her husband and return
to Cumberland.'

The face that had been livid became suddenly
old and ghastly. There was an awful
silence.

Is this the truth V he asked.

Yes, yes cried the girl.

Paul's face was now awful to see. His
features were convulsed with agony, his
eyes were bloodshot. The palms of his
hands became damp.

i I think I see it all now  I think I understand,'
he faltered.

Forgive me !' cried the girl.

He seemed hardly to see her.

I have been left in this room insensible,
and the impostor who resembles me  where
is he now \ What cruel work is afoot V

He struggled with the sickness that was
mastering him. His brain reeled. He
staggered and leaned against the wall.

Rest ye a bit, my lad,' said Gubblum.
1 You'll be bitten staunch aspen soon.'

He recovered his feet. He thrust the
pedlar aside. His face was charged with
new anger.

1 And the wicked woman who trapped me
to this house is here,' he said in a voice
thick with wrath.

Forgive me, forgive me!' wept the girl
at his feet.

He took her firmly by the shoulders,
raised her to her knees, and turned her
face upwards until her eyes met his.

c Let me look at her,' he said hoarsely.
Who would have believed it ? And I

thought her the victim of a scoundrel, and
swore in my heart to see her righted even
yet!'

Forgive me, forgive me !' cried the scire.

4 Woman, woman, what had I done to
you  what, what ? Had you no pity, none
for a broken-hearted man 

The girl's sobs alone made answer.

Cruel, cruel ! The monsters, where are
they \ "Where is my wife ? And I am
here stricken in limb and brain ! Idiot that
I was to leave her for an instant! Idiot,
idiot, to fall into these cruel toils !'

Forgive me, forgive me !' the girl cried
again.

In his rage he took her by the throat. A
fearful purpose was written in his face.

'And this is the woman who bowed
down the head of her old father nigh to the
grave,' he said bitterly, and flung her from
him.

Then he staggered back. His little
strength had left him. There was silence.
Only the girl's weeping could be heard.

The next instant, strangely calm, without

vol. in. 42

a tear in his sail eyes, he stepped to her
side and raised her to her feet.

I was wrong,' he said, ' surely I was
wrong. You could not lie to me like that
and know it. No, no, no ! You did not
know it was a lie. Tell me you did not
know it.'

1 They told me what I told you,' said the
girl.

1 And I blamed you for it all, poor girl 
poor deluded girl.'

4 Then you forgive me ?' she said, lifting
her eyes timidly.

Forgive you ?  ask God to forgive you,
girl  don't ask me  I am only a man, and
you have wrecked my life.'

There was a foot on the ladder, and
Jabez, the boy, stepped up, a candle in his
hand. He had been waiting for the landlady,
when he heard voices overhead.

1 The verra man,' shouted Gubblunu
Didst see owt of thy master downstairs?'
 Jabez grinned, and glanced up at Paul
Bits on.

Hark ye, leal man, didst see two men

leaving the house a matter of fifteen minutes
ago?'

Belike I did,' said Jabez. ' And to be
sure it were the gentleman that come here
afore  and another one.'

Another one  your master, you mean?'

Jabez grinned from ear to ear.

1 Didst hear owt ?'

I heard the gentleman say they had to
be at St. Pancras at midnight.'

Paul fumbled at his breast for his watch.
It was gone.

What's o'clock ?' he asked.

1 Fifteen after eleven, master,' said Jabez.
I've just bolted up.'

Paul's face was full of resolution.

I'll follow,' he said, ' I've lost time
enough already.'

What, man ! you'll never banish it 
and you as weak as water forby. You'll
be falling swat in the road like a wet
sack.'

Paul had torn the door open. Excitement
lent him strength. The next moment
he was gone.

422

'Where's the master off to? St. papers?'
asked Jabez.

c Fadge-te-fadge, gang out of my gate.
Away and lig down your daft head in bed
said Gubblum.

Jabez did not act on the pedlar's advice.
He returned to the bar to await the return
of Mrs. Drayton, whose unaccustomed
absence gave rise to many sapient conjectures
in the boy's lachrymose noddle.
He found the door to the road open, and
from this circumstance his swift intelligence
drew the conclusion that his master had
already gone. His hand was on the door
to close and bolt it, when he heard rapid
footsteps approaching. In an instant two
men pushed past him and into the
house.

Where's Mr. Drayton ?' said one, panting
from his run.

1 He's this minute gone,' said Jabez.

Is that true, my lad ?' the man asked,
laying a hand on the boy's shoulder.

He's gone to St. Pancras, sir. He's got
to be there at midnight,' said Jabez.

The boy had recognised the visitors, and
was trembling.

The men glanced into each other's faces.

That teas Drayton  the man that ran
past us down the road said one.

Make sure of it,' said the other. ' Search
the place ; I'll wait for you here.'

In two minutes more the men had left
the house together.

A quarter of an hour later the night
porter at the Hendon railway station saw a
man run across the platform and leap into
the up train, just as the carriages were
moving away. He remarked that the man
was bare-headed, and wore his clothes awry,
and that a rent near the collar of his long
frieze ulster exposed a strip of red flannel
lining. He thought he knew him.

The train had barely cleared the platform
when two men ran up and came suddenly
to a stand in front of the porter.

4 Gone !' said one of them with vexation.


That would be the 11.35/ said the other,

f to King's Cross. Did any one get into it
here, porter?'

Yes, Sergeant  Drayton, of the Hawk
and Heron,' said the porter.

Your next up is 11.45 to St. Pancras ?'

Yes, sir, due at twelve.'

Is it prompt ?'

To the second.'

The two men faced about.

4 Time enough yet,' said one.

The cab that drove Mrs. Drayton into
London carried with it a world of memories.
Thought in her old head was like the dip of
a sea bird in the sea  now here, now there,
now a straight flight, and now a backward
swirl. As she rattled over the dark roads
of Child Hill and the New End she puzzled
her confused brain to understand the
business on which she had been sent. Why
had the gentleman been brought out to
Hendon % Why, being ill, was he so soon
to be removed % Why, being removed, was
he not put back into this cab, and driven to
the station for Cumberland \ What purpose
could be served by sending her to the
convent for the gentleman's wife, when the
gentleman himself might have been driven

there ? Why was the lady in a convent ?
The landlady pursed up her lips and
contracted her wrinkled brows in a vain
endeavour to get light out of the gloom of
these mysteries.

The thought of the gentleman lying ill in
her house suggested many thoughts concerning
her son. Paul was not her son, and
his name was not Drayton. Whose son he
was she never knew, and what his name was
she had never heard. But she had fixed
and done for him since he was a baby, and
no mother could have loved a son more
than she had loved her Paul. What a poor
puling little one he once was, and how the
neighbours used to shake their heads and
say :

1 You 11 never rear it ; there's a fate on
it, poor misbegotten mite !'

That was thirty long years ago, and now
Paul was the lustiest young man in Hendon.
Ah! it was not Hendon then, but London,
and her husband, the good man, was alive
and hearty.

It'll thrive yet, Martha,' he would say,

and the little one would seem to know him,
and would smile and crow when he cracked
his fingers over its cot.

Then the landlady thought of the dark
days that followed, when bread was scarce
and the gossips would say :

Serve you right. What for do you
have an extra mouth to feed ?  take the brat
to the Foundlings.'

But her husband, God bless him, had
always said :

What's bite and sup for a child ? Keep
him, Martha, he'll be a comfort to ye yet,
old woman.'

Mrs. Drayton wiped her eyes as she drove
in the dark.

Then the bad times changed, and they
left the town and took the inn at Hen don,
and then the worst times of all came on
them, for as soon as they were snug and
comfortable the good man himself died.
He lay dying a week, and when the end
came he cried for the child.

1 Give me the boy,' he said, and she
lifted the child into his arms in bed. Then

he raised his thin white hand to stroke the
wavy hair, but the poor hand fell into the
little one's face.

Mrs. Drayton shifted in her seat and tried
to drive away the memories that trod on the
heels of these recollections ; but the roads
were still dark, and nothing but an empty
sky was to be seen, and the memories would
not be driven away. She recalled the days
when young Paul grew to be a lusty lad 
daring, reckless, the first in mischief, the
deepest in trouble. And there was no man's
hand to check him, and people shook their
heads and whispered, ' He'll come to a bad
end ; he has the wickedness in his blood.'
Poor lad, it was not his fault if he had
turned out a little wild and wayward and
rough, and cruel to his own mother, as you
might say, jostling her when he had a drop
to drink, and maybe striking her when he
didn't know what he was doing, and never
turning his hand to honest work, but always
dreaming of fortunes coming some day, and
betting and racing, and going here and
there, and never resting happy and content

at home. It was not his fault : he had been
led astray by bad companions. And then
she didn't mind a blow  not she. Every
woman had to bear the like of that. You
want a world of patience if you have men
creatures about you  that's all.

Thinking of bad companions suggested
to the landlady's mind, by some strange
twist of which she was never fully conscious,
the idea of Hugh Eitson. The
gentleman who had come so strangely
among them appeared to have a curious
influence over Paul. He seemed to know
something of Paul's mother. Paul himself
rummaged matters up long ago, and found
that the lady had escaped from the asylum,
and been lost. And now the strange gentleman
came with her portrait and said she was
dead.

Poor soul, how well Mrs. Drayton remembered
her ! And that was thirty years
ago ! She had never afterwards set eyes on
the lady, and never heard of her but once,
and even that once must be five-ands twenty
years since. One day she went for coal to the

wharf at Pimlico, and there she met an old
neighbour, who said, i Mrs. Drayton, your
lodger, she that drowned herself, came back
for the baby, but your man and you were
shifted away.' And to think that the poor
young thing was dead and gone now, and
she herself, who had thought she was old
even in those days, was alive and hearty
still!

By this time the cab was rattling through
the busy streets of London, and the train of
the landlady's thoughts was broken. Only
in a vague way did she know where she
was going. The cab was taking her there,
and it would take her back again. When
they reached the convent she had to ask for
Mrs. Eitson, and say she was sent to take
her to St. Pancras Station to meet her husband
there, and return to Cumberland by
the train at midnight. That was all.

The clock of the Abbey was marking the
half hour after eleven as the cab passed into
Parliament Square. In another minute they
drew up before the convent in Abbey
Gardens.

The cabman jumped from the box, rang
the bell, and helped Mrs. Drayton to alight.
The iron gate and the door in the portico
swung open together, and a nun stood on
the threshold holding a lamp in her hand.
Mrs, Drayton hobbled up the steps and
entered the hall. A deep gloom pervaded
the wide apartment, in which there were
but two wicker chairs and a table. The
nun wore a gray serge gown with a whipple
cut square on her chest, a girdle about her
waist, and a rosary hanging by her side.

Can I see a lady boarder, Mrs. Bitson?'
said the landlady.

The nun started a little, and then answered
in a low melancholy voice in which
the words she spoke were lost. Mrs. Drayton's
eyes were now accustomed to the
gloom, and she looked into the nun's face.
It was a troubled and clouded face, and
when it was lifted for an instant to her own,
Mrs. Drayton felt chilled, as if a death's-hand
had touched her.

It was the face of the mother of Paul.
Older, sadder, calmer, but the same face still.

The nun dropped her eyes, and made the
siffn of the cross. Then she walked with a
quick and noiseless step to the other end of
the hall, and sounded a deep gong. In a
moment this summoned a sister  a novice,
dressed like the first, except all in white.
Mrs. Drayton was now trembling from head
to foot, but she repeated her question, and
was led into a bare, chill room, and left
alone.

When Greta parted from Hugh Ritson
three hours before, she was in an ao-onv of
suspense. Another strange threat had
terrified her. She had been asked to make
choice of one of two evils ; refusing to
believe in Hugh Ritson's power, she had
rejected both. But the uncertainty was
terrible. To what lengths might not passion,
unrequited passion, defeated passion,
outraged passion, lead a man like Hugh
Ritson? Without pity, without remorse,
with a will that was relentless and a heart
that never knew ruth, he was a man to
flinch at no extremity. What had he
meant ?

Greta's first impulse had been to go in
search of her husband, but this was an idle

and a foolish thought. Where should she
look? Besides this, she had promised to
remain in the convent until her husband
should come for her, and she must keep her
word. She did not go in to supper when
the gong sounded, but crept up to her room.
The bell rang for vespers, and Greta did not
go to the chapel. She lay down in anguish
and wept scalding tears. The vesper hymn
floated up to her where she lay, and she was
still weeping. There was no light in this
dark place; there was no way out of this
maze but to wait and suffer.

And slowly the certainty stole upon her
that Hugh Kitson had made no idle threat.
He was a resolute man ; he had given her
choice of two courses, and had she not taken
a selfish part? If Paul, her husband, were
indeed in danger  no matter from what
machination of villainy  was it much to
ask that she, his wife, should rescue him by
a sacrifice that fell heaviest upon herself ?
Hugh Ritson had been right  her part had
been a selfish one. Oh, where was Mr.
Christian ? She had telegraphed for him,

and be bad answered that he would come ;
yet hour had followed hour, and still he had
not arrived.

Three hours she tossed in agony. She
heard the sisters pass up the echoing stone
staircase to their dormitories, and then
the silent house became as dumb as a
vault. Xot a ripple flowed into this still
tarn from the great stream of the world,
that rushed and surged and swelled with
the clangour of a million voices around its
encrusted sides.

Her window overlooked the Abbey Gardens.
All Alas quiet beneath. Xot a step
sounded on the pavement. Before her the
blank wall was black, and the dark leafless
trees stood out from the vague green of
the grass beyond. Against the sky were
the dim outlines of the two towers of the
old abbey  by day a great rock for the
pigeons that wheeled above the tumbling
sea of the city, by night a skull of stone
from which the voice of the bell told of the
flight of time.

Out of the calm of a moment's stupefaction.

in. 43

tion Greta was awakened by a knock at her
door. The novice entered and told her that
a woman waited below to speak with her.
Greta betrayed no surprise, and she was beyond
the reach of fresh agitation. Without
word or question she followed the novice to
the room where Mrs. Drayton sat.

She recognised the landlady and heard
her story. Greta's heart leapt up at the
thought of rejoining her husband. Here
was the answer to the prayer that had gone
up she knew not how often from her troubled
heart. Soon she would be sure that
Huo;h Ritson's threat was vain. Soon she
would be at Paul's side and hold his hand,
and no earthly power should separate them
again. Ah, thank God, the merciful
Father, who healed the wounded hearts of
His children, she should very soon be happy
once more, and all the sorrows of these past
few days would fade away into a dim
memory.

Twelve o'clock at St. Pancras, and you
have the luggage in a cab at the door, you
say?'

Yes, and there's no time to lose, for, to
be sure, the night is going fast,' said Mrs.
Drayton.

k And he will be there to meet me ?' asked
Greta. Her eyes, still wet with recent tears,
danced with a new-found joy.

Yes, at St. Pancras,' said the landlady.

Greta's happiness overflowed. She took
the old woman in her arms and kissed her
wizened cheeks.

Wait a minute  only a minute,' she
said, and tripped off with the swift glide of
a lapwing. Bat when she was halfway up
the stairs her ardour was arrested, and she
returned with drooping face and steps of lead.

But why did he not come for me himself
?' she asked.

The gentleman is not well  he is ill,'
said Mrs. Drayton.

111 ? You say he is ill ? Then he could
not come. And I blamed him for not
coming !'

The gentleman is weak, but noways
worse ; belike he w T ill go straight oil' and
meet you at the station.'

432

Greta turned away once again, and went
upstairs slowly. At a door on the first
landing she tapped lightly, and when a voice
answered from within she entered the room.

The Superior was on her knees at a table.
She lifted a calm and spiritual face as Greta
approached.

Reverend Mother,' said Greta, ' I am
leaving you this moment.'

1 So soon, mv daughter ?'

My husband has sent for me ; he will
meet me at the railway station at twelve.'

1 Why did he not come himself ?'

 He is ill ; he has gone direct.'

4 The hour is late and the message is
sudden. Are you satisfied ?'

I am anxious. Reverend Mother.'

i What is it, my daughter ?'

An old gentleman, a clergyman, Mr.
Christian, is coming from Cumberland. I
have expected him hourly, but he is not yet
arrived. I cannot wait ; I must rejoin my
husband. Will you order that a message
be left for the clergyman ?'

What is the message, my child ?'

Simply that I have returned with my
husband by the train leaving St. Pancras
at midnight

The lay sister in the hall shall deliver it.'

1 Who is the sister ?'

Sister Grace.'

There was a silence.

Reverend Mother, has Sister Grace ever
spoken of the past ?'

The Superior told a few beads.

1 The past is as nothing to us here, my
daughter. Within these walls the world
does not enter. In the presence of the cross
the past and the future are one.'

Greta drew a long breath. Then she
stooped and kissed the hand of the Superior,
and turned softly away.

Greta and the landlady passed out through
the deep portico, and the same nun who
had opened the door closed it behind them.
Mrs. Drayton clung to Greta's arm as they
went through, and her hand trembled perceptibly.


Who is she ?' whispered the landlady
when they were seated in the cab.

Sister Grace,' said Greta, and turned her
head aside.

i I could ha' sworn as she were the mother
of my Paul,' murmured Mrs. Drayton.

Greta faced about, but the landlady saw
nothing of the look of inquiry; her eyes,
like her thoughts, were far away.

Though the hour was late, the streets were
thronged. The people were trooping home
from the theatres ; and the Strand, as Greta
and the landlady crossed it, was choked
with cabs and omnibuses. The cab drove
through the Seven Dials, and there the
public-houses were disgorging at every
corner their poor ruins of men and women.
Shouts, curses, quarrelling, and laughter,
struck upon the ear above the whirr of the
wheels. Unshaven men, and unwashed
women, squalid children running here and
there among the oyster and orange stalls,
thieves, idlers, vagabonds of all conditions,
not a few honest people withal, and among
them the dark figures of policemen.

Greta's heart beat high that night. Her

spirit was full of a new alacrity. Every
inch of the way, as they flew over the busy
streets, seemed to awake in her soul some
fresh sensibility. She wondered where the
multitudes of people came from, and whither
they were going. Vast oceans on oceans
of humanity, flowing and ebbing without
tide.

She wanted to alight a hundred times, and
empty her pockets of all her money. A
blind man, playing a tin whistle and leading
a small dog held by a long string, awoke
her special pity ; the plaintive look in the
eye of the cur was an object of peculiar
sympathy. A filthy woman, reeling drunk
and bareheaded across the street, almost
under the feet of the horses, her discoloured
breast hanging bare, and a puny infant
crying feebly in her arms, was another occasion
for solicitude. A tiny mite that
might have been a dirty boy coiled up ina
ball on a doorstep like a starved cat was
an object of all but irresistible attraction.
But she dare not stop for an instant ; and at
last, with this certainty, she lay back and

shut her eyes very resolutely, and wondered
whether, after all, it were not very selfish
to be very happy.

The cab stopped with a jolt ; they were
at St. Pancras Station.

Has he come ?' asked Greta eagerly, and
looked about her with eves that comprehended
every thin  at a glance.

She could not see Paul, and, when a porter
opened the cab and helped her to alight, it
was on her tongue to ask the man if he had
seen her husband. Bat no, she would not
do that. She must look for him herself, so
that she might be the first to see him. Oh,
yes, she must be the very first to see him,
and she was now obstinately determined to
ask no one.

The porter brought round the truck, and
wheeled the luggage on to the platform, and
Greta and Mrs. Drayton followed it. Then
the wide eyes that half-smiled and looked
half-afraid beneath their trembling lids
glanced anxiously around. Xo, Paul was
not there.

What is the time?' she asked, her eyes

still wandering over the bustling 1 throng
about her.

Ten to twelve, miss,' announced the
porter.

4 Oh she said with a sigh of relief, c then
he will soon be here.'

'Will you sit in the waiting-room, miss?'
asked the porter ; and almost unconsciously
she followed him when he led the way. Mrs.
Drayton hobbled behind her.

What did he say about being ill ?' she
asked when they were left together.

1 That he was only a bit dizzy. Mayhap
he's noways 'customer to illness,' said the
landlady.

6 That is true. And what did you say
then V

i I coaxed him to rest him a bit, and take
a drop o' summit, and he smiled and said,
Thank you, my good woman." '

You were in the right, you dear old
soul,' said Greta. And she put her arms
about the landlady and hugged her. ' I'm
sure you have been very good to my husband,
and watched him tenderly, while I,

who should have nursed him, have been
away. Thank you, thank you.'

Mrs. Drayton was feeling uneasy. ' Well,
d'ye know, I can't bear to see a fellow
creature' suffer. It does agen nie someways.'

Greta had risen to her feet. ' Stay here,
Mrs. Drayton  Drayton, isn't it?  stay here
while I go on to the platform. He might come
and not see me. Ah, yes, he may be looking
everywhere for me now.'

She went out and elbowed her way among
the people who were hurrying to and fro ;
she dodged between trucks that were sliding
lu&ffagre on to the weighing machine and off
to the van. The engines were puffing
volumes of smoke and steam up to the great
glass roof, where the whistle of the engine-man
echoed sharp and shrill. Presently she
returned to the waiting-room. ' Oh, Mrs.
Drayton,' she said, ' I dreamed a fearful
dream last night. What do you think ?
"Will he be well enough to come V

Course, course, my dear. ' ; Tell her to
meet her husband at twelve." Them's the
gentleman's own words

How happy I shall be when we are safe
at home ! And if he is ill, it will be forme
to nurse him then.'

The light in the dove-like eyes at that
moment told plainly that to the poor soul
even illness might bring its compensating
happiness.

And as to dreams, to be sure, they are
on'} dreams ; and what's dreams, say I?'

You are right, Mrs. Drayton,' said Greta,
and once more she shot away towards the
platform. Her mind had turned to Parson
Christian. Could it be possible that he had
arrived? The porter who had brought in
her luggage was still standing beside it,
and with him there was another porter.
Their backs were towards Greta as she came
out of the waiting-room, and, tripping lightly
behind them, she overheard a part of their
conversation before they were aware that she
was near.

See the old hie in the gaiters by the
eleven up?' said one.

4 Rather. A regular grandmother's great-grandfather
just out of the year one. Talk

about swallows, eh ?  and the buckles  and
the stockings!'

Good sort, how-an'-ever.'

Good for a tip. eh ? "Wouldn't ha 7
thought it.'

No, but a real good-hearted un an' it
he is. a Pape.'

Never V

To be sure. Got me to put him in a
fly for the Catholic convent up Westminster
way.'

Greta could restrain herself no longer, but
burst in upon them with twenty questions.
When had the parson arrived? When had
he left? Was it in a fly? Would it gc
quickly 1 Could there be time for it to get
back?

'what's your train, miss  twelve to the
north V

Yes, will he catch it?'

Scarce get back at twelve,' said the porter.
But, in spite of this discouraging prophecy,
Greta was so elated at the fresh intelligence
that she drew out her purse and gave the
man five shillings. She had no other change

than two half-crowns and two pennies, and
in her present elevation of soul there could
be no choice, between the silver and the
copper, as to which the bearer of such news
deserved.

The man stared, and then smiled, but he
quickly reconciled himself to the unexpected.
With extraordinary alacrity he labelled the
luggage, and bowled off to the north train,
which was already at the platform. '

It was now within three minutes of midnight,
and Mrs. Drayton had joined Greta
in the bustling throng on the platform.

Oh, I feel as if a thousand hearts were
all swelling and beating in my breast at
once,' said Greta. ' Mrs. Drayton, is it
certain that he will come \ Porter, have
you put the luggage in the van ? Which is
the train  the left V

No, miss, the left's going out to make
room for the local train up from Kentish
Town and Hendon. The right's your train,
miss. Got your ticket, miss V

Not yet. Must I get it, think you ?
Is the time short ? Yes, I will get two

tickets, myself,' she added, turning to the
landlady. ' Then when he comes he will
have nothing to do but step into the carriage.



You'll have to be quick, miss  train's
nigh clue out  only a minute,' said the
porter.

Greta's luminous eyes were peering over
the heads of the people that were about her.
Then they brightened, with a flash more
swift than lightning, and all her face wore
in an instant a heavenly smile. ' Ah, he is
there  there at the back  at the booking-office
run to him, ran, my good dear creature
; run and tell him I am here. I'll find
a compartment and have the door open.'

Greta tripped along the platform with the
foot of a deer. In another moment she had
a carriage door open, and she stood therewith
the handle in her hand. She saw him
coming who was more than all the world to
her. But she did not look twice. Xo, she
would not look twice. She would wait
until they were within, alone, together.
Side by side with him walked Hugh

Ritson! Could it be possible? And was
it he who had brought her husband ? Ah !
he had repented, and it was only she who
had been bitter to the end. How generous
of him ; how cruel of her !

Her eyes fell, and a warm flush overspread
her cheeks as he, who came first, stepped
into the carriage. She did not look again
at him, nor did he look again at her. She
knew he did not, though her eyes were
down. 'Oh, when we are alone!' she
thought, and then she turned to Hugh
Ritson.

The heavenly smile was still on her
beautiful face, and the deep light in her eyes
spoke of mingled joy and grief.

Hugh, I fear, I fear,' she faltered, ' I
have been hard and cruel. Let us befriends
; let me be your dearest sister.'

He looked at her in silence. His infirm
foot trailed a pace. He saw what was in
her heart, and he knew well what was in
his own heart too ; he thought of the blow
that he was about to strike her.

She held out her hand, and took in hers

his own unresisting fingers. Aye, he knew
that there and then he was about to break
that forgiving heart for ever. He knew
who had stepped into that carriage.

She leaned forward and kissed his cheek.
The man in him could bear up no longer.
He broke down ; he could not speak ;
he was choked with emotion.

She turned to the landlady, who stood
near, twitching at the ribbons of her
bonnet and peering into the carriage.

Good-bye, Mrs. Drayton, and God bless
you for what you have done for my
husband.'

The landlady muttered something 1 that
was inaudible ; she was confused ; she stammered,
and then was silent.

Greta stepped into the carriage. The
guard was standing at the door. The bell
had been rung. The train had been
signalled. The whistle had sounded. The
clocks were striking midnight.

'Wait! Wait!'

It was a voice from the end of the
platform. The guard turned with a smile

vol. in. 4to

see who called on a train to wait. An
old gentleman in silk stockings and gaiters,
with long white hair flowing under the
broad brim of a low-crowned hat, came
panting to the only door that was still held
open.

Quick, sir, it's moving ; in with you.'
c Mr. Christian !' cried Greta, and throwing
her arms about him, she drew him into the
carriage. Then the train began to move
away.

At that instant another train  the local
train from Kentish town and Henclon 
steamed up to the opposite side of the
platform. Before it had stopped two men
leapt out. They were the two police-sergeants
in pursuit of Paul Ritson.
Instantly  simultaneously  a man burst
through the barrier and ran on to the
platform from the street. He was bareheaded,
and his face was ghastly white.

In one moment the police-sergeants had
laid hands upon him. The train to the
north had not yet cleared the platform. He

saw it passing out. His eyes flashed ; he took
hold of the hands by which he was held and
threw them off as if their grasp had been the
grasp of a child. Then he bounded away
towards the retreating train. He tried to
leap on to the footboard of the last carriage.
The train was now moving rapidly. He
failed. Amid shouts from the porters and
screams from men and women who looked
on, he leaped down into the four-feet way,
ran after the guard's van, and tried to fling
himself on to the buffer at the back. But
the engine was going at high speed.

It was gone ; it was swallowed up in the
dark mouth beyond, and the man stood
behind, bareheaded, dripping with perspiration,
yet white as ashes, his clothes
awry, the collar of his frieze ulster torn
away, and a strip of red flannel lining-exposed.


It was Paul Eitson.

The police-sergeants hurried up with the
reinforcement of two porters to recover
their man. But he was quiet enough now.
He did not stir a muscle when they 







cuffed him. He looked around with vague,
vacant eyes, hardly seeming to realize where
he was or what was being clone with him.
His frenzy was gone.

They led him down the platform. Hugh
Ritson was standing on the spot where Greta
had left him one minute before. When the
company neared that spot the prisoner
stopped. He looked across at Hugh Ritson
in silence, and for an instant the dazed look
died off his face. Then he turned his head
aside, and allowed himself to be led quietly
away.

The Chapter-room of St. Margaret's Convent
was a chill, bare chamber, containing an oak
table and four or five plain oak chairs. Or
the painted walls, which were of dun gray
there were an etching by a Florentine
master of the flight into Egypt and a symbolic
print of the Sacred Heart. Beside
these pictures there was but a single text
to relieve the blindness of the empty walls,
and it ran : ' Where the tree falls, there it
must lie.'

Four days after Greta's departure from the
house wherein she had been received as a
temporary boarder, the Superior sat in the
chapter-room, and a sister knelt at her feet.
The sister s habit was gray, and her linen
cape was plain. She wore no scapular, and

no hood above the close cap that hid her
hair and crossed her forehead. She was,
therefore, a lay sister ; she was Sister
Grace.

1 Mother, hear my sin she said in a
trembling whisper.

Speak on, daughter.'

4 We were both at Alone in the year of
the great famine. He was an officer in a
regiment quartered there. I was a novice
of the choir in the Order of Charity. We
met in scenes sanctified by religion. Oh,
mother, the famine was sore, and he was
kind to the famished people. u The hunger
is on us," they would cry, as if it had been
a plague of locusts. It was thus, with their
shrill voices and wan faces, that the rasped
multitudes followed us. Yes, mother, he
was very, very kind to the people.'

< Well V

The penitent bowed her head yet lower.
1 My mother, I renounced the vows, and 
we were married.'

The lips of the Superior moved in silent
prayer.

What was his name, my daughter V

Robert Lowther. AYe came from Ireland
to London. A child was born, and we called
him Paul. Then my husband's love grew
chill and died. I grieved over him. Perhaps
I was but a moody companion. At
last he told me '

The voice faltered ; the whole body
quivered.

1 Well, my child V

Oh, mother, he told me I was not his
wife ; that I was a Catholic, but that he was
a Protestant; that a Catholic priest had
married us in Ireland without question or
inquiry. That was not a valid marriage by
English law.'

Shame on the English law. But what
do we know of the law at the foot of the
cross ? Well V

'He left me. Mother, I flung God's
good gift away. I tried to drown myself,
and my little child with me; but they prevented
me. I was placed in an asylum
for the insane, and my baby  my Paul  
was given into the care of a woman with

whom I had lodged. Have I not sinned
deeply V

Your sins are great, my daughter, but
your sufferings have also been great. "What
happened then?'

4 I escaped from the asylum and returned
for my child. It was gone. The woman
had removed to some other part of London,
none knew where, and my Paul, my darling,
was lost to me for ever. My mother, it was
then that I sinned deepest of all.'

Her head was bowed to her trembling
knees, and her voice was all but suspended
in an agony of shame.

4 Mother, I flung away God's better gift
than life. Oh, how shall I tell you? Your
foot trembles, reverend mother. You are a
holy woman, and know nothing of the world's
temptations.'

4 Hush, my daughter ; I am as great a
sinner as yourself.'

4 I cannot tell you. Mother, mother, you
see I cannot.'

4 It is for your soul's weal, my daughter.'

6 1 had tried to serve God, and He had

seen my shame. What was left to me but
the world, the world, the world ! Perhaps
the world itself would have more mercy.
My kind mother, have I not told you yet?'

The Superior made the sign of the cross.

Ah, my daughter ! the enemy of your
soul was with you then. You should not
have ceased to lift your hands to heaven in
supplication and prayer. You should have
prostrated yourself three days and nights
in the tribune before the holy sacrament

The penitent raised her pale face.

In less time I was a lost and abandoned
woman.'

The Superior told a few beads with trembling
finders. Then she lifted the cross that
hung from her girdle, and held it out to the
sister.

I thought of my child, and prayed that
he misrht be dead. I thought of him who
was not my husband, and my heart grew
cold and hard. Mother, my redemption
came. Yes, but with it came the meaning
of the fearful words, too late. Amid the
reeling madness of the life that is mocked

with the name of gay, I met a good man.
Yes, holy mother, a good man. Mother, he
now sleeps there.'

Her pale face, serene and solemn, was lifted
again, and the hand that held the crucifix
was raised above her head.

1 1 loathed my life. He took me away
from it  to the mountains  to Scotland,
and a child w r as born. Mother, it was only
then that I aw-oke as from a trance. It
seemed as if a ring of sin begirt me. Tears ;
ah me ! what tears were shed. But rest and
content came at last, and then we were
married.'

My daughter, my daughter, little did I
think when I received your vows that the
enemy of your soul had so mastered you.'

Listen a little longer, holy mother. The
child grew to be the image of my darling,
my Paul  every feature, every glance the
same. And partly to remind me of my lost
one, and partly to make me forget him forever,
I called the second child Paul. Mother,
the years went by in peace. The past was
gone from me. Only its memory lay like a

waste in my silent heart. I had another son,
and called him Hugh. After many years
my husband died.' The penitent paused.

Mother, another thing comes back to me ;
but I have confessed it already. Shall I
repeat it ?'

No, my daughter, not if it touches the
oath that lay heavy on your heart.'

I thought my first child was dead. For
thirty years I had not seen him. But the
pathways of our lives crossed at last. And
the woman who nursed him came to this
house four days ago.'

Here?'

1 Mother, my son, the child of that first
false union, my darling, for whom I wept
scalding tears long, long years ago ; my Paul
whose loss was all but the loss of his
mother's soul, my son is a thief and an outcast.'


The lips of the Superior moved again in
prayer.

4 He is the man known to the world as
Paul Drayton  to me as Paul Lowther.'

My dear daughter, humble yourself in

the midst of so awful a judgment. Do } r ou
say Drayton ?  Drayton, who, as I hear, was
to-day tried and sentenced?'

Xo  yes  how shall I tell you ?  the
same and not the same. Mother, the crime
was committed by my son Paul Lowther.
The sentence was pronounced on my son
Paul Ritson.'

i My dear daughter '

I was in the court, and heard all ; and
I alone knew all  I alone, alone ! Bear
with me that I transgressed the law of this
holy order. Think, oh! my kind mother,
think that the nun was yet the woman, and,
above all, the mother. Yes ; I heard all.
I heard the charge that convicted my son
Paul Lowther. He was guilty before God
and man. But the prisoner in the dock
was my son Paul Ritson. I knew him, and
believed him when he denied the name they
gave him. Ah me, my heart bled!'

4 What did you do, my daughter T

Mother, I was weak, very weak. I could
not see my duty clearly. An awful conflict
was rife within me. I could not justify the

one man without condemning the other.
And both were the children of my bosom.'

Fearful, fearful ! But, my daughter,
the one was guilty and the other innocent.'


Yes, yes, a thousand times yes ; but
then there was myself. How could I punish
the guilty without revealing the secret sin
that had been thirty years hidden in my
heart? And my poor weak spirit shrank
within me, and I sat silent amid all.'

My daughter, we must crucify our
spiritual pride.'

Yes, yes ; but there was the love of my
son Paul Ritson  and he thought me a good
woman even yet. How could I confess to
that sinful past and not lose the love of the
only human soul that held me pure and
true? Mother, it is very sweet to be loved.'

4 Oh, my daughter, my daughter, a terrible
situation, terrible, terrible!'

Mother, I have told you everything.
Tell me now what hope is left. Give me
your direction.'

"' My daughter, let us humble ourselves

before God, and pray that He may reveal
the path of duty. Come.'

The Superior rose, took her crosier in her
hand, and walked out of the room. The
sister followed her. They passed through
the sacristy into the empty church.

It was evening. The glow of a wintry
sunset came through the windows to the
west, and fell in warm gules on the altar.
There was the hush of the world's awe here
as day swooned into night. Without these
walls were turmoil and strife. Within was
the balm of rest  the rest that lies in the
heart of the cyclone.

And the good mother and the sister went
down on their knees together, and prayed
for light and guidance. The mother rose,
but the sister knelt on ; darkness fell, and
she was still kneeling, and when the east
was dabbled with the dawn, the gray light
fell on her bowed head and uplifted hands.

A morning paper of November contained
the following paragraph in its summary of
the news of the day:

It will be remembered that in the reports
of the disastrous railway collision which occurred
at Hendon on Friday last it was
mentioned as a ghastly accessory to the
story of horror that an injured passenger,
who had been lifted from the debris of
broken carriages, and put to lie out of
harm's way in a field close at hand, was
brutally assaulted and (apparently) robbed
by some unknown scoundrel, who, though
detected in the act itself, tore himself from
the grasp of Police Sergeant Cox, of the
Hendon division of the Metropolitan police-force,
and escaped into the darkness. The

authorities were determined that their vigilance
should not be eluded, and a person
named' Paul Drayton is now in custody,
and will be brought up at Bow Street this
morning. It turns out that Drayton is an
innkeeper at Hendon, where he has long
borne a dubious character. He was arrested
at midnight in St. Pancras Station in a
daring and mad attempt to escape by the
North train, and it is understood that the
incident of his capture is such as reflects
the highest credit on the resolution, energy,
and intrepidity of the force.'

The same paper of the day after contained
this further paragraph:

The man Drayton, who was yesterday
formally committed to take his trial at the
Central Criminal Court, will be brought up
at the Old Bailey as early as tomorrow; and,
as the evidence is said to be of a simple and
conflicting character, it is not expected
that the hearing will extend itself over a
single day. It is stated that the accused,
who observed a rigid silence during yesterday's
proceedings, will, on his trial, setup

the extraordinary defence of mistaken
identity. If this is an attempt (as. is hinted)
to attract public attention and excite meretricious
sympathy, it will . probably fail of
its object at such a moment of political excitement
as the present.'

An evening paper of Friday, November,
, contained the following remarks in the
course of a leading note:

It is a familiar legal maxim that a pica
of alibi that breaks clown is the worst of all
accusations. The scoundrel that attempted
to rob a dying man, who lay helpless and
at his : mercy amid the confusion of Friday
night's accident at Henclon, was audacious
enough to put forth the defence that he was
not the man he was taken for. Cases of
mistaken identity are of course common
enough in the annals of jurisprudence, but
we imagine the instances are rare indeed of
evidence of identity so exceptional and conclusive
as that which convicted the Hendon
innkeeper being susceptible of error. The
very clothes he wore in the dock bore their
own witness to his guilt, and the court saw

vol. in. 45

the police sergeant produce a scrap of cloth
torn from the guilty man's back, which
exactly fitted a rent in the prisoner's ulster.
The whole case would be a case of criminality
too gross and palpable to merit a
syllable of comment but for the astounding
assurance with which the accused adhered
to his plea in the face of evidence that was
so complete as to make denial little more
than a farce. He denied that he was Paul
Drayton, and said his name was Paul Ritson.
He was identified as Drayton by several
witnesses who have known him from infancy;
among others by his old mother, Martha
Drayton, whose evidence (given with reluctance
and with more tears than a son so
unnatural deserved) was at once as damning
and as painful as anything of the kind ever
heard in a court of justice. The claim to
be Paul Ritson was answered by the evidence
of Mr. Hugh Ritson, mine-owner in
Cumberland, and brother of the gentleman
whom the prisoner wished to personate.
Mr. H. Ritson admitted a resemblance, but
had no hesitation in saying that the accused

was not his brother. The prisoner thereupon
applied to the court that the wife of
the said Paul Ritson should be examined,
but, as it was explained that both husband
and wife were at present ill in Cumberland,
the court wisely ruled against the application.
As a final freak of defence, the
prisoner asked for the examination of one
Mercy Fisher, who, he said, would be able
to say by what circumstances he came to
wear the clothes of the guilty man. The
court adjourned for an hour in order that
.this person might be produced, but on the
re-assembling it was explained that the girl,
who turned out to be a mistress whom
Drayton had kept at his mother's house,
had disappeared. Thus, with a well-merited
sentence of three years' penal servitude,
ended a trial of which the vulgarity of
detail was only equalled by the audacity
of defence.'

A week passed, and the public had almost
forgotten the incidents of the trial, when the
following paragraph appeared in a weekly
journal:

452

-' ' I hear that the man who was sentenced
to three gears' penal servitude for robbery
sat the scene of the H end on accident was
seized with an attack of brain fever immediately
upon his arrival at Millbank
"The facts that transpire within that place
of retirement are whispered with as much
reserve as guards the secrets of another kind
of confessional, but I do hear that since the
admission of the man who was known on
his trial as Paul Drayton, and who is now
indicated by a numerical cognomen, certain
facts have come to light which favour the
defence he set up of mistaken identity. I
have it on good authority that the officials
of the Home Office are investigating these
facts, and that the result is likely to show
another shameful miscarriage of justice,
arising largely out of the indecent haste
with which cases involving grave issues are
sometimes scamped through our courts.'

IN THE YEAR 1877.

The dale lay green in the morning sunlight
; the river that ran through its lowest
bed sparkled with purple and amber ; the
leaves prattled low in the light breeze that
touched through the rushes and the long
grass ; the hills rose sheer and white to the
smooth blue lake of the sky, where only one
fleecy cloud floated languidly across from
peak to peak. Out of unseen places came
the bleating of sheep and the rumble of
distant cataracts, and above the dull thud
of tumbling waters far away was the thin
carolling of birds overhead.

But the air was alive with yet sweeter
sounds. On the breast of the fell that lies
over against Cat Bells a procession of
children walked, and sang, and chattered,

and laughed. It was St. Peter's Day, and
they were rush-bearing : little ones of all
ages, from the comely girl of fourteen, just
ripening into maidenhood, who walked last,
to the sweet boy of four in the pinafore
braided with epaulettes, who strode along
gallantly in front. Most of the little hands
carried rushes, but some were filled with
ferns, and mosses, and flowers. They had
assembled at the schoolhouse, and now, on
their way to the church, they were making
the circuit of the dale.

They passed over the road that crosses
the river at the head of Xewlands, and
turned down into the path that follows the
bed of the valley. At that angle there
stands a little group of cottages deliciously
cool in their whitewash, nestling together
under the heavy purple crag from, which the
waters of a ghyll fall into a deep basin that
reaches to their walls. The last of the group
is a cottage with its end to the road, and
its open porch facing a garden shaped like a
.wedge. As the children passed this house
an old man, gray and thin and much bent,

stood by the gate, leaning on a staff. A
collie, with the sheep dog's wooden bar suspended
from its shaggy neck, lay at his feet.
The hum of voices brought a young woman
into the porch. She was bare-headed and
wore a light print gown. Her face was
pale and marked with lines. She walked
cautiously, stretching one hand before her
with an uncertain motion, and grasping a
trailing tendril of honeysuckle that swept
downward from the roof. Her eyes, which
were partly inclined upwards and partly
turned towards the procession, had a vague
light in their bleached pupils. She was
blind. At her side, and tugging at her
other hand, was a child of a year and a half
a chubby, sunny little fellow with ruddy
cheeks, blue eyes, and fair curly hair.

Prattling, laughing, singing snatches, and
waving their rushes and ferns above their
happy, thoughtless heads, the children
rattled past. Ashen they were drone the
air was empty, as it is when the lark stops
in its song.

The church of Xewlands stands in the

heart of the valley, half hidden by a clump
of trees. By the loch-gate Parson Christian
stood that morning ; aged a little, the snow
a thought thicker on his bushy hair, the
face mellower, the liquid eyes full of the
sunlight behind which lies the shower.
Greta stood beside him ; quieter of manner
than in the old days, a deeper thoughtfulness
in her face, her blue eyes more grave and
less restless, her fair hair no longer falling
in waves behind her, but gathered up into a
demure knot under her hat.

Here they come, bless their innocent
hearts!' said Parson Christian, and at that
moment the children turned an angle of the
road.

The pink and white of their frocks and
pinafores were all but hidden by the little
forest of green that they carried before and
above them.

" Till Burnham wood do come to Dunsinane,"
' muttered Greta, smiling.

When the rush-bearers came up to the
front of the church, the loch-gate was
thrown open and they filed through.

How tired lie looks, the brave little boy.'
said Greta, picking up the foremost of the
company, the tiny man in the epaulettes,
now covered with the dust of the roads.

The little ones first, and you great girls
afterwards,' said the Parson. ' Those with
flowers go up to the communion and lay
them on the form, and those with mosses
put them on the font, and those with rushes
and ferns begin under the pulpit and comedown
the aisle to the porch

The stalwart little tramp in Greta's arms
wriggled his way to the ground. He had
mosses in his hand and must go first. Then
the children trooped into the church, and in
an instant the rude old place was alive with
the buzz of prattling tongues.

The floor covered many a tomb. Graven
on the plain slabs that formed the pathway
down the middle of the church were the
names of the men and women who had lived
and died in the dale generations gone by.
In their own day they were children themselves
; and now other children, their own
children's children's children  with never a

thought about what lay beneath, with only
love in their eyes, and laughter on their lips,
and life in their limbs  were strewing rushes
down the path above them.

In ten minutes there was not an inch of
the flagged aisle visible. All was green
from the communion to the porch. Here
and there an adventurous lad, turning to
account the skill at climbing acquired at
birds'-nesting, had clambered over the pews
to the rude crossness and hung great
bunches of rushes from the roof.

'Now children, let us sing,' said the
Parson, and taking up the accordion he
started a hymn.

The leaded windows of the old church
stood open, and the sweet young voices
floated away, and far away, over the uplands
and the dale. And the birds still
sang in the blue sky, and the gills still
rumbled in the distance, and the light
wind still touched through the long grass,
and the morning sunlight shone overall.


There was a cloud of dust on the road,

and presently there came trooping down
from the village a company of men, surrounded
by a whole circuit of dogs. Snarls
and yaps, and yelps, and squaws, and
guffaws, and sometimes the cachinnation
and crow of cocks, broke upon the clear air.
The fostering set would be as many as a
dozen, and all were more or less drunk.
First came John Proudfoot, the blacksmith,
in his shirt sleeves, with his leathern apron
wrapped in a knot about his waist, and a
silver and black gamecock imprisoned under
his arm. Lang Geordie Moore, his young
helper, carried another fowl. Dick o' the
Syke, the miller, in a brown coat whitened
with flour, walked abreast of Geordie and
tickled the gills of the fowl with a straw.
Job Sheepshanks, the letter-cutter, carried
a pot of pitch and a brush, and little Tom
o' Dint hobbled along with a handful of
iron files. Behind these came the landlord
of the Flying Horse with a basket over one
arm, from which peeped the corks of many
bottles, and Matt, the stableman at the
Ghyll, carried a wicker cage, in which sat

a red bantam-cock with spurs that glittered
in the light.

There was one other man who walked
with the company, and he was the soul of
the noisy crew; his voice was the loudest,
his laugh the longest, and half of all that
was said was addressed to him. He was a
lusty man with a florid face; he wore a suit
of tweeds plaided in wide stripes of buff and
black.

It was Paul Drayton.

Burn my body, and what's on now?' he
said as the gang reached the church.

Rush-bearing, I reckon answered Tom
o' Dint.

And what's rush-bearing?'

1 You know, Mister Paul,' said the postman,
'rush-bearing  the barns rush-bearing
St. Peter's Day, you know.'

Oh, ay, / know  rush-bearing. Let
me see, ain't it once a year?'

What, man, but you mind the days
when you were a bit boy and went a- rushing
herself?' said the blacksmith.

Course, course, oh, ay, I ain't forgotten

them days. Let me see, it's a kind of a
harvest-home, ain't it?'

'Nowt o' the sort,' said Dick, the miller,
testily. ' Your memory's failing fast,
Mister Eitson.'

'And that's true, old fence. I'll never
be the same man again after that brain fever
I had up in London  not in the head-piece,
you know.'

The group of men and dogs had drawn
up in front of the church just as Brother
Peter crossed the churchyard to the porch,
carrying a red paper in his hand.

Who's that the Methodeeee man?'

It's the Methodeeee for sure,' said the
blacksmith.

Ey, it's the Parson's Peter,' added the
postman, ' and yon paper is a telegraph 
it's like he's takin' it to somebody.'

1 Hold hard, my boys,' said Drayton; and,
leaving his cronies, he strode through the
loch-gate and down the path, the dogs
yapping around him.

Brother Peter had drawn up at the door
of the porch; the children were still singing.

If that telegram is for my wife, you may
hand it over to me,' said Drayton, and
reached out his hand to take it.

Brother Peter drew back.

It will be all right, old fellow I'll see
she gets it.'

Ey, they'll banish that, I's warn,' said
Peter, in a caustic voice.

4 Come, don't you know that what belongs
to the wife belongs to the husband?'

Don't know as I do. I's never been
hadn't sec daftness,' said Peter.

i Hand it over. Come, be quick.'

4 Get over me 'at can,' said Peter, with a
decisive twinkle.

1 Give him a slab over the lug,' shouted
the miller from the road.

You hear what they say? Come, outwith
it.' '

Ey, you've growth o' friends, you're a
teeran crew, but I cares leal for any on you.'

Drayton turned away with a contemptuous
snort.

Damme, what a clatter,' he shouted, and
leapt on to the raised mound of a grave to

look in at an open window. As he did so
he kicked a glass for flowers that lay upon
it, and the broken frame tumbled in many
pieces. ' I've done for somebody's money
he said with a loud guffaw.

1 What, man, but it were thy awn brass
as bought it,' said the blacksmith.

i Ey, it's thy sadder's grave,' said Job
Sheepshanks.

Drayton glanced down at the headstone.

1 Why, so it is,' he said; ' d'ye see, I hasn't
been here since the day I buried him.'

1 Nay, that's all stuff and nonsense,' said
Job. 'I mind the morning I found ye
lying wet and frost on the top of that
grave.'

D'ye say so ? Well, I ain't for denying
it; and now I think of it, I was  yes. I
teas here that morning.'

Nay, you wasn't nowt o' the sort,' said
the blacksmith. ' That were the verra
morning as Giles Eaisley saw you at the
Pack Horse sleeping. I mind the scratch
Job had with leal Gubblum about it lang
ago.'

VOL. III. 46

1 It's all stuff and nonsense replied Job.
He were here.'

'The Pack Horse? Well, now, I remember
I was there, too.'

The singing had ceased, and Greta came
out into the porch on tiptoe, carrying in her
arms a tiny mite, who was crying. Peter
handed her the telegram, and turned up the
path.

Drayton had rejoined his companions, and
was in the act of knocking the neck off a
bottle by striking it against the wall, when
Peter walked through the loch-gate.

Teem a pint o' yah down the Metho dee's
back,' shouted Dick, the miller, and in
another moment Brother Peter was covered
with the contents of the broken bottle.

A loud fostering laugh filled the air,
and echoed from the hills.

4 What a break!' tittered the postman.

 What a break!' shouted the blacksmith.

What a break !' roared the miller.

Get over me 'at can,' mimicked Natt.

1 He's got a lad's heart, has Mister Paul,
said the landlord of the Flying Horse.

1 Ey, he's a fair catch,' echoed little Tom
o' Dint.

Leaving Peter to shake himself dry of
the liquor that dripped from him in froth,
the noisy gang reeled down the road, the
yelping dogs careering about them, and the
cocks squeaking with the hugs they received
from the twitching arms of the men convulsed
with laughter.

At the head of the Vale of Xewlands
there is a clearing that was made by the
lead-miners of two centuries ago. It lies
at the feet of an amphitheatre of hills
that rise peak above peak, and die off,
depth beyond depth. Of the old mines
nothing remains but the level cuttings in
the sides of the fells, and here and there the
washing-pits cut out of the rock at your
feet. Fragments of stone lie about, glistening
with veins of lead, but no sound of pick
or hammer breaks the stillness, and no cart
or truck trundles over the rough path. It
is a solitude in which one might forget that
the world is full of noise.

To this spot Drayton and his cronies

46 2

made their way. At one of the old washington's
they drew up, and sat in a circle
on its rocky sides. They had come for a
cockfight. It was to be the bantam
(carried by Natt and owned by his master)
against all comers. Drayton and the
blacksmith were the setters-on. The first
bout w r as between the bantam and
Lang Geordie's ponderous black Spanish.
Geordie's bird soon squaw T ked dolorously,
and made off over the heads of the derisive
spectators, whereupon Geordie captured it
by one of its outstretched wings, and forthwith
screwed its neck. Then came John
Proudfoot's silver and black, and straightway
steel gaffs were affixed to the spurs.
When the cocks felt their feet they crowed,
and then pecked the ground from side to
side. An exciting struggle ensued. Up
and down, over and under, now beating the
breast, now trailing the comb, now pecking
at the gills. And the two men at opposite
sides of the pit  the one in his shirt sleeves
rolled up to the elbows, the other in his
sporting plaid  stooped with every lunge

and craned their necks with every fall, and
bobbed their heads with every peck, their
eyes flashing, their teeth set.

At one moment they drew off their birds,
called for the files, and sharpened up the
spurs. Later on they seized the cocks by
the necks, shouted for the pitch-pot, and
patched up the bleeding combs. The birds
were equally matched, and fought long.
At last their strength ebbed away. They
followed each other feebly, stretching their
long lagging throats languidly, opening
their beaks and hanging out their dry white
tongues, turning tail, then twisting about
and fighting again, until both lay stretched
out on the pit bottom.

As the energy of the cocks subsided, the
ardour of the men waxed sensibly. They
yelled excitedly, protested, reviled, swore,
laughed, jeered, and crowed.

At length, when the bantam fell and
gave no signs of a speedy resurrection, the
anger of Drayton could not be supported.
He leapt across the pit, his face red as his
cock's comb, and shouting, ' Damme, what

for did ye pick up my bird?' he planted a
blow full on the blacksmith's chest.

A fight of a yet fiercer kind followed.
Amid shouts, and in the thick of a general
scuffle, the blacksmith closed with his
powerful adversary, gripped him about the
waist, twisted him on his loins, and brought
him to the ground with a crash. Then he
stood over him with fierce eyes.

I mak' no doubt you're not hanker
for another of that sort,' he puffed.

'John's given him the cross-buttocks
said the miller.

4 The master's lost all his wrestling,' said
Natt, blinking out of his sleepy eyes.

1 1 mind the day when he could have put
John down same as a bit boy,' said the little
postman.

Natt helped Drayton to his feet. He
was quiet enough now, but as black in the
face as a thundercloud.

'This comes of a gentleman mixing with
them as is beneath him,' he muttered, and
he mopped his perspiring forehead with a
bandana handkerchief.

The miller snorted, the mason grunted,
the little postman laughed in his thin pipe.

Drayton's eyes flashed.

i I'm a gentleman, I am, if you want to
know,' he said defiantly.

The blacksmith stood by, leisurely rolling
down his shirt-sleeves.

1 Ey, for fault of wise folk we call you so. '
he said, and laughed. ' But when I leet of
a man, I's rather have him nor a hundred
sec gentlemen as you.'

1 Too's rest for once, John,' shouted
Dick o' the Syke, and there was some
general laughter.

Gentleman ! Ax the woman folk what
they mak' of sec a gentleman.' continued the
blacksmith with contemptuous emphasis.
Him as hadn't folks to till the public and
empty the cupboard

There was a murmur among the men as
they twisted about.

4 Ax them what they mak' of him 'at
spent four days in Lunnon and came back
another man  ax the woman folk ; they're
lastly rest, I reckon.'

Another uneasy movement among the
men.

Burn my body ! and what's the women
to me?' said Drayton.

1 Nay, nowt answered the blacksmith.
Your awn wife seems noways powerful keen
for your company. '

Drayton's eyes were red, but the
fire died out of them in an instant. He
stepped up to the blacksmith and held out
his hand.

You've licked me,' he said in another
tone, 'but I ain't the man to keep spite,
/ ain't ; so come along, old fence, and lets
wet it.'

That's weel said,' put in Tommy Lowth-
waite, the landlord.

It's no'but fair,' said Dick the Miller.

c He's a rest sort, after all,' said Job the
mason.

1 He's his awn sadder's son is Paul Ritson,'
said Tom o' Dint.

In two minutes more the soiled company
were trampling knee-deep through rank
beds of rushes on their way to the other

side of the dale. They stopped a few
yards from a pit shaft with its head-gear
and wheel.

Let's take my brother's ken for it,' said
Drayton, and they turned into a one story
house that stood near.

It was a single capacious chamber,
furnished more like a library than an office :
carpets, rugs, a cabinet, easy chairs, and a
solid table in the middle of the floor. The
cockfighting filed in and sat down on every
available chair, on the table, and at last, on
the floor.

Squat and whiff,' said Drayton, c and,
Tommy, you out with the corks quick.'

4 It must be a bonny money-making
concern to keep up the like of this said the
miller, settling himself uneasily in an easy
chair.

Dick was telling himself what a fool he
had been not to ask more than the fifty
pounds he received for the damage once
done by fire to his mill.

1 Have you never heard as it ain't all gold
as glitters?' said Drayton; and he struck a

lucifer match on the top of the mahogany
table.

1 What, man, dust mean as the pit's not
paying?' said the blacksmith.

Drayton gave his head a sidelong shake
of combined astuteness and reserve.

4 1 mak' no doubt now as you have to
lend Master Hugh many a gay penny,' said
Tom o' Dint in an insinuating tone.

Least said, soonest mended,' said Drayton
sententiously, and smiled a mighty
knowing smile.

Then the men laughed, and the landlord
handed the bottles round, and all drank out
of the necks, and puffed dense volumes of
smoke from their pipes, and spat on the
carpet.

And still the birds san in the clear air
without, and still the gills rumbled, and
still the light wind touched through the
grass, and still the morning sunlight shone
over all.

The door opened, and Hugh Ritson
entered, followed by the lawyer, Mr. Bonnie
There was a steely glimmer in his

eyes as he stood just inside the threshold
and looked round.

Come, get out of this he said.

The men shuffled to their feet and were
elbowing their way out. Drayton, who sat
on the table, removed his pipe from between
his teeth, and called on them to remain.

Hugh Ritson stepped up to Drayton and
touched him on the shoulder.

1 1 want to speak with you,' he said.

What is it ?' demanded Drayton.

1 want to speak with you,' repeated
Hugh.

1 What is it? Out with it. You've got
the gift of the gab, hasn't ye? Don't mind
my friends.'

Hugh Eitson's face whitened, and a cold
smile passed over it.

Your time is near,' he muttered, and
turned on his heel.

As he stepped out of the noisome chamber,
a loud hoarse laugh followed him. He
drew a long breath.

1 Thank God, it will soon be over,' he
said. Bonnithorne was at his side.

1 Is it to be tomorrow ?' asked the lawyer.

To-morrow,' said Hugh Ritson.

Have you told him?'

Tell him yourself, Bonnithorne. I can
bear with the man no longer. I shall be
doing something that I may repent.'

Have you apprised Parson Christian?'

Hugh Ritson bent his head.

And Greta?'

She won't come,' said Hugh. l The girl
could never breathe the same air as that
scoundrel for five minutes together.'

And yet he's her half-brother,' said the
lawyer softly; and then he added with his
conventional smile : ' odd, isn't it?'

When the procession of children had passed
the little cottage at the angle of the roads,
the old man who leaned on his staff at the
gate turned about and stepped to the porch.

Did the boy see them ?  did he see the
children?' said the young woman who held
the child by the hand.

I mak' na coot,' said the old man.

He stooped to the little one and held out
one long withered finger. The soft baby
hand closed on it instantly.

'Did he laugh? I thought he laughed
said the young woman.

A bright smile played on her lips.

c Maybe so, lass.'

Ralphieie has never seen the children
before, father. Didn't he look frightened 

just a little frightened  at first, you know?
I thought he crept behind my gown.'

Maybe, maybe

The little one had dropped the hand of
his young mother, and, still holding the bony
finger of his grandfather, he toddled beside
him into the house.

Very cool and sweet was the kitchen, with
whitewashed walls and hard earthen floor.
A table and settle stood by the window,
and a dresser that was an armoury of bright
pewter dishes, trenchers, and higgins, crossed
the opposite wail.

1 Nay, but siesta here, leal man,' said the
old charcoal-burner, and he dived into a
great pocket at his side.

1 Have you brought it? Is it the kitten?
Oh, dear, let the boy see it!'

A kitten came out of the old man's pocket,
and was set down on the rug at the hearth.
The timid creature sat dazed, then raised
itself on its hind Ws and mewed.

i Where's Ralphieie ? Is he watching it,
father? What is he doing 

The little one had dropped on hands and

knees before the kitten, and was gazing up
into its face.

The mother leaned over him with a face
that would have beamed with sunshine if
the sun of sight had not been missing.

Is he looking? Doesn't he want to
coddle it?'

The little chap had pushed his nose close
to the nose of the kitten, and was prattling
to it in various inarticulate noises. ' Boo
loo  hal-la  mama.'

1 Isn't he a darling, father ?'

It's a winsome wee thing,' said the old
man, still standing, with drooping head, over
the group on the hearth.

The mother's face saddened, and she
turned away. Then from the opposite side
of the kitchen, where she was making
pretence to take plates from a plate-rack,
there came the sound of suppressed sobs.
The old man's eyes followed her.

Nay, lass; let's have a sup of broth,' he
said, in a tone that carried another message.

The young woman put plates and a bowl
of broth on the table.

i To think that I can never see my own
child, and everybody else can see him!' she
said, and then there was another bout of
tears.

The charcoal-burner supped at his broth
in silence. A glistening bead rolled slowly
down his wizened cheek ; and the interview
on the hearth went on without interruption
: ' Mew  mew  mew ' Boo  loo
hal-la  mama

There was a foot on the gravel in front.

'How fend ye, Mattha?' said a voice
from without.

Come thy ways, Gubblum,' answered
the old man.

Gubblum Oglethorpe entered, dressed differently
than of old. He wore a suit of
canvas stained deeply with iron ore.

1 1's thinking maybe Mercy will let me
warm up my polish,' said Gubblum.

c And welcome,' said Mercy, and took
down from the dresser a saucepan and porridge
thivel. 'I'll make it for you while
father sups his broth.'

Nay, lass, you're as throng as an auld

peat wife, I's warn. I'll mak' it myself.
I's rather particular about my polish, forby.
Dust know how many faults polish may
have? They may be sour, sooty, sodden,
and savvorless, seat, welsh, brocken, and
lumpy  and that's mair nor enough, too
knows.'

Gubblum had gone down on the hearth-rug.


Why, and here's the son and heir,' he
said. c Nay, laddie, mind my class  they'll
dirty thy bran-new brat for thee.'

Is he growing, Gubblum ?'

Growing?  amain.'

And his eyes  are they changing colour ?
going brown?'

Maybe  I'll not be for saying nay.'

1 Is he  is he very like me?'

'Nay  weel  nay  I's fancying I see
summit of the stranger in the leal chap at
whiles.'

The young mother turned her head.
Gubblum twisted to where Matthew
sat.

1 That man and all his raggabash are

vol. in. 47

raking about this morning. It caps all, it
does for sure.'

The old charcoal-burner did not answer.
He paused with the spoon half-raised, glanced
at Mercy, and then went on with his broth.

Hasta heard of the lang yammer in the
papers about yon matter?' said Gubblum.

'Kay,' said Matthew, 'I hears nowt of
the papers.'

4 He's like to hang a lang crag when he
hears about it'

I mak' na coot,' said Matthew, showing
no curiosity.

It's my belief 'at the auld woman at
Hendon is turning tail. You mind she was
down last back end, and he wasn't have
nowt to say to her.'

Ey, I mind her,' said Matthew.

1 Every dog has his day, and I reckon yon
dog's day is nigh amaist done. And it wad
have been a vast shorter only Mercy hadn't
her eyes.'

Ey, ey,' said Matthew quietly.

c If the lass had no 'but been able to say,
Yon man is Drayton, and yon as you've

got in prison is Ritson, and I saw the bad
work done, that wad have settled it.'

Na coot,' said Matthew, his head in the
bowl.

They wasn't for hearing me. When the
parson took me up to Lunnon mair nor a
twelvemonth agone, they sent us faith home
with our tails atween our legs. " Bring us
the young woman," they said ; " your evidence
will stand aside hers, but not alone.
Bring the young woman to 'identify," they
says. " She's gone blind," we says. " We
can't help that," they says. And that's
what they call justice up in Lunnon.'

Ey, ey,' said Matthew.

But then too has to mak' 'romances for
them gentry folk  they've never been hadn't
no better, too sees.'

Grubbluru's porridge was bubbling, and
the thivel worked vigorously. Matthew had
picked up the child from the hearth. The
little fellow was tugging at his white
beard.

It were bad luck that me and Mercy
didn't stay a day or so langer in Hendon yon

472

time. She had her eyes then. But the lass
was badly, and ' (dropping his voice) ' that
way, too knows, and I wam't to prophesy
what was to happen to poor Paul Ritson.
So I brought her straight away home.'

So too did, Gubblum,' said Matthew,
stroking the child's head.

It's that Hugh as is at the bottom of it
all, I reckon. I'm not afraid to say it if hei$
my master. I alius liked Paul Ritson 
the rest one, too knows, not this taistrel
that calls his self Paul Ritson  but I cared
so leal for Hugh that I could have taken
him and wrowk't the fire with him.'

The porridge was ready, and Mercy set a
wooden bowl on the table. ' Fs sullen thy
bicker, my lass said Gubblum. c I's only
a leal man, but I's got a girt appetite, too
sees.' Then turning to Matthew he continued,
' But he's like to pay for it. He
brought his raggabash here, and now the
rascal has the upper hand  that's plain to
see.'

So it be,' said Matthew.

Demoralizing' all the country side, what

with his drinking' and cockfighting and terriers,
an don't know what. Their's Dick
o' the Syke, he's a ruined man this day, and
John, the blacksmith, he's never had a heat
on the anvil for a week, and as for Job, the
mason, he's shaping to be mair nor ever
like his Bible namesake, for he won't have
nowt but his dunghill to sit on soon.'

Dust think they dunno ken he's the
wrong man?' asked Matthew.

Nay, Mattha, but a leal bit of money's a
wonderful thing, mind ye.'

It is for sure.'

1 One day he went to clogger Kit to be
measure for new shoes. "What, Master
Ritson," says Kit, '* your foot's langer by
three lines nor when I put the tape on it
afore." '

'Ah!'

Next day Kit had an order for two pairs,
forby a pair of leggings and clogs for Natt.
That's the way it's banished.'

Nannie had taken, her child from her
father's knee, and was sitting on the sconce
bench with it, holding . a broken piece of a

mirror before its face, and listening for its
laugh when it saw itself in the glass.

But he's none Cumberland  hearken to
his tongue,' said Matthew.

Gubblum put down his spoon on his plate,
now empty.

1 That minds me he said, laughing, ' that
I met him out one day all dressed in his
brave class  them as might do for a nigger
that plays the banjo. " Off for a spogue ?"
I says. " What's a spogue f " he says, looking
thunder. "Nay," I says, "you're no'but
a dalesman  ax folks up Hendon way," I
says. I was peddling then, but Master
Hugh 'counters me another day, and he
says, "Gubblum," he says, "I's wanting
a smart leal man, same as you, to weigh
the ore on the bank top  punt a week," he
says.'

Ey, I mak' na coot they thowt to buy
thee over,' said Matthew.

4 They've made a gay canny blunder if
they think they've put a swine-rung on
Gubblum's snout. Buy or beat  that's the
word. They've bought most of the folk

and made them as lazy as ribbed bitches.
But they wasn't able to buy the Ritson's
bitch itself.'

What dust mean, G-ubblum ?',

1 What, man ! too's heard how the taistrel
killed poor auld Fan ? No ? AVeel, too
knows she was Paul Ritson's dog, Fan
was : and when she saw this man comma;
up the lonnin, she frisked and wag't her
tail. But when she got close to him she
found her mistake, and went slender off.
He made shift to coax her, but Fan wad
none be coaxed ; and folk were takin' stock.
So what dust think the taistrel does, but
ups with a stone and brains her.'

1 That's like him for sure,' said Matthew.
But don't the folk see that his wife as it
might be, Miss Greta, as was, won't have
nowt to say to him?'

Nay, they say that's no'but a rue-bargain,
and she found out her mind after
she wedded  that's all the clothes think
about it.'

Hark,' said Mercy, half rising from the
sconce. ' It's Mrs. Ritson's foot.'

The men listened. ( Nay, lass, there's no
foot,' said Gubblum.

Yes, she's on the road,' said Mercy.
Her face showed that pathetic tension of the
other senses which is peculiar to the blind.
A moment later Greta stepped into the
cottage. The telegram which Brother Peter
gave her at the church was still in her hand.
 Good-morning, Matthew ; good-morning,
Gubblum ; I have news for you, Mercy.
The doctors are coming to-day.'

Mercy's face fell perceptibly. The old
man's head drooped lower.

1 There, don't be afraid,' said Greta,
touching her hand caressingly. ' It will-soon
be over. The doctors didn't hurt you
before, did they ?'

No ; but this time it will be the operation,'
said Mercy. There was a tremor in
her voice.

Greta had lifted the child from the
sconce. The little fellow cooed close to
her ear, and babbled his inarticulate
nothings.

1 Only think, when it is all over you will

be able to see your darling Ralphieie for the
first time!'

Mercy's sightless face brightened. c Oh,
yes,' she said, ' and watch him play, and see
him spin his tops and chase the butterflies.
Oh, that will be very good!'

1 Dust say to-day, Mistress Ritson ?'
asked Matthew, the big drops standing in
his eyes.

i Yes, Matthew ; I will stay to see it
over, and mind baby, and help a little.'

Mercy took the little one from Greta's
arms and cried over it, and laughed over it,
and then cried and laughed again. ' Mamma
and Ralphieie shall play together in the
garden, darling, and Ralphieie shall see the
horses  and the flowers  and the birdies 
and mamma  yes, mamma shall see Ralphieie.
Oh, Mrs. Ritson, how selfish I am  how
can I ever repay you ?'

The tears were trickling down Greta's
cheeks. ' It is I who am selfish, Mercy,'
she said, and kissed the sightless orbs.
Your dear eyes shall give me back my
poor husband.'

Two hours later the doctors arrived. They
had called at the vicarage in driving up the
valley, and Parson Christian was with
them. They looked at Mercy's eyes, and
were satisfied that the time was ripe for the
operation. At the sound of their voices,
Mercy trembled and turned livid. By a
maternal instinct she picked up the child,
who was toddling about the floor, and
clasped it to her bosom. The little one
opened wide his blue eyes at sight of the
strangers, and the prattling tongue became
quieti

Take her to her room, and let her lie on
the bed said one of the doctors to Greta.

A sudden terror seized the young mother.
e No, no, no !' she said, in an indescribable

accent, and the child cried a little from the
pressure to her breast.

Come, Mercy, dear, be brave for your
darling's sake,' said Greta.

1 Listen to me,' said the doctor, quietly
but firmly. ' You are now quite blind,
and you have been in total darkness fora
year and a half. We may be able to
restore your sight by giving you a few
minutes' pain. Will you not bear it ?'

Mercy sobbed, and kissed the child passionately.


Just think, it is quite certain that without
an operation you will never regain your
siodit,' continued the doctor. ' You have
nothing to lose, and everything to gain.
Are you satisfied ? Come, go away to your
room quietly.'

Oh, oh, oh !' sobbed Mercy.

Just imagine, only a few minutes' pain,
and even of that you will scarcely be conscious.
Before you know what is doing,
it will be done.'

Mercy clung closer to her child, and
kissed it again and yet more fervently.

The doctors turned to each other.
4 Strange vanity!' muttered the one who
had not spoken before. ' Her eyes are
useless, and yet she is afraid she may lose
them. 7

Mercy's quick ears caught the whispered
words. ' It is not that,' she said passionately.


1 No, gentlemen,' said Greta, ' you have
mistaken her thought. Tell her she runs
no clanger of her life.'

The doctors smiled and laughed a little.
Oh, that's it, eh ? Well, we can tell her
that with certainty.'

Then there was another interchange of
half am used glances.

Ah, we that be men, sirs, don't know the
depth and tenderness of a mother's heart,'
said Parson Christian. And Mercy turned
towards him a face that was full of gratitude.
Greta took the child out of her arms and
hushed it to sleep in another room. Then
she brought it back and put it in its cradle
that stood in the ingle.

Come, Mercy,' she said, ' for the sake of

your boy.' And Mercy permitted herself to
be led from the kitchen.

So there will be no danger,' she said.
4 1 shall not leave my boy. Who said
that? The doctor? Oh, good gracious, it's
nothing. Only think, I shall live to see
him grow to be a great lad.'

Her whole face was now radiant.

It will be nothing. Oh, no, it will be
nothing. How silly it was to think that
he would live on, and grow up, and be a
man, and I lie cold in the churchyard  and
me his mother! That was very childish,
wasn't it? But, then, I have been so
childish since Ralphieie came.'

There, lie and be quiet, and it will soon
be over,' said Greta.

Let me kiss him first. Do let me kiss
him. Only once. You know it's a great
risk after all. And if he grew up  and I
wasn't here  if  if '

There, dear Mercy, you must not cry
again. It inflames your eyes, and that can't
be good for the doctors.'

'No, no, I won't cry. You are very

good ; everybody is very good. Only let
me kiss my little Ralphieie  just for the
last

Greta led her back to the side of the cot,
and she spread herself over it with outstretched
arms, as the mother-bird poises
with outstretched wings over her brood.
Then she rose, and her face was peaceful
and resigned.

The Laird Fisher sat down before the
kitchen fire, with one arm on the cradle
head. Parson Christian stood beside him.
The old shepherd wept in silence, and the
brood Parson's voice was too thick for the
words of comfort that rose to his lips.

The doctors followed into the bedroom.
Mercy was lying tranquilly on her bed.
Her countenance was without expression.
She was busy with her own thoughts.
Greta stood by the bedside ; anxiety was
written in every line of her beautiful, brave
face.

1 We must give her the gas,' said one of
the doctors, addressing the other.

Mercy's features twitched.

1 Who said that V she asked nervously.

My child, you must be quiet,' said the
doctor in a tone of authority.

Yes, I will be quiet, very quiet ; only
don't make me unconscious,' she said.
1 Never mind me ; I will not cry. No ; if
you hurt me I will not cry out. I will not
stir. I will do everything you ask. And
you shall say how quiet I have been. Only
don't let me be insensible.'

The doctors consulted together aside, and
in whispers.

4 Who spoke about the gas ? It wasn't
you, Mrs. Ritson, was it V

You must do as the doctors wish, dear,'
said Greta in a caressing voice.

Oh, I will be very good. I will do
every little thing. Yes, and I will be so
brave. I am a little childish sometimes,
but I can be brave, can't I V

The doctors returned to the bedside.

Very well, we will not use the gas,' said
one. ' You are a brave little woman after
all. There, be still  very still.'

One of the doctors was tearing linen into

strips for bandages, while the other fixed
Mercy's head to suit the light.

There was a faint sound from the kitchen.
1 Wait,' said Mercy. ' That is father  he's
crying. Tell him not to cry. Say it's
nothing.'

She laughed a weak little laugh.

There, he will hear that ; go and say it-was
I who laughed.'

Greta left the room on tiptoe. Old
Matthew was still sitting over a dying fire,
gently rocking the sleeping child. Parson
Christian's eyes were raised in prayer.

When Greta returned to the bedroom,
Mercy called her, and said, very softly 
Let me hold your hand, Greta  may I say
Greta 1  there,' and her fingers closed on
Greta's with a convulsive grasp.

The operation began. Mercy held her
breath. She had the stubborn north-country
blood in. her. Once only a sigh escaped.
There was a dead silence.

In two or three minutes the doctor said,
8 Just another minute, and all will be
over.'

At the next instant, Greta felt her hand
held with a grasp of iron.

Doctor, doctor, I can see you,' cried
Mercy, and her words came in gusts.

Be quiet,' said the doctor in a stern
voice. In half a minute more the linen
bandages were being wrapped tightly over
Mercy's eyes.

Doctor, dear doctor, let me see my boy
cried Mercy.

Be quiet, I say,' said the doctor again.

Dear doctor, my dear doctor, only one
peep  one little peep  I saw your face  let
me see my Ralphieie's.'

Not yet, it is not safe.'

But only for a moment. Don't put the
bandage on for one moment. Just think,
doctor, I have never seen my boy; I've seen
other people's children, but never once my
own, own darling. Oh, dear doctor '

You are exciting yourself. Listen tome
; if you don't behave yourself now you
may never see your child.'

Yes, yes, I will behave myself ; I will
be very good. Only don't shut me up in

vol. in. 48

darkness again until I see my boy. Greta,
bring him to me. Listen, I bear bis breathing.
Go for my darling. The kind doctor
won't be angry with you. Tell him that if
I see my child it will cure me. I know it
will. 7

Greta's eyes were swimming in tears.

1 Rest quiet, Mercy. Everything may be
lost if you disturb yourself now, my dear.'

The doctors were wrapping bandage over
bandage, and fixing them firmly at the
back of their patient's head.

4 Now listen again,' said one of them.
1 This bandage must be kept over your eyes
for a week.'

'A week  a whole week? Oh, doctor,
you might as well say for ever.'

1 say a week. And if you should ever
remove it '

Not for an instant ? Not raise it a very
little?'

If you ever remove it for an instant, or
raise it ever so little, you will assuredly lose
your sight for ever. Remember that.'

Oh, doctor, it is terrible. Why did you

not tell me so before? Oh, this is worse
than blindness. Think of the temptation,
and I have never seen my boy !'

The doctor had fixed the bandage, and
his voice was less stern, but no less resolute.

'You must obey me,' he said; 'I will
come again this day week, and then you
shall see your child, and your father, and
this young lady, and everybody. But,
mind, if you don't obey me, you will never
see anything. You will have one glance of
your little boy, and then be blind for ever,
or perhaps  yes, perhaps die.'

Mercy lay quiet for a moment. Then
she said, in a low voice :

1 Dear doctor, you must forgive me. I
am very wilful, and I promised to be so
good. I will not touch the bandage. No,
for the sake of my little boy, I will never,
never touch it. You shall come yourself
and take it off, and then I shall see him.'

The doctors went away. Greta remained
all that night in the cottage.

You are happy now, Mercy?' said Greta.

4 Oh jes,' said Mercy. ' Just think, only

482

a week ! And he must be so beautiful by
this time.'

When Greta took the child to her at sunset,
there was an ineffable joy in her pale
face, and next morning when Greta awoke,
Mercy was singing softly to herself in the
sunrise.

There was a gathering of miners near the pit-head
that morning. It was pay-day. The
rule was that the miners on the morning shift
should pass through the pay-office before
going down the shaft at eight o'clock; and
that those on the night shift should pass
through on their way home a few minutes
afterwards. When the morning men passed
through the office they had found the pay-door
shut, and a notice posted over it, saying,
'All wages due at eight o'clock to-day will
be paid at the same hour tomorrow.'

Presently the men on the night shift came
up in the cages, and, after a brief explanation,
both gangs, with the marksmen and all
top-ground hands except the engine-man,
trooped away to a place suitable for a conference.

There was a worked-out open
cutting a hundred yards away. It was a
vast cleft dug into the side of the mountain,
square on its base, vertical in its three gray
walls, and sweeping up to a dizzy height,
over which the brant sides of the green fell
rose sheer into the sky. It was to this
natural theatre that the two hundred miners
made their way in groups of threes and fours,
their lamps and cans in their hands, their
red-stained clothes glistening in the morning
sun.

It was decided to send a deputation to the
master, asking that the order might be revoked
and payment made as usual. The
body of the men remained in the clearing,
conversing in knots, while two miners,
thirdly fellows, rather gruffer of tongue
than the rest, went to the office to act
as spokesmen.

The deputation were approaching the pit-head
when the engine-man shouted that he
had just had the master's knock from below,
and in another moment Hugh Ritson, in
flannels and fustian, stepped out of the cage.

He heard the request, and at once offered
to go to the men and give his answer. The
miners made way for him respectfully, and
then closed about him when he spoke.

1 Men,' he said, with a touch of his old
resolution, ' let me tell you frankly as
between man and man that I cannot pay
you this morning, because I haven't got
the money. I tried to get it and failed.
This afternoon I shall receive much more
than is due to you, and tomorrow you shall
be promptly paid.'

The miners twisted about and compared
notes in subdued voices.

That's no'but fair,' said one.

He cannot say na fairer,' said another.

But there were some who were not so
easily appeased, and one of these crushed
his way through the crowd and said:

1 Mister Bitson, we're not same as the
bettered folk as can get credit for owt
'at they want. We ax six days' pay
because we have to do six days' pain'
wi' it. And if we're back a day in our pay
we're a day back in our pain; and that

means chemin' a claal bit  and the wife
and bairns for by.'

There were murmurs of approval from the
crowd, and then another malcontent added:

Times has changed to a gay tune sin'
we could put by for a rainy day. It's hand
to mouth now, only the mouth's alius ready
and the hand's not.'

1 It's na much as we ha' gotten to put
away these times,' said the first speaker.
'Not same as the days when a pitman's
wife, 'at I ken on, flung a five-punt note in
his face and axed him what he thowt she
were to mak' o' that.'

4 Nay, nay,' responded the others in a
chorus.

Men, I'm not charging you with past
extravagance,' said Hugh Ritson, ' and it's
not my fault if the pit hasn't done as well
for all of us as I had hoped.'

He was moving away, when the crowd
closed about him again.

Mates,' shouted one of the miners, ' there's
another word as some on us wad like to say
to the master, and that's about the timber.'

What is it ?' asked Hugh Ritson, facing
about.

1 There be some on us 'at think the pit's
none over safe down in the bottom working,
where the seam of sand runs cross-ways.
We're auld miners, lastly, and we thowt
maybe ye wadna tak' it wrong if we tell ye
'at it wants a vast mair forks and streets.'

1 Thank you, my lads, I'll see what I can
do,' said Hugh Ritson; and then added in a
lower tone, ' but I've put a forest of timber
under-ground already, and where this
burying of money is to end God alone
knows.'

He turned away this time and moved off,
halting more noticeably than usual on his
infirm foot.

He returned to his office near the pit-bank,
and found Mr. Bonnithorne awaiting him.

c The day is young, but I'm no sluggard,
you know,' said the lawyer. ' I thought we
might want a word or two before the
meeting at the Ghyll.'

Hugh Ritson did not notice the explanation.

He looked anxious and disturbed.
While stripping off his pit flannels, and
putting on his ordinary clothes, he told Mr.
Bonnithorne what had just occurred, and
then added:

If anything had been necessary to prove
that this morning's bad business is inevitable,
I should have found it in this encounter
with the men

'It comes as a fillip to your already
blunted purpose,' said the lawyer with a
curious smile. ' Odd, isn't it?'

'Blunted!' said Hugh Ritson, and there
was a perceptible elevation of the eyebrows.


Presently he drew a long breath, and said
with an air of relief :

i Ah, well, if she suffers who has suffered
enough already, he at least will be out of
the way for ever.'

Bonnithorne shifted slightly on his seat.

You think so ?' he asked.

Something cynical in the tone caught
Hugh Ritson' s ear.

'It was a bad change, wasn't it?' added

the lawyer ; ' this one is likely to be a deal
more troublesome.'

Hugh Ritson went on with his dressing
in silence.

You see, by the interchange your positions
were reversed,' continued the lawyer.

What do you mean ?'

Well, not to put too fine a point on it,
the other was in your hands, while you are
in the hands of this one.'

Hugh Ritson's foot fell heavily at that
instant, but he merely said, with suppressed
quietness :

i There was this one's crime.'

c Was  precisely,' said Mr. Bonnithorne.

Hugh Ritson glanced up with a look of
inquiry.

i When you gave the crime to the other,
this one became a free man,' the lawyer explained.


There was a silence.

1 What does it all come to ?' said Hugh
Ritson sullenly.

1 That your hold of Paul Drayton is gone
for ever.'

How SO?'

Because you can never incriminate him
without first incriminating yourself,' said
the lawyer.

Who talks of recrimination ?' said Hugh
Ritson testily. ' To-day, this man is to
take upon himself the name of Paul
Lowther  his true name, though he doesn't
know it  blockhead as he is. Therefore,
I ask again, What does it all come to?'

Mr. Bonnithorne shifted uneasily.

Nothing,' he said meekly, but the curious
smile still played about his downcast face.
Then there was silence again.

'Do you know that Mercy Fisher is
likely to regain her sight?' said Hugh.

You don't say so? Dear me, dear me!'
said the lawyer, sincere at last. ' In all the
annals of jurisprudence there is no such
extraordinary case of identity being conclusively
provable by one witness only,
and of that witness becoming blind. Odd,
isn't it?'

Hugh Ritson smiled coldly.

Odd? Say providential,' he answered.

I believe that's what you Church folk call
it when the Almighty averts a disaster
that is made imminent by your own shortsightedness.'


1 A disaster indeed, if her sight ceases to
be so providentially short,' said the lawyer.

Get the man out of the way, and the
woman is all right,' said Hugh. He picked
a letter out of a drawer, and handed it to
Mr. Bonnithorne. t You will remember
that the other was to have shipped to
Australia.'

Mr. Bonnithorne bowed his head.

This letter is from the man for whom
he intended to go out  an old friend of my
father's. Answer it, Bonnithorne.'

In what terms ?' asked the lawyer.

Say that a long illness prevented, but
that Paul Ritson is now prepared to fulfil
his engagement.'

'And what then?'

'What then?' Hugh Ritson echoed.
Why, what do you think ?'

Send him ? with a motion of the thumb
over the shoulder.

1 Of course said Hugh.

Again the cynical tone caught Hugh
Ritson's ear, and he glanced up quickly,
but made no remark. He was now dressed.

I'm ready,' he said, and on reaching the
door and taking a last look round the
room he added, ' I'll have the best of this
furniture removed to the Ghyll tomorrow.
The house has been unbearable of late, and
I've been forced to spend most of my time
down here.'

1 Then you don't intend to give him much
grace?' asked Bonnithorne.

'Not an hour.'

The lawyer bent his forehead very low at
that moment.

The sun was hio'h over the head of Hind-sarti,
but a fresh breeze was blowing from
the north, and the walk to the Ghyll was
bracing. Mr. Bonnithorne talked little on
the way, but Hugh Eitson's spirits rose
sensibly, and he chatted cheerfully on indifferent
subjects. It was still some
minutes short of nine o'clock when they
reached the house. The servants were
bustling about in clean aprons and
caps.

1 Have the gentlemen arrived ?' asked
Hugh.

c Not yet, sir answered one of the
servants  it was old Dinah Wilson.

The two men stepped up to Hugh
Eitson's room. There the table was spread

for breakfast. The lawyer glanced at the
chairs and said :

Then you have invited other friends V

Hugh nodded his head, and sat down at
the organ.

Three or four neighbours of substance,'
he said, opening the case. ' In a matter
like this it is well to have witnesses

Bonnithorne replied with phlegm :

t But what about the feelings of the man
who is so soon to be turned out of the
house?'

Hugh Ritson's fingers were on the keys.
He paused and faced about.

1 1 had no conception that you had such
a delicate sense of humour, Bonnithorne,'
he said, with only the shadow of a smile.
Feelings ! His feelings !'

There was a swift glide up the notes, and
other sounds were lost. The window was
half-open ; the lawyer walked to it and
looked out. At that moment the two men
were back to back. Hugh Ritson's head
was bent over the keyboard. Mr. Bonnie
eyes were on the tranquil landscape

lying in the sun outside. The faces of both
wore curious smiles.

Hugh Ritson leapt from his seat.

Ah, I feel like another man already he
said, and took a step or two up and down
the room, his infirm foot betraying no infirmity.
There was the noise of fresh
arrivals in the hall. A minute later a
servant entered, followed by three gentlemen,
who shook hands effusively with
Hugh Ritson.

Delighted to be of service, I'm sure
said one.

Glad the unhappy connection is to be
concluded  it was a scandal said the other.

You could not go on living on such
terms  life wasn't worth it, you know said
the first.

The third gentleman was more restrained,
but Hugh paid him marked deference.
They had a short, muttered conference apart.

'Get the other mortgages wiped off the
deeds and I have no objection to lend you
the money on the security of the house and
lands said the gentleman. At that remark

vol. in. 49

Hugh Ritson bowed his head and appeared
satisfied.

He rang for breakfast.

1 Ask Mr. Paul if he is ready he said
when Dinah brought the tray.

Master Paul is a-bed, sir,' said Dinah;
and then she added for herself, ' It caps all
sec feckless work. It didn't use to be
so for sure. I'll not say but a man may be
that changed in a twelvemonth '

1 Ah, I'll go to him myself said Hugh,
and begging to be excused, he left the room.

Mr. Bonnithorne followed him to the
other side of the door.

Have you counted the cost V he asked.
It will be a public scandal.'

Hugh smiled, and answered with composure
:

Whose will be the loss V

1 God knows !' said the lawyer, with sudden
energy.

Hugh glanced up quickly. There was
the murmur of voices from within the room
they had just left.

Is it that you are too jealous of your

good name to allow it to be bruited abroad
in a scandal, as you say V

Mr. Bonnithorne's face wore a curious
expression at that moment.

It's not my good name that is in
question,' he said quietly, and turned back
to the door.

'Whose then? His?

But the lawyer already held the door
ajar, and was passing into the room.

Hugh Ritson made his way to the bedroom
occupied by Paul Drayton. He
opened the door without knocking. It was
dark within. Thin streaks of dusty sunlight
shot from between a pair of heavy
curtains. The air was noisome with dead
tobacco smoke and the fumes of stale beer.
Hugh's gorge rose, but he conquered his
disgust.

Who's there V said a husky voice from
behind the dark hangings of a four-post
bed that was all but hidden in the gloom.

c The friends are here,' said Hugh Ritson
cheerily. c How long will you be V

There was a suppressed chuckle.

492

1 All right.'

4 We will begin breakfast said Hugh.
He was turning to go.

Is that lawyer man back from Scotland?'
asked Drayton.

Bonnithorne ? He's here  he didn't
say that he'd been away,' said Hugh.

< All right.'

Hugh Eitson returned to the bed-head.
Have you heard,' he said in a subdued
voice, ' that the doctors have operated on
the girl Mercy, and that she is likely to
regain her sight?'

Eh? What V Drayton had started up
in bed. Then rolling down his sleeves and
buttoning them leisurely, he added, ' But
that ain't nothing to me.'

Hugh Bitson left the room. He was inspirits
indeed, for he had borne even this
encounter with equanimity. As he passed
through the house, Brother Peter entered
at the porch with a letter in his hand.

1 Is Parson Christian coming V said
Hugh. .

4 Don't know 'at I've heard,' said Peter.

1 He's bordered me to fetch ye a scribe of
a line. Here 'tis.'

Hugh Kitson opened the envelope. The
note ran : 

1 1 cannot reconcile it to my conscience
to break bread with one who has broken the
peace of my household ; nor is it agreeable
to my duty as a minister of Christ to give
the countenance of my presence to proceedings
which must be a sham, inasmuch
as the person concerned is an impostor 
with the which name I yet hope to brand
him when the proper time and circumstances
arrive.'

Hugh smiled as he read the letter ; then
thrust a shilling into Peter's unyielding
hand, and shot away.

The parson will not come,' said Hugh,
drawing Bonnithorne aside; 'but that cannot
matter. If he is Greta's guardian, you
are her father's executor.' Then, raising
his voice, l Gentlemen,' he said, ' my brother
wishes us to begin breakfast ; he will join
us presently.'

The company was soon seated ; the talk
was brisk and cheerful.

1 Glorious prospect,' said a gentleman
sitting opposite the open window. ' Often
wonder you don't throw out a bay, Mr.
Ritson.'

1 I've thought of it,' said Hugh, ' but it's
not worth while to spend such money until
one is master of one's own house.'

'Ah, true, true!' said several voices in
chorus.

Drayton entered, his eyes red, his face
sallow. ' Morning, gents,' he said, in his
thick guttural.

Two of the gentlemen rose and bowed
with frigid politeness. ' Good-morning,
Mr. Ritson,' said the third.

The servant had followed Drayton into
the room with a beefsteak, underdone.
\ Post not come?' he asked, shifting his
plates.

It can't be long now,' said Bonnithorne,
consulting his watch.

4 Sooner the better,' Drayton muttered.
He took some papers from a breast-pocket

and counted them; then fixed them in his
waistcoat where his watch would have been
if he had worn one.

When breakfast was done, Hugh Ritson
took certain documents from a cabinet.
Be seated, gentlemen,' he said. All sat
except Drayton, who lit a pipe, and rang to
ask if the postman had come. He had not.
1 Then go and sharpen up his heels

c My duty would be less pleasant,' said
Hugh Ritson, ' if some of the facts were not
already known.'

Then we'll take 'em as read; so we will,'
put in Drayton, perambulating behind a
cloud of smoke.

Paul, I will ask you to be seated,' said
Hugh, in an altered tone.

Drayton sat down with a snort.

I have to tell you,' continued Hugh
Ritson, ' that my brother, known to you as
Paul Ritson, is now satisfied that he was
not the heir of my father, who died intestate.'


There were sundry no els of the grave
noddles assembled about the table.

1 Fearful shock to any man,' said one.
1 No wonder he has lost heart and grown
reckless said another.

1 On becoming aware of this fact he was
anxious to relinquish the estate to the true
heir.'

There were further nods, and some muttered
comments on the requirements of
honour.

4 1 show you here a copy of the register
of my father's marriage, and a copy of the
register of my own birth, occurring less
than a year afterwards. From these, in the
absence of extraordinary testimony, it must
be the presumption that I am myself my
father's rightful heir.'

The papers were handed about and returned
with evident satisfaction.

4 So far, all is plain,' continued Hugh
Ritson. ' But my brother has learned that
he is not even my father's son.'

Three astonished faces were lifted from
the table. Bonnithorne sat with head bent.
Drayton leaned an elbow on one knee and
smoked sullenly.

It turns out that he is the son of my
mother by another man,' said Hugh Ritson.

The guests twisted about. ' Ah, that
explains all,' they whispered.

You will be surprised to learn that my
mother's husband by a former invalid
marriage was no Lowther than Robert Lowther,
and that he who sits with us now as
Paul Ritson is really Paul Lowther.'

At this, Hugh placed two further documents
on the table.

Drayton cleared his throat noisily.

Dear me, dear me, yet it's plain enough !'
said one of the visitors.

1 Then what about Mrs. Ritson  Miss
Greta, I mean?' asked another.

1 She is Paul Lowther's half-sister, and
therefore his marriage with her must be
annulled.'

The three gentlemen turned in their seats
and looked amazed. Drayton still smoked
in silence. Bonnithorne did not raise his
head.

He will relinquish to me my father's
estates, but he is not left penniless,' continued

Hugh Ritson. ' By his own father's
will he inherits five thousand pounds.'

Drayton snorted contemptuously ; then
spat on the floor.

Friends,' said Hugh Ritson again, ' there
is only one further point, and I am loath to
touch on it. My brother  I speak of Paul
Lowther  on taking possession of the estates,
exercised what he believed to be his legal
right to mortgage them. I am sorry to say
that he mortgaged them deeply.'

There was an interchange of astute
glances.

i If I were a rich man, I should be content
to be the loser, but I am a poor man, and
am compelled to ask that those mortgages
stand forfeit'

< Is it the law?'

c It is  and, as you will say, only a fair
one,' Hugh answered.

 Who are the mortgagees ?'

1 That is where the pity arises  the chief
of them is no other than the daughter of
Robert Lowther  Greta.'

Sundry farther twists and turns. t Pity

for her.' ' Well, she should have seen to
his title. Who was her lawyer ?'

Her father's executor, our friend Mr.
Bonnithorne.'

I How much does she lose?'

I'm afraid a great deal  perhaps half her
fortune,' said Hugh.

c No matter ; it's but fair. Mr. Ritson is
not to inherit an estate impoverished by the
excesses of the wrong man.'

Drayton's head was still bent, but he
scraped his feet restlessly.

I I have only another word to say,' said
Hugh. ' In affairs of this solemn nature it
is best to have witnesses, or perhaps I should
have preferred to confer with Paul and Mr.
Bonnithorne in private.' He dropped his
voice and added, ' You see, there is my poor
mother; and though, in a sense, she is no
longer of this world, her good name must
ever be sacred with me.'

The astute glances again, and two pairs
of upraised hands. The lawyer had twisted
towards the window.

But our friend Bonnithorne will tell you

that the law in effect compelled me to
evict my brother. You may not know that
there is a condition of English law in which
a bastard becomes a permanent heir; that is
when he is called, in the language of the
law, the bastard eine.' There was a tremor
in his voice as he added, softly, ' Believe me,
I had no choice.'

Drayton stamped his heavy foot, threw
down his pipe, and jumped to his feet. ' Ita
lie, the lot of it,' he blurted. Then he
fumbled at his watch-pocket, and pulled out
a paper. ' That's my register, straight and
plain.'

He stammered it aloud 
4 Ritson, Paul ; father, Allan Eit son; mother,
Grace Ritson. Date of birth, April 6, 1847;
place, Crieff, Scotland

Hugh Ritson, a little pale, smiled. The
others turned to him in their amazement.
In an instant he had regained an appearance
of indifference.

Where does it come from?' he asked.

The Registrars at Edinburgh. D'ye say
it ain't right?'

'No ; but I say what is it worth? Gentlemen,'
said Hugh, turning to the visitors,
 compare it with the register of my father's
marriage. Observe, the one date is April 6,
1847; the other is June 12, 1847. Even if
genuine, does it prove legitimacy?'

Drayton laid his hand on the lawyer's
arm. ' Here, you, speak up, will ye ?' he said.

Mr. Bonnithorne rose, and then Hugh
Ritson's pale face became ghastly.

8 This birth occurred in Scotland,' he said.
1 Now, if the father happened to hold a
Scotch domicile, and the mother lived with
him as his wife, the child would be legitimate.'


1 Without a marriage ?'

1 Without a ceremony.'

Natt pushed into the room, his cap in one
hand, a letter in the other. He had knocked
twice, and none had heard. ' The post, sir;
one letter for Master Paul.'

Good lad.' Drayton clutched it with a
cry of delight.

But my father had no Scotch domicile,'
-said Hugh, with apparent composure.

i Oh, but he had said Drayton, tearing
open his envelope.

4 He was a Scotsman born said Bonnie
taking another document from
Drayton's hand. ' See, this is his register.
Odd, isn't it ?'

Hugh Eitson's eyes flashed. He looked
steadily into the face of the lawyer ; then he
took the paper.

The next moment he crushed it in his
palm and flung it out of the window. { I
shall want proof both of your facts and
your law,' he said.

1 Eh, and welcome said Drayton, shouting
in his agitation. ' Listen to this,' and
he proceeded to read.

i Wait ! From whom ?' asked Hugh
Ritson. ' Some pettifogger ?'

The Solicitor - General,' said Bonnie


Is that good enough ?' asked Drayton
tauntingly.

Go on,' said Hugh, rapping the table
with his finger-tips.

Drayton handed the letter to the lawyer.

Do you read it,' lie said; ' I ain't flowery.

I'm a gentleman, and ' He stopped

suddenly and tramped the floor, while
Bonnithorne read :

1 If there is no reason to suppose that
the father lost his Scotch domicile, the son
is legitimate. If the husband recognised
his wife in registering his son's birth, the
law of Scotland would presume that there
was a marriage, but whether of ceremony or
consent would be quite indifferent.'

There was a pause. Drayton took the
letter from the lawyer's hands, folded it
carefully, and put it in his fob-pocket.
Then he peered into Hugh Kitson's face
with a leer of triumph. Bonnithorne had
slunk aside. The guests were silent.

D'ye hear ?' said Drayton, ' the son is
legitimate'' He gloated over the words, and
tapped his pocket as he repeated them.
What d'ye say to it, eh ?'

At first Hugh Ritson struggled visibly
for composure, and in an instant his face
was like marble. Drayton came close to
him.

1 You were going to give me the go-by,
eh? Turn me out o' doors, eh? Damme,
it's my turn now, so it is.'

So saying, Drayton stepped to the door
and flung it open.

1 This house is mine,' he said ; ' go, and
be damned to you.'

At this unexpected blow, Hugh Eitson
beat the ground with his foot. He looked
round at the strangers, and felt like a wretch
who was gagged and might say nothing.
Then he halted to where Drayton stood
with outstretched arm.

Let me have a word with you in private,'
he said, in a voice that was scarcely audible.

Drayton lifted his hand, and his fist was
clenched.

Not a syllable,' he said. His accent
was brutal and frenzied.
Hugh Ritson's nostrils quivered, and his
eyes flashed. Drayton quailed an instant,
and burst into a laugh.

There was a great silence. Bonnithorne
was still before the window, his face down,
his hands clasped behind him, his foot pawing

the ground. Hugh Kit son walked to
his side. He contemplated him a moment,
and then touched him on the shoulder.
When he spoke, his face was dilated with
passion, and his voice was low and
deep.

1 There is a Book,' he said, 'that a Churchman
may know, which tells of an unjust
steward. The master thought to dismiss
him from his stewardship. Then the
steward said within himself, u What shall
I do ?" '

There was a pause.

What did he do ?' continued Hugh Resonant
every word fell on the silence like the
stroke of a bell. 'He called his master's
debtors together, and said to the first, " How
much do you owe T "Onehundred measures."
Then he said, " Write a bill for fifty." '

There was another pause.

What did that steward mean ? He
meant that when the master should dismiss
him from his stewardship, the debtor should
take him into his house.'

Hugh Ritson's manner was the white

vol. in. 50

heat of calm. He turned half-round to
where Drayton stood, and raised his
voice.

1 That debtor was henceforth bound hand
and foot. Let him but parley with the
steward, and the steward cried, " Thief,"
Forger," " Perjurer." '

Bonnithorne shuffled uneasily. He
opened his mouth as if to speak, but the
words would not come. At last he gulped
down something that had seemed to choke
him, smiled between his teeth a weak bankrupt
smile, and said :

How are we to read your parable ? Are
you the debtor bound hand and foot, and is
your brother the astute steward?'
Hugh Rit son's foot fell heavily.
'Is it so?' he said, catching at the word.
Then be it so ;' and his voice rose to a
shrill cry. ' That steward shall come to
the ground, and his master with him.'

At that he stepped back to where Drayton
stood with eyes as full of bewilderment as
frenzy.

1 Paul Lowther ' he said.

Call me Paul Kit son interrupted Drayton.


Paul Lowther '

Ritson,' Drayton shouted, and then,
dropping his voice, he said rapidly, ' You
gave it me, and by God I'll keep it !'

Huodi Ritson leaned across the table and
tapped a paper that lay on it.

4 That is your name,' he said, ' and I'll
prove it.'

Drayton burst into another laugh.

You aren't try,' he chuckled.

Hugh turned upon him with eyes of fire.

1 So you measure my spirit by your own.
Man, man!' he said, 'do you know what
you are doing?'

There was another brutal laugh from
Drayton, but it died suddenly on his lips.

Then Hugh Ritson stepped to the door.
He took a last look round. It was as if he
knew that he had reached the beginning of
the end  as if he realized that he was never
again to stand in the familiar room. The
future, that seemed so near an hour ago,
was gone from him for ever ; the cup that

502

he had lifted to his lips lay in fragments at
his feet. He saw it all in that swift instant.
On his face there were the lines of agony,
but over them there played the smile of
resolve. He put one hand to his forehead,
and then said, in a voice so low as to be
no more than a whisper :

c Wait and see.'

When the guests, who stood huddled together
like sheep in a storm, had recovered
their stunned senses, Hugh Ritson was
gone from the room. Drayton had sunk
into a chair near where Bonnithorne stood,
and was whining like a whipped hound.

Go after him. What will he do ? You
know I was always against it.'

But presently he stood up and laughed,
and bantered and crowed, and observed that
it was a pity if a gentleman could not be
master in his own house, and that what
couldn't be cured must be endured.

Precisely,' interposed one of the guests,
and you have my entire sympathy, Mr.
Ritson. A more cruel deception was nevermore
manfully exposed.'

1 1 fully agree with you, neighbour,' said
another, ' and such moral tyranny is fearful
to contemplate. Paul Lowther, indeed !
Now, that is a joke.'

Well, it is rather, ain't it ?' said Drayton.
And then he laughed, and they all
laughed and shook hands, and were excellent
good friends.

Greta stayed with Mercy until noon that
day, begging, entreating, and finally commanding
her to lie quiet in bed, while she
herself dressed and fed the child, and cooked
and cleaned, in spite of the Laird Fisher's
protestations. When all was done, and the old
charcoal-burner had gone out on the hills,
Greta picked up the little fellow in her arms
and went to Mercy's room. Mercy was
alert to every sound, and in an instant
was sitting up in bed. Her face beamed,
her parted lips smiled, her delicate fingers
plucked nervously at the counterpane.

How lightsome it is to-day, Greta,'
she said. ' I'm sure the sun must be
shining.'

The window was open, and a soft breeze

floated through the sun's rays into the room.
Mercy inclined her head aside, and added,
Ah, you young rogue, you ; you are there,
are you ? Give him to me, the rascal.' The
rogue was set down in his mother's arms,
and she proceeded to punish his rascality
with a shower of kisses. i How bonny his
cheeks must he ; they will be just like two
ripe apples,' and forthwith there fell another
shower of kisses. Then she babbled over
the little one, and lisped, and stammered
and nodded her head in his face, and blew
little puffs of breath into his hair, and
tickled him until he laughed and crowed
and rolled and threw up his legs ; and then
she kissed his limbs and extremities in a
way that mothers have, and finally imprisoned
one of his feet by putting it ankle-deep
into her mouth. ' AYould you ever
think a foot could be so tiny, Greta ?' she
said. And the little one plunged about and
clambered laboriously up its mother's breast?
and more than once plucked at the white
bandage about her head. ' No, no, Ralphieie
must not touch,' said Mercy with sudden

gravity. 'Only think, Ralphieie pet, one
week  only one  nay, less  only six clays

now, and then  oh, then !' A long

hug, and the little fellow's boisterous protest
against the convulsive pressure abridged
the mother's prophecy.

All at once Mercy's manner changed.
She turned towards Greta, and said, ' I will
not touch the bandage, no, never ; but if
Ralphieie tugged at it, and it fell  would that
be breaking my promise ?'

Greta saw what was in her heart.

I'm afraid it would, dear,' she said, but
there was a tremor in her voice.

Mercy sighed audibly.

4 Just think, it would be only Ralphieie.
The kind doctors could not be angry with
my little child. I would say, u It was the
boy," and they would smile and say, " Ah,
that is different." '

Give me the little one,' said Greta with
emotion.

Mercy drew the child closer, and there
was a pause.

I was very wrong, Greta,' she said in a

low tone. ' Oh ! you would not think what
a fearful thing came into my mind a minute
ago. Take my Ealphie. Just imagine, my
own innocent baby tempted me.'

As Greta reached across the bed to lift
the child out of his mother's lap, the little
fellow was struggling to communicate, by
help of a limited vocabulary, some wondrous
intelligence of recent events that somewhat
overshadowed his little existence. ' Puss 
dat,' many times repeated, was further explained
by one chubby forefinger with its
diminutive finger-nail pointed to the fat back
of the other hand.

1 He means that the little cat has scratched
him,' said Greta, ' but bless the mite, he is
pointing to the wrong hand.'

1 Puss  dat,' continued the child, and
peered up into his mother's sightless face.
Mercy was all tears in an instant. She had
borne yesterday's operation without a groan,
but now the scratch on her child's hand
went to her heart like a stab.

Lie quiet, Mercy,' said Greta ; ' it will
be gone tomorrow.'

6 Go-on,' echoed the little chap, and pointed
out at the window.

The darling, how he picks up every
word!' said Greta.

He means the horse,' explained Mercy.

6 Go-on  man  go-on,' prattled the little
one, with a child's indifference to all conversation
except his own.

Bless the love, he must remember the
doctor and his horse,' said Greta.

Mercy was putting her lips to the scratch
on the little hand.

Oh, Greta, I am very childish ; but a
mother's heart melts like butter.'

Batter,' echoed the child, and wriggled
out of Greta's arms to the ground, where
he forthwith clambered on to the stool,
and possessed himself of a slice of bread
which lay on the table at the bedside. Then
the fair curly head disappeared like a
glint of sunlight through the door to the
kitchen. .

What shall I care if other mothers see
my child? I shall see him too,' said Mercy,
and she sighed. ' Yes,' she added softly,

'his hands and his eyes and his feet and his
soft hair.'

Try to sleep an hour or two, dear,' said
Greta, ' and then perhaps you may get up
this afternoon  only perhaps, you know, but
we'll see.'

Yes, Greta, yes. How kind you are.'

1 You will be far kinder to me some day,'
said Greta very tenderly.

Xo  ah yes, I remember. How very
selfish I am  I had quite forgotten. But
then it is so hard not to be selfish when you
are a mother. Only fancy, I never think of
myself as Mercy now. Xo, never. I'm just
Ralphieieieie's mamma. When Ralphieieieie came,
Mercy must have died in some way. That's
very silly, isn't it ? Only it does seem
true.'

4 Man  goon  batter,' was heard from
the kitchen, mingled with the patter of tiny
feet.

Listen to him. How tricksome he is !
And you should hear him cry, " Oh !" You
would say, " That child has had an eye
knocked out." And then, in a minute, behold,

he's laughing once more. There, I'm
selfish again ; but I will make up for it
some day, if God is good.'

Yes, Mercy, He is good,' said Greta.

Her arm rested on the door-jamb, and her
head dropped on to it ; her eyes swam. Did
it seem at that moment as if God had been
very good to these two women ?

Greta,' said Mercy, and her voice fell to
a whisper, ' do you think Ralphieie is like 
anybody ?'

Yes, dear, he is like you.'

There was a pause. Then Mercy's hand
strayed from under the bedclothes and
plucked at Greta's gown.

Do you think,' she asked, in a voice all
but inaudible, ' that father knows who it
is?'

I cannot say  we have never told him.'

Nor I  he never asked, never once 
only, you know, he gave up his work at the
mine, and went back to the charcoal-pit
when Ralphieie came. But he never said a
word.'

Greta did not answer. There was another

pause. Then Mercy said, in a stronger
voice, ' Will it be soon  the trial ?'

As soon as your eyes are better,' said
Greta earnestly ; ' everything depends on
your recovery.'

At that moment the bedroom door was
pushed open with a little lordly bang, and
the great wee man entered with his piece of
bread stuck rather insecurely on one prong
of a fork.

1 Toes,' he explained complacently, c toast
and walked up to the empty grate and
stretched his arm over the fender at the
cold bars.

Why, there's no fire for toast, you
darling goose,' said Greta, catching him in
her arms, much to his masculine vexation.

Mercy had risen on an elbow, and her
face was full of the yearning of the blind.
Then she lay back.

1 Never mind,' she said to herself in a
faltering voice, 'let me lie quiet and think of
all his pretty ways.'

Greta returned to the Vicarage towards
noon, and overtook Parson Christian and
Peter in the lonnin, the one carrying a
scythe over his shoulder, the other a bundle
of rushes under his one arm. The Parson
was walking in silence under the noontide
sun, his straw hat tipped back from his forehead
and his eyes on the ground. He was
busy with his own reflections. It was not
until Greta had tripped up to his side and
slipped his scythe stone from its strap in the
pole that the parson was awakened from his
reverie.

Great news, Greta; great news, my lass
he said in answer to her liberal tender in
exchange for his thoughts. ' How well it's
said, that he that digged a pit for another

should look that he fall not into it himself.'


1 What news, Mr. Christian?' said Greta,
and her colour heightened.

Well, we've been mowing the grass in
the churchyard, Peter and I, and the scythe
is old like ourselves, and it wanted tempering.
So away we went to the smithy to
have it ground, and who should come up
but Robbie Atkinson, leading hassocks from
Longridge. And Robbie would fain have
us go with him and be cheerful at the
Flying Horse. Well, we'd each had a pot
of ale and milk when in came Natt, the
stableman at Ritson's, all lather like one of
his horses after his master has been astride
her. And Natt was full of a great quarrel
at the Ghyll, wherein young Mr. Hugh had
tried to turn yonder man out of the house
in the way I told you of before, but the
man denied that he was what Hugh called
him, and cluno- to it' that he was Paul
R it son, and brought documents to show
that Paul was his father's rightful heir
after all

1 Well, well?' asked Greta breathlessly.

Peter had shambled on to the house.

Well, Natt is no very trustworthy
chronicler, I fear, but one thing is plain,
and that is, that Mr. Hugh, who thought
to turn yon man out of the house, has been
turned out of it himself

Greta stood in the road, trembling from
head to foot.

My poor husband !' she said, in a whisper.
Then came a torrent of questions. 4 When
did this happen? What think you will
come of it ? Where will Mr. Hugh go ?
What will he do? Ah, Mr. Christian, you
always said the cruel instrument would
turn in his hand.'

There was a step behind them. In their
anxiety they had not noticed it until it was
close at their heels. They turned, and were
face to face with Mr. Bonnithorne.

The lawyer bowed low and smiled, but
before they had exchanged the courtesies of
welcome, a horse's tramp came from the
road, and in a moment Drayton rode up
the lonnin. His face was flushed, and his

manner noisy as he leapt from the saddle
into their midst.

Greta lifted one hand to her breast, and
with the other hand she clasped that of
the Parson. The old man's face grew
rigid in an instant, and all the mellowness
natural to it died away.

Here, you, leave it to me,' said Drayton
to the lawyer.

Mr. Bonnithorne's compressed lips betrayed
vexation as he swung half aside.
Drayton made up to Greta and the Parson
with an air of braggadocio.

1 I've come to tell you once for all that
my wife must live under my roof.'

No one answered. Drayton took a step
near, and slapped his boot with his riding-whip.


The law backs me up in it, and I mean
to have it out.'

Still there was no answer, and Drayton's
braggadocio gathered assurance from the
silence.

'Not as I want her. None of your
shrinking away, madam.' A hoarse laugh.

vol. in. 51

1 Burn my body, if I wouldn't as soon have
my mother for a wife.'

'What then?' said the Parson in a low
tone.

Appearances. I ain't to be a laughingstock
of the neighbourhood any longer.
My wife's my wife. A husband's a husband,
and wants obedience.'

And what if you do not get it ?' asked
the Parson, his old face whitening.

'What? Imprisonment  that's what.'
Drayton twisted about and touched the
lawyer with the handle of his whip. ' Here,
you, tell 'em what's what.'

Thus appealed to Mr. Bonnithorne explained
that a husband was entitled to the
restitution of connubial rights, and, in default,
to the c attachment ' of his spouse.

The law,' said Mr. Bonnithorne, ' can
compel a wife to live with her husband, or
punish her with imprisonment for not doing
so. Odd, isn't it?'

4 D'ye hear ?' said Drayton, slapping
furiously at the sole of his boot. ' Punish
her with imprisonment.'

There was a pause, and then the Parson
said, quietly but firmly :

I gather that it means that you want to
share this lady's property.'

< Well, what of it? Hasn't I a right to
share it, eh?'

You have thus far enjoyed the benefit of
her mortgages, on the pretence that you are
her husband; but now you are going too
far.'

We'll see. Here, you,' prodding the
lawyer, ' take proceedings at once. If she
won't come, imprison her, D'ye hear 
imprison her.'

He swung about and caught the reins
from the horse's mane, laughing a hollow
laugh. Greta disengaged her hand from
the hand of the Parson, and stepped up to
Drayton until she stood before him face to
face, her eyes flashing, her lips quivering,
her cheeks pale, her whole figure erect and
firm.

i And what of that ?' she said. ' Do you
think to frighten me with the cruelties of
the law ?  me ?  me ?' she echoed, with

512

scorn in every syllable. ' Have I suffered
so little from it already that you dare to
say, " Imprison her," as if that would drive
me to your house?'

Drayton tried to laugh, but the feeble
effort died on his hot lips. He spat on
the ground, and then tried to lift his eyes
back to the eyes of Greta, but they fell to
the whip that he held in his hand.

1 Imprison me, Paul Drayton ; I shall not
be the first you've imprisoned. Imprison
me, and I shall be rid of you and your imposture,'
she said, raising her voice.

Drayton leapt to the saddle.

Damme, but I'll do it,' he muttered;
and now, pale, crushed, his braggadocio
gone, he tugged his horse's head aside and
brought down the whip on its flank.

Parson Christian turned to Mr. Bonnie


Follow him,' he said resolutely, and
lifted his hand.

The lawyer made a show of explanation,
then assumed an air of authority, but
finally encountered the Parson's white face,

and slunk away and disappeared down the
lonnin, the long tails of his frock-coat
danodinof behind his Ws.

In another moment Greta was hanging
on Parson Christian's neck, sobbing and
moaning, while the good old Christian,
with all the mellowness back in his
wrinkled face, smoothed her hair as
tenderly as a woman.

'My poor Paul, my dear, dear husband!'
cried Greta.

Ah, thanks be to God, things are at
their worst now, and they can't move but
they must mend,' said the Parson.

He took her indoors and bathed her hot
forehead, and dried with his hard old hand
the tears that fell from eyes that a moment
before had flashed like a basilisk's.

Towards five o'clock that evening a knock
came to the door of the Vicarage, and old
Laird Fisher entered. His manner was
more than usually solemn and constrained.

1 1's comet to say as ma lass's wee thing
is taken badly,' he said, ' and racer sud-don't.'


Greta rose from her seat and put on her
hat and cloak. She was hastening down
the road while the charcoal-burner was still
standing in the middle of the floor.

When Greta reached the old charcoal-burner's
cottage, the little one was lying
in a drowsy state in Mercy's arms. Its
breathing seemed difficult; sometimes it
started in terror ; it was feverish and
suffered thirst. The mother's wistful face
was bent clown on it with an indescribable
expression. There were only the trembling
lips to tell of the sharp struggle that was
going on within. But the yearning for
sight of the little flushed countenance, the
tearless appeal for but one glimpse of
the drowsy little eyes, the half-articulate
cry of a mother's heart against the fate
that made the child she had suckled at her
breast a stranger, whose very features she
might not know  all this was written in
that blind face.

1 Is he pale ?' said Mercy. ' Is he sleeping?
He does not talk now, but only
starts and cries, and sometimes coughs.'

When did this begin ?' asked Greta.

Towards four o'clock. He had been
playing, and I noticed that he breathed
heavily, and then he came to me to be
nursed. Is he awake now? Listen.'

The little one in its restless drowsiness
was muttering faintly, ' Man  go-on 
batter  toes.'

The darling is talking in his sleep, isn't
he?' said Mercy.

Then there was a ringing, brassy cough.

It is croup,' thought Greta.

She closed the window, lit a fire, placed
the kettle so that the steam might enter the
room, then wrung flannels out of hot water,
and wrapped them about the child's neck.
She stayed all that night at the cottage, and
sat up with the little one and nursed it.
Mercy could not be persuaded to go to bed,
but she was very quiet. It had not yet
taken hold of her that the child was
seriously ill. He was drowsy and a little

feverish, his pulse beat fast and he coughed
hard sometimes, but he would be better in
the morning. Oh yes, he would soon be
well again, and tearing up the flowers in
the garden.

Towards midnight the pulse fell rapidly,
the breathing became quieter, and the whole
nature seemed to sink. Mercy listened
with her ear bent down at the child's
mouth, and a smile of ineffable joy spread
itself over her face.

Bless him, he is sleeping so calmly she
said.

Greta did not answer.

i The " puss " and the " man " don't
darken his little life so much now,' continued
Mercy cheerily.

'No, dear said Greta, in as strong a
voice as she could summon.

All will be well with my darling boy
soon, will it not?'

Yes, dear,' said Greta, with a struggle.

Happily Mercy could not read the other
answer in her face.

Mercy had put her sensitive fingers on

the child's nose, and was touching him
lightly about the mouth.

1 Greta she said in a startled whisper,
does he look pinched?'

A little,' said Greta quietly.

And his skin  is it cold and clammy ?'

1 We must give him another hot flannel,'
said Greta.

Mercy sat at the bedside, and said
nothing for an hour. Then all at once, and
in a strange, harsh voice, she said :

1 wish God had not made Kalphie so
winsome.'

Greta started at the words, but made no
answer.

The daylight came early. As the first
gleams of gray light came in at the
window, Greta turned to where Mercy satin
silence. It was a sad face that she saw
in the mingled yellow light of the dying
lamp and the gray of the dawn.

Mercy spoke again.

Greta, do you remember what Mistress
Branches said when her baby died last back
end gone twelvemonth?'

Greta looked up quickly at the bandaged
eyes.

'What?' she asked.

'Well, Parson Christian tried to comfort
her, and said, "Your baby is now an angel
in Paradise," and she turned on him with
Shaf on your angels  I want none on 'em
I want my little girl."

Mercy's voice broke into a sob.

Towards ten o'clock the doctor came.
He had been detained. Very sorry to disoblige
Mrs. Eitson, but fact was old Mr. de
Broadthwaite had an attack of lumbago,
complicated by a bout of toothache, and
everybody knew he was most exacting.
Young person's baby ill? Feverish, restless,
starts in its sleep, and cough?  Ah,
croupy cough  yes, croup, true croup, not
spasmodic. Let him see, how old? A
year and a half? Ah, bad, very. Most
frequent in second year of infancy. Dangerous,
highly so. Forms a membrane
that occludes air passages. Often ends in
convulsions, and child suffocates. Sad,
very. Let him see again. How long

since the attack began ? Yesterday at four.
Ah, far gone, far. The great man soon
vanished, leaving behind him a harmless
preparation of aconite and ipecacuanha.

Mercy had heard all, and her pent-up
grief broke out in sobs.

Oh, to think I shall hear my Ralphieie
no more, and to know his white cold face is
looking up from a coffin, while other children
are playing in the sunshine and
chasing the butterflies ! No, no, it cannot
be; God will not let it come to pass; I will
pray to Him and He will save my child.
Why, He can do anything, and He has all
the world. What is my little baby boy to
Him? He will not let it be taken from
me.'

Greta's heart was too full for speech.
But she might weep in silence, and none
there would know. Mercy stretched across
the bed, and tenderly folding the child in
her arms, she lifted him up, and then went
down on her knees.

Merciful Father,' she said in a childish
voice " of sweet confidence, ' this is my

baby, my Kalphie, and I love him so
dearly. You would never think how much
I love him. But he is ill, and doctor says
he may die. Oh, dear Father, only think
what it would be to say, " His little face is
gone." And then I have never seen him.
You will not take him away until his
mother sees him. So soon, too. Only five
days more. Why, it is quite close. Not
tomorrow, nor the next day, nor the next,
but the day after that.'

She put in many another childlike plea,
and then rose with a smile on her pale lips
and replaced the little one on his pillow.

How patient he is,' she said. ' He can't
say " Thank you," but I'm sure his eyes
are speaking. Let me feel.' She put her
finger lightly on the child's lids. ' No,
they are shut ; he must be sleeping. Oh,
dear, he sleeps very much. Is he gaining
colour? How quiet he is. If he would
only say " Mamma!" How I wish I could
see him !'

She was very quiet for a while, and then
plucked at Greta's gown suddenly.

Greta she said eagerly, l something tells
me that if I could only see Kalphie I should
save him.'

Greta started up in terror. ' No, no, no ;
you must not think of it,' she said.

But something whispered it. It must
have been God Himself. You know we
ought to obey God always.'

Mercy, it was not God who said that.
It was your own heart. You must not
heed it'

'I'm sure it was God,' said Mercy.
And I heard it quite plain.'

4 Mercy, my darling, think what you are
saying. Think what it is you wish to do.
If you do it, you will be blind for ever.'

But I will have saved my Kalphie.'

No, no ; you will not.'

Will he not be saved, Greta?'

'Only our heavenly Father knows.'

1 Well, He whispered it in my heart.
And, as you say, He knows best.'

Greta was almost distraught with fear.
The noble soul in her would not allow her
to appeal to Mercy's gratitude against the

plea of maternal love. But she felt that all
her happiness hung on that chance. If
Mercy regained her sight, all would be well
with her and hers ; but if she lost it the
future must be a blank.

The clay wore slowly on, and the child
sank and sank. At evening the old 
returned, and went into the
bedroom. He stood a moment and looked
down at the pinched little face, and when
the child's eyes opened drowsily for a
moment he put his withered forefinger into
its palm ; but there was no longer a responsive
clasp of the chubby hand.

The old man's lips quivered behind his
white beard.

1 It were a winsome wee thing,' he said
faintly, and then turned away.

He left his supper untouched, and went
into the porch. There he sat on the bench
and whittled a blackthorn stick. The sun
was sinking over the head of the Eel Crag ;
the valley lay deep in a purple haze ; only
the bald top of Cat Bells stood out bright in
the glory of the passing day. A gentle

breeze came up from the south, and the
young corn chattered with its multitudinous
tongues in the field below. The dog lay at
the charcoal-burner's feet, blinking in the sun
and snapping lazily at a buzzing fly.

The little life within was ebbing away.
No longer racked by the ringing cough, the
loud breathing became less frequent and
more harsh. Mercy lifted the child from
the bed, and sat with it before the fire.
Greta saw its eyes open, and at the same
moment she saw the little lips move slightly,
but she heard nothing.

He is calling his mamma,' said Mercy,
with her ear bent towards the child's
mouth.

There was silence for a long time.
Mercy pressed the child to her breast; its
close presence seemed to soothe her. Greta
stood and looked down; she saw the little
lips move once more, but again she heard
no sound.

He is calling his mamma, 'repeated Mercy
wistfully, ' and oh, he seems such a long
way off.'

Once again the little lips moved.

1 He is calling me said Mercy, listening
intently ; and she grew restless and excited.
He is going away. I can hear him. He
is far off. Ralphieieieie, Ralphieieieie !'

She had lifted the child up to her face.
Kalphie, Ralphieie!' she cried.

1 Give me the baby, Mercy,' said Greta.

But the mother clung to it with a convulsive
grasp.

Ralphieieieieieie, Ralphieieieieieie, Ralphieieieieieie . . .'

There was a sudden flash of some white
thing. In an instant the bandage had
fallen from Mercy's head, and she was
peering down into the child's face with wild
eyes.

Ralphieieieie, Ralphieieieie ! . . . Hugh /' she
cried.

The mother had seen her babe at last, and
in that instant she had recognised the
features of its father.

At the next moment the angel of God
passed through that troubled house, and
the child lay dead at the mother's breast.

Mercy saw it all, and her impassioned

vol. in. 52

mood left her. She rose to her feet quietly,
and laid the little one in the bed. There
was never a sigh more, never a tear. Only
her face was ashy pale, and her whitening
lips quivered.

Greta she said, very slowly, ' will you
go for him f

Greta kissed the girl's forehead tenderly.
Her own calm, stedfast, enduring spirit
sank. All the world was dead to her now.
Yes, dear,' she whispered.

The next minute she was gone from the
room.

The evening was closing in ; now and then
the shrill cries of the birds pealed and
echoed in the still air ; a long fibrous streak
of silver in the sky ebbed away over the
head of Hinclscarth. Greta hastened towards
the pit brow. The clank of the iron chain
in the gear told that the cage in the shaft
was working.

It was a year and a half since her life had
first been overshadowed by a disaster more
black and terrible than death itself, and
never for an instant had the clouds been
lifted until three days ago. Then, in a
moment, the light had pierced through the
empty sky, and a way had been wrought
for her out of the labyrinth of misery.
But even that passage for life and hope and

522

love seemed now to be closed by the grim
countenance of doom.

Mercy would be blind for ever ! All was
over and done. Greta's strong, calm spirit
sank and sank. She saw the impostor
holding to the end the name and place of
the good man ; and she saw the good man
dragging his toilsome way through life  an
outcast, a byword, loaded with ignominy,
branded with crime. And that unhappy
man was her husband, and he had no stay
but in her love, no hope but in her faith.

Greta stopped at the door of Hugh Ritson's
office and knocked. A moment later he
and she were face to face. He was dressed
in his pit flannels, and was standing by a
table on which a lamp burned. When he
recognised her, he passed one hand across his
brow, the other he rested on the mantelpiece.
There was a momentary twitching
of her lips, and he involuntarily remarked
that in the time that had passed since they
last met she had grown thinner.

1 Come with me,' she said in a trembling
whisper. 'Mercy's child is dead, and the

poor girl is asking for you in her great
trouble.'

He did not speak at once, but shaded his
eyes from the lamp. Then he said, in a
voice unlike his own, ' I will follow
you.'

She had held the door in her hand, and
now she turned to go. He took one step
towards her.

Greta, have you nothing more to say tome
V he asked.

What do you wish me to say?'

He did not answer ; his eyes fell before
her.

There was a slight wave of her hand as
she added, ' The same room ought never to
contain both you and me  it never should
have done so  but this is not my errand.'

1 I have deserved it,' he said humbly.

The cruel work is done. Yes, done
past undoing. You have not heard the
last of it. Then, since you ask me what I
have to say to you, it is this : That man,
that instrument of your malice who is no w
your master, has been to say that he can

compel me to live with him, or imprison
me if I refuse. Can he do it V

Hugh Ritson lifted his eyes with a blind,
vacant stare.

To live with him ? Him ? You to live
with him ?' he said absently.

To live under his roof  those were his
words. Can he do it ? I mean if the law
recognises him as my husband ?'

Hugh Ritson' s eyes wandered.

Do it ? your husband V he echoed incoherently.


I know well what he wants said Greta,
breathing heavily ; ' it is not myself he is
anxious for  but he cannot have the one
without the other.'

The one without the other ?' echoed Hugh
Ritson in a low tone. Then he strode across
the room in visible agitation. ' Greta, that
man is Do you know who he is ?'

1 Paul Drayton, the innkeeper of Hendon,'
she answered calmly.

No, no ; he is your '

He. paused, his brows knit, his fingers
interlaced. Her bosom swelled.

Would you tell me that he is my husband
?' she said indignantly.

Hugh Ritson again passed his hand across
his brow.

1 Greta, I have deserved your distrust,' he
said, in an altered tone.

4 What is done can never be undone she
answered.

His voice had regained its calmness, but
his manner was still agitated.

1 I may serve you even yet he said; * I
have done you too much wrong, I know
that.'

What is your remorse worth now V she
asked. ' It comes too late.'

Then he looked her steadily in the face
and replied :

Greta, it is well said that the most
miserable man in all the world is he who
feels remorse before he does the wrong. I
was  I am  that man. I did what I did
knowing well that I should repent it  aye,
to the last hour of my life. But I was
driven to it  I had no power to resist it  it
mastered me then  it would master me now.'

The finger-tips of Greta's right hand
were pressed close against her cheek.
Hugh Kitson took a step nearer.

Greta,' he said, and his voice fell to a
broken whisper, 'there are some men to
whom love is a passing breath, a gentle
gale that beats on the face and sports in
the hair, and then is gone. To me it is a
wound, a deep, corrosive, inward wound
that yearns and burns

Greta shuddered; it was as if his words
stung her. Then with an impatient gesture
she turned again towards the door, saying :

This is the death-hour of your child,
and, Heaven pardon you, it seems to be the
death-hour of your brother's hopes too.'
She faced about. ' Do you think of him V
she added, lifting her voice. ' When you
see this man in his place, wasting his substance,
and mine, do you ever think of him
where he is f Her voice trembled and
broke. There was a moment's silence. She
had turned her head aside, and he heard
the low sound of sobs.

Yes, I think of him,' he answered slowly.

8 At night, in the sleepless hours, I do think
of him where he is ;  and I think of him
as a happy man. Yes, a happy man ! What
if he wears a convict's dress ?  Ms soul is
yoked to no deadening burden. As for me
well, look at me !' He smiled grimly.

I have heard everything,' said Greta;
you have sown the wind, and you are
reaping the whirlwind.'

Something like a laugh broke from him.
It came from the waters of bitterness that
lay deep in his heart.

Not that,' he said. ' All that will pass
away.'

She was on the threshold ; a force of
which she knew nothing held her there.

Greta, I am not so bad a man as perhaps
I seem ; I am a riddle that you may not
read. The time is near when I shall trouble
the world no more, and it will be but a
poor wounded name I shall leave behind
me, will it not ? Greta, would it be a
mockery to ask you to forgive me ?'

There are others who have more to forgive,'
said Greta. ' One of them is waiting

for you at this moment, and, poor girl ! her
heart is broken

Hugh Eitson bent his head slightly, and
Greta pulled the door after her.

The evening had closed in ; the watery veil
that goes between day and night was hanging
in the air ; the wind had risen, and
the trees were troubled. When Hugh Rit-son
reached the cottage, all was dark about
the house save for the red glow from the peat
fire which came out into the open porch.
The old Laird Fisher was sitting there, a
blackthorn stick at his feet, his elbows on
his knees, his cheeks rested on his hands.
The drowsy glow fell on his drooping whitehead.
As Hugh Ritson passed into the
kitchen, the old man lifted to his a countenance
on which grief and reproach were
stamped together. Hugh Ritson' s proud
spirit was rebuked by the speechless sorrow
of that look. It was such a look as a

wounded hound lifts to the eyes of a brutal
master.

A sheep-dog was stretched at full length
before the slumbering fire. The kitchen
was empty, and silent too, except for the
tick of the clock and the collie's laboured
breathing. But at the sound of Hugh's
uncertain step on the hard earthen floor,
the door of the bedroom opened, and Greta
motioned him to enter.

A candle burned near the bed. Before a
fire, Mercy Fisher sat with Parson Christian.
Her head lay on a table that stood
between, her face buried in her encircled
arms. One hand lay open beside the long
loose tresses of yellow hair, and the Parson's
hand rested upon it caressingly. Parson
Christian rose as Hugh Ritson entered, and,
bowing coldly, he left the room ; Greta had
already gone out, and he rejoined her in the
kitchen.

Mercy lifted her head and looked up at
Hugh. There was not a tear in her weary,
red, swollen eyes, and not a sigh came from
her heaving breast. She rose quietly, and

taking Hugh's hand in her own, she drew
him to the bedside.

c See where he is,' she said in a voice of
piercing earnestness, and with her other
hand she lifted a handkerchief from the
little white face. Hugh Eitson shuddered.
He saw his own features as if memory had
brought them in an instant from the honos
past.

Mercy disengaged her hand, and silently
hid her face. But she did not weep.

My little Ealphie,' she said plaintively,
how quiet he is now ! Oh, but you should
have seen him when he was like a glistening
ray of morning light. Why did you not
come before?'

Hugh Ritson stood there looking down
at the child's dead face, and made no
answer.

1 It is better as it is,' his heart whispered
at that moment. The next instant his whole
frame quivered. What was the thought
that had risen unbidden within him ?
Better that his child should lie there cold
and lifeless than that it should fill this

desolate house with joy and love ? Was
he, then, so black a villain ? God forbid !
Yet it was better so.

All is over now said Mercy, and her
hands fell from her face. She turned her
weary eyes full upon him and added, l We
have been punished already.'

Punished ?' said Hugh. < We V There
was silence for a moment ; and then, dropping
his voice until it was scarcely audible,
he said, l Your burden is heavy to bear, my
poor girl,'

Her slight figure swayed a little.

1 could bear it no longer,' she answered.

 Many a one has thought that before
you,' he said; 'but God alone knows what
we cannot bear until we are tried.'

Well, all is over now,' she repeated listlessly.


She spoke of herself as if her days were
already ended and past ; as if her orb of life
had been rounded by the brief span of the
little existence that lay finished upon the
bed. Hugh Eitson looked at her, and the
muscles of his face twitched. Her weary

eyes were still dry. Their dim light seemed

to come from far away.

/

1 How I prayed that I might see my
Ralphieie,' she said. ' I thought surely God
had willed it that I should never see my
child. Perhaps that was to be my punishment
for  all that had taken place. But I
prayed still. Oh, you would not think how
much I pray ! But it must have been a
wicked prayer.'

She hid her face once more in her hands,
and added, with unexpected animation:

God heard my prayer, and answered it
but see!' She pointed to the child. 'I
saw him  yes, I saw him  die /'

Hugh Kitson was moved, but his heart
was bitter. At that moment he cursed the
faith that held in bondage the soul of the
woman at his side. Would that he could
trample it underfoot, and break for ever the
chains by which it held the simple.

Hugh,' she said, and her voice softened,
we are about to part for ever. Our little
Ralphieie  yours and mine  he calls me. I
could not live without him. God would

not make me do that. He has punished me
already, and He is merciful. Only think,
our Kalphie is in heaven.'

She paused and bit her lip, and drew her
breath audibly inwards. Her face took
then a death-like hue, and all at once her
voice overflowed with anguish.

4 Do you know, something whispered at
that instant that God had not punished us
enough, that Kalphie was not in heaven,

and that the sins of the fathers Oh,

my darling, my darling!'

With a shrill cry she stopped, turned to
the bed, threw her outspread arms about the
child, and kissed it fervently.

The tears came at length, and rained
down on that little silent face. Hugh
Ritson could support the strain no longer.

Mercy,' he said, and his voice had a
deep tremor. ' Mercy, if there is any sin
it is mine, and if there is to be any punishment
hereafter that will be mine too. As
for your little boy, be sure he is in heaven.'
He had stepped to the door, and his thumb
was on the wooden latch. ' You say

rightly', we shall never meet again,' he
said, in a muffled voice ; 'good-bye.'

Mercy lifted her tearful face. ' Give me
your hand at parting,' she said in an imploring
tone. He was on the opposite side
of the bed from where she stood, and she
reached her hand across it. He took a
step nearer, and his hand closed in hers.
Between them and beneath their clasped
hands lay the child. ' Hugh, we could
not love in this world  something went
astray with us ; but we shall meet again,
shall we not ?'

He turned his eyes away.

Perhaps,' he answered.

Promise me,' she said ; ' promise me.'

He drew his breath hard.

If there is a God and a judgment, be
sure we shall meet,' he said.

His voice broke. He turned abruptly
aside and hurried out of the house.

vol. in. 53

The night was now dark ; there was no
moon, and there were no stars ; the wind
soughed mournfully through the trees. In
the occasional lull the rumble of the cataracts
drifted heavily through the air.

Hugh Ritson walked in the darkness
with drooping head. He was not making
for the pit brow ; he had taken the opposite
direction. When he reached the village he
stopped at the Flying Horse. Loud peals
of laughter came from the parlour, hidden
by red blinds from the road.

He stood at the door that opened into the
bar. The landlady, her face turned from
him, was talking with obvious animation to
a salesman who stood with a jug in
hand at the other side of the counter.

AVhat, woman, too's surely heard what
happened at the Ghyll this morning?'

1 Nay, Bessie, I's been throng as Throw
wife, cleaning and witty eating.'

1 Well, lass, they've tell me as it were
shocking. Two brothers and such a scratch.
It comet to blows at last, and they do say
'at Master Hugh is nigh amaist dead with a
bash the girt fellow gave him.'

Hugh Ritson rapped sharply at the door.
Tell your husband I wish to see him,'
he said.

The landlady looked up, fumbled with a
napkin, and answered nervously, ' Yes,
sir.' Then she hobbled to the door of the
parlour and opened it. A wave of mingled
noise, vapour, and foul odours came through
the aperture. i Tommy !' she screamed
above the babel.

The landlord appeared.
6 Can you send me a dog-cart at half-past
four in the morning?' said Hugh.

1 May be  it's a gay canny hour, I
reckon said the landlord.

He pulled at a long pipe as he spoke, and

532

his face, which was flushed, wore an impudent
smile.

I have to catch the five o'clock train,'
Hugh answered.

To London ?' One cheek was twisted
into numerous wrinkles.

1 1 said the five train,' said Hugh sternly.
Can you do it?'

I's never said nay  it'll be three half-crowns.'


Hugh put half a sovereign on the
counter.

Let it be sent at half past four
promptly.'

'TotheGhyll?'

The twist of the cheek was a shade less
perceptible.

To the pit brow.'

The parlour door opened again, and Natt
stood on the threshold. The stableman's
sleepy eyes awakened to a knowing twinkle.
Then his flat face disappeared, and a thin
titter mingled audibly with the clamour
within. In another moment the door was
thrown wide open, and Drayton came

slouching out. His hair fell over his forehead,
from which his hat was tipped back.
A cigar was perched between his teeth ; the
tips of his fingers were thrust into his
waistcoat pockets.

Come in, I've summit to show you,' he
said.

Hugh did not stir, but he lifted his head
and looked into the room. Half a score of
the riff-raff of the dale were seated amid
clouds of smoke. On the wooden mantelshelf
above the wide ingle a large book
stood open, and the leaves fluttered with
the wind that came through the door.

'I hasn't forgotten what you said long-ago
about the Parson's book,' said Drayton,
so here it is, and a mighty valuable thing
I call it. You thought to frighten me with
it, but bless yer soul, I like it, I do. Listen.'

Drayton stepped back into the room,
turned the leaves, and began to read in a
lusty tone :

1847.  November 18.  Thomas said
Allan was fresh from Scotland, being Scottish

born, and that his wife was Irish,

and that they had a child called Paul,

only a few months old, and not yet walking.'


It was the Parson's diary.

That's good enough, ain't it, Master
Hugh Ritson?' said Drayton, with an ungainly
bow, and a vast show of civility,
followed instantly by a sidelong leer at his
cronies about him.

Hugh Ritson held himself stiffly and
merely said :

Where did you get it V

At this question there were sundry snorts
and titters and muttered responses from the
men at the tables. Hugh's eyes passed
over them with a steely glance.

Stolen it, I suppose,' he said quietly.

4 Ay,' said Drayton,  and a neat job too.
Natt 'tired away the Methodeeee man while
I borrowed it.'

Drayton seemed to be proud of his share
in the transaction, and his friends laughed
loudly at the adroit turn he had given to

the matter. Matt's drowsy eyes were preternaturally
bright at that great moment.

Huff Ritson's forehead darkened with
ire.

This is your gratitude to the clergyman,'
he said.

Sundry further snorts and sniggers went
round the tables.

There's not a man of you who is not beholden
to Parson Christian,' said Hugh
sternly. He twisted sharply round upon
one gray beard whose laugh still rumbled
between his teeth. ' Reuben Rae, who
nursed your sick wife? John Proudfoot,'
to the blacksmith, ' what about your child
down with the fever?' His quick eye traversed
the parlour, and more than one lusty
crony was fain to bury his face in his
breast. ' Yet you laugh, brave fellows as
you are, when the good man's house is
broken into by a thief.'

Drayton took a swift stride towards him.

Drop it, and quick,' he shouted.

Hugh Ritson governed himself with an
effort.

6 I'm not here to brawl,' he said quietly.

Pigeon-livered blathers kite  that's what
I call ye  d'ye hear?' said Drayton.

Hugh's face flinched, but he turned on
his heel, and was on the road at the next
instant.

Drayton followed him out, laughing
boisterously. Hugh made one quick step
backwards and shut the door ; then he
turned about on Drayton, whose cruel face
could be dimly seen in the hazy red light
that came through the blinds.

You have tried to torture me,' he said,
'just as you would hang a dog by its tailor
draw the teeth of a rat. You have
threatened with worse torture a good and
loyal woman. You are a scoundrel, and
you know it. But even you would hesitate
if you knew for certain who or what you
are. Let me tell you again, now, when weare
alone, and while I have no personal interest
to serve. You are the man whose
name I gave you  Paul Lowther, son of
Robert Lowther and that lady, my
brother's wife, whom for reason of profit

you would compel to live under the same
roof with you, is your own sister

Drayton's loud guffaw rang out above
the wind's moan in the trees. His cronies
within heard it and listened.

It's a rare old story, that is. Let me
see ; you've told it before, I fancy.'

1 Then it was a lie ; now it's God's truth,'
said Hugh.

Drayton laughed again.

And then it was believed, but now it's
not. No, no, Master Hugh, it won't pass

1 We will see. '

Hugh Ritson had swung about and was
gone.

Drayton went back to his friends.

1 Hasn't the pluck of a pigeon when it
comes to the push,' he muttered.

Ey, he wears a bonny white feather in
his cap, for sure,' said old Reuben Rae.

1 No fight in 'im  no' but tongue lather
said John, the blacksmith.

Hugh Ritson walked through the darkness
to the pit brow. The glow of the

furnace lit up the air to the south, and
showed vaguely the brant sides of the fell;
the dull thud of the engine, the clank of
the chain, and the sharp crack of the refuse
tumbling down the bank from the banks-man's
barrow were the only sounds that
rose above the wind's loud whistle.

Gubblum was at the mouth of the shaft.

Oglethorpe,' said Hugh, 'how many of
the gangs are below to-night?'

All but two  auld Reuben's and Jim
Southwest's.'

Then they have chosen to work on ?'

Ey, another fortnight  trusting to get
their wage afore that, please God.'

1 They shall not be disappointed.'

Hugh Ritson turned away. Gubblum
trundled his last wheelbarrow to the edge
of the bank, and then rested and said to
himself, ' He takes it cool enough anyway.'

But the outside tranquillity disappeared
when Hugh Ritson reached his own room
on the pit brow. He bathed his hot forehead
again and again. His fingers twitched
nervously, and he plunged his perspiring

hands into cold water above the wrists,
holding them there for several minutes.
Not for long did he sit in one seat. He
tramped the room uneasily, his infirm foot
trailing heavily. Then he threw himself
on the couch, tossed from side to side, rose
and resumed his melancholy walk. Thus
an hour passed drearily.

His mind recalled one by one the events
of the day. And one by one there came
crowding back upon him the events of the
two years that had passed since his father's
death. A hurricane was upheaving every
memory of his mind. And every memory
had its own particular sting, and came upas
a blight to fret his soul. He tried to
guard himself from himself. What he had
first thought to do was but in defence of his
strict legal rights, and if he had gone farther
if he had done more without daring to
think of it until it was done  then it was
love that had led him astray. Was it so
cruel a thing to be just? So foul a thing
to love?

But above the shuffling of remorse, above

the stifling of regret, above the plea of a
maddening love, was the voice of revenge
speaking loudly in his soul. That man,
his instrument, now his master, Paul
Lowther, must be brought down, and his
time-serving sponsor with him. But how?
There was but one way  by denouncing
himself. Yes, that was the sole outlet for
his outraged and baffled spirit. He must
go to the proper quarter and say, ' I have
perjured myself, and sworn away my
brother's liberty. The man who was condemned
as Paul Drayton is Paul Ritson.
I did it all.'

That would bring; this vulgar scoundrel
to the dust, but at what a price! The
convict's dress now worn by his brother
would soon be worn by him. And what
solace would it be then that the same suit
would be worn by the impostor also ? Yet
why prate of solace in a matter like this?
What alternative was left to him ? In what
quarter of the sky was the light dawning for
him ? He was travelling towards the deepening
night, and the day of his life was done.

What if be allowed everything to take
its course? Well, he was a disgraced and
ruined man, turned adrift from his father's
house, and doomed to see a stranger living
there. Did he lack gall to make such a
climax bitter ? Bitter! eh; and a thousand
times the more bitter because he himself
had, for ends of his own, first placed the
scoundrel where he sat.

No, no, no ; Paul Lowther must be
brought down, and with him must fall the
poor ruins of a better man. Yes, a better
man, let the world say what it would.

Could it occur that he would not be
believed % that when he said ' Take me, I
am a perjurer,' they would answer, 'No,
your self-denunciation is only a freak of
revenge, a mad attempt to injure the relative
who has turned you out of his house ?'
Hugh Ritson laughed as the grim irony
of such a possible situation flashed upon
him : a man self-condemned and saved from
punishment by the defence of his enemy !

There was a knock at his door. In his
stupor he was not at first conscious of what

the knock meant. At length he recalled
himself and cried :

1 Come in

G-ubblum Oglethorpe entered.

The men on the twelve o'clock shift are
just about ganging down, and they want
to tak' a few mair forks with them. They've
tell me 'at the timber is splitting like match-wood
under the sandy vein.'

Hugh Kitson made an effort to gather
the purport of Grubblum's message.

Tell them to take the forks,' he said ina
low tone. Grubblum was backing out,
and stopped.

4 1 reckon too's not heard the last
frae auld Matthias he said in another
voice.

What is it, Oglethorpe V said Hugh, his
head bent over the table.

1 Robbie Southwest's wife has been up to t'
brow and says that Mercy's leal thing is
gone.'

Hugh did not lift his eyes.

Is that the last?' he said.

Nay, but worse. The lass herself tore

the bandage frae her eyes, and she's gone
stone blind, and that's for ever.'

Hugh's head bent closer over the table.

1 Good-night, Oglethorpe,' he said.

Gubblum backed out, muttering to himself
as he returned to the shaft, l A cool
hand, how-andover.'

The moment the door closed, Hush
Ritson tramped the floor in restless perambulations.
What had he thought of
doing? Delivering himself to justice as a
perjurer ? Had he then no duty left in life
that he must needs gratify his revenge in a
kind of death % What of the woman who
had suffered for him? What of the broken
heart and the wrecked home? Were these
as nothing" against the humiliation of a
proud spirit ?

Never for an instant, never in his bitterest
agony, did Hugh Ritson lie to his own soul
and say that the resolution he had formed was
prompted by remorse for what he had done
to Paul Ritson ; not revenge for what he had
suffered from Paul Drayton. To be a saint
when sick ; to find the conscience active

when defeat overwhelmed it  that was for
the weak dregs of humanity. But such
paltering was not for him.

On the one hand revenge, on the other
duty  which was he to follow? The
wretched man could come to no decision;
and when the fingers of his watch pointed
to one o'clock he lay down on the coach to
rest.

It was not sleep that he wanted; sleep had
of late become too full of terrors; but sleep
overcame him, nevertheless. His face when
he slept was the face of a man in pain ; and
dreams came that were the distorted reflections
of his waking thoughts. He dreamt that
he had died in infancy. Calm, serene, very
sweet, and peaceful, his little innocent face of
childhood looked up from the white pillow.
He thought his mother bent over him, and
shed many tears; but he himself belonged
to another world of beings, and looked down
on both. ' It is better so,' he thought, 'and
the tears she weeps are blest

At this he awoke, and rose to his feet.
What soft nothings men had said of sleep !

Oh sleep, it is a gentle thing, beloved from
pole to pole!' Gentle! More tyrannous
than death. The melancholy perambulation
ended, and he lay down once more. He
slept and dreamt again. This time he had
killed his own brother. A moment before
they had stood face to face  vigorous, wrathful,
with eyes that flashed, and hands uplifted.
Now his brother lay quiet and awful at his
feet, and the great silence was broken by a
voice from heaven crying, i A fugitive and
a vagabond shalt thou be on the earth.'

He started to his feet in terror. ' Mercy,
mercy!' he cried. Then he drew his breath
hard and looked about him. ' A dream 
only another dream,' he said to himself, and
laughed between his close-set teeth. The
lamp still burned on the table. He rose,
drew a key from his pocket, opened a cupboard,
and took out a small bottle. It contained
an opiate. ' Since I must sleep, let
my sleep at least be dreamless,' he said, and
he measured a dose. He was lifting the
glass to his lips, when he caught sight of
his face in the glass. ' Pitiful ! pitiful !

vol. in. 54

A mere dream unnerves me. Pitiful enough,
forsooth ! And so I must needs hide myself
from myself behind a bulwark like this!'
He held the drug to the light, and while his
hand trembled he laughed. Then he drank
it off, put out the light, and sat on the couch.
The dawn had fretted the sky, and the
first streaks of day crept in at the window,
when the lamp's yellow light was gone.
Hugh Ritson sat in the gray gloom, his
knees drawn close under his chin, his arms
folded over his breast, his head bent heavily
forward. He was croonino- an old sono

o

Presently the voice grew thick, the eye
became clouded, and then the head fell back.
He was asleep, and in his sleep he dreamt
again. Or was it a vision, and not a dream,
that came to him now? He thought he
stood in a room which he had seen before.
On the bed some white thing lay. It was a
child, and the little soul had fled. Beside ita
woman cowered, and moaned ' Guilty,
guilty!' Her eyes were fixed on the child,
yet she saw nothing ; the sightless orbs
were bleached. But with her heart she saw

the child ; and she saw himself also as he
entered. Then it seemed that she turned
her blind face towards him, and called on
him by name. The next instant she was
gone. Her seat was vacant, the bed was
empty; only a gray-bearded man sat by a
cold grate. A\ r with an overpowering weight
pressing him down, it seemed to Hugh that
he threw up his head, and again he heard his
name.

He leapt to his feet. i>ig beads of cold
sweat stood on his forehead. ' Mercy is
dead,' he whispered with awe. l She has
gone to put in her plea of guilty. She is in
God' a great hand.'

The next moment a voice shouted ' Mr.
Ritson !'

He listened, and in the gray light his
stony countenance smiled grimly.

Mr. Ritson !' once more, followed by the
rap of a whip-handle against the door.

1 Tommy the landlord said Hugh Resonant
he broke into a] harsh laugh. ' So you
were my angel, Tommy, eh ?'

Another harsh laugh. The landlord, 



ting in the dog cart outside, heard it, and
thought to himself, ' Some one with him.'

Hugh Eitson plunged his head into the
wash-basin, and rubbed himself vigorously
with a rough towel. ' My last sleep is over
he said, glancing aside with fearful eyes at
the couch. ' I'll do this thing that I am
bent upon; but no more sleep, and no more
dreams !'

He opened the door, threw a rug up to
the landlord, put on an ulster, and leapt into
the dog-cart. They started away at a quick
trot. A chill morning breeze swept down
the vale. The sun was rising above Cat
Bells, but Hugh Eitson still felt as if he
were travelling towards the deepening night.
He sat with folded arms, and head bent on
his breast.

Hasta heard what's happened at auld
Laird Fisher's this morning?' said the landlord.


Hugh answered in a low voice, ' I've heard
nothing.'

The lass has followed her barn rather
sudden t. Ey, she's gone for sure. Died a

matter of half an hour ago. I heard it frae
the Parson as I comet by.'

Hugh Ritson bent yet lower his drooping
head.

At two o'clock that day Hugh Ritson
arrived at Euston. He got into a cab and
drove to Whitehall. At the Home Office
he asked for the Secretary of State. A
hundred obstacles arose to prevent him from
penetrating to the head of the department.
One official handed him over to another, the
second to a third, the third to a fourth.

Hugh Ritson was hardly the man to be
balked by such impediments. His business
was with the Secretary of State, and none
other. Parliament was in session, and the
Home Secretary was at the afternoon sitting
of the House. Hugh Ritson sought and
found him there. He explained his purpose
in few words, and was listened to with a
faint smile of incredulity.

The Secretary was a stolid Yorkshireman,
who affected whatever measure of bluffness
had not been natural to him from birth.
He first looked at his visitor with obvious
doubts of his sanity; and when this suspicion
had been set at rest by Hugh's incisive
explanation, with an equally obvious
desire to feel his bumps.

But the face of the Yorkshireman soon
became complicated by other shades of expression
than such as come of distrust of
a man's reason or contempt of his sentimentality.


Hadn't you better sleep on it, and come
to see me at Whitehall in the morning?' he
said, with more respect than he had yet
shown. ' Then if you are still of the same
mind, I will send for the Public Prosecutor.'


Hugh Ritson bowed his acquiescence.

1 And can I have the order for Portland ?'
he said.

4 Probably. It will be against the new
regulation that none may visit a convict
prison except prison officials and persons interested

in prison discipline. But we'll see
what can be done.'

That night, Hugh Ritson called at the
Convent of St. Margaret. It was late when
he entered, and when he came out again,
half an hour afterwards, the lamps were lit
in Abbey Gardens. The light fell on the
face of the lay sister who opened the door
to him. She wore a gray gown, but no veil
or scapular, and beneath the linen band
that covered her hair her eyes were red and
swollen.

Hugh Ritson hailed a hansom in the
Broad Sanctuary, and drove to Hendon.
The bar of the Hawk and Heron was full
of carriers, carters, road-menders, and farm-labourers,
all drinking and all noisy. But,
despite this evidence of a thriving trade,
the whole place had a bankrupt appearance
as of things going to wreck. Jabez served
behind the counter. He had developed a
good deal of personal consequence, and held
up his head, and repeatedly felt the altitude
of a top-knot that curled there, and bore
himself generally with the society air of

the young rooster after the neck of the old
one has been screwed. Mrs. Drayton sat
knitting in the room where Mercy and the
neighbour's children once played together.
When Hugh Ritson went in to her, the old
body started.

Lors mercy me, sir, to think it's you.
I'm that fearsome that I declare I shiver
and quake at nothing. And good for nowt
i' the world neither, not since my own flesh
and blood, as you might say, disowned me.'

Do you mean at the trial ?' asked Hugh
Ritson.

The trial, sir!' said the landlady, lifting
Bewildered eyes, while the click of the
needles ceased. ' My Paul weren't there.
Cumberland, sir  and you heard him yourself
what he said of me.' A corner of her
housewife's apron went up to her face. ' Meas
had brought him up that tender ! Well,'
recovering composure, ' I've lost heart, and
serve him right. I just lets the house and
things go, I do. I trusts to Providence ;
and that Jabez, he's no better nor a baby
in the public line.'

When Hugh Ritson left the inn, the old
body's agitation increased. She had set
down the knitting, and was fidgeting, first
with her cap and then her apron.

1 Listen to me,' said Hugh. ' To-day is
Friday. On Monday you must go to the
convent where you saw the mother of Paul.
Ask for Sister Grace. Will you remember
Sister Grace? She will tell you all.'

It was hard on eleven o'clock when Hush
Ritson returned to town. The streets were
thronged, and he walked for a long hour
amid the crowds that passed through the
Strand. In all that multitudinous sea of
faces, there was not a countenance on which
the mark of suffering was more indelibly
fixed than on his own.

His sensibilities were wrought up to an
unwonted pitch. He was like a waif adrift
in unknown waters, a cloud without anchor
in a tempestuous sky ; yet he felt that night
as he had never felt before, that he had suddenly
become possessed of another and most
painful sense. Not a face in that sea of
faces but he seemed to know its secret fear,

its joy and sorrow, the watchful dread that
seared the hidden heart, the fluttering hope
that buoyed it up.

It was an awful thing to be turned adrift
in a world of sin and suffering with this
agonizing sense. He could look, whether
he would or not, beneath the smiling and
rubicund countenance of the 
to that corrosive spot within where
the trust of the widow and fatherless had
been betrayed; or see beyond the stolid and
heavy appearance proper to the ox the
quivering features of the man who had
stood long years ago above the dead body
of the woman who had thrown her death
at his door as sole reward for the life he
had wrecked.

Nay, not only did the past write its manual
there, but the future wrote its sign. He
knew that the young girl in pink ribbons
who was hurrying along with a smile on
her lips, from the shop in the west to that
unknown home in the east where the child
of her shame had laughed and crowed and
climbed up her bosom to her chin, was

doomed to find that the source of all her
joy and half her sorrow lay cold and stiff in
its crib.

He grew fearful of himself ; he shuddered
as the unsuspected murderer brushed his
elbow; he shuddered yet more as a mirror
flashed back the reflection of his own hard
face, and the idea came to him that perhaps
other eyes could see what his eyes saw.

He turned down Arundel Street and onto
the Embankment, No ! no ! no ! the
merciful God had not willed it that any man
should look so deeply into the heart of his
fellow-man. That was indeed to know good
and evil; and the thought stole over him
that perhaps it was in degree as a man had
eaten of the forbidden fruit of the tree of
life that he Alas cursed with this bitter
knowledge.

Here, on the quiet pavement that echoed
to his footsteps, the air was free. He uncovered
his head, and the light west wind
played in his hair and cooled his temples.
Not a star shone overhead, and the river
that flowed in the bed below was dark.

More dark to him was the sea of humanity
that flowed above.

He had heard that the death-roll of the
Thames was one for every day of the year,
and he leaned over the granite wall and
wondered if the old river had claimed its
toll for the day that was now almost done.
His hair seemed to rise from its roots as he
thought that perhaps at that very instant,
in the black waters beneath him, the day's
sacrifice was washing past.

He walked on, and the dull buzz of the
Strand fell on his ear. What, after all, was
the old god of the river to the juggernaut
of the city? And it was now, when the
fret of the day had worn down, that Hugh
Ritson thought of all that he had left behind
him in the distant jSTorth. There in the
darkness and the silence, amid the mountains,
by the waving trees and the rumbling gills,
lay half the ruins of his ruined life. The
glow of old London's many lights could
not reach so far, but the shadow of that
dark spot was here.

The clocks struck midnight, and he returned
to the hotel at which he had engaged a bed.
He did not lie down to sleep, but walked to
and fro the night through.

Next morning at ten he was at the Home
Office again. He saw the Secretary and
some of the law officers of the Crown.
When he came out he carried in his pocket
an order to visit a convict in Portland, and
was attended by a police sergeant in plain
clothes. They took train from Waterloo
at two in the afternoon, and reached Weymouth
at six. When they crossed the strip
of sea the best of the day was gone, and a
fresh breeze blew across the breakwater.

The Saxon walls of the castle at the foot
of the Vern Hill reflected the chill blue of

the water; but far above, where the rocky
coast dipped to the beach, the yellow stone,
with the bluish clay in its crevices, shone
in the glow of the sinking sun.

Hugh Ritson and his companion put up
for the night at the Portland Arms Inn.
A ruddy, round-faced man in middle life,
clean shaven and dressed youthfully, was
smoking in the parlour. He exchanged a
salutation with the cordiality of one who was
nothing loath for a chat; then he picked
up the old Reeve staff. and explained the
ancient method of computing tithes. But
Hugh Ritson was in no humour for conversation,
and after dinner he set out fora
solitary walk. He took the road that
turns from the beach through the villages
of Chigwell and Fortune's AVell. When he
reached the top of the hill the sea lay
around him ; and beneath him, to the right
and left of the summit, were the quarries
where the convicts laboured, with two
branches of an inclined railway leading
down to the breakwater. On the summit
itself, known as the Grove, was a long, high

granite wall, with a broad gateway, and the
lancet lights of a lodge at one side of it.
This was the convict prison, and the three
or four houses in front of it were the
residences of governor, chaplain, and chief
warder. A cordon of cottages at a little
distance were the homes of the assistant-warders.
There were a few shops amid
this little group of cottages, and one public -
house, the Spotted Dog.

Hugh Bitson strolled into the tavern and
sat down in a little ' snuggery,' which was
separated from a similar apartment by a
wooden partition that stood no higher thana
tall man's height, and left a space between
the top stile and the ceiling. A company
of men gossiped at the other side of the
partition.

Talk of B 2001,' said a guttural voice
(Hugh Eitson started at the sound), 'took
the stiff 'king out of him first go off. When
he'd done he separates and come on from
the moor ; I saw he wasn't an old lag, so
says I to 'im, " Green un," I says, " if
you're leary you'll fetch a easy lagging,

and if you're not it'll be bellows to mend
with } T ou." " What d'ye mean ?" he says.
It's blooming' 'ard work here," I says,
and maybe you don't get shin-of-beef
soup to do it on. Bread and water, fora
word," I says. " You're in my gang
quarrying, and I won't work you 'ard
except I'm drum to it, but I want wide menin
my gang," I says, " and no putting the
stick on amen the screw." " Don't understand,"
he says. " Then follow a straight
tip," I says; "stand by your warder and
he'll stand by you." Blest if that lag as
I'd give that good advice to didn't get me
fined the very next day.'

'Never!' said sundry incredulous voices.

It was a hot afternoon, and I'd just
whipped a quid in my mouth and leaned
atop of my musket for forty winks after
dinner. The second tiers was nodding
front of me, and 2001 and the young chap
as was dying of the consumption was
wheeling and filling ahead. Well, up come
the Croaker right in front of 2001, and
shouts, " Warder," he shouts, u you're fined

vol. nr. 55

for inattention." Then off lie goes. All
right, Mr. 2001, I says, I'll not misremember.'


< What did you do?'

Do ?' (a loud hollow laugh). l That
was when the barracks was building, and
one day a bit of a newspaper blowed over
from the officers' quarters, and 2001 came
on it, and the botcher picked it up. He'd
chucked himself quick. " Eight about face
march." He got seven stretch, a month's
marks, and lost his bedding.'

A hearty laugh followed this account of
a ' screw's ' revenge on a ' green ' convict.
Hugh Kitson listened and shuddered.

I ain't surprised at anything from that
luny,' said another voice. ' He was in my
gang at the moor, and I know'd 'im. They
put 'im in the soap-suds gang first, but he
got himself shifted. Then they sent 'im
botching with the tailors, but he put out
his broom for the Governor, and said a big
lusty man same as 'im wasn't for sitting on
a board all day. The flat didn't want to
fetch a easy lagging, that's the fact.'

There was a loud guffaw.
4 So they put 'im in my turf gang out on
the moor, and one day a old clergyman
come in gaiters and a broad-brimmer, and
a face as if the master of the house were
a-shaking at his hand, and the missis
flopping downstairs to give him a smack of
the lips. Well, 2001 saw him in Principal
Warder Kennel's office, and not afore the
bars. So next day I says, " Got anybody
outside as would like to send you summit
by the Underground?" "The what?" he
says, regular black in the face. " The
underground railway," I says, tipping him
a wink. " Get away from me, you bloodsucker,"
he says. But I pinched 'im. The
old lags were laughing at one of the grave-digger's
oyster-openers, when up comes
Kennel. " Who's laughing ?" he says.
"It's 2001," I says; "he's always idling
and malingering:. " '

Ha, ha, ha, what did he get?'
1 Three days' bread and water, a week's
marks, and loss of class privileges. He
didn't mind the grub and the time, but 



in-the-box, who was warder on his landing,
said he took it proper bad as he couldn't
write home to the missis.'

4 What's his dose?'

1 Three. One of the old lags would doit
on his head, and fetch it easy too. He's
a scholar, and could get to be a herdsman
in the infirmary, or medicine factotum for
the Croaker, or maybe book-keeper for the
Governor. But he's earned no remissions,
and he'll double his time afore he slings his
hook again.'

Hugh Ritson could support the gossip no
longer. He got up to leave the house, but
before doing so he pushed open the door
that led to the adjoining room, and stood a
moment on the threshold, comprehending
everything and everybody in one quick
glance. The air breathed fresh outside.
He walked in the gathering gloom of evening
to the ruins of the church by the cliff,
and, passing through the loch-gate, he
came on the beaten track to the rocks. The
rocks lay a hundred feet beneath, torn from
the mainland in craggy masses that seemed

ready to slide from their base to the deep
chasm between. Could it be possible that
men who were the slaves of hinds like
those in yonder tavern could cling to
their little lives while a deliverance like
this beetling cliff stood near ? A cold
smile played on Hugh Ritson's face as he
thought that come what would such slavery
was not for him.

The sycamore by the ruined chancel pattered
in the breeze, and the wheatear's last
notes came from its topmost bough. Far
below the waves were rocking lazily. There
were other waves at Hugh Ritson's feet 
the graves of dead men. Some who were
buried there long ago were buried in their
chains. Under the earth the fettered men 
on the ruins of the church the singing bird.
Across the sea the light was every moment
fading. In another hour the day would
be done, and then the moon would look
down peacefully on the fettered and the
free.

Hugh Ritson returned to the Portland
Arms Inn. He found the police-sergeant

in conversation with the ruddy-faced gentleman
who had wished to explain to him the
mysteries of the Reeve staff.

1 He is the doctor at the prison,' whispered
the sergeant aside.

Presently Hugh turned to the doctor
and said :

Do you happen to know the convict
B 2001 ?'

Yes, Drayton,' said the doctor ; ' calls
himself Ritson. Are you a friend V

Hugh Ritson's face quivered slightly.

c No,' he answered, ' I am not his friend.'
Then, after a pause, ' But I have an order
to see him. Besides, I have just heard him
discussed by a company of warders in a
pothouse on the hill.'

Who were they ? What were they
like ?'

1 A tall man, one of them, fifty-five years
of age, gray hair, grizzly beard, dark vindictive
eyes, a gash on one cheek, and a
voice like a crow's.'

Humph ! Jim-the-ladder  a discharged
soldier.

 Another, a cadaverous fellow, with a
plausible tongue.'

Jorrocks  an old second-classes ; served
his time at Dartmoor and got promotion

They both deserve one more and much
higher promotion,' said Hugh Ritson, with
emphasis.

1 You mean this.' The doctor laughed,
and put the forefinger of one hand, held
horizontally, to the tip of the other, held
upright.

I Can it be possible that the law is unable
to maintain a fair stand-up fight with crime,
and must needs call a gang of poltroons and
black-mailers to its assistance ?'

You heard a bad account of B 2001, I
judge?'

I I heard of nothing that he had done
which the Pope of Rome might have feared
to acknowledge.'

1 You are right  he's as good a man as
there's on Portland Bill,' said the doctor,
1 and if he's not quite as immaculate as his
Holiness, he's in the right of it this time.'

Hugh Ritson glanced up.

i You've heard he's in the punishment
cells,' said the doctor. ' By the way, you'll
not see him until Monday ; he can't join
his gang before, and he hasn't a class privilege
left, poor devil

Hugh inquired the cause.

Since he came here he's been yoked to a
young fellow dying of consumption. The
lad didn't relish the infirmary  he lost his
marks towards remission there. He knew
the days he had to serve, and used to nick
them off ever 7 night on his wooden spoon.
It was a weary way from a thousand back,
back, back to one. And that Jim-theater
took delight in keeping up the count
by reports. The poor boy wanted to die in
his mother's arms. He had got his time
down to a week, when the u screw" clapped
as many marks on to him as added a month
to his imprisonment. Then he lost heart,
and dropped down like a flounder, and
when they picked him up he was dead.'

Was B 2001 yoked to him as usual ?'

He was ; and he broke the strap, sprang
on the warder, and tore his rifle out of his

hands. Jim-the-ladder has been a prizefighter
in his day, and there was a tussle.
He leapt back on B 2001 with a howl, and
the blows fell like raindrops. There was a
fearful clamour, the convicts screaming like
madmen.'

B 2001 is a powerful man,' said Hugh
linton.

The doctor nodded.

 He closed with the warder, gripped him
by the waist, twisted him on his loins,
turned him heels over head, and brought
him down in a sweep that would have battered
the life out of any other man. Up
came the civil guard, and the convict was
brought into the lodo'e covered with dust,
sweat, and blood, his eyes flashing like balls
of fire. They had the lad's body on a
stretcher beside him, the lips white, and the
cheeks a mask of blue. It was a tremendous
spectacle, I can tell you.'

Hugh Ritson's breast heaved, and somewhere
deep down in his soul he surprised a
feeling of pride. That man was a hero and
his own brother !

1 And so the convict was punished ?'

1 Fourteen days' penal class diet, and
marks enough for six months. He'll be out
on Monday, and then he'll wear the blue cap
that denotes a dangerous man

Hugh Ritson shuddered.

Is it impossible to see him tomorrow V
he asked.

1 Come up before church in the morning
and ask for me, and we'll speak to the
Governor.'

Early next morning Huo-li Ritson showed
his order at the prison gates, and was admitted
to the doctor's quarters. Hugh and
the doctor went in search of the Governor,
but learned that he was away from home for
the day. There was nothing to do but to
wait until morning in order to speak with
the convict.

You can stay here until to-morrow
said the doctor ; ' I can give you a shakedown.
And now let us go off to church.
But come this way first.'

They walked in the direction of that
portion of the parade ground which was
marked, in great white letters, ' 34 gang,'
with the broad arrow beneath. Near to
this stood a building composed chiefly of

wood and iron, and marked in similar
letters ' E Hall.' They entered a corridor
that led to an open landing in the shape of
a many-sided polygon, each side being a
door. In the middle of the landing there
was an iron circular staircase that led to
landings above and below. A warder
paraded the open space, which was lit by
gas jets.

6 Hush ! Look,' said the doctor, standing
by the peep-hole in one of the doors, and at
the same time putting out the gas jet that
burned on the door-jamb.

Hugh Eitson approached, and at first he
could see nothing in the darkness. But he
heard a curious clanking noise from within.
Then the glimmer of a feeble candle came
through the bars, and he saw a box-like
apartment, some seven feet long by four
feet broad and eight feet high. It was a
punishment cell. There was a shelf at the
opposite end, and a tin wash-basin stood
on it.

On the side of the door there must have
been a similar shelf, on which the candle

burned. A broom, a can, and a bowl were
on the brick floor. There was no other
furniture except a hammock swung from
end to end, and the convict was lying in it
at this moment. It could be seen that a
heavy chain was fastened with riveted rings
around each ankle, and linked about the
waist by a strap. At every movement this
chain clanked ; night and day it w T as there;
if the prisoner shifted in his sleep its
grating sound broke on the silence of the
cell, and banished the only sunshine of his
life, the sunshine of his dreams. His head
was back to the door, so that the light of
the candle burning on the shelf might fall
on a slate which rested on his breast. He
was writing, and Hugh Ritson's quick eyes
could decipher the words : ' Oh, that it
would please God to destroy me ; that He
would but loose His hand and cut me off !
Oh wretched man that I am, who shall
deliver me from the body of this death ?'
He paused in his writing and pecked
like a bird at a hard piece of bread beside
him.

Hugh Ritson fell back, and as his infirm
foot grated along the floor the convict
started and turned his face. It was a
blank pale face, full of splendid resolution
and the nobility of suffering, but without
one ray of hope.

Do you know him ?' asked the doctor.

But Hugh Rit son's eyes were on the
ground, and he made no answer.

They went to church. The civil guard
was drawn up under the gallery with
loaded rifles. Eight hundred convicts attended
service : some of them were penitent;
most of them were trying to make a
high profession of contrition as a bid for
the good graces of the chaplain. The
obtrusive reverence of one sinister gray-head
near at hand attracted Hugh Ritson's
especial attention. He knelt with his face
to the gallery in which the choir sat.
Beside him was a youth fresh from Mill-bank.
The hoary sinner was evidently
initiating the green hand into the mysteries
of his new home. He was loud in his
responses, but his voice had a trick of

dropping suddenly to a whispered conference.


4 Who's the fat un in the choir? A chap
as is doing his ten. His missis charged to
keep the kids, and one morning early he
popped the old girl's shoes.'

The voice of the chaplain interrupted a
further explanation ; but after another loud
response the old rascal's mouth was twisted
awry with the words :

He's a wide un, he is  seat in the choir
got comfortable cushions. Besides, he gets
off Saturday morning's work for practising
got no more voice nor a corncrake.'

Evidently it was no disadvantage here to
be the greatest of vagabonds. When a
cadaverous old Jew came hobbling up the
aisle with his gang, the gray-head whispered,
with awe:

It's old Mo ; he's in the stocking gang ;
but I did business with him when he
could ha' sent old Rothschild home for a
pauper.'

At one moment the attention of the
green hand was arrested by a tall man in

the black and gray that indicated a convict
who had attempted to escape.

4 Says he's in for twenty thousand, but
it's a lie,' whispered the old man ; i he only
knocked a living out of the religious fake.'

The last of the conference that Hugh
Ritson overheard was a piece of touching
advice.

Them as 'as any pluck in 'em turns
savage, same as B 2001; them as 'isn't
knocks under  same as me ; and I says to
you, knock under.'

After service the Sacrament was celebrated.
There must have been many
hundreds of communicants, all humble in
their piety. Tt could be noticed that the
chaplain had sometimes to keep a tight grip
of the goblet containing the wine.

That night Hugh Ritson lodged at the
doctor's quarters. He did not lie. but, as on
the night before, he walked the long hours
through, steadfastly resisting every temptation
to sleep. At five in the morning he
heard the great bell at the gate ring for two
minutes, and, shortly afterwards, the tramp,

tramp, tramp of many feet under his
window. The convicts, to the number of
fifteen hundred, were drawn up on the
parade ground. They looked chill in the
cold light of early morning ; their gray
jackets lay loose on their spare shoulders;
their hands hung inertly at their sides, and
they walked with the oscillating motion of
men whose feet were sore in their heavy
boots. The civil guard was drawn up, the
chief warder whistled, and then the men
fell out into gangs of twenty-five each,
attended by an assistant warder. ' Hear
rank, take two paces to the right  march.'
Then the tramp, tramp, tramp again. As
the outside gangs passed through the gate,
each officer in charge received his rifle,
bayonet, belt, and cartridge-box from the
armourer at the lodge. The stone-dressing
gang passed close under the window, and
Hugh Ritson reeled back as one of the mena
stalwart fellow in a blue cap, who was
walking abreast of a misshapen creature
with a face full of ferocity  lifted his eyes
upwards from the file.

vol. in. 56

At eight o'clock the Governor appeared
at his receiving-office. He was a slight
man with the face and figure of a gray-hound.
His military frock coat was embossed
with Crimean medals, and he was
redolent of the odour of Whitehall. He
received Hugh Ritson's papers with a
curious mixture of easy courtesy and cold
dignity  a sort of combination of the different
manners in which he was wont to bow
to a Secretary of State and condemn a convict
to the chain and bread and water.

4 The men are back to breakfast at nine, 7
he said. f Watkins,' to the chief warder,
have B 2001 brought round to the office
immediately 34 gang returns.'

Hugh Ritson had left the receiving-office
and was crossing the parade-ground when a
loud hubbub arose near the lodge. l The
boat!' shouted twenty voices, and a covey
of convicts ran in the direction of a shed
where an eight-oar boat was kept on the

chocks. ' A man has muzzled run a

wa2:on into the sea and is drifting down
the Race.'

How the demons laughed, how they cursed
in jest, how they worked, how luminous were
their eyes and haggard faces at the prospect
of recapturing one of their fellow-prisoners
who had tried to make his escape !
Every convict who helped to catch a fugitive
was entitled to the remission of six
days. The doctor took Hugh Eitson upon
to the lead flat that covered his quarters.
From that altitude they could see over the
prison wall to the rocky coast beyond.
Near the ruins of the old church a gang of
convicts were running to and fro, waving
-their hands, and shouting in wild excitement.


It's gang 34,' said the doctor, ' Jim-theater's
gang.'

The sun had risen, the sea was glistening
in its million facets, and into many a rolling
wave a sea-bird dipped its corded throat.
In the silvery waterway there was something
floating that looked as if it might
have been a tub. It was the wao'o'on that
the convict had driven into the water for a
boat.

562

4 It will sink  it's shod with thick hoops
of iron,' said the doctor.

The convict could be seen standing in it.
He had thrown off his coat and cap, and his
sleeveless arms were bare to the armpits.
The civil guard ran to the cliff head and
fired. One shot hit. The man could be
seen to tear the coarse linen shirt from his
breast and bind it above the wrist.

4 Why does he not crouch down ?' said
Hugh Kitson : he did not know who this
convict was, but in his heart there was a
feverish desire that the prisoner should
escape.

He's a doomed man  he's in the Each
it's flowing hard, and he'll drift back to
the island,' said the doctor.

Half an hour later a posse of the civil
guard, with two assistant warders, brought
the recaptured fugitive into the Governor's
receiving-office. The stalwart fellow strode
between the warders with a firm step and
head erect. He wore no jacket or cap, and
on one bare arm a strip of linen was roughly
tied. His breast was naked, his eyes were

aflame, and save for a black streak of blood
across the cheek his face was ashy pale.
But that man was not crushed by his misfortunes
; he seemed to crush them ; and
never a victor in the hour of triumph was
stronger than that disgraced and defeated
convict in this moment of public shame.

4 Take that man's number,' said the
Governor.

Ay, take it, and see you take it rightly
said the convict.

< It's B 2001,' interposed the chief
warder.

The Governor consulted a paper that lay
on his table.

Send for the gentleman,' he said to an
attendant. ' It's well for you that you are
wanted by the law-officers of the Crown,'
he added, turning to the prisoner.

The convict made no answer ; he was
neither humble nor sullen ; his manner was
frank but fierce, and made almost brutal by
a sense of wrong.

The next moment Hugh Bitson stepped
into the office. His eyes dropped, and his

infirm foot trailed heavily along the floor.
He twitched at his coat with nervous fingers ;
his nostrils quivered; his whole body trembled
perceptibly.

This is the man,' said the chief warder,
with a deferential bow.

Hugh Kit son tried to raise his eyes, but
they fell suddenly. He opened his lips to
speak, but the words would not come.
And meantime the wet, soiled, naked, close-cropped,
blood-stained convict, flanked by
armed warders, stood before him with head
erect and eyes that searched his soul. The
convict rested one hand on his hip and
pointed with the other at Hugh Eitson's
abject figure.

What does this man want with me ?' he
said, and his voice was deep.

At that Hugh Eitson broke in impetuously
:

Paul, I will not outrage your sufferings
by offering you my pity

The officers looked into each other's face.

i" want none of your pity,' said the convict
bitterly.

1 No ; it is I who need yours, 7 said Hugh
Kitson, in a low tone.

The convict laughed a hard laugh, and
turned to the warders.

1 Here, take me away  I've had enough
of this.'

1 Listen. I have something to say to
you  something to do for you, too.'

The convict broke afresh into a laugh.

Take me away, will your

i What if I say I am sorry for the past ?'
said Hugh.

Then you are a hypocrite,' the convict
answered.

Hugh Ritson drew himself up, and took
his breath audibly. In one swift instant
his face became discoloured and his features
pinched and hard. There was silence, and
then in a low, broken tone, he said :

4 Paul, you know well what sort of man
I am ; don't drive me too hard. I have
come here to do you a service. Remember
your sufferings '

Once again the convict broke into a cold
laugh.

4 Remember that others  one other  maybe
suffering with you.'

The convict's haughty look fled like a
flash of light.

4 Here ; take me out of this,' he muttered
in a low hoarse voice. He took a step
back, but the guard closed around him.
4 1 won't stand to listen to this man. Do
you hear? I won't listen,' he said hotly;
4 he has come to torture me  that's all.'

4 1 have come to undo what I have done,'
said Hugh. ' Paul, let me undo it. Don't
rouse the bad part of me at this crisis of
your life and mine.'

The convict paused, and said more
quietly :

4 Then it's your policy to undo it. Such
villainy as yours always punishes itself
sooner or later.'

Hugh Eitson flinched. The words had
gone to his heart like a spear. If he had
dared to mask his motive, that thrust would
have left it naked.

4 1 will not wrong the truth by saying
I am a changed man,' he answered meekly.

My motive is my own ; but my act shall
be all in all to you.'

The convict's face lightened.

You have used me for your vengeance,'
he said, 4 you shall not use me for your contrition
also. Guards, let me out, let me out,
I tell you I' He looked inexpressibly noble
at that moment  a strong man braving the
cruelties of penal servitude, and spurning
the liberty that seemed to be bought by
vice. The Governor interposed.

When you leave this room you go direct
to the cells.'

Ay, take me to your cells, and let me lie
there and die and rot,' said the convict.

Take him away,' said the Governor.

Paul, I beseech you to hear me,' cried
Hugh Ritson, amid the clanking of the
arms of the guard.

Take him away !' the Governor shouted
again.

An hour afterwards B 2001 was recalled
to the receiving office. He was quiet
enough now.

We have an order respecting you from

the Secretary of State,' said the Governor.
1 You are required to give evidence at a
trial. At two o'clock you leave Portland
for Cumberland, and your guard goes with
you.'

The convict bent his head and went out
in silence.

Paul Ritsox  let hint be known by his
official number no more  was not taken
to the punishment cells. He was set to
work with the stone-dressing gang stationed
near the gate of the prison. The news of
his attempt to escape had not spread more
rapidly than rumours of his approaching
departure.

I say,' shouted a hoary convict. l take a
crooked message out?'

'What's your message?'

1 Only a word to the old girl telling her
where she'll find a bunch of keys as she
wants particular.'

Write to her yourself, my man.'

AVhat, and the Governor read it, and me
get a bathing, and the crushers pinch the

old moll? Well, I am surprised at ye; but
I forgot, you're a straight man, you are.'

A mocking laugh followed this explanatory
speech.

A young fellow with a pale, meek face
and the startled eyes of a hare crept close
up to where Paul Bitson worked, and took
a letter out of his pocket.

1 This is the last I had from home,' he
said quietly, and put the letter into Paul's
hands.

It was a soiled and crumpled paper, so
greasy from frequent handling and so much
worn by many foldings, that the writing
could scarcely be deciphered. Home? It
w T as dated from the Union of Liverpool, and
had come from his invalid wife and his
children, all living there.

The poor fellow could not read, but he
had somehow learned the letter by heart,
and was able to point out each bit of family
history in the exact place where it was recorded.
He had lost his class privileges,
and was not allowed to reply; and now he
wanted to know if Paul Kit son could get

down to Liverpool and see his wife and
little ones, and tell them how well he was,
and how lusty he looked, and what line
times he had of it  'just to keep up their
spirits, you know.'

I say, you sir,' bawled a sinister gray-head
 the same whose conversation was
overheard in church  i I hear as you're a
employer of labour when yer not lagged.
Any chance? I wants to leave my situation.
Long hours, and grub regular on-satisfactory.
Besides, my present employer
insists on me wearing a collar with a number
same as a wild beast or a bobby. It's
getting' ridiculous. So I've give notice, and
I flit in September. Maybe ye see as I'm
growing my wings to fly.' The hoary
sinner pointed upwards ;to his grisly hair,
which was longer than the hair of his comrades.
l Only it's coming out another tinto'
auburn nor what it was ten years ago,
and the old woman won't have the same
pride in my personal appearance.'

At two o'clock, the assistant-warder
known as Jim-the-ladder marched Paul

Ritson to the chief warder's office. There
the convict was handcuffed and the warder
armed. Then they set out. On the steamboat
that plied between the Portland Ferry
and Weymouth the convict dress attracted
much attention. The day was some sort
of chapel festival, and great numbers of
chapel people in holiday costume crowded
the decks and climbed the pacldleboxes ;
the weather was brilliant ; the sun danced
on the waters like countless fairies on a
floor of glass ; a brass band played on the
bridge.

Again at the Weymouth railway-station
the people gathered in little groups, and
looked askance at the convict. During the
few minutes which elapsed before the train
left the platform, a knot of spectators stood
before the carriage and peered in at the
window. Paul Ritson paid little heed to
these attentions, but they were often unwelcome
enough. ' Keep clear of him  seethe
blue cap?' ' AVhat an ill-looking fellow
to be sure his looks are enough to hand*
him.' Paul laughed bitterly. His heartfelt

cold within him at that moment. If
he had worn broadcloth and a smile how
different the popular verdict might have
been. Who then would have said that he
was a villain? Certainly not yonder sleek
minister of Christ who was humming a
psalm tune a moment ago, and paused to
whisper, ' Be sure your sin will find you
out.' The black-coated Pharisee was handing
a lady into a first-class carriage.

The train started. Paul threw himself
back in his seat, and thought of all that
had occurred since he made this journey
before. He was travelling in the other
direction then, and what an agony was that
first experience of convict life ! He had
never thought of it from that day to this.
Other and more poignant memories had day
after day obliterated the recollection of that
experience. But it came back now as freshly
as if it had all occurred yesterday. He was
one of a gang of twenty who were travelling
from Millbank to Dartmoor. The journey
to Waterloo in the prison van had been a
terrible ordeal. He had thought in the cells

that it would be nothing to him if people
in the streets recognised him. The shameful
punishment of an innocent man was
not his, but the law's disgrace. Yet, when
he was marched out into the prison grounds
abreast of a cadaverous wretch with shrunken
brows and the eyes of a hawk, an old thief
in front of him, and a murderer convicted
of manslaughter treading on his heels, the
cold sweat burst in great beads from his
forehead. He had meant to hold up his
head, and if people looked into his face to
look frankly back into their faces. But
when his turn came he leapt into the van,
and his chin buried itself in his breast.
Then the crowds drawn up on the pavement
outside as the gates rolled back and
the van passed through ; the crush in a
busy thoroughfare when the van stopped tolet
a line of crowded omnibuses go by ; the
horrible scene at the station when the convicts
were marched down the platform, and
every ear was arrested by the tramp, tramp
of twenty fettered men! Above all, the
jests and the laughter of the older hands

who had served their time before, and were
superior to all small considerations of public
shame ! ' I say, you with the gig lamps, toss
a poor devil a bit o' 'banco.' l Seen us afore?
In course you have. You in the white
choker, look hard while yer at it, and you'll
know us again.' ' Oh, Mother Skipton, and
is that yourself? and how pleased we is to
see ye, and just tip us yer welwet purse,
and we'll give it yer back when we're this
ways again.' Paul Kit son could not forbear
to lausrh aloud when be remembered
with what an agony of sweat he had that
day crept back into his seat. Times had
changed since then. He had spent a year
and a half in a Government school, and
had been educated out of all torturing
delicacy.

The warder attempted to draw him into
conversation. Jim-the-ladder repeatedly
protested that he bore no malice. 4 I'm a
good fellow at bottom,' he said more than
once, and Paul Ritson showed no malice.
But he laughed bitterly at a grim and an
obvious thought that the warder's dubious

vol. in. 57

words suggested. Failing in his efforts at
conciliation, the warder charged his pipe and
relapsed into a long silence.

They had a compartment to themselves.
At a station where the train stopped a man
opened the door and had already put one
foot into the carriage when he recognised
the caste of his travelling companions. He
disappeared in a twinkling. Paul Eitson
did his best to restrain the anger that well-nigh
choked him. He merely sent a ringing
laugh after the retreating figure. At
another station a police inspector, dressed
in a little brief authority, caught sight of
the blue cap and gray jacket, and bustled
up to examine the warder's papers. Then,
with a lofty look, he strode through the
group of spectators whom his presence had
attracted.

Arrived at Waterloo, the warder hailed
a cab, and they drove to Scotland Yard to
report themselves. There they supped on
cocoa and brown bread, with the addition
of a rasher of bacon and a pipe for the
warder. Thence they were driven to

Euston to catch the nine o'clock train to
Penrith.

The journey north was uneventful. At
Rugby, Stafford, and elsewhere, the train
stopped, and little groups of people looked
in at the convict, and made apposite comments
on his appearance, crime, and condition.
Paul Ritson often shut his eyes
and said nothing. Sometimes a sneer
curled his lip, sometimes he burst into a
bitter laugh. He was thinking that this
was a fitting close to the degradation of
his prison life. If one feeling of delicacy,
one tender sentiment, one impulse of
humanity remained to him when the gates
of Portland closed behind him, it only required
this cruel torture to crush it for ever.

The warder coiled himself up and fell
asleep. It was after midnight when they
reached Crewe, and from that point of the
journey the worst of the torment ceased.
The merciful fellow-men were mostly in
their nightcaps, dreaming of heroic deeds
that they were doing. But the silence of
night had its own torture. As the train

572

rumbled on through the darkness, now
rattling in a long tunnel, now sliding into
open air like a boat into still water, Paul
Kit son's mind went back to the day which
seemed now to be so far away that it might
have belonged to another existence, when
he travelled this road with the clear soul
who had trusted her young and cloudless
life to his keeping. Where was she now %
Peace be with her, wheresoever she was !
He recalled her tenderest glance, he seemed
to hear her softest tone ; the light pressure
of her delicate fingers was now on his hands
the hard hands that wore the irons. And
even at that moment, when all his soul
went out to the pure young wife who had
shared his sufferings, and he felt as if time
and space were nothing, as if he had drawn
her to him by the power of his yearning
love, it seemed to him that all at once there
rang in his ears the shrill sharp voices of
the convicts rapping out their foul and
frightful oaths.

He leapt to his feet, with a muttered oath
on his own lips, and when the imagined

agony with which he surprised himself had
given way to a new sense of his actual
sufferings, his heart grew yet more cold and
bitter. He thought of what he had been
and of what he was. There could be no
disfmisino- the truth  he was a worse mano

o

Yes ; whatsoever had once been pure in him,
whatsoever had once been generous, whatsoever
had once been of noble aspiration, was
now impure, and ungenerous, and ignoble.
Above all else, he had lost that tenderness
which is the top and crown of a strongman.
He felt as if the world had lifted its
hand against him, and as if he were ready
and eager to strike back.

They reached Penrith towards four in
the morning, and then the carriage in which
they travelled was shunted on to the branch
line to await the first train towards Cocker-mouth.
The day was breaking. From
the window Paul Hit son could see vaguely
the few ruins of the castle. That familiar
object touched him strangely. He hardly
knew why, but he felt that a hard lump at
his heart melted away. By-and-by the

tradesman shouted to the signalman in the
gray silence of morning. The words were
indifferent  only some casual message  but
they were spoken in the broad Cumbrian
that for a year and a half had never once
fallen on Paul Ritson's ear. Then the
lump that had melted at his heart seemed
to rise to his throat.

The gray light became intermingled with
red, and soon the sky to the east was aflame.
Paul let down the carriage window, and long
waves of sweet mountain air, laden with the
smell of peat, flowed in upon him. His
lips parted and his breast expanded. At
five o'clock the engine was attached. A
few carriages were added at the platform,
and these contained a number of pitman, in
their red stained fustian, going down for the
morning shift. When the train moved westward,
the sun had risen, and all the air was
musical with the songs of the birds. Very
soon the train ran in among the mountains,
and then at last the bitterness of Paul Rit-son's
heart seemed to fall away from him like
a garment. That quick thrill of soul which

comes when the mountains are first seen
after a long absence is a rapture known to
the mountaineer alone. Paul saw his native
hills towering up to the sky, the white mists
flying off their bald crown, the torrents
leaping down their brant sides, and the tears
filled his eyes and blotted it all out. The
sedge-warbler was singing with the wheatear,
and, though he could not see them now,
he knew where they were : the sedge-warbler
was flitting among the rushes of the lowland
mere ; the wheatear was perched on the
crevice of gray rock in which it had laid its
pale blue eggs. The sheep were bleating on
the fells, and he knew their haunts by the
lea of the boulders and along the rocky
ledges where grew the freshest grasses.
Down the carries of Blencathra, long drifts
of sheep were coming before the dogs, and
he knew that the shepherds had been out on
the fells during the short summer night,
numbering the sheep for the washing in the
beck below.

Everything came back upon him like a
memory of yesterday. He stood up and

thrust out his head, and did not think of his
gray jacket and blue cap until a carter who
watered his horses at a pool near the railway
lines started and stared as if he had seen a
boggle ' at noonday.

Then Paul Eitson remembered that he
was still a convict, that his hands wore
irons, that the man who lay sleeping on
the seat of the carriage was his warder,
and that the steely thing that peeped from
the belt of the sleeping man was a revolver,
to be promptly used if he attempted to
escape.

But not even these reflections sufficed to
dissipate the emotion that had taken hold
of him. He began at length to think of
Hugh Eitson, and to wonder why he had
been brought back home. Home !  home ?
It was a melancholy home-coming, but it
was coming home nevertheless.

Two days later the gray old town hall that
stands in the market-place of Keswick was
surrounded by a busy throng. The Civil
Court of the County Assize was sitting in
this little place for the nonce to try a curious
case of local interest. It was an action for
ejectment brought by Greta, Mrs. Paul Rit-son,
against a defendant whose name was
entered on the sheet as Paul Drayton, alias
Paul Ritson, now of the Ghyll, in the parish
of Lowlands.

The court-room was crowded. It was a
large bare room, with a long table and two
rows of chairs crossing the end, the one row
occupied by the two judges and a special
jury, the other by the lawyers for prosecution
and defence. The rest of the chamber

was not provided with seats, and there the
tradespeople huddled together.

A seat had been found for Greta at one
end of the table. Her cheek rested on her
hand. She dropped her eyes as the spectators
craned their necks to catch a glimpse
of her. Behind her, and with one hand on
her chair-back, stood the old parson, his
jovial white head more white than of old,
the tenderer lines in his mellow face drawn
down to a look of pain. Immediately facing
Greta, at the opposite end of the table, 1
Hugh Kitson sat. One leg was thrown
over the other knee, and the long nervous
fingers of his right hand played with the
shoe-lace. His head was inclined forward,
and the thin, pallid, clean-cut face with
the great calm eyes and the full, dilated
nostrils was more than ever the face of a
high-bred horse. None would have guessed
the purpose with which Hugh Kitson sat
there. One would have said that indifference
was in those eyes and on that brow 
indifference or despair.

Near where the rustle was loudest and

most frequent among the spectators, Drayton
sat by the side of Mr. Bonnithorne. He
was dressed in his favourite suit of broad
plaid, and had a gigantic orange-lily stuck
jauntily in his buttonhole. His face was
flushed and his eyes sparkled. Now and
again he leaned back to whisper something
to the blacksmith, the miller, and the landlord
of the Flying Horse, who were grouped
behind him. His remarks must have been
wondrously facetious, for they were promptly
followed by a low gurgle, which was as
promptly suppressed.

The lawyer for the plaintiff opened his
case. The plaintiff sued as the owner in
succession to her husband, who was at present
dead to the law. She contended that
the man who now stood seized of the Ghyll
was not her husband, Paul E it son, but
Paul Drayton, an innkeeper of Hendon,
who bore him a strange personal resemblance,
and personated him. The evidence
of identity which should presently be adduced
was full and complete in the essential
particular of proving that the defendant

was not Paul Eitson, by whose title alone
the defence would maintain the right of
present possession. Unhappily, the complementary
evidence as to the actual identity
of the defendant with Paul Drayton, the
publican, had been seriously curtailed by
the blindness, followed by the death, of an
important witness. Still, if he, the counsel
for the plaintiff, could prove to the satisfaction
of the j fury that the defendant was not
the man he represented himself to be, they
would have no course but to grant the ejectment
for which the plaintiff asked. To this
end he would call two witnesses whose
evidence must outweigh that of all others 
the wife of Paul Eitson, and the clergyman
who solemnised the marriage.

Greta's name was called, and she rose at
the end of the table. Her bosom heaved
under the small lace shawl that covered her
shoulders, and was knotted, like a sailor's
scarf, on her breast. She stood erect, her
eyes raised slightly and her drooping hands
clasped in front. After the customary formalities,
she was examined.

1 You are the only child of the late Robert
Lowther ?'

1 I am the daughter of Robert Lowther.'

Drayton threw back his head, and laughed
a little.

You were married to Paul Ritson in
1875 at the parish church of Lowlands, the
minister being Parson Christian ?'

<I

o

was.'

On the day of your marriage you accompanied
your husband to London, and the
same night he left you at the Convent of St.
Margaret, Westminster ?'

That is quite true.'

There was a buzz of conversation in the
court, accompanied by a whispered conference
on the bench. The lawyer paused to
say that it was not a part of his purpose to
trouble the court with an explanation of
facts which were so extraordinary that they
could only be credited on the oath of a
person who, though present, would not be
called. At this reference Hugh Ritson
raised his languid eyes, and the examination
proceeded.

1 Three days afterwards you received a
message from your husband, requesting you
to meet him at St. Pancras Station, and
return with him to Cumberland by the
midnight train ?'

< I did.'

4 Who took you the message ?'
Mrs. Drayton, the old person at the inn
at Hendon.'

1 You went to the station ?'

< Oh yes.'

4 Tell the court what occurred there.'

1 Just on the stroke of twelve, when the

train was about to leave, a man whom at

first sight I mistook for my husband came

hurrying up the platform, and I stepped

into the carriage with him.'

Do you see that man in court?'

4 Yes; he sits two seats to your right.'

Drayton rose, smiled broadly, bowed to

the witness, and resumed his seat.

Were you alone in the compartment ?'
i At first we were ; but just as the train

was moving away who should join us but

Parson Christian.'

There was another buzz of conversation,
and the lawyer paused again to say that
he should not trouble the court with an
explanation of the extraordinary circumstances
by which Parson Christian came
to be in London at that critical moment.
These facts formed in themselves a chain of
evidence which must yet come before a
criminal court, involving as it did the story
of a conspiracy more painful and unnatural
perhaps than could be found in the annals
of jurisprudence.

Tell the court what passed in the
train.'

I perceived at once that the man was
not my husband, though strangely like him
in face and figure, and when he addressed
me as his wife I repulsed him.'

Did Parson Christian also realize the
mistake?'

Oh yes, but not quite so quickly.'

'What did you do?'

AVe left the train at the first station at
which it stopped.'

1 Did the defendant offer any resistance?'

1 No ; he looked abashed, and merely
observed that perhaps a recent illness had
altered him.'

Mr. Bonnithorne, as lawyer for the defence,
so far advanced in his profession as to be
able to plead in the superior courts, cross-examined
the witness.

1 You say that on the night following the
morning of your marriage your husband left
you at a convent.'

< I do.'

Mr. Bonnithorne dropped his twinkling
eyes, and muttered something that was inaudible
to the witness. There was a titter
among the people who stood behind him.

And you say that Mrs. Drayton took
you the message of which you have spoken.
Did she tell you that your husband had
been ill?'

She did.'

1 We are to infer that you visited the
house of the Drayton at Hendon?'

A railway accident drove us there.'

Did anyone accompany the defendant to
St. Pancras that night?'

My husband's brother, Mr. Hugh Ritson,
was with him.'

1 Tell the jury where your husband now
is, if he is not at this moment in court.'

No answer. Amid a profound silence the
plaintiff's lawyer was understood to object
to the question.

Well, we can afford to waive it,' said
Mr. Bonnithorne, with a superior smile.
One further question, Mrs. Ritson. Had
you any misunderstanding with your husband?'


'None whatever.'

1 Will you swear that your voices were
not raised in angry dispute while you were
at the inn at Hendon V

Greta lifted her head and her eyes flashed.
Yes, I will swear it,' she said in a soft
voice but with impressive emphasis.

Mr. Bonnithorne was understood to say
that perhaps the point was too delicate to be
pressed.

Parson Christian was next examined.
The defendant in the present action was not
the man whom he married to the plaintiff.

vol. in. 58

He had since seen Paul Ritson. Where?
In the convict prison of Dartmoor. In
cross-examination he was asked by what
name the convict was known to the
directors of Dartmoor. Paul Drayton.

 Then tell the court how you came to
identify the defendant as Drayton.'

There were many facts pointing that
way.'

Give us one.'

On the morning of the marriage I found
a letter tying open before the fire in my
vestry. It was from Mr. Hugh Ritson to
Mr. Bonnithorne, and it mentioned the
name of Drayton in a connection which, by
the light of later revelations, provoked many
inferences.'

Mr. Bonnithorne was unprepared for
this answer. He glanced down and coloured
deeply.

Can you show us the letter V

1 No, I left it where I found it.'

Then it can hardly be received as
evidence.'

The lawyer smiled, and the tension of

Drayton's face relaxed. There was a slight
shuffle among the people ; the witness had
stepped back.

Mr. Bonnithorne opened his case. They
were asked to believe that the defendant in
the present action was Paul Drayton, in the
teeth of the fact that Paul Drayton was at
that moment a convict in a convict prison.
Odd, wasn't it ? The incredible statement
was made that a newly married husband
had placed his young wife in a convent on
the night of their marriage, and that when
they should have rejoined each other an
interchange had been made, the husband
going to prison in another man's name, the
other man coming to Cumberland to claim
the place of the woman's husband. Moreover,
they were asked to believe that the
husband's brother, Mr. Hugh Ritson, had
either been fooled by the impostor or made a
party to the imposture. Happily it was easy
to establish identity by two unquestionable
chains of evidence  resemblance and
memory. It would be shown that the
defendant could be none other than Paul

582

Ritson, first, because he resembled him
exactly in person ; second, because he knew
all that Paul Ritson ought to know ; third,
because he knew nothing that Paul Ritson
might not know. No two men's lives had
ever been the same from the beginning of
the world, and as it would be seen that the
defendant's life had been the same as Paul
Ritson's, it followed that Paul Ritson and
the defendant were one and the same man.

Dick o' the Syke was the first witness
examined for the defence. He swore that
Paul Ritson was active in extinguishing a
fire that broke out in the mill two years ago ;
that he had climbed to the crossness with a
hatchet ; and that within the past month
the defendant had described to him the
precise locality and shape of the gap made
in the roof by the fire. No one could have
known so much except himself and the man
who stood on the crossness. That man
was Paul Ritson, and he was there and
then recognised by many spectators, among
whom was Parson Christian.

The next witness was Mistress Calvert,

of the Pack Horse. Paul Ritson had
slept at their house one night two years ago,
and a few days since the present defendant
had pointed out the bedroom he occupied,
and recalled the few words of conversation
which passed between them.

Natt, the stableman, was called. His
sleepy eyes blinked knowingly as he explained
that one winter's night, when the
snow fell heavily, Mrs. Ritson, then Miss
Greta, was startled by what she mistook for
the ghost of Mr. Paul Ritson. The witness
had not been so easily deceived, and the
defendant had since described to him the
exact scene and circumstances of what the
lady had thought to be the ghostly appearance.


Then followed John Proudfoot, the blacksmith
; Tom o' Dint, the postman ; Giles
Paisley, the pitman ; Job Sheepshanks, the
mason ; and Tommy Lowthwaite, the landlord
of the Flying Horse  all swearing to
points of identity.

One recalled the fact that Paul Ritson
had a scar on his head that was caused by

the kick of a horse when he was a boy.
The defendant had just such a scar.

Another remembered that Paul Eitson
had a mark on the sole of his right foot
which had been made by treading on a
sharp piece of rock on Hindscarth. The
defendant had exactly such a mark.

A third had wrestled with Paul Dissonant
knew that he had a mole beneath the
left shoulder-blade on the back. The
defendant had a mole in that unusual place.

The lawyer for the defence smiled blandly
at the special jury, the special jury smiled
blandly at the lawyer for the defence. Was
it really necessary that the defendant should
be called? Surely it was a pity to occupy
the time of the court. The whole case was
in a nutshell  the lady had quarrelled with
her husband. Odd, wasn't it? State of
affairs would be promptly gauged when it
was explained that this action had been
raised to anticipate a forthcoming suit in
the divorce court for restitution of connubial
rights.

The counsel for the plaintiff smiled also,

and his was a weak smile of conscious
defeat. He stammered a desire to withdraw
 said he had been promised more
conclusive evidence when he undertook the
case, and sat down with an apologetic air.

There was a shuffle of feet in the court.
Drayton had risen to receive the congratulation
of his friends behind him and the
cordial nods of some of the superior people
who had been favoured with seats at the
right and left of the judges. He was answering
in a loud tone, when there was a
sudden lull of the buzz of gossip, and all
eyes were directed towards one end of the
table.

Hugh Kitson had risen from his seat, and
was addressing the court. His face was
pale but as firm as a rock, and his voice was
full and strong.

If it is conceivable,' he said, ' that in
any question of personal identity the court
will accept the evidence of all the tinkers
and tailors, the riff-raff, and the raggabash
of the country side, and reject that of the
wife of the man whose estate is in question,

perhaps it will be allowed that there are
three persons who are essential to this
examination  myself, as brother of Paul
Eitson ; the defendant, who claims to be
Paul Ritson ; and the convict who is
suffering penal servitude in the name of
Paul Drayton. I might name one other
whose evidence would be yet more conclusive
than that of any of these alone,
the mother of Paul Ritson ; but she is
unhappily dead to the world.'

He spoke quietly, and was heard in
silence, and without protest. Drayton was
still on his feet, riveted to the spot where
he stood. In all his calculations this
chance had never once suggested itself 
that Hugh Ritson would risk the personal
danger to bring him down.

Hugh Ritson asked the court to be pardoned
the informality of putting two questions
to the defendant. Drayton had recovered
his consciousness and lost his
temper by this time. He protested vehemently
that nothing would prevail with
him to answer questions of Hugh Ritson's.

None of his criss-crossing' for me,' he
shouted.

You prejudice your case by not putting
the defendant in the witness-box,' said one
of the jurors to Mr. Bonnithorne.

The lawyer for the plaintiff rose. His
professional pride had been piqued by Hugh
Eitson's interruption. He did not require
that Mr. Brown, Mr. Jones, or Mr. Robinson
should instruct him how to conduct his
case. Xor was the plaintiff eager for dubious
assistance from such a quarter.

Hugh Ritson seemed not to be conscious,
of these remarks. He addressed the judges
again, saying that it was of course within
the liberties of the defendant to keep carefully
out of the witness-box, but the bench
would not refuse to hear the evidence of the
two other persons of whom he had spoken,
himself and the convict known as Drayton.

At this there was high commotion in the
court. Greta had leaned back in her chair,
her bosom heaving, her face shadowed by
lines of pain. Parson Christian stood behind
her with a blank expression of bewilderment.

Drayton's brows were tightened
and his teeth were exposed between his
hard-drawn lips.

Hugh Ritson stood quietly by the table,
and with complete self-possession explained
that four days ago, in anticipation of this
action and of another that had been threatened,
he had made a statutory declaration
in the presence of the Home Secretary and
the law-officers of the Crown. The first
result of that statement was that the convict
Drayton was now present in the courthouse
ready to appear at this trial.

There was an awful silence as he spoke.
The judges signified their desire that the
convict might be brought in and heard.
Hugh Ritson motioned to a tall man who
stood near, and immediate 7 afterwards a
door was thrown open and another man
stepped into the court-room.

Every eye was fixed upon him. He
wore a convict's gray jacket, with the round
badge marked '3. B 2001. P S,' and the
broad arrow beneath. His face was pale
and rigid ; his large eves glittered : he was in

his full manhood, but his close-cropped hair
was slightly tinged with gray. He pushed
his way through the people, who fell back
to let him pass. When he reached the
table he tapped it impatiently with one of
his hands, which were fettered, and threw up
his head with a france of defiance. His
whole bearing" was that of a strong man
who believed that every man's hand was
against him, and who intended to let it be
seen that his own hand was against every
man's.

Hugh Hit son rose again, and he did not
now consult the formalities of the court,
nor did the judges object to his irregularities.


1 John Proudfoot, Job Sheepshanks,
Thomas Lowthwaite, Giles Paisley, look
this way,' he cried. ' AVho is this man?'

There was a dead hush. Then, one by
one, the men who had been named shook
their heads. They did not know the convict.
Indeed, he was terribly altered.
The ordeal of the past two years had
ploughed strange lines in his face. At that

moment he was less like himself than was the
impostor who came there to personate him.

Hugh Eitson's manner did not change.
Only a slight curl of the lip betrayed his
feelings.

Is there anyone in court who remembers
him?'

Not a voice responded. All was silence.

i Will the defendant stand side by side
with him V

Drayton leapt up with a boisterous laugh,
and swaggered his way to the opposite side
of the table. As he approached, the convict
looked at him keenly.

Will Mrs. Bitson come forward again?'
said Hugh Kitson, and his voice deepened
as he spoke.

Greta had already risen, and was holding
Parson Christian's hand with a nervous
grip. She stepped apart, and, going behind
the two men, she came to a stand between
them. On the one side stood Drayton,
with a smirking face half-turned towards
the spectators ; on the other stood the
convict, his hands bound before him, his

defiant glance softened to a look of tenderness,
and his lips parted with the unuttered
cry that was ready to burst from them.

Greta said Hugh Eitson, in a tone of
indescribable pathos, ' which of these men is
your husband?'

Greta had slowly raised her eyes from
the ground until they reached the convict's
face. Then in an instant, in a flash of
light, with the quick cry of a startled bird,
she flunof herself on his neck. Her fair head
dropped on the frieze of the convict's jacket,
and her sobs were all that broke the silence.

Hugh Eitson's emotion surged in his
throat, but he stood quietly at the table.
Only his slight figure swayed a little and his
face quivered. His work was not yet done.

This is the answer of nature,' he said.
1 The convict is Paul Eitson ; the defendant
in the present action is an impostor personating
him.'

Mr. Bonnithorne had seemed to be
stunned. Recovering himself, he tried to
smile, and said :

After this melodramatic interlude, perhaps

I may be allowed to ask our voluntary
witness and counsel a few questions?'

Hugh Kitson bowed, and the clerk of the
court administered the oath to him.

Did you at the Central Criminal Court
held at the Old Bailey in 1875 swear that
the person who stands here in the dress of a
convict was not Paul Bitson ?'

< 1 did;

'Odd, isn't it? Now for my second question.
Did you also swear that the defendant
was your brother, and therefore not Paul
Drayton ?'

I did.'

Then you were guilty of perjury at that
time, or you are guilty of perjury now?'

I was guilty of perjury then. 1

A judge interposed and asked if the witness
was awakened to the enormity of the
crime to which he confessed. Hugh Eitson
bent his head.

Are you conscious that you are rendering
yourself liable to penal servitude ?'

I have signed a declaration of my
guilt,'

The answers were given in perfect calmness,
but a vein of pathos ran through every word.

Do you know that a few years back
many a poor wretch whose crime was
trifling compared with yours has gone from
the dock to the gallows ?'

My guilt is unmitigated guilt. I make
a voluntary statement. I am not here to
appeal for mercy.'

There was the hush of awe in the court.
The face of the convict wore an expression
of amazement.

Mr. Bonnithorne smiled again.

I presume you know that the effect of
the law-officers of the Crown believing the
story that you tell us now is that, if they
do so, the man whom you call your brother
will be put into possession of the estate of
which your late father died seized ?'

He is entitled to it.'

Mr. Bonnithorne turned to the jury with
a smile of triumph.

1 It is always necessary to find some
standard by which to judge of human
actions. The witness quarrelled with the

defendant four days ago, and this is his
revenge. But I appeal to the court. Is
this story credible ? Is it not a palpable
imposture ?'

The judge again interposed.

Men do not risk so much for a lie. The
witness knows that when the court rises the
sheriff may take him into custody.'

At this the lawyers for plaintiff and defendant
rose together, and asked the bench
not to play into the hands of the witness by
apprehending him.

Hugh Ritson smiled coldly. Strange
climax  a man self condemned and defended
from the rigours of the law both by
those whose friend he would be and those
who would be his enemies !

Let the convict be examined,' said one
of the judges.

Paul Ritson raised his head ; Greta sank
into a chair beneath him. He was not
sworn. The warder in charge put in an
entry from the books of the prison. It ran,
Paul Drayton, ft\e feet eleven inches,
brown hair and eyes, age thirty, licensed

victualler, born in London, convicted of
robbery at the scene of a railway accident.'

c Does that entry properly describe you V
asked the judge.

The convict's eyes wandered.

What's going on V he said, in a tone of
bewilderment.

Attend, my man. Are you Paul Eit-
son, the eldest son of the late Allan Ritson?'

Why do you want to know ?' said the
convict.

It befits a witness who is permitted to
come from the scene of a degrading punishment
to give a prompt and decisive answer.
What is your name, sir ?'

Find it out.'

The other judge intervened.

c My man,' he said suavely, ' we sit herein
the name of the law, and the law could
wish to stand your friend.' (The convict
laughed bitterly. ) ' Pray help us to a
decision in the present perplexing case by a
few frank answers. If you are Paul Drayton
you go back to Portland to complete
the term of your imprisonment. If it can be

vol. in. 59

proved that you are Paul Ritson, your case
will be laid before the Home officials, with
the result that you will be liberated and reestablished
in your estate. First of all,
which is your name, Paul Drayton or Paul
Eitson ?'

The convict did not answer at first.
Then he said in a low tone :

No law can re-establish me.'

The judge added : ' Bethink you, if you
are Paul Ritson, and an innocent man, the
law can restore you to your young wife.'

Visibly moved by this reference, the convict's
eyes wandered to where Greta sat beside
him, and the tension of his gaze relaxed.

The judge began again :

You have been recognised by two witnesses
 one claiming to be your brother,
the other to be your wife  as Paul Ritson.
Are you that person ?

The convict's face showed the agony he
suffered. In a vague, uncertain, puzzled
way he was thinking of the consequences
of his answer. If he said he was Paul
Ritson, it seemed to him that it must

eke out that he was not the eldest legitimate
son of his father. Then all the
fabric of his mother's honour would there
and then tumble to the ground. He recalled
his oath ; could he pronounce six
words and not violate it ? No, not six
syllables. How those mouthing gossips
would glory to see a good name trailed in
the dust !

Are you Paul Kitson, the eldest son
and the heir of Allan Ritson ?'

The convict looked again at Greta. She
rose to her feet beside him. All her soul was
in her face, and cried, ' Answer, answer !'

I cannot answer,' said the convict, in a
loud piercing voice. At that terrible moment
his strength seemed to leave him. He
sank backward into the chair from which
Greta had risen.

She stood over him and put her hand
tenderly on his head.

t Tell them it is true she pleaded ; ' tell
them you are my husband ; tell them so ;
oh, tell them, tell them,' she cried in a tone
of piteous supplication. He raised to hers

592

his weary eyes with a dumb cry for mercy
from the appeal of love.

Only Hugh Ritson of all who were there
present understood what was in the convict's
heart.

i Paul Ritson is the rightful heir of his
father and his mother's legitimate son,' he
muttered audibly.

The convict turned to where his brother
sat, and looked at him with a face that
seemed to grapple for the missing links of a
chain of facts.

Bonnithorne rose.

It will be seen that the unhappy convict -
witness will not be used as an instrument of
deception. Odd, isn't it ?' he said. ' He is
Paul Drayton, and cannot be made to pretend
that he is Paul Ritson/

The hush of awe in the court was broken
by the opening of a door behind the bench.
Two women stood on the threshold. One
of them was small, wrinkled, and old. She
was Mrs. Drayton. The other was a nun
in hood and cape. She was Sister Grace.

The witness I spoke of as dead to the

world is now present in the court,' said
Hugh Ritson.

Amid a buzz of conversation the nun
was handed to the table. She raised her
long veil and showed a calm pale face.
After the usual formalities, one of the
judges addressed her.

Mrs. Ritson,' he said, ' tell us which of
the two men who sit opposite is your son.'

Sister Grace answered in a clear, soft voice:

Both are my sons. The convict is Paul
Ritson, my son by Allan Ritson ; the other
is Paul Lowther, my son by an unhappy
alliance with Robert Lowther.'

Drayton jumped to his feet.

 There, that's enough of this,' he shouted
excitedly. ' Damme, if I can stand anymore
of it.'

Bonnithorne reached over and whispered,
6 Madman, what are you doing ? Hold
your tongue.'

It's all up. There's the old woman, too,
come to give me away. Here, I say, I'm
Paul Drayton ; that's what I am, if you
want to know.'

Let the sheriff take that man before a
justice of the peace,' said the judge.

It was you that led me into this mess
shouted Drayton at Bonnithorne. 4 Only
for you I would have been in Australia
by this time.'

Let the sheriff apprehend Mr. Bonnie
also,' said the judge. ' As for you,
sir,' he continued, turning to Hugh Ritson,
I will report your evidence to the Public
Prosecutor  who must be in possession of
your statutory declaration  and leave the
law-officers to take their own course with
regard to you

Drayton and Bonnithorne did not trouble
the world much longer. Within a month
they were tried and condemned together
the one for personation; both for conspiracy.


Paul Ritson was removed in charge of
his warder, to be confined in the town gaol
pending the arrival of instructions from the
Secretary of State. Hugh Ritson walked
out of the court-room a free man.

Hugh Ritson returned to his room on the
pit brow. On his way there he passed a
group of people congregated on the bridge
at the town end. They fell apart as he
walked through, but not an eye was raised
to his, and not one glance of recognition
came from his stony face. Towards the
middle of the afternoon a solicitor came from
Carlisle and executed a bill of sale on the
machinery and general plant. The same
evening, as the men on the day shift came
up the shaft and those on the night shift
were about to go below, the wages were paid
down to the last weights taken at the pit
mouth. Then Hugh Ritson closed his doors
and began afresh his melancholy perambulation
of the room.

That night  it was Wednesday night 
as darkness fell on the mountain and moorland,
there was a great outcry in the Yale.
It started at the pit mouth, and was taken
up on every side. In less than a quarter of
an hour a hundred people  men, women,
and children  were gathered about the
head of the shaft. There had been a run
of sand in the pit, and some of the hands
were imprisoned in the blocked-up workings.
Cries, moans, and the many sounds of weeping
arose on the air in one dismal chorus.
I knew it would come ;' ' I tell the master
lang ago ;' l Where's my man ?' ' And mine? 7
And my poor barn  no'but fifteen.' ' Anybody
seen my Willie ?' ' Is that thee,
Robbie, ma lad?  no.' As every careful
of men and boys came to the surface, there
was a rush of mothers, wives, and fathers to
recognise their own.

Hugh Ritson went out, and pushed his
way through the people. ' Where is the sand
running?' he asked of a pitman just landed.

1 In the sandy vein, 2, 3, 1,' answered the
man.

1 Then the shaft is clear V

c Ay, but the water's blocked in the main
working, and it's not safe to go down.'

Hugh Ritson had taken the man's candle
out of his hand, and was fixing it with the
putty in the front of his own hat.

Are you ready V he shouted to the engine-man,
above the babel of voices.

In another moment he had stepped into
the cage and loot down the iron rail in
front of it. There was a moment's silence
among the panic-stricken people as the cage
began to move downwards.

At the bottom of the shaft a group of men
waited to ascend. Their faces were lurid in
the dim light. Before the cage grounded
Hugh Ritson could hear their breathing.
1 How many of you are left V he asked.

'No'but two now  Giles Paisley and auld
Reuben,' answered one of the men. The
others, without heeding the master's question,
had scrambled into the cage, and were already
knocking the signal for the ascent.

Hugh Ritson turned towards the working
known among the men as the sandy vein.

The cage was now rising, and the pitman
who had spoken found himself left on the
pit bottom ; the single moment that he
had given to the master had lost him his
chance of a place. He cast one stern glance
upwards, and a muttered oath was on his
lips. At the next instant he had taken the
direction followed by Hugh Hit son, and was
walking one pace behind him.

In the silence the dull thud of their footsteps
on the rock beneath mingled with the
drip, drip of the water overhead. When
they had gone a hundred yards down the
narrow working there came another and far
more terrible sound. It was such a sound
as the sea mio;ht have made if it had rushed
through a thousand crevices in the rock. It
was the sound of the thousands of tons
of sand, as they forced their way from the
dense mass above. And over the hiss as of
the sea was the harsh crack of great timbers
splitting like watchword.

Towards the awful scene of this tumult
Hugh Eitson quickened his steps. The man
followed close at his heels. Presently their

passage was blocked with sand like a wall.
Then over their heads the crossness cracked,
and the upright forks split and bent at the
right and left of them. In another moment
the ground beneath them shook under the
new weight that lay on it. They stepped
quickly back, and in an instant, with a groan
such as the sea makes when it is sucked by
the ebbing tide from a cave in a rock, the
floor, with all its freight, went down a score
of feet. It had fallen to an old working that
lay below.

Then the bent forks hung from the roof
in empty air. Silence followed this shock,
and through the silence there came a feeble
cry for help. Hugh Ritson stepped out,
plucked his candle from his hat, and held it
before his feet. ' Where are you?' he called,
and his voice came back through the echoing
depths beyond. Presently a man could be
dimly seen clinging to a cross-piece in an
alcove made for an air-shaft from the main
working. To o*et to him the treacherous
ground must be crossed, with its cracking
roof, through which the sand slid even yet,

and under the split timbers that still creaked.
Huofh Kit son did not hesitate ; he turned to
leap down, saying, ' Follow me.' But the
man clung to him from behind.

4 For God's sake dunno,' he cried. ' I
cannot go there. It's mair nor my life is
worth.'

Hugh Ritson twisted about, and looked
him steadily in the face: 'What is your name,
mv man V

Davy Braithwaite.'

4 Then you are the young fellow whose
wife died last week V

Ey,' with a drooping head.

1 Your child died before her, did it not?'

Ey, he did, poor leal thing.'

Your father and mother are gone too V

They're gone for sure ! '

4 And you've neither kith nor kin left in
all the world V

4 Nay, no' but myself' left.'

Hugh Ritson said no more : a hard smile
played on his white face, and at the next
instant he had leapt down on to the bed of
sand below. The man recoiled a pace or

 Where were old Reuben and his gang
stationed V said Hugh Ritson.

1 In the main working ; but the water is
dammed up ; we can never pass.'

They returned to the shaft bottom, and
walked thence down the cutting that ran from
it at right angles. A light burned far away
in the dim vista of that honos dark burrowing.
It was a candle stuck to the rock. The men
who worked by it had left it there when
they rushed off for their lives. Through the
bottom of this working there ran a deep
trough, but it was now dry. This was
the channel by which the whole pit was
drained. Beyond the light the three men
encountered another wall of sand, and from
behind it and through it there came to them
the dull thud and the plash of heavy water.

If auld Reuben's their, he's a dead man
said Giles Paisley, and he turned to go.

Hugh Ritson had struggled to the top of
the heap, and was ploughing the sand away

from the roof with his hands. In a little
while he had forced an opening, and could see
into the dark space beyond. The water had
risen to a reservoir of several feet deep. But
it was still four or five feet from the roof,
and over the black, surging bubbling waves
the imprisoned miner could be seen clinging
to a ledge of rock. Half his body was
already immersed. When the candle shot
its streak of light through the aperture of
sand, the poor creature uttered a feeble cry.
In another moment the master had wormed
his body through the hole and dropped
slowly into the water. Wading breast deep
he reached the pitman, gave him his hand,
and brought him safely through the closing
seam.

When the cage rose to the surface again,
bringing back to life and the world the last
of the imprisoned miners, a great cheer
broke from many a lusty throat. Women
who had never thought to bless the master
blessed him now with fervent tongues.
Men who had thought little of the courage
that could rest in that slight figure fell

aside at the sense of their own cowardice.
Under the red glow that came from the
engine fire many a hard face melted.

Hugh Kitson saw little of this, and
heeded it not at all. He plucked the candle,
still burning, from his hat, and threw it
aside. Then he walked through the people
towards his room, and when he got there
he shut the door, almost slamming it in
the faces of those who followed. He pulled
down the window-blinds, and began afresh
his perambulation to and fro.

He had grown paler and thinner. There
was a sombre light in his eyes, and his lips
were whitening. His step, once quick and
sure, despite his infirmity, was now less
certain. He had not slept since the night
of Mercy's death. Determined never to
encounter again the pains and terrors of
sleep, he had walked through the long hours
of the four succeeding nights. He knew
what the result must be, and did not shrink
from it. Once only he had thought of a
quicker way to the sure goal that was
before him. Then he had opened a cupboard,

and looked long and intently at a
bottle that he took from its shelf. But he
had put the bottle back. Why should he
play the fool and leap the life to come?
Thus night after night he had walked and
walked, never resting, never pausing, though
the enfeebled limbs shook beneath him, and
the four walls of the room reeled in his
dazed eyes.

Before returning to their homes the
people gathered in the darkness about the
office on the pit brow and gave one last
cheer.

The master heard them and his lrp
curled. ' Simpletons  they don't understand,'
he muttered beneath his breath, and
continued his melancholy walk.

Next morning a marksman, who acted as
personal attendant on Hugh Ritson, brought
him his breakfast. It was not early. The
sun had risen, but the blinds of the office
were still drawn, and a candle burned on
the table. The man would have put out
the candle and let in the sunlight, but the
master forbade him. He was a Methodist,

and hummed psalm tunes as he went about
his work. This morning he was more than
usually fresh and happy when he entered
with his tray ; but at the sight of Hugh
Ritson's pallid face his own face saddened.

You are a young man yet, Luke,' said
the master. ' Let me see, how old are
you V

1 Seventy-nine, sir. I was born in ninety-eight.
That was when auld Bonnyprat was
agate of us and Nelson bashed him up.'

I dare say you have grandchildren by
this time V

1 Bless you ey, and great-grand chiltern,
and ten of them, too ; and all well and
hearty, thank the Lord.'

The sound of a bell, slowly tolling, came
from across the dale. Hugh Kit son's face
contracted, and his eyes fell.

What bell is that V he asked, in an
altered tone.

It's like to be the church bell. They're
burying poor auld Mattha's lass and her wee
barn this morning

Hugh Ritson did not touch his breakfast.
vol. in. 60

i Luke, close the shutters,' he said, ' and
bring more candles.'

He did not go out that clay, but continued
to walk to and fro in the darkened
room. Towards nightfall he grew feverish,
and rang frequently the bell that summoned
the marksman. He had only some casual
order, some message, some unimportant
explanation.

At length the old man understood his
purpose, and settled himself there for the
night. They talked much during the early
hours, and often the master laughed and
jested. But the atmosphere that is
breathed by a sleepless man is always heavy
with sleep, and, in spite of his efforts to
keep awake, Luke dozed away in his chair.
Then for hours there was a gloomy silence,
broken only by the monotonous footfall
within and the throb of the engine without.

The next day, Friday, the sun shone
brilliantly, but the shutters of the little
house on the pit brow remained closed, and
the candle still burned on the table. Hugh
Ritson had grown perceptibly feebler, yet

he continued his dreary walk. The old
marksman was forbidden to send for a doctor,
but he contrived to despatch a messenger
for Parson Christian. That night he
watched with the master again. When the
conversation failed, he sang. First, a psalm
of David, ' The fool hath said in his heart
there is no God;' then a revival hymn of
Charles Wesley about ransom by Christ's
blood.

It would have been a strange spectacle to
strange eyes. The old man  young still
though seventy-nine, dear to troops of dear
ones, encircled in his age by love and honour,
living in poverty that was abundance, with
faith that was itself the substance of things
hoped for, his simple face ruddier and mellower
than before  rocking his head and sinoino- in
the singleness of his heart. The other man 
barely thirty yet already old, having missed
his youth, his thin cheeks pallid as linen, his
eyes burning with a sombre light  alone in
the world, desolate, apart  walking with an
uncertain step and a tremor of the whole
frame, which seemed to lurch for poise and

602

balance, yet swinging his arms with the
sweep of the melody, and smiling a forced
smile through his hard and whitened lips.

When the singing ceased, Hugh Bitson
paused suddenly and turned to the old
marksman.

Luke,' he said abruptly, ' I suppose
there will be many to follow you when your
time comes ?'

Ey, please God answered the banks-man,
dashing away a furtive drop that had
rolled on to his cheek ; ' there'll be my
chiltern, and my chiltern's chiltern, and their
chiltern forby. Maybe the barns will lay
me behind the mother ; poor auld body!'

Hugh Rit son's face darkened and he
resumed his walk ; ' Tut, what matter ?'
he asked himself, ' the night winds are
enough to moan over a man's grave.' And
he laughed a little.

Next morning  Saturday morning  he
wrote a letter, and sent Luke to the village
to post it. Then he attended to some
business relating to the pit. After that,
he shut the door and bolted it. When the

old man brought the midday meal he
knocked in vain, and had to go away*

Night closed in, and still there came no
answer to the old man's knock. When
the sun had set the wind had risen. It
threatened to be a tempestuous night.

Towards ten o'clock Parson Christian
arrived. He had wrestled long with his
own heart as to what course it was his duty
to take. He had come at last in answer
to the marksman's summons, and now he
knocked at the door. There was no answer.
The wind was loud in the trees overhead,
but he could hear the restless footfall within.
He knocked again, and yet again. Then
the bolt was drawn, and a voice at once
strange and familiar cried, ' Come in,
Parson Christian.' He had not called or
spoken.

The Parson entered. When his eyes fell
on Hugh Rit son's face, he shuddered as he
had never shuddered before. Many a time
he had seen death in a living face, but never
anything like this. The livid cheeks were
stony, the white lips w r ere drawn hard, the

sombre eyes burned like a deep, slow fire,
the yellow hands were gaunt and restless.
There was despair on the contracted brow,
but no repentance. And the enfeebled limbs
trembled, but still shuffled on. On, on, on,
through their longer journey than from
Sabbath to Golgotha. The very atmosphere
of the room breathed of death.

Let me pray with you,' said the Parson
softly, and without any other words he went
down on his knees.

Ay, pray for me, pray for me; but you
lose your labour ; nothing can save me.'

Let us call on God said the Parson.

A bitter laugh broke from Hugh Ritson's
lips. 'What! and take to Him the dregs
and risings of my life ? No.'

The blood of Christ has ransomed the
world. It can save the worst sinner of us
all, and turn away the heavy wrath of God.'

Hugh Ritson broke again into a bitter
laugh.

The end has come of sin as of trouble.
No matter.' Then, with an awful solemnity,
he added, f My soul is barren. It is already

given over to the undying worm. I shall
die tomorrow at sunrise.'

4 No man knows the day nor the
hour '

Hugh Kitson repeated, with a fearful
emphasis, ' I shall die as the sun rises on
Sunday morning.'

Parson Christian remained with him the
weary night through. The wind moaned and
howled outside. It licked the walls as with
the tongues of serpents. The Parson prayed
fervently, but Hugh Eitson's voice never
once rose with his. To and fro, to and fro
the dying man continued his direful walk.
At one moment he paused and said with a
ghastly smile, ' This dying is an old story.
It has been going on every day for six thousand
years, yet we find it as terrible as
ever.'

Towards three in the morning he threw
open the shutters. The windows were still
dark ; it seemed as if the dawn were faraway.
' It is coming,' he said calmly. ' I
knew it must come soon. Let us go out to
meet it.'

With infinite effort he pulled his ulster
over his shoulders, put on his hat, and
opened the door.

Where are you going ?' said the Parson,
and his voice broke.

To the top of the fell.'

< Why there ?'

Hugh Kitson turned his heavy eyes
upon him. i To see the new day dawn,' he
said, with an awful pathos.

He had already stepped out into the gloom.
Parson Christian followed him. They took
the path that led through the moor end to
the foot of Cat Bells. The old man offered
his arm, bat Hugh Ritson shook his head
and walked one pace ahead. It was a terrible
journey. The wind had dropped. In
the air the night and day commingled. The
dying man struggled along with the firm
soul of a stricken lion. Step by step and
with painful labour they ascended the bare
side of the fell in the gray light of morning.
They reached the top at last.

Below them the moorland lay dark and
mute. The mist was ai ound them. They

seemed to: stand on an islet of the clouds.
In front the daybreak was bursting the confines
of bleak racks of cloud. Then the clay
came in its wondrous radiance, and flooded
the world in a vast ocean of light.

On the mountain brow Hugh Ritson
resumed his melancholy walk. The old
Parson muttered, as if to himself, ' Wilt thou
break a leaf driven to and fro ? Wilt thou
pursue the dry stubble?' Hugh Ritson
overheard the words, and all his manner
changed. The stubborn lips softened, the
sombre eye melted, the contracted brow
relaxed, and, for the first time in all this
length of years, he cried like a little child.

At the same instant the sun swept up,
and he fell. Parson Christian bent over
him. The crimson of the east was reflected
on his white face. The new day had
dawned.

On the Tuesday following two mourners
stood by an open grave in the churchyard
of Xewlands. One of them was whitehead;
the other wore the jacket and cap, the badge

and broad arrow of a convict. The sexton
and his man had lowered the coffin to its
last home, and then stepped aside. A tall
man leaned on the loch gate, and a group
of men and women stood in silence by the
porch to the church. The afternoon sun
was low, and the shadows of the tombstones
stretched far on the grass.

The convict went down on his knees, and
looked long into the grave. When he arose
the company that had gathered about the
porch had gone, and voices singing a hymn
came from within the old church. It was
the village choir practising. The world's
work had beffun again.

Two days later the fell behind the Ghyll
was a scene of unusual animation. It was
the day of the shearing. The sheep, visibly
whiter and more fleecy for a washing of
some days before, had been gathered into
stone folds. Clippers were seated on creels
ranged about a turf fire, over which a pot
of tar huns from a triangle of boughs.
Boy ' catchers ' brought up the sheep, oneby
one, and girl ' helpers ' carried away the
fleeces, hot and odorous, and hung them
over the open barn doors. As the sheep
were stripped, they were tugged to the fire
and branded from the bubbling tar with
the set mark of the Reasons. The
metallic click of the shears was in the air,
and over all was the blue sky and. the
brilliant sunshine.

In a white overall, stained with patches
of tar and some streaks of blood, smudged
with soap and scraps of the clinging wool,
Parson Christian moved among the shearers,
applying plentiful doses of salve from a
huge can to the snips made in the skin
of the sheep by the accidents of the
shears.

4 We might have waited for the maister
afore shearing  eh?' said Reuben, from one
of the creels.

He'll be here before we finish, please the
Lord,' answered the parson.

1 Is it to-day you're to gang for him ?'

1 Yes, this afternoon.'

A daub on this leg, parson, where she
kicked  deuce take her. . . . It's like you'll
bring him home in a car ?'

8 Aye, Randal Aston has loaned me his
mare.'

1 Why, man, what a upshot we'll have
for sure  bacon pie and veal and haggish
and top tannin pie and puddings, I reckon.
. . Just a hand to her leg, parson, while
I strip the coat and waistcoat off this black-faced

lerwick. . Is the mistress to
come home too V

Nay, Reuben. Mrs. Ritson has gone
back where she came from.'

Weel, it's no'but natural after all
that's happen t. . . . Easy now . be
quiet, wilt . . . dust want another snip,
eh ? . . . And young Mistress Greta  it's
like shell be mistress now ?'

It's very likely she'll come to the Ghyll
with her husband, Reuben.'

1 God bless her ! And there's been no
luck on the land since he left it  and
everything a fault too. . . . There, she's
stripped. Away with her Natt, man, and
deil tak' her.'

In the afternoon a vast crowd of men,
women and children had gathered once
more about the old town hall at Keswick.
They laughed and bantered and sang.
Presently, the door of the hall was thrown
open and two men came out. One was
Paul Ritson, no longer clad as a convict;
the other was Parson Christian. The
people hailed them with a mighty shout,

lifted them into a gig that was drawn up in
the market-place, took out the horses and
crowded into the shafts. Then they set off
with a great cheer through the town and
the country road, the dust rising in clouds
behind them.

They took the road to the west of the
valley, and as they passed under the wood
an old man, much bent, was easing a
smoking fire in the charcoal pit. He paused
and raised himself, his iron rod in his hand,
and lifted his heavy eyes towards the
clamorous company. The gig flew past
with its shouts, its cheers, and its noisy
laughter, and the old man turned silently
back to his work.

When they came near to the Vicarage
Paul leapt from the carriage over the heads
of the men who pulled it, vaulted the gate,
and bounded into the house. There was
one who waited for him there, and in an
instant she was locked close in his arms.
'At last!' he whispered. Her heart overflowed;
she dropped her fair young head on
his heaving breast, and wept sweet tears.

Parson Christian came rolling up the
path surrounded by a tumultuous throng.
Foremost and lustiest were the blacksmith
and the miller, and close behind came the
landlord and the postman. All were
shouting as if their brassy throats might
crack.

There was high revel at the Ghyll that
evening. First came the feasting in the
old kitchen : huge rounds of beef, quarters
of lambs, peas and sweet puddings and pies.
Then came the dancing in the barn, lighted
by candles in cloven sticks, and lanterns of
turnips that were scooped out hollow.

But at the Vicarage Paul and Greta sat
alone in silence and with clasped hands.
Parson Christian came in and out at intervals,
gossiping cheerily of the odds and
ends of daily life, as if its even tenour had
never been disturbed. They supped together,
and sat on till midnight ; and then
the old Christian took down his green tome
and wrote :

June 30.  So Paul being to return
home after his long absence, I spent the

forenoon on the fell shearing, and earned
a stone of wool and a kindle of rye. In
the afternoon I set forward towards Keswick,
wherefor Randal Aston had loaned
me his mare and gig. At the Flying
Horse I lit not, but stood while I drank
a pot of ale with John Proudfoot and
Richard Parkinson and a neighbour that
comes tomorrow to thatch the low barn
for me. Then direct to Keswick, where
there was a great concourse, and a hearty
welcome and much rejoicing that warmed
me and came nigh to break me withal.
Got son Paul at last, and would have
driven direct home, but the good folk were
not minded that it should be so, and nought
would do but that they must loose the
mare and run in the shafts. So we reached
home about six and found all well, and my
love Greta after long waiting in her closet
very busy with Paul, who had run in
ahead of me. So I went out again and
foddered and watered the mare, for Peter is
sometimes a sad catch and will not always
give a horse w T hat is worth its trouble in

the eating. And being throng this evening
a-mending the heels of my old clock boots
with lath nails, whereof I bought a pennyworth
at Thomas Seed's shop in the marketplace,
I saw little of Paul, but left him to
Greta. Then sapped, and read a psalm
and prayed in my family, and set till full
midnight. So I retire to my lodging-room
at peace with all the world, and commend
my all to God. The Lord forgive the sins
of me and mine that we have committed in
these our days of trial. Blessed be God
who has wrought our victory, and overcome
our enemies and brought us out more
than conquerors. Amen.'

Parson Christian had put down the pen
and was sprinkling the writing with sand
from a pepper-castor, when Brother Peter
came in with candles in his hand and a letter
under his abridged arm. ' Leal Tom o'
Dint gave me this for thee he said to Paul,
and dropped the letter on to his knees.
4 1 was sa throng with all their wonderment,
that I don't know as I diana
forget it.'

VOL. III. 61

Parson Christian returned the green-clad
book to its shelf, took up his candle, bade
good-night and went to bed.

Brother Peter shambled out, and then
Paul and Greta were left alone.

Paul opened the letter. It was enclosed
in a sheet of paper that bore the stamp of
the Convent of St. Margaret, and these
words only, c Sent on by Sister Grace.'
Paul began to read the letter aloud,
Greta looking over his shoulder. But ashe
proceeded, his voice faltered, and he
stopped. Then in silence the eyes of
both traversed the written words. They
ran :

Mother, I have wronged you deeply,
and yours is a wrong that may never be
repaired. The past does not return, and
what is done is done with. It is net
allowed to us to raze out the sins and the
sufferings of the days that are gone ; they
stand and will endure. I am not so bada
man as perhaps I seem; but of what avail
is it to defend myself now ? and who would
believe me ? My life has been one long

error, and the threads of my fate have been
tangled. Have I not passed before our
little world for a stern and callous man ?
Yet the blight of my soul has been passion.
Yearning for love where love could never
be returned, I am the ruins of what I might
have been. If I did wrong knowingly, it
was not until passion mastered me; if I saw
things as they did not exist, it was because
passion made me blind. Mother, if there is
One above to watch and judge our little
lives, surely He sees this, and reckons the
circumstance with the deed.

Tell her that I wish her peace. If I
were a man used to pray, perhaps I would
ask Heaven to bless her. But my heart is
barren of prayer. And what, after all,
boots my praying? I have given her back
at last to the love of a noble man. And
now my wasted life is done. And this is
the end  a sorry end !

Mother, I shall not live to suffer the
earthly punishment of my crime. Never
fear  my hand shall not be lifted against
myself. Be sure of that, whatever else may

612

seem doubtful. Bat very soon this passionate
and rebellious soul will stand for
judgment before its awaiting God.
Farewell, my mother, farewell '

THE END

BILLING 4 SONS, PRINTERS, GUILDFORD.

A List of Books

PUBLISHED BY

CHATTO & WlNDUS,

214, PICCADILLY, LONDON, W.

Sold by all Booksellers, or sent post-free for the published price by the Publishers.

About. The Fellah : An Egyptian

Novel. By Edmund About.
Translated by Sir Randal Roberts.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. ; cloth
pimp, 2s. 6d.

Adams (W. Davenport), Works
by:

A Dictionary of the Drama. Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the
Present Times. Crown 8vo, half-bound.
12s. 6d. [Preparing.

Latter-day Lyrics. Edited by W.
Davenport Adams. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Quips and Quiddities. Selected by
W. Davenport Adams. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Advertising, A History of, from

the Earliest Times. Illustrated by
Anecdotes, Curious Specimens, and
Notices of Successful Advertisers. By
Henry Sampson. Crown 8vo, with
Coloured Frontispiece and Illustrations,
cloth gilt, 7s. 6 d.

Agony Column (The) of "The

Times," from 1800 to 1870. Edited,
with an Introduction, by Alice Clay.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Aide (Hamilton), Works by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Carr of Carrlyon.
Confidences.

Alexander (Mrs), Novels by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Maid, Wife, or Widow ?
Valerie's Fate.

Allen (Grant), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
The Evolutionist at Large. Second

Edition, revised.
Vignettes from Nature.
Colin Cl out's Calendar.
Strange Stories. With Frontispiece

by George Du Maurier. Cr. 8vo,

cl ex., 6s. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.
Philistia: A Novel. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.
Babylon: A Novel. With 12 Illusts.

by P. Macnab. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d.
For Maine's Sake: A Tale of Love

and Dynamite. Cr. 8vo, cl. ex , 6s.
In all Shades: Novel. Three Vols.,

crown 8vo.

Architectural Styles, A Handbook
of. Translated from the German
of A. Rosengarten, by W. Collects
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with
6 39 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Artemus Ward :

Artemus Ward's Works: The Works
of Charles Farrer Browne, better
known as Artemus Ward. With
Portrait and Facsimile. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Artemus Ward's Lecture on the
Mormons. With 32 Illustrations.
Edited, with Preface, by Edward P.
Hingston. Crown 8vo, 6d.

The Genial Showman: Life and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. By
Edward P. Hingston. With a
Frontispiece. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d.

Art (The) of Amusing: A Collection
of Graceful Arts, Games, Tricks,
Puzzles, and Charades. By Frank
Belleww. With 300 Illustrations. Cr.
8vo cloth extra 4s. 6d.

Ashton (John), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

A History of the Chap-Books of the
Eighteenth Century. With nearly
400 Illustration*, engraved in facsimile
of the originals.

Social Life in the Reign of Queen
Anne. From Original Sources. With
nearly 100 Illustrations.

Humour, Wit, and Satire of the
Seventeenth Century. Withnearly
100 Illustrations.

English Caricature and Satire on
Napoleon the First. With 120 Illustrations
from Originals. Two
Vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 28s.

Bacteria A Synopsis of the

Bacteria and Yeast Fungi and Allied
Species. By W. B. Grove, B.A. With
87 Illusts. Crown 8vo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d.

Bankers, A Handbook of London;
together with Lists of Bankers
from 1677. By F. G. Hilton Price.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Barley (Rev. C.W.),Works by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

English Surnames: Their Sources and
Significations. Third Ed., revised.

Curiosities of Puritan Nomenclature.


Bartholomew Fair, Memoirs

of. By Henry Morley. With 100
Illusts. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Beaconsfield, Lord: A Biography.
By T. P. O'Connor, M.P. Sixth
Edition, with a New Preface. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Beauchamp.  Grant fey

Grange: A Novel. By Shelley
Beauchamp. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Beautiful Pictures by British

Artists: A Gathering of Favourites
from our Picture Galleries. All engraved
on Steel in the highest style of
Art. Edited, with Notices of the
Artists, by Sydney Armytage, M.A.
Imperial 4to, cloth extra, gilt and gilt
edges, 21s.

Bernstein.  As Pretty as

Seven, and other German Stories.
Collected by Ludwig Bernstein.
With Additional Tales by the Brothers
Grimm, and 100 Illusts. by Rig*iter.
Small 4to, green and gold, 6s. 6d. ;
gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Beerbohm.  Wanderings in

Patagonia ; or, Life among the Ostrich
Hunters. By Julius Beerbohm. With
Illusts, Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Belgravia for 1886.  One

Shilling Monthly. Illustrated by P.
Macnab. The first Chapters of Mohawks,
a New Novel by M. E.
Braddon, Author of " Lady Audley's
Secret," appeared in the January
Number, and the Story will be continued
throughout the year. This
Number contained also the Opening
Chapters of a New Novel entitled
That other Person; and several of
those short stories for which Belgravia
is famous.  A New Story, entitled
Disappeared, by Sarah Tytler,
with Illustrations by P. Macnab, will
begin in the Number for Jan., 1887.
%* Now ready, the Volume for July to
October 1886, cloth extra, gilt edges,
7s. 6d. ; Cases for binding Vols., 2s. each.

Belgravia Annual for Christmas,
1886. Demy 8vo, with Illustrations,
Is.

Bennett (W.C.,LL.D.),Works by;

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. each.
A Ballad History of England.
Songs for Sailors.

Besant (Walter) and James

Rice, Novels by. Crown 8vo. cloth

extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post 8vo, illust.

boards, 2s. each; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

each.
Ready-money Mortlboy.
With Harp and Crown.
This Son of Vulcan.
My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

Besant (Walter), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s. each ;
cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each

All Sorts and Conditions of Men:
An Impossible Story. With Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard.

The Captains' Room, &c. With
Frontispiece by E. J. Wheeler.

Ai! in a Garden Fair. With 6 lists.
By H. Furnish.

Dorothy Forster. With Frontispiece
By Charles Green.

Uncle Jack, and other Stories.

Children of Gibeon: A Novel, Three
Vols., crown 8vo. Nov, 1.

The World Went Very Well Then.
Three Vols., crown 8vo. [Preparing.

The Art of Fiction, Demy 8vo, Is.

Bentham-Edwards (M.), Novels

by. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
each. ; post 8vo,illust. bds., 2s. each.
Felicia. | Kitty.

Bewick (Thos.) and his Pupils.

By Austin Dobson. With 95 Illustrations.
Square 8vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

Birthday Books: 

The Starry Heavens: A Poetical
Birthday Book. Square 8vo, handsomely
bound in cloth, 2s. 6d.

Birthday Flowers: Their Language
and Legends. By W. J. Gordon.
Beautifully Illustrated in Colours by
Viola Boughton. In illuminated
cover, crown 4to, 68.

The Lowell Birthday Book. With
Illusts. Small 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Blackburn's (Henry) Art Handbooks.
Demy 8vo, Illustrated, uniform
in size for binding,

Academy Notes, separate years, from
1875 to 1885, each Is.

Academy Notes, 1886. With numerous
Illustrations. Is.

Academy Notes, 1875-79. Complete
in One Vol., with nearly 600 Illusts. in
Facsimile. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 6s.

Academy Notes, 1880-84. Complete
n One Volume, with about 700 Facsimile
Illustrations. Cloth limp, 6s.

Grosvenor Notes, 1877. 6d.

Grosvenor Notes, separate years, from
1878 to 1885, each Is.

Grosvenor Notes, 1886. With numerous
Illustrations. Is.

Grosvenor Notes, 1877-82. With
upwards of 300 Illustrations. Demy
8vo, cloth limp, 6s.

Pictures at South Kensington. With
70 Illusts. Is. [New Edit, preparing.

The English Pictures at the National
Gallery. 114 Illustrations. Is.

The Old Masters at the National
Gallery, ici Illustrations. Is. 6d.

A Complete Illustrated Catalogue
to the National Gallery. With
Notes by H. Blackburn, and 242
Illusts. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 3s.

Illustrated Catalogue of the Luxembourg
Gallery. Containing about
250 Reproductions after the Original
Drawings of the Artists. Edited by
F. G. Dumas. Demy 8vo, 3s. 6d.

The Paris Salon, 1885. With about
300 Facsimile Sketches. Edited by
F. G. Dumas. Demy 8vo, 3s.

Art Handbooks, continued 

The Paris Salon, 1886. With about 300

Illusts. Edited by F. G. Dumas.

Demy 8vo, 3s.
The Art Annual, 1883-4. Edited by

F. G. Dumas. With 300 full-page

Illustrations. Demy 8vo, 5s.

Blake (William) : Etchings from
his Works. By W. B. Scott. With
descriptive Text. Folio, half-bound
boards, India Proofs, 21s.

Boccaccio's Cameron ; or,

Ten Days' Entertainment. Translated
into English, with an Introduction by
Thomas Wright, F.S.A. With Portrait
and Stothard's beautiful Copperplates.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s . 6d.

Bowers'(G.) Hunting Sketches:

Oblong 4to, half-bound boards, 21s. each.
Canters in Hampshire.
Leaves from a Hunting Journal.

Coloured in facsimile of the originals.

Boyle (Frederick), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s.6d. each; pos-svo,

illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and

Adventure in Asia, Africa, and

America.
Savage Life : Adventures of a Globe

Trotter.

Chronicles of No-Man's Land

Post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.

Braddon (M. E.) Mohawks"

a Novel, by Miss Braddon, Author
of " Lady Audley's Secret," was begin
in Belgravia for January, and will be
continued throughout the year. Illustrated
by P. M acnab. Is. Month ly.

Brand's Observations on Popular
Antiquities, chiefly Illustrating
the Origin of our Vulgar Customs,
Ceremonies, and Superstitions. With
the Additions of Sir Henry Ellis.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with
numerous s Illustration ns, 78. 6d.

BreTrTarte, Works by :

Bret Harte's Collected Works. Arranged
and Revised by the Author.
Complete in Five Vols., crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s. each.
Vol. I. Complete Poetical and
Dramatic Works. With Steel Portrait,
and Introduction by Author.
Vol. II. Earlier Papers Luck of
Roaring CAMP.and other Sketches
Bohemian Papers  Spanish
and American Legends.
Vol. HI. Tales of the Argonauts

Eastern Sketches.
Vol. IV. Gabriel Conroy.
Vol. V. Stories  Condensed
Novels, &c.

Bret Harte, continued

The Select Works of Bret Harte, in
Prose and Poetry. With Introductory
Essay by J. M. Belleww, Portrait
of the Author, and 50 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Bret Harte's Complete Poetical
Works. Author's Copyright Edition.
Beautifully printed on hand-made
paper and bound in buckram. Cr.
svo, 4s. 6d.

Gabriel Conroy : A Novel. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

An Heiress of Red Dog, and other
Stories. Post 8vo. illustrated boards,
2s.

The Twins of Table Mountain. Fcap.
8vo, picture cover, Is.

Luck of Roaring Camp, and other
Sketches. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 28.

Jeff Briggs's Love Story. Fcap. 8vo,
picture cover, Is.

Flip. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. ;
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Californian Stories (including The
Twins of Table Mountain, Jeff
Briggs's Love Story, &c.) Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Maruja: A Novel. Post 8vo, illust.
boards, 2s. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

The Queen of the Pirate Isle. With
28 original Drawings by Kate
Greenaway, Reproduced in Colours
by Edmund Evans. Small 4to,
boards, 5s.

Brewer (Rev. Dr), Works by :

The Reader's Handbook Allusions,
References, Plots, and Stories.

Faith Edition, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Cr. 8vo, 1,400 pp., cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Authors and their Works, with the
Dates: Being the Appendices to
"The Reader's Handbook," separately
printed. Cr. 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d. ; half-bound, 9s.

Brewster(SirDavid), Works by:

More Worlds than One: The Creed
of the Philosopher and the Hope of
the Christian. With Plates. Post
8vo, cloth extra 4s. 6d.

The Martyrs of Science: Lives of
Galileo, Tycho Brahe, and Kepler.
With Portraits. Post 8vo, cloth
extra, 4s. 6d.

Letters on Natural Magic. A New
Edition, with numerous Illustrations,
and Chapters on the Being and
Faculties of Man, and Additional
Phenomena of Natural Magic, by
J. A. Smith. Post 8vo, cl. ex., 4s. 6d.

Briggs, Memoir of Gen. John.

By Major Evans Bell. With a Portrait.
Royal 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Bri I lat-Savarin. Gastronomy

as a Fine Art. By Brilliant-Savarin.
Translated by R. E. Anderson, M.A.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. Gd.

Buchanan's (Robert) Works :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.

Ballads of Life, Love, and Humour.
Frontispiece by Arthur Hughes.

Undertones.

London Poems

The Book of Form.

White Rose and Red: A Love Story.

Idylls and Legends of Inverburn.

Selected Poems Robert Buchanan.
With a Frontispiece by T. Daniel.

The Hybrid Isles: Wanderings in the
Land ot Lome and the Outer Hebrides.
With Frontispiece by William
Small.

A Poet's Sketch-book : Selections
from the Prose Writings of Robert
Buchanan.

The Earthquake; or, Six Days and
a Sabbath. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra. 6s.

Robert Buchanan'sComplete Poetical
Works. With Steel-plate Portrait.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s. each.

The Shadow of the Sword.

A Child of Nature. With a Frontispiece.


God and the Man. With Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard.

The Martyrdom of Madeline. With
Frontispiece by A. W. Cooper.

Love Me for Ever. With a Frontispiece
by P. Macnab.

Annann Water.

The New Abelard.

Foxglove Manor.

Matt : A Story of a Caravan.

The Master of the Mine. With a
Frontispiece by W. H. Covered.
Crown 8 vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.

Edited by Rev. T. Scott. With 17
Steel Plates by Stothard engraved
by Goodwill, and numerous Woodcuts.
Crown iJSvo, cloth extra, gilt, 73. 6d.

Burnett (Mrs), Novels by:

Surly Tim, and other Stories. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Fcap. 8vo, picture cover, Is. each,
Kathleen Mavourneen.
Lindsay's Luck.
Pretty Polly Pemberton.

Burton (Captain), Works by:

To the Gold Coast for Gold : A Personal
Narrative. By Richard F. Burton
and Verney Loveth Cameron.
With Maps and Frontispiece. Two
Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 21s.

The Book of the Sword: Being a
History oi the Sword and its Use in
all Countries, from the Earliest
Times. By Richard F. Burton.
With over 400 Illustrations. Square
8 vo. cloth extra. 32s.

Burton (Robert):
The Anatomy of Melancholy. A

New Edition, complete, corrected
and enriched by Translations of the
Classical Extracts. Demy 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.
Melancholy Anatomisedd: Being an
Abridgment, for popular use, of Burton's
Anatomy of Melancholy.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 23. 6d.

Byron (Lord) :

Byron's Chide Harold. An entirely
New Edition of this famous Poem,
with over One Hundred new Illusts.
by leading Artists. (Uniform with
the Illustrated Editions of "The
Lady of the Lake " and " Marmion")
Elegantly and appropriately bound,
small 4to, 16s.

Byron's Letters and Journals. With
Notices of his Life. By Thomas
Moore. A Reprint of the Original
Edition, newly revised, with Twelve
full-page Plates. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Byron's Don Juan. Complete in One
Vol., post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Caine (T. Hall), Novels by:

The Shadow of a Crime. Cr. 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.
A Son of Hagar. Three Vols., crown
8vo. [Shortly.

Cameron (Comers), Works by:
To the Gold Coast for Gold: A

Personal Narrative. By Richard
F. Burton and Verney Loveth
Cameron. With Frontispiece and
Maps. Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 213.
The Cruise of the "Black Prince"
Privateer, Commanded by Robert
Hawkins, Master Mariner. By
Commander V. Loveth Cameron,
Ren., Cab D.C.L. With Frontispiece
and Vignette by P. Macnab.
Crown Svo, cl. ex., 5s.

Cameron ( Mrs. H~ Loveth ),

Novels by:
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 38. 6d. each

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Juliet's Guardian. | Deceivers Ever.

Carlyle (Thomas) :

On the Choice of Books. By Thomas

Carlyle. With a Life of the Author
by R. H. Shepherd. New and Revised
Edition, post 8vo, cloth extra,
Illustrated, Is. 6d.
The Correspondence of Thomas
Maryland Ralph Waldo Emerson.
1834 to i&72- Edited by Charles
Eliot Norton. With Portraits. Two
Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra. 24 8.

Chapman's (George) Works:

Vol. I. contains the Plays complete,
including the doubtful ones. Vol. II.,
the Poems and Minor Translations,
with an Introductory Essay by Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Vol. III.,
the Translations of the Iliad and Odyssey.
Three Vols., crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 18s. ; or separately, 63. each.

Chatty & Jackson. Treatise

on Wood Engraving, Historical and
Practical. By Wm. Andrew Chatty
and John Jackson. With an Additional
Chapter by Henry G. John ;
and 450 fine Illustrations. A Reprint
of the last Revised Edition. Large
4to, half bound, 283.

Chaucer

Chaucer for Children : A Golden
Key. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. With
Eight Coloured Pictures and numerous
Woodcuts by the Author.
New Ed., small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.

Chaucer for Schools. By Mrs. H. R.
Haweis. Demy 8vo. cloth limp, 2a 6d .

Chronicle (The) of the Coach :

Charing Cross to Ilfracombe. By J. D.
Champlain. With 75 Illustrations by
Edward L. Chichester. Square 8vo,
cloth extra, 73. 6d.

City (The) of Dream : A Poem.

Fcap. 8vo. cloth extra, 63. [Inilic press.

Clodd.  Myths and Dreams.

By Edward Clodd, F.R.A.S., Author
of " The Childhood of Religions," &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Cobban. The Cure of Souls :

A Story. By J. Maclaren Cobban.

Pos t 8vo, illustrated board s, 2s.

Coleman. Curly : An Actor's
Story. By John Coleman. Illustrated
by J. C. Dollman. Crown Svo, Is.
cl both, Is. 6 d.

Collins (Mortimer), Novels by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Sweet Anne Page. | Transmigration.
From Mini git to Midnight.

A Fight with Fortune. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Collins (Mortimer 8c Frances),

Novels by:
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play Me False.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Sweet and Twenty.

Frances.

Collins (Wilkie), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated,
3s.6d. each ; post8vo,illustrated bds.,
2s. each ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

Antonina. Illust. by SirJoHNGiLBERT.

Basil. Illustrated by Sir John Gilbert
and J. Mahoney.

Hide and Seek. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and J. Mahoney.

The Dead Secret. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert.

Queen of Hearts. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert.

My Miscellanies. With a Steel-plate
Portrait of Wilkie Collins.

The Woman In White. With Illustrations
by Sir John Gilbert and

F. A. Fraser.

The Moonstone. With Illustrations

byG. DuMAURiERand F. A. Fraser.

Man and Wife. Illust. by W. Small.

Poor Miss Finch. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and Edward
Hughes.

Miss or Mrs. ? With Illustrations by

S. L. FiLDEsand Henry Woods.
The New Magdalen. Illustrated by

G.Du Maurier and C.S.Reinhardt.
The Frozen Deep. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and J. Mahoney.
The Law and the Lady. Illustrated

by S. L. Fildes and Sydney Hall.
The Two Destinies.
The Haunted Hotel. Illustrated by

Arthur Hopkins.
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel's Daughter.
The Black Robe.
Heart and Science: A Story of the

Present Time.
 I Say No;

The Evil Genius: A Novel. Three
Vols., crown 8vo.

Collins (C. Allston). The Bar

Sinister: A Story. By C. Allusion
CoLLiNS. Post 8vo, illustrated bds.,2s.

Coleman's Humorous Works:

Broad Grins," " My Nightgown and
Slippers," and other Humorous Works,
Prose and Poetical, of George Col-man.
With Life by G. B. Blackstone,
and Frontispiece by Hogarth. Crown
8vo cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Convalescent Cookery: A

Family Handbook. By Catherine
Ryan. Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth, ls.6d. )

Conway (Concur D.), Works

by:
Demonology and Devil-Lore. Two

Vols., royal 8vo, with 65 Illusts., 28s.
A Necklace of Stories. Illustrated
by W. J. Hennessy. Square 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Cook (Dutton), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
Hours with the Players. With a

Steel Plate Frontispiece.
Nights at the Play: A View of the

English Stage.

Leo: A Novel. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Paul Foster's Daughter, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Copyright.  A Handbook of

English and Foreign Copyright in
Literary and Dramatic Works. By
Sidney Jerrold, of the Middle
Temple, Esq., Barrister-at-law. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Cornwall. Popular Romances

of the West of England; or, The

Rolls, Traditions, and Superstitions
of Old Cornwall. Collected and Edited
by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. New and
Revised Edition, with Additions, and
Two Steel-plate Illustrations by
George Cruikshank. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Craddock.  The Prophet of
the Great Smoky Mountains By

Charles Egbert Craddock. Post
8vo, illust. bds., 2s. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d .

Creasy. Memoirs of Eminent

Etonians : with Notices of the Early
History of Eton College. By Sir
Edward Creasy, Author of " The
Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World."
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 13
Portraits, 7s. 6d.

Cruikshank (George):

The Comic Almanac. Complete in
Two Series : The First from 1835
to 1843 ; the Second from 1844 to
1853. A Gathering of the Best
Humour of Thackeray, Hood, May-hew,
Albert Smith, A'Beckett,
Robert Brough, &c. With 2,000
Woodcuts and Steel Engravings by
Cruikshank, Hike, Handel's, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, two very thick
I volumes, 7s. 6d. each.

Cruikshank (George), continued.

The Life of George Cruikshank. By
Blanchard Jerrold, Author oi
"The Life of Napoleon Iii," &e.
With 84 Illustrations. New and
Cheaper Edition, enlarged, with Additional
Plates, and a very carefully
compiled Bibliography. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Robinson Crusoe. A beautiful reproduction
of Major's Edition, with
37 Woodcuts and Two Steel Plates
by George Cruikshank, choicely
printed. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
73. 6d.

Cummings. F. Gordon),Works

by:

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 8s. 6d. each.

In the Hebrides. With Autotype Facsimile
and numerous full-page Illustrations.


In the Himalayas and on the Indian
Plains. With numerous Illustrations.


Via Cornwall to Egypt. With a
Photogravure Frontispiece. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Cussans. Handbook of Heraldry;
with Instructions for Tracing
Pedigrees and Deciphering Ancient
MSS., &c. By John E. Cussans.
Entirely New and Revised Edition,
illustrated with over 400 Woodcuts
and Coloured Plates. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Cyples. Hearts of Gold : A

Novel. By William Cyples. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Daniel.  Merrie England in

the Olden Time. By George Daniel.
With Illustrations by Robt. Cruik-
shank. Crown vo, cloth extra. 3s. 6d.

Daudet. The Evangelist ; or,

Port Salvation. By Alphonse
Daudet. Translated by C. Harry
Seltzer. With Portrait of the
Author. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; po st 8vo , illust. boards, 2s !

Davenant.  What shall my

Son be P Hints for Parents on the
Choice of a Profession or Trade for
their Sons. By Francis Davenant,
M.A. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Davies (Dr. N. E.), Works by:

Crown 8vo, Is. each; cloth limp,
Is. 6d. each.
One Thousand Medical Maxims.
Nursery Hlnta: A Mother r's Guide.
Aids to Long Life. Crown 8vo, 2s, ;

cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete

Poetical Works, including Psalms I.
to L. in Verse, and other hitherto Unpublished
MSS., for the first time
Collected and Edited, with Memorial-introduction
and Notes, by the Rev.
A. B. Grosart, D.D. Two Vols.,
crown 8vo, cloth boards, 12s.

De Maistre. A Journey Round

My Room. By Xavier de Maistre.
Translated by Henry Attwell. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

De Mille A Castle in Spain:

A Novel. By James De Mille. With
a Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Derwent (Leith), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each,
Our Lady of Tears.
Circe's Lovers.

Dickens (Charles), Novels by :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Sketches by Boz. I NicholasNickleby,
Pickwick Papers. I Oliver Twist.

The Speeches of Charles Dickens
1841-1S70. With a New Bibliography,
revised and enlarged. Edited and
Prefaced by Richard Herne Shepherd.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Also a Smaller Edition, in the
Mayfair Library. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

About England with Dickens. By
Alfred Rimmer. With 57 Illustrations
by C. A. Vanderhoof, Alfred
Rimmer, and others. Sq. 8vo, cloth
extra, 10s. 6d.

Dictionaries:

A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. By the
Rev. E. C. Brewer, LL.D. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.; hf.-bound, 9s.

The Reader's Handbook of Allusions,
References, Plots, and
Stories. By the Rev. E. C. Brewer,
LL.D. Fifth Edition, revised
throughout, with a New Appendix,
containing a Complete English Bibliography.
Crown 8vo, 1,400 pages,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Authors and their Works, with the
Dates. Being the Appendices to
"The Reader's Handbook," separately
printed. By ths Rev. Dr.
Brewer. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, 2s,

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Dictionaries, continued 

Familiar Allusions: A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information ; including
the Names of Celebrated
Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country
Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships,
Streets, Clubs, Natural Curiosities,
and the like. By Wm. A. Wheeler
and Charles G. Wheeler. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Short Sayings of Great Men. With
Historical and Explanatory Notes.
By Samuel A. Bent, M.A. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

A Dictionary of the Drama: Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Playwrights. Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and America,
from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport Adams.
A thick volume, crown 8vo, half-bound,
12s. 6d. [In preparation.

The Slang Dictionary: Etymological,
Historical, and Anecdotal. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s. 6d.

Women of the Day: A Biographical
Dictionary. By Frances Hays. Cr.
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Words, Facts, ana Phrases: A Dictionary
of Curious, Quaint, and 
Matters By Believer
Edwards. New and Cheaper Issue.
Cr. 8vo, cl ex., 7s. 6d. ; hf.-bd., 9s.

Diderot. The Paradox of Acting.
Translated, with Annotations,
from Diderot's "Le Paradoxe sur le
Comedies," by Walter Berries
Pollock. With a Preface by Henry
Irving. Cr. 8vo, in parchment, 4s. 6d.

Dobson (W. T.), Works by :

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.

Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,
and Frolics.

Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.


Dorann.  Memories of our

Great Towns; with Anecdotic Gleanings
concerning their Worthies and
their Oddities. By Dr. John Dorann,
Fas A. With 38 Illustrations. New
and Cheaper Ed., cr. 8vo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d.

Drama, A Dictionary of the.

Being a comprehensive Guide to the
Plays, Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport
Adams. (Uniform with Brewer's
"Reader's Handbook") Crown f?vo,
half-bound, 12s. 6d. [In preparation.

Dramatists, The Old. Cr. 8vo,

cl. ex., Vignette Portraits, 6s. per Vol.

Ben Jonson's Works. With Notes
Critical and Explanatory, and a Biographical
Memoir by Wm. Gifford.
Edit, by Col. Cunningham 3 Vols.

Chapman's Works. Complete in
Three Vols. Vol. I. contains the
Plays complete, including doubtful
ones; Vol. II., Poems and Minor
Translations, with IntroductoryEssay
by A. Swinburne; Vol. III. .Translations
of the Iliad and Odyssey.

Marlowe's Works. Including his
Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introduction, by Col. Cunningham.
One Vol.

Massinger's Plays. From the Text of
William Gifford. Edited by Col.
Cunningham. One Vol.

Dyer.  The Folk-lore of

Plants. By Rev. T. F. Thiselton
Dyer, M.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d. [In preparation.

Early English Poets. Edited,

with Introductions and Annotations,
by Rev. A. B.Grosart, D.D. Crown
8vo, cloth boards, 6s. per Volume.

Fletcher's (Giles, B.D.) Complete
Poems. One Vol.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete
Poetical Works. Two Vols.

Herrick's Robert) Complete Collected
Poems. Three Vols.

Sidney's sir Philip) Complete
Poetical Works. Three Vols.

Herbert (Lord) of Cherbury's Poems.

Edited, with Introduction, by J.
Churton Collins. Crown 8vo,
parchment, 8s.

Edwardes(Mrs. A.), Novels by:
A Point of Honour. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.
Archie Lovell. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Eggleston. Roxy: A Novel. By
Edward Eggleston. Post 8vo, illust.
boards, 2s.

Emanuel. On Diamonds and

PreciousStones: their History, Value,
and Properties ; with Simple Tests for
ascertaining their Reality. By Harry
Emanuel, F.R.G.S. With numerous
Illustrations, tinted and plain. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s.

English Merchants: Memoirs
in I illustration of the Progress of British
Commerce. By H. R. Fox Bourne.
With Illusts. New and Cheaper Edit,
revised. Crown 8vo, :loth extra, 7s. 6d.

Ewald (Alex. Charles, F.S.A.),

Works by:

The Life and Times of Prince
Charles Stuart, Count of Albany,
commonly called the Young Pretender.
From the State Papers and
other Sources. New and Cheaper
Edition, with a Portrait, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Stories from the State Papers.
With an Autotype Facsimile. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Studies Re-studied: Historical
Sketches from Original Sources.
Demy 8vo cloth extra, 123.

Eyes, The.  How to Use our

Eyes, and How to Preserve Them. By
John Browning.F.R.A.S., &c. Fourth
Edition. With 55 Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth, Is.

Fairholt. Tobacco: Its History
and Associations ; with an Account
of the Plant and its Manufacture,
and its Modes of Use in all
Ages and Countries. By F. W. Fair-holt,
F.S.A. With upwards of 100
Illustrations by the Author. Crown
8vo. cloth extra, 6s.

Familiar Allusions: A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information ;
including the Names of Celebrated
Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country
Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships, Streets,
Clubs, Natural Curiosities, and the
like. By William A. Wheeler,
Author of " Noted Names of Fiction ; '*
and Charles G. Wheeler. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Faraday (Michael), Works by :

Post 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d. each.

The Chemical History of a Candle :
Lectures delivered before a Juvenile
Audience at the Royal Institution.
Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.
With numerous Illustrations.

On the Various Forces of Nature,
and their Relations to each other :
Lectures delivered before a Juvenile
Audience at the Royal Institution.
Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.
With numerous Illustrations.

Farrer.  Military Manners

and Customs. By J. A. Farrer,
Author of " Primitive Manners and
Customs," &c. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Fin-Bee.  The Cupboard

Papers : Observations on the Art of
Living and Dining. By Fin-Bec. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. cl

Fitzgerald (Percy), Works by :

The Recreations of a Literary Manor,
Does Writing Pay ? With Recollections
of some Literary Men,
and a View of a Literary Man's
Working Life. Cr.8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

The World Behind the Scenes.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Little Essays: Passages from the
Letters of Charles Lamb. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Fatal Zero : A Homburg Diary. Cr.
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. [Shortly.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Bella Donna. | Never Forgotten
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Polly.

Seventy-five Brooke Street.
The Lady of Ransome.

Fletcher's (Giles, B.D.) Complete

Poems : Christ's Victorie in
Heaven, Christ's Victorie on Earth,
Christ's Triumph over Death, and
Minor Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D. Cr. 8vo, cloth bds., 6s.

Fonblanque. Filthy Lucre: A

Novel. By Albany de Fonblanque.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23.

Francillon (R. E.), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.each ;

post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s. each.
One by One. I A Real Queen.

Queen Cophetua. |

Olympia. Post 8vo, illust. boards, 23.
Esther's Glove. Fcap. 8vo, Is.

French Literature, History of.

By Henry Van Laun. Complete in
3 Vols., demy Svo, cl. bds., 7s. 6d. each.

Frere. Pandurang Hari ; or,

Memoirs of a Hindoo. With a Preface
by Sir H. Battle Frere, G.C.S.I., &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Friswell. Oneof Two: A Novel.
By Hair Friswell. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards. 23.

I Frost (Thomas), Works by :

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
The Lives of the Conjurers.
The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs.

Fry s (Herbert) Royal Guide

to the London Charities, 1886-7.
Showing their Name, Date of Foundation,
Objects, Income,Officials,&c. Pub
wished Annually. Cr. 8vo, cloth, Is. 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Gardening Books:

Post bvo. Is. each ; cl. limp, Is. 6d. each.

A Year's Work in Garden and Greenhouse
: Practical Advice to Amateur
Gardeners as to the Management of
the Flower, Fruit, and Frame Garden.
By George Glenny.

Our Kitchen Garden : The Plants we
Grow, and How we Cook Them.
By Tom Jerrold.

Household Horticulture: A Gossip
about Flowers. By Tom and Jane
Jerrold. Illustrated.

The Garden that Paid the Rent.
By Tom Jerrold.

My Garden Wild, and What I Grew
there. By F. G. Heath. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 5s. ; gilt edges, 6s.

Garrett. The Capel Girls: A

Novel. By Edward Garrett. Cr. 8vo,
L e x.,3s.6d . ; post 8vo , illust. bds., 2s.

Gentleman's Magazine (The)

for 1886. One Shilling Monthly. In
addition to the Articles upon subjects
in Literature, Science, and Art, for
which this Magazine has so high a
reputation, "Science Notes," by W.
Mattieuu Williams, F.R.A.S., and
"Table Talk," by Sylvanus Urban,
appear monthly.
** Now ready, the Volume for January

to June, 1886, cloth extra, price 8s. 6d. ;

Cases f or binding, 2s. each.

Gentleman's Annual (The) for

Christmas, 1886. Containing a Complete
Novel, "Wife or No Wife?" by
T. W. Speight, Author of "The
Mysteries of Heron Dyke." Demy
8vo, Is. [Preparing.

German Popular Stories. Collected

by the Brothers Grimm, and
Translated by Edgar Taylor. Edited,
with an Introduction, by John Ruskin.
With 22 Illustrations on Steel by
George Cruikshank. Square 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s. 6d. ; gilt edge s, 7s. 6d.

Gibbon (Charles), Novelslby :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s 6d. each
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Robin Gray.

For Lack of Gold.

What will the

World Say?
In Honour Bound.
Queen of the

Meadow.

Braes of Yarrow.
The Flower of the
Forest. [hem.
A Heart's .

Of High Degree.
Fancy Free.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Furthering. | InPasturesGreen.

In Love and War.

By Mead and Stream.

Heart's Delight. [Preparing.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Loving a Dream. | A Hard Knot.

Gilbert (William), Novels by :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Dr. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke, Costermonger.

Gilbert (W. S.), Original Plays

by: In Two Series, each complete in
itself, price 2s. 6d. each.

The First Series contains  The
Wicked World Pygmalion and Galatea
 Charity  The Princess  The
Palace of Truth  Trial by Jury.

The Second Series contains  Broken
Hearts  Engaged  Sweethearts 
Gretchen  Dan'l Druce  Tom Cobb 
H.M.S. Pinafore The Sorcerer The
Pirates of Penzance.

Eight Original Comic Operas. Written
by W. S. Gilbert. Containing :
The Sorcerer H.M.S. "Pinafore"
The Pirates of Penzance  Iolanthe
Patience  Princess Ida  The
Mikado  Trial by Jury. Demy 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Glenny. A Year's Work in

Garden and Greenhouse: Practical
Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to
the Management of the Flower, Fruit,
and Frame Garden. By George
Glenny. Post 8vo, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d.

Godwin.  Lives of the Necromancers.
By William Godwin.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Golden Library, The:

Square imo (Tauchnitz size), cloth
limp, 2s. per volume.

Bayard Taylor's Diversions of the
Echo Club.

Bennett's (Dr. W. C.) Ballad History
of England.

Bennett's (Dr.) Songs for Sailors.

Byron's Don Juan.

Godwin's (William) Lives of the
Necromancers.

Holmes's Autocrat of the Breakfast
Table. Introduction by Sala.

Holmes's Professor at the Breakfast
Table.

Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
All the original Illustrations.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of a
Traveller.

Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and Occupations
of a Country Life.

Lamb's Essays of Elia. Both Series
Complete in One Vol.

Leigh Hunt's Essays: A Tale for a
Chimney Corner, and other Pieces.
With Portrait, and Introduction by
Edmund Ollier.

Golden Library, continued.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort
arthur: The Stories of King
Arthur and of the Knights of the
Round Table. Edited by B. Montgomery
Ranking.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A New
Translation, with Historical introductions
Notes.byT.M'CRiE.D.D.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and Moral
Reflections. With Notes, and Introductory
Essay by Sainte-veuve.

St. Pierre's Paul and Virginia, and
The Indian Cottage. Edited, with
Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke.

Golden Treasury of Thought,

The: An Encyclopedia of Quotations
from Writers of all Times and
Countries. Selected and Edited by
Theodore Taylor. Crown Svo, cloth
gilt and gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Graham.  The Professor's

Wife : A Story. By Leonard Graham.
Fcap. 8vo, picture cover, Is.

Greeks and Romans, The Life

of the, Described from Antique Monuments.
By Ernst Gull and W.
Koner. Translated from the Third
German Edition, and Edited by Dr.
F. Suffer. 545 Illusts. New and
Cheaper Edit., demy 8vo, cl. ex., 7s. 6d.

Greenaway (Kate) and Bret
Harte. The Queen of the Pirate
Isle. By Bret Harte. With 25
original Drawings by Kate Greenaway,
Reproduced in Colours by E.
Evans. Sm. 4to, bds., 5s. [Shortly.

Greenwood (James), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 38. 6d. each.
The Wilds of London.
Low-life Deeps: An Account of the
Strange Fish to be Found There.

Dick Temple: A Novel. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Guyot. The Earth and Manor,

Physical Geography in its relation
to the History of Mankind. By
Arnold Guyot. With Additions by
Professors Agassiz, Pierce, and Gray;
12 Maps and Engravings on Steel,
some Coloured, and copious Index.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 4s. 6d.

Habberton Bretons Bayou.

By John Habberton, Author of
Helen's Babies." Post Svo, illustrated
boards. 2s. ; cloth, 2a. cl

Hair (The): Its Treatment in
Health, Weakness, and Disease.
Translated from the German of Dr. J.
Picus. Crown 8vo, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d.

Hake (Dr. Thomas Gordon),

Poems by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
New Symbols.
Legends of the Morrow.
The Serpent Play.

Maiden Ecstasy.
extra, 8s.

Small 4to, cloth

Hall. Sketches of Irish Character.
By Mrs. S. C. Hall. With
numerous Illustrations on Steel and
Wood by Maclise, Gilbert, Harvey,
and G. Cruikshank. Medium Svo,
cloth extra, gil t, 7s. 6d.

Holiday. Everyday Papers.

By Andrew Holiday. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Handwriting, The Philosophy

of. With over 100 Facsimiles and Explanatory
Text. By Don Felix de
Salam nca. Post 8vo, cl. him p, 2s, 6d.

HankyPanky: A Collection of
Very EasyTricks.Very Difficult Tricks,
White Magic, Sleight of Hand, &c.
Edited by W. H. Cremer. With 200
Illusts. Crown Svo, cloth extracts. 6d.

Hardy (Lady Duffus).  Paul

Wynter's Sacrifice: A Story. By
Lady Duffus Hardy. Post 8vo, illust.
boards, 2s.

Hardy (Thomas).  Under the

Greenwood Tree. By Thomas Hardy,
Author of " Far from the Madding
Crowd." With numerous Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
8vo, i illustrated boards, 2s.

Harwood.  The Tenth Earl.

By J. Berwick Harwood. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards , 23.

Haweis (Mrs. H. R.), Works by :

The Art of Dress. With numerous
Illustrations. Small 8vo, illustrated
cover, Is.; cloth limp, Is. 6d.

The Art of Beauty. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
Coloured Frontispiece and Illusts. 6s.

The Art of Decoration. Square 8vo,
handsomely bound and profusely
Illustrated, 10s. 6d.

Chaucer for Children: A Golden
Key. With Eight Coloured Picture*
and numerous Woodcuts. New
Edition, small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.

Chaucer for Schools. Demy 8vo,
cloth limp, 23. 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Haweis (Rev. H. R.). American

Humorists. Including Washington
Irving, Oliver Wendell Holmes,
James Russell Lowell, Artemus
Ward.Mark Twain, and Bret Harte.
By the Re. H. R. Haweis, M.A.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Hawthorne(Julian), Novels by.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Garth. I Sebastian Stroma.

Elllce Quentln. | Dust.

Prince Saroni's Wife.

Fortune's Fool. | Beatrix Randolph.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Miss Madonna.
Lo ve o r a Name.

Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds.
Fcap. 8vo, illustrated cover, 18.

Hays. Women of the Day: A

Biographical Dictionary of Notable
Contemporaries. By Frances Hays.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 58.

Heath (F. G.).  My Garden

Wild, and What I Grew There. By
Francis George Heath, Author of
The Fern World," &c. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 5s. ; cl. gilt, gilt edges, 6s.

Helps (Sir Arthur), Works by :

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Animals and their Masters.
Social Pr assure.

Ivan de Biron : A Novel. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Heptalogia (The); or, The

Seven against Sense. A Cap with
Seven Bells. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Herrick's (Robert) Hesperides,

Noble Numbers, and Complete Collected
Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D., Steel Portrait, Index
of First Lines, and Glossarial Index,
&c. Three Vols., crown 8vo, cloth, 18s.

Hesse Wartegg (Chevalier

Ernst von), Works by :

Tunis: The Land and the People.
With 22 Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

The New South-West : Travelling
Sketches from Kansas, New Mexico,
Arizona, and Northern Mexico.
With hoo fine Illustrations and Three
Maps. Demy 8vo, cloth extra,
1*. [In preparation.

Herbert. The Poems of Lord

Herbert of Cherbury. Edited, with
Introduction, by J. Churton Collins.
Crown 8vo, bound in parchment, 8s.

Hindley (Charles), Works by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings : Including
the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with
Taverns, Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
With Illustrations.

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Hindley.

Hoey. The Lover's Creed.

By Mrs. Castel Hoey. With Frontispiece
by P. Macnab. New and Cheaper
Edit. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Holmes (Wendell), Works by :

The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.
Illustrated by J. Gordon
Thomson. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.  Another Edition in smaller
type, with an Introduction by G. A.
Sala. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

The Professor at the Breakfast-table
; with the Story of Iris. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Holmes.  The Science of

Voice Production and Voice Preservation:
A Popular Manual for the
Use of Speakers and Singers. By
Gordon Holmes, M.D. With Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Hood (Thomas):

Hood's Choice Works, in Prose and
Verse. Including the Cream of the
Comic Annuals. With Life of the
Author, Portrait, and 200 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
With all the original Illustrations.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Hood (Tom), Works by:
From Nowhere to the North Pole:

A Noah's Archaeological Narrative.
With 25 Illustrations by W. Brun-ton
and E. C. Barnes. Square
crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 6s.
A Golden Heart: A Novel. Posts,
illustrated boards, 23.

Hooks (Theodore) Choice Humorous
Works, including his Ludicrous
Adventures.Bons Mots, Puns and
Hoaxes. With a New Life of the
Author, Portraits, Facsimiles, and
Illusts. Cj. 8yq. c!. extra, gilt, 73 q<i.

*3

Hooper.  The House of Raby :

A Novel. By Mrs. George Hooper.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Hopkins " 'Twixt Love and

Duty:" A Novel. By Tight Hopkins.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Home. Orion : An Epic Poem,
in Three Books. By Richard Hengist
Horne. With Photographic
Portrait from a Medallion by Summers.
Tenth Edition, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s.

Howell. Conflicts of Capital

and Labour, Historically and Economically
considered : Being a History
and Review of the Trade Unions
ot Great Britain. By Geo. Howell
M.P. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Hunt. Essays by Leigh Hunt.

A Tale for a Chimney Corner, and
other Pieces. With Portrait and Introduction
by Edmund Ollier. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Hunt (Mrs. Alfred), Novels by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Thornicroft's Model.

The Leaden Casket.

Self Condemned

That other Person. Three Vols.,
drown 8vo.

Indoor Paupers. By One of

Them. Crown 8vo, is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Ingelow. Fated to be Free : A

Novel. By Jean Ingelow. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Irish Wit and Humour, Songs

of. Collected and Edited by A. Perceval
Graves. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.

Irving  Tales of a Traveller.

By Washington Irving. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s.

Jay (Harriet), Novels by:

The Dark Colleen. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

The Queen of Connaught. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2a.

Janvier.  Practical Keramics

for Students By Catherine A.
Janvier. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Jefferies (Richard), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
Nature near London.
The Life of the Fields.
The Open Air.

Jennings (H. J.), Works by:

Curiosities of Criticism. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Lord Tennyson: A Biographical
Sketch. With a Photograph-portrait.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Jerrold (Tom), Works by:

Post 8vo, Is. each ; cloth, Is. 6d. each.
The Garden that Paid the Rent.
Household Horticulture: A Gossip

about Flowers. Illustrated.
Our Kitchen Garden: The Plants

we Grow, and How we Cook Them.

Jesse. Scenes and Occupations
of a Country Life. By Edward
Jesse. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Jeux esprit. Collected and
Edited by Henry S. Leigh. PostSvo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Jones (Wm, F.S.A.), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Finger-Ring Lore: Historical, Legendary,
and Anecdotal. With over
Two Hundred Illustrations.

Credulity, Past and Present; including
the Sea and Seamen, Miners,
Talismans, Word and Letter Divination,
Exorcising and Blessing of
Animals, Birds, Eggs, Luck, &c.
With an Etched Frontispiece.

Crowns and Coronations : A History
of Regalia in all Times and Countries.
With One Hundred Illustrations.


Jonson's (Ben) Works. With

Notes Critical and Explanatory, and
a Biographical Memoir by William
Gifford. Edited by Colonel Cunningham.
Three Vols., crown 8vo,
cloth extra, I83. ; or separately, 6s. each.

Joseph us.The Com pleteWorks

of. Translated by Whiston. Containing
both " The Antiquities of the
Jews " and " The Wars of the Jews."
Two Vols., 8vo, with 52 Illustrations
and Maps, cloth extra, gilt, 1*3.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Kempt. Pencil and Palette:

Chapters on Art and Artists. By Robert
Kempt. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6&.

Kershaw.  Colonial Facts and

Fictions: Humorous Sketches. By
Mark Kershaw. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; cloth, 2s. 6d.

King (R. Ashe), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
A Drawn Game.
"The Wearing of the Green."

Kingsley (Henry), Novels by :

Oakshott Castle. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

NumberSeventeen. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 38. W.

Knight. The Patient's Vade

Mecum: How to get most Benefit
from Medical Advice. By William
Knight, M.R.C.S., and Edward
Knight, L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, Is. ;
cloth, Is. 6d.

Lamb (Charles):

Lamb's Complete Works, in Prose
and Verse, reprinted from the Original
Editions, with many Pieces
hitherto unpublished. Edited, with
Notes and Introduction, by R. H.
Shepherd. With Two Portraits and
Facsimile of Page of the " Essay on
Roast Pig." Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

The Essays of Elia. Complete Edition.
Post 8vo, cloth extra, 2s.

Poetry for Children, and Prince
Doris. By Charles Lamb. Carefully
reprinted from unique copies.
Small 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Little Essays : Sketches and Characters.
By Charles Lamb. Selected
from his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.
Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.

Lares and Penates; or, The

Background of Life. By Florence
Caddy. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Haywood (Jacob), Works by:

The Story of the London Parks.

With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Forensic Anecdotes.
Theatrical Anecdotes.

Lane's Arabian Nights, &c. :

The Thousand and One Nights'
commonly called, in England, " The
Arabian Nights' Entertainments."
A New Translation from
the Arabic, with copious Notes, by
Edward William Lane. Illustrated
by many hundred Engravings on
Wood, from Original Designs by
Wm. Harvey. A New Edition, from
a Copy annotated by the Translator,
edited by his Nephew, Edward
Stanley Poole. With a Preface by
Stanley Lane-Poole. Three Vols.,
demy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Arabian Society in the Middle Ages:
Studies from " The Thousand and
One Nights." By Edward William
Lane, Author of "The Modern
Egyptians," &c. Edited by Stanley
Lane-Poole. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Life in London ; or, The History
of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian
Tom. With the whole of Ckuik-
shank's Illustrations, in Colours, after
the Originals. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Linton (E. Lynn), Works by:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Witch Stories.

The True Story of Joshua Davidson.
Ourselves: Essays on Women.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Learn Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord ?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
My Love ! " | lone.

Longfellow:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.
Longfellow's Complete Prose Works.

Including " Outre Mer," " Hyperion,"
" Kavanagh," " The Poets and
Poetry of Europe," and " Driftwood."
With Portrait and Illustrations by
Valentine Bromley.
Longfellow's Poetical Works. Carefully
Reprinted from the Original
Editions. With numerous fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood.

Long Life, Aids to: A Medical,

Dietetic, and General Guide in
Health and Disease. By N. E.
Davies, L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, 2s. ;
cloth limp, 2s. 61.



Lucy. Gideon Fleyce: A Novel.

By Henry W. Lucy. Crown 8vo,
cl. ex., 3s. 6d.; post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.

Lusiad (The) of Camoens.

Translated into English Spenserian
Verse by Robert French Duff.
Demy 8vo, with Fourteen full-page
Plates, cloth boards, 188.

Macalpine.  Teresa Itasca,

and other Stories. By Avery Macalpine.
Crown 8vo, bound in canvas,
2s. 6d.

McCarthy (Justin, M.P.),Works

by:

A History of Our Own Times, from
the Accession of Queen Victoria to
the General Election of 1880. Four
Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s.
each.  Also a Popular Edition, in
Four Vols. cr. Svo, cl. extra, 6s each.

A Short History of Our Own Times.
One Vol., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

History of the Four Georges. Four
Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s.
each. [Vol. I. now ready.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Dear Lady Disdain.
The Waterdale Neighbours.
My Enemy's Daughter.
A Fair Saxon.
Miss Misanthrope.
Donna Quixote.
The Comet of a Season.
Maid of Athens.

Linley Rochford. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 23.

Camiola: A Girl with a Fortune,
New and Cheaper Edition. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

'The Right Honourable:" A Romance
of Society and Politics. By
Justin McCarthy, M.P., and Mrs.
Campbell - Praed. Three Vols.,
crown 8vo.

McCarthy (Justin H., M.p),

Works by:

An Outline of the History of Ireland,
from the Earliest Times to the Present
Day. Cr. Svo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

A History of Ireland from the Union
to the Introduction of Mr. Gladstone's
Bill. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
68. [/ the press.

McCarthy (Justin H.), continued 
England under Gladstone, 1880-85.
Second Edition, revised and brought
down to the Fall of the Gladstone
Administration. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 6s.

Doom ! An Atlantic Episode. Crown
8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Our Sensation Novel. Edited by
Justin H. McCarthy. Crown Svo,
Is. ; cloth, Is. 61.

Hafiz in London. Choicely printed.
Small 8vo, gold cloth, 3s. 6d.

MacDonald (George, LL.D.),

Works by :
Works of Fancy and Imagination.
Pocket Edition, Ten Volumes, in
handsome cloth case, 21s. Vol. i.
Within and Without. The Hidden
Life. Vol. 2. The Disciple.
The Gospel Women. A Book of
Sonnets. Organ Songs.  Vol. 3.
Violin Songs. Songs of the Days
and Nights. A Book of Dreams.
Roadside Poems. Poems pok
Children. Vol. 4. Parable
Ballads. Scotch Songs.  Vols.
5 and 6. Phantasies: A Faerie
Romance.  Vol. 7. The Portent. 
Vol. 8. The Light Princess. The
Giant's Heart. Shadows.  Vol.
9. Cross Purposes. The Golden
Key. The Carson. Little
Daylight.  Vol. 10. The Cruel
Painter. The Wow o' Risen.
The Castle. The Broken Swords.
The Gray Wolf. Uncle Cornelius.


The Volumes are also sold separately
in Grolier-patten cloth, 2s. 6d. each.

Macdonell.  Quaker Cousins:

A Novel. By Agnes Macdonell.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3? 6d. ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Macgregor.  Pastimes and

Players. Notes on Popular Games.
By Robert Macgregor. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Maclise Portrait-Gallery (The)

of Illustrious Literary Characters;
with Memoirs  Biographical, Critical,
Bibliographical, and Anecdotal  illustrative
of the Literature of the former
half of the Present Century. By
William Bates, B.A. With 85 Portraits
printed on an India Tint. Crow/fl
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Mackay.  Interludes and Undertones:
or, Music at Twilight. By
Charles Mackay, LL.D. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Macquoid (Mrs), Works by:

Square 8vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d. eac

In the Ardennes. With 50 fine Illustrations
by Thomas R. Macquoid.

Pictures and Legends from Normandy
and Brittany. With numerous
Illustrations by Thomas R.
Macquoid.

About Yorkshire. With 67 Illustrations
by T. R. Macquoid.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Through Normandy. With 90 Illustrations
byT. R. Macquoid.

Through Brittany. With numerous
Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
The Evil Eye, and other Stories.
Lost Rose.

Magician's Own Book (The') :

Performances with Cups and Balls,
Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All
from actual Experience. Edited by
W. H. Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Magic Lantern (The), and its

Management: including full Practical
Directions for producing the
Limelight, making Oxygen Gas, and
preparing Lantern Slides. By T. C.
Hepworth. With 10 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Magna Charta. An exact Facsimile
of the Original in the British
Museum, printed on fine plate paper,
3 feet by 2 feet, with Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours. 5s.

Mallock (W. H.), Works by:

The New Republic; or, Culture, Faith
and Philosophy in an English Country
House. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. ;
Cheap Edition, illustrated boards, 2s.

The New Paul and Virginia ; or, Positivism
on an Island. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Poems. Small 4to, in parchment, 8s.

Is Life worth Living? Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort

arthur : The Stories of King Arthur
and of the Knights of the Round Table.
Edited by B. Montgomery Ranking.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Marlowe's Works. Including
his Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introductions, by Col. Cunningham.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Marryat (Florence), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Open ! Sesame!
Written in Fire

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
A Harvest of Wild Oats.
A Little Stepson.
Fighting the Air.

Waterman.  Half a Dozen

Daughters: A Novel. By J. Master-man.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Mark Twain, Works by:

The Choice Works of Mark Twain.

Revised and Corrected throughout by
the Author. With Life, Portrait, and
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Innocents Abroad ; or, The New
Pilgrim's Progress : Being some Account
of the Steamship " Quaker
City's " Pleasure Excursion to
Europe and the Holy Land. With
234 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d. Cheap Edition (under
the title of" Mark Twain's Pleasure
Trip "post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.

Roughing It, and The Innocents at
Home. With 200 Illustrations by
F. A. Fraser. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

The Gilded Age. By Mark Twain
and Charles Dudley Warner.
With 212 Illustrations by T. Coppin.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Adventures of Tom Sawyer.
With in Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Cheap Edition,
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

The Prince and the Pauper. With
nearly 200 Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

A Tramp Abroad. With 314 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Cheap Edition, post 8vo,illustrated
boards, 2s.

The Stolen White Elephant, Ac.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.



Mark Twain's Works, continued 
Life on the Mississippi. With about
300 Original Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
The Adventures of Huckleberry
Finn. With 174 Illustrations by
E. W. Kemble. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.  Cheap Edition, post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Massinger's Plays. From the

Text of William Gifford. Edited
by Col. Cunningham. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Matthews. A Secret of the

Sea, &c. By Brander Matthews.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s ; cloth,
2s. 6d.

Mayfair Library, The:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. per Volume.

A Journey Round My Room. By

Xavier ds Maistre. Translated
by Henry Attwell.

Latter-day Lyrics. Edited by W.
Davenport Adams.

Quips and Quiddities. Selected by
W. Davenport Adams.

The Agony Column of "The Times,"
from 1800 to 1870. Edited, with an
Introduction, by Alice Clay.

Melancholy Anatomisedd: A Popular
Abridgment of " Burton's Anatomy
of Melancholy."

Gastronomy a3 a Fine Art. By

Brilliant-Savarin,

The Speeches of Charles Dickens.

Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,
and Frolics. By W. T. Dodson.

Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.
Selected and Edited by W. T.
Dobson.

The Cupboard Papers. By Fin-Bec.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
First Series. Containing: The
Wicked World  Pygmalion and
Galatea  Charity  The Princess 
The Palace of Truth Trial by Jury.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
Second Series. Containing: Broken
Hearts  Engaged Sweethearts 
Gretchen Dan'l Druce  Tom Cobb
H.M.S. Pinafore  The Sorcerer
The Pirates of Penzance.

Songs of Irish Wit and Humour.
Collected and Edited by A. Perceval
Graves.

Animals and their Masters. By Sir
Arthur Helps.

Social Pressure. By Sir A. Helps.

Mayfair Library, continued 

Curiosities of Criticism. By Henry
J. Jennings.

The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.
By Oliver Wendell Holmes. Illustrated
by J. Gordon Thomson.

Pencil and Palette. By Robert
Kempt.

Little Essays : Sketches and Characters.
By Chas. Lamb. Selected from
his Letters by Percy Fitzgerald.

Forensic Anecdotes; or, Humour and
Curiosities of the Law and Men of
Law. By Jacob Haywood.

Theatrical Anecdotes. By Jacob
Haywood.

Jeux esprit. Edited by Henry S.
Leigh.

True History of Joshua Davidson
By E. Lynn Linton.

Witch Stories. By E. Lynn Linton.

Ourselves: Essays on Women. By
E. Lynn Linton.

Pastimes and Players. By Robert
Macgregor.

The New Paul and Virginia. By
W. H. Mallock.

New Republic. By W. H. Mallock.

Puck on Pegasus. By H.Cholmonde-
ley-penned.

Pegasus Re-Saddled. By H. Chol-
mondeley-Pennell. Illustrated by
George Du Maurier.

Muses of Mayfair. Edited by H.
Cholmondeley-Pennell.

Thoreau : His Life and Aims. By
H. A. Page.

Puniana. By the Hon. Hugh Rowley.

More Puniana. By the Hon. Hugh
Rowley.

The Philosophy of Handwriting. By
Don Felix de Salamanca.

By Stream and Sea. By William
Senior.

Old Stories Re-told. By Walter
Thornbury.

Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
By Dr. Andrew Wilson.

Mayhew. London Characters

and the Humorous Side of London
Life. By Henry Mayhew. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Medicine, Family. One Thousand

Medical Maxims and Surgical
Hints, for Infancy, Adult Life, Middle
Age, and Old Age. By N. E. Davies
Lord. Cr. Svo. Is. ; cl Is. 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Merry Circle (The) : A Book of

New Intellectual Games and Amusements.
By Clara Belleww. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 4s. 6(1.

Mexican Mustang (On a),

through Texas, from the Gulf to the
Rio Grande. A New Book of American
Humour. By Alex. E. Sweet and
J. Army Knox, Editors of " Texas
Sittings." With 265 Illusts. Cr. 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

MidcMemass (Jean), Novels by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Touch and Go.
Mr. Dor i llion. 

Miller.  Physiology for the

Young; or, The House of Life: Human
Physiology, with its application
to the Preservation of Health. For
Classes and Popular Reading. With
numerous Illusts. By Mrs. F. Fenwick
Miller. Small 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d

Milton (J. L.), Works by:

Sm. 8vo, Is. each ; cloth ex., Is. 6d. each.
The Hygiene of the Skin. A Concise

Set of Rules for the Management of

the Skin; with Directions for Diet,

Wines, Soaps, Baths, &c.
The Bath in Diseases of the Skin.
The Laws of Life, and their Relation

to Diseases of the Skin.

Wordsworth (Mrs.). Fathers

Rectory. By Mrs. Moles-worth,
Author of "The Cuckoo
Clock," &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
4s. 6d.

Murray (D. Christie), Novels

by. Crown 8vo,cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

A Life's Atonement.

A Model Father.

Joseph's Coat.

Coals of Fire.

By the Gate of the Sea.

Val Strange.

Hearts.

The Way of the World.

A Bit of Human Nature.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
First Person Singular: A Novel.

With a Frontispiece by Arthur

Hopkins.
Cynic Fortune: A Tale of a Man with

a Conscience. With a Frontispiece

by R. Canon Wq orville.

North Italian Folk. By Mrs.
Coins Carr. Illustrated by Randolph
Caldecott, Square 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Number Nip (Stories about),

the Spirit of the Giant Mountains.
Retold for Children by Walter
Grahame. With Illustrations by J.
Moyr Smith. Post 8vo, cl. extra,' 5s.

Nursery Hints: A Mother's
Guide in Health and Disease. By N.
E. Davies, L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, Is
cloth, Is. 6d.

O'Connor.  Lord Beaconsfield

A Biography. ByT. O'connor, M.P.
Sixth Edition, with a New Preface,
bringing the work down to the Death
of Lord Beaconsfield. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

O'Hanlon.  The Unforeseen:

A Novel. By Alice O'Hanlon. New
and Cheaper Edition. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Oliphant (Mrs.) Novels by:

Whiteladies. With Illustrations by
Arthur Hopkins and H. Woods.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d. each.

The Primrose Path.

The Greatest Heiress in England.

Reilly. Phoebe's Fortunes:

A Novel. With Illustrations by Henry
Tuck. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

O'Shaughnessy (Artis), Works
by:
Songs of a Worker. Fcap. 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Fcap. 8vo,

Music and Moonlight
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Lays of France,
extra, 10s. 6d.

Crown 8vo, cloth

Ouida, Novels by. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 5s. each ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. each.

Held in Bondage.

Strath more.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Cecil Cast remain's

Gage.
Italia.
Tricotrln.
Puck.

Folle Farlne.
TwoLittleWooden

Shoes.
A Dog of Flanders.
Pascal.

Signa.

In a Winter City.

Ariadne

Friendship,

Moths.

Pipistrello.

A Village Commune.


Bimbl.

In Maremma

Wands.

Frescoes.

Princess Naprax-
fine.

i9

Ouida, Novels by, continued 
Othman : A Novel. Cheaper Edition.
Crown 8 vo, cloth extra, 5 s.

Wisdom, Wit, and Pathos, selected
from the Works of Ouida by F.
Sydney Morris. Small crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 5s.

Page (H. A.), Works by :

Thoreau : His Life and Aims : A Study.
With a Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Lights on the Way : Some Tales within
a Tale. By the late J. H. Alexander,
B.A. Edited by H. A. Page.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Animal Anecdotes. Arranged on a
New Principle. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 5s. shortly.

Parliamentary Elections and

Electioneering in the Old Days (A
History of). Showing the State of
Political Parties and Party Warfare at
the Hustings and in the House of
Commons from the Stuart to Queen
Victoria. Illustrated from the original
Political Squibs, Lampoons, Pictorial
Satires, and Popular Caricatures oi
the Time. By Joseph Greg, Author
of " Rowlandson and his Works,"
The Life of Gillray," &c. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, with a Frontispiece
coloured by hand, and nearly 100
Illustrations, 16s.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A

New Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, by T. M'Crie,
Pap. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Patient's (The) Vade Mecum:

How to get most Benefit from Medical
Advice. By William Knight,
M.R.C.S., and Edward Knight,
L.R.C.P. Crown 8vo, Is.; cloth, ls.6d.

Paul Ferrol :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Paul Ferrol : A Novel.
Why Paul Ferrol Killed his Wife.

Paul. Gentle and Simple. By

Margaret Agnes Paul. With a
Frontispiece by Helen Paterson.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Payn (James), Novels by.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Lost Sir Massingberd.
The Best of Husband.
Walter's Word. | Halves.
What He Cost Her.
Less Black than we're Painted.
By Proxy. | High Spirits.

Under One Roof

Payn (James), Novels by, continued 

A Confidential Agent.

Some Private Views.

A Grape from a Thorn.

For Cash Only. | From Exile.

The Can on's Ward .

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Kit: A Memory. | Carlyon's Year.

A Perfect Treasure.

Bentinck's Tutor Murphy's Master.

Fallen Fortunes.

A County Family. | At Her Mercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.

Cecil's Tryst.

The Clyffards of Clyffe.

The Family Scapegrace.

The Foster Brothers.

Found Dead.

Gwendoline's Harvest.

Humorous Stories.

Like Father, Like Son.

A Marine Residence.

Married Beneath Him.

Mirk Abbey.

Not Wooed, but Won.

Two Hun died Pounds R edward.

In Peril and Privation: Stories ot
Marine Adventure Re-told. A Book
for Boys. With numerous Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth gilt, 63.

The Talk of the Town: A Novel.
With Twelve Illustrations by Harry
Furnish. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d.

The Fly on the Wheel : Humorous
Papers. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
6s. [7 the press.

Pears.  The Present Depression
In Trade: Its Causes and Remedies.
Being the " Pears" Prize Essays
(of One Hundred Guineas). By Edwin
Goodby and William Watt. With
an Introductory Paper by Prof. Leone
Levi, F. Sa., F.S.S. Demy 8vo, Is .

Pennell (H. Cholmondcley),

Works by :

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Puck on Pegasus. With Illustrations.
Pegasus Re-Saddled. With Ten lu.J-

page Illusts. by G. Du Maurier.
The Muses of Mayfair. Vers de

Societe, Selected and Edited by H.

C. Pennell.

Phelps (E. Stuart), Works by:

Post 8vo, Is. each ; cloth limp,
Is. 6d. each.
Beyond the Gates. By the Author

of "The Gates Ajar."
An Old Maid's Paradise.
Burglars in Parade se.

Pirkis (Mrs. C. L.), Novels by:

Trooping with Crows. Fcap. 8vo,

picture cover, Is.
Lady Lovelace. Post 8vo, illustrated

boards, 2s. [Preparing,

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Planches (J. R.), Works by:

The Pursuivant of Arms ; or, Heraldry
Founded upon Facts. With
Coloured Frontispiece and 200 Illustrations.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Songs and Poems, from 1819 to 1879.
Edited, with an Introduction, by his
Daughter, Mrs. Backwardness. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious

Men. Translated from the Greek,
with Notes Critical and Historical, and
a Life of Plutarch, by John and
William Langhorne. Two Vols.,
8vo, cloth extra, with Portraits, 10s. 6d.

Poe (Edgar Allan:

The Choice Works, in Prose and
Poetry, of Edgar Allan Poe. With
an Introductory Essay by Charles
Baudelaire, Portrait and Facsimiles.
Crown 8vo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

The Mystery of Marie Roget, and
other Stories. Postboy, illust.bds.,2s.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete
in One Vol. Post 8vo, cl. limp, 2s.

Praed (Mrs. Campbell)  "The

Right Honourable:" A Romance of
Society and Politics. By Mrs. 
and Justin McCarthy,
M.P. Three Vols., crown 8vo.

Price (E. C), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Valentina. | The Foreigners.

Mrs. Lancaster's Rival.
Gerald. Po st 8vo, illust. boards, 23.

Proctor (Rich. A.), Works by :

Flowers of the Sky. With 55 Illusts.
Small crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Easy Star Lessons. With Star Maps
for Every Night in the Year, Drawings
of the Constellations, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Familiar Science Studies. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Saturn and its System. New and
Revised Edition, with 13 Steel Plates.
Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

The Great Pyramid: Observatory,
Tomb, and Temple. With Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Mysteries of Time and Space. With
Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Universe of Suns, and other
Science Gleanings. With numerous
Illusts. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Wages and Wants of Science
Worke rs. Cr ow n 8vo, Is . cl

Pyroliechnist'sTreasuryfrhe);

cr, Complete Art of Making Fireworks.
By Thomas Kentish. With numerous
Illustrations. Cr. 8vo ; cl. extra, 43. 6d

Rabelais' Works. Faithfully

Translated from the French, with
variorum Notes, and numerous characteristic
Illustrations by Gustave
Dore. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Rambosson. Popular Astronomy.
By J. Rambosson, Laureate of
the Institute of France. Translated by
C. B. Pitman. Crown 8vo, cloth gilt,
numerous Illusts., and a beautifully
executed Chart of Spectra, 7s. 6d.

Reade (Charles), Novels by:

Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, illustrated,3s.6d.
each ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s. each.

Peg Washington. Illustrated by S. L.
Fildes, A.R.A.

Christie Johnstonee. Illustrated by
William Small.

It is Never Too Late to Mend. Illustrated
by G. J. Unwell.

The Course of True Love Never did
run Smooth. Illustrated by Helen
Paterson.

The Autobiography of a Thief; Jack
of all trades; and James Lambert
Illustrated by Matt Stretch.

Love me Little, Love me Long. Illustrated
by M. Ellen Edwards.

The Double Marriage. Illust. by Sir
John Gilbert, R.A.,andC. Keene.

The Cloister and the Hearth. Ils
illustrated by Charles Keene.

Hard Cash. Illust. by F. W. Lawson.

Griffith Gaunt. Illustrated by S. L.
Fildes, A.R.A., and Wm. Small.

Foul Play. Illust. by Du Maurier.

Put Yourself in His Place. Illustrated
by Robert Barnes.

A Terrible Temptation. Illustrated
by Edw. Hughes and A. W. Cooper.

The Wandering Heir. Illustrated by
H. Paterson, S. L. Fildes, A.R.A. ,
C. Green, and H. Woods, A.R.A.

A Simpleton. Illustrated by Kate
Crawford.

A Woman-hater. Illustrated by
Thos. Coulter.

Singleheart and Doubleface: A
Matter-of-fact Romance. Illustrated
by P. Macnab.

Good Stories of Men and other
Animals. Illustrated by E. A. Abbey,
Percy Macquoid, and Joseph Nash.

The Jilt, and other Stories. Illustrated
by Joseph Nash.

Readiana. With a Steel-plate Portrait
of Charles Reade.

Reader's Handbook (The) of

Allusions, References, Plots, and
Stories. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer.
Fifth Edition, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Cr. Svo, 1,400 pages, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.



Richardson.  A Ministry of

Health, and other Papers. By Benjamin
Ward Richardson, M.D., &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Liddell (Mrs. J. H.), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;

post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Her Mother's Darling.
The Prince of Wales's Garden Party
Weird Stories.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
The Uninhabited House.
Fairy Water.
The Mystery in Palace Gardens.

Rimmer (Alfred), Works by :

Square 8vo, cloth gilt, 10s.6d each.
Our Old Country Towns. With over

50 Illustrations.
Rambles Round Eton and Harrow.

With 50 Illustrations.
About England with Dickens. With

58 Illustrations by Alfred Rimmer

and. A. Vanderhqof.

Robinson Crusoe: A beautiful

reproduction of Major's Edition, with
37 Woodcuts and Two Steel Plates by
George Cruikshank, choicely printed.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Robinson (F. W.), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Women are Strange.

The Ha nd s of Ju stick.

Robinson (Phil), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

The Poets' Birds.

The Poets' Beasts.

Poe ts' Natural Hist ry. [ Preparing .

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and

Moral Reflections. With Notes, and
an Introductory Essay by Sainte
eve. Post 8vo, cl both liuip, 2s.

Roll of Battle Abbey, The; or,

A List of the Principal Warriors who
came over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in
this Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours. Handsomely printed, 5s.

Rowley (Hon. Hugh), Works by:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Puniana: Riddles and Jokes. With

numerous Illustrations.
More Puniana. profusely Illustrated.

R unci man (James), Stories by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each

cloth limp, 2s 6d each.
Skippers and Shellbacks.
Grace Balmaign's Sweetheart.
Schools and Scholars. [Preparing.

Russell (W. Clark), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s each; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Round the Galley-Fire.

On the Fo'k'sle Head : A Collection
of Yarns and Sea Descriptions.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
In the Middle Watch.
A Voy ag e to the C ape.

Sala. Gaslight and Daylight.

By George Augustus Sala. Post
8vo, il lustre acted boards. 2s.

Sanson.  Seven Generations

of Executioners: Memoirs of the
Sanson Family (1688 to 1847). Edited
by HENRvSANSON. Cr.8vo,cl.ex.3s . 6d.

Saunders (John), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Bound to the Wheel.

Guy Waterman.

The Lion in the Path.

The Two Dreamer s.
One Against the World. Post Svo,

illustrated boards, 2s.

Saunders (Katharine), Novels

by. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Joan Merryweather.

Margaret and Elizabeth.

The Hi gh Mills.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Heart Salvage. | Sebastian.
Gideon's Rock.

Science Gossip: An Illustrated

Medium of Interchange for Students
and Lovers of Nature. Edited by J. E.
Taylor, F.L.S., &c. Devoted to Geology,
Botany, Physiology, Chemistry,
Zoology, Microscopy, Telescope, Physiography,
&c. Price 4d. Monthly ; or
6s. per year, post free. Vols. I . to
XIV. may be had at 7s. 6d. each ; and
Vols. XV. to XXI. (1885), at 5S. each.
Cases for Bi ending, Is. 6d each.

Scott (Sir Walter), Poems by :

Marion. With over 100 new Illustrations
by leading Artists. Small
4to, cloth extra. 163.

The Lay of the Last Minstrel. With
over 100 new Illustrations by leading
Artists. Sm.4 to, cl.ex.,16s.

Secret Out" Series, The:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, profusely Illustrated,
4s. 6d. each.
The Secret Out : One Thousand
Tricks with Cards, and other Recreations;
with Entertaining Experiments
in Drawing-room or " White
Magic." By W. H. Cremer. 300
Engravings.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Secret Out " Series, continued

The Pyrotechnist's Treasury; or,
Complete Art of Making Fireworks.
By Thomas Kentish. With numerous
Illustrations.

The Art of Amusing: A Collection of
Graceful Arts,Games,Tricks, Puzzles,
and Charades. By Frank Belleww.
With 300 Illustrations.

Hanky-Panky: Very Easy Tricks,
Very Difficult Tricks, White Magic
Sleight of Hand. Edited by W. H.
Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.

The Merry Circle: A Book of New
Intellectual Games and Amusements.
By Clara Belleww. Many Illusts.

Magician's Own Book: Performances
with Cups and Balls, Eggs, Hats,
Handkerchiefs, &c. All from actual
Experience. Edited by W. H. Cramer.
200 Illustrations.

Senior. By Stream and Sea.

By William Senior. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Seven Sagas (The) of Prehistoric
Man. By James H. Stoddart,
Author of " The Village Life." Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Shakespeare:

The First Folio Shakespeare. Mr.

William Shakespeare's Comedies,
Histories, and Tragedies. Published
according to the true Original Copies.
London, Printed by Isaac Haggard
and Ed. Blunt. 1623. A Reproduction
of the extremely rare original,
in reduced facsimile, by a photographic
process  ensuring the strictest
accuracy in every detail. Small 8vo,
half-roxburgh, 7s. 6d.

TheLansdowne Shakespeare. Beautifully
printed in red and black, in
small but very clear type. With
engraved facsimile of Droeshout's
Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Shakespeare for Children: Tales
from Shakespeare. By Charles
and Mary Lamb. With numerous
Illustrations, coloured and plain, by
J. Moyr Smith. Cr. 4to, cl. gilt, 6s.

The Handbook of Shakespeare
Music. Being an Account of 350
Pieces of Music, set to Words taken
from the Plays and Poems of Shakespeare,
the compositions ranging
from the Elizabethan Age to the
Present Time. By Alfred Rosse.
4to, half-roxburgh, 7s.

A Study of Shakespeare. By Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Crown
8yo ? cloth extra, 8s.

Sheridan: 

Sheridan's Complete Works, with

Life and Anecdotes. Including his
Dramatic Writings, printed from the
Original Editions, his Works in
Prose and Poetry, Translations,
Speeches, Jokes, Puns, &c. With a
Collection of Sheridaniana. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 10 full-page
Tinted Illustrations, 7s. 6d.
Sheridan's Comedies: The Rivals,
and The School for Scandal.
Edited, with an Introduction and
Notes to each Play, and a Biographical
Sketch of Sheridan, by
Brander Matthews. With Decorative
Vignettes and iofull-page Illusts.
Demy 8vo, half-parchment, 12s. 6d.

Short Sayings of Great Men.

With Historical and Explanatory
Notes by Samuel A. Bent, M.A.
Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete

Poetical Works, including all those in
Arcadia." With Portrait, Memorial-introduction,
Notes, &c, by the Rev.
A. B. Grosart, D.D. Three Vols.,
crown 8vo, cloth boards, 18s.

Signboards : Their History.
With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns
and Remarkable Characters. By
Jacob Haywood and John Camden
Hotten. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
with 100 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Sims (George R.), Works by :

How the Poor Live. With 60 Illusts.

by Fred. Barnard. Large 4to, Is.
Rogues and Vagabonds. Post 8vo,

illust. boards, 2s. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
The Ring o' Bells. Post 8vo, illust.

bds., 2s. ; cloth, 2s. 6d.

Sketchley. A Match in the

Dark. By Arthur Sketchley. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Slang Dictionary, The: Etymological,
Historical, and Anecdotal.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s. 6d.

Smith (J. Moyr), Works by :

The Prince of Argolis: A Story of the
Old Greek Fairy Time. Small 8vo,
cloth extra, with 130 Illusts., 3s. 6d.

Tales of Old Thule. With numerous
Illustrations. Cr. 8vo, cloth gilt, 6s.

The Wooing of the Water Witch:
A Northern Oddity. With numerous
Illustrations. Small 8vo, cl. ex., 6g.

*3

Society in London. By A

Foreign Resident. Newand Cheaper
Edition, Revised, with an Additional
Chapter on Society among the
Middle and Professional Classes.
Crown 8vo, Is.; cloth. Is. 6d.

Spalding.-Elizabethan Demonology

: An Essay in Illustration of the
Belief in the Existence of Devils, and
the Powers possessed by Them. By T.
A. Spalding, LL.B. Cr. 8vo, cl.ex., 53.

Spanish Legendary Tales. By

Mrs. S. G. C. Middlemost, Author of
Round a Posada Fire." Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 63.

Speight~(T. W.), Novels by:

The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

With a Frontispiece by M. Ellen
Edwards. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated bds., 2s.

A Barren Title. Cr.8vo, Is. ; cl., ls.6d.

Wife or No Wife? Being the Gentleman's
Annual for 1886. Demy
8vo, Is. [Nov.

Spenser for Children. By M.

H. Tory. With Illustrations by
Walter J Morgan. Crown 4to, with
Coloured Illustrations, cloth gilt, 6s.

Staunton.  Laws and Practice

of Chess; Together with an Analysis
ot the Openings, and a Treatise on
End Games. By Howard Staunton.
Edited by Robert B. World. New
Edition, small cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Stedman.  The Poets of

America. With full Notes in Margin,
and careful Analytical Index. By
Edmund Clarence Stedman, Author
of " Victor an Po et s." Cr. 8vo,cl.ex ., 9s.

Sterndale. The Afghan Knife:

A Novel. By Robert Armytage Stern-dale.
Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Stevenson (Louis), Works by :

Travels with a Donkey in the

Cevennes. Fifth Ed. Frontispiece by

W. Crane. Post Svo, cl. limp, 2s. 6d.
An Inland Voyage. With Front, by

W. Crane. Post 8vo, cl. Ip., 2s. 6d.
Familiar Studies of Men and Books.

Second Edit. Crown 8vo, cl. ex., 6s.
New Arabian Nights. Crown Svo,

cl. extra, 6s. ; post Svo, illust. bds., 2s.
The Silverado Squatters. With

Frontispiece. Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Cheap Edition, post 8vo, picture

cover, Is.; cloth, Is. 6d.
Prince Otto: A Romance. Fourth

Edition. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. ;

post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.
The Merry Men, and other Tales and

Fables. Cr. Svo, cl. ex., 6s. Shortly.

St. John  A Levantine Family.
By Bayle St. John. Post bvo. illustrated
boards, 2s.

Stoddard. Summer Cruising

in the South Seas. By Charles
Warren Stoddard. Illust. by Wallis
Mackay. Crown 8vo, cl. extra, 3s. Gd.

Stories from Foreign Novelists.
With Notices ci their Lives and
Writings. By Helen and Alice Simmer.
Frontispiece. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. ; post Svo, iliust. bds., 2s.

St. Pierre.  Paul and Virginia,

and The Indian Cottage. By Bernardin
St. Pierre. Edited, with Life,
by Rev. E. Clarke. Post 8vo, cl. Ip., 2s.

Struts's Sports and Pastimes

of the People of England; including
the Rural and Domestic Recreations,
May Games, Mummers, Shows, &c,
from the Earliest Period to the Present
Time. With 140 Illustrations. Edited
by William Hone. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Suburban Homes (The) of

London : A Residential Guide to
Favourite London Localities, their
Society. Celebrities, and Associations.
With Notes on their Rental, Rates.and
House Accommodation. With Map of
Suburban London. Cr.8vo,cl.ex.,7s.6d.

Swift's Choice Works, in Prose

and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait,
and Facsimiles of the Maps in the
Original Edition of " Tulliver's
Travels." Cr. Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d .

Swinburne (Algerian C),

Works by:
Atlantic Corydon. Crown 8vo, 6s.
Chastened. AATragedy. Cr. Svo, 7s.
Poems and Ballads. First Series.

Fcap. Svo, 9s. Cr. 8vo, same price.
Poems and Ballads. Second Series.

Fcap. Svo, 9s. Cr. 8vo, same price.
Notes on Poems and Reviews. 8vo,ls.
Songs before Sunrise. Cr. Svo, 10s 6d.
Bothwell: AATragedy. Cr.8vo,12s.6d.
George Chapman : An Essay. Crown

Svo, 7s.
Songs of Two Nations. Cr. Svo, 6s.
Essays and Studies. Crown 8vo, 12s.
Erechtheus: A Tragedy. Cr. Svo, 6s.
Note of an English Republican on

the Muscovite Crusade. 8vo, Is.
Note on Charlotte Eronte.Cr.Svo,6s.
A Study of Shakespeare. Cr. Svo, 8s.
Songs of the Springtide. Cr.8vo, 6s.
Studies in Song. Crown 8vo, 7s.
Mary Stuart : A Tragedy. Cr. Svo, 8s.
Tristan of Lioness, and other

Poems. Crown Svo, 9s.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Swinburne's (A. C.) Works, continued 
A Century of Roundels. Small 4to,8s.
A Midsummer Holiday, and other

Poems. Crown 8vo, 7s.
Marino Falter : AATragedy. Cr.8vo,6s.
A Study of Victor Hugo. Cr. 8vo, 6s.
Miscall anie. Crown Hvo, 12s.

Symonds.  Wine, Women and

Song: Mediaeval Latin Students'
Songs. Now first translated into English
Verse, with Essay by J. Addington
S symonds . Small 8vo, parch went, 6s.

Syntax's (Dr.) Three Tours:

In Search of the Picturesque, in Search
of Consolation, and in Search of a
Wife. With the whole of Rowlandson's
droll page Illustrations in Colours
and a Life of the Author by J. C.
Hotten. Med. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Taine's History of English

Literature. Translated by Henry
Van Laun. Four Vols., small 8vo,
cloth boards, sos.  Popular Edition,
Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 15s.

Taylor's (Bayard) Diversions

of the Echo Club: Burlesques of
Modern Writers. Post 8vo, cl. limp, 2s.

Taylor (Dr. J. E., F.L.S.), Works

by. Crown 8vo, cloth ex., 7s. 6d. each.

The Sagacity and Morality of
Plants : A Sketch of the Life and
Conduct of the Vegetable Kingdom.
ColouredFrontispiece and hoo Illust.

Our Common British Fossils, and
Where to Find Them : A Handbook
for Students. With 331 Illustrations.

Taylor's (Tom) Historical

Dramas: "Chancery," "Jeanne
Dare," " 'Twixt Axe and Crown," " The
Fool's Revenge," " Arkwright's Wife,"
"Anne Boleyn'' " Plot and Passion''
One Vol., cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
*** The Plays may also be had separately,
at Is. each.

Tennyson (Lord): A Biographical
Sketch. By H. J. Jennings.
With a Photograph-Portrait. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Thackerayana: Notes and Anecdotes.
Illustrated by Hundreds of
Sketches by William Makepeace
Thackeray, depicting Humorous
Incidents in his School-life, and
Favourite Characters in the books of
his every-day reading. With Coloured
F rontispie ce. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

T h cmas~~(Be rt h aTTN o ve I s~ by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Cressida. | Proud Aisle.

The Violin Player.

Thomas (M.). A Fight for Life 

A Novel. By W. Moy Thomas. Post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Thomson's Seasons and Castle

of Indolence. With a Biographical
and Critical Introduction by Allan
Cunningham, and over 50 fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood. Crown 8vo, |
cloth extra, gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Thornbury (Walter), Works by

Haunted London. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s 6d.

The Life and Correspondence of
J. M. W. Turner. Founded upon
Letters and Papers furnished by his
Friends and fellow Academicians.
With numerous Illusts. in Colours,
facsimile from Turner's Original
Drawings. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 7s. 6d.

Old Stories Re-told. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s 6d.

Tales for the Marines. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Times (John), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s 6d each.

The History of Clubs and Club Life
In London. With Anecdotes of its
Famous Coffee-houses, Hostelries,
and Taverns. With many Illusts.

English Eccentrics and Eccentricities:
Stories of Wealth and
Fashion, Delusions, Impostures, and
Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights
and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric
Artists, Theatrical Folk, Men ot
Letters, &c. With nearly 50 Illusts.

Trollope (Anthony), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s 6d. each;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

The Way We Live Now.

Kept In the Dark.

Frau Frohmann. | Marion Fay.

Mr. Scarborough's Family.

The Land-Leaguers.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
The Golden Lion of Grantee.
JohnCaldigate. | American Senator

Trollope(FrancesE.), Novels by

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Like Ships upon the Sea.

Mabel's Progress. I Anne Furness.

Trollope (T. A.). Diamond Cut

Diamond, and other Stories. By
T. Adolphus Trollops. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.



Trowbridge. Parnell Folly:

A Novel. By J. T. Trowbridge. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s

Turgenieff.  Stories from

Foreign Novelists. By Ivan Surges
and others. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. td.; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2a.

Tytler (C. C. Fraser).  Mistress
Judith: A Novel. By C. C.
Fraser-tatler. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.

Tytler (Sarah), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each ;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.
Saint Mungo's City.
Beauty and the Beast. With a
Frontispiece ce by P . Ma cab.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Noblesse Oblige. With Illustrations

by F. A. Fraser.
Citoyenne Jacqueline. Illustrated

by A. B. Houghton.
The Huguenot Family. With Illusts.
Lady Bel l. Front, by R. M macbeth.

Buried Diamonds: A Novel. Three
Vols., crown 8vo.

Van Laun. History of French

Literature. By H. Van Laun. Three
Vols., demy 8vo, cl. bd s., 7s. 6d. each.

Villari.  A Double Bond: A

Story. By Linda Villari. Fcap.
8vo, picture cover, Is.

Walford (Edw7M.A.),Works by":

The County Families the United
Kingdom. Containing Notices of
the Descent, Birth, Marriage, Education,
&c, of more than 12,000 distinguished
Heads of Families, their
Heirs Apparent or Presumptive, the
Offices they hold or have held, their
Town and Country Addresses, Clubs,
&c. Twenty-sixth Annual Edition,
for 18S6, cloth gilt, 50s.

The Shilling Peerage (1886). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
House of Lords, Dates of Creation,
Lists of Scotch and Irish Peers,
Addresses, &c. 32010, cloth, Is.
Published annually.

The Shilling Baronetage (1886).
Containing an Alphabetical List of
the Baronets of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates
of Creation, Addresses, &c. 32mo,
sloth, Is.

The Shilling Knightage (1886). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
Knights of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Date* <~.f
Creation, Addressers. 32mo,c;.,l3.

WaLford's (Edw.) Works, continued
The Shilling House of Commons
(1886). Containing a List of all the
Members of Parliament, their Town
and Country Addresses, &c. New
Edition, embodying the results of
the recent General Election. 32mo,
cloth. Is. Published annually.
The Complete Peerage, Baronetage,
Knightage, and House of
Commons (1886). In One Volume,
royal 32 mo, cloth extra, g wilt edges, 53.
Haunted London. By Walter

Thornbury. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6 d.

Walton andCotton'sComplete

Angler; or, The Contemplative Man's
Recreation ; being a Discourse of
Rivers, Fishponds, Fish and Fishing,
written by Izaak Walton; and Instructions
how to Angle for a Trout or
Grayling in a clear Stream, by Charles
Cotton. With Original Memoirs and
Notes by Sir Harris Nicholas, and
61 Copperplate Illustrations. Large
crown 8vo, cl both a antique, 7s. 6d.

Walt Whitman"" Poems "by".

Selected and edited, wit's an Introduction,
by William M. Rossetti. A
New Edition, with a Steel Plate Portrait.
Crown 8vo, printed on hand-made
paper and bound in buckram,
6s.

Wanderer's Library, The:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Wanderings In Patagonia; or, Lite
among the Ostrich-Hunters. By
Julius Beerbohm. Illustrated.

Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and
Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
America. By Frederick Boyle.

Savage Life. By Frederick Boyle.

Merrie England in the Olden Time
By George Daniel. With Illustrations
by Robt. Cruikshank.

Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
By Thomas Frost.

The Lives of the Conjurers. By
Thomas Frost.

The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs. By Thomas Frost.

Low-life Deeps. An Account of the
Strange Fish to be found there. By
James Greenwood.

The Wilds of London. By James
Greenwood.

Tunis: The Land and the People.
By the Chevalier de .
With 22 Illustrations.

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Henley.

The World Behind the Scenes. By
Percy Fitzgerald.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Wanderer's Library, The, continued-tavern
Anecdotes and Sayings:
Including the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with Taverns,
Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
By Charles Hindley. With Illusts.
The Genial Showman: Life and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. ByE. P.
Hingston. With a Frontispiece.
The Story of the London Parks.

By Jacob Haywood. With Illusts.
London Characters. By Henry May-hew.
Illustrated.
Seven Generations of Executioners :
Memoirs of the Sanson Family (1688
to 1847). Edited by Henry Sanson.
Summer Cruising in the South
Seas. By C. Warren Stoddard.

Seas, .by o.
Illustrated by

Wallis Mackay.

Wanner. A Roundabout Journey.
By Charles Dudley Warner,
Author of " My Summer in a Garden."
Cr own 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Warrants, Sec. : 
Warrant to Execute Charles I. An

exact Facsimile, with the Fifty-nine
Signatures, and corresponding Seals.
Carefully printed on paper to imitate
the Original, 22 in. by 14 in. Price 2s.

Warrant to Execute Mary Queen of
Scots. An exact Facsimile, including
the Signature of Queen Elizabeth,
and a Facsimile of the Great
Seal. Beautifully printed on paper
to imitate the Original MS. Price 2s.

Magna Charta. An exact Facsimile
of the Original Document in the
British Museum, printed on fine
plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2
feet wide, with the Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours.
Price 5s.

The Roll of Battle Abbey; or, A List
of the Principal Warriors who came
over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in this
Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
an d Colours. Price 5 s.

Wayfarer, The : Journal of the

Society of Cyclists. Published Quarterly.
Price Is. Number i, for October,
i s now ready.

Weather, How to Foretell the,

with the Pocket Spectroscope. By

F. W. Cry, M.R.C.S. Eng., F.R.Met.
Soc.,&c With 10 Illustrations. Crown
8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

WestroppT Handbook of Pottery

and Porcelain; or, History ot
those Arts from the Earliest Period.
By Fodder M. Westropp. With numerous
Illustrations, and a List of
Marks, Crown 8yo, cloth limp, 4s. 6d,

Whistler's (Mr.) "Ten o'clock."

Uniform with his " Whistler v. Ruskin :
Art and Art Critics." Cr.8vo,ls. [Shortly.

Williams (W. Mattieuu, F.R.A.S.),

Works by:
Science Notes. See the Gentleman's

Magazine. Is. Monthly.
Science in Short Chapters. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
A Simple Treatise on Heat. Crown

8vo, cloth limp, with Illusts., 2s. 6d.

The Chemistry of Cookery. Crown

8vo, cloth extra a, 6s.

Wilson (Dr. Andrew, F.R.S.E.),

Works by:

Chapters on Evolution: A Popular
History of the Darwinian and
Allied Theories of Development.
Third Edition. Crown 8vo-loth
extra, with 259 Illustrations, 7s dd.

Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Leisure-Time Studies, chiefly Biological.
Third Edit., with New Preface.
Cr. 8vo, cl. ex., with Illusts,, 6s.

Studies in Life and Sense. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s. [Preparing.

Common Accidents, and How to
Treat them. By Dr. Andrew Wilson
and others. With numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth
limp, Is. 6d.

Wi7iter~(JTS.), Stories by :

Cavalry Life. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.
Regimental Legends. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated

bo a rds, 2s.

Women of the Day : A Biographical

Dictionary of Notable Contemporaries.
By Frances Hays. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Wood.  Sabina: A Novel. By
Lady Wood. Post 8vo, ill st. bds., 2s.

Words, Facts, and Phrases :

A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and

Out-of-the-way Matters. By Believer

Edwards. New and cheaper issue,

cr . vocL, ex. , 7s. 6d. ; half-bound, 9s.

Wright (Thomas), Works . by : ~~

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.
Caricature History of the Georges.
(The House of Hanover.) With 400
Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs, Broadsides,
Window Pictures, &c.
History of Caricature and of the
Grotesque in Art, Literature,
Sculpture, and Painting. Profusely
Illus acted by Few. Fairly lt.F.S.A.

Yates (Edmund), Novelty :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Castaway. | The Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last,



NEW Three-volume NOVELS.

WILKIE COLLINS'S NEW NOVEL.

The Evil Genius: A Novel. By Wilkie
Collins, Author of "The Woman in
White." Three Vols., crown 8vo.

WALTER BESANTS NEW NOVEL.

Children of Gibeon: A Novel. By
Walter Besant, Author of "All Sorts
and Conditions of Men," "Dorothy
Forster," &c. Three Vols., crown
8vo.

ANOTHER NEW NOVEL BY
WALTER BESANT.
The World Went Very Well Then.
Three Vols., crown 8vo. [May, 1887.

MRS. HUNTS NEW NOVEL.

That other Person : A Novel. By Mrs.
Alfred Hunt, Author of "Thorns
Model," "The Leaden Casket,"
&c. Three Vols., crown 8vo.
GRANT ALLEN'S NEW NOVEL.

In all Shades: A Novel. By Grant
Allen, Author of " Strange Stories,"
"Philistia," "Babylon," &c. Three
Vols., crown Svo.

HALL CAINE'S NEW NOVEL.
A Son of Hagar : A Novel. By T. Hall
Caine, Author of "The Shadow of a
Crime," &c. Three Vols. [Jan., 1887.

THE PICCADILLY NOVELS.

Popular Stories by the Best Authors. Library Editions, many Illustrated,
crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

BY GRANT ALLEN.
Philistia.

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.
Ready-money Mortify.
My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
This Son of Vulcan.
With Harp and Crown
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The MonKS of Helena.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY WALTER BESANT.
All Sorts and Conditions of Men.
The Captains' Room.
All in a Garden Fair.
Dorothy Forster.
Uncle Jack.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN.
A Child of Nature.
God and the Man.
The Shadow of the Sword.
The Martyrdom of Madeline.
Love Me for Ever.
Annann Water. I The New Abelard.
Matt. I Foxglove Manor.

The Master of the Mine.

BY HALL CAINE.
The Shadow of a Crime.

BY MRS. H. LOVETT CAMERON.
Deceivers Ever. | Juliet's Guardian.

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page.
Transmigration.
From Midnight to Midnight

MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.

Blacksmith and Scholar.

The Village Comedy.

You Play me False.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.

New Magdalen.
The Frozen Deep.
The Law and the

Lady.
TheTwo Destinies
Haunted Hotel.
The Fallen Leaves
Jezebel'sDaughter
The Black Robe.
Heart and Science
I Say No.

Antonina.
Basil.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret.
Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
Woman in White.
The Moonstone.
Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch.
Miss or Mrs. ?

BY DUTTON COOK.
Paul Foster's Daughter.

BY WILLIAM Cycles
Hearts of Gold.

BY ALPHONSE DAUDET.
The Evangelist; or, Port Salvation.

BY JAMES DE MILLE.
A Castle in Spain.

BY J. LEITH DERWENT.
Our Lady of Tears. I Circe's Lovers

BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS.
Felicia. | Kitty.

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
Archie Lovell.

BY PERCY FITZGERALD.
Fatal Zero.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Queen Cophetua. I A Real Queen.
One by One.

Prefaced by Sir BARTLE Free.
Pandurang Hari.

BY EDWARD GARRETT.
The Capel Girls.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Piccadilly Novels, continued
BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray. | For Lack of Gold.
What will the World Say P
In Honour Bound.
Queen of the Meadow.
The Flower of the Forest.
A Heart's Problem.
The Braes of Yarrow.
The Golden Shaft. I Of High Degree.
Fancy Free. | Loving a Dream.

A Hard Knot.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.

BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth. | Elllce Quentln.

Sebastian Stroke.
Prince Saroni's Wife.
Dust. | Fortune's Fool.

Beatrix Randolph.
Miss Madonna.
Love or a Name.

BY SIR A. HELPS.
Ivan de Biron.

BY MRS. Cassel Holy.
The Lover's Creed.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT,
Thornicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self-condemned.

BY JEAN Angelo,
Fated to be Free.

BY HARRIETT JAY.
The Queen of Connaught

BY R. ASHE KING.
A Drawn Game.
"The Wearing of the Green."
BY HENRY KINGSLEY,
Number Seventeen.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
Atonement of Learn Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord ?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family
My Love !" | lone.

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fleyce.

by justin McCarthy.

The Waterdale Neighbours.

My Enemy's Daughter.

A Fair Saxon.

Dear Lady Disdain.

Miss Misanthrope. | Donna Quixote

The Comet of a Season.

Maid of Athens.

Camiola.

BY MRS. Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

Piccadilly Novels, continued
BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.
Open ! Sesame ! | Written in Fire
BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
Life's Atonement, > Coals of Fire.
Joseph's Coat. I Val Strange.
A Model Father. I Hearts
By the Gate of the Sea
The Way of the World.
A Bit of Human Nature.
First Person Singular.
Cynic Fortune.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteladics.

BY MARGARET A. PAUL.
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES Pain.

Lost Sir Massinger.


Best of Husbands
Halves.

Walter's Word.
What He Cost Her
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy.
High Spirits.
Under One Roof.
BY E

Valentina.

A Confidential

Agent.
From Exile.
A Grape from a

Thorn.
For Cash Only.
Some Private

Views.
The Canon's

Ward.
Talk of the Town.
C. PRICE.
I The Foreigners.

Mrs. Lancaster's Rival.

BY CHARLES READE.
It Is Never Too Late to Mend.
Hard Cash.
Peg Wofflngton.
Christie Johnstonee.
Griffith Gaunt. | Foul Play.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long.
The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
The Autobiography of a Thief.
Put Yourself In His Place.
A Terrible Temptation.
The Wandering Heir. I A Simpleton.
A Woman-hater. | Readiana.

Singleheart and Doubleface.
The Jilt.

Good Stories of Men and other"
Animals.

BY MRS. J. H. Liddell.
Her Mother's Darling.
Prince of Wales's Garden Party.
Weird Stories.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.
Women are Strange.
The Hands of Justice.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS,
Bound to the Wheel.
Guy Waterman.
Two Dreamers.
The Lion In the Path.



Piccadilly Novels, continued
BY KATHARINE SAUNDERS.
Joan Merryweather.
Margaret and Elizabeth.
Gideon's Rock. I Heart Salvage.
The High Mills. | Sebastian.

BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

BY R. A. STERN DALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Proud Maisie. | Cressida.
The Violin-Player.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.
The Way we Live Now.
Frau Frohmann. | Marion Fay.
Kept in the Dark.
Mr. Scarborough's Family.
The Land Leaguers.

Piccadilly Novfxs, continued 
BY FRANCES E. TROLLOPE.
Like Ships upon the Sea.
Anne Furness.
Mabel's Progress.

BY IVAN TURGENIEFF, &c.
Stories from Foreign Novelists.

BY SARAH Tatler.
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.
Saint Mungo's City.
Beauty and the Beast.
Noblesse Oblige.
Citoyenne Jacqueline.
The Huguenot Family.
Lady Bell.

BY C. C. FRASER-tatler.
Mistress Judith.

BY J. S. WINTER.
Regimental Legends.

CHEAP EDITIONS OF POPULAR NOVELS.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

BY Edmund ABOUT.
The Fellah.

BY HAMILTON AIDE.
Carr of Carrlyon. | Confidences.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.
Maid, Wife, or Widow ?
Valerie's Fate.

BY GRANT ALLEN.
Strange Stories.
Philistia.

BY Shelley BEAUCHAMP.
Grantly Grange.

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.
Ready-money Mortify.
With Harp and Crown.
This Son of Vulcan. | My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas In Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY WALTER BESANT.
All Sorts and Conditions of Men.
The Captains' Room.
All in a Garden Fair.
Dorothy forster
Uncle Jack

BY FREDERICK BOYLE.
Camp Notes. | Savage Life.
Chronicles of No-man's Land.

BY Bred HARTE.

An Heiress of Red Dog.

The Luck of Roaring Camp.

Californian Stories.

Gabriel Conroy. | Flip.

Maruja.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN.
The Shadow ofl The Martyrdom

the Sword. of Madeline.

A Child of Nature. Annann Water.
God and the Man. The New Abelard.
Love Me for Ever. | Matt.
Foxglove Manor. I

BY MRS. BURNETT.
Surly Tim.

BY HALL CAIXE.
The Shadow of a Crime.
BY MRS. LOVETT CAMERON
Deceivers Ever. | Juliet's Guardian

BY MACLAREN COBBAN.
The Cure of Soul.

BY C. Allusion COLLINS.
The Bar Sinister.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.
Antenna. Queen of Hearts.

Basil. I My Miscellanies.

Hide and Seek. i Woman In White.
The Dead Secret. I The Moonstone.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Cheap Popular Novels, continued

Wilkie Collins, continued.
Man and Wife. Haunted Hotel.
Poop Miss Finch. The Fallen Leaves.
Miss op Mps.? Jezebel'sDaughter

New Magdalen. The Black Robe.
The Frozen Deep. Heart and Science
Law and the Lady. "I Say No."
TheTwo Destinies

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page, i From Midnight to
Transmigration. | Midnight.
A Fight with Fortune.

MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.
Sweet and Twenty. | Frances.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play me False.

BY BUTTON COOK.
Leo. I Paul Foster's Daughter.

BY C. EGBERT CRADDOCK.
The Prophet of the Great Smoky
Mountains.

BY WILLIAM Cycles,
Hearts of Gold.

BY ALPHONSE DAUDET.
The Evangelist; or, Port Salvation.

BY JAMES DE MILLE.
A Castle in Spain.

BY J. LEITH DERWENT.
Soup Lady of Tears. | Circe's Loves.

BY CHARLES DICKENS.
Sketches by Boz. I Oliver Twist.
Pickwick Papers. | Nicholas Nickleby

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
A Point of Honour. | Archie Lovell

BY M. BETH A M-ED WARDS.
Felicia. | Kitty.

BY EDWARD EGGLESTON.
Roxy.

BY PERCY FITZGERALD.
Bella Donna. | Never Forgotten.
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Polly.

Seventy-five Brooke Street.
The Lady of Bpantome.
BY ALBANY DE FONBLANQUE.
Filthy Lucre.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Olympia. I Queen Cophetua.

One by One. | A Real Queen.
Prefaced by Sir H. BARTLE Free.
Pandurang Hari.

BY Pain FRISWELL.
One of Two.

BY EDWARD GARRETT,
The Capel Girls.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
BY CHARLES GIBBON.

Robin Pay.

Fop Lack of Gold.

What will the
Would Say

In Honour Bound.

In Love and Wap.

Fop the King.

In Past u pes Green

Queen of the Meadow.


The Flower of the
Forest.

A Heart's Problem

The Braes of Yarrow.


The Golden Shaft

Of High Degree.

Fancy Free.

By Mead and
Stream.

BY WILLIAM GILBERT.
Dr. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke.

BY JAMES GREENWOOD.
Dick Temple.

BY JOHN HABBERTON.
Brueton's Bayou.

BY ANDREW HALLWAY.
Every-Day Papers.
BY LADY DUFFUS HARDY.
Paul Wynter's Sacrifice.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.
BY J. BERWICK Haywood.
The Tenth Earl.
BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth. I Sebastian Stroma

Ellice Quentln. | Dust.
Prince Saroni's Wife.
Fortune's Fool. | Beatrix Randolph.
BY SIR ARTHUR HELPS.
Ivan de Biron.

BY MRS. CASH EL Holy
The Lover's Creed.

BY TOM HOOD.
A Golden Heart.

BY MRS. GEORGE HOOPER,
The House of Raby.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT.
Thornicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self-condemned.

BY JEAN Angelo.
Fated to be Free.

BY HARRIETT JAY.
The Dark Colleen.
The Queen of Connaught.

BY MARK KERSHAW.
Colonial Facts and Fictions.

BY R. ASHE KING.
A Drawn Game.
"The Wearing of the Green."
BY HENRY KINGSLEY.
Oakshott Castle.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Learn Dundalk
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord ?

3*

Cheap Popular Novels, continued.
Lynn linton, continued
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
"My Love I lone.

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fleyce.

by justin McCarthy.

DearLadyDisdaln
The Waterdale

Neighbours.
My Enemy's

Daughter.
A Fair Saxon.

Llnley Rochford.
MIssMisanthrope
Donna Quixote.
The Comet of a

Season.
Maid of Athens.

BY MRS. Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID.
The Evil Eye. | Lost Rose.
BY W. H. Matlock.
The New Republic.

BY FLORENCE MARRYAT.

A Little Stepson.
Fighting the Air

Open! Sesame
A Harvest of Wild
Oats.

Written in Fire.
BY J. Waterman,
Half-a-dozen Daughters.
BY BRANDER MATTHEWS.
A Secret of the Sea.

BY JEAN Middlemost.
Touch and Go. | Mr. Dorillion.

BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
ALIfe'sAtonement] Val Strange.
A Model Father. Hearts.
Joseph's Coat. The Way of the

Coals of Fire. World.

BytheGateofthe A Bit of Human
Sea. Nature.

BY ALICE 0'IIAXLOX.
The Unforeseen.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteladies.

BY MRS. ROBERT Reilly.
Phoebe's Fortunes.

BY OUIDA.
Held In Bondage. TwoLittleWooden

Stratford.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Italia.

Cecil Castle-male's

Gage.
Tricotrin.
Fuck.

Folle Farley
Dog of Flanders.
Pascal.
Signa.

Princes* Napraxlne.

Shoes.

In a Winter City.
l Ariadne.
Friendship.
Moths.
1 Pipistrello.
I A Village Commune.


Bimbi.

Wands.

Frescoes.

In Maremma.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
BY MARGARET AGNES PAUL.
Gentle and Simple.

BY JAMES Pain.

Lost Sir Massingberd.


A Perfect Treasure.


Bentinck's Tutor.

Murphy's Master.

A County Family.

At Her Mercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.


Cecil's Tryst.

Clyffards of Clyffe

The Family Scapegrace.


Foster Brothers.

Found Dead.

Bast of Husbands.

Walter's Word.

Halves.

Fallen Fortunes.

Like Father, Like

Son.
A Marine Residence.

Married Beneath

Him.
Mirk Abbey.
Not Wooed, but

Won.
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy.
Under One Roof.
High Spirits.
Carlyon's Year.
A Confidential

Agent.
Some Private

Views.
From Exile.

What He Cost Her [ A Grape from a
HuinorousStories ! Thorn.
Gwendoline's Har For Cash Only.

vest. I Kit: A Memory.

200 Reward. i The Canon s Ward

BY EDGAR A. POE.

Th Mystery of Marie Roget.
BY E. C. PRICE.

Valentine. | The Foreigners.

Mrs. Lancaster's Rival.

Gerald.

BY CHARLES READE.
It Is Never Too Late to Mend
Hard Cash. | Peg Wofflngton.

Christie Johnstonee.
Griffith Gaunt.
Put Yourself in His Place.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long.
Foul Play.

The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
Autobiography of a Thief.
A Terrible Temptation.
The Wandering Heir.
A Simpleton. A Woman-hater.

Readiana. The Jilt.

Singleheart and Doublefaca.
Good Stories of Men and other
Animals.
BY MRS. J. H. RID DELL.
Her Mother's Darling.
Prince of Wales's Garden Party.
Weird Stories.
The Uninhabited House.
Fairy Water.
The Mystery in Palace Gardens.

BY F. W. ROBINSON.
Women are Strange.
The Hand of Justice.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY CHATTO &> WINDUS.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
BY JAMES RUNCIMAN.
Skippers and Shellbacks.
Grace Balmaign's Sweetheart.
Schools and Scholars.

BY W. CLARK RUSSELL.
Round the Galley Fire.
On the Fo'k'sle Head.

BY BAYLE ST. JOHN.
A Levantine Family.
BY GEORGE AUGUSTUS SAL A.
Gaslight and Daylight.

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.
Bound to the Wheel.
One Against the World.
Guy Waterman.
The Lion in the Path.
Two Dreamers.

BY KATHARINE SAUNDERS.
Joan Merryweather.
Margaret and Elizabeth.
The High Mills.

BY GEORGE R. SIMS.
Rogues and Vagabonds.
The Ring o' Bells.

BY ARTHUR Sketches.
A Match in the Dark.

BY T. W. SPEIGHT.
The Mysteries of Heron Dyke.

BY R. A. STERN DALE.
The Afghan Knife.

BY R. LOUIS STEVENSON.
New Arabian Nights.
Prince Otto.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Cressida. | Proud Malsle.

The Violin-Player.

BY W. Moi THOMAS.
A Fight for Life.

BY WALTER THORNBURY.
Tales for the Marines.
BY T. ADOLPHUS TROLLOPE.
Diamond Cut Diamond.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.
The Way We Live Now.
The American Senator.
Frau Frohmann.
Marion Fay.
Kept In the Dark
Mr. Scarborough's Family.
The Land-Leaguers.
The Golden Lion of Grantee.
John Candidate.
By FRA Ces ELEANOR TROLLOPE
Like Ships upon the Sea.
Anne Furness.
Mabel's Progress.

BY J. T. TROWBRIDGE.
Parnell's Folly.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued
BY IVAN TURGENIEFF, &C.
Stories from Foreign Novelists.

BY MARK TWAIN.
Tom Sawyer.
A Pleasure Trip on the Continent

of Europe.
A Tramp Abroad.
The Stolen White Elephant.
Huckleberry Finn.

BY C. C. FRASER-tatler
Mistress Judith.

BY SARAH Tatler.
What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.
Saint Mungo's City.
Beauty and the Beast

BY J. S. WINTER.
Cavalry Life. | Regimental Legends.

BY LADY WOOD.
Sabina.

BY EDMUND YATES.
Castaway. | The Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last.

ANONYMOUS.
Paul Ferrol.
Why Paul Ferrol Killed ifs Wife.

POPULAR SHILLING BOOKS.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret

Harte.
The Twins of Table Mountain. By

Bret Harte.
Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds. By

Julian Hawthorne.
Kathleen Mavourneen. By Author

of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Lindsay's Luck. By the Author of

That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Pretty Polly Pemberton. By the

Author of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Trooping with Crows. By Mrs.

Pirkis.
The Professor's Wife. By Leonard

Graham.
A Double Bond. By Linda Villari.
Esther's Glove. By R. E. Francillon.
The Garden that Paid the Rent.

By Tom Jerrold.
Curly. By John Coleman. Illustrated
by J. C Dollman.
Beyond the Gates. By E. S. Phelps.
An Old Maid's Paradise. By E. S.

Phelps.
Burglars in Paradise. ByE. Phelps.
Doom : An Atlantic Episode. By

Justin H. MacCarthy, M.P.
Our Sensation Novel. Edited by

Justin H. MacCarthy, M.P.
A Barren Title. By T. W. Speight.
Wife or No Wife ? By T. W. Speight.
The Silverado Squatters. By R.

Louis Stevenson.

J. OGDEN AND CO., PRINTERS, 29, 30 AND 31, GREAT SAFFRON HILL, Echini


