CHAPTER I.

THE HONEYMOON.

More than six weeks had passed. The
wedded lovers were still enjoying their
honeymoon at Vange Abbey.

Some offence had been given, not only
to Mrs. Eyrecourt, but to friends of her way
of thinking, by the strictly private manner
in which the marriage had been celebrated.
The event took everybody by surprise when
the customary advertisement appeared in the
newspapers. Foreseeing the unfavourable
impression that might be produced in some
quarters, Stella had pleaded for a timely
retreat to the seclusion of Romaine's country

house. The will of the bride being, as
usual, the bridegroom's law, to Vange they
retired accordingly.

On one lovely moonlight night, early in
July, Mrs. Romaine left her husband on the
Belvidere, described in Major Hynd's narrative,
to give the housekeeper certain instructions
relating to the affairs of the household.
Half an hour later, as she was about to ascend
again to the top of the house, one of the
servants informed her that ' the master had
just left the Belvidere, and had gone into his
study.'

Crossing the inner hall, on her way to
the study, Stella noticed an unopened letter,
addressed to Romaine, lying on a table in a
corner. He had probably laid it aside and
forgotten it. She entered his room with the
letter in her hand.

The only light was a reading lamp, with
the shade so lowered that the corners of the
study were left in obscurity. In one of these
corners Romaine was dimly visible, sitting
with his head sunk on his breast. He never
moved when Stella opened the door. At
first she thought he might be asleep.

Do I disturb you, Lewis ? ' she asked
softly.

No, my dear.'

There was a change in the tone of his
voice, which his wife's quick ear detected.
'I am afraid you are not well,' she said
anxiously.

I am a little tired after our long ride
to-day. Do you want to go back to the
Belvidere?'

'Not without you. Shall I leave you to
rest here ? '

He seemed not to hear the question.
There he sat, with his head hanging down,
the shadowy counterfeit of an old man. In
her anxiety, Stella approached him, and put
her hand caressingly on his head. It was
burning hot. ' Oh ! ' she cried, ' you are ill,
and you are trying to hide it from me.'

He put his arm round her waist, and
made her sit on his knee. ' Nothing is the
matter with me,' he said, with an uneasy
laugh. ' What have you got in your hand ?
A letter ? '

Yes. Addressed to you, and not opened

yet.'

He took it out of her hand, and threw it
carelessly on a sofa near him . ' Never mind
that now ! Let us talk He paused, and
kissed her, before he went on. ' My daring,
I think you must be getting tired of Range ? '

Oh, no ! I can be happy anywhere with
you  and especially at Vange. You don't
know how this noble old house interests me,
and how I admire the glorious country all
round it

He was not convinced. ' Range is very
dull,' he said, obstinately ; ' and your friends
will be wanting to see you. Have you
heard from your mother lately ? '

No. I am surprised she has not written.'

She has not forgiven us for Getting
married so quietly,' he went on. ' We had
better go back to London and make our
peace with her. Don't you want to see the
house my aunt left me at Highgate ? '

Stella sighed. The society of the man
she loved was society enough for her. Was
he getting tired of his wife already ? ' I vill
go with you wherever you like.' She said

VOL. IT. G

those words in tones of sad submission, and
gently got up from his knee.

He rose also, and took from the sofa the
letter which he had thrown on it. ' Let us
see what our friends say,' he resumed.
The address is in Loring*s handwriting.'

As he approached the table on which the
lamp was burning, she noticed that he
moved with a languor that was new in her
experience of him. He sat down and opened
the letter. She watched him with an anxiety
which had now become intensified to suspicion.
The shade of the lamp still prevented
her from seeing his face plainly. ' Just what

I told you,' he said ; 'the Lorings want to
know when they are to see us in London ;

and your mother says she " feels like that

character in Shakespeare who was cut by his

own daughters." Eead it.'

He handed lier the letter. la taking it,
she contrived to touch the lamp shade, as if
by accident, and tilted it so that the full flow
of the light fell on him. He started back 
but not before she had seen the ghastly
pallor on his face. She had not only heard
it from Lady Loring, she knew from his own
unreserved confession to her what that
startling change really meant. In an instant
she was on her knees at his feet. ' Oh, my
darling,' she cried, ' it was cruel to keep thai
secret from your wife ! You have heard it
again ! '

She was too irresistible beautiful, at that
moment, to be reproved. He gently raised
her from the floor  and owned the truth.

Yes,' he said ; ' I heard it after you left
me on the Belvidere  just as I heard it on
another moonlight night, when Major Hynd
G 2

was here with me. Our return to this house
is perhaps the cause. I don't complain ; I
have had a long release.'

She threw her arms round his neck.
We will leave Range tomorrow,' she said.

It was firmly spoken. But her heart
sank, as the words passed her lips. Vange
Abbey had been the scene of the most unalloyed
happiness in her life. What destiny
was waiting for her when she returned to
London ?

CHAPTER II.

EVENTS AT TEX ACRES.

There was no .obstacle to the speedy
departure of Romayne and his wife from
Vange Abbey. The villa at Highgate 
called Ten Acres Lodge, in allusion to the
measurement of the grounds surrounding:
the house  shad been kept in perfect order by
the servants of the late Lady Berrick, now
in the employment of her nephew.

On the morning after their arrival at the
villa, Stella sent a note to her mother. The
same afternoon, Mrs. Eyrecourt arrived at
Ten Acres  on her way to a garden party.
Finding the house, to her great relief, a

modern building, supplied with all the
newest comforts and luxuries, she at once
began to plan a grand party, in celebration
of the return of the bride and bridegroom.

I don't wish to praise myself,' Mrs.
Eyrecourt said; 'but if ever there was a
forgiving woman, I am that person. We
will say no more, Stella, about your truly
contemptible wedding  five people altogether,
including ourselves and the Lorings
A grand ball will set you right with society,
and that is the one thing needful. Tea and
coffee, my dear Romaine, in your study;
Comte's quadrille band ; the supper from
Gunter's ; the grounds illuminated with
coloured lamps ; Tyrolese singers among the
trees, relieved by military music  and, if
there are any African or other savages now
in London, there is room enough in these

charming grounds for encampments, dances,
squaws, scalps, and all the rest of it, to end
in a blaze of fireworks.'

A sudden fit of coughing seized her, and
stopped the further enumeration of attractions
at the contemplated ball. Stella had observed
that her mother looked unusually worn and
haggard, through the disguises of paint and
powder. This was not an uncommon result
of Mrs. Eyrecourt's devotion to the demands
of society ; but the cough was something
new, as a symptom of exhaustion.

I am afraid, mamma, you have been
over-exerting yourself,' said Stella. ' You
go to too many parties.'

Nothing of the sort, my dear ; I am as
strong as a horse. The other night, I was
waiting for the carriage in a draught (one of
the most perfect private concerts of the

season, ending with a delightfully naughty-little
French play)  and I caught a slight
cold. A glass of water is all I want. Thank
you. Romaine, you are looking shockingly
serious and severe ; our ball will cheer you.
If you would only make a bonfire of all those
horrid books, you don't know how it would
improve your spirits. Dearest Stella, I  will
come and lunch here tomorrow  you are
within such a nice easy drive from town 
and I'll bring my visiting-book, and settle
about the invitations and the day. Oh, dear
me, how late it is. I have nearly an hour's
drive before I get to my garden party.
Good-bye, my turtle doves, good-bye.'

She was stopped, on the way to her
carriage, by another fit of coughing. But
she still persisted in making light of it. ' I'm
as strong as a horse,' she repeated, as soon

as she could speak  and skipped into the
carriage like a young girl

Your mother is killing herself,' said
Romaine.

If I could persuade her to stay with usa
little while,' Stella suggested, ' the rest and
quiet might do wonders for her. Would
you object to it, Lewis? '

My darling, I object to nothing  except
giving a ball and burning my books If
your mother will yield on these two points,
my house is entirely at her disposal

He spoke playfully  he looked his best,
since he had separated himself from the
painful associations that were now" connected
with Vange Abbey. Had 'the torment of
the Voice ' been left far away in Yorkshire ?
Stella shrank from approaching the subject
in her husband's presence, knowing that it

must remind him of the fatal duel. To her
surprise, Romaine himself referred to the
General's family.

'I have written to Hynd,' he began,
Do you mind his dining with us to-day ? '

Of course not ! '

I want to hear if he has anything to
tell me  about those French ladies. He
undertook to see them, in your absence, and
to ascertain  ' He was unable to overcome
this reluctance to pronounce the next words.
Stella was quick to understand what he
meant. She finished the sentence for him.

Yes,' he said, ' I wanted to hear how
the boy is getting on, and if there is any

hope of curing him. Is it ' he trembled

as he put the question  ' Is it hereditary
madness ? '

Feeling the serious importance of concealing

the truth, Stella only replied that she
had hesitated to ask if there was a taint of
madness in the family. 'I suppose,' she
added, ' you would not like to see the boy,
and judge of his chances of recovery for
yourself?'

You suppose ? ' he burst out, with
sudden anger. ' You might be sure. The
bare idea of seeing him turns me cold. Oh,
when shall I forget ! when shall I forget !
Alio spoke of him first . ' he said, with
renewed irritability, after a moment of
silence. ' You or I ? '

It was my fault, love  he is so harmless
and so gentle, and he has such a sweet
face  I thought it might soothe you to see
him. Forgive me ; we will never speak of
him again. Have you any notes for me to
copy ? You know, Lewis, I am your secretary
now.'

So she led Romaine away to his study
and his books. When Major Hynd arrived,
she contrived to be the first to see him.
Say as little as possible about the General's
widow and her son,' she whispered.

The Major understood her. ' Don't be
uneasy, IVlrs. Romaine,' he answered. * I
know your husband well enough to know
what you mean. Besides, the news I bring
is good news.'

Romaine came in before he could speak
more particularly. When the servants had
left the room, after dinner, the Major made
his report.

I am going to agreeably surprise you,'
lie began. 'AH responsibility towards the
General's family is taken off our hands. The
ladies are on their way back to France.'

Stella was instantly reminded of one of

the melancholy incidents associated with her
visit to Camp's Hill. ' Madame Marillac
spoke of a brother of hers who disapproved
of the marriage,' she said. ' Has he forgiven
her?'

That is exactly what he has done, Miss.
Romaine. Naturally enough, he felt the
disgrace of his sister's marriage to such a
man as the General. Only the other day he
heard for the first time that she was a widow
and he at once travelled to England. I
bade them good-bye yesterday  most happily
reunited  on their journey home again.
Ah, I thought you would be glad, Mrs.
Romaine, to hear that the poor widow's
troubles are over. Her brother is rich
enough to place them all in easy circumstances
 he is as good a fellow as ever
lived

Have you seen him ? ' Stella asked
eagerly.

I have been with him to the asylum.'
Does the boy go back to France ? '
No. We took the place by surprise,
and saw for ourselves how well conducted it
was. The boy has taken a strong liking to
the proprietor  a bright, cheerful old man,
who is teaching him some of our English
games, and has given him a pony to ride on.
He burst out crying, poor creature, at the
idea of going away  and this mother burst
out crying at the idea of leaving him. It
was a melancholy scene. You know what a
good mother is  no sacrifice is too great for
her. The boy stays at the asylum, on the
chance that his healthier and happier life
there may help to cure him. By-the-way,
Romayne, his uncle desires me to thank
you '

Hynd ! you didn't tell the uncle my
name ? '

Don't alarm yourself. He is a gentleman,
and when I told him I was pledged to
secrecy, he made but one inquiry  he asked
if you were a rich man. I told him you had
eighteen thousand a year.'

Well .? '

Well, he set that matter right between
us with perfect taste. He said, " I cannot
presume to offer repayment to a person so
wealthy. We gratefully accept our obligation
to our kind unknown friend. For the
future, however, my nephew's expenses
must be paid from my purse"' Of course
I could only agree to that. From time to
time the mother is to hear, and I am to
hear, how the boy goes on. Or, if you like,
Romaine  now that the General's family

have left England  I don't see why the
proprietor might not make his report directly
to yourself

'No!' Romaine rejoined, positively.
Let things remain as they are.'

Very well. I can send you any letters
that I may receive from the asylum. Will
you give us some music, Mrs. Romaine ?
Not to-night ? Then let us go to the billiard-room
; and as I am the worst of bad players,
I will ask you to help me to beat your
accomplished husband.'

On the afternoon of the next day, Mrs.
Eyrecourt's maid arrived at Ten Acres with
a note from her mistress.

Dearest Stella,  Matilda must bring you
my excuses for to-day. I don't in the least
understand it, but I seem to have turned
lazy. It is most ridiculous  I really cannot

get out of bed. Perhaps I did do just a
little too much yesterday. The opera after
the garden party, and a ball after the opera,
and this tiresome cough all night after the
ball. Qi.ite a series, isn't it? Make my
apologies to our dear dismal Romaine  and
if you drive out this afternoon, come and
have a chat with me. Your affectionate
mother, Emily Eyrecourt. Pes.  You know
what a fidget Matilda is. If she talks about
me, don't believe a word she says to you.'

Stella turned to the maid with a sinking
heart. ' Is my mother very ill ? ' she asked.

So ill, ma'am, that I begged and prayed
her to let me send for a doctor. You know
what my mistress is. If you would please
to use your influence '

I will order the carriage instantly, and
take you back with me.'

VOL. II. H

Before lie dressed to go out, Stella
showed the letter to her husband. He
spoke with perfect khidiiess and sympathy,
but he did not conceal that he shared Ins
wife's apprehensions. ' Go at once,' were
his last words to her ; ' and, if I can be of
any use, send for me.'

It was late in the evening before Stella
returned. She brought sad news.

The physician consulted told her plainly
that the neglected couodi, and the constant
fatigue, had together made the case a serious
one. He declined to say that there was an}
absolute danger as yet, or any necessity for
her remaining with her mother at night.
The experience of the next twenty-four
hours, at most, would enable hin to speak
positively. In the meantime the patient
insisted that Stella should return to her

husband. Evcii under the influence of
opiates, Mrs. Eyrecourt was still drowsily
equal to herself. ' You are a fidget, my
dear, and Matilda is a fidget  I can't have
two of you at my bedside. Good-night.'
Stella stooped over her and kissed her. She
whispered, ' Three weeks' notice, remember,
for the party ! '

By the next evening the malady had
assumed so formidable an aspect, that the
doctor had his doubts of the patient's
chance of recovery. With her husband's
full approval, Stella remained night and day
at her mother's bedside.

Thus, in little more than a month from
the day of his marriage, Romaine was, for
the time, a lonely man again.

The illness of Mrs. Eyrecourt was unexpectedly
prolonged. There were intervals,

during which her vigorous constitution rallied,
and resisted the progress of the disease.
On these occasions, Stella was able to
return to her husband for a few hours 
subject always to a message which recalled
her to her mother when the chances of life
or death appeared to be equally balanced.
Romaine's one resource was in his books
and his pen. For the hast time since his
union with Stella he opened the portfolios
in which Penrose had collected the first
introductory chapters of his historical work.
Almost at every page the familiar handwriting
of his secretary and friend met his
view. It Alas a new trial to his resolution
to be working alone ; never had he felt the
absence of Penrose as he felt it now. lie
missed the familiar face, the quiet pleasant
voice, and, more than both, the ever welcome
sympathy with his work. Stella had

done all that a wife could do to fill the
vacant place ; and her husband's fondness
had accepted the effort as adding another
charm to the lovely creature who had
opened a new life to him. But where is
the woman who can intimately associate
herself with the hard brain work of a man
devoted to an absorbing intellectual pursuit?
She can love him, admire him, serve him,
believe in him beyond all other men  butin
spite of exceptions which only prove the
rule) she is out of her place when she enters
the study while the pen is in his hand.
More than once, when he was at work,
Romaine closed the page bitterly; the sad
thought came to him, ' Oh, if I only had
Penrose here ! ' Even other friends were
not available as a resource in the solitary
evenings lioui's. Lord Loring' was absorbed
in social and political engagements. And

Major Ilynd  true to the principle of getting
avny as often as possible from his disagreeable
Avise and his nQ;ly children  had
once more left London.

One day, while Mrs. Eyrecourt still lay
between life and death, Eomame foimd his
historical labours suspended Ijy the Avant of
a certain volume which it was absolutely
necessary to consult. He had mislaid the
references Avritten for him by Penrose, and
he was at a loss to remember whether the
book was in the British ]museum, in the
Bodleian Library, or in the Bibliotheca at
Paris. Li this emergency a letter to his
former secretary would furnish him with
the information that he required. But he
was ignorant of Penrose's present address.
Tie Lorings might possibly knoAv it  so to
the Lorings he resolved to apply.

CHAPTER III.

FATHER Sewell AND THE BOOK.

Eomayxe's first errand iu London was to see
this wife, and to make inquiries at Mrs. Ejrc-
court's house. The report Vvas more favourable
than usual Stella whispered, as she
kissed him, ' I shall soon come back to you,
I hope!'

Leaving the horses to rest for awhile, he
proceeded to Lord Loriug's residence on foot.
As he crossed a street in the neighbourhood,
he was nearly run over by a cab, carrying a
gentleman and his luggage. The gentleman
was Mr. Winterfield, on his way to Derwent's
Hotel.

Lady Loring very kindly searched her
card basket, as the readiest means of assisting
Romaine. Penrose had left his card, on
his departure from London, but no address
was written on it. Lord Loring, unable
himself to give the required information,
suggested the right person to consult.

Father Sewell will be here hater in the
day,' he said. ' If you will write to Penrose
at once, he will add the address. Are you
sure, before the letter goes, that the book
you want is not in my library ? '

I think not,' Romaine answered ; ' but
I will rite down the title, and leave it herewith
my letter.'

The same evening he received a polite
note from Father Sewell, informing him
that the letter was forwarded, and that the
book he wanted was not in Lord Loring's

library. ' If there should be any delay or
difficulty in obtaining this rare volume,' the
priest added, ' I only wait the expression of
your wishes, to borrow it from the library of
a friend of mine, residing in the country.'

By return of post the answer, affectionately
and gratefully written, arrived from
Penrose. He regretted that he was not able
to assist Romaine personally. But it was out
of his power (in plain words, he had been
expressly forbidden by Father Ben well) to
leave the service on which he was then
engaged. In reference to the book that was
wanted, it was quite likely that a search in
the catalogues of the British Museum mifjht
discover it. He had only met with it himself
in the National Library at Paris.

This information led Pioymane to London
again, immediately. For the first time he

called at Father Bcmvell's lodgings. The
priest was at home, expecting the visit. His
welcome was the perfection of unassuming
politeness. lie asked for the last news of
poor Mrs. Eyrecourt's health,' With the
sjanpathy of a true friend.

I had the honour of drinking tea with
Mrs. Eyrecourt, some little time since,' he
said. ' Her Hoar of conversation was nevermore
delightful  it seemed impossible to
associate the idea of illness with so bright
a creature. And how well she kept the
secret of your contemplated marriage ! May
I offer my humble congratulations and good
wishes ? '

Romaine thought it needless to say that
Mrs. Eyrecourt had not been trusted with
the secret until the wedding day was close at
hand. ' My wife and I agreed in wishing

to be married as quietly as possible he
answered, after making the customary 
wledfimen ts .

'And Mrs. Romaine ? ' pursued Father
Bemvell. ' This is a sad trial for her. She
is iu attendance on her mother, I suppose
? '

In constant attendance ; I am quite
alone now. To change the subject, may I
ask you to look at the reply which I have
received from Penrose P It is my excuse
for troubling you with this visit.'

Father Sewell read the letter with the
closest attention. In spite of his habitual
self-control, his vigilant eyes brightened ashe
handed it back.

Thus far, the priest's well-planned
scheme (like Mr. Betake's clever inquiries)
had failed. He had not even entrapped

Mrs. Eyrccourt into revealing the marriage
engagement. Her unconquerable small-talk
lead foiled him at every point. Even when
lie had deliberately kept his seat after the
other guests at the tea-table had taken their
departure, she. rose with the most imperturbable
coolness, and left him. ' I have a
dinner and two parties to-night, and this
is just the time when I take my little restorative
nap. Forgive me  and do come
again ! ' \Yhen he sent the fatal announcement
of the marriage to Eome, he had been
obliged to confess that he was indebted for
the discovery to the newspaper. He had
accepted the humiliation ; lie had accepted
the defeat  but he was not beaten yet. ' I
counted on Romaine's weakness, and Miss
Eyrecourt counted on Romaine's weakness ;
and Miss Eyrecourt has won. So let it be.

My turn will come.' In that manner lie
had reconciled himself to his position. And
now  he knew it dien he handed back the
letter to Romaine  his turn had come !

You can hardly go to Paris to consult
the book,' he said, ' in the present state of
Mrs. Eyrecourt's health.'

Certainly not ! '

'Perhaps you will send somebody
to search the catalogue at the British
Museum ? '

'I should have done that already
Boswell, but for the very kind
allusion in your note to your friend in the
country. Even if the book is in the Museum
Library, I shall be obliged to go to the
Reading Room to get my information. It
Avould be far more convenient to me to
have the volume at home to consist, if

you think your friend Avill trust me

with it.'

I am certain lie Avill trust you with it.
My friend is Mr. Winterfield, of Eeaupark
House, North Devon. Perhaps you may
have heard of him ? '

ISTo ; the name is quite new to me.'

'Then come and sec the man himself.
He is now in London  and I am entirely at
your service.'

In half an hour more, ITcmayne was
presented to a well-bred amiable gentleman
in the prime of life ; smoking, and
reading the newspaper. Tic bowl of his
long pipe rested on the floor, on one side of
him, and a handsome red and white spaniel
reposed on the other. Before this visitors
had l)een two minutes in the room, lie
understood the motive which had brought

them to consult him, and sent for a telegraphic
form.

'My steward will find the book and
forward it to your address by passenger
train this afternoon,' he said. ' I will tell
him to put my printed catalogue of the
library into the parcel, in case I have any
other books which may be of use to you

With those words, he despatched the
telegram to the office. Romaine attempted
to make his acknowledgments. Mr. Winter-field
would hear no acknowledgments.

My dear sir,' he said, with a smile that
brightened his whole face, ' you are engaged
in writing a great historical work; and I
am an obscure country gentleman, who is
lucky enough to associate himself with the
production of a new book. How do you
know that I am not looking forward to a

complimentary line in the preface? I am
the obliged person, not you. Pray consider
me as a handy little boy Who runs on
errands for the Muse of History. Do you
smoke ? '

]sot even tobacco would soothe Eo-maine's
wasted and instable nerves. Father
Sewell  ' all things to all men '  cheerfully
accepted a cigar from the box on the
table.

Father Sewell possesses all the social
virtues,' Mr. Winterfield ran on. ' He shall
have his coffee, and the largest sugar-basin
that the Hotel can produce. I can quite
understand that your literary labours have
tried your nerves,' he said to Romaine,
when lie had ordered the coffee. ' The
mere title of your work overwhelms an idle
man like me. " The Origin of Eeligions " 

what an immense subject ! How far must
we look back to Unci out the first worshippers
of the human family ? Where are the hieroglyphics,
Mr. Romaine, that will give you
the earliest information ? In the unknown
centre of Africa, or among the ruined cities
of Yucatan ? My own idea, as an ignorant
man, is that the hast of all forms of worship
must have been the worship of the sun.
Don't be shocked, Father Sewell  I confess
I have a certain sympathy with sun-worship.
In the East especially, the rising of the sun
is surely the grandest of all objects  the
visible symbol of a beneficent Deity, who
gives life, warmth, and light to the world of
his creation.'

Very grand, no doubt,' remarked Father
Sewell, sweetening his coffee. ' But not to
be compared with the noble sight at Eome,

VOL. II. I

when the Pope blesses the Christian world
from the balcony of St. Peter's

So much for professional feeling ! ' said
Mr. Winterfiekl. 'But, surely, something
depends on what sort of juan the Pope is.
If we had lived in the time of Alexander the
Sixth, would you have called lum a part
of that noble sight ? '

Certainly  at a proper distance,' Father
Sewell briskly replied. ' Ah, you heretics
only know the worst side of that most
unhappy pontiff! Mr. Winterfiekl, we have
every reason to believe that he felt (privately)
the truest remorse.'

I should require very good evidence to
]persuade me of it.'

Til is touched Romaine on a sad side of
his own personal experience. ' Perhaps,' he
tjaitl, 'you don't believe in remorse.'

'Pardon me Mr. Winterfield rejoined,
'I only distinguish between false remorse
and true remorse. We \dll say no more of
Alexander the Sixth, Father Sewell. If
we want an illustration, I will supply it, and
give no offence. True remorse depends, to
my mind, on a man's accurate knowledge
of his own motives  far from a common
knowledge, in my experience. Say, for
instance, that I have committed some serious
offence '

Romaine could not resist interrupting
him. 'Say you have killed one of your
fellow-creatures,' he suggested.

'Very well. If I know that I really
meant to kill him, for some vile purpose of
my own ; and if (which by no means always
follows) I am really capable of feeling the
enormity of my own crime  that is, as I

think, true remorse. Murderer as I am, I
have, in that case, some moral worth still
left in me. But, if I did not mean to kill
the man  if his death was my misfortune as
well as his-T-and if (as frequently happens)
I am nevertheless troubled by remorse, the
true cause les in my own inability fairly to
realise my own motives  before I look to
results. I am the ignorant victim of false
remorse ; and if I will only ask myself
boldly what has blinded me to the true
state of the case, I shall fid the mischief
due to that misdirected appreciation of my
own importance which is nothing but
egotism in disguise.'

I entirely agree with you,' said Father
Sewell ; ' I have had occasion to say the
same thing in the confessional.'

Mr. Winterfield looked at his dog, and
changed the subject. ' Do you like dogs, Mr.
Romaine ? ' he asked. ' I see my spaniel's
eyes saying that he likes you, and his tail
begging you to take some notice of him.'

Romaine caressed the dog rather absently.


His new friend had unconsciously presented
to him a new view of the darker
aspect of his own life. Winterfield's refined
pleasant manners, his generous readiness in
placing the treasures of his library at a
stranger's disposal, had already appealed
irresistibly to Ixomayne's sensitive nature.
The favourable impression was now greatly
strengthened by the briefly bold treatment
Which he had just heard of a subject in
which he was seriously interested. ' I must

see more of this man,' was his thought, as
Fie patted the companionable spaniel

Father Sewell's traced observation followed
the vivid changes of expression on
Eoraayne's face, and marked the eager lookin
his eyes, as he lifted his head from the
dog to the dog's master. The priest sav
his opportunity, and took it.

Do you remain long at Ten Acres
Lodge ? ' he said to Eoraayne. '

'I hardly know as yet. We have no
other plans at present

You inherit the place. I think, from
your late aunt, Lady Berrick . '

Yes.'

The tone of the reply was not encouraging
; lloma}iie felt no interest in talking of
Ten Acres Lodge. Father Sewell persisted.


'I was told by Mrs. Eyrecourt,' he went
on, ' that Lady Berwick had some fine
pictures. Are they still at the Lodge ? '

Certainly. I couldn't live in a house
without pictures.'

Father Sewell looked at Winterfield.
Another taste in common between you and
Mr. Romaine,' he said, ' besides your liking
for dogs.'

This at once produced the desired result.
Romaine eagerly invited Winterfield to see
his pictures. ' There are not many of them,'
he said. ' But they are really worth looking
at. When will you coupe ? '

The sooner the better,' Winterfield
answered, cordially. ' Will tomorrow do 
by the noonday light ? '

Whenever you please. Your time is
mine.*

Among his other accomplishments,
Father Sewell was a chess-player. If his
thoughts at that moment had been expressed
in language, they would have said, 'Check to
the queen.'

CHAPTER IV.

THE END OF THE Honeymoon.

Ox the next morning, Winterfield arrived
alone at Romaine's house.

Having been included, as a matter of
course, in the invitation to see the pictures.
Father Sewell had made an excuse, and
had asked leave to defer the proposed visit.
From his point of view, he had nothing
further to gain by being present at a second
meeting between the two men  in the
absence of Stella. He had it, on Romaine's
own authority, that she was in constant
attendance on her mother, and that her
husband was alone. ' Either Mrs. Eyrecourt

will get better, or lie will die,' Father
Sewell reasoned. 'I shall make constant
inquiries after her health, and, in either case,
I shall know when j\Irs. Romaine returns
to Ten Acres Lodge. After that domestic
event, the next time Mr. Winterfield visits ]\Ii\
Romaine, I shall go and see the pictures.'

It is one of the defects of a super-subtle
intellect to trust too implicitly to calculation,
and to leave nothing to chance. Once or
twice already Father Sewell had been (in
the popular phrase) a little too clever  and
chance had thrown him out. As events
happened, chance was destined to throw him
out once more.

Of the most modest pretensions, in
regard to numbers and size, the pictures
collected by the late Lady Berrick were

masterly works of modern art. With few
exceptions, they had been produced by the
matchless English landscape painters of half
a century since. There was no formal
gallery here. The pictures were so few that
they could be hung in excellent lights in the
different living-rooms of the villa. Turner,
Constable, Collins, Darby, Alcott, Lineal
the master of Beaupark House passed from
one to the other with the enjoyment of a
man who thoroughly appreciated the truest
and finest landscape art that the world has
yet seen.

'You had better not have asked me
here he said to Romaine, in his quaintly
good-humoured way. ' I can't part with
those pictures when I say good-bye to-day.
You will find me calling here again and
again, till you are perfectly sick of me.

Look at this sea piece. "Who thinks of the
brushes and palette of that painter ? There,
truth to nature and poetical feeling go hand
in hand together. It is absolutely lovely  I
could kiss that picture.'

They were in Romaine's study when
this odd outburst of enthusiasm escaped
Winterfield. He happened to look towards
the writing-table next. Some pages of
manuscript, blotted and interlined with
corrections, at once attracted his attention.

'Is that the forthcoming history' he
asked. ' You are not one of the authors who
perform the process of correction mentally 
you revise and improve with the pen in your
hand.'

Romaine looked at him in surprise. ' I
suspect, Mr. Winterfield, you have used your
pen for other purposes than writing letters.'

No, indeed ; you pay me an undeserved
compliment. When you come to see me in
Devonshire, I can show you some manuscripts,
and corrected proofs, left by our
great writers, collected by my father. My
knowledge of the secrets of the craft has
been gained by examining those literary
treasures. If the public only knew that
every writer worthy of the name is the
severest critic of his own book before it
ever gets into the hands of the reviewers,
how surprised they would be ! The man
who has worked in the fill fervour of composition
yesterday is the same man who sits
in severe and merciless judgment to-day on
what he has himself produced. What a
fascination there must be in the Art which
exacts and receives such double labour as
this ! '

Romaine thought  not unkindly  of his
wife. Stella had once asked him how long
a time he was usually occupied in writing
one page. The reply had filled her with
pity and wonder. ' Why do you take all
that trouble ? ' she had gently remonstrated.
It would be just the same to the people,
darling, if you did it in half the time.'

By way of changing the topic, Romaine
led his visitor into another room. 'I have a
picture here,' he said, ' which belongs to a
newer school of painting. You have been
talking of hard work in one Art ; there it is
in another.'

Yes,' said Wintcrfield ; ' there it is 
the misdirected hard work, whicli has been
guided by no critical faculty, and which
doesn't know where to stop. I thy to
admire it ; and I end in pitying the poor

artist. Look at that leafless felled tree, in
the middle distance. Every little twist,
on the smallest branch, is conscientiously-painted
 and the result is like a coloured
photograph. You don't look at a landscape
as a series of separate parts ; you don't discover
every twig on a tree ; you see the
whole in Nature, and you want to see the
whole in a picture. That canvas presents a
triumph of patience and pains, produced
exactly as a piece of embroidery is produced,
all in little separate bits, worked with the
same mechanically complete care. I turn
away from it to your shrubbery there, with
an ungrateful sense of relief.'

He walked to the window as he spoke.
It looked out on the grounds in front of the
house. At the same moment the noise of
rolling wheels became audible on the drive.

An open carriage appeared at the turn in
the road. Winterfield called Romaine to
the window. 'A visitor,' he began  and
suddenly drew back, without saying a word
more.

Romaine looked out, and recognised his
wife.

Excuse me for one moment,' he said, ' it
is Mrs. Romaine.'

On that morning an improvement in the
fluctuating state of Mrs. Eyrecourt's health
had given Stella another of those opportunities
of passing an hour or two with her
husband, which she so highly prized.
Romaine withdrew, to meet her at the
door  too hurriedly to notice Winterfield
standing, in the corner to which he had
retreated, like a man petrified.

Stella had got out of the carriage, when

her husband reached the porch. She
ascended the few steps that led to the hall
as slowly and painfully as if she had been an
infirm old woman. The delicately-tinted
colour in her face had faded to an ashy
white. She had seen Winterfield at the
window.

For the moment, Romaine looked at her
in speechless consternation. He led her into
the nearest room that opened out of the hall,
and took her in his arms. ' My love, this
nursing of your mother has completely
broken you down ! ' he said, with the
tenderest pity for her. ' If you won't think
of yourself, you must think of me. For my
sake remain here, and take the rest that you
need. I will be a tyrant, Stella, for the
first time ; I won't let you go back.'

VOL. IT. K

She roused herself, and tried to smile 
and hid the sad result from him in a kiss.
I do feel the anxiety and fatigue,' she said.
But my mother is really improving ; and,
if it only continues, the blessed sense of
relief will make me strong again.' She
paused, and roused all her courage, in
anticipation of the next words  so trivial
and so terrible  that must, sooner or later,
be pronounced. ' You have a visitor,' she
said.

Did you see him at the window ? A
really delightful man  I know you will like
him. Under any other circumstances, I
should have introduced him. You are not
well enough to see strangers to-day.'

She was too determined to prevent Winterfield
from ever entering the house again
to shrink from the meeting. ' I am not so

ill as you think, Lewis,' she said bravely.
When you go to your new friend, I will go
with you. I am a little tired  that's all.'

Eoraayne looked at her anxiously. ' Let
me get you a glass of wine,' he said.

She consented  she really felt the need
of it. As he turned away to ring the bell,
she put the question which had been in her
mind from the moment when she had seen
Winterfield.

How did you become acquainted with
this gentleman ? '

Through Father Sewell.'

She was not surprised by the answer 
her suspicion of the priest had remained in
her mind from the night of Lady Loring's
ball. The future of her married life depended
on her capacity to check the growing

intimacy between the two men. In that
conviction she found the courage to face
Winterfield.

How should she meet him ? The impulse
of the moment pointed to the shortest way
out of the dreadful position in which she was
placed  it was to treat him like a stranger.
She drank her glass of wine, and took
Romaine's arm. ' We mustn't keep your
friend waiting any longer,' she resumed.
'Come!'

As they crossed the hall, she looked
suspiciously towards the house-door. Had
he taken the opportunity of leaving the
villa ? At any other time she would have
remembered that the pLainest laws of good
breeding compelled him to wait for Romaine's
return. His own knowledge of the world
would tell him that an act of toss rudeness,

committed by a well-bred man, would inevitably
excite suspicion of some unworthy
motive  and might, perhaps, connect that
motive with her unexpected appearance at
the house. Romaine opened the door, and
they entered the room together.

Mr. Winterfield, let me introduce you
to Mrs. Romaine.'

They bowed to each other ; they spoke
the conventional words proper to the occasion
 but the effort that it cost them showed
itself. Romaine perceived an unusual formality
in his wife's manner, and a strange
disappearance of Winterfield's easy grace of
address. Was he one of the few men, in
these days, who are shy in the presence of
women ? And was the change in Stella attributable,
perhaps, to the state of her health?
The explanation might, in either case, be the

right one. He tried to set them at their
ease.

'Mr. Winterfiekl is so pleased with the
pictures, that he means to come and see
them again,' he said to his wife. ' And one
of his favourites happens to be your favourite,
too.'

She tried to look at Winterfield, but
her eyes sank. She could turn towards
him, and that was all. ' Is it the sea-piece
in the study ? ' she said to him
faintly.

Yes,' he answered, with formal politeness
; ' it seems to me to be one of the
painter's finest works.'

Romaine looked at him in unconcealed
wonder. To what flat commonplace Winter-field's
lively enthusiasm had sunk in Stella's
presence  She perceived that some unfavourable

impression had been produced on
lier husband, and interposed with a timely-suggestion.
Her motive was not only to
divert Romaine's attention from Winters eld,
but to five him a reason for leavings the
room.

The little water-colour drawing in my
bedroom is by the same artist she said.
'Mr. Winterfield might like to see it. If
you will ring the bell, Lewis, I will send my
maid for it.'

Romaine had never allowed the servants
to touch his works of art, since the day
when a zealous housemaid had tried to wash
one of his plaster casts. He made the reply
which his wife had anticipated.

No ! no ! ' he said. ' I will fetch the
drawing myself.' He turned gaily to Winterfield.
' Prepare yourself for another

Avork that you would like to kiss.' lie
smiled, and left the room.

The instant the door was closed, Stella
approached Winterfield. Her beautiful face
became distorted by a mingled expression of
rage and contempt. She spoke to him in a
fierce peremptory whisper.

Have you any consideration for me
left?'

His look at her, as she put that question,
revealed the most complete contrast between
his face and hers. Compassionate sorrow
was in his eyes, tender forbearance and
respect spoke in his tones, as he answered
her.

I have more than consideration for you,
Stella '

She angrily interrupted him. ' How
dare you call me by my Christian name ? '

He remonstrated, with a gentleness that
might have touched the heart of any woman.
Do you still refuse to believe that I never
deceived you ? Has time not softened your
heart to me yet ? '

She was more contemptuous towards him
than ever. ' Spare me your protestations,'
she said; 'I heard enough of them two
years since. Will you do what I ask of
you ? '

You know that I will.'

Put an end to your acquaintance with
my husband. Put an end to it,' she repeated
vehemently, ' from this day, at once and forever
! Can I trust you to do it ? '

Do you think I would have entered this
house if I had known he was your husband? '
He made that reply with a sudden change
in him  with a rising colour, and in firm

tones of indignation. In a moment more,
this voice softened again, and his kind blue
eyes rested on lier sadly and devotedly.
You may trust me to do more than you ask,'
he resumed. ' You have made a mistake.'

What mistake . '

When Mr. Romaine introduced us, you
met me like a stranger  and you left me no
choice but to do as you did.'

I wish you to be a stranger.'

Her sharpest replies made no change in
his manner. He spoke as kindly and as
patiently as ever.

You forget that you and your mother
were my guests at Beaupark, two years

ago-stella

understood what he meant  and
more. In an instant she remembered that
Father Bcnwcll had been at Beaupark

House. Had lie heard of the visit? She
clasped her hands in speechless terror.

Winterfield gently reassured her. ' You
must not be frightened,' he said. ' It is in
the last degree unlikely that Mr. Romaine
will ever find out that you were at my
house. If he does  and if you deny it 
I will do for you what I would do for no
other human creature ; I will deny it too.
You are safe from discovery. Be happy 
and forget me.'

For the first time she showed signs of
relenting  she turned her head away, and
sighed. Although her mind was full of the
serious necessity of warning him against
Father Ben well, she had not even command
enough over her own voice to ask how he
had become acquainted with the priest.
His manly devotion, the perfect and pathetic

sincerity of his respect, pleaded with her, in
spite of herself. For a moment she paused
to recover her composure. In that moment
liomayne returned to them vith the drawing
in his hand.

There ! ' he said. ' It's nothing, this
time, but some children gathering flowers
on the outskirts of a wood. What do you
think of it ? '

What I thought of the larger work,'
Winterfield answered. ' I could look at it
by the hour together.' He consulted his
watch. ' But time is a hard master, and tells
]ne that my visit must come to an end.
Thank you, most sincerely.'

He bowed to Stella. Romaine tliouojht
his guest might have taken the English
freedom of shaking hands. ' When will
you come and look at the pictures again P '

he asked. ' Will you dine with us, and see
how they bear the lamp light ? '

I am sorry to say I must beg you to
excuse me. My plans are altered since we
met yesterday. I am obliged to leave
London.'

Romaine was unwilling to part with him
on these terms. ' You will let me know
when you are next in town ? ' he said.

Certainly ! '

With that short answer he hurried away.

Romaine waited a little in the hall
before he went back to his wife. Stella's
reception of Winterfield, though not positively
ungracious, was, nevertheless, the
reverse of encouraging. What extraordinary
caprice had made her insensible to the
social attractions of a man so unaffectedly
agreeable ? It was not wonderful that

Winterfield's cordiality should have been
chilled by the cold welcome that he had
received from the mistress of the house.
At the same time, some allowance was to be
made for the influence of Stella's domestic
anxieties, and some sympathy was claimed
by the state of her health. Although her
husband shrank from distressing her by any
immediate reference to her reception of his
friend, he could not disguise from himself
that she had disappointed him. When he
went back to the room, Stella was lying on
the sofa, with her face tm-ned towards the
wall. She was in tears, and she was afraid
to let him see it. ' I won't disturb you,' he
said, and withdrew to his study. The
precious volume which Winterfield had so
kindly priced at his disposal was on the
table, waiting for him.

Father Sewell had lost little by not
being present at the introduction of Winterfield
to Stella. He had witnessed a
plainer betrayal of emotion when they met
unexpectedly in Lord Loriug's picture
gallery. But if he had seen Romaine
reading in his study, and Stella crying
secretly on the sofa, he might have written
to Eome by that day's post, and might have
announced that he had sown the first seeds
of disunion between husband and wife.

CHAPTEE V,

FATHER Sewell's Correspondence.

To the Secretary. S. J, Rome.

I.

Ix my last few hasty lines I was only able
to inform you of the unexpected arrival
of Mrs. Romaine while Winterfield was
visiting her husband. If you remember, I
warned you not to attach any undue importance
to my absence on that occasion.
My present report will satisfy my reverend
brethren that the interests committed tome
are as safe as ever in my hands.

I have paid three visits, at certain intervals.
The first to Winterfield (briefly mentioned

in my last letter) ; the second to
Romaine ; the third to the invalid lady,
Mrs. Eyrecourt. In every case I have been
rewarded by important results.

 We will revert to Winterfield first. I
found him at his hotel, enveloped in clouds
of tobacco smoke. Having led him, with
some difficulty, into talking of his visit to
Ten Acres Lodge, I asked how he liked
Romaine's pictures.

I envy him his pictures.' That was
the only answer.

And how do you like Mrs. Romaine . '
I inquired next.

He laid down his pipe, and looked at
me attentively. My face (I flatter myself)
defied discovery. He inhaled another
mouthful of tobacco, and began to play
with his dog. ' If I must answer your

VOL. II. L

question,' he burst out suddenly, ' I didn't
get a very gracious reception from Mrs.
Romaine.' There he abruptly stopped.
He is a thoroughly transparent man ; you
see straight into his mind, through his eyes.
I perceived that he was only telling me a
part (perhaps a very small part) of the
truth.

Can you account for such a reception
as you describe ? ' I asked. He answered
shortly, ' ISTo.'

Perhaps I can account for it,' I went
on. 'Did Mr. Romaine tell his wife that
I was the means of introducing you io
him ? '

He fixed another searching look on me.
Mr. Romaine midst have said so when
he left me to receive his wife at the door.'

In that case, Mr. Winterfield, the explanation

is as plain as the sun at noonday.
Mrs. Romaine is a strong Protestant, and
I am a Catholic priest.'

He accepted this method of accounting
for his reception with an alacrity that
would not have imposed on a child. You
see I had relieved him from all further
necessity of accounting for the conduct of
Mrs. Romaine !

'A lady's religious prejudices,' I proceeded
in the friendliest way, ' are never
taken seriously by a sensible man. You
have placed Mr. Romaine under obligations
to your kindness  he is eager to improve
his acquaintance with you. You Avill
go again to Ten Acres Lodge . '

He gave me another short answer. ' I
think not.'

I said I was sorry to hear it. ' However,'

I added, ' you can always see him
here, when you are in London.' He puffed
out a big vokime of smoke, and made no
remark. I declined to be put down by
silence and smoke. ' Or perhaps,' I persisted,
' you will honour me by meeting
him at a simple little dinner at my lodgings
. ' Being a gentleman, he was of course
obliged to answer this. He said, ' You are
very kind ; I would rather not. Shall we
talk of something else, Father Sewell ? '

We talked of something else. He was
just as amiable as ever  but he was not in
good spirits. ' I think I shall run over to
Paris before the end of the month,' he
said. ' To make a long stay ? ' I asked.
'Oh, no! Call in a week or ten days 
and you will find nee here again.'

When I got up to go, he returned of

his own accord to the forbidden subject.
He said, ' I must beg you to do me two
favours. The first is, not to let Mr. 
know that I am still in London.
The second is, not to ask me for any explanations.'


The result of our interview may be
stated in very few words. It has advanced
me one step nearer to discovery. Winter-field's
voice, look, and manner satisfied me
of this  the true motive for his sudden
change of feeling towards Romaine is
jealousy of the man who has married Miss
Eyrecourt. Those compromising circumstances
which baffled the inquiries of my
agent are associated, in plain English, with
a love affair. Eemember all that I have
told you of Romaine's peculiar disposition
and imagine, if you can, what the consequences

of such a disclosure vill be
when we are in a position to enlighten the
master of Vange Abbey !

As to the present relations between the
husband and wife, I have only to tell you
next what passed, when I visited Romaine a
day or two later. I did well to keep Penrose
at our disposal. We shall want him again.

On arriving at Ten Acres Lodge, I
found Romaine in his study. His manuscript
lay before him  but he was not at
work. He looked worn and haggard. To
this day I don't know from what precise
nervous malady he suffers ; I could only
guess that it had been troubling him again
since he and I last met.

My first conventional civilities were
dedicated, of course, to his wife. She is

still in attendance on her mother. Mrs.
Eyrecourt is now considered to be out of
danger. But the good hide (vvlio is ready
enough to recommend doctors to other
people) persists in thinking that she is too robust
a person to require medical help herself.
The physician in attendance trusts entirely
to her daughter to persuade her to persevere
with the necessary course of medicine.
Don't suppose that I trouble you by mentioning
these trumpery circumstances without
a reason. We shall have occasion to
return to Mrs. Eyrecourt and her doctor.

Before I had been five minutes in his
company, Romaine asked me if I had seen
Winterfield since his visit to Ten Acres
Lodge.

I said I had seen him, and waited, anticipating
the next question. Romaine fulfilled

my expectations. He inquired if
Winterfield had left London.

There are certain cases (as I am told
by medical authorities) in which the dangerous
system of bleeding a patient still has its
advantages. There are other cases in which
the dangerous system of telling the truth becomes
equally judicious. I said to Romaine,
If I answer j'ou honestly, will you consider it
as strictly confidential r Mr. Winterfield, I
regret to say, has no intention of improving his
acquaintance with you. He asked me to conceal
from you that he is still in London.'

Romaine's face plainly betrayed that he
was annoyed and irritated. 'Nothing that
you say to me, Father Sewell, shall pass
the walls of this room,' he replied. 'Did
Winterfield give any reason for not continuing
his acquaintance with me . '

I told the truth once more, with courteous
expressions of regret. ' Mr. Winter-held
spoke of an ungracious reception on
the part of Mrs. Romaine.'

He started to his feet, and walked irritably
up and down the room. ' It is beyond
endurance ! ' he said to himself.

The truth had served its purpose by this
time. I affected not to have heard him.
Did you speak to me ? ' I asked.

He used a milder form of expression.
It is most unfortunate,' he said. ' I must
immediately send back the valuable book
which Mr. Winterfield has lent to me. And
that is not the worst of it. There are other
volumes in his library which I have the
greatest interest in consulting  and it is
impossible for me to borrow them now.
At this time, too, when I have lost Penrose,

I had hoped to find in Winterfield another
friend who sympathised with my pursuits.
There is something so cheering and attractive
in his manner  and he has just the
boldness and novelty of view in his opinions
that appeal to a man like me. It was a
pleasant future to look forward to ; and it
must be sacrificed  and to what? To a
woman's caprice.'

From our point of view this was a frame
of mind to be encouraged. I tried the experiment
of modestly taking the blame on myself.
I suggested that I might be (quite innocently)
answerable for Romaine's disappointment.

He looked at me, thoroughly puzzled.
I repeated what I had said to Winterfield.
Did you mention to ]airs. Romaine that I
was the means of introducing you ? '

He was too impatient to let me finish

the sentence. 'I did mention it to Mrs.
Romaine,' lie said. ' And what of it ? '

Pardon rne for reminding you that Mrs.
Romaine has Protestant prejudices,' I rejoined.
' Mr. Winterfield would, I fear, not
be very welcome to her as the friend of a
Catholic priest.'

He was almost angry with me for
suggesting the very explanation which had
proved so acceptable to Winterfield.

Nonsense ! ' he cried. ' My wife is far
too well-bred a woman to let her prejudices
express themselves in that way.
Winterfield's personal appearance must have
inspired her with some unreasonable antipathy,
or '

He stopped, and turned away thoughtfully
to the window. Some vague suspicion
had probably entered his mind, which he

liacl only become aware of at that moment,
and which he was not quite able to realise
as yet. I did my best to encourage the
new train of thought.

What other reason can there be ? ' I
asked.

He turned on me sharply. ' I don't
know. Do you ? '

I ventured on a courteous remonstrance.
My dear sir ! if you can't find another
reason, how can I ? It must have been a
sudden antipathy, as you say. Such things
do happen between strangers. I suppose
I am right in assuming that Mrs. Romaine
and Mr. Winter field are strangers ? '

His eyes flashed with a sudden sinister
brightness  the new idea had caught light
in his mind. ' They met as strangers,' he
said.

There he stopped again, and returned to
the window. I felt that I might lose the
place I had gained in his confidence if I
pressed the subject any farther. Besides, I
had my reasons for saying a word about
Penrose next. As it happened, I had
received a letter from him, relating to his
present employment, and sending kindest
regards to his dear friend and master ina
postscript.

I gave the message. Romaine looked
round, with an instant change in his face.
The mere sound of Penrose's name seemed
to act as a relief to the gloom and suspicion
that had oppressed him the moment before.
You don't know how I miss the dear
gentle little fellow,' he said sadly.

Why not write to him . ' I suggested.
He would be so glad to hear from you again.*

I don't know where to write.'

Did I not send you his address when
I forwarded your letter to him ? '

'No;

Then let me atone for my forgetfulness
at once.'

I wrote down the address, and took my
leave.

As I approached the door I noticed on
a side table the Catholic volumes which
Penrose left with Romaine. One of them
was open, with a pencil lying beside it. I
thought that a good sign  but I said
nothing.

Romaine pressed my hand at parting.
'You have been very kind and friendly,
Father Sewell,' lie said. ' I shall be glad
to see you again.'

Don't mention it in quarters where it

might do me harm. Do you know, I really
pitied him. He has sacrificed everything to
his marriage  and his marriage has disappointed
him. He was even reduced to
be friendly with Me.

Of course when the right time comes I
shall give Penrose leave of absence. Do
you foresee, as I do, the speedy return of

the dear gentle little fellow ' to his old employment
; the resumed work of conversion
advancing more rapidly than ever ; and
the jealousy of the Protestant wife aggravating
the false position in which she is
already placed by her equivocal reception
of Winterfield . You may answer this by
reminding me of the darker side of the
prospect. An heir may be born; and the
heir's mother, backed by general opinion,
may insist  if there is any hesitation in the

matter  on asserting the boy's natural right
to succeed his father.

Patience, my reverend colleague ! There
is no threatening of any such calamity yet.
And, even if it happens, don't forget that
Romaine has inherited a second fortune.
The Vange estate has an estimated value.
If the act of restitution represented that
value in ready money, do you think the
Church would discourage a good convert
by refusing his cheque . You know better
than that  and so do I.

The next day I called to inquire how
Mrs. Eyrecourt was getting on. The report
was favourable. Three days later I
called again. The report was still more
encouraging. I was also informed that Mrs.
Romaine had returned to Ten Acres Lodge.

Much of my success iu life has been
achieved by never being in a hurry. I
Alas not in a hurry now. Time sometimes
brings opportunities  and opportunities are
worth waiting for.

Let me make this clear by an example.

A man of headlong disposition, in my
place, would have probably spoken of
Miss Eyrecourt's marriage to Romaine
at his first meeting with Winterfield,
and would have excited their distrust, and
put them respectively on their guard,
without obtaining any useful result. I
can, at any time, make the disclosure to
Romaine which informs him that his wife
had been Winterfield's guest in Devonshire,
when she affected to meet her former host
on the footing of a stranger. In the
meanwhile, I give Penrose ample oppor-

VOL. II. M

unity for innocently widening the breach
between husband and wife.

You see, I hope, that if I maintain
a passive position, it is not from indolence
or discouragement. Now we may get on.

After an interval of a few days more
I decided on making further inquiries
at Mrs. Eyrecourt's house. This time,
when I left my card, I sent a message
asking if the lady could receive me. Shall
I own my weakness? She possesses all
the information that T want, and she has
twice baffled my inquiries. Under these
humiliating circumstances, it is part of the
priestly pugnacity of my disposition to
inquire again.

I was invited to go upstairs.

The front and back drawing-rooms
of the house were thrown into one. Mrs.

Eyrecoiirt was being gently moved backwards
and forwards in a chair on wheels,
propelled by her maid ; two gentlemen
being present, visitors like myself. In
spite of rouge and loosely folded lace and
flowing draperies, she presented a deplorable
spectacle. The bodily part of her
looked like a dead woman, painted and
revived  while the moral part, in the
strongest contrast, was just as lively as
ever.

So glad to see you again. Father
Sewell, and so much obliged by your
kind inquiries. I am quite well, though
the doctor won't admit it. Isn't it funny
to see me being wheeled about, like a
child in a perambulator ? Eeturning to
first principles, I call it. You see it's a
law of my nature that I must go about.
H 2

The doctor won't let me go about outside
the house, so I go about inside the house.
Matilda is the nurse, and I am the baby
who will learn to walk some of these
days. Are you tired, Matilda ? No ?
Then give me another turn, there's a
good creature. Movement, perpetual movement,
is a law of nature. Oh, dear no,
doctor ; I didn't make that discovery for
myself. Some eminent scientific person
mentioned it in a lecture. The ugliest man
I ever saw. Now back again, Matilda.
Let me introduce you to my friends,
Father Sewell. Introducing is out of
fashion, I know. But I am one of the
few women who can resist the tyranny of
fashion. I like introducing people. Sir
John Drone  Father Sewell. Father
Sewell  Doctor Wybrow. Ah, yes, you

know the doctor by reputation? Shall I
give you his character ? Personally charming
; professionally detestable. Pardon my
impudence, doctor ; it is one of the consequences
of the overflowing state of my
health. Another turn, Matilda  and a
little faster this time. Oh, how I wish I
was travelling by railway.'

There, her breath failed her. She
reclined in her chair, and fanned herself
silently  for awhile.

I was now able to turn my attention
to the two visitors. Sir John Drone, it
was easy to see, would be no obstacle to
confidential conversation with Mrs. Eyre-court.
An excellent country gentleman,
with the bald head, the ruddy complexion,
and the inexhaustible capacity for silence,
so familiar to us in English society  there

you have the true description of Sir John.
But the famous physician was quite another
sort of man. I had only to look at him,
and to feel myself condemned to small
talk while lie was in the room.

You have always heard of it in my
correspondence, whenever I have been in
the wrong. 1 was in the wrong again
now  I had forgotten the law of chances.
Capricious Fortune, after a long interval,
was about to declare herself again in my
favour, by means of the very woman who
had twice already got the better of me.
What a recompense for my kind inquiries
after Mrs. Eyrecourt ! She recovered breath
enough to beo'in talking acain.

Dear me, how dull you are ! ' she said
to us. ' Why don't you amuse a poor
prisoner confined to the house? Best a

little, Matilda, or you will be falling ill next.
Doctor ! is this your last professional visit ? '

Promise to take care of yourself, Mrs.
Eyrecourt, and I will confess that the professional
visits are over. I come here today
only as a friend.'

You best of men ! Do me another
favour. Enliven our dulness. Tell us some
interesting story about a patient. These
great doctors, Sir John, pass their lives ina
perfect atmosphere of romance. Dr.
Wybrow's consulting-room is like your
confessional, Father Sewell. The most
fascinating sins and sorrows are poured
into his ears. What is the last romance
in real life, doctor, that has asked you to
treat it medically? We don't want names
and places  we are good children ; we only
want a story.'

Dr. Wybrow looked at me with a smile.

It is impossible to persuade ladies,' he-said,
' that we, too, are father confessors
in our way. The first duty of a doctor,.
Mrs. Eyrecourt '

Is to cure people, of course,' she interposed
in her smartest manner.

The doctor answered seriously. ' No,
indeed. That is only the second duty.
Our first duty is invariably to respect the
confidence of our patients. However,' he
resumed in his easier tone, ' I happen to
have seen a patient to-day, under circumstances
which the rules of professional
honour do not forbid me to mention. I
don't know, Mrs. Eyrecourt, whether you
will quite like to be introduced to the
scene of the story. The scene is in a madhouse.'


Mrs. Eyrecoiirt burst out with a coquettish
little scream, and shook her fan
at the doctor. ' No horrors ! ' she cried.
The bare idea of a madhouse distracts
me with terror. Oh, fie, fie ! I won't listen
to you  I won't look at you  I positively
refuse to be frightened out of my wits.
Matilda! wheel me away to the farthest
end of the room. My vivid imagination,
Father Sewell, is my rock ahead in life.
I declare I can smell the odious madhouse.
Go straight to the window, Matilda ; I want
to bury my nose among the flowers.'

Sir John, upon this, spoke for the first
time. His language consisted entirely of
beginnings of sentences, mutely completed
by a smile. ' Upon my word, you know.
Eh, Doctor Wybrow? A man of your experience.
Horrors in madhouse. A lady

ill delicate health. No, really. Upon my
honour, now, I cannot, something funny,
oh yes. But such a subject, oh no.'

He rose to leave us. Doctor Wybrow
gently stopped him. ' I had a motive, Sir
John,' he said, ' but I won't trouble you
with needless explanations. There is a
person, unknown to me, whom I want to
discover. You are a great deal in society
when you are in London. May I ask if
you have ever met with a gentleman named
Winterfield?'

I have always considered the power of
self-control as one of the strongest points in
my character. For the future I shall be
more humble. When I heard that name,
my surprise so completely mastered me that
I sat self-betrayed to Dr. Wybrow, as the
man who could answer his question.

In the meanwhile, Sir John took his
time to consider, and discovered that he had
never heard of a person named Winterfield.
Having acknowledged his ignorance, in his
own eloquent language, he drifted away to
the window-box in the next room, and
gravely contemplated Mrs. Eyrecourt, with
her nose buried in flowers.

The doctor turned to me. ' Am I
wrong, Father Sewell, in supposing that
I had better have addressed myself to
you ? '

I admitted that I knew a gentleman
named Winterfield.

Dr. Wybrow got up directly. ' Have
you a few minutes to spare . ' he asked. It
is needless to say that I was at the doctor's
disposal. ' My house is close by, and my
carriage is at the door,' he resumed.

When you feel inclined to say good-bye
to our friend Mrs. EyreGoiu*t, I have something
to say to you which I think you ought
to know.'

We took our departure at once. Mrs.
Eyrecourt (leaving some of the colour of
her nose among the flowers) patted me
encouragingly with her fan, and told the
doctor that he was forgiven, on the understanding
that he would ' never do it again.'
In five minutes more we were in Dr.
Wybrow's study.

My watch tells me that I cannot hope
to finish this letter by post tune. Accept
what I have Avritten thus far  and be
assured that the conclusion of my report
shall follow a day later.

II.

The Doctor began cautiously. ' Winter-field
is not a very common name,' he said.
But it may not be amiss, Father Sewell,
to discover, if we can, whether your
Winterfield is the man of whom I am in
search. Do you only know him by name ?
or are you a friend of his ? '

I answered, of course, that I was a
friend.

Doctor Wybrow went on. ' Will you
pardon me if I venture on an indiscreet
question? When you are acquainted with
the circumstances, I am sure you will understand
and excuse me. Are you aware of
any  what shall I call it?  any romantic
incident in Mr. Winterfield's past life ? '

This time  feeling myself, in all probability,
on the brink of discovery  I was
careful to preserve my composure. I said,
quietly, ' Some such incident as you describe
has occurred in Mr. Winterfield's past life.'
There I stopped discreetly, and looked as if
I knew all about it.

The Doctor showed no curiosity to hear
more. ' My object,' he went on, ' was
merely to be reasonably sure that I was
speaking to the right person, in speaking
to you. I may now tell you that I have
no personal interest in trying to discover
Mr. Winterfield ; I only act as the representative
of an old friend of mine. He is
the proprietor of a private asylum at Sands-worth
 a man whose integrity is beyond
dispute, or he would not be my friend.
You understand my motive in saying this ? '

Proprietors of private asylums are, in
these days, the objects of very general
distrust in England. I understood the
doctor's motive perfectly.

He proceeded. ' Yesterday evening, my
friend called upon me, and said that he
had a remarkable case in his house, which
he believed would interest me. The person
to whom he alluded was a French boy,
whose mental powers had been imperfectly
developed from his childhood. The mischief
had been aggravated, when he was about
thirteen years old, by a serious fright.
When he was placed in my asylum, he
was not idiotic, and not dangerously mad
it was a case (not to use technical
language) of deficient intelligence, tending
sometimes towards acts of unreasoning
mischief and petty theft, but never approaching

to acts of downright violence.
My friend was especially interested in the
lad.  won his confidence and affection by
acts of kindness  and so improved his bodily
health as to justify some hope of also improving
the state of his mind, when a misfortune
occurred which has altered the
whole prospect. The poor creature has
fallen ill of a fever, and the fever has developed
to typhus. So far, there has been
little to interest you  1 am coming to a
remarkable event at last. At the stage of
the fever when delirium usually occurs in patients
of sound mind, this crazy French boy
has become perfectly sane and reasonable ! '
I looked at him, when he made this
amazing assertion, with a momentary doubt
of his being in earnest. Doctor Wybrow
understood me.

Just what I thought, too, when I first
heard it ! ' he said. ' My friend was neither
offended nor surprised. After inviting me
to go to his house, and judge for myself,
he referred me to a similar case, publicly
cited in the " Cornwall Magazine," for the
month of April, 1879, in an article entitled
Bodily Illness as a Mental Stimulant."
The article is published anonymously ; but
the character of the periodical in which it
appears is a sufficient guarantee of the trustworthiness
of the statement. I was so far
influenced by the testimony thus cited, that
I drove to Sands worth and examined the
case myself.'

Did the examination satisfy you ? '
Thoroughly. When I saw him last
night, the poor boy was as sane as I am.
There is, however, a complication in this

VOL. II. N

instance, which is not mentioned in the case
related in print. The boy appears to have
entirely forgotten every event in his past
life, reckoning from the time when the
bodily illness brought with it the strange
mental recovery which I have mentioned
to you.'

This was a disappointment. I had
begun to hope for some coming result,
obtained by the lad's confession.

Is it quite correct to call him sane,
when his memory is gone ? ' I ventured to
ask.

In this case there is no necessity to
enter into the question,' the Doctor answered.
' The boy's lapse of memory refers,
as I told you, to his past life  that
is to say, his life when his intellect was
deranged. During the extraordinary interval

of sanity that has now declared itself,
lie is putting his mental powers to their
first free use ; and none of them fail him,
so far as I can see. His new memory (if I
may call it so) preserves the knowledge of
what has happened since his illness. You
may imagine how this problem in brain
disease interests me ; and you will not
wonder that 1 am going back to Sands-worth
tomorrow afternoon, when I have
done with my professional visits. But
you may be reasonably surprised at my
troubling you with details which are mainly
interesting to a medical man.

Was he about to ask me to go with
him to the asylum ? I replied very briefly,
merely saying that the details were interesting
to every student of human nature.
If he could have felt my pulse at that
N 2

moment, I am afraid he might have thought
I was in a fair way of catching the fever
too.

Prepare yourself,' he resumed, ' for
another surprising circumstance. Mr. Winterfield
is, by some incomprehensible accident,
associated with one of the mischievous
tricks played by the French boy
before he was placed under my friend's
care. There, at any rate, is the only explanation
by which we can account for the
discovery of an envelope (with enclosures)
found sewn up in the lining of the lad's
waistcoat, and directed to Mr. Winterfield
without any place of address.'

I leave you to imagine the effect which
those words produced on me.

Now,' said the doctor, ' you will understand
why I put such strange questions

to you. My friend and I are both liard-working
men. We go very little into
society, as the please is ; and neither he
nor I had ever heard the name of Winter-field.
As a certain proportion of my
patients happen to be people with a large
experience of society, I undertook to make
inquiries, so that the packet might be delivered,
if possible, to the right person.
You heard how Mrs. Eyrecourt (surely a
likely lady to assist me ?) received my unlucky
reference to the madhouse ; and you
saw how I puzzled Sir John. I consider
myself most fortunate, Father Sewell, in
having had the honour of meeting you.
Will you accompany me to the asylum tomorrow
? And can you add to the favour
by bringing Mr. Winterfield with you . '
This last request it was out of my

power  really out of my power  to grant.
Winterfield had left London that morning
on his visit to Paris. His address there
was, thus far, not known to me.

Well, you must represent your friend,'
the Doctor said. ' Time is every way of
importance in this case. Will you kindly
call here at five tomorrow afternoon ? '

I was punctual to my appointment.
We drove together to the asylum.

There is no need for me to trouble
you with a narrative of what I saw 
favoured by Doctor Wybrow's introduction
 at the French boy's bedside. It was
simply a repetition of what I had already
heard. There he lay, at the height of the
fever, asking, in the intervals of relief, intelligent
questions relating to the medicines
administered to him, and perfectly understanding

the answers. He was only irritable
when we asked him to take his memory
back to the time before his illness ;
and then he answered in French, ' I
haven't got a memory

But I have something else to tell you,
which is deserving of your best attention.
The envelope and its enclosures (addressed
to 'Bernard Winterfield, Esqre.') are in
my possession. The Christian name sufficiently
identifies the inscription with the
Winterfield whom I know.

The circumstances under which the discovery
was made were related to me by
the proprietor of the asylum.

When the boy was brought to the
house, two French ladies (his mother and
sister) accompanied him, and mentioned
what had been their own domestic experience

of the case. They described the wandering
propensities which took the lad away
from home, and the odd concealment of
this waistcoat, on the last occasion when he
had returned from one of his vagrant outbreaks.


On his first night at the asylum he
became excited by finding himself in a
strange place. It was necessary to give
him a composing draught. On going to
bed, he was purposely not prevented from
hiding his waistcoat under the pillow, as
usual.

When the sedative had produced its
effect, the attendant easily possessed himself
of the hidden garment. It was the
plain duty of the master of the house to
make sure that nothing likely to be turned
to evil uses was concealed by a patient.

The seal which had secured the envelope
was found, on examination, to have been
broken.

I would not have broken the seal
myself,' our host added. ' But, as things
were, I thought it my duty to look at the
enclosed-es. They refer to private affairs of
Mr. Winterfield, in which he is deeply interested,
and they ought to have been long
since placed in his possession. I need
hardly say that I consider myself bound to
preserve the strictest silence as to what I
have read. An envelope, containing some
blank sheets of paper, was put back in the
boy's waistcoat, so that he might feel it
in its place under the lining, when he
woke. The original envelope and enclosures
(with a statement of circumstances
signed by my assistant and myself) have

been secured under another cover, sealed
with my own seal. I have done my best
to discover Mr. Bernard Winterfield. He
appears not to live in London. At least
I failed to find his name in the Directory.
I wrote next, mentioning what had happened,
to the English gentleman to whom
I send reports of the lad's health. He
couldn't help me. A second letter to the
French ladies only produced the same result.
I own I should be glad to get rid
of my responsibility on honourable terms.'
All this was said in the boy's presence.
He lay listening to it as if it had been a
story told of someone else. I could not
resist the useless desire to question him.
Not speaking French myself (although I can
read the language), I asked Doctor Wybrow
and his friend to interpret for me.'

My questions led to nothing. The
French boy knew no more about the
stolen envelope than I did.

There was no discoverable motive,
mind, for suspecting him of imposing onus.
When I said, ' Perhaps you stole
it ? ' he answered quite composedly, ' Very
likely ; they tell me I have been mad ; I
don't remember it myself ; but mad people
do strange things.' I tried him again. ' Or,
perhaps, you took it away out of mischief? '
Yes.'  ' And you broke the seal, and
looked at the papers ? ' 'I dare say.*
And then you kept them hidden, thinking
they might be of some use to you ?
Or perhaps feeling ashamed of what you
had done, and meaning to restore them if
you got the opportunity ? ' ' You know
best, sir.' The same result followed when

we tried to find out where he had been,
hind what people had taken care of him,
during his last vagrant escape from home.
It was a new revelation to him that he
had been anywhere. With evident interest,
he applied to us to tell him where he
had wandered to, and what people he had
seen !

So our last attempts at enlightenment
ended. We came to the final question of
how to place the papers, with the least
possible loss of time, in Mr. Winterfield's
hands.

His absence in Paris having been mentioned,
I stated plainly my own position
towards him at the present time.

Mr. Winterfield has made an appointment
with me to call at his hotel, on his return
to London,' I said. ' I shall probably

be the first friend who sees him. If you
will trust me with your sealed packet, inconsideration
of these circumstances, I will
give you a formal receipt for it in Doctor
Wybrow's presence  and I will add any
written pledge that you may require on
my part, acting as Mr. Winterfield's representative
and friend. Perhaps you would
like a reference, as well ? '

He made a courteous reply. ' A friend
of Doctor Wybrow's,' he said, ' requires no
other reference.'

Excuse me,' I persisted. ' I had the
honour of meeting Doctor Wybrow, for the
first time, yesterday. Permit me to refer
you to Lord Loring, who has long known
me as his spiritual director and friend.'

This account of myself settled the matter.
I drew out the necessary securities and I

have all the papers lying before me on my
desk at this moment.

You remember how seals were broken,
and impressed again, at the Eoman postoffice,
in the revolutionary days when we
were both young men ? Thanks to the
knowledge then obtained, the extraordinary
events which once associated Mr. Winter-field
and Miss Eyrecourt are at last plainly
revealed to me. Copies of the papers are
in my possession, and the originals are
sealed again, with the crest of the proprietor
of the asylum, as if nothing had happened.
I make no attempt to excuse myself. You
know our motto :  The End Justifies the
Means.

I don't propose to make any premature
use of the information which I have obtained.
The first and foremost necessity,

as I have already reminded you, is to give
Penrose the undisturbed opportunity of
completing the conversion of Romaine.
During this interval, my copies of the papers
are at the disposal of my reverend brethren
at head-quarters.

The Stolen Papers.  (Copies.)

Number One,  From Emma Winterjield to
Bernard Winterjield.

4, Maxwell Buildings, Behaved.

How shall I address you ? Dear Bernard,
or Sir? It doesn't matter. I am
going to do one of the few good actions
of my life ; and familiarities or formalities
matter nothing to a woman who lies on her
deathbed.

Yes  I have met with another accident.

Shortly after the date of our separation,
you heard, I think, of the fall in the circus
that fractured my skull ? On that occasion
a surgical operation, and a bit of silver
plate in place of the bone, put me right
again. This time it has been the kick
of a horse, in the stables. Some internal
injury is the consequence. I may die tomorrow,
or live till next week. Anyway,
the doctor has confessed it,  my time has
come.

Mind one thing. The drink  that vile
habit which lost me your love and banished
me from your house  the drink is not to
blame for this last misfortune. Only the
day before it happened I had taken the
pledge, under persuasion of the good
rector here, the Eeverend Mr. Fennick. Tt
is he who has brought me to make this

confession, and who takes it down in writing
at my bedside. Do you remember how I
once hated the very name of a parson  and
when you proposed, in joke, to marry me
before the registrar, how I took it in downright
earnest, and kept you to your word ?
We poor horse riders and acrobats only
knew clergymen as the worst enemies we
had  always using their influence to keep
the people out of our show, and the bread
out of our mouths. If I had met with
Mr. Fennick in my younger days, what a
different woman I might have been !

Well, regrets of that kind are useless
now. I am truly sorry, Bernard, for the
evil that I have done to you ; and I ask
your pardon with a contrite heart.

You will at least allow it in my favour
that your drunken wife knew she was

VOL. II.

unworthy of you. I refused to accept the
allowance that you offered to me. I respected
your name. For seven years from
the tie of our separation I returned to my
profession under an assumed name, and
never troubled you. The one thing I could
not do was to forget you. If you were
infatuated by my unlucky beauty, I loved
devotedly on my side. The well-born gentleman
who had sacrificed everything for
my sake, was something more than mortal
in my estimation ; he was  no ! I won't
shock the good man who writes this by
saying what he was. Besides, what do you
care for my thoughts of you now?

If you had only been content to remain
as I left you  or if I had not found out
that you were in love with Miss Eyrecourt,
and were likely to marry her, in the belief

that death had released you from me  I
should have lived and died, doing you no
other injury than the first great injury of
consenting to be your wife.

But I made the discovery  it doesn't
matter how. Our circus was in Devonshire
at the time. My jealous rage maddened
me, and I had a wicked admirer in a man
who was old enough to be my father. I let
him suppose that the way to my favour lay
through helping my revenge on the woman
who was about to take my place. He found
the money to have you watched at home
and abroad ; he put the false announcement
of my death in the daily newspapers, to
complete your delusion ; he baffled the inquiries
made through your lawyers to obtain
positive proof of my death. And last, and
(in those wicked days) best service of all
-J

he took me to Brussels and posted me at
the door of the English Church, so that
your lawful wife (with her marriage certificate
in her hand) was the hast person who
met you and the mock Mrs. Winterfield on
your way from the altar to the wedding
breakfast.

I own it, to my shame. I triumphed
in the mischief I had done.

But I had deserved to suffer ; and I
did suffer, when I heard that Miss Eyre-court's
mother and her two friends took
her away from you  with her own entire
approval  at the church door, and restored
her to society, without a stain on her reputation.
How the Brussels marriage was
kept a secret, I could not find out. And
when I threatened them with exposure, I
got a lawyer's letter, and was advised in

my own interests to hold my tongue. The
rector has since told me that your marriage
to Miss Eyrecourt could be lawfully declared
null and void, and that the circumstances
would excuse ijou before any judge in
England. I can now well understand that
people, with rank and money to help them,
can avoid exposure 'to which the poor, in
their places, must submit.

One more duty (the last) still remains
to be done.

I declare solemnly, on my deathbed,
that you acted in perfect good faith when
you married Miss Eyrecourt. You have
not only been a man cruelly injured by me,
but vilely insulted and misjudged by the
two Recounts, and by the lord and lady
who encouraged them to set you down as a
villain guilty of heartless and shameless deceit.

It is my conviction that these people
might have done more than misinterpret
your honourable submission to the circumstances
in which you were placed. They
might have prosecuted you for bigamy 
if they could have got me to appear against
you. I am comforted when I remember
that I did make sone small amends. I
kept out of their way and yours, from that
day to this.

I am told that I owe it to you to leave
proof of my death behind me.

When the doctor writes my certificate,
he will mention the mark by which I maybe
identified, if this reaches you (as I hope
and believe it will) between the time of my
death and my burial. The rector, who will
close and seal these lines, as soon as the
breath is out of my body, will add what

he can to identify me ; and the landlady of
this house is ready to answer any questions
that may be put to her. This time you
may be really assured that you are free.
When I am buried, and they show you my
nameless grave in the churchyard, I know
your kind heart  1 die, Bernard, in the
firm belief that you .will forgive me.

There was one thing more that I had
to ask of you, relating to a poor lost
creature who is in the room with us at
this moment. But, oh, I am so weary !
Mr. Fennick will tell you what it is. Say
to yourself sometimes  perhaps when you
have married some lady who is worthy of
you  There was good as well as bad in
poor Emma. Farewell.

Number Two,  From The Reverend Charles
Fennick to Bernard Winterjield.

The Rectory, Belliaven.

Sir,  It is my sad duty to inform you
that Mrs. Emma Winter field died this
morning, a little before five o'clock. I
will add no comment of mine to the touching
language in which she has addressed
you. God has, I most sincerely believe,
accepted the poor sinner's repentance. Her
contrite spirit is at peace, among the forgiven
ones in the world beyond the grave.

In consideration of her wish that you
should see her in death, the cofln will be
kept open until the last moment. The
medical man in attendance has kindly given
me a copy of his certificate, which T

enclose. You will see that the remains are
identified by the description of a small
silver plate on the right parietal bone of
the skull.

I need hardly add that all the information
I can give you is willingly at your
service.

She mentions, poor soul, something
which she had to ask of you. I prefer the
request which, in her exhausted state, she
was unable to address to you in her own
words.

While the performances of the circus
were taking place in the next county to
ours, a wandering lad, evidently of deficient
intelligence, was discovered, trying to creep
under the tent to see what was going on.
He could give no intelligible account of
himself. The late Mrs. Winterfield (who

was born and brought up, as I understand,
in France) discovered that the boy was
French, and felt interested in the unfortunate
creature, from former happy association
with kind friends of his nation. She
took care of him, from that time to the
day of her death  and he appeared to be
gratefully attached to her.

I say ' appeared,' because an inveterate
reserve marks one of the peculiarities of
the mental affliction from which he suffers.
Even his benefactress never could persuade
him to take her into his confidence. In
other respects, her influence (so far as I
can learn) had been successfully exerted in
restraining certain mischievous propensities
in him, which occasionally showed themselves.
The effect of her death has been
to intensify that reserve to which I have

already alluded. He is sullen and irritable
and the good landlady at the lodgings
does not disguise that she shrinks from
taking care of him, even for a few days.
Until I hear from you, he will remain
under the charge of my housekeeper at the
rectory.

You have, no doubt, anticipated the
request which the poor sufferer wished to
address to you but a few hours before her
death. She hoped that you might be willing
to place this friendless and helpless
creature under competent protection. Failing
your assistance, I shall have no alternative,
however I may regret it, but to
send him to the workhouse of this town,
on his way, probably, to the public asylum.

Believe me, sir, your faithful servant,
Charles Fennick.

Pes.  I fear my letter and its enclosures
may be delayed in reaching you.

Yesterday evening, I had returned to
my house, before it occurred to me that
Mrs. Winterfield lead not mentioned your
address. My only excuse for this forgetfulness
is, that I was very much distressed
while I was writing by her bedside. I at
once went back to the lodofinsrs, but she
had fallen asleep, and I dare not disturb
her. This morning, when I returned to the
house, she was dead. There is an allusion
to Devonshire in her letter, which suggests
that your residence may be in that county ;
and I think she once spoke of you as a
person of rank and fortune. Having failed
to find your name in a London directory,
I am now about to search our free library

here for a county history of Devon, on the
chance that it may assist me. Let me add,
for your own satisfaction, that no eyes but
mine will see these papers. For security's
sake, I shall seal them at once, and write
your name on the envelope.

Added hy Father Sewell.

How the boy contrived to possess himself
of the sealed packet, we shall probably
never discover. Anyhow, we know that he
must have escaped from the rectory, with
the papers in his possession, and that he
did certainly get back to his mother and
sister in London.

With such complete information as I
now have at my disposal, the prospect is

as clear again as we can desire. The separation
of Romaine from this wife, and the
alteration of his will in favour of the
Church, seem to be now merely questions
of time.

BOOK THE FOURTH.

CHAPTEE I.

THE BREACH IS WIDENED.

A FORTNIGHT after Father Sewell's discovery,
Stella followed her husband one
morning into his study. ' Have you heard
from Mr. Penrose ? ' she inquired.

Yes. He will be here tomorrow.'

To make a long visit . '

I hope so. The longer the better.'

She looked at him with a mingled expression
of surprise and reproach. ' Why
do you say that ? ' she asked. ' Why do
you want him so much  when you have
got Me?'

Thus far, he had been sitting at his

VOL. II. p

desk, resting his head on his hand, with
his downcast eyes fixed on an open book.
When she put her last question to him, he
suddenly looked up. Through the large
window at his side, the morning light fell
on his face. The haggard look of suffering,
which Stella remembered on the day when
they met on the deck of the steamboat,
was again visible  not softened and chastened
now by the touching resignation of the
bygone time, but intensified by the dogged
and despairing endurance of a man weary
of himself and his life. Her heart ached
for him. She said softly, ' I don't mean
to reproach you.'

Are you jealous of Penrose ? ' he asked,
with a bitter smile.

She desperately told him the truth. ' I
am afraid of Penrose,' she answered.

He eyed her with a strange expression
of suspicious surprise. 'Why are you
afraid of Penrose ? '

It was no time to run the risk of irritating
him. The torment of the Voice had
returned in the past night. The old gnawing
remorse of the fatal day of the duel had
betrayed itself in the wild words that had
escaped him, when he sank into a broken
slumber as the morning dawned. Feeling
the truest pity for him, she was still resolute
to assert herself against the coming
interference of Penrose. She tried her
ground by a dangerous means  the means
of an indirect reply.

'I think you might have told me,' she
said, 'that Vir. Penrose was a Catholic
priest.'

He looked down again at his book.

How did you know Penrose was a Catholic
priest ? '

I had only to look at the direction on
yom' letters to him.'

Well, and what is there to frighten
you in his being a priest ? You told me at
the Lorings' ball that you took an interest
in Penrose because I liked him.'

I didn't know then, Lewis, that he had
concealed his profession from us. I can't
help distrusting a man who does that.'

He laughed  not very kindly. 'You
might as well say you distrust a man who
conceals that he is an author, by writing
an anonymous book. What Penrose did,
he did under orders from his superior  and,
moreover, he frankly owned to me that he
was a priest. If you blame anybody, you
had better blame me for respecting his confidence.'


She drew back from him, hurt by the
tone in which he spoke to her. ' I remember
the time, Lewis,' she said, 'when you
woukl have been more indulgent towards
my errors  even if I am wrong.'

That simple appeal touched his better
nature. ' I don't mean to be hard on you,
Stella,' he answered. 'It is a little irritating
to hear you say that you distrust the
most devoted and most affectionate friend
that man ever had. Why can't I love my
wife, and love my friend, too. You don't
know, when I am trying to get on with my
book, how I miss the help and sympathy of
Penrose. The very sound of his voice used
to encourage me. Come, Stella, give me a
kiss  and let us, as the children say, make
it up ! '

He rose from his writing-table. She

met him more than half way, and pressed
all her love  and perhaps a little of her
fear  on his lips. He returned the kiss as
warmly as it was given ; and then, unhappily
for both of them, he went back to the
subject.

My own love,' he said, ' try to like my
friend for my sake ; and be tolerant of other
forms of Christianity besides the form which
happens to be yours.'

Her smiling lips closed ; she turned
from him. With the sensitive selfishness
of a woman's love, she looked on Penrose
as a robber who had stolen the sympathies
which should have been wholly hers. As
she moved away, her quick observation
noticed the open book on the desk, with
notes and lines in pencil on the margin of
the page. What had Romaine been reading

which interested him in that way ? If
he had remained silent, she would have
addressed the inquiry to him openly. But
he was hurt, on his side, by the sudden
manner of her withdrawal from him. He
spoke  and his tone was colder than ever.

I won't attempt to combat you: prejudices,'
he said. ' But one thing I must
seriously ask of you. When my friend
Penrose comes here tomorrow, don't treat
him as you treated Mr. Winterfield.'

There was a momentary paleness in her
face which looked like fear, but it passed
away again. She confronted him firmly
with steady eyes.

Why do you refer again to that ? ' she

asked. ' Is ' (she hesitated, and recovered

herself)  ' is Mr. Winterfield another devoted
friend of yours ? '

He walked to the door, as if he could
hardly trust his temper if he answered her
stopped  and, thinking better of it, turned
towards her again.

We won't quarrel, Stella,' he rejoined ;
I will only say I am sorry you don't appreciate
my forbearance. Your reception
of Mr. Winterfield has lost me the friendship
of a man whom I sincerely liked, and
who might have assisted my literary labours.
You were ill at the time, and anxious about
Mrs. Eyrecourt. I respected your devotion
to your mother. I remembered your telling
me, when 3'ou first went away to nurse
her, that your conscience accused you of
having sometimes thoughtlessly neglected
your mother in her days of health and
good spirits, and I admired the motive of
atonement which took you to her bedside.

For those reasons I shrank from saying a
word that might wound you. But, because
I was silent, it is not the less true that you
surprised and disappointed me. Don't do it
again ! Whatever you may privately think
of Catholic priests, I once more seriously
request you not to let Penrose see it.'

He left the room.

She stood, looking after him as he closed
the door, like a woman thunderstruck.
Never yet had he looked at her as he
looked when he spoke his last warning
words. With a heavy sigh she roused herself.
The vague dread with which his tone
rather than his words had inspired her,
strangely associated itself with the momentary
curiosity which she had felt on noticing
the annotated book that lay on his
desk.

She snatched up the volume, and looked
at the open page. It contained the closing-paragraphs
of an eloquent attack on Protestantism,
from the Eoman Catholic point
of view. With trembling hands she turned
back to the title page. It presented this
written inscription :  ' To Lewis Romaine
from his attached friend and servant, Arthur
Penrose.'

God help me ! ' she said to herself,
the priest has got between us already ! '

CHAPTEE II.

A CHRISTIAN" JESUIT.

Ox the next day Penrose arrived on his
visit to Romaine.

The affectionate meeting between the
two men tested Stella's self-control as it had
never been tried yet. She submitted to
the ordeal with the courage of a woman
whose happiness depended on her outward
graciousness of manner towards her husband's
friend. Her reception of Penrose,
viewed as an act of refined courtesy, was
beyond reproach. When she found her
opportunity of leaving the room, Romaine
gratefully opened the door for her. ' Thank

you ! ' he whispered, with a look which was
intended to reward her.

She only bowed to him, and took refuge
in her own room.

Even in trifles, a woman's nature is
degraded by the falsities of language and
manner which the artificial condition of
modern society exacts from her. When she
yields herself to more serious deceptions,
intended to protect her dearest domestic
interests, the mischief is increased in proportion.
Deceit, which is the natural weapon
of defence used by the weak creature
against the strong, then ceases to be confined
within the limits assigned by the sense
of self-respect and by the restraints of education.
A woman in this position will
descend, self-blinded, to acts of meanness
which would be revolting to her if they

were related of another person. Stella had
already begun the process of self-degradation
by writing secretly to Winterfield. It
was only to warn him of the danger of
trusting Father Sewell  but it was a letter,
claiming him as her accomplice in an act
of deception. That morning she had received
Penrose with the outward cordialities
of welcome which are offered to an old and
dear friend. And now in the safe solitude
of her room, she had fallen to a lower depth
still. She was deliberately considering the
safest means of acquainting herself with the
confidential conversation which Romaine
and Penrose would certainly hold when she
left them together. ' He will try to set my
husband against me ; and I have a right to
know what means he uses, in my own
defence.' With that thought she reconciled

herself to an action which she would have
despised if she had heard of it as the action
of another woman.

It was a beautiful autumn day, brightened
by clear sunshine, enlivened by crisp
air. Stella put on her hat, and went out
for a stroll in the grounds.

While she was within view from the
windows of the servants' offices she walked
away from the house. Turning the corner
of a shrubbery, she entered a winding path,
on the other side, which led back to the
lawn under Romaine's study window.
Garden chairs were placed here and there.
She took one of them, and seated herself 
after a last moment of honourable hesitation
 where she could hear the men's voices .
through the open window above her.

Penrose was speaking at the time.

Yes. Father Sewell has granted mea
holiday,' he said ; ' but I don't come hereto
be an idle man. You must allow me to
employ my term of leave in the pleasantness
of all ways. I mean to be your secretary
again.'

Romaine sighed. ' Ah, if you knew
how I have missed you ! '

(Stella waited, in breathless expectation
for what Penrose would say to this. Would
he speak of herl JS'o. There was a
natural tact and delicacy in him which
waited for the husband to introduce the
subject.)

Penrose only said, 'How is the great
work getting on ? '

The answer was sternly spoken in one
word  ' Badly ! '

I am surprised to hear that, Romaine.'

Why ? Were you as innocently hopeful
as I was? Did you expect my experience
of married life to help me in writing
my book ? '

Penrose replied after a pause, speaking a
little sadly. ' I expected your married life
to encourage you in all your highest aspirations,'
he said.

(Stella turned pale with suppressed anger.
He had spoken with perfect sincerity. The
unhappy woman believed that he lied, for
the express purpose of rousing irritation
against her, in her husband's irritable mind.
She listened anxiously for Romaine's answer.)


He made no answer. Penrose changed
the subject. ' You are not looking very 
well,' he gently resumed. ' I am afraid your
health has interfered with your work. Have
you had any return ? '

It was still one of the characteristics of
Romayne's nervous irritability that he dished
to hear the terrible delusion of the
Voice referred to in words. ' Yes' he interposed
bitterly, ' I have heard it again and
again. My right hand is as red as ever,
Penrose, with the blood of a fellow creature.
Another destruction of my illusions when I
married ! '

Romaine ! I don't like to hear you
speak of your marriage in that way.'

Oh, very well. Let us go back to my
book. Perhaps I shall get on better with it
now you are here to help me. My ambition
to make a name in the world has never
taken so strong a hold on me (I don't know
why, unless other disappointments have had
something to do with it) as at this time,
when I find I can't give my mind to

VOL. II. Q

my work. We Avill make a last effort
together, my friend ! If it fails, we will put
my manuscripts into the fire, and I will try
some other career. Politics are open to me.
Through politics, I might make my mark in
diplomacy. There is something in directing
the destinies of nations wonderfully attractive
to me in my present state of feeling.
I hate the idea of being indebted for my
position in the world, like the veriest fool
living, to the accidents of birth and fortune.
Are you content with the obscure life that
you lead ? Did you not envy that priest
(he is no older than I am) who was sent the
other day as the Pope's ambassador to Portugal?'


Penrose spoke out at last without hesitation.
'You are in a thoroughly unwholesome
state of mind,' he said.

Eomayue laughed recklessly. ' Wlieii
was I ever in a healthy state of mind ? ' he
asked.

Penrose passed the interruption over
without notice. ' If I am to do you any good,'
he resumed, ' I must know what is really
the matter with you. The very last question
that I ought to put, and that I wish to put,
is the question which you force me to ask.'

'What is it?'

Alien you speak of your married
life,' said Penrose, 'your tone is the tone
of a disappointed man. Have you any
serious reason to complain of Mrs. Eo-maine
? '

(Stella rose to her feet, in her eagerness
to hear what her husband's answer would
be.)

Serious reason ? ' Romaine repeated.

How can such an idea have entered your
head ? I only complain of irritating trifles
now and then. Even the best of women
is not perfect. It's hard to expect it
from any of them.'

(The interpretation of this reply depended
entirely on the tone in which it was
spoken. What was the animating spirit
in this case ? Irony or Indulgence ? Stella
was ignorant of the indirect methods of
irritation, by means of which Father Ben-well
had encouraged Romaine's doubts
of his wife's motive for the reception of
Winterfield. Her husband's tone, expressing
this state of mind, was new to her.
She sat down again, divided between hope
and fear, waiting to hear more. The next
words, spoken by Penrose, astounded her.
The priest, the Jesuit, the wily spiritual

intruder between man and wife, actually
took the wife's side !)

Romaine,' he proceeded quietly, ' I
want you to be happy

How am I to be happy ? '

'I will try and tell you. I believe
your wife to be a good woman. I believe
she loves you. There is something in her
face that speaks for her  even to an inexperienced
person like myself. Don't be impatient
with her ! Put away from you that
besetting temptation to speak in irony  it
is so easy to take that tone, and sometimes
so cruel. I am only a looker-on, I know.
Domestic happiness can never be the happiness
of my life. But I have observed
my fellow-creatures of all degrees  and
this, I tell you, is the result. The largest
number of happy men are the husbands

and fathers. Yes ; I admit that they have
Terrible anxieties  but they are fortified
by unfailing compensations aud encouragements.
Only the other day I met with
a man who had suffered the loss of fortune
and, Averse still, the loss of health. He
endured those actions so calmly that he
surprised me. "What is the secret of
your philosophy ? " I asked. He answered,
"I can bear anything while I have my
wife and my children." Think of that,
and judge for yourself how much happiness
you may have left yet ungathered in
your married life.'

(Those words touched Stella's higher
nature, as the dew touches the thirsty
ground. Surely they were nobly spoken !
How would her husband receive them ?)

I must think with your mind, Penrose,

before I can do what you ask of me. Is
there any method of transformation by
wliicli I can change natives with you ? *
That was all he said  and he said it despondingly.


Penrose understood, and felt for him.

'If there is anything in my nature,
worthy to' be set as an example to you
he replied, 'you know to what blessed
influence I owe self-discipline and serenity
of mind. Eemember what I said when
I left you in London, to go back to my
friendless life. I told you that I found, in
the Faith I held, the one sufficient consolation
which helped me to bear my lot.
And  if there came a time of sorrow in
the future  I entreated you to remember
what I had said. Have you remembered
it?'

'Look at the book here on my desk
look at the other books, within easy
reach, on that table  are you satisfied?'

More than satisfied. Tell me  do you
feel nearer to an understanding of the
Faith to which I have tried to convert
you?'

There was a pause. ' Say that I do
feel nearer,' Romaine resumed  ' say that
some of my objections are removed  are
you really as eager as ever to make a
Catholic of me, now that I am a married
man ? '

I am even more easier,' Penrose answered.
' I have always believed that
your one sure way to happiness lay through
your conversion. Now, when I know,
from what I have seen and heard in this
room, that you are not reconciled, as you

should be, to your new life, I am doubly
confirmed in my belief. As God is my
witness, I speak sincerely. Hesitate no
longer ! Be converted, and be happy.'

Have you not forgotten something,
Penrose ? '

What have I forgotten ? '

A serious consideration, perhaps. I
have a Protestant wife.'

'I have borne that in mind, Romaine,
throughout our conversation.'

'And you still say what you have

just said . '

'With my whole heart, I say it! Be
converted, and be happy. Be happy,
and you will be a good husband. I speak
in your wife's interest as well as in yours.
People who are happy in each other's
society, will yield a little on either side,

even on questions of religious belief. And
perhaps there may follow a more profitable
result still. So far as I have observed,
a good husband's example is gladly followed
by his wife. Don't think that I
am trying to persuade you against your
will ! I am only telling you, in my own
justification, from what motives of love
for yourself, and of true interest in your
welfare, I speak. You implied just now
that you had still some objections left.
If I can remove them  well and good.
If I fail  if you cannot act on purely
conscientious conviction  I not only advise,
I entreat you, to remain as you are.
I shall be the first to acknowledge that
you have done right.'

(This moderation of tone would appeal
irresistibly, as Stella well knew, to her

husband's ready appreciation of those good
qualities in others which he did not himself
possess. Once more her suspicion
wronged Penrose. Had he his own interested
motives for pleading her cause?
At the bare thought of it, she left her
chair, and, standing under the window,
boldly interrupted the conversation by
calling to Romaine.)

Lewis ! ' she cried, ' wliy do you stay
indoors on this beautiful day ? I am sure Mr.
Penrose would like a walk in the grounds

Penrose appeared alone at the window.
You are quite right, Mrs. Piomayne,' he
said, 'we will join you directly.'

In a few minutes he turned the corner
of the house, and met Stella on the lawn.
Romaine was not with him. 'Is my
husband not coming with us?' she asked.

'He will follow us,' Penrose answered.
'I believe he has some letters to write.'

Stella looked at him, suspecting some
underhand exercise of influence on her
husband.

If she had been able to estimate the
noble qualities in the nature of Penrose,
she might have done him the justice
to arrive at a truer conclusion. It was
he who had asked leave (dien Stella had
interrupted them) to take the opportunity
of speaking alone with Mrs. Romaine.
He had said to his friend, ' If I am wrong
in my anticipation of the effect of your
change of religion on your wife, let me
find it out from herself. My one object
is to act justly towards you and towards
her. I should never forgive myself if I
made mischief between you, no matter

how innocent of any evil intention I
might be.' Romaine had understood him.
It was Stella's misfortune ignorantly
to misinterpret everything that Penrose
said or did, for the all sufficient reason
that he was a Catholic priest. She had
drawn the conclusion that her husband
had deliberately left her alone with Penrose,
to be persuaded or deluded into giving
her sanction to aid the influence of the
priest. ' They shall find they are mistaken,'
she thought to herself.

'Have I interrupted an interesting
conversation?' she inquired abruptly.
When I asked you to come out, were
you talking to my husband about his historical
work ? '

ISTo, Mrs. Romaine ; we were not
speaking at that time of the book.*

'May I ask an odd question, Mr.
Penrose? '

Certainly ! '

Are you a very zealous Catholic ? *

Pardon me. I am a priest. Surely
my profession speaks for me ? '

'I hope you have not been trying to
convert my husband ? '

Penrose stopped and looked at her
attentively. ' Are you strongly opposed
to your husband's conversion?' he asked.

'As strongly,' she answered, 'as a
woman can be.'

By religious conviction, Mrs. Romaine? '

No. By experience.'

Penrose started. ' Is it indiscreet,' he
said gently, ' to inquire what your experience
may have been ? '

I will tell you what my experience

has been,' Stella replied. ' I am ignorant
of theological subtleties, and questions of
doctrine are quite beyond me. But. this I
do know. A well-meanings and zealous
Catholic shortened my father's life, and
separated me from an only sister whom
I dearly loved. I see I shock you  and
I daresay you think I am exaggerating ? '

I hear what you say, Mrs. Romaine,
with very great pain  I don't presume to
form any opinion thus far.'

My sad story can be told in a few
words,' Stella proceeded. ' When my elder
sister was still a young girl, an aunt of
ours (my mother's sister) came to stay with
us. She had married abroad, and she was,
as I have said, a zealous Catholic. Unknown
to the rest of us, she held conversations
on religion with my sister  worked

on the enthusiasm which was part of the
girl's nature  and accomplished her conversion.
Other influences, of which I
know nothing, were afterwards brought to
bear on my sister. She declared her intention
of entering a convent. As she was
under age, my father had only to interpose
his authority to prevent this. She was his
favourite child. He had no heart to restrain
her by force  he could only try all
that the kindest and best of fathers could
do to persuade her to remain at home.
Even after the years that have passed, I
cannot trust myself to speak of it composedly.
She persisted ; she was as hard
as stone. My ait, when she was entreated
to interfere, called her heartless
obstinacy ' a vocation.' My poor father's
loving resistance was worn out ; he slowly

drew nearer and nearer to death, from the
day when she left us. Let me do her
justice, if I can. Lie has, not only never
regretted entering the convent  she is so
happily absorbed in her religions duties,
that she has not the slightest wish to see
her mother or me. My mother's patience
was soon worn out. The last time I went
to the convent, I went by myself. I shall
never go there again. She could not conceal
her sense of relief when I took my
leave of her. I need say no more. Arguments
are thrown away on me, Mr. Penrose,
after what I have seen and felt. I
have no right to expect that the consideration
of my happiness will influence you
but I may perhaps ask you, as a gentleman,
to tell me the truth. Do you come
VOL. II. R

here with the purpose of converting my
husband ? '

Penrose owned the truth, without an
instant's hesitation.

I cannot take your vievv of your sister's
pious devotion of herself to a religious
life,' he said. ' But I can, and will,
answer you truly. From the time when I
first knew him, my dearest object has been to
convert your husband to the Catholic Faith.'

Stella drew back from him, as if he
had stung her, and clasped her hands in
silent despair.

'But I am bound as a Christian,' he
went on, 'to do to others as I would they
should do to me.'

She turned on him suddenly, her beautiful
face radiant with hope, her hand trembling
as it caught him by the arm.

Speak plainly ! * she cried.

He obeyed her to the letter.

'The happiness of my friend's wife,
Mrs. Romaine, is sacred to me for his
sake. Be the good angel of your husband's
life. I abandon the piu-pose of converting
him.'

He lifted her hand from his arm, and
raised it respectfully to his lips. Then,
when he had bound himself by a promise
that was sacred to him, the terrible influence
of the priesthood shook even that
brave and lofty soul. He said to himself,
as he left her, ' God forgive me if I have
done wrong ! '

K '1

CHAPTER III.

TVINTERFIELD RETURNS.

Twice Father Sewell called at Derwent's
Hotel, and twice he was informed that no
news had been received there of Mr. Winterfield.
At the third attempt, his constancy
was rewarded. Mr. Winteriield had
written, and was expected to arrive at the
hotel by five o'clock.

It was then half-past four. Father
Sewell decided to wait the return of his
friend.

He was as anxious to deliver the papers
which the proprietor of the asylum had confided
to him, as if he had never broken a
seal or used a counterfeit to hide the

betrayal of a trust. The re-sealed packet
was safe in the pocket of his long black
frock-coat. His own future proceedings
depended, in some degree, on the course
which Winterfield might take, when he
had read the confession of the unhappy
woman who had once been his wife.

Would he show the letter to Stella, at
a private interview, as an unanswerable
proof that she had cruelly wronged him?
And would it in this case be desirable 
if the thing could be done  so to handle
circumstances as that Romaine might be
present, miseen, and might discover the
truth for himself? In the other event 
that is to say, if Winterfield abstained from
communicating the confession to Stella 
the responsibility of making the necessary
disclosure must remain with the priest.

Father Sewell stalked softly up aud
down the room, looking about Jiini with
quietly-observant eyes. A side table in a
corner "was covered vith letters, waiting
Winters eld's return. Always ready for
information of any sort, lie even looked
at the addresses on the letters.

The handwritings presented the customary
variety of character. All but three of
the envelopes showed the London district
post-marks. Two of the other letters (addressed
to Winterfield at his club) bore
foreign post-marks; and one, as the altered
direction showed, had been forwarded from
Beaupark House to the hotel.

This last letter especially attracted the
priest's attention.

The address Alas apparently in a woman's
handwriting. And it was worthy

of remark that she appeared to be the
only person among WinterfiekVs correspondents
who was not acquainted with the
address of his hotel or of his club. Who
coidd the person be ? The subtly-inquiring
intellect of Father Benwell amused
itself by speculating even on such a trifling
problem as this. He little thought
that he had a j)sonal interest in the
letter. The envelope contained Stella's
warning to Winterfield to distrust no less
a person than Father Sewell himself!

It was nearly half-past live before quick
footsteps were audible outside. Winterfield
entered the room.

This is friendly indeed ! ' he said. ' I
expected to return to the worst of all solitudes
 solitude in a hotel. You will stay
and dine with me . That's right. You

must have thought I was going to settle
in Paris. Do you know what has kept
me so long ? The most delightful theatre
in the world  the Opera Comique. I am
so fond of the bygone school of music,
Father Sewell  the flowing graceful delicious
melodies of the composers who followed
Mozart. One can only enjoy that
music in Paris. Would you believe that
I waited a week to hear Colo's delightful
Joconde for the second time. I was almost
the only young man in the stalls. All
round me were the old men who remembered
the first performances of the opera,
beating time with their wrinkled hands to
the tunes which were associated with the
happiest days of their lives. What's that I
hear ? My dog ! I was obliged to leave
him here, and he knows I have come back ! '

He flew to the door, and called down
the stairs to have the dog set free. The
spaniel rushed into the room and leaped
into his master's outstretched arms. Winterfield
returned his caresses, and kissed
him as tenderly as a woman might have
kissed her pet.

Dear old fellow ! it's a shame to have
left you  I won t do it again. Father Ben-well,
have you many friends who would
be as glad to see you as iliis friend ? I
haven't one. And there are fools who
talk of a dog as an inferior being to ourselves
! This creature's faithful love is mine,
do what I may. I might be disgraced in
the estimation of every human creature I
know, and he would be as true to me as
ever. And look at his physical qualities.
What an ugly thing, for instance,  I won't

say your ear  I will say, my car is ;
crumpled and wrinkled and naked. Look
at the beautiful silky covering of his ear !
Wliat are our senses of smelling; and hearing
compared to his ? We are proud of
our reason. Could we find our way back,
if they shut us up in a basket, and took
us to a strange place away from home ?
If we both want to run down stairs in a
hurry, which of us is securest against
breaking his neck  I on my poor two
legs, or he on his four ? Who is the
happy mortal who goes to bed without
unbuttoning, and gets up again without
buttoning ? Here he is, on my lap, knowing
I am talking' about him, and too fond of
me to say to himself, " What a fool my
master is ! " '

Father Sewell listened to this rhapsody

 SO characteristic of the childish simplicity
of the man  with an inward sense
of impatience which never once showed
itself on the smilhio' surface of his face.

He had decided not to mention the
papers in his pocket until some circumstance
occurred which might appear to remind
him naturally that he had such things
about him. If he showed any anxiety to
produce the envelope, he might expose
himself to the suspicion of having some
knowledge of the contents. When would
Winterfield notice the side table, and open
his letters?

The tick-tick of the clock on the mantelpiece
steadily registered the progress of
time, and Winterlield's fantastic attentions
where still lavished on his dog.

Even Father Sewell's patience was

sorely tried when the good country-gentleman
proceeded to mention not only the
spaniel's name, but the occasion which had
suggested it. ' We call him Traveller, and
I will tell you why. When he was only
a puppy he strayed into the garden at
Beaupark, so weary and footsore that we
concluded he had come to us from a great
distance. We advertised him, but he was
never claimed  and here he is ! If you
don't object, we will give Traveller a treat
to-day. He shall have dinner with us.'

Perfectly understanding those last words,
the dog jumped off his master's lap, and
actually forwarded the views of Father Ben-well
in less than a minute more. Scampering
round and round the room, as an
appropriate expression of happiness, he
came into collision with the side-table,

and directed Winterfield's attention to the
letters by scattering them on the floor.

Father Ben well rose politely, to assist
in picking up the prostrate correspondence.
But Traveller was beforehand with him.
Warning the priest, with a low growl, not
to interfere with another person's business,
the dog picked up the letters in his mouth,
and carried them by instalments to his master's
feet. Even then, the exasperating
Winterfield went no further than patting
Traveller. Father Sewell's endurance
reached its limits. ' Pray don't stand on
ceremony with me,' he said. ' I will look at
the newspaper while you read your letters.'

Winterfield carelessly gathered the letters
together, tossed them on the dining-table
at his side, and took the uppermost
one of the little heap.

Fate Alas certainly against the priest on
that evening. The first letter that Winter-field
opened, led him off to another subject
of conversation before he had read it to
the end. Father Bemvell's hand, already
in his coat pocket, appeared again  empty.

Here's a proposal to me to go into
Parliament,' said the Squire. 'What do
you think of representative institutions,
Father Sewell? To my mind, representative
institutions are on their last legs.
Honourable Members vote away more of
our money every year. They have no
alternative between suspending liberty of
speech, or sitting helpless while half a dozen
impudent idiots stop the progress of legislation
from motives of the meanest kind.
And they arc not even sensitive enough to
the national honour to pass a social law
amonir themselves Avhicli makes it as disgraceful

in a gentleman to buy a seat by
bribery as to cheat at cards. I declare I
think the card-sharper the least degraded
person of the two. He doesn't encourage
his inferiors to be false to a public trust.
In short, my dear sir, everything wears
out in this world  and why should the
House of Commons be an exception to the
rule?'

He picked up the next letter from the
heap. As he looked at the address, his
face changed. The smile left his lips, the
gaiety died out of his eyes. Traveller, entreating
for more notice with impatient fore
paws applied to his master's knees, saw the
alteration, and dropped into a respectfully
recumbent position. Father Ben well glanced
sidelong off the columns of the newspaper,
and waited for events with all the discretion,
and none of the good faith, of the dog.

Forwarded from Beaupark,' Winterfield
said to himself. He opened the letter 
read it carefully to the end  thought over
it  and read it aain.

Father Ben well ! ' he said suddenly.

The priest put down the newspaper.
For a few moments more nothing was audible
but the steady tick-tick of the clock.

We have not been very long acquainted
Winterfield resumed. 'But our
association has been a pleasant one, and I
think I owe to you the duty of a friend. I
don't belong to your Church ; but I hope
you will believe me when I say that ignorant
prejudice against the Catholic priesthood
is not one of my prejudices.'

Father Sewell bowed, in silence. .

You are mentioned,' Winterfield proceeded,
' in the letter which I have just read.'

'are you at liberty to tell me the name
of yoiir correspondent ? ' Father Sewell
asked.

I am not at liberty to do that. But I
think it due to you, and to myself, to tell
you what the substance of the letter is.
The writer warns me to be careful in my
intercourse with you. Your object (I am
told) is to make yourself acquainted with
events in my past life, and you have some
motive which my correspondent has thus
far failed to discover. I speak plainly, but
I beg you to understand that I also speak
impartially. I condemn no man unheard 
least of all, a man whom I have had the
honour of receiving inter my own roof.'

He spoke with a certain simple dignity.
With equal dignity, Father Sewell answered.
It is needless to say that he now

VOL. II. s

knew Winterfield's correspondent to be
Romaine's wife.

Let me sincerely thank you, Mr. Winterfield,
for a candour which does honour
to us both,' he said. ' You will hardly
expect me  if I may use such an expression
 to condescend to justify myself against
an accusation, which is an anonymous accusation
so far as I am concerned. I prefer
to meet that letter by a plain proof; and
I leave you to judge whether I am still
worthy of the friendship to which you have
so kindly alluded.'

With this preface he briefly related the
circumstances under which he had become
possessed of the packet, and then handed
it to Winterfield  with the seal uppermost.

Decide for you-self,' he concluded,
whether a man bent on prying into your

private affairs, with that letter entirely at
his mercy, would have been true to the
trust reposed in him.'

He rose and took his hat, ready to leave
the room, if his honour was profaned by
the slightest expression of distrust. Winterfield's
genial and unsuspicious nature instantly
accepted the offered proof as conclusive.
' Before I break the seal,' he said,
 let me do you justice. Sit down again,
Father Sewell, and forgive me if my sense
of duty has hurried me into hurting your
feelings. No man ought to know better
than I do how often people misjudge and
wrong each other.'

They shook hands cordially. No moral

relief is more eagerly sought than relief

from the pressure of a serious explanation.

By common consent, they now spoke as

8 2

lightly as if nothing had happened. Father
Sewell set the example.

You actually believe in a priest ! *
he said gaily. ' We shall make a good
Catholic of you yet.'

Don't be too sure of that,' Winterfield
replied, with a touch of his quaint humour.
I respect the men who have given to humanity
the inestimable blessing of quinine
to say nothing of preserving learning and
civilisation  but I respect still more my
own liberty as a free Christian.'

Perhaps a free thinker, Mr. Winter-field?'


'Anything you like to call it, Father
Sewell, so long as it is free.'

They both laughed. Father Sewell
went back to his newspaper. Winterfield
broke the seal of the envelope and took out
the enclosures.

The confession was the first of the
papers at which he happened to look. At
the opening lines he turned pale. He read
more, and his eyes filled with tears. In
low broken tones he said to the priest, ' You
have innocently brought me most distressing
news. I entreat your pardon if I ask to be
left alone.'

Father Sewell said a few well-chosen
words of sympathy, and immediately withdrew.
The dog licked his master's hand,
hanging listlessly over the arm of the
chair.

Later in the evening, a note fi:om Winterfield
was left by messenger at the priest's
lodgings. The writer announced, with renewed
expressions of regret, that he would
be again absent from London on the next
day, but that he hoped to return to the

hotel and receive his guest on the evening
of the day after.

Father Sewell rightly conjectured that
Winterfield's destination was the town in
which his wife had died.

His object in taking the journey was
not, as the priest supposed, to address inquiries
to the rector and the landlady, who
had been present at the fatal illness and
the death  but to justify his wife's last
expression of belief in the mercy and compassion
of the man whom she had injured.
On that 'nameless grave,' so sadly and so
humbly referred to in the confession, he
had resolved to place a simple stone cross,
giving to her memory the name which she
had shrunk from profaning in her lifetime.
When he had written the brief inscription
which recorded the death of ' Emma, wife

of Bernard Winterfield,' and when he had
knelt for awhile by the low turf mound,
his errand had come to its end. He thanked
the good rector ; he left gifts with the landlady
and her children, by which he was
gratefully remembered for many a year
afterwards ; and then, with a heart relieved,
he went back to London.

Other men might have made their sad
Httle pilgrimage alone. Winterfield took
his dog with him. ' I must have something
to love,' he said to the rector, ' at
such a time as this.'

Chapter IV.

FATHER BENWELL's Correspondence.

To the Secretary., S. /., Rome.

When I wrote last, I hardly thought I
should trouble you again so soon. The
necessity has, however, arisen. I must ask
for instructions, from our Most Reverend
General, on the subject of Arthur Penrose.
I believe I informed you that I decided
to defer my next visit to Ten Acres Lodge
for two or three days, in order that Winter-field
(if he intended to do so) might have
time to communicate with Mrs. Romayne,
after his return from the country. Naturally
enough, perhaps, considering the delicacy

of the subject, he has not taken me
ito his confidence. I can only guess that
he has maintained the same reserve with
Mrs. Romaine.

My visit to the Lodge was duly paid
this afternoon.

I asked first, of course, for the lady of
the house, and hearing she was in the
grounds, joined her there. She looked ill
and anxious, and she received me with
rigid politeness. Fortunately, Mrs. Eyre-court
(now convalescent) was staying at
Ten Acres, and was then taking the air
in her chap: on wheels. The good lady's
nimble and discursive tongue offered mean
opportunity of referring, in the most
innocent manner possible, to Winterfield's
favourable opinion of Romaine's pictures.
I need hardly say that I looked at

Romaine's wife when I mentioned the name.
She turned pale  probably fearing that I
had some knowledge of her letter warning
Winterfield not to trust me. If she had
already been informed that he was not to
be blamed, but to be pitied, in the matter
of the marriage at Brussels, she would have
turned red. Such, at least, is my experience,
drawn from recollections of other
days.

The ladies having served my purpose,
I ventured into the house, to pay my
respects to Romaine.

He was in the study, and his excellent
friend and secretary was with him. After

Father Sewell's experience had, in this case, not
misled him. If Stella had remained unmarried, Winter-field
might have justified himself. But he was honourably
unwilling to disturb her relations with her husband, by
satisfying her that he had never been unworthy of the affection
which had once united them.

the first greetings, Penrose left us. His
manner told me plainly that there was
something wrong. I asked no questions 
 waiting on the chance that Romaine might
enlighten me.

I hope you are in better spirits, now
that you have your old companion with
you,' I said.

I am very glad to have Penrose with
me,' he answered. And then he frowned,
and looked out of the window at the two
ladies in the grounds.

It occurred to me that Mrs. Eyrecourt
 might be occupying the customary false
position of a mother-in-law. I was mistaken.
He was not thinking of his wife's
mother  she was thinking of his wife.

I suppose you know that Penrose had
an idea of converting me ?' he said suddenly.

I was perfectly candid with him  I said
I knew it, and approved of it. ' May I
hope that Arthur has succeeded in convincing
you?' I ventured to add.

He might have succeeded, Father Ben-well,
if he had chosen to go on.'

This reply, as you may easily imagine,
took me by surprise.

Are you really so obdurate that Arthur
despairs of your conversion ? ' I asked.

'Nothing of the sort! I have thought
and thought of it  and I can tell you I
was more than ready to meet him halfway.'


Then where is the obstacle ! ' I exclaimed.


He pointed through the window to his
wife. ' There is the obstacle,' he said, ina
tone of ironical resignation.

Knowing Arthur's character as I knew
it, I at last understood what had happened.
For a moment I felt really angry. Under
these circumstances, the wise course was to
say nothing, until I could be sure of speaking
with exemplary moderation. It doesn't
do for a man in my position to show anger.

Romaine went on.

'We talked of my wife. Father Ben-well,
the last time you were here. You
only knew, then, that her reception of
Mr. Winterfield had determined him never
to enter my house again. By way of adding
to your information on the subject of
petticoat government," I may now tell
you that Mrs. Romaine has forbidden Penrose
to proceed with the attempt to convert
me. By common consent, the subject is
never mentioned between us.' The bitter

irony of his tone, thus far, suddenly disappeared.
He spoke eagerly and anxiously.
I hope you are not angry with Arthur ? '
he said.

By this time my little fit of ill-temper
was at an end. I answered  and it was
really in a certain sense true  ' I know
Arthur too well to be angry with him.'

Romaine seemed to be relieved. ' I
only troubled you with this last domestic
incident,' he resumed, ' to bespeak your indulgence
for Penrose. I am getting learned
in the hierarchy of the Church, Father Ben-well
I You are the superior of my dear
little friend, and you exercise authority
over him. Oh, he is the kindest and best
of men ! It is not his fault. He submits
to Mrs. Romaine  against his own better
conviction  in the honest belief that he

consults the interests of our married
life.

I don't think I misinterpret the state
of Romaine's mind, and mislead you, when
I express my belief that this second indiscreet
interference of his wife between his
friend and himself will produce the very
result which she dreads. Mark my words,
written after the closest observation of him
this new irritation of Romaine's sensitive
self-respect will hasten his conversion.

You will understand that the one alternative
before me, after what has happened,
is to fill the place from which Penrose
has withdrawn. I abstained from breathing
a word of this to Romaine. It is he, if
I can manage it, who must invite me to
complete the work of conversion  and, besides,
nothing can be done until the visit

of Penrose has come to an end. Romaine's
secret sense of irritation may be safely left
to developed itself, with time to help it.

I changed the conversation to the subject
of his literary labours.

The present state of his mind is not
favourable to work of that exacting kind.
Even with the help of Penrose to encourage
him, he does not get on to his satisfaction
and yet, as I could plainly perceive, the
ambition to make a name in the world exercises
a stronger influence over him than
ever. All in our favour, my reverend
friend  all in our favour!

I took the liberty of asking to see Penrose
alone for a moment ; and, this request
granted, Romaine and I parted cordially.
I can make most people like me, when I
choose to try. The master of Vange Abbey

is no exception to the rule. Did I tell you,
by-the-bye, that the property has a little
declined of late in value ? It is now not
worth more than six thousand a year. We
will improve it, when it returns to the
Church.

My interview with Penrose was over in
two minutes. Dispensing with formality, I
took his arm, and led him into the front
garden.

I have heard all about it,' I said ;
and I must not deny that you have disappointed
me. But I know your disposition,
and I make allowances. You have
qualities, dear Arthur, which perhaps put
you a little out of place among Us. I
shall be obliged to report what you have
done  but you may trust me to put it
favourably. Shake hands, my son, and

VOL. II. T

while we are still together, let us be as
good friends as ever.'

You may think that I spoke in this
way with a view to my indulgent language
being repeated to Romaine, and so improving
the position which I have already
gained in his estimation. Do you know, I
really believe I meant it at the time ! The
poor fellow gratefully kissed my hand when
I offered it to him  he was not able to
speak. I wonder whether I am weak about
Arthur? Say a kind word for him, when
his conduct comes under notice  but pray
don't mention this little frailty of mine ; and
don't suppose I have any sympathy with his
weak-minded submission to Mrs. Romaine's
prejudices. If I ever felt the smallest consideration
for her (and I cannot call to mind
any amiable emotion of that sort), her letter

to Winterfield would have effectually extinguished
it. There is something quite
revolting to me in a deceitful woman.

In closing this letter, I may quiet the
minds of our reverend brethren, if I assure
them that my former objection to associating
myself directly with the conversion of
Romaine no longer exists.

Yes I even at my age, and with my
habits, I am now resigned to hearing, and
confuting, the trivial arguments of a man
who is yoimg enough to be my son. I shall
write a carefully-guarded letter to Romayne,
on the departure of Penrose; and I shall
send him a book to read, from the influence
of which I expect gratifying results. It is
not a controversial work (Arthur has been
beforehand with me there)  it is Wiseman's
Recollections of the Popes.' I look to

that essentially readable book to excite
Romaine's imagination, by vivid descriptions
of the splendours of the Church, and
the vast influence and power of the higher
priesthood. Does this sudden enthusiasm of
mine surprise you ? And are you altogether
at a loss to know what it means ?

It means, my friend, that I see our
position towards Romaine in a new light.
Forgive me, if I say no more for the
present. I prefer to be silent, until my
audacity is justified by events.

Chapter V.

Bernard) WINTERFIELD's CORRESPONDENCE.
I.

From Mrs. Romayne to Mr. Winterjield.

Has my letter failed to reach you? I
directed it (as I direct this) to Beaupark,
not knowing your London address.

Yesterday, Father Sewell called at Ten
Acres Lodge. He first saw my mother and
myself, and he contrived to mention your
name. It was done with his usual adroitness,
and I might perhaps have passed it
over if he had not looked at me. I hope,
and pray, it may be only my fancy  but I
thought I saw, in his eyes, that he was

conscious of having me in his power, and
that he might betray me to my husband at
any moment.

I have no sort of claim on you. And,
heaven knows, I have little reason to trust
you. But I thought you meant fairly by
me when we spoke together at this house.
In that belief, I entreat you to tell me if
Father Sewell has intruded himself into
your confidence  or even if you have hinted
anything to him which gives him a hold
over me.

II.

From Mr. Whitefield to Mrs. Romaine.

Both your letters have reached me.

I have good reason for believing that
you are entirely mistaken in your estimate
of Father Sewell's character. But I know,

by sad experience, how you hold to your
opinions when they are once formed ; and I
am eager to relieve you of all anxiety, so far
as I am concerned. I have not said one
word  I have not even let slip the slightest
hint  which could inform Father Sewell of
that past event in our lives to which your
letter alludes. Your secret is a sacred
secret to me ; and it has been, and shall be,
sacredly kept.

There is a sentence in your letter which
has given me great pain. You reiterate the
cruel language of the bygone time. You
say, ' Heaven knows I have little reason to
trust you.'

I have reasons, on my side, for not
justifying myself  except under certain conditions.
I mean under conditions which
might place me in a position to serve and

advise you as a friend or brother. In that
case, I undertake to prove, even to you, that
it was a cruel injustice ever to have doubted
me, and that there is no man having whom
you can more implicitly trust than myself.

My address, when I am in London, is at
the head of this page.

m.

From Doctor Wyhrow to Mr. Winterjield.

Dear Sir,  I have received your letter,
mentioning that you wish to accompany meat
my next visit to the asylum, to see the
French boy, so strangely associated with the
papers delivered to you by Father Sewell.

Your proposal reaches me too late.
The poor creature's troubled Hfe has come
to an end. He never rallied from the
exhausting effect of the fever. To the last

he was attended by his mother. I write
with true sympathy for that excellent lady
but I cannot conceal from you or from
myself that this death is not to be regretted.
In a case of the same extraordinary
kind, recorded in print, the
patient recovered from the fever, and his
insanity returned with his returning health.
Faithfully yours,

Joseph Wybrow.

CHAPTER VI.

THE SADDEST OF ALL WORDS.

On the tenth morning, dating from the
despatch of Father Sewell's last letter to
Rome, Penrose was writing in the study at
Ten Acres Lodge, while Romayne sat at
the other end of the room, looking listlessly
at a blank sheet of paper, with the pen
lying idle beside it. On a sudden he rose,
and, snatching up paper and pen, threw
them irritably into the fire.

'Don't trouble yourself to write any
longer,' he said to Penrose. ' My dream is
over. Throw my manuscripts into the wastepaper

basket, and never speak to me of
literary work again.'

Every man devoted to literature has

these fits of despondency,' Penrose answered.
Don't think of your work. Send for your
horse, and trust to fresh air and exercise to
relieve your mind.'

Romaine barely listened. He turned
round at the fireplace, and studied the
reflection of his face in the glass.

I look worse and worse,' he said
thoughtfully to himself.

It was true. His flesh had fallen away ;
his face had withered and whitened; he
stooped like an old man. The change for
the worse had been steadily proceeding from
the time when he left Vange Abbey.

It's useless to conceal it from me ! '
he burst out, turning towards Penrose. ' 1

believe I am in some way answerable  though
you all deny it  for the French boy's death.
Why not? His voice is still in my ears,
and the stain of his brother's blood is on me.
I am under a spell ! Do you believe in the
witches  the merciless old women who
made wax images of the people who injured
them, and stuck pins in their mock likenesses,
to register the slow wasting away of
their victims day after day ? People disbelieve
it in these times, but it has never
been disproved.' He stopped, looked at
Penrose, and suddenly changed his tone.
Arthur ! what is the matter with you ?
have you had a bad night ? Has anything
happened ? '

For the first time in Romaine's experience
of him, Penrose answered evasively.

Is there nothing to make me anxious.

he said, ' when I hear you talk as you are
talking now? The poor French boy died
of a fever. Must I remind you again that
he owed the happiest days of his Hfe to you
and your good wife ? '

Romaine still looked at him, without
attending to what he said.

Surely you don't think I am deceiving
you ? ' Penrose remonstrated.

No ; I was thinking of something else,
I was wondering whether I really know you
as well as I thought I did. Am I mistaken
in supposing that you are not an ambitious
man ? '

My only ambition is to lead a worthy
life, and to be as useful to my fellow-creatures
as I can. Does that satisfy you?'

Romaine hesitated. 'It seems strange
he began.

What seems strange ? '

I don't say it seems strange that you
should be a priest,' Romaine explained. ' I
am only surprised that a man of you* simple
way of thinking should have attached himself
to the Order of the Jesuits.'

I can quite understand that,' said Penrose.
' But you should remember that circumstances
often influence a man in his
choice of a vocation. It has been so with
me. I am a member of a Eoman Catholic
family. A Jesuit College was near our place
of abode, and a near relative of mine 
since dead  was one of the resident priests.'
He paused, and added, in a lower tone,
When I was little more than a lad I suffered
a disappointment, which altered my character
for life. I took vestige in the College,
and I have found patience and peace of

mind since that time. Oh, my friend, you

might have been a more contented man *

He stopped again. His interest in the husband
had all but deceived him into forgetting
his promise to the wife.

Romaine held out his hand. ' I hope
I have not thoughtlessly hurt you ? ' he said.

Penrose took the offered hand, and
pressed it fervently. He tried to speak 
and suddenly shuddered, like a man in pain.
I am not very well this morning,' he stammered
; ' a tiu-n in the garden will do me
good.'

Romaine's doubts were confirmed by
the manner in which Penrose left him.
Something had unquestionably happened,
which his friend shrank from communicating
to him. He sat down again at his desk,
and tried to read. The time passed  and

he was still left alone. When the door was
at last opened, it was only Stella who entered
the room.

Have you seen Penrose ? ' he asked.

The estrangement between them had
been steadily widening of late. Romaine
had expressed his resentment at his wife's
interference between Penrose and himself,
by that air of contemptuous endurance which
is the hardest penalty that a man can inflict
on the woman who loves him. Stella had
submitted with a proud and silent resignation
 the most unfortunate form of protest
that she could have adopted towards a
man of Romaine's temper. When she now
appeared, however, in her husband's study,
there was a change in her expression which
he instantly noticed. She looked at him with
eyes softened by sorrow. Before she could

answer his first question, he hurriedly added
another. ' Is Penrose really ill ? '
'No, Lewis. He is distressed.'

About what?'

About you, and about himself.'
Is he going to leave us ? '

Yes;

But he vill come back again ? '
Stella took a chair by her husband's

side. ' I am truly sorry for you, Lewis,'
she said. ' It is even a sad parting for
Me. If you will let me say it, I have a
sincere regard for dear Mr. Penrose.'

Under other circumstances, this confession
of feeling for the man who had
sacrificed his dearest aspiration to the one
consideration of her happiness, might have
provoked a sharp reply. But by this time
Romayne had really become alarmed.

VOL. ir. u

You speak as if Arthur was going to
leave England,' he said.

He leaves England this afternoon,'
she answered, ' for Eome.'

Why does he tell this to you, and
not to me ? ' Romaine asked.

He cannot trust himself to speak of
it to you. He begged me to prepare you

Her courage failed her. She paused.
Romaine beat his hand impatiently on
the desk before him. ' Speak out ! ' he
cried. ' If Eome is not the end of the
journey  what is ? '

Stella hesitated no longer.

He goes to Eome,' she said, ' to
receive his instructions, and to become
personally acquainted with the missionaries
who are associated with him. They will

leave Leghorn in the next vessel which
sets sail for a port in Central America.
And the dangerous (city entrusted to themis
to re-establish one of the Jesuit missions
destroyed by the savages years since.
'J.'hey will find their church a ruin, and
not a vestige left of the house once in -
habited by the murdered priests. It is
not concealed from them that they maybe
martyred too. They are soldiers of
the Cross ; and they go  willingly go  to
save the souls of the Indians, at the peril
of their lives.'

Romaine rose, and advanced to the
door. There, he turned, and spoke to
Stella. 'Where is Arthur?' he said.

Stella gently detained him.

There was one word more he entreated
me to say  pray wait and hear it,' she

pleaded. ' His one grief is at leaving You.
Apart from that, lie devotes himself gladly
to the dreadful service which claims him.
He has long looked forward to it, and has
long prepared himself for it. Those, Lewis,
are his own words.*

There was a knock at the door. The
servant appeared, to announce that the
carriage was waiting.

Penrose entered the room as the man
left it.

Have you spoken for me ? ' he said
to Stella.

She could only answer him by a gesture.
He turned to Romaine, with a
faint smile.

The saddest of all words must bespoken,'
he said. ' Farewell ! '

Pale and trembling, Romaine took his

hand. 'Is this Father Ben well's doing?'
he asked.

No ! ' Penrose answered, firmly. ' In
Father Sewell's position it might have
been his doing, but for his goodness to me.
For the first time since I have known him,
lie has shrunk from a responsibility. For
my sake he has left it to Eome. And
Eome has spoken. Oh, my more than
friend  my brother in love ! '

His voice failed him. With a resolution
which was nothing less than heroic
in a man of his affectionate nature, he
recovered his composure.

Let us make it as little miserable as
it can be,' he said. ' At every opportunity
we will write to each other. And, who
knows  I may yet come back to you ?
God has preserved his servants in dangers

as great as any that I shall encounter.
May that merciful God bless and protect
you. Oh, Romaine, what happy days
we have had together ! ' His last powers
of resistance were worn out. Tears of
noble sorrow dimmed the friendly eyes
which had never once looked unkindly on
the brother of his love. He kissed Eo-maine.
' Help me out ! ' he said, turning
blindly towards the hall, in which the
servant was waiting. That last act of
mercy was not left to a servant. Witli
sisterly tenderness, Stella took his hand
and led him away. ' I shall remember
you gratefully as long as I live,' she said
to him when the carriage door was closed.
He waved his hand at the window, and
she saw him no more.

She returned to the study.

The relief of tears had not come to
Romaine. He had dropped into a chair
when Penrose left him. In stony silence
he sat there, his head down, his eyes dry
and staring. The miserable days of their
estrangement were forgotten by his wife in
the moment when she looked at him.
She knelt by his side, and lifted his head
a little, and laid it on her bosom. Her
heart was full  she let the caress plead
for her silently. He felt it ; his cold fingers
pressed her hand thankfully; but he said
nothing. After a long interval, the first
outward expression of sorrow that fell
from his lips showed that he was still
thinking of Penrose.

'Every blessing falls away from me,'
he said, 'I have lost my best friend.'

Years afterwards, Stella remembered
those words, and the tone in which he
had spoken them.

THE END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

LOXUOX : PHIXTKD BT

SPOTTiaWOODB And CO., XEW-STKKKT SQT7yUl3

AO PAaUAJIBNT Street

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois-URBANA

C C <i <

C C-re .

 3 0112 041682060

' << ccjcc c ci'CCC' <r 

< - - CcrcC C- Cc< t < r. c 

/' .cxc. c c<<c: < c / '; < "

C CC c: <x C< CC
c < c c < < c < r
CC C 5CCC' CC

:V<: <C.<C
CC :cc

Vcc c:<c.

'C< Ci

< cc

'C- '  CC

 . .* <mr::L '( CC Cc

rc c ? CCT'C ' (C C'

<" < , c < CC < . tcc :c<j

S<''\.c <.r .<r'v .c :ici

f ir< c  CC X '  d<

r '.<.<, <.--vs . . c<. Cf

<.<: c< (c'r> CO c<i<

C C- C'Cf

(T C((<C

CC m

c(

If-

<rc<c

credere
C

C'


& c<r

-  "' XCCC "   

c c '< crtcrc <r<i re r

CCCxC CC:CC derive

c </ a c cl' cic <:c (c 

C>r- CCeCC i' < :

c "C cecc cc f  - ,

fl f 

rrr f

 Cc
- cc
COv c

 cc

CCTC

crcr

cere

cere

cc

<ccc
c<cc

'.

< XCC:ec C

OF THE
University
or ILLINOIS

CSba
\88l

-,

BLACK ROBE

VOL. Il

Besant and James Rice. Three Vols. nearly ready.

*MY LOVE!' By E. Lynn Linton, Author of
'Patricia Kemball.' Three Vols. nearly ready.

A ROMANCE OF THE NINETEENTH Century.
By W. H. Mallock. Two Vols.

[Nearly ready.

CHAT TO AND iV INDUS, PICCADILLY, W.

BLACK ROBE

BY

WILKIE COLLINS

IN THREE VOLUMES  VOL. Il

ITonbon
CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



The right of translation is reserved

SPOTTJSWOODE AND CO., New-street Square

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

OF

THE TRIED VOLUME.

THE STORY.

BOOK THE FOURTH continued,

Chapter PACK

VII. The Impulse Sex 3

VHI. Father Sewell's Correspondence . . 22

THE STORY.

BOOK THE FIFTH

I. Mrs. Exrecourt's Discovery . 27

II. The Seed is Sown 47

ni. The Harvest is Reaped 58

1\. On the Road to Rome P2

After THE STORY.

EXTRACTS FROM BERNARD WINTERFIELD's
DIARY.

Page
I. WiNTEKFIELD DEFENDS Himself . . 105

II. WiNTEEFlELD MAKES Extracts . . . 109

BOOK THE FOURTH Contlmiiil.

VOL. III. B

THE IMPULSIVE SEX.

After a lapse of a few clays. Father Sewell
was again a visitor at Ten Acres Lodge  by
Romaine's invitation. The priest occupied
the very chair, by the study fireside, in
which Penrose had been accustomed to sit.

It is really kind of you to come to me,'
said Romaine, ' so soon after receiving my
acknowledgment of your letter. I can't tell
you how I was touched by the manner in
which you wrote of Penrose. To my shame
I confess it, I had no idea that you were so
warmly attached to him.'

I hardly knew it myself, Mr Romaine,

B2

until our dear Arthur vas taken away
from us.'

If you used your influence, Father Ben-well,
is there no hope that you might yet
persuade him ? '

To withdraw from the Mission ? Oh,
Mr. Romaine, don't you know Arthur's
character better than that ! Even his gentle
temper has its resolute side. The zeal of
the first martyrs to Christianity is the zeal
that burns in that noble nature. The
Mission has been the dream of his life  it is
endeared to him by the very dangers Avhicli
Ave dread. Persuade Arthur to desert the
dear and devoted colleagues who have
opened their arms to him ? I might as soon
persuade that statue in the garden to desert
its pedestal, and join us in this room. Shall
we change the sad subject ? Have you

received the book which I sent you with my
letter ? '

Romaine took up the book from his
desk. Before he coukl speak of it some one
called out briskly, on the other side of the
door, ' May I come in ? '  and came in,
without waiting to be asked. Mrs Eyre-court,
painted and robed for the morning 
wafting perfumes as she moved  appeared
in the study. She looked at the priest, and
lifted her many-ringed hands with a gesture
of coquettish terror.

Oh, dear me ! I had no idea you were
here, Father Sewell. I ask ten thousand
pardons. Dear and admirable Romaine,
you don't look as if you were pleased to seeme.
Good gracious ! I am not interrupting
a confession, am I ? '

Father Sewell (with his paternal smile

in perfect order) resigned his chair to Mrs.
Ejrecoiirt. The traces of her illness still
sliowcd themselves in an intermittent trembling
of her head and her hands. She had
entered the room, strongly suspecting that
the process of conversion might be proceedings
in the absence of Penrose, and determined
to interrupt it. Guided by his subtle
intelligence, Father Sewell penetrated her
motive as soon as she opened the door.
Mrs. Eyrccourt bowed graciously, and took
the offered chair. Father Sewell sweetened
his paternal smile, and offered to get a footstool.


How glad I am,' he said, ' to see you in
your customary good spirits ! But wasn't it
just a little malicious to talk of interrupting
a confession ? As if Mr. Romaine was one
of Us ! Queen Elizabeth herself could

hardly have said a sharper thing to a poor
Catholic priest ! '

You clever creature ! ' said Mrs. Eyre-court.
'How easily you see through a
simple woman like me ! There  I give you
my hand to kiss ; and I will never try to
deceive you again. Do 3'ou know, Father
Sewell, a most extraordinary wish has
suddenly come to me. Please don't be
offended. I wish you were a Jew.'

'May I ask wliy.' Father Sewell
inquired, with an apostolic suavity worthy
of the best days of Eome.

Mrs. Eyrecourt explained herself with
the modest self-distrust of a maiden of fifteen.
I am really so ignorant, I hardly know how
to put it. But learned persons have told me
that it is the peculiarity of the Jews  may
I say, the amiable peculiarity  never to

make converts. It would be so nice if you
would take a leaf out of their book, dien
we have the happiness of receiving you here.
My lively imagination pictures you in a
double character. Father Sewell everywhere
else ; and  say, the patriarch Abraham
at Ten Acres Lodge.'

Father Sewell lifted his persuasive
hands in courteous protest. ' My dear lady !
pray make your mind easy. Not one word
on the subject of religion has passed between
Mr. Romaine and myself '

I beg your pardon,' Mrs. Eyrecourt
interposed, ' I am afraid I fail to follow
you. My silent son-in-law looks as if he
longed to smother me, and my attention is
naturally distracted. You were about to
say ? '

I was about to say, dear Mrs. Eyre-court,

that you are alarming yourself without
any reason. Xot one word, on any
controversial subject, has passed '

Mrs. Eyrecourt cocked her head, with
the artless vivacity of a bird. 'Ah, but it
might though ! ' she suggested slily.

Father Sewell once more remonstrated
in dumb show, and Romaine lost his
temper.

Mrs. Eyrecourt ! ' he cried sternly.

Mrs. Eyrecourt screamed, and lifted her
hands to her ears. ' I am not deaf, dear
Romaine, and I am not to be put down by
any ill-timed exhibition of, what I may call,
domestic ferocity. Father Sewell sets you
an example of Christian moderation. J.o,
please, follow it.'

Romaine refused to follow it.

Talk on any other topic that you like,

Mrs. Eyrecourt. I request you  don't
oblige me to use a harder word  I request
you to spare Father Sewell and myself any
further expression of your opinion on
controversial subjects.'

A son-in-law may make a request, and a
mother-in-law may decline to comply. Mrs.
Eyrecourt declined to comply.

No, Romaine, it won't do. I may
lament your unhappy temper, for my
daughter's sake  but I know what I am
about, and you can't provoke me. Our reverend
friend and I understand each other.
He weill make allowances for a sensitive
woman, who has had sad experience of
conversions in her own household. My
eldest daughter, Father Sewell  a poor
foolish creature  was converted into a nunnery.

The last time I saw her (she used to
be sweetly pretty ; my dear husband quite
adored her)  the last time I saw her, she
lead a red nose, and, what is even more
revolting at her age, a double chin. She
received me with her lips pursed up, and
her eyes on the ground, and she was insolent
enough to say that she would pray forme.
I am not a furious old man with a
long white beard, and I don't curse my
daughter and rush out into a thunderstorm
afterwards  but / know vhat King Lear
felt, and I have struggled with hysterics just
as he did. With yom wonderful insight
into human nature, I am sure you will sympathise
with and forgive me. Mr. Penrose,
as my daughter tells me, behaved in the most
gentlemanlike manner. I make the same

appeal to your kind forbearance. The bare
prospect of our clear friend here becoming a
Catholic '

Romaine's temper gave way once more.

If anything can make me a Catholic,'
he said, ' your interference will do it.'

Out of sheer perversity, dear Eo-maine
? '

'Not at all, Mrs. Eyrecourt. If I
became a Catholic, I might escape from the
society of ladies, in the refuge of a monastery.'


Mrs. Eyrecourt hit him back again with
the readiest dexterity.

Remain a Protestant, my dear, and goto
your club. There is a refuge for you
from the ladies a monastery, with nice
little dinners, and all the newspapers and
periodicals.' Having launched this shaft,

she got up, and recovered her easy courtesy
of look and manner. 'I am so much
obliged to you, Father Sewell. I have
not offended you, I hope and trust? *

*You have done me a service, dear
Mrs. Eyrecourt. But for your sanitary
caution I might have drifted into controversial
subjects. I shall be on my guard now.'

How very good of you ! We shall
meet again, I hope, under more agreeable
circumstances. After that polite allusion to
a monastery, I understand that my visit to
my son-in-law may as well come to an end.
Please don't forget five o'clock tea at my
house.'

As she approached the door, it was
opened from the outer side. Her daughter
met her half-way. * Why are you here.
Mama . ' Stella asked.

WJiy indeed, my love ! You Lad
better leave the room-with me. Our
amiable Romaine's present idea is to relieve
himself of our society by retiring to a
monastery. Don't you see Father Ben-well?'


Stella coldly returned the priest's bov
and looked at Romaine. She felt a
vague forewarning of what had happened.
Mrs. Eyrecourt proceeded to enlighten her,
as an appropriate expression of gratitude.
We are indeed indebted to Father Sewell,
my dear. He has been most considerate
and kind '

Romaine interrupted her without ceremony.
'Favour me,' he said, addressing
his wife, 'by inducing Mrs. Eyrecourt to
continue her narrative in some other room

Stella was hardly conscious of what lier

rattler or her husband had said. She felt
that the priest's eyes were on her. Under
any other circumstances, Father Sewell's
good breeding and knowledge of the world
would have impelled him to take his
departure. As things were, he knew
perfectly well that the more seriously
Romaine was annoyed, in his presence, the
better his own private interests would be
served. Accordingly, he stood apart,
silently observant of Stella. In spite of
Winterfield's reassuring reply to her letter,
Stella instinctively suspected and dreaded
the Jesuit. Under the spell of those
watchful eyes she trembled inwardly ;
her customary tact deserted her ; she made
an indirect apology to the man whom she
hated and feared.

'Whatever my mother may have said

to you, Father Sewell, has been without
my knowledge

Romaine attempted to speak, but
Father Sewell was too quick for him.

Dear Mrs. Romaine, nothing has been
said which needs any disclaimer on your
part.'

'I should think not!' Mrs. Eyrecourt
added. ' Really, Stella, I don't understand
you. Why may I not say to Father Ben-well
what you said to Mr. Penrose ? You
trusted Mr. Penrose as your friend. I can
tell you this  I am quite sure you may
trust Father Sewell.'

Once more Romaine attempted to
speak. And, once more, Father Sewell
was beforehand with him.

May I hope,' said the priest, with a

finely ironical smile, 'that Mrs. Romaine
agrees with her excellent mother ? '

With all her fear of him, the exasperating
influence of his tone and his look was
more than Stella could endure. Before she
could restrain them, the rash words flew out
of her lips.

'I am not sufficiently well acquainted
with you, Father Sewell, to express an
opinion.'

With that answer, she took her mother's
arm, and left the room.

The moment they were alone, Eo-maine
turned to the priest, trembling with
anger. Father Sewell, smiling indulgently
at the lady's little outbreak, took him by the
hand, with peace-making intentions. ' Now
don't  pray don't excite yourself! '

Romaine was not to be pacified in that

VOL. III. c

A\-ay. His anger-was trebly intensified by
the long-continued strain on this nerves of
the effort to control himself.

I must, and will, speak out at last ! '
he said. ' Father Bemvcll, the ladies of my
household have inexcusably presumed on
the consideration which is due to women.
No words can say how ashamed I am of what
has happened. I can only appeal to your
admirable moderation and patience to accept
my apologies, and the most sincere expression
of my regret.'

'No more, Mr. Romaine I As a favour
to Me, I beg and entreat you will say no
more. Sit down and compose yourself.*

But Romaine was impenetrable to the
influence of friendly and forgiving demonstrations.
- 1 can never expect 3'ou to enter
my house again ! ' he exclaimed.

jVIy dear sir, I-will come and see you
again, with the greatest pleasure, on any
day that you may appoint  the earlier days
the better. Come ! come ! let us laugh.
I don't say it disrespectfully, but poor dear
Mrs. Eyrecourt has been more amusing than,
ever. I expect to see our excellent Archbishop
tomorrow, and I must really tell
him how the good lady felt insulted when
her Catholic daughter offered to pray for
her. There is hardly anything more
humorous, even in Moliere. And the
double chin, and the red nose  all the fault
of those dreadful Papists. Oli, dear me, you
still take it seriously How I wish you had
my sense of humour I When shall I come
again, and tell you how the Archbishop
likes the story of the nun's mother ? '

He held out his hand with irresistible

cordiality. Romaine took it gratefully 
still bent, however, on making atonement.

Let me first do myself the honour of
calling on You,' he said. ' I am in no state
to open my mind  as I might have wished
to open it to you  after wdiat has happened.
In a day or two more '

Say the day after tomorrow,' Father
Sewell hospitably suggested. 'Do me a
great favour. Come and eat your bit of
mutton at my lodgings. Six o'clock, if you
like  and some remarkably good claret, a
present from one of the Faithful. You Avill?
That's hearty ! And do promise me to think
no more of our little domestic comedy.
Believe your mind. Look at Wiseman's
Recollections of the Popes. Good-bye  God
bless you ! '

The servant who opened the house door

for Father Bemvell was agreeably surprised
by the Papist's cheerfulness. ' He isn't half
a bad fellow,' the man announced among his
colleagues. ' Gave me half-a-crown, and
went out humming? a tune.'

CHAPTEE VIII.
FATHER boswell's correspondence.

To the Secretary S. /., Borne.
I.
I beg to acknowledge the receipt of sour
letter.

You mention that our Eeverend Fathers
are discouraged at not leaving; heard from me.
for more than six weeks, since I reported
the little dinner given to Romaine at my
lodiiinrfs.

I am sorry for this, and more than sorry
to hear that my venerated brethren are
beginning to despair of Romaine's conversion.
Grant me a delay of another Aveek  and,

if. the prospects of the conversion liavc not
sensibly improved in that time, I will
confess myself defeated. Meanwhile, I bow
to superior wisdom, without venturing to adda
word in my own defence.

II.

The week's grace granted to me has
elapsed. I write with humility. At the
same time I have something to say for
myself.

Yesterday, Mr. Lewis Romaine, of Vange
Abbey, was received into the community of
the Holy Catholic Church. I enclose an
accurate newspaper report of the ceremonies
which attended the conversion.

Be pleased to inform me, by telegraph,
whether our Eeverend Fathers wish me to goon,
or not.

BOOK THE FIFTH.

MRS. EYRECOURT's DISCOVERY.

The leaves lead fallen in the grounds at Ten
Acres Lodge, and stormy winds told drearily
that winter Iliad come.

An unchanging dulness pervaded the
house. Romayne was constantly absent in
London, attending: to his new religious duties
under the guidance of Father Sewell. The
litter of books and manuscripts in the study
was seen no more. Hideously rigid order
reigned in the unused room. Some of
Romaine's papers had been burnt ; others
were imprisoned in drawers and cupboards 
the history of the Origin of Regions had

taken its melancholy place among the suspended
literary enterprises of the time. Mrs.
Eyrecourt (after a superficially cordial reconciliation
with her son-in-law) visited her
daughter every now and then, as an act of
maternal sacrifice. She yawned perpetually ;
she read innumerable novels : she corresponded
with her friends. In the long dull
evenings, the once-lively lady sometimes
openly regretted that she had not been born
a man  with the three masculine resources
of smoking, drinking, and swearing placed at
her disposal. It was a dreary existence, and
happier influences seemed but little likely to
change it. Grateful as she was to her
mother, no persuasion would induce Stella to
leave Ten Acres and amuse herself in London.
Mrs. Eyrecourt said, with melancholy and

metaphorical truth, ' There is no elasticity
left in my child.'

On a dim ijrcv mornings, mother and
daughter sat by the fireside, with another
long day before them.

Where is that contemptible husband of
yours ? ' Mrs. Eyrecourt asked, looking up
from her book.

Lewis is staying in town,' Stella answered
listlessly.

In company with Judas Iscariot ? '

Stella was too dull to immediately understand
the allusion. ' Do you mean Father
Sewell ? ' she inquired.

Don't mention his name, my dear. I
have re-christened him on purpose to avoid
it. Even his name ruminates me. How
completely the fawning old wretch took mein

 with all my knowledge of the world, too !
He 'was so nice and sympathetic  such a
comforting contrast, on that occasion, to you
and your husband  I declare I forgot every
reason I had for not trusting him. Ah, we
women are poor creatures  we may own it
among ourselves. If a man only has nice
manners and a pleasant voice, how many of
us can resist him ? Even Romaine imposed
upon me  assisted by his property, which in
some degree excuses my folly. There is
nothing to be done now, Stella, but to
humour him. Do as that detestable priest
does, and trust to your beauty (there isn't
as much of it left as I could wish) to turn the
scale in your favour. Have you any idea
when the new convert will come back ? I
heard him ordering a fish dinner for himself,
yesterday  because it was Friday. Did you

join him at dessert-time, profanely supported
by meat ? What did lie say ? '

What he has said more than once
already, Mama. His peace of mind is returning,
thanks to Father Sewell. He was
perfectly gentle and indulgent  but he
looked as if he lived in a different world
from mine. He told me he proposed to passa
week in, what he called, Eetreat. I didn't
ask him what it meant. Whatever it is, I
suppose he is there now.'

My dear, don't you remember your
sister bes-an in the same wav? Lie retreated.
We shall have Romaine with a red nose
and a double chin, offering to pray for us
next! Do you recollect that French maid
of mine  the woman I sent away, because
she would spit, when she was out of temper,
like a cat ? I begin to think I treated the

poor creature harshly. When I hear of
Romaine and his Eetreat, I almost feel in-dined
to spit, myself. There I let us go on
With our reading. Take the first volume 
I have done with it.'

'What is it, Mama'

A very remarkable work, Stella, in the
present state of light literature in England 
a novel that actually tells a story. It's
quite credible, I know. Try the book. It
has another extraordinary merit  it isn't
written by a woman.

Stella obediently received the first
volume, turned over the leaves, and wearily
dropped the wonderful novel on her lap. ' I
can't attend to it,' she said. ' My mind is too
full of my own thoughts.'

About Romaine ? ' said her mother.

Xo. When I think of my husband now,

I almost wish I had his confidence in Priests
and Retreats. The conviction grows on me,
Mama, that my worst troubles are still to
come. When I was younger, I don't remember
being tormented by presentiments
of any kind. Did I ever talk of presentiments
to you, in the bygone days ? '

If you had done anything of the sort,
ray love (excuse me, if I speak plainly), I
should have said, " Stella, your liver is out
of order ;" and I should have opened the
family medicine-chest. I willingly say now
send for the carriage ; let us go to a morning
concert, dine at a restaurant, and finish the
evening at the play.'

This characteristic proposal was entirely
thrown away on Stella. She was absorbed
in pursuing her own train of thought. ' I

VOL. III. D

almost wish I had told Lewis she said to
herself absently.

Told him of what, my dear ? '

Of what happened to me with Winter-field.'


Mrs. Eyrecourt's faded eyes opened wide
in astonishment.

Do you really mean it ? ' she asked.

I do, indeed.'

Are you actually simple enough, Stella,
to think that a man of Romaine's temper
would have made you his wife if you had
told him of the Brussels marriage ? '

Why not ? '

Why not ! Would Romaine  would
any man  believe that you really did part
from Winterfield at the church door ? Considering
that you are a married woman,
your innocence, my sweet child, is a perfect

phenomenon! It's well there were wiser
people than you to keep your secret.'

Don't speak too positively, Mama.
Lewis may find it out yet.'

Is that one of your presentiments ? '

Yes.'

How is he to find it out, if you please?'

I am afraid, through Father Sewell.
Yes ! yes ! I know you only think him a
fawning old hypocrite  you don't fear him
as I do. Nothing will persuade me that
zeal for his religion is the motive under
which that man acts in devoting himself to
Romaine. He has some abominable object
in view, and his eyes tell me that I am concerned
in it.'

Mrs. Eyrecourt burst out laughing.

'What is there to laugh at?' Stella
asked.

i>2

I declare, my dear, there is something
absolutely provoking in your utter want of
knowledge of the world ! When you are
puzzled to account for anything remarkable
in a clergyman's conduct (I don't care, my
poor child, to what denomination he belongs)
you can't be wrong in attributing his motive
to  Money. If Romaine had turned
Baptist or Methodist, the reverend gentleman
in charge of his spiritual welfare would
not have forgotten  as you have forgotten,
you little goose  that his convert was a rich
man. His mind would have dwelt on the
chapel, or the mission, or the infant school,
in want of funds ; and  with no more abominable
object in view than I have, at this
moment, in poking the fire  he would have
ended in producing his modest subscription
list, and would have betrayed himself (just

as our odious Sewell will betray himself) by
the two amiable little words, Please contribute.
Is there any other presentiment,
my dear, on which you would like to have
your mother's candid opinion ? '

Stella resignedly took up the book
again.

I dare say you are right,' she said.
Let us read our novel.'

Before she had reached the end of the
first page, her mind was far away again from
the unfortunate story. She was thinking of
that ' other presentiment,' which had formed
the subject of her mother's last statical
inquiry. The vague fear that had shaken
her when she had accidentally touched the
French boy, on her visit to Camp's Hill, still
from time to time troubled her memory.
Even the event of his death had failed to

dissipate the delusion, which associated him
with some undefined evil influence that
might yet assert itself. A superstitious forewarning
of this sort was a weakness new to
her in her experience of herself. She was
heartily ashamed of it  and yet, it kept its
hold. Once more the book dropped on her
lap. She laid it aside, and walked wearily to
the window to look at the weather.

Almost at the same moment Mrs. Eyre-court's
maid disturbed her mistress over the
second volume of the novel by entering the
room with a letter.

For me ? ' Stella asked, looking round
from the window.

No, ma'am  for Mrs. Eyrecourt.'

The letter had been brought to the house
by one of Lady Loring's servants. In delivering
it he had apparently given private

instructions to the maid. She laid her
finger significantly on her lips when she
gave the letter to her mistress.

In these terms Lady Loring wrote : 
If Stella happens to be with you, when
you receive my note, don't say anything
which will let her know that I am your
correspondent. She has always, poor dear,
had an inveterate distrust of Father Ben-well
; and, between ourselves, I am not sure
that she is quite so foolish as I once thought.
The Father has unexpectedly left us 
with a well-framed excuse which satisfied
Lord Loring. It fails to satisfy Me. Not
from any wonderful exercise of penetration
on my part, but in consequence of something
I have just heard in course of conversation
with a Catholic friend. Father
Sewell, my dear, turns out to be a Jesuit ;

and, what is more, a person of such high
authority in the Order, that his concealment
of his rank, while he was with us, must have
been a matter of necessity. He must have
had some very serious motive for occupying
a position so entirely beneath him as his
position in our house. I have not the shadow
of a reason for associating this starting discovery
with dear Stella's painful misgivings
and yet there is something in my mind
which makes me want to hear what Stella's
mother thinks. Come and have a talk
about it as soon as you possibly can.'

Mrs. Eyrecourt put the letter in her
pocket, smiling quietly to herself.

Applying to Lady Loring's letter the
infallible system of solution which she had
revealed to her daughter, Mrs. Eyrecourt
solved the mystery of the priest's conduct

without a moment's hesitation. Lord
Loring's cheque, in Father Sewell's pocket,
representing such a liberal subscription that
my lord was reluctant to mention it to my
lady  there was the reading of the riddle,
as plain as the sun at noonday ! Would it
be desirable to enlighten Lady Loring as she
had already enlightened Stella? Mrs. Eyre-court
decided in the negative. As Eoman
Catholics, and as old friends of Romaine,
the Lorings naturally rejoiced in his conversion.
But, as old friends also of Ko-maine's
wife, they were bound not to express
their sentiments too openly. Feeling that any
discussion of the priest's motives would probably
lead to the delicate subject of the conversion,
Mrs. Eyrecourt prudently determined
to let the matter drop. As a consequence
of this decision, Stella was left

without the slightest warning of the catastrophe
which was now close at hand.

Mrs. Eyrecourt joined her daughter at
the window.

Well, my dear, is it clearing up ? Shall
we take a drive before luncheon ? '

If you like, Mama.'

She turned to her mother as she answered.
The light of the clearing sky, at
once soft and penetrating, fell full on her.
Mrs. Eyrecourt, looking at her as usual,
suddenly became serious : she studied her
daughter's face with an eager and attentive
scrutiny.

Do you see any extraordinary change
in me ? ' Stella asked, with a faint smile.

Instead of answering, Mrs. Eyrecourt put
her arm round Stella with a loving gentleness,
entirely at variance with any ordinary

expression of her character. The worldly-mother's
eyes rested with a lingering tenderness
on the daughter's face. ' Stella ! ' she
said softly  and stopped, at a loss for words
for the first time in her life.

After a while, she began again. ' Yes ;
I see a change in you,' she whispered  ' an
interesting change which tells me something.
Can you guess what it is ? '

Stella's colour rose brightly, and faded
again. She laid her head in silence on her
mother's bosom. Worldly, frivolous, self-interested,
Mrs. Eyrecourt's nature was the
nature of a woman  and the one great trial
and triumph of a woman's life, appealing to
her as a trial and a triumph soon to come to
her own child, touched fibres under the
hardened surface of her heart which were
still profaned.' ' My poor daring,' she

said, ' have you told the good news to your
husband ? '

No.'

'Why not? '

He doesn't care, now, for anything that
I can tell him.'

Nonsense, Stella I You may win him
back to you by a word  and do you hesitate
to say the word ? I shall tell him ! '

Stella suddenly drew herself away from
her mother's caressing arm. ' If you do,'
she cried, ' no words can say how inconsiderate
and how cruel I shall think you.
Promise  on your word of honour  promise
you will leave it to me ! '

Will you tell him, yourself  if I leave
it to you ? '

Yes  at my own time. Promise ! '

Hush, hush ! don't excite yourself, my
love ; I promise. Give me a kiss. I
declare I am agitated myself ! ' she exclaimed,
falling back into her customary
manner. ' Such a shock to my vanity,
Stella  the prospect of becoming a grandmother!
I really must ring for Matilda,
and take a few drops of red lavender. Be
advised by me, my poor dear, and we will
turn the priest out of the house yet. When
Romaine comes back from his ridiculous
Ee treat  after his fasting and flagellation,
and Heaven knows what besides  then bring
him to his senses ; then is the time to tell
him. Will you think of it ? '

'Yes; I will think of it.'

And one word more, before Matilda
comes in. Eemember the vast importance

of having a male heir to Vange Abbey. On
these occasions you may practise with
perfect impunity on the ignorance of the
men. Tell him you're sure it's going to bea
boy ! '

CHAPTEE II.

THE SEED IS SOWN.

Situated in a distant quarter of the vast
western suburb of London, the house called
The Eetreat stood in the midst of a well-kept
garden, protected on all sides by a high
brick wall. Excepting the grand gilt cross
on the roof of the chapel, nothing revealed
externally the devotional purpose to which
the Eoman Catholic priesthood (assisted by
the liberality of 'the Faithful') had dedicated
the building.

But the convert privileged to pass the
gates left Protestant England outside, and
found himself, as it were, in a new country.

Inside The Eetreat, the paternal care of the
Church took possession of him ; surrounded
him with monastic simplicity in his neat
little bedroom ; and dazzled him with devotional
splendour when his religious duties
called him into the chapel. The perfect
taste  so seldom found in the modern arrangement
and decoration of convents and
churches in southern countries  showed
itself here, pressed into the service of
religion, in every part of the house. The
severest discipline had no sordid and hideous
side to it in The Eetreat. The inmates
fasted on spotless table cloths, and handled
knives and forks (the humble servants of
half-filled stomachs) without a speck on their
decent brightness. Penitents who kissed
the steps of the altar (to use the expressive
Oriental phrase), ' eat no dirt.* Friends,

liberal friends, permitted to visit the inmates
on stated days, saw copies of famous Holy
Families in the reception room which were
really works of Art ; and trod on a carpet
of studiously modest pretensions, exhibiting
pious emblems beyond reproach in colour
and design. The Ee treat had its own
artesian well ; not a person in the house
drank impurity in his water. A faint
perfume of incense was perceptible in the
corridors. The soothing and mysterious
silence of the place was intensified rather
than disturbed by soft footsteps, and gentle
opening and closing of doors. Animal life
was not even represented by a cat in the
kitchen. And yet, pervaded by some inscrutable
influence, the house was not dull.
Heretics, with lively imaginations, might

VOL. III. E

have not inappropriately likened it to an
enchanted castle. In one word, the Catholic
system here showed to perfection its masterly
knowledge of the weakness of human nature,
and its inexhaustible dexterity in adapting
the means to the end.

On the morning when Mrs. Eyrecourt
and her daughter held their memorable interview
by the fireside at Ten Acres, Father
Sewell entered one of the private rooms at
The Eetreat, devoted to the use of the priesthood.
The demure attendant, waiting
humbly for instructions, was sent to request
the presence of one of the inmates of the
house, named Mortleman.

Father Sewell's customary serenity was
a little ruffled, on this occasion, by an appearance
of anxiety. More than once he looked
impatiently towards the door, and he never

even noticed the last new devotional publications
laid invitingly on the table.

Mr. Mortlernan made his appearance  a
young man, and a promising convert. The
wild brightness of his eyes revealed that incipient
form of brain disease which begins
in fanaticism, and ends not infrequently in
religious madness. His manner of greeting
the priest was absolutely servile. He
cringed before the illustrious Jesuit.

Father Sewell took no notice of these
demonstrations of humility. ' Be seated, my
son,' he said. Mr. Mortleman looked as if
he would have preferred going down on his
knees  but he yielded, and took a chair.

I think you have been Mr. Romaine's
companion for a few days, in the hours of
recreation? ' the priest began. x<b

Yes, Father.'  0

 - vi

,-V

Does he appear to be at all weary of his
residence in this house ? '

Oh, far from it I He feels the benign
influence of The Eetreat ; we have had some
delightful hours together.'

Have you anything to report ? '

Mr. Mortleman crossed this hands on his
breast, and bowed profoundly. ' I have to
report of myself, Father, that I have committed
the sin of presumption. I presumed
that Mr. Romaine was, like myself, not
married.'

'Have I spoken to you on that subject?'

No, Father.'

Then you have committed no sin. You
have only made an excusable mistake. How
were you led into error ? '

In this way. Father. Mr. Romaine
had been speaking to me of a book which

you had been so good as to send to him.
He had been especially interested by the
memoir therein contained of the illustrious
Englishman, Cardinal Acton. The degrees
by which his Eminence rose to the rank of
a Prince of the Church seemed, as I thought,
to have aroused in my friend a new sense of
vocation. He asked me if I myself aspired
to belong to the holy priesthood. I answered
that this was indeed my aspiration,
if I might hope to be found worthy. He
appeared to be deeply affected. I ventured
to ask if he too had the same prospect before
him. He grieved me indescribably. He
sighed and said, " I have no such hope ; I
am married'' Tell me. Father, I entreat
you, have I done wrong . '

Father Sewell considered for a moment.

Did Mr. Romaine say anything more ? ' be
asked.

No, Father.'

Did you attempt to return to the subject?'


I thought it best to be silent.'

Father Sewell held out his hand. * My
young friend, you have not only done no
wrong  you have shown the most commendable
discretion. I will detain jou no longer
from your duties. Go to Mr. Romaine, and
say that I wish to speak with him.'

Mr. Mortleman dropped on one knee,
and begged for a blessing. Father Sewell
lifted the traditional two fingers, and gave
the blessing. The conditions of human
happiness are easily fulfilled if wee rightly
understand them. Mr. Mortleman retired
perfectly happy.

Left by himself again, Father Sewell
paced the room rapidly from end to end.
The disturbing influence visible in his face
had now changed from anxiety to excitement.
' I'll try it to-day ! ' he said to himself
 and stopped, and looked round him
doubtfully. ' No, not here,' he decided ; ' it
may get talked about too soon. It will be
safer in every way at my lodgings.' He
recovered his composure, and returned to his
chair.

Romaine opened the door.

The double influence of the conversion,
and of the life in The Eetreat, had already
changed Mm. His customary keenness and
excitability of look had subsided, and had
left nothing in their place but an expression
of suave and meditative repose. All his
troubles were now in the hands of his priest.

There was a passive regularity in his bodily
movements and a beatific serenity in his
smile.

My dear friend,' said Father Sewell,
cordially shaking hands, 'you were good
enough to be guided by my advice in entering
this house. Be guided by me again,
when I say that you have been here long
enough. You can return, after an interval,
if you wish it. But I have something to say
to you first  and I beg to offer the hospitality
of my lodgings.'

The time had been when Romaine would
have asked for some explanation of this
abrupt notice of removal. Now, he passively
accepted the advice of his spiritual director.
Father Sewell made the necessary communication
to the authorities, and Romaine
took leave of his friends in The Eetreat.

The great Jesuit and the great landowner
left the place, with becoming humility, in a
cab.

I hope I have not disappointed you? '
said Father Ben well.

I am only anxious,' Romaine answered,
to hear what you have to say.'

CHAPTER in.

THE HARVEST IS REAPED.

Ox their way through the streets, Father
Sewell talked as persistently of the news of
the day as if he had nothing else in his
thoughts. To keep his companion s mind ina
state of suspense was, in certain emergencies,
to exert a useful preparatory influence
over a man of Romaine's character.
Even when they reached his lodgings, the
priest still hesitated to approach the object
that he had in view. He made considerate
inquiries, in the character of a hospitable
man.

They breakfast early at TheEetreat,' he
said. ' What may I offer you ? '

I want nothing, thank you,' Romaine
answered, with an effort to control his
habitual impatience of needless delay.

Pardon me  we have a long interview
before us, I fear. Our bodily necessities,
Romayne (excuse me if I take the friendly
liberty of suppressing the formal "Mr.") our
bodily necessities are not to be trifled with.
A bottle of my famous claret, and a few
biscuits, will not hurt either of us.' He
rang the bell, and gave the necessary directions.
' Another damp day ! ' he went on
cheerfully. 'I hope you don't pay the
rheumatic penalties of a winter residence in
England ? Ah, this glorious country would
be too perfect if it possessed the delicious
climate of Eome ! '

The wine and biscuits were brought in.
Father Sewell filled the glasses, and bowed
cordially to his guest.

Nothing of this sort at The Eetreat ! ' he
said gaily. ' Excellent water, I am told 
which is a luxury in its way, especially in
London. Well, my dear Romaine, I must
begin by making my apologies. You no
doubt thought me a little abrupt in running
away with you from your retirement at a
moment's notice ? '

I believed that you had good reasons,
Father  and that was enough for me.'

Thank you  you do me justice  it was
in your best interests that I acted. There
are men of phlegmatic temperament, over
whom the wise monotony of discipline at The
Eetreat exercises a wholesome influence  I
mean an influence which may be prolonged

with advantage. You are not one of those
persons. Protracted decision and monotony
of life are morally and mentally unprofitable
to a man of your ardent disposition. I abstained
from mentioning these reasons, at
the time, out of a feeling of regard for our
excellent resident director, who believes
unreservedly in the institution over which he
presides. Very good ! The Eetreat has
done all that it could usefully do in your
case. We must think next of how to employ
that mental activity which, rightly developed,
is one of the most valuable qualities that you
possess. Let me ask, first, if you have in
some degree recovered your tranquillity ? '

I feel like a different man, Father Ben-well.'


'That's right! And your nervous sufferings
 I don't ask what they are ; I only

want to know if you experience a sense of
relief? '

A most welcome sense of relief,'
Romaine answered, with a revival of the
enthusiasm of other days. ' The complete
change in all my thoughts and convictions,
which I owe to you '

And to dear Penrose,' Father Sewell
interposed, with the prompt sense of justice
which no man could more becomingly
assume. ' We must not forget Arthur.'

Forget him ? ' Romaine repeated. ' Nota
day passes without my thinking of him.
It is one of the happy results of the change
in me that my mind does not dwell bitterly
on the loss of him now. I think of Fen-rose
with admiration, as of one whose
glorious life, With all its dangers, I should
like to share ! '

He spoke .with a rising colour and brightening
eyes. Already, the absorbent capacity
of the Eoman Church had drawn to itself
that sympathetic side of his character which
was also one of its strongest sides. Already,
his love for Penrose  hitherto inspired by
the virtues of the man  had narrowed its
range to sympathy with the trials and
privileges of the priest. Truly and deeply
indeed had the physician consulted, in bygone
days, reasoned on Romaine's case !
That ' occurrence of some new and absorbing '
influence in his life,' of which the doctor
had spoken  that ' working of some complete
change in his habits of thought '  had
found its way to him at last, after the wife's
simple devotion had failed, through the
subtler ministrations of the priest.

Some men, having Father Benwcll's

object in view, would have .taken instant
advantage of the opening offered to them
by Romaine's unguarded enthusiasm. The
illustrious Jesuit held fast by the wise
maxim Which forbade him to do anything
in a hurry.

No,' he said, ' your life must not be the
life of our dear friend. The service on
which the Church employs Penrose is not
the fit service for you. You have other
claims on us.'

Romaine looked at his spiritual adviser
with a momentary change of expression  a
relapse into the ironical bitterness of the past
time.

Have you forgotten that I am, and can
be, only a layman ? ' he asked. ' What
claims can I have, except the common claim
of all faithful members of the Church on the

good offices of the priesthood ? ' He paused
for a moment, and continued with the abruptness
of a man struck by a new idea. ' Yes !
I have perhaps one small claim of my own  
the claim of being allowed to do my duty.'
In what respect, dear Romaine ? '
Surely you can guess ? I am a rich
man ; I have money lying idle, which it is
my duty (and my privilege) to devote to the
charities and necessities of the Church.
And, while I am speaking of this, I must
own that I am a little surprised at your
having said nothing to me on the subject.
You have never yet pointed out to me the
manner in which I might devote my money
to the best and noblest uses. Was it forge t-
fulness on your part ? '

Father Sewell shook his head. ' No,'
he replied ; ' I can't honestly say that.'

VOL. III. F

Then you had a reason for your
silence ? '

'Yes.'
May I not know it ? '

Father Sewell got up and walked to
the fireplace. Now there are various
methods of getting up and walking to a fireplace,
and they find their way to outward
expression through the customary means of
look and manner. We may feel cold, and
may only want to warm ourselves. Or we
may feel restless, and may need an excuse
for changing our position. Or we may feel
modestly confused, and may be anxious to
hide it. Father Sewell, from head to foot,
expressed modest confusion, and polite
anxiety to hide it.

My good friend,' lie said, ' I am afraid
of hurting your feelings.'

Romaine was a sincere convert, but
there were instincts still left in him which
resented this expression of regard, even when
it proceeded from a man whom he respected
and admired. ' You will hurt my feehugs,'
he answered a little sharply, ' if you are not
plain with me.'

Then I will be plain with you,' Father
Ben well rejoined. ' The Church  speaking
through me, as her unworthy interpreter 
feels a certain delicacy in approaching You
on the subject of money.'

'Why?'

Father Sewell left the fireplace, without
immediately answering. He opened a
drawer, and took out of it a flat mahogany
box. His gracious familiarity became transformed,
by some mysterious process of congelation,
into a dignified formality of

manner. The priest took the place of the
man.

The Church, Mr. Romaine, hesitates ta
receive, as benevolent contributions, money
derived from property of its own, arbitrarily
taken from it, and placed in a layman's-
hands. No ! ' he cried, interrupting
Romaine, who instantly understood the
allusion to Vange Abbey  ' No ! I must
beg you to hear me out. I state the case
plainly, at your own request. At the same
time, T am bound to admit that the lapse of
centuries has, in the eye of the law, sanctioned
the deliberate act of robbery perpetrated
by Henry the Eighth. You have lawfully
inherited Vange Abbey from your ancestors.
The Church is not unreasonable enough to
assert a merely moral right against the law
of the country. It may feel the act of

spoliation  but it submits.' He unlocked
the flat mahogany box, and gently dropped
his dignity : the man took the place of the
priest. ' As the master of Vange,' he said,
you may be interested in looking at a little
historical curiosity which we have preserved.
The title-deeds, dear Romaine, by which
the monks held your present property, in
their time. Take another glass of wine.'

Romaine looked at the title-deeds, and
laid them aside unread.

Father Sewell had roused his pride, his
sense of justice, his wild and lavish instincts
of generosity. He, who had always despised
money  except when it assumed its only
estimable character, as a means for the
attainment of merciful and noble ends  lie
was in possession of property to which he
had no moral right : without even the poor

excuse of associations which attached him tO'
the place.

I hope I have not offended you ? ' said
Father Sewell.

'Yon have made me ashamed of myself,'
Romaine answered warmly. ' On the day
when I became a Catholic, I ought to have
remembered Range. Better late than never.
I refuse to take shelter under the law  I
respect the moral right of the Church. I
will at once restore the property which I
have usurped.

Father Sewell took both Romaine's
hands in his, and pressed them fervently.

I am proud of you ! ' he said. ' We
shall all be proud of you, when I write word
to Eome of Avhat has passed between us.
But  no, Romaine !  this must not be. I
admire you, I feel with you ; and I refuse.

On behalf of the Church, I say it  I refuse
the gift.'

Wait a Httle, Father Sewell ! You
don't know the state of my affairs. I don't
deserve the admiration which you feel forme.
The loss of the Range property will be
no pecuniary loss, in my case. I have
inherited a fortune from my ain't. My
income from that source is far larger than
my income from the Yorkshire property.'

Romaine, it must not be ! '

Pardon me, it must be. I have more
money than I can spend  without Vange.
And I have painful associations with the
house which disincline me ever to enter it
again.'

Even this confession failed to move
Father Sewell. He obstinately crossed his
arms, obstinately tapped his foot on the floor.

No ! ' he said. ' Plead as generously as
you may, my answer is, No.'

Romaine only became more resolute on
bis side. 'The property is absolutely my
own,' he persisted. 'I am without a near
relation in the world. I have no children.
My wife is already provided for at my death,
out of the fortune left me by my aunt. It
is downright obstinacy  forgive me for saying
so  to persist in your refusal.'

'It is downright duty, Romaine. If I
gave way to you, I should be the means of
exposing the priesthood to the vilest misinterpretation.
I should be deservedly
reprimanded, and your proposed deed of
gift would, without a moment's hesitation,
be torn up. If you have any regard for me,
drop the subject.'

Romaine refused to yield, even to this
unanswerable appeal.

Very well,' he said, ' there is one
document you can't tear up. You can't
interfere with my making another will. I
shall leave the Vange property to the
Church, and I shall appoint you one of the
trustees. You can't object to that.'

Even rigorous Father Ben well was now
at a loss for any further expression of
honourable protest. He could only plead
sadly and submissively for an immediate
change of subject. ' No more, dear Eo-maine
 you distress me ! What were we
talking of, before this unfortunate topic
turned up ? '

He filled the glasses ; he offered more
biscuits  he was really, and even perceptibly,

agitated by the victory that he had
won.

Refusing a deed of gift in Romaine's
lifetime, in the fear that it might lead to a
public scandal, he had gained the Range
property for the Church by the safer means
of a legacy, which (especially in the absence
of an heir) would be an unassailable proof of
the testator's attachment to the Catholic
Faith. But one last necessity now confronted
him  the necessity of placing a
serious obstacle in the way of any future
change of purpose on the part of llomayne.
As to the choice of that obstacle, Father
Sewell's mind hud been made up for sometime
past.

For a few minutes he walked up and
down the room, without looking at his guest.

What was it I had to say to you? ' he

resumed. 'Surely, I was speaking on the
subject of your future life, and the right
employment of you" energies ? '

'You are very kind, Father BenwelL
The subject has little interest for me. My
future life is shaped out  domestic retirement,
ennobled by religious duties.'

Still pacing the room, Father Sewell
stopped at that reply, and put his hand
kindly on Romaine's shoulder.

We don't allow a good Catholic to drift
into domestic retirement, who is worthy of
better things,' he said.  The Church,
Romaine, wishes to make use of you. I
never flattered anyone in my life, but I
may say before your face what I have said
behind your back. A man of your strict
sense of honour  of your intellect  of your
high aspirations  of your personal charm

and influence  is not a man whom we can
allow to run to waste. Open your mind,
my friend, fairly to me, and I will open my
mind fairly to you. Let me set the example.
I say it, with authority ; an enviable future
is before you.'

Romaine's pale cheeks flushed with excitement.
' Wliat future . ' he asked eagerly.
Am I free to choose ? Must I remind you
that a man with a wife cannot think only of
himself?'

Suppose you were not a man with a
wife.'

What do you mean ? '

Romaine ; I am trying to break my
way through that inveterate reserve which
is one of the failings in your character.
Unless you can prevail on yourself to tell me
those secret thoughts, those unexpressed

regrets, which you can confide to no other
man, this conversation must come to an end.
Is there no yearning, in your inmost soul,
for anything beyond the position which you
now occupy ? '

There was a pause. The flush on
Romaine's face faded away. He was silent.

You are not in the confessional,' Father
Sewell reminded him, with melancholy submission
to circumstances. ' You are under
no obligation to answer me.'

Romaine roused himself He spoke in
low reluctant tones. ' I am afraid to answer
you,' he said.

That apparently discouraging reply armed
Father Sewell with the absolute confidence
of success, which he had thus far failed to
feel. He wound his way deeper and deeper
into Romaine's mind, with the delicate

ingenuity of penetration, of wliicli the practice
of years had made him master.

Perhaps I have failed to make myself
clearly understood,' he said. ' I will try to
put it more plainly. You are no half-hearted
man, Romaine. What you believe, you
believe fervently. Impressions are not dimly
and slowly produced on your mind. As the
necessary result, your conversion being once
accomplished, your whole soul is given to
the Faith that is in you. Do I read your
character rightly ? '

So far as I know it  yes.'

Father Ben well went on.

'Bear in mind what I have just said,' he
resumed ; ' and you weill understand why I
feel it my duty to press the question which
you have not answered yet. You have found
in the Catholic Faith the peace of mind

which you have failed to obtain by other
means. If I had been dealing with an
ordinary man, I should have expected from
the change no happier result than this. But
I ask You, has that blessed influence taken
no deeper and nobler hold on your heart ?
Can you truly say to me, ''I am content
with what I have gained ; I wish for no
more ? " '

I cannot truly say it,' Romaine
answered.

The time had now come for speaking
plainly. Father Sewell no longer advanced
to his end under cover of a cloud of
words.

A little while since,' he said, ' you
spoke of Penrose, as of a man whose lot in
life you longed to share. The career which
has associated him with an Indian mission

is, as I told you, only adapted to a man of
his special character and special gifts. But
the career which has carried him into
the sacred ranks of the priesthood is open
to every man who feels the sense of divine
vocation, which has made Penrose one of
Us.'

'No, Father Sewell! Not open to
every man.'

r say. Yes ! '

It is not open to Me ! '

I say it is open to You. And more  I
enjoin, I command, you to dismiss from
your mind all merely human obstacles and
discouragements. They are beneath the
notice of a man who feels himself called to
the priesthood. Give me your hand,
Romayne ! Does your conscience tell you
that you are that man ? '

Romaine started to his feet, shaken
to the soul by the solemnity of the appeal.

I can't dismiss the obstacles that surround
me ! ' he cried passionately. ' To a
man in my position, your advice is absolutely
useless. The ties that bind me
ware beyond the limit of a priest's sympathies.'


Nothing is beyond the limit of a priest's
sympathies.'

Father Ben well, I am married ! '

Father Ben well folded his arms over his
breast  looked with immovable resolution
straight in Romaine 's face  and struck the
blow which he had been meditating for
months past.

'House your courage,' he said sternly.
 You are no more married than I am.'

VOL. iir. G

CHAPTER IV.

ON THE ROAD TO ROME.

There was not a sound in the room. Eo-maine
stood, looking at the priest.

Did you hear what I said ? ' Father
Ben well asked.

'Yes.'

Do you understand that I really mean
what I said ? '

He made no reply  he waited, like a
man expecting to hear more.

Father Sewell was alive to the vast importance,
at such a moment, of not shrinking
from the responsibility which he had
assumed. ' I see how I distress you,' he

said; *but, for your sake, I am bound to
speak out. Romaine ! the woman whom
you have married is the wife of another
man. Don't ask me how I know it  I do
know it. You shall have positive proof,
as soon as you have recovered. Come I
rest a little in the easy chair.'

He took Romayne's arm, and led him to
the chair, and made him drink some wine.
They waited awhile. Romaine lifted his
head, with a heavy sigh.

The woman whom I have married is
the wife of another man.' He slowly repeated
the words, to himself  and then
looked at Father Sewell.

Who is the man ? ' he asked.

I introduced you to him, when I was
as ignorant of the circumstances as you are,'
G 2

the priest answered. ' The man is Mr.
Bernard Winterfield.'

Romaine half raised himself from the
chair. A momentary anger glittered in his
eyes, and faded out again, extinguished by
the nobler emotions of grief and shame.
He remembered Winterfield's introduction
to Stella.

Her husband ! ' he said, speaking
assail to himself. ' And she let me introduce
him to her. And she received him
like a stranger.' He paused, and thought
of it. ' The proofs, if you please, sir,' he
resumed with sudden humility. ' I don't
want to hear any particulars. It will be
enough for me if I know beyond all
doubt that I have been deceived and disgraced.'


Father Sewell unlocked his desk and

placed two papers before Romaine. He
did his duty with a grave indifference to all
minor considerations. The time had not yet
come for expressions of sympathy and
regret.

' The first paper he said, ' is a certified
copy of the register of the marriage of Miss
Eyrecourt to Mr. Winterfield, celebrated
(as you will see) by the English chaplain at
Brussels, and witnessed by three persons.
Look at the names.'

The bride's mother was the first witness.
The two names that followed were the
names of Lord and Lady Loring. ' They
too, in the conspiracy to deceive me ! '
Romaine said as he laid the paper back on
the table.

I obtained that piece of written evidence,'
Father Sewell proceeded, ' by the

help of a reverend colleague of mine, residing
at Brussels. I will give you his name
and address, if you wish to make further
inquiries.'

Quite needless. What is this other
paper ? ' 

This other paper is an extract from the
shorthand writer's notes (suppressed in the
reports of the public journals) of proceedings
in an English court of law, obtained at my
request by my lawyer in London.'

What have I to do with it ? '

He put the question in a tone of passive
endurance  resigned to the severest moral
martyrdom that could be inflicted on him.

I will answer you in two words,' said
Father Sewell. 'In justice to Miss Eyre-court,
I am bound to produce her excuse
for marrying you.'

Romaine looked at him in stern amazement.


Excuse ! ' he repeated.

Yes  excuse. The proceedings to
which I have alluded declare Miss 's
marriage to Mr. Winterfield to be
null and void  by the English law  in consequence
of his having been married at the
time to another woman. Try to follow me.
I will put it as briefly as possible. In justice
to yourself, and to your future career, you
must understand this revolting case thoroughly,
from beginning to end.'

With those prefatory words, he told the
story of Winterfield's first marriage ; altering
nothing ; concealing nothing ; doing the
fullest justice to Winterfield's innocence of
all evil motive, from first to last. When the
plain truth served his purpose, as it most

assuredly did in this case, the man has never
yet been found who could match Father
Ben well at stripping himself of every vestige
of reserve, and exhibiting his naked heart to
the moral admiration of mankind .

You were mortified, and I was surprised,'
he went on, ' when Mr. Winterfield
dropped his acquaintance with you. We
now know that he acted like an honourable
man.'

He waited to see what effect he had
produced. Romaine was in no state of
mind to do j justice to Winterfield or to anyone.
His pride was mortally wounded ; his
high sense of honour and delicacy writhed
under the outrage inflicted on it.

And mind this,' Father Sewell persisted,
' poor human nature has its right to
all that can be justly conceded in the way of

excuse and allowance. Miss Eyrecourt
would naturally be advised by her friends,
would naturally be eager, on lier own part,
to keep hidden from you what happened at
Brussels. A sensitive woman, placed in a
position so horribly false and degrading,
must not be too severely judged, even when
she does wrong. I am bound to say this 
and more. Speaking from my own knowledge
of all the parties, I have no doubt that
Miss Eyrecourt and Mr. Winterfield did
really part at the church door.'

Romaine answered by a look  so disdainfully
expressive of the most immovable
unbelief, that it absolutely justified the fatal
advice by which Stella's worldly-wise friends
had encouraged her to conceal the truth.
Father Sewell prudently closed his lips.
He had put the case with perfect fairness 

this bitterest enemy could not have denied
that.

Romaine took up the second paper,
looked at it, and threw it back again on the
table with an expression of disgust.

You told me just now,' he said, ' that I
was married to the wife of another man.
And there is the judge's decision, releasing
Miss Eyrecourt from her marriage to Mr.
Winterfield. May I ask you to explain
yourself '

Certainly. Let me first remind you
that you owe religious allegiance to the
principles which the Church has asserted, for
centuries past, with all the authority of its
divine institution. You admit that? '

I admit it.'

Now, listen ! In our Church, Romaine,
marriage is even more than a religious

institution  it is a sacrament. We acknowledge
no human laws which profane that
sacrament. Take two examples of what I
say. When the great Napoleon was at the
height of his power, Pius the Seventh refused
to acknowledge the validity of the Emperor's
second marriage to Maria Lomsa  while
Josephine was living, divorced by the French
Senate. Again, in the face of the Royal
Marriage Act, the Church sanctioned the
marriage of Mrs. Fitzherbert to George the
Fourth, and still declares, in justice to her
memory, that she was the King's lawful wife.
In one word, marriage, to he marriage at all,
must be the object of a purely religious
celebration  and, this condition coniphed
with, marriage is only to be dissolved by
death. You remember what T told you of
Mr. Winterfield?'

Yes. His first marriage took place-before
the registrar.'

In plain English, Romaine, Mr. Winter-field
and the woman-rider in the circus pronounced
a formula of words before a layman
in an office. That is not only no marriage,
it is a blasphemous profanation of a holy rite.
Acts of Parliament which sanction such proceedings
are acts of infidelity. The Church
declares it, in defence of religion.'

'I understand you,' said Romaine.
Mr. Winterfield's marriage at Brussels *

Which the English law,' Father Sewell
interposed, * declares to be annulled by the
marriage before the registrar, stands good,
nevertheless, by the higher law of the Church.
Mr. Winterfield is Miss Eyrecourt's husband,
as long as they both live. An ordained
priest performed the ceremony in a consecrated

building  and Protestant marriages,
so celebrated, are marriages acknowledged
by the Catholic Church. Under those circumstances,
the ceremony which afterwards
united you to Miss Eyrecourt  though
neither you nor the clergyman were to blame
was a mere mockery. Need I say anymore
? Shall I leave you for awhile by yourself
? '

'No I I don't know what I may think,
I don't know what I may do, if you leave me
by myself.'

Father Ben well took a chair by
Romaine's side. ' It has been my hard duty
to grieve and humiliate you,' he said. ' Do
you bear me no ill-will ? ' He held out his
hand.

Romaine took it  as an act of justice, if
not as an act of gratitude.

Can I be of any use in advising you ? '
Father Sewell asked.

Who can advise a man in my position ? '
Romaine bitterly rejoined.

I can at least suggest that you should
take time to think over your position.'

Time ? take time ? You talk as if my
situation v\as endurable.'

Everything is endurable, Romaine ! '

'It may be so to you, Father Sewell.
Did you part with your humanity when you
put on the black robe of the priest ? '

I parted, my son, nth those weaknesses
of our humanity on which women practise.
You talk of your position. I will put it
before you at its worst.'

For what purpose ? '

To show you exactly what you have
now to decide. Judged by the law of

England, Mrs. Romaine is your wife.
Judged by the principles held sacred among
the religious community to which you belong,
she is not Mrs. Romaine  she is Mrs.
Winterfield, living with you in adultery. If

you regret your conversion '

I don't regret it, Father Sewell.'
If you renounce the holy aspirations
which you have yourself acknowledged tome,
return to your domestic life. But don't
ask us, while you are living with that lady,
to respect you as a member of our communion.'


Romaine was silent. The more violent
emotions aroused in him had, vdth time, subsided
into calm. Tenderness, mercy, past
affection found their opportunity, and pleaded
vith him. The priest's bold language had
missed the object at which it aimed. It had

revived in Romaine's memory the image of
Stella in the days when he had first seen her.
How gently her influence lead wrought on
him for good ; how tenderly, how truly, she
had loved him. ' Give me some more wine ! '
he cried. 'I feel faint and giddy. Don't
despise me. Father Sewell  I was once so
fond of her ! '

The priest pointed out the wine. ' I feel
for you,' he said. ' Indeed, indeed, I feel for
you.'

It was not all a lie  there were grains of
truth in that outburst of sympathy. Father
Sewell was not wholly merciless. His farseeing
intellect, his daring duplicity, carried
him straight on to his end in view. But,
that end once gained  and, let it be remembered,
not gained, in this case, wholly for
himself  there were compassionate impulses

left in him which sometimes forced their way
to the surface. A man of high intelligence
however he may misuse it, however unworthy
he may be of it  has a gift from
Heaven. When you want to see unredeemed
wickedness, look for it in a fool.

'Let me mention one circumstance,*
Father Sewell proceeded, ' which may help
to relieve you for the moment. In your
present state of mind, you cannot return to
The Eetreat.'

Impossible ! '

I have had a room prepared for you in
this house. Here, free from any disturbing
influence, you can shape the future course of
your life. If you wish to communicate with
your residence at Highgate '

Don't speak of it ! '

Father Sewell sighed. ' Ah, I under-vol.

III. H

stand ! ' he said, sadly. ' The house associated
with Mr. Winterfield's visit '

Romaine again interrupted him  this
time by gesture only. The hand that had
made the sign clenched itself, when it rested
afterwards on the table. His eyes looked
downward, under frowning brows. At the
name of Winterfield, remembrances that
poisoned every better influence in him rose
venomously in his mind. Once more he
loathed the deceit that had been practised
on him. Once more the detestable doubt
of that asserted parting at the church
door renewed its stealthy torment, and reasoned
with him as if in words :  She has
deceived you in one thing ; why not in
another ?

Can I see my lawyer here?' he asked,
suddenly.

My dear Eoraayne, you can see any one
whom you like to invite.'

I shall not trouble you by staying very
long, Father Ben well.'

Do nothing in a hurry, my son. Pray
do nothing in a hurry ! '

Romaine paid no attention to this
entreaty. Shrinking from the momentous
decision that awaited him, his mind instinctively
took refuge in the prospect of change
of scene. ' I shall leave England ! ' he said,
impatiently.

Not alone,' Father Sewell remonstrated.


Who will be my companion ? '

I will,' the priest answered.

Romaine's weary eyes brightened faintly.
In his desolate position, Father Sewell was
the one friend on whom he could rely.

Penrose was far away ; the Lorings had
helped to keep him deceived ; Major Hynd
had openly pitied and despised him as a
victim to priestcraft.

Can you go with me at any time ? ' he
asked. ' Have you no duties that keep you
in England . '

'My duties, Romaine, are already confided
to other hands.'

Then you have foreseen this ? '

I have thought it possible. Your journey
may be long, or may be short  you
shall not go away alone.'

I can think of nothing yet ; my mind is
a blank,' Romaine confessed sadly. ' I don't
know where I shall go.'

'I know where you ought to go  and
where you will go,' said Father Sewell,
emphatically.

Where ? *

To Kome/

Romaine understood the true meaning
of that brief reply. A vague sense of
dismay began to rise in his mind. While
he was still tortured by doubt, it seemed as
if Father Sewell had, by some inscrutable
process of prevision, planned out his future
beforehand. Had the priest foreseen
events ?

No  he had only foreseen possibilities,
on the day when it first occurred to him
that Romaine's marriage was assailable,
before the court of Romaine's conscience,
from the Eoman Catholic point of view.
By this means, the misfortune of Romaine's
marriage having preceded his conversion
might be averted; and the one certain obstacle
in the way of any change of purpose

on his part  the obstacle of the priesthood
might still be set up, by the voluntary
separation of the husband from the wife.
Thus far the Jesuit had modestly described
himself to his reverend colleagues, as regarding
his position towards Romaine in a new
light. His next letter might boldly explain
to them what he had really meant. The
triumph was won. Not a word more passed
between his guest and himself that morning.

Before post time, on the same day, Father
Sewell wrote his last report goethe Secretary
of [the Society of Jesus, in these lines : 

Romaine is free from the domestic ties
that bound him. He bequeaths Vange
Abbey as a legacy to the Church ; and he
acknowledges a vocation for the priesthood.
Expect us at Eome in a fortnight's time.'

EXTRACTS FROM
BERNARD WINTERFIELUS DIARY.

L

WINTERPIELD DEFENDS HIMSELF.

Beaupark House. June 17th, 18 .

You and I, Cousin Westminster, seldom meet.
But I occasionally hear of you, from friends
acquainted with both of us.

I have heard of you last at Sir Philip's
rent-day dinner, a week since. My name
happened to be mentioned by one of the
gentlemen present, a guest like yourself.
You took up the subject of your own freewill,
and spoke of me in these terms :

I am sorry to say it of the existing
head of the family  but Bernard is really
imfit for the position which he holds. He

has, to say the least of it, compromised
himself and his relatives on more than one
occasion. He began as a young man by
marrying a circus-rider. He got into some
other scrape, after that, which he has contrived
to keep a secret from us. We only
know how disgraceful it must have been by
the results  he was a voluntary exile from
England for more than a year. And now,
to complete the hist, he has mixed himself
up in that miserable and revolting business
of Lewis Romaine and his wife.'

If any other person had spoken of mein
this manner, I should have set him down
as a mischievous idiot  to be kicked perhaps,
but not to be noticed in any other way.

With you, the case is different. If I
die without male offspring, the Beaupark
estate goes to you, as next heir.

I don't choose to let a man in this
position slander me, and those dear to me,
without promptly contradicting him. The
name I bear is precious to me, in memory
of my father. Your unanswered allusion to
my relations with ' Lewis Romaine and his
wife,' coming from a member of the family,
will be received as truth. Eather than let
this be, I reveal to you, without reserve,
some of the saddest passages of my life. I
have nothing to be ashamed of  and, if I
have hitherto kept certain events in the
dark, it has been for the sake of others, not
for my own sake. I know better now. A
woman's reputation  if she is a good woman
is not easily compromised by telling the
truth. The person of whom I am thinking,
when I write this, knows what I am going
to do and approves of it.

You will receive, with these lines, the
most perfectly candid statement that I can
furnish, being extracts cut out of my
own private Diary. They are accompanied
(where plain necessity seems to call for it)
by the written evidence of other persons.

There has never been much sympathy
between us. But you have been brought
up like a gentleman  and, when you have
read my narrative, I expect that you will
do justice to me, and to others  even
though you think we acted indiscreetly
under trying and critical circumstances.

B. W.

II.

WINTERFIELD MAKES EXTRACTS.

First Extract,

April 11th, 1859.  mrs. Eyrecourt and
her daughter have left Beaiipark to-day for
London. Have I really made any impression
on the heart of the beautiful Stella?
In my miserable position  ignorant whether
I am free or not  I have shrunk from
formally acknowledging that I love her.

12th.  I am becoming superstitious ! In
the Obituary of to-day's ' Times ' the death
is recorded of that unhappy woman whom I
was mad enough to marry. After hearing
nothing of her for seven years  I am free !
Surely this is a good omen ? Shall I follow

the Eyrecoiirts to London, and declare myself?
I have not confidence enough in my
own power of attraction to run the risk.
Better to write first, in strictest confidence,
to Mrs. Eyrecourt.

\th.  An enchanting answer from my
angel's mother, written in great haste. They
are on the point of leaving for Paris.
Stella is restless and dissatisfied ; she wants
change of scene ; and Mrs. Eyrecourt adds,
in so many words :  ' It is you who have
upset her ; why did you not speak while we
were at Beaupark?' I am to hear again
from Paris. Good old Father Newbliss said
all along that she was fond of me, and
wondered, like Mrs. Eyrecourt, why I failed
to declare myself. How could I tell them
of the hideous fetters which bound me in
those days?

18, Paris.  She has accepted me !
Words are useless to express my happiness.

\ih.  A letter from my lawyer, full of
professional subtleties and delays. I have
no patience to enumerate them. We move
to Belgium tomorrow. Not on our way
back to England  Stella is so little desirous
of leaving the Continent that we are likely
to be married abroad. But she is weary of
the perpetual gaiety and glitter of Paris,
and wants to see the old Belgian cities.
Her mother leaves Paris with regret.
The liveliest woman of her age that I
ever met with.

Brussels May 7.  My blessing on the
old Belgian cities. Mrs. Eyrecourt is so
eager to get away from them that she
backs me in hurrying the marriage, and
even consents, sorely against the grain, tolet

the wedding be celebrated at Brussels in
 private and unpretending way. She has
only stipulated that Lord and Lady Loring
(old friends) shall be present. They are
to arrive tomorrow, and two days afterwards
we are to be married.

(An enclosure is inserted in this place.
It consists of the death-bed confession of
Mr. Winterfield's wife, and of the explanatory
letter written by the rector of Belhaven.
The circumstances related in these
documents, already known to the reader,
are left to speak for themselves, and the
Extracts from the Diary are then continued.)


    

Bingen on the Rhine, May 19.  letters
from Devonshire at last, which relieve my

wretchedness in some small degree. The
frightful misfortune at Brussels will at least
be kept secret, so far as I am concerned.
Beaupark House is shut up, and the servants
are dismissed, ' in consequence of my residence
abroad.' To Father Newness I have
privately written. Not daring to tell him
the truth, I leave him to infer that my 
has been broken off; he
writes back a kind and comforting letter.
Time will, I suppose, help me to bear my
sad lot. Perhaps a day may come when
Stella and her friends will know how cruelly
they have wronged me.

London November 18, 1860.  The old
wound has been opened again. I met her
accidentally in a picture gallery. She turned

VOL. III. I

deadly pale, and left the place. Oh, Stella !
Stella!

London., August 12, 1861.  Another
meeting with her. And another shock to
endure, which I might not have suffered if
I had been a reader of the marriage announcements
in the newspapers. Like other
men, I am in the habit of leaving the marriage
announcements to the women.

I went to visit an agreeable new acquaintance,
Mr. Romaine. His wife drove
up to the house while I was looking out of
window. I recognised Stella! After two
years, she has made use of the freedom
which the law has given to her. I must
not complain of that, or of her treating me
like a stranger, when her husband innocently
introduced us. But, when we were

afterwards left together for a few minutes 
no ! I cannot write down the merciless
words she said to me. Why am I fool
enough to be as fond of her as ever?

Beauparh November 16.  Stella's married
life is not likely to be a happy one.
To-day's newspaper announces the conversion
of her husband to the Roman Catholic
Faith. I can honestly say I am sorry for
her, knowing how she has suffered, among
her own relatives, by these conversions.
But I so hate Azm, that this proof of his
weakness is a downright consolation to me.

Beaupark January 27, 1862.  A letter
from Stella, so startling and deplorable that
I cannot remain away from her after reading
it. Her husband has deliberately

deserted her. He has gone to Rome, to
serve his term of probation for the priesthood.
I travel to London by to-day's train.

London January 27.  Short as it is, I
looked at Stella's letter again and again on
the journey. The tone of the closing sentences
is still studiously cold. After informing
me that she is staying with her mother
in London, she concludes her letter in these
terms : 

Be under no fear that the burden of
my troubles will be laid on your shoulders.
Since the fatal day when we met at Ten
Acres, you have shown forbearance and
compassion towards me. I don't stop to inquire
if you are sincere  it rests with you to
prove that. But I have some questions to
ask, which no person but you can answer.

For the rest, my friendless position will perhaps
plead with you not to misunderstand
me. May I write again ? '

Inveterate distrust in every sentence !
If any other woman had treated me in this
way, I should have put her letter into the
fire, and should not have stirred from my
comfortable house.

January 29.  A day missed out of my
Diary. The events of yesterday unnerved
me for the time.

Arriving at Derwent's Hotel on the
evening of the 27 th, I sent a line to Stella
by messenger, to ask when she could receive
me.

It is strange how the merest trifles
seem to touch women ! Her note in reply
contains the first expression of friendly

feeling towards me which has escaped her
since we parted at Brussels. And this expression
proceeds from her ungovernable surprise
and gratitude, at my taking the trouble to
travel from Devonshire to London on her
account !

For the rest, she proposed to call on meat
the hotel the next morning. She and
her mother, it appeared, differed in opinion
on the subject of Mr. Romaine's behaviour
to her ; and she wished to see me, in the
first instance, unrestrained by Mrs. Eyre-court's
interference.

There was little sleep for me that night.
I passed most of the time in smoking and
walking up and down the room. My one
relief was afforded by Traveller  he begged
so hard to go to London with me, I could
not resist him. The dog always sleeps in

my room. His surprise at my extraordinary
restlessness (ending in downright
anxiety and alarm) was expressed in his
eyes, and in his little winnings and cries,
quite as intelligibly as if he had put his
meaning into words. Who first called a
dog a dumb creature ? It must have been
a man, I think  and a thoroughly unlovable
man, too, from a dog's point of view.

Soon after ten, on the morning of the
28th, she entered my sitting-room.

In her personal appearance, I saw a
change for the worse ; produced, I suppose,
by the troubles that have tried her sorely,
poor thing. There was a sad loss of delicacy
in her features, and of purity in her
complexion. Even her dress  I should certainly
not have noticed it in any other
woman  seemed to be loose and slovenly.

In the agitation of the moment, I forgot
the long estrangement between us; I half
lifted my hand to take hers, and checked
myself. Was I mistaken in supposing that
she yielded to the same impulse, and resisted
it as I did ? She concealed her embarrassment,
if she felt any, by patting the dog.

'I am ashamed that you should have
taken the journey to London in this wintry

weather ' she began.

It was impossible, in her situation, tolet
her assume this commonplace tone with
me. 'I sincerely feel for you,' I said, ' and
sincerely wish to help you, if I can.'

She looked at me for the first time.
Did she believe me ? or did she still
doubt ? Before I could decide, she took a
letter from her pocket, opened it, and
handed it to me.

Women often exaggerate their troubles,'
she said. *It is perhaps an unfair trial of
your patience  but I should like you to
satisfy yourself that I have not made the
worst of my situation. That letter will
place it before you in Mr. Romaine's own
words. Eead it, except where the page
is turned down.'

It was her husband's letter of farewell.

The language was scrupulously delicate
and considerate. But to my mind it entirely
failed to disguise the fanatical cruelty
of the man's resolution, addressed to his
wife. In substance, it came to this : 

He had discovered the marriage at
Brussels, which she had deliberately concealed
from him when he took her for his
wife. She had afterwards persisted in that
concealment, under circumstances which

made it impossible that he could ever trust
her again.' (This no doubt referred to her
ill-advised reception of me, as a total
stranger, at Ten Acres Lodge.) 'In the
miserable break-up of his domestic life, the
church to which he now belonged offered
him, not only her divine consolation, but
the honour, above all earthly distinctions,
of serving the cause of religion in the
sacred ranks of the priesthood. Before
his departure for Eome he bade her a
last farewell in this world, and forgave her
the injuries that she had inflicted on him.
For her sake he asked leave to say some
few words more. In the first place, he
desired to do her every justice, in a worldly
sense. Ten Acres Lodge was offered to
her as a free gift for her lifetime, with a
sufficient income for all her wants. In

the second place, lie was anxious that she
should not misinterpret his motives. Whatever
his opinion of her conduct might be,
he did not rely on it as affording his only
justification for leaving her. Setting personal
feeling aside, he felt religious scruples
(connected with his marriage) which left
him no other alternative than the separation
on which he had resolved. He would
briefly explain those scruples, and mention
his authority for entertaining them, before
he closed his letter.'

There the page was turned down, and
the explanation was concealed from me.

A faint colour stole over her face as
I handed the letter back to her.

It is needless for you to read the end,*
she said. ' You know, under his own hand,
that he has left me ; and (if such a thing

pleads with you in his favour), you also
know that he is liberal in providing for
his deserted wife.'

I attempted to speak. She saw in my
face how I despised him, and stopped me.

Whatever you may think of his conduct,'
she continued, ' I beg that you will
not speak of it to me. May I ask you*
opinion (now you have read his letter) on
another matter, in which my own conduct
is concerned ? In former days '

She paused, poor soul, in evident confusion
and distress.

Why speak of those days ? ' I ventured
to say.

'I must speak of them. In former
days, I think you were told that my father's
will provided for my mother and for me.
You know that we have enough to live
on?'

I had heard of it, at the time of our
betrothal  when the marriage-settlement
was in preparation. The mother and
daughter had each a little income of a
few hundreds a year. The exact amount
had escaped my memory.

After answering her to this effect, I
waited to hear more.

She suddenly became silent ; the most
painful embarrassment showed itself in her
face and manner. 'Never mind the rest,'
she said, mastering her confusion after an
interval. ' I have had some hard trials

to bear; I forget things ' she made

an effort to finish the sentence, and gave
it up, and called to the dog to come to
her. The tears were in her eyes, and
that was the way she took to hide them
from me.

In general, I am not quick at reading

the minds of others  but I thought I understood
Stella. Now that we were face to
face, the impulse to trust me had, for the
moment, got the better of her caution and
her pride ; she was half ashamed of it,
half inclined to follow it. I hesitated no
longer. The time for which I had waited
the time to prove, without any indelicacy
on my side, that I had never been
unworthy of her  had surely come at last.

Do you remember my reply to your
letter about Father Sewell?' I asked.

Yes  every word of it.'

'I promised, if you ever had need of
me, to prove that I had never been \\w-
worthy of your confidence. In your present
situation, I can honourably keep my
promise. Shall I wait till you are calmer?
or shall I 2fo on at once?'

At once ! '

'When your mother and your friends
took you from me,' I resumed, ' if you had
shown any hesitation '

She shuddered. The image of my unhappy
wife, vindictively confronting us on
the church steps, seemed to be recalled to
her memory. ' Don't go back to it ! ' she
cried. ' Spare me, I entreat you.'

I opened the writing-case in which I
keep the papers sent to me by the Rector
of Belhaven, and placed them on the table
by which she was sitting. The more plainly
and briefly I spoke now, the better I thought
it might be for both of us.

Since we parted at Brussels,' I said,
my wife has died. Here is a copy of the
medical certificate of her death.'

Stella refused to look at it. 'I don't

understand such things she answered faintly.
'What is this?'

She took up my wife's death-bed confession.


Eead it I said.

She looked frightened. ' What will it
tell me ? ' she asked.

It will tell you, Stella, that false appearances
once led you into wronging an
innocent man.'

Having said this, I walked away to a
window behind her, at the farther end of the
room, so that she might not see me while
she read.

After a time  how much longer it
seemed to be than it really was !  I heard
her move. As I turned from the window,
she ran to me, and fell on her knees at my
feet. I tried to raise her ; I entreated her

to believe that she was forgiven. She seized
my hands, and held them over her face 
they were wet with her tears. ' I am
ashamed to look at you,' she said. ' Oh,
Bernard, what a wretch I have been I '

I never was so distressed in my life. I
don't know what I should have said, what I
should have done, if my dear old dog had
not helped me out of it. He, too, ran upto
me, with the loving jealousy of this race,
and tried to lick my hands, still fast in
Stella's hold. His paws were on her shoulder
; he attempted to push himself between
us. I think I successfully assumed a tranquillity
which I was for from really feeling.
Come, come ! ' I said, ' you mustn't make
Traveller jealous.' She let me raise her.
Ah, if she could have kissed me  but that
Alas not to be done ; she kissed the doom's

VOL. III. K

head, and tlieii she spolcc to me. I shall
not set down what she said in these pages.
While I live, there is no fear of my forgetting
those words.

I led her back to her chah\ The letter
addressed to me by the Eector of Belhaven
still lay on the table, unread. It was of
some importance to Stella's complete enlightenment,
as containing evidence that the
confession was genuine. But I hesitated,
for her sake, to speak of it just yet.

Now you know that you have a friend
to help and advise you ' I began.

Xo,' she interposed ; ' more than a
friend ; say a brother.'

I said it. ' You had something to ask of
me,' I resumed, ' and you never put the
question.'

She understood me.

I meant to tell you,' she said, ' that I
had written a letter of refusal to Mr. Eo-maine's
lawyers. I have left Ten Acres,
never to return ; and I refuse to accept a
farthing of Mr. Romaine's money. My
mother  though she knows that we have
cnoudi to live on  tells me I have acted
with inexcusable pride and folly. I wanted
to ask if you blame me, Bernard, as she
does ? '

I dare say I was inexcusably proud and
foolish, too. It was the second time she had
called me by my Christian name since the
happy bygone time, never to come again.
Under whatever influence I acted, I respected
and admired her for that refusal, and
I owned it in so many words. This little
encouragement seemed to relieve her. She
K 2

was SO much calmer that I vent-ed to
speak of the Eector's letter.

She wouldn't hear of it. ' Oh, Bernard,
have I not learnt to trust 3'ou yet ? Put
away those papers. There is only one tiling
I want to know. Who gave them to you ?
TheEector?'

No.'

How did they reach you, then ? '

Through Father BenwelL'

She started at that name like a woman
electrified.

I knew it ! ' she cried. ' It is the priest
who has wrecked my married life  and he
got his information from those letters, before
he put them into your hands.' She waited
awhile, and recovered herself. ' That was
the first of the questions I wanted to put

to yoii, ' lie said. ' I am answered. I ask
no more.'

She was surely wrong about Father Ben-well
? I tried to show her why.

I told her that my reverend friend had
put the letters into my hand, with the seal
which protected them unbroken. She
laughed disdainfully. Did I know him so
little as to doubt for a moment that he could
break a seal and replace it again? This
view was entirely new to me ; I was startled,
but not convinced. I never desert my friends
even when they are friends of no very
honos standing;  and I still tried to defend
Father Sewell. The only result was to
make her alter her intention of asking' meno
more questions. I innocently roused
in her a new curiosity. She was eager to
know how I had first become acquainted

Avitli the priest, and Iioav lie had contrived
to possess himself of paper's which were intended
for my reading only.

There was but one way of answering her.

It was far from easy to a man like myself,
unaccustomed to state circumstances in
their proper order  but I had no other
choice than to reply, by telling the long
story of the theft and discovery of the Rector's
papers. So far as Father Benwell was
concerned, the narrative only confirmed her
suspicions. For the rest, the circumstances
which most interested her were the circumstances
associated with the French boy.

Anything connected A\itli that poor
creature she said, ' has a dreadful interest
for me now.'

laid you know him ? ' I asked, with
some surprise.

'I knew him and Iiis niotlicr  you
shall hear how, at another time. I suppose
I felt a presentiment that the boy would
have some evil influence over me. At any
rate, when I accidentally touched him, I
trembled as if I had touched a serpent.
You will think me superstitious  but, after
what you have said, it is certainly true
that he has been the indirect cause of the
misfortune that has fallen on me. How
came he to steal the papers Did you
ask the Eector, when you went to Belhaven
? '

'I asked the Eector nothing. But methought
it his duty to tell me all that he
knew of the theft.'

She drew her chair nearer to me.
Let me hear every word of it ! ' she
pleaded eagerly.

I felt some reluctance to comply with
the request.

'Is it not fit for me to hear?' she
asked.

This forced me to be plain with her.
'If I repeat what the Eector told me,'
I said, ' I must speak of my wife.'

She took my hand. ' You have pitied
and forgiven her,' she answered. ' Speak
of her, Bernard  and don't, for God's
sake, think that my heart is harder than
yours.'

I kissed the hand that she had given
to me  even her ' brother ' might do that !

'It began,' I said, 'in the grateful
attachment which the boy felt for my wife.
He refused to leave her bedside on the
day when she dictated her confession to
the Eector. As he was entirely ignorant

of the Eno-lisli lanouane, there seemed to
be no objection to letting him have his
own way. He became inquisitive as the
writing went on. His questions annoyed
the Eector  and, as the easiest way of
satisfying this curiosity, my wife told him
that she was making her wilL He knew
just enough, from what he had heard at
various times, to associate making a will
with gifts of money'  and the pretended
explanation silenced and satisfied him.'

'Did the Eector understand it.' Stella
asked.

Yes. Like many other Englishmen
in his position, although he was not ready
at speaking French, he could read the
language, and coukl fairly well understand
it, when it was spoken. After my wife's
death, he kindly placed the boy, for a

few days, under the care of this housekeeper.
Her early life had been passed in the island
of Martinique, and she was able to communicate
with the friendless foreigner in
his own language. When he disappeared,
she was the only person who could throw
any light on his motive for stealing the
papers. On the day when he entered
the house, she caught him, peeping through
the key-hole of the study door. He must
have seen where the confession was placed,
and the colour of the old-fashioned blue
paper, on which it was written, would
help him to identify it. The next morning,
during the Eector's absence, he brought
the manuscript to the housekeeper, and
asked her to translate it into French, so
that he might know how much money

was left to him in ' the will.' She severely
reproved him, made him replace the paper
in the desk from which he had taken it,
and threatened to tell the Eector if his
misconduct was repeated. He promised
amendment, and the good-natured woman
believed him. On that evening the papers
were sealed, and locked up. In the morning
the lock Alas found broken, and the papers
and the boy were both missing together.'

'Do you think he showed the confession
to any other person?' Stella asked.
I happen to know tlmt he concealed it
from his mother.'

'After the housekeeper's reproof,' I
replied, 'he would be cunning enough, in
my opinion, not to run the risk of showing
it to strangers. It is far more likely that

lie thoiiglit he might learn English enough
to read it himself.'

There the subject dropped. We were
silent for awhile. She was thinking, and
I was looking at her. On a sudden, she
raised her head. Her eyes rested on me
gravely.

It is very strange ! ' she said. ]

What is strange ? '

I have been thinking of the Lorings.
They encouraged me to doubt you. They
advised me to be silent about what happened
at Brussels. And they too are concerned
in my husband's desertion of me.
He first met Father Sewell at their
house.' Her head drooped again ; her next
words were murmured to herself. ' I am
still a young woman,' she said. ' Oh, God,
what is my future to be ? '

This morbid way of thinking distressed
me. I reminded her that she had dear
and devoted friends.

Not one,' she answered, ' but you.'

Have you not seen Lady Loring ? ' I
asked.

'She and her husband have written
most kindly, inviting me to make their
house my home. I have no right to
blame them  they meant well. But after
what has happened, I can't go back to
them.'

'I am sorry to hear it,' I said.

Are you thinking of the Lorings ? '
she asked.

'I don't even know the Lorings. I
can think of nobody but you.'

I was still looking at her  and I am
afraid my eyes said more than my words.

If she had doubted it before, she must
have now known that I was as fond of her
as ever. She looked distressed rather than
confused. I made an awkward attempt
to set myself right.

'Surely your brother may speak plainly,'
I pleaded.

She agreed to this. But nevertheless
lie rose to go  with a friendly word, intended
(as I hoped) to show me that I
had got my pardon for that time. ' Will
you come and see us tomorrow ? ' she said.
Can you forgive my mother as generously
as you have forgiven me ? I will take
care, Bernard, that she does you justice
at last.'

She held out her hand to take leave.
How could I reply ? If I had been a
resolute man, I miifht have remembered

that it would be best for me not to see
too miicli of lier. But I am a poor weak
creature  I accepted her invitation for the
next day.

January 30.  I have just returned from
my visit.

My thoughts are in a state of indescribable
conflict and confusion  and lier
mother is the cause of it. I wish I had
not gone to the house. iVm I a bad man, I
wonder ? and have I only found it out now ?

Mrs. Eyrecourt was alone in the 
when I went in. Judging by
the easy maimer in which she got up to
receive me, the misfortune that has befallen
her daughter seemed to have produced
no sobering change in this frivolous



woman.

My dear Whitefield,' she began, ' I
have behaved infamously. I won't say
that appearances were against you at Brussels
 I will only say I ought not to have
trusted to appearances. You are the injured
person ; please forgive me. Shall
wee go on with the subject ? or shall we
shake hands, and say no more about it? *

I shook hands of course. Mrs. Eyre-court
perceived that I was looking for
Stella.

Sit down,' she said ; ' and be good
enough to put up with no more attractive
society than mine. Unless I set
things straight, my good friend, you and
my daughter  oh, wide the best intentions!
 will drift into a false position. You
won't see Stella to-day. Quite impossible
and I will tell you why. I am the

worldly old mother ; I don't mind Avhat
I say. My innocent daughter would die
before she would confess what I am going
to tell you. Can I offer you anything?
Have you had lunch ? '

I begged her to continue. She perplexed
 I am not sure that she did not
even alarm me.

Very well,' she proceeded. ' You maybe
surprised to hear it  but I don't mean
to allow things to go on in this way. My
contemptible son-in-law shall return to his
wife.'

This startled me, and I suppose I
showed it.

'Wait a little,' said Mrs. Eyrecourt.
There is nothing to be alarmed about.
Romaine is a weak fool ; and Father Ben-well's
greedy hands are (of course) in both

VOL. III. L

his pockets. But lie lias, unless I am
entirely mistaken, some small sense of
shame, and some little human feeling still
left. After the manner in Which he has
behaved, these are the merest possibilities,
you will say. Very likely. I have boldly
appealed to those possibilities, nevertheless.
He has already gone away to Eome ; and
I need hardly add  Father Sewell would
take good care of that  lie has left us no
address. It doesn't in the least matter.
One of the advantages of being; so much
in Society as I am is that I have nice
acquaintances everywhere, always ready to
oblige me, provided I don't borrow money
of them. I have written to Romaine,
sunder cover to one of my friends living in
Eome. Wherever he may be, there my
letter will hind him

So far, I listened quietly enough, naturally
supposing that Mrs. Eyrecourt trusted
to her own arguments and persuasions, I
confess it, even to myself, with shame. It
was a relief to me to feel that the chances
(with such a fanatic as Romaine) were a
hundred to one against her.

This unworthy way of thinking was
instantly checked by Mrs. Eyrecourt's next
words.

Don't suppose that I am foolish enough
to attempt to reason with him,' she went
on. ' My letter begins and ends on tie
first page. His wife has a claim on him,
which no newly-married man can resist.
Let me do him justice. He knew nothing
of it before he went away. My letter 
my daughter has no suspicion that I hav(3
L 2

written it  tells him plainly what the
claim is

She paused. Her eyes softened, her
voice sank low  she became quite unlike
the Mrs. Eyrecourt whom I knew.

'In a few montis more, Winterfield/
she said, ' my poor Stella will be a mother.
My letter calls Romaine back to his wife
and his child.

Mrs. Eyrecourt paused, evidently expecting
me to offer an opinion of some
sort. For the moment I was really unable
to speak. Stella's mother never had
a very high opinion of my abilities. She
now appeared to consider me the stupidest
person in the circle of her acquaintance.

Are you a little deaf, Winterfield ? '
she asked.

'Not that I know of.'

Do you understand me ? '

Oh, yes.'

Then why can't you say something ?
I want a man's opinion of our prospects.
Good gracious, how you fidget ! Put yourself
in Romaine's place, and tell me this.
If you had left Stella '

'I should never have left her, Mrs.
Eyrecourt.'

Be quiet. You don't know what you
would have done. I insist on your supposing
yourself to be a weak, superstitious,
conceited, fanatical fool. You understand?
Stow, tell me, then. Could you keep away
from your wife, when you were called back
to her in the name of your first-born child?
Could you resist that ? '

Most assuredly not ! '

I contrived to reply with an appearance

of tranquillity. It was not very easy to
speak with composure. Envious, selfish,
contemptible  no language is too strong to
describe the turn my thoughts now took.
I never hated any human being as I hated
Romaine at that moment. ' Damn him, he
will come back ! ' There Alas my inmost
feeling expressed in words.

In the meantime, Mrs. Eyrecourt was
satisfied. She dashed at the next subject
as fluent and as confident as CAer.

Now, Winterfield, it is surely plain to
your mind that you must not see Stella
again  except when I am present to tie the
tongue of scandal. My daughter's conduct
must not allow her husband  if you only
knew how I detest that man !  must not,
I say, allow her husband the slightest
excuse for keeping away from her. If we

give that odious old Jesuit the chance, he
will make a priest of Romaine before Ave
know where we are. The audacity of
these Papists is really beyond belief. You
remember how they made Bishops and
Archbishops here, in flat defiance of our
laws ? Father Sewell follows that example,
and sets our other laws at defiance  I mean
our marriage laws. I am so indignant I
can't express myself as clearly as usual.
Did Stella tell you that he actually shook
Romaine's belief in his OAvn marriage ? Ah,
I understand  she kept that to herself, poor
dear, and with stood reason too.

I thought of the turned-down page in
the letter. Mrs. Eyrecourt readily revealed
what her daughter's delicacy had forbidden
me to read  including the monstrous
assumption which connected my manage

before the registrar with her soii-iii-law's
scruples.

Yes,' she proceeded, ' these Catholics
are all alike. My daughter  I don't mean
my sweet Stella; I mean the unnatural
creature in the nunnery  sets herself above
her own mother. Did I ever tell you she
was impudent enough to say she would pray
for me? Father Sewell and the Papal
Aggression over again ! Now tell me,
Winteriield, don't you think  taking the
circumstances into consideration  that you
will act like a thoroughly sensible man if
you go back to Devonshire while we are
in our present situation ? What with foot-farmers
in the carriage, and newspapers
and magazines to amuse you, it isn't such a
very long joiuiiey. And then Beaupark 
dear Beaupark  is such a remarkably comfortable

house in the winter ; and 3'ou, you
enviable creature, are such a popular man
in the neighbourhood. Oh, go back ! go
back ! '

I got up and took my hat. She patted
me on the shoulder. I could have throttled
her at that moment. And yet she was
right.

You will make my excuses to Stella ? '
I said.

You dear good fellow, I will do more
than make your excuses ; I will sing your
praises  as the poet says.' In her ungovernable
exultation at having got rid of
me, she burst into extravagant language.
I feel like a mother to you,' she went on,
as we shook hands at parting. ' I declare
I could almost let you kiss me.'

There was not a single kissable place

about Mrs. Eyrecourt, imprinted, undyed, or
powdered. I resisted temptation, and
opened the door. There was still one last
request that I could not help making.

Will you let me know,' I said, ' when
you hear from Eome ? '

With the greatest pleasure,' Mrs. Eyre-court
answered briskly. ' Good-bye, you
best of friends  good-bye.'

I write these lines while the servant
is packing my portmanteau. Traveller
knows what that means. My dog is glad,
at any rate, to get away from London. I
think I shall hire a yacht, and try what a
voyage round the world will do for me.
I wish to God I had never seen Stella !

Second Extract

Beauparlc: February 10.  News at last
from Mrs. Eyrecourt.

Romaine lias not even read the letter
that she addressed to him  it lias actually
been returned to her by Father Sewell.
Mrs. Eyrecourt writes, naturally enough, ina
state of fury. Her one consolation,
under this insulting treatment, is that her
daughter knows nothing of the circumstances.
She warns me (quite needlessly)
to keep the secret  and sends me a copy
of Father Benweli's letter : 

Dear Madam,  Mr. Romaine can read
nothing that diverts his attention from his
preparation for the priesthood, or that recalls
past associations with errors which he

has renounced for ever. When a letter
reaches him, it is his-wise custom to look
at the signature first. He has handed your
letter to me, unread  with a request that
I will return it to you. In his presence,
I instantly sealed it up. Neither he, nor I,
know, or wish to know, on what subject
you have addressed him. We respectfully
advise you not to write again.'

This is really too bad ; but it has one
advantage, so far as I am concerned. It
sets my own unworthy doubts and jealousies
before me in a baser limit than ever. How
honestly I defended Father Sewell ! and
how completely he has deceived me ! I
wonder whether I shall hive long enough
to see the Jesuit caught in one of his own
traps ? /

11 A.  lAvas disappointed at not hearing

from Stella, yesterday. This morning has
made amends ; it has brought me a letter
from her.

She is not well ; and her mother's conduct
sadly perplexes her. At one time,
Mrs. Eyrecourt's sense of injury urges her
to indulge in violent measures  she is eager
to place her deserted daughter under the
protection of the law ; to insist on a restitution
of conjugal rights or on a judicial
separation. At another time she sinks into
a state of abject depression ; declares that
it is impossible for her, in Stella's deplorable
situation, to face Society ; and recommends
immediate retirement to some place
on the Continent in which they can live
cheaply. This latter suggestion Stella is
not only ready, but eager, to adopt. She
proves it by asking for my advice, in a

postscript ; no doubt remembering the
happy days when I courted her in Paris,
and the many foreign friends of mine who
called at our hotel.

The postscript gave me the excuse that
I wanted. I knew perfectly well that it
would be better for me not to see her 
and I went to London, for the sole purpose
of seeing her, by the first train.

London., February 12.  I found mother
and daughter together in the drawing-room.
It was one of Mrs. Eyrecourt's days of
depression. Her little twinkling eyes tried
to cast on me a look of tragic reproach ;
she shook her dyed head, and said, ' Oh,
Winterfield, I didn't think you would have
done this ! Stella, fetch me my smelling-bottle.'


But Stella refused to take the hint. She
almost brought the tears into my eyes, she
received me so kindly. If her mother had
not been in the room  but her mother was
in the room; I had no other choice than
to enter on my business, as if I had been
the family lawyer.

Mrs. Eyrecourt began by reproving
Stella for asking my advice, and then assured
me that lie had no intention of
leaving London. 'How am I to get rid
of my house . ' she asked, irritably enough.
I knew that ' her house ' (as she called it)
was the furnished upper part of a house
belonging to another person, and that she
could leave it at a short notice. But I
said nothing. I addressed myself to Stella.

I have been thinking of two or three
places which you might like,' I went on.

The nearest place belongs to an old French
gentleman and his wife. They have no
children, and they don't let lodgings ; but
I believe they would be glad to receive
friends of mine, if their spare rooms are
not already occupied. They live at St.
Germain  close to Paris.'

I looked at Mrs. Eyrecourt as I said
those last words  I was as sly as Father
Ben well himself. Paris justified my confidence
; the temptation was too much for
her. She not only gave way, but actually
mentioned the amount of rent which she
could afford to pay. Stella Whispered her
thanks to me as I went out. ' My name
is not mentioned, but my misfortune is
alluded to in the newspapers,' she said.
Well-meaning friends are calling and con-doing
with me already. I shall die, if

you don't help me to get away among
strangers ! '

I start for Paris, by the mail train, tonight.


Paris., February 13.  It is evening.
I have just returned from St. Germain.
Everything is settled  with more slyness
on my part. I begin to think I am a born
Jesuit ; there must have been some detestable
sympathy between Father Sewell
and me.

My good friends. Monsieur and Madame
Villeray, will be only too glad to receive
English ladies, known to me for many
years. The spacious and handsome first
floor of their house (inherited from once
wealthy ancestors by Madame Villeray) can
be got ready to receive Mrs. Eyrecourt and

VOL. III. M

her'daugliter in a week's time. Our one
difficulty related to the question of money.
Monsieur Villeray, living on a Government
pension, was modestly unwilling to ask
terms ; and I was too absolutely ignorant
of the subject to be of the slightest assistance
to him. It ended in our appealing
to a house-agent at St. Germain. His
estimate appeared to me to be quite reasonable.
But it exceeded the pecuniary
limit mentioned by Mrs. Eyrecourt. I had
known the Villerays long enough to be in
no danger of offending them by proposing
a secret arrangement which permitted me
to pay the difference. So that difficulty
was got over in due course of time.

We went into the large garden at the
back of the house, and there I committed
another act of duplicity.

In a nice sheltered corner I discovered
one of those essentially French buildings
called a 'pavilion,' a delightful little toy
house of three rooms. Another private arrangement
made me the tenant of this place.
Madame Villeray smiled. ' I bet you,' she
said to me in her very best English, ' one
of these ladies is in her fascinating' first
youth.' The good lady little knows what
a hopeless love affair mine is. I must see
Stella sometimes  I ask, and hope for, no
more. Never have I felt how lonely my
life is, as I feel it now.

Third Extract.

London., March 1.  Stella and hier
mother have set forth on their journey to
St. Germain this morning, without allowing

me, as I had hoped and planned, to
be their escort.

Mrs. Eyrecourt set up the old objection
of the claims of propriety. If that were
the only obstacle in my way, I should
have set it aside by following them to
France. Where is the impropriety of my
seeing Stella, as her friend and brother 
especially when I don't live in the same
hoifse with her, and when she has her
mother, on one side, and Madame Villeray,
on the other, to take care of her ?

No ! the influence that keeps me away
from St. Germain is the influence of Stella
herself.

I will write to you often,' she said ;
but I beg you, for my sake, not to accompany
us to France.' Her look and tone
reduced me to obedience. Stupid as I am.

I think (after what passed between me and
lier mother) I can guess what she meant.

Am I never to see you again ? ' I asked.

Do you think I am hard and ungrateful
? ' she answered. ' Do you doubt that I
shall be glad, more than glad, to see you,

when ? ' She turned away from me

and said no more.

It was time to take leave, "VYe were
under her mother's superintendence ; we
shook hands  and that was all.

Matilda (Mrs. Eyrecourt's maid) followed
me downstairs to open the door. I suppose
I looked, as I felt, wretchedly enough. The
good creature tried to cheer me. ' Don't be
anxious about them,' she said ; ' I am used
to travelling, sir  and I'll take care of
them.' She is a woman to be thoroughly
depended on, a faithful and attached servant.

I made her a little present at parting,
and I asked lier if she would write to
nie from time to time.

Some people might consider this to be
rather an undignified proceeding on my part.
I can only say it came naturally to me. I
am not a dignified man ; and, when a person
means kindly towards me, I don't ask myself
whether that person is higher or lower,
richer or poorer, than I am. We are, to
my mind, on the same level when the same
sympathy unites us. Matilda was sufficiently
acquainted with all that had passed to foresee,
as I did, that there would be certain
reservations in Stella's letters to me. ' You
shall have the whole truth fiom Me, sir,
don't doubt it,' she whispered. I believed
her. When my heart is sore, give me a
woman for my friend. Whether she is

lady or lady's-maid, she is equally precious
to me.

Cowes March 2.  I am in treaty with
n agent for the hire of a yacht.

I must do something, and go somewhere.
Eeturning to Beaupark is out of the question.
People with tranquil minds can find
pleasure in the society of their country
neighbours. I am a miserable creature,
with a mind in a state of incessant disturbance.
Excellent fathers of families talking
politics to me ; exemplary mothers of families
offering me matrimonial opportunities
with their daughters  that is what society
means, if I go back to Devonshire. No. I
will go for a cruise in the Mediterranean ;
and I will take one friend with me whose
company I never weary of  my dog.

The vessel is discovered  a fine schooner
of three hundred tons, just returned from a.
cruise to Madeira. The sailing-master and
crew only ask for a few days on shore. In
that time the surveyor will have examined
the vessel, and the stores will be on board.

March 3.  I have written to Stella, with
a list of addresses at which letters will reach
me ; and I have sent another list to my
faithful ally the maid. When we leave
Gibraltar, our course will be to Naples 
thence to Civita Vecchia, Leghorn, Genoa,
Marseilles. From any of those places, I am
within easy travelling distance of 8t. Germain.


March 7. At Sea.  It is half-past six
in the evening. We have just ]passed the

Eddystoue Lighthouse, with the wind abeam.
The log registers ten knots an hour.

Fourth Extract.

Naples May 10.  The fair promise at
the beginning of my voyage has not been
fulfilled. Owing to contrary winds, storms,
and delay at Cadiz in repairing damages, we
have only arrived at Naples this evening.
Under trying circumstances of all sorts, the
yacht has behaved admirably. A stouter
and finer sea-boat never was built.

We are too late to find the post office
open. I shall send ashore for letters the
first thing tomorrow morning. My next
movements will depend entirely on the
news I get from St. Germain. If I remain
for any length of time in these regions,

I shall give my crew the holiday they have
well earned at Civita Vecchia. I am
never Aweary of Eome  but I always did,
and always shall, dislike Naples.

May 11.  My plans are completely
changed. I am annoyed and angry ; the
further I get away from France, the better
I shall be pleased.

I have heard from Stella, and heard
from the maid. Both letters inform me that
the child is born, and that it is a boy. Do
they expect me to feel any interest in the
boy ? He is my worst enemy before lie is
out of his long clothes.

Stella writes kindly enough. Not a line
in her letter, however, invites me, or holds
out the prospect of inviting me, to St. Germain.
She refers to Iiur mother very

briefly, merely informing me that Mrs.
Eyrecourt is well, and is already enjoying
the gaieties of Paris. Three-fourths of the
letter are occupied with the baby. When I
wrote to her I signed myself ' yours affectionately.'
Stella signs 'yours sincerely,'
It is a trifle, I dare say  but I feel it, for all
that.

Matilda is faithful to her engagement ;
Matilda's letter tells me the truth.

Since the birth of the baby,' she writes,
Mrs. Romayne has never once mentioned
your name ; she can talk of nothing, and
think of nothing, but her child. I make
every allowance, I hope, for a lady in her
melancholy situation. But I do think it is
not very grateful to have quite forgotten
Mr. Winterfield, who has done so much for
her, and who only asks to pass a few hours

of his day innocently in her society. Perhaps,
being a single woman, I write ignorantly
about mothers and babies. But I
have my feelings ; and (though I never liked
Mr. Romaine) I feel for ]jour sir  if you
will forgive the familiarity. In my opinion
this new craze about the baby will wear
out. He is already a cause of difference of
opinion. My good mistress, who possesses
knowledge of the world, and a kind heart
as well, advises that Mr. Romaine should be
informed of the birth of a son and heir.
Mrs. Eyrecourt says, most truly, that the
hateful old priest will get possession of Mr.
Romaine's property, to the prejudice of the
child, unless steps are taken to shame him
into doing justice to his own son. But Mrs.
Romaine is as proud as Lucifer ; she Avill
not hear of making the first advances, as

she calls it. " The man who has deserted
me," she says, ' has no heart to be touched
either by vife or child." My mistress does
not agree with her. There have been hard
words already, and the nice old French
gentleman and his wife try to make peace.
You will smile when I tell you that they
offer sugar-plums as a sort of composing
gift. My mistress accepts the gift, and has
been to the theatre at Paris, with Monsieur
and Madame Villeray, more than once
already. To conclude, sir, if I might venture
to advise you, I should recommend trying
the effect on Mrs. E. of absence and
silence.'

A most sensibly written letter. I
shall certainly take Matilda's advice.
My name is never mentioned by Stella
and not a day has passed without my
thinking; of her !

Well, I suppose a man can harden
his heart if he likes. Let me harden
my heart, and forget her.

The crew shall have three days ashore
at Naples, and then we sail for Alexandria.
In that port the yacht will wait my return.
I have not yet visited the cataracts
of the Nile ; I have not yet seen the magnificent
mouse-coloured women of Nubia.
A tent in the desert, and a dusky daughter
of Nature to keep house for me  there
is a new life for a man who is weary of
the vapid civilisation of Europe ! I shall
begin by letting my beard grow.

Fifth Extract.

Civita Vecchia, February 28, 18G3.
Back aain on the coast of Italy 

after an absence, at sea and ashore, of
nine months !

What have my travels done for me?
They have made me browner and thinner ;
they have given me a more patient mind,
and a taste for mild tobacco. Have they
helped me to forget Stella ? Not the least
in the world  I am more eager than ever
to see her again. When I look back at
my diary I am really ashamed of my own
fretfulness and impatience. What miserable
vanity on my part to expect her to
think of me, when she was absorbed in
the first cares and joys of maternity ; especially
sacred to her, poor soul, as the
one consolation of her melancholy life \
I withdraw all that I wrote about her 
and from the bottom of my heart I forgive
the baby.

Rome March 1.  I have found my
letters waiting for me at the office of my
banker.

The latest news from St. Germain is all
that I could wish. In acknowledging the
receipt of my last letter from Cairo (I broke
my rash vow of silence when we got into
port, after leaving Naples) Stella sends me
the long desired invitation. ' Pray take
care to return to us, dear Bernard, before
the first anniversary of my boy's birthday,
on the twenty-seventh of March.' After
those words lie need feel no apprehension
of my being late at my appointment.
Traveller  the dog has well merited his
name by this time  will have to bid good-bye
to the yacht (which he loves), and journey
homeward by the railway (which he hates).

No more risk of storms and delays for me.
Good-bye to the sea for one while.

I have sent the news of my safe return
from the East, by telegraph. But I must
not be in too great a hurry to leave Eome,
or I shall commit a serious error  I shall
disappoint Stella's mother.

Mrs. Eyrecourt writes to me earnestly,
requesting, if I return by way of Italy, that
I will get her some information about
Romaine. She is eager to know whether
they have made him a priest yet. I am
also to discover, if I can, what are his prospects
 whether he is as miserable as he
deserves to be  whether he has been disappointed
in his expectations, and is likely
to be brought back to his senses in that way
and, above all, whether Father Sewell is
still at Eome with him. My idea is that

VOL. III. N

Mrs. Eyrecourt has not given up lier design
of making Romaine acquainted with the
birth of his son.

The right person to apply to for information
is evidently my banker. He has been
a resident in Eome for twenty years  but
he is too busy a man to be approached, by
an idler like myself, in business hours. I
have asked him to dine with me tomorrow.

March 2.  My guest has just left me.
I am afraid Mrs. Eyrecourt weill be sadly
disappointed when she hears what I have to
tell her.

The moment I mentioned Romaine's
name, the banker looked at me with an expression
of surprise. ' The man most talked
about in Eome,' he said ; ' I wonder you
have not heard of him already.'

Is lie a priest ? '

Certainly ! And, what is more, the
ordinary preparations for the priesthood
were expressly shortened by high authority
on his account. The Pope takes the greatest
interest in him ; and as for the people, the
Italians have already nicknamed him " the
young cardinal." Don't suppose, as some of
our countrymen do, that he is indebted to
his wealth for the high position which he
has already attained. His wealth is only one
of the minor influences in his favour. The
truth is, he unites in himself two opposite
qualities, both of the greatest value to the
Church, which are very rarely found combined
in the same man. He has already
made a popular reputation here, as a most
eloquent and convincing preacher '

A preacher ! ' I exclaimed. ' And a

N 2

popular reputation ! How do the Italians
understand him ? '

The banker looked puzzled.

Why shouldn't they understand a man
who addresses them in their own language ? '
he said. ' Romaine could speak Italian
when he came here  and since that time he
has learnt by constant practice to think in.
Italian. While our Eoman season lasts, he
preaches alternately in Italian and in English.
But I was speaking of the two opposite
accomplishments which this remarkable
man possesses. Out of the pulpit, he is
capable of applying his mind successfully to
the political necessities of the Church. As
I am told, his intellect has had severe practical
training, by means of historical studies,
in the past years of his life. Anyhow, in
one of the diplomatic difficulties here between

the Chiircli and the State, he wrote a
memorial on the subject, which the Cardinal-secretary
declared to be a model of ability
in applying the experience of the past to the
need of the present time. If he doesn't
wear himself out, his Italian nickname
may prove prophetically true. We may
live to see the new convert, Cardinal
Romaine.'

Are you acquainted with him yourself ? '
I asked.

No Englishman is acquainted with him,'
the banker answered. ' There is a report of
some romantic event in his life which has
led to his leaving England, and which
makes him recoil from intercourse with his
own nation. Whether this is true or false,
it is certain that the English in Rome find
him unapproachable. I have even heard

that he refuses to receive letters from England.
If you wish to see hmi, you must do.
what I have done  you must go to church
and look at him in the pulpit. He preaches
in English  I think for the last time this
season  on Thursday evening next. Shall I
call here and take you to the church ? '

If I had followed my inclinations, I
should have refused. I feel no sort of interest
in Romayne  I might even say I feel
a downright antipathy towards him. But I
have no wish to appear insensible to the
banker's kindness, and my reception at St.
Germain depends greatly on the attention I
show to Mrs. Eyrecourt's request. So it
was arranged that I should hear the great
preacher  with a mental reservation on my
part, which contemplated my departure from
the (church before the end of his sermon.

But, before I see him, I feel assured of
one thing  especially after what the banker
has told me. Stella's view of his character
is the right one. The man who has deserted
her has no heart to be touched by wife or
child. They are separated for ever.

March o.  I have just seen the landlord
of the hotel ; he can help me to answer
one of Mrs. Eyrecourt's questions. A
nephew of his holds some employment at
the Jesuit head-quarters here, adjoining their
famous church // Jesu. I have requested
the young man to ascertain if Father Ben we 11
is still in Eome  without mentioning me.
It would be no small trial to my self-control
if we met in the street.

March 4.  Good news this time for

Mrs. Eyrecourt, so far as it goes. Father
Sewell has long since left Eome, and has
returned to his regular duties in England.
If he exercises any further influence over
Romaine, it must be done by letter.

March 5.  I have returned from
Romaine's sermon. This double renegade
has he not deserted his religion and his
wife ?  has failed to convince my reason.
But he has so completely upset my nerves,
that I ordered a bottle of champagne (to
the great amusement of my friend the
banker) the moment we got back to the
hotel.

We drove through the scantily lighted
streets of Eome to a small church in the
neighbourhood of the Piazza Navona. To a
more imaginative man than myself, the scene

when we entered the building would have
been too impressive to be described in words
though it might perhaps have been
painted. The one light in the place
glimmered mysteriously from a great wax
candle, burning in front of a drapery of
black cloth, and illuminating dimly a
sculptured representation, in white marble,
of the crucified Christ, wrought to the size
of life. In front of this ghastly emblem a
platform projected, also covered with black
cloth. We could penetrate no further than
to the space just inside the door of the
church. Everywhere else the building was
filled with standing, sitting, and kneeling
figures, shadowy and mysterious, fading away
in far corners into impenetrable gloom. The
only sounds were the low wailing notes
of the organ, accompanied at intervals

by the muffled thump of fanatic worshippers
penitentially beating their breasts.
On a sudden the organ ceased ; the self-inflicted
blows of the penitents were heard
no more. In the breathless silence that
followed, a man robed in black mounted the
black platform, and faced the congregation.
His hair had become prematurely grey ; his
face was of the ghastly paleness of the great
crucifix at his side. The light of the candle,
falling on him as he slowly turned his head,
cast shadows into the hollows of his cheeks,
and glittered in his gleaming eyes. In tones
low and trembling at first, he stated the
subject of his address. A week since, two-noteworthy
persons had died in Eome on
the same day. One of them was a woman
of exemplary piety, whose funeral obsequies
had been celebrated in that church. The

other was a criminal charged with homicide
under provocation, who had died in prison,,
refusing the services of the priest  impenitent
to the last. The sermon followed
the spirit of the absolved woman to its
eternal reward in heaven, and described the
meeting with dear ones who had gone before,
in terms so devout and so touching that
the women near us, and even some of the
men, burst into tears. Far different was the
effect produced wien the preacher, filled
with the same overpowering sincerity of
belief which had inspired his description of
the joys of heaven, traced the downward
progress of the lost man, from his impenitent
death-bed to his doom in hell. The dreadful
superstition of everlasting torment became
doubly dreadful in the priest's fervent words.
He described the retributive voices of the

mother and the brother of the murdered
man ringing incessantly in the ears of the
homicide. ' I, who speak to you, hear the
voices,' he cried. ' Assassin! assassin! where
are you ? I see him  I see the assassin
hurled into his place in the sleepless ranks
of the damned  I see him, dripping with
the flames that burn for ever, writhing under
the torments that are without respite and
without end.' The climax of this terrible
effort of imagination was reached when he
fell on his knees and prayed with sobs and
cries of entreaty  prayed, pointing to the
crucifix at his side  that he and all who
heard him might die the death of penitent
sinners, absolved in the divinely atoning
name of Christ. The hysterical shrieks of
women rang through the church. I could
endure it no longer. I hurried into the

street, and breathed again freely, when I
looked up at the cloudless beauty of the
night sky, bright with the peaceful radiance
of the stars.

And this man was Romaine ! I had
last met with him among his delightful
works of art ; an enthusiast in literature ;
the hospitable master of a house filled with
comforts and luxuries to its remotest corner.
And now I had seen what Eome had made
of him.

Yes,' said my companion, ' the Ancient
Church not only finds out the men who can
best serve it, but develops qualities in those
men of which they have been themselves
unconscious. The advance which Eoman
Catholic Christianity has been, and is still,
making has its intelligible reason. Thanks
to the great Reformation, the papal scandals

of past centuries have been atoned for by the
exemplary lives of servants of the Church, in
high places and low places alike. If a new
Luther arose among us, where would he now
find abuses sufficiently wicked and widely
spread to shock the sense of decency in
Christendom ? He would find them nowhere
and he would probably return to the
respectable shelter of the Eoman sheepfold.'


I listened, without making any remark.
To tell the truth, I was thinking of Stella.

March 6.  I have been to Civita
Vecchia, to give a little farewell entertainment
to the officers and crew before they
take the yacht back to England.

In a few words I said at parting, I mentioned
that it was my purpose to make an

offer for the purchase of the vessel, and that
my guests should hear from me again on the
subject. This announcement was received
with enthusiasm. I really like my crew  -
and I don't think it is vain in me to believe
that they return the feeling, from the sailing-master
to the cabin-boy. My future life,
after all that has passed, is likely to be a

roving life, unless No ! I may think

sometimes of that happier prospect, but I
had better not put my thoughts into words.
I have a fine vessel; I have plenty of
money ; and I like the sea. There are three
good reasons for buying the yacht.

Eeturning to Eome in the evening, I
found waiting for me a letter from Stella.

She writes (immediately on the receipt
of my telegram) to make a similar request to
the request addressed to me by her mother.

Now that I am at Eome, she too wants to
hear news of a Jesuit priest. He is absent
on a foreign mission, and his name is Penrose.
'You shall hear what obligations I
owe to his kindness,' she writes, ' when we
meet. In the meantime, I will only say-that
he is the exact opposite of Father
Sewell, and that I should be the most
ungrateful of women if I did not feel the
truest interest in his welfare.'

This is strange, and, to my mind, not
satisfactory. Who is Penrose? and what
has he done to deserve such strong expressions
of gratitude ? If anybody had
told me that Stella could make a friend of
a Jesuit, I am afraid I should have returned
a rude answer. Well, I must wait for
further enlightenment, and apply to the
landlord's nephew once more.

March 7.  there is small prospect, I
fear, of my being able to appreciate the
merits of Mr. Penrose by personal experience.
He is thousands of miles away from
Europe, and he is in a situation of peril,
which makes the chance of his safe return
doubtful in the last degree.

The Mission to which he is attached was
originally destined to fid its field of work
in Central America. Rumours of more
fighting to come, in that revolutionary part
of the world, reached Eome before the
missionaries had sailed from the port of
Leghorn. Under these discouraging]: circumstances,
the priestly authorities changed the
destination of the Mission to the territory of
Arizona, bordering on New Mexico, and
recently purchased by the United States.
Here, in the valley of Santa Cruz, the

VOL. III. O

Jesuits had first attempted the conversion
of the Indian tribes two hundred years
since, and had failed. Their mission-house
and chapel are now a heap of ruins, and
the ferocious Apache Indians keep the fertile
valley a solitude by the mere terror of their
name. To this ill-omened place Penrose
and his companions have made their daring-pilgrimage
; and they are now risking their
lives in the attempt to open the hearts of
these bloodthirsty savages to the influence of
Christianity. Nothing has been yet heard
of them. At the best, no trustworthy news
is expected for months to come.

What will Stella say to this ? Anyhow,
I begin to understand her interest in
Penrose now. He is one of a company of
heroes. I am already anxious to hear more
of him.

To-morrow will be a memorable day in
my calendar. To-morrow I leave Eome for
St. Germain.

If anv further information is to be gained
for Mrs. Eyrecourt and her daughter, I have
made the necessary arrangements for receiving
it. The banker has promised to
write to me, if there is a change in Eo-maine's
life and prospects. And my landlord
v/ill take care that I hear of it, in the
event of news reaching Eome from the
Mission at Arizona.

&xih Detract.

St. Germain March 14.  I arrived
yesterday. Between the fatigue of the journey
and the pleasurable agitation caused by
seeing Stella again, I was unfit to make the


customary entry in my diary when I retired
for the night.

She is more irresistibly beautiful than ever.
Her figure (a little too slender as I remember
it) has filled out. Her lovely fi\ce has lost
its haggard, careworn look ; her complexion
has recovered its delicacy ; I see again in
her eyes the pure serenity of expression
which first fascinated me, years since. It
may be due to the consoling influence of the
child  assisted, perhaps, by the lapse of
time and the peaceful life which she now
leads  but this at least is certain, such a
change for the better I never could have
imagined as the change I find in Stella after
a year's absence.

As for the baby, he is a bright, good-humoured
little fellow ; and he has one
great merit in my estimation  he bears no

resemblance to his father. I saw his mother's
features when I first took him on my knee,
and looked at his face, lifted to mme in
grave surprise. The baby and I are certain
to set on well together.

Even Mrs. Eyrccourt seems to have improved
in the French air, and under the
French diet. She has a better surface to lay
the paint on ; her nimble tongue runs faster
than ever ; and she has so completely
]recovered her good spirits, that Monsieur
and Madame Yilleray declare she must have
French blood in her veins. They were all
so unaffectedly glad to see me (Matilda
included), that it was really like returning
to one's home. As for Traveller, I must interfere
(in the interests of his figure and
his health) to prevent everybody in the
house from feeding him with every eatable

tiling, from ])laiii bread to j)dte de foie
gras.

My experience of to-day will, as Stella
tells me, be my general experience of the
family life at St. Germain.

We beixin the mornings with the customary
cup of coffee. At eleven o'clock I am
summoned from my ' pavilion ' of three
rooms to one of those delicious and artfully-varied
breakfasts which are only to be
found in France and in Scotland. An
interval of about three hours follows, during
which the child takes his airing and his
siesta, and his elders occupy themselves as
they please. At three o'clock we all go
out  with a pony chaise which carries the
weaker members of the household  for a
ramble in the forest. At six o'clock we
assemble at the dinner-table. At coffee

time, some of the neighbours drop in for a
game at cards. At ten, we all \\\A\ each
other good-night.

Such is the domestic programme, varied
by excursions in the country and by occasional
visits to Paris. I am naturally a man
of quiet stay-at-home habits. It is only
when my i]iind is disturbed that I get restless
and feel longings for change. Surely the
quiet routine at St. Germain ought to be
welcome to me now ? I have been looking
forward to this life through a long year
of travel. What more can I wish for ?

Nothing more, of course.

And yet  and yet  Stella has innocently
made it harder than ever to play the part of
her ' brother.' The recovery of her beauty
is a subject for congratulation to her mother
and her friends. How does it affect Me .

I had better not think of my hard fate.
Can I help thinking of it ? Can I dismiss
from memory the unmerited misfortunes
which have taken from me, in the prime of
her charms, the-woman whom I love ? At
least I can try.

The good old moral must be my
moral :  'Be content with such things as ye
have.'

March 15.  It is eight in the morning
and I hardly know how to employ myself.
Having finished my coffee, I have just looked
again at my diary.

It strikes me that I am falling into a bad
habit of writing too much about myself.
The custom of keeping a journal certainly
has this drawback  it encourages egotism.
Well ! the remedy is easy. From this date.

I lock up tiny book  only to open it again
"vvlien some event has happened which has a
claim to be recorded for its own sake. As
for myself and ray feelings, they have made
their last appearance in these pages.

Seventh Extract.

June 7.  The occasion for opening
my diary once more has presented itself
this morning.

News has reached me of Romaine,
which is too important to be passed over
without notice. He has been appointed one
of the Pope's Chamberlains. It is also
reported, on good authority, that he will be
attached to a Papal embassy \'hen a vacancy
occurs. These honours, present and to
come, seem to remove him farther than ever

from the possibility of a return to Lis wife
and child.

June 8.  In regard to Romaine, Mrs.
Eyrecourt seems to be of my opinion.

Being in Paris to-day, at a morning
concert, she there met with her old friend,
Doctor Wybrow. The famous physician is
suffering from overwork, and is on his way
to Italy for a few months of rest and
recreation. They took a drive together,
after the performance, in the Bois de
Boulogne ; and Mrs. Eyrecourt opened her
mind to the doctor, as freely as usual, on
the subject of Stella and the child. He
entirely agreed (speaking in the future
interests of the boy) that precious time has
been lost in informing Romaine of the birth
of an heir ; and he has promised, no matter

vliat obstacles may be placed in his way, to
make the announcement himself, when he
reaches Eome.

June 0.  Madame Villeray has been
speaking to me confidentially on a very
delicate subject.

I am pledged to discontinue writing
about myself. But in these private ]sages I
may note the substance of what my good
friend said to me. If I only look back often
enough at this little record, I may gather
the resolution to profit by her advice. In
brief, these were her words : 

Stella has spoken to me in confidence,
since she met you accidentally in the garden
yesterday. She cannot be guilty of the poor
affectation of concealing what you must
have already discovered for yourself. But

lie prefers to say the words that must be
said to you, through me. Ilcr husband's
conduct to her is an outrage that she can
never forget. She now looks back with
sentiments of repulsion, which she dare not
describe, to that " love at first sight " (as
you call it in England), conceived on the
day when they first met  and she remembers
regretfully that other love, of years since,
which was love of steadier and slower
growth. To her shame she confesses that
she failed to set you the example of duty
and self-restraint when you two happened
to be alone yesterday. She leaves it to my
discretion to tell you that you must see her
for the future, always in the presence of
some other person. Make no reference to
this when you next meet ; and understand
that she lias only spoken to me instead of to

her mother, because she fears that Mrs.
Eyrecourt might use harsh words, and
distress you again, as lie once distressed you
in England. If you will take my advice,
you will ask permission to go away again on
your travels

It matters nothing what I said in repl3\
Let me only relate that we were interrupted
by the appearance of the nursemaid at the
pavilion door.

She led the child by the hand. Among
his first efforts at speaking, under his
mother's instruction, had been the effort to
call me Uncle Bernard. He had now got
as far as the first syllable of my Christian
name, and he had come to me to repeat his
lesson. Resting his little hands on my
knees, he looked up at me with Diis mother's
eyes, and said, ' Uncle I3er'.' A trifling

incident, but, at that moment, it cut me to
he heart. I could only take the boy in my

arms, and look at Madame Yilleray. The

<70od woman felt for me. I saw tears in her

eyes.

No I no more writing about-myself. I

close the book again.

Eighth Extract

July 3.  A letter has reached Mrs.
Eyrecourt this morning, from Doctor
Wybrow. It is dated, ' Castel Randolph,
near Eome.' Here the doctor is established
during" the hot months  and here lie has
seen Romaine, in attendance on the ' Holy
Father,' in the famous summer palace of the
Popes. How he obtained the interview Mrs.
Eyrecourt is not informed. To a man of his

celebrity, doors are no doubt opened Which
remain closed to persons less widely known.
'I have performed my promise,' he
writes, ' and I may say for myself that I
spoke with every needful precaution. The
result a little startled me. Romaine was
not merely unprepared to hear of the birth
of his child  he was physically and morally
incapable of sustaining the shock of the
disclosure. For the moment, I thought he
had been seized with a lit of catalepsy. He
moved, however, when I tried to take his
hand to feel the pulse  shrinking back in
his chair, and feebly signing to me to leave
him. I committed him to the care of Diis
servant. The next day I received a letter
from one of his priestly colleagues, informing
me that he was slowly recovering after the
shock that I had inflicted, and requesting me

to hold no further communication with him,
either personally or by letter. I wish I
could have sent you a more favourable
report of my interference in this painful
matter. Perhaps you or your daughter may
hear from him.'

July 4-9.  Xo letter has been received.
Mrs. Eyrecourt is uneasy. Stella, on the
contrary, seems to be relieved.

Juhj 10.  A letter has arrived from
London, addressed to Stella by Romaine's
English lawyers. The income which Mrs.
Romaine has refused for herself is to be
legally settled on her child. Technical
particulars follow, wliicli it is needless to
repeat here.

By return of post, Stella has answered

the lawyers, declaring that, so long as she
lives, and has any influence over her son, he
shall not touch the offered income. Mrs.
Eyrecourt, Monsieur and Madame Villeray 
and even Matilda  entreated her not to send
the letter. To my thinking, Stella acted
with becoming spirit. Though there is no
entail, still Range Abbey is morally the
boy's birthright it is a cruel wrong to
offer him anything else.

July 11.  For the second time I have
proposed to leave St. Germain. The presence
of the third person, whenever I am in her
company, is becoming unendurable to me.
She still uses her influence to defer my
departure. ' Nobody sympathises with me
she said, ' but you.'

I am failing to keep my promise to

VOL. III. P

myself, not to sprite about myself. Eut there
is some little excuse this time. For the relief
of my OAVii conscience, I may surely place it
on record that I have tried to do what is
right. It is not my soult if I remain at
St. Germain, insensible to Madame Villeray's

Ninth Extract

September 13.  Terrible news from Eome
of the Jesuit Mission to Arizona.

The Indians have made a night attack
on the new mission-house. The building
is burnt to the around, and the missionaries
have been massacred  with the exception of
two priests, carried away captive. Tie
names of the priests are not known. News
of the atrocity lias been delayed four months

on its way to Europe, owing partly to the
civil war in the United States, and partly to
disturbances in Central America.

Looking at the * Times ' (which we receive
regularly at St. Germain), I found this
.statement confirmed in a short paragraph 
but here also the names of the two prisoners
failed to appear.

Our one present hope of getting any
further information seems to me to depend
on orr English newspaper. The 'Times'
stands alone as the one public journal which
has the whole English nation for volunteer
contributors. In their troubles at home,
they appeal to the Editor. In their travels
abroad, over civilised and savage regions
alike, if they meet with an adventure worth
mentioning they tell it to the Editor. If anyone
of our countrymen knows anything of
r 2

this dreadful massacre, I foresee with certainty
where we shall find the information in
print.

Soon after my arrival here, Stella had
told me of her memorable conversation with
Penrose in the garden at Ten Acres Lodge.
I was well acquainted with the nature of her
obligation to the young priest, but I was
not prepared for the outbreak of grief which
escaped her when she had read the telegram
from Eome. She actually went the length
of saying, ' I shall never enjoy another happy
moment till I know whether Penrose is one
of the two living priests ! '

The inevitable third ]person with us, this
morning, was Monsieur Yilleray. Sitting at
the window with a book in his hand  sometimes
reading, sometimes looking at the
garden with the eye of a fond horticulturist

he discovered a strange cat among his
flower beds. Forgetful of every other consideration,
the old gentleman hobbled out
to drive away the intruder, and left us
together.

I spoke to Stella, in words which I would
now give everything I possess to recall. A
detestable jealousy took possession of me.
I meanly hinted that Penrose could claim no
great merit (in the matter of Romaine's conversion)
for yielding to the entreaties of a
beautiful woman who lead fascinated him,
though he might be afraid to own it. She
protested against my unworthy insinuation 
but she failed to make me ashamed of myself.
Is a woman ever ignorant of the influence
which her beauty exercises over a man ? I
went on, like the miserable creature that
I was, from bad to worse.

Excuse me,' I said, ' if I have unintentionally
made you angry. I ought to have
known that I was treading on delicate ground.
Your interest in Penrose may be due to a
warmer motive than a sense of obligation.'

She turned avay from me  sadly, not
angrily  intending, as it appeared, to leave
the room in silence. Arrived at the door,
she adhered her mind, and came back.

Even if you insult me, Bernard, I am
not able to resent it,' she said, very gently.
/ once wronged you  I have no right to
complain of your now wronging me. I will
try to forget it.'

She held out her hand. She raised her
eyes  and looked at me.

It was not her fault ; I alone am to
blame. In another moment she was in my
arms. I held her to my breast  I felt the

quick beating of her heart on me  I poured
out the wild confession of ray sorrow, my
shame, my love  I tasted again and again,
and again the sweetness of her lips. She put
lier arms round my neck, and drew her head
back with a long sigh. ' Ee merciful to my
weakness,' she whispered. ' We must meet
no more.'

She pushed me back from her, with a
trembling hand, and left the room.

I have broken my resolution not to write
about myself  but there is no egotism, there
is a sincere sense of humiliation in me, when I
record this confession of misconduct. I can
make but one atonement  I must at once
leave St. Germain. Stow, when it is too late,
I feel how hard for me this life of constant
repression has been.

Thus far I had Avritten, when the nursemaid

brought me a little note, addressed ia
pencil. No answer was required.

The few lines were in Stella's handwriting
:  ' You must not leave us too
suddenly, or you may excite my mother's
suspicions. Wait until you receive letters
from England, and make them the pretext for
your departure.  S.'

I never thought of her mother. She is
right. Even if she were wrong, I must obey
her.

September 14.  The letters from England
have arrived. One of them presents
me with the necessary excuse for my departure,
ready made. My proposal for the
purchase of the yacht is accepted. The
sailing-master and crew have refused all
offers of en2rn2:ement, and are waitinf] at

Cowes for my orders. Here is an absolute
necessity for my return to England.

The newspaper arrived with the letters.
My anticipations have been realised. Yesterday's
paragraph has produced another
volunteer contributor. An Englishman just
returned from Central America, after travelling
in Arizona, writes to the ' Times.' He
publishes his name and address  and he
declares that he has himself seen the two
captive priests.

The name of this correspondent carries
its own guarantee with it. He is no less a
person than Mr. Murthwaite  the well-known
traveller in India, who discovered
the lost diamond called ' The Moonstone,'
set in the forehead of a Hindoo idol. He
writes to the editor as follows : 

'Sir,  I can tell you something of the

two Jesuit priests who were the sole survivors
of the massacre iu the Santa Cruz
Valley four months since.

I was travelling at the time in Arizona,
under the protection of an Apache chief,
bribed to show me his country and his
nation (instead of cutting my throat and
tearing off my scalp) by a present tribute of
whisky and gunpowder, and by the promise
of more when our association came to an
end.

'About twelve miles northward of the
little silver-mining town of Tubal we came
upon an Apache encampment. I at once
discovered two white men among the
Indians. These were the captive priests.

One of them was a Frenchman, named
L'Herbier. The other was an Englishman,

named Penrose. They owed their lives to
the influence of two powerful considerations
among the Indians. Unhappy L'Herbier
lost his senses under the horror of the night
massacre. Insanity, as you may have heard,
is a sacred thing in the estimation of the
American savages: they regard this poor
madman as a mysteriously-inspired person.
The other priest, Penrose, had been in charge
of the mission medicine-chest, and had
successfully treated cases of illness among the
Apaches. As a "great medicine-man," he
too is a privileged person  under the strong
protection of their interest in their own
health. The lives of the prisoners are in
no danger, provided they can endure the
hardship of their slandering existence among
the Indians. Penrose spoke to me with the

resignation of a true hero. " I am in the
hands of God," he said ; " and if I die, I die
in God's service."

I was entirely unprovided with the
means of ransoming the missionaries  and
nothing that I could say, or that I could
promise, had the smallest effect on the
savages. But for severe and tedious illness,
I should long since have been on my way
back to Arizona with the necessary ransom.
As it is, I am barely strong enough to write
this letter. But I can head a subscription
to pay expenses ; and I can give instructions
to any person who is willing to attempt the
deliverance of the priests.'

So the letter ended.

Before I had read it, I was at a loss to
know where to go, or what to do, when I
leave St. Germain. I am now at no loss.

I have foimd an object in life, and a means
of making atonement to Stella for my own
ungracious and unworthy words. Already
I have communicated by telegraph with
Mr. Murthwaite and with my sailing-master.
The first is informed that I hope
to be with him, in London, to-morrow
morning. The second is instructed to have
the yacht fitted out immediately for a long
voyage. If I can save these men  especially
Penrose  I shall not have lived in vain.

London September 15.  Xo. I have
resolution enough to go to Arizona, but I
have no courage to record the parting scene
when it was time to say good-bye.

I had intended to keep the comines
enterprise a secret, and only to make the
disclosure in writing when the vessel was

ready to sail. But, after reading the letter
to the ' Times,' Stella saw something in my
face (as I suppose) that betrayed me. Well,
it's over now. I do my best to keep myself
from thinking of it  and, for this reason, I
abstain from dwelling on the subject here.

Mr. Murthwaite has not only given me
valuable instructions  he has provided me
with letters of introduction to persons in
office, and to the padres (or priests) in
Mexico, which will be of incalculable use in
such an expedition as mine. In the present
disturbed condition of the United States, he
recommends me to sail for a port on the
eastern coast of Mexico, and then to travel
northward overland, and make my first
inquiries in Arizona at the town of Tubal.
Time is of such importance, in his opinion,
that he suggests making inquiries in

London and Liverpool for a merchant vessel
under immediate sailing orders for Vera
Cruz or Tampico. The fitting-out of the
yacht cannot be accomplished, I find, in
less than a fortnight or tlnee weeks.
I have therefore taken ]vir. Murthwaite's
advice.

September 16.  No favourable answer,
so far as the port of London is concerned.
Very little commerce with Mexico, and bad
harbours in that country when you do trade.
Such Is the report.

September 17.  A Mexican brig has
]been discovered at Liverpool, under orders
for Vera Cruz. But the vessel is in debt,
and the date of departure depends on expected
remittances ! In this state of things

I may wait, with my conscience at ease,
to sail in comfort on board my own
schooner.

September 18-30.  I have settled my
affairs ; I have taken leave of my friends
(good Mr. Murthwaite included) ; I have
written cheerfully to Stella ; and I sail
from Portsmouth to morrow, well provided
with the jars of whisky and the kegs of
gunpowder which will effect the release of
the captives.

It is strange, considering the serious
matters I have to think of, but it is also true,
that I feel out of spirits at the prospect of
leaving England without my travelling companion,
the dog. I am afraid to take the
dear old fellow with me, on such a perilous
expedition as mine may be. Stella takes

care of him  and, if I don't live to return,
she will never part with him, for his master's
sake. It impHes a childish sort of mind, I
suppose  but it is a comfort to me to remember
that I have never said a hard word
to Traveller, and never Hated my hand on
him in anger.

All this about a dog ! And not a word
about Stella ? Not a word. Those thoughts
are not to be written.

I have reached the last page of my
diary. I shall lock it, and leave it in charge
of my bankers, on my way to the Portsmouth
train. Shall I ever want a new diary?
Superstitious people might associate this
coming to the end of the book with coming
to an end of another kind. I have no
imagination, and I take my leap in the dark

VOL. III. Q

hopefully  with Byron's glorious lines in my

mind :

Here's a sigh to those who love me,
And a smile to those that hate ;
And whatever sky's above me,
Here's heart for every fate !

(An enclosure is inserted here, marking
a lapse of seven months, before the entries
in the diary are resumed. It consists of
two telegrams, despatched respectively on
the 1st and 2nd of May, 1864.)

1. ' From Bernard Winterfield, Portsmouth,
England. To Mrs. Romaine, care
of M. Villeray, St. Germain, near Paris. 
Penrose is safe on board my yacht. His unfortunate
companion has died of exhaustion,
and he is himself in a feeble state of health.
I at once take him with me to London for
medical advice. We are eager for news of
you. Telegraph to Derwent's Hotel.'

2. 'From Mrs. Eyrecourt, St. Germain.
To Bernard Winteriield, Derwent's Hotel,
London.  Your telegram received with joy,
and sent on to Stella in Paris. All well.
But strange events have happened. If you
cannot come here at once, go to Lord
Loring. He will tell you everything.'

Tefnih Extract.

London 2nd May., 1864.  Mrs. Eyre-court's
telegram reached me just after
Doctor Wybrow lead paid his first professional
visit to Penrose, at the hotel. I had hardly
time to feel relieved by the opinion of the
case which he expressed, before my mind
was upset by Mrs. Eyrecourt. Leaving
Penrose under the charge of our excellent
landlady, I hurried away to Lord Loring.
Q 2

It was still early in the day : his lordship
was at home. He maddened me with
impatience by apologising at full length for
'the inexcusable manner in which he had
misinterpreted my conduct on the deplorable
occasion of the marriage ceremony at
Brussels.' I stopped his flow of words
(very earnestly spoken, it is only right to
add), and entreated him to tell me, in the
first place, what Stella was doing in Paris.

Stella is with her husband,' Lord
Loring replied.

My head turned giddy, my heart beat
furiously. Lord Loring looked at me  ran
to the luncheon table in the next room 
and returned with a glass of wine. I really
don't know whether I drank the wine or not.
I know I stammered out another inquiry in
one word.

Reconciled ? ' I said.

Yes, Mr. Winterfield  reconciled, be-tore
he dies.'

We were both silent for awhile.

What was he thinking of? I don't
know. What was I thinking of? I aren't
write it down.

Lord Loring resumed by expressing some
anxiety on the subject of my health. I made
the best excuse for myself that I could, and
told him of the rescue of Penrose. He had
heard of my object in leaving England, and
heartily congratulated me. 'This will be
welcome news indeed,' he said, 'to Father
Sewell.'

Even the name of Father Sewell now
excites my distrust. ' Is he in Paris too ? ' 1
inquired.

'He left Paris last night,' Lord Loring

answered ; ' and he is now in London, on
important business (as I understand) connected
with Eoraayne's affairs.'

I instantly thought of the boy.

Is Romaine in possession of his faculties
? ' I asked.

In complete possession.'

While justice is in his power, has hc
done justice to his son ? '

Lord Lorino; looked a little confused.
I have not heard,' was all he said in reply.

I was far from satisfied. ' You are one
of Romaine's oldest friends,' I persisted.
Have you not seen him yourself ? '

I have seen him more than once. But
he has never referred to his affairs.' Having
said this he hastily changed the subject. ' Is
there any other information that I can give
you ? ' he suggested.

I had still to learn under what circumstances
Romaine had left Italy for France,
and how the event of his illness in Paris had
been communicated to his wife. Lord
Loring had only to draw on his own recollections
to enlighten me.

'Lady Loring and I passed the last
winter in Eome,' he said. ' And, there, we
saw Romaine. You look surprised. Perhaps
you are aware that we had offended
him, by advice which we thought it our
duty to offer to Stella before her marriage
? '

I was certainly thinking of what Stella
had said of the Lorings on the memorable
day when she visited me at the hotel.

'Romaine would probably have refused
to receive us,' Lord Loring resumed, 'but
for the gratifying circumstance of my having

been admitted to an interview with the Pope.
The Holy Father spoke of him With the most
condescending kindness ; and, hearing that I
had not yet seen him, gave instructions,
commanding Romaine to present himself.
Under these circumstances it was impossible
for him to refuse to receive Lady Loring and
myself on a later occasion. I cannot tell you
how distressed ux were at the sad change
for the worse in his personal appearance.
The Italian physician, whom he occasionally
consulted, told me that there was a weakness
in the action of his heart, produced, in
the first instance, by excessive study and the
excitement of preaching, and aggravated by
the further drain on his strength due to insufficient
nourishment. He would eat and
drink just enough to keep him alive, and no
more ; and he persistently refused to try the

good influence of rest and chancre of scene.
My wife, at a later interview with him, when
they were alone, induced him to throw aside
the reserve which he had maintained with
me, and discovered another cause for the
deterioration in his health. I don't refer to
the return of a nervous misery, from which
he has suffered at intervals for years past ; I
speak of the effect produced on his mind by
the announcement  made no doubt with the
best intentions by Doctor Wybrow  of the
birth of his child. This disclosure (he was
entirely ignorant of his wife's situation when
he left her) appears to have affected him far
more seriously than the English doctor supposed.
Lady Loring was so shocked at what
he said to her on the subject, that she has
only repeated it to me with a certain reserve.
If I could believe I did wrong," he said.

in dedicating myself to the service of the
Church, after the overthrow of my domestic
happiness, I should also believe that the
birth of this child was the retributive punishment
of my sin, and the warning of my approaching
death. I daie not take this view.
And yet I have it not in me, after the
solemn vows by which I am bound, to place
any more consoling interpretation on an
event which, as a priest, it disturbs and
humiliates me even to think of." That one
revelation of his tone of thought will tell you
what is the mental state of this unhappy man.
He gave us little encouragement to continue
our friendly intercourse with him. It was
only when we were thinking of our return to
England that we heard of his appointment to
the vacant place of first attache to the
embassy at Paris. The Pope's paternal

anxiety on the subject of Romaine's health
had chosen this wise and generous method of
obliging him to try a sanitary change of air,
as well as a relaxation from his incessant
employments in Eome. On the occasion of
his departure we met again. He looked like
a worn-out old man. We could now only
remember his double claim on us  as a
priest of our religion, and as a once dear
friend  and we arranged to travel with him.
The weather at the time was mild ; our
progress was made by easy stages. We left
him at Paris, apparently the better for his
journey.'

I asked if they had seen Stella on that
occasion.

No,' said Lord Loring. ' We had
reason to doubt whether Stella would be
pleased to see us, and we felt reluctant ta

meddle, unasked, with a matter of extreme
delicacy. I arranged with the Nuncio (whom
I have the honour to know) that we should
receive written information of Romaine's
state of health, and on that understanding
we returned to England. A week since, our
news from the Embassy was so alarming that
Lady Loring at once returned to Paris,
Her first letter informed me that she had
felt it her duty to tell Stella of the critical
condition of Romaine's health. She expressed
her sense of my wife's kindness most
gratefully and feelingly, and at once removed
to Paris, to be on the spot if her husband
expressed a wish to see her. The two
ladies are now staying at the same hotel, I
have thus far been detained in London by
family affairs. But, unless I hear of a
change for the better before evening, I

follow Lady Loring to Paris by the mail
train.'

It was needless to trespass further on Lord
Loring's time. 1 thanked him, and returned
to Penrose. He was sleeping Ashen I got to
the hotel.

On the table in the sitting-room I found
a telegram waiting for me. It had been
sent by Stella, and it contained these lines : 

'I have just returned from his bedside,
after telling him of the rescue of Penrose.
He desires to see you. There is no positive
suffering  he is sinking under a complete
prostration of the forces of life. That is
what the doctors tell me. They said, when
I spoke of writing to you, " Send a telegram ;
there is no time to lose." '

Towards evening Penrose awoke. I
showed him the telegram. Throughout our

voyage, the prospect of seeing Romaine
again had been the uppermost subject iu his
thoughts. In the extremity of his distress,
he declared that he would accompany me to
Paris by the night train. Remembering
how severely he had felt the fatigue of the
short railway journey from Portsmouth, I
entreated him to let me go alone. His devotion
to Romaine was not to be reasoned
with. While we free still vainly trying
uO convince each other. Doctor Wybrow
came in.

To my amazement, he sided with Penrose.


Oh, get up by all means,' he said ; ' we
will help you to dress.' We took him out of
bed and put on his dressing-gown. He
thanked us ; and saying he would complete his
toilette by himself, sat down in an easy chair.

111 another moment he was asleep again, so
soundly asleep that we put him back in his
bed without waking him. Doctor Wybrow
had foreseen this result : he looked at the
poor fellow's pale peaceful face with a
kindly smile.

There is the treatment,' he said, ' that
will set our patient on his legs again.
Sleeping, eating, and drinking  let that be
his Hfe for some weeks to come, and he will
be as good a man as ever. If your homeward
journey had been by land, Penrose
would have died on the way. I will take
care of him while you are in Paris.'

At the station I met Lord Loring. He
understood that I too had received bad
news, and gave me a place in the couc carriage
which had been reserved for him.
We had hardly taken our seats Ashen we

saw Father Sewell among the travellers on
the platform, accompanied by a grey-haired
gentleman who was a stranger to both of
us. Lord Loring dislikes strangers. Otherwise,
I might have found myself travelling
to Paris with that detestable Jesuit for a
companion.

Paris  Srd May.  On our arrival at the
hotel I was informed that no message had
yet been received from the Embassy.

We found Lady Loring alone at the
breakfast table, when we had rested after
om* night-journey.

Romaine still lives,' she said. ' But
his voice has sunk to a whisper, and he is
unable to breathe if he tries to rest in bed.
estella lias gone to the Embassy ; she hopes
to see hiui to-day for the second time.'

Only for the second time ! ' I exclaimed.


'You forget, Mr. Winterfield, that
Romayne is a priest. He was only consecrated
on the customary condition of an
absolute separation from his wife. On her
side  never let her know that I told you
this  Stella signed a formal document, sent
from Rome, asserting that she consented of
her own free will to the separation. She
was relieved from the performance of another
formality (which I need not mention more
particularly) by a special dispensation.
Under these circumstances  communicated
to me while Stella and I have been together
in this house  the wife's presence at the
bedside of her dying husband is regarded by
the other priests at the Embassy as a scandal
and a profanation. The kindhearted Nuncio

VOL. III. R

is blamed for having exceeded his powers in
yielding (even under protest) to the last
wishes of a dying man. He is now in communication
nth Eome, waiting for the
final instructions which are to guide him.'
Has Romaine seen his child ? ' I asked.
Stella has taken the child with her today.
It is doubtful in the" last degree
whether the poor little boy will be allowed
to enter his father's room. That complication
is even more serious than the other. The
dying Romaine persists in his resolution to
see the child. So completely has his way of
thinking been altered by the approach of
death, and by the closing of the brilliant
prospect which was before him, that he even
threatens to recant, with his last breath, if
his wishes are not complied with. How it
will end I cannot even venture to o-ucss.

Unless the merciful course taken by the
Nuncio is confirmed,' said Lord Loring, * it
may end in a revival of the protest of the
Catholic priests in Germany against the prohibition
of marriage to the clergy. The
movement began in Silesia in 1826, and
was followed by unions (or Leagues, as we
should call them now) in Baden, Nuremberg,
Bavaria, and Rhenish Prussia. Later
still, the agitation spread to France and
Austria. It was only checked by a papal
bull issued in 1847, reiterating the final
decision of the famous Council of Trent in
favour of the celibacy of the priesthood.
Few people are aware that this rule has been
an institution of slow growth among the
clergy of the Church of Eome. Even as
late as the twelfth century, there were still
b2

priests who set the prohibition of marriage
at defiance.'

I hstenecl, as one of the many ignorant
persons alluded to by Lord Loring. It was
With difficulty that T fixed my attention on
what he was saying. My thoughts wandered
to Stella and to the dying man. I looked at
the clock.

Lady Loring evidently shared the feeling
of suspense that had got possession of me.
She rose, and walked to the window.

Here is the message ! ' she said, recognising
her travelling servant, as he entered
the hotel door.

The man appeared, with a line written
on a card. I was requested to present the
card at the Embassy, without delay.

4/i May.  I am only now able to continue
my record of the events of yesterday.

A silent servant received me at the
Embassy, looked at the card, and led the
way to an upper floor of the house. Arrived
at the end of a long passage, he opened a
door, and retired.

As I crossed the threshold Stella met me.
She took both my hands in hers, and looked
at me in silence. All that was true and good
and noble expressed itself in that look.

The interval passed, and she spoke 
very sadly, very quietly.
' One more work of mercy, Bernard.
Help him to die with a heart at rest.'

She drew back  and I approached him.

He reclined, propped up with pillows, ina
large easy chair ; it was the one position
in which he could still breathe with freedom.
The ashy shades of death were on his wasted
face. In the eyes alone, as they slowly

turned on me, there still glimmered the
waning light of life. One of his arms hung
down over the chair ; the other was clasped
round his child, sitting on his knee. The
boy looked at me wonderingly, as I stood by
his father. Romaine signed to me to stoop,
so that I might hear him.

Penrose . ' he asked, faintly whispering.
Dear Arthur ! Not dying, like me ? '

I quieted that anxiety. For a moment
there was even the shadow of a smile on his
face, as I told him of the effort that Penrose
had vainly made to be the companion of my
journey. He asked me, by another gesture,
to bend my ear to him once more.

My last grateful blessing to Penrose.
And to you. May 1 not say it ? You have
saved Arthur '  his eyes turned towards Stella
' you have been her best friend.' He paused

to recover his feeble breath ; looking round
the large room, without a creature in it but
ourselves. Once more the melancholy
shadow of a smile passed over his face  and
vanished. I listened, nearer to him still.

Christ took a child on his knee. The
priests call themselves ministers of Christ.
They have left me, because of this child,
here on my knee. Wrong, wrong, wrong.
Winterfield, Death is a great teacher. I
know how I have erred  what I have lost.
Wife and child. How poor and barren all
the rest of it looks now.'

He was silent for a while. Was he
thinking . No : he seemed to be listening
and yet there was no sound in the room.
Stella, anxiously watching him, saw the
listening expression as I did. Her face
.showed anxiety, but no surprise.

Does it torture you still ? ' she asked.

No,' he said ; ' I have never heard it
plainly, since I left Eine. It has grown
fainter and fainter from that time. It is
not a Voice now. It is hardly a whisper i
my repentance is accepted, my release is
coming.  Where is Winterfield ? '

She pointed to me.

I spoke of Rome just now. What did
Eome remind me of . ' He slowly recovered
the lost recollection. ' Tell Winterfield,' he
whispered to Stella, ' what the Nuncio said
when he knew that I was going to die.
The teat man reckoned ud the dignities
that might have been mine if I had lived.
From my place here in the Embassy '

'Let me say it,' she gently interposed
and spare yoin- strength for better things.
From your place in the Embassy you would

have mounted a step higher to the office
of Vice-Legate. Those  duties wisely performed,
another rise to the Editorship of
the Apostolic Chamber. That office filled,
a last step upward to the highest rank left,
the rank of a Prince of the Church.'

All vanity ! ' said the dying Romaine.
He looked at his wife and his child. ' The
true happiness was waiting for me here.
And I only know it now. Too late. Too late.'

He laid his head back on the pillow, and
closed his weary eyes. We thought he was
composing himself to sleep. Stella tried to
relieve him of the boy. ' No,' he whispered ;
I am only resting my eyes to look at him
again.' We waited. The child stared at
me, in infantine curiosity. His mother
knelt at his side, and whispered in his ear.
A bright smile irradiated his face ; his clear

brown eyes sparkled ; he repeated the forgotten
lesson of the bygone time, and called
me once more, ' Uncle Ber.' '

Romaine heard it. His heavy eyelids
opened again. 'No,' he said. ' Not uncle.
Something better and dearer. Stella, give
me your hand I '

Still kneeling, she obeyed him. He
slowly raised himself on the chair. ' Take
her hand,' he said to me. I too knelt.
Her hand lay cold in mine. After a long
interval he spoke to me. ' Bernard Winter-field,'
he said, ' love them, and help them,
when I am gone.' He laid his weak hand
on our hands, clasped together. ' May God
protect you ! may God bless you ! ' he murmured.
' Kiss me, Stella.'

I remember no more. As a man, I

ought to have set a better example ; I ought
to have preserved my self-control. It was
not to be done. I turned away from them
and burst out crying.

The minutes passed. Many minutes or
few minutes, I don't know which.

A soft knock at the door aroused me.
I dashed away the useless tears. Stella had
retired to the farther end of the room. She
was sitting hsj the fireside, with the child in
her arms. I withdrew to the same part of
the room, keeping far enough away not to
disturb them.

Two strangers came in, and placed
themselves on either side of Romaine's
chair. He seemed to recognise them unwillingly.
From the manner in which they
examined him, I inferred that they were

medical men. After a consultation in low
tones, one of them went out.

He returned again almost immediately,
followed by the grey-headed gentleman
whom I had noticed on the journey to Paris
and by Father Sewell.

The Jesuit's vigilant eyes discovered us
instantly, in our place near the fireside. I
thought I saw suspicion as well as surprise
in this face. But he recovered himself so
rapidly, that I could not feel sure. He
bowed to Stella. She made no return ;
she looked as if she had not even seen hun.

One of the doctors was an Englishman.
He said to Father Sewell, 'Whatever
your business may be with Mr. Romaine,
we advise you to enter on it without delay.
Shall we leave the room ? '

Certainly not,'Fatlier Sewell answered.

The more witnesses are present, the more
relieved I shall feel.' He turned to his
travelling companion. ' Let Mr. Romaine's
lawyer,' he resumed, ' state what our business
is.'

The grey-headed gentleman stepped
forward.

Are you able to attend to me, sir ? ' he
asked.

Romaine, reclining in his chair, apparently
lost to all interest in what was
going on, heard and answered. The weak
tones of his voice failed to reach my ear at
the other end of the room. The lawyer,
seeming to be satisfied so far, put a formal
question to the doctors next. He inquired
if Mr Romaine vas in full possession of his
faculties.

Both the physicians answered without

hesitation in the affirmative. Father Ben-well
added this attestation. ' Throughout
Mr. Roniayne's illness,' he said firmly, ' his
mind has been as clear as mine is.*

While this was going on, the child had
slipped off his mother's lap, with the natural
restlessness of his age. He walked to the
fireplace, and stopped  fascinated by the
bright red glow of the embers of burning
wood. In one corner of the low fender lay
a loose little bundle of sticks, left there incase
the fire might need re-lifihtinc:. The
boy, noticing the bundle, took out one of the
sticks and threw it experimentally into the
rate. The flash of flame, as the stick caught
fire, delighted him. He went on burning
stick after stick. The new game kept him
quiet : his mother was content to be on the
watch, to see that no harm was done.

In the meantime, the lawyer briefly stated
his case.

You remember, Mr. Romaine, that
your will was placed, for safe keeping, in our
office,' he began. 'Father Sewell called
upon us, and presented an order, signed by
yourself, authorising him to convey the will
from London to Paris. The object was to
obtain your signature to a codicil, which
had been considered a necessary addition
to secure the validity of the will.  Are
you favouring me with your attention,
sir?'

Romaine answered by a slight bending
of his head. His eyes were fixed on the boy
still absorbed in throwing his sticks, oneby
one, into the fire.

At the time when your will was
executed,' the lawyer went on, ' Father Ben-well

obtained your permission to take a copy
of it. Hearing of your illness, he submitted
the copy to a high legal authority. The
written opinion of this competent person
declares the clause, bequeathing the Vange
estate to the Eoman Church, to be so imperfectly
expressed, that the will might be
made a subject of litigation after the testator's
death. He has accordingly appended
a form of codicil amending the defect, and
we have added it to the will. I thought it
my duty, as one of your legal advisers, to
accompany Father Sewell on his return to
Paris in charge of the will  in case you
might feel disposed to make any alteration.'
He looked towards Stella and the child, ashe
completed that sentence. Father Ben-well's
keen eyes took the same direction.
Shall I read the will, sir ? ' the lawyer resumed

; ' or would you prefer to look at it
yourself? '

Romaine held out his hand for the will,
in silence. He was still watching his son.
There were but few more sticks now left to
be thrown in the fire.

Father Sewell interfered, for the first
time.

One word, Mr. Romaine, before you
examine that document,' he said. ' The
Church receives back from you the property
which was once its own. Beyond that, it
authorises and even desires you (by my
voice) to make any changes which you or
your trusted legal adviser may think right.
I refer to the clauses of the will which
relate to the property you have inherited
from the late Lady Berrick  and I beg the

VOL. III. s

persons present to bear in memory the few
plain words that I have now spoken.'

He bowed with dignity, and drew back.
Even the lawyer was favourably impressed.
The doctors looked at each other with silent
approval. For the first time, the sad repose
of Stella's face was disturbed  I could see
that it cost her an effort to repress her indignation.
The one unmoved person was
Romaine. The sheet of paper on which the
will was written lay unrewarded upon his
lap ; his eyes were still riveted on the Httle
figure at the fireplace.

The child had thrown his last stick into
the glowing red embers. He looked about
him for a fresh supply, and found nothing.
His fresh young voice rose high through the
silence in the room.

More ! ' lie cried. ' More ! '

His mother held up a warning finger .
Hush ! ' she whispered. He shrank away
from her, as she tried to take him on her
knee, and looked across the room at his
father. ' More ! ' he burst out, louder than
sever.

Romaine beckoned to me, and pointed
to the boy.

I led him across the room. He was
quite willing to go with me  he reiterated
his petition, standing at his father's knees.

Lift him to me,' said Romaine.

I could barely hear the words : even his
strength to whisper seemed to be fast leaving
him. He kissed his son  with a panting
fatigue under that trifling exertion, pitiable
to see. As I placed the boy on his feet
again, he looked up at his dying father, with
the one idea still in his mind.

More, papa ! More ! '

Romaine put the will into his hand.

The child's eyes sparkled. ' Burn ? * he
asked eagerly.

Yes ! '

Father Ben well sprang forward, with
outstretched hands. I stopped him. He
struggled with me. I forgot the privilege
of the black robe. I took him by the
throat.

The boy threw the will into the fire.
Oh ! ' he shouted in high delight, and
clapped his chubby hands as the bright little
blaze flew up the chimney. I released the
priest.

In a frenzy of rage and despair, he
looked round at the persons in the room.
I take you all to witness,' he cried, ' this is
an act of madness ! '

'You yourself declared just now,' said
the lawyer, ' that Mr. Romaine was in
perfect possession of his faculties.'

The baffled Jesuit turned furiously on
the dying man. They looked at each other.

For one awful moment Romaine's eyes
brightened, Romaine's voice rallied its
power, as if life was returning to him.
Frowning darkly, the priest put his question.


What did you do it for . '

Quietly and firmly the answer came.

Wife and child.'

The last long-drawn sigh rose and fell.
With those sacred words on his lips, Eo-maine
died.

London eth May.  At Stella's request,
I have returned to Penrose  with but one

felloNV- traveller. My dear old companion
the dog, is coiled up, fast asleep at my feet,
while I write these lines. Penrose has
gained strength enough to keep me company
in the sitting-room. In a few days
more he will see Stella again.

What instructions reached the Embassy
from Eome  whether Romaine received the
last sacrament at the earlier period of his
illness  we never heard. No objection was
made, when Lord Loring proposed to remove
the body to England, to be buried in
the family vault at Range Abbey.

I had undertaken to give the necessary
directions for the funeral, on my arrival in
London. Eeturning to the hotel, I met
Father Ben well in the street. I tried to
pass on. He deliberately stopped me.

'How is Mrs. Romaine?' he asked 

with that infernal suavity which he seems
always to have at command. ' Fairly well,
I hope? And the boy? Ah, he little
thought how he was changing his prospects
for the better, when he made that blaze in
the fire ! Pardon me, Mr. Winterfield, you
don't seem to be quite so cordial as usual.
Perhaps you are thinking of your inconsiderate
assault on my throat? Let us
forgive and forget. Or, perhaps, you object
to my having converted poor Romaine, and
to my being ready to accept from him the
restoration of the property of the Church.
In both cases I only did my duty as a
priest. You are a liberal-minded man.
Surely I deserve a favourable construction
of my conduct ? '

I really could not endure this. ' I have
my own opinion of what you deserve,' I

answered. ' Don't provoke me to mention
it.

He eyed me with a sinister smile.

I am not so old as I look,' he said ; ' I
may live another twenty years ! '

Well ? ' I asked.

Well,' he answered, ' much may happen
in twenty years ! '

With that, he left me. If he means any
further mischief, I can tell him this  he will
find Me in his way.

To turn to a more pleasant subject.
Expecting on all that had passed at my
memorable interview with Romaine, I felt
some surprise that one of the persons present
had made no effort to prevent the burning
of the will. It was not to be expected
of Stella  or of the doctors, who had no
interest in the matter  but I was unable to

understand the passive position maintained
by the lawyer. He enlightened my ignorance
in two words.

The Range property and the Berrick
property were both absolutely at the disposal
of Mr Romaine,' he said. 'If he
died without leaving a will, he knew enough
of the law to foresee that houses, lands,
and money would go to his " nearest of
kin." In plainer words, his widow and his
son.'

When Penrose can travel, he accompanies
me to Beaupark. Stella and her
little son and Mrs. Eyrecourt will be the
only other guests in my house. Time must
pass, and the boy will be older, before I
may remind Stella of Romaine's last wishes
on that sad morning when we two knelt on
either side of him. In the meanwhile, it is

almost happiness enough for me to look forward
to the day

Note.  The next leaf of the Diary is
missing. By some accident, a manuscript
page has got into its place, bearing a later
date, and containing elaborate instructions
for executing a design for a wedding dress.
The handwriting has since been acknowledged
as her own, by no less a person than
Mrs. Eyrecourt.

